# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical report for the work item on Work Item on
New Radio (NR) Access Technology, covering the general aspects for RF, RRM and
demodulation for NR.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] Recommendation ITU-R M.1036-5 (10/2015), "Frequency arrangements for
implementation of the terrestrial component of International Mobile
Telecommunications (IMT) in the bands identified for IMT in the Radio
Regulations (RR)".
[3] 3GPP TS 36.101: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception\".
[4] 3GPP TS 38.101-1: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception; Part 1: Range 1 Standalone\".
[5] 3GPP TS 38.101-2: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception; Part 2: Range 2 Standalone\".
[6] 3GPP TS 38.101-3: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception; Part 3: Range 1 and Range 2 Interworking operation with other
radios\".
[7] 3GPP TS 38.104: \"NR; Base Station (BS) radio transmission and
reception\".
[8] 3GPP TS 38.211: \"NR; Physical channels and modulation\".
[9] 3GPP TR 36.942: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Radio Frequency (RF) system scenarios\".
[10] 3GPP TR 38.803: \"Study on new radio access technology: Radio Frequency
(RF) and co-existence aspects\".
[11] Void.
[12] 47 CFR Part 30, \"UPPER MICROWAVE FLEXIBLE USE SERVICE, §30.202 Power
limits\", FCC.
[13] ITU Provisional Final Acts WRC-19, Resolution 750 (REV.WRC-19), Table 1-1
FN 5 (a) and (b), page 349 (https://www.itu.int/dms_pub/itu-r/opb/act/R-ACT-
WRC.13-2019-PDF-E.pdf)
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**Operating band** : frequency range in which NR operates (paired or
unpaired), that is defined with a specific set of technical requirements.
**BS Channel bandwidth** : RF bandwidth supporting a single NR RF carrier with
the transmission bandwidth configured in the uplink or downlink.
> NOTE: The channel bandwidth is measured in MHz and is used as a reference
> for transmitter and receiver RF requirements.
>
> NOTE: It is possible for the BS to transmit to and/or receive from one or
> more UE Bandwidth parts that are smaller than or equal to the BS
> transmission bandwidth configuration, in any part of the BS transmission
> bandwidth configuration.
**UE Channel bandwidth:** The RF bandwidth supporting a single NR RF carrier
with the transmission bandwidth configured in the uplink or downlink of a
cell. The channel bandwidth is measured in MHz and is used as a reference for
transmitter and receiver RF requirements.
## 3.2 Symbols
Δf~OOB~ Δ Frequency of Out Of Band emission
BW~Channel~ Channel bandwidth
BW~Channel_CA~ Aggregated channel bandwidth, expressed in MHz.
BW~Channel,max~ Maximum channel bandwidth supported among all bands in a
release
F~DL_low~ The lowest frequency of the downlink operating band
F~DL_high~ The highest frequency of the downlink operating band
F~UL_low~ The lowest frequency of the uplink operating band
F~UL_high~ The highest frequency of the uplink operating band
L~CRB~ Transmission bandwidth which represents the length of a contiguous
resource block allocation
expressed in units of resources blocks
L~CRB,Max~ Maximum number of RB for a given Channel bandwidth and sub-carrier
spacing
NR~ACLR~ NR ACLR
N~RB~ Transmission bandwidth configuration, expressed in units of resource
blocks
RB~START~ Indicates the lowest RB index of transmitted resource blocks.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
ACLR Adjacent Channel Leakage Ratio
ACS Adjacent Channel Selectivity
**BW Bandwidth**
**CA Carrier Aggregation**
**CC Component Carrier**
CA_nX-nY Inter-band CA of component carrier(s) in one sub-block within Band X
and component carrier(s) in one sub-block within Band Y where X and Y are the
applicable NR operating band
**EIRP Equivalent Isotropic Radiated Power**
EVM Error Vector Magnitude
FR Frequency Range
**RAT Radio Access Technology**
**REFSENS Reference Sensistivity**
SCS Subcarrier spacing
**SEM Spectrum Emission Mask**
SUL Supplementary uplink
MPR Allowed maximum power reduction
# 4 General and common aspects
## 4.1 Operating bands
While requirements are often generic and band agnostic, there may in many
cases be separate requirements for different bands. In some cases, these are
identified directly using the band number. They will also be references to
different frequency ranges covering many bands, identified as requirements for
sub-6 GHz bands (Frequency Range 1) and mmWave bands (Frequency Range 2).
These ranges are for the purpose of the specification defined as follows:
> \- FR1: 450 -- 6000 MHz
NOTE 1: the lower frequency limit of FR1 has been extended down to 410 MHz,
from Rel-15 onwards. In order to align with the LTE410_Europe_PPDR work item
introducing new band in the frequency range 410 -- 430 MHz.
NOTE 2: the upper frequency limit of FR1 has been extended up to 7125 MHz,
from Rel-15 onwards. Irrespective of this decision, in this report the FR1 is
referred to as "sub‑6GHz", reflecting previous agreements on NR spectrum.
> \- FR2: 24250 -- 52600 MHz.
The lowest frequency in FR1 is selected as the lowest frequency identified for
IMT by the ITU-R [2]. FR2 is defined starting from the lowest frequency under
study for IMT under WRC Agenda item 1.13, up to the highest frequency within
the scope of the present work item. In the future when new operating bands may
be added outside the frequency ranges of FR1 and FR2, those can be
incorporated by extending FR1 or FR2, or by adding new ranges (FR3, etc.).
The definitions of FR1 and FR2 are common the UE and BS and should be
specified within clause 4 of the specifications.
As for UTRA and LTE, bands for NR are identified by band numbers. A number of
different aspects are considered for developing an NR band numbering scheme:
> 1) For NR in LTE "refarming" bands, whether to re-use the LTE band numbers
> for NR.
>
> 2) For new NR bands, different alternative options are considered:
>
> a) To put new NR bands above 6 GHz in a new separate numbering range within
> existing signaling capability.
>
> b) To group new NR bands below 6 GHz with the LTE bands, resulting in
> separate band numbering ranges for below 6 GHz and above 6 GHz bands.
>
> c) To assign unused numbers to all new bands on a "first come first served"
> basis, regardless of frequency range, duplex mode or RAT (LTE, NR, etc.)
>
> 3) How to consider "Duplex mode" for different types of bands
The final NR band numbering scheme is based on the following:
> 1) For NR in LTE "refarming" bands, LTE band numbers are reused for NR. This
> will be consistent with the scheme for UTRA and LTE, where the same number
> was used for the same frequency range, while written in a different way. It
> also conserves band numbers.
>
> 2) NR band numbers will be written with a prefix "n", to distinguish from
> band numbers for other RATs. For example, NR Band n7 will correspond to LTE
> Band 7 and UTRA Band VII.
>
> 3) New bands should be assigned band numbers on a "first come first served"
> basis in reserved frequency ranges as follows:
>
> \- 65 to 256 is reserved for new LTE and new NR bands in FR1.
>
> \- 257 to 512 is reserved for new NR bands in FR2. By avoiding LTE bands in
> this number range, the present LTE band definition is preserved and will
> most likely not need any changes in the future.
>
> \- New LTE only TDD band can use band number from existing LTE TDD numbering
> space until all numbers up to 64 are used and after that from the reserved
> 65-256 space.
>
> 4) For both re-farming LTE bands and new NR bands, duplex mode should be
> assigned and described in band defining table (e.g. in TS 38.101 and TS
> 38.104 [7])
>
> \- TDD for unpaired bands and FDD for paired bands
>
> \- FFS identifies options under study, such as flexible duplexing for paired
> bands
>
> \- If multiple duplexing modes are allowed in a specific frequency range,
> separate bands will be introduced with each duplexing mode
NR DC and CA band combination are defined using a notation similar to LTE, but
using the distinct notations for the different RATs: A number (Arabic) for LTE
and a number with prefix "n" for NR. The CA bandwidth classes (postfix of the
bands) for NR are defined in section 5.1.1 for FR1 and section 7.1.1 for FR2
respectively. Examples for notations of NR CA, DC and EN-DC are given in Table
4.1-1a, 4.1-1b and 4.1-1c.
Table 4.1-1a: Example notation for DC and CA.
**Representation** **Corresponding functionality**
* * *
CA_n77-n78 NR CA of band n77 and band n78 DC_1-2_n77 NR-LTE DC with LTE CA of
band 1 and band 2 and NR band n77. DC_1-2_n77-n78 NR-LTE DC with LTE CA of
band 1 and band 2 and NR CA of band n77 and band n78.
Table 4.1-1b: Example notation for EN-DC bandwidth class.
**Type** **Notation** **Note**
* * *
EN-DC Intraband contiguous DC_(n)XAA 1 CC LTE Band X + 1 CC NR Band nX with
max BW ≤ max LTE BW + max NR BW DC_(n)XB 1 CC LTE Band X + 1 CC NR Band nX
with max BW ≤ 20 MHz DC_(n)XJK LTE Band X with class J + NR Band nX with class
K Intraband non-contiguous DC_XA_nXA Intraband non-contiguous EN-DC with 2
sub-blocks DC_XC_nXC Intraband non-contiguous EN-DC with 2 contiguous LTE sub
blocks and 2 contiguous NR sub-blocks DC_XA-XA_nX(3A) Intraband non-contiguous
EN-DC with 2 non-contiguous LTE sub blocks and 3 non-contiguous NR sub-blocks
Interband DC_XA_nYA Interband EN-DC with 1CC LTE Band X + 1CC NR Band nY NOTE:
LTE CA and NR CA bandwidth classes are used in EN-DC respectively
Table 4.1-1c: Example notation for NR DC bandwidth class.
**Type** **Notation** **Note**
* * *
NR DC Interband DC_nXA-nYA NR DC with 1CC NR Band nX + 1CC NR Band nY
_Editor's note:It is FFS how to handle BCS for NR\ \- Reuse exiting BCS
concept or adopt simplified BS concept or no BCS_
For SUL and NR-LTE co-existence, example of notation is given in Table 4.1-2.
Table 4.1-2: Example notation for SUL and NR-LTE coexistence.
**Representation** **Corresponding functionality**
* * *
SUL_n78-n81 Band combination of NR band n78 and band n81(SUL) for NR
operation. DC_3-SUL_n78-n80 LTE-NR DC between LTE Band 3, and NR bands n80
(SUL) and n78 including NR-LTE coexistence with UL sharing.
The definition of operating band can be inherited from LTE. In TS 38.101 and
TS 38.104 [7], there should be separate tables defining the band numbers in
FR1 and FR2. This exploits the commonality within frequency ranges and reduces
table size. For FR2, the table will only contain unpaired frequency ranges,
assuming that there will be no FDD operation. To be consistent, all
frequencies are defined in MHz.
For the first version of the spec, bands listed as part of the NR WID should
be included. The new bands in Tables 4.1-3 and 4.1-4 are defined for NR.
Table 4.1-3: New NR bands in FR1.
**Band number** **UL** **DL** **Duplex mode**
* * *
n1 1920 -- 1980 MHz 2110 -- 2170 MHz FDD n2 1850 -- 1910 MHz 1930 -- 1990 MHz
FDD n3 1710 -- 1785 MHz 1805 -- 1880 MHz FDD n5 824 -- 849 MHz 869 -- 894MHz
FDD n7 2500 -- 2570 MHz 2620 -- 2690 MHz FDD n8 880 -- 915 MHz 925 -- 960 MHz
FDD n13 777 -- 787 MHz 746 -- 756 MHz FDD n20 832 -- 862 MHz 791-- 821MHz FDD
n25 1850 -- 1915 MHz 1930 -- 1995 MHz FDD n26 814 -- 849 MHz 859 -- 894 MHz
FDD n28 703 -- 748 MHz 758 -- 803 MHz FDD n34 2010 -- 2025 MHz 2010 -- 2025
MHz TDD n38 2570 -- 2620 MHz 2570 -- 2620 MHz TDD n39 1880 -- 1920 MHz 1880 --
1920 MHz TDD n40 2300 -- 2400 MHz 2300 -- 2400 MHz TDD n41 2496 -- 2690 MHz
2496 -- 2690 MHz TDD n50 1432 -- 1517 MHz 1432 -- 1517 MHz TDD n51 1427 --
1432 MHz 1427 -- 1432 MHz TDD n66 1710 -- 1780 MHz 2110 -- 2200 MHz FDD n70
1695 -- 1710 MHz 1995-- 2020 MHz FDD n71 663 -- 698 MHz 617 -- 652 MHz FDD n74
1427 --1470 MHz 1475 -- 1518 MHz FDD n75 N/A 1432 -- 1517 MHz SDL n76 N/A 1427
-- 1432 MHz SDL n77 3300 -- 4200 MHz 3300 -- 4200 MHz TDD n78 3300 -- 3800 MHz
3300 -- 3800 MHz TDD n79 4400 -- 5000 MHz 4400 -- 5000 MHz TDD n80 1710 --
1785 MHz N/A SUL n81 880 -- 915 MHz N/A SUL n82 832 -- 862 MHz N/A SUL n83 703
-- 748 MHz N/A SUL n84 1920 -- 1980 MHz N/A SUL n86 1710 -- 1780 MHz N/A SUL
Table 4.1-4: New NR bands in FR2.
**Band number** **UL and DL** **Duplex mode**
* * *
n257 26500 --29500 MHz TDD n258 24250 -- 27500 MHz TDD n259 [40500 --43500
MHz] TDD n260 37000--40000 MHz TDD n261 27500 -- 28350 MHz TDD
## 4.2 Channel bandwidth
NR channel bandwidths for FR1 and FR2 are shown in Table 4.2-1 and Table
4.2-2. The channel bandwidths are defined as both _BS channel bandwidths_ and
_UE channel bandwidths_ except where indicated.
Table 4.2-1: NR channel bandwidth for FR1
**NR band / SCS / Channel bandwidth** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
**NR Band** | **SCS** **kHz** | **5 MHz** | **10 2,3 MHz** | **15 3 MHz** | **20 3 MHz** | **25 3 MHz** | **30 MHz** | **40 MHz** | **50 MHz** | **60 MHz** | **70 MHz** | **80 MHz** | **90 MHz** | **100 MHz**  
n1 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
n2 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
n3 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
n5 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 60 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
n7 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
n8 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 60 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
n20 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 60 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
n25 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
n26 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 30 |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 60 |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
n28 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 60 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
n34 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 30 |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 60 |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
n38 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
n39 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |   
n40 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |   
| 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |   
| 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |   
n41 | 15 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |   
| 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes1 | Yes | Yes1 | Yes  
| 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes1 | Yes | Yes1 | Yes  
n50 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |   
| 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |   
| 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
n51 | 15 | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 30 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 60 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
n66 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |   
n70 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
n71 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 60 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
n74 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
n75 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 60 |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
n76 | 15 | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 30 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 60 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
n77 | 15 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  | Yes1 | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |   
| 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  | Yes1 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes1 | Yes | Yes1 | Yes  
| 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  | Yes1 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes1 | Yes | Yes1 | Yes  
n78 | 15 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  | Yes1 | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |   
| 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  | Yes1 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes1 | Yes | Yes1 | Yes  
| 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  | Yes1 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes1 | Yes | Yes1 | Yes  
n79 | 15 |  |  |  |  |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |   
| 30 |  |  |  |  |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  | Yes |  | Yes  
| 60 |  |  |  |  |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  | Yes |  | Yes  
n80 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
n81 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 60 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
n82 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 60 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
n83 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 60 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
n84 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
n86 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
NOTE 1: The channel bandwidth is defined only as a BS channel bandwidth in these bands. NOTE 2: 90% spectrum utilization may not be achieved for 30kHz SCS. NOTE 3: 90% spectrum utilization may not be achieved for 60kHz SCS. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Table 4.2-2: NR channel bandwidth for FR2
+----------+---------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | **NR | | | | | | | band / | | | | | | | SCS / | | | | | | | Channel | | | | | | | ban | | | | | | | dwidth** | | | | | | +==========+=========+==========+==========+==========+==========+ | **NR |** SCS**|** 50 | **100 |** 200 | **400 | | Band** | | MHz**| MHz** | MHz**| MHz** | | | **kHz** | | | | | +----------+---------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | n257 | 60 | Yes | Yes | Yes | | +----------+---------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | 120 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | +----------+---------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | n258 | 60 | Yes | Yes | Yes | | +----------+---------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | 120 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | +----------+---------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | n260 | 60 | Yes | Yes | Yes | | +----------+---------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | 120 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | +----------+---------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
### 4.2.1 BS and UE channel bandwidth
For NR, the term _BS channel bandwidth_ has been defined. A contiguous block
of transmit / receive spectrum may consist of one or more _BS channel
bandwidths_.
For E-UTRA, the channel bandwidth related to the transmit and receive
bandwidths of both the BS and all of the UEs with which the BS communicates.
For NR, however different _UE channel bandwidths_ may be supported within the
same spectrum.
The _BS channel bandwidth_ is understood to be a range of spectrum which can
be used to transmit to UEs with different bandwidths. The essential
characteristic of the _BS channel bandwidth_ is that placing UEs within the
_BS channel bandwidth_ is flexible; it is equally possible to assign a single
carrier to a UE covering most or all of the _BS channel bandwidth,_ to
transmit a carrier to a UE with less than the _BS channel bandwidth_ , but
placed anywhere within the _BS channel bandwidth_ or to transmit multiple
carriers to a UE.
{width="3.9479166666666665in" height="2.175in"}
Figure 4.2.1-1: Example of allocation to UEs with different UE channel
bandwidth within a BS channel bandwidth
It is not, on the other hand possible to transmit a carrier to a UE that
crosses the boundary between two _BS channel bandwidths._
{width="5.486805555555556in" height="3.5131944444444443in"}
Figure 4.2.1-2: Example of allocation to UEs where there are multiple
contiguous BS channel bandwidths. UE carriers may not straddle across BS
channel bandwidths.
How RBs used by the BS may be allocated within a BS bandwidth are defined in
the SU section 4.5 of this report.
### 4.2.2 Bandwidth combination sets
Following agreements have been made for NR Bandwidth combination sets (BCSs):
**Considering NR bands in inter-band LTE-NR DC:**
\- BCSs are not specified for NR bands part of LTE-NR inter-band DC
configurations
\- When UE operates in LTE-NR DC configuration it supports same NR channel
bandwidths as it supports for that NR band in standalone operation
\- Where IMD is an issue only for a subset of channel bandwidths within a
band/band combination, the bandwidths for which MSD is applicable shall be
specified in receiver characteristics section.
**Considering LTE bands in inter-band LTE-NR DC:**
\- The need for BCS for LTE band in LTE-NR DC is discussed separately from NR
BCS
\- LTE-NR DC UE shall signal BCS information to eNodeB (to reduce changes to
LTE UE and eNodeB design)
\- LTE-NR DC UE shall signal support for all specified LTE BCSs that belong to
the LTE CA configuration part of LTE -- NR DC (to reduce UE fragmentation and
make RAN4 specification effort smaller as no LTE BCS information is needed in
NR specs)
\- When operating in DC band combinations of LTE 1DL/1UL + NR band(s) UE will
support all LTE channel bandwidths that are specified to the LTE band
(otherwise LTE bandwidth capability is unknown as single CC operation does not
have BCS)
**Considering LTE/NR bands in intra-band LTE-NR DC:**
\- BCSs would reduce the number of permutations of channel bandwidths that
need to be supported for intra-band EN-DC
\- BCSs shall be supported for intra-band EN-DC band combinations and
specified in TS 38.101-3 [6]
**Considering NR bands in intra-band LTE-NR DC:**
\- BCSs are allowed for NR bands part of LTE-NR intra-band DC configurations
\- If one or more BCS is defined for a given LTE-NR DC configuration the a UE
supports the specified channel bandwidths in the BCS(s) that it supports.
\- If a BCS is not defined for a given LTE-NR DC configuration, the UE
supports all the NR channel bandwidths as it supports for that NR band in
standalone operation
\- Where IMD is an issue only for a subset of channel bandwidths within a
band/band combination, the bandwidths for which MSD is applicable shall be
specified in receiver characteristics section.
**Considering LTE bands in intra-band LTE-NR DC:**
\- LTE-NR DC UE shall signal BCS information to eNodeB (to reduce changes to
LTE UE and eNodeB design)
\- LTE-NR DC UE shall signal support for all specified LTE bandwidth
combinations sets that belong to the LTE CA configuration part of LTE -- NR DC
(to reduce UE fragmentation and make RAN4 specification effort smaller as no
LTE BCS information is needed in NR specs)
\- When operating in DC band combinations of LTE 1DL/1UL + NR band(s) where
one or more BCS are specified UE will support all LTE channel bandwidths that
are specified for the supported BCS(s).
\- When operating in DC band combinations of LTE 1DL/1UL + NR band(s) where no
BCS are specified UE will support all LTE channel bandwidths that are
specified to the LTE band (otherwise LTE bandwidth capability is unknown as
single CC operation does not have BCS)
**Considering NR bands in standalone operation:**
\- BCSs are specified for CA configuration in NR bands in standalone operation
\- UE should support all specified aggregated bandwidths which are smaller
than the indicated aggregated bandwidth and are part of same BCS indicated
\- UE should support all specified lower order CA configurations which have
same BCS as indicated
\- BCS with same number (e.g. BCS0) need to be aligned between lower and
higher order fallback configuration
## 4.3 Channel arrangement
### 4.3.1 RF channel and sync channel raster
#### 4.3.1.1 Background
The concept of referring to a carrier frequency in UTRA and E-UTRA is based on
a channel raster defining possible carrier centre frequencies and a numbering
scheme that identifies the raster points. In E-UTRA there are EARFCN (E-UTRA
Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number) for all possible uplink and downlink
frequencies. The numbers are mapped to the corresponding UL and DL carrier
frequencies through formulas:
F~DL~ = F~DL_low~ + 0.1(N~DL~ -- N~Offs-DL~)
F~UL~ = F~UL_low~ + 0.1(N~UL~ -- N~Offs-UL~)
The possible EARFCN ranges for each E-UTRA operating band are tabulated
together with the parameters for the formula. The resulting RF channel raster
identifies all possible RF carrier centre frequencies, which are the same as
the potential frequencies that a UE must scan when performing initial access.
The concept has many differences in NR compared to UTRA and E-UTRA, giving a
higher complexity. The main difference is that there is a need for two channel
rasters for NR:
\- **RF channel raster:** Identifies the set of possible frequency locations
of the full RF carrier transmitted by the base station.
\- **Synchronization channel raster** : Identifies the set of possible
frequency location of the SS Block, consisting the synchronization channels
PSS/SSS and the PBCH.
The SS block is not in a fixed position within the configured bandwidth of the
RF carrier, but can be placed anywhere on the RF carrier. This enables a Sync
channel raster that is more "sparse" than the RF channel raster. The advantage
of having a more sparse sync channel raster is a reduced search time for the
initial access. It relies on the SS block bandwidth being smaller than full
channel BW of the RF carrier transmitted from the BS and that it is not in a
fixed position within the configured bandwidth. It is the width of the PBCH
being 240 subcarriers (20 RBs) that will define the flexibility of how to
place the sync channel. The SS block will use a predetermined SCS and minimum
channel BW in each operating band.
The relation between the RF channel raster and sync channel raster is
demonstrated with an example in Figure 4.3.1.1-1. In the example, two carrier
positions 1 and 2 are shown leading to two different placements of the PBCH.
The PBCH (and SS) can be placed on a raster that is more sparse than the RF
carrier raster and those sync channel raster positions are called F~SC,i~.
Position 1 is the highest (rightmost) position of BW~Confi~ on the RF channel
raster where the PBCH can be related to the sync channel position F~SC,1~,
thus the PBCH occurs as far left as possible on the carrier. Position 2 is the
next position on the RF channel raster, thus shifted by ΔF~CH,Raster~ from
Position 1. The sync channel raster spacing ΔF~SC,Raster~ will be limited by
the following equation:
ΔF~SC,Raster~ ≤ BW~Config~ -- BW~PBCH~ + ΔF~CH,Raster~ (4.3.1.1-1)
where BW~Config~ (Tx BW configuration) is the width of the transmitted
Resource Blocks, BW~PBCH~ is the width of the PBCH and ΔF~CH,Raster~ is the
channel raster spacing.
{width="4.513194444444444in" height="3.1819444444444445in"}
Figure 4.3.1.1-1: Possible shifts for the PBCH as the transmitted carrier is
shifted\ on the RF carrier raster.
#### 4.3.1.2 Overall raster concept
The RF channel raster and sync channel raster need to be defined in relation
to one or more of the following parameters:
\- **Spectrum blocks** : These are the spectrum block allocations where the RF
carriers will be placed. It is essential that the Channel BW is fully
contained within an allocated block defined and/or permitted by a regulator,
not risking "Channel BW spill-over". The regulation varies across regions and
often sets limits on emissions outside the block assigned to an operator. The
200 kHz/100 kHz rasters used for UTRA and E-UTRA are fundamentally adapted to
spectrum blocks.
\- **Subcarrier spacing (SCS)** : The RF channel consists of subcarriers and
the subcarrier spacing becomes important for carrier aggregation and when
forming wider channel bandwidths, since the RF channel spacing needs to be a
multiple of SCS to keep orthogonality.
\- **Physical resource blocks (RB)** : The RF carrier is an integer number of
RBs and the physical channels are defined based on RBs in the frequency
domain.
The definition of the channel raster will be limited by a number of aspects,
also considering the relation between the RF channel and Sync channel raster
defined in Equation (4.3.1.1-1). The following aspects are considered:
\- The relation to the E-UTRA **100 kHz raster** for LTE re-farming bands.
\- How to manage the **asymmetric guard band** if the RF carrier cannot placed
in the centre of a spectrum block.
\- In case of asymmetric guard band, a **minimum guard band** needs to be
defined for different RF Channel bandwidths and SCS
\- The achievable **spectral utilization** may be affected, if the guard band
is not sufficient and an edge RB cannot be transmitted ("blanking")
\- How to achieve **CA operation** and **Wideband operation** with forward
compatibility for addition of new channel bandwidths. This should preferably
be achieved with zero guard band between carriers.
\- The achievable **synchronisation raster granularity** may be affected by
the choice of raster scheme.
NR Bands should have the same RF channel raster for both UL and DL. It is
noted however that the channel raster for UL sharing band can be decoupled
from the NR DL band raster (e.g. UL sharing band can be on 100kHz raster while
the NR DL band can use 100kHz raster or RB based raster)
#### 4.3.1.3 RF Channel raster
NR Bands should have the same raster for both UL and DL (for both UL and DL
100kHz or RB based raster is used). Channel raster could also be different for
different bands and only a single raster should be defined per band.
The following raster granularity is agreed:
\- Channel raster for LTE re-farming bands up to 2.4GHz (frequency range below
Band 41) is based on 100kHz(same as LTE)
\- Potential optimization for of the placement of secondary carrier including
RB-alignment between primary and secondary carrier is ffs
\- Channel raster for Bands above 2.6GHz (above and including Band 41) is
tentatively agreed to be a subcarrier based raster (i.e 15kHz for range 1 and
60kHz for range 2), pending further check at AN4 NR AH#3 and RAN1 decision
\- Band n85 (SUL band covering the same frequency range as n41) will use the
channel raster defined for SUL bands which is ffs.
"Floating sync" enables SCS based raster and down selection of the sync raster
for bands using 100kHz raster as described in subclause 4.3.1.4.
For the 100 kHz based raster:
\- Raster entries are given by the following equation for each band
\- Lower band edge(MHz)+ N*0.1MHz, N chosen such that last entry is at Upper
band
\- Raster to subcarrier position mapping
\- Raster points to the center of the channel
\- SC#0 of RB# NRB/2 for even number of RBs
\- SC#6 of RB# floor(NRB/2) for odd number of RBs
For the SCS-based raster:
\- Raster will be based on absolute frequency values
\- The raster positions will be integer multiples of 15kHz for sub6 bands
\- The raster positions will be integer multiples of 60kHz for mmWave range
bands
\- Raster entries are indexed from 0kHz
\- Raster to subcarrier position mapping
\- Raster points to the center of the channel
\- SC#0 of RB# NRB/2 for even number of RBs
\- SC#6 of RB# floor(NRB/2) for odd number of RBs
NR-ARFCN defines the absolute radio frequency of the channel raster points and
is globally defined; The frequency band and duplex (uplink or downlink) are
not distinguished by the NR-ARFCN. It is for RAN2 to decide how to signal the
frequency of Pcell, Scell, SUL, and/or the reference frequency for PRB grid,
etc, using NR-ARFCN or other means.NR-ARFCN for FR1 are defined as one global
set from 0 Hz to 24 GHz:
\- An integer multiple of 5kHz from 0 to 3GHz
\- An integer multiple of 15kHz from 3 to 24GHz
NR-ARFCN for FR2 are defined as one global set from 24 GHz to 100 GHz
\- An integer multiple of 60kHz
NR-ARFCN range for each frequency band is tabulated in RAN4 specs. The
corresponding signalling is for RAN2 to design.
#### 4.3.1.4 Synchronization Channel raster
Sync raster is defined such that there is a minimum number of entries for each
band. Sync raster entries will be included in the specifications for each
band. Sync raster entries will be defined for initial system acquisition, sync
blocks can be transmitted in other frequency locations if the position is
signalled to the UE
The sync block is not RB aligned with the data RBs in the channel as shown in
Figure 4.3.1.4-1. Instead, there is an arbitrary offset between the edge of
the sync block RBs and the edge of the data RBs in the channel, this offset
can be up to 11 REs. This enables multiple channels that are subcarrier grid
aligned but not RB grid aligned to use the same sync block location. Different
channels that are offset by up to 11 REs in frequency can re-use the same sync
block frequency location.
{width="5.863888888888889in" height="2.4611111111111112in"}
Figure 4.3.1.4-1: Alignment between SS block and channel RBs.
Subcarrier mapping:
\- Sync raster will indicate the position of RE=#0(subcarrier #0) of RB#10 of
the SS block.
SS Raster Definition for the 0 -- 3.0 GHz range:
\- SS Raster is defined as
\- Raster entry = N * 1200 kHz + M * 50 kHz, N=1:2499, M ϵ {1,3,5}\ (For
operating bands with SCS spaced channel raster, the value M=3 is used.)
\- Raster entry numbering in this range is in increasing order of frequency,
starting numbering at #2 (entry #2=1250 kHz, entry #3=1350 kHz, entry #4=1450
kHz, entry#5=2450 kHz...)
\- Total number of entries 7497
\- Raster applies to bands with 100 kHz channel raster and 15 kHz channel
raster with 5 MHz minimum bandwidth (bands might be defined in the future) in
this frequency range
SS Raster Definition for the 3.0 - 24.25 GHz range:
\- SS Raster is defined as:
\- Raster entry = 3000 MHz + N * 1.44 MHz, N= 0: 14756
\- Raster entry numbering is in increasing order of frequency, starting at
7499
\- Total number of entries 14757
\- Raster applies to bands with 15 kHz channel raster and 10 MHz minimum
bandwidth (n77,n78, n79, etc) in this frequency range
SS Raster Definition for the 24.25-100GHz range
\- SS Raster is defined as:
\- Raster entry = 24250.08 MHz + N * 17.28 MHz, N= 0:4383
\- Raster entry numbering is in increasing order of frequency, starting at
22256
\- Total number of entries 4384
\- Raster applies to bands with 60 kHz channel raster in this frequency range
#### 4.3.1.5 Calculations of sync raster GSCN per operating band
For each operating band, the GSCN that can be used in the band are tabulated
in subclause 5.4.3.3 of TS 38.104 [7], TS 38.101-1 [4] and TS 38.101-2 [5].
Selection of GSCN for Table(s) is done the following way:
\- Include GSCN that correspond to SS block that completely fit within the
channel bandwidth, accounting for guard bands needed.
\- Guard bands are calculated based on the minimum channel BW in table 5.3.5-1
and table 5.3.5-2 of TS 38.104 [7], the SCS for the SS block and the
corresponding N~RB~ (spectrum utilization), assuming that the SS block can be
in any position within the transmission BW configuration, including at
positions adjacent to the edges.
\- For GSCN ranges with step size \, the GSCN numbers selected should be
multiples of N (this ensures that overlapping bands will have the same GSCN
sequences)
For specific combinations of minimum channel bandwidth and SS block SCS, the
GSCN ranges are down-selected using a step size \, as shown in Table
4.3.1.5-1.
Table 4.3.1.5-1: Down selection factors (step size).
Frequency range Minimum channel bandwidth SS block SCS Down selection factor
(step size)
* * *
0 -- 3.0 GHz 10 MHz 15 kHz \ 3.0 - 24.25 GHz 40 MHz 30 kHz \ 24.25 --
100 GHz 100 MHz 240 kHz \
To determine the GSCN range, let _f_ ~min~ denote the lowest frequency
location of the SS block within a band after accounting for the guard band _G_
in subclause 5.3.3 of TS 38.104 [7] corresponding to the minimum channel BW
and the bandwidth encompassing the width of all subcarriers from RE#0 of RB#0
to the centre of RE#0 of RB#10 of the SS block. Let _f_ ~max~ denote the high
frequency location of the SS block within a band after accounting for the
guard band and the bandwidth from the centre of RE#0 of RB#10 and encompassing
the width of all subcarriers until RE#11 of RB#19 of the SS block. Let _F_
~low~ represent the lowest frequency of the frequency range in subclause
4.3.1.4, ∆ _F_ ~raster~ represent the raster spacing in MHz, ∆ _F_ ~shift~
represent the raster shift in MHz (applicable for the frequency range 0 to
3000MHz).
The lowest frequency location _f_ ~min~ is computed as
$f_{\text{min}} = F_{\text{low}} + G + \mathrm{\Delta}f\left(
\frac{N_{\text{RB}}^{\text{SS}}N_{\text{RE}}^{\text{RB}} + 1}{2} \right)$
where $\mathrm{\Delta}f$ is the subcarrier spacing, $N_{\text{RE}}^{\text{RB}}
= 12$ is the number of REs per RB, $N_{\text{RB}}^{\text{SS}} = 20$ is the
number of RBs in the SS block.
The highest frequency location _f_ ~max~ is computed as
$f_{\text{max}} = F_{\text{low}} + W_{\text{Band}} - G -
\mathrm{\Delta}f\left(
\frac{N_{\text{RB}}^{\text{SS}}N_{\text{RE}}^{\text{RB}} - 1}{2} \right)$
where _W~Band~_ is the width of the operating band.
The first possible raster location within a band (prior to applying the step
size) is given by
$f_{\text{min}} \leq F_{\text{low}} + N{\mathrm{\Delta}F}_{\text{raster}} +
M{\mathrm{\Delta}F}_{\text{shift}}$
while the last possible raster location within a band (prior to applying the
step size) is given by
$f_{\text{max}} \geq F_{\text{low}} + N{\mathrm{\Delta}F}_{\text{raster}} +
M{\mathrm{\Delta}F}_{\text{shift}}$
where ∆ _F_ ~shift~ is defined to be 0 outside the frequency range 0 to
3000MHz and where N (and M) are defined in subclause 4.3.1.4.
For the first possible raster location, _N_ ~min~ is the smallest integer
satisfying
$N_{\min} \geq \frac{1}{{\mathrm{\Delta}F}_{\text{raster}}}\left(
f_{\text{min}} - F_{\text{low}} - max\left( M
\right){\mathrm{\Delta}F}_{\text{shift}} \right)$
and the corresponding value of M (if defined and if multiple values are
defined)
$M \geq \frac{1}{{\mathrm{\Delta}F}_{\text{shift}}}\left( f_{\text{min}} -
F_{\text{low}} - N_{\min}{\mathrm{\Delta}F}_{\text{raster}} \right)$
For the last possible raster location, _N_ ~max~ is the largest integer
satisfying
$N_{\text{max}} \leq \frac{f_{\text{max}} - F_{\text{low}} - \text{min}\left(
M
\right){\mathrm{\Delta}F}_{\text{shift}}}{{\mathrm{\Delta}F}_{\text{raster}}}$
and the corresponding value of M (if defined and if multiple values are
defined)
$M \leq \frac{f_{\text{max}} - F_{\text{low}} -
N_{\text{max}}{\mathrm{\Delta}F}_{\text{raster}}}{{\mathrm{\Delta}F}_{\text{shift}}}$
For the frequency ranges in subclause 4.3.1.4, table 4.3.1.5-2 indicates the
formulas used to compute the values of N and M (if necessary).
Table 4.3.1.5-2: Formulas to compute the minimum and maximum values of GSCN
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Type | Parameter | Range | Formula | +================+================+================+================+ | For GSCNmin | N (compute | 0-3000 MHz | $$N | | | first) | | = \left\lceil | | | | | \frac{f_{\tex | | | | | t{min}} - F_{\ | | | | | text{low}} - \ | | | | | text{max}\left | | | | | ( M \right){\m | | | | | athrm{\Delta}F | | | | | }_{\text{shift | | | | | }}}{{\mathrm{\ | | | | | Delta}F}_{\tex | | | | | t{raster}}} \r | | | | | ight\rceil,M\t | | | | | ext{ϵ}\left{ | | | | | \begin{matrix} | | | | | \left{ 1,3,5 | | | | | \right} & \ | | | | | \left{ | | | | | 3 \right} & | | | | | \text{Note} \ | | | | | \end{matri | | | | | x} \right.\ $$ | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | ≥ 3000 MHz | $$N = \le | | | | | ft\lceil \frac | | | | | {f_{\text{min} | | | | | } - F_{\text{l | | | | | ow}}}{{\mathrm | | | | | {\Delta}F}_{\t | | | | | ext{raster}}} | | | | | \right\rceil$$ | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | M | 0-3000 MHz | $$M' | | | | | = \text{max}\ | | | | | left( \left\lc | | | | | eil \frac{f_{\ | | | | | text{min}} - F | | | | | _{\text{low}} | | | | | - N{\mathrm{\D | | | | | elta}F}_{\text | | | | | {raster}}}{{\m | | | | | athrm{\Delta}F | | | | | }_{\text{shift | | | | | }}} \right\rce | | | | | il,1 \right)$$ | | | | | | | | | | $$M = M^{ | | | | | '} + \left( M^ | | | | | {'} + 1 \right | | | | | )\text{mod}2$$ | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | 0-3000 MHz, | 3 | | | | NOTE | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | ≥ 3000 MHz | N/A | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | For GSCNmax | N (compute | 0-3000 MHz | $$N = | | | first) | | \left\lfloor | | | | | \frac{f_{\text | | | | | {max}} - F_{\t | | | | | ext{low}} - {\ | | | | | text{min}\left | | | | | ( M \right)\ma | | | | | thrm{\Delta}F} | | | | | _{\text{shift} | | | | | }}{{\mathrm{\D | | | | | elta}F}_{\text | | | | | {raster}}} \ri | | | | | ght\rfloor,M\t | | | | | ext{ϵ}\left{ | | | | | \begin{matrix} | | | | | \left{ 1,3,5 | | | | | \right} & \ | | | | | \left{ 3 | | | | | \right} & \t | | | | | ext{Note}\ \ | | | | | \end{matri | | | | | x} \right.\ $$ | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | ≥ 3000 MHz | $$N = \left | | | | | \lfloor \frac{ | | | | | f_{\text{max}} | | | | | - F_{\text{lo | | | | | w}}}{{\mathrm{ | | | | | \Delta}F}_{\te | | | | | xt{raster}}} \ | | | | | right\rfloor$$ | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | M | 0-3000 MHz | $$M = | | | | | \text{min}\le | | | | | ft( \left\lflo | | | | | or \frac{f_{\t | | | | | ext{max}} - F_ | | | | | {\text{low}} - | | | | | N{\mathrm{\De | | | | | lta}F}_{\text{ | | | | | raster}}}{{\ma | | | | | thrm{\Delta}F} | | | | |_{\text{shift} | | | | | }} \right\rflo | | | | | or,5 \right)$$ | | | | | | | | | | $$M = M^{ | | | | | '} + \left( M^ | | | | | {'} + 1 \right | | | | | )\text{mod}2$$ | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | 0-3000 MHz, | 3 | | | | NOTE | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | ≥ 3000 MHz | N/A | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | NOTE: Refers | | | | | to Note in | | | | | Table | | | | | 5.4.3.1-1 in | | | | | TS 38.101-1 | | | | | [4] for | | | | | bands with | | | | | SCS-based | | | | | raster below | | | | | 3000 MHz. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
To compute the GSCN ranges with step size \, the N and M (when defined)
values computed with the formulas in table 4.3.1.5-2 are used to determine
GSCNmin′ and GSCNmax′ according to the appropriate raster entry formula from
subclause 4.3.1.4. The first entry in the GSCN range, GSCNmin, is determined
by
$\text{GSCNmin} = \left\langle \text{N} \right\rangle\left\lceil
\frac{\text{GSCNmin}'}{\left\langle \text{N} \right\rangle} \right\rceil$
and the last entry in the range, GSCNmax, is determined by
$\text{GSCNmax} = \left\langle \text{N} \right\rangle\left\lfloor
\frac{\text{GSCNmax}'}{\left\langle \text{N} \right\rangle} \right\rfloor$.
### Note that GSCN in some bands may be defined according to deployment need
instead of using the equations in this clause.4.3.2 Channel spacing for
adjacent NR carriers
The spacing between carriers will depend on the deployment scenario, the size
of the frequency block available and the channel bandwidths. The nominal
channel spacing between two adjacent NR carriers shall be multiple of channel
raster. As such, the channel spacing should be specified separately for
different channel raster and additional offset may be needed pending on
channel raster and different channel bandwidth combination for adjacent NR
carriers.
### 4.3.3 Channel spacing for intra-band CA
For LTE intra-band contiguous CA, the following assumptions are considered:
\- the aggregated bandwidth shall be no more than BW~Channel(1)~
+BW~Channel(2)~
\- the outer guard bands of the two CCs are symmetric.
\- the channel spacing shall be multiple of LCM (least common multiple) of
channel raster and SCS ( i.e. 300 kHz of 100kHz channel raster and 15kHz SCS
for LTE), this is to be compatible with the channel raster and at the same
time to maintain the orthogonality of the sub-carriers spacing.
Above three assumptions could be reused for NR intra-band contiguous CA
although there are some following differences between LTE and NR:
\- Minimum guard band of the outermost carriers should be used, rather than
fixed guard bands (= 0.05*BW) for each channel bandwidth
\- The channel raster of 100kHz, 15kHz and 60kHz are supported.
\- Several SCSs are supported
Considering the combination of channel raster and SCS for each carrier, the NR
intra-band contiguous CA channel spacing should be separately defined
correspondingly. In order to be compatible with the channel raster and the
orthogonality of the sub-carriers spacing, the NR CA channel spacing shall be
multiple of LCM of channel raster and SCS, listed in table 4.3.3-1.
Table 4.3.3-1. LCM {channel raster, SCS} for NR intra-band contiguous CA
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | **Frequency |** Channel | **Data SCS for |** LCM {channel | | range**| raster** | carrier(s)**| raster, SCS}** | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | FR1 | 100 kHz | 15 kHz, 30 | 300 kHz | | | | kHz, 60 kHz | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | 15 kHz | 15 kHz, 30 | 15*2^n^ kHz | | | | kHz, 60 kHz | | | | | | { | | | | | width="1.08472 | | | | | 22222222221in" | | | | | hei | | | | | ght="0.2340277 | | | | | 7777777778in"} | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | FR2 | 60 kHz | 60kHz, 120 kHz | 60*2^n^ kHz | | | | | | | | | | { | | | | | width="1.22708 | | | | | 33333333333in" | | | | | hei | | | | | ght="0.2208333 | | | | | 3333333333in"} | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Note 1: The | | | | | SCS for | | | | | component | | | | | carrier can be | | | | | different. In | | | | | this case, the | | | | | SCS in the LCM | | | | | {channel | | | | | raster, SCS} | | | | | is the maximum | | | | | SCS of the | | | | | carriers. | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: _µ_ ~1~ | | | | | and _µ_ ~2~ are | | | | | the subcarrier | | | | | spacing | | | | | configurations | | | | | of the | | | | | component | | | | | carriers as | | | | | defined in TS | | | | | 38.211 [8]. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
The channel spacing for intra-band contiguous carrier aggregation can be
adjusted to any multiple of least common multiple of channel raster and sub-
carrier spacing less than the nominal channel spacing to optimize performance
in a particular deployment scenario.
## 4.4 Subcarrier spacing
### 4.4.1 Non-SS channels
NR supports operation of different numerologies involving different sub-
carrier spacings, as well as operation in different parts of the frequency
domain.
The subcarrier spacing used for non-SS transmission impacts several aspects of
performance, including:
\- The maximum channel bandwidth that can be supported using a feasible FFT
size
\- Larger subcarrier spacing implies larger bandwidth
\- The inter-carrier interference due to phase noise
\- Larger subcarrier spacing implies greater phase noise robustness
\- The symbol length and hence delay characteristics
\- Larger subcarrier spacing implies shorter symbols
The characteristics of range 1 and range 2 in terms of achievable phase noise,
channel delay profiles and expected bandwidths differ considerably and hence
the supported SCS options were decided separately for range 1 and range 2.
Several options for SCS are supported for each range. The SCS supported for
each band will be selected on a band specific basis from the options defined
for the corresponding range.
The SCS options were decided to be as follows:
Table 4.4-1 Non-SS subcarrier spacing options
**Frequency range** **SCS options (Non-SS)**
* * *
Range 1 (Below 1GHz) 15, 30 kHz Range 1 (Above 1GHz) 15, 30, 60 kHz Range 2
60, 120 kHz
## 4.5 Spectrum utilization
### 4.5.1 General
In order to settle spectrum utilization for NR, a number of factors have been
taken into account, including:
\- Increasing the spectrum utilization compared to E-UTRA
\- The spectrum efficiency gains corresponding to the spectrum utilization
increase
\- The impact of the spectrum utilization on implementations, including both
filtering and windowing solutions to spectrum confinement
\- The impact of the spectrum confinement technique needed for achieving the
spectrum utilization on signal quality (EVM), both across the band and at the
band edges
\- The impact of the spectrum utilization on receiver performance considering
ACS, phase noise reciprocity
\- Relevant requirements on SEM, ACS etc.
\- Expected transmitter power
Whilst defining a single set of spectrum utilization values in Rel-15 for both
UL and DL, three co-existence scenarios were considered for spectrum
utilization as depicted in figure 4.5.1-1. In the figure, X% is defined as
utilization required to be achievable with the Rel-15 requirements. Y% is
defined as utilization not required to be achievable with the Rel-15
requirements.
{width="5.33125in" height="1.863888888888889in"}
Figure 4.5.1-1 Coexistence scenarios for two adjacent NR channels
From TX side, BS/UE is expected to always meet all TX requirements such as
EVM, out-of-band emission requirements (SEM and ACLR) and spurious
requirements for the Rel-15 utilization X%. Thus, BS/UE TX and RX requirements
were developed for scenario 1.
In addition, it was noted that for a co-ordinated operator deployment,
scenarios 2 and 3 may be possible on a "system level" (i.e. from BS
perspective). Operating in such a manner could potentially cause interference
to other operators, this depends on the scenario.
\- Note that this does not require higher spectrum utilization from the UE
perspective. More specifically, for such scenarios UE TX / RX baseband
processing capabilities are limited by the X% resource utilization and UE may
not support higher utilization.
\- The impacts to interference, blocking etc. to neighbouring operators will
need to be considered and managed by the operator taking into account the
specific deployments of the different operators.
Consideration was also given to how to accommodate future potential RAN4
minimum requirements for Y% utilization in scenarios 2 and 3.
\- A RAN4 minimum requirement for higher spectrum utilization Y% would be
considered only if it could improve system and/or user throughput compared to
X% . How to evaluate system and user throughput would need study.
\- Feasibility and complexity cost would also need to be considered when
evaluating RAN4 minimum requirement for higher spectrum utilisation in a
future release
\- If future analyses would justify the introduction of minimum higher
spectrum utilization Y%:
\- Later release specification and requirements impact is FFS
\- The same BS/UE Tx Rel-15 requirements will continue to be applicable. (i.e.
No impact on BS/UE TX and RX Rel-15 requirements defined for X% ).
\- If needed, relevant BS/UE RX minimum requirements could be revised/added.
\- Whether Y% would be mandatory for BS/UE or not would be FFS in the future
release
EVM requirements measured over edge PRBs is FFS. RB values for NR spectrum
utilization are agreed based on the assumption of no edge PRB EVM requirements
in Rel-15.
RAN1 and RAN2 confirmed that physical layer and L2/3 signalling supports
allocation of PRBs up to the theoretical maximum number for the channel
bandwidth.
### 4.5.2 Maximum RB Allocation, Transmission Bandwidth and Spectrum
Utilization for FR1
#### 4.5.2.1 CP-OFDM waveform
Spectrum Utilization refers to the proportion of the channel bandwidth that
can be used for transmission. RAN4 defined a single set spectrum utilization
values in Rel-15 for both UL and DL. The following maximum RB allocation
defines the minimum spectrum utilization to be realized per channel bandwidths
and valid sub-carrier spacing.
Table 4.5.2.1-1: Range 1 NR UE and BS maximum RB allocation for CP-OFDM
SCS [kHz] BS / UE Channel bandwidths [MHz]
* * *
                                                                                     5                                    10   15   20    25    30        40    50    60    70^1^     80    90^1^     100
15 25 52 79 106 133 [160] 216 270 N.A N.A N.A N.A N.A 30 11 24 38 51 65 [78]
106 133 162 [189] 217 [245] 273 60 N.A 11 18 24 31 [38] 51 65 79 [93] 107
[121] 135 NOTE 1: 70MHz and 90MHz are defined only as BS channel bandwidths in
release 15.
Table 4.5.2.1-2: Range 1 NR UE and BS transmission bandwidths in MHz for CP-
OFDM
SCS [kHz] BS / UE Channel bandwidths [MHz]
* * *
                                                                                     5                                    10     15      20      25      30          40      50      60      70^1^       80      90^1^       100
15 4.5 9.36 14.22 19.08 23.94 [28.80] 38.88 48.6 N.A N.A N.A N.A N.A 30 3.96
8.64 13.68 18.36 23.40 [28.08] 38.16 47.88 58.32 [68.04] 78.12 [88.20] 98.28
60 N.A 7.92 12.96 17.28 22.32 [27.36] 36.72 46.8 56.88 [66.96] 77.04 [87.12]
97.20 NOTE 1: 70MHz and 90MHz are defined only as BS channel bandwidths in
release 15.
Transmit bandwidth for CP-OFDM can be significantly different across the
different sub-carrier spacing for a given channel bandwidth, this must be
taken into account for UE REFSENS thermal noise integration bandwidth as it
results in some cases into close to 1dB REFSENS improvement for the higher
numerologies.
Table 4.5.2.1-3: Range 1 NR UE and BS spectrum utilization for CP-OFDM
SCS [kHz] BS / UE Channel bandwidths [MHz]
* * *
                                                                                     5                                    10      15      20      25      30          40      50      60      70^1^       80      90^1^       100
15 90.0% 93.6% 94.8% 95.4% 95.8% [96.0]% 97.2% 97.2% N.A N.A N.A N.A N.A 30
79.2% 86.4% 91.2% 91.8% 93.6% [93.6]% 95.4% 95.8% 97.2% [97.2]% 97.7% [98.0]%
98.3% 60 N.A 79.2% 86.4% 86.4% 89.3% [91.2]% 91.8% 93.6% 94.8% [95.7]% 96.3%
[96.8]% 97.2% NOTE 1: 70MHz and 90MHz are defined only as BS channel
bandwidths in release 15.
The minimum requirements in RAN4 are met with the agreed spectral occupancy
under the condition that the BS or UE channel bandwidth centre is placed at SC
0 or SC 6 of the PRB grid such that the PRB utilization is symmetrical around
the channel centre for the SCS under test.
For the UE, both the channel bandwidth and the position of the PRB grid with
respect to the UE channel bandwidth centre depend upon configuration. In some
configurations, the centre of the UE channel bandwidth may not align with the
PRB grid in a manner that enables symmetric PRB utilization around the centre.
For the BS, when multiple SCS are transmitted then the rule that SC 0 should
align over all SCS at a point A can mean that the PRB alignment with the
channel centre is not ideal for some SCS and asymmetry may arise.
In these cases, the PRB utilization is the set of PRBs that fall within the UE
or BS channel bandwidth and do not violate the minimum guard band, as captured
in the tables below, and depicted in figure 4.5.2.1-1.
The minimum guard bands have been calculated using the following equation:
(CBW x 1000 (kHz) - RB value x SCS x 12) / 2 - SCS/2
{width="4.961111111111111in" height="2.6951388888888888in"}
Figure 4.5.2.1-1 UE or BS can use all PRBs that do not overlap with the
minimum guard band, considering the centre PRB alignment
Table 4.5.2.1-4: Range 1 NR UE and BS minimum guard band sizes (kHz) for CP-
OFDM
SCS [kHz] BS / UE Channel bandwidths [MHz]
* * *
                                                                                     5                                    10      15      20      25      30          40      50      60     70^1^      80     90^1^      100
15 242.5 312.5 382.5 452.5 522.5 [592.5] 552.5 692.5 N.A N.A N.A N.A N.A 30
505 665 645 805 785 [945] 905 1045 825 [965] 925 [885] 845 60 N.A 1010 990
1330 1310 [1290] 1610 1570 1530 [1490] 1450 [1410] 1370 NOTE 1: 70MHz and
90MHz are defined only as BS channel bandwidths in release 15.
#### 4.5.2.2 DFT-s-OFDM waveform
The following RB allocation is the closest number lower or equal to CP-OFDM
maximum RB allocation satisfying the following equation, partial RB
allocations shall also conform to this equation:
number of RB=2\^^X^*3\^^Y^*5\^^Z^
Table 4.5.2.2-1: Range 1 NR UE maximum RB allocation for DFT-s-OFDM
SCS [kHz] Channel bandwidths [MHz]
* * *
                5                            10   15   20    25    30        40    50    60    80    100
15 25 50 75 100 128 [160] 216 270 N.A N.A N.A 30 10 24 36 50 64 [75] 100 128
162 216 270 60 N.A 10 18 24 30 [36] 50 64 75 100 135
RB numbering for DFT-s-OFDM waveforms is the same than the RB number for CP-
OFDM it is aligned with. In the case where DFT-s-OFDM maximum RB allocation is
smaller than the CP-OFDM maximum allocation, all positions within the CP-OFDM
allocation are valid. This implies that RBstart values can be higher than the
maximum allocation for DFT-s-OFDM. The valid RB start values follow the
following equation:
RBstart DFT-s-OFDM range = 0 to (CP-OFDM maxRB) -- (DFT-s-OFDM #RB)
Table 4.5.2.2-2: Range 1 NR UE transmission bandwidths in MHz for DFT-s-OFDM
SCS [kHz] Channel bandwidths [MHz]
* * *
                5     10                           15      20      25      30          40      50      60      80      100
15 4.5 9 13.5 18 23.04 [28.80] 38.88 48.6 N.A N.A N.A 30 3.6 8.64 12.96 18
23.04 [27.00] 36 46.08 58.32 77.76 97.2 60 N.A 7.2 12.96 17.28 21.6 [25.92] 36
46.08 54 72 97.2
For DFT-s-OFDM, when the maximum allocation is smaller than for CP-OFDM the
transmit bandwidth is smaller, as a consequence the UE spectrum utilization
can be smaller for DFT-s-OFDM than for CP-OFDM and in most cases equivalent to
LTE.
Table 4.5.2.2-3: Range 1 NR UE spectrum utilization for DFT-s-OFDM
SCS [kHz] Channel bandwidths [MHz]
* * *
                5       10                           15      20      25      30      40      50      60      80      100
15 90.0% 90.0% 90.0% 90.0% 92.2% 96.0% 97.2% 97.2% N.A N.A N.A 30 72.0% 86.4%
86.4% 90.0% 92.2% 90.0% 90.0% 92.2% 97.2% 97.2% 97.2% 60 N.A 72.0% 86.4% 86.4%
86.4% 86.4% 90.0% 92.2% 90.0% 90.0% 97.2%
### 4.5.3 Maximum RB Allocation, Transmission Bandwidth and Spectrum
Utilization for FR2
#### 4.5.3.1 CP-OFDM Waveform
The following maximum RB allocation defines the minimum spectrum utilization
to be realized per channel bandwidths and valid sub-carrier spacing.
Table 4.5.3.1-1: Range 2 NR UE and BS maximum RB allocation for CP-OFDM
SCS [kHz] BS / UE Channel bandwidths [MHz]
* * *
                50                                   100   200   400
60 66 132 264 N.A 120 32 66 132 264
Table 4.5.3.1-2: Range 2 NR UE and BS transmission bandwidths in MHz for CP-
OFDM
SCS [kHz] BS / UE Channel bandwidths [MHz]
* * *
                50                                   100     200      400
60 47.52 95.04 190.08 N.A 120 46.08 95.04 190.08 380.16
Table 4.5.3.1-3: Range 2 NR UE and BS spectrum utilization for CP-OFDM
SCS [kHz] BS / UE Channel bandwidths [MHz]
* * *
                50                                   100     200     400
60 95.0% 95.0% 95.0% N.A 120 92.2% 95.0% 95.0% 95.0%
Table 4.5.3.1-4: Range 2 NR UE and BS minimum guard band sizes (kHz) for CP-
OFDM
SCS [kHz] BS / UE Channel bandwidths [MHz]
* * *
                50                                   100    200    400
60 1210 2450 4930 N.A 120 1900 2420 4900 9860
#### 4.5.3.2 DFT-s-OFDM waveform
The following RB allocation is the closest number lower or equal to CP-OFDM
maximum RB allocation satisfying the following equation, partial RB
allocations shall also conform to this equation:
number of RB=2\^^X^*3\^^Y^*5\^^Z^
Table 4.5.3.2-1: Range 2 NR UE maximum RB allocation for DFT-S-OFDM
SCS [kHz] BS / UE Channel bandwidths [MHz]
* * *
                50                                   100   200   400
60 64 128 264 N.A 120 32 64 128 264
RB numbering for DFT-s-OFDM waveforms is the same than the RB number for CP-
OFDM it is aligned with. In the case where DFT-s-OFDM maximum RB allocation is
smaller than the CP-OFDM maximum allocation, all positions within the CP-OFDM
allocation are valid. This implies that RBstart values can be higher than the
maximum allocation for DFT-s-OFDM. The valid RB start values follow the
following equation:
RBstart DFT-s-OFDM range = 0 to (CP-OFDM maxRB) -- (DFT-s-OFDM #RB)
Table 4.5.3.2-2: Range 2 NR UE transmission bandwidths in MHz for DFT-S-OFDM
SCS [kHz] BS / UE Channel bandwidths [MHz]
* * *
                50                                   100     200      400
60 46.08 92.16 190.08 N.A 120 46.08 92.16 184.32 380.16
Table 4.5.3.2-3: Range 2 NR UE spectrum utilization for DFT-S-OFDM
SCS [kHz] BS / UE Channel bandwidths [MHz]
* * *
                50                                   100     200     400
60 92.2% 92.2% 95.0% N.A 120 92.2% 92.2% 92.2% 95.0%
### 4.5.4 Sub-carrier alignment with DC and between numerologies and their
impact to guard bands for FR1
From RAN1 agreement, the lowest valid SCS allocation must be such that one
sub-carrier is aligned with DC (channel centre). This results in a shift of ½
SCS for the lowest valid SCS for a given channel bandwidth. Similarly, the
different SCS in a given channel bandwidth, must have their sub-carrier 0
aligned for all numerologies. The following table provides the lowest
numerology RB number for which the RB0 sub carrier 0 aligns with the lowest
numerology sub carrier 0. This alignment is valid for the case where the
reference SCS is the lowest valid SCS.
Table 4.5.4-1: Lowest SCS RB number for which the first SC0 are aligned
SCS [kHz] Channel bandwidths [MHz]
* * *
                5                            10    15    20    25    40    50    60    80    100
15 RB0 RB0 RB0 RB0 RB0 RB0 RB0 N.A N.A N.A 30 RB2 RB2 RB2 RB2 RB2 RB2 RB2 RB0
RB0 RB0 60 N.A RB4 RB4 RB6 RB4 RB6 RB6 RB2 RB2 RB2
The following table provides the frequency shift for all the numerologies
based on lowest SCS alignment with DC and the SC0 alignment rule between SCS.
Table 4.5.4-2: allocation shift in KHz
SCS [kHz] Channel bandwidths [MHz]
* * *
                5                            10     15     20     25     40     50     60    80    100
15 -7.5 -7.5 -7.5 -7.5 -7.5 -7.5 -7.5 NA NA NA 30 75 -15 75 -15 75 -15 -15 -15
-15 -15 60 NA -30 60 150 -120 -30 150 -30 150 150
From these alignments, the lower and upper guard-bands can be calculated and
are provided in the table below.
Table 4.5.4-3: Lower and upper channel guard-bands in kHz
| SCS [kHz] | Channel bandwidths [MHz] |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  | 5 | 10 | 15 | 20 | 25 | 40 | 50 | 60 | 80 | 100  
Lower Guard Band | 15 | 242.5 | 312.5 | 382.5 | 452.5 | 522.5 | 552.5 | 692.5 | N.A | N.A | N.A  
| 30 | 595 | 665 | 735 | 805 | 875 | 905 | 1045 | 825 | 925 | 845  
| 60 | N.A | 1010 | 1080 | 1510 | 1220 | 1610 | 1750 | 1530 | 1630 | 1550  
Upper Guard Band | 15 | 257.5 | 327.5 | 397.5 | 467.5 | 537.5 | 567.5 | 707.5 | N.A | N.A | N.A  
| 30 | 445 | 695 | 585 | 835 | 725 | 935 | 1075 | 855 | 955 | 875  
| 60 | N.A | 1070 | 960 | 1210 | 1460 | 1670 | 1450 | 1590 | 1330 | 1250  
### 4.5.5 Spectrum utilization when operating multiple numerologies
The flexible NR design enables optional frequency multiplexing of
transmissions with different subcarrier spacing within the same carrier. If
this is the case, then a spectrum occupancy must be calculated taking into
account both numerologies. In release 15, for the UE this agreement relates to
determining spectrum utilization where SRB and PDSCH have different
numerologies and are frequency division multiplexed. For the BS, transmission
or reception may be made with multiple numerologies.
In such cases, at each side of the carrier, the guard size is selected
corresponding to the numerology operated immediately adjacent to the carrier
edge and the bandwidth of the whole carrier. In the example below, if the
carrier bandwidth would be e.g. 20MHz, then on the left hand side the guard
would be the guard corresponding to 15kHz SCS and 20MHz bandwidth and the
guard on the left hand side would be the guard corresponding to 60k SCS and
20MHz bandwidth. The guard sizes would not depend on the proportion of the
carrier allocated to each numerology. (Note that the figure does not imply
anything about the size of any guard between the numerologies; the inter-
numerology guard within the same carrier is implementation dependent).
{width="4.1819444444444445in" height="1.7402777777777778in"}
Figure 4.5.x-1 Example of multiple numerology transmission
When following this agreement, the possibility exists that the BS or UE
channel bandwidth may be larger than the maximum bandwidth supported by one of
the numerologies that is next to the carrier edge. For example, a 100MHz
carrier may be transmitted with a 10MHz, 15kHz SCS allocation adjacent to the
edge of the carrier. For these situations, a guard band size is defined as
follows:
\- For FR1, if multiple numerologies are multiplexed in the same symbol and
the BS channel bandwidth is >50MHz, the guardband applied adjacent to 15k SCS
shall be the same as the guardband defined for 30k SCS for the same BS channel
bandwidth.
\- For FR2, if multiple numerologies are multiplexed in the same symbol and
the BS channel bandwidth is >200MHz, the guardband applied adjacent to 60k SCS
shall be the same as the guardband defined for 120k SCS for the same BS
channel bandwidth.
## 4.6 Mixed numerology requirements
### 4.6.1 Mixed Numerologies FDM operation use cases
A potential feature of NR is that the BS may transmit data using multiple
numerologies in the same sub-frame using frequency division multiplexing. It
has been agreed that in release 15, UEs will not be required to be able to
receive data on multiple numerologies. If different parts of the same carrier
are used for transmitting different numerologies, then the numerologies will
not be fully orthogonal. Potentially, filtering or windowing could be used to
achieve isolation between numerologies. In band emissions or EVM requirements,
and receiver selectivity requirements could be considered to improve the
inter-numerology isolation.
Two use cases for mixed numerology operation were discussed:
\- Use Case #1: Data and Data mixed numerology FDM
\- FDM'ed transmission or reception of physical channels (e.g. NR PDSCH,
PDCCH, PUSCH, PUCCH) with different numerologies at the same instance in DL or
UL
\- Use Case #2: Data and SS block (SS, PBCH) mixed numerology FDM
\- FDM'ed transmission or reception of SS block (SS/PBCH) and other physical
channels (e.g. NR PDSCH, PDCCH) with different numerologies in DL
### 4.6.2 Data/Data mixed numerology FDM operation
The need for introducing RF requirements for isolating numerologies in such
scenarios was investigated. The following conclusions were reached:
BS requirements:
\- FDMed mixed numerologies for downlink and uplink data channel from BS
perspective can be supported without additional in-band RF requirements
compared to single numerology.
\- UE shall be able to TX and RX with one of these numerologies.
UE requirements:
\- Case 1 mixed numerology FDM can be supported without additional UE in-band
RF requirements compared to single numerology (e.g. via using inter-numerology
guard bands)
\- Do not define in-band UE RF requirements for Case 1 mixed numerology FDM in
Rel-15
\- FFS if any additional mixed numerologies requirements need to be introduced
in future releases
The decision was based around the following observations:
\- For systems performing beamforming, spatial isolation between different
users/numerologies may be achieved
\- Inter-numerology interference does not impact performance at low to medium
SINR
\- At high SINR, the gNB scheduler can mitigate inter-numerology interference
by means of allocating a guard between the numerologies; this would be an
implementation decision
RAN4 also made the following working assumption: Rel-15 NR UE is not mandated
to support simultaneous DL reception or UL transmission of multiple FDM'ed
physical channels (e.g. NR PDSCH, PDCCH, PUSCH, PUCCH) with different
numerologies at the same time instance.
### 4.6.3 Data/SS mixed numerology FDM operation
Transmission of SS and data using different numerologies is needed in systems
supporting a different data numerology to the SS. Similar to the data/data
case, there may exist interference between the SS and data numerologies. The
following decisions were made:
\- Data/SS mixed numerology FDM operation can be supported for both BS/UE
without additional in-band RF requirements compared to single numerology.
\- Do not define dedicated BS and UE in-band RF requirements in Rel-15 related
to Data/SS mixed numerology FDM.
\- Support of simultaneous reception of Data/SS with mixed numerologies is
optional from UE implementation perspective.
\- RAN4 will investigate further how UE RRM requirements will take this into
account
\- Case 1: Intra-frequency cell identification and measurements on the target
cell while receiving Data from the serving cell with different numerology from
SS
\- Other cases are not precluded
The decision was based around the following observations about interference of
data onto SS:
\- The SS is designed for cell search to function at low SINR. In general,
inter-numerology interference is not significant
\- One potential case in which the interference could be more significant is
the case in which data is transmitted using a very narrow beam in the same
direction as a user who is attempting to detect SS from the same basestation,
and the SS beam is wider. In this case, data may be received with higher power
than the SS. However, this scenario only occurs when the user performing cell
search is in the same direction as the user to whom data is transmitted, which
is low probability and the associated degradation is not seen as significant.
and following observations around the degradation on data caused by SS
\- Since the SS beam sweeps and is not transmitted in all subframes, any
interference from SS onto data is only for a limited portion of the time
\- Data is likely to be always transmitted with the same or grater beamforming
gain than SS
\- Any interference from SS is only significant at high SINR
\- If there is any risk of interference to a high SINR user from SS during a
subframe, the gNB scheduler can mitigate the interference by leaving a guard
between the two as an implementation decision.
## 4.7 TRx test metrics
### 4.7.1 TRx test metrics and link direction in FR2
Table 4.7.1-1 summarizes test metrics and link direction for TRx requirements.
Table 4.7.1-1: Summary of test metrics and link direction in FR2
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Requirement | Metrics in | Assumed | Assumed | | | | TR 38.803 | Link | Metrics | | | | [10]\ | Direction | | | | | (Range 2 / | | | | | | OTA) | | | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | TX | Transmitter | EIRP CDF | Each beam | EIRP | | | Maximum | | peak search | (Link=Beam | | | Output | | grid\ | peak search | | | Power | | (NOTE 1) | grids, | | | | | | Meas=Link | | | | | | angle) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | TRP | TX beam | TRP | | | | | peak | (Link=TX | | | | | direction | beam peak | | | | | obtained | direction) | | | | | from above | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | TX | Tx | EIRP CDF | Each beam | EIRP | | | Spherical | | peak search | (Link=Beam | | | coverage | | grid\ | peak search | | | | | (NOTE 1) | grids, | | | | | | Meas=Link | | | | | | angle) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | TX | Maximum | EIRP | TX beam | EIRP | | | Power | | peak | (Link=TX | | | Reduction | | direction | beam peak | | | (MPR) | | (Reuse the | direction, | | | | | result of | Meas=Link | | | | | MOP) | angle) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | TX | Additional | EIRP | TX beam | EIRP | | | Maximum | | peak | (Link=TX | | | Power | | direction | beam peak | | | Reduction | | (Reuse the | direction, | | | (A-MPR) | | result of | Meas=Link | | | | | MOP) | angle) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | TX | Configured | EIRP | TX beam | EIRP | | | transmitted | | peak | (Link=TX | | | Output | | direction | beam peak | | | Power | | (Reuse the | direction, | | | | | result of | Meas=Link | | | | | MOP) | angle) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | TX | Minimum | EIRP | TX beam | EIRP | | | Output | | peak | (Link=TX | | | Power | | direction | beam peak | | | | | (Reuse the | direction, | | | | | result of | Meas=Link | | | | | MOP) | angle) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | TX | Transmit | TRP | TX beam | TRP | | | OFF power | | peak | (Link=TX | | | | | direction | beam peak | | | | | (Reuse the | direction) | | | | | result of | | | | | | MOP) | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | TX | ON/OFF time | Beam peak | TX beam | EIRP | | | mask | | peak | (Link=TX | | | | | direction | beam peak | | | | | (Reuse the | direction, | | | | | result of | Meas=Link | | | | | MOP) | angle) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | TX | Power | Beam peak | TX beam | EIRP | | | Control | | peak | (Link=TX | | | tolerance\ | | direction | beam peak | | | (Absolute) | | (Reuse the | direction, | | | | | result of | Meas=Link | | | | | MOP) | angle) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | TX | Power | Beam peak | TX beam | EIRP | | | Control | | peak | (Link=TX | | | tolerance\ | | direction | beam peak | | | (Relative) | | (Reuse the | direction, | | | | | result of | Meas=Link | | | | | MOP) | angle) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | TX | Power | Beam peak | TX beam | EIRP | | | Control | | peak | (Link=TX | | | tolerance\ | | direction | beam peak | | | ( | | (Reuse the | direction, | | | Aggregated) | | result of | Meas=Link | | | | | MOP) | angle) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | TX | Frequency | Beam peak | TX beam | Frequency | | | error | | peak | (Link=TX | | | | | direction | beam peak | | | | | (Reuse the | direction, | | | | | result of | Meas=Link | | | | | MOP) | angle) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | TX | Error | Beam peak | TX beam | EVM | | | Vector | | peak | (Link=TX | | | Magnitude | | direction | beam peak | | | (EVM) | | (Reuse the | direction, | | | | | result of | Meas=Link | | | | | MOP) | angle) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | TX | Error | Beam peak | TX beam | EVM SF | | | Vector | | peak | (Link=TX | | | Magnitude | | direction | beam peak | | | (EVM) - | | (Reuse the | direction, | | | Spectrum | | result of | Meas=Link | | | Flatness | | MOP) | angle) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | TX | Carrier | Beam peak | TX beam | Carrier | | | leakage | | peak | Leakage | | | | | direction | (Link=TX | | | | | (Reuse the | beam peak | | | | | result of | direction, | | | | | MOP) | Meas=Link | | | | | | angle) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | TX | In-band | Beam peak | TX beam | In-band | | | emissions ( | | peak | emission | | | non | | direction | (Link=TX | | | allocated | | (Reuse the | beam peak | | | RB ) | | result of | direction, | | | | | MOP) | Meas=Link | | | | | | angle) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | TX | Occupied | TRP -> | TX beam | OBW | | | bandwidth | Beam peak | peak | (Link=TX | | | | (NOTE 2) | direction | beam peak | | | | | (Reuse the | direction, | | | | | result of | Meas=Link | | | | | MOP) | angle) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | TX | Spectrum | TRP | TX beam | TRP | | | Emission | | peak | (Link=TX | | | Mask | | direction | beam peak | | | | | (Reuse the | direction) | | | | | result of | | | | | | MOP) | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | TX | Adjacent | TRP | TX beam | TRP | | | Channel | | peak | (Link=TX | | | Leakage | | direction | beam peak | | | power Ratio | | (Reuse the | direction) | | | | | result of | | | | | | MOP) | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | TX | General | TRP | TX beam | TRP | | | Spurious | | peak | (Link=TX | | | emissions | | direction | beam peak | | | | | (Reuse the | direction) | | | | | result of | | | | | | MOP) | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | TX | Spurious | TRP | TX beam | TRP | | | emission | | peak | (Link=TX | | | UE-to-UE | | direction | beam peak | | | coexistence | | (Reuse the | direction) | | | | | result of | | | | | | MOP) | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | TX | Additional | TRP | TX beam | TRP | | | spurious | | peak | (Link=TX | | | emissions | | direction | beam peak | | | | | (Reuse the | direction) | | | | | result of | | | | | | MOP) | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | TX | [Beam | [TBD] | [TBD] | [TBD] | | | corre | | | | | | spondence] | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | RX | Reference | EIS CDF | Each beam | EIS | | | sensitivity | | peak search | (Link=Beam | | | level | | grid\ | peak search | | | | | (NOTE 1) | grids, | | | | | | Meas=Link | | | | | | Angle) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | RX | Maximum | Beam peak | RX beam | EIS | | | input level | | peak | (Link=RX | | | | | direction | beam peak | | | | | (Reuse the | direction, | | | | | result of | Meas=Link | | | | | REFSENS) | angle) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | RX | Adjacent | Beam peak | RX beam | EIS | | | Channel | | peak | (Link=RX | | | Selectivity | | direction | beam peak | | | (ACS) | | (Reuse the | direction, | | | | | result of | Meas=Link | | | | | REFSENS) | angle) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | RX | In-band | Beam peak | RX beam | EIS | | | blocking | | peak | (Link=RX | | | | | direction | beam peak | | | | | (Reuse the | direction, | | | | | result of | Meas=Link | | | | | REFSENS) | angle) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | RX | [ | [TBD] | [TBD] | [TBD] | | | Out-of-band | | | | | | blocking | | | | | | and | | | | | | Spurious | | | | | | response] | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | RX | Receiver | TRP | TX beam | TRP | | | Spurious | | peak | (Link=TX | | | emissions | | direction | beam peak | | | | | (Reuse the | direction) | | | | | result of | | | | | | MOP) | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | RX | Receiver | [TBD] | [TBD] | [TBD] | | | image | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | RX | In-channel | [TBD] | [TBD] | [TBD] | | | selectivity | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | Total | | | | | | number of | | | | | | points for | | | | | | measurement | | | | | | grid is up | | | | | | to TE | | | | | | vendors or | | | | | | test houses | | | | | | as far as | | | | | | it | | | | | | guarantees | | | | | | the | | | | | | agreement | | | | | | on the | | | | | | deviation | | | | | | (0.5 dB). | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | Metric of | | | | | | OBW was | | | | | | changed | | | | | | from TRP to | | | | | | Beam peak | | | | | | to align BS | | | | | | spe | | | | | | cification. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
# 5 UE Transmitter characteristics (frequency range 1)
## 5.1 General
### 5.1.1 CA Bandwidth Class
For intra-band contiguous carrier aggregation, a carrier aggregation
configuration is a single operating band supporting a carrier aggregation
bandwidth class with associated bandwidth combination sets. For each carrier
aggregation configuration, requirements are specified for all aggregated
channel bandwidths contained in a bandwidth combination set, A UE can indicate
support of several bandwidth combination sets per carrier aggregation
configuration.
For intra-band non-contiguous carrier aggregation, a carrier aggregation
configuration is a single operating band supporting two or more sub-blocks,
each supporting a carrier aggregation bandwidth class.
For inter-band carrier aggregation, a carrier aggregation configuration is a
combination of operating bands, each supporting a carrier aggregation
bandwidth class.
Table 5.1.1-1 gives the proposed NR CA bandwidth class for FR1.
Table 5.1.1-1: NR CA Bandwidth Class for FR1
**NR CA bandwidth class** **Aggregated channel bandwidth** **Number of
contiguous CC**
* * *
A BW~Channel_CA~ ≤BW~Channel,max~ 1 B 20 MHz ≤ CBW ≤ 100 MHz 2 C 100 MHz \ L~CRBmax~ is the maximum number of RB for a given Channel bandwidth and sub-
> carrier spacing derived from from spectrum utilization.
>
> RB~startLow~ = L~CRB~/2 rounded down to next integer with floor at 1
>
> RB~startHigh~ = L~CRBmax~ -- RBs~tartLow~ -- L~CRB~
Where Inner RB allocation range is specified as follows: Inner RB allocation
are L~CRB~/2 away from each edge of the maximum RB allocation for all L~CRB~ ≤
L~CRBmax~/2 rounded up to the next integer~.~
RB~startInner~ : valid RB~start~ values for Inner RB allocations
> For L~CRB~ ≤ L~CRBmax~/2 rounded up to the next integer, RB~startLow~ ≤
> RB~startInner~ ≤ RB~startHigh~
Where Outer RB allocation range is all allocations which are not Inner RB
allocation
### 5.2.4 Inner RB allocation range for all 5MHz -- 100MHz channel bandwidths
and SCS
Figure 5.2.4-1 is illustrating Outer RB allocations in orange and Inner RB
allocation in yellow for the two valid SCS for 5MHz channel. On the left side
the two triangles correspond to the CP-OFDM allocations with 15kHz SCS in the
lower left and 30kHz on the upper right, similarly, the same triangles for
DFT-s-OFDM allocation can be found on the right side of the figure.
{width="6.695138888888889in" height="2.9743055555555555in"}
Figure 5.2.4-1: Inner and outer RB allocations of 15kHz and 30kHz 5MHz channel
bandwidth for CP-OFDM and DFT-s-OFDM
Table 5.2.4-1 provides the valid Inner RB allocation RB~start~ range for
channel bandwidths and SCS having a L~CRBmax~ range of 11 to 51 for the
different RB allocation lengths L~CRB~ ≤ L~CRBmid~. The yellow highlighted
column corresponds to the inner RB allocation of the 15kHz and 30kHz SCS 5MHZ
channels described in Figure 5.2.4-1.
Table 5.2.4-2 provides the valid Inner RB allocation RB~start~ range for
channel bandwidths and SCS having a L~CRBmax~ range of 52 to 133 for the
different RB allocation lengths L~CRB~ ≤ L~CRBmid~.
Table 5.2.4-3 provides the valid Inner RB allocation RB~start~ range for
channel bandwidths and SCS having a L~CRBmax~ range of 135 to 273 for the
different RB allocation lengths L~CRB~ ≤ L~CRBmid~.
RBsL is the lowest valid RB~start~ value for Inner RB allocations
RBsH is the highest valid RB~start~ value for Inner RB allocations
Table 5.2.4-1: RB~start~ range for inner RB allocations, L~CRBmax~ range 11-51
* * *
              Channel bandwidth and SCS
* * *
              20/40 MHz 30/60 kHz         15 MHz 30 kHz   25 MHz 60 kHz   5 MHz\   10/20 MHz 30/60 kHz   15 MHz 60 kHz   5/10 MHz 30/60 kHz                                                         
                                                                          15 kHz
L~CRBmax~ 51 38 31 25 24 18 11
L~CRBmid~ 26 19 16 13 12 9 6
L~CRB~ RB~sL~ RB~sH~ RB~sL~ RB~sH~ RB~sL~ RB~sH~ RB~sL~ RB~sH~ RB~sL~ RB~sH~
RB~sL~ RB~sH~ RB~sL~ RB~sH~
1 1 49 1 36 1 29 1 23 1 22 1 16 1 9
2 1 48 1 35 1 28 1 22 1 21 1 15 1 8
3 1 47 1 34 1 27 1 21 1 20 1 14 1 7
4 2 45 2 32 2 25 2 19 2 18 2 12 2 5
5 2 44 2 31 2 24 2 18 2 17 2 11 2 4
6 3 42 3 29 3 22 3 16 3 15 3 9 NA
7 3 41 3 28 3 21 3 15 3 14 3 8 NA
8 4 39 4 26 4 19 4 13 4 12 4 6 NA
9 4 38 4 25 4 18 4 12 4 11 4 5 NA
10 5 36 5 23 5 16 5 10 5 9 NA NA
11 5 35 5 22 5 15 5 9 5 8 NA NA
12 6 33 6 20 6 13 6 7 6 6 NA NA
13 6 32 6 19 6 12 6 6 NA NA NA
14 7 30 7 17 7 10 NA NA NA NA
15 7 29 7 16 7 9 NA NA NA NA
16 8 27 8 14 NA NA NA NA NA
17 8 26 8 13 NA NA NA NA NA
18 9 24 9 11 NA NA NA NA NA
19 9 23 9 10 NA NA NA NA NA
20 10 21 NA NA NA NA NA NA
21 10 20 NA NA NA NA NA NA
22 11 18 NA NA NA NA NA NA
23 11 17 NA NA NA NA NA NA
24 12 15 NA NA NA NA NA NA
25 12 14 NA NA NA NA NA NA
* * *
Table 5.2.4-2: RB~start~ range for inner RB allocations, L~CRBmax~ range
52-133
              Channel bandwidth and SCS
* * *
              25/50 MHz 15/30 kHz         80 MHz 60 kHz   20/40 MHz 15/30 kHz   15/60 MHz 15/60 kHz   25/50 MHz 30/60 kHz   10 MHz 15 kHz
L~CRBmax~ 133 107 106 79 65 52  
L~CRBmid~ 67 54 53 40 33 26  
L~CRB~ RB~sL~ RB~sH~ RB~sL~ RB~sH~ RB~sL~ RB~sH~ RB~sL~ RB~sH~ RB~sL~ RB~sH~
RB~sL~ RB~sH~ 1 1 131 1 105 1 104 1 77 1 63 1 50 2 1 130 1 104 1 103 1 76 1 62
1 49 3 1 129 1 103 1 102 1 75 1 61 1 48 4 2 127 2 101 2 100 2 73 2 59 2 46 5 2
126 2 100 2 99 2 72 2 58 2 45 6 3 124 3 98 3 97 3 70 3 56 3 43 7 3 123 3 97 3
96 3 69 3 55 3 42 8 4 121 4 95 4 94 4 67 4 53 4 40 9 4 120 4 94 4 93 4 66 4 52
4 39 10 5 118 5 92 5 91 5 64 5 50 5 37 11 5 117 5 91 5 90 5 63 5 49 5 36 12 6
115 6 89 6 88 6 61 6 47 6 34 13 6 114 6 88 6 87 6 60 6 46 6 33 14 7 112 7 86 7
85 7 58 7 44 7 31 15 7 111 7 85 7 84 7 57 7 43 7 30 16 8 109 8 83 8 82 8 55 8
41 8 28 17 8 108 8 82 8 81 8 54 8 40 8 27 18 9 106 9 80 9 79 9 52 9 38 9 25 19
9 105 9 79 9 78 9 51 9 37 9 24 20 10 103 10 77 10 76 10 49 10 35 10 22 21 10
102 10 76 10 75 10 48 10 34 10 21 22 11 100 11 74 11 73 11 46 11 32 11 19 23
11 99 11 73 11 72 11 45 11 31 11 18 24 12 97 12 71 12 70 12 43 12 29 12 16 25
12 96 12 70 12 69 12 42 12 28 12 15 26 13 94 13 68 13 67 13 40 13 26 13 13 27
13 93 13 67 13 66 13 39 13 25 NA  
28 14 91 14 65 14 64 14 37 14 23 NA  
29 14 90 14 64 14 63 14 36 14 22 NA  
30 15 88 15 62 15 61 15 34 15 20 NA  
31 15 87 15 61 15 60 15 33 15 19 NA  
32 16 85 16 59 16 58 16 31 16 17 NA  
33 16 84 16 58 16 57 16 30 16 16 NA  
34 17 82 17 56 17 55 17 28 NA NA  
35 17 81 17 55 17 54 17 27 NA NA  
36 18 79 18 53 18 52 18 25 NA NA  
37 18 78 18 52 18 51 18 24 NA NA  
38 19 76 19 50 19 49 19 22 NA NA  
39 19 75 19 49 19 48 19 21 NA NA  
40 20 73 20 47 20 46 NA NA NA  
41 20 72 20 46 20 45 NA NA NA  
42 21 70 21 44 21 43 NA NA NA  
43 21 69 21 43 21 42 NA NA NA  
44 22 67 22 41 22 40 NA NA NA  
45 22 66 22 40 22 39 NA NA NA  
46 23 64 23 38 23 37 NA NA NA  
47 23 63 23 37 23 36 NA NA NA  
48 24 61 24 35 24 34 NA NA NA  
49 24 60 24 34 24 33 NA NA NA  
50 25 58 25 32 25 31 NA NA NA  
51 25 57 25 31 25 30 NA NA NA  
52 26 55 26 29 26 28 NA NA NA  
53 26 54 26 28 26 27 NA NA NA  
54 27 52 NA NA NA NA NA  
55 27 51 NA NA NA NA NA  
56 28 49 NA NA NA NA NA  
57 28 48 NA NA NA NA NA  
58 29 46 NA NA NA NA NA  
59 29 45 NA NA NA NA NA  
60 30 43 NA NA NA NA NA  
61 30 42 NA NA NA NA NA  
62 31 40 NA NA NA NA NA  
63 31 39 NA NA NA NA NA  
64 32 37 NA NA NA NA NA  
65 32 36 NA NA NA NA NA  
66 33 34 NA NA NA NA NA  
67 33 33 NA NA NA NA NA
Table 5.2.4-3: RB~start~ range for inner RB allocations, L~CRBmax~ range
135-273
              Channel bandwidth and SCS
* * *
              100 MHz 30 kHz              50 MHz 15 kHz   80 MHz 30 kHz   40 MHz 15 kHz   60 MHz 30 kHz   100 MHz 60 kHz
L~CRBmax~ 273 270 217 216 162 135  
L~CRBmid~ 137 135 109 108 81 68  
L~CRB~ RB~sL~ RB~sH~ RB~sL~ RB~sH~ RB~sL~ RB~sH~ RB~sL~ RB~sH~ RB~sL~ RB~sH~
RB~sL~ RB~sH~ 1 1 271 1 268 1 215 1 214 1 160 1 133 2 1 270 1 267 1 214 1 213
1 159 1 132 3 1 269 1 266 1 213 1 212 1 158 1 131 4 2 267 2 264 2 211 2 210 2
156 2 129 5 2 266 2 263 2 210 2 209 2 155 2 128 6 3 264 3 261 3 208 3 207 3
153 3 126 7 3 263 3 260 3 207 3 206 3 152 3 125 8 4 261 4 258 4 205 4 204 4
150 4 123 9 4 260 4 257 4 204 4 203 4 149 4 122 10 5 258 5 255 5 202 5 201 5
147 5 120 11 5 257 5 254 5 201 5 200 5 146 5 119 12 6 255 6 252 6 199 6 198 6
144 6 117 13 6 254 6 251 6 198 6 197 6 143 6 116 14 7 252 7 249 7 196 7 195 7
141 7 114 15 7 251 7 248 7 195 7 194 7 140 7 113 16 8 249 8 246 8 193 8 192 8
138 8 111 17 8 248 8 245 8 192 8 191 8 137 8 110 18 9 246 9 243 9 190 9 189 9
135 9 108 19 9 245 9 242 9 189 9 188 9 134 9 107 20 10 243 10 240 10 187 10
186 10 132 10 105 21 10 242 10 239 10 186 10 185 10 131 10 104 22 11 240 11
237 11 184 11 183 11 129 11 102 23 11 239 11 236 11 183 11 182 11 128 11 101
24 12 237 12 234 12 181 12 180 12 126 12 99 25 12 236 12 233 12 180 12 179 12
125 12 98 26 13 234 13 231 13 178 13 177 13 123 13 96 27 13 233 13 230 13 177
13 176 13 122 13 95 28 14 231 14 228 14 175 14 174 14 120 14 93 29 14 230 14
227 14 174 14 173 14 119 14 92 30 15 228 15 225 15 172 15 171 15 117 15 90 31
15 227 15 224 15 171 15 170 15 116 15 89 32 16 225 16 222 16 169 16 168 16 114
16 87 33 16 224 16 221 16 168 16 167 16 113 16 86 34 17 222 17 219 17 166 17
165 17 111 17 84 35 17 221 17 218 17 165 17 164 17 110 17 83 36 18 219 18 216
18 163 18 162 18 108 18 81 37 18 218 18 215 18 162 18 161 18 107 18 80 38 19
216 19 213 19 160 19 159 19 105 19 78 39 19 215 19 212 19 159 19 158 19 104 19
77 40 20 213 20 210 20 157 20 156 20 102 20 75 41 20 212 20 209 20 156 20 155
20 101 20 74 42 21 210 21 207 21 154 21 153 21 99 21 72 43 21 209 21 206 21
153 21 152 21 98 21 71 44 22 207 22 204 22 151 22 150 22 96 22 69 45 22 206 22
203 22 150 22 149 22 95 22 68 46 23 204 23 201 23 148 23 147 23 93 23 66 47 23
203 23 200 23 147 23 146 23 92 23 65 48 24 201 24 198 24 145 24 144 24 90 24
63 49 24 200 24 197 24 144 24 143 24 89 24 62 50 25 198 25 195 25 142 25 141
25 87 25 60 51 25 197 25 194 25 141 25 140 25 86 25 59 52 26 195 26 192 26 139
26 138 26 84 26 57 53 26 194 26 191 26 138 26 137 26 83 26 56 54 27 192 27 189
27 136 27 135 27 81 27 54 55 27 191 27 188 27 135 27 134 27 80 27 53 56 28 189
28 186 28 133 28 132 28 78 28 51 57 28 188 28 185 28 132 28 131 28 77 28 50 58
29 186 29 183 29 130 29 129 29 75 29 48 59 29 185 29 182 29 129 29 128 29 74
29 47 60 30 183 30 180 30 127 30 126 30 72 30 45 61 30 182 30 179 30 126 30
125 30 71 30 44 62 31 180 31 177 31 124 31 123 31 69 31 42 63 31 179 31 176 31
123 31 122 31 68 31 41 64 32 177 32 174 32 121 32 120 32 66 32 39 65 32 176 32
173 32 120 32 119 32 65 32 38 66 33 174 33 171 33 118 33 117 33 63 33 36 67 33
173 33 170 33 117 33 116 33 62 33 35 68 34 171 34 168 34 115 34 114 34 60 NA  
69 34 170 34 167 34 114 34 113 34 59 NA  
70 35 168 35 165 35 112 35 111 35 57 NA  
71 35 167 35 164 35 111 35 110 35 56 NA  
72 36 165 36 162 36 109 36 108 36 54 NA  
73 36 164 36 161 36 108 36 107 36 53 NA  
74 37 162 37 159 37 106 37 105 37 51 NA  
75 37 161 37 158 37 105 37 104 37 50 NA  
76 38 159 38 156 38 103 38 102 38 48 NA  
77 38 158 38 155 38 102 38 101 38 47 NA  
78 39 156 39 153 39 100 39 99 39 45 NA  
79 39 155 39 152 39 99 39 98 39 44 NA  
80 40 153 40 150 40 97 40 96 40 42 NA  
81 40 152 40 149 40 96 40 95 40 41 NA  
82 41 150 41 147 41 94 41 93 NA NA  
83 41 149 41 146 41 93 41 92 NA NA  
84 42 147 42 144 42 91 42 90 NA NA  
85 42 146 42 143 42 90 42 89 NA NA  
86 43 144 43 141 43 88 43 87 NA NA  
87 43 143 43 140 43 87 43 86 NA NA  
88 44 141 44 138 44 85 44 84 NA NA  
89 44 140 44 137 44 84 44 83 NA NA  
90 45 138 45 135 45 82 45 81 NA NA  
91 45 137 45 134 45 81 45 80 NA NA  
92 46 135 46 132 46 79 46 78 NA NA  
93 46 134 46 131 46 78 46 77 NA NA  
94 47 132 47 129 47 76 47 75 NA NA  
95 47 131 47 128 47 75 47 74 NA NA  
96 48 129 48 126 48 73 48 72 NA NA  
97 48 128 48 125 48 72 48 71 NA NA  
98 49 126 49 123 49 70 49 69 NA NA  
99 49 125 49 122 49 69 49 68 NA NA  
100 50 123 50 120 50 67 50 66 NA NA  
101 50 122 50 119 50 66 50 65 NA NA  
102 51 120 51 117 51 64 51 63 NA NA  
103 51 119 51 116 51 63 51 62 NA NA  
104 52 117 52 114 52 61 52 60 NA NA  
105 52 116 52 113 52 60 52 59 NA NA  
106 53 114 53 111 53 58 53 57 NA NA  
107 53 113 53 110 53 57 53 56 NA NA  
108 54 111 54 108 54 55 54 54 NA NA  
109 54 110 54 107 54 54 NA NA NA  
110 55 108 55 105 NA NA NA NA  
111 55 107 55 104 NA NA NA NA  
112 56 105 56 102 NA NA NA NA  
113 56 104 56 101 NA NA NA NA  
114 57 102 57 99 NA NA NA NA  
115 57 101 57 98 NA NA NA NA  
116 58 99 58 96 NA NA NA NA  
117 58 98 58 95 NA NA NA NA  
118 59 96 59 93 NA NA NA NA  
119 59 95 59 92 NA NA NA NA  
120 60 93 60 90 NA NA NA NA  
121 60 92 60 89 NA NA NA NA  
122 61 90 61 87 NA NA NA NA  
123 61 89 61 86 NA NA NA NA  
124 62 87 62 84 NA NA NA NA  
125 62 86 62 83 NA NA NA NA  
126 63 84 63 81 NA NA NA NA  
127 63 83 63 80 NA NA NA NA  
128 64 81 64 78 NA NA NA NA  
129 64 80 64 77 NA NA NA NA  
130 65 78 65 75 NA NA NA NA  
131 65 77 65 74 NA NA NA NA  
132 66 75 66 72 NA NA NA NA  
133 66 74 66 71 NA NA NA NA  
134 67 72 67 69 NA NA NA NA  
135 67 71 67 68 NA NA NA NA  
136 68 69 NA NA NA NA NA  
137 68 68 NA NA NA NA NA
## 5.3 Output power dynamics
### 5.3.1 Minimum output power
#### 5.3.1.1 Current LTE requirement
Current LTE singe carrier requirement is defined as the same output level as
shown in the following table which is copied from TS 36.101 [3].
Table 5.3.1.1-1: Minimum output power (Table 6.3.2.1-1 of TS 36.101 [3])
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | ** | | | | | | | | Channel | | | | | | | | ba | | | | | | | | ndwidth | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | Minimum | | | | | | | | output | | | | | | | | power / | | | | | | | | Meas | | | | | | | | urement | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | width**| | | | | | +=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+ | |** 1.4**|** 3.0**|** 5**|** 10**|** 15**|** 20**| | | | | | | | | | |** MHz**|** MHz**|** MHz**|** MHz**|** MHz**|** MHz** | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Minimum | -40 dBm | | | | | | | output | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Meas | 1.08 | 2.7 MHz | 4.5 MHz | 9.0 MHz | 13.5 | 18 MHz | | urement | MHz | | | | MHz | | | ba | | | | | | | | ndwidth | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
For the CA requirement, the following is the current definition.
_For inter-band carrier aggregation with uplink assigned to two E-UTRA bands
and intra-band contiguous and non-contiguous carrier aggregation, the minimum
controlled output power of the UE is defined as the transmit power of the UE
per component carrier, i.e., the power in the channel bandwidth of each
component carrier for all transmit bandwidth configurations (resource blocks),
when the power on both component carriers are set to a minimum value._
And each carrier requirement is defined as the single carrier requirement,
i.e. -40 dBm.
For the minimum output power, it should be noted that -30 dBm is the minimum
output power that can support 256QAM modulation.
Table 5.3.1.1-2: Parameters for Error Vector Magnitude (Table 6.5.2.1.1-2 of
TS 36.101 [3])
* * *
**\** Unit**** Level**Parameter**
UE Output Power dBm ≥ -40
UE Output Power for 256 QAM dBm ≥ -30
Operating conditions Normal conditions
* * *
#### 5.3.1.2 NR requirement
For the NR requirement, there could be two approaches being considered. The
first is that all of the CBW reuses the same level requirement as LTE. The
second is that the CBW enlarge can be treated as the LTE CA then the minimum
output power can be defined as the same PSD with LTE 20MHz.
The first approach tightens the UE implementation if UL SNR is considered. If
100MHz reuses 20MHz absolute level, i.e. -40 dBm for QPSK, 16QAM, 64QAM
modulation and -30 dBm for 256QAM modulation, the SNR decreases 7 dB which is
a large improvement request to the link design. When LTE UL256QAM was
discussed, the link budget was very tough that 7 dB improvement is a big
challenge.
According to current TS 36.101 [3] arrangement, the UL 256QAM challenge was
not reflected in the minimum output power section but in the EVM clause.
Therefore, the same approach was used in the requirement. The following
requirements were agreed for NR minimum output power.
Table 5.3.1.2-1: NR minimum output power
                               **Channel bandwidth / Minimum output power / Measurement bandwidth**
* * *
                               **5 MHz**                                                              **10 MHz**   **15 MHz**   **20 MHz**   **25 MHz**   **40MHz**   **50MHz**   **60MHz**   **80MHz**   **100MHz**
Minimum output power (dBm) -40 -39 -37 -36 -35.2 -34 -33  
Measurement bandwidth See Transmission bandwidth configuration defined in 4.2
Table 5.3.1.2-2: Parameters for Error Vector Magnitude
**Parameters** **Channel bandwidth / Minimum output power / Measurement
bandwidth**
* * *
                                        **5 MHz**                                                              **10 MHz**   **15 MHz**   **20 MHz**   **25 MHz**   **40MHz**   **50MHz**   **60MHz**   **80MHz**   **100MHz**
UE output power (dBm) ≥ -40 ≥ -39 ≥ -37 ≥ -36 ≥ -35.2 ≥ -34 ≥ -33  
UE output power for UL 256QAM (dBm) ≥ -30 ≥ -29 ≥ -27 ≥ -26 ≥ -25.2 ≥ -24 ≥
-23
## 5.4 Transmit signal quality
### 5.4.1 IQ-Image and Carrier leakage
IQ Image and Carrier leakage for NR Range 1 are specified as follows.
Table 5.4.1-1: NR range 1 IQ Image and Carrier leakage requirement
**IQ Image** dB -28 Image frequencies when carrier center frequency \ 10 dBm
* * *
                                                                     -25   Image frequencies when carrier center frequency \ 10 dBm and carrier center frequency
\ 40 MHz for
NR general SEM for sub-6 GHz bands. For those regions that have regulatory
requirements for emissions to first MHz outside the channel region specific
SEMs can be defined similarly as for LTE.
NR Sub-6 GHz general emission mask is presented in Table 5.5.2.1-1.
Table 5.5.2.1-1: NR spectrum target emission mask
**ΔfOOB** **(MHz)** | **5** **MHz** | **10** **MHz** | **15** **MHz** | **20** **MHz** | **25** **MHz** | **40** **MHz** | **50** **MHz** | **60** **MHz** | **80** **MHz** | **100** **MHz** | **Measurement bandwidth**  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
± 0-1 | -15 | -18 | -20 | -21 | -22 | -24 | -24 | -24 | -24 | -24 | 30 kHz  
± 1-5 | -10 | -10 | -10 | -10 | -10 | -10 | -10 | -10 | -10 | -10 | 1 MHz  
± 5-6 | -13 | -13 | -13 | -13 | -13 | -13 | -13 | -13 | -13 | -13 |   
± 6-10 | -25 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
± 10-15 |  | -25 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
± 15-20 |  |  | -25 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
± 20-25 |  |  |  | -25 |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
± 25-30 |  |  |  |  | -25 |  |  |  |  |  |   
± 30-40 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
± 40-45 |  |  |  |  |  | -25 |  |  |  |  |   
± 45-50 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
± 55-60 |  |  |  |  |  |  | -25 |  |  |  |   
± 60-65 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | -25 |  |  |   
± 65-80 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
± 80-85 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | -25 |  |   
± 85-100 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
± 100-105 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | -25 |   
#### 5.5.2.2 Additional spectrum emission requirements
Additional spectrum emission requirements are signalled by the network with
network signalling value indicated by the field _additionalSpectrumEmission_.
##### 5.5.2.2.1 Requirements for network signalled value \"NS_04\"
Additional spectrum emission requirements are signalled by the network to
indicate that the UE shall meet an additional requirement for a specific
deployment scenario as part of the cell handover/broadcast message.
The n41 SEM transition point from -13 dBm/MHz to -25 dBm/MHz is based on the
emission bandwidth. The emission bandwidth is defined as the width of the
signal between two points, one below the carrier center frequency and one
above the carrier center frequency, outside of which all emissions are
attenuated at least 26 dB below the transmitter power. Since the 26 dB
emission bandwidth is implementation dependent, the transmission bandwidths
occupied by RBs is used for the SEM.
Table 5.5.2.2.1-1: n41 transmission bandwidths for CP-OFDM
**SCS [kHz]** **Channel bandwidths [MHz]**
* * *
                    **10**                           **15**   **20**   **40**   **50**   **60**   **80**   **100**
15 9.36 14.22 19.08 38.88 48.6 N.A N.A N.A 30 8.64 13.68 18.36 38.16 47.88
58.32 78.12 98.28 60 7.92 12.96 17.28 36.72 46.8 56.88 77.04 97.20
Table 5.5.2.2.1-2: n41 transmission bandwidths for DFT-S-OFDM
**SCS [kHz]** **Channel bandwidths [MHz]**
* * *
                    **10**                           **15**   **20**   **40**   **50**   **60**   **80**   **100**
15 9.00 13.50 18.00 38.88 48.60 N/A N/A N/A 30 8.64 12.96 18.00 36.00 46.08
58.32 77.76 97.20 60 7.20 12.96 17.28 36.00 46.08 54.00 72.00 97.20
When \"NS_04\" is indicated in the cell, the power of any UE emission shall
not exceed the levels specified in Table 5.5.2.2.1-3.
Table 5.5.2.2.1-3: n41 SEM with NS_04
| **Spectrum emission limit (dBm)/ measurement bandwidth** **for each channel bandwidth** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
**Δf OOB  
MHz** | **10  
MHz** | **15  
MHz** | **20  
MHz** | **40  
MHz** | **50  
MHz** | **60  
MHz** | **80  
MHz** | **100  
MHz** | **Measurement  
bandwidth**  
± 0 - 1 | -18 | -20 | -21 | -24 | -25 | 30 kHz |  |  |   
± 1 - 5 | -10 | 1 MHz |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
± 5 - X | -13 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
± X - (BWChannel \+ 5 MHz) | -25 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Note 1: X is defined in Table 6.5.2.3.2-1 for CP-OFDM or 6.5.2.3.2-2 for DFT-S-OFDM |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
### 5.5.3 Adjacent Channel Leakage ratio
Concerning NR Range 1 UE ACLR requirement following agreements have been made
#### 5.5.3.1 NR ACLR
ACLR is the ratio of power of wanted signal to the power falling into Adjacent
Channel. ACLR measurement bandwidth for both the wanted and adjacent channels
is the maximum transmission bandwidth among the different SCSs of CP-OFDM SU
for a channel BW with addition of one SCS to account for half SCS shift due to
SCS alignment to DC, this measurement bandwidth is centred within the
channels.
Offset for the adjacent measurement BW centre is +/- Channel BW from wanted
channel centre (in the middle of the Channel).
For PC3 requirement is NRACLR = 30 dBc for channel bandwidths up to 100 MHz.
For PC2 requirement is NRACLR = 31 dBc for channel bandwidths up to 100 MHz.
Table below provides measurement BWs in the last row
Table 5.5.3.1-1: ACLR measurement bandwidth
* * *
**Sub-6GHz** **SCS [kHz]** **5 MHz** **10 MHz** **15 MHz** **20 MHz** **25
MHz** **40 MHz** **50 MHz** **60 MHz** **80 MHz** **100 MHz**
* * *
                                             **NRB**     **NRB**      **NRB**      **NRB**      **NRB**      **NRB**      **NRB**      **NRB**      **NRB**      **NRB**
SU_CP-OFDM\ **15** **25** **52** **79** **106** **133** **216** **270**
**N.A** **N.A** **N.A** [#RB]
                           **30**            **11**      **24**       **38**       **51**       **65**       **106**      **133**      **162**      **217**      **273**
                           **60**            **N.A**     **11**       **18**       **24**       **31**       **51**       **65**       **79**       **107**      **135**
RX&TXBW CP\ **15** **4.5** **9.36** **14.22** **19.08** **23.94** **38.88**
**48.6** **NA** **NA** **NA** [MHz]
                           **30**            **3.96**    **8.64**     **13.68**    **18.36**    **23.4**     **38.16**    **47.88**    **58.32**    **78.12**    **98.28**
                           **60**            **NA**      **7.92**     **12.96**    **17.28**    **22.32**    **36.72**    **46.8**     **56.88**    **77.04**    **97.2**
TXBWsym\ **15** **4.515** **9.375** **14.235** **19.095** **23.955**
**38.895** **48.615** **NA** **NA** **NA** [MHz]
                           **30**            **3.99**    **8.67**     **13.71**    **18.39**    **23.43**    **38.19**    **47.91**    **58.35**    **78.15**    **98.31**
                           **60**            **NA**      **7.98**     **13.02**    **17.34**    **22.38**    **36.78**    **46.86**    **56.94**    **77.1**     **97.26**
**maxTXBWsym [MHz]** **lowest** **4.515** **9.375** **14.235** **19.095**
**23.955** **38.895** **48.615** **58.35** **78.15** **98.31**
* * *
#### 5.5.3.2 E-UTRA ACLR
For E-UTRA ACLR it has been agreed that if EUTRA CHBW = NR CHBW only the NR
ACLR of 30 dBc shall be measured. This means that for channel bandwidths up to
20 MHz it is not necessary to measure E-UTRA ACLR as NR ACLR is tighter
because the requirements in same 30 dBc but measurement bandwidth is larger.
Considering recent agreement on NR ACLR which stated that ACLR MBW is same as
the bandwidth of transmitted NR signal it is evident that E-UTRA ACLR is
always more relaxed thus is not necessary.
Therefore, no E-UTRA ACLR requirement is not specified for NR as NR ACLR
requirement will be always more stringent.
#### 5.5.3.3 UTRA ACLR
For bands defined also for UTRA, adopt UTRAACLR1 = 33dB and UTRAACLR2 =36dB
for power class 3.
UTRA ACLR requirement is indicated to the UE by NS-signalling when applicable.
Dedicated NS-value is assigned to UTRA ACLR requirement and it is used when no
other additional requirement needs to indicated to the UE.
In case power reduction is necessary to meet the UTRA ACLR requirement it will
be defined as A-MPR~UTRA_ACLR~. A-MPR~UTRA_ACLR~ is only allowed only in case
other power reductions such as MPR and A-MPR coming from other requirement
than UTRA ACLR are not sufficient. Allowed power reduction = Max
(A-MPR~UTRA_ACLR~, (MPR+A-MPR~other~).
### 5.5.4 Spurious emission
#### 5.5.4.1 General requirements
Spurious emissions are emissions which are caused by unwanted transmitter
effects such as harmonics emission, parasitic emissions, intermodulation
products and frequency conversion products, but exclude out of band emissions
unless otherwise stated.
In the same way as was described for UTRA and E-UTRA, the spurious emission
limits shall be specified in terms of general requirements in line with
SM.329.And the stricter Category B limits defined in SM.329 shall be applied
for UE considering that UEs are intended for global circulation, there cannot
be any regional requirements. Thus, the following spurious emission limits for
E-TRUA would be reused in NR.
Table 5.5.4-1: Spurious emissions limits
+---------------------+---------------+---------------------+------+ | Frequency Range | Maximum Level | Measurement | NOTE | | | | bandwidth | | +=====================+===============+=====================+======+ | 9 kHz ≤ f \ BU_ | _0.5 BN_ | _BU + (1.5 | | | | | BN)_ | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | NOTE 1: When | | | | | BN \ NOTE: For measurement conditions at the edge of each frequency range, the
> lowest frequency of the measurement position in each frequency range should
> be set at the lowest boundary of the frequency range plus MBW/2. The highest
> frequency of the measurement position in each frequency range should be set
> at the highest boundary of the frequency range minus MBW/2. MBW denotes the
> measurement bandwidth defined for the protected band.
##### 5.5.4.3.1 Minimum requirement (network signalled value \"NS_04\")
When \"NS 04\" is indicated in the cell, the power of any UE emission shall
not exceed the levels specified in Table 5.5.4.3.1-1. This requirement also
applies for the frequency ranges that are less than F~OOB~ (MHz) in Table
5.5.2.2.1-3 from the edge of the channel bandwidth.
Table 5.5.4.3.1-1: Additional requirements
+--------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | **Frequency band** | **Channel bandwidth / |** Measurement | | | Spectrum emission | bandwidth**| |**(MHz)**| limit (dBm)** | | +====================+=======================+=======================+ | | **10, 15, 20, 40, 50, | | | | 60, 80, 100 MHz** | | +--------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | 2495 ≤ f \ **1st adjacent | > **2nd adjacent | | | | > channel**| > channel** | | +===================+===================+===================+=======+ | > Interference | > BW~Channel~ | > 2*BW~Channel~ | > dBc | | > signal | | | | | > frequency | | | | | > offset | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+ | > ACLR | > 30 | > 36 | > dBc | +-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+ | > Tx IM | > -35 | > -45 | > dBc | | > [inherent] | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+ | > Tx IM | > -29 | > -35 | > dBc | | > [measured] | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+ | Note 1: | | | | | BW~Channel~ is | | | | | the channel | | | | | bandwidth of NR | | | | | wanted signal. | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: Measure | | | | | bandwidth should | | | | | follow the same | | | | | principle as NR | | | | | ACLR. MPR | | | | | assumption i.e. | | | | | an available | | | | | maximum | | | | | transmission | | | | | configuration | | | | | bandwidth among | | | | | the SCSs for a | | | | | channel | | | | | bandwidth. | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
## 5.7 ON/OFF time mask
### 5.7.1 UE transient time
For NR, the following three different transient time parameters are defined as
below:
> \- **ON-to-ON time** : ON-to-ON time refers to switching time related to
> change of power between consecutive UL transmissions. Other switching time
> requirements due to e.g. antenna switching, frequency hopping which require
> PLL retuning, beam switching, etc are discussed separately.
>
> \- **ON-to-OFF time** : ON-to-OFF time refers to time required for switching
> from ON state to OFF state for a transmitter.
>
> \- **OFF-to-ON time** : OFF-to-ON time refers to time required for switching
> from OFF state to ON state for a transmitter.
Following transient times are defined for FR1 in Table 5.7.1-1:
Table 5.7.1-1: Transient times for FR1
* * *
              **FR1**
ON-to-ON 10µs OFF-to-ON 10µs ON-to-OFF 10µs
* * *
## 5.8 Additional UE RF Tx requirements for SUL and LTE-NR co-existence
It should be noted that simultaneously LTE and NR UL transmission in one
carrier or one band is almost unfeasible in Rel-15 because MPR is very hard to
determine for this case. So in the following, it is assumed that LTE and NR
transmissions are not simultaneously configured in one carrier or one band.
### 5.8.1 Transmit power
For standalone SUL with non-simultaneous transmission, transmit power
requirement can be applied separately for UL and SUL carrier. Then for
configured transmit power, as the UL carrier and SUL carrier share a same
cell, the configured transmit power should be specified for each UL carrier in
a serving cell. The requirement for each UL carrier can reuse the definition
of configured transmit power for serving cell in general NR.
For LTE-NR DC with SUL, the transmit power related requirements can reuse the
general DC transmit power related requirements, only the configured transmit
power for the serving cell with SUL carrier shall apply the configured
transmit power for each UL carrier in the serving cell for non-simultaneous
transmission.
### 5.8.2 Output power dynamics
As LTE and NR should not be simultaneously transmitted in one carrier or one
band, the requirements of minimum/OFF output power, time mask and power
control should be kept unchanged, and LTE and NR requirements can be applied
separately.
In addition, a new requirement of time mask between LTE and NR slot/subframe
boundary needs to be specified for DC scenarios since UE needs to switch from
LTE to NR and vice versa to maintain two connections for both LTE and NR on
the shared carrier when operating in TDM based UL sharing from the UE
perspective.
For LTE, 20us transient period is needed for each slot at the boundary. And
for NR, only 5us is needed for each slot at the boundary. For LTE, there is
difference between the mask with PUSCH and SRS in the last symbol because SRS
is high priority and need to be protected. However, for LTE to NR switching in
TDM based UL sharing from the UE perspective, this kind of protection of SRS
is not needed because LTE can configure no SRS in this specific subframe. So
there is no need to specify multiple time masks for LTE to NR switching in UL
sharing from the UE perspective.
For TDM based UL sharing from the UE perspective with LTE/NR switching at slot
boundary, time masks combined with LTE and NR requirements are illustrated in
Figure 5.8.2-1 for almost 0us switching time.
Figure 5.8.2-1 Slot/subframe boundary time mask between LTE and NR in TDM
based UL sharing from the UE perspective for type1 UE with switching time
0.5us
By ways of configuring cell-specific SRS subframes in LTE, we can make the LTE
last symbol vacant with no transmission of either PUSCH or SRS. In LTE, SRS
does not have to be configured for transmission in all cell-specific SRS
subframes. In which subframe SRS is transmitted by a UE is according to UE
specific SRS configuration. Therefore, the 20us switching time can be placed
in LTE subframe for LTE/NR switching in the TDM based UL sharing from the UE
perspective because it will not degrade either LTE or NR performance through
certain configuration.
For TDM based UL sharing from the UE perspective with LTE/NR switching on the
shared carrier at slot boundary, time masks combined with LTE and NR
requirements are illustrated in Figure 5.8.2-2 for less than 20us switching
time.
Figure 5.8.2-2 Slot/subframe boundary time mask between LTE and NR in TDM
based UL sharing from the UE perspective for type2 UE with switching time
\ \- 13dBm for EIRP regardless of channel bandwidth up to 400MHz from system
> level perspective.
>
> \- Considering efficiently, linearity for mmWave PA implementation, the
> minimum output power level is relaxed by [3] dB and [7] dB for EVM test for
> 16QAM and 64QAM.
The NR UE minimum output power requirement for frequency range 2 is defined in
Table 7.3.1-1 and 7.3.1-2.
Table 7.3.1-1: NR minimum output power
                                **Channel bandwidth / Minimum output power / Measurement bandwidth**
* * *
                                **50 MHz**                                                             **100 MHz**   **200 MHz**   **\[300\] MHz**   **400 MHz**
Minimum output power (EIRP) -13dBm  
Measurement bandwidth See Transmission bandwidth configuration defined in 4.2
Table 7.3.1-2: Parameters for Error Vector Magnitude
**Parameters** **Channel bandwidth / Minimum output power / Measurement
bandwidth**
* * *
                                        **50 MHz**                                                             **100 MHz**   **200 MHz**   **\[300\] MHz**   **400 MHz**
UE output power (EIRP) ≥ -13 dBm  
UE output power for UL 16QAM (EIRP) ≥ [-10] dBm  
UE output power for UL 64QAM (EIRP) ≥ [-6] dBm
## 7.4 Transmit signal quality
## 7.5 Output RF spectrum emissions
### 7.5.1 Occupied bandwidth
### 7.5.2 Spectrum emission mask
### 7.5.3 Adjacent Channel Leakage ratio
### 7.5.4 Spurious emission
#### 7.5.4.1 Protection of earth exploration-satellite service
The International Telecommunication Union World Radiocommunication Conference
2019 (WRC-19) created an internationally recognized 24.25 to 27.5 GHz band
aiming at primary mobile allocation for licensed/IMT networks deployments. In
addition to it, the limits of unwanted emission power from active service
stations in that band were specified to protect 23.6-24 GHz EESS (passive)
band.
A summary of the WRC-19 agreement related to EESS unwanted emission limits is
given below [13]:
For 5G Base stations:
\- -33 dBW in any 200 MHz of the EESS (passive) band for IMT/5G base stations
brought into use before 1st September 2027.
\- -39 dBW in any 200 MHz of the EESS (passive) band for IMT/5G base stations
brought into use after 1st September 2027.
\- The -39 dBW/200 MHz limit will not apply to 5G base stations which have
been brought into use prior to this date.
\- For those base stations, the limit of -33 dBW/200 MHz will continue to
indefinitely apply after this date.
For 5G User equipment:
\- -29 dBW in any 200 MHz of the EESS (passive) band for IMT/5G user equipment
brought into use before 1st September 2027.
\- -35 dBW in any 200 MHz of the EESS (passive) band for IMT/5G user equipment
brought into use after 1st September 2027.
\- The -35 dBW/200 MHz limit will not apply to UEs which have been brought
into use prior to this date.
\- For those UEs, the limit of -29 dBW/200 MHz will continue to indefinitely
apply after this date.
NOTE 1: these out-of-band emission limits are equally applicable to all
license holders within the band.
The relation between \"active service band\" and 3GPP bands is illustrated in
Figure 7.5.4.1-1 below. NR band n258 frequency ranges from 24.25 to 27.5 GHz,
which is identical to the aforementioned WRC active service band. Furthermore,
3GPP band n257 partially overlaps with \"active service band\", and thus
ideally should be also considered while analysing potential specification
impact.
{width="6.695138888888889in" height="1.5083333333333333in"}
Figure 7.5.4.1-1: EESS passive band, active service band, and 3GPP bands n257
and n258.
Combining the WRC-19 outcome with the existing spurious emissions requirements
in TS38.101-2, Table 7.5.4.1-1 summarizes the common understanding of
emissions requirements globally and regionally.
Table 7.5.4.1-1: Summary of emissions requirements applicable to FR2 devices
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Region | Requ | Requ | Requ | Requ | Requ | Requ | | | irement | irement | irement | irement | irement | irement | | | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | +=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+ | Global, | Pr | Pr | Pr | N/A | Pr | Pr | | US, | otected | otected | otected | | otected | otected | | Japan | range: | range: | range: | | range: | range: | | | s | 23.6 - | 23.6 - | | 36.0 to | 36.0 to | | | purious | 24.0 | 24.0 | | 37.0 | 37.0 | | | | GHz | GHz | | GHz | GHz | | | Band | | | | | | | | applica | Band | Band | | Band | Band | | | bility: | applica | applica | | applica | applica | | | all | bility: | bility: | | bility: | bility: | | | | n258, | n258, | | n259 | n260, | | | Limit: | n257 | n257 | | | n259 | | | | | | | Limit: | | | | -13 | Limit: | Limit: | | | Limit: | | | dBm/MHz | | | | +7 | | | | | +1 | -5 | | d | -13 | | | | dBm/200 | dBm/200 | | Bm/1000 | dBm/1 | | | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | MHz | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Europe | | | | Pr | | | | | | | | otected | | | | | | | | range: | | | | | | | | 7.25 | | | | | | | | GHz ≤ f | | | | | | | | ≤ 2nd | | | | | | | | h | | | | | | | | armonic | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | applica | | | | | | | | bility: | | | | | | | | all | | | | | | | | bands | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Limit: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | -10 | | | | | | | | dBm/100 | | | | | | | | MHz | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
The A-MPR needed to comply with these requirements is summarized in Table
7.5.4.1-2.
Table 7.5.4.1-2: Summary of A-MPR needed to comply with the regulatory
requirements in Table 7.5.4.1-1
+------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Band | Req | A-MPR | A-MPR | A-MPR | A-MPR | | | uirement | for PC1 | for PC2 | for PC3 | for PC4 | +======+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+ | n258 | (Case A) | 3.0 if | 0 | 0 | 0 | | | | Offset | | | | | | P | f | | | | | | rotected | requency | | | | | | range: | \ where:
>
> RX_PWR is the received signal power
>
> TX_PWR is the transmitted signal power
>
> G_TX is the transmitter antenna gain (directional array gain)
>
> G_RX is the receiver antenna gain (directional array gain).
# B.6 Other simulation parameters
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Parameters** | **Urban macro** | **Dense Urban | | | | micro** | +======================+======================+======================+ | **Channel | 200MHz | 200MHz | | bandwidth** | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Scheduled channel | 200MHz | 200MHz | | bandwidth per CPE | | | | (UL)** | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **The number of | Same as the number | Same as the number | | active CPE (UL)** | of BS beam | of BS beam | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Traffic model** | Full buffer | Full buffer | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **UL power control** | YES | YES | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **CPE max TX power | 35dBm | 35dBm | | in dBm** | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **CPE min TX power | -40dBm | -40dBm | | in dBm** | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **BS Noise figure in | 10 | 10 for 30GHz | | dB** | | | | | | 12 for 45GHz | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Handover margin** | 3dB | 3dB | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
# B.7 Simulation description
Adopt following simulation steps. If companies find issues in the following
simulation steps, we can revisit in RAN4#80bis. Note: detailed simulation
description is captured in Section 5.1.5 TR25.942.
1) Aggressor and victim network are generated.
2) CPE associations: CPE are associated to base station based on coupling
loss.
\- Associations are made assuming a single element at both CPE and BS.
3) Once association is done, round robin scheduling is used. BF weights are
adjusted to point to the LOS direction between BS-CPE. This done for both
victim and aggressor networks.
4) SINR Throughput are measured in the victim systems without considering ACI,
i.e. $\text{Thput}_{\text{NO~ACI}}\left\lbrack \text{bpshz} \right\rbrack =
f\left( \text{SINR}_{\text{ICI}} \right) = f\left( \frac{S}{N +
I_{\text{ICI}}} \right)$, where $I_{\text{ICI}}$ is the inter-cell
interference.
5) SINR and throughput are computed considering ACI:
$\text{Thput}_{\text{ACI}}\left\lbrack \text{bpshz} \right\rbrack = f\left(
\text{SINR}_{ICI + ACI} \right) = f\left( \frac{S}{N + I_{\text{ICI}} +
I_{\text{ACI}}} \right)$, where $I_{\text{ACI}}$ is the adjacent channel
interference.
6) RF parameters are determined based degradation cause by ACI:
$\text{Los}s_{\text{ACI}} = 1 -
\frac{\text{Thput}_{\text{ACI}}}{\text{Thput}_{\text{SINGLE}}}$.
# B.8 Evaluation metric
Assume scaled Shannon\'s formula specified in TR 36.942 [9] with following
parameters.
* * *
**Parameter** **UL** **Notes** α, attenuation 0.4 Represents implementation
losses SINRMIN, dB -10 Based on QPSK, 1/5 rate (UL) SINRMAX, dB 22 Based on
64QAM 0.93 (UL)
* * *
# B.9 Antenna configuration
## B.9.1 Base station
Assumptions captured in page 8 - 11 of [R4-168794] are assumed as BS antenna
configurations. For UMa and UMi base stations, we keep this same antenna
model.
## B.9.2 CPE
For CPE, we consider the following:
\- Baseline: (NV,NH) = (4, 8).
\- (d~V~,d~H~) = (0.5, 0.5)λ.
\- An additional 3dB gain is added to the total beamforming gain to account
for the two polarization directions.
\- 5dBi element gain, 90 degree HPBW in Azimuth and zenith, Am=25dB, SLAv=25dB
# B.10 Evaluated ACIR range
ACIR range: 5 \~ 45dB, with 5dB as step. Note that: we do not have simulation
per 1dB step.
# B.11 Co-existence scenarios
Evaluate following scenarios for 55dBm CPE:
**No.** **Aggressor** **Victim** **Simulation freqCPEncy** **Direction**
**Usage scenario** **Deployment Scenario**
* * *
1 NR, 200MHz NR, 200MHz 30 GHz UL to UL eMBB Urban macro 2 NR, 200MHz NR,
200MHz 30 GHz UL to UL eMBB Dense Urban 3 NR, 200MHz NR, 200MHz 45 GHz UL to
UL eMBB Dense Urban
# B.12 Summary of co-existence simulations
During RAN4 NR-AH#3 and RAN4#84bis, following contributions provide simulation
results based on agreed WF related to 55dBm CPE in mmWave spectrum simulation
assumptions, as detailed in this annex:
\- R4-1719701, Urban Macro Simulation Results at 30GHz for 55dBm EIRP
Transportable Stations, Nokia, Nokia Shanghai Bell
\- R4-1719702, Dense Urban Simulation Results at 30GHz for 55dBm EIRP
Transportable Stations, Nokia, Nokia Shanghai Bell
\- R4-1719703, Dense Urban Simulation Results at 45GHz for 55dBm EIRP
Transportable Stations, Nokia, Nokia Shanghai Bell
\- R4-1710487, Co-existence study for 55dBm EIRP Transportable Stations for
urban macro scenario, Huawei, HiSilicon
\- R4-1710488, Co-existence study for 55dBm EIRP Transportable Stations for
dense urban scenario, Huawei, HiSilicon
\- R4-1710859, Coexistence evaluation results for 55dBm EIRP transportable
stations, LG Electronics Inc.
\- R4-1711031, Coexistence evaluation results for CPEs with 55 dBm EIRP,
Samsung
\- R4-1711147, Uncoordinated Urban Macro Simulation Results at 30GHz for 55dBm
EIRP Transportable Stations, Nokia, Nokia Shanghai Bell
\- R4-1711400, ACIR simulations results for 55dB EIRP transportable stations -
Urban Macro deployment at 30GHz, Qualcomm Incorporated
\- R4-1711401, ACIR simulations results for 55dBm EIRP transportable stations
- Urban Macro deployment at 45GHz, Qualcomm Incorporated
\- R4-1711483, Coexistence simulation results for for 55dBm CPE in mmWave FWA
scenario, Ericsson
\- R4-1711481, Inband receiver blocking for mmWave NR BS with 55dBm CPE FWA
deployment, Ericsson
\- R4-1712684, Coordinated Urban Macro Simulation Results with Total Fading
Correlation at 30GHz for 55dBm EIRP Transportable Stations, Nokia, Nokia
Shanghai Bell
Based on these contributions, we summarized the following simulation results.
## B.12.1 ACIR simulation results
### B.12.1.1 Urban macro (UMa) scenario
Following ACIR simulation results are available:
**Company** **Collocated** **Non-collocated**
* * *
Huawei 21 Samsung 9 10 Qualcomm 10 15 Ericsson 10 15 Nokia 16 16
### B.12.1.2 Dense urban micro (UMi) scenario
Following ACIR simulation results are available:
**Company** **30GHz** **45GHz**
* * *
Huawei 5dB 5 Samsung 7 5 Qualcomm - - Ericsson - - Nokia 16 15
### B.12.1.3 Summary of ACIR simulations
The summary is listed below:
+----------+----------------------------------------------------------+ | Nokia | The simulation results have shown that 55dBm EIRP | | | transportable stations can be used effectively to extend | | | the coverage of coordinated and uncoordinated urban | | | macro network at 30GHz, as well as dense urban network | | | at 30GHz and 45GHz with minor impacts on the required BS | | | dynamic range and in-band blocking performances, while | | | applying the currently agreed UE ACLR and BS ACS will | | | provide sufficient UL coexistence performance except in | | | the coordinated urban macro network simulated with 0.5 | | | shadowing correlation. | | | | | | The simulation results (total fading) have shown that | | | 55dBm EIRP transportable stations can be used | | | effectively to extend the coverage of coordinated urban | | | macro network at 30GHz, with minor impacts on the | | | required BS dynamic range and in-band blocking | | | performances, while applying the currently agreed UE | | | ACLR and BS ACS will provide sufficient UL coexistence | | | performance. | +==========+==========================================================+ | Huawei | Specify the ACLR/ACS requirements for 55dBm EIRP | | | Transportable Stations based on 21dB ACIR value for | | | 30GHz in urban macro scenario | +----------+----------------------------------------------------------+ | Samsung | Considering CPEs, the simulated ACIR value (10 dB) for | | | urban macro scenario is less than that (16.2 dB) | | | calculated from the agreed ACLR and ACS for 30 GHz. The | | | simulated ACIR value (7 dB) for dense urban scenario is | | | less than the calculated 16.2 dB. | | | | | | Considering CPEs, the simulated ACIR value (5 dB) for | | | dense urban scenario is less than that (15.2 dB) | | | calculated from the agreed ACLR and ACS for 45 GHz. | +----------+----------------------------------------------------------+ | Qualcomm | The required ACIR for the worst-case scenario is \~15dB. | | | | | | In case of co-located deployment, for UL scenarios the | | | correlation between coupling losses of the adjacent | | | operator wanted link and the coupling loss of cross | | | operator interfering link is very close to 1. | | | | | | In case of co-located deployment the assumption about | | | the correlation between adjacent operator wanted link | | | and cross operator interfering link should be specified. | | | Baseline assumption should be 100% correlation, i.e. | | | same coupling loss for the two links. | +----------+----------------------------------------------------------+ | Ericsson | The ACIR levels in UL for non-collocated case are around | | | 5dB higher than the collocated case and if we consider | | | the 5% Average throughput loss, the ACIR levels in UL | | | for both collocated and non-collocated case fall in the | | | same range 10dB-15dB as agreed in TR 38.803 [10]. | +----------+----------------------------------------------------------+
## B.12.2 Receiver dynamic range
* * *
Nokia Minor impact in receiver dynamic range when 55dBm CPE is considered.
* * *
## B.12.3 Inband receiver blocking
Following conclusions are made:
Nokia Minor impact in receiver in-band blocking when 55dBm CPE is considered.
* * *
Ericsson The "conducted" blocking levels are very similar when array gain is
considered, with respect to 23dBm UE.
## B.12.4 Conclusions
Based on the above simulation results, following has been agreed:
\- Regarding the required AICR, the ACIR levels in UL for non-collocated case
are around 5dB higher than the collocated case when different LSF is
considered for victim and interfering network and if we consider the 5%
Average throughput loss, the ACIR levels in UL for both collocated and non-
collocated case fall in the same range 10dB-15dB as agreed in TR 38.803 [10].
\- Regarding receiver dynamic range, minor impact in receiver dynamic range
when 55dBm CPE is considered.
\- Regarding inband receiver blocking, minor impact in receiver in-band
blocking when 55dBm CPE is considered.
#