# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
A study item, "Study on NR-based Access to Unlicensed Spectrum", was approved
at 3GPP TSG RAN #77 [2]. This study is to determine a single global solution
for NR-based access to unlicensed spectrum, to be compatible with the NR
concepts.
The objectives of the study include:
  * \- **Study NR-based operation in unlicensed spectrum (RAN1, RAN2, RAN4) including**
    * **Physical channels inheriting the choices of duplex mode, waveform, carrier bandwidth, subcarrier spacing, frame structure, and physical layer design made as part of the NR study and avoiding unnecessary divergence with decisions made in the NR WI**
      * **Consider unlicensed bands both below and above 6GHz, up to 52.6GHz**
      * **Consider unlicensed bands above 52.6GHz to the extent that waveform design principles remain unchanged with respect to below 52.6GHz bands**
      * **Consider similar forward compatibility principles made in the NR WI**
    * **Initial access, channel access. Scheduling/HARQ, and mobility including connected/inactive/idle mode operation and radio-link monitoring/failure**
    * **Coexistence methods within NR-based and between NR-based operation in unlicensed and LTE-based LAA and with other incumbent RATs in accordance with regulatory requirements in e.g., 5GHz , 37GHz, 60GHz bands**
      * **Coexistence methods already defined for 5GHz band in LTE-based LAA context should be assumed as the baseline for 5GHz operation. Enhancements in 5GHz over these methods should not be precluded. NR-based operation in unlicensed spectrum should not impact deployed Wi-Fi services (data, video and voice services) more than an additional Wi-Fi network on the same carrier;**
The above study will address the following architectural scenarios (RAN2):
  * An NR-based LAA cell(s) connects with an LTE or NR anchor cell operating in licensed spectrum
    * The study assumes the techniques for linking between Pcell (LTE or NR licensed CC) and Scell (NR unlicensed CCs) according to the NR WI
  * An NR-based cell operating standalone in unlicensed spectrum, connected to a 5G-CN network with priority on frequency bands above 6GHz, e.g., for private network deployments;
  * Study how to ensure from a RAN level that connection and security management can be integrated with the E-UTRAN, NG RAN and 5G CN architecture, including service continuity requirements for users moving between cells of licensed and unlicensed frequency bands, liaising with SA2 as required
The results and findings of the study are documented in this technical report.
# 1 Scope
The present document contains the results and findings from the study item,
"Study on NR-based Access to Unlicensed Spectrum" [2]. The purpose of this TR
is to document the identified NR enhancements and corresponding evaluations
for a single global solution framework for NR based access to unlicensed
spectrum.
This document addresses evaluation methodology and possible scenarios for NR
based unlicensed deployments.
This technical report documents the existing regulatory requirements for
unlicensed spectrum deployment in the 5GHz bands, [and other bands]
This document identifies and captures coexistence evaluations of physical
layer options and enhancements to NR and, if necessary, NR RAN protocols to
meet the requirements and targets for unlicensed spectrum deployments.
This document contains an assessment of the feasibility of base station and
terminal operation of 5GHz band (based on regulatory limits) in conjunction
with relevant licensed frequency bands.
This document is a 'living' document, i.e. it is permanently updated and
presented to TSG-RAN meetings.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP RP-172021: "Revised SID on NR-based Access to Unlicensed Spectrum".
[3] FCC Part 15 ruling, http://www.ecfr.gov/cgi-bin/text-
idx?SID=3c5e2d1533490603e0131fcdc041030d&node=pt47.1.15&rgn=div5
[4] FCC 13-22, "Notice of proposed rulemaking" , Feb 20, 2013.
[5] ETSI EN 301 893, Harmonized European Standard, "Broadband Radio Access
Networks (BRAN); 5 GHz high performance RLAN"
[6] ETSI EN 302 502, Harmonized European Standard, "Broadband Radio Access
Networks (BRAN); 5,8 GHz fixed broadband data transmitting systems"
[7] ETSI EN 302 571, Harmonized European Standard, "Intelligent Transport
Systems (ITS); Radio communications equipment operating in the 5 855 MHz to 5
925 MHz frequency band"
[8] "Commission decision of 11 July 2005 on the harmonised use of radio
spectrum in the 5 GHz frequency band for the implementation of wireless access
systems including radio local area networks (WAS/RLANs)" (2005/513/EC).
[9] "Commission decisions of 12 February 2007 amending Decision 2005/513/EC on
the harmonised use of radio spectrum in the 5 GHz frequency band for the
implementation of Wireless Access Systems including Radio Local Area Networks
(WAS/RLANs)" (2007/90/EC).
[10] ECC/DEC (04)08, "ECC Decision of 09 July 2004 on the harmonised use of
the 5 GHz frequency bands for the implementation of Wireless Access Systems
including Radio Local Area Networks (WAS/RLANs)"
[11] KDB 443 999, FCC Office of Engineering and Technology -- Laboratory
Division: "Interim Plans to Approve UNII Devices Operating in the 5470-5725
MHz Band with Radar Detection and DFS Capabilities" (14th October 2010).
[12] FCC 12-148, "Notice of Proposed Rulemaking and Order: amendment of the
Commission's Rules with regard to Commercial Operations in the 3550-3650 MHz
Band" (GN Docket No. 12-354), adopted and released December 12, 2012.
[13] FCC 13-154, "Public Notice. Commission Seeks Comment on Licensing Models
and Technical Requirements in the 3550-3650 MHz Band", released November 1,
2013
[14] ECC Recommendation ECC/REC (06)04: "Use of the band 5725- 5875 MHz for
Broadband Fixed Wireless Access (BFWA)"
[15] Commission Decision 2008/671/EC of 5th August2008 on the harmonised use
of radio spectrum in the 5875-5905 MHz frequency band for safety related
application of Intelligent Transport Systems (IOTS)
[16] ECC Decision (08)01: \"ECC Decision of 14 March 2008 on the harmonized
use of the 5875-5925 frequency band for Intelligent Transport Systems (ITS)"
[17] ECC Recommendation (08)01:\"Use of band 5855-5875 MHz for Intelligent
Transport Systems (ITS)\".
[18] ETSI EN 300 440-1 v1.6.1: "Electromagnetic compatibility and Radio
spectrum Matters (ERM); Short range devices; Radio equipment to be used in the
1 GHz to 40 GHz frequency range; Part 1: Technical characteristics and test
methods"
[19] Document RSCOM 13-32rev3: "Mandate to CEPT to study and identify
harmonised compatibility and sharing conditions for Wireless Access Systems
including Radio Local Area Networks in the bands 5350-5470 MHz and 5725-5925
MHz (\'WAS/RLAN extension bands\') for the provision of wireless broadband
services"
[20] Group of Administrative Co-operation Under the R&TTE Directive (ADCO
R&TTE): Report on the 5th joint cross-border R&TTE Market Surveillance
Campaign on WLAN 5 GHz (2013)
[21] RSS-210 Issue 8 (December 2010): Licence-exempt Radio Apparatus (All
Frequency Bands): Category I Equipment
[22] National Frequency Allocation Plan 2011 (In-Force):
http://www.wpc.gov.in/WriteReadData/userfiles/file/National_Frequency_Allocation_Plan-2011.pdf
[23] http://legislacao.anatel.gov.br/resolucoes/2008/104-resolucao-506 ,
Resolução nº 506, de 1º de julho de 2008, Regulamento sobre Equipamentos de
Radiocomunicação de Radiação Restrita.
[24] 3GPP TR 36.872: "Small cell enhancements for E-UTRA and E-UTRAN -
Physical layer aspects".
[25] Part 11: Wireless LAN Medium Access Control (MAC) and Physical Layer
(PHY) Specifications, IEEE Std 802.11-2012.
[26] https://mentor.ieee.org/802.11/dcn/14/11-14-0571-08-00ax-evaluation-
methodology.docx
[27] 3GPP TR 36.942 V11.0.0, "Radio Frequency (RF) system scenarios," Sept.
2012.
[28] 3GPP TR 38.802, \"Study on new radio access technology Physical layer
aspects\"
[29] 3GPP TS 38.901, \"Study on channel model for frequencies from 0.5 to 100
GHz\"
[30]
[31]
[32]
[33]
[34]
[35] GSR No. 46(E) Dated: 28th Jan. 2005, Rule - Indoor Use of low power
wireless equipment in the frequency band 5 GHz (Exemption from Licensing
Requirement) Rules, 2005.
[36] GSR No. 37(E) Dated: 10th Jan. 2007, Rule - Indoor use of low power
wireless equipment in the frequency band 5 GHz (Exemption from Licensing
Requirement) Amendment Rules, 2006. (GSR No. 46(E) Ammendment).
[37] GSR No. 38(E) Dated: 19th Jan. 2007, Rule - the Outdoor Use of wireless
Equipment (Exemption from Licensing Requirement) Rules, 2007.[38] RESOLUTION
229 (Rev. WRC-12), "Use of the bands 5 150-5 250, 5 250-5 350 MHz and 5 470-5
725 MHz by the mobile service for the implementation of wireless access
systems including radio local area networks".
[39] Recommendation ITU-R M.1652-1 (05/2011) "Dynamic frequency selection in
wireless access systems including radio local area networks for the purpose of
protecting the radiodetermination service in the 5 GHz band".
> [40]
> http://www.ncc.gov.tw/chinese/law_detail.aspx?site_content_sn=260&is_history=0&law_sn=1807&sn_f=1807,
> the regulations for low-power transmitters in Taiwan, June 28, 2011 (in
> Chinese).
>
> [41] http://www.motc.gov.tw/post/home.jsp?id=369&parentpath=0,364, the
> frequency allocation in Taiwan (in Chinese)
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
# 4 Regulatory requirements
## 4.1 Regulatory requirements for 5GHz band
The range 5150-5925 MHz, or parts thereof, is potentially available for
license-assisted access to unlicensed operation. This represents a significant
amount of spectrum that can be used by operators to augment their service
offerings in licensed bands. The range above can be operated under a license-
exempt regime or ISM but must be shared with existing mobile services and
other incumbent services. The quality of service offered by a licensed regime
can therefore not be matched. Hence, unlicensed access is viewed as
complementary, and does not reduce the need for additional allocations for
licensed operation in view of the increased demand for wireless broadband
access.
It is relevant to consider the global (International) ITU-R allocations and
technical provisions first. These could be basis for defining globally
harmonised bands for LAA and starting points for requirements and limits
before the local variations are considered.
**[5150-5350 and 5470-5725 MHz]{.underline}**
WRC 2003 allocated the bands 5 150-5 350 MHz and 5 470-5 725 MHz on a co-
primary basis to the mobile service for the implementation of "wireless access
systems (WAS), including radio local area networks (RLANs)". This was subject
to technical and regulatory provisions included in the radio regulations given
in Resolution 229 (WRC-03), which was subsequently revised at WRC-12 to
Resolution 229 (Rev. WRC-12) [38]. These provisions are followed by many
Administrations and resolves:
1) that the use of these bands by the mobile service will be for the
implementation of WAS, including RLANs, as described in the most recent
version of Recommendation ITU‑R M.1450;
2) that in the band 5 150-5 250 MHz, stations in the mobile service shall be
restricted to indoor use with a maximum mean e.i.r.p. of 200 mW and a maximum
mean e.i.r.p. density of 10 mW/MHz in any 1 MHz band or equivalently 0.25
mW/25 kHz in any 25 kHz band;
3) that administrations may monitor whether the aggregate pfd levels given in
Recommendation ITU‑R S.1426 have been, or will be exceeded in the future, in
order to enable a future competent conference to take appropriate action;
4) that in the band 5 250-5 350 MHz, stations in the mobile service shall be
limited to a maximum mean e.i.r.p. of 200 mW and a maximum mean e.i.r.p.
density of 10 mW/MHz in any 1 MHz band. Administrations are requested to take
appropriate measures that will result in the predominant number of stations in
the mobile service being operated in an indoor environment. Furthermore,
stations in the mobile service that are permitted to be used either indoors or
outdoors may operate up to a maximum mean e.i.r.p. of 1 W and a maximum mean
e.i.r.p. density of 50 mW/MHz in any 1 MHz band, and, when operating above a
mean e.i.r.p. of 200 mW, these stations shall comply with the following
e.i.r.p. elevation angle mask where θ is the angle above the local horizontal
plane (of the Earth):
\--13 dB(W/MHz) for 0° [\ 15° For P-MP Customer Terminal Station and P-P
deployments:  
−7 dB(W/MHz) for 0° ≤ θ \ 50°
Table 4.1.1.1-4: DFS requirements in Europe
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Parameter | Requirement | Comments | +======================+======================+======================+ | DFS Threshold (dBm) | -62(dBm) + | *No DFS | | for WAS/RLAN | 10(dBm/MHz) - EIRP | requirements on 5150 | | | Spectral density | MHz -- 5250 MHz | | | (dBm/MHz) + G(dBi) | | | | | *G denotes antenna | | | | gain | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | DFS Threshold (dBm) | -69 (dBm) + | *No DFS | | for FWA | 23(dBm/MHz) - EIRP | requirements on 5850 | | | Spectral density | MHz -- 5875 MHz | | | (dBm/MHz) + G(dBi) | | | | | *G denotes antenna | | | | gain | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Channel Availability | 60 seconds outside | Master mode | | check | 5600-5650 MHz | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | 10 minutes inside | | | | 5600-5650 MHz | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Channel move time | 10 seconds | Master and slave | | | | modes | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Non-occupancy time | 30 minutes | After radar | | | | detection in either | | | | channel availability | | | | check or in-service | | | | monitoring | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | _Uniform Spreading_ | | | | is required across | | | | the frequency ranges | | | | 5150 -5350 MHz and | | | | 5470-5725 MHz. | | | | | | | | _Uniform Spreading_ | | | | is not applicable | | | | for equipment that | | | | only operates in | | | | 5150-5250 MHz band. | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
Table 4.1.1.1-5a: LBT requirements for Frame-Based-Equipment in Europe
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Parameter | Requirement | Comment | +======================+======================+======================+ | Clear Channel | Minimum 20μs | | | Assessment (CCA) | | | | time | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Channel Occupancy | Minimum 1 ms, | | | time | maximum10 ms | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Idle period | Minimum 5% of | | | | channel occupancy | | | | time | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Fixed frame period | Equals to Channel | | | | Occupancy time + | | | | Idle Period | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Short control | Maximum duty cycle | Part of Channel | | signaling | of 5% within an | occupancy time | | transmission time | observation period | | | | of 50ms | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | CCA Energy detection | Assuming receive | For WAS/RLAN | | threshold | antenna gain G=0dBi: | | | | | | | | If EIRP=23dBm at | | | | transmitter | | | | | | | | > Threshold ≤ -73 | | | | > dBm/MHz | | | | | | | | Otherwise (different | | | | transmit power | | | | levels, PH) | | | | | | | | > Threshold = | | | | > -73(dBm/MHz) + | | | | > 23(dBm) -- PH(dBm) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
Table 4.1.1.1-5b: LBT requirements for Load-Based-Equipment in Europe
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Parameter | Requirement | Comment | +======================+======================+======================+ | Clear Channel | Minimum 20μs | Also referred to as | | Assessment (CCA) | | CCA time slot | | time | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | N (number of clear | N shall be randomly | | | idle slots) in | selected in the | | | extended CCA | range 1..q every | | | | time, q=4...32 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Channel Occupancy | \ Threshold ≤ -73 | | | | > dBm/MHz | | | | | | | | Otherwise (different | | | | transmit power | | | | levels, PH) | | | | | | | | > Threshold = | | | | > -73(dBm/MHz) + | | | | > 23(dBm) -- PH(dBm) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
**[Interference to Weather Radars]{.underline}**
Interference to Weather Radars is also a hot topic in the EU. The two last
versions of EN 301 893 (1.6.1 and 1.7.1) have included amendments to better
protect these radars, like the prohibition to give the user access to the
configuration control settings that would allow him to disconnect the DFS
functionality.
The use of the band 5.60-5.65 GHz by WLANs is allowed in Europe, and a Market
Surveillance campaign on WLANs 5 GHz has been led at EU level by the ADCO
R&TTE Group. The report [20] of the campaign has proposed specific
recommendations to improve the situation. These recommendations do not require
amendments to the last version of EN 301 893.
#### 4.1.1.2 Israel
In Israel the bands 5150-5250 MHz and 5250-5350 MHz are open to RLANs.
#### 4.1.1.3 Russia
In the Russian Federation the bands 5150-5350 MHz, the band 5470-5725 MHz
above 5650 MHz and the band 5725-5825 MHz [20] are allowed to RLANs. Use of
DFS is not mandated.
#### 4.1.1.4 South Africa
In South Africa the bands 5150-5250 MHz and 5250-5350 MHz are available to
RLANs but restricted to indoor use. The band 5470-5725 MHz is also open to
RLANs.
#### 4.1.1.5 Turkey
In Turkey the bands 5150-5250 MHz and 5250-5350 MHz are restricted to indoor
use. DFS and TPC are mandated in the band 5470-5725 MHz.
### 4.1.2 ITU Region 2
#### 4.1.2.1 USA
The use of unlicensed 5 GHz spectrum in USA is governed by FCC part 15
regulations [3]. In Feb 2013, potential new rules were proposed in FCC 13-22
[4]. Figure 4.1.2.1-1 summarizes the relevant part 15 rules for 5GHz
unlicensed spectrum usage:
{width="6.6819444444444445in" height="1.0583333333333333in"}
Figure 4.1.2.1-1 : Summary of existing and proposed new FCC part 15 rules for
5GHz unlicensed spectrum usage
In Figure 4.1.2.1-1, U-NII-x bands denote frequency bands for Unlicensed
National Information Infrastructure devices usage that are governed by §15.407
[3]. As shown in the figure, there is also an overlapping ruling of §15.247
from 5.725 to 5.85 GHz. A device could choose to follow either U-NII rulings
or §15.247 rulings when operating within the frequency range.
In the rest of this section, we summarize FCC paragraphs 15.407 and 15.247
rules. In general either frequency hopping or digital modulation techniques
are permitted under part 15 rules. Since LTE is not designed as a frequency
hopping system, the rest of the document will focus on regulations related to
digital modulation.
Paragraph 15.247 rules relevant for LTE point to multi-point communications
are summarized in 4 aspects:
\- Transmission Bandwidth:
\- The minimum 6 dB bandwidth shall be at least 500 kHz.
\- Maximum Transmit Power:
\- Peak conducted output power shall not exceed 1 W. An alternative to peak
power measurements is maximum conducted output power, which is the total
transmit power over all antennas and antenna elements when the transmitter is
operating at its maximum power control level.
\- Note that, the conducted output power limit is based on the use of antennas
with directional gains that do not exceed 6 dBi. If transmitting antennas of
directional gain greater than 6 dBi are used, the conducted output power from
the intentional radiator shall be reduced by the amount in dB that the
directional gain of the antenna exceeds 6 dBi.
\- Out of Band Emission:
\- In any 100 kHz bandwidth outside the frequency band, the radio frequency
power that is produced by the intentional radiator shall be at least 20 dB
below that in the 100 kHz bandwidth within the band that contains the highest
level of the desired power, based on either an RF conducted or a radiated
measurement. If the transmitter complies with the conducted power limits based
on the use of RMS averaging over a time interval, the attenuation required
under this paragraph shall be 30 dB instead of 20 dB.
\- Power Spectrum Density:
\- The power spectral density conducted from the intentional radiator to the
antenna shall not be greater than 8 dBm in any 3 kHz band during any time
interval of continuous transmission. The same method of determining the
conducted output power shall be used to determine the power spectral density.
Paragraph15.407 rules for UNII devices are summarized in following tables. In
Table 4.1.2.1-1, the maximum transmit power, PSD and out of band emission
requirements are listed for UNII-1/2/3 bands. In Table 4.1.2.1-2, the dynamic
frequency selection requirements for radar detection are summarized for UNII-2
devices.
Table 4.1.2.1-1: Transmit power requirements for UNII devices
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | UNII-1 | UNII-2A | UNII-2C | UNII-3 | C | | | | | | | | omments | | +=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+ | Fr | | 5.15 -- | 5. | 5.4 | 5.7 | | | equency | | 5.25 | 25-5.35 | 7-5.725 | 25-5.85 | | | Range | | | | | | | | (GHz) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Max | a | eNB: | 24 | 24 | 30 | | | co | | 30\ | | | | | | nducted | | UE: 24 | | | | | | output | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | | 6 dBi; | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | * | | | | | | | | UNII-3 | | | | | | | | fixed | | | | | | | | point | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | point | | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | eration | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | scaling | | | | | | | | th | | | | | | | | reshold | | | | | | | | is 23 | | | | | | | | dBi | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Out of | Fr | Outside | Outside | Outside | Outside | | | band | equency | 5.15 -- | 5.15 -- | 5.4 | 5.71 | | | e | Support | 5.35 | 5.35 | 7-5.725 | 5-5.865 | | | mission | (GHz) | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | EIRP | -27 | -27 | -27 | -27 | Res | | | (d | | | | | olution | | | Bm/MHz) | | | | | ba | | | | | | | | ndwidth | | | | | | | | 1 MHz | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | Fr | | | | 5.71 | | | | equency | | | | 5-5.725 | | | | Support | | | | | | | | (GHz) | | | | 5. | | | | | | | | 85-5.86 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | EIRP | | | | -17 | Res | | | (d | | | | | olution | | | Bm/MHz) | | | | | ba | | | | | | | | ndwidth | | | | | | | | 1 MHz | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | T | | N/A | TPC to | N/A | | | | ransmit | | | 6 dB | | | | | Power | | | below a | | | | | Control | | | mean | | | | | | | | EIRP of | | | | | | | | 30 dBm. | | | | | | | | No TPC | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | mean | | | | | | | | EIRP \ 23 | | | | | mask | | | dBm | | | | | | | | com | | | | | | | | pliance | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | .i.r.p. | | | | | | | | el | | | | | | | | evation | | | | | | | | mask | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | equired | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
Table 4.1.2.2-1: EIRP spectral density limits in the elevation plane for
devices with EIRP > 200 mW (5.25-5.35 GHz frequency range)
EIRP spectral density Elevation angle
* * *
−13 dB(W/MHz) 0° ≤ θ \ 18MHz and | > 19MHz and | > 38MHz and | | bandwidth | | ≤ 19MHz | ≤ 38MHz | ≤ 78MHz | +==============+=========+==============+==============+==============+ | ACLR 1 | ≥ 25 dB | ≥ 25 dB | ≥ 25 dB | ≥ 25 dB | +--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | Measurement | 18 MHz | 19 MHz | 38 MHz | 78 MHz | | | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | +--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | Adjacent | +20 | +20 | +40 | +80 | | channel | | | | | | centre | / | / | / | / | | frequency | | | | | | offset | -20 | -20 | -40 | -80 | | [MHz] | | | | | +--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+--------------+
Table 4.1.3.2.1-2: Adjacent Channel Leakage Ratio (ACLR) 2
+--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | Occupied | ≤ 18MHz | > 18MHz and | > 19MHz and | > 38MHz and | | bandwidth | | ≤ 19MHz | ≤ 38MHz | ≤ 78MHz | +==============+=========+==============+==============+==============+ | ACLR 2 | ≥ 40 dB | ≥ 40 dB | ≥ 40 dB | - | +--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | Measurement | 18 MHz | 19 MHz | 38 MHz | - | | | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | +--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | Adjacent | +40 | +40 | +80 | - | | channel | | | | | | centre | / | / | / | | | frequency | | | | | | offset | -40 | -40 | -80 | | | [MHz] | | | | | +--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+--------------+
Occupied bandwidth ≤ 18 MHz:
Table 4.1.3.2.1-3: SEM: Occupied bandwidth ≤ 18 MHz
+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Centre | Frequency | Frequency | e.i.r.p/MHz | | | range(f) | difference | | | Frequency | | between centre | | | | (MHz) | frequency -- | | | (MHz) | | the edges of | | | | | frequency | | | | | range(MHz) | | +===========+=================+=================+=================+ | 5240 | 5140 ≤ f ≤ 5142 | ≥ 98 and ≤ 100 | ≤ 2.5 μW | +-----------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | | 5142 \ 19 and ≤ 38 ≥ 40 > 38 and ≤ 78 ≥ 80 > 78 and ≤ 158 ≥ 160
##### 4.1.3.2.2 5470-5725 MHz
Table 4.1.3.2.2-1: Adjacent Channel Leakage Ratio (ACLR) 1
+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Occupied | ≤ 19.7MHz | > 19.7MHz and | > 38MHz and ≤ | | bandwidth | | ≤ 38MHz | 78MHz | +=================+===========+=================+=================+ | ACLR 1 | ≥ 25 dB | ≥ 25 dB | ≥ 25 dB | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Measurement | 19 MHz | 38 MHz | 78 MHz | | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Adjacent | +20 | +40 | +80 | | channel centre | | | | | frequency | / | / | / | | offset [MHz] | | | | | | -20 | -40 | -80 | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
Table 4.1.3.2.2-2: Adjacent Channel Leakage Ratio (ACLR) 2
+------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+ | Occupied | ≤19.7MHz | > 19.7MHz and ≤ | > 38MHz and ≤ | | bandwidth | | 38MHz | 78MHz | +==================+==========+==================+==================+ | ACLR 2 | ≥ 40 dB | ≥ 40 dB | - | +------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+ | Measurement | 19 MHz | 38 MHz | - | | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | +------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+ | Adjacent channel | +40 | +80 | - | | centre | | | | | | / | / | | | frequency offset | | | | | [MHz] | -40 | -80 | | +------------------+----------+------------------+------------------+
Occupied bandwidth ≤ 19.7 MHz:
Table 4.1.3.2.2-3: SEM: Occupied bandwidth ≤ 19.7 MHz
+--------------------+-------------+ | Frequency range(f) | e.i.r.p/MHz | | | | | (MHz) | | +====================+=============+ | 5455 ≤ f ≤ 5460 | ≤ 2.5 μW | +--------------------+-------------+ | 5460 \ 19.7 and ≤ 38 ≥ 40 > 38 and ≤ 78 ≥ 80 > 78 and ≤ 158 ≥ 160
##### 4.1.3.2.3 Simultaneous use of 5150-5250 and 5470-5725 MHz / 5250-5350
and 5470-5725 MHz
When simultaneous use of non-contiguous two channels in 5150-5250 and
5470-5725 MHz or that in 5250-5350 and 5470-5725MHz is employed, the following
regulatory requirements are also applied. It should be note that total channel
bandwidth is less and equal to 160 MHz in these usages.
Table 4.1.3.2.3-1: SEM: 78 MHz \ 38 MHz
and ≤ 78 MHz.
\- Maximum Output power ≤ 1.25 mW
\- e.i.r.p.≤ 1.25$\ $mW
Table 4.1.3.2.3-2: Adjacent Channel Leakage Ratio (ACLR)
+----------------------------------------+----------------------+ | Occupied bandwidth | > 38MHz and ≤ 78MHz | +========================================+======================+ | ACLR | ≥ 25 dB | +----------------------------------------+----------------------+ | Measurement | 78 MHz | | | | | bandwidth | | +----------------------------------------+----------------------+ | Adjacent channel centre | +80 | | | | | frequency offset [MHz] | / | | | | | | -80 | +----------------------------------------+----------------------+ | Note: Applicable to respective carrier | | +----------------------------------------+----------------------+
Table 4.1.3.2.3-3: SEM: Case 1 and 2
+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Centre | Frequency | Frequency | e.i.r.p/MHz | | | range(f) | difference | | | Frequency | | between centre | | | | (MHz) | frequency -- | | | (MHz) | | the edges of | | | | | frequency | | | | | range(MHz) | | +===========+=================+=================+=================+ | 5,210 | 5,020 ≤ f ≤ | ≥ 75.2 and ≤ | ≤ 2.5 W | | | 5,134.8 | 190 | | +-----------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | | 5,134.8 \ | | | | | | | | | | THR | | | | | | | | | | dBi | | | | | | | | | | (THR | | | | | | | | | | = 6 | | | | | | | | | | dBi | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | 5 | | | | | | | | | | 10052 | | | | | | | | | | 50MHz | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | 57 | | | | | | | | | | 25-58 | | | | | | | | | | 25MHz | | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | | 7dBi | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | 52 | | | | | | | | | | 50-53 | | | | | | | | | | 50MHz | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | 547 | | | | | | | | | | 0-565 | | | | | | | | | | 0MHz) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 5: | | | | | | | | | | DFS: | | | | | | | | | | Dy | | | | | | | | | | namic | | | | | | | | | | Freq | | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | | Sele | | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 6: | | | | | | | | | | TPC: | | | | | | | | | | Tra | | | | | | | | | | nsmit | | | | | | | | | | Power | | | | | | | | | | Co | | | | | | | | | | ntrol | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 7: | | | | | | | | | | 572 | | | | | | | | | | 5-582 | | | | | | | | | | 5MHz, | | | | | | | | | | 2400 | | | | | | | | | | -2483 | | | | | | | | | | .5MHz | | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | | al | | | | | | | | | | lowed | | | | | | | | | | to be | | | | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | poin | | | | | | | | | | t-to- | | | | | | | | | | multi | | | | | | | | | | point | | | | | | | | | | se | | | | | | | | | | rvice | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | same | | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | | nform | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | | mni-d | | | | | | | | | | irect | | | | | | | | | | ional | | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | | lectr | | | | | | | | | | o-mag | | | | | | | | | | netic | | | | | | | | | | wave | | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+
Table 4.1.3.3-2: DFS requirements for 5GHz Devices
                                                   Levels          Comments
* * *
DFS Threshold (dBm) for interference detection -62dBm Average power
considering antenna gain: \ 60 seconds  
Channel move time \ 30 minutes After radar detection in either channel
availability check or in-service monitoring
Korean regulatory requirements are summarized as follows:
\- Average PSD requirement (mW/MHz)
\- It covers both power spectral density and Max transmission power
\- The maximum PSD is defined for a given spectrum range
\- Maximum transmission power :
\- 50mW, 200mW, 200mW and 200/260mW for 5150-5250, 5250-5350, 5470-5650, and
5725-5825 MHz band respectively
\- Antenna gain assumed:
\- 6 dBi for 5150-5250 and 5725-5825MHz band
\- 7 dBi for 52505350 and 5470-5650MHz band
\- Out of Band Emission (EIRP (dBm/MHz) )
\- \ | | | | | | | 6 dBi; | | | | | | | | | | | | | | ** | | | | | | | Fixed | | | | | | | point to | | | | | | | point | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | peration | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | scaling | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | hreshold | | | | | | | is 23 | | | | | | | dBi | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Out of | F | Outside | Outside | Outside | | | band | requency | 5.25 -- | 5. | 5.7 | | | emission | Support | 5.35 | 47-5.725 | 15-5.835 | | | | (GHz) | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | EIRP | -27 | -27 | -27 | Re | | | ( | | | | solution | | | dBm/MHz) | | | | b | | | | | | | andwidth | | | | | | | 1 MHz | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | F | | | 5.7 | | | | requency | | | 15-5.725 | | | | Support | | | | | | | (GHz) | | | 5.8 | | | | | | | 25-5.835 | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | EIRP | | | -17 | Re | | | ( | | | | solution | | | dBm/MHz) | | | | b | | | | | | | andwidth | | | | | | | 1 MHz | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Transmit | | N/A | TPC to 6 | N/A | | | Power | | | dB below | | | | Control | | | a mean | | | | | | | EIRP of | | | | | | | 30 dBm. | | | | | | | No TPC | | | | | | | for mean | | | | | | | EIRP \30 minutes | After radar | | | | detection in either | | | | channel availability | | | | check or in-service | | | | monitoring | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
#### 4.1.3.6 Singapore
In Singapore the bands 5150-5250 MHz, 5250-5350 MHz, 5470-5725MHz and
5725-5850 MHz are open to RLANs.
#### 4.1.3.7 Australia
In Australia the band bands 5150-5250 MHz, 5250-5350 MHz and 5470-5725 MHz,
except the sub-band 5600-5650 MHz, are open to RLANs. DFS and TPC are
mandatory in the bands 5250-5350 MHz and 5470-5725 MHz.
### 4.1.4 Applicability of DFS requirements
The concept surfaced around 2001 in the ECC for handling uniform spread of
WLAN interference into satellite and radar services, but was soon extended to
include methods for discovery and avoidance of frequencies used by the radar
service in the preparation work for WRC 2003.
Use of DFS in accordance with Annex 1 of ITU-R Recommendation M.1652 [39] is
mandated as per Resolution 229 [38]. The 5 GHz Harmonized European Standard
developed by ETSI TC BRAN was the first to include these DFS rules (EN 301 893
V1.2.3 in 2003), the DFS test specification included in this standard
therefore became the basis for the development of the FCC DFS test
specification and other test specifications in other countries.
For NR-U, it appears that conformance testing would only have to be performed
for the BS. Already at the outset in ITU-R M.1652 it was made clear that full
DFS functionality may not have to be implemented in all devices, only those
controlling the transmission [39]:
**2.1 Detection requirements**
The DFS mechanism should be able to detect interference signals above a
minimum DFS detection threshold of --62 dBm for devices with a maximum
e.i.r.p. of \ (2) Radar Detection Function of Dynamic Frequency Selection (DFS). U-NII
> devices operating with any part of its 26 dB emission bandwidth in the
> 5.25-5.35 GHz and 5.47-5.725 GHz bands shall employ a DFS radar detection
> mechanism to detect the presence of radar systems and to avoid co-channel
> operation with radar systems. Operators shall only use equipment with a DFS
> mechanism that is turned on when operating in these bands. The device must
> sense for radar signals at 100 percent of its emission bandwidth. The
> minimum DFS detection threshold for devices with a maximum e.i.r.p. [...]
>
> (i) Operational Modes. The DFS requirement applies to the following
> operational modes:
>
> (A) The requirement for channel availability check time applies in the
> master operational mode.
>
> (B) The requirement for channel move time applies in both the master and
> slave operational modes.
>
> (ii) Channel Availability Check Time. A U-NII device shall check if there is
> a radar system already operating on the channel before it can initiate a
> transmission on a channel and when it has to move to a new channel. The
> U-NII device may start using the channel if no radar signal with a power
> level greater than the interference threshold values listed in paragraph
> (h)(2) of this section, is detected within 60 seconds.
>
> (iii) Channel Move Time. After a radar\'s presence is detected, all
> transmissions shall cease on the operating channel within 10 seconds.
> Transmissions during this period shall consist of normal traffic for a
> maximum of 200 ms after detection of the radar signal. In addition,
> intermittent management and control signals can be sent during the remaining
> time to facilitate vacating the operating channel.
Similar to the ETSI BRAN harmonized standard, there is also a requirement that
"the device must sense for radar signals at 100 percent of its emission
bandwidth". In deriving the minimum DFS detection threshold for the WAS
receiver, it was assumed that above this threshold the emissions within the
RLAN bandwidth would desensitize the radar receiver. Reciprocity was thus
assumed, the WAS should be able to detect a radar within its emission
bandwidth. The bandwidth of the WAS affects the probability of detecting a
radar signal and its side lobes and the probability of causing interference
(the WAS emissions).
## 4.2 Regulatory requirements for [X]GHz band
# 5 Spectrum considerations
For the NR-U study item, different unlicensed bands or shared bands have been
discussed, such as 2.4 GHz band, 3.5 GHz band, 5 GHz band, 6 GHz band, 37 GHz
band, and 60 GHz band. Some bands are available globally and some bands are
only available in some specific regions.
Follow the NR design principles, from RAN1 design perspective, this NR-U study
is not limited to a particular unlicensed band. Instead, the target NR-U
design is applicable to a set of frequency ranges to be further defined. There
is no prioritization between unlicensed bands. On the other hand, the NR-U
study does not target sub-1 GHz unlicensed bands, due to the lack of spectrum
in the band to support efficient NR-U operation.
# 6 Deployment scenarios
This section describes possible deployment scenarios for NR-U.
Five deployment scenarios have been identified:
  * Scenario A: Carrier aggregation between licensed band NR (PCell) and NR-U (SCell)
    * NR-U SCell may have both DL and UL, or DL-only.
  * Scenario B: Dual connectivity between licensed band LTE (PCell) and NR-U (PSCell)
  * Scenario C: Stand-alone NR-U
  * Scenario D: An NR cell with DL in unlicensed band and UL in licensed band
  * Scenario E: Dual connectivity between licensed band NR (PCell) and NR-U (PSCell)
# 7 Design targets, functionalities and solutions
In the discussions in the NR-U study item, references to sub-7 GHz are
intended to include unlicensed bands in the 6 GHz region that are being
discussed in regulatory discussions which may have some region exceeding 7 GHz
(e.g., 7.125 GHz).
## 7.1 Design targets and functionalities
The NR-U study targets identification of additional functionality needed for a
PHY layer design (except channel access procedures) for operation in
unlicensed spectrum that may be applicable over a particular frequency range
(e.g., sub-7 GHz, 7-52.6 GHz, > 52.6 GHz). The definition of the frequency
ranges is to be further defined. On the other hand, the optimizations for a
particular frequency band may be necessary due to different requirements, such
as PSD limitation or OCB requirement, for each band. Channel bandwidths below
5 MHz are not targeted in this study.
The study targets the design of channel access procedures for frequency bands
based on coexistence and regulatory considerations applicable to the band. The
study includes identification of procedures for technology neutral channel
access for frequency bands that may become available subject to regulations.
The study assumes regulation will provide the framework concerning the
protection for the technologies not using unlicensed access in those bands.
## 7.2 Solutions for operation in unlicensed spectrum
### 7.2.1 Physical layer aspects
#### 7.2.1.1 Frame structure
  * NR-U supports both Type-A and Type-B mapping already supported in NR
    * Additional starting positions and durations are not precluded
```{=html}
``` \- For sub-7 GHz, NR-U study the SCSs, 15/30/60KHz
    -   Study performance difference between different SCS
    -   Study if changes to UL design are needed to meet the PSD and OCB
        requirements
    -   Study if an SS block design/RMSI/OSI with 60KHz SCS is needed
    -   Impact on MIB and SIB1 content
    -   Need for use of ECP for 60KHz
    -   RACH design with 60KHz SCS in addition to options currently part
        of NR
    -   Other considerations are not precluded.
    -   Impact on support of different BWs with different SCS
  * Study supporting more than one switching points within a TxOP
    * FFS the LBT requirement for each DL/UL data/control burst in the TxOP
#### 7.2.1.2 Physical layer channel designs
For physical layer channel design, NR design will be used as baseline, and the
following potential design changes are to be studied to support the following
channels/signals in NR-U.
  * PDCCH/PDSCH
  * PUCCH/PUSCH
  * PSS/SSS/PBCH
  * PRACH
  * DL and UL reference signals applicable to the operational frequency range
#### 7.2.1.3 Physical layer procedure designs
If absence of Wi-Fi cannot be guaranteed (e.g. by regulation) in the band
(sub-7 GHz) where NR-U is operating, the baseline assumption is, the NR-U
operating bandwidth is an integer multiple of 20MHz.
For physical layer procedures, the following areas has been identified as
areas for further study for NR-U:
  * Study possible enhancements for HARQ operation
  * Study changes needed for Configured Grant support in NR-U
  * Channel access mechanisms
For channel access mechanism, LTE-LAA LBT mechanism are assumed as baseline
for evaluations for 5GHz. At least for band where absence of Wi-Fi cannot be
guaranteed (e.g. by regulation), LBT can be performed in units of 20 MHz.
Study whether or not the following techniques enhance performance beyond the
baseline LBT mechanisms
  * Techniques to cope with directional antennas/transmissions
  * Receiver assisted LBT : RTS/CTS type mechanism
    * On-demand receiver assisted LBT: For example receiver assisted LBT enabled only when needed
  * Techniques to enhance spatial reuse
  * Preamble detection
  * Enhancements to baseline LBT mechanisms above 7 GHz
### 7.2.2 Higher layer aspects
# 8 Performance evaluations
For performance evaluation, coexistence with other networks will be
evaluation, such as WiFi, LTE-LAA, or other NR-U network.
When coexistence with WiFi is evaluated, following the study item description
[2], NR-based operation in unlicensed spectrum should not impact deployed Wi-
Fi services (data, video and voice services) more than an additional Wi-Fi
network on the same carrier, where the deployed Wi-Fi includes 11ac in 5GHz
band and 11ad in 60GHz band. The fairness criterion for coexistence with 11ax
can be further discussed.
For sub-7 GHz bands, coexistence simulations will be performed using
technology neutral assumptions (eg. channel access mechanism) at an arbitrary
carrier frequency in 5GHz band for application to bands other than 5GHz which
may become available subject to regulations. The study assumes regulation will
provide the framework concerning the protection for the technologies not using
unlicensed access in those bands.
## 8.1 Scenarios and methodology
For the NR-U study evaluation, to reuse the simulation platform already
developed for NR study, the 5GCM in [29] is used for NR-U simulation
evaluation. The evaluation deployment scenarios are derived from NR evaluation
deployment scenarios as defined in [28] with proper modifications to introduce
the second operator.
NR-U simulation evaluation considers the following layout scenarios:
  * Indoor sub-7GHz, 2 operators
  * Outdoor Sub-7 GHz, 2 operators
  * Indoor mmW, 2 Operators
  * Outdoor mmW, 2 operators
  * Stadium scenario for sub-7GHz, 2 operators, can be optionally considered by interested companies.
The following deployment scenarios for simulation are identified:
  * CA between NR licensed cell and NR unlicensed cell
  * DC (with LTE and with NR)
  * SA
  * An NR cell with DL in unlicensed band and UL in licensed band
In the simulations, only unlicensed cell(s) is to be simulated. The licensed
cell may not be explicitly modelled in the simulation. Necessary assumptions
regarding the presence of the licensed carriers can be made and provided.
It was also noted that a single set of evaluations may be applicable to
multiple deployment scenarios. For example, DC and SA deployment scenarios can
share the same set of simulations, possibly with some minor differences on how
the overhead (say for system information delivery) is captured in the result.
### 8.1.1 Sub7 GHz indoor scenario
For sub7 GHz indoor simulation evaluation, two operators each with 3 gNBs are
deployed in a room of size 120 meters by 80 meters as shown in Figure 1. In
the figure, the gNB of the same color belongs to the same operator. The
parameters are of value a=20 meters, b=40 meters, c=20 meters, and d=40
meters. The deployment scenario is selected to achieved a target serving link
RSSI distribution with 10%-15% serving link below -72dBm.
Figure 1. Indoor sub7 simulation office layout
Other parameters are as given in Table 1. Other parameters not explicitly
included in the table will use values defined in [28] and [29]/
Table 1. Evaluation parameters for sub7 GHz indoor scenario
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Parameter** | **Value** | +==================================+==================================+ | Carrier Frequency | 5GHz | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Carrier Channel Bandwidth | 20MHz baseline , 80MHz optional | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Number of carriers | 1 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Number of users per operator | 5 per gNB per 20MHz | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | SCS | To be reported together | | | simulation results | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Channel Model | NR InH Mixed Office model | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | BS/AP Tx Power | 23dBm (total across all TX | | | antennas) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE/STA Tx Power | 18dBm (total across all TX | | | antennas) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | BS/AP Antenna gain | 0dBi | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE/STA Antenna gain | 0dBi | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | BS/AP Noise Figure | 5dB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE/STA Receiver Noise Figure | 9dB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Minimum received power from | -82dBm | | serving cell for UE dropping | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE receiver | MMSE-IRC as the baseline | | | receiver | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | BS/AP antenna Array | (M, N, P, M~g~, N~g~) = (1, 2, | | configuration | 2, 1, 1), dH = dV = 0.5 λ | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE/STA antenna Array | Baseline Tx/Rx: (M, N, P, Mg, | | configuration | Ng) = (1, 1, 2, 1, 1), dH = dV = | | | 0.5 λ | | | | | | Optional Tx/Rx: (M, N, P, Mg, | | | Ng) = (1, 2, 2, 1, 1), dH = dV = | | | 0.5 λ | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Traffic model | Use 36.889 Table A.1.1. | | | | | | Note: Results based on the mixed | | | traffic models can be used to | | | determine the design. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE/STA to UE/STA link pathloss | Directly use InH office pathloss | | model | model with proper d_3D with | | | indoor mixed office LOS | | | probability | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | gNB to gNB link pathloss model | Directly use InH office pathloss | | | model with proper d_3D with | | | indoor mixed office LOS | | | probability | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
### 8.1.2 Sub7GHz outdoor scenario
### 8.1.3 mmW indoor scenario
### 8.1.4 mmW outdoor scenario
## 8.2 Channel access schemes
## 8.3 Evaluation results
# 9 Conclusions
# Annex A: Evaluation methodology
## A.1 General evaluation assumptions
# Annex B: Evaluation results
# Annex C: Change history
* * *