# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The railway station is a major touchpoint to customers including passengers.
The railway community is considering the railway smart station services for
the railway station operations and customers. Many railway companies are
planning to adapt the smart station services and some companies have launched
their smart station projects to provide the services.
The railway smart station provides various station operation and value add
service for passengers including the business communication. The Future
Railway Mobile Communication System (FRMCS) Functional Working Group (FWG) of
the International Union of Railways (UIC) and ITS/Vehicle/Railway ICT Project
Group of Telecommunication Technology Association(TTA) have studied and
considered use cases [2] and requirements [3][4][5] for the smart railway
station.
This document is based on the inputs by the activities.
# 1 Scope
The present document analyses use cases of smart railway station such as
station operation monitoring and control, passenger supporting services and
evolution use cases of business and performance applications currently
included in TR22.989 in order to derive potential requirements.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] UIC MG-7900v2.0.0, Future Railway Mobile Communication System -- Use
cases, Feb. 2020.
[3] UIC FU-7100v5.0.0, Future Railway Mobile Communication System -- User
Requirements Specification, Feb. 2020.
[4] TTA TTAK.KO-06.0507/R1, Requirements for Smart Railway Device -
Information Model, Dec. 2020.
[5] TTA TTAK.KO-06.0508/R1, Requirements for Smart Railway Platform -
Information Model, Dec. 2020.
...
[x] \ \[ ([up to and
including]{yyyy[-mm]\|V\}[onwards])]: \"\\".
It is preferred that the reference to 21.905 be the first in the list.
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
Delete from the above heading those words which are not applicable.
Clause numbering depends on applicability and should be renumbered
accordingly.
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
Definition format (Normal)
**\ :** \.
**Zone: A 2-dimensional region of a pre-determined size.**
**Zone resolution: The pre-determined size of the given zone.**
**example:** text used to clarify abstract rules by applying them literally.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
Symbol format (EW)
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
Abbreviation format (EW)
\ \
# 4 Overviews
[Editor's note: High-level overview will be provided.]
# 5 Basic functionality use cases
[Editor's note: Add sub-clauses as needed. Text to be provided.]
## 5.1 Use case 1
### 5.1.1 Description
\
### 5.1.2 Pre-conditions
\
### 5.1.3 Service Flows
\
### 5.1.4 Post-conditions
\
### 5.1.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
\
### 5.1.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
\
## 5.2 Use case 2
### 5.2.1 Description
\
### 5.2.2 Pre-conditions
\
### 5.2.3 Service Flows
\
### 5.2.4 Post-conditions
\
### 5.2.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
\
### 5.2.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
\
# 6 Performance communication applications related use cases
[Editor's note: Add sub-clauses as needed. Text to be provided.]
## 6.1 Emergency use case of smart station -- fire in station
### 6.1.1 Description
The fire in station use case is to describe an emergency situation and
managing the situation in context of railway smart station. Through this use
case work, technical keywords are deduced and numbers of potential
requirements are come from the keywords.
### 6.1.2 Pre-conditions
Fire detectors are 3GPP UEs. The passengers have their own 3GPP UEs as their
smart phone.
There is a fire situation in somewhere of a railway smart station. A fire
detector senses the situation and report to railway smart station system via
3GPP network.
Some passengers also recognize and register the situation to the station
system via railway smart station app in their 3GPP UEs and some of them notify
it to the fire fighting force and/or police.
### 6.1.3 Service Flows
1\. The Railway Smart Station System indicates the fire situation from the
fire detector. While the fire is getting bigger and bigger, the number of fire
detectors providing sensing information is also increasing. The system
indicates the location and directions of the fire spreading by analysing the
information from the detectors.
2\. The Railway Smart Station System starts a fire emergency protocol. It
declares the situation to the near fire houses and police stations, and
provides the station information via a specific interface that is not in scope
of 3GPP, e.g. the station map. It finds available devices in the station and
controls the devices to handle the situation. For example, the system controls
fire sprinklers to start supress the fire efficiently. An evacuation warning
and emergency exit information are announced to people in the station via the
audio broadcasting devices. Emergency messages are sent to the people as well.
The system controls emergency lamps and direction lights to give guidance
information for evacuating the people.
3\. The system notices the situation to the neighbour stations and the
incoming trains. The trains make emergency stop at a safe place and evacuate
their passengers. The system sends emergency protocol information to the
railway workers in the station depends on their group roles in the protocol.
4\. The system video-streams the fire site using a camera near the fire place.
The people in the station could watch the streaming and get the information of
the fire site, e.g. location and range of the site.
5\. The system gets UEs information and sets up roles to UEs of the workers,
firefighters and police officers, and downloads information on the UEs to
support the role via interfacing the systems of the fire department and the
police. The role is changed dynamically depends on the status of duty of the
workers, firefighters and officers.
6\. The system and the UEs of the people get cooperation to count the number
of people in the station. The people is included in the rescue group
autonomously.
### 6.1.4 Post-conditions
The devices in the station are monitored and controlled by the Railway Smart
Station System.
The railway workers, firefighters, police officers are on their duty using
their UEs.
The people in the station and the incoming train, escape the station and move
to the safe place by using their UEs which are interfaced by the system.
### 6.1.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
The role and group management are fully covered by 3GPP system and MCX
framework.
### 6.1.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
[R-x.1-1] The 5G system shall support to access various networks which are
used to monitor and control features for the devices in the station.
[R-x.1-2] The 5G system shall support to connect massive number of devices in
a specific area in the station which is defined to monitor and/or control.
[R-x.1-3] The 5G system should support to interface external system to control
the UEs that belongs to the external system.
[R-x.1-4] The 5G system should support counting number of UEs in a specific
area in the station under the condition of category of UE and status of UE.
Editor's note: There requirements are FFS.
## 6.2 Use case 2
### 6.2.1 Description
\
### 6.2.2 Pre-conditions
\
### 6.2.3 Service Flows
\
### 6.2.4 Post-conditions
\
### 6.2.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
\
### 6.2.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
\
# 7 Business communication applications related use cases
[Editor's note: Add sub-clauses as needed. Text to be provided.]
## 7.1 Transportation convenience service for the passengers for the reduced
mobility
### 7.1.1 Description
In the 5G-based smart station, a transportation convenience service for the
passengers with the reduced mobility can be feasible, such as a mobility
service for the passengers to arrive at the desired destination.
{width="6.741666666666666in" height="3.2444444444444445in"}
Figure 1. Example of transport convenience service for the passenger with the
reduced mobility
### 7.1.2 Pre-conditions
1\. There exist feasible moving objects in the smart station, where the moving
objects support 3GPP system.
2\. The moving objects are operated under the central control system via 3GPP
access.
3\. There is at least one passenger with the reduced mobility in the smart
station, where the weak passenger has difficulty moving toward the desired
destination.
4\. The passenger has an equipment supporting 3GPP access.
### 7.1.3 Service Flows
1\. A passenger with the reduced mobility is reserved in advance, where a
smart station already knows that the passenger needs help to get to the
desired destination.
2\. Once the passenger enters the smart station, one moving object stands by
for mobile support to the desired destination.
3\. The moving object takes the passenger to the desired place.
### 7.1.4 Post-conditions
1\. The smart station traces and manages the route of movement of the
passenger with the reduced mobility.
### 7.1.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
[R-5.11-001] The MCX Service shall support obtaining and conveying Location
information describing the position of the MCX UE.
[R-5.11-002] The MCX Service should support obtaining and conveying high
accuracy Location information describing the position of the MCX UE.
[R-5.11-002a] The MCX Service shall be able to provide a mechanism for
obtaining high accuracy Location information by integrating position
information from multiple external sources (e.g. magnetometers, orientation
sensors, GNSS)
[R-5.11-003] The MCX Service shall provide for the flexibility to convey
future formats of Location information.
[R-6.12-002] The MCX Service shall support conveyance of Location information
provided by 3GPP location services.
Note: Please refer to TS 22.280 V17.6.0.
### 7.1.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
[R-7.1-1] The 3GPP system shall support obtaining and conveying location
information as a scalable zone information in the application layer.
Editor's note: This requirement is FFS.
## 7.2 Use case 2
### 7.2.1 Description
\
### 7.2.2 Pre-conditions
\
### 7.2.3 Service Flows
\
### 7.2.4 Post-conditions
\
### 7.2.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
\
### 7.2.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
\
# 8 Performance support applications related use cases
[Editor's note: Add sub-clauses as needed. Text to be provided.]
## 8.1 Use case 1
### 8.1.1 Description
\
### 8.1.2 Pre-conditions
\
### 8.1.3 Service Flows
\
### 8.1.4 Post-conditions
\
### 8.1.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
\
### 8.1.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
\
## 8.2 Use case 2
### 8.2.1 Description
\
### 8.2.2 Pre-conditions
\
### 8.2.3 Service Flows
\
### 8.2.4 Post-conditions
\
### 8.2.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
\
### 8.2.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
\
# 9 Business support applications related use cases
[Editor's note: Add sub-clauses as needed. Text to be provided.]
## 9.1 Use case 1
### 9.1.1 Description
\
### 9.1.2 Pre-conditions
\
### 9.1.3 Service Flows
\
### 9.1.4 Post-conditions
\
### 9.1.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
\
### 9.1.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
\
## 9.2 Use case 2
### 9.2.1 Description
\
### 9.2.2 Pre-conditions
\
### 9.2.3 Service Flows
\
### 9.2.4 Post-conditions
\
### 9.2.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
\
### 9.2.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
\
# 10 Conclusions and Recommendations
[Editor's note: Text to be provided.]
# Annex \: \
Annexes are only to be used where appropriate:
Annexes are labelled A, B, C, etc. and are \"informative\" (3GPP TRs are
informative documents by nature).
# A.1 Heading levels in an annex
Heading levels within an annex are used as in the main document, but for
Heading level selection, the \"A.\", \"B.\", etc. are ignored. e.g. **A.1.2**
is formatted using **_Heading 2_** style.
Bibliography
The Bibliography is optional. If it exists, it shall follow the last annex in
the document.
The following material, though not specifically referenced in the body of the
present document (or not publicly available), gives supporting information.
Bibliography format
\- \: \"\\".
OR
\: \"\\".
#