# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
Interest in using cellular connectivity to support Uncrewed Aerial Systems
(UAS) is strong, and the 3GPP ecosystem offers excellent benefits for UAS
operation. Ubiquitous coverage, high reliability and QoS, robust security, and
seamless mobility are critical factors to supporting UAS command and control
functions. In parallel, regulators are investigating safety and performance
standards and Registration and licensing programs to develop a well-
functioning private and civil UAS ecosystem which can safely coexist with
commercial air traffic, public and private infrastructure, and the general
population.
The 3GPP system can provide control plane and user plane communication
services for UAS. Examples of services which can be offered to the UAS
ecosystem includes data services for command and control (C2), telematics,
UAS-generated data, remote identification, and authorisation, enforcement, and
regulation of UAS operation.
# 1 Scope
The present document identifies the requirements for operation of Uncrewed
Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) via the 3GPP system.
This includes requirements for meeting the business, security, and public
safety needs for the remote identification and tracking of UAS linked to a
3GPP subscription.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] FAA UTM Concept of Operations v1.0, Foundational Principles, Roles and
Responsibilities, Use Cases and Operational Threads
https://utm.arc.nasa.gov/docs/2018-UTM-ConOps-v1.0.pdf
[3] FAA Remote Identification,
https://www.faa.gov/uas/research_development/remote_id/
[4] 3GPP TS 22.261: \"Service requirements for the 5G system; Stage 1\".
[5] IMT 2020(5G): \"Application for UAV in 5G White Paper\", September 2018
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**Above ground level (AGL)** : In the context of a UAV it is the UAV altitude
referenced to ground level in the vicinity.
**Command and Control (C2) Communication:** the user plane link to convey
messages with information of command and control for UAV operation between a
UAV controller and a UAV.
**Uncrewed Aerial System (UAS):** Composed of Uncrewed Aerial Vehicle (UAV)
and related functionality, including command and control (C2) links between
the UAV and the controller, the UAV and the network, and for remote
identification. A UAS is comprised of a UAV and a UAV controller.
NOTE: A UAV can be controlled by different UAV controllers, but at any given
time, a UAV is under the control of only one UAV controller. The mechanisms to
ensure which UAV controller is active and controlling the UAV is out of scope
of 3GPP.
**Uncrewed Aerial System Traffic Management (UTM):** a set of functions and
services for managing a range of autonomous vehicle operations.
**UAV controller** : The UAV controller of a UAS enables a drone pilot to
control an UAV.
**UxNB** : radio access node on-board UAV. It is a radio access node providing
connectivity to UEs, which is carried in the air by an Uncrewed Aerial Vehicle
(UAV).
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
BVLOS Beyond Visual Line of Sight
C2 Command and Control
Remote ID Remote Identification [3]
UAS Uncrewed Aerial System
UAV Uncrewed Aerial Vehicle
UTM Uncrewed Aerial System Traffic Management [2]
# 4 Overview on UAS
## 4.1 General
An Uncrewed Aerial System (UAS) is the combination of an Uncrewed Aerial
Vehicle (UAV), sometimes called a drone, and a UAV controller. A UAV is an
aircraft without a human pilot onboard -- instead, in some cases. the UAV can
be controlled from an operator via a UAV controller and will have a range of
autonomous flight capabilities. The communication system between the UAV and
UAV controller is, within the scope of this specification and in some
scenarios, provided by the 3GPP system. The UAS model considers also the
scenario where the UAV controller communicates with the UAV via mechanisms
outside the scope of 3GPP.
UAVs range in size and weight from small, light aircraft often used for
recreational purposes to large, heavy aircraft which are often more suited to
commercial applications. Regulatory requirements vary across this range and
vary on a regional basis.
The communication requirements for UAS cover both the Command and Control
(C2), and uplink and downlink data to/from the UAS components towards both the
serving 3GPP network and network servers. The applicable C2 communication
modes is depicted in clause 4.2.
Uncrewed Aerial System Traffic Management (UTM) is used to provide a number of
services to support UAS and their operations including but not limited to UAS
identification and tracking, authorisation, enforcement, regulation of UAS
operations, and also to store the data required for UAS(s) to operate. It also
allows authorised users (e.g., air traffic control, public safety agencies) to
query the identity and metadata of a UAV and its UAV controller.
## 4.2 C2 Communication
When using 3GPP network as the transport network for supporting UAS services,
the following C2 communication are considered to provision UAS services by
guaranteeing QoS for the C2 communication:
**Direct C2 communication** : the UAV controller and UAV establish a direct C2
link to communicate with each other and both are registered to the 5G network
using the radio resource configured and scheduled provided by the 5G network
for direct C2 communication.
**Network-Assisted C2 communication** : the UAV controller and UAV register
and establish respective unicast C2 communication links to the 5G network and
communicate with each other via 5G network. Also, both the UAV controller and
UAV may be registered to the 5G network via different NG-RAN nodes. The 5G
network needs to support mechanism to handle the reliable routing of C2
communication.
**UTM-Navigated C2 communication** : the UAV has been provided a pre-scheduled
flight plan, e.g. array of 4D polygons, for autonomous flying, however UTM
still maintains a C2 communication link with the UAV in order to regularly
monitor the flight status of the UAV, verify the flight status with up-to-date
dynamic restrictions, provide route updates, and navigate the UAV whenever
necessary.
In general, Direct C2 communication and Network-Assisted C2 communication are
used by a human-operator using a UAV controller. UTM-Navigated C2
communication is used by the UTM to provide cleared flying routes and routes
updates. In order to ensure the service availability and reliability of the C2
communication for UAS operation, especially when the UAV is flying beyond line
of sight (BLOS) of the operator, redundant C2 communication links can be
established for any C2 communication links from UAV controller or UTM to a
UAV.
For reliability and service availability consideration, it is possible to
activate more than one C2 communication with one as a backup link for C2
communication or switch among the applicable links for C2 communication.
\- For example, Direct C2 communication can be used at first and then switch
to the Network-Assisted C2 communication when the UAV is flying BLOS.
\- For example, UTM-navigated C2 communication can be utilized whenever
needed, e.g. for air traffic control, the UAV is approaching a No Drone Zone,
and detected potential security threats, etc.
There are four control modes considered in the C2 communication for the UAV
operation that are with different requirements, e.g. on message intervals,
sizes, and end to end latencies, etc., including steer to waypoints, direct
stick steering, automatic flight by UTM and approaching autonomous navigation
infrastructure.
  * Steer to waypoints: the control message contains flight declaration, > e.g. waypoints, sent from the UAV controller or UTM to the UAV. > The control mode is used in both of direct C2 communication and > network-assisted C2 communication.
  * Direct stick steering: the control message contains direction > instructions sending from the UAV controller to the UAV while > optionally video traffic is provided as feedback from the UAV to > the UAV controller. The control mode is used in both of direct C2 > communication and network-assisted C2 communication.
  * Automatic flight by UTM: the control message contains a > pre-scheduled flight plan, e.g. array of 4D polygons, sent from > the UTM to the UAV, which thereafter flies autonomously with > periodic position reporting. The control mode is used in > UTM-Navigated C2 communication.
  * Approaching autonomous navigation infrastructure: the control > message contains direction instructions, e.g. waypoints, altitudes > and speeds from the UTM to the UAV. When the UAV is > landing/departing, the UTM coordinates more closely with > autonomous navigation infrastructure, e.g. vertiport or package > distribution center. The control mode is used in UTM-Navigated C2 > communication.
# 5 Requirements for Remote Identification of UAS
## 5.1 General
[R-5.1-001] The 3GPP system should enable UTM to associate the UAV and UAV
controller, and the UTM to identify them as a UAS.
[R-5.1-002] The 3GPP system shall be able to provide UTM with the
identity/identities of a UAS.
[R-5.1-003] The 3GPP system shall enable a UAS to send UTM the UAV data which
can contain: unique identity (this may be a 3GPP identity), UE capability of
the UAV, make & model, serial number, take-off weight, position, owner
identity, owner address, owner contact details, owner certification, take-off
location, mission type, route data, operating status.
[R-5.1-004] The 3GPP system shall enable a UAS to send UTM the UAV controller
data which can contain: unique identity (this may be a 3GPP identity), UE
capability of the UAV controller, position, owner identity, owner address,
owner contact details, owner certification, UAV operator identity, UAV
operator license, UAV operator certification, UAV pilot identity, UAV pilot
license, UAV pilot certification and flight plan.
[R-5.1-005] The 3GPP system shall enable a UAS to send different UAS data to
UTM based on the different authentication and authorizations level which are
applied to the UAS.
NOTE 0: Subject to the regional regulation, the different authentication and
authorization levels can be: the initial network access authentication and
authorization, UAS identity authentication, UAV flight plan authorization,
additional UTM service authentications, such as flight monitoring, collision
avoidance services, so on.
[R-5.1-006] The 3GPP system shall support capability to extend UAS data being
sent to UTM with the evolution of UTM and its support applications in future.
[R-5.1-007] Based on regulations and security protection, the 3GPP system
shall enable a UAS to send UTM the identifiers which can be: IMEI, MSISDN, or
IMSI, or IP address.
[R-5.1-008] The 3GPP system shall enable a UE in a UAS to send the following
identifiers to a UTM: IMEI, MSISDN, or IMSI, or IP address
[R-5.1-009] The 3GPP system should enable an MNO to augment the data sent to a
UTM with the following: network-based positioning information of UAV and UAV
controller.
NOTE 1: This augmentation may be trust-based (i.e. the MNO informs the UTM
that the UAV position information is trusted) or it may be additional location
information based on network information, such as OTDOA, cell coordinates,
synchronization source, etc.
NOTE 2: This requirement will not be applied to the case which the UAS and UTM
has direct control communication connection without going through MNO, such as
OTDOA, cell coordinates, synchronization source, etc.
[R-5.1-010] The 3GPP system shall enable UTM to inform an MNO of the outcome
of an authorisation to operate.
[R-5.1-011] The 3GPP system shall enable an MNO to allow a UAS authorisation
request only if appropriate subscription information is present.
[R-5.1-012] The 3GPP system shall enable a UAS to update a UTM with the live
location information of a UAV and its UAV controller.
[R-5.1-013] The 3GPP network should be able to provide supplement location
information of UAV and its controller to a UTM.
NOTE 3: This supplement may be trust-based (i.e. the MNO informs the UTM that
the UAV position information is trusted) or it may be additional location
information based on network information.
[R-5.1-014] The 3GPP network shall support UAVs and the corresponding UAV
controller are connecting to different PLMNs at the same time.
[R-5.1-014a] The 3GPP system shall support UAVs and the corresponding UAV
controller are connecting to different PLMNs at the same time.
[R-5.1-015] The 3GPP system shall provide the capability for network to obtain
the UAS information regarding its support of 3GPP communication capabilities
designed for UAS operation.
[R-5.1-016] The 3GPP system shall support the UAS identification and
subscription data which can differentiate the UAS with UAS-capable UE and the
UAS with non-UAS-capable UE.
NOTE 4: UAS-capable UE refers to the UE which support interaction capability
with UTM and certain 3GPP communication features which 3GPP provides for UAS.
[R-5.1-017] The 3GPP system shall support the UTM in detection of UAV
operating without authorization.
NOTE 5: the scenarios covered by the requirement above are FFS.
## 5.2 UAS traffic management
### 5.2.1 General
NOTE: The following requirements are valid for both centralized and
decentralized UTM.
[R-5.2.1-001] The 3GPP system shall provide a mechanism for a UTM to provide
route data, along with flight clearance, to a UAV.
[R-5.2.1-002] The 3GPP system shall be able to deliver route modification
information received from a UTM to a UAS with a latency of less than 500ms.
[R-5.2.1-003] The 3GPP system shall be able to deliver the notifications
received from a UTM to a UAV controller with a latency of less than 500ms.
[R-5.2.1-004] Based on MNO policies and/or regulatory requirements, the 3GPP
system shall enable the UTM to take over the communication used to control the
UAV.
### 5.2.2 Decentralized UAS traffic management
[R-5.2.2-001] The 3GPP system shall enable a UAV to broadcast the following
data for identifying UAV(s) in a short-range area for collision avoidance:
e.g. UAV identities if needed based on different regulation requirements, UAV
type, current location and time, flight route information, current speed,
operating status.
[R-5.2.2-002] The 3GPP system shall be able to support a UAV to transmit a
message via network connection for identifying itself as an UAV to the other
UAV(s).
[R-5.2.2-003] The 3GPP system shall enable UAV to preserve the privacy of the
owner of the UAV, UAV pilot, and the UAV operator in its broadcast of identity
information.
[R-5.2.2-004] The 3GPP system shall enable a UAV to receive local broadcast
communication transport service from other UAV in short range.
[R-5.2.2-005] A UAV shall be able to use a direct UAV to UAV local broadcast
communication transport service in the coverage or out of coverage of a 3GPP
network.
[R-5.2.2-006] A UAV shall be able to use a direct UAV to UAV local broadcast
communication transport service when the sending and receiving UAVs are served
by the same or different PLMNs.
[R-5.2.2-007] The 3GPP system shall support a direct UAV to UAV local
broadcast communication transport service at relative speeds of up to 320kmph.
[R-5.2.2-008] The 3GPP system shall support a direct UAV to UAV local
broadcast communication transport service with variable message payloads of
50-1500 bytes, not including security-related message component(s).
[R-5.2.2-009] The 3GPP system shall support a direct UAV to UAV local
broadcast communication transport service which supports a range of up to
600m.
[R-5.2.2-010] The 3GPP system shall support a direct UAV to UAV local
broadcast communication transport service which can transmit messages at a
frequency of at least 10 messages per second.
[R-5.2.2-011] The 3GPP system shall support a direct UAV to UAV local
broadcast communication transport service which can transmit messages with an
end-to-end latency of at most 100ms.
## 5.3 Void
## 5.4 Security
[R-5.4-001] The 3GPP system shall protect the transport of data between the
UAS and UTM.
[R-5.4-002] The 3GPP system shall protect against spoofing attacks of the UAS
identities.
[R-5.4-003] The 3GPP system shall allow non-repudiation of data sent between
the UAS and UTM at the application layer.
[R-5.4-004] The 3GPP system shall support the capability to provide different
levels of integrity and privacy protection for the different connections
between UAS and UTM as well as the data being transferred via those
connections.
[R-5.4-005] The 3GPP system shall support confidentiality protection of
identities related to the UAS and personally identifiable information.
[R-5.4-006] The 3GPP system shall support regulatory requirements (e.g. Lawful
Intercept) for UAS traffic.
# 6 Requirements for UAV usages
## 6.1 General
Beyond UAV related requirements, the 3GPP can be used to support for a wide
range of applications and scenarios by using low altitude UAVs in various
commercial and government sectors. New service level requirements and KPIs for
supporting various UAV applications by the 3GPP system have been identified
and specified e.g. Service requirements and KPIs related to command and
control (C2), payload (e.g. camera) and the operation of radio access nodes
on-board UAVs.
## 6.2 Network exposure for UAV services
[R-6.2-001] The 3GPP system shall provide means to allow a 3^rd^ party to
request and obtain real-time monitoring the status information (e.g., location
of UAV, communication link status) of a UAV.
[R-6.2-002] Based on operator \'s policy, the 3GPP system shall provide means
to provide a 3^rd^ party with the information regarding the service status for
UAVs in a certain geographical area and/or at a certain time.
NOTE: Service status is about the information of whether the communication
service to the UAV can be provided with a certain QoS by the network.
## 6.3 Service restriction for UEs onboard of UAV
[R-6.3-001] The 3GPP network shall be able to support network-based 3D space
positioning (e.g., with altitude 30\~300m) of a UE onboard UAV.
[R-6.3-002] The 3GPP system shall be able to notify the authorized third party
of potential stopping of connectivity service before the UE onboard of UAV
enters an area (e.g., due to altitude) where the connectivity service is not
authorized for the UE.
## 6.4 Requirements for UxNB
[R-6.4-001] The 5G system shall be able to support UxNBs to provide enhanced
and more flexible radio coverage.
[R-6.4-002] The 3GPP system shall be able to provide suitable means to control
the operation of the UxNBs (e.g. to start operation, stop operation, replace
UxNB etc.).
[R-6.4-003] The 3GPP system shall be able to provide means to minimize power
consumption of the UxNBs (e.g. optimizing operation parameter, optimized
traffic delivery).
[R-6.4-004] The 3GPP system shall be able to minimize interference e.g. caused
by UxNBs changing their positions.
## 6.5 C2 communication
[R-6.5-001] The 3GPP system shall support C2 communication with required QoS
for pre-defined C2 communication models (e.g. using direct ProSe Communication
between UAV and the UAV controller, UTM-navigated C2 communication based on
flight plan between UTM and the UAV).
[R-6.5-002] The 3GPP system shall support C2 communication with required QoS
when switching between the C2 communication models.
[R-6.5-003] The 3GPP system shall support a mechanism for the UTM to request
monitoring of the C2 communication with required QoS for pre-defined C2
communication models (e.g. using direct ProSe Communication between UAV and
the UAV controller, UTM-navigated C2 communication between UTM and the UAV).
# 7 Performance requirements
## 7.1 KPIs for services provided to the UAV applications
The 5G system shall be able to provide uncrewed aerial vehicle with the
service performance requirements reported in Table 7.1-1.
UAV originated QoS in the table refers to the QoS of Uplink data (e.g. from
UAV to the network side). UAV terminated QoS is the QoS of downlink data (e.g.
from the network side to UAV).
The data transmitted by the 5G system includes data collected by hardware
devices installed on UAV such as cameras, e.g. pictures, videos and files. It
is also possible to transmit some software calculation or statistical data,
e.g. UAV management data. The service control data transmitted by the 5G
system may be based on application triggers, such as switch, rotation,
promotion and demotion control of equipment on UAV. Various UAV applications
may require different uplink and downlink QoS at the same time. The 5G system
may simultaneously provide services to other users on the ground (e.g., the
KPIs for rural and urban scenarios as defined in 7.1 of TS 22.261 [4]) in the
same area without service degradation.
Table 7.1-1 KPIs for services provided to the UAV applications
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Use case | Services | Data | End to | Altitude | service | | | | rate | end | AGL | area | | | | | Latency | | | | | | | | | (note 4) | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 1 | 8K video | 100Mbps | 200 ms | \=25Mbps | | | rural | | | co | | | | area | | | ntroller | UAV | | | | | | through | | | | | | | HD video | or | | | | | | | iginated | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (Note 3) | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | 300Kbps | 20 ms | \ | | | | | | | | 1S | | | | | | | | 0 | | | | | | | .1m | | | | | | | =1 | 300 | 100 | 1 s | 99.9% | Req | | to | termi | s | km/h | byte | | | uired | | wayp | nated | | | | | | | | oints | C2 | | | | | | | | (note | me | | | | | | | | 3) | ssage | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | UAV | 1 s | | 8 | 1 s | 99.9% | Not | | | origi | | | 4-140 | | | Req | | | nated | | | byte | | | uired | | | C2 | | | | | | | | | me | | | | | | | | | ssage | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (note | | | | | | | | | 4) | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | D | UAV | 40 ms | 6 | 24 | 40 ms | 99.9% | Req | | irect | termi | | 0km/h | byte | | | uired | | stick | nated | (note | | | | | | | ste | C2 | 6) | | | | | | | ering | me | | | | | | | | | ssage | | | | | | | | (note | | | | | | | | | 5) | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | UAV | 40 ms | | 8 | 40 ms | 99.9% | Not | | | origi | | | 4-140 | | | Req | | | nated | | | byte | | | uired | | | C2 | | | | | | | | | me | | | | | | | | | ssage | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (note | | | | | | | | | 7) | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Auto | UAV | 1 s | 300 | \<10 | 5 s | 99.9% | Req | | matic | termi | | km/h | kbyte | (note | | uired | | f | nated | | | | 9) | | | | light | C2 | | | | | | | | on | me | | | | | | | | UTM | ssage | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (note | | | | | | | | | 10) | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | UAV | 1 s | | 1500 | 5 s | 99.9% | Req | | | origi | | | byte | | | uired | | | nated | (note | | | (note | | | | | C2 | 9) | | | 9) | | | | | me | | | | | | | | | ssage | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | A | UAV | 500 | 50 | 4 | 10 ms | 99% | Req | | pproa | termi | ms | km/h | kbyte | | | uired | | ching | nated | | | | | | | | Auton | C2 | | | | | | | | omous | me | | | | | | | | Navig | ssage | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | Infr | | | | | | | | | astru | | | | | | | | | cture | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | UAV | 500 | | 4 | 140 | 9 | Req | | | origi | ms | | kbyte | ms | 9.99% | uired | | | nated | | | | | | | | | C2 | | | | | | | | | me | | | | | | | | | ssage | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | Me | | | | | | | | | ssage | | | | | | | | | size | | | | | | | | | is at | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | pplic | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | layer | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | exc | | | | | | | | | ludes | | | | | | | | | any | | | | | | | | | he | | | | | | | | | aders | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | sec | | | | | | | | | urity | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | lated | | | | | | | | | load. | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | nu | | | | | | | | | mbers | | | | | | | | | shown | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | ty | | | | | | | | | pical | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | me | | | | | | | | | ssage | | | | | | | | | size | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | pends | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | com | | | | | | | | | mands | | | | | | | | | sent | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | impl | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | | | ific. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | Me | | | | | | | | | ssage | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | eliab | | | | | | | | | ility | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | robab | | | | | | | | | ility | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | succe | | | | | | | | | ssful | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | | | uired | | | | | | | | | la | | | | | | | | | tency | | | | | | | | | at | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | pplic | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | layer | | | | | | | | | while | | | | | | | | | under | | | | | | | | | ne | | | | | | | | | twork | | | | | | | | | cove | | | | | | | | | rage. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 3: | | | | | | | | | Video | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | ne | | | | | | | | | ither | | | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | | | uired | | | | | | | | | nor | | | | | | | | | exp | | | | | | | | | ected | | | | | | | | | to be | | | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | ste | | | | | | | | | ering | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | | | mode. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 4: It | | | | | | | | | may | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | pos | | | | | | | | | sible | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | tra | | | | | | | | | nsmit | | | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | | | me | | | | | | | | | ssage | | | | | | | | | on an | | | | | | | | | event | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | riven | | | | | | | | | basis | | | | | | | | | (e.g. | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | pproa | | | | | | | | | ching | | | | | | | | | a geo | | | | | | | | | fe | | | | | | | | | nce). | | | | | | | | | A | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | tatus | | | | | | | | | me | | | | | | | | | ssage | | | | | | | | | may, | | | | | | | | | but | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | | | uired | | | | | | | | | to, | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | sent | | | | | | | | | as a | | | | | | | | | res | | | | | | | | | ponse | | | | | | | | | to a | | | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | | | ntrol | | | | | | | | | mes | | | | | | | | | sage. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 5: A | | | | | | | | | video | | | | | | | | | fee | | | | | | | | | dback | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | | | uired | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | | | mode. | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | KPIs | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | video | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | table | | | | | | | | | 7 | | | | | | | | | .2-2. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 6: | | | | | | | | | UAVs | | | | | | | | | on- | | | | | | | | | board | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | ontro | | | | | | | | | llers | | | | | | | | | typi | | | | | | | | | cally | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | pdate | | | | | | | | | at | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | ither | | | | | | | | | 50Hz | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | 20ms) | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | 25Hz | | | | | | | | | (4 | | | | | | | | | 0ms). | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 7: A | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | tatus | | | | | | | | | me | | | | | | | | | ssage | | | | | | | | | may, | | | | | | | | | but | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | | | uired | | | | | | | | | to, | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | sent | | | | | | | | | as a | | | | | | | | | res | | | | | | | | | ponse | | | | | | | | | to a | | | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | | | ntrol | | | | | | | | | me | | | | | | | | | ssage | | | | | | | | | A 1Hz | | | | | | | | | slow | | | | | | | | | mode | | | | | | | | | also | | | | | | | | | ex | | | | | | | | | ists. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 8: | | | | | | | | | Pos | | | | | | | | | itive | | | | | | | | | ACK | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | sent | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | origi | | | | | | | | | nator | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | me | | | | | | | | | ssage | | | | | | | | | (i.e. | | | | | | | | | UAV | | | | | | | | | contr | | | | | | | | | oller | | | | | | | | | and / | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | UTM). | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | 5G | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ystem | | | | | | | | | makes | | | | | | | | | no | | | | | | | | | assum | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | wh | | | | | | | | | ether | | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | pprop | | | | | | | | | riate | | | | | | | | | ACK | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | sent | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | pplic | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | l | | | | | | | | | ayer. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 9: At | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | pplic | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | l | | | | | | | | | ayer, | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | C2 | | | | | | | | | com | | | | | | | | | munic | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | tween | | | | | | | | | a UAV | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | UTM | | | | | | | | | can | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | al | | | | | | | | | lowed | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | exper | | | | | | | | | ience | | | | | | | | | much | | | | | | | | | l | | | | | | | | | onger | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | affic | | | | | | | | | inte | | | | | | | | | rrupt | | | | | | | | | ions, | | | | | | | | | e.g. | | | | | | | | | tim | | | | | | | | | eouts | | | | | | | | | of 30 | | | | | | | | | s on | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | plink | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | 300 s | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | down | | | | | | | | | link. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 10: | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | only | | | | | | | | | repre | | | | | | | | | sents | | | | | | | | | per | | | | | | | | | iodic | | | | | | | | | me | | | | | | | | | ssage | | | | | | | | | exc | | | | | | | | | hange | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | uring | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | no | | | | | | | | | minal | | | | | | | | | mi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | teady | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | tate. | | | | | | | | | I | | | | | | | | | tdoes | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | repr | | | | | | | | | esent | | | | | | | | | un | | | | | | | | | usual | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | aper | | | | | | | | | iodic | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | vents | | | | | | | | | such | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | conv | | | | | | | | | eying | | | | | | | | | dy | | | | | | | | | namic | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | stric | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | or a | | | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | | | light | | | | | | | | | plan | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | UAV | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | down | | | | | | | | | link. | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Table 7.2-2 KPIs for video used to aid UAV control.
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Scenario | Data | End to | Rel | D | Positive | | | rate | end | iability | irection | ACK | | (note 2) | | Latency | | | required | | | | | (note 1) | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | VLOS | 2 Mpbs | 1 s | 99.9% | Sent by | Not | | (visual | at 480 | | | UAV | Required | | line of | p, 30 | | | | | | sight) | fps | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Non-VLOS | 4 Mbps | 140 ms | 99.99% | Sent by | Not | | | at 720 | | | UAV | Required | | | p, 30 | | | | | | | fps | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | Message | | | | | | | rel | | | | | | | iability | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | defined | | | | | | | as the | | | | | | | pro | | | | | | | bability | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | ccessful | | | | | | | tran | | | | | | | smission | | | | | | | within | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | required | | | | | | | latency. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | Maximum | | | | | | | UAV | | | | | | | speed is | | | | | | | same as | | | | | | | control | | | | | | | mode of | | | | | | | direct | | | | | | | stick | | | | | | | steering | | | | | | | in 7.2-1 | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
## 7.3 Positioning performance requirements
Table 7.3-1 below lists typical scenarios and the corresponding positioning
requirements for horizontal and vertical accuracy, availability, heading,
latency, and UE speed.
NOTE: The column on \"Corresponding Positioning Service Level in TS 22.261\"
maps the scenarios listed in Table 7.3-1 to the service levels defined in TS
22.261 [4].
Table 7.3-1: Positioning performance requirements
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+ | Sce | Acc | Av | He | La | UE | Cor | | | nario | uracy | ailab | ading | tency | Speed | respo | | | | | ility | | for | | nding | | | | (95 % | | | pos | | P | | | | confi | | | ition | | ositi | | | | dence | | | estim | | oning | | | | l | | | ation | | Se | | | | evel) | | | of UE | | rvice | | | | | | | | | Level | | | | | | | | | in TS | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 2.261 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+ | | Horiz | Ver | | | | | | | | ontal | tical | | | | | | | | acc | acc | | | | | | | | uracy | uracy | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+ | 8K | [0.5 | [1 | 99% | | 1s | [ | 5 | | video | m] | m] | | | | \<120 | | | live | | | | | | k | | | broa | | | | | | m/h] | | | dcast | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+ | Laser | [0.5 | [1 | 99% | | 1s | [ | 5 | | map | m] | m] | | | | \<120 | | | ping/ | | | | | | k | | | | | | | | | m/h] | | | HD | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | atrol | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+ | 4*4K | [0. | | | | | \ | | | AI | 1 m] | | | | | [\<60 | | | su | | | | | | | | | rveil | | | | | | k | | | lance | | | | | | m/h] | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+ | R | [0.5 | [1 | 99% | | 1s | [ | 5 | | emote | m] | m] | | | | \<120 | | | UAV | | | | | | k | | | contr | | | | | | m/h] | | | oller | | | | | | | | | th | | | | | | | | | rough | | | | | | | | | HD | | | | | | | | | video | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+ | Per | [0.1 | [1 | | | | \ | | | iodic | m] | m] | | | | [\<60 | | | still | | | | | | k | | | p | | | | | | m/h] | | | hotos | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+ | NOTE: | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | ositi | | | | | | | | | oning | | | | | | | | | acc | | | | | | | | | uracy | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | | | table | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | lated | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | navig | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | sa | | | | | | | | | fety. | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
## 7.4 Other requirements
[R-7.4-001] The 5G system shall support a mechanism to switch between C2
communication modes for UAS operation, e.g. from indirect C2 communication to
direct C2 communication, and ensure the disconnect time is below the latency
requirements.
[R-7.4-002] The 3GPP system shall enable concurrent communications between the
UAV-controller and UAV and between the UTM and the UAV that may require
different KPIs.
[R-7.4-003] The 3GPP system shall be capable of switching between the KPIs, as
requested by the UAV-controller or the UTM, within [500ms].
###### ## Annex A (informative): UAS Reference Model
## A.1 UAS Reference Model in 3GPP ecosystem
Figure B.1-1: UAS model in 3GPP ecosystem.
In the UAS reference model:
\- a UAS is composed of one UAV and one UAV controller in this illustration
\- UAVs are connected over cellular connectivity
\- a UAV can be controlled by a UAV controller connected via the 3GPP mobile
network
\- a UAV can be controlled by a UAV controller not connected via the 3GPP
mobile network, using a C2 interface not in 3GPP scope
\- a UAV controller connected via the 3GPP mobile network can control one or
more UAV(s)
\- the UAS exchanges application data traffic with a UTM
NOTE: Several types of UAV controllers exist, e.g. hand-held UAV controllers,
PCs/WSs and automated or manual functions that are part of the UTM. The
mechanisms to ensure which UAV controller is active and controlling the UAV is
out of scope of 3GPP.
#