# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
This Technical Specification defines the stage one description of the Public
Warning System (PWS) Requirements. Stage one is the set of requirements seen
primarily from the users' and service providers' points of view.
The scope of this TS covers the core requirements for the PWS that are
sufficient to provide a complete service. This TS also covers subsystem
additional requirements for the Earthquake and Tsunami Warning System (ETWS),
the Commercial Mobile Alert System (CMAS), EU-ALERT, and Korean Public Alert
System (KPAS).
This TS includes information applicable to network operators, service
providers, terminal and network manufacturers, in case of deployment of PWS,
ETWS, and or CMAS, EU-ALERT, and KPAS. PWS, ETWS, CMAS, EU-ALERT, and KPAS
deployment depends on operator decision or national regulations.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] FCC 08-99: \"Federal Communications Commission First Report and Order In
the Matter of The Commercial Mobile Alert System\"; April 9, 2008.
[2] FCC 08-164: \"Federal Communications Commission Second Report and Order
and Further Notice of Proposed Rulemaking In the Matter of The Commercial
Mobile Alert System\"; July 8, 2008.
[3] FCC 08-184: \"Federal Communications Commission Third Report and Order and
Further Notice of Proposed Rulemaking In the Matter of The Commercial Mobile
Alert System\"; August 7, 2008.
[4] J-STD-100: \"**Joint ATIS/TIA-CMAS Mobile Device Behavior Specification**
\"; January 30, 2009**.**
**[5] 3GPP** TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[6] ETSI TS 102 900: \"European Public Warning System (EU-ALERT) using the
Cell Broadcast Service\".
[7] TTA TTAK.KO-06.0263:\"Requirements and Message Format for Korean Public
Alert System over Mobile Network\".
[8] FCC 16-127, Federal Communications Commission Report and Order and Further
Notice of Proposed Rulemaking In the Matter of Wireless Emergency Alerts
Amendments to Part 11 of the Commission's Rules Regarding the Emergency Alert
System; September 29, 2016.
[9] 3GPP TS 23.038; \"Alphabets and language-specific information\"
[10] FCC 18-4, Federal Communications Commission Second Report and Order and
Second Order on Reconsideration In the Matter of Wireless Emergency Alerts and
Amendments to Part 11 of the Commission's Rules Regarding the Emergency Alert
System; January 30, 2018
[11] 3GPP TS 22.071: "Location Services (LCS); Service description; Stage 1"
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [5] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[5].
**Commercial Mobile Alert System (aka, Wireless Emergency Alert):** Public
Warning System that delivers _Warning Notifications_ provided by _Warning
Notification Providers_ to CMAS capable PWS-UEs. CMAS defines the following
classes of Warning Notifications: Presidential, Imminent Threat, Public
Safety, Child Abduction Emergency, and State/Local WEA Test.
**Earthquake and Tsunami Warning System:** Public Warning System that delivers
_Warning Notifications_ specific to Earthquake and Tsunami provided by
_Warning Notification Providers_ to the UEs which have the capability of
receiving Primary and Secondary _Warning Notifications_ within _Notification
Areas_ through the 3GPP network
**Notification Area:** area where _Warning Notifications_ are broadcast. This
is an area that closely approximates the geographical information provided by
the Warning Notification Provider
**PWS-UE:** User Equipment (UE) which has the capability of receiving Warning
Notifications within Notification Areas through the 3GPP network and conforms
to the behaviour specific to the PWS service such as dedicated alerting
indication and display of the Warning Notification upon reception
**ePWS-UE: User Equipment (UE) that supports the ePWS functionality**
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[5] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [5]
CBC Cell Broadcast Centre
CBE Cell Broadcast Entity
CBS Cell Broadcast Service
CMAS Commercial Mobile Alert System
EOC Emergency Operations Center
ETWS Earthquake and Tsunami Warning System
KPAS Korean Public Alert System
PWS Public Warning System
WEA Wireless Emergency Alert
ePWS enhancements of Public Warning System
# 4 General PWS Requirements
## 4.1 Background
Recently there has been an interest to ensure that the public has the
capability to receive timely and accurate alerts, warnings and critical
information regarding disasters and other emergencies irrespective of what
communications technologies they use. As has been learned from disasters such
as earthquakes, tsunamis, hurricanes and wild fires; such a capability is
essential to enable the public to take appropriate action to protect their
families and themselves from serious injury, or loss of life or property.
This interest to enhance the reliability, resiliency, and security of Warning
Notifications to the public by providing a mechanism to distribute Warning
Notifications over 3GPP systems is the impetus for this Public Warning System
Technical Specification.
## 4.2 High level general requirements for Warning Notification delivery
The following list gives the high level general requirements for Warning
Notification delivery:
\- PWS shall be able to broadcast Warning Notifications to multiple users
simultaneously with no acknowledgement required.
\- PWS shall be able to support concurrent broadcast of multiple Warning
Notifications.
\- Warning Notifications shall be broadcast to a Notification Area which is
based on the geographical information as specified by the Warning Notification
Provider.
\- PWS capable UEs (PWS-UE) in idle mode shall be capable of receiving
broadcasted Warning Notifications.
Note: A bandwidth reduced low complexity UE or a UE supporting eDRX may not
support all requirements for PWS, including ETWS, CMAS, EU-Alert and KPAS
\- PWS shall only be required to broadcast Warning Notifications in languages
as prescribed by regulatory requirements.
\- Warning Notifications are processed by PWS on a first in, first out basis,
subject to regulatory requirements.
\- Reception and presentation of Warning Notifications to the user shall not
pre-empt an active voice or data session.
\- Warning Notifications shall be limited to those emergencies where life or
property is at imminent risk, and some responsive action should be taken.
NOTE: This requirement does not prohibit the use of the operator's network
(i.e. broadcast technology) implemented for Warning Notifications to be used
for commercial services.
## 4.3 Warning Notification Content
PWS shall not modify or translate the Warning Notification content specified
by the Warning Notification Provider.
It is expected that Warning Notifications would likely include the following
five elements:
\- Event Description
\- Area Affected
\- Recommended Action
\- Expiration Time (with time zone)
\- Sending Agency
Additional elements may be present, based on regulatory requirements.
There is a concern that URLs or telephone numbers in a Warning Notification
could exacerbate wireless network congestion at a time when network traffic is
already dramatically increasing as individuals contact police, fire, and
rescue personnel, as well as their loved ones. Therefore, Warning
Notifications should not contain anything that would drive immediate and
debilitating traffic loads into the PLMN (i.e., URLs or dialable numbers)
unless required by regional regulation.
## 4.4 Granularity of the distribution
Requirements for the granularity of the distribution of Warning Notifications
include:
\- Based on the geographical information indicated by the Warning Notification
Provider, it shall be possible for the PLMN operators to define the
Notification Area based on their network configuration of the area coverage
such as distribution of cells, Node Bs, RNCs, etc.
## 4.5 Support of Warning Notification Providers
PLMN operators shall, at a minimum, be able to support the following
functionalities through interaction with Warning Notification Providers:
\- Activation of Warning Notification delivery
> It shall be possible for multiple Warning Notifications to be activated
> concurrently from one or more Warning Notification Providers.
\- Cancellation of Warning Notification delivery
> A cancellation is a command from the Warning Notification Provider to stop
> dissemination of a specific Warning Notification.
\- Updating of Warning Notification delivery
> Warning Notification Providers update a previous Warning Notification to
> provide new instructions/information to the PLMN operator. When the Warning
> Notification Provider updates a previous Warning Notification they provide
> an identifier that allows the PLMN operator to associate the updated Warning
> Notification with the previous Warning Notification.
Additional functionality may be required based on regulatory or operator
policy requirements.
## 4.6 PWS-UE Requirements
### 4.6.1 General Requirements
PWS-UEs shall only be required to receive and present Warning Notifications in
languages as presented by the Warning Notification Provider.
Regional/regulatory requirements may require the Warning Notifications to be
broadcast in multiple languages.
There shall be no requirement for language translation in the operator's
network or the UE.
It shall be possible for the Warning Notification to be displayed on the PWS-
UE upon reception and without any user interaction.
It shall be possible for users to configure the behavior of a PWS-UE with
regard to Warning Notification alerting and should allow at least volume
adjustment.
The PWS-UE shall support a dedicated alerting indication (audio attention
signal and a dedicated vibration cadence) and be distinct from any other
device alerts and restricted to use for Warning Notification purposes. The
User Interface shall support the ability for the user to suppress the
dedicated audio attention signal and/or the dedicated vibration cadence when a
Warning Notification is received.
The alerting indication for a specific Warning Notification shall continue
until suppressed by users\' manual operation (e.g. by pushing keys). The
frequency and duration of the continued alerting indication is mobile device
implementation specific. This shall not suppress the alerting indication for
subsequent Warning Notifications.
The PWS-UE shall automatically suppress duplicate notifications. A duplicate
is a repetition of a previous notification as determined by unique parameters.
The PWS-UE shall not support any capabilities to forward received Warning
Notifications, to reply to received Warning Notifications, or to copy and
paste the content of Warning Notifications.
PWS-UEs should have the ability to present previously displayed Warning
Notifications if requested by the user.
\- PWS-UE shall be able to support concurrent reception of multiple Warning
Notifications.
### 4.6.2 Support of non-Warning Notification capable UEs
Support of non-Warning Notification capable UEs is subject to regulatory
requirements and/or operator\'s policy.
### 4.6.3 Battery Life of PWS-UE
Battery life of the PWS-UE shall not be significantly reduced by PWS.
### 4.6.4 Enabling and disabling of Warning Notifications
The PWS-UE shall be configured to receive all Warning Notifications.
It shall be possible for users to disable (e.g., opt-out) presentation of some
or all of the Warning Notifications, subject to regulatory requirements and/or
operator policy. The user shall be able to select PWS-UE enabling/disabling
options via the User Interface to disable, or later enable, the PWS-UE
behavior in response to some or all Warning Notifications. Depending on the
regional/regulatory requirements, the user shall be able to receive Warning
Notifications in one or more selected languages.
Where regional or national regulations allow, the HPLMN operator shall be able
to instruct the PWS-UE to ignore all Warning Notifications in the HPLMN and in
PLMNs equivalent to it, by means of a setting on the USIM.
Where regional or national regulations pertaining to a VPLMN allow, the HPLMN
operator shall be able to instruct the PWS-UE to ignore all Warning
Notifications that are received whilst in this VPLMN, by means of a setting on
the USIM, when the integrity of Warning Notifications in this VPLMN is known
by the HPLMN operator to be compromised. This setting need not distinguish
VPLMNs.
Subject to regional or national regulations, a PWS-UE in limited service state
shall be able to receive and display Warning Notifications.
NOTE 1: Non-existing or empty USIM data files results in all Warning
Notifications being presented to the PWS application.
NOTE 2: (void).
## 4.7 Roaming Requirements
It shall be possible for PWS-UEs that are enabled for Warning Notifications in
the HPLMN to receive Warning Notifications from the VPLMN supporting PWS when
roaming.
A PWS-UE that does not support the PWS requirements of the VPLMN's PWS service
may not receive Warning Notifications from that VPLMN.
Note: See section 4.9 for roaming impacts to PWS due to regional regulatory
requirements.
## 4.8 Security Requirements
Security requirements are as follows:
\- PWS shall only broadcast Warning Notifications that come from an
authenticated authorized source.
The following requirements only apply when not roaming internationally:
\- When required by regional or national regulations, the integrity of the
Warning Notification shall be protected. If no such regulatory requirement
exists, there shall be no integrity protection of Warning Notifications, and
all Warning Notifications shall be presented to the PWS application on the
PWS-UE.
\- When required by regional or national regulations, the PWS shall protect
against false Warning Notification messages. If no such regulatory requirement
exists, there shall be no protection against false Warning Notifications, and
all Warning Notifications shall be presented to the PWS application on the
PWS-UE.
Note 1: These requirements are subject to regulatory policies.
NOTE 2: The authentication and authorisation of the source are outside the
scope of 3GPP Specifications.
## 4.9 Regulatory Requirements
The PWS offered by a PLMN may be subject to PWS regional regulatory
requirements and thus, the PWS offered may differ from PLMN to PLMN as well as
from region to region within a PLMN.
# 5 Earthquake and Tsunami Warning System
## 5.1 Background
Warning Notifications are expected to be delivered to the users while
satisfying the following requirements:
\- Quick Warning Notification delivery after the occurrence of Earthquake or
Tsunami.
Earthquake and Tsunami propagate very fast. The duration time between the
actual occurrence of the disaster and its arrival is very short. The order of
the duration time is around seconds or minutes at most. Therefore the Warning
Notifications shall be delivered quickly to the users in the emergency
impacted area so that they could take any actions to escape from danger.
\- Accurate Warning Notification delivery.
Warning Notification delivery urges the users to take the actions such as
evacuation. Therefore, the Warning Notification shall be delivered to the
users accurately in the Notification Area and the content of Warning
Notification should be understandable for many types of users (i.e. impaired
persons, foreigners).
## 5.2 Duration of delivery time
Duration of the delivery time for PLMN operators is the time from the receipt
of the Warning Notification by the PLMN operator, i.e. the edge of the 3GPP
network, to the time that the Warning Notification is successfully delivered
to the UEs.
Provisioning of delivery of Primary and Secondary Notification may be
required:
\- Primary Notification shall be delivered within 4 seconds to the UE in the
Notification Area even under congestion situation.
\- Secondary Notification is delivered to the users in the Notification Area
even under congestion situation.
Note 1: UEs that are out of coverage or switched off are not considered in the
requirements.
Note 2: Secondary Notification may not always be generated as it depends on
the Warning Notification Provider's policy.
Note 3: Primary Notification may not always be generated (i.e. the warning may
start with a Secondary Notification).
## 5.3 Information element and volume
The following are the requirements from the perspective of information element
and amount of data.
Both Primary and Secondary Notification shall:
\- support at least 2 types of emergency events, which are Earthquake and
Tsunami;
\- be able to indicate the preferred UE behaviours when receiving Warning
Notification, (e.g. whether to display text in the foreground, whether to ring
a buzzer, whether to vibrate);
\- be distinguishable from notifications generated for the purpose of testing,
training and other notification services;
\- be sent in an optimized type and amount of data, for example, a text with a
certain length, by considering the delivery platforms for ETWS.
Primary Notification shall:
\- convey data which is small enough to be sent quickly on the network.
\- convey small amount of data to indicate the imminent occurrence of
Earthquake and Tsunami, etc.
Secondary Notification may:
\- convey a large amount of data in order to deliver text, audio to instruct
what to do / where to get help, graphical data such as a map indicating the
route from present position to evacuation site, time table of food
distribution.
Note: The amount of data to be sent within a Primary Notification would be a
few bytes to achieve quick information delivery.
## 5.4 Priority
Requirements from the perspective of priority are as follows:
\- Primary Notification has higher priority than Secondary Notification.
\- Notifications shall be able to be sequenced by the PLMN according to
priority of notification in case that Primary Notification and Secondary
Notification should exist at the same time in PLMN.
## 5.5 Roaming users
Upon receiving Primary Notification which includes small amount of data to
indicate the imminent occurrence of an Earthquake and/or Tsunami, the UE shall
display the Warning Notification in a way that is easy to understand by the
user, such as an icon or picture.
Note: It is expected that that the Warning Notification Provider will send the
Warning Notification in the languages in common use in the specific area or in
such a way that the Warning Notification can reasonably be understood.
# 6 CMAS Specific Requirements
## 6.1 Introduction to CMAS
The Warning Alert and Response Network (WARN) Act was passed by the United
States Congress in September 2006 and was signed into law on October 13, 2006,
known then as CMAS. CMAS was later renamed as Wireless Emergency Alert (WEA).
The Federal Communication Commission (FCC) released several Report and Order
rulings for the Commercial Mobile Alert System. [1], [2], [3], [8] and [10].
As a result of these legislative and regulatory actions the Alliance for
Telecommunications Industry Solutions (ATIS) and the Telecommunications
Industry Association (TIA) agreed to develop ATIS and TIA standards to support
the deployment of CMAS. This standard is listed in Clause 2.
The scope of these specifications includes the support of Commercial Mobile
Alert System (CMAS) alert message via the GSM/UMTS Cell Broadcast
functionality and warning message delivery via E-UTRAN. These specifications
covers the mapping of CMAS messages onto the 3GPP-defined Cell Broadcast
functionality and warning message delivery functionality, as well as the CMAS
application layer functionality from the reception of the CMAS alert message
from the Warning Notification Provider to the point of reception by the CMAS
capable mobile device.
The CMAS functionality does not require modifications to the 3GPP-defined cell
broadcast functionality.
The following functional reference model is based on the diagram from Section
III.B.10 of the FCC First Report and Order for the Commercial Mobile Alert
System, FCC 08-99 [1]:
Figure 6.1-1: CMAS Reference Architecture
## 6.2 Additional PWS Requirements Specific to CMAS
In addition to the General Requirements specified in Clause 4, the following
requirements are specified for the deployment of CMAS. These CMAS specific
requirements are based on the FCC Report and Orders listed in clause 6.1 and
further specified in [4].
Warning Notifications shall support up to 360 characters of GSM 7 bit Default
Alphabet [9] for E-UTRAN.
The following classes of Warning Notifications shall be supported:
Presidential, Imminent Threat, Public Safety, Child Abduction Emergency (e.g.
AMBER) , and State/Local WEA Test.
When a Presidential Warning Notification is received, it shall always be
presented to the user whenever Cell Broadcast Service via GSM/UMTS or warning
notification delivery via E-UTRAN is enabled on the UE.
If the Presidential Warning Notification is received in English, then it shall
be displayed by the UE. If the Presidential Warning Notification is received
in a language other than English, then it shall only be displayed by the UE if
the User has selected that language.
A CMAS-capable User Interface (UI) shall support the ability for the user to
opt-out of only the Imminent Threat, Public Safety and Child Abduction
Emergency Warning Notifications. A CMAS-capable User Interface (UI) shall
support the ability for the user to opt-in to the State/Local WEA Test
notification.
If the User has opted out of a Warning Notification class, then the Warning
Notification for that class shall not be displayed by the UE.
If the User has not opted out of a Warning Notification class, then any
Warning Notifications for that class received in English shall be displayed by
the UE. This also applies to Warning Notifications received in any additional
languages that may be selected by the User.
Warning Notifications may contain URLs and/or phone numbers.
A CMAS-capable User Interface (UI) shall support the ability (e.g., a "click"
touch input) for the user to navigate to the URL or initiate a voice call to
the phone number which may be included in the Warning Notification [8].
The PLMN broadcasting CMAS Warning Notifications shall also broadcast
corresponding CMAS Warning Notification Area(s) when the CMAS Warning
Notification is required to adhere to the maximum 0,1 of a mile CMAS Warning
Notification Area(s) overshooting as specified in [10]. This requirement
applies only to LTE and NR accesses.
A CMAS-capable UE shall utilize UE-Based Location Calculation (see 3GPP TS
22.071 [11]) to determine whether it is located within the corresponding CMAS
Warning Notification Area(s) in order to minimize overloading network LCS
resources.
Subject to opt-out and opt-in settings described above, a CMAS-capable UE
shall present the CMAS Warning Notification sent if there is a corresponding
CMAS Warning Notification Area(s) and if the CMAS-capable UE is able to
determine that its location is within the corresponding CMAS Warning
Notification Area(s). Otherwise, if a CMAS-capable UE is unable to or fails to
determine its location, the CMAS-capable UE shall present the Warning
Notification to the user.
A CMAS-capable UE shall store presented Warning Notifications for at least 24
hours unless explicitly deleted by the user.
# 7 EU-ALERT Specific Requirements
## 7.1 Introduction to EU-ALERT
The generic name for the European Public Warning System is EU-ALERT. The
letters EU will be replaced by characters identifying a particular country
(e.g. NL-ALERT signifying the Netherlands, UK-ALERT signifying the United
Kingdom). Such a strategy will allow each country to configure their own
Public Warning System to meet their specific national requirements whilst
adhering to a common core specification.
## 7.2 Additional PWS Requirements Specific to EU-ALERT
In addition to the General Requirements specified in Clause 4, the following
requirements are specified for the deployment of EU-ALERT. These EU-ALERT
specific requirements are further specified in ETSI TS 102 900 [6].
EU-ALERT shall support three types of Warning Notifications: Alert messages to
warn citizens of an imminent emergency situation, Advisory messages of lesser
urgency, and Amber alerts.
The Alert messages shall be supported with three levels of severity. EU-Alert
level 1 shall have no opt-out; levels 2 and 3 shall allow opt-out by the user.
All levels of EU-ALERT messages shall be associated with a dedicated alerting
indication.
NOTE: EU-Alert level 1 is compatible with the Presidential Alert in CMAS. EU-
Alert level 2 is compatible with CMAS Extreme Alerts and EU-Alert level 3 is
compatible with CMAS Severe Alert.
The Advisory messages have only one level. Advisory messages shall not be
associated with any dedicated alerting indication.
Depending on national requirements, Amber alerts may need to be broadcast as
part of the EU-ALERT service. Amber alerts shall not be associated with any
dedicated alerting indication.
EU-ALERT shall support Warning Notifications in various languages. To support
international roaming, it is expected that countries adopting EU-ALERT use the
same Message Identifier for Warning Notifications in the local language. If
Warning Notifications are broadcast in other languages besides the local
language, then the Message Identifier for such Warning Notifications are
expected to be the same across the countries adopting EU-ALERT.
EU-ALERT shall be supported on GERAN, UTRAN, E-UTRAN and NG-RAN.
EU-ALERT shall support that the PLMN broadcasting EU-ALERT Warning
Notifications also broadcasts corresponding Warning Notification Area(s). This
requirement applies only to E-UTRAN and NG-RAN.
A EU-ALERT-capable UE shall utilize UE-Based Location Calculation (see 3GPP TS
22.071 [11]) to determine whether it is located within the corresponding
Warning Notification Area(s) in order to minimize overloading network LCS
resources.
Subject to opt-out and opt-in settings described above, a EU-ALERT-capable UE
shall present the EU-ALERT Warning Notification sent if there is a
corresponding Warning Notification Area(s) and if the EU-ALERT-capable UE is
able to determine that its location is within the corresponding Warning
Notification Area(s). Otherwise, if a EU-ALERT-capable UE is unable to or
fails to determine its location, the EU-ALERT-capable UE shall present the EU-
ALERT Warning Notification to the user.
# 8 Korean Public Alert System specific Requirements
## 8.1 Introduction to Korean Public Alert System
Telecommunications Technology Association (TTA) has specified a Korean Public
Alert System (KPAS) which is based on PWS in [7]. That specification includes
the support of Korean Public Alert System (KPAS) messages via the LTE Warning
Message Delivery functionality. The Korean Public Alert System (KPAS)
specification [7] also specifies application layer functionality to handle the
transmission of CBS data from CBE to CBC and support for transmission of the
same public alert message to UEs belonging to different mobile network
operators in Republic of Korea. The specification requires that the system
supporting Korean Public Alert System (KPAS) shall transmit the public alert
message with high priority in order to provide up-to-date information on
emergency situations. (e.g. In Tsunami situation, it is recommended to deliver
message between CBC and UE in several seconds.).
## 8.2 Additional PWS Requirements Specific to Korean Public Alert System
(KPAS)
In addition to the General Requirements specified in Clause 4, the following
requirements are specified for the Korean Public Alert System (KPAS) [7]:
\- Two classes of Warning Notification shall be supported; class 0 & class 1.
\- The classes are differentiated per opt-out function. Class 0 shall have no
opt-out and class 1 shall allow opt-out by the user.
Different types of Warning Notification shall be supported: Extreme Emergency,
Emergency, Public Safety, and Amber. The Extreme Emergency type Warning
Notifications are defined as class 0 and the other types are defined as class
1.
The characteristics of the Warning Notification shall follow the requirements
specified in clause 4.
The current implementation requirement is for the message of up to 90
characters text. In addition, Warning Notifications using the UCS2 coding
scheme [9] shall support up to 157 characters and Warning Notifications using
the GSM 7 bit Default Alphabet coding scheme [9] shall support up to 360
characters from LTE onwards.
KPAS shall support Warning Notifications in various languages. If a Warning
Notification is received in a language other than Korean, then it shall only
be displayed by the UE if the user has selected that language.
A PWS-UE shall display Warning Notifications whose first texts are dedicated
words when a PWS-UE receives Warning Notifications in other languages than
Korean.
NOTE 1: Dedicated words are specified in the regulations of Korean Ministry of
Interior and Safety.
A PWS-UE in KPAS shall support two dedicated alerting indication (audio
attention signals).
NOTE 2: Two dedicated audio attention signals are specified in the regulations
of Korean Ministry of Interior and Safety.
Warning Notifications may contain URLs and/or phone numbers. A UE shall allow
the user to navigate to the URL or initiate a voice call to the phone number
which may be included in the Warning Notification.
KPAS shall support that the PLMN broadcasting KPAS Warning Notifications also
broadcasts corresponding Warning Notification Area(s).
A KPAS-capable UE shall utilize UE-Based Location Calculation (see 3GPP TS
22.071 [11]) to determine whether it is located within the corresponding
Warning Notification Area(s) in order to minimize overloading network LCS
resources.
Subject to opt-out and opt-in settings described above, a KPAS-capable UE
shall present the KPAS Warning Notification sent if there is a corresponding
Warning Notification Area(s) and if the KPAS-capable UE is able to determine
that its location is within the corresponding Warning Notification Area(s).
Otherwise, if a KPAS-capable UE is unable to or fails to determine its
location, the KPAS-capable UE shall present the KPAS Warning Notification to
the user.
# 9 Enhancements of Public Warning System (ePWS)
## 9.1 Service description
Requirements specified in the clause 9 do not apply for US WEA and Japan ETWS.
Enhancements of Public Warning System (ePWS) define behaviours for UEs with no
user interface or with a user interface that is incapable of displaying text-
based Warning Notifications when receiving a Warning Notification.
In addition, enhancements of Public Warning System (ePWS) is intended to
improve the comprehension of a Warning Notification to the following
categories of users:
\- Users with disabilities who have UEs supporting assistive technologies
beyond text assistive technologies; and
\- Users who are not fluent in the language of the Warning Notifications.
Requirements defined for PWS-UEs in clause 4 are applicable for ePWS-UEs
unless dedicated ePWS-UE requirements described in clause 9 supersede them.
Specifically, roaming requirements specified in clause 4.7 and security
requirements specified in clause 4.8 are applicable for ePWS-UEs.
## 9.2 General Requirements
### 9.2.1 ePWS Requirements
ePWS-UEs shall only be required to receive and present Warning Notifications
in languages as presented by the Warning Notification Provider.
Regional/regulatory requirements may require the Warning Notifications to be
broadcast in multiple languages.
There shall be no requirement for language translation in the operator's
network or the UE.
It shall be possible for the Warning Notification to be presented on the ePWS-
UE upon reception and without any user interaction.
It shall be possible for users to configure the behavior of an ePWS-UE with
regard to Warning Notification alerting and should allow at least volume
adjustment if an ePWS-UE supports the alerting sound.
ePWS-UEs should have the ability to present previously displayed Warning
Notifications if requested by the user.
\- ePWS-UE shall be able to support concurrent reception of multiple Warning
Notifications.
### 9.2.2 Battery Life of ePWS-UE
Battery life of the ePWS-UE shall not be significantly reduced by ePWS.
### 9.2.3 Enabling and disabling of Warning Notifications
The ePWS-UE shall be configured to receive all Warning Notifications.
It shall be possible for users to disable (e.g., opt-out) presentation of some
or all of the Warning Notifications, subject to regulatory requirements and/or
operator policy. The user shall be able to select ePWS-UE enabling/disabling
options via the user interface to disable, or later enable, the ePWS-UE
behavior in response to some or all Warning Notifications. Depending on the
regional/regulatory requirements, the user shall be able to receive Warning
Notifications in one or more selected languages.
Where regional or national regulations allow, the HPLMN operator shall be able
to instruct the ePWS-UE to ignore all Warning Notifications in the HPLMN and
in PLMNs equivalent to it, by means of a setting on the USIM.
Where regional or national regulations pertaining to a VPLMN allow, the HPLMN
operator shall be able to instruct the ePWS-UE to ignore all Warning
Notifications that are received whilst in this VPLMN, by means of a setting on
the USIM, when the integrity of Warning Notifications in this VPLMN is known
by the HPLMN operator to be compromised. This setting need not distinguish
VPLMNs.
Subject to regional or national regulations, a ePWS-UE in limited service
state shall be able to receive and present Warning Notifications.
NOTE : Non-existing or empty USIM data files results in all Warning
Notifications being presented to the ePWS application.
## 9.3 Requirements for 3GPP system supporting ePWS-UEs
The 3GPP system shall allow the content of a Warning Notification to include
information that can be mapped to an event or a disaster and is identifiable
by the ePWS-UEs.
NOTE: The information included in the content of a Warning Notification may be
an identifier of an event or a disaster.
## 9.4 Requirements for ePWS-UE incapable of displaying text based Warning
Notification
### 9.4.1 Requirements for ePWS-UE with no user interface
ePWS-UEs with no user interface shall be able to receive a Warning
Notification broadcast from the 3GPP network.
Subject to the intended function of the ePWS-UE (e.g. IoT) which has no user
interface and regional regulatory requirements, the ePWS-UE may either:
1\. Ignore Warning Notification; or
2\. Take actions consistent with the ePWS-UE function (e.g. IoT) in response
to specific Warning Notifications based on the content of the Warning
Notification, e.g. shut down machinery or trigger a building alarm system.
### 9.4.2 Requirements for ePWS-UE with a user interface incapable of
displaying text based Warning Notification
The ePWS-UE with a user interface that is not capable of displaying a text-
based content shall be able to support the reception of a Warning Notification
broadcast from the 3GPP network and shall be able to support the extraction of
the information on the type of a notified event or disaster from the received
Warning Notification.
NOTE: The information extractable from the received Warning Notification may
be an identifier of an event or a disaster.
## 9.5 Requirements for the improvement of understanding the Warning
Notification
The ePWS-UE with a user interface providing accessibility extensions to mobile
users with disabilities shall be able to support the reception of a Warning
Notification broadcast from the 3GPP network.
The ePWS-UE with a user interface providing accessibility extensions to mobile
users with disabilities shall be able to support the extraction of any
information on the type of a PWS notified event or disaster from the received
Warning Notification
The ePWS-UE with a user interface providing accessibility extensions to mobile
users with disabilities shall support the presentation of the information that
improves the comprehension of Warning Notification by the accessibility
extensions.
NOTE: Subject to regional regulatory requirements the ePWS-UE may use
alternative alerting modes for user alerting consistent with ePWS-UE
accessibility extensions and based on the content of the Warning Notification.
A PWS-UE may support the extraction and presentation of information
representing a disaster or an event identifiable by Warning Notifications.
# 10 Relay of Warning Notification
## 10.1 Service description
Requirements specified in the clause 10 do not apply for US WEA and Japan
ETWS.
3GPP system specified the relay functionality that is useful to extend the
coverage supported by 3GPP system. With the relay functionality, PWS-UEs and
ePWS-UEs that play the role of a relay UE or a remote UE conform to behaviours
specified in the clause 10 when receiving a Warning Notification via the relay
functionality.
## 10.2 Requirements for the relay functionality
A remote ePWS-UE and a remote PWS-UE shall be able to support the reception of
a Warning Notification that is transmitted from an UE that supports the relay
functionality.
A remote ePWS-UE and a remote PWS-UE shall be able to automatically suppress
duplicated notifications. A duplicate is a repetition of a same notification
as determined by unique parameters.
A remote ePWS-UE and a remote PWS-UE receiving a Warning Notification
transmitted via an UE that supports the relay functionality shall behave in
the same fashion as if it received the message directly from a 3GPP network.
An UE that supports the relay functionality shall unconditionally forward the
Warning Notification broadcast received from the network.
Annex A (informative):\ Change history
* * *