# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document studies various use cases and scenarios using network
slices, in order to identify potential service requirements for the 5G system,
e.g.:
\- when there is a restriction of network slice to e.g., certain frequency
bands/sub bands, RATs, geographical areas, networks and applications,
\- when a UE has a subscription to multiple network slices and these network
slices are deployed for e.g., different frequency bands/sub bands, RATs,
geographical area and applications,
\- when there is a preference or prioritization for a network slice over other
network slices e.g. when there are conflicting constraints on network slice
availability.
The present document also includes a gap analysis of its derived potential
requirements versus existing 3GPP requirements.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\"
[2] 3GPP TS 22.261: \"Service requirements for the 5G system; Stage 1\"
[3] 3GPP TS 23.503: \"Policy and Charging Control Framework for the 5G System;
Stage 2\".
[4] 3GPP TS 38.300: \"NR; NR and NG-RAN Overall Description; Stage 2\".
[5] 3GPP TS 38.101-1: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception; Part 1: Range 1 Standalone\".
[6] 3GPP TS 38.101-2: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception; Part 2: Range 2 Standalone\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**example:** text used to clarify abstract rules by applying them literally.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
\ \
# 4 Overview
The concept of network slice was discussed from the beginning of the study for
5G system. Network slicing supports the flexible use of network resources so
that multiple networks customized to the needs of each set of applications can
be provided simultaneously over the network resources while ensuring resource
isolation and meeting different SLAs. As more diverse industries start to use
the capabilities provided by 5G system and various new services are
implemented over the 5G system, the expected service requirements on the 5G
system vary. To meet these diverse requirements on the network, the use of
network slices will increase further as 5G system deployments are expanded.
When configuring network slices within its network, each network operator may
consider various factors, such as required QoS of the applications supported
over the network slices, the amount of required network resources to support
the applications, the expected geographical and time boundary where the
network slice services need to be provided, the usable and deployed network
resources at the location where the applications are used, the number of
users, the type of devices (e.g., IIoT), etc. After considering these factors,
a network operator may provide a network slice for different services to
users. Similarly, 3rd parties may be authorized by the network operator to
configure their own network slices based on these various criteria, within the
bounds of an SLA with the network operator.
However, the provisioning of network slices can be complicated, such as when a
UE requests the simultaneous use of multiple network slices where the
configurations for those network slices may not be compatible, when network
slices are deployed over different network resources due to isolation
requirements, when location based applications have specific requirements
based on time of the day, or when the available networks support different
sets of network slices.
# 5 Use cases
## 5.1. Initial access scenario for a network slice service
### 5.1.1 Description
Typically, users want for their devices to camp on a cell and be online as
soon as possible after power-on. Especially, for 5G System which can provide
ultra-low-latency data transport service, it is also important to reduce the
time that takes for a device to send a packet after power on, to satisfy
overall 5G experience.
### 5.1.2 Pre-conditions
Figure 5.1.2-1 shows the use case scenario where different network slices are
configured on different frequency bands at a certain geographical location. In
this scenario, all network slices and radio frequency bands belong to the same
operator.
Figure 5.1.2-1 Initial Setup before-power on
In this use case and figure 5.1.2-1, following is assumed as pre-condition:
\- Initially, UE A1, A2 and A3 are located at location GA and UE B1, B2 and B3
are located at location GB.
\- UE A1 and B1 have a subscription only to slice M, and UE A2 and B2 have a
subscription only to slice N.
\- UE A3, B3 and B4 have a subscription to both slice M and slice N. A3 and B3
have preference to slice M while UE B4 has preference to slice N.
\- At location GA, cells are deployed over only frequency F1.
\- At location GB, cells are deployed on both frequency F1 and F2.
Furthermore, in this use case and in figure 5.1.2-1, due to requirement such
as slice-isolation, following is further assumed:
\- Slice M is configured to be provided only if it is accessed over F1.
\- Slice N is configured to be provided only if it is accessed over F2.
\- Slice N and Slice M are not simultaneously provided to UEs.
### 5.1.3 Service Flows
After power-up, following occurs for UE A1, A2 and A3:
\- UE A1, A2 and A3 start searching of available cells.
\- UE A1, A2 and A3 detect cells on Frequency F1.
\- UE A1, A2 and A3 start registration via cells on F1.
\- Based on subscription information, A1 and A3 are served with Slice M.
\- Because the UE A2 does not have subscription for slice M, A2 stays in
limited service state on F1 and does not perform further activity toward the
cells on F1.
After power-up, following occurs for UE B1, B2, B3 and B4 when the UEs first
try F1:
\- UE B1, B2, B3 and B4 start searching of available cells.
\- UE B1 and B3 select cells on Frequency F1 and start registration via the
selected cell. Based on subscription information, the network provides
services to UE B1 and B3 with Slice M over F1.
\- UE B2 and B4 switches to Frequency F2 as soon as possible and selects cells
on Frequency F2 and start registration. Because the network does not provide
service of F1, UE B2 needs to minimize unnecessary attempt on F1. Similarly,
the preferred slice is provided over F1 than F2, the UE B4 needs to move to F2
as soon as possible.
In this use case, it is desirable for the UEs to quickly camp on desired
frequency where they can get required network slice services, to minimize time
period of service unavailability. E.g. in above service flow, if UE B2 is
stuck at F1, the UE B2 is out of service until it moves to F2.
### 5.1.4 Post-conditions
Figure 5.1.4-1 shows on which frequency each UE camps on finally to get
desirable network slice service.
Figure 5.1.4-1 UE status after-power on
### 5.1.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
When a UE is located in an area where there is an authorized network slice for
the UE, the 5G system shall be able to efficiently enable the UE to camp on
radio resources where the network slice is provided.
### 5.1.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
[PR.5.1.6-2] When a UE is located in an area where there is at least one
authorized network slice for the UE, the 5G system shall be able to minimize
the time for the UE to access the network slices which is most suitable based
on e.g., location of the UE, active applications, UE capability, frequency
used by the network slice.
[PR.5.1.6-1] When a UE is located in an area where there is no authorized
network slice for the UE, the 5G system shall support a mechanism to
efficiently enable the UE to minimize power consumption (e.g., cell search,
cell measurement).
## 5.2. Mobility Handling scenario for a network slice service Use case
### 5.2.1 Description
Due to various reasons, the availability of cell on a certain frequency is not
homogeneous. For example, in an area where lots of people gather e.g. like
office district, operator may deploy cells on all available frequencies. On
the other hand, in an area whether population density is low, only part of
owned frequency bands will be used to provide connectivity service.
In this use case, the above situation is investigated with movement of
terminals. I.e., as mobile devices move from an area where some frequency band
is used to deploy cells to an area where other frequency band is used to
deploy cells. Even in this case, it is important to reduce the time that the
UE is not provided with network slice service which it deserves.
### 5.2.2 Pre-conditions
Figure 5.2.2-1 shows the use case scenario where different network slices are
configured on different frequency bands at a certain geographical location. In
this scenario, all network slices and radio frequency bands belong to the same
operator.
Figure 5.2.2-1 Initial Setup before-power on
In this use case and figure 5.2.2-1, following is assumed as pre-condition:
\- Location:
\- Initially, UE A1, A2, A3 and A4 are located at location GA.
\- Initially, UE B1, B2, B3 and B4 are located at location GB.
\- Subscription:
\- UE A1 and B1 have a subscription only to slice M.
\- UE A2 and B2 have a subscription only to slice N.
\- UE A3, A4, B3 and B4 have a subscription to both slice M and slice N. A3
and B3 have preference to slice M while A4 and B4 have preference to slice N.
\- Deployment:
\- At location GA, cells are available over frequency F1, but not over
frequency F2.
\- At location GB, cells are available over both F1 and F2.
\- Slice M is configured to be available over only F1 and Slice N is
configured to be available over only F2. Slice N is available only within a
certain location, e.g. within a factory. Slice M is available in wide area
\- Due to isolation policy, slice N and slice M are strictly isolated. I.e.,
hardware is not shared between the slices.
\- Based on application policy, some applications are allowed to be served
over either slice N and slice M, while some applications are restricted to use
only specific slice.
  * Initial condition:
\- A1, A2, A3, A4, B1 and B3 are on F1. B2 and B4 are on F2.
### 5.2.3 Service Flows
Following is potential service flow for UE A1, A2, A3 and A4:
\- UE A1, A2, A3 and A4 are on Frequency F1. UE A1, A3 and A4 are served with
Slice M, but UE A2 is in limited service state, due to lack of subscription
for slice M. Accordingly, the UE A2 needs to minimize power consumption, e.g.,
that may be caused due to unnecessary monitoring of other cells.
\- UE A1, A2, A3 and A4 move toward GB via GC.
\- UE A1 and A3 continues to be serviced with Slice M via Frequency F1 at
location GC and GB.
\- At location GC, the UE A2 starts searching cells on Frequency F2. After
moving to F2, the UE A2 starts to be served with Slice N. This should occur as
soon as possible, because the UE A2 was out of service from location GA to
location GC.
\- Somewhere between location GC and location GB, the UE A4 moves to Frequency
F2 and starts to be served with Slice N, because the UE A4 prefers Slice N to
Slice M. To minimize impact on the ongoing services over Slice M, when the UE
A4 moves to Frequency F2 can be dependent on many other factors such as active
applications on each slice.
Following is potential service flow for UE B1, B2, B3 and B4:
\- UE B2 and B4 are on Frequency F2 and served with Slice N. UE B1 and B3 are
on Frequency F1 and served with Slice M.
\- Due to lack of subscription of network slices provided over F1, the UE B2
may be allowed to minimize power consumption that may be caused, e.g., due to
monitoring cells of other frequency F1.
\- UE B1, B2, B3 and B4 move toward GA via GC.
\- UE B1 and B3 are still serviced with Slice M via Frequency F1 from location
GC to location GA.
\- As the UE B2 moves across location GC and moves toward GA, the UE B2 will
eventually lose connectivity service because there is no available cell on
Frequency F2 and there is no allowed network slice on F1 for the UE B2. In
this case, it is desirable for the UE B2 to prepare for the sudden loss of
connectivity service. Especially, if the service over slice N is kind of URLLC
service that is available only within some specific places such as within a
smart factory, the sudden loss of connectivity should be avoided as much as
possible. Thus, before the UE crosses the location GC, the UE B2 needs to be
given with grace time to prepare for the loss of connectivity, e.g.
termination of ongoing applications.
\- As the UE B4 approaches location GC, the UE B4 needs to move to Frequency
F1. As the UE B4 moved to Frequency F1, the UE starts to be served with Slice
M. Because the UE B4 prefers Slice N to Slice M, the transition from F2 to F1
should not occur unnecessarily too early. On the other hand, if the transition
from F2 to F1 occurs after the UE B4 crosses the location GC, there is
potential loss of connectivity. Thus, the transition from F2 to F1 should
occur before crossing location GC. To minimize impact on the ongoing services
over Slice N, it may also be better for the UE to be notified in advance of
the transition from F2 to F1. This may enable for the UE to do smooth
adjustment of services, such as termination of application or relocation of
application to one slice to another.
Figure 5.2.3-1 Transition
Figure 5.2.3-1 shows the UE movement.
### 5.2.4 Post-conditions
After passing through location GC, following are desired results after
mobility:
\- UE A1, B1, A3 and B3 keep on staying on F1 and are provided with slice M.
\- UE A2 moves to F2 and is now provided with slice N.
\- UE A4 moves to F2 and is now provided with slice N and is not provided
anymore with slice M.
\- UE B2 camps on F1, is disconnected from slice N and is in limited state.
\- UE B4 moves to F1, is provided with slice M and not any more with slice N.
Figure 5.2.4-1 shows on which frequency each UE camps on after movement.
Figure 5.2.4-1 UE status after movement
### 5.2.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
When a UE moves from an area where there is no authorized network slice for
the UE to an area where there is at least one authorized network slice for the
UE, the 3GPP system shall be able to efficiently enable the UE to access the
authorized network slices as soon as possible.
### 5.2.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
[PR.5.2.6-1] When a UE moves out of the service area of a network slice for an
active application, the 5G system shall be able to minimize impact on the
applications (e.g., providing early notification).NOTE: Various methods can be
used to detect whether the UE moves toward the border area and to notify the
UE.
## 5.3. Service scenario for disjoint network slices
### 5.3.1 Description
As more network slices are deployed, it is likely that each UE can access to
multiple network slices. While some network slice services can be
simultaneously provided to the UE, there can be network slices which cannot
simultaneously provide services to the UE. This is because there are multiple
related factors for a network slice, e.g., enterprise use vs personal use,
isolation requirement, general public use vs public safety use, frequency
limitation, location restriction, etc.
### 5.3.2 Pre-conditions
Network slices are deployed by same geographical location but they are
incompatible by configuration. Figure 5.3.2-1 shows the use case scenario
where a RAN node connects to two network slices simultaneously. Slice M and
Slice N have no shared/common core network nodes supporting these network
slices due to network resources incompatibility in 5GC. For example, Slice M
is used for public security and Slice N is used for Internet access. In the
5GC, dedicated network resources and network functionalities are separately
customised for public security emergency service and video service to meet the
isolation requirements, which ensures the independence of core network
resources between different network slices. Accordingly, the two network
slices are isolated and cannot be simultaneously provided to the UE.
{width="4.4375in" height="1.9743055555555555in"}
Figure 5.3.2-1 Initial condition
In this figure, it is assumed that
\- Subscription and configuration:
\- UE A1 and A3 are authorized to access Slice M.
\- UE A2 and A3 are authorized to access Slice N.
\- For UE A3, it is configured which applications use which network slices.
\- Deployment:
\- Slice N and Slice M are deployed at the same geographical location. Slice N
and Slice M are isolated. Due to the network resources incompatibility in 5G
core network, there are no shared/common core network nodes supporting the
Slice N and Slice M.
\- NG-RAN is able to connect to both Slice M and Slice N.
\- Slice M and Slice N are provided by the same PLMN.
### 5.3.3 Service Flows
Following is the service flow for UE A1, A2 and A3 when the signaling from
these UEs is initially routed toward nodes managing Slice N:
\- UE A1, A2 and A3 select the NG-RAN and start registration.
\- Network slices provide connectivity services to UE A1, A2 and A3.
\- While the UE A3 is connected to Slice N, Slice M cannot provide the
connectivity service to UE A3. The user traffic applicable to Slice N is
transported.
\- Later, user traffic configured to use slice M is generated in UE A3. While
the same NG-RAN is used, the traffic is switched to Slice M.
\- If the user prioritizes applications configured to use Slice N, as soon as
applications configured to use Slice M finish, the UE A3 needs to move back to
Slice N, to minimize the latency.
### 5.3.4 Post-conditions
UE A1 is connected to Slice M.
UE A2 is connected to Slice N.
UE A3 switches between Slice N and Slice M, depending on e.g. ongoing
applications.
### 5.3.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
There are related requirements on change of network slices based on services,
as defined in clause 6.1.2.2 in TS 22.261 [2]:
_The 5G system shall allow the operator to assign a UE to a network slice, to
move a UE from one network slice to another, and to remove a UE from a network
slice based on subscription, UE capabilities, the access technology being used
by the UE, operator\'s policies and services provided by the network slice._
There are related requirements on impacts on other network slices caused by
traffic and services from one network slice, as defined in clause 6.1.2.2 in
TS 22.261 [2]:
_Traffic and services in one network slice shall have no impact on traffic and
services in other network slices in the same network._
Based on TS 22.261 [2] clause 6.1 network slicing, the following service
requirement is supported:
_The 5G system shall enable a UE to be simultaneously assigned to and access
services from more than one network slice of one operator._
### 5.3.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
The following new requirements can be derived from this use case:
[PR.5.3.6-1] For a UE authorized to access multiple network slices of one
operator which cannot be simultaneously used by the UE (e.g. due to radio
frequency restrictions), the 5G system shall be able to allow the UE to access
the most suitable network slice (e.g. based on the ongoing applications).
[PR.5.3.6-2] For a UE authorized to access to multiple network slices of one
operator which cannot be simultaneously used by the UE (e.g. due to radio
frequency restrictions), the 5G system shall support the minimized
interruption when the UE changes the access from one network slice to another
network slice. (e.g. based on changes of active applications).
## 5.4. Use of Multi-RATs for network slices
### 5.4.1 Description
5GC is connected to NG-RAN and the NG-RAN supports both E-UTRA and NR.
However, for a third party who wants to utilize a network slice, the different
potential and flexibility of E-UTRA and NR is not something that can easily be
disregarded.
Also, the unequal possibility of radio resource slicing for NR and E-UTRA
leads to a unique use case scenario.
### 5.4.2 Pre-conditions
Figure 5.4.2-1 shows the use case scenario where an NG-RAN is supporting both
NR and E-UTRA radio resources.
Figure 5.4.2-1 Initial condition
In this figure, it is assumed that
\- Subscription:
\- UE A1 and A4 are subscribed to a service using Slice M.
\- UE A2 and A4 are subscribed to a service using Slice N.
\- UE A3 is subscribed to a service using Slice O.
\- Deployment:
\- E-UTRA is configured to serve Slice M, e.g. for general eMBB services,
including a slice for IMS service.
\- NR is configured to serve Slice N and O, e.g. for URLLC or V2X. Due to
demanding requirements of V2X application, V2X application providers (e.g.
OEM) requests to use only NR for Slice O.
The frequencies used for E-UTRA and NR can be the same or different. For
example, when DSS (Dynamic Spectrum Sharing) is used, the same frequency is
used for both E-UTRA and NR, but in different time slots.
### 5.4.3 Service Flows
The following is an example service flow based on the setting in the previous
section:
\- After power-on, UE A1, A2, A3 and A4 start searching for cells.
\- UE A1, A2, A3 and A4 start registration in the found cells.
\- Depending on factors such as e.g., use of Dual Connectivity, priorities of
network slices, different UEs may camp on different RATs. For example, the UE
A1 may camp on E-UTRA.
\- Based on the various inputs, for the transport of user traffic for a
network slice, the RAT and radio resources can be configured. For example,
when user traffic for slice M is generated for UE A4, the network may
configure E-UTRAs resource for the UE to deliver the traffic. For this UE A4,
when user traffic for slice N is generated, the network may configure NR
resources for the UE. When both NR and E-UTRA resource are configured, the
user traffic for the network slice only flows over the allowed RATs.
\- When service policy changes, e.g. when slice M is now set to use NR instead
of E-UTRA, UEs camp NR cells instead of E-UTRA cells. For a UE with ongoing
active communication, handover occurs to move the UE from E-UTRA to NR.
### 5.4.4 Post-conditions
The following figure 5.4.4-1 shows the status at the end of the service flow.
For the transport of user traffic, UE A1 is served by E-UTRA, UE A2 and A3 are
served by NR. UE A4 may camp on either E-UTRA or NR during Idle mode and be
configured with E-UTRA, NR or both depending on the active application during
Connected mode.
Figure 5.4.4-1 End result
### 5.4.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
TS 22.261 [2] contains many requirements related to user traffic management
and network slices.
_\- The 5G system shall allow the operator to define and update the set of
services and capabilities supported in a network slice._
_\- Based on operator policy, a 5G network shall provide suitable APIs to
allow a trusted third-party to create, modify, and delete network slices used
for the third-party._
_\- Based on operator policy, the 5G network shall provide suitable APIs to
allow a trusted third-party to define and update the set of services and
capabilities supported in a network slice used for the third-party_
### 5.4.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
The following new requirements can be derived from this use case:
[PR.5.4.6-1] 5G system shall minimize signaling exchange and service
interruption when there is a change in the allowed radio resources (e.g. RATs)
for a network slice.
## 5.5 Use case on access to slices when roaming
### 5.5.1 Description
A UE subscribes to multiple network slices from its home operator. The home
operator has agreements with various other operators to support the same
slices for roaming UEs. In this case, the most preferred VPLMN in a specific
area does not support all the needed slice; however, a second VPLMN does
support the slice not available in the most preferred VPLMN. In this case, the
home operator can provide the necessary information to allow the UE to use the
second VPLMN to obtain the service available on that network slice, while
otherwise being served by the most preferred VPLMN. Figure 5.5.1-1 illustrates
the scenario.
{width="4.365277777777778in" height="2.652083333333333in"}
Figure 5.5.1-1: Roaming UE with subscriptions to services on network slices
available on different networks
### 5.5.2 Pre-conditions
In this scenario, the UE A1 is roaming in an area covered by 2 VPLMNs, Network
A and Network B. UE A1 subscribes to services that require use of slices M and
N in its home network. The corresponding slices and services are available in
the visited area, even though these slices are not offered by the same network
in the visited area. Network A is the most preferred VPLMN in this area.
### 5.5.3 Service Flows
When UE A1 first enters the visited area, it registers with Network A and can
uses services from slice N.
At a later time (T2), the user decides to activate a service that needs slice
M. The UE, detecting that slice M is not available on Network A, looks for the
network that provides the slice. The UE registers on Network B and the user is
able to use the service of slice M.
When the service concludes and slice M is no longer needed (T3), the UE
returns to Network A.
### 5.5.4 Post-conditions
The user is able to access all their subscribed services while roaming, even
though the needed slices are not available on a single VPLMN.
### 5.5.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
Roaming and slice access work as usual, with the addition of being able to
change VPLMNs to gain access to a slice not available on the most preferred
VPLMN.
### 5.5.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
[PR.5.5.6-1] For a roaming UE activating a service/application requiring a
network slice not offered by the serving network but available in the area
from other network(s), the HPLMN shall be able to provide the UE with
prioritization information of the VPLMNs with which the UE may register for
the network slice.
## 5.6 Use case on simultaneous access to multiple slices on different VPLMNs
### 5.6.1 Description
A UE has access to multiple network slices when on the HPLMN. When the UE is
roaming and the VPLMN where the UE is currently registered only provides a
subset of the network slices that the UE needs to use, the UE can connect to
other VPLMNs at the same time to access the other subscribed network slices.
### 5.6.2 Pre-conditions
\- UE is subscriber of Operator Toffee
\- When on its home network, Operator Toffee, UE has access to three network
slices: (A)pricot, (B)anana and (C)herry
\- UE runs different applications that require the UE to simultaneously access
Apricot, Banana and Cherry slices
\- Operator Toffee has agreements with:
\- Operator Chocolate to support Apricot and Banana slices
\- Operator Fudge to support Cherry slice
\- Operator Chocolate is the preferred roaming network
\- UE moves out of Operator Toffee's coverage area, into an area where the
coverage is provided by Operator Chocolate and Operator Fudge
### 5.6.3 Service Flows
1\. UE connects with Operator Chocolate, and has access to Apricot and Banana
slices
2\. UE requires simultaneous access to all three slices, Apricot, Banana and
Cherry, due to the different applications running on the UE. However, the
VPLMN the UE is registered to, Operator Chocolate, does not provide support
for Cherry slice
3\. UE is authorised by the HPLMN to additionally access the Cherry slice in
the Operator Fudge network.
> 4\. UE connects to Operator Fudge\'s network, while retaining the connection
> to Operator Chocolate
### 5.6.4 Post-conditions
Roaming UE is able to access all three network slices simultaneously from
Operator Chocolate and Operator Fudge.
### 5.6.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
There are related requirements in TS 22.261 [2], clause 6.18 on \"Multi-
network connectivity and service delivery across operators \":
_The 5G system shall enable users to obtain services from more than one
network simultaneously on an on-demand basis._
_For a user with a single operator subscription, the use of multiple serving
networks operated by different operators shall be under the control of the
home operator._
TS 23.501 clause 5.3.2.4 on \"Support of a UE registered over both 3GPP and
Non-3GPP access\" indicates:
_A UE supporting registration over both 3GPP and Non-3GPP access to two PLMNs
shall be able to handle two separate registrations, including two 5G-GUTIs,
one per PLMN, and two associated equivalent PLMN lists._
Also, TS 33.501 has a clause 6.3.2 on \"_Multiple registrations in same or
different serving networks\"_
### 5.6.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
[PR.5.6.6-1] For UEs that have the ability to obtain service from more than
one VPLMN simultaneously, the following requirements apply:
\- When a roaming UE with a single PLMN subscription requires simultaneous
access to multiple network slices and the network slices are not available in
a single VPLMN, the 5G system shall enable the UE to:
\- be registered to more than one VPLMN simultaneously; and
\- use network slices from more than one VPLMN simultaneously
\- The HPLMN shall be able to authorise a roaming UE with a single PLMN
subscription to be registered to more than one VPLMN simultaneously in order
to access network slices of those VPLMNs.
\- The HPLMN shall be able to provide a UE with permission and prioritisation
information of the VPLMNs the UE is authorised to register to in order to use
specific network slices.
NOTE: The above requirements assume certain UE capabilities, e.g. the ability
to be connected to more than one PLMN simultaneously.
## 5.7 Slice Access with Application Preference
### 5.7.1 Description
This use case intends to bring a use case for network slice to support
important applications like gaming and online video in a more flexible and
efficient way. For gaming or online video applications, the end users, who
have subscription with MNOs who may provide multiple network slices to
different users or services, may still have different priority or membership
e.g. VIP maintained by 3^rd^ party Service Provider (SP). And depending on the
priority or membership information from 3^rd^ party SP perspective, based on
the agreement between SP and MNO, the UE have different priority for the
available network slices.
Figure 5.7.1-1 shows an example scenario for this use case.
{width="6.756944444444445in" height="3.1805555555555554in"}
Figure 5.7.1-1 Example scenario for this use case
### 5.7.2 Pre-conditions
1\. MNO provisioned network slices Slice#1, Slice#2, Slice#3. As an example,
Slice#1 is dedicated for online video services for SP#1. Slice#2 is dedicated
for gaming for SP#2. Slice#3 is a network slice for eMBB service i.e. text or
voice chat, file downloading or web surfing.
2\. UE 1 and UE 2 are registered to MNO's 5G network and they have
subscription to slice#1, #2 and #3. The owner of UE 1, i.e., User A, have
installed Game App x and Video App y. The owner of UE 2, i.e., User B, have
installed Game App z and Video App y.
3\. User A and User B are high priority users for SP#1 and SP#2 which means
when these users start to use game or video app, they can use the
corresponding network slice to guarantee their QoS compared with other users
with lower priority and the MNO network resource can accommodate high priority
users.
4\. Due to the fact that the 3^rd^ party SP may roll out new
services/applications and the users may change their VIP membership
dynamically, the 3^rd^ party needs to negotiate the priority of a network
slice for UE per application.
### 5.7.3 Service Flows
1\. MNO and SP have agreements e.g. SLA and Slice#1, Slice#2 and Slice#3 are
provisioned.
a) The MNO provisioned the slices and maintains the user subscription to
access these slices. The SP maintains the application related user membership
information.
b) UE 1 and UE 2 may or may not be accessing three slices simultaneously.
2\. User A's smart phone UE 1, and User B's smart phone UE 2 turns on and
registered to MNO network. After registration, UE 1 and UE 2 are able to
access corresponding network slices.
c) User A can access Slice#1 for online video app x and Slice#2 for gaming,
also Slice#3 for other services.
d) User B can access Slice#1 for online video y and gaming app z, and also
Slice#3 for other services.
3\. User A and User B started chat and web surfing service, it accesses
network Slice#3
4\. User A started online video, UE A access to Slice#3 which can only provide
a basic SLA for the online video e.g. with lower resolution1.
5\. User A's priority for slices is dynamically changed due to the SP side
updates e.g. User A changes his/her VIP. membership, thus different SLA is
provided to User A's online video via Slice#1..
6\. User B started game app, UE B access to Slice #3 which can only provide a
basic SLA for the game service e.g. with lower resolution and low latency is
not ensured.
7\. User B's priority for slices is dynamically changed due to the SP side
updates e.g. User B changes his/her VIP membership, thus different SLA is
provided to User A's game app via Slice#2.
8\. User A's priority for slices are changed back to original value due the SP
side update e.g. VIP membership. expired, thus the online video is provided
via Slice#3.
9\. User B's priority for slices are changed back to original value due to SP
side update e.g. VIP membership expired, thus the game app is provided via
Slice#3.
In the above service flows, the different slices may be provided by same or
different frequency and the coverage may be different. If different slices are
deployed in different frequency bands, access of different network slices due
to application should not cause degradation of user experiences.
### 5.7.4 Post-conditions
SP and MNO may monitor the QoS of online video and game applications and also
support flexible charging for these users which change their priority accessed
slices per application.
### 5.7.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
In Clause 6.1.2 of TS 22.261 [2], network slicing requirements are specified
including general, management, network slice constraints and cross-network
slice coordination.
In 6.1.2.2 of TS 22.261 [2], there is a requirement as follows:
_The 5G system shall enable the network operator to define a priority order
between different network slices in case multiple network slices compete for
resources on the same network._
This requirement enables priority mechanism from network resource
configuration perspective.
In 6.1.2.2 of TS 22.261 [2], there is another requirement as follows:
_The 5G system shall allow the operator to assign a UE to a network slice, to
move a UE from one network slice to another, and to remove a UE from a network
slice based on subscription, UE capabilities, the access technology being used
by the UE, operator\'s policies and services provided by the network slice._
This requirement is from operator perspective and doesn't cover the aspect
whether 3^rd^ party application can influent the priority of network slices.
The existing requirements for network slicing, e.g. which is cited in this
section, is from network resource configuration perspective.
However, when UE can access multiple network slices which may be tailored for
different applications, there is no support of changing the priority or the
preferred network slicing for the UE based on application. And this process
cannot be carried out efficiently without standard-based means for MNO and
third party to communicate/negotiate the preferred network slices according to
application.
For this use case, additional two requirements below are considered already
supported:
  * The 5G system shall support means to dynamically change the UE priority of network slices per application with minimized interruption, according to third party's policy.
  * The 5G system shall support mechanisms to allow a 3^rd^ party and the 5G network to negotiate the UE priority of a network slice per application.
### 5.7.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
No new requirement is derived from this use case.
## 5.8 Use case for application-based preference
### 5.8.1 Description
Applications using Network Slice(s) offered on different radio resources may
be used differently in location and time. This brings motivation for the 5G
System to support a mechanism to establish and manage a preference ordering
among subscribed applications/services for use in cell (re)selection.
Application preference could be set by the user or derived based on the user's
application usage pattern. Application preference information in the network
can be overridden by application activation, such that activating an
application with a lower preference order may trigger a change in serving
network slice (assuming no other application is also active on that slice) and
cell (re)selection if the newly activated application requires a different
radio resource.
### 5.8.2 Pre-conditions
Slice M & Slice N are two slices provided by the same Operator. Services from
Slice M are provided over frequency band FR1 and services from slice N are
provided over frequency band FR2.
Slice M provides VPN and streaming services while slice N provides VPN and
AR/VR-Gaming services. The UE's shown in the illustration have subscriptions
to applications provided by both the slices M and N. The key difference in
network slice selection lies in the application preference order used by each
UE.
Rama and Krishna work in different companies at the same location (e.g., an
office building). Rama has a WFH (Work from Home) option which he can use
frequently while Krishna does not have a WFH option from his company but may
be allowed WFH in rare situations. Both their homes are located in the same
service area. Rama likes to use his AR/VR-Game application during office-
breaks while at the office. Krishna mostly uses his streaming service during
office-breaks while at the office. Both use their streaming service
application most after office hours when at home.
\- Rama (UE1) and Krishna (UE2) have subscriptions to applications VPN, AR/VR-
Game and a streaming service.
\- Rama has his preference profiles set in the following order:
Rama's UE Application Preference Profile Setting
* * *
Profile Time of Day, Day Location Preference-1 Preference-2 Preference-3 Work
Profile 9-5 Work Day Setting Office VPN AR/VR-Game Streaming service Rest of
the Time/Days Any Streaming Service AR/VR-Game VPN WFH Profile 9-5 WFH Day
Setting Home VPN Streaming Service AR/VR-Game Rest of the Time/Days Any
Streaming Service AR/VR-Game VPN Default Profile Any Any Streaming Service
AR/VR-Game VPN
\- Krishna does not have his preference pre-set, however it is established by
the 5G System based on his usage pattern in below order:
Krishna's Application Preference Setting derived by 5G System
* * *
Time of Day Location Preference-1 Preference-2 Preference-3 9-5 Work Days
Office VPN Streaming Service AR/VR-Game Rest of the Time/Days Any Streaming
Service VPN AR/VR-Game
### 5.8.3 Service Flows
For a normal working day at the office, Rama's UE selects slice M and
Krishna's UE selects slice N based on their preferences.
{width="6.552083333333333in" height="3.125in"}
Figure 5.8.3-1: Applications preferred network slices for Rama and Krishna
during Workdays (Working Hours)
Both return to their homes after office hours. Both Rama's UE and Krishna's UE
select slice M based on their preferences.
{width="6.59375in" height="3.125in"}
Figure 5.8.3-2: Applications preferred network slices for Rama and Krishna
during Evenings (off-Working Hours)
During a WFH Day for Rama, he changes his profile setting to use 'WFH
Profile'. While Krishna goes to office as usual. Rama's UE stays on slice M
instead of switching to Slice N while Krishna's UE selects slice M as usual at
the office.
{width="6.695138888888889in" height="3.1333333333333333in"}
**Figure 5.8.3-3: WFH Scenario for Rama and normal work day for Krishna.**
Once, both Rama and Krishna meet at a conference and become friends. Rama
invites Krishna to join him to play an AR/VR game during office-breaks.
Krishna accepts the invitation and subsequently starts playing the AR/VR game
during office-breaks instead of watching his streaming service. Initiating the
AR/VR-Gaming application triggers Krishna's UE to use the least preferred
application during his office breaks and causes it to (re)select a cell
offering Slice N
{width="6.677083333333333in" height="3.09375in"}
Figure 5.8.3-4: Slice Switch Triggered for Krishna due to AR/VR-Game usage
The 5G System now derives/updates the new preference for Krishna based on
AR/VR-Game Usage during office breaks.
Krishna's Preference Setting derived by 5G System
* * *
Time of Day Location Preference-1 Preference-2 Preference-3 9-5 Work Days
Office VPN AR/VR-Game Streaming Service Rest of the Time/Days Any Streaming
Service VPN AR/VR-Game
### 5.8.4 Post-conditions
Both Rama and Krishna are able to access their preferred application(s) in a
timely and efficient manner.
### 5.8.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
The 5G system shall allow the operator to assign a UE to a network slice, to
move a UE from one network slice to another, and to remove a UE from a network
slice based on subscription, UE capabilities, the access technology being used
by the UE, operator\'s policies and services provided by the network slice.
Establishing UE usage patterns based on time/date/location is supported by TS
23.503 [3].
### 5.8.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
[PR.5.8.6-1] The 5G system shall support a mechanism for a UE to select and
access network slice(s) based on UE capability, ongoing application, radio
resources assigned to the slice, and policy (e.g., application preference).
[PR.5.8.6-2] The 5G system shall support a mechanism to optimize resources of
network slices (e.g., due to operator deploying different frequency to offer
different network slices) based on network slice usage patterns and policy
(e.g., application preference) of a UE or group of UEs.
## 5.9. Regionally different resources for network slices
### 5.9.1 Description
Installation of radio equipment needs a lot of work to be done. Thus,
typically, even if an operator owns a certain radio frequency nationally, the
operator may gradually deploy radio equipment one region by one region,
expanding coverage gradually. As a result, even if some network slice, for
example, such as a slice for IMS service is provided nationally, the used
frequency band for that network slice may be different per different areas.
### 5.9.2 Pre-conditions
Figure 5.9.2-1 shows the use case scenario where network slices use different
radio resources for different areas.
Figure 5.9.2-1 Initial condition
In this figure, it is assumed that
\- Subscription and configuration:
\- UE A1 has a subscription to slice M.
\- UE A2, A3 and A4 have subscription to slice N.
\- Deployment:
\- F1 is used at all areas. F2 is available only at area around GB, e.g. in a
highly populated area.
\- Due to high demand of applications related to Slice N, at area around GB,
frequency F2 is dedicated to serve the network slice N, and F1 is dedicated to
serve other network slices such as network slice M.
### 5.9.3 Service Flows
Following is service flow for UE A1 and A2 which move from area GA to area GC:
\- UE A1 and A2 are serviced with network slices over F1 at area GA.
\- UE A1 continues to be serviced with network slice M over F1 toward area GB.
Because F1 at area GB does not support slice N, the network moves the UE A2 to
F2 to provide service continuity for network slice N from area near GD. While
the frequency used for Slice N changes, the service interruption to
applications over Slice N is minimized.
\- UE A1 continues to be serviced with network slice M over F1 toward area GC.
UE A2 moves back to F1 to get network slice N from as the UE moves along from
GB to GC. While the frequency used for Slice N changes, the interruption to
application over Slice N is minimized.
Following is service flow for UE A3 which is stationary at area GD:
\- UE A3 is located at the boundary area where the used frequencies for a
network slice N differ. To prevent unnecessary power consumption, service
interruption and increased signaling, frequency change between F1 and F2 needs
to be minimized, when the UE A3 is serviced with network slice N.
Following is a service flow for UE A4 which moves from area GA to area GB:
\- UE A4 is serviced with network slice N over F1 at area GA. When application
ends, the user of UE A4 switches off the UE A4.
\- While the UE A4 is switched off, the user moves from the area GA to the
area GB.
\- When the user arrives at the area GB, the user turns on the UE A4 and
starts finds cells, beginning with F1 which is the last used frequency.
\- The UE A4 finds out that F1 does not support Slice N. In the end, the UE
access cells on F2 and gets service for network slice N over F2 at area GB.
### 5.9.4 Post-conditions
Following figure 5.9.4-1 shows the status at the end of service flow.
Figure 5.9.4-1 End result
### 5.9.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
Following are service requirements that can be drawn out of service
description in previous sections and that can be supported with existing
specifications:
\- 3GPP shall support the same network slice to be configured over different
frequencies at different areas.
\- 3GPP shall support service continuity for a network slice at the boundary
where radio resources configured for the network slice change, for a UE in
Connected mode.
However, the existing specification does not yet provide specific means when
the UE moves between different regions in Idle mode.
> \- 3GPP shall support to minimize the time that takes for a UE to be able to
> access radio resource configured for a network slice when the used radio
> resources for the network slice change e.g. during mobility, power cycle.
Following service requirements may be supported with existing specifications:
\- 5G system shall support a mechanism to minimize service interruption for a
UE when different radio resources are configured for a network slice in
different geographical areas and when the UE crosses the geographic area
boundaries.
### 5.9.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
No new requirement is derived from this use case.
## 5.10. Isolation of resource for network slice
### 5.10.1 Description
Due to various sources and ways to gain right to use specific frequency
resources, even within a continuous frequency range, different blocks of
frequency within the range can be restricted to different purposes.
Also, based on the requirements on the levels of isolation and security,
access by a network slice beyond the authorized blocks should not occur, even
if the frequency blocks are adjacent.
### 5.10.2 Pre-conditions
Figure 5.10.2-1 shows the use case scenario where frequency band are
partitioned into multiple subbands.
Figure 5.10.2-1 Initial condition
In this figure, it is assumed that
\- Subscription:
\- UE A1 and A4 have subscription to slice M, and this slice M is optimized
e.g. for IoT type of application.
\- UE A2 and A4 have subscription to slice N, and this slice N is optimized
e.g. for eMBB type of application.
\- UE A3 has subscription to slice O, and this slice O is optimized e.g. for
URLLC. The users or application providers request isolation of radio resources
used for this network slice.
\- Deployment:
\- The cell is configured to use frequency band which is from F1 to F2.
\- The frequency band is sub-divided into three subbands. The allocated
frequency for the first subband spans from F1 to Fa. The allocated frequency
for the second subband spans from Fa to Fb. The allocated frequency for the
third subband spans from Fb to F2.
\- The first subband is used for slice O. The second subband is used for slice
N. The third subband is used for slice M. in addition, third subband can be
used for common procedure, e.g. SIB.
### 5.10.3 Service Flows
Following is service flow for UE A1, A2, A3 and A4:
\- After power-on, UE A1, A2, A3 and A4 camp on a cell, where the subscribed
slices can be provided. Because the UEs are accessing the same cell supporting
at least one of the subscribed network slices, there is no need for the UEs to
move to other cells.
\- When applications start, UE A1 transmits and receives data over Slice M,
which is restricted to subband 3.
\- When applications start, UE A2 transmits and receives data over Slice N,
which is restricted to subband 2.
\- When applications start, UE A3 transmits and receives data over Slice O,
which is restricted to subband 1.
\- When applications start, UE A4 transmits and receives data. For traffic
configured to use Slice M, the transmission and reception is performed using
radio resources within subband 3. For traffic configured to use Slice N, the
transmission and reception is performed within radio resources within subband
2. Due to isolation requirement or service agreement for the network slice,
traffic for Slice M is not transported over subband 2. Similarly, traffic for
Slice N is not transported over subband 3.
\- As demands for the network slice changes according to the number of UEs for
the network slice or time of the day, the network adjusts the allowed
frequency range of each network slice. There is no recognized impact to the
user experience.
### 5.10.4 Post-conditions
Following figure 5.10.4-1 shows the status at the end of service flow.
For the transport of user traffic, each UE may use different part of
frequencies of the cells, which corresponds to the configured frequency range
for each network slice.
Figure 5.10.4-1 End result
### 5.10.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
Following service requirements are already supported by current
specifications:
_\- 3GPP system shall provide means to support flexibility in configuring the
allowed or restricted radio resources for a network slice._
_\- 3GPP system shall support for a network slice to use specific portion of
the radio resources (e.g. frequency range) within a cell._
_\- 3GPP system shall be able to allow or disallow user traffic for a network
slice to be multiplex with the user traffic for other network slice, based on
the security and isolation requirement of the network slice._
BWP (Bandwidth Part) operation defined in TS38.300 [4] does not provide a UE
with the support for providing different network slices on different frequency
bands, when the UE is authorized to use multiple network slices.
### 5.10.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
Following new requirements can be derived from this use case:
[PR.5.10.6-1] 5G system shall be able to minimize service interruption when
configured radio resource (e.g. frequency range) for a network slice changes.
## 5.11. Interaction with Third party for network slice
### 5.11.1 Description
A network slice can be provided and customized based on the request of
customers. For example, an application provider may want a dedicated network
slice for its application and may expand or decrease the capacity of the
network slices based on the dynamic demand for the application.
In other scenario, the third party itself may get and have right to use a
specific frequency band. For example, by applying for local spectrum license,
third party itself may own the right to use some frequency band and this
frequency band can be used for a network slice and UEs dedicated to this third
party.
### 5.11.2 Pre-conditions
Application provider AP1 has a service agreement with operator OP1. With this
service agreement, OP1 creates and runs a network slice NSz, which is
dedicated for AP1. AP1 provides application App1 to its customers and this
application requires very demanding QoS. Traffic generated for the application
App1 are transported via NSz. Initially, frequency band FB1 with size of 50
MHz are allocated for NSz.
There is another application provider AP2, which also has a service agreement
with operator OP1. With this service agreement, OP1 creates and runs a network
slice NSy, which is dedicated for AP2. AP2 provides application App2 to its
customers and the QoS requirement for this application is not stringent. Thus,
instead of using a licensed spectrum, application provider AP2 requests the
OP1 to provide network slice NSy over unlicensed spectrum, which is frequency
band UFB1.
### 5.11.3 Service Flows
Following is service flow for application provider AP1:
\- UEs using App1 transmit data over frequency band FB1.
\- As the App1 gets popular, the application provider decides to increase
capacity for the network slice NSz. The application provider requests the
operator OP1 to increase the dedicated frequency bandwidth.
\- The OP1 adjusts its 3GPP system so that additional frequency band is
dedicated to support the network slice NSz.
\- Later, the application provider identifies that there is a periodicity in
the usage pattern for its application. I.e., some specific time period during
the day, there is a small demand for its application. So, the application
provider requests to reduce the allocated frequency bandwidth for network
slice NSz for a specific time period.
\- The OP1 takes into account the information from the application provider,
and reduce the size of dedicated frequency during the time period.
\- Later, the application provider itself gets a right to use some specific
frequency band FB2 at a certain location from authorities.
\- The application provider requests the OP1 to additionally use FB2 for
network slice NSz. OP1 updates configuration for network slice NSz. From this
point, OP1 keeps record usage of network slices per used frequency bands.
Following is service flow for application provider AP2:
\- Application provider requests OP1 to create network slice NSy using
unlicensed frequency band UFB1.
\- When there is a user traffic for App2, the traffic is delivered over
frequency band UFB1.
\- For a UE subscribes to both App1 and App2, traffic for app2 is delivered
through NSy over UFB1 while traffic for app1 is delivered over other frequency
bands.
### 5.11.4 Post-conditions
The UEs using App1 are served with NSz over FB2.
The UEs using App2 are served with NSy over UFB1.
### 5.11.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
Following are existing requirements specified in TS 22.261 [2]:
_\- Based on operator policy, a 5G network shall provide suitable APIs to
allow a trusted third-party to manage this trusted third-party owned
application(s) in the operator\'s Service Hosting Environment._
_\- Based on operator policy, the 5G network shall provide suitable APIs to
allow a trusted third-party to scale a network slice used for the third-party,
i.e. to adapt its capacity._
_\- The 5G network shall provide suitable APIs to allow a trusted third-party
to get the network status information of a private slice dedicated for the \'
party, e.g. the network communication status between the slice and a specific
UE._
_\- Based on operator policy, the 5G network shall provide suitable APIs to
allow a trusted third-party to define and update the set of services and
capabilities supported in a network slice used for the third-party._
_\- Based on operator policy, the 5G network shall expose a suitable API to
allow an authorized third-party to define and reconfigure the properties of
the communication services offered to the third-party._
_\- Based on operator policy, a 5G network shall provide suitable APIs to
allow a trusted third-party to create, modify, and delete network slices used
for the third-party._
_\- Based on operator policy, the 5G network shall provide suitable APIs to
allow a trusted third-party to define and update the set of services and
capabilities supported in a network slice used for the third-party._
_Based on operator policy, the 5G network shall provide suitable APIs to allow
a trusted third-party to configure the information which associates a UE to a
network slice used for the third-party._
_\- Based on operator policy, the 5G network shall expose a suitable API to an
authorized third-party to provide the information regarding the availability
status of a geographic location that is associated with that third-party._
_\- Based on operator policy, the 5G network shall provide suitable APIs to
allow a trusted third-party to configure the information which associates a
service to a network slice used for the third-party._
These existing requirements allow interaction between the third party and the
5G system. However, these requirements do not fully address the service flow
in previous section:
_-_ Existing requirements focused on the capability of the network slice, and
not on the details of configuration, e.g. using specific resources owned by
third party.
\- Existing requirements do not address restriction that can be set by third
party, in using network slice.
### 5.11.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
Following new potential requirements can be derived from this use case:
[PR.5.11.6-1] In case a third party has requested provision of a network slice
using specific radio resources for the network slice, 5G system shall be able
to generate charging information regarding the used radio resources e.g. used
frequency bands.
## 5.12. Broadcast for network slice
### 5.12.1 Description
For a flexible and dynamic management, a network slice used for broadcast
services can be provided over a dedicated frequency band. For example, in a
specific frequency band or in a specific region, only sessions for broadcast
can be allowed while all other unicast sessions are not allowed. This may
trigger various deployment scenarios where third parties such as broadcasters
may create their own network slices and the mobile operator packs these
network slices into a specific dedicated frequency band.
Typically, for broadcast service, all or most traffic flows in downlink
direction only. This characteristic may fit well to some frequency spectrum
allocation and can increase utilization ratio of frequency spectrum.
### 5.12.2 Pre-conditions
An operator OPM owns a bunch of spectrum. One of the spectrum is FB1, and this
is an unpaired spectrum, e.g. downlink only spectrum. The other spectrum is
FB2 and this spectrum supports both downlink and uplink.
OPM decides to dedicate spectrum FB1 for broadcast service slices. Because,
services over broadcast service slices are broadcast/multicast service which
does not generates UL traffic. For example, TV service is best suited for this
broadcast service slice.
The operator OPM also provides network slices for unicast traffic services,
and this network slices are configured to use frequency band FB2, because FB2
is a paired spectrum which supports both UL traffic and DL traffic.
With OPM, a UEa has a subscription for the broadcast service slice, and also
for a unicast traffic service slice. This UEa does not support simultaneous
operation over FB1 and FB2 due to capability limitation. Thus, while the UE
engaged in the broadcast service slice, the QoS over a unicast service slice
may degrade or may stop.
### 5.12.3 Service Flows
Following is service flow for this use case:
\- User of UEa starts browsing internet contents. The internet traffic for the
browsing is transported over unicast network slices, which is configured to
use FB2.
\- The user discovers that a famous TV show is ongoing and he/she has a
subscription for that. The user launches a TV application, which uses
broadcast service slice. Now, the user does not use browsing application
anymore because the user now watches TV service.
\- Because the broadcast service slice is provided over FB1, the UEa tunes to
that frequency band.
\- The UEa starts to receive traffic for TV show via the broadcast service
slice.
\- While the user is watching the TV show delivered over broadcast service
slice, an incoming call is notified. From the phone number information, the
user identifies it as a Robocall and decides not to take the call. In this
step, i.e., while the UEa is engaged in the notification procedure of incoming
call, the quality of experience of broadcast service slice is not degraded.
I.e., there is no noticeable interruption of TV show.
\- Later, a friend of the user makes a phone call to the user. An incoming
call is notified to the user who is in the middle of watching a TV program.
\- Once the user decides to take the phone call, the UEa may suspend TV
application. I.e, the use of broadcast slice is suspended.
### 5.12.4 Post-conditions
The user ends TV reception and starts voice call with his/her friend.
### 5.12.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
Following are existing requirements specified in TS 22.261 [2]:
_\- The 5G system shall enable a UE to be simultaneously assigned to and
access services from more than one network slice of one operator._
_\- Traffic and services in one network slice shall have no impact on traffic
and services in other network slices in the same network._
These existing requirements specify the case where the UE access simultaneous
access multiple network slices. However, the assumption here is that the UE
can support multiple frequency spectrum simultaneously. If the UE cannot
support multiple frequency bands and if each frequency band supports different
network slices, the UE cannot simultaneously use network slices on different
frequencies. For this UE, the UE can use multiple network slices only when the
network slices are on the same frequencies.
In the service flow in the previous section, the UE has limited capability so
that the UE cannot support simultaneous reception/transmission on multiple
frequency bands. And, this has not been addressed by existing service
requirements.
The ability for a 3^rd^ party to configure a network slice is already
supported in TS 22.261 [2], including configuring the direction (e.g., uplink
only, downlink only, both) of supported traffic.
Similarly, requirements to avoid interference between network slices are
already included in TS 22.261 [2].
_\- Traffic and services in one network slice shall have no impact on traffic
and services in other network slices in the same network._
### 5.12.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
N/A
## 5.13. Relaying and backhauling data for a network slice
### 5.13.1 Description
Relay nodes can be used to provide extended coverage for a UE located in area
where radio signal from radio access network is weak. Also, relay nodes can be
used to reduce power consumption of UEs. When a user traffic generated by a UE
is relayed by relay nodes, the radio resources used between the relay nodes
and gNB can be different from the radio resource used between the relay nodes
and the UEs.
In most cases the relay node is more capable than the UE. E.g., it can support
more different frequency ranges or support simultaneous use of different
frequency bands.
### 5.13.2 Pre-conditions
Figure 5.13.2-1 shows the use case scenario where there are two possible
frequency bands between the UEs, the intermediate nodes and gNBs.
Figure 5.13.2-1 Initial condition
In this figure, it is assumed that
\- UEs and intermediate nodes:
\- UE A1 and A2 have subscription to slice N.
\- R1 and R2 are intermediate nodes. These intermediate nodes can be IAB-
nodes. Both are authorized to relay traffic for any network slice.
\- Intermediate node R1 is configured to use F2 toward UEs, while intermediate
node R2 is configured to use F1 toward UEs. The link between the intermediate
node R1/R2 and NG-RAN can use either F1 or F2 or both.
\- UE A1 is within coverage of R1 and UE A2 is within coverage of R2.
\- Deployment:
\- Slice N is configured to use Frequency F2.
\- Slice M is configured to use Frequency F1.
### 5.13.3 Service Flows
Following is service flow for this use case:
\- The UE A1 and A2 are out of coverage. After power-on, these UEs start
search for potential intermediate nodes.
\- Intermediate nodes R1 and R2 are operational. R1 provides connectivity
service to UEs via F2 and R2 provides connectivity service to UEs on F1. Both
are connected to gNB.
\- The UE A1 detects intermediate node R1 on frequency F2, and establishes
connection toward R1. Because the network slice N is configured to use F2, the
UE A1 transmits and receives user traffic of network slice N to/from the
intermediate node R1 over frequency band F2. Because the link between R1 and
NG-RAN is backhauling link, the user traffic for the UE A1 for the network
slice N can be transported either F1 or F2 over the link between intermediate
node R1 and gNB.
\- The UE A2 detects intermediate node R2 on frequency F1, and establishes
connection toward R2. Because the network slice N is configured to use F2, the
UE A2 does not transmit and receive user traffic of network slice N to/from
the intermediate node R2.
### 5.13.4 Post-conditions
UE A1 is provided with network service for the network slice N.
UE A2 is not provided with network service for the network slice N.
### 5.13.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
Following are existing requirements specified in TS 22.261 [2]:
_\- The 3GPP system shall support selection and reselection of relay UEs based
on a combination of different criteria e.g._
\- _the capabilities/capacity/coverage when using the relay UE,_
_\- the QoS that is achievable by selecting the relay UE,_
_\- the power consumption required by relay UE and remote UE,_
_\- the pre-paired relay UE,_
_\- the 3GPP or non-3GPP access the relay UE uses to connect to the network,_
_\- the 3GPP network the relay UE connects to (either directly or
indirectly),_
_\- the overall optimization of the power consumption/performance of the 3GPP
system, or_
_\- battery capabilities and battery lifetime of the relay UE and the remote
UE._
The existing requirement talks about the criterion that is used by a remote UE
for relay selection. However, it does not describe the radio resource usage
restriction or configuration. Thought the service flow in the previous section
discusses some aspect of relay selection, the focus is the radio resource
restriction that can be put in place when relay functionality is used. The
existing requirements do not clarify whether restriction on frequency resource
for a network slice also applies in case the relay is used.
### 5.13.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
Following new requirements can be derived from this use case:
[PR.5.13.6-1] For traffic pertaining to a network slice offered via a relay
node, 5G system shall use only radio resources (e.g. frequency band) allowed
for the network slice.
NOTE: Allowed radio resources (e.g., frequency band) may be different for
direct network connections (between UE and NG-RAN) than for backhaul
connections (between the relay node and the NG-RAN).
# 6 Consolidated Potential Requirements
Following are consolidated potential requirements.
n of the VPLMNs the UE is authorised to register to in order to use specific
network slices.
Table 6-1. Consolidated Potential Requirements
+---------+-----------------------+-----------------+---------+ | CPR # | Consolidated | Original PR # | Comment | | | Potential Requirement | | | +=========+=======================+=================+=========+ | CPR-001 | For a UE authorized | [PR.5.3.6-1] | | | | to access multiple | | | | | network slices of one | | | | | operator which cannot | | | | | be simultaneously | | | | | used by the UE (e.g. | | | | | due to radio | | | | | frequency | | | | | restrictions), the 5G | | | | | system shall be able | | | | | to support the UE to | | | | | access the most | | | | | suitable network | | | | | slice in minimum time | | | | | (e.g. based on the | | | | | location of the UE, | | | | | ongoing applications, | | | | | UE capability, | | | | | frequency configured | | | | | for the network | | | | | slice). | | | +---------+-----------------------+-----------------+---------+ | CPR-002 | For a UE authorized | [PR.5.3.6-2] | | | | to access to multiple | | | | | network slices of one | | | | | operator which cannot | | | | | be simultaneously | | | | | used by the UE (e.g. | | | | | due to radio | | | | | frequency | | | | | restrictions), the 5G | | | | | system shall minimize | | | | | service interruption | | | | | time when the UE | | | | | changes the access | | | | | from one network | | | | | slice to another | | | | | network slice. (e.g. | | | | | based on changes of | | | | | active applications). | | | +---------+-----------------------+-----------------+---------+ | CPR-003 | 5G system shall | [PR.5.4.6-1] | | | | minimize signaling | | | | | exchange and service | | | | | interruption time for | | | | | a network slice, e.g. | | | | | when restrictions | | | | | related to radio | | | | | resources change | | | | | (e.g., frequencies, | | | | | RATs). | | | +---------+-----------------------+-----------------+---------+ | CPR-004 | For a roaming UE | [PR.5.5.6-1] | | | | activating a | | | | | service/application | | | | | requiring a network | | | | | slice not offered by | | | | | the serving network | | | | | but available in the | | | | | area from other | | | | | network(s), the HPLMN | | | | | shall be able to | | | | | provide the UE with | | | | | prioritization | | | | | information of the | | | | | VPLMNs with which the | | | | | UE may register for | | | | | the network slice. | | | +---------+-----------------------+-----------------+---------+ | CPR-005 | The 5G system shall | [PR.5.11.6-1] | | | | be able to generate | | | | | charging information | | | | | regarding the used | | | | | radio resources e.g. | | | | | used frequency bands. | | | +---------+-----------------------+-----------------+---------+ | CPR-006 | The 5G system shall | [PR.5.1.6-1] | | | | be able to minimize | | | | | power consumption of | | | | | a UE (e.g. reduce | | | | | unnecessary cell | | | | | measurements), in an | | | | | area where no | | | | | authorized network | | | | | slice is available. | | | +---------+-----------------------+-----------------+---------+ | CPR-007 | When a UE moves out | [PR.5.2.6-1] | | | | of the service area | | | | | of a network slice | | | | | for an active | | | | | application, the 5G | | | | | system shall be able | | | | | to minimize impact on | | | | | the active | | | | | applications (e.g., | | | | | providing early | | | | | notification). | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 1: Various | | | | | methods can be used | | | | | to detect whether the | | | | | UE moves toward the | | | | | border area and to | | | | | notify the UE. | | | +---------+-----------------------+-----------------+---------+ | CPR-008 | The 5G system shall | [PR.5.8.6-1] | | | | support a mechanism | | | | | for a UE to select | | | | | and access network | | | | | slice(s) based on UE | | | | | capability, ongoing | | | | | application, radio | | | | | resources assigned to | | | | | the slice, and policy | | | | | (e.g., application | | | | | preference). | | | +---------+-----------------------+-----------------+---------+ | CPR-009 | The 5G system shall | [PR.5.8.6-2] | | | | support a mechanism | | | | | to optimize resources | | | | | of network slices | | | | | (e.g., due to | | | | | operator deploying | | | | | different frequency | | | | | to offer different | | | | | network slices) based | | | | | on network slice | | | | | usage patterns and | | | | | policy (e.g., | | | | | application | | | | | preference) of a UE | | | | | or group of UEs. | | | +---------+-----------------------+-----------------+---------+ | CPR-010 | For traffic | [PR.5.13.6-1] | | | | pertaining to a | | | | | network slice offered | | | | | via a relay node, 5G | | | | | system shall use only | | | | | radio resources (e.g. | | | | | frequency band) | | | | | allowed for the | | | | | network slice. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Allowed radio | | | | | resources (e.g., | | | | | frequency band) may | | | | | be different for | | | | | direct network | | | | | connections (between | | | | | UE and NG-RAN) than | | | | | for backhaul | | | | | connections (between | | | | | the relay node and | | | | | the NG-RAN). | | | +---------+-----------------------+-----------------+---------+ | CPR-011 | For UEs that have the | [PR.5.6.6-1] | | | | ability to obtain | | | | | service from more | | | | | than one VPLMN | | | | | simultaneously, the | | | | | following | | | | | requirements apply: | | | | | | | | | | - When a roaming UE | | | | | with a single PLMN | | | | | subscription requires | | | | | simultaneous | | | | | access to multiple | | | | | network slices and | | | | | the network slices | | | | | are not available in | | | | | a single VPLMN, the | | | | | 5G system shall | | | | | enable the UE to: | | | | | | | | | | - be registered to | | | | | more than one VPLMN | | | | | simultaneously; and | | | | | | | | | | - use network slices | | | | | from more than one | | | | | VPLMN simultaneously | | | | | | | | | | - The HPLMN shall be | | | | | able to authorise a | | | | | roaming UE with a | | | | | single PLMN | | | | | subscription to be | | | | | registered to more | | | | | than one VPLMN | | | | | simultaneously in | | | | | order to access | | | | | network slices of | | | | | those VPLMNs. | | | | | | | | | | - The HPLMN shall be | | | | | able to provide a | | | | | UE with permission | | | | | and | | | | | prior | | | | | itisation information | | | | | of the VPLMNs the UE | | | | | is authorised to | | | | | register to in order | | | | | to use specific | | | | | network slices. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: The above | | | | | requirements assume | | | | | certain UE | | | | | capabilities, e.g. | | | | | the ability to be | | | | | connected to more | | | | | than one PLMN | | | | | simultaneously. | | | +---------+-----------------------+-----------------+---------+
# 7 Conclusions and Recommendations
This document analyses a number of use cases to enhance the support of network
slice. The resulting potential requirements have been consolidated in clause
6.
It is recommended that the consolidated potential requirements identified in
this TR are considered as the basis of normative requirements in order to
better serve the communication services.
###### ### Annex A: Consideration for different type of frequency
Frequency band defined in 3GPP can be classified into FDD frequency and TDD
frequency as shown in Table 5.2-1 of TS 38.101-1 [5] and TS38.101-2 [6]. In
case of TDD system, the same frequency is used for both UL and DL. However, in
case of FDD system, UL frequency is different from DL frequency. Thus, when
radio resource restriction scenario is discussed, care should be taken by
considering these variations e.g. frequency used for both DL/ UL, UL only or
DL only.
In addition, 5G system introduces further flexibility in using frequency band.
For example, SUL (Supplementary UL) and SDL (Supplementary DL) are frequency
band either defined only in DL or only in UL, as described in annex B of TS
38.300 [4]. This spectrum is used to assist other frequency band, e.g. when
base frequency band lacks coverage in either DL or UL, then SUL or SDL can be
used to replace the base frequency band. If the SUL and/or SDL band is
restricted for a certain network slice, some UEs may experience reduced
coverage for the network slice.
Aspects related to carrier aggregation also needs to be considered similarly,
because it is used to support QoS requirement by using different combination
of DL bands and UL bands, e.g. using three DL bands together with one UL bands
to boost downlink data rate. If allowed network slices differs for different
frequency bands, then operation of CA also needs to take this into account for
a network slice.
DSS (Dynamic Spectrum Sharing) allows use of same frequency band for both NR
and E-UTRA, to cater for various deployment scenario of operators. Thus, same
frequency band is split in time to support both E-UTRA and NR. Thus, when
there is active restriction for a RAT in using a frequency, consideration
should be given in which case it is restricted and any potential impact on
quality of service.
#