# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document intends to capture the outcome of the study on use cases
and potential new requirements for **5G networks providing access to localized
services**. The study aims to cover:
  * use cases for enhanced 5G system support of a hosting network providing users/devices access to specific services, offered by the hosting network operator, other mobile operator(s) or 3^rd^ party provider(s). Including scenarios where:
    * Access to services through the hosting network could be on demand, temporary and/or cover specific location(s);
    * The operator of the hosting network, or other mobile operator offering services to users, can be a PLMN or NPN operator;
    * Different RATs (3GPP or non-3GPP) and spectrum (licensed or unlicensed) could be considered;
    * The hosting network can also provide specific network services, e.g., location-based service, time synchronization etc.
  * Investigate potential new service requirements, including:
    * Enabling users/UEs to discover availability of specific target networks and specific services through a hosting network;
    * Network functionalities to negotiate and configure access and requirements for a specific service (e.g., QoS, network slicing, charging, onboarding etc.);
      * Can include policy management, service/QoS monitoring, and interaction between the hosting network and other mobile operator or 3^rd^ party (offering the service) e.g., via API or other standard mechanisms
    * Enabling users/UEs to concurrently use specific target services offered through a hosting network and the regular services offered by the HPLMN of the user/UE;
    * Enabling access to the hosting network and specific services for users/UEs without previous relationship with the hosting network;
    * Consideration of regulatory and security aspects.
  * Gap analysis between potential new requirements and existing requirements and functionalities supported by 3GPP, e.g., VIAPA, NPN, slicing, QoS, etc.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.261: \"Service requirements for the 5G system\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.263: \"Service requirements for Video, Imaging and Audio for
Professional Applications (VIAPA)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.278: \"Service requirements for the Evolved Packet System
(EPS)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 22.011: \"Service accessibility\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**example:** text used to clarify abstract rules by applying them literally.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
\ \
# 4 Overview
## 4.1 General
The use cases contained in this technical report consider several service
aspects. This study focusses on each of the concepts introduced in the next
subclause, "Business Model for Providing Access to Localized Services," to
some extent. The primary consideration, from which potential requirements are
derived are how to set up services, ensure that users find, get access to and
obtain services with proper control, and the scenarios and constraints that
pertain to hosting networks.
Key aspects that are addressed are how hosting networks are configured and
what policies are applied to the services they offer. These networks are only
available within a limited span of time and physical extent. The use cases
consider how to allow flexibility to establish such networks easily, while
still offering security and access to regulatory mandated services. Use cases
balance the ability of users to discover and select access to hosting networks
with the policies of their home network provider, as some services will be
home routed, while others provided locally. The hosting network itself may use
resources in a very controlled manner in some of the scenarios explored in the
use cases in clause 5.
Another key aspect of this study is the interaction with third parties who can
request, configure and remain informed of the services provided by the hosting
network.
## 4.2 Business Model for Providing Access to Localized Services
The following figure is a 'business model canvas' depicting a number of
relevant aspects of the business model. The model is not meant to exhaustively
list all aspects. Rather it draws out key elements of the goals study intends
to achieve.
{width="4.835416666666666in" height="4.151388888888889in"}
Figure 4.2-1: A Business Model Canvas for Providing Access to Local Services
Key Partners include Network Operators (MNOs, NPN operators, fixed operators,
etc.), Local service providers, individuals (users), owners of facilities or
proprietors of business in which the local access will occur and third party
service providers. These stakeholders will work together to provide local
access to services.
The main activities that we will be concerned with in this study are first how
to commission and decommission access, as including the relevant services. The
access is not merely to a _network_ but to a set of _services_ offered by
local service providers, the network operator and third parties. Since the
access is _local_ and may be bounded in time and space, the effort to
de/commission accesses and services will have to be very light-weight (not
requiring lots of lead-time, complexity, in-person consulting and
customization, etc.)
Secondly, from a user perspective, the user must become aware of access and
local services, to choose to access them. The process by which the user and
their equipment gain access to the network, use it and terminate access (and
service) will be efficient, simple and result in a user experience that seems
convenient and to offer resources and services that cannot be accessed any
other way.
Providing access to local services results in four distinct opportunities for
users and service providers. First, access can be provided that is sufficient
in areas that otherwise would lack them, for example, on a fairground
established far from other infrastructure. Second, the access to local
services will be simpler than access would be without this service. For
example, obtaining network access may result in associated local service
configuration and effortless presentation to the user. Third, the access and
local services operation can be established as needed, without the need for
long term business relationships such as facilities, permanently installed
equipment, etc. (Of course this advantage does not remove the need for such to
be established on a _short-term_ basis.)
To establish the complex set of business relationships and arrangements from
the perspective of all the involved key partners, business processes will have
to be automated, or at the very least available for self-service. This may
have standards implications, to the extent that interaction with different
stakeholders can proceed using electronic data interchange. These standards
may be out of scope of 3GPP.
The customer segments listed are meant to be examples. The use cases in this
study will elaborate specific applications of this feature to different users
in business relevant cases.
The resources that must be brought to bear to provide access to local services
are of two kinds. First, the network operator must have (or be able to make
use of others') network infrastructure, both for mobile access and for
configuration of services, authorization and other aspects. Second, the
service providers (local service providers, third party service providers and
the network operator provided services) need to be able to arrange for their
services to be offered via the local access. For this purpose, a set of
service set-up processes are in place.
These local service access can be promoted and arranged through different
channels. Principally the local service operators (e.g. brick and mortar
businesses, entertainment venues, construction contractors, first responder
agencies, etc.) will provide information and proper incentive or instructions
to potential users so that they will seek to access the local services. Third
party service providers, e.g. an athletics association, a regional corporation
or national agency, can inform, motivate and prepare their users to expect
local access to services (in a particular place, at a particular tome.)
While cost structures, billing and revenue models are out of scope of 3GPP,
some consideration of the business approach is relevant to this study. The key
partners need to either charge or be charged for their part in the service, or
to make use of the local services without charge, if that is possible. Two
models of revenue are considered in the table -- usage based, in which either
the user or a service provider is charged for that usage. The other revenue
model is through the service providers that establish and configure both the
access and their particular service offerings over that access. Here it is
envisioned that the service provider is charged.
# 5 Use cases
## 5.1 Providing localized service over unlicensed band
### 5.1.1 Description
3GPP has introduced several features using unlicensed band for 3GPP RATs. As
allocated amount of radio spectrum for unlicensed band increases, this will
provide new opportunities for the increased usage of 3GPP RATs and further
connectivity opportunities for users.
Because this unlicensed band can be used by any technology and any user as
long as certain requirements are met, and because the coordination between the
users in this spectrum are week, the QoS may not be equal to that can be
provided over licensed band. Thus, the connectivity service provided over this
band may be applicable to some applications, if provided with right usage
policies.
### 5.1.2 Pre-conditions
Operator Universal owns a licensed spectrum. Also, in the region where
Operator Universal operates, huge amount of unlicensed spectrum is available.
Thus, the operator Universal decides to upgrade some of its NG-RANs to support
both the unlicensed spectrum and the licensed spectrum.
Charlie has subscription with Operator Universal with certain monthly data
quota. Due to heavy watching of online streaming service, Charlie almost used
up his monthly data quota. Charlie's smartphone is advanced one which also
supports NR operation over unlicensed band.
### 5.1.3 Service Flows
Following is service flow for this use case:
\- Charlie is a fan of pro-baseball. One day, he goes to nearby stadium to
directly watch one of pro-baseball games.
\- At the pro-baseball stadium, due to huge demand for connectivity, the
Operator Universal already upgrades the NG-RAN equipment to support also
unlicensed spectrum.
\- The Operator Universal decides to allow some of its customers to use
connectivity service over unlicensed spectrum.
\- Charlie finds out that the Operator Universal provides connectivity service
over unlicensed band within the stadium. He configures his smartphone to use
unlicensed band only when he is located within this stadium, because his
monthly quota has almost run out. This configuration information is also
shared to the Operator Universal.
\- The Operator Universal approves the connectivity over unlicensed band.
Except some essential operator service such as IMS, all the other the user
traffic for Charlie is delivered only using the unlicensed bands.
\- Finally, the pro-baseball game ends.
\- Charlie leaves the stadium. Outside of the stadium, the Operator Universal
does not provide connectivity service over unlicensed spectrum. Thus, the
Charlies smartphones are served by the NG-RAN of the operator using licensed
bands.
### 5.1.4 Post-conditions
The Operator Universal gathers charging information related to the use of
connectivity service over unlicensed band.
### 5.1.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
N/A
### 5.1.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
Following new requirements can be derived from this use case:
[PR.5.1.6-1] 5G system shall be able to support for a UE to be provided with
the temporary connectivity service over unlicensed spectrum at specific
locations and specific period.
[PR.5.1.6-2] 5G system shall be able to support to transport user traffic
using unlicensed spectrum based on e.g. user preference or operator policy and
so on.
[PR.5.1.6-3] 5G system shall be able to support to transport specific service
flow over unlicensed spectrum, licensed spectrum, or both based on operator
policy or user preference.
[PR.5.1.6-4] 5G system shall be able to gather charging information for the
traffic transported over unlicensed spectrum.
## 5.2 New Use case for roaming service
### 5.2.1 Description
When the user visits a foreign country for a few days, the user may want to
have access to temporary mobile data service and prefer to have an arrangement
directly with a local provider for the temporary mobile data service, while
keeping an arrangement with its home provider for other services.
The use case in this section assumes that the UE uses the credential of the
home provider also for the temporary mobile data service, though the
subscription for the temporary mobile data service is bound to the local
provider. The case where the local provider uses a separate independent
credential for the temporary mobile data service is not in the scope of this
use case.
### 5.2.2 Pre-conditions
Lily is traveling around the world. She has no strict schedule and always
wanders off on her own. Sometimes she stays in a new place for several days if
she likes there. In some place where Lily decides to buy the roaming data
service provided by a local network e.g. via an app that she has obtained from
a 3^rd^ party data service provider.
### 5.2.3 Service Flows
1\. Lily turns on her smartphone to see what networks and what data service
plans are available.
2\. the step 1 leads to a mobile data service shop which is displayed on the
mobile screen, wherein there are several data combo services, each service is
labelled with (network identifier, price, valid duration, valid location, data
volume, type of service [e.g. data, voice etc] and optionally the mobile
technology, e.g. 4G or 5G) and if there are anything that needs to be
satisfied for that plan e.g. watching some advertisement may be required. Or,
only foreigner is eligible for the service.
3\. according the time that Lily plans to stay at current location, Lily
chooses to buy the most cost-effective data combo service. For example, if
Lily plans to stay there for one day, she buys the one-day data combo service;
if Lily plans to stay there for one week, she buys the seven-days data combo
service; if Lily just stay at the transfer airport for several hours and the
WLAN connection is under bad condition, she buys the 1G data combo service.
4\. Lily pays the bills for the data service she chooses at step 3. After a
few seconds, Lily's mobile phone has download necessary information and is
ready to provide temporary mobile data service to Lily. Since then, Lily
becomes a temporary subscriber of the VPLMN for that temporary mobile data
service.
5\. Lily may activate the mobile data service immediately or Lily may decide
to activate the mobile data service when she lost WLAN connection. While this
temporary subscription is valid, the UE selects and camps on the selected
network providing the temporary local service.
### 5.2.4 Post-conditions
Lily can access to the internet and use apps via the mobile data service of
the network where she is temporary subscriber now or can temporarily use the
service during the validity period of the service within the valid location
using the subscribed RAT, until the maximum data quota is reached.
Lily uses her normal phone number for making and receiving calls or SMS over
the VPLMN by means of traditional roaming and charging information per the
roaming agreement is reported to Lily home operator.
### 5.2.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
Existing specifications support the home-routed traffic service and local-
breakout traffic service for roaming cases. For the local-breakout service,
even if the traffic does not traverse the home network, the service is
associated to the subscribed service toward the home network. In this use
case, the temporary data service is different from the local-breakout service,
because it is not the subscribed service toward the home network.
TS 22.261 has following requirements:
\- The 5G system shall enable users to obtain services from more than one
network simultaneously on an on-demand basis. For a user with a single
operator subscription, the use of multiple serving networks operated by
different operators shall be under the control of the home operator.
Thus, following requirement is covered by above requirements:
\- 5G system shall be able to provide the UE simultaneously with both the
temporary local services subscribed to the local hosting network and the
services subscribed to home operator.
\- The 3rd party service provider shall be able to agree the details of a
temporary subscription for local services (such as validity period, location,
QoS, services etc.) with a local hosting network.
\- The 5G system shall allow a UE to present available local hosting networks
to the user, which the user is allowed to use.
### 5.2.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
[PR.5.2.6-1] The 5G system shall support a mechanism to allow a user to
manually select a specific local hosting network.
NOTE: This allows the hosting network and home network to provide necessary
information to the user to determine which network to select.
[PR.5.2.6-2] The 5G system shall be able to authorize a UE to make use of a
specific local hosting network
## 5.3 Use Case for UEs using home network services via hosting networks
### 5.3.1 Description
Given the main objective of the study that UEs and their service providers are
without previous relationship to the hosting network, automatic e-agreement
mechanisms are needed to allow network operators to build short term
relationship using application layer approaches. The e-agreement mechanisms
allow the automation of multi-step processes in telecommunication domain to
establish service level e-agreement among network operators for enabling the
5GS to facilitate the sharing of services and resources of the networks among
network operators and to configure their networks and UEs accordingly at
specific occasion, e.g. time and location.
The application layer approaches require 5G network to expose network
capabilities. For example, as shown in Figure 5.3.1-1, the e-agreement is
established among service operators, e.g. SP-A, SP-B, and SP-C have no SLAs in
place for the services provided by SP-A's hosting network-A.
Figure 5.3.1-1: diagram for building relationship between network operators
using application layer approach
The SP-A operator creates an e-agreement which provides the localized service
configuration. The SP-B and SP-C operators can subscribe this localized
service with required service policies for their UEs. The SP-B and SP-C can
then configure their UEs for localized service.
Based on the e-agreement, the hosting network can be configured with localized
service at a specific time and location for its subscribers (other network
operator), e.g. localized service policies of time, location, network-A access
parameters, including spectrum, access technologies (3GPP or non-3GPP),
network slice, charging policies, and subscriber's network policies for
authentication, and routing.
Based on the e-agreement, the hosting network configuration creation and
termination can be performed by SP-A or a trusted third-party application of
the subscriber representing other network operator. With the application layer
approach, the localized service can be used by authorized UEs of SP-A, SP-B,
and SP-C which subscribes the service.
Note: the application approach for automatic e-agreement is an example that
provides some insights for what the suitable APIs would be required for
localized service enabler in 5GS.
### 5.3.2 Pre-conditions
At the Monster theme park built with genetically engineered living monsters on
an island having a surface of 30 square miles, which only opens once a year to
allow visitors to onboard and enjoy three days adventures. From the lessons
learned from disaster happened in Jurassic park in 1993, the Monster park
management as SP-A decides to replace the wirelines with 5G networks around
the island for better network coverage and advanced and secure 5G features.
For the past few years, the visitors had tons of service complains about the
network connectivity for the availabilities of their home operators on the
island. This year, SP-A decides to use their 5G network to offer a hosting
network-A providing access to localized service for sharing this service using
blockchain technologies with other service providers, e.g. SP-B, and SP-C, in
which SP-B's network is not available in the whole island and SP-C's network
is very spotty and available at some zones. Both SP-B and SP-C subscribe the
localized service from SP-A for their UEs.
When the schedule event is started, the network-A starts to provision
localized services based on service contract with SP-B and SP-C and to
broadcast related information via hosting networks on the island.
Lexi and Timmy are Dr. Hammond\'s grandchildren who invited them to attend
this annual event this year, and they have UEs, UE-C1 and UE-C2, with SP-C's
subscriptions. The SP-C (NPN or PLMN) subscribed to SP-A's localized services
configures their UEs with localized service provided by SP-A.
### 5.3.3 Service Flows
Step1: When Lexi and Timmy arrive the island, Lexi wants to use her UE-C1's
home network service to call her Mom.
Step2: Her UE-C1 configured with localized service found that only SP-A
network is available.
Step3: Her UE-C1 then selects and requests to register hosting network-A.
Step4: Hosting network-A knows that UE-C1 has been configured to use localized
service by its SP-C which has subscribed to localized service for their UEs
but UE-C2 seems not being configured to use localized services by its SP-C.
The Hosting network-A can authenticate the UE-C1 and UE-C2 based on UEs'
credentials.
Step5: Lexi happily finds that her UE-C1 which has been pre-configured with
localized service can get connection from hosting network-A to call her Mom
and grandfather for their safe arrivals. In the meantime, Timmy's UE-C2 has
his UE-C2 configured for localized service on the spot via hosting network-A
and then Timmy successfully gets data connection via hosting network-A
automatically.
Step6: Lexi and Timmy don't feel any differences on the user experience of
applications (e.g. social media, streaming music, text messages) of UE-C1 and
UE-C2 via hosting network-A or their home SP-C network when touring around the
park with their grandfather to watch live monsters in different zones and
continue service seamlessly even with spotty network coverages provided by
different network operators (PLMN or NPN). Well, their new friend met on the
tour Jeep was upset for not having connections from his UE-X of SP-X which
does not subscribe the localized service from SP-A. He decides to switch to
SP-C subscription after going home.
### 5.3.4 Post-conditions
The SP-A provides the localized service to authenticated and authorized
visitors whose UEs' service providers subscribe the localized service based on
the service contract. Lexi and Timmy enjoy good user experience on using their
home network service of SP-C via network-A in the remote island.
### 5.3.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
The existing service requirements for roaming users assume that roaming
policies are in place for UEs to use their home network services.
The UE is able to access visited network using UE's credential on UICC/eSIM
based on its home network's subscription.
### 5.3.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
[PR.5.3.6-1]: The 5G network shall support suitable mechanisms to allow
automatically establishing localized services agreements for a specific
occasion (time and location) and building temporary relationship among a
hosting network operator (NPN or PLMN) and other service operators including
network operators (NPN or PLMN) or third-party content service providers.
NOTE: Both the hosting network and the home network can be a PLMN or NPN but
only subscribers of a public network can roam to a PLMN.
[PR.5.3.6-2]: Subject to regulatory requirements, the 5G system shall support
suitable mechanisms to allow another network operator to automatically
negotiate roaming policies with the hosting network for allowing their
subscribers to connect at a specific occasion, e.g. time and location, for
their home network services.
[PR.5.3.6-3]: Subject to localized services agreements, the 5G network shall
enable a home network operator to authorize a UE for using its home network
services via a visited hosting network for a certain period of time and/or
location.
[PR.5.3.6-4]: The 5G network shall be able to configure a UE with home
operator policies on what services are preferred to be used from the home
network for home routed services via authorized hosting networks.
[PR.5.3.6-5]: Subject to localized services agreements between the hosting
network operator and home network operator, for UE with only home network (NPN
or PLMN) subscription and with authorization to access hosting networks (NPN
or PLMN), the 5G system shall support:
  * access to the hosting network and use home network services or selected localized services via the hosting network.
  * seamless service continuity for home network services or selected localized services when moving between two hosting networks or a host network and the home network.
## 5.4 Use Case for UEs using localized services via hosting network
### 5.4.1 Description
This use case assumes that network operators can build short term relationship
using application layer approach, e.g. using smart contracts based blockchain
technologies, for offering localized services provided by different service
providers via a hosting network.
The application layer approaches require 5G network to expose network
capabilities for the localized service. For example, for the automatic
e-agreement mechanism deployed by SP-A for a localized service at a specific
occasion (starting time, duration and location), which allows localized
services to be shared among service providers. In addition, the e-agreement
can also allow the hosting network to accommodate temporary localized services
provided by different service providers.
Based on the e-agreement, the hosting network can be configured with localized
service at a specific time and location for its service subscribers (other
network operator), e.g. localized service policies of time (including
duration, starting time), location, network-A access parameters, including
spectrum, access technologies (3GPP or non-3GPP), network slice, charging
policies, and subscriber's network policies for authentication, and routing.
In the meantime, the SP-A and SP-B can further offer localized services via
hosting network.
The 5G network provides suitable mechanisms to allow establishing automatic
roaming (e)-agreements for a specific occasion (time and location) and
building temporary relationship among hosting network operator (NPN or PLMN)
and other service operators including network operators or third-party content
service providers. The localized service configuration can be provisioned in
the hosting network based on the e-agreement. For example, SP-C can subscribe
SP-A's localized service of the hosting network and SP-B's localized service
based on e-agreement for their UEs and configures their UEs with localized
service. When a UE configured with localized service connects to hosting
network SP-A which can present available localized services provided by
different service providers for UEs configured with localized services to
select any one of them. When using SP-B's localized service, the SP-C's UEs
can be charged by their home network.
Note: the application approach for automatic e-agreement is an example that
provides some insights for what the suitable APIs would be required for
localized service enabler in 5GS.
### 5.4.2 Pre-conditions
At the Monster theme park on an island hosting three days adventures for
visitors, the park has SP-A network coverage for a hosting network-A providing
access to localized service which has been subscribed by SP-B and SP-C for
their UEs based on e-agreement established by SP-A for sharing this localized
service. In the meantime, SP-B's network is not available on the island and
SP-C's network is very spotty and only available at some zones.
For the on-demand dedicated services, SP-A deploys localized services on its
owned Service Hosting Environment-A for streaming live video and immersive
media in different monsters' zones. SP-B also provides localized services on
its Service Hosting Environment-B connected to the hosting network for
superhero interactive game via hosting network-A. SP-D is a content service
provider which offers localized services on its application platform-D for
streaming movies. The SP-C subscribes SP-A's and SP-B's localized services for
their UEs attending adventures on the island. In addition, the SP-C rents the
resource from the SP-A for providing localized services for interactive
Monster hunting games on its owned Service Hosting Environment-C connected to
the hosting network.
When the scheduled event is started, the network-A starts to provision
localized services as well as the temporary localized services provided by
different service providers.
Lexi and Timmy visit their grandfather and attend this annual event. Their
UEs, UE-C1 and UE-C2, are both with SP-C's subscriptions. The SP-C subscribed
SP-A's localized services configures their UEs with information of hosting
network identity for selecting hosting network and credentials for accessing
localized services via hosting network.
### 5.4.3 Service Flows
[Use Case A: use of home network service and localized services when both
networks are available]{.underline}
Step1: When visiting the genetic engineering center where both SP-A and SP-C
networks are available, Lexi's UE-C1 and Timmy's UE-C2 configured with
localized service can select and connect to hosting network-A and its SP-C's
network simultaneously. The hosting network-A authenticates the UE-C1 and
UE-C2 and both UEs use their configured user credentials for accessing to
localized services via hosting network.
Step2: UE-C1 and UE-C2 present available on demand dedicated services to Lexi
and Jimmy.
Step3: Jimmy selects the superhero interactive game provided by SP-B and
chooses to be the Spiderman playing with holograms of live monsters at the
park (which enables specific hosting network-A 5G services). In the meantime,
Lexi selects one immersive media provided by SP-A to watch the live monsters
running around the park. The hosting network-A gets localized service
authorization from service providers and creates the service session for the
authorized UEs
Step4: Both Lexi and Jimmy can share live videos with their friends on social
media using home network services via SP-C network.
[Use Case B: use of local SP-A's localized services and SP-D's localized
services via hosting network]{.underline}
Step1: after one day's fun adventure at the park, Lexi is lying on the bed at
the cabin where her UE-C1 finds only SP-A is available. Because the conditions
(e.g., time, location) for selecting the SP-A are met according to the policy
provisioned from SP-C, Lexi's UE connects to the hosting network.
Step2: Lexi scrolls the localized services menu and determines to select an on
demand movie, Jurassic Park (1993), provided by SP-D.
Step2: in the meantime, she selects another localized services provided by
SP-A to monitor live monsters night life in Zone X.
Step3: The hosting network-A establishes required IP connections for two
localized services and routes the UE-C1's traffic locally at SP-A's hosting
network and to SP-D's network, respectively.
### 5.4.4 Post-conditions
Use Case A: Lexi and Timmy enjoy the adventure and good network services using
their UE-C1 and UE-C2 for SP-A's and SP-B's localized service via hosting
network, respectively. In the meantime, their UEs can connect SP-C networks
and use home network services. Since SP-C subscribes to SP-A's and SP-B's
localized service, the localized services charge will be in the next month
statement from their SP-C's home network operator.
Use Case B: Lexi needs to pay for the localized service provided by SP-D using
online payment method before enjoying the movie. Lexi is happy to continue fun
experience at night using her UE-C1 for localized services provided by SP-A
and SP-D via SP-A's hosting network, respectively.
### 5.4.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
The existing service requirements for roaming users assume that roaming
policies are in place for UEs to use their home network services or localized
services provided by other service providers.
### 5.4.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
[PR.5.4.6-1]: The hosting network shall provide suitable APIs to allow a
trusted third party application (other service providers) to provision their
localized services policies (e.g. network slice, required IP connectivity,
QoS) and routing policies for the application of the localized services to the
hosting network.
[PR.5.4.6-1A]: The 5G network shall provide capability to allow a trusted
3^rd^ party to provision its UE with localized service policy (e.g. QoS,
network slice, service restriction such as time and location) via the hosting
network or the UE's home network.
[PR.5.4.6-2]: The hosting network shall be able to allow a UE to
manually/automatically select localized services which are provided via local
breakout at the hosting network.
NOTE: localized services are provided via local breakout at the hosting
network based on interworking scenarios for hosting network
owned/collaborative services as indicated in Annex A.
[PR.5.4.6-2A]: The 5G network shall be able to allow a UE to automatically
select a hosting network with the desired localized services which are
provided via local breakout at the hosting network, based on the policy
provisioned by its home network.
[PR.5.4.6-3]: The hosting network shall be able to provide required
connectivity and QoS for a UE connected to the hosting network to
simultaneously use its home network services and localized services.
[PR.5.4.6-4]: A UE shall be able to connect to the hosting network for using
home network service and localized services at the same time.
[PR.5.4.6-5]: A UE shall be able to simultaneously connect to its home network
and to a hosting network if both networks are available, e.g. to use its home
network services and localized services at the same time.
[PR.5.4.6-6]: The 5G system shall be able to collect charging records for the
use of localized services via local breakout at the hosting network and
provide the charging records to UEs' home operators based on service and
charging policies provided by the localized service providers.
[PR.5.4.6-7]: The 5G system shall enable a UE to be able to use hosting
network provided user credentials for authenticating the UE to make use of
localized services via the hosting network with a certain time (including
starting time and the duration) and location validity.
[PR.5.4.6-8]: A UE shall be able to select and connect to authorized localized
services via a hosting network based on configured user credentials.
## 5.5 (E-)Sports events at different venues: Hosting Network and 3^rd^ Party
Provider service negotiation via standard mechanisms
### 5.5.1 Description
Network A infrastructure is deployed in multiple sport venues., e.g. from
October 2020 to May 2021. Network A may be a PLMN or and NPN. The (e-) sports
games are scheduled one month in advance throughout the season and may be
subject to reschedule for different reasons. The venues are decided between
the 3^rd^ Party Provider B and venue owners. Once the venue and time are
scheduled, the 3^rd^ Party content provider needs to negotiate with Network A
to set-up access to the 3^rd^ party provider's services during the event and
at the venue location, and for Network A to manage resources for that service.
In order to facilitate such negotiation, Network A offers standard mechanisms
for 3rd Party Content Provider B to request specific configuration of access
to the service during the (e-)game event.
Via the standard mechanism, the 3rd Party Content Provider may request one or
more of the following:
\- Service area / location (e.g. venue)
\- Time period for service (e.g. game time)
\- Service requirements (including QoS requirements, slicing information)
\- Potentially different QoS requirements for different users (e.g., depending
on pricing such as gold, silver, bronze)
\- Discovery information (dependent on other use cases) if needed, e.g. event
name, 3^rd^ party provider name, etc.
\- 3rd Party Portal information (e.g., for access to 3rd Party Content
Provider Portal for online sign-up)
\- Expected or maximum number of users that will be accessing the service
during the event.
Network provider A then creates policy rules and performs network
configuration accordingly.
Network A confirms the accepted service set-up, including one or more of the
following:
\- Confirmation of location/date/time.
\- Accepted QoS to be provided.
\- Network slicing information.
\- Limitation in number of subscribers to access the event.
\- Specific access/discovery information.
The 3rd Party Content Provider may request to modify the previous request at
any time (e.g. in case of game reschedule, change in expected number of
spectators, etc).
NOTE: User /UE discovery of the service and UE access are not covered in this
use case and depends on other use cases.
### 5.5.2 Pre-conditions
Network A and 3rd Party Content Provider B have a service pre-agreement for
3rd Party Content Provider B to offer \ service(s) for Game events at
different venues, via Network A's access for a whole season. Specific location
and times to be determined as season progresses.
### 5.5.3 Service Flows
  1. 3^rd^ Party Content Provider B confirms venue and time for a game event.
  2. 3^rd^ Party Content Provider B requests via standard mechanism to establish a service via Network A's access at the specific time and location. The 3^rd^ party provider provides various service requirement requests, including QoS, expected/maximum number of users, event information for discovery, etc.
  3. Network A performs service authorization for the time and location, creates policies for the event and configures the network accordingly.
  4. Network A provides a confirmation of service including accepted QoS, slicing information if needed, maximum number of users allowed, and potentially other information for discovery.
  5. The 3^rd^ Party Provider B may provide information to game event participants for accessing their services via Network A.
NOTE: User discovery and access are not part of this use case and are
dependent on other use cases.
6\. Network A activates the resources for 3^rd^ party content provider's
service at the agreed time period and location.
### 5.5.4 Post-conditions
E-game event participants are able to access 3^rd^ Party Content Provider's
services via Network A's access during the game at the specific location.
### 5.5.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
[FFS]
### 5.5.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
[PR.5.5.6-1] The 5G system shall support means for a 3^rd^ Party Provider to
request a Hosting Network via standard mechanisms to provide access to 3^rd^
party provider services at a specific time and location.
[PR.5.5.6-2] The 5G system shall support means for the 3^rd^ Party Provider to
request various service requirements, including QoS, expected/maximum number
of users, event information for discovery, network slicing, etc.
[PR.5.5.6-3] The 5G system shall support means for a hosting network to create
policies and configure resources for the requested time and location for the
3^rd^ Party Provider services based on the received request.
[PR.5.5.6-4] The 5G system shall support means for a hosting network to notify
the 3^rd^ Party Provider of the accepted service parameters, including QoS,
maximum allowed number of users, event information for discovery, network
slicing, etc.
## 5.6 (E-)Sports events at a venue: Automatic discovery and selection of
3^rd^ party provider services over Hosting network access.
### 5.6.1 Description
Network A infrastructure is deployed in multiple sport venues. Network A may
be a PLMN or an NPN. A 3^rd^ Party content provider negotiates with Network A
to set-up access to the 3^rd^ party provider's services during the event and
at the venue location, and for Network A to manage resources for that service.
The 3^rd^ party provider services are offered to people attending and/or
participating in the event, without any previous subscription to Network A.
The users have a previous relationship with the 3^rd^ party provider. Neither
the 3^rd^ party provider nor Network A has relationship with the home network
of the UE.
During the event service negotiation between 3^rd^ party provider and Network
A, the Network A provides discovery information to 3^rd^ party provider. The
3^rd^ party provider configures the UE with event service discovery, which may
contain Network A's information and the event service information, and time
validity (e.g. starting time, duration).
During the time validity the UE searches for Network A and event service based
on configuration from the 3^rd^ party provider. If the UE finds a suitable
cell from Network A offering the event service, the UE notifies the user who
can manually initiate access to Network A. The UE requests to connect to 3^rd^
party event service(s) access, Network A validates with 3^rd^ party provider
that the UE is authorized to access content for event.
If necessary, the UE is provisioned temporary access credentials for Network
A. The UE then accesses Network A for 3^rd^ party event service(s) with the
temporary credentials.
During registration Network A may provide UE with configuration based on
negotiation with 3rd party, e.g. slicing configuration.
Automatic selection of Network A is possible if the UE is capable to maintain
two separate registrations, one with configured credentials to access Network
A, and an independent registration using a USIM. In that case, if the UE was
already registered to a PLMN when identifying the Network A, the UE may
initiate access and registration to Network A with the configured credentials
while maintaining the access to the registered PLMN independently.
### 5.6.2 Pre-conditions
Network A and 3rd Party Content Provider B have a service pre-agreement for
3rd Party Content Provider B to offer exclusive service via Network A's access
during the game event at the event location.
The 3^rd^ party service is meant to be offered to event participants that may
not have any subscription to Network A and have prior service agreement with
3^rd^ party provider for the event service.
### 5.6.3 Service Flows
  1. A user is made aware of the 3^rd^ party service being offered via Network A's access. This may be done either offline (e.g., in ticket, flyer, posters) or online (e.g. Internet advertisement.)
  2. During the event service negotiation between 3^rd^ party provider and Network A, the Network A provides configuration information to 3^rd^ party provider.
  3. The 3rd party provider provides the UE with Network A's information, configuration (e.g. slicing configuration) for the event service and the event service information, and time validity. This is sent over any access.
  4. During the time validity the UE searches for Network A.
  5. If the UE finds a suitable cell from Network A, the UE notifies the user who can manually initiate access to Network A. The UE indicates request to access to 3rd party event service(s) access.
  6. Network A validates with 3^rd^ party provider that the UE is authorized to access content for event.
  7. If necessary, the UE is provisioned temporary access credentials for Network A. The UE then accesses Network A for 3^rd^ party event service(s) with the temporary credentials.
  8. The UE may if capable maintain two separate registrations, one with configured credentials for access to Network A, and an independent registration using a USIM. In that case, if the UE was already registered to a PLMN when identifying the Network A, the UE may initiate access and registration to Network A with the configured credentials while maintaining the access to the registered PLMN independently.
### 5.6.4 Post-conditions
The user is able to enjoy the e-game event services provided by 3^rd^ party
provider via Network A's access.
### 5.6.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
From TS22.101:
Note that Multiple USIM requirements apply in case credentials for hosting
network access are from a USIM.
### 5.6.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
[PR.5.6.6-1] The 5G system shall support means for a hosting network to
provide a 3^rd^ party with configuration information for automatic discovery
of the hosting network and available access to specific 3^rd^ party services.
[PR.5.6.6-2] The 5G system shall enable a UE to be able to use the 3^rd^ party
provided configuration to discover, select and access to a hosting network,
and configuration and/or credentials to access for specific services with a
certain time (starting time and duration) and location validity.
[PR.5.6.6-3] The 5G system shall be able to inform a UE about available 3^rd^
party services and hosting network the UE can use at a given point in time
(starting time and duration) and location.
## 5.7 (E-)Sports events at a venue: User selection of 3^rd^ party provider
services over Hosting network access.
### 5.7.1 Description
Network A infrastructure is deployed in multiple sport venues. Network A may
be a PLMN or an NPN. A 3^rd^ Party content provider has negotiated with
Network A to set-up access to the 3^rd^ party provider's services during the
event and at the venue location, and for Network A to manage resources for
that service.
The 3^rd^ party provider services are offered to anyone attending and/or
participating in the event, without any previous subscription to Network A and
without a previous service agreement with the 3^rd^ party provider to access
the event services.
The user discovers the service when attending the event.
Two main discovery possibilities are considered:
  1. Offline user awareness: The user is notified offline of the available service provided by the 3^rd^ party provider during the event, e.g. this information is included in the event ticket, event flyers or posters.
  2. Online user awareness: The user discovers directly the available service based on information provided by network A. In this case, Network A provides 3^rd^ party / event information, and (potentially on-demand) a human readable advertisement of exclusive content.
The event information as provided by Network A is displayed to the user. A
user interested in receiving the 3^rd^ party services during the event selects
a certain service. The UE then indicates the desired 3^rd^ party provider
service for the event to Network A.
The user is directed to a 3^rd^ party provider portal to subscribe to the
event service, e.g. pay for the service, agree to terms and conditions, etc.
The UE is then authorised to access the desired 3^rd^ party provider service
via Network A. The UE then accesses the 3^rd^ party provider services via
Network A's access at the event location.
### 5.7.2 Pre-conditions
Network A and 3rd Party Content Provider B have a service pre-agreement for
3rd Party Content Provider B to offer exclusive service via Network A's access
during the game event at the event location. Network A is configured
accordingly.
The 3^rd^ party service is meant to be offered to event participants that may
not have any subscription to Network A or prior service agreement with 3^rd^
party provider for the event service.
### 5.7.3 Service Flows
  1. A user is made aware of the 3^rd^ party service being offered via Network A's access. This may be done either offline (e.g., in ticket, flyer, posters) or provided online by Network A.
  2. The user manually selects 3rd party provider service.
  3. UE indicates the selected 3rd party provider service to Network A.
  4. The user is directed to a portal to receive the authorisation to use the event service of a 3^rd^ party provider, e.g. pay for the service, agree to terms and conditions, etc.
  5. The UE is then authorised to access the 3rd party provider service via Network A.
  6. UE accesses the 3^rd^ party provided service via Network A based on the received authorisation.
  7. The user is able to enjoy the e-game event services provided by 3^rd^ party provider via Network A's access.
### 5.7.4 Post-conditions
The user is able to enjoy the e-game event services provided by 3^rd^ party
provider via Network A's access.
### 5.7.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
From TS 22.261, clause 6.14.2:
Based on operator policy, the 5G system shall support a mechanism to provision
on-demand connectivity (e.g. IP connectivity for remote provisioning). This
on-demand mechanism should enable means for a user to request on-the-spot
network connectivity while providing operators with identification and
security tools for the provided connectivity.
Note that this use case may require enhancements to allow access for the
purpose of subscribing to specific 3^rd^ party provider event services via the
hosting network access. See [PR.5.7.6-1] below.
From TS22.011, clause 3.2.2.2:
Text on "restricted local operator services" may partly cover the use case
functionality.
### 5.7.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
[PR.5.7.6-1] The 5G system shall support means for a UE to access via a
hosting network, with no prior subscription to that hosting network or to a
3^rd^ party provider, for the purpose of making use of specific 3^rd^ party
provider service via the hosting network.
## 5.8 Hosting network deployment for a temporary event
### 5.8.1 Description
A temporary Hosting Network A is set up at the mountain pass Col du Tourmalet
in the French Pyrenees to support completion of the 14^th^ stage of Tour de
France. Hosting Network A is set up as a Standalone Private Network. A 3^rd^
party service provider can lease this hosting network to provide the service
(e.g. streaming video) to its users. The owner and operator of Hosting Network
A can also be the operator of PLMN Network B, or the owner/operator of Hosting
Network A can have a service agreement with PLMN Network B operator. According
to the service agreement, PLMN Network B operator allows Hosting Network A
operator to advertise services in the PLMN and solicit PLMN users to access
the services provided by the hosting network for the temporary event. PLMN
Network B's billing infrastructure can be utilized to charge the users for the
service and the two operators can share the revenue generated by the service.
The users in PLMN Network B receive service advertisement over the PLMN, e.g.
via SMS or broadcast information. If the users are interested and consent to
use the service, they can request, over the PLMN, a temporary subscription to
the hosting network and acquire network discovery/selection information (e.g.
network identifier of the hosting network) and temporary credentials for
accessing the hosting network. Based on the user's subscription and credit
information with the PLMN Network B, the PLMN network can specify relevant
service requirements, like QoS requirements and charging information (e.g.
monetary or volume credit), for the service usage in the Hosting Network A.
When the users are within the service area, the user can manually or
automatically select the hosting network according to the acquired network
discovery/selection information and access the network using the acquired
temporary credentials in addition to the existing PLMN connection, or manually
select to leave the existing PLMN connection to connect to the hosting
network.
### 5.8.2 Pre-conditions
The operator of Hosting Network A has a service agreement with the operator of
PLMN Network B.
The users of PLMN Network B don't have any subscription or configuration data
for the temporary Hosting Network A.
### 5.8.3 Service Flows
1\. A PLMN user receives over its serving PLMN network a service advertisement
of the event completion of the 14^th^ stage of Tour de France. The service
advertisement is broadcasted in the PLMN in a variety of ways such as SMS and
system information.
2\. The user consent to use the service and submit a request over the PLMN to
obtain a temporary subscription to the Hosting Network and the service.
3\. The PLMN network and the Hosting Network coordinate to generate the
network access information and the temporary credentials for the user. The
hosting network access information and the user's temporary credentials is
delivered to the UE over the PLMN network.
4\. During this process, the Hosting Network obtains the service requirements
suggested by the PLMN and execute the requirements accordingly (e.g. selecting
the proper slicing information and QoS rules) and also obtains the user's
information for charging so it can charge the user through the PLMN.
5\. During the time period that the service is available, and if the user is
within the area where the service is available, the user can manually or
automatically select the hosting network and access the hosting network using
the obtained temporary credentials in addition to the existing PLMN
connection, or manually select to leave the existing PLMN connection to
connect to the hosting network.
### 5.8.4 Post-conditions
The user is able to enjoy the service provided by the hosting network.
The user device automatically discards the hosting network access information
and temporary credentials after the event is over.
### 5.8.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
Providing information to the user can be done on user plane with SMS, MMS etc.
From 3GPP TS 22.261 [2], clause 6.14.2:
Based on MNO and NPN policy, the 5G system shall support a mechanism to enable
MNO to update the subscription of an authorized UE in order to allow the UE to
connect to a desired NPN. This on-demand mechanism should enable means for a
user to request on-the-spot network connectivity which is authorized by its
MNO.
From 3GPP TS 22.261 [2], clause 6.18.2:
The 5G system shall enable users to obtain services from more than one network
simultaneously on an on-demand basis.
For a user with a single operator subscription, the use of multiple serving
networks operated by different operators shall be under the control of the
home operator.
From 3GPP TS 22.263 [3], clause 5.6:
The 3GPP system shall be able to enable a UE to receive low-latency downlink
multicast traffic from one network (e.g. NPN), and paging as well as data
services from another network (e.g. PLMN) simultaneously.
### 5.8.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
[PR.5.8.6-1] The 5G system shall allow a network to coordinate with a hosting
network to create temporary credentials for a subscriber for accessing the
hosting network.
[PR.5.8.6-2] A UE shall be able to automatically discover a hosting network
based on received network access information. If the UE is able to obtain
services from two networks simultaneously, it may automatically additionally
select the hosting network. If the UE cannot maintain the connection to the
PLMN while selecting the hosting network, the selection shall only be done on
request by the user, i.e. using manual selection.
[PR.5.8.6-3] The 5G system shall allow a UE to manually or automatically be
disconnected from the hosting network and discard the hosting network access
information and temporary credentials.
[PR.5.8.6-4] The 5G system shall enable a mechanism for a hosting network to
receive service requirements from the home PLMN network
## 5.9 Regulatory requirements in a network providing access to localized
services
### 5.9.1 Description
This use case describes how a hosting network will have to provide regulatory
services such as PWS, LI and emergency calls. Even though the hosting network
may be a Non-Public Network, from a regulatory point of view it will be seen
as a telecommunications network that provides services to the public.
### 5.9.2 Pre-conditions
A football stadium is equipped with a hosting network. The network can support
all kinds of services for spectators, fans, media production, security et
cetera. Visitors to the stadium are provided with access to the network to get
access to a host of different localized services aimed at fans/spectators. The
hosting network with its excellent coverage and capacity in the stadium also
provides access to non-localized operator services
### 5.9.3 Service Flows
The popular band, V3 is on a worldwide tour. One of the venues on their tour
is the Acme Arena, a football stadium that can hold 50.000 spectators. The
concert is sold out, 50.000 fans are enjoying the show. They are also enjoying
the localized services provided in the stadium. Via their mobile phones, they
can receive an enhanced audio experience, get song text and other additional
information, and chat with other fans in a fan-oriented social media
application.
Unfortunately, there is an attempted terrorist attack during the pop concert.
A member of the audience notices suspicious behaviour and makes an emergency
call. The audience is then warned using PWS to evacuate part of the stadium.
Because one of the terrorists was already a target for lawful intercept, law
enforcement quickly found out that this terrorist was coordinating the attack
with other persons, who were quickly apprehended.
### 5.9.4 Post-conditions
The situation in the stadium comes back to normal, thanks to timely response
by law enforcement. This was made possible through the use of regulatory
services (emergency calls, PWS, and LI).
### 5.9.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
PWS, LI, and emergency calls are already defined for PLMNs.
### 5.9.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
[PR.5.9.6-1] A hosting network using the 5G system shall be able to support
regulatory services (e.g. PWS, LI, and emergency calls) when Providing Access
to Localized Services to the public, based on regional/national regulatory
requirements.
## 5.10 Proximate Resources Use Case
### 5.10.1 Description
This use case explores the need to constrain both the location of network
services for localized access as well as the timing of these services. The
justification for the network is an 'event' which occurs in a particular place
for a limited duration. What is more, the event offers different services
which have different requirements, as there is more infrastructure involved
than just the telecommunications network.
For this use case, we consider a fairground that includes an indoor and
outdoor amphitheater. The events offered at this complex can include
multimedia performances, with different events occurring at the same time at
the two venues.
{width="2.98125in" height="2.0479166666666666in"}
Figure 5.10.1-1: The Proxima Performing Arts Complex
### 5.10.2 Pre-conditions
The Proxima Performing Arts Complex offers network infrastructure that can be
used to host events. One network covers the entire facility, including the
entry road (in case there is heavy traffic), the parking lot, registration
pavilion and the two amphitheaters. The amphitheaters can be configured to
allow specific network services in the immediate locality. The use for this
specific spatial configuration will be illustrated in the use case below.
Another resource provided by the Proxima Performing Arts Complex is a data
center (with easy extensibility for customer equipment.) This allows the
deployment of a Service Hosting Environment on the premises to enable low
latency communication if needed by the performance technology.
This use case assumes interaction with the event organizers -- to arrange
specific space and time constraints, as well as procedures for allowing UEs of
registered (paying) guests to gain access to the network. This could occur for
example in the Pavillion -- as one purchases a ticket, one is assisted with
registration on the Proxima Performing Arts Complex network. Some specific
equipment for spectators of the multimedia events is also supplied by the Arts
Complex for use during the event.
### 5.10.3 Service Flows
Arnold parks his car and enters the Pavillion. As he pays for admission, he is
able to configure his UE to gain access to the whole Proxima Performing Arts
Complex. Arnold is issued a multimedia headset.
Arnold attends the Outdoor Amphitheater for a musical and dance performance.
The audience can experience the dancers' performance as if each were in the
front row. The realistic experience is only possible through the ultra-low
latency communication between the audience members' devices and the servers in
the Service Hosting Environment in Amphitheater 1.
At the same time, the indoor amphitheater provides a virtual pageant, where
all the guests appear to be in costume (through augmented reality), roaming in
a fanciful virtual architecture. There are separate smaller 'stages' in this
amphitheater -- depending on where the audience walks, they hear the
performance of the musician they approach close enough to.
These two programs are extremely network intensive, with a sophisticated data
center backstage. They operate simultaneously.
Later, performers are split between both stages and combined into a single
concert for each amphitheater. This particular performance requires a single
network to extend over both Amphitheaters with significant resources.
As Arnold leaves the event, he can continue to listen to the extended encore
from his UE, as he returns to his car and exits the parking lot.
### 5.10.4 Post-conditions
For Arnold, the event provided a set of unique localized experiences, lasting
for as long as the performance. For the performers, the network enabled them
access to all the resources they needed (especially important in the later
event, where the musicians performed on different stages in different
buildings). The network reconfigured localized services according to the
schedule.
### 5.10.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
### 5.10.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
[PR5.10.6-1] The 5G System shall support a mechanism to enable configuration
of a network that provides access to localized services such that the services
can be limited in terms of their spatial extent (in terms of a particular
topology, for example a single cell), as specified by a third party.
[PR5.10.6-2] The 5G System shall support a mechanism to enable configuration
of a network that provides access to localized services such that the services
can be limited in terms of the resources or capacity available, to correspond
to requirements that apply only to the locality of service delivery, as
specified by a third party.
[PR5.10.6-3] The 5G System shall support a mechanism to enable configuration
of a network that provides access to localized services such that the services
can be limited in terms of timing, as specified by a third party. This timing
shall be flexible, so that a change in service provision can be decided at any
time (e.g. to cancel or prolong local services in the locality of service
delivery.)
[PR5.10.6-4] The 5G System shall support a Service Hosting Environment in a
network that provides access to localized services.
## 5.11 Use Case of home network steering UEs to different localized service
networks
### 5.11.1 Description
There can be different local host networks in one location with overlapping
coverage but for different localized services. A home network may establish
business agreements with some or all of those local hosting network providers
in that location, based on different user demands or other business
considerations. Therefore, it can be desirable for the home network to be able
to steer its UEs in certain location to different local host networks.
### 5.11.2 Pre-conditions
Network A (NW-A) has a long-term business agreement with a local network B
(NW-B) in city named Boring. Normally, when NW-A's UEs visit Boring, they
connect to NW-B for connectivity service. In order to change the impression of
being a boring city, Boring's city council decides to have a big city fair in
their football stadium for 4 days. There will be multimedia shows and some
famous internet video games being hosted locally in the stadium. Visitors can
use their mobile devices to access those local services. The stadium decides
to open-up its 5G private network as localized service network (NW-C) for that
period of time to allow the authorized visitors to access those shows and
games, as well as provide connectivity for other networks' UEs in that
location. NW-C solicited the localized services to NW-A. Therefore, NW-A
reaches agreement with this NW-C to have an option to allow its UEs to use
NW-C's network in order to access the fair applications as well as other the
connectivity service provided by NW-A during the period when NW-C provides
localized service. NW-A may offer new subscription option to allow user to
access the localized services provided by its partner.
### 5.11.3 Service Flows
Step 1: Before the fair starting, NW-A's UEs only roam into NW-B automatically
when they are in Boring.
Step 2: When the fair starts, NW-A finds that the number of its UEs in Boring
increase significantly and most of them are concentrating in that stadium
area. This causes NW-B to be overloaded, which leads to the QoS deterioration
of the NW-A's UEs in NW-B.
Step 3: Because NW-A has signed e-agreement with NW-C to enable NW-A's UE to
get connected to NW-C during this fair period, NW-A decides to steer some UE
with the new localized service agreement from NW-B to NW-C.
Step 4: NW-A selects and steers some of its UEs in the coverage of NW-C to
switch from NW-B to NW-C. NW-A may have the capability to only steer the UEs
which are in the good coverage of NW-C and also subscribed to use the
localized services (e.g., playing the games in the stadium) in NW-C. For those
NW-A UEs, which are in Boring city but not near the stadium or even in the
coverage of NW-C but considered not suitable to steer to NW-C by NW-A (e.g.,
without the needed subscriptions), will continue to use NW- B.
Step 4a: Jacob of NW-A who has subscribed the localized service is in the fair
and playing an internet game with his friends using the game edge server in
Boring. He found out that the game is also hosted locally in the fair, and his
friends are connecting to the local server to get better performance.
Therefore, even he may not get steering instruction from NW-A, Jacob decides
to switch from NW-B to NW-C. After connecting to NW-C, Jacob's IP connection
with the game edge server in Boring has been seamlessly moved to the local
server in the stadium associated with NW-C.
### 5.11.4 Post-conditions
Some of NW-A's UEs in the stadium leave NW-B and connect with NW-C per the
instructions from NW-A, without any user involvement and the services being
interruption. NW-A's users who are in the fair are enjoying the multimedia
shows and games using their smartphones connecting to NW-C, while other NW-A's
UEs who are not in the fair or not interested in the fair will continue to
access other services via NW-B with good QoS quality.
After the fair completes, all NW-A's UEs will continue to automatically select
and use NW-B's network in Boring, even if stadium NW-C is still operating for
its own users.
### 5.11.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
The existing service requirements for roaming users assume that roaming
policies are in place for UEs to use their home network services.
TS22.011 [5], 3.2.2.8:
Steering of roaming allows the HPLMN to steer a UE to a VPLMN on which the
HPLMN wants the UE to register, when the UE registers on another VPLMN. This
capability may be needed for reasons e.g., reselection to a higher priority
PLMN based on business arrangements.
### 5.11.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
[PR.5.11.6-1]: The 5G network shall be able to allow the home network to steer
its UE(s) to a hosting network with the consideration of the location, times,
coverage of the hosting network and services offered by the home network and
hosting network.
NOTE: Both the home and the hosting network can be a PLMN or NPN, but only
subscribers of a public network can be steered to a PLMN
## 5.12 Use case for Network selection based on application for localized
services
### 5.12.1 Description
A live concert with high-resolution video application service is provided with
service provider A. A local hosting network A (e.g., NPN) is available and
provides localized services for high-resolution video service of the concert.
The high-resolution video streaming service of the live concert is only
available to be accessed from the local edge server which can only be
connected via the local hosting network A while a PLMN network B can offer the
connection to normal video application service provided by the service
provider A. Hosting network A and PLMN network B are two separate networks
with no roaming agreement. The service provider A and the hosting network A
can be the same party or they have a service agreement. Hosting network A can
have a service agreement with PLMN Network B operator. According to the
service agreement, PLMN Network B operator can configure the UE with a policy
(e.g., UE policy) in order to allow the UE to connect to the hosting network A
with high resolution video if the user selects high resolution video from the
start. Alternatively, with the service agreement, PLMN Network B operator can
instruct the UE to connect to the hosting network A with the exclusive access
to the high-resolution video if the user selects high resolution video from
normal video service. Charging of the service can be done via the PLMN Network
B's billing infrastructure and the two operators can share the revenue
generated by the service. The UE mentioned in the use cases below is a single
radio UE without specific capability required.
The user may select to have the high-resolution video service from the start.
The UE can be configured by the PLMN to have a UE policy (e.g., including a
predefined time and a defined area) that instruct the UE to connect to the
hosting network A for high-resolution video application service. The trigger
for the UE policy configuration can be initiated by the service provider A who
receives the request from application level that the user wants to watch high
resolution video of the live concert. The user can watch the high-resolution
video of the live concert after the UE automatically connect to the hosting
network A.
Alternatively, the user may select the high-resolution video service while
watching normal video service at the concert. The UE can be instructed by the
PLMN to switch to hosting network A for the high-resolution video service. The
instruction can be initiated by the service provider A who receives the
request from application level that the user want to watch high resolution
video of the live concert. The user can watch the high-resolution video of the
live concert after the UE automatically connects to the hosting network A.
### 5.12.2 Pre-conditions
The service provider A has a service agreement with the operator of PLMN
network B and the hosting network A.
The operator of hosting network A has a service agreement with the operator of
PLMN network B.
The users of PLMN Network B have the subscription for the hosting network A.
### 5.12.3 Service Flows
[Use case A: User selects the high-resolution video application service from
the start.]{.underline}
1\. A number of users use their UEs (e.g., smart phones) to buy tickets to the
concert through the portal provided by service provider A before the concert.
2\. The service provider A triggers the PLMN to configure the UE with a UE
policy for the network selection for the high-resolution video application
service of the concert.
3\. After the start of the concert, users select to watch high-resolution
video of the concert when they arrive the venue.
4\. The UE identifies the information of hosting network A based on the
mapping relation between the application service information and the network
information (e.g., the identity of hosting network A) in the UE policy and
search for the broadcasting message from the hosting network A.
5\. UE connects to the hosting network A upon the receipt of the broadcast
information, which contains the identity of hosting network A, from the
hosting network A and gets access to the high-resolution video service of the
concert.
[Use case B: User firstly watches normal video application service and
triggers to watch high resolution video service.]{.underline}
1\. A number of users buy tickets to the concert through the portal provided
by service provider A before the concert.
2\. After the start of the concert, user watches the normal video of the
concert through PLMN and triggers to select the high-resolution video (e.g.,
with different selectable view angle of the concert) because the user may not
satisfy with the normal video service of the concert.
3\. The service provider A triggers the PLMN to instruct the UE to get
connected to the hosting network A in order to get access to the high-
resolution video service which is only available through the hosting network
A.
4\. UE connects to the hosting network A and gets access to the high-
resolution video service of the concert.
### 5.12.4 Post-conditions
Users who select the high-resolution video service can enjoy their desired
high-resolution video service of the live concert.
### 5.12.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
N/A
### 5.12.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
[PR.5.12.6-1] The 5G system shall enable a service provider to request the
home network to instruct a UE under which conditions (e.g. predefined time,
location) it could select a certain hosting network.
[PR.5.12.6-2] 5G system shall enable the home network to instruct a UE to
automatically select a hosting network for accessing localized services when
specified conditions (e.g. predefined time, location) are fulfilled.
## 5.13 Broadcast and Multicast Local Service Use Case
### 5.13.1 Description
This use case describes a local service network that provides numerous
spectators with simultaneous media services in an efficient manner. As a
scenario, we consider a stadium, that periodically hosts events that can
benefit from multicast and broadcast services for the benefit of spectators.
### 5.13.2 Pre-conditions
Rajesh is big fan of Cricket and he loves watching Cricket matches in Stadium.
Cricket matches are typically long e.g. about 7 hrs for one day matches and
3-4 hours for T20 matches. Rajesh looks forward to the variety of streaming
videos / informative content for replays, scores and statistics that the
organizers promise to provide to the spectator present.
Rajesh has his ticket and thereby the event organizers have some information
about Rajesh and can provide information to Rajesh.
Commercial advertisements and other services in stadium e.g., related to food
services etc. can be promoted via the communication services and may bring
revenue generation options for host venue, host network and service providers.
Arrangements between the commercial advertisers and service providers in the
location have been established before the event.
### 5.13.3 Service Flows
Rajesh avidly watches a video streamed program using broadcast services
provided by his home (or serving) PLMN.
When Rajesh enters the stadium, he obtains access to the hosting network.
Rajesh's broadcast service from his home (or serving) PLMN continues -- with
service continuity. While at the stadium, Rajesh continues to have access to
the services in his home (or serving) PLMN, _including multicast and broadcast
services_ from his home network.
Rajesh obtains access to the services provided in the stadium. This access
includes a clear directory of services available, so that Rajesh can tune to
different content. Some local services are provided using multicast and
broadcast. These include different views of the play (from different
perspectives), continuously updated scores and statistics and commentary by
professional announcers on site.
Both the streamed action and information may come with localized advertisement
-- included in the media stream as part of the content.
The content delivery is itself may be a service for which Rajesh will be
charged. This charging may take different forms: permission to access to the
content or use of the content (e.g., pay per minute of use, etc.)
Since Rajesh will access streamed services for long periods of time, it is
extremely important that these services can be delivered in an energy
efficient manner. Otherwise, Rajesh's UE will run out of batteries long before
the exciting conclusion of the match.
### 5.13.4 Post-conditions
Rajesh's services (including multicast and broadcast services) functioned with
continuity, from before he entered the stadium, even as he accessed the local
service network. While at the stadium, Rajesh still was able to receive calls
and access other services of his home network.
He was able to access streaming and informative services at the stadium
subsequent to getting access to the local service network. The costs of these
services were either included in the cost of admission, covered by advertising
or arranged for separately specifically for the services and content that
Rajesh accessed. After hours of use, he had not drained his mobile device's
battery due to the excellent energy efficient delivery of service.
Rajesh is impressed with the congestion free reception of services (without
lags and delays) and excellent responsive ness of network services in the
stadium environment. While in the stadium, Rajesh continued to use services
from his home network. As he leaves the stadium, there is a seamless
transition, as these services continue, using the macro network. Rajesh
returns home happily.
### 5.13.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
Support for Flexible broadcast/multicast service as per TS 22.261 [2], clause
6.13.
TS 22.261 [2], 5.1.2.1
The 5G system shall support a UE with a 5G subscription roaming into a 5G
Visited Mobile Network which has a roaming agreement with the UE\'s 5G Home
Mobile Network.
The 5G system shall enable a Visited Mobile Network to provide support for
services provided in the home network as well as provide services in the
visited network. Whether a service is provided in the visited network or in
the home network is determined on a service by service basis.
TS 22.261 [2], 6.13.2
The 5G system shall support operation of downlink only broadcast/multicast
over a specific geographic area (e.g. a cell sector, a cell or a group of
cells).
TS 22.261 [2], 6.25.2
Subject to an agreement between the operators and service providers, operator
policies and the regional or national regulatory requirements, the 5G system
shall support for non-public network subscribers:
\- access to subscribed PLMN services via the non-public network;
\- seamless service continuity for subscribed PLMN services between a non-
public network and a PLMN;
\- access to selected non-public network services via a PLMN;
\- seamless service continuity for non-public network services between a non-
public network and a PLMN.
Service delivery and continuity of applications over unicast and multicast, as
controlled by the application, as described (without naming these modes) in TS
22.468 GCSE_LTE, more explicitly in TS 23.468 and TS 29.468. Also related are
TS 26.346 Multicast operation on Demand and northbound APIs TS 26.348
(Northbound Application Programming Interface (API) for Multimedia
Broadcast/Multicast Service (MBMS) at the xMB reference point).
### 5.13.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
[PR5.13.6-1] The operator of a hosting network shall support a mechanism
allowing different local service providers and content providers to
disseminate their services and content over broadcast/multicast transport.
This mechanism should also provide a means to include diverse content in the
same transmission, e.g., to include advertisements with other content, or to
include multiple content in the same media delivered to the user.
[PR5.13.6-2] A hosting network shall provide multicast and broadcast services
in an energy efficient manner to UEs receiving this service.
[PR5.13.6-3] A hosting network shall support resource efficient content
delivery through multicast/broadcast and intelligent caching of contents at
UEs.
NOTE1: The intent of this requirement is to effectively achieving higher
resource efficiency for service delivery.
[PR5.13.6-4] A hosting network shall support a mechanism to provide low
latency signalling for efficient delivery of content to the UE.
NOTE2: Signalling may include many operations including session management and
radio communication.
[PR5.13.6-5] Subject to home operator policy, a hosting network shall be able
to prioritize specific services for local access over home routed access, even
if the same service is available in both networks.
NOTE3: This requirement differs from the text in 22.261, 6.18 "In the event of
the same service being offered by multiple operators, unless directed by the
home operator\'s network, the UE shall be prioritized to receive subscribed
services from the home operator\'s network." This is intended to permit low
latency access to certain content and services in the hosting network.
## 5.14 Use case: managing a high number of UEs returning from a local hosting
network to home network
### 5.14.1 Description
This use case describes a scenario where a local hosting network has provided
event-based temporary local services to PLMN users to enjoy during either a
live event such as a sport game, concert or a several days long event such as
industry fairs or conferences. Once the event is over, the PLMN users who have
accessed and enjoyed the event-based local service(s) will no longer need to
use these services and therefore wish to terminate the services. Therefore, a
high number of users (e.g. thousands in stadium venues) are likely to want to
terminate their access/service to the local hosting network and attempt a
fairly simultaneous registration back to their home PLMN. The hosting network
operator may also decide to switch off the local network while there still are
many UEs that are connected to the local network. This may lead to a signaling
peak in the home PLMN and result in longer time scales for users to re-
register to/re-select their home PLMN. Therefore, it is desirable that user
registrations are managed by spreading out the registration attempts over time
and limiting the number of users attempting to register simultaneously, to
avoid signaling overload and unnecessary waiting times for the returning
users.
### 5.14.2 Pre-conditions
The following pre-conditions and assumptions apply to this use case:
  * Hosting network and PLMN have an agreement (either short-term or long-term).
  * PLMN users are aware of the local services provided by the hosting network.
### 5.14.3 Service Flows
1\. Before the event, PLMN users start to access the local services
occasionally at different times.
2\. During the event, PLMN users consume the local services provided by the
hosting network.
3\. When the event is over:
a) the PLMN users terminate their access to the local services and attempt
registration back to their home PLMN;
b) the PLMN users leave the venue and attempt registration back to their home
PLMN; or
c) the hosting network is switched off and the PLMN users are forced to
attempt registration back to their home PLMN.
4\. PLMN users register back to their home PLMN.
### 5.14.4 Post-conditions
The PLMN users who have temporarily accessed the local services of the hosting
network return to their home PLMN without causing signaling
overload/congestion and within the shortest possible time scales.
### 5.14.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
There are existing features that may support management of simultaneous
registration attempts from a high number of users:
3GPP TS 22.011 [5], clause 4.3.1: Access Class Barring
  * The serving network shall be able to broadcast mean durations of access control and barring rates (e.g. percentage value) that commonly applied to Access Classes 0-9 to the UE.
3GPP TS 22.011 [5], clause 4.3.2: Service Specific Access Control
  * The serving network shall be able to indicate (as specified in clause 4.3.1) whether or not a UE subject to SSAC shall also apply Access Class Barring.
  * The UE determines the barring status with the information provided from the serving network, and perform the access attempt accordingly.
3GPP TS 22.011 [5], clause 4.3.4: Extended Access Barring
  * Extended Access Barring shall be applicable regardless of whether the UE is in a Home or a Visited PLMN.
3GPP TS 22.261 [2], clause 6.22.2: Unified access control: Requirements
  * The UE shall be able to determine whether or not a particular new access attempt is allowed based on barring parameters that the UE receives from the broadcast barring control information and the configuration in the UE.
  * The unified access control framework shall be applicable to inbound roamers to a PLMN.
3GPP TS 22.261 [2], clause 6.19.2: 3GPP access network selection: Requirements
  * The 5G system shall support, subject to operator policies, a User Controlled PLMN Selector list stored in the 5G UE, allowing the UE user to specify preferred PLMNs with associated RAT identifier in priority order.
3GPP TS 22.261 [2], clause 6.31.2.3: Minimization of Service Interruption:
Requirements: Disaster Roaming:
  * Disaster Inbound Roamers shall perform network reselection when a Disaster Condition has ended.
  * The 3GPP system shall minimize congestion caused by Disaster Roaming.
It is worth to note that the given existing features in 3GPP TS 22.261 [2]
clause 6.31.2.3 are only applicable in case there is a Disaster Condition.
Specific procedures are followed to notify Disaster Condition and identify
Disaster Inbound Roamers. Thus, the noted features above cannot be applied to
any use case that is not in Disaster Condition.
### 5.14.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
[PR 5.14.6-1] The 5G system shall provide mechanisms to mitigate overload
caused by UEs returning from a temporary local access of a hosting network to
their PLMN network.
[PR 5.14.6-2] The 5G system shall provide mechanisms to minimize the impact on
the UEs communication e.g. due to outages when returning to a PLMN after
terminating their temporary local access to a hosting network.
_5.15 Localized 5G network access on a cruise ship_
### 5.15.1 Description
Cruising has become a major part of the tourism industry, serving more than 13
million passengers worldwide. Cruise ships typically embark on round-trip
voyages to various ports-of-call, where passengers may go on tours known as
\"shore excursions\". Alternatively, cruise ships may also make two to three
night round trips without visiting any ports of call, spending multiple days
and nights in the sea. Telecommunication is one of the services offered
onboard of the cruise ships enabling internet services for the passengers.
In this use case Truman, a tourist, is embarking on a round-trip voyage in a
5G PALS enabled cruise ship called SeaQueen. The SeaQueen will voyage across
the Pacific Ocean and is intended to make three different shore excursions
before returning to its port of embarkment. Truman has a 5G enabled mobile
phone and has subscribed for the premium 5G telecommunication services offered
by the SeaQueen's parent company "Royalty cruises". Being a regular customer
of the SeaQueen and its sister ships operated by "Royalty cruises", Truman has
provided some personal identification information (e.g. passport, picture,
biometrics) and his personal preferences while making the booking to allow for
fast automatic check-in and to quickly gain access to the premium 5G
telecommunication services.
On the day of embarkment, Truman arrives at the port of embarkment. Upon
entering the SeaQueen, Truman receives an invitation to an access portal on
his mobile phone. The portal allows him to gain access to the SeaQueen's 5G
system. Since Truman is a well-known customer, he does not fill in lengthy
registration forms or fill in a user name and password. Instead, Truman
identifies himself via a biometric scanner in his mobile phone to the access
portal of the 5G system. Upon identification by the SeaQueen's 5G system, a
network profile containing the necessary credentials and personalized network
& device configurations for Truman (based on his premium service and personal
preferences known to "Royalty cruises") is automatically provisioned in his 5G
device. Truman's mobile phone can now obtain PALS services which, among
others, are superfast 5G internet access (via backend satellite connection),
access to premium video and payment services, and automatic access to specific
locations in the ship (e.g. through ranging service). In addition, one or more
profiles may be provisioned to Truman's mobile phone to allow 5G network
access during activities on shore, for each country that they intend to visit,
without having to worry about buying a local SIM card or identifying a roaming
plan according to his personal preference during the excursion.
At the end of the cruise voyage the 5G system on board of the SeaQueen
decommissions the network profile of the local 5G network from Truman's device
(e.g. based on a trigger, such as a timer expiring at the end of the trip or
location of the user, e.g. the gangway to exit the ship).
### 5.15.2 Pre-conditions
Truman has a 5G enabled mobile phone UE with an eSIM.
Various personal details of Truman, including some biometric identity
information, are pre-shared with SeaQueen's parent company "Royalty cruises"
in accordance with GDPR and other privacy regulations.
The SeaQueen's 5G system has a direct satellite link for 5G services and may
have contractual agreements with the local 5G network operators on shore (for
each country that they plan to visit).
The SeaQueen's 5G system may be an NPN or a PLMN.
### 5.15.3 Service Flows
  * Upon arrival at the port of embarkation, Truman receives an invitation to an access portal on his 5G mobile phone.
  * Since Truman is a known customer, Truman can identify himself via the biometric sensor of his mobile phone.
  * The identity service of the SeaQueen 5G system identifies Truman based on his biometric identity data that he provided beforehand.
  * Upon identification the corresponding network profile is generated, which contains the necessary credentials, and personalized network and device configurations for Truman, based on his premium services and his personal preferences known to "Royalty cruises".
  * The personalized network profile is securely downloaded to his mobile phone via the SeaQueen 5G system.
  * Truman can now make use of the superfast 5G network connection and localized services onboard the SeaQueen vessel are enabled in alignment with his profile. This includes premium video services, automatic access to specific locations on the ship, and also includes getting 5G service on shore during the excursions in each country that they will visit.
  * Truman completes the trip and returns to the port of origin, which automatically triggers the de-registration of Truman from the SeaQueen 5G system and the SeaQueen's 5G network profiles are automatically decommissioned from Truman's mobile phone and his own network profile is enabled.
  * Thanks to the 5G PALS system, Truman has truly carefree experience during his cruise trip.
### 5.15.4 Post-conditions
5G device of Truman is decommissioned from the 5G system of SeaQueen. Truman
continues to enjoy 5G services with his personal subscription with his home
network operator.
### 5.15.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
From Section 8.3 of TS 22.261 [2]: "The 5G system shall support an efficient
means to authenticate a user to an IoT device (e.g. biometrics)". However, it
is not clear if this requirement also applies to UEs in general or only to a
particular subset of UEs, and it is also not clear whether this requirement
holds before the IoT device has a network profile for the hosting network
installed on that device, i.e. to enable easy provisioning and installation of
the respective network profile.
Section 26a of TS 22.101: requirements related to user identity management.
### 5.15.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
[PR.5.15.6-1] The 5G system shall support a secure means for a UE with no
prior subscription to the hosting network to receive human readable
information on how to gain access to the hosting network (which may PLMN or
NPN).
[PR.5.15.6-2] The 5G system shall support a secure means to authenticate a
user of a UE to a hosting network, including cases in which a UE has no
subscription to the hosting network yet and still needs to get authorized to
gain full access to the hosting network and its services.
> NOTE: It can be assumed that a service provider deploying a hosting network
> has access to respective identification information about the user, e.g.
> through a separate registration process outside the scope of 3GPP.
[PR.5.15.6-3] The 5G system shall be able to authorize the UE of a user
authenticated to a hosting network to access the hosting network and its
localized services on request of the service provider.
[PR.5.15.6-4] The 5G system shall be able to withdraw the UE authorization
based on certain conditions, such as time or location of the user.
## 5.16 Localized network for a mass casualty incident
### 5.16.1 Description
A mass casualty incident (MCI) describes an event in which the emergency
medical services may get overwhelmed by the number and severity of the
casualties.
In this use case, a massive terrorist attack has taken place in the capital of
the country Haniti. One of the multistorey buildings in the central market
area has collapsed with more than 100 victims injured, classifying it as a
mass casualty incident (MCI). The public telecommunication services are
majorly interrupted since everyone in the vicinity of the incident is trying
to contact their families and to stream videos of the incident. A team of
first responders has arrived at the MCI location with an ambulance, with a
built-in 5G base station. The base station is connected to a 5G network called
HanCel capable of supporting PALS. The base station has a total coverage area
of 500x500 meters. Also a team of the local police department has arrived and
has secured the boundaries of the MCI area, requesting everyone that is not
injured to leave the MCI area.
As a feature of PALS, HanCel is capable to make a temporary network available
with a delimited 5G service area, providing very good quality of service for
the first responders, their devices (such as health monitors), for the injured
victims trying to reach their families (using their own UEs) and for the
(existing) wireless video surveillance cameras in the area.
One of the first responders can demarcate the boundaries/contours of the MCI
area on a map, and provides e.g. a set of coordinates/dimensions of the MCI
area to the HanCel network. The HanCel network configures the temporary
network in such a way that only the 5G devices present in the MCI area are
allowed to connect. The MCI area may be smaller than the coverage of a single
cell. In case of larger MCI areas, more cells may be needed to cover the area.
The 5G devices of the bystanders that are present outside the crash area, but
still within the coverage area of HanCel are not allowed to connect. In order
to provide very good QoS in the MCI area, HanCel can configure the use of
dedicated spectrum access in the targeted area.
### 5.16.2 Pre-conditions
HanCel is an PALS enabled network in the country Haniti, and is the preferred
operator for many first responder organizations in Haniti.
All the operators in the country Haniti have a roaming agreement with HanCel.
### 5.16.3 Service Flows
  * A first responder configures the 5G system of HanCel with the dimensions/coordinates of the MCI area, which is a small area within the coverage area of the HanCel network.
  * The 5G system of HanCel network configures a temporary network in such a way that only the 5G devices present in the MCI area are allowed to connect. Bystanders and everyone else outside the MCI area are not allowed to access the network.
  * Thanks to the PALS ability to provide localized services in a targeted area within a larger coverage area, HanCel improved the communication and response time of the first responders in the MCI area, thereby reducing fatal casualties. Also, the victims were able to easily reach their families (using their own UEs), reducing the anxiety and stress of the victims, and the (existing) wireless video surveillance cameras in the area were able to capture all the details of the MCI event.
### 5.16.4 Post-conditions
### 5.16.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
### 5.16.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
[PR.5.16.6.-1] The 5G system shall be able to provide access to a hosting
network only for UEs in a configurable targeted area within the coverage area
in a privacy sensitive manner.
NOTE 1: the targeted area may be smaller than the coverage area of a single
cell.
NOTE 2: determining location information related to a UE is subject to
regional and national regulatory requirements, and is subject to authorization
(e.g. of home network operator of a UE) and user consent.
## 5.17 Steering of UEs between hosting local networks and PLMNs
### 5.17.1 Description
A live concert with high-resolution video application service is provided by
service provider A and made available in the concert arena both by a local
hosting network A and a PLMN network B. The service is offered in PLMN B to
users that have credentials to access PLMN B and, in addition, has subscribed
to the service. The service is offered in hosting network A to users that have
credentials to access the service through hosting network A. It is assumed
that the service comes with access credentials through Hosting network A,
irrespective of if a user also has access to PLMN network B. This means that
there will be UE's in the concert that can access the service either using
PLMN network B or hosting network A.
Before or during the concert, service provider A identify a need to move users
from hosting network A (e.g., due to capacity limits, expected or occurring
service quality issues) and would then update policies (UE policies) for UEs
in hosting network A that also has credentials to access the service through
PLMN network B, to leave network A and continue the service in PLMN network B.
In the end of the concert, the situation in hosting network A may improve and
the service provider A can then request PLMN network B to update UE policies
for UE's that are being served by PLMN network B to instead continue the
service in hosting network A. When users are, via updated UE policies,
instructed to continue services in other network, this can be done without
user interaction as long as availability of other services are not impacted.
### 5.17.2 Pre-conditions
The service provider A has a service agreement with the operator of PLMN
network B and hosting network A and provides the same service in both
networks.
The operator of hosting network A may optionally have a (service or roaming)
agreement with the operator of PLMN network B
### 5.17.3 Service Flows
> 1\. Users use their UEs (e.g., smart phones) to buy tickets to the concert
> through the portal provided by service provider A. The service provider A
> provides the UE with credentials to access hosting network A and get the
> service. Additionally, the UE informs the service provider A about presence
> of credentials for PLMN network B.
>
> 2\. The service provider A request PLMN network B to configure the UE with a
> UE policy for the network selection to receive the high-resolution video
> application service of the concert via hosting network A.
>
> 3\. Service provider A identify a need to move users from hosting network A
> (e.g., due to capacity limits, expected or occurring service quality
> issues). Service provider A then request updates of the UE policies for UEs
> in hosting network A that also has credentials to access the service through
> PLMN network B, to leave network A and continue the service in network B.
>
> 4\. The UEs that switch to PLMN network B connects to the network and start
> using the service from service provider A.
>
> 5\. Service provider A identify that there are opportunities to move users
> into hosting network A for the service provided, and then trigger a request
> to PLMN B to update the UE policies for relevant users/UEs to instead
> continue the service in hosting network A.
>
> 6\. PLMN network B may choose to change policies for some of the UE's using
> the service in its network and subsequently, those UE's will select hosting
> network A and continue the services from service provider A
### 5.17.4 Post-conditions
Users who select the high-resolution video service can enjoy the service of
the live concert from either of the network which service provider A has
agreement with and the UE has credentials to.
After the concert ends the UE will automatically select the best network
according to normal network selection procedures.
### 5.17.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
N/A
### 5.17.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
[PR.5.17.6-1] The 5G system shall enable the home network to instruct a UE
under which conditions (e.g. predefined time, location) it could select a
certain hosting network based on the request from a service provider.
[PR.5.17.6-2] The UE shall be able to select a hosting network or change to
another hosting network, using the corresponding credentials as may be
indicated, without any additional user consent as long as the delivered
services, including the localized services, are unchanged.
# 6 Consolidated Potential Requirements
NOTE 1: Both the home and the hosting network can be a PLMN or NPN.
NOTE 2: Only subscribers of a public network can roam into a PLMN.
## 6.1 Configuration of Localized Services in Hosting Network
Table 6.1-1 -- Configuration of Localized Services in Hosting Network
Consolidated Requirements
+-------------+---------------------+---------------------+---------+ | CPR # | Consolidated | Original PR # | Comment | | | Potential | | | | | Requirement | | | +-------------+---------------------+---------------------+---------+ | CPR 6.1-001 | The 5G network | PR.5.3.6-1 | | | | shall support | | | | | suitable mechanisms | | | | | to allow | | | | | automatically | | | | | establishing | | | | | localized service | | | | | agreements for a | | | | | specific occasion | | | | | (time and location) | | | | | and building | | | | | temporary | | | | | relationship among | | | | | hosting network | | | | | operator and other | | | | | service operators | | | | | including network | | | | | operators or 3^rd^ | | | | | party service | | | | | providers. | | | +-------------+---------------------+---------------------+---------+ | CPR 6.1-002 | The 5G system shall | PR.5.5.6-1 | | | | support means for | | | | | the service | | | | | operator to request | | | | | the hosting network | | | | | via standard | | | | | mechanisms to | | | | | provide access to | | | | | 3^rd^ party | | | | | services at a | | | | | specific period of | | | | | time and location. | | | | | This period of time | | | | | shall be flexible, | | | | | so that a change in | | | | | service provision | | | | | can be decided at | | | | | any time (e.g., to | | | | | cancel or prolong | | | | | local services in | | | | | the locality of | | | | | service delivery) | | | | | based on localized | | | | | services | | | | | agreements. | | | +-------------+---------------------+---------------------+---------+ | CPR 6.1-003 | Based on localized | PR.5.5.6-2 and | | | | services | PR.5.4.6-1 | | | | agreements, the 5G | | | | | system shall | | | | | provide suitable | | | | | means to allow the | | | | | service operator to | | | | | request and | | | | | provision various | | | | | localized service | | | | | requirements, | | | | | including QoS, | | | | | expected/maximum | | | | | number of users, | | | | | event information | | | | | for discovery, | | | | | network slicing, | | | | | required IP | | | | | connectivity etc, | | | | | and routing | | | | | policies for the | | | | | application of the | | | | | localized services | | | | | via the hosting | | | | | network. | | | +-------------+---------------------+---------------------+---------+ | CPR 6.1-004 | The 5G system shall | PR.5.5.6-3 | | | | support means for a | | | | | hosting network to | | | | | create policies and | | | | | configure resources | | | | | for the requested | | | | | time and location | | | | | for the 3^rd^ party | | | | | services based on | | | | | the received | | | | | request. | | | +-------------+---------------------+---------------------+---------+ | CPR 6.1-005 | The 5G system shall | PR.5.5.6-4 | | | | support means for a | | | | | hosting network to | | | | | notify the service | | | | | operator of the | | | | | accepted service | | | | | parameters and | | | | | routing policies. | | | +-------------+---------------------+---------------------+---------+ | CPR 6.1-006 | Subject to | PR.5.3.6-2 | | | | regulatory | | | | | requirements and | | | | | localized service | | | | | agreements, the 5G | | | | | network shall allow | | | | | a home network | | | | | operator to | | | | | automatically | | | | | negotiate policies | | | | | with the hosting | | | | | network for | | | | | allowing the home | | | | | network's | | | | | subscribers to | | | | | connect at a | | | | | specific occasion, | | | | | e.g., time and | | | | | location, for their | | | | | home network | | | | | services. | | | +-------------+---------------------+---------------------+---------+ | CPR 6.1-007 | Subject to the | PR.5.3.6-5 | | | | automatic localized | | | | | services agreements | | | | | between the hosting | | | | | network operator | | | | | and home network | | | | | operator, for UE | | | | | with only home | | | | | network | | | | | subscription and | | | | | with authorization | | | | | to access hosting | | | | | networks the 5G | | | | | system shall | | | | | support: | | | | | | | | | | - access to the | | | | | hosting network and | | | | | use home network | | | | | services or | | | | | selected localized | | | | | services via the | | | | | hosting network. | | | | | | | | | | > \- seamless | | | | | > service | | | | | > continuity for | | | | | > home network | | | | | > services or | | | | | > selected | | | | | > localized | | | | | > services when | | | | | > moving between | | | | | > two hosting | | | | | > networks or a | | | | | > host network and | | | | | > the home network. | | | +-------------+---------------------+---------------------+---------+ | CPR 6.1-008 | The 5G System shall | PR.5.10.6-1 | | | | support a mechanism | | | | | to enable | | | | | configuration of a | | | | | network that | | | | | provides access to | | | | | localized services | | | | | such that the | | | | | services can be | | | | | limited in terms of | | | | | their spatial | | | | | extent (in terms of | | | | | a particular | | | | | topology, for | | | | | example a single | | | | | cell), as specified | | | | | by a 3^rd^ party. | | | +-------------+---------------------+---------------------+---------+ | CPR 6.1-009 | The 5G System shall | PR.5.10.6-2 | | | | support a mechanism | | | | | to enable | | | | | configuration of a | | | | | network that | | | | | provides access to | | | | | localized services | | | | | such that the | | | | | services can be | | | | | limited in terms of | | | | | the resources or | | | | | capacity available, | | | | | to correspond to | | | | | requirements that | | | | | apply only to the | | | | | locality of service | | | | | delivery, as | | | | | specified by a | | | | | 3^rd^ party. | | | +-------------+---------------------+---------------------+---------+ | CPR 6.1-010 | The 5G system shall | PR.5.6.6-1 | | | | support means for a | | | | | hosting network to | | | | | provide a 3^rd^ | | | | | party service | | | | | provider with | | | | | information for | | | | | automatic discovery | | | | | of the hosting | | | | | network by the UEs | | | | | to allow access to | | | | | specific 3^rd^ | | | | | party services. | | | +-------------+---------------------+---------------------+---------+ | CPR 6.1-011 | The 5G system shall | PR.5.8.6-1 | | | | support secure | | | | | mechanisms to allow | | | | | a home network to | | | | | coordinate with a | | | | | hosting network for | | | | | a subscriber to | | | | | temporarily access | | | | | the hosting network | | | | | (e.g., based on | | | | | temporary | | | | | credentials) at a | | | | | given time (start | | | | | time and duration) | | | | | and location. | | | +-------------+---------------------+---------------------+---------+
## 6.2 User Manual Selection of Localized Services via Hosting Network
Table 6.2-1 -- User Manual Selection of Localized Services via Hosting Network
Consolidated Requirements
+-------------+---------------------+----------------+---------+ | CPR # | Consolidated | Original PR # | Comment | | | Potential | | | | | Requirement | | | +-------------+---------------------+----------------+---------+ | CPR 6.2-001 | The hosting network | PR.5.4.6-2 | | | | shall allow a UE to | | | | | manually select | | | | | temporary localized | | | | | services which are | | | | | provided via local | | | | | breakout at the | | | | | hosting network. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE : localized | | | | | services are | | | | | provided via local | | | | | breakout at the | | | | | hosting network | | | | | based on | | | | | interworking | | | | | scenarios for | | | | | hosting network | | | | | owned/collaborative | | | | | services as | | | | | indicated in Annex | | | | | A. | | | +-------------+---------------------+----------------+---------+
## 6.3 UE Configuration, Provisioning, Authentication and Authorization
Table 6.3-1 -- UE Configuration, Provisioning, Authentication and
Authorization Consolidated Requirements
+-------------+---------------------+---------------------+---------+ | CPR # | Consolidated | Original PR # | Comment | | | Potential | | | | | Requirement | | | +-------------+---------------------+---------------------+---------+ | CPR 6.3-001 | Subject to | PR.5.3.6-3 | | | | localized services | | | | | agreements, the 5G | | | | | network shall | | | | | enable a home | | | | | network operator to | | | | | authorize a UE for | | | | | using its home | | | | | network services | | | | | via a hosting | | | | | network for a | | | | | certain period of | | | | | time and/or | | | | | location. | | | +-------------+---------------------+---------------------+---------+ | CPR 6.3-002 | The 5G network | PR.5.4.6-1A | | | | shall allow a | | | | | trusted 3^rd^ party | | | | | to provide UEs with | | | | | localized service | | | | | policy (e.g., QoS, | | | | | network slice in | | | | | the hosting or home | | | | | network, service | | | | | restriction such as | | | | | time and location) | | | | | via the hosting | | | | | network or the UE's | | | | | home network. | | | +-------------+---------------------+---------------------+---------+ | CPR 6.3-003 | The 5G system shall | PR.5.4.6-7 | | | | enable a UE to use | | | | | credentials | | | | | provided by the | | | | | hosting network | | | | | with or without | | | | | coordination with | | | | | the home network of | | | | | the UE, to make use | | | | | of localized | | | | | services via the | | | | | hosting network | | | | | with a certain time | | | | | (including starting | | | | | time and the | | | | | duration) and | | | | | location validity. | | | +-------------+---------------------+---------------------+---------+ | CPR 6.3-004 | The 5G network | PR.5.11.6-1 | | | | shall be able to | | | | | allow the home | | | | | network to steer | | | | | its UE(s) to a | | | | | hosting network | | | | | with the | | | | | consideration of | | | | | the location, | | | | | times, coverage of | | | | | the hosting network | | | | | and services | | | | | offered by the home | | | | | network and hosting | | | | | network. | | | +-------------+---------------------+---------------------+---------+ | CPR 6.3-005 | The 5G system shall | PR.5.15.6-2 | | | | provide support to | | | | | enable secure means | | | | | to authenticate and | | | | | authorize a user of | | | | | a UE accessing a | | | | | hosting | | | | | network~~,~~ | | | | | including cases in | | | | | which a UE has no | | | | | subscription to the | | | | | hosting network and | | | | | still needs to get | | | | | authorized to use | | | | | localized services | | | | | via the hosting | | | | | network. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE : It can be | | | | | assumed that a | | | | | network provider | | | | | deploying a hosting | | | | | network has access | | | | | to respective | | | | | identification | | | | | information about | | | | | the user, e.g., | | | | | through a separate | | | | | registration | | | | | process outside the | | | | | scope of 3GPP. | | | +-------------+---------------------+---------------------+---------+ | CPR 6.3-006 | The 5G system shall | PR.5.15.6-3 and | | | | be able to | PR.5.2.6-2 | | | | authenticate and | | | | | authorize the UE of | | | | | a user | | | | | authenticated to a | | | | | hosting network to | | | | | access the hosting | | | | | network and its | | | | | localized services | | | | | on request of a | | | | | service provider. | | | +-------------+---------------------+---------------------+---------+
## 6.4 UE Discovery, Selection and Access
Table 6.4-1 -- UE Discovery, Selection and Access Consolidated Requirements
* * *
CPR # Consolidated Potential Requirement Original PR # Comment CPR 6.4-001
Subject to operator's policy and agreement between a 3^rd^ party service
provider and operator, the 5G system shall enable a UE to receive and use
configuration provided by a 3^rd^ party service provider to discover and
access a hosting network and localized services, including the considerations
of prior service agreement with a 3^rd^ party service provider and no prior
subscription to hosting network. If the UE is able to obtain services from two
networks simultaneously, it may additionally select the hosting network. If
the UE cannot maintain the connection to the home network while selecting the
hosting network, the selection shall only be done on request by the user,
i.e., using manual selection. PR.5.6.6-2  
CPR 6.4-002 The 5G system shall support secure means for a UE to select and
access localized services which may be provided by a 3^rd^ party service
provider via a hosting network, independent of prior subscription to the
hosting network or 3^rd^ party service provider. PR.5.7.6-1 and PR.5.4.6-8  
CPR 6.4-003 The 5G system shall enable the home network to allow a UE to
automatically select a hosting network for accessing localized services when
specified conditions (e.g., predefined time, location) are fulfilled.
PR.5.12.6-2  
CPR 6.4-004 The 5G system shall be able to prevent a UE to re-access the
hosting network after the localized services were terminated if the
authorization for the localized services is no longer valid (e.g., can be
based on certain conditions such as time or location of the user). PR.5.15.6-4  
CPR 6.4-005 The 5G system may support means for a UE which may or may not have
prior subscription to the hosting network to display human readable
information on how to gain access to the hosting network and available 3^rd^
party services. PR.5.15.6-1  
CPR 6.4-006 The 5G system shall support a mechanism to allow a user to
manually select a specific local hosting network. PR.5.2.6-1  
CPR 6.4-007 The 5G system shall be able to limit access of specific UEs to a
configurable area of a hosting network\'s coverage area. PR.5.16.6-1  
CPR 6.4-008 The 5G system shall be able to maintain privacy of a user against
the hosting network while the UE does not make use of the hosting network, for
example, to prevent tracking of UEs by hosting networks. PR.5.16.6-1  
CPR 6.4-009 The 5G system shall enable the home network to instruct a UE to
select a hosting network with certain conditions (e.g., predefined time,
location) based on the request from a service provider. PR.5.17.6-1  
CPR 6.4-010 The 5G system shall enable the home network to allow a UE to
select a hosting network or change to another hosting network, without any
additional user intervention as long as the delivered services, both localized
services and home routed services, are unchanged. PR.5.17.6-2
* * *
## 6.5 Hosting Network Localized Services and Home Operator Services
Table 6.5-1 -- Hosting Network Localized Services and Home Operator Services
Consolidated Requirements
* * *
CPR # Consolidated Potential Requirement Original PR # Comment CPR 6.5-001 The
5G network shall enable the home network operator to indicate to the UE what
services are preferred to be used from the home network when the UE connects
to a hosting network and the requested services are available from both the
hosting and the home network. PR.5.3.6-4  
CPR 6.5-002 Based on localized service agreements, the hosting network shall
be able to provide required connectivity and QoS for a UE simultaneously
connected to the hosting network for localized services and its home network
for home network services. PR.5.4.6-3  
CPR 6.5-003 A UE shall be able to connect to its home network via the hosting
network, if supported by the hosting network and the home network based on
localized service agreements. PR.5.4.6-4
* * *
## 6.6 Returning to Home Network
Table 6.6-1 -- Returning to Home Network Consolidated Requirements
* * *
CPR # Consolidated Potential Requirement Original PR # Comment CPR 6.6-001 The
5G system shall provide mechanisms to mitigate user plane and control plane
overload caused by a high number of UEs returning from a temporary local
access of a hosting network to their home network in a very short period of
time. PR.5.14.6-1  
CPR 6.6-002 The 5G system shall provide mechanisms to minimize the impact on
the UEs communication e.g., to prevent user plane and control plane outages
when returning to a home network together with other high number of UEs in a
very short period of time, after terminating their temporary local access to a
hosting network. PR.5.14.6-2
* * *
## 6.7 Charging
Table 6.7-1 -- Charging Consolidated Requirements
* * *
CPR # Consolidated Potential Requirement Original PR # Comment CPR 6.7-001 The
5G system shall be able to collect charging information for the use of
localized services at the hosting network and provide the charging records to
UEs' home operators based on localized service agreements and charging
policies provided by the localized service providers PR.5.4.6-6
* * *
## 6.8 Regulatory Services
Table 6.8-1 -- Regulatory Services Consolidated Requirements
* * *
CPR # Consolidated Potential Requirement Original PR # Comment CPR 6.8-001 A
hosting network using the 5G system shall be able to support regulatory
services (e.g., PWS, LI, and emergency calls), based on regional/national
regulatory requirements. PR.5.9.6-1
* * *
## 6.9 Multicast/Broadcast
Table 6.9-1 -- Multicast/Broadcast Consolidated Requirements
* * *
CPR # Consolidated Potential Requirement Original PR # Comment CPR 6.9-001 The
operator of a hosting network shall support a mechanism allowing different
local service providers and content providers to disseminate their services
and content over broadcast/multicast transport. This mechanism should also
provide means to include diverse content in the same transmission, e.g., to
include advertisements with other content, or to include multiple content in
the same media delivered to the user. PR5.13.6-1  
CPR 6.9-002 A hosting network shall provide multicast and broadcast services
in an energy efficient manner to UEs receiving this service. PR5.13.6-2  
CPR 6.9-003 A hosting network shall support resource efficient content
delivery through multicast/broadcast. PR5.13.6-3  
CPR 6.9-004 A hosting network shall support a mechanism to provide low latency
signalling for efficient content delivery to many UEs. PR5.13.6-4  
CPR 6.9-005 Subject to home operator policy, a hosting network shall be able
to prioritize specific multicast and broadcast services for local access over
home routed access, even if the same service is available in both networks.
PR5.13.6-5
* * *
# 7 Conclusions and Recommendations
This technical report provides use cases and potential new requirements. The
resulting service requirements have been consolidated in clause 6.
It is recommended to consider the consolidated requirements identified in this
TR as the baseline for subsequent normative work.
###### ### Annex A: Interworking between Networks Operators and Application
Providers for localized services
In TS22.278, Annex B1 [4] provides various scenarios applicable for
interworking between mobile operators and data applications for EPS and 5GS
including:
  * Operator owned non-roaming scenario
  * Collaborative non-roaming scenario
  * Operator owned/collaborative roaming scenario -- Home Routed
  * Collaborative roaming scenario -- Local Breakout
This clause extends the roaming scenarios applicable for interworking between
hosting network operator (PLMN or NPN) and data applications based on service
agreements for localized services among network operators and
application/service providers:
  * Hosting network operator owns the 5G network which provides access and IP connectivity to roaming UEs.
  * Network operator owned application layer entities include Service Hosting Environment, and IMS network.
  * Application platforms in third party domain can be owned by third party application/service providers, or home/other network operators.
  * The Application platforms could be application servers (e.g. Video on Demand Server, Cloud gaming server, etc.), 3rd party software development platforms, and third party/operator Service Hosting Environments.
The following figures show the collaborative relationship in three domains
including network operator providing access and IP connectivity, network
operators providing services via IMS/application platforms, and
application/service providers providing services via application platforms or
applications. The dashed lines between visited hosting network operator and
Home network operators are based on service level e-agreement and the
horizontal line represents the demarcation between the network operator
domains and the 3rd party domain. In an operator network, the application
layer entities include IMS network, Application platforms, and API Gateway for
third party applications developed using APIs (e.g. REST, GSMA OneAPI).
Figure A-1 provides the home-routed roaming scenario for collaborative
scenarios where traffic is routed to home network operator and applications
are delivered by the home operator owned IMS or Application platform via
roaming agreements between network operators.
{width="6.495833333333334in" height="3.46875in"}
Figure A-1: Home Operator owned/collaborative roaming scenario -- Home Routed
> Note: The other network operators and service/application operators in 3rd
> party domain provides collaborative services in application platforms to
> Home operator. The arrow solid line represents the traffic routed over
> trusted domains within home operator network while the arrow dash line
> represents the traffic routed over untrusted domain outside of home operator
> network.
Figure A-2 provides the local breakout scenario for both owned and
collaborative scenarios between visited hosting network operator and operators
in 3rd party domains where traffic is routed to application from the hosting
network to 1) hosting network owned application platforms, 2) collaborative
home network owned application platforms, and 3) third parties via roaming
agreements between visited hosting network operator and home/other network
operators, and between hosting network operators and other application/service
providers.
{width="6.492361111111111in" height="3.6347222222222224in"}
Figure A-2: Hosting Network Operator owned/collaborative roaming scenario --
Local Breakout
Note: The other network operators and application/service operators in 3rd
party domain provides collaborative services in application platform to
hosting network operator. The arrow solid lines represent the traffic routed
over trusted domains within hosting network while the arrow dash lines
represent the traffic routed over untrusted domain outside of hosting operator
network.
Other interworking scenarios are not excluded.
#