# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document provides Stage 1 potential 5G service requirements for
ranging based services. In the context of the present document, Ranging-based
services are to be understood as the applications utilizing the distance
between two UEs and/or the direction of one UE from the other one.
The aspects addressed in the present document include:
\- Identify Use cases and potential requirements of ranging-based services
directly between two or more UEs, e.g. accuracy of distance and direction,
maximum range distance, ranging latency, energy/battery consumption.
\- Gap analysis with existing mechanisms to enable ranging-based services.
NOTE: the study does not intend to address V2X specific use cases and
requirements.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
  1. 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
  2. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Azimuth.
  3. http://www.chnmuseum.cn/zx/gbxw/201802/t20180220_1967.shtml.
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
Key performance indicators and key attributes for Ranging use cases are
defined as follows:
**Ranging accuracy** : describes the absolute value of the deviation of the
measured distance and/or direction between two UEs to the true distance and/or
direction value.
**Confidence level** : describes the percentage of all the possible measured
distance and/or direction that can be expected to include the true distance
and/or direction considering the Ranging accuracy.
**Effective Ranging distance** : the largest distance between the UE who
initiates the Ranging and target UEs in the Ranging operation.
**Environment of use** : the physical environment between the UE who initiate
the Ranging and target UEs, such as LOS environment and NLOS environment. Also
the physical environments of the UE who initiate ranging, such as in coverage
and out of coverage.
**Relative UE velocity** : the target UE can be either static or mobile
relative to the UE who initiates the Ranging. In the latter, the attribute
shall also provide some elements about its motion, e.g. maximum speed,
trajectory.
**Availability** : percentage value of the amount of time when a ranging
system is able to provide the required Ranging-related data within the
performance targets or requirements divided by the amount of time the system
is expected to provide the Ranging service in a targeted service area.
**Latency** : time elapsed between the event that triggers the determination
of the Ranging-related data and the availability of the Ranging-related data
at the Ranging system interface.
**Power consumption** : electrical power used by Ranging during Ranging
operation.
**Ranging interval** : **time difference between two consecutive** Ranging
operations.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
\ \
# 4 Overview
Ranging service (or Ranging in short) in this document refers to the
determination of the distance between two UEs and/or the direction of one UE
from the other one via direct communication connection. As shown in the
following celestial coordinate, the horizontal direction (i.e. the Azimuth) of
the target UE is the angle formed between a reference direction and a line
from the observer UE to target UE projected on the same plane as the reference
direction orthogonal to the zenith. The elevation direction of the target UE
is the angle above the horizontal plane [2].
Figure 4-1 illustration of horizontal/ elevation direction in celestial
coordinate
For better understanding, Ranging in 2D coordinate system is taken as an
example in Fig.4-2, where UE1 initiates the ranging operation and the
coordinate system is centered at UE1. Furthermore, y-axis is the UE1's
pointing direction (reference direction). The ranging initiated by UE1 targets
at knowing the distance of UE2 and UE3 to UE1 and also the direction
(reference direction) of UE2 and UE3 relatively to UE1.
As illustrated in Fig.4-2, at T=t1 UE2 is located at the 2-o'clock direction
to UE1 with the direction information as θ1 =30 ° and distance as d1. UE3 is
located at the 9-o'clock direction to UE1 with the direction information as θ2
=-90° and distance as d2. When the UE1 switches its pointing direction to UE2
at T=t2, the ranging results of UE2 change to θ1' =0° and distance remains as
d1, while the ranging results of UE3 change to θ2' =-120° and distance remains
as d2.
{width="2.63125in" height="2.5479166666666666in"}
{width="2.6527777777777777in" height="2.5972222222222223in"}
(a) T= t1 (b) T=t2
Figure 4-2 Example of ranging (from T= t1 to T= t2)
Ranging service can be supported with or without 5G coverage. Fig. 4-3 is an
illustration of 5G providing ranging service to UEs with or without 5G
coverage. If licensed band is used for ranging, it shall be fully under
operator control.
Figure 4-3 illustration of 5G providing ranging service to UEs with or without
5G coverage
# 5 Use cases
## 5.1 Distance based Smart Home Device Control
### 5.1.1 Description
Smart speaker has been playing a more and more important role in smart home.
People tends to use smart speaker to control smart devices given its
convenience, especially for simple interactions, such as turn on TV/light.
In a typical smart home scenario, there might be tens of smart devices, many
of which may be with the same type. For example, people may have 5-10 smart
lights, 2-3 smart TVs, etc. As a consequence, user has to tell the smart
speaker which device he or she intends to control. Often, it requires user to
give a different name for the devices. To make things worse, user may have
multiple smart speakers in different rooms to be able to pick up user's voice,
then the system may even not know which smart speaker to respond to user's
voice. Ranging capable devices can simplify the interaction: with distance
aware, the smart home system can automatically choose the one closest to the
user to control. Distance accuracy plays an important role in this automatic
device selection. If wrong device is selected due to distance error, user
experience will be badly degraded. In a typical 3m*4m bedroom, average
distance between user and the smart device is 2 meter. If user intends to
control a device based the distance, he/she needs to have enough confidence on
which device is closer. On average, people can confidently tell the closer one
if distance difference is more than 10-30% of distance, which corresponding to
0.2m\~0.6m distance difference, and 0.1m\~0.3m distance accuracy.
Service latency is another important factor to consider. The following figure
shows an example service flow for distance-based device control with smart
speaker:
Figure 5.1.1-1 Example of distance based smart device control using smart
speaker
In the figure above, user instructs the smart speaker to turn on the light.
For light control, typically around 1 second latency from user giving the
voice instruction to the light being turned on/off is satisfying to user. The
speech recognition and semantics understanding is usually handled in the cloud
and takes on average 500ms for processing and takes on average 60ms for round
trip transmission. One message exchange between smart speaker and other smart
devices would consume around 130ms. Therefore message 3+5+6 would take about
390ms. Then, the budget for ranging service would be around 50ms. Besides, due
to user movement, service latency should also ensure that the acquired ranging
result is still valid. For 1m/s movement, 50ms latency would result in 5cm
distance change. Then service latency below 50ms should be ensured to keep the
validity of ranging result. To reduce the response latency of smart device, it
might be sometimes useful that ranging is performed in advance, e.g. before UE
giving the voice instruction (e.g. when UE arouses the smart speaker) if power
consumption is less a concern. In this case, UE may need to perform ranging
with all the smart devices around the UE. Typically, there might be no more
than 20 smart devices within LOS distance.
### 5.1.2 Pre-conditions
There are many smart Ranging enabled devices in Alice's home, including:
\- Smart TV-1, smart light A and B, smart speaker A are in bedroom
\- Smart TV-2, smart light C, D and E, smart speaker B are in living room
Alice wears a smart Ranging enabled watch.
The smart home devices are capable of determining the range of Alice's
wearable device.
The smart speaker is capable of recognizing Alice's voice and identify her.
### 5.1.3 Service Flows
Alice enters the door of her house;
Alice's smart watch discovers smart TV-1/TV-2, smart speaker A/B, smart light
A/B/C/D;
Ranging is performed between the wearable device and the discovered smart
speakers;
The nearest smart speaker is chosen as the responder speaker for Alice;
When Alice is moving in the house, responder speaker is updated based on the
latest ranging results;
Alice enters the bedroom, and would like to turn on the nearest light in the
bedroom;
Alice arouse the smart speaker and tell it to turn on the light;
The responder speaker responds, and the light nearest to the user is switched
on.
### 5.1.4 Post-conditions
Alice's smart home system always knows which smart speaker to respond to
Alice, and knows which smart device is closest to Alice, and thus being able
to respond to Alice's command by choosing the nearest device if multiple of
the same type devices exist and user doesn't tell which one to control.
### 5.1.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
None.
### 5.1.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
[PR 5.1.6-1] The 5G system shall be able to support Ranging enabled UEs to
discover other Ranging enabled UEs.
[PR 5.1.6-2] The 5G system shall be able to provide ranging service with
following KPIs:
Table 5.1.6-1 -- KPIs for distance based smart home control
Ranging scenario | Ranging Accuracy (95 % confidence level) | Availability | Latency | Effective Ranging distance, Coverage, NLOS/LOS, Relative UE velocity, Ranging interval, Number of concurrent ranging operation for a UE, Number of concurrent ranging operation in an area |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Distance Accuracy | Direction Accuracy |  |  | Effective Ranging distance | Coverage | NLOS/LOS | Relative UE velocity | Ranging interval | Number of concurrent ranging operation for a UE | Number of concurrent ranging operation in an area  
Distance based smart device control | 10cm | - | 99 % | 50ms | 20m | IC/PC/OOC | LOS | Static/ Moving ( Effective Ranging distance, to trigger infrequent ranging operation;
  * or after some time (e.g. > (ranging service latency + ranging interval)), ranging information can't be received, to trigger infrequent ranging operation etc.
Figure 5.13.1-1 illustrates the smart car key example considering
frequent/infrequent ranging operations after ranging service is started. When
the ranging service is started, the initial UE may or may not receive ranging
information because the actual distance may exceed the effective ranging
distance.
{width="5.654861111111111in" height="2.566666666666667in"}
Figure 5.13.1-1 infrequent and frequent ranging operation
Following service flow give an example of effective smart car key ranging
operation.
### 5.13.2 Pre-conditions
The Tom's car support ranging service. Its paired ranging UE is Tom's smart
phone.
Tom's car is usually parked in his house during the night. And in working
days, it is always parked in Tom's office underground parking port.
Tom's car and his smart phone have registered one of Operator's Ranging
service: Smart Car Key. The "infrequent ranging interval" is configured by the
"Smart Car key" service as 10s through the interface supplied by 5G system and
via the 5G system, the configuration is delivered to his car and his smart
phone.
Tom's car ranging operation is always switched on while his smart phone is
switched on when needed.
The following parameters refer to TR22.855 Table 5.3.6-1.
### 5.13.3 Service Flows
Tom's car is parking at home park garage and operating ranging with large
ranging interval 10s.
In the morning, Tom goes to his car with his smart phone switch on ranging
service.
The car detects that the distance with the paired smart phone is less than
"Effective Ranging Distance" 30m.
The car starts frequent ranging operation with required ranging Interval 50ms.
The car automatically unlocks and opens the door when Tom is nearby \<=1m.
Tom drives the car to his office, then parks his car in the office underground
parking port. Tom leaves his car. His car identifies the distance between the
car and Tom's smart phone exceeds the configured "lock door distance" 3m. The
car automatically locks.
The car continuously operates frequent ranging with Ranging Interval is 50ms
until it detects that the distance exceeds "Effective Ranging Distance" i.e.
30m. It enters the infrequent ranging operation the ranging interval is 10s.
Tom leaves his office and goes to his car. His car identifies the distance
less than "Effective Ranging Distance" 30m.
The car starts frequent ranging operation with the ranging interval back to
50ms.
The car automatically opens the door when Tom is nearby. Tom drives his back
home.
At his home, Tom switches off ranging service in his phone.
### 5.13.4 Post-conditions
Tom's car can be automatically lock and unlock with more power efficiently.
### 5.13.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
TS 22.261 clause 6.27 Positioning services
The 5G system shall support mechanisms to configure dynamically the update
rate of the position-related data to fulfil different performances (e.g. power
consumption, position service latency) or different location modes.
NOTE 5: for example, the 5G System needs to be able to request the UE to
provide its location periodically with an update rate ranging from one
location every [1 s to 10 s] in location normal mode to one location every [30
s to 300 s, or more] in location power saving mode. The 5G System needs to
allow UEs to sleep for extended periods (e.g. one week), without requiring the
UE to update its position data.
### 5.13.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
[PR 5.13.6 -1] The 5G system shall be able to start ranging and stop ranging
according to the application layer's demand.
[PR 5.13.6 -2] The 5G system shall be able to provide mechanisms for a MNO, or
authorized 3rd party, to provision and manage ranging operation and
configurations.
## 5.14 Finding and Tracking Objects
### 5.14.1 Description
There are many practical situations in which people need to find or locate
objects or other people or to track them while they are moving. In this case
consider a family with a young child in a very crowded environment in a fire
breakout emergency. If the parents are separated from the child, locating him
or her takes priority over all other activities and the process can be quite
upsetting to the parents and the child. Of course this is not the only example
possible: one may need to find missing objects in almost any environment, or
track people or objects in situations in which it is difficult to maintain
contact or when it is important to locate people as fast as possible.
This use case does not require low latency interaction.
### 5.14.2 Pre-conditions
Marigold, three years old, is very venturesome and curious. She wears a
wristwatch that is a smart Ranging enabled device.
Francis, Marigold's father has a smartphone capable of determining the
location of smart Range enabled devices.
Marigold's watch has been configured so that Francis' smart phone is able to
locate it.
Francis and Marigold go shopping in an enormous Carrefour complex.
### 5.14.3 Service Flows
This use case covers two events: 'normal shopping' and 'fire breaks out.'
One moment, Marigold was there, the next moment, she vanished! Francis looks
up and down the aisle in the store, and cannot see her. After searching for a
minute or so, he activates his Smart Ranging application on his smartphone.
Marigold moved fast. She is already 200m away examining toys in a distant
portion corner of the Carrefour market.
Francis' smartphone uses Ranging functionality to identify her direction and
approximate range. This gets Francis moving in the right direction.
Once Francis is within 30m, he can use precision location capabilities to
identify his daughter wandering along the 25m length of the toy aisle, even
though she is hard to spot through the crowd of other children, similarly
separated from their parents (during normal shopping,) or just beyond the
emergency exit in the crowd of people who have exited the building (during the
emergency situation.)
### 5.14.4 Post-conditions
Francis has successfully located his daughter, though he needed to traverse
the enormous Carrefour complex. The longer range approximate location sufficed
to close the distance between himself and Marigold, even while she continued
to move. Once near enough, he could use the precise 5G Ranging facility to
find her amongst the crowd.
### 5.14.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
None.
### 5.14.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
[PR 5.14.6-1] The 5G system shall be able to provide ranging service with the
following KPIs:
Table 5.14.6-1 -- KPIs for Object Finding and Tracking
Ranging scenario | Ranging Accuracy (95 % confidence level) | Availability | Latency | Effective Ranging distance, Coverage, NLOS/LOS, Relative UE velocity, Ranging interval, Number of concurrent ranging operation for a UE, Number of concurrent ranging operation in an area |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Distance Accuracy | Direction Accuracy |  |  | Effective Ranging distance | Coverage | NLOS/LOS | Relative UE velocity | Ranging interval | Number of concurrent ranging operation for a UE | Number of concurrent ranging operation in an area  
Long range approximate Ranging | [10m] | ±[12.5°] | 99 % | - | 500m | IC/PC/OOC | NLOS | Static/ Moving (<10m/s) | - | 1 | [50]UEs/ (104m2)  
Short range precise Ranging | As per KPIs in use case 5.4.6 “KPIs for finding items in a supermarket” |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
## 5.15 Clustering of devices
### 5.15.1 Description
A mass casualty incident (MCI) describes an event in which the emergency
medical services may get overwhelmed by the number and severity of the
casualties. An MCI may include e.g. chemical, biological, radiological
emergencies, mass shootings, major road accidents, buildings being on fire,
natural disasters such as earthquakes, etc. which can cause result in loss of
human lives in the MCI area. Digital technologies can help to improve the
response time of the first responders and reduce the amount of damage and/or
loss of life by improving the logistics of clinical and non-clinical
operations in an MCI event and real-time victim monitoring in the MCI area.
Triaging is a process applied when there are more casualties requiring aid
than there are medical personal available in the MCI area. Real-time
positioning and grouping of the victims in the triage area and health
monitoring can aid the first responders to save a lot of precious time for the
first responders to make swift yet accurate and group-level decisions to
reduce loss of life in the MCI area. A triage generally consists of a quick
check for immediate life-threatening concerns for the victims present in the
triage area. An example of the triaging process is the START system (simple
triage and rapid treatment) in which the first responder assigns each patient
to one of four color-coded triage levels, based on their breathing,
circulation, and mental status. The triage levels as described in START system
are:
i. Immediate (Red color): Victims with major life-threatening injuries, but
are salvageable given the resources available
ii. Delayed (Yellow color): Victims with non-life-threatening injuries, but
are unable to walk or exhibit an altered mental status
iii. Walking wounded (Green color): Victims who are able to move themselves
out of the incident area to a treatment area
iv. Deceased or expectant (Black color): Victims who are dead, or whose
injuries make survival unlikely.
{width="4.26875in" height="3.201388888888889in"}
Figure 5.15.1-1 Example of a triage area with colored tarps
In this use case, a massive earthquake has taken place in a metropolitan city
of Asgard. One of the multistorey buildings in the central market area have
collapsed to rubbles with more than 100 victims injured, classifying the event
as a mass casualty incident (MCI). The public telecommunication services are
majorly interrupted. A first responder crew of 3 members have arrived at the
scene to identify, triage, and transport the injured victims prioritized based
on triage status to the nearest hospitals. Tom, a first responder, has arrived
at the scene with a first responding vehicle which can serve as a temporary
non-public mobile network AmbCel. Tom has started to triage the victims based
on the severity of the injuries using color coding scheme similar to the START
system. After being triaged, every victim receives a body-worn ranging-enabled
victim-tags (e.g. wearable patient monitor) from Tom. The victims who are
triaged as green can walk themselves to the designated safe area just outside
of the MCI area, and the victims who are triages as yellow and red will be
moved by a logistics team who will arrive later at the scene. Colored tarps
based on triage colors are not yet set in the MCI area, since Tom and his
small crew are currently focusing on triaging. However, virtual tarps can be
formed digitally with predetermined tarp size and location so that Tom can
instruct the later arriving logistics team about the location of virtual tarps
and set up a physical tarp to deliver treatment based on the triage status of
each tarp. Moreover, each tarp can have their own QoS requirements, so that a
network can provide a variety of network services to various medical devices
in each tarp. The triage application of Tom will seek assistance from 5G
network in order to have an overview of clusters in the MCI area, and optimize
the allocation of network resources for various network services required by
the first responders and their devices.
### 5.15.2 Pre-conditions
Tom has a 5G enabled mobile phone UE with a USIM and a valid 5G subscription
and registered as a first responder device which has ranging service.
The victim-tags are 5G enabled wearable monitoring devices such as
smartwatches that can capture vitals and support distance measurement through
the ranging service.
### 5.15.3 Service Flows
  * Tom triaged Jerry as a yellow victim and attached a victim tag digitally marked as yellow onto his wrist
  * Jerry is moved by the logistics team to a designated area for yellow victims. Before doing so, the logistics team has designated yellow, red and green triage areas. This may be done in multiple ways, e.g.by configuring some virtual areas through an application (e.g. with reference coordinate system or floorplan), by putting some anchor devices in the center of an area and registering these as reference points to the AmbCel network. The AmbCel network also offers a feature to automatically detect areas where people are clustered together and for each of the clusters designate one of the devices in such cluster as the center of the cluster, which the logistics team can use to find these clusters and/or to quickly subdivide the area in different triage areas.
  * The logistics team may also configure some network parameters (such as QoS/URLLC requirements) for each triage area to the AmbCel cellular network.
  * As soon as Jerry is moved to the yellow tarp, it is recognized, by performing ranging between the victim tag of Jerry and other devices (including anchor devices or other device designated as a center of a group), that Jerry gets in close proximity of the yellow triage area (e.g. yellow tarp) and send this information to the AmbCel network, so that the AmbCel network can automatically allocate the specified network resources for medical devices in the yellow triage area.
  * After some time, the health condition of Jerry starts to deteriorate. One of the first responders moves Jerry to the red triage area (e.g. red tarp). Through the ranging functionality of Jerry's tag, it is recognized that Jerry has moved to the red triage area. The AmbCel network automatically allocates the specified network resources for medical devices in the red triage area. Also, the logistics team is notified about the change in triage status.
  * In parallel, Tom has moved to the other side of the building. Also there he found victims. Tom triaged James as a green victim and asked him to move to a safe place in the north of the market area.
  * Tom triages several other victims as green and asks them to gather near the safe place in the north of the market area. Ranging service in the victim tags are active, which starts to discover the neighbouring tags as people starts to move toward the north so they can be given directions and find each other.
  * A remotely located commanding officer of the first responding crew can request the AmbCel system information about the newly formed green cluster, receives the number of victims in that cluster and the relative location of the cluster.
  * A victim-tag is designated as the centre of the cluster based on the center of gravity of the cluster. As the cluster size grows beyond the predetermined tarp size, a new cluster is formed with set of green victim tags with a new center of gravity
  * The location of the clusters and the associated victims are continuously monitored as they walk towards the designated area of green tarp
  * Depending on the number of victim tags in each of the clusters, first responders can be directed to the relative location of the various clusters or triage areas by using their mobile phone UEs (that also support ranging).
### 5.15.4 Post-conditions
Tom and his crew are not exhausted about monitoring the location of the
victims and time for triaging is significantly reduced. Therefore, they can
pay more attention to the victims and their health conditions saving more
lives in the MCI event.
### 5.15.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
None.
### 5.15.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
[PR 5.15.6-1] The 5G system shall be able to support mechanisms for a UE to
assist another UE to perform ranging of a third UE (if all UEs are in LOS
conditions).
NOTE: It cannot be assumed that all ranging UEs support the same application
for exchange of information.
## 5.16 Tracking of devices
### 5.16.1 Description
A mass casualty incident (MCI) describes an event in which the emergency
medical services may get overwhelmed by the number and severity of the
casualties. An MCI may include chemical, biological, radiological emergencies,
mass shootings, major road accidents, buildings being on fire, natural
disasters such as earthquakes, etc., which can cause result in loss of human
lives in the MCI area. Digital technologies can help to improve the response
time of the first responders and reduce the amount of damage and/or loss of
life by improving the logistics of clinical and non-clinical operations in an
MCI event and real-time victim monitoring in the MCI area. Triaging is a
process applied when there are more casualties requiring aid than there are
medical personal available in the MCI area. Real-time positioning and grouping
of the victims in the triage area and health monitoring can aid the first
responders to save a lot of precious time for the first responders to make
swift yet accurate and group-level decisions to reduce loss of life in the MCI
area. A triage generally consists of a quick check for immediate life-
threatening concerns for the victims present in the triage area. An example of
the triaging process is the START system (simple triage and rapid treatment)
in which the first responder assigns each patient to one of four color-coded
triage levels, based on their breathing, circulation, and mental status. The
triage levels as described in START system are:
i. Immediate (Red color): Victims with major life-threatening injuries, but
are salvageable given the resources available
ii. Delayed (Yellow color): Victims with non-life-threatening injuries, but
are unable to walk or exhibit an altered mental status
iii. Walking wounded (Green color): Victims who are able to move themselves
out of the incident area to a treatment area
iv. Deceased or expectant (Black color): Victims who are dead, or whose
injuries make survival unlikely.
In this use case, a massive terrorist attack has taken place in an airport at
the arrivals hall located in the second floor of the airport building. More
than 100 victims are injured, classifying the event as a mass casualty
incident (MCI). The public telecommunication services are majorly interrupted,
with no positioning system accessible within the airport building. A first
responder crew of 3 members have arrived at the scene to identify, triage, and
transport the injured victims prioritized based on triage status to the
nearest hospitals. Tom, a first responder, has arrived at the scene with a
first responding vehicle which can serve as a temporary non-public mobile
network AmbCel. Tom have started to triage the victims based on the severity
of the injuries using color coding scheme similar to the START system. After
being triaged, every victim receives a body-worn ranging-enabled victim-tags
(e.g. wearable patient monitor) from Tom. Once the logistics team has arrived,
they started to deploy anchor nodes in the airport floor to enable accurate
tracking of victims' tags in the airport. This allows later arriving teams
(such as ambulance personnel) to be able to quickly find the respective
victims and bring them to the hospital.
### 5.16.2 Pre-conditions
Tom has a 5G enabled mobile phone UE with a USIM and a valid 5G subscription
and registered as a first responder device which has ranging service.
The victim-tags are 5G enabled wearable monitoring devices such as
smartwatches that can capture vitals and uses ranging services to measure
distances.
Anchor nodes have higher power rating therefore, can range over longer
distances.
### 5.16.3 Service Flows
  * Tom triaged Victor as a red victim and attached a victim tag digitally marked as red onto his wrist
  * Logistics team have arrived and started to deploy anchor nodes in the airport floor to enable accurate tracking of victims tags in the airport
  * A treatment team has arrived at the scene, which is notified about the number of red victims and their priority to receive treatment based on triage score
  * While arriving at the scene, the treatment team finds that there are multiple red victims that are scattered across the airport floors
  * A treatment officer, who has a treatment device and a mobile UE, picks Jerry from the list of victims. The mobile UE of the treatment officer shows that Jerry is located in bay two, row four of the departure halls in the first floor of the airport building.
  * The treatment officer is guided t to the exact location of Jerry in the airport building.
  * Within seconds, Jerry is provided the first-aid treatment for his injuries. His bleeding is temporarily stopped and he is immediately transported to the nearest hospital in an helicopter ambulance.
  * Thanks to the ranging services of the AmbCel 5G system, many lives are saved at an unfortunate time of this tragic incident.
### 5.16.4 Post-conditions
Tom and his crew can easily track the location of all the victims and time for
re-triaging is significantly reduced.
### 5.16.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
None.
### 5.16.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
[PR 5.16.6-1] The 5G system shall be able to support ranging enabled UEs to
determine the ranging capabilities (e.g. capabilities to perform distance
and/or angle measurement) of other ranging enabled UEs.
[PR 5.16.6-2] The 5G system shall be able to allow a ranging enable UE to
determine if another ranging enabled UE is stationary or mobile, before and/or
during ranging.
NOTE: this may require assistance from other ranging enabled UEs.
## 5.17 Immersive sound based on multiple-UE ranging
### 5.17.1 Description
When considering the ranging based on time or time difference of flight, LOS
path among UEs is very important for accuracy. However, LOS paths among UEs do
not always exist. In all timing-based positioning methods, additional random
bias due to non-line-of-sight condition deteriorates performance of position
estimation. This makes the accuracy of an initiating UE to range another UE
who has no LOS path with the initiating UE unpredictable.
In some scenarios, there may be multiple UEs which may provide help with
ranging if the UE have both LOS paths with the UE initiating ranging and the
target UE. For example, in home scenarios there may be multiple UEs and even
if there is no LOS paths between the UE who initiates the ranging and the
target UE, some UEs may "create" a LOS path for the two, i.e., some UE have
LOS paths with both of the two UEs. For example in Fig. 5.17.1-1, UE A needs
to range UE B but there is an obstacle between them which results in no LOS
path. UE A needs to first find a UE who has a LOS path with UE A and also a
LOS path with UE B, i.e., UE A needs to find a UE C. Also according to the
requirement on the ranging accuracy, UE A may also needs to check the ranging
accuracy level of UE C when ranging UE B. In this use case, we only consider
the one-hop LOS path "creation", i.e., only one UE helps with the ranging.
{width="2.7333333333333334in" height="1.9402777777777778in"}
Fig. 5.17.1-1 Create LOS path between UE A and UE B
Since the ranging operation proposed in other use cases is about peer to peer,
the UE ranges other UE based on its own coordinate system. For example, UE A
knows UE C is on its 4 o'clock direction, and UE C tells UE A that UE B is on
its 11 o'clock direction. However, with the UE C's information about UE B, UE
A cannot know where the UE B is. This is because UE A does not know which
direction UE C is facing. To help UE A, UE C needs to first calibrate its own
coordinate system with UE A to make sure they have the same understanding on
the coordinate system, e.g., by providing and compensating for the UE C
direction reference point. Then with the information collected from UE C and
UE B, UE A can determine the range to UE B accurately even though UE B has no
LOS path with UE A.
It will be fantastic to have an immersive audio experience when watching
movies in home. The speakers can provide this kind of experience if they can
know the position of each other and also the user.
Usually, to have immersive audio experience, several speakers are needed.
Ranging may help the speakers to determine position relative to each other and
to the listener. With the relative position of each other and to the listener,
the speakers can adjust the sound field and provide a better experience to the
listeners. The scenarios without LOS path may occur frequently due to the
uncertainty of the interior design and decoration of the space. In a home, the
speakers may be placed in any part of a room. In some cases, there may be no
LOS path between two of them. The NLOS path results in inaccurate ranging
between the two speakers, and it is hard to build the immersive audio
experience. In addition, a NLOS scenario between any speaker and the UE
representing the listener can be adapted for based on this method.
### 5.17.2 Pre-conditions
This use case is about Tom's home theatre plan. Tom bought a set of speakers,
and placed them in his home to create an immersive audio experience. According
to the instruction of the speakers, and also based on the availability of
audio and power wiring Tom distributed the speakers in his living room.
However, speaker A has detected that there is no LOS path to speaker B.
Speaker A can detect that speaker C has LoS path with speaker A. And speaker C
can detect that speaker B has LoS path with speaker B. This detection
mechanism is outside the scope of this document.
{width="3.0555555555555554in" height="2.5701388888888888in"}
Fig. 5.17.2-1 Tom's home theatre
### 5.17.3 Service Flows
1) Configuration procedure
Tom switched on the power to speakers A, B and C to perform calibration.
Speaker A discovers all UEs in the area to assist with ranging of a target UE.
Speaker A discovers speaker B and C, and Tom's UE.
Speaker A, speaker B and speaker C began ranging each other to adjust the
sound field when in later use.
Speaker A identifies by itself that it has NLOS path with speaker B, and a LOS
path with speaker C and Tom's UE.
Speaker B identifies by itself that it has NLOS path with speaker A and Tom's
UE, and a LOS path with speaker C.
Speaker C identifies by itself that it has LOS path with speaker A, B and
Tom's UE.
Note: the UE procedure for determining LOS and NLOS is out of scope of this
document.
Speaker A determines the relative position of speaker B through ranging with
help of speaker C. Ranging service in this scenario only includes three UEs
where Speaker A uses the ranging result of Speaker A to Speaker C, and the
ranging result of Speaker B to Speaker C to calculate/calibrate/corroborate
the ranging result of Speaker A to Speaker B. Therefore, Speaker A gathers the
ranging results from the other speakers in order to perform these
calculations.
Speaker A prepares to adjust the sound field.
2) Listening set-up procedure Speakers A, B and C began to range Tom's phone,
when Tom places the phone near to his head and uses the phone as a reference
point of his head. The speakers give quick feedback to Tom and adjust the
sound field to provide an immersive audio experience to Tom.
{width="3.4833333333333334in" height="2.9256944444444444in"}
Fig. 5.17.3-1 Ranging the listener
### 5.17.4 Post-conditions
Thanks to supporting ranging service, Tom gets a fantastic home theatre audio
experience.
### 5.17.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
None.
### 5.17.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
[PR 5.17.6-1] The 5G system shall be able to support mechanisms for a UE to
assist another UE to perform ranging of a third UE (if the requesting UE is
LOS with the assisting UE and the assisting UE is LOS with the third UE).
## 5.18 Remote Access Right Authorization
### 5.18.1 Description
In many companies, suppliers can get temporary access right to get into some
rooms or labs.
A supplier, Alice, takes a UE with ranging capability. If Alice gets access
right for some doors, her UE is authorized to use ranging service with the UEs
on these doors. When she is getting closed to one of the doors, the UE on the
door can get distance to Alice's UE and let the door open automatically.
To follow the company's security policy, the supplier needs to get
authorization every day from a particular employee of the company.
The employee, Bill, needs to check the supplier's UE and authorize the UE
access right for some doors.
### 5.18.2 Pre-conditions
A company, CICI, has very strict security policy. People need access right to
get into some doors, each of which has a UE on it. All the doors' UEs have
ranging capability to check people's access right.
Alice is a supplier of company. She has a UE with ranging capability to get
access right into some doors. But each time she arrives at the company, she
needs to get permitted by a particular employee, Bill, so that she can get
access right.
Bill has a UE, with which Bill can authorize access right to Alice's UE via
the 5G system.
5.18.3 Service Flows
Scenario 1
Alice contacts Bill about her plan to visit CICI and her phone number. Bill
needs to make sure that Alice herself has arrived at CICI to authorise her
access right. Bill provides CICI door's ID, So that Alice's phone can be
discovered by the door of CICI using internal IT system.
{width="1.8041666666666667in" height="0.9520833333333333in"}
Fig. 5.18.3-1 Alice contacts Bill and gets CICI door's ID from Bill
Alice arrivals at CICI and her phone is discovered by the door of CICI. Bill
gets alerted that Alice's phone is within the range of ranging service to the
door. Then, Bill triggers ranging service between Alice's phone and CICI's
doors, and provides a distance threshold, e.g., 10cm, to the doors for ranging
service to Alice's UE. When Alice places her phone within distance of 10cm to
one of CICI's doors, the door is opened automatically.
{width="2.2291666666666665in" height="1.0in"}
Fig. 5.18.3-2 Alice arrives at CICI. Her phone is discovered by the door of
CICI and gets the access right
When Alice finishes her job and leaves the area of the company, ranging
service on her UE is disabled.
{width="1.0333333333333334in" height="0.9784722222222222in"}
Fig. 5.18.3-3 Alice leaves CICI and ranging service on her phone is disabled
Scenario 2
Alice contacts Bill about her plan to visit CICI and her phone number. Bill
needs to make sure that Alice herself has arrived at CICI to authorise her
access right. Bill provides CICI door's ID and a distance threshold, e.g.,
10cm, for ranging service to Alice's UE.
{width="1.8041666666666667in" height="0.9520833333333333in"}
Fig. 5.18.3-4 Alice contacts Bill and gets CICI door's ID from Bill
Alice places her phone close to the door of CICI. Bill gets alerted from the
door that Alice's phone is within 10cm distance to the door and allow CICI's
door to be unlocked for Alice's UE.
{width="1.7236111111111112in" height="1.0in"}
Fig. 5.18.3-5 Alice place her phone close to the door. Bill unlocks the door
after gets alerted
When Alice finishes her job and leaves the area of the company, ranging
service on her UE is disabled.
{width="1.0333333333333334in" height="0.9784722222222222in"}
Fig. 5.18.3-6 Alice leaves CICI and ranging service on her phone is disabled
### 5.18.4 Post-conditions
Bill can use ranging service to authorize Alice' UE to use ranging service
with particular doors in CICI.
After Alice leaves the area of the company, ranging service on her UE is
disabled. When she gets back to the company, she cannot get into any door of
the company.
### 5.18.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
None.
### 5.18.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
[PR 5.18.6-1] The 5G system shall be able to support ranging service
authorization for a UE or a group of UE.
[PR 5.18.6-2] The 5G system shall be able to support ranging service
policy/parameter provisioning to UE.
[PR 5.18.6-3] The 5G system shall allow ranging service between 2 UEs trigged
by and exposed to a third UE.
[PR 5.18.6-4] The 5G system shall allow ranging service between 2 UEs trigged
by and exposed to the application serve.
## 5.19 Sharing Content to a Particular UE
### 5.19.1 Description
When we want to share a content to a UE in proximity, it may take a long time
to find the target UE on the phone, as the UE always shows a long list of
candidate UEs which can have direct communication. Sometimes, mistakes are
unavoidable for distinguishing the name of the target UE when there are
similar UE names in the list, especially when the list is changing on the fly.
To efficiently find the target UE, the user who wants to share the content can
hold his UE, which is the source UE, pointing to the target UE. With the help
of ranging service running on both of the UEs, the source UE can easily find
the target UE whose direction is the same as the reference direction of the
source UE.
In this use case, Bill wants to share different content from his phone to
Alice and Cassie. Alice and Cassie's UEs are always shown at the bottom of UE
list. Bill has to swipe screen for a long time to find their UEs on the list.
But with ranging service, Bill's phone shows Alice's UE when Bill points to
Alice with his phone. Bill's phone shows Cassie's phone when he points to
Cassie with his phone.
In this scenario, we need to consider: UEs of different users may subscribe to
and use network of different operators. The 5G system shall be able to support
ranging service of this scenario.
### 5.19.2 Pre-conditions
Alice, Bill and Cassie are chatting in a restaurant which is covered by
network of both operator A and operator B. Their UEs subscribe to different
operators:
  * Alice's phone subscribes to operator A.
  * Bill's phone subscribes to operator B.
  * Cassie's phone subscribes to operator C and is roaming to B's network.
### 5.19.3 Service Flows
The UEs of Alice Bill and Cassie subscribe to different operators. They want
to share content based on ranging service.
Bill wants to share different pictures to Alice and Cassie. He chooses a
picture on his phone and clicks "share". A mini map is shown on Bill's phone.
UEs around Bill's phone are shown on the map if they have authorized Bill's
phone to discover them by ranging service. If Bill turns around, any phone his
phone is pointing to is highlighted on the map.
When Bill points to Alice with his phone, Alice's phone is shown on the map in
the direction he is pointing to and is highlighted.
Bill clicks Alice's phone. Then, the picture is sent to Alice.
Bill shares another picture to Cassie using the same procedure.
{width="1.9715277777777778in" height="2.1458333333333335in"}
Fig. 5.19.3-1 Content sharing among UEs subscribing to different operators
### 5.19.4 Post-conditions
Bill's phone discoveries Alice and Cassie's UEs with ranging service.
Bill's phone can not discovery Daniel's UE, because Bill and Daniel are not
friends.
Bill's phone shows the right UE's name when Bill point Alice or Cassie with
his phone.
Bill selects right UE to share the right content.
### 5.19.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
None.
### 5.19.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
[PR 5.19.6-1] The 5G system shall be able to support ranging service
authorization for a UE or a group of UEs when a UE or a group of UEs will use
ranging in licenced band.
[PR 5.19.6-2] The 5G system shall be able to support ranging service
policy/parameter provisioning to UE.
[PR 5.19.6-3] The 5G system shall be able to support one UE initiates ranging
service to the other UE.
[PR 5.19.6-4] The 5G system shall be able to support ranging service between
UEs which subscribe to different operators.
[PR 5.19.6-5] The 5G system shall be able to provide ranging service to
roaming UEs.
[PR 5.19.6-6] The 5G system shall be able to authenticate the UE supporting
Ranging service.
[PR 5.19.6-7] The 5G system shall be able to authorize the UE for enabling
Ranging service.
[PR 5.19.6-8] The 5G system shall be able to ensure the integrity and
confidentiality of Ranging information used by Ranging-enabled UEs.
[PR 5.19.6-9] The 5G system shall be able to ensure that user privacy is not
violated during Ranging service, e.g., based on regulatory requirements.
[PR 5.19.6-10] The 5G system shall be able to ensure security protection
(e.g., interworking security) when the Ranging service concerns UEs subscribed
with different operators.
[PR 5.19.6-11] The level of security provided by the existing 5G system shall
not be adversely affected when Ranging service is enabled.
# 6 Consolidated requirements
## 6.1 Functional requirements
[CPR-1] The 5G system shall be able to support for a UE to discover other UEs
supporting Ranging.
[CPR-2] The 5G system shall be able to authorize Ranging for a UE or a group
of UE when using licensed spectrum.
[CPR-3] The 5G system shall be able to protect privacy of a UE and its user,
ensuring that no identifiable information can be tracked by undesired entities
during Ranging.
[CPR-4] The 5G system shall be able to enable or disable Ranging.
[CPR-5] The 5G system shall support mutual Ranging, i.e. two UEs shall be able
to initiate Ranging to each other.
[CPR-6] The 5G system shall be able to ensure that the use of Ranging, if in
licensed spectrum, is only permitted in network coverage under the full
control of the operator who provides the coverage.
[CPR-7] The 5G system shall support energy efficient Ranging operation.
[CPR-8] The 5G system shall be able to start ranging and stop ranging
according to the application layer's demand.
[CPR-9] The 5G system shall be able to provide mechanisms for a MNO, or
authorized 3rd party, to provision and manage ranging operation and
configurations.
[CPR-10] The 5G system shall be able to support mechanisms for a UE to assist
another UE to perform ranging of a third UE (if the requesting UE is LOS with
the assisting UE and the assisting UE is LOS with the third UE).
NOTE: It cannot be assumed that all ranging UEs support the same application
for exchange of information.
[CPR-11] The 5G system shall be able to support ranging enabled UEs to
determine the ranging capabilities (e.g. capabilities to perform distance
and/or angle measurement) of other ranging enabled UEs.
[CPR-12] The 5G system shall be able to allow a ranging enable UE to determine
if another ranging enabled UE is stationary or mobile, before and/or during
ranging.
NOTE: This may require assistance from other ranging enabled UEs.
[CPR-13] The 5G system shall allow ranging service between 2 UEs triggered by
and exposed to a third UE.
[CPR-14] The 5G system shall allow ranging service between 2 UEs triggered by
and exposed to the application server.
[CPR-15] The 5G system shall be able to support one UE initiating Ranging to
the other UE.
[CPR-16] The 5G system shall be able to support ranging service between UEs
which subscribe to different operators.
[CPR-17] The 5G system shall be able to allow roaming UEs to perform Ranging.
[CPR-18] The 5G system shall be able to ensure the integrity and
confidentiality of Ranging information used by Ranging-enabled UEs.
[CPR-19] The 5G system shall be able to ensure that user privacy is not
violated during Ranging service, e.g., subject to regional or national
regulatory requirements.
[CPR-20] The 5G system shall be able to ensure security protection (e.g.,
interworking security) when the Ranging service concerns UEs subscribed with
different operators.
[CPR-21] The level of security provided by the existing 5G system shall not be
adversely affected when Ranging service is enabled.
[CPR-22] The 5G system shall support a means to securely identify other
ranging capable UEs with which a ranging UE performs ranging.
## 6.2 Performance requirements
Table 6.2-1 -- KPIs for Ranging
Ranging scenario | Ranging Accuracy (95 % confidence level) | Availability | Latency | Effective Ranging distance | Coverage (note 1) | NLOS/LOS | Relative UE velocity | Ranging interval | Number of concurrent ranging operation for a UE | Number of concurrent ranging operation in an area |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Distance Accuracy | Direction Accuracy |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Distance based smart device control | 10cm | - | 99 % | 50ms | 20m | IC/PC/OOC | LOS | Static/ Moving (<1m/s) | 50ms |  20 | -  
Smart TV remoter | 10cm up to 3 meter separation | ±2° horizontal direction accuracy at 0.1 to 3 meter separation and AoA coverage of (-60°) to (+60°); ±2° Elevation direction accuracy at 0.1 to 3 meter separation and AoA coverage of (-45°) to (+45°) | 99 % | 10ms | 10m | IC/PC/OOC | LOS | Static/ Moving (<1m/s) | 50ms |  - | -  
Smart Vehicle Key | 10 cm | - | 99 % | 50ms | 30m | IC/PC/OOC | LOS | Static/ Moving (<2m/s) | 25ms | - | 50UEs/ (104m2)  
Finding Items in a supermarket | 50 cm | 5 degree | 95 % | 500ms | 100m | IC/PC/OOC | LOS | Static/ Moving (<1m/s) | 250ms | - | 100 UEs/ (3.14*104m2)  
Touchless Self-checkout Machine Control | 10cm | - | 99% | 50ms | 1m | IC/PC/OOC | LOS | Static/ Moving (<1m/s) | 100ms | - | =  
Hands Free Access | 10cm | - | [99 %] | 100ms | 10 m | IC/PC/OOC | LOS | Static/ Moving (1 m/s) | 50ms | - | 20 UEs/3.14*100m2  
Smart Transportation Metro/Bus Validation | 10cm | - | 99 % | 50ms | 2m | IC/PC/OOC | LOS | Static/ Moving (3km/h) | 50ms |  20 | 100 in the area of 8 m2  
distance based intelligent perception for public safety | 50cm | - | 99 % | - | 20m | IC/PC/OOC | LOS | Static/ Moving (<20km/h) | - | 100 | -  
Picture and video sharing based on ranging results | 10cm | 2° | 99 % | 50ms | 10m | IC/PC/OOC | LOS | Static/ Moving (<1m/s) | 50ms | - | -  
Ranging of UE’s in front of vending machine | 20cm | 10° | - | 150ms | 5m | IC/PC/OOC | LOS | Static/ Moving (<1m/s) | 50ms | - | 10  
Long Distance Search | 20m | 5° | 99 % | 1s | 100m-1km | IC/PC/OOC | LOS | Static/ Moving (up to 10m/s) | 5s | - | -  
Long range approximate location | [10m] | [12.5°] | 99% | - | 500m | IC/PC/OOC | LOS | Static/ Moving (<10m/s) | - | 1 | [50]UEs/ (104m2)  
NOTE 1: In coverage (IC), Partial coverage (PC) and out of coverage (OOC) apply to unlicensed spectrum, or for public safety networks with dedicated spectrum. In coverage applies to licensed spectrum. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
# 7 Conclusions and recommendations
The TR provides a number of use cases for Ranging-based services such as
distance based smart home device control, smart home TV control, smart vehicle
key, finding items in a supermarket, museum tour, touchless self-checkout
machine, hands free access, smart transportation metro/bus validation,
distance based intelligent perception for public safety, picture and video
sharing, ranging of UE's in front of vending machine, finding pets in a long
distance based on energy efficient Ranging.
The potential new requirements for each use cases are compiled into a set of
potential consolidated Ranging requirements, including functional requirements
and performance requirements, wherein a set of KPIs are defined, such as
distance accuracy, direction accuracy, availability, latency, effective
Ranging distance, coverage, NLOS/LOS, ranging interval, number of concurrent
Ranging operation for a UE or within an area.
The resulting potential requirements identified in this TR can be considered
for the development of normative requirements. It is therefore proposed to
consider the inclusion of these requirements in existing specifications for 5G
services (e.g. TS 22.261).
###### ### Annex A: Ranging accuracy
Ranging accuracy is divided into distance accuracy and direction accuracy.
For better understanding, we give an example for the ranging accuracy in 2D
coordinate system in Fig.A-1. From the distance perspective, the ranging
accuracy on distance is described as Δd. Then the distance of UE3 from UE1 is
d±Δd with confidence level 95%. The direction of UE2 to UE1 is θ±Δθ with
confidence level 95%. Similar situation applied to the 3D coordinate system
centred at the UE who initiates the ranging service.
{width="2.8743055555555554in" height="2.2493055555555554in"}
Figure A-1. Example of ranging accuracy
###### ### Annex B: Consideration for reference of measurement
To represent an object in some coordinates, it is important to set appropriate
origin and reference axis, and for all parties to have same understanding of
these.
Figure B-1: Different results depending on different origins
The Figure B-1 show how results can change, depending on how origin is
defined. For example, in the figure which shows how the distance and direction
between TV and remote controller is measured, the result can vary.
Following is assumed in the Figure B-1.
The television has three candidates for the selection of reference point of
measurement. , and . I.e, in the left side of Figure B-1, the reference point
is set to , and in the right side of Figure B-1, the reference point is set to
.
The Red line shows the reference axis from which the angle and distance are
determined.
The remote controller is directed toward .
As the figure shows, distance and angle between the TV and the remote
controller change depending on which point among , and is selected as
reference. When the target object is small, then this is not a major issue.
However, as the target object gets larger, the setting of reference point has
impact on the outcome.
In addition, as the figure shows, angle between the TV and the remote
controller can be further dependent on how reference axis is selected.
###### ### Annex C: Changing Coordinates
To represent where an object is located, applications typically use Cartesian
Coordinates. The object in the following figure can be represented as located
in (a,b) in the Cartesian Coordinates, with perpendicular axis X and Y.
Figure C-1: Object in Cartesian Coordinates
However, this object can also be represented in other ways. For example,
following figure shows how Polar Coordinates can be used, with reference axis
K. In Polar Coordinates, the location of an object is represented with r and
θ. r is the distance from the origin to the object and θ is the angle from a
reference direction.
Then, the location of the object in the figure C-2 can be represented with
(r,θ) in Polar Coordinate.
Figure C-2: Object in Polar Coordinates
Both representations are valid representations in locating the object.
Furthermore, one form of representation can be easily converted to other form
of representation, if all parameters in the original coordinates are
available. I.e, the conversion from Polar Coordinates to Cartesian Coordinates
are well knows as:
a = r * COS θ
b = r * SIN θ
Using this formula, the measured result of distance and angle can be converted
easily into points in Cartesian coordinates. Similar, the measured result in
Cartesian Coordinates can be easily converted into values in Polar
Coordinates.
Similarly, as shown in the figure C-3, the accuracy and error of one
coordinate can be easily converted to values in coordinates.
Figure C-3: Error range conversion between Polar Coordinates and Cartesian
Coordinates
#