# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is to address study use cases, potential new service
requirements for 5G system to support Smart Grid including the following
topics:
  * Smart Grid services, e.g. IEC standards, and their communications requirements including capacity, latency, availability, end-to-end QoS, resilience/redundancy and security.
  * Deployment requirements when considering constraints e.g. service lifetime, coverage (ubiquity), electromagnetic applicability (e.g. penetration, ability to operate in high EM environments,) etc.
  * Additional requirements due to operational manageability -- e.g. the ability to configure and monitor the real (achieved & up to date) availability of virtual network topologies
  * New Smart Grid use cases and potential service function requirements: e.g. on-demand power supply, distributed power supply system, distribution automation, higher accuracy power load measurement and control, meter automation, etc.
  * Communication KPI and service requirements for enabling microgrids, DER and specifically distributed generation (DG) that require 5G wireless communication (e.g. wind and solar energy generation, including scenarios at or near residential / consumer premises, etc.)
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] SunWeiqing etc. Generalized Energy Storage Control Strategies on User Side
in Power Ancillary Service Market. Automation of Electric Power System Vol.44
No.2 Jan.25, 2020
[3] IEEE C37.2-2008 IEEE Standard Electrical Power System Device Function
Numbers, Acronyms, and Contact Designations.
[4] IEC TR 61850-90-1:2010, Communication Networks and Systems for Power
Utility automation -- Part 90-1: Use of IEC61850 for the communication between
substations.
[5] IEEE 1588-2019 -- IEEE Standard for a precision clock synchronization
protocol for networked measurement and control systems.
[6] IEEE Guide for Application of Digital Line Current Differential Relays
Using Digital Communication.
[7] IEC 61850-9-3-2016 -- IEC/IEEE International Standard - Communication
Networks and Systems for Power Utility automation -- Part 9-3: Precision time
protocol profile for power utility
[8] 3GPP TR 22.804: \"Study on Communication for Automation in Vertical
domains (CAV)\".
[9] Sendin, A., et. al., \"Telecommunication Networks for the Smart Grid,\"
Artech House, 2016.
[10] Goel, S., S. F. Bush, and D. Bakken, (eds.), IEEE Vision for Smart Grid
Communications: 2030 and Beyond, New York: IEEE, 2013.
[11] US Department of Energy, \"Communications Requirements of Smart Grid
Technologies, 2010\", accessed 14.08.20,
http://energy.gov/sites/prod/files/gcprod/documents/Smart_Grid_Communications_Requirements_Report_10-05-2010.pdf
[12] IT Process Wiki -- The ITIL Wiki: Content is available according to
Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0 Germany License.
Access 14.10.20.
[13] Incident Management: https://wiki.en.it-
processmaps.com/index.php/Incident_Management Content is available according
to Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0 Germany License.
Access 14.10.20.
[14] Change Management: https://wiki.en.it-
processmaps.com/index.php/Change_Management Content is available according to
Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0 Germany License.
Access 14.10.20.
[15] Service Asset and Configuration Management: https://wiki.en.it-
processmaps.com/index.php/Service_Asset_and_Configuration_Management Content
is available according to Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-
ShareAlike 3.0 Germany License. Access 14.10.20.
[16] Open PLC European Research Alliance (OPERA).
https://cordis.europa.eu/project/id/026920
[17] \"Applications of ITU-T G.9960, ITU-T G.9961 transceivers for Smart Grid
applications: Advanced metering infrastructure, energy management in the home
and electric vehicles\", 06/2020.
https://www.itu.int/dms_pub/itu-t/opb/tut/T-TUT-HOME-2010-PDF-E.pdf
> [18] M. Amin and A. Giacomoni, \"Toward more secure, stronger and smarter
> electric power grids,\" IEEE PES\'11, 2011.
>
> [19] Eric D. Knapp, Raj Samani, \"Smart Grid Network Architecture\",
> \"Applied Cyber Security and the Smart Grid\", 2013
>
> [20] 5G DNA White Paper: \"5GDN\@Smart Grid White Paper: Requirements,
> Technologies, and Practices\" https://www.5gdna.org/
[21] IEEE Std 1344™-1995 (R2001), IEEE Standard for Synchrophasors for Power
Systems
[22] IEEE Std C37.118™-2011, IEEE Standard for Synchrophasors for Power
Systems
[23] IEEE Std 1588-2008, Precision Clock Synchronization Protocol for
Networked Measurement and Control Systems
> [24] IEEE Std C37.238-2017 , IEEE Standard Profile for Use of IEEE Std 1588™
> Precision Time Protocol in Power System Applications.
>
> [25] IEEE Std C37.224-2013
>
> [26] IEC 61850-90-5:2012, use of IEC 61850 to transmit Synchrophasors
> information according to IEEE C37.118
[27] IEEE Std C37.118.1a-2014: amendment 1 with modification of selected
performance requirements.
> [28] IEEE Std C37.118.2-2011
>
> [29] IEC 61850-90-3-2016 -- IEC/IEEE International Standard - Communication
> Networks and Systems for Power Utility automation -- Part 90-3:Using IEC
> 61850 for condition monitoring diagnosis and analysis
>
> [30] Budka, K, et. al., \"Communication Networks for Smart Grids\", Springer
> Verlag, 2014.
>
> [31] Microgrid Knowledge: https://microgridknowledge.com/
>
> [32] M. A. Haj-ahmed and M. S. Illindala, \"The influence of inverter-based
> DGs and their controllers on distribution network protection,\" in Proc.
> IEEE Ind. Appl. Soc. Annu. Meeting, Oct. 2013.
>
> [33] IEC, IEC 61850-5 communication networks and systems in substations --
> Part 5: communication requirements for functions and device models.
> \.
>
> [34] Moreira, N., Molina, E., Lázaro, J., et al: \"Cyber-security in
> substation automation systems\", Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev., 2016
[35] EN 50549-1, \"Requirements for generating plants to be connected in
parallel with distribution networks---Part 1: Connection to a LV distribution
network--- generating plants up to and including Type B\"
[36] EN 50438, \"Requirements for micro-generating plants to be connected in
parallel with public low-voltage distribution networks\"
[37] IEEE 1547 -2018, \"Standard for Interconnecting Distributed Resources
with Electric Power Systems\"
[38] IEEE 1547.4-2011, \"IEEE Guide for Design, Operation, and Integration of
Distributed Resources Island Systems with Electric Power Systems\"
[39] IEC 63547, \"Interconnecting distributed resources with electric power
systems\"
[40] IEC 62898-1, \"Microgrids---Part 1: Guidelines for microgrid projects
planning and specification\"
[41] IEC 62898-2, \"Microgrids---Part 2: Guidelines for operation\"
[42] IEC 62898-3-1, \"Microgrids---Part 3: Technical requirements - Protection
and dynamic control\"
[43] BDEW, \"Generating Plants Connected to the Medium-Voltage Network\"
[44] IEEE 929-2000, \"IEEE recommended practice for utility interface of
photovoltaic systems\"
[45] IEEE Std. 2030.7, \"the Specification of Microgrid Controllers\"
[46] DLMS/COSEM -- Device Language Message Specification:
https://www.dlms.com/dlms-cosem/international-standardization
[47] DLMS/COSEM Architecture and Protocols, Companion Specification for Energy
Metering
[48] European Commission Electricity Directive 2009/72/EC
_[49] IEC 61850-9-2:2011 Communication networks and systems for power utility
automation - Part 9-2: Specific communication service mapping (SCSM) - Sampled
values over ISO/IEC 8802-3_
_[50] IEC/IEEE 60255-118-1-2018 - IEEE/IEC International Standard - Measuring
relays and protection equipment - Part 118-1: Synchrophasor for power systems
-- Measurements_
_[51] 3GPP_ TR 22.878: \"Feasibility Study on 5G Timing Resiliency System\"
[52] SOGNO project, Deliverable 4.6, \"Description of the integration and
testing of the solution including the 5G based advanced communication\",
https://www.sogno-
energy.eu/global/images/cms/Deliverables/774613_deliverable_D4.6.pdf, June
2020.
[53] McKeever, P.; De Din, E.; Sadu, A.; Monti, A: \"MAS for automated black
start of multi-microgrids\". In Proceedings of the 2017 IEEE International
Conference on Smart Grid Communications (SmartGridComm), Dresden, Germany, 23
--27 October 2017; pp. 32--37.
[54] Gazis, V.ASurvey of Standards for Machine-to-Machine and the Internet of
Things. IEEE Commun. Surv. Tutor. 2017, 19, 482--511. [CrossRef]
[55] Ghorbanian, M.; Dolatabadi, S.; Masjedi, M.; Siano, P. Communication in
Smart Grids: A Comprehensive Review on the Existing and Future Communication
and Information Infrastructures. IEEE Syst. J. 2019, 13, 4001--4014.
[CrossRef]
[56] Oueis, J.; Conan, V.; Lavaux, D.; Stanica, R.; Valois, F. Overview of LTE
Isolated E-UTRAN Operation for Public Safety. IEEE Commun. Stand. Mag. 2017,
1, 98--105. [CrossRef]
[57] Ali, S. Next Generation and Advanced Network Reliability Analysis Using
Markov Models and Software Reliability Engineering; Springer Nature
Switzerland AG: Basel, Switzerland, 2019.
[58] McKeever, Padraic & Sadu, Abhinav & Rohilla, Shubham & Mehdi, Zain &
Monti, Antonello. (2020). Ensuring Uninterrupted MTC Service Availability
during Emergencies Using LTE/5G Public Mobile Land Networks. Telecom. 1.
181-195. 10.3390/telecom1030013.
[59] eSafeNet Project, [Online], Available: https://e-safe-net.de/
[60] Insulae Project, [Online], Available: http://insulae-h2020.eu/
> [61] SOGNO project, Deliverable 2.2, \"Description of initial interfaces &
> services for grid awareness\", https://www.sogno-
> energy.eu/global/images/cms/Deliverables/774613_SOGNO_D2.2.pdf, December
> 2018.
>
> [62] edgeFLEX project, Deliverable 1.2, \"Dynamic-phasor driven voltage
> control concept for current VPPs in large scale deployment deliverable\",
> https://www.edgeflex-h2020.eu/progress/work-packages.html, 31.03.2021.
>
> [63] edgeFLEX project, Deliverable 4.1, \"Description of edgeFLEX platform
> design\", https://www.edgeflex-h2020.eu/progress/work-packages.html,
> 31.03.2021.
[64] National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), \"Timing
Challenges in the Smart Grid\", January 2017.
[65] 3GPP TS 22.104: \"Service requirements for cyber-physical control
applications in vertical domains\".
[66] V. Cagri Gungor, Dilan Sahin, Taskin Kocak, Salih Ergut, Concettina
Buccella, Carlo Cecati, and Gerhard P. Hancke, \"A Survey on Smart Grid
Potential Applications and Communication Requirements\",
https://repository.up.ac.za/bitstream/handle/2263/58376/Gungor_Survey_2013.pdf
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**Smart Distribution Transformer Terminal** : The smart terminal is usually
deployed in the distribution transformer area. It can support multiple energy
applications simultaneously. On the one hand, it connects with multiple energy
application platforms through 5G communication system to exchange collected
data and management data with multiple energy application platforms; on the
other hand, it connects with diverse energy end equipment to collect related
electricity data, some of which can be analysed and take action in the smart
terminal.
**Physical Isolation communication service:** the physical isolation
communication service for energy application means the communication network
supporting the energy application utilizes dedicated network element and
dedicated radio resource e.g. PRB pool, spectrum etc.
**Logical Isolation communication service:** the logical isolation for energy
application means the communication network supporting the energy application
may utilize shared network element or shared network resource e.g. VLAN etc.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
BC Boundary Clock
GNSS Global Navigation Satellite System
PMU Phasor Measurement Unit
PTP Precision Time Protocol
TC Transparent Clock
TVE Total Vector Error
# 4 Overview
Communication infrastructure is essential to the successes of smart energy,
generally termed the \'Smart Grid\'. A power grid consists of four building
blocks: power generation, transmission, distribution, and consumption. These
different phases require different services, and these services have distinct
communication requirements. Examples of communication include data collection,
control and ongoing regulation, though these are functions of diverse services
-- e.g. SCADA applications for the Energy Management System (EMS) or
Distribution Management System (DMS). Smart Grid communication infrastructure,
overcomes different challenges in order to provide:
\- Distributed power generation, increasingly including \'renewable\' or
\'clean\' energy sources
\- Safe & highly efficient power transforming & transmission
\- Flexible & reliable power distribution
\- Efficient & available power consumption
\- Cyber security & resilience/redundancy
Smart Grid services today rely upon a range of telecommunications services,
delivered through a blend of private networks and commercially provided
services. As the energy system goes through changes, becoming more pervasive
(in territorial terms,) complex and sophisticated to meet the above goals,
there is a distinct opportunity for 5G to meet more of the utility
communication sector\'s needs and thereby become increasingly relevant to this
vertical, addressing existing shortcomings, as it builds out further capacity
and enhances existing infrastructure. Many of these grid services are
standardized by other standards bodies, e.g. IEC60870, IEC61850 and IEEE.
In summary, it is considered beneficial for 3GPP specifications in addressing
5G system support of different use cases and service requirements for Smart
Grid.
# 5 Use cases
## 5.1 Use case of Distributed Energy Storage
### 5.1.1 Description
Distributed energy includes various forms such as solar energy, wind energy,
fuel cell and gas combined. It is generally distributed in the user site, or
near locations to realize energy generation, storage and supply. Distributed
energy system has the characteristics of flexible location and
decentralization, which adapts well to decentralized energy demand, and has
reduced the huge investment required for upgrading the transmission and
distribution power grid. It also works as a backup for the large power grid to
improve reliability of whole energy supply. In storms, ice and snow weather,
when the large power grid is severely damaged, distributed energy sources can
form islands or microgrids on their own to provide emergency energy to
important users such as hospitals, transportation hubs, radio and television.
But the distributed energy system has brought new technical problems and
challenges to the power grid operation. When the distributed energy is
connected to the large power grid, the energy flow on the distributed power
grid becomes more complicated for that the user is becoming both the
electricity user and the generator, and the current presents two-way flow and
real-time dynamic changes. To improve the reliability, flexibility and
efficiency of the distributed power grid, the communication system with a low
latency, high reliability, massive connections and a high data rate is
considered.
{width="5.148611111111111in" height="2.8361111111111112in"}
Figure 5.1.1-1: Example of Distributed Energy Storage grid architecture
Seeing Figure 5.1.1-1, it is one example of Distributed Energy storage grid
architecture. The distributed power grid which is comprised of residential,
commercial and light storage users, requires to exchange information among the
Distributed Energy Storage Management Platform (DESMP) and the diverse
Distributed Energy Devices (DED). The information exchanged in the distributed
energy grid is not only to collect energy related data, but also to coordinate
working flows of the distributed energy storage equipment, to change the
equivalent load characteristics, and to realize flexible energy grid through
load interaction etc.
The DED is plug-and-play and periodically collects the operating information,
such as battery energy, charge and discharge energy, alarm information, etc.,
and transfers them to DESMP. The DESMP regularly maintains connections with
the DED and determines the online status and issue instructions to the DED to
control the switch of the device and set the energy etc. Further, it obtains
the electricity, energy, load and other information of the grid-connected
users in the area from the DED to support the decision-making of flexible
interaction between the distributed energy storage and the large power grid,
or to analyze the user\'s electricity habits to guide the operation of
distributed energy storage.
### 5.1.2 Pre-conditions
Distributed energy system has the following functions: data acquisition and
processing, active power adjustment, voltage and reactive power control,
island detection, dispatch and coordination control, etc. It is mainly
composed of DESMP, the DED and communication system.
The DESMP is located in region center. And the diverse DED can be deployed in
buildings, indoors, outdoors, tunnels, ports and electric vehicles which may
be faced a poor communication signal condition or even out of network
coverage.
The 5G system connects the DEDs with the DESMP.
### 5.1.3 Service Flows
Every time after the DED and the DESMP establish a communication connection,
the DED reports its configuration data to DESMP. For reliability, in general,
the communications between DESMP and DED should be supported by multiple
connections and backup each other.
The heartbeat data is always transmitted between the DESMP and DED to maintain
a normal connection.
In the process of general service flow, there are three kinds of data
exchange:
a) Command delivering: DESMP sends control commands to the DED. It always
requires \ ** | > | > | > | * | > | > | > | > **a | | scena |** use | **tra |** me | _data |__com |__rel |__st | ctive | | rio_ _| > c | nsfer | ssage | rate | munic | iabil | orage | > fa | | | ase_ _| > int | > s | per | ation | ity_ _| > | ctor/ | | | | erval | ize_ _| st | > la | | node | > | | | | > t | > | orage | tency | | > de | km2_ _| | | | arget | > | locat | > ( | | nsity | > | | | | > va | __(by | ion_ _| ms)__| | > # | > ** | | | | lue_ _| te)__| | | | > | (note | | | | > | | > | | | /km2 | > | | | | > __( | |__(b | | | > | 3)__| | | | ms)__| | it/s) | | | (note | | | | | | | > | | | > | | | | | | | (note | | | 2)__| | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | | | 1)_* | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+ | Dense | Vi | UL: | UL: | UL: | DL:10 | DL: | >1k | 10% | | Urban | rtual | 10 | >20k | \ | | >9 | | | | | e | | | >16 M | UL:10 | 9.90% | | | | | nergy | | | | | | | | | | st | | | DL: | | | | | | | orage | | | > | | | | | | | monit | | | 100 k | | | | | | | oring | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Vi | UL: | UL: | UL: | DL | DL: | >1k | 10% | | | rtual | 1000 | 16k | > | :\9 | | | | | e | | | 128 k | | 9.90% | | | | | nergy | | DL: | | UL:\ | | | | | | sto | | \ | DL: | 100k | > | | | | | | | other | | | 100 k | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | | | | colle | | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Rural | Power | UL: | UL: | UL: | DL | DL: | >100 | 10% | | | st | 10 | 16 | > | :\9 | | | | | orage | | k*50 | 640 M | | 9.90% | | | | | st | | | | UL | | | | | | ation | | | DL: | :\ | | | | | | | oring | | | 100 k | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | UL: | UL: | UL: | DL | DL: | >100 | 10% | | | nergy | 1000 | 26 | > | :\9 | | | | | st | | k*50 | 1 | | 9.90% | | | | | orage | | | 0.4 M | UL:\ | | | | | | st | | DL: | | 100k | > | | | | | | | ation | | | 100 k | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | | ollec | | | | | | | | | | tion: | | | | | | | | | | other | | | | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | | KPI | | | | | | | | | | is to | | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | | | | rate | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | one | | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | | nergy | | | | | | | | | | st | | | | | | | | | | orage | | | | | | | | | | st | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | | | | may | | | | | | | | | | via | | | | | | | | | | one | | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | | more | | | | | | | | | | 5G | | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | | onnec | | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | via | | | | | | | | | | one | | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | | more | | | | | | | | | | 3GPP | | | | | | | | | | UE(s) | | | | | | | | | | at | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | same | | | | | | | | | | time. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 2: It | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | | educe | | | | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | | | | v | | | | | | | | | | olume | | | | | | | | | | in an | | | | | | | | | | area | | | | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | | | | has | | | | | | | | | | mul | | | | | | | | | | tiple | | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | | nergy | | | | | | | | | | st | | | | | | | | | | orage | | | | | | | | | | stat | | | | | | | | | | ions. | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | | | | v | | | | | | | | | | olume | | | | | | | | | | can | | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | | duced | | | | | | | | | | th | | | | | | | | | | rough | | | | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | | | | ollow | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | mula: | | | | | | | | | | (Cu | | | | | | | | | | rrent | | | | | | | | | | + | | | | | | | | | | other | | | | | | | | | | data) | | | | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | | | | rate | | | | | | | | | | per | | | | | | | | | | st | | | | | | | | | | orage | | | | | | | | | | st | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | * | | | | | | | | | | (St | | | | | | | | | | orage | | | | | | | | | | node | | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | | nsity | | | | | | | | | | /km2) | | | | | | | | | | * | | | | | | | | | | (A | | | | | | | | | | ctive | | | | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | | | | actor | | | | | | | | | | /km2) | | | | | | | | | | + | | | | | | | | | | video | | | | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | | | | rate | | | | | | | | | | per | | | | | | | | | | st | | | | | | | | | | orage | | | | | | | | | | st | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | * | | | | | | | | | | (St | | | | | | | | | | orage | | | | | | | | | | node | | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | | nsity | | | | | | | | | | /km2) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 3: | | | | | | | | | | A | | | | | | | | | | ctive | | | | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | | | | actor | | | | | | | | | | means | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | propo | | | | | | | | | | rtion | | | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | n | | | | | | | | | | umber | | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | | ctive | | | | | | | | | | DED | | | | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | | deliv | | | | | | | | | | ering | | | | | | | | | | its | | | | | | | | | | coll | | | | | | | | | | ected | | | | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | | uring | | | | | | | | | | one | | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | | econd | | | | | | | | | | time | | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | | indow | | | | | | | | | | com | | | | | | | | | | pared | | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | | whole | | | | | | | | | | n | | | | | | | | | | umber | | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | DED | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | area | | | | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | | | | has | | | | | | | | | | mul | | | | | | | | | | tiple | | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | | nergy | | | | | | | | | | st | | | | | | | | | | orage | | | | | | | | | | st | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Table 5.1.6-2: Aperiodic communication service performance requirements \-
video for distributed energy storage
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | > **sc | > **use | > **data | > | > | > * | | enario** | > case**| > rate | **commu | **relia | *storage | | | | > per | nication | bility** | > node | | | | > | > | | > | | | | storage | latency | | density | | | | > s | > (ms)**| | > # / | | | | tation** | | | > km2**| | | | > | | | | | | | > * | | | | | | | *(bit/s) | | | | | | | > (note | | | | | | | > 1)** | | | | +==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+ | Rural | Energy | UL: | DL:\100 | | | storage | >5 G | | >99.90% | | | | station: | | U | | | | | video | DL: | L:\100 k | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | The data | | | | | | | rate is | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | require | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | rate in | | | | | | | one | | | | | | | Energy | | | | | | | storage | | | | | | | station | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | may via | | | | | | | one or | | | | | | | more 5G | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | nections | | | | | | | and one | | | | | | | or more | | | | | | | 3GPP | | | | | | | UE(s) at | | | | | | | the same | | | | | | | time. It | | | | | | | can be | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | lculated | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | ollowing | | | | | | | formula: | | | | | | | 12.5 | | | | | | | Mbytes/s | | | | | | | * | | | | | | | 50(con | | | | | | | tainers) | | | | | | | * 8 = | | | | | | | 5 Gbit/s | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
## 5.2 Use case of advanced metering
### 5.2.1 Description
Instead of recording and sending the metering data from a traditional wired
electricity meter unit, electricity metering collecting can be executed by an
UE integrated smart meter unit Smart meter units can send real-time metering
data to the server in the Power Enterprise through mobile networks. In this
way, the Power Enterprise based on the analysis of the user\'s power
consumption behavior give users more scientific and reasonable power
consumption suggestions, to develop users\' power consumption and energy-
saving habits. This is also a possible usage of AMI.
Advanced Metering utilizes AMI (Advanced Meter Infrastructure) system to
collect, count, analyze, distribute and manage abnormal electrical energy data
in the generation, transmission, distribution and using stages. It can collect
real-time data of user power, monitor line loss, and power outage, real-time
identify the change of household, calculate of three-phase imbalance, and
monitor station voltage.
NOTE: The information obtained from smart appliances are never considered
accurate nor guaranteed by certification authorities. This information is
useful to customers to understand and influence their consumption patterns.
The AMI is usually comprised of smart meter, concentrator, two-way
communication network, measurement data management system (MDMS), and an
optional user indoor network (HAN). See Figure 5.2.1-1.
{width="2.6770833333333335in" height="2.6354166666666665in"}
Figure 5.2.1-1: AMI example architecture
In general, the electric smart meter co-works with MDMS to deliver and perform
control command for measuring instruments. The electric smart meters monitor
relevant user energy status and deliver these data through concentrator to
MDMS. The MDMS sends control commands according to its policy and status data
collected. The remote commands from the MDMS include: tripping, closing
permission, alarm, alarm release, power protection, power protection release.
Accurate Fee control is one of the basic service of advanced metering, when
the user owes the fee or there is an emergency, it should be able to cut off
or restore power supply in time, as the operation involves the safety& QoE of
power users, a real-time response is required.
For the advanced metering application, the application layer through the
communication protocol to encrypt and protect these key data, in order to
protect all data, at least logical isolation is required, physical isolation
is better.
NOTE: Billing may or may not be correlated with use of MDMS service, as in
many geographies the DSO is a distinct business entity from the Retailer, who
has the direct business relationship with the customer. In such a case, the
smart meter information will not be correlated with any billing information
and cannot therefore provide feedback to customers concerning the billing
impact of their energy usage.
Due to massive electricity meter boxes and household appliances keep online at
the same time, the amount of connections the mobile network maintains
simultaneously is so enormous that challenging to the mobile network capacity.
It is estimated that the increased connections will up to 50-100 times.
### 5.2.2 Pre-Conditions
SS is a power company and it constructs AMI system to deploy advanced meter
service for its users. Operator TT has a contract with the power company SS to
supply communication service for the AMI system.
Tom is one of the user of SS. In his house, all the electric equipment\'s
energy data can be collected by smart meter and then reported to the MDMS of
SS.
The smart meter is located in Tom\'s house or nearby and the MDMS is located
in the remote city center. The distance between the smart meter and the energy
management center can be as far as a middle size city range (e.g. Tens of km).
Peter is another user of SS. He has a contract with SS about smart energy
usage in his house. SS provides electrical sockets with metering function for
typical electrical appliances in his house and all the electrical energy
generated by typical electrical appliances that from the electrical socket is
measured in real time.
### 5.2.3 Service Flows
Scenario 1:
1) The smart meter in Tom\'s house report related energy usage data to SS.
2) The MDMS of SS sends commands to smart meter in Tom\'s home to adjust smart
meter report frequency and content considering its whole energy working
status.
3) The smart meter in Tom\'s home changes the report scheme accordingly.
4) When the MDMS detects that the user\'s remaining electricity will be run
out, it will send an alarm command to remind the user to recharge as soon as
possible;
5) When the user\'s remaining electricity is exhausted, the MDMS will issue a
trip command and the smart meter need implement the trip action accordingly
which requires the latency less than 200ms (command delivery \+ command
action);
6) When there are special circumstances that cannot be cut off, the MDMS can
issue a power protection command in advance to ensure that the smart meter
will not trip for related circumstances.
Scenario 2:
1) After the smart meter in Tom\'s house reports the status data to the MDMS,
it detects that something is wrong with Tom\'s home electricity supply system.
2) The MDMS asks the smart meter to report more information for
troubleshooting.
3) The smart meter co-works with MDMS to resolve the problem.
Scenario 3:
The smart energy meter works as a home gateway, and every electric equipment
with metering functions is connected and interacted with the smart energy
meter through HPLC (high-speed power line carrier) or 5G. The figure 5.2.3-1
illustrates the typical scenario.
The electricity consumption information of various smart household appliances
is delivered to the smart energy meter. Then the smart energy meter uploads
them to backend platform through 5G system. These information are user private
data and require physical isolation delivery with other application data.
Figure 5.2.3-1: smart meter works as home gateway
1) The socket measures energy data in real time and deliver it to the smart
energy meter. The communication link between them can be HPLC (High-speed
power line carrier) or 5G.
2) The smart energy meter acting as a data gateway can receive all the energy
data in Peter\'s house and send them to the backend platform of SS.
3) According to the actual load of the energy grid, SS has the possibility to
adjust user\'s energy usage in real time. For example, when the energy is
overload, the backend platform sends control command to adjust the temperature
of the air conditioner in Peter\'s house; when the energy load is reduced, it
can encourage users to use more energy such as electric vehicle charging.
### 5.2.4 Post-Conditions
The energy related information from electric equipment can be reported to the
MDMS on demand with required content and required communication performance.
The electric accurate fee control function can be implemented.
Co-working with smart meter, the MDMS can remotely troubleshoot energy problem
for its user.
The power grid company regularly provides users with detailed energy
consumption analysis reports based on the collected data, and guides users to
use electricity scientifically and rationally.
### 5.2.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
The 5G system shall be able to support resilience to dynamic adjust connection
service performance considering advanced metering demand.
The 5G system shall be able to provide connection service wherever indoor,
outdoor, low and medium altitude for advanced metering applications.
The 5G system shall be able to support at least logical isolation
communication service for advanced meter applications.
NOTE: The logical isolation communication service can utilize shared network
element or shared network resource. To advanced meter application, it is the
minimum requirement.
The 5G IoT device shall be able to connect energy equipment via 3GPP/non-3GPP
connections to get energy data and to deliver the data to back-end energy
applications via 5G connection.
### 5.2.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
[PR.5.2-001] The 5G system shall be able to provide required communication
service for advanced metering application according to KPI given in table
5.2.6-1.
Table 5.2.6-1: Communication KPI for advanced metering (note 1)
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | **User |** Latency**|** Re | * | * | | experienced | | liability**|_Connection |_ Coverage** | | data rate**|**(ms)**| | density** | | | | | **%** | | | | **(bit/s)** | | | | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | UL:\99.99 | \ NOTE: \"6\" represents the number of 10kV lines per square kilometre, \"5\"
> is switches number per line, \"4\" is the number of the boundary switch
> which is installed on the high voltage side of the distribution transformer
> of each segment of the line.
\- Power distribution cabinets scenario: n = 6 * (4 * 3 + 1) = 78.
> NOTE: \"6\" represents the number of 10kV lines, \"4\" means the number of
> distribution cabinet in one 10kV line. \"3\" is the number of switch
> including the boundary switch in each power distribution cabinet, \"1\"
> means every line end has a switch to monitor the line.
In the future, when the power load density increases, or with differential
protection utilized in the Feeder automation, more distribution terminals
(e.g. more than 100) need to be considered.
### 5.3.2 Pre-Conditions
Typically, the distributed Grid can be divided into urban and agricultural
parts. In urban area, the power load is relatively concentrated, and the
distributed grid working environment is better. But in the agricultural area,
the power service range is very large, while the distributed grid has to face
so many issues e.g. a large number of harmonic sources, three-phase unbalance,
voltage flicker pollution.
Two 5G communication links are deployed for hot standby or transmitting data
synchronously between UEs in distributed terminals and the network.
### 5.3.3 Service Flows
1) Data collection: The distributed terminal collects and reports related
status information to the distribution master station or other distributed
terminals in real time.
2) Fault detection and localization: The distributed terminal collects fault
signal from itself and neighboring terminals. Then it executes data processing
and fault location logic, and judges the fault whether an instantaneous or
permanent fault.
a) When the distribution fault is an instantaneous fault, it will be skipped.
b) When the fault is a permanent fault, the distributed terminal will locate
the feeder fault based on the signals of each power distribution terminal. The
upstream power distribution terminal of the node will continue to send status
information, while the downstream power distribution terminal will not report
the fault signal. Therefore, in the corresponding fault node, only one switch
should send out the fault signal. According to this feature, when a feeder
fault occurs, every distributed terminal could judge its position relative to
the fault location.
3) Fault isolation: When the fault node is determined, according to the
preconfigured action order, all switches around the faulty node will be open
to realize effective identification and isolation of the faulty area.
4) Fault restoration: For the restoration of power supply in non-fault area,
it is necessary to clarify the number and wiring of the switches it tied to,
e.g. when a fault occurs in the cabinet of the one-in-two-out ring main unit,
if two outgoing lines have isolated power-loss area. The related distributed
terminals will reconstruct the power distribution structure, and close the tie
switch, to restore the power supply in the power-loss area.
5) Restoration confirmation: After the power supply is restored in the power-
loss area, the system needs the distribution terminals report status
information to determine whether the restoration is well done.
### 5.3.4 Post-Conditions
It can identify and shorten the power feed accident isolation time to
milliseconds and support regional non-stop power services.
### 5.3.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
The 5G system shall be able to provide connection service wherever the
distributed terminal is indoor, outdoor, low and medium altitude, or
underground.
The 5G system shall be able to provide suitable APIs to enable application
layer to monitor communication link status.
The 5G system shall be able to provide at least two back up communication
links between every IoT device in a distributed terminal and the network.
### 5.3.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
[PR.5.3-001] The 5G system shall be able to provide required communication
service according to KPI given in table 5.3.6-1.
Table 5.3.6-1: KPI for Distributed Feeder Automation (note 1)
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | **User |** IoT | ** | * | * | **Con |** Cov | | expe | device | Latency | _Synchr |_ Reliab | nection | erage**| | rienced | to 5G | j | onicity | ility** | de | | | data | network | itter**| budget | | nsity** | | | rate**| la | | requ |** %**| | | | | tency** | **(µs) | irement | | | | |**(b | | (note | (µs)**| | | | | it/s)** | **(m | 3)** | | | | | | | s)(note | | | | | | | | 2)** | | | | | | +=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+ | 2 | \ The 5G system shall allow flexible mechanisms to establish and enforce
> priority policies among the different services (e.g. MPS, Emergency,
> medical, Public Safety) and users.
>
> NOTE 1: Priority between different services is subject to regional or
> national regulatory and operator policies.
>
> The 5G system shall be able to provide the required QoS (e.g. reliability,
> end-to-end latency, and bandwidth) for a service and support prioritization
> of resources when necessary for that service.
>
> The 5G system shall be able to support a harmonised QoS and policy framework
> applicable to multiple accesses.
>
> The 5G system shall be able to support E2E (e.g. UE to UE) QoS for a
> service.
>
> NOTE 2: E2E QoS needs to consider QoS in the access networks, backhaul, core
> network, and network to network interconnect.
>
> A 5G system with multiple access technologies shall be able to select the
> combination of access technologies to serve an UE on the basis of the
> targeted priority, pre-emption, QoS parameters and access technology
> availability.
TS 22.261 clause 6.8:
> Based on operator policy, the 5G system shall support a real-time, dynamic,
> secure and efficient means for authorized entities (e.g. users, context
> aware network functionality) to modify the QoS and policy framework. Such
> modifications may have a variable duration.
TS 22.261 clause 6.10.2:
> Based on operator policy, the 5G network shall provide suitable APIs to
> allow a trusted third-party to define and update the set of services and
> capabilities supported in a network slice used for the third-party.
>
> Based on operator policy, the 5G network shall provide suitable APIs to
> allow a trusted third-party application to request appropriate QoE from the
> network.
TS 22.261 clause 8.2:
> The 5G system shall provide integrity protection and confidentiality for
> communications between authorized UEs using a 5G LAN-type service.
>
> The 5G system shall provide suitable means to allow use of a trusted third-
> party provided encryption between any UE served by a private slice and a
> core network entity in that private slice.
>
> The 5G system shall provide suitable means to allow use of a trusted and
> authorized third-party provided integrity protection mechanism for data
> exchanged between an authorized UE served by a non-public network and a core
> network entity in that non-public network.
Smart Grid services specified by IEC generally are defined only at layer 7\.
This means there are no defined KPIs for lower layer implementation. These
values are determined through measurements and analysis. The research is
already some years old. The bandwidth requirements are known to be increasing
with time, as more services are added and services are deployed more
extensively.
Specific QoS for different services is included in this section as it clearly
corresponds to needs by Smart Grid. The following KPIs can be supported by
existing requirements.
Table 5.5.5-1: KPIs for Smart Energy Services
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | **Se |** Ba | **La |** Avail | ** | **Cov |** Power | | rvice**| ndwidth | tency** | ability | Density | erage**| supply | | | (kb | | (%)** | #custo | | backup | | | it/s)**| | | mers/** | | (n | | | | | | | | ote1)**| | | | | |** km2** | | | +=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+ | A | 10-100 | 2-15 s | 9 | Minimum | | Not | | dvanced | | | 9-99.99 | density | | ne | | m | | | | | | cessary | | etering | | | | 0.00136 | | | | infrast | | | | | | | | ructure | | | | Average | | | | (AMI) | | | | density | | | | | | | | | | | | (note2) | | | | 10 | | | | | | | | 6.56371 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Max | | | | | | | | Density | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 2293 | | | | | | | | 7.78217 | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | A | UL: | \ Reports from U are provided to A and B on a monthly basis. U expects a
> certain quality of service delivered by A and B. The achieved service levels
> are tracked and presented in the report. If A or B do not comply with the
> service level agreement, actions are specified in the SLA (and these are out
> of scope of this study.)
>
> A DSO might request the following to be included in the report:
(1) Network performance (latency and packet loss above threshold),
(2) Network stability (the connection remains stable over time), (3)
Accumulated alarms arising due to the MNOs network (e.g. massive or isolated
RAN issues.)
NOTE 6: The list above is an example only. The specifics of report generation
of is out of scope of the present document.
Alarms Panel
Alarms can be triggered so that incident\'s responsible parties are informed
in real time and the remediation actions and/or escalation processes can be
initiated. Alarms are reported by U to A and B as part of the Incident
Management process. Incidents may be of the following forms (this is not an
exclusive list):
\- Massive incident where all UEs connectivity is affected whose SIM cards are
provided by A or B.
NOTE 7: An incident reported by U to A or B could be caused (at least in part)
by incidents in a single access point.
### 5.7.3 Service Flows
The service flows below are examples of typical situations encountered by
\"Fred\", a technician at Utility U\'s Network Management Center (NMC), to
illustrate the normal operation and maintenance processes (with emphasis on
Change Management, Incident Management and Configuration Management):
1) Fred is checking M&M \"KPI Dashboard\" and, while looking at the Weekly
graph of Connectivity status, he notices a sudden drop of accumulated traffic
consumption of MNO A and a sudden increase of MNO B traffic. At the same time
at \"Alarms\" panel there is an incoming alarm informing of a Massive event.
An automatic ticket is created to MNO A and the counter of massive events is
updated to be reflected in the next SLA monthly report to track MNO A\'s
quality of service.
2) Fred tries to remotely perform a firmware upgrade to the Substation
Automation unit and, after a couple of unsuccessful attempts, notices that the
firmware upgrade cannot be fully completed because the connection is unstable.
Fred checks the Stability graph on \"KPI Dashboard\" for this particular
Substation code and confirms that there is a recurring cell roaming of MNO
A\'s SIM card during the last 12 hours. Fred accesses remotely to the cellular
router that is providing cellular access to the substation Automation units
and provokes a failover to MNO B. This turns out into a stable connection
which enables a successful completion of firmware upgrade process. At the same
time, he checks the \"Alarm panel\" and confirms that a notification has been
sent to the MNO A because this bad behaviour has been happening for the last
month.
3) Utility U is embarked in the renewal of electric MV cables of a group of 10
Substations located in the proximity of \"Main Convention centre\". These
Substations are using BPL (Broadband PLC over Medium Voltage) as the main
backhaul connection with failover to cellular backhaul in case of main
connection failure. Fred observes that the backup cell communication with MNO
A for the 10 Substations is working, though runs unstably. Fred checks the
\"Dashboard KPI\" Performance graph and confirms that the Substations\'
cellular connections have high latency and packet loss rate during day working
hours for the last two weeks. At the same time, after checking Stability graph
on \"KPI Dashboard\" Fred confirms that the USIM cards in the 10 Substations
also present constant technology roaming from E-UTRAN service to UTRAN
service. This issue has been affecting hourly smart meter readings. Fred
remembers that there has been an Automobile Fair at the Convention centre in
the last two weeks that might have affected the Radio resources available at
the eNodeB. He checks the alarms and sees that there has been an alarm sent to
MNO A to report on Service Quality degradation. This alarm triggers an
auditing process lead by MNO\'s radio team in order to increase the capacity
of 2 specific sectors of 1 eNodeB serving the Convention centre area. (This is
an example of a performance based trigger for Change Management as part of the
overall Service Level Management process between U and A.)
4) While analysing MNO A\'s monthly SLA report, Fred observes that the average
latency of all connected SIM cards has dramatically increased in the last two
months from an average of 200 ms up to 630 ms. Furthermore, there has been an
accumulated amount of 10 massive incidents in the last month. This information
is instrumental to contact MNO A that was aware of the massive incidents but
was not of the increase in latency. In order to solve it the MNO takes
appropriate action.
5) While monitoring the Performance graph on \"KPI Dashboard\", Fred observes
high packet loss rate affecting all connected Substations through MNO B. This
issue is starting to affect the smart meter reading rates. Fred promptly opens
a ticket to MNO B (as part of the Incident Management process.)
Alternatively, if B detects a problem in their network that will degrade
service levels in U\'s network, B will use a standard mechanism to raise an
alarm in U\'s network. This will alert Fred, who will note that there is
already an open ticket related to the incident, as well as other data
associated with the service degradation.
6) MNOs A and B have recently informed DSO \"U\" about the imminent phase out
of 3G services at national level. They inform about the process timeline which
is planned to start in the next 6 months to be fully completed along one year
starting in urban areas. Fred has been designated to coordinate the
remediation activities that will avoid MNO\'s network operations to affect DSO
U\'s Smart Grid operations. Fred checks \"KPI dashboard\" in \"M&M platform\"
to do a first evaluation of the dimensions of the situation. The accumulated
graph per technology and frequency band for each MNO shows that there are
20,000 substations currently connected by means of Cellular 3G. \"3G
remediation\" project definition starts. (This is an example of the Change
Management process informed by Configuration Management and performance data.)
7) \"3G remediation\" project requires DSO \"U\" to undertake both field and
administrative operations. Field operations will consist on replacing cellular
devices and SIM cards of MNOs A and B all over 20,000 substations. Inventory
information of SIM cards\' location available on \"M&M\" platform allows to
efficiently coordinate field operations. (Configuration Management is needed
during Release Management process. The release management process is not
discussed further in this use case.)
8) Administrative operations consist on provisioning 20,000 new generation
technology SIM cards of both MNOs A and B. \"M&M\" platform will enable a
single interface of operation which will make the task more efficient and
straightforward than it was before when provisioning had to be performed by
means of two separate MNO\'s Web Portals. This is possible thanks to the fact
that SIM card parameters (APN, status, IP, Subscription group, etc.) for both
MNO\'s A and B are standard, delivered through the same API definition. This
allows an easy integration of all MNO information into a single operating
platform. (This is an example of Configuration management processes making use
of standard interfaces.)
### 5.7.4 Post-conditions
U is able to work to maintain and improve the services they provide to their
customers both during incidents and over time as part of Incident Management
and Change Management processes. U is able to report incidents to A and B with
standard mechanisms and content that will help the identification and solution
of it with less effort and time. A and B receive input from U and is able to
improve and maintain their service quality. A and B provide notifications to U
regarding changes _for selected components_ (e.g. specific UE aspects) to
status and configuration (both long term and every time that specified
components change) as per their service agreement. A and B can inform U of
service changes in advance. A and B inform U when an incident occurs by means
of standards based mechanisms.
### 5.7.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
TS 22.261 clause 6.10.2:
> Based on operator policy, the 5G network shall provide suitable APIs to
> allow a trusted third-party to monitor the network slice used for the third-
> party.
>
> The 3GPP network shall be able to provide suitable and secure means to
> enable an authorized third-party to provide the 3GPP network via encrypted
> connection with the expected communication behaviour of UE(s).
>
> NOTE 1: The expected communication behaviour is, for instance, the
> application servers a UE is allowed to communicate with, the time a UE is
> allowed to communicate, or the allowed geographic area of a UE.
>
> The 3GPP network shall be able to provide suitable and secure means to
> enable an authorized third-party to provide via encrypted connection the
> 3GPP network with the actions expected from the 3GPP network when detecting
> behaviour that falls outside the expected communication behaviour.
>
> NOTE 2: Such actions can be, for instance, to terminate the UE\'s
> communication, to block the transferred data between the UE and the not
> allowed application.
>
> Based on operator policy, the 5G network shall provide suitable APIs to
> allow a trusted third-party to scale a network slice used for the third-
> party, i.e. to adapt its capacity.
>
> Based on operator policy, the 5G network shall provide suitable APIs to
> allow a trusted third-party application to request appropriate QoE from the
> network.
>
> Based on operator policy, the 5G network shall expose a suitable API to
> allow an authorized third-party to monitor the resource utilisation of the
> network service (radio access point and the transport network (front,
> backhaul)) that are associated with the third-party.
>
> Based on operator policy, the 5G network shall expose a suitable API to
> allow an authorized third-party to define and reconfigure the properties of
> the communication services offered to the third-party.
>
> Based on operator policy, the 5G system shall provide suitable means to
> allow a trusted and authorized third-party to consult security related
> logging information for the network slices dedicated to that third-party.
>
> Based on operator policy, the 5G network shall be able to acknowledge within
> 100ms a communication service request from an authorized third-party via a
> suitable API.
>
> The 5G network shall provide suitable APIs to allow a trusted third-party to
> monitor the status (e.g. locations, lifecycle, registration status) of its
> own UEs.
>
> NOTE 3: The number of UEs could be in the range from single digit to tens of
> thousands.
>
> The 5G system shall provide suitable APIs to allow third-party
> infrastructure (i.e. physical/virtual network entities at RAN/core level) to
> be used in a private slice.
>
> A 5G system shall provide suitable APIs to enable a third-party to manage
> its own non-public network and its private slice(s) in the PLMN in a
> combined manner.
TS 22.261 clause 6.26.2.3:
> The 5G network shall enable the network operator to create, manage, and
> remove 5G LAN-VN including their related functionality (subscription data,
> routing and addressing functionality).
TS 22.261 clause 6.26.2.5:
> The 5G system shall support traffic scenarios typically found in an
> industrial setting (from sensors to remote control, large amount of UEs per
> group) for 5G LAN-type service.
TS 22.261 clause 6.26.2.9:
> Based on MNO policy, the 5G network shall provide suitable APIs to allow a
> trusted third-party to create/remove a 5G LAN-VN.
>
> Based on MNO policy, the 5G network shall provide suitable APIs to allow a
> trusted third-party to manage a 5G LAN-VN dedicated for the usage by the
> trusted third-party, including the address allocation.
>
> Based on MNO policy, the 5G network shall provide suitable APIs to allow a
> trusted third-party to add/remove an authorized UE to/from a specific 5G
> LAN-VN managed by the trusted third-party.
TS 22.261 clause 8.5:
> For a private network using 5G technology, the 5G system shall support
> network access using identities, credentials, and authentication methods
> provided and managed by a third-party and supported by 3GPP.
23.628, 5.6.1 provides monitoring of UE location, IMSI-IMEI association
changes, UE connectivity and PDN connection status.
23.502, 4.15.3.1 provides the analogous monitoring capabilities for the 5GC.
It may be possible for the utility to interact using non-standard means with
the MNO to determine the status of any of their subscriptions (and associated
UICC/USIMs.) This capability is entirely out of scope of 3GPP.
It also may be possible using non-standard means for the utility to request
configuration default information related to their subscriptions (and
associated UICC/USIMs.) This capability is entirely out of scope of 3GPP.
### 5.7.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
[PR.5.7-001] Based on MNO policy, the 5G network shall provide means to allow
a trusted third party to monitor LAN-VN performance parameters, to configure
and receive information for conditions relevant to a specific UE, specifically
performance of the network and configuration aspects of the UE in the VN.
[PR.5.7-002] The 5G system shall provide a means by which an MNO informs 3rd
parties of network events (failure of network infrastructure affecting UEs in
a particular area, etc.).
[PR.5.7-003] The 5G system shall provide a means by which an MNO informs 3^rd^
parties of congestion or other general performance degradation (especially if
planned or known).
[PR.5.7-004] The 5G system shall provide a means by which an MNO can report
site specific and massive events to 3^rd^ parties.
[PR.5.7-005] The 5G system shall provide means by which an MNO informs 3rd
parties of changes in UE subscription information. The 5G system shall also
provide a means for 3rd parties to request this information at any time from
the MNO.
NOTE: Examples of UE subscription information include IP address, 5G LAN-VN
membership and APN/DNN. These changes can have strong impacts in the stability
of the 3^rd^ party service.
[PR.5.7-005a] Based on operator policy, the 5G system shall provide means for
the 3rd parties to request changes to UE subscription parameters for access to
data networks, e.g. static IP address, APN/DNN.
[PR.5.7-006] The 5G system shall provide a means by which an MNO can inform
3rd parties of changes in the RAT type serving UE, cell ID, quality of signal
information, change in frequency band assigned with a suitable frequency via
OAM and/or 5G core network to aid the 3^rd^ party user in taking proactive
actions to achieve their own service availability.
## 5.8 Use case of Smart Distribution Transformer Terminal
### 5.8.1 Description
The Smart Distribution Transformer Terminal is usually deployed in the
distribution transformer area. It could support multiple energy applications
simultaneously. Multiple kinds of energy data are collected firstly by the
terminal and then delivered to related energy application platform. Some kind
of data could be analysed, or even the terminal itself can make decision to
perform real-time action. Figure 5.8.1-1 illustrates a work flow example of
Smart Distribution Transformer Terminal.
{width="6.0in" height="3.295138888888889in"}
Figure 5.8.1-1: Example of Smart Distribution Transformer Terminal work flow
With the assistance of 5G system, it could report massive energy data
separately to multiple energy application platforms according to their
requirements. And data from energy application platforms could also be sent to
terminal through 5G network, no matter it is business data or management data.
Typical interactive data includes fault / alarming events, switch state
variation, device abnormal changes, remote control operation, electrical
analog data, meter reading data, topology relationship, decision-making
information, edge computing conclusion, equipment OA&M data, remote upgrading,
scheduled communication, etc. Some of this data is event triggered and
requires a high priority for real-time communication while others may need a
regular latency but broad bandwidth channel to fit their demands.
The energy application platform could be connection management platform
(a.k.a. IoT platform), master station of distribution automation system and
master station of electric energy data acquire system. In the future, there
might be more platforms that need to transfer data through the 5G network.
In general, the connections between the Smart Distribution Transformer
Terminal and application platform are provided by 5G system, while the
connections between energy end equipment and Smart Distribution Transformer
Terminal may be provided by 5G system either. When they are 5G connections,
about 300 \~ 500 energy end equipment are connected to a Smart Distribution
Transformer Terminal. The average application layer packet data rate for one
kind of Smart Grid application between the Smart Distribution Transformer
Terminal and energy end equipment is more than 2 Mbit/s in uplink e.g. smart
metering, while the communication range is from 100m to 500m. In some cases,
the data delivered to the Smart Distribution Transformer Terminal can be
locally processed by the Terminal directly to improve working efficiency with
the authorization of application platform. These energy applications and
different data flows in one application require different communication
services and different safety & isolation protection according to the Industry
regulation. So, the Smart Distribution Transformer Terminal is required to
isolate these energy data according to different application demands.
### 5.8.2 Pre-Conditions
The energy company EE has a contract with Tele-Operator TT. TT will provide 5G
communication service for EE\'s energy services.
EE has deployed a lot of Smart Distribution Transformer Terminals which could
utilize 5G communication links to connect with multiple energy application
platforms. In general, one Smart Distribution Transformer Terminal is deployed
in one distribution transformer area.
The energy application platform could be connection management platform (AKA
IoT platform), master station of distribution automation system and master
station of electric energy data acquire system. In future, there might be more
platforms that need to transfer data through this network.
EE configures different communication services demands and safety & isolation
demands for different energy applications.
EE also deploys a management platform to operate and manage its Smart
Distributed Transformer Terminals which may be up to millions in the platform
management scope. The connections between them also can be supplied by 5G
system and are required as permanent links once they are established. The
heart-beat information is transmitted when there is no management data.
### 5.8.3 Service Flows
1) The 5G system gets the demands of communication and isolation to establish
two 5G communication links between the Smart Distribution Transformer Terminal
and the energy application platform. One link is required with high data rate
to deliver data e.g. electrical analog data, meter reading data, topology
relationship, decision-making information, edge computing conclusion,
equipment OA&M data, remote upgrading, scheduled communication, etc. The other
link is required with low latency and high stability to deliver data e.g.
fault / alarming events, switch state variation, device abnormal changes,
remote control operation, etc.
2) In distribution transformer area A, 5G system is required to establish
communication links for 500 energy end equipment to connect with the Smart
Distributed Transformer Terminal. Thus, the Smart Distributed Transformer
Terminal works as a service relay or gateway.
3) The energy end equipment in area A and area B e.g. smart meters, cable head
temperature sensors, power consumption concentrators, smoke detectors, smart
RCDs, charging piles and phase change switches, collect related data and
secured deliver the data them to Smart Distribution Transformer Terminal.
4) The Terminal continues to deliver the collected data and analysis /
decision information to different energy application platforms through the two
5G communication links with different isolation demands mentioned above.
\- Some data e.g. energy consumption data in the distribution transformer,
power line, and user point can be analysed by the Terminal and take some
action e.g. adjust topology. Then the result data will be reported to related
energy application platform.
\- Some data is periodic collected and reported, e.g. energy quality data and
energy equipment status data.
\- Some data is event trigger and need to be reported in real time, e.g. the
voltage, current, alarm data of each node in the low-voltage area.
5) The Smart Distributed Transformer Terminals management platform monitors
all the working status of terminals and if needed, sends order to the terminal
through the 5G communication link to maintain the Smart Distributed
Transformer Terminal\'s normal work.
### 5.8.4 Post-Conditions
The energy application platforms receive the collected data in time and with
required isolation protection.
The communication links status also can be monitored by energy company EE.
### 5.8.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
TS 22.261 clause 6.5.2, there is a related requirement:
> Based on operator policy, the 5G network shall be able to support routing of
> data traffic between a UE attached to the network and an application in a
> Service Hosting Environment for specific services, modifying the path as
> needed when the UE moves during an active communication.
The 5G system shall be able to provide suitable APIs for the energy
application platform to monitor the quality of the communication link.
The 5G system shall be able to supply end to end unified quality of
communication service for Smart Distribution Transformer Terminal, i.e. from
the energy end equipment to energy application platforms.
The 5G system shall be able to support millions of communication links between
Smart Distributed Transformer Terminals management platform and Smart
Distributed Transformer Terminals under its management scope.
When required by regulatory requirement, the 5G system shall be able to
simultaneously supply multiple different isolation communication services for
different energy applications.
The 5G system shall be able to support up to 500 communication links between
the Smart Distribution Transformer Terminal and energy end equipments with the
communication distance from 100m to 500m in one distribution transformer area.
The 5G system shall be able to support routing of data traffic between the
Smart Distribution Transformer Terminal in the network and an application
processing the data in a service hosting environment.
NOTE: The smart distribution transformer terminal is one kind of Grid terminal
and may be deployed in network edge node.
The 5G system shall be able to supply a method for the application layer to
authenticate and authorize communication network element used for the Smart
Distribution Transformer Terminal.
### 5.8.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
[PR.5.8-001] The 5G system shall be able to provide required communication
service according to KPI given in table 5.8.6-1.
Table 5.8.6-1: Key Performance for Smart Distribution Transformer Terminal
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | **Average data |** End-to-end | **Area user |** Range**| | rate (UL)\ | latency\ | density** | | | (note 1)**| (note 2)** | | | +================+================+================+================+ | >2 Mbit/s | 10 ms, 100 ms, | 500 devices | 100 m \~ | | | 3 s | /distribution | 500 m, | | | | area (note 3) | outdoor, | | | | | indoor / deep | | | | | indoor | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | NOTE 1: It is | | | | | the smart | | | | | metering | | | | | application | | | | | data rate | | | | | between the | | | | | Smart | | | | | Distribution | | | | | Transformer | | | | | Terminal and | | | | | energy end | | | | | equipment. | | | | | Once there are | | | | | multiple Smart | | | | | Grid | | | | | applications, | | | | | it is required | | | | | more data | | | | | rate. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: It | | | | | depends on | | | | | different | | | | | applications | | | | | supported by | | | | | the Smart | | | | | Distribution | | | | | Transformer | | | | | Terminal. The | | | | | less the | | | | | latency is, | | | | | the more | | | | | applications | | | | | can be | | | | | supported. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: The | | | | | distribution | | | | | area can be | | | | | calculated as | | | | | 3 | | | | | .14*Range^2.^ | | | | | It is in | | | | | general | | | | | 0.031km^2 | | | | | ^\~0.785km^2^. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
## 5.9 Use case of isolation demand for energy applications
### 5.9.1 Description
According to the regulation of China Grid industry, the power grid business is
mainly divided into two working categories: production control and information
management. The production control can be further divided into safety zone I
and safety zone II. All the real-time monitoring, detection, and controlling
energy production applications belong to safety zone I. And other non-
controlling energy production applications belong to the safety zone II. The
information management also can be further divided into safety zone III and
safety zone IV. The applications belong to the safety zone III are information
systems for power production, while the internal information services for the
energy enterprises belong to safety zone IV. Following Table 5.9.1-1 lists the
typical applications belong to different safety zones.
Table 5.9.1-1: typical safety zone and related energy application
**Safety Zone type** **Typical energy applications**
* * *
I distribution automation system, substation automation system, relay
protection, distributed energy storage, etc. II Reservoir dispatch automation
system, electric energy metering system, relay protection and fault recording
information management system, etc. III Dispatch production management system
(DMIS), lightning monitoring system, power line inspection, statistical report
system, etc. IV Management Information System (MIS), Office Automation System
(OA), Customer Service System, etc.
According to, different kinds of safety isolation requirements are applied to
different safety zones:
a) The energy applications belong to production control category i.e. safety
zone I and II need to be physically isolated from other applications which
don\'t belong to production control working category.
b) The energy applications belong to information management working category
i.e. safety zone III and IV can be logically isolation from other applications
including non-energy applications.
c) The energy applications belong to a same working category can be logically
isolated each other.
d) The energy applications belong to a same safety zone can be logically
isolated each other
{width="3.473611111111111in" height="1.5180555555555555in"}
Figure 5.9.1-1: isolation demand for energy applications
Typically, the physical isolation requires the traditional wired communication
link utilizing different time slots, wavelengths, and physical media to
guarantee the safety demand. And the logical isolation may be supported by
shared communication resource.
With 5G system is utilized to support Smart Grid applications, the different
isolation modes will also be supported by 5G system. Not only core network,
but also radio network and UE are involved. For 5G system, the physical
isolation communication service means dedicated core network element and
dedicated radio resource e.g. PRB pool, spectrum etc. The logical isolation
communication service on the other hand may be supported by shared network
element or shared network resource.
### 5.9.2 Pre-Conditions
The energy company EE utilizes 5G system to support multiple energy
applications with different isolation communication services. Among them, the
PMU belongs to safety isolation I, the electricity information collection
belongs to safety isolation II, power line on-site patrol belongs to safety
isolation III, Office Automation System (OA) belongs to safety isolation IV.
### 5.9.3 Service Flows
The 5G system deploys several communication links to support multiple energy
applications.
One link is used to support PMU application and the dedicated core network
element and dedicated radio resource have been configured in this link to
guarantee the physical isolation demand.
One link is used to support electricity information collection application. It
also belongs to safety isolation II which can be logical isolation with
applications belong to safety isolation I and physical isolation with
applications belong to safety isolation III and IV. So, it also can share
network resource e.g. core network element and dedicated resource with PMU
application.
One link is used to support power line on-site patrol application. It belongs
to safety isolation III which require logical isolation. Considering
applications belong to safety isolation I & II require physical isolation with
applications belong to safety isolation III and IV, it can\'t share the
network resource e.g. core network element and dedicated resource with PMU,
differential protection and electricity information collection applications.
But it can share network resource with other applications belong to safety
isolation III and IV, even other internet applications.
One link is used to support Office Automation System (OA). It also requires
logical isolation. So, it can share network resource with power line on-site
patrol application.
The energy company EE also can monitor the above communication resource usage
and communication link quality.
### 5.9.4 Post-Conditions
The energy applications can be work well and fulfil the isolation requirements
with the assistance of 5G system.
The communication resource usage status and communication link quality also
can be monitored by energy company EE.
### 5.9.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
When required by regulations, the 5G system shall be able to provide suitable
mechanism for the energy application to monitor the communication link quality
and network resource usage.
When required by regulations, the 5G system shall be able to utilize dedicated
communication resource including core network and radio network to support
physical isolation communication service for energy applications.
When required by regulations, the 5G system shall be able to utilize shared
communication resource including core network and radio network to support
logical isolation communication service for energy applications.
The 5G system shall be able to simultaneously support multiple communication
links with different isolation requirements according to energy management
regulation.
### 5.9.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
None.
## 5.10 Utility End to End Security
### 5.10.1 Description
In some networks, communication is done in different security domains.
{width="5.459722222222222in" height="2.341666666666667in"}
Figure 5.10.1-1: Different Security Domains
There are three domains depicted above. One is in the premises with the
devices at the edge of the utility network, e.g. sensors. The second domain is
the 3GPP network. The third is the service network. This scenario, to secure
communication, requires application communication above the network layer
(e.g. TLS or another transport layer security mechanism, S/MIME or another
presentation layer security mechanism or encryption at the application layer.)
The situation becomes even more complex if there are multiple applications,
different networks used at the edge and different communications systems used
for the end to end service.
In this use case, integration of communication end to end with the 5G system
presents benefits to end to end service delivery.
### 5.10.2 Pre-conditions
A gateway (UE and router) provides 5GLAN service from a Distribution Service
Operator (DSO), EnergyCo to 1000s of sites (e.g. substations) in which there
is diverse communication-enabled equipment.
This set of devices is provisioned with security configuration sufficient for
authorization and registration with the 5G system. Specifically, the devices
are equipped with USIMs or, in NPNs, with non-3GPP credentials, to allow for
the network operator to perform Authentication, Authorization and Accounting
(AAA.)
The service platform of EnergyCo is also has sufficient configuration to
obtain services with the 5G system from a \'northbound interface\'.
### 5.10.3 Service Flows
EnergyCo\'s equipment (e.g. sensors, remote controllable devices, etc.) within
the premises of 1000s of substations uses its configuration authorize access
to the UE/Gateway, which provides access to the 5G System for communication
services. One such device sends an alert message to EnergyCo\'s service
platform.
{width="5.45in" height="2.329861111111111in"}
Figure 5.10.3-1: Different Security Domains
The communication between the device and the Router/UE is secured with respect
to the constraints acceptable to EnergyCo. The communication through the 5G
system employs 5G security, which provides secure communication to the service
levels expected by EnergyCo. Finally, a secure session can be provided using
credentials between the Service Platform and the 3GPP system -- whose edge is
depicted as a gateway (GW), if network layer security services are required by
EnergyCo.
### 5.10.4 Post-conditions
The EnergyCo equipment to Service platform communication is secured end-to-end
in a uniform manner for all their equipment, meeting EnergyCo\'s security
requirements.
### 5.10.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
There are several ways that the existing 5G system could support this use
case.
First, by means of alternative authentication methods between the equipment
and the UE. The \' uniformity\' in this case would rely upon establishing the
same configuration and operation regime in the equipment and UE/Router in all
installations.
TS 22.261 v17.3.0, clause 8.3:
> The 5G system shall support operator controlled alternative authentication
> methods (i.e. alternative to AKA) with different types of credentials for
> network access for IoT devices in isolated deployment scenarios (e.g. for
> industrial automation).
>
> The 5G network shall support a 3GPP supported mechanism to authenticate
> legacy non-3GPP devices for 5G LAN-VN access.
While this may suffice to secure the Equipment to UE/Router communication, it
is not significantly different than the scenario described in 5.10.1. There is
no \'end-to-end\' support in this scenario, unless a security association is
established between the equipment and the service platform (by means outside
of the scope of 3GPP, i.e. over the top.)
Second, the equipment could establish a security association with the 5G
system (not just with the router.)
TS 22.261 v17.3.0, clause 8.3:
> The 5G system shall support a suitable framework (e.g. EAP) allowing
> alternative (e.g. to AKA) authentication methods with non-3GPP identities
> and credentials to be used for UE network access authentication in non-
> public networks.
NOTE 2: Non-public networks can use 3GPP authentication methods, identities,
and credentials for a UE to access network but are also allowed to utilize
non-AKA based authentication methods such as provided by the EAP framework.
In this approach, assuming the EAP framework chosen afforded sufficient
security protections for the non-public network, the communication from the
equipment to the Router/UE and through the 5G System would be in the same
security domain. A gap (described below in 5.10.6) is the communication
between the 5G System and the EnergyCo service platform, which is currently
not defined in the 5G standard.
Third, the equipment in the EnergyCo network could be provided with sufficient
credentials (including a USIM) to fully become authorized with the 5G System.
In this case, end to end security is possible by means of the GAA framework.
TS 33.220 v16.2.0, clause 4:
> The 3GPP authentication infrastructure, including the 3GPP Authentication
> Centre (AuC), the USIM or the ISIM, and the 3GPP AKA protocol run between
> them, is a very valuable asset of 3GPP operators. It has been recognised
> that this infrastructure could be leveraged to enable application functions
> in the network and on the user side to establish shared keys.
### 5.10.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
[PR.5.10-001] The 5G system shall enable support of a mechanism to support
authentication and secured communication between the 5G system Core Network
and a 3rd party\'s application function, in order to provide secure end to end
communication service.
## 5.11 QoS Monitoring and Reporting Mechanisms
### 5.11.1 Description
This use case explores in more detail an aspect of service level management
that is the business relationship between an energy utility operator,
\"EnergyCo\" and the telecommunications operator, \"Telecomm1\". While their
business relationship itself is out of scope of 3GPP standardization, there
are aspects of the SLA, specifically agreements for achieving and monitoring
performance and satisfaction of KPIs, and managing incidents improve the
suitability of Telecomm1\'s service offerings for EnergyCo.
### 5.11.2 Pre-conditions
The different services offered by Telecomm1 should behave as expected
according to the KPIs defined in the Table 5.5.1. Only if that is the case, is
service delivery acceptable according to the SLA, to meet the different
services\' requirements (whether mission critical or not.) If the
telecommunication service degrades below these KPIs, EnergyCo may experience a
service interruption or degradation. This might affect mission critical
operations and/or quality of service delivered ultimately to the customer.
The granularity of the use case considers the support of QoS to a particular
UE, per class of service. This is the model described in 22.867, clause 5.5.
Here the UE is a gateway serving as a router to a network: the UE is
essentially a router with a mobile telecommunication interface for
communication beyond the local network. Smart energy applications are not
generally running on the UE -- they are deployed in the network behind the UE.
See figure 5.5.3-1.
This use case assumes that the SLA is in place and service is offered by
Telecomm1 to EnergyCo. In addition, both interfaces and procedures are in
place to respond to failures to deliver KPIs according to the SLA.
NOTE: The use case is based on real experience between utility and telecom
providers but the identities of EnergyCo and Telecomm1 are fictitious.
### 5.11.3 Service Flows
For the KPIs, part of SLA definition between EnergyCo and Telecomm1, there is
a report sent by EnergyCo to Telecomm1 on a monthly basis in order to inform
of the degree of compliance of the requirements set in the SLA for the
different KPIs. Telecomm1 will reconcile this report with their own records.
KPIs will be measured by means of EnergyCo owned Network Management platforms
in real time. These platforms will check periodically the availability,
latency and packet loss rate of the connection. Different periodicities can be
configured and as a result average information will be obtained. Reports are
available in order to deliver accumulated information of the different
parameters on a daily, weekly, monthly or yearly basis.
This information will be checked in order to verify the degree of compliance
of the SLA. Connectivity status, stability and Performance will be part the
technology reports. Only Latency and Packet loss rate will be constantly
measured as a part of Performance parameters, Throughput will only be measured
during commissioning process. If there is a problem such as quality of service
degradation (high latency and packet loss rate below thresholds) or
instability of the connection affecting a specific substation or group of
substations (connected to the same server) for more than one week an automatic
alarm will be generated towards the MNO.
In the event of massive communication loss affecting most services and
substations (quantity above % threshold), this will be detected in real time
and an automatic alarm will be sent to the MNO.
In the event of sustained connection loss events affecting a number of
Substations located within a well limited geographical area this might shed
light on a problem related to a specific eNB site or sector. An automatic
alarm will be generated and sent to the MNO.
### 5.11.4 Post-conditions
Since EnergyCo provides Telecomm1 with their report of service degradations,
and Telecomm1 provides their report to EnergyCo, both organizations have a
full set of records with respect to achieved performance of service according
to KPIs in the SLA. It is possible for EnergyCo and Telecomm1 to reconcile the
SLA and the achieved performance at any time.
Further, EnergyCo is able to alert Telecomm1 when critical events occur that
affect performance in a manner that requires intervention (or at least
scrutiny) by the MNO.
Finally, Telecomm1 can alert EnergyCo to issues they have detected.
This explains why regular periodic QoS reporting needs to be shared from the
customer to the provider and vice versa.
### 5.11.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
No existing features have been identified that partially or fully cover the
use case functionality.
### 5.11.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
[PR.5.11-001] The 5G system shall provide a mechanism for a 3^rd^ party to
report to a MNO service degradations, communications loss and sustained
connection loss. These reports use a standard form. The specific values,
thresholds and conditions upon which alarms occur could include e.g. the
measured values for Latency, Data Rate, Availability, Jitter, etc. for a UE,
its location, and the time(s) in which the degradation occurred.
NOTE 1: What the MNO does with such reports is out of scope of 3GPP
specifications.
NOTE 2: The above potential requirement expresses the need for reporting by a
third party to the 5GS and leaves it to downstream groups (in this case SA5)
to work out the implications.
[PR.5.11-002] The 5G system shall provide a mechanism for a MNO to report to
3^rd^ parties service degradations, communications loss and sustained
connection loss. These reports use a standard form. The specific values,
thresholds and conditions upon which alarms occur could include e.g. the
measured values for Latency, Data Rate, Availability, Jitter, etc. for a UE,
its location, and the time(s) in which the degradation occurred.
NOTE 3: What the 3^rd^ party does with such reports is out of scope of 3GPP
specifications.
NOTE 4: The above potential requirement expresses the need for reporting by
the 5GS to a third party and leaves it to downstream groups (in this case SA5)
to work out the implications.
## 5.12 Distribution Intelligence -- FLISR (Fault Location, Isolation, and
Service Restoration)
### 5.12.1 Overview
\"Distribution intelligence\" refers to the part of the Smart Grid that
applies to the distribution system, that is, the wires, switches, and
transformers that connect the utility substation to the customers. A key
component of distribution intelligence is outage detection and response.
Today, many utility companies rely on customer phone calls to know which areas
of their distribution system are being affected by a power outage. Along with
smart meters, distribution intelligence will help to quickly pinpoint the
source of a power outage so that repair team can be immediately dispatched to
the problem area. Most utility companies count on complex power distribution
schemes and manual switching to keep power flowing to most of their customers,
even when power lines are damaged and destroyed. However, this approach has
its limitations, and in many cases an automated system could respond more
quickly and could keep the power flowing to more customers. By having sensors
that can indicate when parts of the distribution system have lost power, and
by combining automated switching with an intelligent system that determines
how best to respond to an outage, power can be rerouted to most customers in a
matter of seconds, or perhaps even milliseconds.
{width="5.78125in" height="3.15625in"}
Figure 5.12.1-1: the big picture of Smart Energy
The automation in distribution with self-healing solutions is surely a
critical challenge to consider in this transformational evolution towards
Smart/Smarter Energy. Self-healing will enable system operators to benefit
from a significant reduction in the outage duration and number of affected
customers, which reacts quickly and precisely to power disturbances so that
only those in the immediate neighbourhood are affected, while avoiding any
interruption in power. Self-healing not only acts against grid disturbances,
but secures the grid against disturbances spread. The basic requirements
include [18]:
\- Fast and proper detection of grid disturbances.
\- Redistribution of grid resources to avoid adversative impacts.
\- Assuring the continuity of service under any conditions.
\- Minimization of service restoration time.
Reliable and secure communications are essential to enable self-healing in the
Smart Energy. A precise and effective decision is based on analysing the power
grid data, hence collecting and exchanging information, transferring results,
executing decisions, and monitoring real-time device states in the grid are
the responsibility of the communication system. To support fast and precise
detection of grid disturbances 5G system is expected to provide communication
services with ultra-low latency, ultra-high reliability and availability, as
well as high data rate at both uplink and downlink.
Two approaches to detect grid disturbances are discussed:
1) feeder automation
2) line current differential protection
### 5.12.2 Feeder automation
#### 5.12.2.1 Description
Feeder automation is designed to utilise controller devices that are
especially designed to support the self-healing of power distribution grids
with overhead lines. The self-healing logic resides in individual controller
devices located at the poles at the feeder level. Using peer-to-peer
communication (e.g. via IEC 61850 GOOSE) among the controller devices, the
system operates autonomously without the need of a regional controller or
control centre. All self-healing steps carried out are reported immediately to
the control centre to keep the grid status up-to-date.
{width="2.8125in" height="2.7708333333333335in"}
Figure 5.12.2.1-1: Distributed Feeder Automation
#### 5.12.2.2 Pre-condition
The controller devices have been mounted, connected, and configured during
commissioning and deployment. The configuration is usually not done via the
mobile network but via local wired connection.
The controller devices are connected to the 5G network, and the peer-to-peer
communication is enabled using IEC 61850 GOOSE (OSI Layer 2,
broadcast/subscription Ethernet-based protocol).
#### 5.12.2.3 Service flow
Communications are enabled via 5G network among the controller devices
\- among controller devices serving the same feeder and
\- among the controller devices of the whole area and the control centre.
A feeder fault occurs. The controller device in the upstream of the fault
point generates and transmits GOOSE signals to other controller devices
serving the same feeder. Each controller device compares the GOOSE signals
with the overcurrent signals of the current level, identifies the fault range,
and then isolates the fault, implementing automatic power recovery in non-
fault areas.
To prevent power disturbance, the overall feeder automation process must be
completed within 100 ms. As discussed in [x3] with regards to the delay
budget, the latency for one way transmission from one controller device to
another needs to be kept at approximately 20 ms (this would allow for the
necessary margin). To ensure precise fault detection and isolation, 10 μs or
less time synchronization accuracy is also required.
Typically there are 10s of controller devices per km^2^. The geographical
dimension of feeders is usually up to several km^2^.
#### 5.12.2.4 Post-condition
5G communication runs and power distribution is restored in the affected area.
#### 5.12.2.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
The use case \"Distributed automated switching for isolation and service
restoration\" has been captured in TS 22.104 Annex 2.4.4, while the
corresponding performance requirements have been specified in table 5.2-1
\"Periodic deterministic communication service performance requirements\":
Table 5.12.2.5-1: performance requirements applicable to this use case
Characteristic parameter | Influence quantity |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Communica­tion service availability: target value (note 1) | Communication service reliability: mean time between failures | End-to-end latency: maximum (notes 2, 5) | Service bit rate: user experienced data rate (note 5) | Message size [byte] (note 5) | Transfer interval: target value (note 5) | Survival time (note 5) | UE  
speed (note 6) | # of UEs | Service area  
(note 3) | Remarks  
99.9999 % | – |  99.999 % 20 ms \ communication.
Table 5.12.2.6-2: service performance requirements for Feeder automation
continued
Number of devices in one Communication group for clock synchronisation 5GS
synchronicity budget requirement Service area
* * *
≤ 100/km^2^ ≤ 10 μs several km^2^
### 5.12.3 High speed current differential protection
#### 5.12.3.1 Description
The high speed current differential protection for smart energy distribution
systems is capable of sub-millisecond fault detection. The approach utilises
the natural characteristics of differential current measurements to
significantly reduce fault detection times, which has been described in detail
in clause 5.4. This use case focuses on the traffic characteristics.
#### 5.12.3.2 Pre-condition
Protection relays (e.g. relay_a and relay_b in Figure 5.4.1-1) are deployed
and switched on in the distribution grid. All relays are connected to the 5G
network and are synchronised with neighbouring relays in the distribution grid
with a precision of \ | 15 ms | 2.5 | \ | 15 ms | 1.2 | \ | 10 ms | 2.5 | \ | 10 ms | 1.2 | \ | 5 ms | 2.5 | \ | 5 ms | 1.2 | \=30km | | eillance | if a lot | | | -station | (city | | HD | is going | | | | range) | | camera | on) | | | | | | media | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | Media | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | ransport | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | ypically | | | | | | | uses a | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | treaming | | | | | | | protocol | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | allows | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | uffering | | | | | | | of media | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | event of | | | | | | | changes | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | latency | | | | | | | (jitter) | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | inte | | | | | | | rmittent | | | | | | | failure. | | | | | | | This may | | | | | | | result | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | ransient | | | | | | | inter | | | | | | | ruptions | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | video | | | | | | | stream | | | | | | | but does | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | result | | | | | | | in loss | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | media. | | | | | | | For this | | | | | | | reason, | | | | | | | no KPI | | | | | | | target | | | | | | | is given | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | these | | | | | | | metrics. | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
### 5.14.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
This use case is included for completeness but no new requirements have been
identified.
## 5.15 Distributed Energy Resources and Microgrids
### 5.15.1 Description
Distributed energy resources (DER) become more and more important because of
its close proximity to the user side and the convenience of complementary
energy forms. The potentially large number of DERs have a direct impact on the
operation and power trading of the power system, affecting the security,
stability and operation efficiency of the system. The concept of microgrid was
introduced to aggregate and optimise DER thus reduce the negative impact on
power grids. As defined in [31], a microgrid is a self-sufficient energy
system that serves a discrete geographic footprint, such as a university
campus, a hospital complex, a business centre, or a residential area. Within
microgrids there are one or more kinds of distributed energy (solar panels,
wind turbines, combined heat & power, generators) that produce its power. In
addition, many newer microgrids contain energy storage, typically from
batteries. Some also now have electric vehicle charging stations.
The integration of DERs into the energy system cause many challenges into the
communication field. The operational conditions of a microgrid may vary
rapidly due to DER contribution with low inertia of nonrotating elements and
rapid changes in weather conditions (wind and solar radiation) [32]. To
incorporate more renewable and alternative energy sources, the communication
infrastructure must have the ability to easily handle an increasing amount of
data traffic or service requests and must provide a real‐time monitoring and
control operation of all these nodes. A reliable communication between the
system elements is crucial. In fact, any type of communication dependent
electrical protection scheme requires robustness, a virtually full-time
availability, and strictly bounded latency.
{width="4.319444444444445in" height="2.404166666666667in"}
Figure 5.15.1-1: IEC 61850 communication stack
When it comes to communications architecture, IEC61850 is a widely accepted
standard for automation and equipment of power utilities and DER, specifically
for defining protocols for IEDs (Intelligent electronic devices) at electrical
substations. IEC 61850 standard specifies the timing constraints for messages
typically used in substations (table 5.15.1-1). GOOSE (Generic Object Oriented
Substation Events) and SV (Sampled Values) messages are assumed as time
critical messages, having the tightest deadlines (maximum allowed transfer
time) among all IEC 61850 messages, corresponding to 3 ms. While GOOSE is
typically used to transfer information closely related to monitoring and
control functions (circuit breaker status etc.), SV is used to transfer
numerical samples of current and voltage signals. The SV protocol works on a
periodic information transmission model, regularly sending messages at a fixed
rate. For protection purposes, the default rate is 4000 or 4800 messages per
second for, respectively, 50 or 60 Hz power systems. On the other hand, the
GOOSE protocol operates in a sporadic information transmission model, where a
continuous flow of data is maintained to increase communication reliability.
The typical sizes of GOOSE and SV messages are, respectively, 160 and 140
bytes. GOOSE messages are transmitted at two different modes: 1) Safe
operation: 1 message / second (with the bitrate of 1.28 kbit/s); 2) Emergency
operation: 32 message / second (with the bitrate of 40.96 kbit/s). SV messages
are transmitted at much high rate 4800 message / second (with the bitrate of
5.376 Mbit/s).
Table 5.15.1-1: Time constraints for IEC 61850 messages [33]
**Message Type** **Example Application** **Time Constraint**
* * *
**1A---Fast messages, trip** Circuit breaker commands and states (GOOSE) ≤3 ms
**1B---Fast messages, other** The same as above ≤20 ms **2---Medium speed
messages** RMS values calculated from type 4 messages ≤100 ms **3---Low speed
messages** Alarms, non-electrical measurements, configurations ≤500 ms **4---
Raw data messages** Digital representation of electrical measurement (SV) ≤3
ms **5---File transfer functions** Files of data for recording settings ≤1000
ms **6---Time synchronization messages** IED internal clock synchronization
none
In addition, the increasing number of renewable energy sources and micro-
generators as well as the integration of a large amount of DER units in the
microgrid has an impact on the scalability and the stability of the
communication system. A certain level of redundancy is required in the system,
e.g., backup channels, software components and devices, etc. Critical
functionalities in a smart microgrid demand high reliability (99.999%) and
stringent availability requirement (99.9999%).
The integration of networking and communication technologies in microgrids may
cause vulnerabilities of cyber-attacks. In addition, due to the increasing
number of distributed energy resources in the grid, the attack targets are
also rising, producing more access points to disrupt the grid. Thus, a
microgrid needs to be robust against security attacks. Table 5.15.1-2
summarizes the [34].
Table 5.15.1-2: general security requirements for different communication
services [34]
**Security requirements** **Communication services** **Security protocols**
* * *
                                 **MMS**                      **GOOSE**                **SVs**   **E2E PTP**   **P2P PTP**   **TLS**   **IPsec**   **MACsec**
**Source authentication** MUST MUST MUST MUST - x x - **Group authentication**
\- - - MUST MUST - - x **Hop-by-hop integrity** \- MAY MAY MUST MUST - - x
**End-to-end integrity** MUST MUST MUST MUST - x x - **Confidentiality** MUST
- - - - x x x **Unicast key management** MUST - - SHOULD - x x - **Multicast
key management** \- MUST MUST SHOULD SHOULD - - x
### 5.15.2 Pre-condition
The central controller(s) and IEDs have been mounted, connected, and
configured during commissioning and deployment.
All devices are connected to the 5G network, and the communication is enabled
using IEC 61850 standards.
### 5.15.3 Service flow
Communications are enabled via 5G network among the controller devices and
IEDs.
SV messages are used to transfer numerical samples of current and voltage
signals from Current/Voltage Transformers (CTs/VTs) to IEDs. The SV protocol
works on a periodic information transmission model, regularly sending messages
at a fixed rate. For protection purposes, the default rate is 4000 or 4800
messages per second for, respectively, 50 or 60 Hz power systems.
GOOSE is typically used to transfer information closely related to monitoring
and control functions (circuit breaker status etc.), and GOOSE messages
generally transmit binary data such as indications, alarms and tripping
signals. For instance, a protection function issuing a trip command requires
transfer times below 3 ms and hence, information is directly mapped into a
GOOSE message. The GOOSE protocol operates in a sporadic information
transmission model, where each message in a GOOSE transmission sequence has an
attribute called Time allowed To Live (TTL) that informs the receiver about
the maximum time to wait for the next transmission.
For such time critical applications, data is directly mapped to the Ethernet
data link layer as GOOSE messages or SVs transmission using connectionless
multicast addressing of frames.
### 5.15.4 Post-condition
5G communication runs and the \"health\" of the microgrid is maintained.
### 5.15.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
There is no specific description of the described use case in the existing SA1
TR/TS, and the KPI requirements are not captured yet. The use case
\"Distributed automated switching for isolation and service restoration\" has
been captured in TS 22.104 Annex 2.4.4, while the corresponding performance
requirements have been specified in table 5.2-1 \"Periodic deterministic
communication service performance requirements\":
As to the security requirements, there are existing requirements in TS 22.261
clause 8.9 \"Data security and privacy\":
> _The 5G system shall support data integrity protection and confidentiality
> methods that serve URLLC, high data rates and energy constrained devices._
>
> _The 5G system shall support a mechanism to verify the integrity of a
> message as well as the authenticity of the sender of the message._
>
> _The 5G system shall support encryption for URLLC services within the
> requested end-to-end latency._
### 5.15.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
[PR.5.15-001] The 5G system shall be able to provide periodic deterministic
communication with the service performance requirements reported in the tables
below.
Table 5.15.6-1
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Char | Infl | Re | | | | | | | | acter | uence | marks | | | | | | | | istic | qua | | | | | | | | | para | ntity | | | | | | | | | meter | | | | | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+ | Comm | Com | End-t | Se | Me | Tra | Sur | UE\ | | | unica | munic | o-end | rvice | ssage | nsfer | vival | speed | | | ­tion | ation | lat | bit | size | inte | time | | | | se | se | ency: | rate: | [b | rval: | | | | | rvice | rvice | ma | user | yte] | t | | | | | ava | re | ximum | e | | arget | | | | | ilabi | liabi | | xperi | | value | | | | | lity: | lity: | | enced | | | | | | | t | mean | | data | | | | | | | arget | time | | rate | | | | | | | value | be | | | | | | | | | | tween | | | | | | | | | | fai | | | | | | | | | | lures | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 99.9 | -- | \ | | | | | | | | | | NOTE: | | | | | | | | | | > UE | | | | | | | | | | > to | | | | | | | | | | > UE | | | | | | | | | | > com | | | | | | | | | | munic | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | > is | | | | | | | | | | > ass | | | | | | | | | | umed. | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
[PR 5.15-002] The 5G system shall be able to provide a periodic deterministic
communication with the service performance requirements reported in the tables
below.
Table 5.15.6-2
Communication service availability Max Allowed End-to-end latency Message size
[byte] UE speed # of UEs Service Area
* * *
> 99.9999 % \ assumed.
## 5.16 Protection of DER and grid interconnection
### 5.16.1 Description
Distributed Energy Resources (DER) and microgrid are typical ways to use
renewables (e.g. wind, photovoltaic parks, etc.). They are fundamental
elements of energy transition that form the pathway toward the global energy
transformation to combat the global warming and the climate change. Take
European Union as an example, the policy frameworks of EU 2020 Climate &
Energy Package (COM/2010/0639), EU 2030 Climate & Energy Framework (COM/2014)
and EU 2050 Climate-Neutral Economy (COM/2011/0885) have duly produced EU
Climate Laws, EU Emission Trading Systems (ETS) and union strategy to
stimulate the transformation. European member states interact with the
European Commission to set up integrated National Energy and Climate Plans
(NECPs). In many European countries, ENTSO-E grid code (RfG, DCC, HVDC)
compliance guidelines for electricity transition framework are applied by
energy and utility players with diverse focuses on the energy markets, system
operation, and electricity connections.
Worldwide, for similar reasons, the renewable market is flourishing, as
government and private sectors willingly encourage its adoption. With more
DERs and microgrids maturing to participate in utility grid, their impact on
the distribution networks need to be properly addressed. This contribution
discusses the interconnection between renewables and the utility distribution
network, and proposes the corresponding communication service requirements for
protection mechanisms specifically.
Shown in Figure 5.16.1-1 is the ecosystem with existing DSOs and potential new
stakeholders such as DER owners, DER operators, and/or DER aggregators. The
focus of this paper is the interface for energy transport shown in red dashed
lines. This interface includes both power interface (green line) and
communication interface (blue line).
{width="4.019444444444445in" height="2.8354166666666667in"}
Figure 5.16.1-1: New ecosystem and the positioning of interfaces
The \"interface energy transport\" shown in Figure 5.16.1-1 could be embodied
with a single Point of Common Coupling (PCC) illustrated in in Figure
5.16.1-2, where the power grid could be a medium voltage (MV) substation, and
the microgrid could be controlled by its own micro-Energy Management System
(µEMS). µEMS communicates with the Distribution Management System (DMS) of a
DSO. It is worth mentioning that when the microgrid in Figure 5.16.1-2 is
replaced with a single DER, the interconnection with the utility power grid
can be more precisely called the Point of Connection (PoC).
{width="4.602777777777778in" height="2.402083333333333in"}
Figure 5.16.1-2: Microgrid controlled by its own EMS (Source: DNV GL). A
microgrid is a group of interconnected loads and distributed energy resources
with defined electrical boundaries that acts as a single controllable entity
and is able to operate in both grid-connected and islanded mode [44]
From the electrical system\'s safety and operation resiliency point of view,
renewables are not just plugged in to feed the utility grid energy. Because of
renewable generation\'s unpredictability (generation with increased
variability), connecting DER or microgrid into the public distribution network
need to fulfil a number of standards and requirements -- to consider the
fluctuating capacity flowing into the grid, more bidirectional flows at
distribution level, issues like generator synchronization, and operation
threshold conditions for voltage and frequency (i.e. under-/over-voltage,
under-/over-frequency). Aside from possibly being used for power flow
management (e.g. downward dispatch/curtailment trigger, etc.), PCC is also a
control reference point for two power systems to interact, including the
control of voltage magnitude and frequency regulation, injection and
absorption of reactive power by DER, etc. Based on abnormal operation
conditions, many regional and international standards have produced guidelines
for measurements and specified conditions for triggering protection [42] at
the PCC interconnection. In this paper, the focus is on voltage and frequency
protection. Tripping in this context is the action to clear abnormal
conditions within a specific duration of time. Table 5.16.1-1 lists the
required trip time values for different types of possible trips at PCC, based
on a number of regional and international standards.
Table 5.16.1-1 Tripping time under certain abnormal conditions (s). The
interconnection protection requirements vary among standards
                             Under Voltage Threshold 2   Under Voltage Threshold 1   Over Voltage Threshold 2   Under Frequency Threshold 2
* * *
IEEE 1547 Cat I [37] 0.16 2 0.16 0.16 IEEE 1547 Cat II [37] 0.16 10 0.16 0.16
IEEE 1547 Cat III [37] 2 21 0.16 0.16 IEC 63547 [39] 0.16 2 0.16 n.a. EN 50438
[36] n.a 1.5 n.a. n.a IEEE 929 [44] 0.1 2 0.03 n.a BDEW [42] 0.3 1.5 -- 2.4
n.a n.a
It does not take much effort to notice that here the tripping time values for
DERs are much more relaxed than those for a regular MV/HV substation. That is
because for the PCC interconnect, protection functions are required to
coordinate with other functions such as frequency ride-through and even ROCOF
ride-through, meaning DERs are required to stay \"on\" for much longer.
Furthermore, two thresholds are introduced for DER tripping to prevent it from
happening prematurely, which would compromise the stability of the bulk power
system.
There are many available algorithms available for an IED to detect abnormal
conditions and to further determine whether the tripping conditions are met.
More algorithms are based on continuous measurements and comparison of local
and remote measurement provided by PMUs. With renewables and DERs
proliferating in the distribution networks, decisions on PCCs would need real-
time measurements from multiple strategically chosen measurement points in the
network.
Purely based on the values in Table 5.16.1-1, it could be true that a PV-owner
might opt for CS104 (or even OPC-DA, Profinet) that is simpler and cheaper to
deploy. But these protocols are less flexible to support PMU multicast mode.
That is where IEC 61850 adds value to the WAN protection mechanisms. In this
case, multicast PMU data could be transferred via routable sampled values
(R-SV) profile (IEC 61850-90-5). Similarly, the tripping command could be sent
out by routable GOOSE (R-GOOSE) profile, or even as normal GOOSE provided the
IED with protection functions and the circuit breaker for PCC are in the same
LAN. When PMU data is multicast using R-SV profile, the transport should
support source-specific advanced route path determination. This mechanism
helps to mitigate the DDOS attacks known to multicast group addresses.
### 5.16.2 Pre-condition
A number of wind and PV-parks are connected to the medium voltage substations
of a utility DSO. Interfaces including PCCs are established between these
systems. P class PMUs are installed at selected busses containing a load. PMUs
and IEDs with control and protection functions are connected to the 5G
network. The DSO also has a centralized Wide Area Monitoring Protection
Automation Control (WAMPAC) application in the control centre. Depending on
the control and protection functions, PMUs and WAMPAC can subscribe to
different data such as synchrophasor, frequency, frequency and the rate of
change of frequency (ROCOF) generated from a specific source PMU. The
communication is supported by IEC 61850-90-5 standards.
### 5.16.3 Service flow
Company U operates a large national grid. Thanks to U\'s existing IP/MPLS
infrastructure, PMUs deployed in substations belonging to transmission grid
are connected to this IP/MPLS network. The number of PMUs can range from a few
hundred to tens of thousands. Each individual PMU continually streams
measurement data to a number of PDCs located in control centers at different
levels for monitoring and analysis performed by different teams (or analysis
by IEDs -- Intelligence Electronic Devices with e.g. protection functions).
The network engineer Arjen configures in each IP/MPLS router, so that a
dedicated VPN is used for transmitting R-SV (routed-Sampled Values) datagrams
(Sampled Values can be generated by MU-Merging Unit, but here PMUs are able to
generate Sampled Values too). Then, Arjen assigns IP addresses to PMUs from
the IP/MPLS network. Due to the high number of PMUs, Arjen configures the
IP/MPLS network to efficiently transfer the PMU data to destination PDCs. In
the meantime, to improve security, Arjen uses the source specific multicast
(SSM) feature to ensure the IP/MPLS network only forwards datagrams to
receiving PDCs from only the source PMUs to which the receiving PDCs have
explicitly joined. The multicast trees are static once the PMU application is
up and running. Worth mentioning is that for each PMU, its corresponding
multicast tree is built based on the WAN Smart Grid protection application
logics. In other words, the multicast tree reflects where in the Smart Grid
the R-SV measurement data from a particular PMU is needed.
With the renewables booming, the distribution grid of company U is connected
to an increasing amount of PV parks and wind parks. At and around the
interconnections, gradually more new PMUs are deployed. It is impractical to
extend the IP/MPLS network physically to all these locations. Therefore,
company U decides to make use of the 5G service from an operator KTT.
Now, for U\'s DERs and microgrids, Arjen again refers to the WAN Smart Grid
protection application logics to configure the newly installed PMUs. The
purpose is that these PMUs will virtually take part in the existing multicast
trees in U\'s IP/MPLS network. Thanks to KTT\'s 5G_LAN service, these PMUs and
control centre IP gateways are added to the VPN that Arjen previously
configured in the IP/MPLS network. See as the extension of U\'s IP/MPLS
network footprint, 5G delivers the PMUs\' datagrams conforming the source-
specific multicast a priori.
As a result, 5G network provides communication among the PMUs with PDCs in the
control centres. A PMU produces a single source of R-SV measurements, and the
5G network delivers the measurements efficiently to the intended group of
recipients.
Suddenly an outage of a distributed generator at a given site causes
generation load imbalance (site 1). Similar conditions happen to another
distributed generators connected nearby (site 2).
PMUs measure synchrophasors, frequency and ROCOF associated with the
fundamental/primary components at various interconnections with DERs.
PMUs multicast measurement data to the subscribers, which could be other PMUs
and the WAMPAC.
At abnormal site 1, based on the PMU\'s locally measured ROCOF, the protection
function decides the problem to be a weak load imbalance. So the protection
will not be triggered since the frequency is supposed to restore after some
time. At other abnormal sites 2, similar decisions are made by the local
protection functions.
However, the WAMPAC receives measurement from all of these PMUs. Based on its
global view, it detects that area with prevalence of under frequency
conditions spread among a number of DERs could potentially cause severe impact
on the overall distribution grid. The WAMPAC decides to trip the generators in
some of these problematic sites (treating the under voltage condition as
severe imbalance), so as to prevent system collapse.
### 5.16.4 Post-condition
5G communication works properly. System collapse is prevented ensuring system
resiliency. Additionally, with data measured by PMUs, the DSO has a good real-
time view of operation states of DERs and how the energy flows throughout the
networks.
### 5.16.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
The communication delay KPIs can be supported by the existing requirements.
### 5.16.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
[PR.5.16-001] The 5G system shall be able to deliver data originated by a UE
to a group of recipient UEs distributed over a large geographical area.
[PR.5.16-002] The 5G system shall allow the originating UE to send data to
several groups at the same time.
[PR.5.16-003] The 5G system shall enable recipient UEs to indicate their
interest in receiving data from a specific originating UE.
## 5.17 Utility Service Operator M2M service management platform in Smart
Energy
### 5.17.1 Description
It is important to understand that this use case is widely present in the DSO
networks in many regions across the world. This use case resembles the
realistic situation in which a utility M2M system interacts with an MNO for
consuming cellular technologies. This use case focuses on how 5G can provide
improved management related services offered to DSOs, in the realistic real-
life context. To bring context to this paper, the use case of AMI is used.
M2M has existed in DSO networks for a long time. Started with the support by
legacy GPRS, CDMA, UMTS and later LTE, smart metering and AMI systems have
enjoyed rapid deployment by a DSO to reach their operation and business
targets. Not only for metering systems, but also a large number of DSOs have
brought cellular connectivity to substations that are remotely located and
have relatively less sophisticated Smart Grid applications running. For the
sake of clear and comprehensive explanation, the architecture with TCP-UDP/IP
communication profile from the DLMS/COSEM UA [46] international standard is
referred to, so as to elaborate the topic of the hour in truthful context.
The concept is well-known, a device with a cellar module connects to the
target server(s) via cellular connectivity. Figure 5.17.1-1 shows how the
utility-adopted DLMS/COSEM standard utilizes this concept.
{width="6.0in" height="3.498611111111111in"}
Figure 5.17.1-1: TCP-UDP/IP profile based utility M2M system illustrating a
client reporting to two different head-end servers in the DSO\'s data centre
[50].
Since the cellular connectivity is provided by an MNO, usually the DSO need to
setup a dedicated VPN connection between its own RADIUS server and the MNO\'s
RADIUS (as a proxy) to ensure the DSO\'s own RADIUS server will be responsible
for the E2E authentication of the meters or the Smart Grid terminal devices.
Figure 5.17.1-2 illustrates a typical situation, where a DSO called EDL has
two separate subscriptions with two mobile operators for the many M2M devices
they need to connect. The DSO manages its own RADIUS servers (RADIUS A and
RADIUS B) in its own IT domain (e.g. own data centre or in a hosting
environment), each RADIUS server has a secure tunnel to the peer RADIUS proxy
in the corresponding MNO network (here namely the Operator A RADIUS and the
Operator B RADIUS). The mechanism of a DSO\'s M2M system and the related
RADIUS interaction is illustrated in Figure 5.17.1-3.
For the target M2M applications based on the TCP-UDP/IP profile in DLMS/COSEM
[47], and the actual existing M2M management platform widely adopted in DSO\'s
utility M2M infrastructure, it is very important for the DSO to expect
successful data connection fulfilling the application\'s communication needs,
as agreed in the SLA. In reality, even the most recently known metering
applications in the European Union is the 15-minutes reading cycle [48]. That
means, the successful meter reading as required by legislation is changing
from once a month, to recently once a day and in the future once every 15
minutes. For a DSO\'s M2M head-end server, Smart Grid sector specifications
have standardized wake-up mechanisms for the head-end server to contact the
end devices for data retrieval, so that the data can be fetched within the
service window determined by a specific business process. Realistically
speaking, if the data must be available every 15 minutes, then the M2M service
administrator has sufficient time (roughly a 15-minute window in this case) to
trigger this wake-up process multiple times for retrieving the data. Another
well-used resort has been that the DSO uses APIs of the MNO\'s SIM management
platform to \"reanimate\" the device back to the mobile network connectivity
by means of mechanisms such as reattach and re-registration.
{width="6.0in" height="3.6041666666666665in"}
Figure 5.17.1-2: DSO EDL\'s management platform of MSM service. EDL has two
subscriptions to two mobile operators.
From the experience of some DSOs, it has happened that some M2M systems
relying on 2G/3G connectivity did lose contact with the head-end server(s) for
hours or even for days, and sometimes a wake-up push message manually sent
from the head-end might also fail in getting the M2M device back online (w.r.t
connectivity). Apparently, the most and foremost target of 5G is to focus on
how to provide more reliable connectivity to the M2M devices, through
enhancement of technology evolution, and introduce adequate quality assurance
mechanisms to add to warranty. In respect of this, the 5G technology already
introduces ground-breaking improvement in connectivity KPIs including
reliability.
Equally important, as the industry-wide wake-up procedure goes, a service
maintenance personnel of a DSO might look into their RADIUS server to check
the session establishment status. This process has been in existence, ever
since legacy cellular technologies were used. But this manual process has been
labour-intensive and at times impractical for utility the personnel, who in
general do not always have sufficient mobile telecom expertise to analyse the
RADIUS call flows. Therefore, it makes sense for a 5G operator to inform the
DSO in easy-to-comprehend terms of the following information on a
per-M2M-device basis:
  * RADIUS session setup information
  * Device session status information
  * Device session setup success rate
Exposing these information during M2M service trouble-shooting can effectively
improve the DSO\'s incident management process.
Certainly the M2M systems and applications will continue to proliferate in
utility network. The reliance on 5G technology encourages the telecom
providers to provide more relevant performance and events data to the DSOs.
The genuine pursuit of a DSO is that by means of effective reporting the DSO
obtains timely information and advice on maintaining resilient operation of
their utility grid and services. This basically includes the following:
  * 5G should introduce to an MNO means to keeping track of the offered connectivity\'s status, and to abiding by the factually contracted service KPIs (incl. availability) in the SLA;
  * 5G should enable notifying a DSO in time the events related to MNO-planned maintenance (e.g. time period and impacted cell sites), for the DSO to timely adjust its service operation;
  * 5G should enable reporting to a DSO the forecasted performance degradation over a specific geographic area (e.g. a cell sector, a cell or a group of cells).
{width="5.481944444444444in" height="5.858333333333333in"}
Figure 5.17.1-3: Illustration of a typical utility M2M management mechanism
[50], implemented ubiquitously in currently available commercial M2M systems
for utility operators.
### 5.17.2 Pre-condition
  1. A DSO \"UT\" has a service contract with an MNO \"TEL\" for supporting its M2M services. In the service contract, UT and TEL have agreed on the SLA covering many aspects including the following:
  2. Justification of business needs
  3. Business process already in place on UT (the customer side)
  4. Desired outcome of the connectivity service in terms of e.g. availability, reliability, performances, etc.
  5. The classification of incidents (w.r.t. urgency etc.), and per classification the required response time, MTTR, and relevant information exposure if specifically requested.
2\. UT has its ITIL process in place, of which the incident management process
is expected to speed up incident resolution while minimizing operational and
customer impact, in an efficient and cost-effective manner.
3\. For event reporting and management related information exchange, UT and
TEL have invested in setting up the infrastructure, which includes a secured
highly-reliable BW-abundant OOB transport tunnel, secure interfaces (incl.
layers across physical, VPN, APIs), and paid and governed by UT a special data
collection and storage infrastructure (data centre or in the cloud) scaled
properly to contain and store the exposed data from TEL, etc. UT is obliged by
the CTO and the CFO to carefully consider the cost of such infrastructure.
4\. M2M system of UT is up-and-running on 5G. The procured 5G service with
provisioned availability provides reliable connectivity with sufficient
performance to the M2M application.
### 5.17.3 Service flow
1) Pieter-Jansen is the M2M service administrator at UT. Every day his primary
job is to monitor the service status of the applications underpinning the M2M
service. Pieter-Jansen uses the GUI to check application status, and whether
the M2M data has arrived in the head-end systems before the service window
closes (e.g. new data should arrive in the system from an M2M device every 15
minutes). This is normally the case, and Pieter-Jansen could spend time
learning UT\'s business processes related to this M2M service.
2) One morning while Pieter-Jansen arrives at work, eager as he always is he
logs in the service manager portal to take a quick glance of the M2M service
status collected last night. Frowning, Pieter-Jansen notices the GUI of the
head-end system alerts missing data from a particular M2M device --- data
missing for several continuous service cycles (e.g. 120 data points missing in
the past 8 hour). Pieter-Jansen has the admin login credential to UT\'s RADIUS
server, however, Pieter-Jansen is not specialized in telecom and has not
gained experience in the corresponding IEEE protocols. His supervisor, one of
the very few personnel at UT who understands both electricity and telecom was
unfortunately under the weather and had called in sick. Pieter-Jansen
therefore switches to the GUI that visualizes RADIUS session status in the
historian with the data received from TEL\'s RADIUS servers. The data from TEL
is translated in layman\'s terms, hence Pieter-Jansen easily understands that
the authentication process of this M2M device has failed due to wrong
credentials.
3) Pieter-Jansen goes on to check the logbook whether any recent changes have
been introduced in UT\'s M2M system. He realized for this particular M2M
device, the corresponding credential at the RADIUS server has been updated by
the administrator of the RADIUS server at UT. Hence Pieter-Jansen calls that
personnel to revert the credential. This M2M device soon comes back on the
network and resumes to deliver data to the M2M head-end server.
4) Time goes on, summer holiday arrives and lots of people are leaving for the
passionate south. TEL usually plans network maintenance services during this
period. However, since TEL and UT have an SLA in the contract, TEL informs UT
of the network activity and the perceived interruption of mobile service.
5) UT checks that the service interruption is within the availability window
of the telecom service, and UT can timely inform the customers when the M2M
service is expected to be unavailable. This process is agreed beforehand and
is conformant with the grid code of the country where UT operates.
6) Therefore, UT confirms with TEL the acceptance of the period for the
planned network maintenance to be carried out by TEL.
7) UT fulfils its role as public sector service provider conforming the
national norm. TEL provides 5G service that fits UT\'s actual needs with
minimal burden on the customer side.
### 5.17.4 Post-condition
UT is able to provide to their customers the M2M services both during
incidents and over time.
### 5.17.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
TS 22.261 Table 7.5-2-1 captures performance requirements for high
availability IoT traffic.
Under normal conditions, 5G service performance KPIs regarding bandwidth,
delay, jitter, and availability are sufficient for utility M2M applications.
5G system can provide periodic performance reporting, the corresponding report
interval can be configured by the application layer.
TS 22.261 clause 6.1.2.2:
> The 5G system shall support means by which the operator can differentiate
> policy control, functionality and performance provided in different network
> slices. Therefore, the M2M service performance KPIs could be provided by
> means of network slicing.
TS 22.261 clause 6.23.2:
> The 5G system shall provide a mechanism for supporting real time E2E QoS
> monitoring within a system.
>
> The 5G network shall provide an interface to application for QoS monitoring
> (e.g. to initiate QoS monitoring, request QoS parameters, events, logging
> information).
>
> The 5G system shall be able to log the history of the communication events.
> This includes for examples parts of the SLA that are not met, time-stamp of
> the events, and event position (e.g. UEs and radio access points associated
> with the events).
>
> The 5G system shall support different levels of granularity for QoS
> monitoring (e.g. per flow or set of flows).
>
> The 5G system shall be able to provide event notification upon detecting
> error that the negotiated QoS level cannot be met/guaranteed.
>
> The 5G system shall be able to provide information that identifies the type
> and the location of a communication error. (e.g. cell id).
>
> The 5G system shall be able to provide notification of communication events
> to authorized entities per pre-defined patterns (e.g. every time the
> bandwidth drops below a pre-defined threshold for QoS parameters the
> authorized entity is notified and event is logged).
>
> The 5G system shall be able to respond to a request from an authorized
> entity to provide real-time QoS monitoring information within a specified
> time after receiving the request (e.g. within 5s).
>
> The 5G system shall be able to provide statistical information of service
> parameters and error types while a communication service is in operation.
>
> The 5G system shall provide information on the current availability of a
> specific communication service in a particular area (e.g. cell id) upon
> request of an authorized entity.
### 5.17.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
[PR.5.17-001] Based on MNO policy, the 5G network shall provide suitable means
to expose to a trusted third party the communication network performance
parameters
[PR.5.17-002] Based on MNO policy, the 5G network shall provide suitable means
to proactively inform a trusted third party of possible events that could
interrupt or cause performance degradation of the 5G service over a specific
geographic area (e.g. a cell sector, a cell or a group of cells).
## 5.18 Coordination for Energy Recovery Use Case
### 5.18.1 Description
Utilities (DSO) make use of both Private and Public Wireless networks as
access technologies for Smart Grid assets providing Smart Grid services, some
of which can have a high level of criticality.
Public cellular networks are sometimes the only option to provide remote
access to Distribution Automation (DA) assets.
Remote access to DA assets in a fault situation causing a power outage is a
necessary condition to isolate the fault and restore the service promptly.
In order to guarantee high availability, the communication system providing
remote access to the Smart Grid assets needs an uninterruptable power supply.
When DA assets are connected by means of Public 3GPP networks, they are
typically served by a Node located in the proximity of the fault and hence
affected by it because it happens to be fed by the faulty power line.
Power autonomy of cellular nodes is a key variable of a fault scenario in
order to guarantee the correct and prompt resolution of the issue and the
service recovery. Power autonomy of the mobile telecommunication system nodes
is a variable that escapes the control of the DSO and relies exclusively on
MNO\'s policies and \'implementation\'.
A standard communication flow between parties would enable mutually beneficial
coordination towards energy recovery. Both MNO and DSO could adapt their
processes to the existing constraints,
### 5.18.2 Pre-conditions
Utility \"U\" has a significant percentage of Distribution Automation assets
connected by Public cellular services. U relies on MNOs A and B for 5G
services.
Distribution Automation is considered a critical service requiring high
availability.
Cellular routers that enable remote access to the assets have dual cellular
configuration in order to provide an extra level of redundancy and
availability. This configuration enables a backup cellular connection with MNO
B in case of failure of MNO A.
Access to Distribution Automation assets such as reclosers or SCADA switches
must be available in a fault situation in order to restore the service. If the
5G node providing cellular coverage to the connected Smart Grid asset is fed
by a line affected by the fault and the Node does not have an adequate UPS
that enables access to remote operations to restore the fault, the loss of
connectivity and the corresponding loss of remote control of the asset is
inevitable.
DSO and MNO have an available channel for communication of energy outage
incidents. This channel is bidirectional. The MNO can be made aware real time
of an incident affecting DSO\'s distribution network with a result of power
failure affecting MNO\'s Node(s) serving the Smart Grid asset. The
communication channel can also inform the DSO of the MNO\'s autonomous power
status in areas affected by energy outage.
### 5.18.3 Service Flows
Remote access and operation of Distribution Automation assets is performed
from the Energy Control Center (ECC). Charles is an operator working at the
ECC.
Service flow 1.
1\. Charles observes a service interruption caused by a faulty power line. The
power outage affects a significant number of customers in an urban area. In
order to isolate the issue and restore the service to the affected customers,
Charles needs to access a recloser (Distribution Automation Smart Grid Asset)
connected by means of a cellular router served by MNOs A and B.
Service flow 1, alternative 1:
1.1.1 Remote Access to the recloser is possible but, after a short period of
time, the connection is lost as both MNOs A and B\'s facilities in proximity
of the energy outage have exhausted their autonomous power reserves.
1.1.2 The fault cannot be isolated remotely in time and in order to restore
the service to customers, field crews need to be mobilised for onsite
operation. Restoration time increases dramatically.
> NOTE: If the power outage only affected one of the MNOs (e.g. A) providing
> coverage to the site where the DSO would apply DA to end the outage, then
> the other MNO (e.g. B) could provide communication service to enable the DSO
> to restore service.
Service flow 1, alternative 2:
1.2.1 U is informed by MNOs A and B that cellular Nodes serving the router
suffered a power outage coincident in time with U\'s power line fault event.
1.2.2 Both A and B inform U that their nodes have UPS with very limited
capacity.
1.2.3 Using information from U, the MNOs A and B have information that they
can use to conserve the limited power capacity and enable U to communicate
with the site of the fault.
Service Flow 2.
Some days later, a storm situation causes a service interruption in a rural
area. The recloser located closest to the fault is connected by means of
Private Wireless connection. Private Wireless repeater site is owned and
maintained by U. Power autonomy in the repeater site is appropriately
dimensioned to meet U\'s needs according to operations parameters The access
to the recloser is possible and the fault can be solved in a minimal time with
no service interruption to final customer in the area.
### 5.18.4 Post-conditions
The outcome of Service Flow 1, alternative 1 is unfortunate because it causes
a lengthy service interruption for both energy and telecommunications service.
The outcome of Service Flow 1, alternative 2, allows this situation to be
avoided. As the DSO and MNO have a standard channel for communication of
energy outage incidents, they are both able to plan and execute recovery
effectively.
The DSO can provide locality, communication requirements and estimated time of
repair of an issue in DSO\'s Distribution network. The MNO can use this
information, especially the recovery schedule, the location and the
communication requirements, to enable remote access to the Smart Grid asset
that will solve the issue.
For example, in the event of a service interruption or outage affecting a 5G
node with a limited power autonomy, the Node has access to information coming
from the Network so that it is able to detect the root cause of the problem
and react accordingly. The Node is able to efficiently manage the resources
and prioritize granting access to U\'s traffic. All the rest of processes that
are not strictly necessary to the final aim of serving U\'s need of cellular
resources become dormant.
MNO will inform DSO of the Power autonomy and location of the Node serving the
Smart Grid asset that needs to be accessed for remote operations. The DSO will
react accordingly, adjusting the operations taking into account the MNO
communication constraints.
Thus, both parties will react accordingly, adjusting their processes to
facilitate the resolution of the issue. U is able to successfully restore the
issue affecting the line remotely so that the Node recovers the power supply
after a short period of time. Once Power supply is back to normal, 5G node can
resume its normal processes.
Energy system comes back online, taking into consideration the timing and UPS
resource constraints of both MNO and DSO, as well as the locality of the
incident. This is a marked improvement of the current system in which for
availability considerations DSOs cannot rely upon mobile telecommunications
for recovery with building a redundant infrastructure. This reduces the
applicability of mobile telecommunications infrastructure to support energy
utility communication.
Another alternative, shown in Service Flow 2, is that the MNO provisions their
UPS resources sufficiently to suffer loss of service in the event of an energy
system outage for a sufficiently long period of time to enable the DSO to
restore service. The provisioning of the UPS can be informed by the outcome of
past energy outage incidents, as well as historical information exchanged as
per Service Flow 1, alternative 1 and 2 -- as lessons learned.
### 5.18.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
Network slicing and QoS implementation in 5G networks enable the
identification of DSO\'s service criticality.
### 5.18.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
[PR.5.18-001] Subject to regulatory requirements and operator policy, the 5G
system shall support a mechanism by which an MNO can identify the
uninterruptable power supply status of the MNO\'s infrastructure, specifying
which physical regions would be affected in terms of physical topology, as
this information will facilitate energy system recovery operations.
[PR.5.18-002] Subject to regulatory requirements, the 5G system shall support
a mechanism by which a third party can communicate the energy system recovery
status in terms of location and time table to the MNO, as this information
will facilitate MNO operations to facilitate energy system recovery.
NOTE: It is assumed that once aware of the proximity and duration of the
energy outage, the MNO may manage the 5G Nodes affected by the outage to make
use of the power autonomy remaining in the 5G Nodes, e.g. prioritizing the
delivery of resources to support the energy system operations communications.
Power consumption for energy system operations must be optimized so that the
service recovery can be remotely orchestrated by the energy utility.
## 5.19 Applications Using IEC 61850-9-2 Sampled Values
### 5.19.1 Description
As electric grids are expanding, there is an increasing need for fault
detection and location as well as maintaining system stability in real time
which requires precision timing. There is also a raising interest to have
other clock synchronization sources in addition to GNSS.
IEC 61850-9-2 standard [49] specifies the protocol for transmitting
measurement information in a power system using Ethernet. Standard also
recommends the use of PTP (Precision Time Protocol) for clock synchronization
and IEC 61850-9-3 standard [7] shall be followed whenever PTP is used. PTP
accuracy is affected by network structure and devices in the network. Since
different types of clock devices produce different time errors and jitters,
overall time inaccuracy must be verified to make sure that application time
accuracy requirements are fulfilled. Requirements in IEC 61850-9-3 [7] aim at
achieving a network time inaccuracy better than 1μs after crossing 15
transparent clocks or 3 boundary clocks. PTP profile for power utility
automation defines the inaccuracy as follows:
Table 5.19.1-1. Allowed inaccuracy defined by IEC 61850-9-3 [7]
**Clock type** **Inaccuracy**
* * *
Transparent clock (TC) \ 1 year |  | > **E | > * | > | > | > | > | > * | | **Use | xperi | _avai |__Tra |__Me |__Se |__Max |_ dens | | > c | enced | labil | nsfer | ssage | rvice | > Al | ity**| | ase** | > | ity**| > | > s | > a | lowed | | | | data | | inte | ize** | rea**| > | | | | > r | | rval: | | | End-t | | | | ate** | | > t | | | o-End | | | | | | arget | | | > | | | | | | > va | | | late | | | | | | lue**| | | ncy** | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+ | ** | UL: | DL: | UL: | UL: | - | D | >10 | | 5.1**| > | >9 | 10 ms | 50 x | | L:\100 | | buted | ban), | | | | | | /km2 | | E | 640 M | | | | | | (r | | nergy | bit/s | | | | | | ural) | | St | (r | | | | | | | | orage | ural) | | | | | | (st | | -mo | | | | | | | orage | | nitor | DL: | | | | | | node | | ing**| > | | | | | | den | | | 100 k | | | | | | sity, | | | bit/s | | | | | | note | | | | | | | | | 2) | | | (note | | | | | | | | | 1) | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ** | UL: | DL: | UL: | UL: | - | D | >10 | | 5.1** | > | >9 | 10 | 50 x | | L:\ | | buted | ban), | | | DL: | | 00 ms | [100 | | E | 1 | | | \ | | | /km2 | | nergy | 0.4 M | | | >100 | | | (r | | -Stor | bit/s | | | kbyte | | | ural) | | age** | (r | | | | | | | | | ural) | | | | | | (st | | * | | | | | | | orage | | _Data | DL: | | | | | | node | | co | > | | | | | | den | | llect | 100 k | | | | | | sity, | | ion_ _| bit/s | | | | | | note | | | | | | | | | 2) | | | (note | | | | | | | | | 1) | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ** | UL:\ | >9 | - | - | - | Ge | \2 M | | | | 100 m | 1 | 500 | | | bit/s | | | | \~ | 0 ms, | /di | | Smart | (n | | | | 5 | 10 | strib | | Di | ote9) | | | | 00 m, | 0 ms, | ution | | strib | | | | | out | 3 s | area | | ution | | | | | door, | (no | (note | | T | | | | | i | te10) | 11) | | ransf | | | | | ndoor | | | | ormer | | | | | / | | | | Ter | | | | | deep | | | | minal | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | ndoor | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | __5 | 1,2M | > | ≤ 1 | \ | | 5.1_ _| 10 ms | \ | | | | >9 | [x] | | | | >5 Gb | | | | 9.90% | *100 | | __D | UL | it/s\ | | | | | | | istri | :\  | | | | | | | E | | 100 k | | | | | | | nergy | (r | bit/s | | | | | | | Stor | ural) | | | | | | | | age_ _| | (see | | | | | | | | | note | | | | | | |__E | | 1) | | | | | | | nergy | | | | | | | | | st | | | | | | | | | orage | | | | | | | | | sta | | | | | | | | | tion: | | | | | | | | | vi | | | | | | | | | deo_ _| | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 5.2 | Acc | DL: | | | | >9 | | | | uracy | \ | \ | 160 | - | - | - | | .15_ _|  required by different Smart Grid use cases;
  * to support clock synchronization required by Smart Grid use cases;
  * to support required information exchange between 5G system and a > trusted 3rd party;
  * to support one or multiple profiles standardized in IEC or IEEE;
  * to support secured communication between the 5G system and a 3rd > party's application function.
Security considerations are captured in clause 6. The consolidated potential
requirements and KPIs are in clause 7 of the TR. The contents of clause 6 and
clause 7 is proposed to be considered as the basis of normative Release 18
requirements to support the Smart Grid service.
###### ### Annex A: Underground 3GPP Access
## A.1 Description
The topic of this annex is transport networks, normally out of scope of 3GPP
standardization. For this reason, the material is provided as an informative
annex.
This use case considers how to provide 3GPP access underground. Equivalently,
this use case considers providing 3GPP access anywhere in which 3GPP access
cannot penetrate.) The use case considers what actions to take from the
perspective of a facility -- to provide smart energy services to components
that are located underground.
This is a relevant use case for smart energy because there are many facilities
in the energy system which are either underground or inside structures that
have thick walls with little or no ability for transmissions to penetrate.
There are essentially three possible approaches -- as shown in Figure A.1-1,
below.
{width="2.28125in" height="2.5833333333333335in"}
Figure A.1-1: Underground Access Approaches
The radio access on the roof can be **extended inside** by means of a cable as
shown in pink (e.g. coaxial cable, with support hardware) to provide radio
access to an indoor station (on the lower right, underground.)
Another approach is to provide a **gateway** **and a wireless extension
topology** , as shown in green. This could provide backhaul to a 3GPP access
station in the lower right. Alternatively, all access within the building and
underground could be accomplished by means of non-3GPP access. The (fixed
mobile) 3GPP access remains on the roof, as a gateway providing network
access.
The third approach is to make use of the existing **power line deployment** in
the building and underground as a means of providing backhaul to the
underground access point. There are a number of Power Line Communications
(PLC) standards that are already used to provide data access to the edge of
the electrical network, especially to physical locations that cannot be
accessed easily in other ways.
Two prominent examples are Open PLC European Research Alliance (OPERA) [16]
and G.9960 [17], which are used for support of Ethernet functionality over
medium and low voltage power lines in a restricted range. In OPERA,
information is modulated using OFDM with a set of 1536 sub-carriers.
Effectively, this network provides an Ethernet over a power-line. G.9960
achieves PHY data rates up to 20 Mbit/s and highly robust communications with
PHY bit rates up to 5 Mbit/s (using 4x repetition encoding.) 3GPP components
can be integrated above this layer two standard that carries Ethernet frames.
OPERA achieves PHY data rates of up to 200 Mbit/s with a bandwidth of 30 MHz
(this is typically not achieved in practice. Implementation is done in either
5 MHz or 10 MHz channels with much lower maximum PHY bit rate up to 40 Mbit/s
and 80 Mbit/s respectively), for medium voltage (MV) cables. These throughput
levels are not achievable at all in low voltage (LV) scenarios in which medium
conditions are different to MV\'s. (This is an area of current development at
the time this document was written, with researchers currently performing
tests to evaluate the LV scenario.) The evolution of Ghn defined in ITU
standard G.9960 might be more adequate for LV broadband power line (BPL) and
for this use case (use of the LV cabling within a building) because it was
specifically defined for domestic cables.
Whereas adding a cable for range extension through a structure or wireless
extension topologies entail extra planning, materials and complexity, power
lines already exist in all (modern) structures.
## A.2 Pre-conditions
A facility will include components of the Smart Grid. The facility may either
exist, or be planned and built from scratch.
The builders provide an efficient and effective means to extend wireless
communication for Smart Grid communications underground (or in a portion of
the facility which cannot be penetrated by emissions for wireless
communications.)
Figure A.2-1 depicts an example deployment architecture.
{width="2.701388888888889in" height="2.066666666666667in"}
Figure A.2-1: Example Underground 3GPP Access Deployment using PLC
A PLC connection between the UE and the underground gNB has been configured.
The UE has a preconfigured tunnel to the MNO\'s network. The UE\'s user plane
tunnel transports both the user plane and control plane traffic of the
underground gNB. The UEs that camp on the underground gNB have full 5G
service, limited only by the (limited) bandwidth available (and added latency)
due to the PLC and UE to gNB links.
## A.3 Service Flows
The power lines in the facility are checked for their suitability for
transmission of communications data. Power line communication termination is
placed in the radio access station in the roof and the 3GPP access indoor
station underground. Communications through the facility enable communication
to be performed by the indoor station, then using the backhaul provided by the
PLC, to communication via the access station on the roof.
## A.4 Post-conditions
The facility has underground 3GPP communication without need for additional
wires (for a coverage repeater) or an indoor wireless extension topology.
While the performance of the underground access will be limited to the
capabilities of the PLC performance, this suffices for the smart energy
services operating in the underground location.
## A.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case functionality
There are multiple ways that the configuration described in A.3 could be
realized with existing 3GPP standards. For example, the indoor station could
be a gNB whose backhaul is supported by means of PLC.
Another possibility would be for the indoor station to provide non-3GPP
wireless access underground. The PLC could provide backhaul to the rooftop UE.
The rooftop UE would then provide network access through a PLMN.
## A.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
This use case is included for completeness but no new requirements have been
identified.
#