# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document studies new scenarios (e.g. AR/VR communication) for IMS
Multimedia Telephony service, identifies potential service requirements, and
identifies additional potential requirements on 5G system.
This document also does a gap analysis to existing requirements in 3GPP to
identify potential requirements for introduction into 3GPP.
NOTE: Use cases in this document have references to those already specified in
3GPP TR26.918 [2] and TR26.928[3]. This allows an easier breakdown of these
use cases to existing features and potential new requirements as well as
relevant performance figures. New use cases in this TR are highlighted if they
are not covered in 3GPP SA4 work.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
> [2] 3GPP TR 26.918: \"Virtual Reality (VR) media services over 3GPP \".
>
> [3] 3GPP TR 26.928: \"Extended Reality (XR) in 5G \".
>
> [4] 3GPP TR 22.823: \" Study on Enhancements to IMS for new real time
> communication Services \".
>
> [5] 3GPP TS 22.173: \" IP Multimedia Core Network Subsystem (IMS) Multimedia
> Telephony Service and supplementary services \".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**example:** text used to clarify abstract rules by applying them literally.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
AR Augmented Reality
AI Artificial Intelligent
VR Virtual Reality
XR Extended reality
# 4 Overview
With the evolution and capability enhancement of telecommunication system,
telephony service has evolved from CS voice call to IMS multimedia telephony
service. Nowadays 3GPP has introduced new network capabilities and new types
of devices (e.g. AR/VR devices, robot, etc.), which can bring promising
improvements to IMS multimedia telephony service.
XR (an umbrella term for different types of realities, such as AR/VR)
technologies have proven themselves to be valuable additions to the fields of
digital entertainment, information and workspace.
While more and more individual consumers enjoy MMTEL services across the
globe, MMTEL services become popular also among business customers. There are
several primary business functions that organizations use MMTEL services for,
including internal communication, talking with prospects (sales call),
contacting current customers and clients, customer support, and contact centre
(or call centre) activities. While business customers consider the MMTEL
services offer attractive features to their business, they also experience
some practical issues that may benefit from support from the 5G system.
# 5 Use cases
## 5.1 Conference call with AR holography
### 5.1.1 Description
International companies have offices all over the world. The staffs of the
company may have conference calls very often. If AR holography can be applied
in the conference call, and AR holography data can be transmitted in the
conference call session, all the staffs can feel the expression and action of
the other parties, or even communicate with each other through body gestures.
It just feels like having face-to-face meeting at the same location. It can
really improve the immersive experience of the conference.
### 5.1.2 Pre-conditions
User A, user B and user C are the staffs of the same company but in different
location. They always have to discuss their product schemes through conference
call. Each of their own office has AR holography camera and glasses.
### 5.1.3 Service Flows
  1. User A, user B and user C plan to have a conference call to discuss the latest product scheme.
  2. Each of them goes to their own office in which there is an AR holography camera.
  3. When meeting begins, they all initiate the AR holography camera. The AR cameras scan their whole bodies, then have the data processed in a dedicated device to build up the models of themselves.
  4. All the AR holography data and audio/video will be uploaded to the IMS Application Server. The Application Server makes media processing, including synchronizing AR holography data and audio/video, AR rending, etc.
  5. After media processing, the IMS Application Server will generate new media streams (i.e. video, audio) and transmit them to each end user's AR glasses in the conference call.
  6. When AR glasses receive the generated media streams, they decode the media streams and present the product. Users can see the AR holography images of the other parties and hear their sound from the smartphone. The images can be updated in real time when conference call is processing.
### 5.1.4 Post-conditions
People in the IMS conference call can see the action and expression of the
other parties. They can present the product with their body gestures. They can
communicate and interact with each other (e.g., shaking hands, etc.). It just
feels like having face-to-face meeting at that moment.
### 5.1.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
Part of requirements for AR is covered in TR22.823 [4] already.
### 5.1.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
The MMTEL service shall support synchronization between media/data streams
belonging to the same MMTEL session.
## 5.2 Real-time speech translation
### 5.2.1 Description
People may need to communicate with others speaking different languages. With
AI technology(e.g. Skype translator), it is possible to provide instantaneous
voice translation for the calling parties in a call and further perform
speech-to- text or speech-to-speech for the translated voice.
### 5.2.2 Pre-conditions
User A and user B speak different languages.
### 5.2.3 Service Flows
  1. User A makes an audio or video call to user B.
  2. User B chooses the translation service and text presentation. User A's voice is recognized and translated to user B's chosen language. Then the translation will be presented as texts or subtitles on user A's smartphone screen during the call.
  3. User A chooses the translation service and audio presentation. User B's voice is recognized and translated to user A's chosen language. Then the translation will be presented as audio replacing user B's original audio during the call.
  4. User A and user B are able to communicate in their native languages.
### 5.2.4 Post-conditions
User A can hear the translated audio and user B can see the translated texts
on his screens synchronized with the voice and video.
### 5.2.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
Currently in order to support real time voice translation in a MMTEL call, the
MMTEL session shall end when the user trigger the translation service and
another MMTEL session to the user shall be set up for transmitting translated
audio.
The MMTEL service can't incorporate the translation service within the end-to-
end call, just like transcoding.
### 5.2.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
Editor's Note: text to be provided.
## 5.3 AR call
### 5.3.1 Description
This use case focuses on the multimedia call, equipped with AR to enrich the
user experience and to be more helpful for users. AR call can be used in many
areas like: person-to-person communication, emergency call, remote
cooperation, and consumer-to-business call.
Take remote cooperation supporting AR as an example, when local technicians
have some difficulty in repairing consumers' cars, they can cooperate with the
remote engineer of technical support department via multimedia telephony
communication supporting AR. When making the AR call, UEs produce some data
needed to perform rendering computing, all or part of which is done in the
cloud/edge severs in this use case.
The car technician makes a video call with the remote engineer to get more
support. The technician can capture the car parts as video contents and mark
possible points of failure in-call, in order to enable remote engineer to
understand the problem. During the discussion, both parties can modify the
video contents about the car in-call via their UEs, such as marking graphics
and overlaying AR models. At the same time, both parties can receive the
updated video contents in real time with the continuous modification. It looks
like that the remote engineer is beside the technician, discusses and solves
the problems together. AR call provides a solution which is less time-
consuming and less costly.
### 5.3.2 Pre-conditions
User A is a local technician in a car repair shop and user B is a remote
engineer arranged by the technical support department.
### 5.3.3 Service Flows
  1. User A has some difficulty in repairing consumer's cars and hopes to get help from the technical support department by phone.
  2. User A makes a video call to user B, then he captures the car being repaired using his phone camera during the call.
  3. User A further turns on the AR call function and marks possible points of failure to the captured video contents.
  4. The AR data are produced within user A's UE and these data are sent to the AR cloud/edge server. The cloud server performs media processing (e.g. AR rendering, synchronizing multiple media streams) and produce multimedia. The multimedia is sent to user B's UE.
  5. User B sees the captured video contents related to the car being repaired with user A's marks via user B's call screen.
  6. In order to demonstrate the repairing procedures, user B deletes user A's marks and overlays AR models to the video contents captured by user A.
  7. User A can see the virtual demonstration, and follows the instructions step by step.
  8. User A and user B are sure that the problem is solved, and then hang up the video call.
### 5.3.4 Post-conditions
Both User A and User B can see and modify the marks and AR models on their
respectively in-call screen. User A can cooperate with the remote engineer to
repair the car well.
### 5.3.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
Traditional video call is fully covered by existing IMS functionalities.
Part of requirements for AR is covered in TR22.823 already.
### 5.3.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
The IMS multimedia telephony service shall support AR media processing (e.g.
MRFC and MRFP).
## 5.4 Real-time screen sharing
### 5.4.1 Description
This use case is about the real-time screen sharing experience in a video call
or a video conference. During a video call or a video conference, you can not
only view real-time information on each other\'s screens but also directly
perform "hands-on" operations on the shared screen. You can explain to other
participants on the shared screen with doodles in real-time as if you were
having a face-to-face white-board discussion. For example, you can remotely
attend a customer meeting and present the solution to the customers via the
shared mobile screen. In addition, you can also mark the key points on the
slides displayed on the shared screen.
With the support of IMS network that has been enhanced for the mobile screen
sharing, the UE captures the screenshots and sends the data to the IMS
network. The IMS network transfers the data to all other parties. After
receiving the data, the receiving UEs can adapt the screen resolution and
display the data clearly.
### 5.4.2 Pre-conditions
Mr. Anderson is having a multi-party video call with his son Mike and daughter
Joan, asking for instructions on how to purchase tickets on the airline
website.
All UEs (smart phones, tablets) used in this call are able to capture
screenshots, which may have subscriptions with different MNOs.
### 5.4.3 Service Flows
  1. Mr. Anderson initiates a video call, inviting his son Mike and his daughter Joan to the call, and asking them for help to purchase tickets online.
  2. Mike asks if he could share his mobile screen to show his old father step by step. Mr. Anderson then "requests" Mike to share his mobile screen.
  3. Mike accepts the request and starts mobile screen sharing.
  4. Mike browses the airline website, selects an itinerary, and purchases a ticket. His smart phone, meanwhile, collects the screenshots and sends the data to the IMS network.
  5. The smart phones of Mr. Anderson and Joan receive the screen sharing data and display the data locally.
### 5.4.4 Post-conditions
Both Mr. Anderson and Joan can view the online ticket purchase process on
Mike's screen by using the screen-sharing function.
### 5.4.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
The related existing requirements can be found in TS 22.173[5] "Multimedia
Telephony Service and supplementary services":
_IMS Multimedia Telephony service includes the following standardized media
capabilities:_
_\- Full duplex speech;_
_\- Real time video (simplex, full duplex), synchronized with speech if
present;_
_\- Real-Time Text communication;_
_\- File transfer;_
_\- Video clip sharing, picture sharing, audio clip sharing. Transferred files
may be displayed/replayed on receiving terminal for specified file formats_
_\- Fax;_
_\- Data (CS)._
_The support of each of these media capabilities is optional for a UE._
Real-time screen-sharing is similar to capture a sequence of screenshots and
transfer them in real-time and on the receiving party display the screenshots
in the right order in real-time.
The MMTEL service supports a user participating in a MMTEL session to deliver
to all other participants simultaneously a sequence of files in real-time.
In addition, the features of "flexible data channel handling" cover the
required functionality -- "Data channels do not require use of any codec but
allows for real-time interaction in parallel to the conversational media". The
details of data channel can be found in TS 26.114 "IP Multimedia Subsystem
(IMS); Multimedia Telephony; Media handling and interaction". Alternatively
this functionality can also be supported in IMS with MSRP (Message Session
Relay Protocol) using RFC 5547 ("A SDP Offer/Answer Mechanism to Enable File
Transfer").
### 5.4.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
Editor's Note: text to be provided.
## 5.5 Multimedia CLIP (Calling Line Identification Presentation) and COLP
(Connected Line Identification Presentation)
5.5.1 Description
The traditional calling card function provides the calling party
identification information to the called party, and it also provides the
calling party with the possibility to receive the line identity of the
connected party. Such information can be enriched to include a subject,
location, picture, and even video clips. There have been on-going efforts
across the globe in enhancing the protection against unwanted robocalls, among
which STIR/SHAKEN are most well-known solutions to verify the caller,
minimizing unwanted robocalls and protecting consumers from fraudulent
intentions from bad actors. IETF-defined STIR (Secure Telephone Identity
Revisited) is considered one of the most promising technologies to combat
unwanted robocalls, while SHAKEN (Signature-based Handling of Asserted
information using tokens) framework provides a mechanism to implement STIR to
authenticate calls. The STIR/SHAKEN works for authenticating and thus proving
that a call has not been spoofed, but it does not determine caller intent.
This means that bad actors may continue making unwanted calls by registering
telephone numbers, which, as long as registered, are authentically theirs.
Meanwhile in vertical applications (such as hospitality industry and tourism
industry), multimedia Calling Line Identification Presentations (CLIP) and
multimedia Connected Line Identification Presentation (COLP) can help
companies to promote and advertise their business with promotional videos /
pictures, office location information, etc. While MMTEL and the supplementary
services offers attractive features, the biggest practical issue for lots of
businesses is that calls sometimes are rejected as fraudulent robocalls. It
would be beneficial to enable business customers to be involved in
controlling/managing the business specific information of their users (e.g.
the identity of its own employees), which will help to confirm the
authenticity of the business specific identity information and to provide
additional support in preventing fraudulent robocalls.
### 5.5.2 Pre-conditions
Hotel California has a service contract with an operator iCA, including IMS
subscription for the MMTEL services and the supplementary services such as
CLIP and COLP.
### 5.5.3 Service Flows
Example 1:
> 1\. Eagles called the hotel reservation hot line to book rooms for the band
> to stay in Baja California.
>
> 2\. When connected, they could see the promotional video of the hotel, as
> well as the identity information to confirm the authenticity of the called
> number.
Example 2:
> 1\. As part of pre-check-in service, the hotel customer service called
> Eagles who would check in the next week to learn about the room
> requirements.
>
> 2\. When receiving the call, the guests could see the video introduction of
> the hotel with the available facilities and the scheduled entertainment
> events, as well as the identity information to confirm the authenticity of
> the calling number.
### 5.5.4 Post-conditions
When calling the hotel reservation hot line, customers can see the promotional
video of the hotel.
When receiving a call from the hotel customer service centre, guests can see
the video introduction of the hotel.
### 5.5.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
Note that the general requirements of Calling Line Identification Presentation
(CLIP) and (Connected Line Identification Presentation) COLP are defined in TS
22.081 "Line identification Supplementary Services", and for MMTEL in TS
22.173, clause 8.2.1 "Originating Identification Presentation (OIP)" and
clause 8.2.3 "Terminating Identification Presentation (TIP)".
The existing service requirements relate to the use case functionality can be
found in TS 22.183 "Customized Ringing Signal (CRS) Requirements" clause 4.1
"Basic functionality of CRS service":
> _The service shall support the CRS content types of audio, video, image,
> graphic, text, location, and electronic business card._
>
> _CRS can contain one or several content types, and at most one element of
> each type._
>
> _The called party should be able to simultaneously experience multiple CRS
> contents, e.g. audio and video._
Rich Communication Services (RCS) defined in GSMA partially cover the required
use case functionality, where the call composer functionality enables caller
to enrich session establishment by sending e.g. reason, priority, location and
other data to called party.
In addition, the features of "flexible data channel handling" partially cover
the required use case functionality. The details of data channel can be found
in TS 26.114 "IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); Multimedia Telephony; Media
handling and interaction":
{width="6.276388888888889in" height="3.813888888888889in"}
Figure 5.5.5-1: copy of Figure 6.2.10.1-1 of TS 26.114 on Data Channel
Workflow
The existing features related Caller ID authentication are STIR/SHAKEN
Standards. STIR (Secure Telephone Identity Revisited) provides the ability
within SIP to authenticate Caller ID, and SHAKEN (Signature-based Handling of
Asserted information using tokens) defines the end-to-end architecture to
implement Caller ID authentication using STIR in the telephone network. Note
that the related work for STIR/SHAKEN support in 3GPP systems is being
referred to as caller ID attestation in the downstream WGs (i.e., CT work item
on enhancements to call spoofing functionality eSPECTRE).
### 5.5.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
The following requirements apply to the originating side.
[5.5.6-1] Subject to regulatory requirements and operator policy, the 3GPP
network shall provide a means for third parties (e.g. enterprises) to be
authorized to attest to the use of calling identity information by its
authorized representatives.
[5.5.6-2] Subject to regulatory requirements and operator policy, the 3GPP
network shall provide a means for authorized third parties to attest that an
authenticated representative is authorized to include or reference the pre-
established calling identity information included in the call setup or
retrieved by the called party.
[5.5.6-3] Subject to regulatory requirements and operator policy, the 3GPP
network shall provide a means to demonstrate the authenticity of the pre-
established stored identity content that is referenced by the call setup and
retrieved by the called party.
The following requirements apply to the terminating side.
[5.5.6-4] Subject to regulatory requirements and operator policy, the 3GPP
network shall provide a means for third parties (e.g. enterprises) to be able
to securely verify the caller's authorization to use the caller identity
information either in addition to any verification by the terminating PLMN or
instead of verification performed by the terminating PLMN (PLMN skips the
verification).
[5.5.6-5] Subject to regulatory requirements and operator policy, the 3GPP
network shall provide a means to securely verify the authenticity of any
stored identity content referenced by the call setup to be presented to the
called party.
## 5.6 3^rd^ party specific user identities
### 5.6.1 Description
The majority of businesses use MMTEL services not just for making voice calls,
but also for other services, such as online meetings, AR/VR calls. There are
several primary business functions that organizations use MMTEL services for,
including internal communication, talking with prospects (sales call),
contacting current customers and clients, customer support, and contact centre
(or call centre) activities. While business customers consider the MMTEL
services offer attractive features to their business, they also point out some
practical issues:
#1 internal communication -- MMTEL for internal communication can include
voice calling, hosting online meetings, messaging co-workers, and team
collaboration features like screen sharing. It could be challenging to manage
the individual subscriptions for employees, especially considering employees
may leave or join the companies or (for international companies) relocation to
different countries.
#2 communication with current or potential customers -- while MMTEL offers
attractive pre-call, in-call and post-call features, the biggest issue for
lots of businesses is that calls sometimes are rejected as fraudulent
robocalls.
To target these pain points, this use case illustrates how businesses can be
involved in the management and authentication of the user identities for its
own employees when accessing MMTEL services.
### 5.6.2 Pre-conditions
Swift Delivery, a parcel delivery company, has a service contract with an
operator iCA, including IMS subscription for the MMTEL services.
### 5.6.3 Service Flows
> 1\. Rob Smith joined Swift Delivery recently, the company enabled him to use
> MMTEL services for business by updating the IMS business subscription with
> iCA with a user identity created for him
>
> 2\. When Rob calls the customer, the customer can easily identify that it is
> a legitimate call from the Swift Delivery and not a fraudulent robocall.
The figure below illustrates an example where the operator authenticated
caller identity can be displayed to the called party.
{width="4.146527777777778in" height="3.1972222222222224in"}
Figure 5.6.3-1 an example of CLIP for authenticated business callers
### 5.6.4 Post-conditions
With the company specific user identity, Rob can use the MMTEL services for
internal communication with co-workers and external communications with
customers.
### 5.6.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
The related existing features partially covering the required use case
functionality can be found in TS 22.173 "IP Multimedia Core Network Subsystem
(IMS) Multimedia Telephony Service and supplementary services" clause 4.6
"Multi-device and Multi-Identity":
> _The owner (e.g. individual subscriber, operator/company) of the added
> identity needs to give its permission for others to use the identity._
>
> _The owner (e.g. individual subscriber, operator/company) of the identity
> shall be able to revoke the permission for others to use the identity._
With regards to Caller ID authentication, there have been on-going efforts
across the globe in enhancing the protection against unwanted robocalls, among
which STIR/SHAKEN are most well-known solutions to verify the caller,
minimizing unwanted robocalls and protecting consumers from fraudulent
intentions from bad actors. IETF-defined STIR (Secure Telephone Identity
Revisited) is considered one of the most promising technologies to combat
unwanted robocalls, while SHAKEN (Signature-based Handling of Asserted
information using tokens) framework provides a mechanism to implement STIR to
authenticate calls. The STIR/SHAKEN works for authenticating and thus proving
that a call has not been spoofed, but it does not determine caller intent.
This means that bad actors may continue making unwanted calls by registering
telephone numbers, which, as long as registered, are authentically theirs.
### 5.6.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
[5.6.6-1] Subject to regulatory requirements and operator policy, the 3GPP
network shall provide suitable and secure means to allow an authorized and
trusted third-party (e.g. business customers) to update the MMTEL subscription
and create a specific identity to an authorized user.
NOTE: The third party is authorized to change user identities for those
subscriptions authorized by the operator.
[5.6.6-2] Subject to regulatory requirements and operator policy, the 3GPP
network shall provide suitable and secure means to allow an authorized and
trusted third-party (e.g. business customers) to authorize the use of identity
information the third party is authorized to use by the third-party\'s users
when that user is originating MMTEL services.
[5.6.6-3] Subject to regulatory requirements and operator policy, the 3GPP
network shall provide suitable and secure means to allow an authorized and
trusted third-party (e.g. business customers) to attest that the third
party\'s user is authorized to use the identity information when that user is
originating MMTEL services.
[5.6.6-4] Subject to regulatory requirements and operator policy, the 3GPP
network shall provide suitable and secure means to allow an authorized and
trusted third-party (e.g. business customers) to authenticate the identity
information of its users at the terminating network.
## 5.7 Real-time visual interactive menu
### 5.7.1 Description
This use case is about the call centre that provides customers with self-
service information, such as hotels, banks, and restaurants. Such information
is provided via the voice platform with the voice navigation prompts to guide
a customer. The customer can then select the desired services according to the
voice prompts. The traditional method of displaying multiple options in
sequence on the voice interface may appear confusing or even misleading.
Customers often need to listen to the voice navigation very carefully in order
to follow the instructions correctly and obtain the desired services. Unclear
voice navigation and/or misunderstanding of voice navigation are among the
main reasons for customer service processing delay and suboptimal customer
relations.
To overcome this issue, the interactive menu can be made available to the
customers corresponding to the voice navigation prompts. The customer can then
interact with the call centre through the menu selection in a faster and
error-free manner, improving the customer service satisfaction.
### 5.7.2 Pre-conditions
Isabelle is a customer of Universal Bank. Universal Bank provides online self-
service via its customer service hot lines. Universal Bank has the
subscription with the visual interactive menu services.
### 5.7.3 Service Flows
  1. Isabelle calls the bank's customer service hot line.
  2. After the call is connected, the customer service centre answers with voice navigation prompt via the voice platform. At the same time, the customer service also sends the visual interactive menu of the service options via the data channel added via APIs provided by MMTEL service.
  3. Isabelle listens to the announcement about the available banking services while viewing the service options on her smart phone.
  4. She then selects the \"debit card service\" option on her phone following the instruction. The voice platform receives her selection and plays the next-level service options available for the debit card service. At the same time, Isabelle can also see the next-level service options on her phone.
  5. She then selects the \"service bundle query\" option on the phone. The related information on the subscribed service bundle is then displayed on her phone.
### 5.7.4 Post-conditions
During a MMTEL call with the bank's customer service hot line (out of 3GPP
system), Isabelle carries out the self-service banking activities following
the instruction provided by both the voice navigation prompts and the
corresponding visual menu displayed on her smart phone.
### 5.7.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
The features of "flexible data channel handling" partially cover the required
use case functionality. The details of data channel can be found in TS 26.114
"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); Multimedia Telephony; Media handling and
interaction":
{width="6.276388888888889in" height="3.8291666666666666in"}
Figure 5.7.5-1: copy of Figure 4.3 of TS 26.114 on User plane protocol stack
for a basic MTSI client
In addition, the related existing service requirements about service exposure
with 3rd party service providers can be found in TS 22.101 "Service
principles" clause 29.2 "Exposed Services and capabilities":
_The 3GPP Core Network shall be able provide a standardized interface to
enable exposure of the following services and capabilities to 3rd party
service providers:_
_Support of 3^rd^ party requested session QoS and priority_
> _\- The 3GPP Core Network shall enable a 3^rd^ party service provider to
> request setting up data sessions with specified QoS (e.g. low latency or
> jitter) and priority handling to a UE that is served by the 3rd party
> service provider._
The IMS Multimedia Telephony service supports providing suitable APIs for a
trusted third-party (e.g. enterprise call center) to control media components
(e.g. establish, modify or terminate voice, video ,data channels ) during an
ongoing MMTEL session.
Note: third-party application may be out of scope.
### 5.7.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
Void.
# 6 Consolidated potential requirements
## 6.1 Media handling capability
The IMS multimedia telephony service shall support AR media processing.
## 6.2 Authorization and authentication
Requirements in this section are subject to regulatory requirements and
operator policy.
[6.2-1] The 5G system shall provide means to allow a trusted third-party to
update the MMTEL subscription and allocate a third-party specific identity to
an authorized user.
NOTE 1: The third party is authorized to change user identities for those
subscriptions authorized by the operator.
The following requirements apply to the originating side.
[6.2-2] The 5G network shall provide a means for third parties (e.g.
enterprises) to be authorized to verify the use of calling identity
information by its authorized users.
[6.2-3] The 5G network shall provide a means for authorized third parties to
verify that an authenticated user is authorized to include or reference the
pre-established calling identity information included in the call setup or
retrieved by the called party.
[6.2-4] The 5G network shall provide a means to verify the authenticity of the
pre-established stored identity information that is referenced by the call
setup and retrieved by the called party.
The following requirements apply to the terminating side.
[6.2-5] The 5G network shall provide a means for third parties (e.g.
enterprises) to be able to verify the caller's authorization to use the
identity information either in addition to or instead of verification
performed by the terminating PLMN.
[6.2-6] The 5G network shall provide a means to verify the authenticity of any
stored identity information referenced by the call setup to be presented to
the called party.
#