# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document identifies additional potential requirements on the 5G
system to support time-synchronization services in public and vertical
domains, including both the ability to improve resiliency of timing services
involving technologies supported by 5G and the ability to the ability to act
as a backup for GNSS timing services.
The use cases address:
  * the use of 5G system in concert with other timing technologies as a > resilient timing source for end-users in > complement/back-up/alternate to GNSS, and
  * enhancement to the 5G system to enable time synchronization > resiliency if GNSS or other timing services are compromised.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), \"Timing Challenges
in the Smart Grid\", January 2017.
[3] 61850-9-3-2016 - IEC/IEEE International Standard - Communication networks
and systems for power utility automation -- Part 9-3: Precision time protocol
profile for power utility automation.
[4] IEEE 1588-2019, IEEE Standard for a Precision Clock Synchronization
Protocol for Networked Measurement and Control Systems.
[5] Used with permission from ABB Distribution Solutions.
[6] 3GPP TS 22.104: \"Service requirements for cyber-physical control
applications in vertical domains\".
[7] 3GPP TS 38.305: \"NG Radio Access Network (NG-RAN); Stage 2 functional
specification of User Equipment (UE) positioning in NG-RAN\"
[8] ATIS-0900005: \"Technical Report on GPS Vulnerability\",
https://access.atis.org/apps/group_public/download.php/36304/ATIS-0900005.pdf
[9] 3GPP TR 22.867: \"Study on 5G Smart Energy and Infrastructure\"
[10] NPL: \"Time Traceability for the Finance Sector, Fact Sheet\", version
2.0.
[11] BIPM Time Department, https://www.bipm.org/en/bipm/tai/
[12] Markets in Financial Instruments (MiFID II) - Directive 2014/65/EU\
https://ec.europa.eu/info/law/markets-financial-instruments-mifid-ii-
directive-2014-65-eu_en
[13] Regulatory Technical Standard 25. Level of accuracy of business clocks\
https://ec.europa.eu/finance/securities/docs/isd/mifid/rts/160607-rts-25_en.pdf
[14] Annex to Regulatory Technical Standard 25,
https://ec.europa.eu/finance/securities/docs/isd/mifid/rts/160607-rts-25-annex_en.pdf
[15] ESMA: "Guidelines on transaction reporting, order record keeping and
clock synchronisation under MiFID II",
https://www.esma.europa.eu/sites/default/files/library/2016-1452_guidelines_mifid_ii_transaction_reporting.pdf
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**holdover: A clock A, previously synchronized/syntonized to another clock B
(normally a primary reference or a Master Clock) but whose frequency is
determined in part using data acquired while it was synchronized/syntonized to
B, is said to be in holdover or in the holdover mode as long as it is within
its accuracy requirements**.
NOTE: holdover is defined in [4]
**Holdover time:** the time period that is available to repair the first
priority timing source when it is lost (e.g., when the primary GNSS reference
is lost). During this period the synchronization accuracy requirement should
be guaranteed, e.g., by means of defining multiple synchronization references.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
BIPM International Bureau of Weights and Measures
CAT Consolidated Audit Trail
DS-TT Device-side TSN translator
ESMA European Securities and Markets Authority
MiFID II Markets in Financial Instruments Directive II
MiFIR Markets in Financial Instruments Regulation
NMS National Market Systems
NTP Network Time Protocol
RTS 25 Regulatory Technical Standard 25
SCADA Supervisory control and data acquisition
SNTP Simple Network Time Protocol
TBS Terrestrial Beacon System
UTC Coordinated Universal Time
# 4 Overview
## 4.1 Applicability of 5G timing resiliency service in the smart grid sector
### 4.1.1 General
Power grids are critical to the world economy as most other critical
infrastructure including communications depend on them. Electric utilities are
transitioning towards smart power grids to enhance efficiency and reliability,
with real-time measurements and control between smart devices in the field
with centralized data facilities running intelligent analytics.
The timing solutions for Smart Grid must address a significant list of
concerns. Time synchronization is in general considered a key security
vulnerability of Smart Grids, and an area of direct relevance to timing
resiliency systems and the 5G System is ensuring timing integrity, e.g.,
providing solutions to the increasing prevalence of satellite signal loss,
jamming, and the potential for spoofing [2]. Power utility companies do not
want to be dependent only on satellite-based time synchronization due to
several factors:
  * Interference: Either caused intentionally or by environment (e.g. > solar flares).
  * Governmental decision: Public time synchronization service can be > disabled or weakened remotely; GPS selective availability as an > example.
  * Maintenance: Changing the faulty GPS antenna may take some time.
  * Other: Long downtime time when updating or fixing satellite systems; > Galileo downtime of 100h as an example. As a comparison, 24h > holdover time has been specified for power systems.
Although there are a large range of applications possible in Smart Grids in
need of timing resiliency, the focus here is mainly on power sub-stations
where robust time synchronization is needed for e.g., synchro phasor
applications. Those are relevant for 5G System-based timing resiliency
solutions and simultaneously represent the most demanding application in terms
of required time synchronization performance. However, other applications are
also mentioned and captured.
### 4.1.2 Timing Accuracy
Precise timing is key to operating the smart power grid. One area relates to
controlling the frequency (50Hz/60Hz), while another area relates to providing
events with timestamped measurement values, with required accuracies down to a
few hundred nanoseconds [2]. Correct timing is a key enabler for communication
and orchestration of technologies for accurate and optimal wide area
monitoring, protection and control in the power industry [2].
In a typical smart grid architecture, centralized monitoring systems have
visibility to events occurring in a distributed hierarchy of substations and
distribution systems. Having very accurate timing across the endpoints allows
the monitoring systems to readily detect faults, identify the source and
extent of impact, and take corrective action in a manner affecting the
smallest possible portion of the grid. For such event reporting, a 1ms timing
accuracy is sufficient.
{width="6.691666666666666in" height="2.3229166666666665in"}
Figure 4.1.2-1: Time stamped events [5]
Timing accuracy is also needed for power system measurements for fault
detection in the current phase. Recordings of the phase may be triggered at
various points when a fault is detected. Running analysis on multiple time-
aligned recordings can provide a clear picture of the extent of impact. For
reliable analysis, 1 ms timing accuracy is typically needed across all
recordings and is today limited mostly by SNTP time sync methods typically in
use.
{width="6.682638888888889in" height="2.313888888888889in"}
Figure 4.1.2-2: Current disturbance recoding [5]
Monitoring the power system frequency also requires timing accuracy for fault
detection and resolution. In this case, accuracy between 1 µs to 10 µs is
needed to provide accurate correlation of frequency.
{width="6.682638888888889in" height="2.313888888888889in"}
Figure 4.1.2-3: Frequency synchronization [5]
Finally, the accuracy needed depends on the timing role of the component
within the power sub-system. E.g., a PTP sync device within the sub-network
generally needs to fulfil the application requirements as discussed above
(e.g., down to 1μs accuracy requirement) whereas a component that is a PTP
Grand Master needs to be accurate to a 250 ns requirement [3], specifically,
250 ns are assumed in (section 7.2 [3]) in order to distribute synchronization
over a chain of up to 15 transparent clocks while meeting the requirement of 1
µs at the end-device.
### 4.1.3 Timing Resiliency
A simple overview of a power sub-station is provided in Figure 4.1.3-1. In a
typical deployment today, the sub-station achieves time synchronization by
means of a grandmaster clock that uses the IEEE 1588 Precision Time Protocol
(PTP) [4] protocol to synchronize elements inside the power sub-station via an
Ethernet connection. The grandmaster clock often uses a GNSS receiver to
achieve time synchronization information. To access the GNSS signal, an
external GNSS antenna is typically required. The figure shows how time and
communication redundancy can be achieved within substation by means defined in
IEC 61850-9-3-2016 [3]. However, since the time source (GNSS) illustrated is a
single point of failure (e.g. whenever satellite(s) are not available or there
is interference), 5G is a candidate resiliency solution.
{width="6.686805555555556in" height="4.413888888888889in"}
Figure 4.1.3-1: Example power sub-system setup leveraging 2x GNSS based clock
grandmasters [5]
The GNSS receiver elements of the clock grandmaster installed in power-
subsystems have some desirable characteristics including intrinsic multi-layer
jamming and spoofing detection capabilities, e.g., autonomous disruption
detection and intelligent protection and control. The timing accuracy
requirement of the GNSS receiver is \ GNSS
fails or is compromised, e.g., integrated as alternative > radio in each
grandmaster clock or as an alternative grandmaster > clock with 5G capability
in the power sub-system.
b) As an alternative to GNSS use, e.g., integrated with PTP grandmaster >
clock avoiding installation of external GNSS antenna and receiver > at the
power sub-station.
These alternatives are illustrated in Figure 4.1.3-2. In both cases, time
synchronization may be provided from the 5G System to 5G sync modem by either
C-Plane method (e.g., via System Information Broadcast or unicast RRC
messaging) or using PTP method according to the power sub-system configuration
requirements.
The latter requires also some actions from the 5G System in case time source
is lost is missing, e.g., similar to IEC 61850-9-3, clockClass should be
dropped when the 5G System is in holdover state. Further, PPS output has
significant use-cases and is commonly used today and can be desired property
of 5G sync modem.
{width="6.065972222222222in" height="3.4125in"}
Figure 4.1.3-2: 5G integration into system -- resilience and alternative mode
Another key requirement is holdover capability, the ability to continue
providing accurate timing service in the event of loss of an external source
(e.g., GNSS), for the 5G System. For option (a) in Figure 4.1.3-2 a 24 h
holdover capability is automatically supported as this is the case for today's
distributed solution where GM1 and GNSS is always one and the same device. 5G
modem functionality could be either integrated into the same device as a chip
or as an input using option (a) type external modem, e.g., for this case, no
specific holdover capability is required from the 5G System. With option (b),
holdover capability is mainly determined by the 5G network. Here it is
desirable that the 5G sync modem has a holdover capability of at least 5 s to
comply with [3] and that the 5G network can support up to 24 h of holdover
capability. However, as option (a) can be a solution when 24 h holdover
capability is strictly needed for the power utility, this requirement could be
more scalable, e.g., allow for wider range of performance of 5G networks and
5G sync modems with exploiting also hold-over capability (stability) of GM1.
High level requirements to the 5G System to support these alternatives are
highlighted in Table 4.1.3-1
Table 4.1.3-1 High level requirements for 5G timing resiliency in smart grid
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Area** | **Requirement** | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Time Domain | UTC, delivered from network to | | | end-point device in power | | | sub-station. An absolute time | | | difference to GPS/GNSS is | | | acceptable (can be | | | preconfigured) as long as 5G end | | | device provides PPS output which | | | can be used for measuring the | | | difference. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Deployment | Wide area support is needed to | | | reach power sub-systems, e.g., | | | should support full coverage | | | requirements. Mobility is low, | | | e.g., power sub-systems are | | | static structures. | | | | | | Public Network [5]: | | | | | | - Minimum density 5 devices | | | per km^2^ | | | | | | - Maximum density 100 devices | | | per km^2^ | | | | | | Private Network [5]: | | | | | | - Up to 1000 devices per km^2^ | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Mobility | None, synchronization devices | | | are static and vehicles connect | | | to grid in a static location | | | when in need of time | | | synchronization. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Synchronization accuracy | \5 s for 5G sync modem [3] | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Services provided by 5G System | Time resilience service provides | | | 5G clock properties, e.g., | | | clockClass, accuracy, etc to | | | reflect the possible selection | | | of clock source e.g., during | | | GNSS unavailability. | | | | | | When acting as a backup or | | | replacement time source, the 5G | | | System provides secure timing | | | service to UEs and application | | | servers. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
## 4.2 Applicability of 5G timing resiliency service in the financial sector
For financial markets, the ability to verify continuously when events take
place, i.e., time traceability, is fundamental to enable regulatory oversight
and analyse the order in which trades are placed (e.g. accurate time stamps
are used to settle disagreements and to prevent fraud). Market participants
may execute orders on stocks in seconds or microseconds depending on the type
of trading activity (e.g., high-frequency algorithmic, voice trading systems,
human intervention, concluding negotiated transactions, etc). Financial
markets are distributed systems; therefore, a common regulated timekeeping
system can only be done if every market participant at each end point of the
system involved in the transaction maintains an accurate clock.
There are several means to access UTC time such as using an atomic clock, NTP
servers, GNSS signal, or UTC(k) delivery over fiber, where UTC(k) is a
realisation of UTC maintained by the contributing institute (e.g., NPL, NIST)
identified by k. The 5G system can be operate in collaboration with or as
backup to other timing solutions used already by financial markets to comply
with financial directives for timekeeping. As illustrated in Figure 4.2-1, the
5G system can be integrated as another time source within the clock
distribution infrastructure of the financial customer.
{width="6.632638888888889in" height="1.7993055555555555in"}
Figure 4.2-1 Example of time resilience use case for financial markets
Financial regulations for time source and time dissemination require the
market participants must provide traceability back to UTC. This requires the
time information sent to financial exchanges should be measured and verified
at every link in the chain, i.e. from UTC generated at the BIPM (global
'paper' time scale [11]) up to the timestamping engine within the financial
customer domain. Depending on the time source and distribution method the
financial customer has, the traceability to UTC to comply with the regulations
is achieved in different ways. For example (for more information see [10]):
  * If GNSS satellite signals are used, these signals alone do not > readily provide traceability to UTC, but users can demonstrate > traceability by obtaining GNSS monitoring bulletins from one of > the regional UTC(k) timing centres. In this case, the end user > will use these bulletins in addition to perform calibration and > monitoring of the GNSS receiver equipment to demonstrate > traceability to UTC.
  * If services for time delivery over fibers are used (e.g., as > delivered by a national metrology institutes), the UTC is > disseminated over managed fiber links. The traceability to UTC is > maintained using PTP to distribute the time and continuously > monitoring and audit the provision point to ensure the agreed > level of accuracy defined in the service SLA. Note: this option > may not be generally available.
The 5G system could follow similar approaches when applied in this use case
(Figure 4.2-2 illustrates the two approaches):
a) The 5G system provides traceability to UTC up to the DS-TT: In this
approach, the 5G system needs to continuously monitor and audit each link
within the time distribution chain within the 5G system domain. The UTC
traceability is certified up to the provision point at the DS-TT. Therefore,
monitoring, calibration, and certification functionalities are required at the
DS-TT. Two alternatives can be considered:
1\. The 5G system supports these new functionalities including the required
mechanisms in the standard.
2\. Proprietary solutions are used in collaboration with the 5G system. For
example, a client for the service of time delivery over fiber is installed
within the DS-TT to combine NPL service and 5G wireless time distribution to
provide traceability to UTC.
b) The 5G system does not provide traceability to UTC: Similar to GNSS signal
delivery described before, the 5G system is not responsible of monitoring,
calibrating or documenting evidence for traceability to UTC, the financial
customer is taking care of these functionalities.
{width="6.728472222222222in" height="2.7909722222222224in"}
Figure 4.2-2 UTC(k) time distribution with 5G system indicating the
traceability chain (modified from source [10])
# 5 Use cases
## 5.1 Use case on resilient 5G system time synchronization
### 5.1.1 Description
Many 5G systems rely on reference precision timing signals for network
synchronization in order to operate. Today, 5G networks generally rely on GNSS
for accurate reference time and frequency. This dependency has resulted in
vulnerabilities for these systems in the event of GNSS jamming/interference,
data or measurement spoofing of GNSS signals, environmental conditions and/or
anomalies.
This use case describes how 5G systems may maintain time synchronization in
the event of a loss or degradation of GNSS reference timing.
### 5.1.2 Pre-conditions
The 5G system receives GNSS precision timing signals for network
synchronization.
### 5.1.3 Service flows
  1. The 5G system maintains time synchronization from a single GNSS timing source.
  2. A GNSS service degradation or outage takes place.
  3. The 5G system detects primary GNSS reference timing signals are no longer viable.
  4. The 5G system receives accurate timing signals from an independent timing source, e.g. Terrestrial Beacon System [7] [8], which can offer a timing alternative to GNSS.
### 5.1.4 Post-condition
The 5G system maintains accurate time synchronization during GNSS reference
time service degradation.
### 5.1.5 Existing feature partly or fully covering use case functionality
Since Release 15, RAT-independent positioning technologies that leverage
precision timing signals have been enabled in 5G systems, e.g. TBS/MBS [7].
Similar to GNSS, these technologies support positioning, navigation and timing
(PNT) applications, while also being able to operate independently from GNSS.
The timing features of these technologies may be leveraged to maintain
reliable 5G time synchronization in the event of a degradation or loss of GNSS
timing signals.
### 5.1.6 Potential new requirements
[PR 5.1.6-1] The 5G system shall be able to receive accurate timing signals
from one or more independent timing source(s), which can offer a timing
alternative to GNSS, e.g. TBS/MBS [7] [8]], Sync over Fiber [7].
[PR 5.1.6-2] The 5G system shall be able to detect when GNSS reference timing
signals are no longer viable for network time synchronization.
[PR 5.1.6-3] The 5G system shall be able to maintain accurate time
synchronization as appropriate for the supported applications in the event of
degradation or loss of GNSS timing signals.
[PR 5.1.6-4] The 5G system shall be able to collect charging information based
on the timing source (e.g., the source in use, start and stop of source
usage).
## 5.2 Use case on 5G timing resiliency for smart grids
### 5.2.1 Description
The focus for this use-case description is power sub-stations where robust
time synchronization is needed for e.g., synchro phasor and other Smart Grid
applications.1
### 5.2.2 Pre-conditions
Power sub-systems use wireless means to achieve time synchronization, as is
the case today leveraging GNSS receiver capabilities. In today's power sub-
system, the timing resiliency is based on e.g., having multiple grandmasters
leveraging multiple GNSS receivers. In this use case the 5G system is used as
a supplement to, e.g., integrated as alternative radio in the grandmaster
clock or as an alternative grandmaster clock with 5G capability in the power
sub-system, or alternative to the GNSS, e.g., integrated with PTP grandmaster
clock avoiding installation of external GNSS antenna and receiver at the power
sub-station.
In this use case, the smart grid is subscribed to and authorized to use the 5G
timing resiliency service to ensure reliable timing signals are always
available. The 5G timing resiliency service monitors the accuracy and
availability of timing signals from a designated timing source and is able to
provide an alternate source (e.g., 5G holdover capacity, atomic clock) in case
of failure in the primary source. An SLA may be in place to establish the
primary and any alternate timing sources that can be used.
### 5.2.3 Service flows
This section should also describe how the timing resiliency is enhanced when
the 5G system is used in conjunction with the GNSS, how the system is notified
of a failure of GNSS, how the 5G system picks up the slack to keep the system
running smoothly in the absence of GNSS. The UEs are preconfigured to enable
the provision of time synchronization service from the 5G system. In addition
to the initial pre-configuration the UEs may have, additional information may
be used for dynamically configuring the management of the 5G system time
synchronization network within the smart grid system.
The configuration of the smart grid system includes timing service from GNSS
with resiliency support provided by the 5G system. Based on the 5G time
resilience requirements, the time distribution method used, and type of time
synchronization device connected to the UE (e.g., DS-TT), the 5G system may
configure different network entities (i.e., gNBs, UEs/DS-TTs, UPFs/NW-TTs) and
the behaviour when an issue is detected (e.g., notification towards the UE or
application, back-up configuration).
The 5G system detects that the GNSS is experiencing a problem (e.g., loss of
satellite access, detection of inconsistent timing information).
The 5G system communicates the loss of GNSS to UEs or applications subscribed
to the timing resilience service. Additionally, the 5G system may indicate the
UEs should use the timing service provided by the 5G system until further
notice instead of GNSS signal. The 5G system is configured to provide an
accurate timing service for a specified holdover time. Depending on the
detected problem and the impacted area, the 5G system may reconfigure its own
network to ensure the distribution of an accurate timing service to the UEs.
The 5G system provides timing information to the UEs using a secure mechanism.
The UEs are able to verify the integrity and accuracy of the timing
information provided by the 5G system
The 5G system continues to monitor for a return to service by the GNSS. When
the GNSS service recovery is detected, the 5G system informs the UEs or
application subscribed to the resilience timing service that they can again
receive GNSS timing information.
### 5.2.4 Post-conditions
The Smart Grid can use 5G system as a resiliency backup to their GNSS receiver
based (or wired) time synchronization systems to improve availability and
reliability of the time synchronization. Alternatively, existing GNSS
receiver-based solutions may be replaced with a 5G system-based solution where
it improves efficiency and/or reliability.
### 5.2.5 Existing feature partly or fully covering use case functionality
Many 5G system features specified in Rel-16 and expected in Rel-17 will be
required for the use-case:
  * Time synchronization to UTC leveraging 5G system C-Plane and/or > U-Plane
  * Support for IEEE 1588 PTP
  * Propagation delay compensation, to ensure that time synchronization > can be conducted accurately across wide area deployments needed > for power sub-station support
  * Exposure framework supports time synchronization based on the needs > of the service
### 5.2.6 Potential new requirements and KPIs
#### 5.2.6.1 Potential Requirements
[PR 5.2.6.1-1] The 5G system shall monitor for timing source failure.
[PR 5.2.6.1-2] The 5G system shall be able to indicate to devices (e.g., UEs,
applications) that they need to use an alternate time source (e.g., use 5G
system with internal holdover capability or an alternate source, e.g. atomic
clock, Sync over Fiber, TBS), [taking into account the holdover capability of
the devices]{.underline}.
[PR 5.2.6.1-3] The 5G system shall support a holdover capability (e.g.,
maintaining required accuracy to UTC) of up to 24h.
[PR 5.2.6.1-4] The 5G system shall be able to detect when a timing source
fails or is restored for network time synchronization.
[PR 5.2.6.1-5] The 5G system shall be able to collect charging information per
UE for use of a timing resiliency service (e.g., start/stop time and source
used by a UE, timing service used by UE, holdover capability of the service).
[PR 5.2.6.1-6] The 5G system shall be able to collect charging information on
5G system timing resiliency service (e.g., service KPIs, holdover capability,
number of UEs using the service).
#### 5.2.6.2 Potential KPIs
Table 5.2.6.2-1: Timing resiliency service performance requirements for 5G
System
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | **Use |** H | **Sync |** Sync | ** | **Mob |** Re | | -case**| oldover | T | acc | Service | ility** | marks**| | | Time** | arget**| uracy** | area** | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Power | Up to | UTC | \5 s | UTC | \ _Operators of trading venues and their members or participants shall
> establish a system of traceability to UTC. They shall be able to demonstrate
> traceability to UTC by documenting the system design, functioning and
> specifications. They shall be able to identify the exact point at which a
> timestamp is applied and demonstrate that the point within the system where
> the timestamp is applied remains consistent. Reviews of the compliance with
> this Regulation of the traceability system shall be conducted at least once
> a year._
In this use case, both the time synchronization at the end devices (to enable
the time stamp accuracy required) and how the time synchronization is
distributed to these devices (to enable UTC traceability) are crucial to
comply with MiFID II regulation. The market participant is subscribed to and
authorized to use the 5G timing resilience service to receive accurate
absolute time, directly traceable to UTC, resilient and worldwide available.
The 5G timing distribution and resilience service ensures time traceability
through either real-time monitoring (e.g., the continuous comparisons of the
clock to ensure the device is working properly) or offline (e.g. calibration
of the equipment) handling of the following:
  * A continuous chain of comparisons with known uncertainties.
  * Time equipment calibration.
  * Continuous monitoring to demonstrate compliance and correct > functioning.
  * Calibration evidence and monitoring results to be archived.
For UTC traceability, each link involved in the time dissemination chain from
the reference time scale UTC up to the point of provision must be documented,
as illustrated in Figure 5.4.2-1. An SLA will be in place to establish the
time synchronization accuracy and traceability requirement to UTC.
The time synchronization accuracy provided by the 5G System domain at the
output of the 5G Device will be a suitable portion of the target requirement
applicable at the application layer of the Financial customer domain, as an
example in order to meet 100 µs, the 5G System domain could provide at least
10 µs accuracy.
{width="6.707638888888889in" height="3.207638888888889in"}
Figure 5.4.2-1: UTC time distribution chain to the financial customer
### 5.4.3 Service flows
1\. The 5G system and the market participant establish an SLA for the 5G
timing resilience including UTC traceability and required accuracy of the time
distribution service.
2\. The 5G system provides UTC timing information to the UEs using the 5G
timing resilience service.
3\. The 5G system maintains time synchronization to UTC time scale at the UE,
monitors the time distribution and ensures UTC traceability.
4\. The 5G system provides UTC traceability evidence to subscribed
applications.
### 5.4.4 Post-conditions
The financial sector can use 5G system as a solution to access UTC and comply
with MiFID II requirements. The 5G system can be used in collaboration with or
as backup to other timing solutions used already by financial markets such as
atomic clocks, NTP servers, GNSS, UTC(k) delivery over fiber (e.g. NPLTime or
similar services).
### 5.4.5 Existing feature partly or fully covering use case functionality
Many 5G system features specified in Rel-16 and expected in Rel-17 will be
required for the use-case:
  * Time synchronization of UE to UTC leveraging 5G system C-Plane > and/or U-Plane
  * Time distribution from device to local data network using Ethernet, > PPS, etc
  * Support for IEEE 1588 PTP
  * Propagation delay compensation
  * Exposure framework supports time synchronization based on the needs > of the service
### 5.4.6 Potential new requirements and KPIs
#### 5.4.6.1 Potential Requirements
[PR 5.4.6.1-1] The 5G system shall support a mechanism to determine the time
uncertainty of the 5G time synchronization.
[PR 5.4.6.1-2] The 5G system shall support mechanisms to monitor different
time sources and adopt the most appropriate.
[PR 5.4.6.1-3] The 5G system shall support a mechanism to report time
resiliency information (e.g., divergence from UTC, time uncertainty) to 3rd
party applications.
[PR 5.4.6.1-4] The 5G system shall be able to collect charging information per
application, including 3rd party application (e.g., timing resiliency service
KPIs, holdover capability, number of UEs using the service, timing source).
[PR 5.4.6.1-5] The 5G system shall support a mechanism to monitor and verify
authenticity of the timing source, where supported by the time source.
[PR 5.4.6.1-6] The 5G system should verify the availability of the external
time sources.
#### 5.4.6.2 Potential KPIs
Table 5.4.6.2-1: Level of accuracy for members or participants of a trading
venue [13, 14]
* * *
**Type of trading activity** **Maximum divergence from UTC** **Granularity of
the timestamp (note 1)** Activity using high frequency algorithmic trading
technique 100µs ≤1µs Activity on voice trading systems 1s ≤1s Activity on
request for quote systems where the response requires human intervention or
where the system does not allow algorithmic trading 1s ≤1s Activity of
concluding negotiated transactions 1s ≤1s Any other trading activity 1ms ≤1ms
Note 1: Only relevant for the case where the time synchronization service
assists in configuring the required granularity for the timestamp (for direct
use), otherwise it will be configured separately as part of the financial
transaction timestamp process.
* * *
# 6 Considerations
## 6.1 Potential security considerations
[CPR 6.1-1] The 5G system shall support a mechanism to verify authorization of
a 3rd party application to use 5G timing resiliency.
[CPR 6.1-2] The 5G system shall support a mechanism to monitor and verify
authenticity of the timing source, where supported by the time source.
[CPR 6.1-3] The 5G system should verify the availability of the external time
sources.
## 6.2 Potential charging considerations
[CPR 6.2-1] The 5G system shall be able to collect charging information based
on the timing source (e.g., the source in use, start and stop of source
usage).
[CPR 6.2-2] The 5G system shall be able to collect charging information per UE
for use of a timing source (e.g., start/stop time and source used by a UE,
timing source used by UE, holdover capability).
[CPR 6.2-3] The 5G system shall be able to collect charging information on 5G
system timing resiliency (e.g., resiliency KPIs, holdover capability, number
of UEs using a certain timing source).
[CPR 6.2-4] The 5G system shall be able to collect charging information per
application, including 3rd party application (e.g., timing resiliency KPIs,
holdover capability, number of UEs using a certain timing source).
# 7 Consolidated potential requirements and KPIs
## 7.1 Consolidated potential requirements
### 7.1.1 General
Table 7.1.1-1 -- General Consolidated Requirements
* * *
CPR # Consolidated Potential Requirement Original PR # Comment CPR 7.1.1-1 The
5G system shall be able to receive accurate timing signals from one or more
independent timing source(s), which can offer a timing alternative to GNSS,
e.g. TBS/MBS [7] [8]], Sync over Fiber [7]. [PR 5.1.6-1]  
CPR 7.1.1-2 The 5G system shall be able to maintain accurate time
synchronization as appropriate for the supported applications in the event of
degradation or loss of GNSS timing signals. [PR 5.1.6-3]
* * *
### 7.1.2 Monitoring and Reporting
Table 7.1.2-1 -- Monitoring and Reporting Consolidated Requirements
* * *
CPR # Consolidated Potential Requirement Original PR # Comment CPR 7.1.2-1 The
5G system shall monitor for timing source failure. [PR 5.2.6.1-1]  
CPR 7.1.2-2 The 5G system shall be able to detect when reference timing
signals (e.g., from GNSS or other timing source) are no longer viable for
network time synchronization. [PR 5.1.6-2]  
CPR 7.1.2-3 The 5G system shall support a mechanism to determine the time
uncertainty of the 5G time synchronization. [PR 5.4.6.1-1]  
CPR 7.1.2-4 The 5G system shall be able to indicate to devices (e.g., UEs,
applications) that they need to use an alternate time source (e.g., to 5G
system internal holdover capability, atomic clock, Sync over Fiber, TBS,
GNSS), taking into account the holdover capability of the devices. [PR
5.2.6.1-2]  
CPR 7.1.2-5 The 5G system shall be able to detect when a timing source fails
or is restored for network time synchronization. [PR 5.2.6.1-4]  
CPR 7.1.2-6 The 5G system shall support mechanisms to monitor different time
sources and adopt the most appropriate. [PR 5.4.6.1-2]  
CPR 7.1.2-7 The 5G system shall support a mechanism to report timing
resiliency information (e.g., divergence from UTC, time uncertainty) to 3rd
party applications. [PR 5.4.6.1-3]
* * *
### 7.1.3 Service Exposure
Table 7.1.3-1 -- Service Exposure Consolidated Requirements
* * *
CPR # Consolidated Potential Requirement Original PR # Comment CPR 7.1.3-1 The
5G system shall support a mechanism for a 3rd party application to request
resilient timing with specific KPIs (e.g., accuracy, interval, coverage area).
[PR 5.3.6-3]
* * *
### 7.1.4 (void)
## 7.2 Consolidated potential KPIs
The 5G system shall be able to support a holdover capability with timing
resiliency performance requirements defined in table 7.2-1.
Table 7.2-1: Timing resiliency performance requirements for 5G System
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | **Use |** H | **Sync |** Sync | ** | **Mob |** Re | | -case**| oldover | T | acc | Service | ility** | marks**| | | Time | arget** | uracy**| area** | | | | | (note | | | | | | | | 3)** | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Power | Up to | UTC | \5 s | UTC | \ resilient timing source in complement/back-up/alternate to GNSS, > and
  2. to enable time synchronization resiliency is available if GNSS or other timing sources are compromised.
The resulting considerations on security and charging have been consolidated
in clause 6 and the potential requirements and KPIs have been consolidated in
clause 7 of the TR. The content of clauses 6 and 7 should be considered as the
basis of normative Rel-18 requirements to support 5G timing resiliency.
#