# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
Editor's note: Text to be provided.
# 1 Scope
The present document studies use cases that assess under which circumstances
interconnected MCX Service Systems exchange administrative and security
relevant data and information.
Its objective is to identify new potential requirements related to the use
cases and new high-level security requirements related to interconnection of
MCX Service Systems and migration of MCX Users and MCX Service Groups.
# 2 References {#references-1}
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
# 4 Overview
Considering public safety users specifically, different scenarios of public
safety broadband wireless communications systems deployments will emerge, but
some requirements remain common. In international or multi agency
collaboration scenarios public safety MCX Service Users are required to roam
or migrate from one system to another, need to use MCX Services or be included
in specific communication events in a Partner MCX Service System on a
temporary basis.
Public safety may also deploy their own mobile, local, countrywide or national
broadband communications systems. In order to grant visiting MCX Service Users
access to a Partner MCX Service System and its services, a mechanism is
required which allows the request and/or transmission of administrative
configuration data, to be exchanged between connected MCX Service Systems.
This type of administrative configuration data is used for adding MCX Service
Users into a Partner MCX Service System's user database and for enabling or
disabling certain services. Relevant information can be exchanged prior to the
visiting MCX Service Users arriving from a Partner MCX Service System or
dynamically during events for example.
Such mechanism can be realised with the administrative configuration data and
information exchange concept, discussed in this study.
# 5 Use cases
## 5.1 Changing group membership in a Partner MCX Service System
### 5.1.1 Description
A Dutch police officer currently located in Germany is witnessing a traffic
accident involving a Dutch truck. The Dutch MC UE is equipped with a roaming
SIM card, is registered in a public German EPS/5GS, which allows the Dutch
police officer to use Dutch MCPTT services only and there is no affiliation to
German police or emergency services talk groups granted.
In order to offer support to local law enforcement the police officer contacts
the Dutch command and control centre in the Dutch MCX Service System and
offers assistance at the scene of the accident. The Dutch control centre
contacts the German MCX Service System via the High Level Protocol and
announces that a police officer with Dutch and German language skills is
available at the scene of the accident and requests the ability to participate
in the local police incident communications.
The relevant German command and control room receives the support offer and
approves the request. The Dutch police officer then receives configuration
data and authorisation allowing him to affiliate to the local Police talk
group in the German MCX Service System.
The Dutch police officer can now communicate directly with the German police
officers on site to support the accident investigation, adding a witness
statement.
### 5.1.2 Pre-conditions
  1. The Dutch police officer has to have a valid MCX subscription in the Dutch MCX Service System
  2. There is an operational agreement between the Dutch and the German Mission Critical Organization and a link has been established between the systems that allows exchange of administrative configuration information
  3. An agreement has to be in place that allows the Dutch police officer's UE to register on a public German EPS/5GS which enables initial communication with the Dutch MCX Service System authorized user(s)
### 5.1.3 Service Flows
  1. The Dutch Police officer informs their Dutch MCX Service System's authorized user(s)
  2. The authorized user(s) in the Dutch Police officers Primary MCX Service System analyses the received information and collects additional information, which need to be provided to the Partner MCX Service System
  3. The authorized user(s) in the Dutch MCX Service System establishes contact via a separate administrative configuration protocol with the German MCX Service System
  4. The Dutch and the German MCX Service Systems exchange the relevant administrative and security information via the separate administrative configuration protocol
  5. The relevant authorized user(s) in the German MCX Service System, either automatically or manually, processes the request
  6. After acceptance or successful checks/authorisations, the Dutch Police officer's user profile is updated to include the relevant information, such as user group configuration and encryption key material, assigned by the German MCX Service System
  7. The Dutch police officer's UE affiliates to the German MCX Service Group via the Dutch MCX Service System and its Group communication is routed from the public German EPS/5GS through the Dutch MCX Service System to the German MCX Service System
### 5.1.4 Post-conditions
  1. The Dutch Police officer can now select and participate in the relevant German talk group(s)
### 5.1.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
The following requirements refer to 3GPP TS 22.280.
[R-6.17.2-004] An MCX Service shall provide mechanisms to allow an MCX User on
the Primary MCX Service System to affiliate and communicate in an MCX Service
Group from a Partner MCX Service System, subject to authorization from the
Primary MCX Service System and the Partner MCX Service System where the MCX
Service Group is defined.
[R-6.17.2-007] End to end security of an MCX Service Group communication
(including in Partner MCX Service Systems) shall be based on parameters
obtained from the MCX Service system where the MCX Service Group is defined.
### 5.1.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
[PR 5.1.6.1] An MCX Service shall provide secure mechanisms to allow an
authorised MCX User to request MCX User configuration changes in one or more
Partner MCX Service Systems.
[PR 5.1.6.2] An MCX Service shall provide secure mechanisms to allow an
authorised MCX User to evaluate and respond to requests for configuration
changes from Partner MCX Service Systems.
[PR 5.1.6.3] An MCX Service shall provide secure mechanisms to allow an
authorised MCX User to configure automatic responses to categories of requests
for configuration changes from Partner MCX Service Systems.
## 5.2 Incident response involving multiple countries
### 5.2.1 Description
A train carrying passengers and cargo has derailed in the border region
between Belgium, The Netherlands and Germany and collided with a freight train
transporting chemicals and other flammable material. Injured persons need to
be rescued, derailed carriages need to be secured, chemicals have to be
neutralised or cleaned up and fires nearby any flammable material need to be
controlled.
The accident happened in Germany, which means the German PPDR organization
carry the responsibility to deal with the incident and coordinate the rescue
efforts. Calls from the public to report the incident reach the relevant
Belgian, Dutch and German command and control centres. As the relevant PPDR
organizations in the region have bi-lateral incidence support agreements in
place, the Belgian and Dutch PPDR organizations immediately offer resources to
the relevant German authorities.
Administrative information is transmitted in a pre-agreed format to the
relevant German command and control centre and includes capability
information, such as what type of rescue equipment can be made available or
what type of hazardous materials can be dealt with, as well as the MCX user
IDs of the first responder able to operate the relevant equipment. The
information transmitted includes an estimated time to reach the incident site.
Since the accident involves trains and rail equipment, the relevant rail
authorities and support groups need to be contacted and brought into the
rescue efforts.
In order to ensure operational safety of the first responders on-site and a
quick response to on-site emergency calls, their respective MCX Service UE's
emergency call communication is reconfigured to be routed to a specific mobile
on-site emergency call centre.
The relevant German command and control centre analyses the information
received and requests the resources that are deemed necessary to support the
rescue efforts. Information such as configuration data and authorizations are
then transmitted back to the relevant Belgian and Dutch control centres and
rail emergency command and control centre authorized user(s) to allow the
relevant MCX UEs to affiliate with the relevant German MCX Service System talk
groups.
This allows the multi-agency rescue and first response efforts to be
coordinated efficiently and ensures communication is possible with all
resources involved in the incident.
### 5.2.2 Pre-conditions
All relevant Belgian and Dutch MC UEs are equipped with roaming SIM cards,
which allow the MC UEs to register in the German LTE/5GS networks. Capability
information is linked to an MCX user ID record and by requesting a specific
capability, such as "chemical incident", "medical air lift" or "heavy
equipment handling" the relevant resources can be made available by the
partner organisations and MC UEs can be affiliated and linked to the relevant
talk groups.
  1. The Dutch and Belgian first responders have to have valid MCX subscriptions in their respective MCX Service Systems
  2. MCX User capability information is available for efficient request/deployment of relevant resources
  3. Connections between the relevant systems have been established that allow exchange of administrative configuration information
### 5.2.3 Service Flows
  1. The relevant Dutch and Belgian command and control centres receive incident information from the public
  2. The relevant Dutch and Belgian authorized user(s) analyse the response requirements, collect additional information which resources and capabilities are available
  3. After it has been understood that the incident site is located in Germany, the authorized user(s) in the Dutch and Belgian MCX Service System establish contact via a separate administrative configuration protocol with the German MCX Service System
  4. The train emergency system sends information about the incident to the relevant rail emergency command and control centre(s) or authorities
  5. The relevant authorized user(s) in the Dutch and Belgian command and control centres inform the relevant German authorized user(s) which resources, such as heavy lifting machinery, air lift, fire engines or ambulances and capabilities, such as handling chemical spills or weight limitations for lifting equipment are available and when they could be available at the incident site
  6. The relevant authorized user(s) in the German Primary MCX Service System collect the information and either automatically or manually, processes the information and request the required resources and capabilities from the Dutch and Belgian MCX Service Systems, plus the relevant rail authorized user(s)
  7. The Dutch, Belgian MCX Service Systems and relevant rail authorized user(s) exchange the relevant administrative and security information via the separate administrative configuration protocol with the German MCX Service System
  8. After acceptance or successful checks/authorisations, user profiles of the Dutch and Belgian and rail incident support MCX Service Users are updated to include the relevant information, such as user group configuration and encryption key material, assigned by the German MCX Service System
  9. The Dutch, Belgian MCX Service Users UEs affiliate to the German MCX Service Groups via the Dutch and Belgian MCX Service System and their Group communication is routed from the public German LTE/5GS through the Dutch and Belgian MCX Service System to the German MCX Service System
  10. The relevant rail incident support MCX Service Users UEs affiliate to the incident related and relevant MCX Service Groups
### 5.2.4 Post-conditions
  1. First responders from the Dutch and Belgian MCX Service organizations can select and participate in the relevant German talk groups
  2. The relevant rail authorities, key personnel and first responders can participate in the MCX services (MCPTT, MCVideo and MCData) with the relevant authorized MCX Services Users
### 5.2.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
The following requirements refer to 3GPP TS 22.280.
[R-5.6.2.2.1-013] The MCX Service shall provide a mechanism for an MCX Service
Administrator to configure which MCX Service Group (i.e., user\'s selected
group or dedicated MCX Service Emergency Group) is used for the MCX Service
Emergency Group Communication by an MCX User.
The following requirements refer to 3GPP TS 33.180.
Clause 5.1.5 MC user migration service authentication and authorisation.
### 5.2.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
[PR 5.2.6.1] An MCX Service shall provide secure mechanisms to allow an
authorised MCX User to request configuration information from Partner MCX
Service Systems.
[PR 5.2.6.2] An MCX Service shall provide secure mechanisms to allow an
authorised MCX User to send configuration information to Partner MCX Service
Systems.
[PR 5.2.6.3] An MCX Service shall provide secure mechanisms to allow an
authorised MCX User to exchange MCX User relevant information with Partner MCX
Service Systems.
# 6 Security Aspects
## 6.1 Introduction
This section proposes potentially new security requirements that allow Primary
and Partner MCX Service Systems to exchange administrative and security
relevant information without compromising integrity of the connected MCX
Service Systems.
## 6.2 Potential requirements
[PR 6.2.001] Exchange of administrative and security related information
between MCX Service systems shall not compromise the integrity and security of
either MCX Service System.
[PR 6.2.002] Exchange of administrative and security related information shall
not expose the internal structure or configuration of either MCX Service
System.
[PR 6.2.003] MCX Service Systems shall detect and prevent unauthorized
connection attempts
[PR 6.2.004] Exchange of administrative and security related information
between MCX Service Systems shall cover prevention of replay attacks
[PR 6.2.005] Exchange of administrative and security related information
between MCX Service Systems shall cover algorithm negotiation and prevention
of bidding down attacks
[PR 6.2.006] Mutual authentication and authorization between the connected MCX
Service Systems shall be supported
[PR 6.2.007] Separate, mutual authentication and authorization shall be
possible with more than one MCX Service System at any time
[PR 6.2.008] Messages that travers trust boundaries shall follow 3GPP
specifications for protection, if not protected by end-to-end security
# 7 Additional considerations
Editor's note: Add clauses as needed. Text to be provided.
# 8 Consolidated Potential Requirements
## 8.1 Changing group membership in a Partner MCX Service System
Table 8.1-1 -- Changing group membership in a Partner MCX Service System \-
Consolidated Requirements
* * *
CPR # Consolidated Potential Requirement Original PR # Comment CPR 8.1 An MCX
Service shall provide a mechanism to allow an authorised MCX User to request
MCX User configuration changes in one or more Partner MCX Service Systems. PR
5.1.6.1 CPR 8.1 identical to PR 5.1.6.1 CPR 8.2 An MCX Service shall provide a
mechanism to allow an authorised MCX User to evaluate and respond to requests
for configuration changes from Partner MCX Service Systems. PR 5.1.6.2 CPR 8.2
identical to PR 5.1.6.2 CPR 8.3 An MCX Service shall provide a mechanism to
allow an authorised MCX User to configure automatic responses to categories of
requests for configuration changes from Partner MCX Service Systems. PR
5.1.6.3 CPR 8.3 identical to PR 5.1.6.3
* * *
## 8.2 Incident response involving multiple countries
Table 8.2-1 -- Incident response involving multiple countries - Consolidated
Requirements
* * *
CPR # Consolidated Potential Requirement Original PR # Comment CPR 8.4 An MCX
Service shall provide a mechanism to allow an authorised MCX User to request
configuration information from Partner MCX Service Systems. PR 5.2.6.1 CPR 8.4
identical to PR 5.2.6.1 CPR 8.5 An MCX Service shall provide a mechanism to
allow an authorised MCX User to send configuration information to Partner MCX
Service Systems. PR 5.2.6.2 CPR 8.5 identical to PR 5.2.6.2 CPR 8.6 An MCX
Service shall provide a mechanism to allow an authorised MCX User to exchange
operational MCX User relevant information, e.g. MCX User capability
information, with Partner MCX Service Systems. PR 5.2.6.3 Original PR: An MCX
Service shall provide secure mechanisms to allow an authorised MCX User to
exchange MCX User relevant information with Partner MCX Service Systems.
* * *
## 8.3 Security Aspects
Table 8.3-1 -- Security Aspects - Consolidated Requirements
* * *
CPR # Consolidated Potential Requirement Original PR # Comment CPR 8.7
Exchange of administrative and security related information between MCX
Service systems shall not compromise the integrity and security of either MCX
Service System. PR 6.2.001 CPR 8.7 identical to PR 6.2.001 CPR 8.8 Exchange of
administrative and security related information shall not expose the internal
structure or configuration of either MCX Service System. PR 6.2.002 CPR 8.8
identical to PR 6.2.002 CPR 8.9 Exchange of administrative and security
related information between interconnected MCX Service systems shall be
secure. PR 6.2.003 Original PR: MCX Service Systems shall detect and prevent
unauthorized connection attempts CPR 8.9 Merged into [CPR 8.9] PR 6.2.004  
CPR 8.9 Merged into [CPR 8.9] PR 6.2.005  
CPR 8.9 Merged into [CPR 8.9] PR 6.2.006  
CPR 8.9 Merged into [CPR 8.9] PR 6.2.007  
CPR 8.9 Merged into [CPR 8.9] PR 6.2.008
* * *
# 9 Conclusions and Recommendations
This study has examined a number of use cases that form the basis for the
consolidated potential requirements identified in clause 8.
It is proposed to consider the content in clause 8 as a basis for normative
work in Rel-18 to support requirements to enable the exchange of
administrative configuration and security relevant information between
interconnected MCX Service systems.
# Annex \: \
###### ## Annex \ (informative): Bibliography
The following material, though not specifically referenced in the body of the
present document (or not publicly available), gives supporting information.
#