# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
This document studies if further enhancements to the 5G system are feasible or
not for the support of Off-Network for Rail.
This document collects all Off-Network use cases from SA1 Study on Future
Railway Mobile Communication System (FRMCS) in order to refine them and new
use cases to support Off-Network for Rail in clause 5 for Communication
Applications.
The potential new service requirements are also consolidated in clause 5.
The results of gap analysis identify limitations, missing requirements and
existing functionalities supported by 3GPP in clause 5.
Following the gap analysis, the assessment of technical feasibility,
complexity and overhead of normative 3GPP adjustments to support limitations,
missing requirements and functionalities as required by Off-Network for Rail
is considered in clause 8.
Potential requirements are then consolidated in clause 9.
The conclusions and recommendations are proposed in clause 10 to conclude if
further enhancements to the 5G system are needed and feasible for the support
of Off-Network for Rail.
# 1 Scope
The present document analyses Rail Off-Network use cases in order to derive
potential requirements and investigate if normative adjustments are feasible
or not.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.289: \"Mobile Communication System for Railways\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.179: \"Mission Critical Push To Talk (MCPTT)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.280: \"Mission Critical Services Common Requirements
(MCCoRe)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 22.281: \"Mission Critical Video services\".
[6] 3GPP TS 22.282: \"Mission Critical Data services\".
[7] 3GPP TS 22.261: \"Service requirements for the 5G system\".
[8] 3GPP TS 22.185: \"Service requirements for V2X services\".
[9] 3GPP TS 22.186: \"Enhancement of 3GPP support for V2X scenarios\".
[10] UIC MG-7900: "Future Railway Mobile Communication System Use Cases".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**example:** text used to clarify abstract rules by applying them literally.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
\ \
# 4 Overview
The present document is a 900 series Technical Report (TR) written by 3GPP TSG
SA WG1 (SA1). Such a TR is not normative, i.e. cannot be used for
implementation directly. It is primarily written by SA1 to summarise the high-
level Off-Network communication needs of the railway community and to identify
the corresponding requirements.
**[Rail Context]{.underline}**
Future rail communication is an important part of the digitalization of rail
operations. In addition to network-oriented communication, this also includes
that without involving the network. GSM-R already used this and was called
Direct Mode to describe the ability of a User Equipment to communicate
directly with each other, independent of the network.
Off-Network is a new terminology for the Rail sector, already introduced
within 3GPP MCX specifications. UIC will promote the use of Off-Network to
replace Direct Mode. But unfortunately, the terminology has slight differences
in the meaning. For example, the Rail sector considers use of Off-Network
communications where no network services are available either due to network
failure (e.g. coverage, capacity, etc.) or due to lack of coverage (remote
area\'s). In 3GPP MCX specifications, Off-Network communications can be setup
even when network services are available.
In addition to voice communication, Off-Network communication will also
increasingly be used for the exchange of train safety data in the future.
Examples of use cases which require Direct Mode:
  * Automatic Train Protection (ATP) data communication
  * Automatic Train Operation (ATO) data communication
  * Critical real-time video
  * Virtual Coupling data communication
Virtual Coupling data communication is the only use case where Off-Network is
the intended mode of operation (also called "default mode") even if the
network is available.
All other use cases shall consider Network-Oriented mode as the default mode
when the network is available (for the first and following attachments) and
shifting to Off-Network when the network is not available.
# 5 Communication Applications related use cases
## 5.1 Introduction
This clause describes use cases of Communication Applications (e.g. Virtual
Coupling data communication).
## 5.2 Trackside Maintenance Warning System communication
### 5.2.1 Description
Generally, trackside maintenance occurs during daily train operation. For
safety reasons, trackside maintenance staff need to be informed about
approaching trains entering the worksite. Thus, the intention of a trackside
warning system is to inform trackside staff about the approaching train to
keep rail capacity available while working on the tracks.
The trackside maintenance warning system consists of a single or multiple
train detector entity(ies) (sensors, lookout man or interlocking station
information + communication device), and a single or multiple warning
entity(ies). The train detector entity is responsible to detect the
approaching train and to trigger the alarm to the warning entities (as an
option, the alarm should be triggered to a central/control entity also that
relays the alarm to all warning entities). The warning entity indicates
trackside workers about the approaching train on existing or adjacent tracks
in form of visual signal e.g. flashing light and audio signal e.g. tone/horn.
In large worksites or areas of high-speed trains, multiple warning entities
can be spread out along the worksite to repeat the train approaching
indication. In addition, the trackside maintenance staff will receive the
train approaching indication on its FRMCS Equipment (i.e. wearable device).
When the train has cleared the warning zone, the indication is withdrawn
automatically by the warning system, by the interlocking or manually by an
authorised operator located inside or at the edge of the warning zone.
{width="6.747222222222222in" height="4.6618055555555555in"}
Figure 5.2.1-1: Description of the Trackside Maintenance Warning System
Train detector entities and warning entities constitute the warning system
that requires secured/safe continuous radio transmission of data between the
sensors and the warning entities (e.g. keep alive messages for robustness and
location information of entities/workers to differentiate between the tracks
with a lateral distance accuracy of less than 1 meter). In addition, it
encompasses the secured/safe radio transmission of the train approaching
indication (i.e. start/stop transmitting the indication to the track workers)
among the warning system and the FRMCS Equipment of the trackside staff. Train
detection is outside scope of the warning system.
Due to the fact that such a warning system deployment is temporary and on-
network communication services are not always available at the track, the
FRMCS System provides necessary off-network communication services for the
trackside warning system. Trackside maintenance warning system in off-network
mode is well suited for small, short-term construction sites but should also
be relevant for large and long-term construction sites.
The maximum train speed in the warning zone is 500 kmph.
Note: no speed limit applies in worksites in some Countries.
Communications between train detector entities located at both edges of the
warning zone are not supported by the Trackside maintenance warning system.
As a deployment option, communication between the approaching train and the
trackside warning system should be supported to e.g. avoid train detectors.
Fixed and moving worksites e.g. carrying out inspection work are supported by
the Trackside maintenance warning system.
One-way (i.e. one train detector entity) and two-way (i.e. two train detector
entities) traffic protection are supported by the Trackside maintenance
warning system.
The minimum configuration of a warning system is:
\- One train detector entity located closed or inside the worksite (i.e.
detection by visual detection)
\- One warning entity located inside the worksite
The maximum configuration of a warning system is:
\- Two train detector entities located at both edges of the warning zone
\- The maximum number of warning entities is 30, located inside the worksite
\- The maximum number of workers (e.g. wearing warning devices through FRMCS
Equipment) located inside the worksite is 50.
Different groups of workers can work at the same time along the worksite.
Workers or work group can join/leave the worksite based on their locations.
The warning system shall be flexible enough to easily setup.
Energy efficiency of the warning system for battery-powered entities is not
supported.
Configuration and control of the warning system shall be available locally.
Configuration and control of the warning system should be available through
on-network communication.
Positioning of the train detectors with accurate distance from the worksite is
in the scope of the warning system with distance accuracy of +/- 1 meter.
The trackside maintenance warning system communication shall be reliable in
tunnels, in bad weather conditions and in unfavourable geographical
conditions.
Multiple and flexible use of spectrum bands shall be supported.
### 5.2.2 Pre-conditions
The FRMCS Users as part of the warning system are authorised to initiate,
transmit/receive data and terminate the trackside maintenance warning system
communication.
### 5.2.3 Service Flows
The entitled FRMCS User initiate, transmit/receive and terminate the trackside
maintenance warning system communication.
A secure data communication application is used for the trackside maintenance
warming system communication. The communication requests the QoS class which
matches the application category of XXX within the FRMCS System.
Editor's note: applications categories applicable to Off-Network
communications will be an outcome of the present study.
The arbitration is managed by the Arbitration application.
Editor's note: the Arbitration application use case in Off-Network mode is FFS
in the context of FS_OFFNETRAIL.
The metadata are recorded by the Data recording application.
Editor's note: the Data recording application use case in Off-Network mode is
FFS in the context of FS_OFFNETRAIL.
The communication is secured by the Assured data communication.
Editor's note: the Assured data communication use case in Off-Network mode is
FFS in the context of FS_OFFNETRAIL.
The identities, presence and functional addressing is managed by the Role
management & presence.
Editor's note: the Role management & presence use case in Off-Network mode is
FFS in the context of FS_OFFNETRAIL.
The authorisation of communication is managed by the Authorisation of
communication.
Editor's note: the Authorisation of communication use case in Off-Network mode
is FFS in the context of FS_OFFNETRAIL.
The authorisation of application is managed by the Authorisation of
application.
Editor's note: the Authorisation of application use case in Off-Network mode
is FFS in the context of FS_OFFNETRAIL.
The location of the FRMCS Equipment is managed by the Location services.
Editor's note: the Location services use case in Off-Network mode is FFS in
the context of FS_OFFNETRAIL.
### 5.2.4 Post-conditions
The entitled FRMCS User(s) as part of the warning system is able to securely
exchange data in the appropriate area to intended FRMCS User(s).
### 5.2.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
TS 22.280 [4], 22.179 [32], 22.281 [5] and 22.282 [6] have a set of specific
requirements on Off-Network MCX Services (including MCCoRe and MCData Services
for Off-Network).
TS 22.289 [2] has a set of performance requirements for Off-Network
communications for Rail to be refined based on outcomes of the present study.
TS 22.261 [7] has no requirement on 5G Proximity Services.
TS 22.185 [8] and 22.186 [9] have a set of specific requirements on 5G
Proximity Services to support V2X communications.
### 5.2.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case and gap
analysis
#### 5.2.6.1 Requirements related to the Service layer
Editor's note : the following potential new MCX requirements are relevant for
SA6.
[PR 5.2.6.1-1] The FRMCS System shall be able to initiate data communication
for Trackside Maintenance Warning System to FRMCS Users upon a request from a
functional identity entitled to initiate such communication.
[PR 5.2.6.1-2] The FRMCS System shall be able to select FRMCS user(s) to
deliver the Trackside Maintenance Warning System data based on their
functional identity and location either periodically or as a onetime request.
[PR 5.2.6.1-3] The FRMCS System shall allow FRMCS Users to join an ongoing
data communication for Trackside Maintenance Warning System based on their
functional identity and location.
[PR 5.2.6.1-4] The FRMCS System shall allow FRMCS Users to leave an ongoing
data communication for Trackside Maintenance Warning System based on their
functional identity and location.
[PR 5.2.6.1-5] The FRMCS System shall be able to terminate data communication
for Trackside Maintenance Warning System upon a request received from a
functional identity entitled to terminate the communication.
[PR 5.2.6.1-6] The FRMCS System shall allow configuration (e.g. functional
identities of maintenance staff and warning entities) and control of the
Trackside Maintenance Warning System when the FRMCS Equipment are served by a
3GPP RAT.
[PR 5.2.6.1-7] The FRMCS System shall allow configuration (e.g. functional
identities of maintenance staff and warning entities) and control of the
Trackside Maintenance Warning System when the FRMCS Equipment are not served
by a 3GPP RAT.
#### 5.2.6.2 Requirements related to the Transport layer
Editor's note : the following potential new requirements are relevant for SA2
and RAN.
[PR 5.2.6.2-1] The FRMCS System shall support the following traffic
characteristics of data transfer for data communication for Trackside
Maintenance Warning System:
Note: This table is intended to be aligned with TS 22.289 table 5.2.2-2 [2]
**Scenario** | **End-to-end latency** | **Reliability** **(Note 1)** | **UE speed** | **User experienced data rate (UL and DL)** | **Payload** **size** **(Note 2)** | **Area traffic density (UL and DL)** | **Overall UE density** | **Communication range** **(note 6)** | **Service area dimension  
(note 3)**  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Trackside maintenance warning system Communication | ≤500 ms | 99,9999% (note 7) | Stationary (warning system entities) and pedestrians (workers).  
Option: ≤500kmph for train detection via onboard system | 10 kbps up to 500 kbps | Small to medium | Up to 10 Mbps/km | ≤80/worksite | ≥8.5 km along rail tracks including tunnels, bad weather conditions and unfavourable geographical conditions (note 4) | ≥12 km along rail tracks including tunnels, bad weather conditions and unfavourable geographical conditions (note 5)  
NOTE 1: Reliability as defined in TS 22.289 sub-clause 3.1. NOTE 2: Small: payload ≤ 256 octets, Medium: payload ≤512 octets; Large: payload 513 -1500 octets. NOTE 3: Estimates of maximum dimensions. NOTE 4: Distance is equal to the distance for train of maximum speed of 500 kmph to enter the worksite + the maximum distance of a worksite NOTE 5: Minimum distance of the warning zone NOTE 6: Supported via a single or a combination of 3GPP capabilities of 5GS that best serve these use case in areas with no FRMCS RAN nodes/no FRMCS network coverage. NOTE 7: Reliability figures could be achieved using multiple 3GPP 5GS-compatible spectrum bands simultaneously. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Table 5.2.6.2-1: Traffic characteristics for Trackside Maintenance Warning
System
## 5.3 Remote Control of Engines communications
### 5.3.1 Description
It shall be possible for a remote driver to operate/control an engine (e.g.
control movement and speed) of a vehicle typically for shunting operation in
depots, shunting yards and/or for banking via a ground-based system or an on-
board system located at opposite ends of the engine.
{width="6.747916666666667in" height="2.479861111111111in"}
Figure 5.3.1-1: Description of the Remote Control of Engines
* * *
{width="3.238888888888889in" height="1.7083333333333333in"} {width="3.0in"
height="1.9375in"}
* * *
Figure 5.3.1-2: Pictures of the Remote Control of Engines in operation
Onboard system should have a distinct and unambiguous audible or visual
warning device that indicates to nearby personnel that the vehicle is under
active remote control and subject to movement.
Remote driver/ground-based entity and controlled engine(s)/onboard entity
constitute the remote control of engines system that requires secured/safe
continuous radio transmission of data between the remote driver and the
controlled engine(s)s (e.g. keep alive messages for robustness, dynamic speed
and brake control, report direction of travel and speed of the vehicle).
A remote driver shall be able to control up to 10 engines but only one engine
at a time. To supply sufficient power, a locomotive may consist of one or more
engines operated from a single remote driver. In that case, commands from the
remote control shall be synchronized. A single onboard system is used to
control the engines. Only one communication from the remote driver to the
onboard system is required.
A remote driver having the capability to control more than one engine should
have a mean to prevent simultaneous control over more than one locomotive.
If on-network mode is available, the remote driver shall be able to exchange
data with the traffic control system to automatically operate the track
switches to free the tracks before remotely operating the train.
If on-network mode is available, trains have to be geographically tracked by
the traffic control system to prevent from traveling past predetermined
boundaries (i.e. remote control zones to e.g. avoid other train movements).
If on-network mode is available, the system shall alert the traffic control
system when a safety case happens to the remote driver (e.g. remote driver
down) including the accurate location of the remote driver.
As an option, real-time video monitoring of tracks from onboard system in the
cab or from trackside to the remote driver should be required simultaneously
to the transmission of data for remote control of engines.
The remote control of engines is designed to be fail-safe so that if
communication is lost the vehicle is brought to a stop automatically.
Due to the fact that very low latency is required, and on-network
communication services are not always available at the depot, the FRMCS System
provides necessary off-network communication services for the remote control
of engines even if on-network communication services are available.
The maximum speed of the train remotely controlled shall be restricted not to
exceed 40 kmph.
The remote control of engines shall be flexible enough to easily setup.
Configuration and control of the remote control of engines shall be available
locally.
It shall be possible for a remote driver to awaken an onboard entity.
The remote control of engines communication shall be reliable in depots, in
tunnels, with clear line of sight.
Multiple and flexible use of spectrum bands shall be supported.
As an option, the remote control application should be used to remotely
control by maintenance staff other equipment such as overhead cranes in
depots, see below:
* * *
{width="3.4180555555555556in" height="2.2395833333333335in"}
{width="3.3409722222222222in" height="2.223611111111111in"}
* * *
Figure 5.3.1-3: Alternative of Remote Control Application
The remote control of overhead cranes has the same requirements on
communication characteristics as the remote control of engines.
### 5.3.2 Pre-conditions
The FRMCS User is authorised to initiate, transmit/receive data/video and
terminate the remote control of engines communication.
### 5.3.3 Service Flows
The entitled FRMCS User initiate, transmit/receive and terminate the remote
control of engines communication.
A secure data communication application is used for the remote control of
engines communication. The communication requests the QoS class which matches
the application category of XXX within the FRMCS System.
Editor's note: applications categories applicable to Off-Network
communications will be an outcome of the present study.
The arbitration is managed by the Arbitration application.
Editor's note: the Arbitration application use case in Off-Network mode is FFS
in the context of FS_OFFNETRAIL.
The metadata are recorded by the Data recording application.
Editor's note: the Data recording application use case in Off-Network mode is
FFS in the context of FS_OFFNETRAIL.
The communication is secured by the Assured data communication.
Editor's note: the Assured data communication use case in Off-Network mode is
FFS in the context of FS_OFFNETRAIL.
The identities, presence and functional addressing is managed by the Role
management & presence.
Editor's note: the Role management & presence use case in Off-Network mode is
FFS in the context of FS_OFFNETRAIL.
The authorisation of communication is managed by the Authorisation of
communication.
Editor's note: the Authorisation of communication use case in Off-Network mode
is FFS in the context of FS_OFFNETRAIL.
The authorisation of application is managed by the Authorisation of
application.
Editor's note: the Authorisation of application use case in Off-Network mode
is FFS in the context of FS_OFFNETRAIL.
The location of the FRMCS Equipment is managed by the Location services.
Editor's note: the Location services use case in Off-Network mode is FFS in
the context of FS_OFFNETRAIL.
### 5.3.4 Post-conditions
The entitled FRMCS User is able to securely exchange data/video in the
appropriate area to intended FRMCS User(s).
### 5.3.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
TS 22.280 [4], 22.179 [3], 22.281 [5] and 22.282 [6] have a set of specific
requirements on Off-Network MCX Services (including MCCoRe and MCData Services
for Off-Network).
TS 22.289 [2] has a set of performance requirements for Off-Network
communications for Rail to be refined based on outcomes of the present study.
TS 22.261 [7] has no requirement on 5G Proximity Services.
TS 22.185 [8] and 22.186 [9] have a set of specific requirements on 5G
Proximity Services to support V2X communications.
### 5.3.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
#### 5.3.6.1 Requirements related to the Service layer
Editor's note : the following potential new MCX requirements are relevant for
SA6.
[PR 5.3.6.1-1] The FRMCS System shall be able to initiate data communication
for Remote Control of Engines to FRMCS User(s) upon a request from a
functional identity entitled to initiate such communication.
[PR 5.3.6.1-2] The FRMCS System shall be able to select one or multiple FRMCS
user(s) to deliver the Remote Control of Engines data based on their
functional identity and location either periodically or as a onetime request.
[PR 5.3.6.1-3] The FRMCS System shall be able to limit the number of FRMCS
User(s) to be selected to deliver the Remote Control of Engines data at any
one time.
[PR 5.3.6.1-4] An entitled FRMCS User shall be able to awake an FRMCS
Equipment.
[PR 5.3.6.1-5] The FRMCS System shall be able to terminate data communication
for Remote Control of Engines upon a request received from a functional
identity entitled to terminate the communication.
[PR 5.3.6.1-6] The FRMCS System shall allow local configuration (e.g.
functional identities of engines and remote drivers) and control of the Remote
Control of Engines even when the FRMCS Equipment is served by a 3GPP RAT.
#### 5.3.6.2 Requirements related to the Transport layer
Editor's note : the following potential new requirements are relevant for SA2
and RAN.
[PR 5.3.6.2-1] If the FRMCS Equipment is served by a 3GPP RAT, using NR for
direct communication for Remote Control of Engines shall not interfere with
on-network services.
[PR 5.3.6.2-2] The FRMCS System shall support the following traffic
characteristics for communication for Remote Control of Engines:
Note: This table is intended to be aligned with TS 22.289 table 5.2.2-2 [2]
**Scenario** | **End-to-end latency** | **Reliability** **(Note 1)** | **UE speed** | **User experienced data rate (UL and DL)** | **Payload** **size** **(Note 2)** | **Area traffic density (UL and DL)** | **Overall UE density** | **Communication range (note 4)** | **Service area dimension  
(note 3)**  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Remote control of engines data communication | ≤10 ms | 99,9999% (note 4) | Stationary (trackside remote driver) and ≤40kmph (onboard remote control system and onboard remote driver) | 100 kbps up to 1 Mbps | Small to Medium | Up to 100 Mbps/km | 2 (remote driver and onboard system) | ≤1000m along rail tracks including depots and tunnels with clear line of sight | ≤2000m along rail tracks including depots and tunnels with clear line of sight  
Remote control of engines video communication | ≤100 ms | 99,9% (note 4) | Stationary (trackside remote driver) and ≤40kmph (onboard remote control system and onboard remote driver) | 10 Mbps | Medium | Up to 1 Gbps/km | 2 (remote driver and onboard system) | ≤1000m along rail tracks including depots and tunnels with clear line of sight | ≤2000m along rail tracks including depots and tunnels with clear line of sight  
NOTE 1: Reliability as defined in TS 22.289 sub-clause 3.1. NOTE 2: Small: payload ≤ 256 octets, Medium: payload ≤512 octets; Large: payload 513 -1500 octets. NOTE 3: Estimates of maximum dimensions. NOTE 4: Supported via a single or a combination of 3GPP capabilities of 5GS that best serve these use case in areas with no FRMCS RAN nodes/no FRMCS network coverage. NOTE 5: Reliability figures could be achieved using multiple 3GPP 5GS-compatible spectrum bands simultaneously |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Table 5.3.6.2-1: Traffic characteristics for Remote Control of Engines
## 5.4 Train integrity monitoring data communication
### 5.4.1 Description
The Train Integrity is an on-board function responsible for verifying the
completeness of a train composition, while the train is in operation, to
guarantee safety on tracks. Train integrity consists concretely in monitoring
the status of the train's tail to check that last wagon is regularly advancing
in a coherent way in relation to the movement of the remaining train. The
event of accidental train separation constitutes a serious danger for the next
train, being a possible unexpected obstacle on the line, and therefore it
needs to be promptly reported to the rail signalling system.
The main difference between train integrity monitoring in on-network mode and
off-network mode consists in train integrity criteria that (1) is based on
communication liveliness in on-network mode, whereas (2) requires verifying
train tail coherent movement respect to front cabin, based on train tail
odometry data (i.e. position, speed or acceleration of train tail and front
cabin) in off-network mode. In fact, off-network communication between train
tail and front cabin could be present also after train splitting with limited
distance of separated waggons.
### 5.4.2 Pre-conditions
The On-board Train Integrity (OTI) entities (i.e. the FRMCS Users) are
authorised to initiate Train Integrity Monitoring Data Communication.
### 5.4.3 Service Flows
James is the lead driver of a cargo train of 1 000 metres long with 50 wagons
that are not fully equipped with power supply.
The front cabin, the train tail wagon and, optionally some or all of the
intermediate wagons to offer more flexibility in train composition, are
equipped with On-board Train Integrity (OTI) entities connected to UEs in off-
network mode at the lower part of the wagons (i.e. no direct line-of-sight
between OTI entities). UEs may not be dedicated to On-board Train Integrity.
James powers on the front cabin before starting to operate the train. The OTI
entities establish communications with each other and begin exchanging status
(i.e. position, speed or acceleration information, and if supported wagon
diagnostic information) via the connected UEs in off-network mode. The train
integrity status is "Confirmed" (all wagons connected and operational). The
Train Integrity system shall avoid pairing James' OTI entities with other
trains' OTI entities in proximity.
Train Integrity data exchanges are encrypted to prevent eavesdropping.
Train Integrity data exchanges are recorded in case something bad happens
(e.g. wrong pairing between OTI entities) and somebody wants to review the
incident later.
James starts running its train to its destination on non-electrical lines
where there is no network coverage. The Train Integrity Monitoring procedure
restarts every 30 seconds (configurable timer) until the train stops running.
{width="6.530555555555556in" height="2.0930555555555554in"}
Figure 5.4.3-1: Train integrity confirmed
For some reason, the train tail splits off of James' train. The Train
Integrity system detects the event and the train integrity status becomes
"Lost".
In the meantime, James is communicating with its train operating centre to
prepare its next mission. The Train Integrity system informs on-board
signalling system about train integrity status. The on-board signalling system
takes priority on James ongoing communication to inform him thus allowing him
to intervene rapidly and appropriately (e.g. reducing the speed and breaking
the train in a safe location).
{width="6.5375in" height="2.004166666666667in"}
Figure 5.4.3-2: Train integrity lost
### 5.4.4 Post-conditions
Train integrity status can be continuously exchanged between On-board Train
Integrity (OTI) entities to warm accidental train separation and avoid any
rail safety issue.
### 5.4.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
TS 22.280 [4], 22.179 [3], 22.281 [5] and 22.282 [6] have a set of specific
requirements on Off-Network MCX Services (including MCCoRe and MCData Services
for Off-Network).
TS 22.289 [2] has a set of performance requirements for Off-Network
communications for Rail to be refined based on outcomes of the present study.
TS 22.261 [7] has no requirement on 5G Proximity Services.
TS 22.185 [8] and 22.186 [9] have a set of specific requirements on 5G
Proximity Services to support V2X communications.
### 5.4.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
#### 5.4.6.1 Requirements related to the Service layer
[PR 5.4.6.1-1] The FRMCS Service in Off-Network mode shall be able to initiate
data communication for Train Integrity Monitoring to relevant FRMCS Users upon
a request from a functional identity entitled to initiate such communication.
[PR 5.4.6.1-2] The FRMCS Service in Off-Network mode shall provide the
necessary communication means to support Train Integrity Monitoring.
[PR 5.4.6.1-3] The FRMCS Service in Off-Network mode shall allow arbitration
for Train Integrity Monitoring communication.
[PR 5.4.6.1-4] The FRMCS Service in Off-Network mode shall allow FRMCS Users
to join an ongoing data communication for Train Integrity Monitoring based on
their functional identity and location.
[PR 5.4.6.1-5] The FRMCS Service in Off-Network mode shall allow FRMCS Users
to leave an ongoing data communication for Train Integrity Monitoring based on
their functional identity and location.
[PR 5.4.6.1-6] The FRMCS Service in Off-Network mode shall provide means to
obtain and exchange odometry information of FRMCS Users (e.g. position, speed
or acceleration).
[PR 5.4.6.1-7] When an FRMCS Equipment in Off-Network mode is simultaneously
used by multiple FRMCS Users, each of the FRMCS Users shall be individually
addressable.
[PR 5.4.6.1-8] The FRMCS Service in Off-Network mode shall be able to
terminate data communication for Train Integrity Monitoring upon a request
received from a functional identity entitled to terminate such communication.
[PR 5.4.6.1-9] The FRMCS Service in Off-Network mode shall provide the means
to record Train Integrity Monitoring data communication and communication
related information (e.g. FRMCS Users involved) to an external system.
[PR 5.4.6.1-10] The FRMCS Service Security Framework shall provide mechanisms
in Off-Network mode to cover identity management, authentication,
authorisation and data protection in respect to Train Integrity Monitoring.
#### 5.4.6.2 Requirements related to the Transport layer
[PR 5.4.6.2-1] The FRMCS Equipment power consumption in Off-Network mode shall
be minimised.
[PR 5.4.6.2-2] The FRMCS Service in Off-Network mode shall support the
following traffic characteristics of data transfer for direct data
communication for Train Integrity Monitoring:
Note: This table is intended to be aligned with TS 22.289 table 5.2.2-2 [2]
**Scenario** | **End-to-end latency** | **Reliability** **(Note 1)** | **UE speed** | **User experienced data rate (UL and DL)** | **Payload** **size** **(Note 2)** | **Area traffic density (UL and DL)** | **Overall UE density** | **Communication range** **(Note 3)** | **Service area dimension  
(Note 4)**  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Train integrity monitoring data Communication | ≤1 s | 99,9% | ≤350kmph | 10 kbps up to 500 kbps | Small to Medium | Up to 25 Mbps/km | ≤50/train | ≤2 km along rail tracks including tunnels, bad weather conditions and unfavourable geographical conditions (Note 5) (Note 6) | ≤2 km along rail tracks including tunnels, bad weather conditions and unfavourable geographical conditions (Note 5) (Note 6)  
| NOTE 1: Reliability as defined in TS 22.289 sub-clause 3.1. NOTE 2: Small: payload ≤ 256 octets, Medium: payload ≤512 octets; Large: payload 513 -1500 octets. NOTE 3: Supported via a single or a combination of 3GPP capabilities of 5GS that best serve these use case in areas with no FRMCS RAN nodes/no FRMCS network coverage. NOTE 4: Estimates of maximum dimensions. NOTE 5: Distance is equal to twice the maximum length of a train to cover train tail split NOTE 6: Non-Line-of-Sight (NLOS) between UEs shall be supported. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Table 5.4.6.2-1: Traffic characteristics for Train Integrity Monitoring
## 5.5 Shunting communication
### 5.5.1 Description
Changing the locomotive of a train, coupling/uncoupling wagons, changing the
order in which wagons are arranged in a train are all kinds of shunting
movements. Shunting movements can be differentiated from other regular
movements: this main point of differentiation is that almost all shunting is
done within a single station or a shunting yard.
Shunting movements between shunting members can be ordered by radio, in on-
network or in off-network modes. This section describes shunting
communications in off-network mode where a ground user e.g.
controller/dispatcher is not necessary.
### 5.5.2 Pre-conditions
The Shunting members (i.e. the FRMCS Users) of the shunting team #1 (i.e.
Shunting Service Area #1 and Shunting Team ID #1) are authorised to initiate
Shunting Communications.
### 5.5.3 Service Flows
A cargo train has to prepared by coupling the main locomotive to the rest of
the wagons. A Shunting Service Area is defined to avoid any other train
movements in the same area. There is no network coverage in this Shunting
service area.
Bob has been assigned the role of the shunting leader of a shunting team in
charge of this operation. Bob prepares its mission together with James, which
has been assigned the role of the shunting driver. The shunting team members
are all equipped with a Shunting device connected to a UE. They are operating
their UEs in off-network mode and have selected their role and shunting
service area to enable voice and data exchanges between the shunting members.
The Shunting group voice and data communications are encrypted to prevent
eavesdropping.
Bob exchanges with the shunting members secured and reliable information
required to perform safe shunting movements of trains, (e.g. issuing route
requests, route confirmation, giving driving commands, confirmation for
driving commands, etc.). Bob receives confirmation upon successful reception
of the message for all shunting members.
Service Flow#1 (shunting movements ordered by human): James, located in the
front cabin (indoor) and without direct line-of-sight of the track, pushes a
group of wagons (i.e. going backwards), continuously and securely ordered by
Bob, located at train tail (outdoor or indoor) as a lookout man. To do so, Bob
enables an assured safety link function that periodically send tones or keep
alive messages to the shunting members. Bob may shout orders periodically into
his Shunting device. Bob's orders take priority on the periodic assured safety
link tones and every team member is able to hear him.
If the voice/data can not be exchanged for more than 2 seconds (configurable
time), every member of the shunting team is informed, thus allowing them to
intervene rapidly and appropriately (e.g. James breaking the train).
When Bob orders James to stop its train, he disables the assured safety link
function and invites Dave, a member of another shunting team located on the
trackside, to be part of their shunting team to couple James' train to the
rest of the wagons. Shunting team members of both teams are now part of the
same shunting team.
Dave, James and Bob are simultaneously talking to each other to couple James'
train safely.
Dave notices that another worker is in the area and, to avoid collision with
James' train shouts a warning into his UE. Dave's warning takes priority, and
member of the shunting team is able to hear him to intervene rapidly and
appropriately (e.g. James breaking the train).
Shunting communications are recorded (e.g. shunting members composition) in
case something bad happens and somebody wants to review the incident later.
Service Flow#2 (shunting movements self-controlled using video by the driver):
James, located in the front cabin (indoor) and without direct line-of-sight of
the track, pushes a group of wagons (i.e. going backwards), continuously and
securely monitoring the track using video communication with camera connected
to a UE located at the train tail.
If the video can not be exchanged for more than 2 seconds (configurable time),
James is informed, thus allowing him to intervene rapidly and appropriately
(e.g. James braking the train).
Shunting video communications are recorded (including metadata e.g. timestamp,
originator, receiver, roles) in case something bad happens and somebody wants
to review the incident later.
{width="6.538888888888889in" height="3.7375in"}
Figure 5.5.3-1: Examples of Shunting communications
### 5.5.4 Post-conditions
Shunting movement orders can be continuously exchanged between the Shunting
members of the shunting team to avoid any rail safety issue while shunting.
Shunting videos can be continuously exchanged between the Driver and the
shunting cameras to avoid any rail safety issue while shunting.
### 5.5.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
TS 22.280 [4], 22.179 [3], 22.281 [5] and 22.282 [6] have a set of specific
requirements on Off-Network MCX Services (including MCCoRe and MCData Services
for Off-Network).
TS 22.289 [2] has a set of performance requirements for Off-Network
communications for Rail to be refined based on outcomes of the present study.
TS 22.261 [7] has no requirement on 5G Proximity Services.
TS 22.185 [8] and 22.186 [9] have a set of specific requirements on 5G
Proximity Services to support V2X communications.
### 5.5.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
#### 5.5.6.1 Requirements related to the Service layer
[PR 5.5.6.1-1] The FRMCS Service in Off-Network mode shall be able to initiate
voice, data and video communication for Shunting movements to relevant FRMCS
Users upon a request from a functional identity entitled to initiate such
communication.
[PR 5.5.6.1-2] The FRMCS Service in Off-Network mode shall provide the
necessary communication means to support Shunting.
[PR 5.5.6.1-3] The FRMCS Service in Off-Network mode shall allow the multi-
talker control.
[PR 5.5.6.1-4] The FRMCS Service in Off-Network mode shall provide the means
to enable/disable continuous monitoring of the communication links to all
involved FRMCS Users of a specific voice, data or video group communication.
[PR 5.5.6.1-5] An authorised FRMCS User in Off-Network mode shall be able to
enable/disable continuous monitoring of the communication links to all
involved FRMCS Users of a specific voice, data or video group communication.
[PR 5.5.6.1-6] If a degradation or loss of a communication link is detected,
the remaining FRMCS Users shall be informed. The ongoing communications among
the remaining FRMCS Users shall continue.
[PR 5.5.6.1-7] The FRMCS Service in Off-Network mode shall allow arbitration
for Shunting communication.
[PR 5.5.6.1-8] The FRMCS Service in Off-Network mode shall allow FRMCS Users
to join an ongoing voice and data communication for Shunting based on their
functional identity and location.
[PR 5.5.6.1-9] An authorised FRMCS User shall be able to invite another FRMCS
User to join a voice communication, based on his functional identity, FRMCS
User Identity, or FRMCS Equipment Identity, even if his already involved in
another active communication.
[PR 5.5.6.1-10] When accepting a communication invitation, in case the FRMCS
User has an active voice communication, the FRMCS User shall be able to leave,
terminate or merge the voice communication(s).
[PR 5.5.6.1-11] The FRMCS User sending the invitation shall be informed if the
targeted FRMCS User receives, accepts, rejects or ignores the invitation.
[PR 5.5.6.1-12] All involved FRMCS User shall be informed when group
communication status of an FRMCS user changes e.g. join, leave, on hold,
terminate, invite, merge.
[PR 5.5.6.1-13] The FRMCS Service in Off-Network mode shall allow FRMCS Users
to leave an ongoing voice and data communication for Shunting based on their
functional identity and location.
[PR 5.5.6.1-14] The FRMCS Service in Off-Network mode shall be able to
terminate voice, data and video communication for Shunting upon a request
received from a functional identity entitled to terminate such communication.
[PR 5.5.6.1-15] The FRMCS Service in Off-Network mode shall provide the means
to record Shunting communication and communication related information (e.g.
FRMCS Users involved and their roles) to an external system.
[PR 5.5.6.1-16] The FRMCS Service Security Framework shall provide mechanisms
in Off-Network mode to cover identity management, authentication,
authorisation and data protection in respect to Shunting.
#### 5.5.6.2 Requirements related to the Transport layer
[PR 5.5.6.2-1] The FRMCS Service in Off-Network mode shall not interfere with
FRMCS Services in On-Network mode.
[PR 5.5.6.2-2] The FRMCS Service in Off-Network mode shall support the
following traffic characteristics of voice, data and video transfer for direct
communication for Shunting:
Note: this table is intended to be aligned with TS 22.289 table 5.2.2-2 [2]
**Scenario** | **End-to-end latency** | **Reliability** **(Note 1)** | **UE speed** | **User experienced data rate (UL and DL)** | **Payload** **size** **(Note 2)** | **Area traffic density (UL and DL)** | **Overall UE density** | **Communication range** **(Note 3)** | **Service area dimension  
(Note 4)**  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Shunting voice Communication | ≤100 ms | 99,9999% | ≤40 kmph | 100 kbps up to 300 kbps | Small | Up to 1 Mbps/line km | ≤10 shunting members | ≤1.5 km along rail tracks including tunnels, bad weather conditions and unfavourable geographical conditions (Note 5) | ≤1.5 km along rail tracks including tunnels, bad weather conditions and unfavourable geographical conditions (Note 5)  
Shunting data Communication | ≤500 ms | 99,9999% | ≤40 kmph | 10 kbps up to 500 kbps | Small to medium | Up to 10 Mbps/km | ≤10 shunting members | ≤1.5 km along rail tracks including tunnels, bad weather conditions and unfavourable geographical conditions (Note 5) | ≤1.5 km along rail tracks including tunnels, bad weather conditions and unfavourable geographical conditions (Note 5)  
Shunting video Communication | ≤100 ms | 99,9% | ≤40 kmph | 10 Mbps | Medium | Up to 100 Mbps/km | ≤10 | ≤1.5 km along rail tracks including tunnels, bad weather conditions and unfavourable geographical conditions (Note 5) | ≤1.5 km along rail tracks including tunnels, bad weather conditions and unfavourable geographical conditions (Note 5)  
| NOTE 1: Reliability as defined in TS 22.289 sub-clause 3.1. NOTE 2: Small: payload ≤ 256 octets, Medium: payload ≤512 octets; Large: payload 513 -1500 octets. NOTE 3: Supported via a single or a combination of 3GPP capabilities of 5GS that best serve these use case in areas with no FRMCS RAN nodes/no FRMCS network coverage. NOTE 4: Estimates of maximum dimensions. NOTE 5: Non-Line-of-Sight (NLOS) between UEs, UE to UE both inside locomotives and unfavourable radio propagation conditions in shunting yards shall be supported. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Table 5.5.6.2-1: Traffic characteristics for Shunting communications
## 5.6 Train ready for departure communication
### 5.6.1 Description
Station departure and the platform/train interface is one of the biggest risk
areas in railway operations today.
Rail operators implement various different processes for managing station
departure with similar objective of ensuring that passengers are safely
onboard the train and that the train can safely depart the platform.
Train departure communications includes (1) driver to controller communication
and (2) conductor to driver communication. Train ready message sent from the
driver to the controller is typically used in main railway stations, in on-
network mode. Train ready for departure from a platform involving platform
staff (e.g. chief conductor) and driver sent from the platform staff to the
driver, is typically used in remote station e.g. rural area, in off-network
mode. Another train ready for departure communication scenario in remote
stations involves the driver and platform camera(s) to check closing doors and
that no passengers are left on the platform without any platform staff.
This section describes Train ready for departure communications in off-network
mode. No service handover between on-network and off-network modes is
foreseen.
### 5.6.2 Pre-conditions
The Chief conductor (i.e. the FRMCS User) is authorised to initiate Train
ready for departure Communications.
### 5.6.3 Service Flows
Monday, 9:30 in the morning. James has been assigned the role of the lead
driver of train #12345. His train #12345 stands in platform A, located in a
rural railway station where there is no network coverage. The train is ready
for boarding. His train should leave at 10:00. James is located in the front
cabin (indoor).
Service Flow#1 (driver and platform staff): Bob has been assigned the role of
the chief conductor in charge of ensuring a safe boarding for passengers. He
stands in platform A, near the train tail.
James and Bob are equipped with devices connected to a UE. They are operating
their UEs in off-network mode and have selected their role and platform area
to enable data exchanges between each other. The data communications are
encrypted to prevent eavesdropping.
Passengers are boarding.
09:59. Train is ready for departure but Bob notes that a Family is running not
to miss train #12345. 10:03. All passengers are onboard. Doors are closing.
When all doors are safely closed, Bob sends a secured and reliable "Train
#12345 is ready for departure" message to James. Bob receives confirmation
upon successful reception of the message by James. James acknowledges the
message and starts running his train.
Train ready for departure message is recorded (e.g. timestamp, originator,
receiver, roles, content) in case something bad happens and somebody wants to
review the incident later.
Service Flow#2 (driver and platform camera(s)): two fixed cameras are located
on platform A. Camera C1 is located one near the train tail, camera C2 is
located at the front cabin. Each camera is connected to a UE operating in off-
network mode. Each camera has automatically selected its role and platform
area (via static or dynamic configuration) to enable video exchanges with the
driver's UE. The video communication is encrypted to prevent eavesdropping.
Passengers are boarding.
09:59. Train is ready for departure, but a Family is running not to miss train
#12345. 10:03. All passengers are onboard. James enables video from camera C1
to check passengers on the platform. Then James switch video from camera C1 to
C2. James may also enable video from both cameras C1 and C2. Doors are
closing. When all doors are safely closed, James disable videos from cameras
C1 and C2. James starts running his train.
Train ready for departure video is recorded (including metadata e.g.
timestamp, originator, receiver) in case something bad happens and somebody
wants to review the incident later.
{width="5.174305555555556in" height="2.470138888888889in"}
Figure 5.6.3-1: Train ready for departure communications
### 5.6.4 Post-conditions
Train ready for departure messages are safely exchanged between the Chief
Conductor and the Lead Driver to avoid any safety related issue for passengers
before departure.
Train ready for departure videos are safely exchanged between the Chief
Conductor and the Fixed Cameras to avoid any safety related issue for
passengers before departure.
### 5.6.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
TS 22.280 [4], 22.179 [3], 22.281 [5] and 22.282 [6] have a set of specific
requirements on Off-Network MCX Services (including MCCoRe and MCData Services
for Off-Network).
TS 22.289 [2] has a set of performance requirements for Off-Network
communications for Rail to be refined based on outcomes of the present study.
TS 22.261 [7] has no requirement on 5G Proximity Services.
TS 22.185 [8] and 22.186 [9] have a set of specific requirements on 5G
Proximity Services to support V2X communications.
### 5.6.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
#### 5.6.6.1 Requirements related to the Service layer
[PR 5.6.6.1-1] The FRMCS Service in Off-Network mode shall be able to initiate
data and video communications for Train Ready for Departure to relevant FRMCS
User upon a request from a functional identity entitled to initiate such
communication.
[PR 5.6.6.1-2] The FRMCS Service in Off-Network mode shall provide the
necessary communication means to support Train Ready for Departure.
[PR 5.6.6.1-3] The FRMCS Service in Off-Network mode shall allow arbitration
for Train Ready for Departure communication.
[PR 5.6.6.1-4] The FRMCS Service in Off-Network mode shall be able to
terminate data and video communications for Train Ready for Departure upon a
request received from a functional identity entitled to terminate such
communication.
[PR 5.6.6.1-5] The FRMCS Service in Off-Network mode shall provide the means
to record Train Ready for Departure communication and communication related
information (e.g. FRMCS Users involved and their roles) to an external system.
[PR 5.6.6.1-6] The FRMCS Service Security Framework shall provide mechanisms
in Off-Network mode to cover identity management, authentication,
authorisation and data protection in respect to Train Ready for Departure.
#### 5.6.6.2 Requirements related to the Transport layer
[PR 5.6.6.2-1] The FRMCS Service in Off-Network mode shall support the
following traffic characteristics of data and video transfer for direct
communication for Train Ready for Departure:
Note: This table is intended to be aligned with TS 22.289 table 5.2.2-2 [2]
**Scenario** | **End-to-end latency** | **Reliability** **(Note 1)** | **UE speed** | **User experienced data rate (UL and DL)** | **Payload** **size** **(Note 2)** | **Area traffic density (UL and DL)** | **Overall UE density** | **Communication range** **(Note 3)** | **Service area dimension  
(Note 4)**  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Train Ready for Departure data Communication | ≤500 ms | 99,9% | Stationary | 10 kbps up to 500 kbps | Small to medium | Up to 10 Mbps/km | 2 | ≤1 000 m along rail tracks including bad weather conditions (Note 5) | ≤1 000 m along rail tracks including bad weather conditions (Note 5)  
Train Ready for Departure video Communication | ≤100 ms | 99,9% | Stationary | 10 Mbps | Medium | Up to 100 Mbps/km | ≤10 | ≤1 000 m along rail tracks including bad weather conditions (Note 5) | ≤1 000 m along rail tracks including bad weather conditions (Note 5)  
| NOTE 1: Reliability as defined in TS 22.289 sub-clause 3.1. NOTE 2: Small: payload ≤ 256 octets, Medium: payload ≤512 octets; Large: payload 513 -1500 octets. NOTE 3: Supported via a single or a combination of 3GPP capabilities of 5GS that best serve these use case in areas with no FRMCS RAN nodes/no FRMCS network coverage. NOTE 4: Estimates of maximum dimensions. NOTE 5: Non-Line-of-Sight (NLOS) between UEs and UE to UE inside locomotives shall be supported. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Table 5.6.6.2-1: Traffic characteristics for Train Ready for Departure
communication
## 5.7 Autonomous Train Control and Operation
### 5.7.1 Description
This section describes autonomous train control and operation in off-network
mode, where no network is available. In legacy train control systems, trains
typically decide its movement by interacting with trackside devices (e.g.
track circuits, balise, radio block system) or communicating with a trackside
server. If a train can autonomously figure out the positions of the nearby
trains and decide its movement authority, the transport capacity of the
railway will be enhanced. In the autonomous train control system whose service
concept is aligned to the eV2X service, trains share its position by
exchanging the information without any centralized server, and each train
decides how far it can be authorized to move based on the position
information. It is expected that main application area will be mass
transportation such as subway.
Figure 5.7.1‑1 An example of autonomous train control scenario
### 5.7.2 Pre-conditions
1\. Trains know the overall schedule, and the user equipment of each train is
connected to the user equipment of the other trains operating at the same time
in on-network mode. If on-network mode is not available, the user equipment is
connected to the user equipment of other trains in proximity using off-network
mode.
2\. A user equipment of each train is able to establish a connection with the
object controller for the nearby point machine, where the point machine is a
trackside element.
### 5.7.3 Service Flows
1\. A train gets started and try registration to the currently operating
trains. As a result of the registration, every train positions are known
before running.
2\. The train gets the responses of the registration from the other trains and
estimates the positions of the trains.
3\. The train decides its movement authority based on the position information
and starts moving.
4\. The train positions in the corresponding areas are shared through
broadcasting or multicasting. Here, the train position information is updated
in a periodic manner.
5\. Based on the periodically updated information, each train updates its
movement authority and conduct train control based on it.
6\. If the train needs to connect to the nearby point machine, the train sends
switch command with a reliable mechanism in the application layer.
### 5.7.4 Post-conditions
The autonomous train control is achieved by activating movement authority for
each train or activating object controller for nearby point machine.
### 5.7.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
The potential new requirement in the followings have been considered only in
TR 22.989 V18.0.0.
### 5.7.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
#### 5.7.6.1 Requirements related to the Service layer
[PR 5.7.6.1-1] The FRMCS System shall provide a reliable mechanism to discover
a FRMCS UEs in proximity in off-network.
[PR 5.7.6.1-2] The FRMCS System shall be able to share the train position
periodically from one single UE to multiple FRMCS UEs in proximity for train
control in off-network.
[PR 5.7.6.1-3] The FRMCS System shall be able to transmit train control data
originated from one FRMCS UE to another FRMCS UE in off-network.
#### 5.7.6.2 Requirements related to the Transport layer
[PR 5.7.6.2-1] The FRMCS Service in Off-Network mode shall support the
following traffic characteristics of data transfer for direct communication
for autonomous train control and operation:
**Scenario** | **End-to-end latency** | **Reliability** **(Note 1)** | **UE speed** | **User experienced data rate (UL and DL and SL)** | **Payload** **size** **(Note 2)** | **Area traffic density (UL and DL and SL)** | **Overall UE density** | **Communication range** | **Service area dimension  
(Note 3)**  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Autonomous train control and operation data communication (Korea, urban railway) | ≤100 ms | 99.99 % | ≤100 km/h | ≤1 Mbps | Small to large | ≤5 Mbps/km | ≤15 (3000 m) | ≤3000 m (Note 5) | ≤3000 m along rail tracks including bad weather conditions (Note 4)  
| NOTE 1: Reliability as defined in TS 22.289 sub-clause 3.1. NOTE 2: Small: payload ≤ 256 octets, Medium: payload ≤512 octets; Large: payload 513 -1500 octets. NOTE 3: Estimates of maximum dimensions. NOTE 4: Non-Line-of-Sight (NLOS) between UEs shall be supported. NOTE 5: UEs are assumed to be located at the tail of the leading train and the front of the following train |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
**Table 5.7.6.2-1: Traffic characteristics for autonomous train control and
operation communication -- off network communication**
Note: This table is intended to be included in Section 6.2.2.3-1 of TS 22.289
[2]
## 5.8 Virtual Coupling
### 5.8.1 Description
One of the important missions that the future railway service should achieve
is to increase its transport capacity. A straight-forward solution is to
minimize the distance between successive trains so that train interval is
reduced. It is difficult to do so in a legacy train control system, because
the successive trains need to have distance as much as a safety margin, which
should be larger than the full braking distance.
Figure 5.8.1‑2 Sharing acceleration and braking control information to shorten
safety margin
This safety margin can be further shortened if the successive trains share
control information (acceleration and braking) and apply it to its own train
control. As shown in Figure 5.8.1-1, the safety margin can be shortened if the
following train (T1) immediately knows that the leading train (T2) starts
braking and also triggers braking. This is the fundamental principle and the
main purpose of virtual coupling. Figure 5.8.2 shows the basic concept of the
virtual coupling scenario. Multiple trains which are in close distance move
together as they are physically coupled. As the distance between two trains
gets smaller, the control information of a train should be delivered to the
other in shorter time.
Figure 5.8.1-2 The concept of virtual coupling scenario
### 5.8.2 Pre-conditions
1\. The leading and following trains in operation recognize each other and
have just got configured to be coupled virtually. Here, the recognition is
achieved by on-network or off-network.
2\. The user equipments for train control support device to device
communications in the perspective of transport layer.
Figure 5.8.1-3 Overall procedure of virtual coupling
### 5.8.3 Service Flows
1\. The following train begins to approach to the leading train by exchanging
the information about their position. The two trains, which are far enough to
allow a certain amount of end-to-end latency, are initially connected through
the on-network.
2\. As the following train approaches to the leading train, they start
exchanging the information about movement control and each train then controls
itself while considering the control of the other train. The two trains, which
are still far enough to allow a certain amount of end-to-end latency, keep the
connection through the on-network.
3\. As the following train further approaches to the leading train, the safe
braking distance gets shorter and they are required to have a connection of
which end-to-end latency is very short for delicate train control. At this
moment, they seamlessly switch the connection from the on-network to off-
network. Each train can maintain the on-network connection, as an auxiliary
connection, as long as it is within the coverage.
4\. As the following train even further approaches the leading train so that
the distance between the tail-end of the leading train and the front-end of
the following train becomes shorter than the safe braking distance, the off-
network connection requires extremely high reliability as well as short end-
to-end latency to prevent potential accidents. In this case, two trains can be
regarded as if they are physically coupled, communicating via wireless train
backbone (WLTB).
### 5.8.4 Post-conditions
For safety train operation, integrity needs to be checked for train control
information delivery in the perspective of application or transport layer. Any
error on integrity check shall be immediately reported to the train control
application.
### 5.8.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
The potential new requirement in the followings have been considered only in
TR 22.989 V18.0.0.
### 5.8.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
#### 5.8.6.1 Requirements related to the Service layer
Note: Off-network is used even when network coverage is available.
[PR 5.8.6.1-1] The FRMCS system shall be able to provide integrity protection
for off-network train control communication.
[PR 5.8.6.1-2] The FRMCS System shall support seamless service continuity
between on-network based connection and off-network based connection
[PR 5.8.6.1-3] The FRMCS System shall support UEs capable of utilizing off-
network and on-network communications at the same time.
[PR 5.8.6.1-4] The FRMCS System shall provide a mechanism to change the QoS
requirements of the off-network communication adaptively.
#### 5.8.6.2 Requirements related to the Transport layer
[PR 5.8.6.2-1] The FRMCS system shall be able to provide integrity protection
for off-network train control communication
[PR 5.8.6.2-2] The FRMCS Service in Off-Network mode shall support the
following traffic characteristics of data transfer for direct communication
for virtual coupling:
Note: This table is intended to be included in Section 6.2.2.3-1 of TS 22.289
[2]
**Scenario** | **End-to-end latency** | **Reliability** **(Note 1)** | **UE speed** | **UE Relative** **Speed** | **User experienced data rate (UL and DL and SL)** | **Payload** **size** **(Note 2)** | **Area traffic density (UL and DL and SL)** | **Overall UE density** | **Communication range** | **Service area dimension  
(Note 3)**  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Virtual coupling, critical data communication (Korea, urban railway) | ≤ 100 ms | 99.99% | ≤100 km/h | ≤ 50km/h | ≤1Mbps | Small to large | ≤5 Mbps/km | ≤15 (3000 m) | ≤3000 m (Note 6) | ≤3 000 m along rail tracks including bad weather conditions  
Virtual coupling, Very critical data communication (Korea, urban railway) (Note 5) | ≤ 10 ms | 99.9999% | ≤100 km/h | ≤ 50km/h | ≤1Mbps | Small to large | ≤20 Mbps/km | ≤6  
(300 m) | ≤ 300 m (Note 6) | ≤300 m along rail tracks including bad weather conditions (Note 4)  
| NOTE 1: Reliability as defined in TS 22.289 sub-clause 3.1. NOTE 2: Small: payload ≤ 256 octets, Medium: payload ≤512 octets; Large: payload 513 -1500 octets. NOTE 3: Estimates of maximum dimensions. NOTE 4: Non-Line-of-Sight (NLOS) between UEs shall be supported. NOTE 5: Data link between trains can work as like wireless train backbone NOTE 6: UEs are assumed to be located at the tail of the leading train and the front of the following train |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Table 5.8.6.2-1: Traffic characteristics for Virtual coupling communication
[PR 5.8.6.2-3] The FRMCS System shall establish an immediate communication
session between entities for virtual coupling.
Editor's note: The requirement above is FFS
[PR 5.8.6.2-4] The FRMCS System shall support seamless service continuity
between on-network based connection and off-network based connection.
Editor's note: The requirement above is FFS
[PR 5.8.6.2-5] The FRMCS System shall support UEs capable of utilizing off-
network and on-network communications at the same time.
Editor's note: The requirement above is FFS
## 5.9 Monitoring and control of critical infrastructure communication
### 5.9.1 Description
Monitoring and controlling critical infrastructure such as train detection,
signals and indicators, movable infrastructure, level crossing elements,
including barrier controls, vehicle sensors, lighting controls and alarms, are
essential part of operating trains in areas where no network is available e.g.
rural areas, harbours.
Monitoring and controlling critical infrastructure can be done by radio, in
on-network or in off-network modes. This section describes monitoring and
control of critical infrastructure communications in off-network mode, where
no network is available. No service handover between on-network and off-
network modes is foreseen.
### 5.9.2 Pre-conditions
The Chief conductor (i.e. the FRMCS User) is authorised to initiate Monitoring
or controlling critical infrastructure communications.
### 5.9.3 Service Flows
Monday, 9:30 in the morning. James has been assigned the role of the lead
driver of train #12345. His train #12345 stands in platform A, located in a
Harbour railway station where there is no network coverage. The train is ready
for boarding and starts running at 10:00. James is located in the front cabin
(indoor).
Before leaving the Harbour area, James has to run its train through many level
crossings. In order to run safely the level crossing (LX), James has to detect
vehicles in the level crossing area using fixed video camera of this area.
James is equipped with an onboard device with display connected to a UE. LX
surveillance camera is also connected to a UE. James and the camera are
operating their UEs in off-network mode and have selected their role to enable
video exchanges. The video communications are encrypted to prevent
eavesdropping.
When James approaching the LX, James enables video from LX surveillance camera
to detect vehicles. James primarily relies on the remote LX surveillance
camera vision to identify obstacles (e.g. vehicles) and to make decision on
whether to enter the LX area. When no vehicles are detected, James is allowed
to run its train through the LX area. When the train has left the LX area,
James disable videos from LX surveillance camera. James continues running his
train to next LX.
{width="6.539583333333334in" height="1.5694444444444444in"}
Figure 5.9.3-1: Monitoring and control of critical infrastructure
communications
### 5.9.4 Post-conditions
Monitoring and controlling critical infrastructure videos are safely exchanged
between the Chief Conductor and the Fixed Cameras to avoid any safety related
issue at level crossings.
### 5.9.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
TS 22.280 [4], 22.179 [3], 22.281 [5] and 22.282 [6] have a set of specific
requirements on Off-Network MCX Services (including MCCoRe and MCData Services
for Off-Network).
TS 22.289 [2] has a set of performance requirements for Off-Network
communications for Rail to be refined based on outcomes of the present study.
TS 22.261 [7] has no requirement on 5G Proximity Services.
TS 22.185 [8] and 22.186 [9] have a set of specific requirements on 5G
Proximity Services to support V2X communications.
### 5.9.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
#### 5.9.6.1 Requirements related to the Service layer
[PR 5.9.6.1-1] The FRMCS Service in Off-Network mode shall be able to initiate
video communications for Monitoring and controlling critical infrastructure to
relevant FRMCS User upon a request from a functional identity entitled to
initiate such communication.
[PR 5.9.6.1-2] The FRMCS Service in Off-Network mode shall provide the
necessary communication means to support Monitoring and controlling critical
infrastructure.
[PR 5.9.6.1-3] The FRMCS Service in Off-Network mode shall allow arbitration
for Monitoring and controlling critical infrastructure.
[PR 5.9.6.1-4] The FRMCS Service in Off-Network mode shall be able to
terminate video communications for Monitoring and controlling critical
infrastructure upon a request received from a functional identity entitled to
terminate such communication.
[PR 5.9.6.1-5] The FRMCS Service in Off-Network mode shall provide the means
to record Monitoring and controlling critical infrastructure communication and
communication related information (e.g. FRMCS Users involved and their roles)
to an external system.
[PR 5.9.6.1-6] The FRMCS Service Security Framework shall provide mechanisms
in Off-Network mode to cover identity management, authentication,
authorisation and data protection in respect to Monitoring and controlling
critical infrastructure.
#### 5.9.6.2 Requirements related to the Transport layer
[PR 5.9.6.2-1] The FRMCS Service in Off-Network mode shall support the
following traffic characteristics of video transfer for direct communication
for Monitoring and controlling critical infrastructure:
Note: this table is intended to be aligned with TS 22.289 table 5.2.2-2 [2]
**Scenario** | **End-to-end latency** | **Reliability** **(Note 1)** | **UE speed** | **User experienced data rate (UL and DL)** | **Payload** **size** **(Note 2)** | **Area traffic density (UL and DL)** | **Overall UE density** | **Communication range** **(Note 3)** | **Service area dimension  
(Note 4)**  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Monitoring and controlling critical infrastructure video Communication | ≤100 ms | 99,9% | ≤40 km/h | 10 Mbps | Medium | Up to 20 Mbps/km | 2 | ≤1 000 m along rail tracks including bad weather conditions (Note 5) | ≤1 000 m along rail tracks including bad weather conditions (Note 5)  
| NOTE 1: Reliability as defined in TS 22.289 sub-clause 3.1. NOTE 2: Small: payload ≤ 256 octets, Medium: payload ≤512 octets; Large: payload 513 -1500 octets. NOTE 3: Supported via a single or a combination of 3GPP capabilities of 5GS that best serve these use case in areas with no FRMCS RAN nodes/no FRMCS network coverage. NOTE 4: Estimates of maximum dimensions. NOTE 5: Non-Line-of-Sight (NLOS) between UEs and UE to UE inside locomotives shall be supported. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Table 5.9.6.2-1: Traffic characteristics for Monitoring and controlling
critical infrastructure communication
# 6 Void.
## 6.1 Void.
# 7 Void.
## 7.1 Void.
# 8 Identified issues
## 8.1 Introduction
This section summarizes open points identified by SA1 as part of the gap
analysis of the use cases captured above, e.g. about limitations, missing
requirements and gaps in existing functionalities supported by 3GPP.
## 8.2 Identified issue 1: Communication range
### 8.2.1 Description
Some of the use cases described in clauses 5, 6 and 7 of the present document
(e.g. the Trackside Maintenance Warning System communication) require
communication range of up to several kilometres (e.g. 8.5 km) along rail
tracks including tunnels, bad weather conditions, unfavourable geographical
conditions, and non-Line-of-Sight (NLOS) between UEs i.e. obstructions.
Communication range is to be understood as the maximum distance between users
operating UEs without performance degradations. Users may be stationary,
pedestrians or in motion up to 500 kmph.
### 8.2.2 Limitations, missing requirements and gaps
\
## 8.3 Identified issue 2: MCX Support
### 8.x.1 Description
Some of the use cases described in clauses 5, 6 and 7 of the present document
(refer to subclauses describing requirements to the Service layer) require
support of MCX Services.
The following MCX capabilities should be supported by Off-Network for Rail.
Due to the nature of Off-Network communication, it is expected that the
functionality of those MCX capabilities might be reduced compared to On-
Network communication.
  * MCX Service common capabilities:
    * Group communications,
    * Private communications,
    * Late Communication Entry,
    * Functional Alias,
    * Location Service,
    * E2E Security,
    * User Authentication and Service Authorization,
    * Service Arbitration,
    * QoS and Priority,
    * Performance Monitoring and Exposure Service,
    * Recording Metadata,
    * Transition from Off-Network to On-Network (and vice-versa) (i.e. Service Continuity),
    * Service Configuration (i.e. local + central when transiting from Off-Network to On-Network),
  * MCX Service Types:
    * MCPTT,
    * MCData,
    * MCVideo.
  * MCX Service capabilities per Service Type:
    * MCPTT
      * Floor Control,
      * Multi-Talker Control.
    * MCData
      * SDS,
      * IP Connectivity.
    * MCVideo
      * Video Streams.
### 8.x.2 Limitations, missing requirements and gaps
\
## 8.x Identified issue y: \
### 8.x.1 Description
\
### 8.x.2 Limitations, missing requirements and gaps
\
# 9 Consolidated potential requirements
# 10 Conclusion and recommendations
This technical report identifies several use cases, and potential new
requirements for 5GS support of Rail Off-Network. Some open points identified
as part of the gap analysis of the use cases have been collected and detailed
in clause 8 (e.g., communication range, MCX support).
A further step is necessary to identify limitations, missing requirements and
gaps in existing functionalities supported by 3GPP before any potential
normative work. This step could be performed by external bodies involved in
the definition of Rail Off-Network use cases (e.g., UIC, ETSI TC RT).
It is therefore recommended to wait for further gap analysis before finalizing
consolidated requirements in this TR and trigger potential subsequent
normative work (if deemed necessary).
#