# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document establishes and defines the management principles and
high-level requirements for the management of PLMNs.
In particular, the present document identifies the requirements for:
\- the upper level of a management system;
\- the reference model, showing the elements the management system interacts
with;
\- the network operator processes needed to run, operate and maintain a
network;
\- the functional architecture of the management system;
\- the principles to be applied to management interfaces.
The requirements identified in the present document are directed to the
further development of management specifications as well as the development of
management products. The present document can be seen as guidance for the
development of all other Technical Specification addressing the management of
PLMNs.
The present document does not provide physical architectures of the management
system. These aspects are defined and discussed in more detail in TS 32.102
[101].
Verbal forms used to indicate requirements in the present document (e.g.
\"shall\", \"should\", \"may\") are used in compliance with 3GPP specification
Drafting Rules TR 21.801 [104].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] ITU-T Recommendation M.3010 (2000): \"Principles for a telecommunications
management network\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.101: \"Service aspects; Service Principles\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.111-1: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management; Part
1: 3G fault management requirements\".
[4] IETF RFC 959: \"File Transfer Protocol (FTP)\"; October 1985, J. Postel,
J. Reynolds, ISI.\ (Status: Standard).
[5] IETF RFC 783: \"Trivial File Transfer Protocol (TFTP)\"; rev. 2, June
1981, K.R. Sollins MIT.\ (Status: Unknown).
[6] IETF RFC 1157: \"Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP)\": May 1990, J.
Case, SNMP Research, M. Fedor, Performance Systems International, M.
Schoffstall, Performance Systems International, J. Davin, MIT Laboratory for
Computer Science. (Status: Standard).
[7] IETF RFC 2401: \"Security Architecture for the Internet Protocol\";
November 1998.\ (Status: Proposed Standard).
[8] The Object Management Group (OMG) \"The Common Object Request Broker:
Architecture and Specification\", Revision 2.3, June 1999.
http://www.omg.org/technology/documents/vault.htm#CORBA_IIOP
[9] ... [12] Void
[13] ISO 8571-1 (1988): \"Information Processing Systems ‑ Open Systems
Interconnection ‑ File Transfer, Access and Management ‑ Part 1: General
Introduction\".
[14] ISO 8571-2 (1988): \"Information Processing Systems ‑ Open Systems
Interconnection ‑ File Transfer, Access and Management ‑ Part 2: Virtual
Filestore Definition\".
[15] ISO 8571-3 (1988): \"Information Processing Systems ‑ Open Systems
Interconnection ‑ File Transfer, Access and Management ‑ Part 3: File Service
Definition\".
[16] ISO 8571-4 (1988): \"Information Processing Systems ‑ Open Systems
Interconnection ‑ File Transfer, Access and Management ‑ Part 4: File Protocol
Specification\".
[17] ISO/IEC ISP 10607-1 (1995): \"Information technology - International
Standardized Profiles\ AFTnn - File Transfer, Access and Management - Part 1:
Specification of ACSE, Presentation and Session Protocols for the use by
FTAM\".
[18] ISO/IEC ISP 10607-2 (1995): \"Information technology - International
Standardized Profiles AFTnn - File Transfer, Access and Management - Part 2:
Definition of Document Types, Constraint sets and Syntaxes\".
[19] ISO/IEC ISP 10607-3 (1995): \"Information technology - International
Standardized Profiles AFTnn - File Transfer, Access and Management - Part 3:
AFT 11 - Simple File Transfer Service (Unstructured)\".
[20] Void
[21] Void
[22] ITU-T Recommendation X.25 (1996): \"Interface between Data Terminal
Equipment (DTE) and Data Circuit Terminating Equipment (DCE) for Terminals
operating in the Packet Mode and connected to Public Data Networks by
Dedicated Circuit\".
[23] ... [42] Void
[43] ISO/IEC 7776 (1995): \"Information technology - Telecommunications and
information exchange between systems - High-level data link control procedures
- Description of the X.25\ LAPB-compatible DTE data link procedures\".
[44] ISO/IEC 8208 (2000): \"Information technology - Data communications -
X.25 Packet Layer Protocol for Data Terminal Equipment\".
[45] ISO/IEC 8878 (1992): \"Information technology - Telecommunications and
information exchange between systems - Use of X.25 to provide the OSI
Connection-mode Network Service\".
[46] IETF RFC 1006: \"ISO Transport on top of the TCP\", Marshall T. Rose,
Dwight E. Cass, Northrop Research and Technology Center, May 1987. Status:
Standard.
[47] IETF RFC 793: \"Transmission Control Protocol (TCP)\", September 1981\.
Status: Standard.
[48] IETF RFC 791: \"Internet Protocol (IP)\", September 1981. Status:
Standard.
[49] ITU-T Recommendation X.680 (2002): \"Information Technology-Abstract
Syntax Notation One (ASN.1): Specification of Basic Notation\".
[50] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[51] 3GPP TS 22.115: \"Service aspects; Charging and Billing\".
[52] The Object Management Group (OMG) \"The Common Object Request Broker:
Architecture and Specification\", Revision 2.1, August 1997.
http://www.omg.org/technology/documents/vault.htm#CORBA_IIOP
[53] 3GPP TS 32.400-series: \"Telecommunication management; Performance
Management (PM)\".
[54] 3GPP TS 32.600: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Concept and high-level requirements\".
[55] 3GPP TS 32.240: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Charging architecture and principles\".
[56] 3GPP TR 22.121: \"Service aspects; The Virtual Home Environment; Stage
1\".
[57] 3GPP TS 32.140: \"Telecommunication management; Subscription Management
(SuM) requirements\".
[58] 3GPP TS 32.141: \"Telecommunication management; Subscription Management
(SuM) architecture\".
[59 to 99] Void
[100] TMF GB910: \"Telecom Operations Map\"; Approved Version 2.1 March 2000,
(may be downloaded from http://www.tmforum.org.).
[101] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"**Telecommunication management; Architecture** \".
[102] ITU-T Recommendation M.3013 (2000): \"Considerations for a
telecommunications management network\".
[103] Void.
[104] 3GPP TR 21.801: \"Specification Drafting Rules\".
[105] TMF GB910B: \"Telecom Operations Map Application Note-Mobile Services:
Performance Management and Mobile Network Fraud and Roaming Agreement
Management\"; Public Evaluation Version 1.1, September 2000. (May be
downloaded free from http://www.tmforum.org.)
[106] Void
[107] 3GPP TR 32.806: \"Telecommunication management; **Application guide for
use of Integration Reference Points (IRPs) on peer-to-peer (p2p) interface**
\".
[108] W3C SOAP Version 1.1 recommendation\ (http://www.w3.org/TR/2000/NOTE-
SOAP-20000508/).
[109] W3C SOAP Version 1.2 recommendation\
(http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-part1/).
[110] 3GPP TR 32.809: \"Telecommunication management; Feasibility study of
XML-based (SOAP/HTTP) IRP solution sets\".
[111] 3GPP TS 32.150: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Concept and definitions\".
[112] ITU-T Recommendation M.3050.x (2006) series Enhanced Telecom Operations
Map (eTOM).
[113] ITU-T Recommendation M.3050.1 (2004) Enhanced Telecom Operations Map
(eTOM) -- The business process framework.
[114] ITU-T Recommendation M.3050.2 (2004) Enhanced Telecom Operations Map
(eTOM) -- Process decompositions and descriptions.
[115] TR-069 Amendment 2, CPE WAN Management Protocol v1.1, Broadband Forum
[116] WS-I Basic Profile 1.1;
http://www.ws-i.org/Profiles/BasicProfile-1.1.html
[117] W3C Web Services Description Language (WSDL) 1.1;
http://www.w3.org/TR/wsdl
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following definitions apply:
**Domain Manager (DM):** provides element management functions and domain
management functions for a sub-network. Inter-working domain managers provide
multi vendor and multi technology network management functions.
**Element Manager (EM):** provides a package of end-user functions for
management of a set of closely related types of network elements. These
functions can be divided into two main categories: Element Management
Functions and\ Sub-Network Management Functions.
**Element Management functions:** for management of network elements on an
individual basis. These are basically the same functions as supported by the
corresponding local terminals.
**Enterprise Systems:** Information Systems that are used in the
telecommunication organisation but are not directly or essentially related to
the telecommunications aspects (Call Centre\'s, Fraud Detection and Prevention
Systems, Invoicing etc).
**Information Service (IS):** Defined in 3GPP TS 32.150 [111].
**Integration Reference Point (IRP):** Defined in 3GPP TS 32.150 [111].
**Managed Object:** Defined in 3GPP TS 32.150 [111].
**Management Infrastructure:** the collection of systems (computers and
telecommunications) a PLMN Organisation has in order to manage its network.
**Network Element (NE):** a discrete telecommunications entity, which can be
managed over a specific interface, e.g. the RNC.
**Network Manager (NM):** provides a package of end-user functions with the
responsibility for the management of a network, mainly as supported by the
EM(s) but it may also involve direct access to the Network Elements. All
communication with the network is based on open and well-standardized
interfaces supporting management of multi-vendor and multi-technology Network
Elements.
**Network Resource Model (NRM):** Defined in 3GPP TS 32.150 [111].
**Operations System (OS):** a generic management system, independent of its
location level within the management hierarchy.
**Public Land Mobile Network (PLMN): see 3GPP TR 21.905 [50].**
**PLMN Organisation:** legal entity that is involved in the management of a
telecommunications network providing mobile cellular services.
**Service:** see 3GPP TR 21.905 [50].
**Solution Set (SS):** Defined in 3GPP TS 32.150 [111].
**Sub-Network management functions:** functions related to a network model for
a set of Network Elements constituting a clearly defined sub-network, which
may include relations between the Network Elements. This model enables
additional functions on the sub-network level (typically in the areas of
network topology presentation, alarm correlation, service impact analysis and
circuit provisioning).
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
API Application Programming Interface
ASN.1 Abstract Syntax Notation One
ATM Asynchronous Transfer Mode
B2B Business to Business
B-ISDN Broadband ISDN
BOOTP Boot protocol
CLI Command Line Interface
COPS Common Open Policy Service
COPS-PR COPS Usage for Policy Provisioning
CORBA IIOP Common Object Request Broker Architecture Internet Inter-ORB
Protocol
CORBA Common Object Request Broker Architecture
CORBA/IDL Common Object Request Broker Architecture/Interface Definition
Language
DCN Data Communications Network
DECT Digital Enhanced Cordless Telecommunications
DHCP Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol
DM Domain Manager
DNS Directory Name Service
DSS1 Digital Subscriber System 1
EM Element Manager
EMS Element Management System
ES Enterprise Systems
eTOM Enhanced Telecom Operations Map® (TeleManagement Forum)
FFS For Further Study
FTAM File Transfer Access and Management
FTP File Transfer Protocol
ftp FTP
GGSN Gateway GPRS Support Node
Go interface The interface between the GGSN and the Policy Decision Function
(PDF)
GSM Global System for Mobile communications
HLR Home Location Register
HSS Home Subscriber Server
IDL Interface Definition Language
IETF Internet Engineering Task Force
IIOP Internet Inter-ORB Protocol
IN Intelligent Network
INAP Intelligent Network Application Part
IRP Integration Reference Point
IS Information Service
ISDN Integrated Services Digital Network
LDAP Lightweight Directory Access Protocol
LDUP LDAP Duplication/Replication/Update Protocols
LLA Logical Layered Architecture
MAP Mobile Application Part
MExE Mobile Execution Environment
MIB Management Information Base
MMI Man-Machine Interface
NE Network Element
NM Network Manager
NMS Network Management System
NRM Network Resource Model
OAM&P Operations, Administration, Maintenance and Provisioning
OS Operations System
OSI Open Systems Interconnection
OSS Operations Support System
p2p Peer-to-Peer
PDF Policy Decision Function
PDH Plesiochronous Digital Hierarchy
PDP Policy Decision Point
PIB Policy Information Base
PKI Public Key Infrastructure
PLMN Public Land Mobile Network
PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network
QoS Quality of Service
RNC Radio Network Controller
RSVP Resource ReserVation Protocol
SAP Service Access Point
SC Service Consumer
SD Service Directory
SDH Synchronous Digital Hierarchy
sftp secure ftp
SLA Service Level Agreement
SNMP Simple Network Management Protocol (IETF)
SNMP/SMI SNMP/Structure of Management Information
SOA Service Oriented Architecture
SOM Service Operations Management
SP Service Provider
SS Solution Set
SS7 Signalling System No. 7
SSH Secure Shell
SSL Secure Sockets Layer
TCP/IP Transmission Control Protocol/ Internet Protocol
tftp trivial ftp
TM Telecom Management
TMF TeleManagement Forum
TMN Telecommunications Management Network (ITU-T)
TOM Telecom Operations Map (TMF)
UE User Equipment
UML Unified Modelling Language
UPT Universal Personal Telecommunication
USIM Universal Subscriber Identity Module
UTRA Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
VHE Virtual Home Environment
WSDL Web Service Description Language (W3C)
# 4 General
## 4.1 PLMN Telecom Management
### 4.1.1 Basic objectives for PLMN management
The requirements and decomposition of Telecom Management for 3G do not differ
radically from that of 2G systems. The following basic objectives to be
supported by the management specifications have been identified:
\- to be capable of managing equipment supplied by different vendors including
the management systems themselves.
\- to minimise the complexity of PLMN management.
\- to provide the communication between Network Elements (NEs) and Operations
Systems (OS) or between OSs themselves via standardised interfaces (e.g.
CORBA, SNMP, etc.) as appropriate and necessary.
\- to minimise the costs of managing a PLMN such that it is a small component
of the overall operating cost.
\- to provide configuration capabilities that are flexible enough to allow
rapid deployment of services.
\- to provide integrated Fault Management capabilities.
\- to simplify maintenance interventions by supporting remote maintenance
operations.
\- to allow interoperability between Network Operators/Service Providers for
the exchange of management/charging information. This includes
interoperability with other networks and services\ (e.g. ISDN/B-ISDN, PSTN and
UPT) as well as other PLMNs.
\- to enable the support and control of a growing number of resources. This
would allow the system to start from a small and simple configuration and grow
as needed, both in size and complexity.
\- to re-use existing relevant standards (e.g. GSM, IN, ISDN/B-ISDN, ITU-T,
TMF etc.) where applicable.
\- to support the security management of PLMNs (e.g. key management, access
control management, operation and administration of security mechanisms) with
particular emphasis on new features such as automatic roaming and packet
switched services.
\- to provide and support a flexible billing and accounting administration, to
support charging across PLMNs.
\- to address the management and assessment of system performance and
operation through the use of common measurements, etc. This would enable a
Network Operator/Service Provider to assess actual performance against planned
targets.
\- to expose any information only once.\ (Example: In case an operator would
like to change one parameter in a cell: Then all occurrences of this
parameter, e.g. transceiver frequency, hand-over relationships, performance
measurements, frequency hopping control, etc., should be changed by one action
only.)
\- to support the restoration of an Operations System (e.g. resynchronisation
and atomic transactions).
\- to have one (1) name convention for network resources under management in
the 3GPP context. To perform network management tasks, co-operating
applications require identical interpretation of names assigned to network
resources under management. Such names are required to be unambiguous as well.
It is acknowledged that the introduction of new architecture to support new
services or the introduction of new services themselves may impact the
detailed requirements of some or all of the above.
### 4.1.2 3GPP reference model
A 3GPP System is made of the following components:
\- one or more Access Networks, using different types of access techniques
(GSM, UTRA, DECT, PSTN, ISDN, ...) of which at least one is UTRA;
\- one or more Core Networks;
\- one or more Intelligent Node Networks service logic and mobility
management, (IN, GSM ...);
\- one or more transmission networks (PDH, SDH etc.) in various topologies
(point-to-point, ring, and\ point-to-multi-point...) and physical means
(radio, fibre and copper ...).
The 3GPP system components have signalling mechanisms among them (DSS1, INAP,
MAP, SS7, RSVP,...).
From the service perspective, the 3GPP system is defined to offer:
\- Service support transparent to the location, access technique and core
network, within the bearer capabilities available in one particular case;
\- User to terminal and user to network interface (MMI) irrespective of the
entities supporting the services required (VHE);
\- Multimedia capabilities.
### 4.1.3 3GPP provisioning entities
TS 22.101 \"Services Principles\" [2] identifies two major entities, which
cover the set of 3GPP functionalities involved in the provision of the 3GPP
services to the user. These are:
**Home Environment:** This entity holds the functionalities that enable a user
to obtain 3GPP services in a consistent manner regardless of the user\'s
location or the terminal used;
**Serving Network:** This entity provides the user with access to the services
of the Home Environment.
### 4.1.4 Management infrastructure of the PLMN
Every PLMN Organisation has its own management infrastructure. Each management
infrastructure contains different functionality depending on the role-played
and the equipment used by that PLMN Entity.
However, the core management architecture of the PLMN Organisation is very
similar. Every PLMN Organisation:
\- provides services to its customers;
\- needs an infrastructure to fulfil them (advertise, ordering, creation,
provisioning ...);
\- assures them (Operation, Quality of Service, Trouble Reporting and Fixing
...);
\- bills them (Rating, Discounting ...).
Not every PLMN Organisation will implement the complete management
architecture and related processes. Some processes may be missing dependent on
the role a particular organisation is embodying. Processes not implemented by
a particular organisation are accessed via interconnections to other
organisations, which have implemented these processes (called X-interfaces in
the ITU-T TMN architecture).
The management architecture itself does not distinguish between external and
internal interfaces.
## 4.2 ITU-T TMN
ITU-T TMN (Telecommunications Management Network standard from the ITU-T), as
defined in ITU-T Recommendation M.3010 [1], provides:
\- an architecture, made of OS (Operations Systems) and NEs (Network
Elements), and the interfaces between them (Q, within one Operator Domain and
X, between different Operators);
\- the methodology to define those interfaces;
\- other architectural tools such as LLA (Logical Layered Architecture) that
help to further refine and define the management architecture of a given
management area;
\- a number of generic and/or common management functions to be
specialised/applied to various and specific\ ITU-T TMN interfaces.
The PLMN Management Architecture is based on ITU-T TMN, and will reuse those
functions, methods and interfaces already defined (or being defined) that are
suitable to the management needs of a PLMN.
Another management approach that is employed is the Telecom Operations Map
from TeleManagement Forum (TMF). The Telecom Operations Map, using the TMN
model as a foundation, addresses operation support and management for any
communications service from a top down customer oriented standpoint.
# 5 Architectural framework
## 5.1 Management reference model and interfaces
### 5.1.1 Overview
Figure 1 illustrates the management reference model. It shows the Operations
Systems interfacing with other systems.
The present document (and the rest of the 3GPP management detailed
specifications) addresses the Operations System (function and architecture
wise) and the interfaces to the other systems (information and protocol wise).
The present document does not address the definition of any of the systems,
which the Operations System may interface to. The rest of the 3GPP
specifications regarding management will not cover them either.
It is not the approach (nor it is possible) to re-define the complete
management of all the technologies that might be used in the provision of a
PLMN. However, it is the intention to identify and define what will be needed
from the perspective of management.
A number of management interfaces in a PLMN are identified in figure 1,
namely:
> 1) between the Network Elements (NEs) and the Element Manager (EM) of a
> single PLMN Organisation;
>
> 2) between the Element Manager (EM) and the Network Manager (NM) of a single
> PLMN Organisation;
NOTE: In certain cases the Element Manager functionality may reside in the NE
in which case this interface is directly from NE to Network Manager). These
management interfaces are given the reference name Itf-N and are the primary
target for standardization.
> 3) between the Network Managers and the Enterprise Systems of a single PLMN
> Organisation;
>
> 4) between the Network Managers (NMs) of a single PLMN Organisation;
>
> 4a) between the Domain Managers (DMs) of a single PLMN Organisation.
>
> 5) between Enterprise Systems & Network Managers of different PLMN
> Organisations;
>
> 5a) between the Domain Managers (DMs) of different PLMN Organisations.
>
> 6) between Network Elements (NEs).
IRPs may be implemented at interfaces 2 to 5.
The present document identifies Type 1, Type 2 and Type 4 management
interfaces. The rest of the 3GPP management specifications focus on Type 2 and
to a lesser extent on Type 1 management interfaces. In addition, the rest of
the 3GPP management specifications will not refer to Type 4 management
interface. Specific Type 2 protocols and information model that are applicable
for use in Type 4 management interface are listed in Annex E.
The present document identifies Types 3, 5 & 5a management interfaces.
Detailed specification of these interfaces is For Further Study (FFS).
The specification of the management interfaces of type 4 & 6 is beyond the
scope of standardisation.
{width="5.997916666666667in" height="4.095833333333333in"}
Figure 1: Management reference model
### 5.1.2 Interfaces from Operations Systems to NEs (Type 1 & 2)
In some cases, the management interfaces to NEs have been defined bottom-up,
trying to standardise the complete OAM&P functionality of the various NEs.
For PLMN management, a top-down approach will be followed to streamline the
requirements from the perspective of Operators top priority management
processes.
It is assumed that this will not fully cover the OAM&P functionality of all NE
types at once; therefore a part of the functionality will be phased for
further work and consideration. Some proprietary solutions (local and/or
remote) will be needed in the interim. The rationale of this approach is not
only the best use of resources, but also to follow a pragmatic step-wise
approach that takes into account the market forces (the manufacturers and
operators capabilities). A further rationale is to define clear and easy-to-
agree steps that allow management functionality to be implemented in the same
time frame as the telecom functionality in the network (i.e. to synchronise
the management and network releases).
The approach for NE management interfaces will be to concentrate on protocol
independent information models, allowing a mapping to several protocol suites.
The rationale is:
\- due to the convergence of Information and Telecommunication technologies,
it is required to work on a more open approach (acknowledging the market
status and foreseen evolutions);
\- the life cycle of information flows is 10 to 20 years, while that of
protocols is 5 to 10 years;
\- developments in automatic conversion from information models to various
protocols/technologies will allow a more pragmatic and open approach (e.g. UML
to IDL).
However, it is the intention to at least recommend one mapping for each
interface.
#### 5.1.2.1 Interfaces from EM Operations Systems to NEs (Type 1)
The approach for NE management interfaces of Type 1 will be to allow the use
of certain management application protocol suites (see Annex A for a list of
management protocol suites).
#### 5.1.2.2 Interfaces from NM Operations Systems to NEs (Type 2)
The approach for NE management interfaces of Type 2 will be to concentrate on
protocol independent information models, allowing a mapping to several
protocol suites (see 5.2.3 Solution Set Level). The rational is:
\- due to the convergence of Information and Telecommunication technologies,
it is required to work on a more open approach (acknowledging the market
status and foreseen evolutions);
\- the life cycle of information flows is 10 to 20 years, while that of
protocols is 5 to 10 years;
\- developments in automatic conversion from information models to various
protocols/technologies will allow a more pragmatic and open approach (e.g. UML
to IDL).
However, it is the intention to a least recommend one mapping for each
interface.
Figure 2 shows the management interfaces of one part of the 3GPP System (the
Radio Network), by way of illustration of interfaces of types 1 and 2.
{width="4.969444444444444in" height="3.740972222222222in"}
Figure 2: Radio Network management interfaces
Figure 2 identifies the following management interfaces:
\- Itf-B - between Node B & its Manager (physically, this may be a direct
connection or via the RNC) (type 1).
\- Itf-R - between RNC & its Manager (type 1).
\- Itf-N -- between the Network (Element Manager or NEs with an embedded EM) &
Network Manager (type 2).
### 5.1.3 Interfaces to Enterprise Systems (Type 3)
The approach is to define a management structure that fully fits into the
enterprise process needs of the PLMN Organisations. One of the essential
issues of today\'s way of running telecommunications businesses is integral
operation (e.g. customer care, from service subscription to billing, from
order fulfilment to complaint management).
Enterprise Systems are those Information Systems that are used in the
telecommunication organisation but are not directly or essentially related to
the telecommunications aspects (Call Centres, Fraud Detection and Prevention
Systems, Invoicing etc.).
Standardising Enterprise Systems is out of the scope of 3GPP work, since it
involves many operator choices (organisational, etc.) and even regulatory.
Also Enterprise Systems are often viewed as a competitive tool. However, it is
essential that the requirements of such systems are taken into account and
interfaces to the Operations Systems are defined, to allow for easy
interconnection and functional support.
### 5.1.3a Interface between Network Managers (Type 4)
Interface type 4 (where Itf-P2P is between Domain Managers of different PLMN
Organisations) could have additional requirements over interface type 4a (see
clause 5.1.3b) and therefore is FFS.
### 5.1.3b Interface between Domain Managers (Type 4a) - the Itf-P2P Interface
The approach for Interfaces of type 4a (the Itf-P2P interface) is the same as
for interfaces of type 2 (the Itf-N interface -- see clause 5.1.2.2).
The Itf-P2P should as much as possible re-use the interface definitions of the
Itf-N interface.
Further details on the Itf-P2P interface are available in 3GPP TR 32.806
[107].
### 5.1.4 Interfaces to Operations Systems in other organisations (Type 5)
PLMN management considers integrally the interaction with the Operations
Systems of other legal entities for the purpose of providing Mobile services.
There are two major types of interfaces to other management systems:
1) To the Operations Systems of another PLMN Organisation;
2) To the Operations Systems of a non-PLMN Organisation.
The first type deals with co-operation to provide Mobile services across a
number of PLMN networks (e.g. roaming related interactions). The second type
deals with client-server relationship to other operators (e.g. to leased lines
providers, to added value service providers, etc.).
The approach that will be followed is to identify and define integral
processes, not taking into account in the first step, how many operators or
operations systems might be involved, but rather concentrating on the
interactions between them (i.e. assuming an operator encompasses all
functionalities). A further step will be to consider and define extra
requirements (security, confidentiality etc.) when part of the process
involves interactions with other operators Operations Systems (OSs).
### 5.1.5 Inter-NE interfaces (Type 6)
Interfaces between Network Elements are sometimes used to carry management
information even though this may not be the primary purpose of the interface.
An example in a 3G network is the I~ub~ interface between Node-B and RNC (see
figure 2 above). This type of interface is not within the scope of this
specification, though potential impacts upon it should be considered.
## 5.2 Interface levels
### 5.2.1 Overview
The management interfaces are studied here from five different perspectives or
levels:
1) Logical (information model and flows used in the relationship manager-
agent, or equivalent);
2) Solution Set (SS) Level;
3) Application protocol (end-to-end, upper layers protocol running between
manager-agent, or equivalent);
4) Networking protocol (lower layer protocols carrying the information in/out
the manager and agent, or equivalents);
5) Physical (mapping of the manager and agent, or equivalents, roles into
physical entities).
### 5.2.2 Logical level
This level covers the mutual and conceptual knowledge of entities being
connected by a given interface.
For type 2 and type 4a interfaces (Itf-N and Itf-P2P in figure 1) interactions
at this level are fully standardised by 3GPP in terms of protocol independent
Network Resource Models (static information definition) and Interface IRP
Information Services (information flows) where available.
### 5.2.3 Solution Set (SS) level
For an IRP Information Service at the logical level there will be at least one
Solution Set defined. A Solution Set is a mapping of the Information Service
to one of several technologies (for a full definition see clause 3.1).
See annex C for the valid 3GPP management IRP Solution Sets (see also ITU-T
Recommendation M.3013-2000 [102]).
### 5.2.4 Application protocol level
This level covers the set of primitives used to pass information across a
given interface and the means to establish associations between the
application entities (including the related addressing aspects) across a given
interface.
Generally, the application protocol suite used for the interaction between
entities across a given interface is optional within the valid 3GPP management
application protocol suites (see Annex A for a list of 3GPP management
protocol suites). However, in the case of interfaces of type 2 and type 4a
(such as Itf-N and Itf-P2P in figure 1) at least one of those protocol suites
will be chosen as the standard protocol suite.
### 5.2.5 Networking protocol level
Whatever standardised protocol suite at the networking level that is capable
of meeting the functional and operational requirements (including the network
addressing aspects) of the Logical and Application Protocol levels of a given
management interface, is a valid Networking Protocol for that interface.
A number of requirements shall be met by the Networking Protocol, as follows:
\- capability to run over all supported bearers (leased lines, X.25, ATM,
Frame Relay ...);
\- support of existing transport protocols and their applications, such as
OSI, TCP/IP family, etc.;
\- widely available, cheap and reliable.
The Internet Protocol (IP) is a Networking Protocol that ideally supports
these requirements. IP also adds flexibility to how management connectivity is
achieved when networks are rolled out, by offering various implementation
choices. For instance, these may take the form of:
\- Dedicated management intranets.
\- Separation from or integration into an operator\'s enterprise network.
\- Utilisation, in one-way or another, of capacities of the public Internet
and its applications or other resources.
### 5.2.6 Physical level
Though the interaction at the logical level takes place between the management
system and the NEs, it is left to the implementer\'s choice the possibility to
use the Q-Adapter concept of ITU-T TMN Architecture as physical implementation
(as defined in ITU-T Recommendation M.3010 [1]).
The present document does not preclude the usage of Q-Adapters at other PLMN
management interfaces.
## 5.3 3GPP compliance conditions
For a 3GPP entity (management system or NE) to be compliant to a given
management interface, all the following conditions shall be satisfied:
\- it implements the management functionality following the Information
Service specified by the relevant 3GPP management interface specifications
applicable to that interface;
\- it provides at least one of the IRP Solution Sets (see Annex C) related to
the valid application protocols specified by 3GPP application protocols for
that interface (see annex A). For each interface at least one of the valid
protocols will be recommended;
\- it provides at least one standard networking protocol (see Annex B);
\- in case the entity does not offer the management interface on its own, a
Q-Adapter shall be provided. This Q adapter shall be provided independently of
any other NE and/or management system.
## 5.4 Service Oriented Architecture (SOA)
### 5.4.1 Basic elements of SOA
The basic building block of SOA is a _service_. In the context of this
document, the word service is used to denote the various kinds of network
management services, provided or provisioned by and consumed by network
management applications. This type of network management services are distinct
from those that are consumed by, say, mobile phone subscribers. One example of
this type of network management service is one that is used for the management
of alarm information of a network. Another example can be one that is used for
the management of the transfer of large amount of network management
information in files.
A service, in the context of this document, is considered a black box whose
internal design and characteristics are of no relevance. A service performs
tasks that satisfy a specific set of requirements. A service is realized by a
Service Provider (SP) entity. This entity, the SP, is responsible to register
(re: using the registerService offered by SD to SP of the following diagram)
its provisioned service in one or more Service Directory (SD) entities.
Service Consumers (SCs), without prior knowledge of the kind of services
provisioned and the service access point (SAP) of the provisioned service, can
consult the SD for the information (re: using the locateService offered by SD
to SC of the following diagram). Once the SC discovers the wanted provisioned
service and its associated SAP, it can contact the SP and start consuming the
wanted provisioned service (re: using the useService offered by SP to SC of
the following diagram).
Using the basic interaction scenario described above, a new SC can be
installed and activated without prior knowledge of its wanted service SAP(s).
As long as a) the new SC is given the SAP of the SD and b) the SP providing
the wanted service has registered its service with the SD, the new SC can
discover the availability of its wanted service and its SAP, and thus, can
begin to access the service wanted.
Similarly, a new SP can be installed and activated (i.e. to provision its
service) without prior knowledge of its potential SC(s). It is required to
register its provisioned service with SD(s).
The SD is a special kind of SP. It provides two kinds of services. One service
supports the registration of the identity, availability and SAP of the
provisioned service (re: registerService offered by SD to SP of the following
diagram). The other service supports the discovery of services (re:
locateService offered by SD to SC of the following diagram).
The SDs' SAPs for providing registration of provisioned service should be made
known to all SPs. The SDs' SAPs for discovery of provisioned service should be
made known to all SCs. The means by which these SAPs are make known to SCs and
SPs are not subject to standardization.
The NE, EM, NM and DM of Figure 1 are entities that contain a SP. The DM, NM
and Enterprise System of Figure 1 are entities that contain a SC.
The following diagram depicts the key elements of SOA and their relations. The
relation is depicted by an arrow with a label. The arrow end indicates the
consumer of the network management service. The other end indicates the
provider of the service. The label identifies the service.
Figure 2a: SOA basic elements
### 5.4.2 Aggregation of SOA basic elements
An entity can have one or more SCs and SPs at the same time. This entity can
consume services from SPs, add its own value using internal function such as
service aggregation, correlation, service request redirection, information
store and forward service, etc (re F of the following diagram), and provide a
new set of enhanced service to other potential SCs. To play the role of SP,
this entity would need to register its enhanced service with SD. The diagram
below depicts such entity.
The DM and NM of Figure 1 are of this entity kind.
Figure 1b: Entity produces and consumes services
### 5.4.3 Information transfer bus
SPs, SCs and SDs transfer information among themselves. For example, a SC
would send a service request to a SP. In SOA, a bus-like concept is used to
depict the capability of such information transfer. This bus-like concept
support a key attribute of SOA in that its basic elements, namely SP, SC and
SDs, are all loosely-coupled, e.g. their bindings are to be established on
need and at run-time basis.
The following figure depicts the loosely-coupled SOA elements supported by the
Information transfer bus.
Figure 2c: Information transfer bus supporting SOA elements
### 5.4.4 SOA elements within the Management reference model
This clause shows the placement of SOA basic elements SPs and SCs within the
Management reference model (see Figure 1).
Figure 2d: Placement of SOA elements on Management reference model
For example, the right-hand side DM (a Management reference model construct)
of Figure 2d shows an entity that is an aggregation of SOA basic elements (see
clause 5.4.2). This entity produces and consumes services (see Figure of
clause 5.4.2). It has two SPs and three SCs. In addition, it has an F function
that mediates between services DM provides and the services DM requires. The
DM services are provided to one SC of the neighboring DM and to two SCs of two
NMs. The DM requires services from two SPs of the two NEs. One of the SPs of
this DM provides a network management service via the Type 2 interface. One of
the SPs supports the peer-to-peer protocol by offering services to its
neighboring DM via Interface 4a. Three SCs of this DM are consumer of network
management services offered by two NEs via the Type 1 interface.
To avoid cluttering the figure, SDs are not shown in Figure 2d. Conceptually,
SDs can be positioned anywhere in the Management reference model. For example,
the most likely configuration is to have SDs placed within the Operations
Systems boundary. They can either be embedded inside NM and/or DM and/or
stand-alone. Note that an SD embedded, say in DM-1, does not imply that this
particular SD would/could only register services provided by DM-1. To avoid
cluttering the figure, F function is only shown in one DM but all DMs and NMs
can have F function as well.
The question if the protocols supporting the locateService and registerService
(see Figure 2a) are of Type 1 or Type 2 or Type 4, etc can only be answered if
the placement of SD and its clients (i.e. SC and SP) in the Management
reference model are known.
### 5.4.5 SOA-based representation of the Management Reference Model
This section provides another SOA-based view of the 3GPP Management Reference
Model that includes the paths where network management information would flow
(SOA data path). This view is derived from and in accordance with Figure 4:
"Placement of SOA elements on Management reference model".
{width="6.004861111111111in" height="3.245138888888889in"}
Figure 5: SOA-based representation of the 3GPP Management Reference Model
Figure 5 depicts the communication over the SOA bus. Serving management
entities (i.e. SP) are connected to the SOA bus with functionality exposed as
a service. SPs can be registered and discovered via the SD, and they can also
be composite services that connect to or reuse other SPs (i.e Composite DM).
Consuming management entities (i.e. SC) are also connected to the SOA bus and
can discover available services via the SD, and subsequently use services of
SPs.
### 5.4.6 SOA-supporting Solution Set
SOA-supporting Solution Set definitions can be found in Annex C.
# 6 PLMN management processes
## 6.1 Process decomposition
The present document details the general aspects of PLMN management. It
describes primarily the management processes that collectively support
Customer Relationship Management, Service Management&Operations and Resource
Management&Operations.
These management processes are based on the widely accepted Enhanced Telecom
Operations Map® (or eTOM for short), developed by the TeleManagement Forum.
This reference framework for categorizing the business activities that a
service provider will use is found in the ITU-T Recommendations M.3050.x
series [112].
Figure 3 shows the Operations portion of the eTOM framework decomposed into
the Operations Support & Readiness vertical end-end process grouping plus the
three Customer Operations vertical end-end process groupings of Fulfilment,
Assurance and Billing. The purpose is to show in more detail the predominant
processes that need to be involved -- integrated and automated -- to support
the vertical end-to-end, Customer Operations processes of Fulfilment,
Assurance and Billing as well as the Operations Support & Readiness processes.
{width="6.295138888888889in" height="4.827083333333333in"}
Figure 6.1: Enhanced Telecom Operations Map Business Process Model [113]
The following clauses give a short description of each of the management
processes introduced in the \"Enhanced Telecom Operations Map®. To see more
detailed descriptions refer to ITU-T Recommendations M.3050.x series [112].
## 6.2 Void
## 6.3 Void
## 6.4 Void
## 6.5 Customer Relationship Management (CRM) processes
Customer Relationship Management (CRM): This horizontal functional process
grouping considers the fundamental knowledge of customers\' needs and includes
all functionalities necessary for the acquisition, enhancement and retention
of a relationship with a customer. It is about customer service and support,
whether storefront, telephone, web or field service. It is also about
retention management, cross-selling, up-selling and direct marketing for the
purpose of selling to customers.
CRM also includes the collection of customer information and its application
to personalize, customize and integrate delivery of service to a customer, as
well as to identify opportunities for increasing the value of the customer to
the enterprise.
CRM applies to both conventional retail customer interactions, as well as to
wholesale interactions, such as when an enterprise is selling to another
enterprise that is acting as the \'retailer\'.
{width="6.2972222222222225in" height="2.647222222222222in"}
Figure 6.5: Customer Relationship Management decomposition [114]
### 6.5.1 CRM Support & Readiness
CRM Support & Readiness processes manage classes of products, ensuring that
all CRM processes in Fulfilment, Assurance and Billing are supported and able
to manage interactions with customers promptly and efficiently. They undertake
longer-term trend analysis on product classes in order to establish the extent
to which enterprise targets for these product classes are being achieved.
These processes support the operational introduction of new product classes
and of additional features and enhancements to existing product classes, and
are responsible for conducting operations readiness testing and acceptance.
They develop the procedures for the specific Fulfilment, Assurance and Billing
processes and keep them up to date. After successful testing, these processes
accept the new or enhanced product class and perform a full-scale introduction
for general availability.
### 6.5.2 Customer Interface Management
Customer Interface Management processes are responsible for managing all
interfaces between the enterprise and potential and existing customers. They
deal with contact management, understanding the reason for contact, directing
customer contacts to the appropriate process, contact closure, exception
management, contact results analysis and reporting. CRM contact may be related
to one or several processes of Service Fulfilment, Service Assurance (service
quality management and trouble or problem management) and Billing depending on
customer enquiries or contacts.
### 6.5.3 Marketing Fulfilment Response
Marketing Fulfilment Response processes are responsible for the issue and
distribution of marketing collateral (i.e., coupon, premium, sample, toys,
fliers, etc.) directly to a customer and the subsequent tracking of resultant
leads.\ These processes include campaign management activities from lead
generation to product and literature fulfilment, and hand-off of leads to the
selling processes.
### 6.5.4 Selling
Selling processes are responsible for managing prospective customers, for the
qualification and education of the customer and for matching customer
expectations to the enterprise\'s products and services and ability to
deliver.\ These processes also manage the response to customer RFPs.
### 6.5.5 Order Handling
Order Handling processes are responsible for accepting and issuing orders.
They deal with pre-order feasibility determination, credit authorization,
order issuance, order status and tracking, customer update on order activities
and customer notification on order completion.
### 6.5.6 Problem Handling
Problem Handling processes are responsible for receiving trouble reports from
customers, resolving them to the customer\'s satisfaction and providing
meaningful status on repair and/or restoration activity to the customer.\ They
are also responsible for customer contact and support in relation to any
service-affecting problems detected by the resources or through analysis,
including proactively informing the customer and resolving these specific
problems to the customer\'s satisfaction.
### 6.5.7 Customer QoS/SLA Management
Customer QoS/SLA Management processes encompass monitoring, managing and
reporting of delivered vs contractual Quality of Service (QoS), as defined in
the enterprise\'s Service Descriptions, customer contracts or product
catalogue. They are also concerned with the performance of the enterprise and
its products and services in relation to its Service Level Agreements (SLAs)
for specific product instances, and other service-related documents.\ They
include operational parameters such as resource performance and availability,
but also encompass performance across all of a product\'s contractual or
regulatory parameters, e.g., % Completion on Time for Order Requests, time to
repair commitments, customer contact performance. Failure to meet a contracted
SLA may lead to billing adjustments, which are handled by Billing and
Collections Management.
### 6.5.8 Billing & Collections Management)
Billing & Collections Management processes encompass creating and maintaining
a customer\'s billing account, sending bills to customers, processing their
payments, performing payment collections, monitoring the status of the account
balance, and the handling of customer generated or systems reported billing
and payment exceptions.
These processes are accountable for assuring that enterprise revenue is billed
and collected.
### 6.5.9 Retention & Loyalty
Retention & Loyalty processes deal with all functionalities related to the
retention of acquired customers, and the use of loyalty schemes in the
potential acquisition of customers. They establish a complete understanding of
the needs of the customer, a determination of the value of the customer to the
enterprise, determination of opportunities and risks for specific customers,
etc. These processes collect and analyse data from all enterprise and customer
contact.
## 6.6 Service Management & Operations (SM&O) Processes
Service Management & Operations (SM&O): This horizontal functional process
grouping focuses on the knowledge of services (Access, Connectivity, Content,
etc.) and includes all functionalities necessary for the management and
operations of communications and information services required by or proposed
to customers.\ The focus is on service delivery and management as opposed to
the management of the underlying network and information technology. Some of
the functions involve short-term service capacity planning for a service
instance, the application of a service design to specific customers or
managing service improvement initiatives.\ These functions are closely
connected with the day-to-day customer experience.
The processes in this horizontal functional process grouping are accountable
to meet, at a minimum, targets set for Service Quality, including process
performance and customer satisfaction at a service level, as well as Service
Cost.
The eTOM framework differentiates day-to-day operations and support from
planning and development and other strategy and lifecycle processes. This
better depicts the structure of an enterprise, especially in an e-business
era.
{width="6.289583333333334in" height="2.00625in"}
Figure 6.6: Service Management & Operations decomposition [114]
### 6.6.1 SM&O Support & Readiness
SM&O Support & Readiness processes manage classes of services, ensuring that
the appropriate service capacity is available and ready to support the
Fulfilment, Assurance and Billing processes in instantiating and managing
service instances. This includes but is not limited to:
> \- Managing the Service Inventory;
>
> \- Applying service capacity rules from Infrastructure Lifecycle Management
> processes;
>
> \- Analysing availability and quality over time on service classes,
> including trend analysis and forecasting;
>
> \- Demand balancing in order to maintain service capacity and quality;
>
> \- Maintaining rating and tariff information for service classes.
These processes support the operational introduction of new service classes
and the enhancement of existing ones and are responsible for conducting
operations readiness testing and acceptance. They develop the procedures for
the specific Fulfilment,
Assurance and Billing processes and keep them up to date. After successful
testing, these processes accept the new or enhanced service class and perform
a full-scale introduction for general availability.
### 6.6.2 Service Configuration & Activation
Service Configuration & Activation processes encompass the installation and
configuration of the service for customers, including the installation of
customer premises equipment. They also support the reconfiguration of the
service (either due to customer demand or problem resolution) after the
initial service installation. This can include modifying capacity and
reconfiguring in response to requests from other providers.
### 6.6.3 Service Problem Management
The purpose of the Service Problem Management processes is to respond
immediately to customer-affecting service problems or failures in order to
minimize their effects on customers, and to invoke the restoration of the
service, or provide an alternate service as soon as possible. They encompass
the reporting of problems, making a temporary fix or work-around, isolating
the root cause and finally recovering the complete functionality of the
service and providing information for future enhancements.
### 6.6.4 Service Quality Management
The purpose of the Service Quality Management processes encompasses
monitoring, analysing and controlling the performance of the service perceived
by customers. These processes are responsible for restoring the service
performance for customers to a level specified in the SLA or other service KQI
descriptions as soon as possible.
### 6.6.5 Service & Specific Instance Rating
Service & Specific Instance Rating processes manage service events by
correlating and formatting them into a useful format. These processes include
the service level rating of usage information. Investigation of service
related billing event problems is also part of these processes. These
processes provide information on customer-related and Service-related events
to other process areas. This includes reports on non-chargeable Events and
overcharged Events and analysis of Event records to identify fraud and prevent
further occurrences.
## 6.7 Resource Management & Operations (RM&O) Processes
Resource Management & Operations (RM&O): This horizontal functional process
grouping maintains knowledge of resources (application, computing and network
infrastructures) and is responsible for managing all these resources\ (e.g.,
networks, IT systems, servers, routers, etc.) utilized to deliver and support
services required by or proposed to customers. It also includes all
functionalities responsible for the direct management of all such resources
(network elements, computers, servers, etc.) utilized within the enterprise.
These processes are responsible for ensuring that the network and information
technologies infrastructure supports the end-to-end delivery of the required
services.\ The purpose of these processes is to ensure that infrastructure
runs smoothly, is accessible to services and employees, is maintained and is
responsive to the needs, whether directly or indirectly, of services,
customers and employees.\ RM&O also has the basic function to assemble
information about the resources (e.g., from network elements and/or element
management systems), and then integrate, correlate, and in many cases,
summarize that data to pass on the relevant information to Service Management
systems, or to take action in the appropriate resource.
In an e-business world, application and computing management are as important
as management of the network resources. Moreover, network, computing and
applications resources must increasingly be managed in a joint and integrated
fashion. To cope with these needs, the eTOM framework includes the Resource
Management & Operations process grouping (together with the corresponding
Resource Development & Management grouping within SIP), to provide integrated
management across these three sets of resources: applications, computing and
network. These areas also encompass processes involved with traditional
Network Element Management, since these processes are actually critical
components of any resource management process, as opposed to a separate
process layer.
The RM&O processes thus manage the complete service provider network and
subnetwork and information technology infrastructures.
The eTOM framework differentiates day-to-day operations and support from
planning and development, and other strategy and lifecycle processes. This
better depicts the structure of an enterprise, especially in an e-business
era.
{width="6.7340277777777775in" height="2.0729166666666665in"}
Figure 6.7: Resource Management & Operations decomposition [114]
### 6.7.1 RM&O Support & Readiness
RM&O Support & Readiness processes manage classes of resources, ensuring that
appropriate application, computing and network resources are available and
ready to support the Fulfilment, Assurance and Billing processes in
instantiating and managing resource instances. This includes, but is not
limited to:
> \- Managing the Resource Knowledge base;
>
> \- Configuring the resources and provisioning of logical resources to be
> able to support specific service classes;
>
> \- Analysing availability and performance over time on resources or groups
> of resources, including trend analysis and forecasting;
>
> \- Demand balancing in order to maintain resource capacity and performance;
>
> \- Performing pro-active maintenance and repair activities.
These processes support the operational introduction of new resource classes
and the enhancement of existing ones and are responsible for conducting
operations readiness testing and acceptance. They develop the procedures for
the specific Fulfilment,
Assurance and Billing processes and keep them up to date. After successful
testing, these processes accept the new or enhanced resource class and perform
a full-scale introduction for general availability.
### 6.7.2 Resource Provisioning
Resource Provisioning processes encompass allocation and configuration of
resources to individual customer service instances in order to meet the
service requirements. This includes activation as well as testing to ensure
the expected performance of the service.
Responsibilities of the Resource Provisioning processes include, but are not
limited to:
> \- Verifying whether appropriate resources are available as part of pre-
> order feasibility checks;
>
> \- Allocating the appropriate resources to support the customer service
> instance;
>
> \- Reserving the resources (if required by the business rules) for a given
> period of time until the customer confirms the order;
>
> \- Possibly delivering the physical resource to the central office or
> customer premise;
>
> \- Configuring and activating physical and/or logical resources, as
> appropriate;
>
> \- Testing the resource to ensure the resource is working correctly and
> meets the performance requirements implied by the service\'s Key Quality
> Indicators;
>
> \- Updating of the Resource Inventory Database to reflect that the resource
> is being used for a specific customer.
### 6.7.3 Resource Trouble Management
Resource Trouble Management processes are responsible for the management of
troubles with allocated resources. The objectives of these processes are to
report resource failures, to isolate the root cause and act to resolve them.
Responsibilities of the Resource Trouble Management processes include, but are
not limited to:
> \- Detect, analyse and report Resource Failure Events;
>
> \- Fault localization analysis;
>
> \- Correcting Resource Faults;
>
> \- Resource trouble reporting to amongst others Service Problem Management
> processes;
>
> \- Resource trouble administration to ensure repair activities are assigned
> and tracked efficiently.
On one hand, resource troubles relate to Problems in the Service and hence the
customer domain. On the other hand, they relate to resource failures, which
are caused by resource faults.
As such, the Resource Trouble Management processes work with resource failure
events received from Resource Data Collection & Processing, resource quality
problem notifications from Resource Performance Management, and potential
resource failure notifications from Support Resource Trouble Management.
Resource Trouble Management processes perform analysis, decide on the
appropriate actions/responses and carry them out. However, these activities
need to interact with the Service Problem Management processes, as the latter
have a view on service impact.
### 6.7.4 Resource Performance Management
Resource Performance Management processes encompass monitoring, analysing,
controlling and reporting on the performance of resources. They work with
basic information received from the Resource Data Collection & Processing
processes.
If the analysis identifies a resource quality problem, information will be
passed to Resource Trouble Management and/or Service Quality Management. The
latter processes are responsible for deciding on and carrying out the
appropriate action/response. This may include requests to the Resource
Performance Management processes to install controls to optimize the resource
performance.
The Resource Performance Management processes will continue to track the
resource performance problem, ensuring that resource performance is restored
to a level required to support services.
Depending on the resource class, the Resource Performance Management processes
might send an abatement message to Resource Trouble Management once the
resource performance problem has been cleared.
### 6.7.5 Resource Data Collection & Processing
Resource Data Collection & Processing processes interact with the resources to
collect usage, network and information technology events and performance
information for distribution to other processes within the enterprise.\ The
responsibilities also include processing the data through activities such as
filtering, aggregation, formatting and correlation of the collected
information before presentation to other processes. Client processes for this
information perform usage reporting and billing activities, as well as Fault
and Performance analysis of resources and services. These include Resource
Performance Management, Service Quality Management and Service & Specific
Instance Rating.
## 6.8 Supplier/Partner Relationship Management (S/PRM) processes
Supplier/Partner Relationship Management (S/PRM): This horizontal functional
process grouping supports the core operational processes, both the customer
instance processes of Fulfilment, Assurance and Billing and the functional
operations processes.
Supplier/Partner Relationship Management (S/PRM) processes align closely with
a supplier\'s or partner\'s Customer Relationship Management processes. The
inclusion of distinct Supplier/Partner Relationship Management processes in
the eTOM framework enables the direct interface with the appropriate
lifecycle, end-to-end customer operations or functional processes with
suppliers and/or partners. The processes include issuing RFPs as part of the
buy process, issuing purchase orders and tracking them through to delivery,
mediation of purchase orders as required to conform to external processes,
handling problems, validating billing and authorizing payment, as well as
quality management of suppliers and partners.
It is important to note that when the enterprise sells its products to a
partner or supplier, this is done through the enterprise CRM processes, which
act on behalf of the supplier or the enterprise in such cases.
Supplier/Partner processes only cover the buying of services by the
enterprise.
{width="6.601388888888889in" height="1.7930555555555556in"}
Figure 6.8: Suppler/Partner Relationship Management decomposition [114]
### 6.8.1 S/PRM Support & Readiness
S/PRM Support & Readiness processes are responsible for ensuring that all
necessary facilities related to the interaction with Suppliers and Partners
are ready and functioning. Moreover, these processes are responsible for
longer-term trend analysis and the resolution of problems related to these
facilities.
These processes are also responsible for the operational introduction of S/P
products and are responsible for conducting operations readiness testing and
acceptance. These processes develop the procedures for the specific
Fulfilment, Assurance and Billing processes and keep them up to date. After
successful testing, these processes accept the new or enhanced product and
perform a full-scale introduction for general availability.
### 6.8.2 S/P Requisition Management
S/P Requisition Management processes manage requisitions with
partners/suppliers to ensure on-time and correct delivery of the product or
service requested by the enterprise. This process interfaces with supplier\'s
CRM process Order Handling.
Where several suppliers are available, these processes are responsible for
selecting between the alternative suppliers with whom a relationship exists. A
specification for the service component is received and the range of
contracted suppliers surveyed to select the most cost-effective (cost/time
trade-off).
### 6.8.3 S/P Problem Reporting & Management
S/P Problem Reporting & Management processes manage problems associated with
supplier/partner interactions, whether identified within the enterprise or as
notified by the supplier. The processes issue trouble reports or trouble
tickets to supplier and partner organizations within the value chain, track
them, and ensure timely and correct restoration and repair. These S/P Problem
Reporting and Management processes interface with the supplier\'s CRM process
of Problem Handling.
### 6.8.4 S/P Performance Management
S/P Performance Management processes track, measure and report supplier and
partner performance and initiate action with the supplier/partner where this
is required to restore performance. These S/P Performance Management processes
interface with the supplier\'s CRM process of Customer QoS/SLA Management.
### 6.8.5 S/P Settlements & Billing Management
For a value network, and particularly for service providers, settlements and
billing management is complex. In many cases, the supplier cost can be the
largest single cost and incorrect settlement or billing can mean the
difference between profit and loss. S/P Settlements & Billing Management
processes manage all settlements and billing for the enterprise, including
bill validation and verification and payment authorization. These S/P
Settlements and Billing Management processes interface with the supplier\'s
Customer Relationship Management process of Billing and Collection Management.
### 6.8.6 S/P Interface Management
S/P Interface Management processes manage the contacts between the enterprise
and its current or future suppliers/partners for products or services. These
processes are basically contact management and tracking processes. These S/P
Interface Management processes interface with the CRM process of Customer
Interface Management.
# 7 PLMN management functional architecture
## 7.1 TM architectural aspects
The basic aspects of a TM architecture, which can be, considered when planning
and designing a TM are:
\- the functional architecture;
\- the information architecture;
\- the physical architecture.
The management requirements from the business needs are the base for the
functional architecture, which describe the functions that have to be
achieved. The information architecture defines what information that has to be
provided so the functions defined in the functional architecture can be
achieved. The physical architecture has to meet both the functional
architecture and the information architectures. These relationships are shown
in figure 5.
The present document addresses the functional architecture. The physical
architecture is addressed in TS 32.102 [101].
{width="5.545138888888889in" height="2.14375in"}
Figure 4: Architectural relationship
All management processes have functions in several management areas. By
identifying only those processes and interfaces relating to a certain
management function, for example performance management, it is possible to
take a slice through the Enhanced Telecom Operations Map that details the
functional architecture for performance management, this will be the approach
taken by the present document.
The management functions are:
\- Performance management;
\- Roaming management;
\- Fraud management;
\- Fault management;
\- Security management;
\- Software management
\- Configuration management;
\- Accounting management;
\- Subscription management;
\- Quality of Service (QoS) management (see informative annex D);
\- User equipment management.
The 3GPP IRP methodology focuses on providing the definitions for the O&M
operations and notifications needed to support the business requirements
provided by the eTOM framework for such management functions.
## 7.2 Performance Management
### 7.2.1 Overview
An initial view of Performance Management is described in [105]. This shows an
example decomposition of Performance Management processes to identify
essential information flows. It shows a slice through the Telecom Operations
Map from a Performance Management point of view. This slice is applicable to
Mobile Networks and other networks. Although the \"slice\" or view is quite
large, it does not contain all interfaces or process activities that are
related to Performance Management. It does however show the main processes and
interfaces involved in Performance Management. Please refer to [105] for
further detail.
### 7.2.2 Standardisation objectives
During the lifetime of a 3G network, its logical and physical configuration
will undergo changes of varying degrees and frequencies in order to optimise
the utilisation of the network resources. These changes will be executed
through network configuration management activities and/or network
engineering, see TS 32.600 [54].
Many of the activities involved in the daily operation and future network
planning of a 3G network require data on which to base decisions. This data
refers to the load carried by the network and the grade of service offered. In
order to produce this data performance measurements are executed in the NEs,
which comprise the network. The data can then be transferred to an external
system, e.g. an Operations System (OS) in TMN terminology, for further
evaluation. The purpose of the present document is to describe the mechanisms
involved in the collection of the data and the definition of the data itself.
The Performance Management functional area concerns the management of
performance measurements and the collection of performance measurement data
across a 3G network. It defines the administration of measurement schedules by
the Network Element Manager (EM), the generation of measurement results in the
Network Elements (NEs) and the transfer of these results to one or more
Operations Systems, i.e. EM(s) and/or Network Manager(s) (NM(s)).
The management requirements have been derived from existing telecommunications
operations experience. The management definitions were then derived from other
standardisation work so as to minimise the re-invention factor. References are
given as appropriate.
The objectives of the present document are:
\- To provide the descriptions for a standard set of measurements;
\- To produce a common description of the management technique for measurement
administration and result accumulation; and
\- To define a method for the bulk transmission of measurement results across
a management interface.
The definition of the standard measurements is intended to result in
comparability of measurement data produced in a multi-vendor 3G network, for
those measurement types that can be standardised across all vendors\'
implementations.
As far as possible, existing standardisation in the area of Performance
Management is re-used and enhanced where particular requirements, peculiar to
the mobile telephony environment, have been recognised.
Performance management is further specified in TS 32.400-series [53].
## 7.3 Roaming management overview
Roaming is a service provided by Mobile Service Providers. Customers of a Home
Service Provider may use the infrastructure of another, a Serving Service
Provider (see figure 5) to give its customer the ability to make calls when
outside the home service provider\' s territory. The goal is to have a
customer receive the same service (or as close to the same service) when
travelling in an area supported by another network as the customer receives
when in their home service provider\'s area. Please refer to [105] to see an
example implementation with more detail.
{width="5.821527777777778in" height="1.5798611111111112in"}
Figure 5: Relationships between Subscriber, Home and Serving Service Provider
## 7.4 Fraud management overview
Fraud and all the activities to detect and prevent fraud are quite common to
any network. Nonetheless, mobility and roaming, two integral mobile services,
make fraud detection and fraud prevention more complicated and more urgent.
The mobile service provider does not know the location of the \"end of the
wire,\" which would lead to the home of a fraudulent customer. For roaming,
the situation is demonstrably worse. For a roaming visitor the caller is not
the service provider\'s customer and therefore, the service provider does not
have complete information to assess fraud. In the reverse case, the service
provider has little control when its customers are roaming, e.g., potentially
going over credit limits or using service after being suspended. In this case,
the fraudulent customer uses the network facilities of another provider (the
serving service provider) meaning the home service provider has to rely on the
serving service provider for some level of fraud protection support. This
means to a large extent that fraud prevention is largely out of the control of
the home service provider when one of its customers roams on another network
and out of the control of a serving service provider when being visited by
another provider\'s roamer. Please refer to [105] to see an example
implementation with more detail.
## 7.5 Fault Management
### 7.5.1 Overview
Fault Management is accomplished by means of several processes/sub-processes
like fault detection, fault localisation, fault reporting, fault correction,
fault repair, etc. These processes/sub-processes are located over different
management layers, however, most of them (like fault detection, fault
correction, fault localisation and fault correction) are mainly located over
the Network Element and Network Element Management layers, since this
underlying network infrastructure has the \'self healing\' capabilities.
It is possible, however, that some faults/problems affecting the telecom
services are detected within the \"Network and Systems Management\" layer, by
correlating the alarm/events (originated by different Network Elements) and
correlating network data, through network data management.
Network data management logically collects and processes performance and
traffic data, as well as usage data.
While the Fault Management triggered within the Network Element and NE
management layers is primarily reactive, the Fault Management triggered within
the Network and Systems Management layer is primarily proactive. Meaning
triggered by automation rather than triggered by the customer; and this is
important for improving service quality, customer perception of service and
for lowering costs.
Focusing on the Network and Systems Management layer, when a fault/problem is
detected, no matter where and how, several processes are implicated, as
described in figure 6.
Figure 6 taken from the Telecom Operations Map [100] shows an example of how
Fault Management data can be used to drive an operator\'s service assurance
process. Service assurance then becomes primarily proactive, i.e. triggered by
automation rather than triggered by the customer. It is argued that this
approach is crucial to improving service quality, customer perception of
service and for lowering costs.
NOTE: Flow \"3.\" has been added in the present document.
Figure 6: Service Assurance Process Flow (* imported from [100])
TOM assurance activities (and their associated interfaces) shown in figure 6
can be associated with ITU-T TMN service components from TS 32.111-series [3]
according to table 1:
Table 1
+-----------------------------+---------------------------------------------+ | ITU-T TMN Service Component | TOM Network Management Assurance Activities | | | | | TS 32.111-x [3] | | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------------+ | Alarm Surveillance | Detect Fault | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------------+ | Fault Localisation | Isolate Root Cause | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------------+ | Fault Correction | Decide Repair / Allocate Resources | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------------+ | Testing | Test | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------------+
The TOM assurance example shown in figure 6 also recognises that Performance
Management data can also be used to detect network problems.
The TOM assurance example also adds some detail to the Service Management
Layer by showing how activities such as determining and monitoring Service
Level Agreements (SLAs) and trouble ticket reporting are interfaced to the
Network Management layer.
### 7.5.2 Standardisation objectives
A 3G system is composed of a multitude of Network Elements (NE) of various
types and, typically, different vendors, which inter-operate in a co-ordinated
manner in order to satisfy the network users\' communication requirements.\
The occurrence of failures in a NE may cause a deterioration of this NE\'s
function and/or service quality and will, in severe cases, lead to the
complete unavailability of the respective NE. In order to minimise the effects
of such failures on the Quality of Service (QoS) as perceived by the network
users it is necessary to:
\- detect failures in the network as soon as they occur and alert the
operating personnel as fast as possible;
\- isolate the failures (autonomously or through operator intervention), i.e.
switch off faulty units and, if applicable, limit the effect of the failure as
much as possible by reconfiguration of the faulty NE/adjacent NEs;
\- if necessary, determine the cause of the failure using diagnosis and test
routines; and
\- repair/eliminate failures in due time through the application of
maintenance procedures.
This aspect of the management environment is termed \"Fault Management\" (FM).
The purpose of FM is to detect failures as soon as they occur and to limit
their effects on the network Quality of Service (QOS) as far as possible.\ The
latter is achieved by bringing additional/redundant equipment into operation,
reconfiguring existing equipment/NEs, or by repairing/eliminating the cause of
the failure.
Fault Management (FM) encompasses all of the above functionalities except
commissioning/decommissioning of NEs and potential operator triggered
reconfiguration (these are a matter of Configuration Management (CM), cf. TS
32.600 [54]).
FM also includes associated features in the Operations System (OS), such as
the administration of a pending alarms list, the presentation of operational
state information of physical and logical devices/resources/functions, and the
provision and analysis of the alarm and state history of the network.
Fault management is further specified in TS 32.111-series [3].
## 7.6 Security Management
### 7.6.1 Overview
This clause describes an architecture for security management of the TMN that
is divided into two layers, as shown in figure 7. No individual layer is
dependent on any specific technology in the other one.
Figure 7: Security Management architecture
#### 7.6.1.1 Layer B - OAM&P Transport IP Network
Some Service Providers might build their OAM&P transport network as a
completely private, trusted network. In the normal case though, the OAM&P
transport network should be regarded as partly insecure due to its size,
complexity, limited physical security and possible remote access from dial-up
connections or from the Internet. The only security service provided then is
that the OAM&P transport network when based on IP is logically separated from
the Internet. For IP based transports infrastructure aspects on security are
handled to the extent possible utilizing IP classic features (addressing
schemes, DNS, DHCP, BOOTP, protection with firewalls etc.).
Additionally, a trusted IP-environment to the application level might be
provided, e.g. an environment with no masquerading IP-hosts and where
potential intruders cannot communicate. One way to accomplish such a secure
DCN is to use IP security mechanisms (IPSec; see IETF RFC 2401 [7]) to achieve
authentication of IP hosts (servers, gateways, Network Elements) and optional
encryption of OAM&P traffic. Note however that the secure DCN does not
authenticate users.
#### 7.6.1.2 Layer A - Application Layer
On this layer we find Telecom Management applications performing their tasks
in the normal management functional areas. Managed objects residing in the
network resources are often accessed or manipulated.
Layer A provides authentication of users ensuring that every party involved in
OAM&P traffic is securely authenticated against every other party. The
implementation of the authentication service supports \"single log-on\" (a
user only has to log-on once to get access to all OAM&P applications in the
network) and \"single point of administration\" (an administrator only needs
to maintain a user and his/her profile in one place).
Layer A also provides authorization (access control) - to verify if a user is
authorized to perform a certain operation upon a specified target object at a
given time. In addition, it addresses the use of signing and logging of
events. Logging of events here means \"logging of actions\" (not necessarily
logging of ALL actions) to be able to check \"who did what\". At least all
\"critical\" actions (configurations etc.) should be logged.
Interface definitions addressing authentication and authorization are needed.
Also note that layer A requires confidentiality. Layer B may provide this
service. If not, layer A instead has to provide it itself.
#### 7.6.1.3 Common Services
In common services we find the security infrastructure components:
\- Directory (for storage of user information, certificates, etc.);
\- PKI (Certificate Authority, Registration Authority, Public Key Certificate,
etc.).
Layer A relies on, and interacts with, the Common Services through
distribution of certificates and keys, authentication of users, authorization,
utilities for security administration (setting access rights), etc.
NOTE: Layer B does not necessarily interact with Common Services for security
management purposes.\ The arrows in figure 7 simply indicate the possible use
of common services for Configuration Management.
## 7.7 Software Management
### 7.7.1 Overview
This clause describes the software management process for 3^rd^ Generation
networks. Two main scenarios are considered:
1) Main Software Management process: It covers requesting, acceptance,
installation, monitoring, documenting, database updating and feedback to the
vendor for managing software. The sub-processes are valid for complete
software releases and software patches for fault correction of the Network
Elements and even element managers.
2) Software Fault Management: Its emphasis is on network monitoring and
handling faults, which are caused by software malfunctions.
#### 7.7.1.1 Main Software Management process
The main focus is the management of new software releases and correction
patches. Importance is placed integrating new software into a network with out
causing unnecessary service disruptions and maintaining high levels of quality
for the network. The main steps in the software management process are:
\- Delivery of software from the vendor.
\- Delivery of the software to local storage in the Network Elements and/or
element managers.
\- Validation of the software to ensure that the Software is not corrupt.
\- Activation of the software to an executable state.
\- Validation of the software to ensure that it runs correctly.
\- Acceptance or rejection of the software, depending on the outcome of the
validation. (A rejection of the software implies a reversion to a previous
software version).
Figure 8 shows an example of how these steps may be realized in terms of
activities involving the processes defined in the Telecom Operations Map.
However, alternative sequences may exist. For example, increased automation
may cause step 3 to be omitted. Instead, a vendor certification activity could
be run for a series of software releases or patches.
The following list is an explanation to the steps in figure 8.
1) Based on inputs from customer care interactions and marketing research, a
network operator will establish new feature requirements. These requirements
are sent to the vendor in the form of a feature request.
2) The vendor delivers a new software release/correction with the
corresponding documentation and installation procedure to the network
operator. It should be noted that when a network operator utilises equipment
from more than one vendor, this process runs as multiple parallel processes.
3) A service quality management department of the network operator receives
and reviews the software. Upon approving the software for installation, the
software is sent to the network-provisioning department.
4) Installation Task:
a) The software is installed in the appropriate Network Elements and/or
element managers by network provisioning.
b) Installation information is sent to the network maintenance and restoration
department to inform them of pending changes in the network.
c) Installation information is sent to the customer care centre to inform them
of pending changes in the network.
5) Installation Test and Validation:
a) Once the software has been installed, network provisioning performs tests
to check and ensure that the new software is working properly.
b) In addition to the checks that are performed by network provisioning,
network maintenance and restoration could also detect malfunctions within and
outside the updated Network Element (NE).
c) Should network maintenance and restoration detect a problem within the
updated Network Element (NE), then network provisioning is informed to decide
on further actions.
6) Successful Installation Result:
a) Upon successful installation of the software, the service quality
management department is informed.
b) A report is sent to network maintenance and restoration to inform them that
the software will remain implemented in the network. At this point the
documentation library and software database is updated.
c) The network data management department is informed over the changes in the
network.
7) Negative Installation Result:
a) If the installation fails, network provisioning performs a \"fallback\",
i.e. remove the new software and insure that the Network Element (NE) is
running properly on the old software.
b) A report containing the negative results and findings will be sent to
service quality management and at the same time to network maintenance and
restoration.
8) Once the installation procedure has been ended, the network maintenance and
restoration department closely monitors the affected Network Element (NE) to
ensure proper performance.
9) Service quality management will send feedback to the vendor as to the
positive or negative results of the installation.
Figure 8: Main Software Management process
#### 7.7.1.2 Software Fault Management
Software Fault Management involves the following steps:
\- Detection of Software malfunctions in the network.
\- Problem resolution. The origin of the malfunction is determined and
corrective action is decided. The corrective action can be one of the
following:
\- Reversion to an earlier software version. This can imply both load and
activation of the earlier software.
\- Load and activation of correction software, according to clause 8.7.1.
\- Re-activation of current software.
Figure 9 shows an example of how these steps may be realized in terms of
activities involving the processes defined in the Telecom Operations Map.
The following list is an explanation to the steps in figure 9.
1) The network maintenance and restoration department detects an event or an
alarm/fault from the Network Element (NE).
2) Problem solving and informing customer care:
a) The alarm is forwarded to the service problem resolution department for
corrective actions and it is determined that the problem is caused by a
software defect.
b) In parallel the Customer Care Centre is informed, if the malfunction of the
network may have impact on customers.
3) The service problem resolution department informs problem handling and
subsequently the customer care centre over service impairments with in the
network.
4) Problem handling reports to the service quality management department. The
service disturbance is described within the report.
5) Service quality management checks the current software level of the
affected Network Element with the network inventory management department.
6) If major network disturbances still appear the Service Quality management
decides to fallback to a stable Software version (maybe some time after a new
Software installation) and requests Network Provisioning.
7) a+b): Network Provisioning performs the fallback and informs Network
Maintenance and Inventory.
8) Service quality management sends a request for a software correction to the
vendor.
9) The vendor sends a new software release or correction to the network
operator. The rest of the procedure can be followed in the main software
management process.
Figure 9: Software Fault Management
## 7.8 Configuration Management
A variety of components will make up an operator\'s actual implementation of a
3G network. Since it is an explicit goal of the standardisation effort within
3GPP to allow mix and match of equipment from different vendors, it is
expected that many networks will indeed be composed of multiple vendors\'
equipment. For an operator to be able to properly manage this diverse network,
in order to provide the quality of service expected by his customers, it is
essential to standardise the Configuration Management for 3G systems at least
to an extent that the operation of the multi-vendor network will be possible
effectively and efficiently. Within the scope of Configuration Management, a
distinction has to be made between those aspects targeting single Network
Elements (NE management level) and those that are also, or exclusively,
relevant for some part or the entire network (Network Management level).
Configuration Management is further specified in TS 32.600 [54].
## 7.9 Accounting Management
3G charging data descriptions will be based on the requirements specified in
TS 22.115 \"Service aspects; Charging and Billing\" [51] and on the charging
principles outlined in TS 32.200 \"Charging management; Charging Principles\"
[55]. The main content of 3G charging data descriptions will be:
\- Layout and formats of Charging Data Records (CDRs) for the 3G core network
nodes (circuit, packet switched and IP Multimedia) and service nodes (e.g.
MMS);
\- Data generation dependent on call states, chargeable events and TS 22.115
[51] service requirements;
\- Formal description of the CDRs format in ASN.1 (ITU-T Recommendation
X.680-1997 [49]) and definition of a file transfer mechanism (FTP).
## 7.10 Subscription Management
Subscription Management (SuM) is a feature that permits Service Providers,
Value Added Service Providers and Mobile Operators to provision services for a
specific subscriber. The feature is necessary to allow Service Providers and
Operators to provision, control, monitor and bill the configuration of
services that they offer to their subscribers. SuM focuses on the OAM
processes to manage subscription information. These correspond to the
\'Fulfilment\' Process areas of the TeleManagement Forum Telecom Operations
Map [100].
SuM is an area of service operation management that sets a complex challenge
for Service Providers and Operators in their support of new or existing
subscribers during their every day network operation.
In 2G solutions the main repository of the subscription information is in the
Home Locations Register (HLR). However the management and administration
interfaces for controlling this information is proprietary to each vendor. The
use of proprietary interfaces is inconvenient for those Operators using
multiple vendors\' equipment since their provisioning systems have to
accommodate multiple proprietary interfaces, which perform essentially
identical functions. Moreover, it makes it more difficult to generate customer
self care applications that allow subscribers to provision, and amend
subscription data.
The 3G environment requires more complex service delivery mechanisms than in
2G and SuM is no longer simply an internal matter for a single operator but a
capability that is achieved by linking together features across multiple
Service Providers and Operators Operations Support Systems (OSS).
Historically, the services provided by Operators have been defined within
standards groups such as ETSI or 3GPP. With the advent of Open Services Access
(OSA) being adopted by 3GPP the User Service Definitions will be replaced by
Service Capabilities traded amongst Service Providers and Network Operators.
This will allow Operators and Service Providers to define customized service
environments that roam with users as they move amongst networks - this is the
Virtual Home Environment (VHE) 3GPP TR 22.121 [56]. This customized service
environment means that subscription information is held in a number of
locations including the Home Network, the Visited Network, the User Equipment,
Application VASP Equipment (e.g. servers accessed by the subscriber for
content and information based services) and the Operations Systems of the
Service Providers, and Operators supporting the subscriber\'s service
subscription.
Service delivery and support across multiple vendors\' solutions and
organizations is a feature of other industries, and the solutions adopted are
secure supply chain solutions based upon mainstream e-commerce principles,
methods and technologies.
There is a relationship between this feature and the PS Domain, CS Domain, IP
Multimedia Subsystem (IMS), Authentication Center (AuC), Open Services Access
(OSA) and Generic User Profile (GUP) documented in other 3GPP specifications.
The conceptual model for SuM is illustrated in figure 10.
Figure 10: High level view of Subscription Management (SuM)
SuM is concerned with provisioning the subscription profile throughout all the
systems and trading partners needed to realize the customer service, SuM
provides specifications that define the interfaces and the procedures that
interconnect the three points of the SuM triangle: Customer Care Center, the
User and the network (s) where the Subscription profile resides (such as HSS,
USIM, etc.).
The SuM requirements are described in more detail in 3GPP TS 32.140 [57], The
SUM Architecture is described in 3GPP TS 32.141 [58].
## 7.11 Subscriber and Equipment Trace Management
Subscriber and Equipment Trace Management is a Feature that allows a Network
Operator to activate/deactivate from the Network Management system the tracing
of a particular subscriber within the network. Once activated the trace
activity is reported back to the Network Management system. It will be
possible to request activation of a trace from different Network Elements (via
the appropriate Element Management Functionality) depending on the operator\'s
requirements.
## 7.12 OAM&P of the PLMN \"Management Infrastructure\"
As described earlier in the present document, each PLMN organisation has a
management infrastructure consisting of a collection of systems (computers and
telecommunications) - a TMN in ITU-T parlance - used to manage its network.
Though this management network is logically distinct from the PLMN , the
operations systems and supporting data communications network comprising it
have the same management needs as described for network elements and where
possible should be managed using the same principles and similar management
processes and functionality.
## 7.13 Void
###### ## Annex A (normative): 3GPP management application layer protocols
The valid management application layer protocols for 3GPP are:
  * SNMP (see reference [6]);
  * CORBA IIOP (see references [8] and [52]);
  * SOAP (see references [108] and [109]).
The valid application layer protocols for bulk & file transfer are:
\- FTAM (see references [13] -- [19]);
\- ftp (see reference [4]);
\- tftp (see reference [5]).
\- sftp (secure ftp)
NOTE: sftp is an implementation of ftp that uses SSL (SSH-1 or SSH-2 transport
protocol) to provide a secure ftp. There are many commercial and open source
implementations available. An IETF Secure Shell working group exists, whose
goal is "to update and standardize the popular SSH protocol". Currently no
IETF RFCs are available, however a number of IETF drafts can be found at the
working groups\' home web site: http://www.ietf.org/html.charters/secsh-
charter.html.
The valid management application layer protocol for Home NodeB Management
Interface Type 1 and Home eNodeB Management Interface Type 1 is:
\- TR-069 (see reference [115])
The valid application layer protocols for bulk & file transfer for Home NodeB
Management Interface Type 1 and Home eNodeB Management Interface Type 1 are
defined in TR-069 [115].
###### ## Annex B (normative): 3GPP management network layer protocols
The valid network layer protocols for the management of 3GPP are:
\- IP (see reference [48];
\- X.25 (see reference [22]).
NOTE 1: IP is the recommended networking protocol.
NOTE 2: Normative references relating to ISO Transport over TCP-IP are [46]
and [47] and ISO Transport over X.25 are [43] ‑ [45].
###### ## Annex C (normative): 3GPP management IRP Solution Sets
The valid IRP Solution Sets for the management of 3GPP on the Itf-N and
Itf-P2P interfaces are:
\- CORBA (IDL);
\- SOAP (WSDL).
The SOAP Solution Set is based on definitions set forth in WS-I Basic Profile
1.1 [116], and consisting of:
\- WSDL 1.1 [117];
\- SOAP 1.1 [108].
IRPAgents may support only one Solution Set. IRPManagers shall support all
Solutions Sets that are supported by IRPAgents they communicate with.
###### ## Annex D (informative): QoS Management
# D.1 Overview
QoS Management, from an OAM&P perspective, in 2.5G and 3G networks primarily
consists of two functional areas: QoS policy provisioning and QoS monitoring.
QoS Policy Provisioning is the process of configuring and maintaining selected
Network Elements with QoS policies that are created based upon customer SLAs
and observed network performance. QoS Monitoring is the process of collecting
QoS performance statistics and alarms; this data is then used to generate
analysis reports for making changes/upgrades to the network. The detailed
relationship between SLA Management and QoS Provisioning and Monitoring is for
future study. A conceptual breakdown of QoS Management is shown in figure D.1.
Figure D.1: QoS Management
The following clauses provide descriptions of QoS Provisioning and Monitoring.
It should be noted that the same descriptions could apply to other Policy
Management instantiations, e.g. Security and Service Provisioning.
# D.2 QoS Provisioning
In the 2.5G and 3G networks, multiple network domains **must** inter-work in
order to provide the end-to-end quality of service required by end-user
applications. To add to this complexity, there are many classes of Network
Elements from many network infrastructure suppliers, each of which require
configuration in a consistent manner in order to the network operator\'s QoS
objectives. Within each Network Element, there are many QoS functions (such as
Admission Control, Policers, Shapers, Queue Manager and Scheduler), which
**must** be configured.
In order to configure these heterogeneous networks so that they can deliver
the desired QoS, the operator needs a management solution that meets the
following high-level requirements:
  * _Automation_ of management tasks.
  * _Centralized_ management with fewer classes of management interface.
  * _Abstracted_ (or simplified) management data.
  * _End-to-End_ provisioning of the network.
  * _Consistent and uniform_ provisioning across all Network Elements.
  * _Standards-based_ solution in order to allow _inter-operability_ at Network Element and OSS level.
  * _Scalable_ solution for large networks.
The IETF Policy Management Framework has been designed with these requirements
in mind
The various standards that apply to QoS Policy Provisioning as described in
the following clauses are listed in D.4.1. At time of publication of the
present document there are also a significant amount of IETF Drafts available
on the subject at http://www.ietf.org,
## D.2.1 Conceptual Architecture
The conceptual architecture for a policy-based QoS Management System is shown
in figure D.2.
Figure D.2: QoS Provisioning
The architectural components identified in figure D.2 are described in the
following clauses.
NOTE: The Policy Repository and the Policy Decision Point can be implemented
on the same node.
The Itf N interface is specified in the 32 series.
The Itf Po, between the Policy Repository and the Policy Decision Point is to
be defined. The protocols under consideration includes: LDAP, LDUP, SNMP and
COPS-PR.
The reference point Go is defined in TS 23.207 (see D.4 QoS Management
Reference [22]) and the interface implementing the reference point is defined
in TS 29.207 (see D.4 QoS Management Reference [23]).
## D.2.2 NML QoS Policy Provisioning
This is a network-level operational support function that serves as the policy
administration point for the entire network.
The NML QoS Policy Provisioning provides the following functions:
  * Network policy administration user interface
  * Master network policy repository for storage of all network policies for all domains
  * Policy distribution capability to distribute policy data to the EML Policy servers.
  * Global policy conflict detection
The policy repositories will use an LDAP-based directory to store the policy
information.
## D.2.3 EML QoS Policy Provisioning
This is an element management function that serves as the policy
administration point for a network domain. A domain is an area of the network
that contains equipment that performs a logically related function. Examples
of network domains are: access network, core network and transport network, or
supplier specific sub-networks within these networks.
The EML QoS Policy Provisioning provides the following functions:
  * An optional EML-level policy administration user interface.
```{=html}
``` \- EML-specific policy repository.
```{=html}
``` \- Policy distribution capability to distribute policy data to the Policy
Decision Points.
  * Local policy conflict detection
It is envisioned that the optional EML-level policy administration user
interface will be required in small networks that do not have a network-level
policy provisioning OSS.
Note that EML-specific policy repositories contain policies that apply only to
that domain as well as general network policies that apply across domains.
## D.2.4 Policy Decision Point
The Policy Decision Point is the point in the network at which policy
decisions are made for the Policy Enforcement Points under its scope of
control. Whereas the Policy Enforcement Point is a function within a network
node, the Policy Decision Point is separate functional entity that may reside
within a separate Policy Server, for example, on an application server. The
Policy Decision Point will make decisions based on the policy information held
within the Policy Repository.
The Policy Decision Point provides the following functions:
  * Retrieval of Policy Information from the policy repository
  * Evaluates the policy information retrieved and decides what actions needs to taken.
```{=html}
``` \- Distributes policy data to the Policy Enforcement Points. This
distribution can either be sent to the PEP by the Policy Decision Point or the
Policy Decision Point can wait for the PEP to request the information.
  * Translation from QoS policy schema employed by the policy servers to Policy Information Base (PIB) format employed by the Policy Enforcement Points.
  * Optional real-time policy decision-making function.
  * Local policy conflict detection
The optional real-time policy decision-making function may be required when
dynamic policy decisions **must** be made in response to current network
conditions.
NOTE: The 3GPP Term Policy Decision Function (PDF) used in 23.207 and 29.207
is equivalent to the IETF Term Policy Decision Point.
TS 23.207 describes the End-to-end Quality of Service (QoS) concept and
architecture, and TS 29.207 describes Policy control over Go interface (see
D.4 QoS Management Reference [22]) and TS 29.207 (see D.4 QoS Management
Reference [23]). If there are any inconsistencies then the definitions in
23.207 and 29.207 take precedence.
## D.2.5 Policy Enforcement Point
The Policy Enforcement Point is a function that is part of a Network Element
that **must** implement the policies defined by the policy administration
system(s).
The Policy Enforcement Point provides the following functions:
  * Storage of policy-related data locally.
  * Execution of policies as network conditions dictate.
  * Support for the Differentiated Services QoS mechanism (diffserv).
On initialization, the Policy Enforcement Point will contact its parent Policy
Decision Point and request download of any policy data that it requires for
operation. Note that information such as the address of the parent Policy
Decision Point function **must** be provisioned in the Policy Enforcement
Point MIB as part of normal network provisioning.
TS 23.207 describes the End-to-end Quality of Service (QoS) concept and
architecture, and TS 29.207 describes Policy control over Go interface (see
D.4 QoS Management Reference [22]) and TS 29.207 (see D.4 QoS Management
Reference [23]). If there are any inconsistencies then the definitions in
23.207 and 29.207 take precedence.
# D.3 QoS Monitoring
QoS Monitoring in 2.5G and 3G networks consists of collecting/processing
performance statistics, usage data and QoS related faults. In order to obtain
end-to-end quality of service monitoring, the Network Elements, the Element
Management Layer and Network Management Layer **must** all be involved with
the QoS Monitoring process. Alarm and performance collection is done at the
Network Element layer and alarm/performance aggregation, report generation,
and analysis is done at the Element Management and Network Management layers.
The following functions summarize the QoS Monitoring process:
  * Manage QoS fault conditions received from Network Elements.
  * Retrieve QoS Performance data from Network Elements.
  * Collect and process usage data.
  * Generate QoS Reports -- trend analysis of key QoS parameters.
  * Audit/Analyse collected QoS parameters against expected values.
References that apply to QoS Monitoring and the following clauses are listed
in clause D.4.2.
## D.3.1 QoS Monitoring Conceptual Architecture
The architecture of a QoS Monitoring system is shown in figure D.3.
Figure D.3: QoS Monitoring
The architectural components identified in figure D.3 are described in the
following clauses.
## D.3.2 Network Element
The Network Element component is responsible for collecting performance
measurements, usage data and generating alarms. The Network Element component
can contain the Policy Enforcement Point or the Policy Decision Point
functions.
The Network Element component provides the following functions:
  * Collect performance data according to the definition of the measurements and to return results to the EML.
  * Collect usage data and forward the data to mediation
  * Perform the following fault management functions: Fault detection, Generation of alarms, Clearing of alarms, Alarm forwarding and filtering, Storage and retrieval of alarms in/from the NE, Fault recovery, Configuration of alarms.
## D.3.3 Element Management Layer
The Element Management Layer is responsible for aggregating and transferring
the collected performance measurements and generated alarms/events.
The Element Management Layer provides the following functions:
_Performance Management_
  * Measurement data collection
    * Measurement types. Corresponds to the measurements as defined in > TS 52.402 [24], TS 32.405 [26], TS 32.406 [27], TS > 32.407 [28], TS 32.408 [29] and TS 32.409 [30] (see > clause D.4 of the present document on QoS Management > Reference),\ > i.e. measurement types specified in the present document, > defined by other standards bodies, or manufacturer defined > measurement types;
    * Measured network resources. The resource(s) to which the > measurement types shall be applied have to be specified
    * Measurement recording, consisting of periods of time at which > the NE is collecting (that is, making available in the NE) > measurement data.
  * Measurement reporting
    * Measurement Report File Format Definition
    * The measurement related information to be reported has to be > specified as part of the measurement. The frequency at which > scheduled result reports shall be generated has to be defined.
  * Measurement result transfer
    * Measurement results can be transferred from the NE to the EM > according to the measurement parameters, and/or they are > stored locally in the NE and can be retrieved when required;
    * Measurement results can be stored in the network (NEs or EM) for > retrieval by the NM when required.
_Fault Management_
  * Management of alarm event reports
    * Mapping of alarm and related state change event reports
    * Real-time forwarding of event reports
    * Alarm clearing
  * Retrieval of alarm information
    * Retrieval of current alarm information on NM request
    * Logging and retrieval of alarm history information on NM request
## D.3.4 Network Management Layer
From a QoS Monitoring perspective, the NML is responsible for the collection
and processing of performance, fault, and usage data.
The NML QoS Monitoring layer provides the following functions:
  * **Service Quality Management** \-- responsible for the overall > quality of a service as it interacts with other functional areas > to access monitored information, process that information to > determine quality metrics, and initiate corrective action when > quality level is considered unsatisfactory. Inputs to SQM include > both performance and fault data.
  * **Customer QoS Management** \-- includes monitoring, managing, and > reporting the Quality of Service customers receive against what > has been promised to the customer in Service Level Agreements and > any other service related documents. Inputs to CQM include data > from SQM and usage data.
# D.4 QoS Management References
## D.4.1 Policy Based QoS Provisioning References
The following documents apply to policy-based QoS provisioning:
[1] IETF RFC 3060: \"Policy Core Information Model -- Version 1
Specification\", Moore et al., February 2001.\
http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc3060.txt
[2] IETF RFC 2251: \"Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (v3)\", M. Wahl, T.
Howes, S. Kille, December 1997. http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2251.txt
[3] IETF RFC 2940: \"Definitions of Managed Objects for Common Open Policy
Service (COPS) Protocol Clients\" ,. A. Smith, D. Partain, J. Seligson.
October 2000. http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2940.txt
[4] IETF RFC 3084: \"COPS Usage for Policy Provisioning (COPS-PR)\"; K. Chan,
J. Seligson, D. Durham, S. Gai, K. McCloghrie, S. Herzog, F. Reichmeyer, R.
Yavatkar, A. Smith. March 2001. http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc3084.txt
[5] IETF RFC 2748: \"The COPS (Common Open Policy Service) Protocol\", J.
Boyle, R.Cohen, D. Durham, S. Herzog, R. Rajan, A. Sastry. January 2000,
http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2748.txt
[6] IETF RFC 2753: \"A Framework for Policy-based Admission Control\", R.
Yavatkar, D. Pendarakis, R. Guerin. January 2000.
http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2753.txt
## D.4.2 Policy Based QoS Monitoring References
The following documents apply to QoS monitoring:
[7] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"3G Telecom Management: Principles and high-level
requirements\".
[8] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"3G Telecom Management Architecture\".
[9] 3GPP TS 32.401: \"Telecommunication Management; Performance Management
(PM); Concept and requirements\".
[10] 3GPP TS 32.200: \"Telecommunication Management; Charging Management;
Charging Principles\".
[11] 3GPP TS 32.205: \"Telecommunications Management; Charging management; 3G
charging data description for the CS domain\".
[12] 3GPP TS 32.215: \"Telecommunication Management; Charging Management;
Charging Data Description for the Packet Switched (PS) Domain\".
[13] 3GPP TS 32.600: \"Telecommunication Management; Configuration Management;
3G Configuration Management; Concepts and main requirements\".
[14] 3GPP TS 32.111-1: \"Telecommunication Management; Fault Management; Part
1: 3G fault management requirements\".
[15] IETF RFC 959: \"File Transfer Protocol\", J. Postel, J.K. Reynolds.
Oct-01-1985. http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc0959.txt?number=959
[16] IETF RFC 1901: \"Simple Network Management Protocol, v2\", J.Case, K.
McCloghrie, M. Rose, S. Waldbusser. January 1996.
http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc1901.txt?number=1901
[17] IETF RFC 2573: \"SNMP Applications\", D. Levi, P. Meyer, B. Stewart.
April 1999. http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2573.txt?number=2573
[18] IETF RFC 1907: \"Management Information Base for Version 2 of the Simple
Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2)\", SNMPv2 Working Group, J. Case,
K.McCloghrie, M. Rose, S. Waldbusser. January 1996.
http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc1907.txt?number=1907
[19] TelemanagementForum (TMF) Telecom Operations Map (TOM), GB910, Approved
Version 2.1, March 2000. http://www.tmforum.org/
[20] TelemanagementForum (TMF) TOM Application Note, Mobile Services:
Performance Management and Mobile Network Fraud and Roaming Agreement
Management, GB910B, Public Evaluation Version 1.1, September 2000.
http://www.tmforum.org/
[21] TeleManagement Forum (TMF) NGOSS specifications http://www.tmforum.org/
[22] 3GPP TS 23.207: \"End to End Quality of Service QoS Concept and
Architecture\".
[23] 3GPP TS 29.207: \"Policy Control over Go interface\".
[24] 3GPP TS 52.402: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM); Performance measurements - GSM\".
[25] Void.
[26] 3GPP TS 32.405: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM); Performance measurements - **Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
(UTRAN)** \".
[27] 3GPP TS 32.406: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM); Performance measurements - Core Network (CN) Packet Switched (PS)
domain\".
[28] 3GPP TS 32.407: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM); Performance measurements - Core Network (CN) Circuit Switched (CS)
domain\".
[29] 3GPP TS 32.408: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM); Performance measurements - Teleservice\".
[30] 3GPP TS 32.409: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM); Performance measurements - IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS)\".
###### ## Annex E (normative): Type 2 protocols and information model for use
in Type 4a management interface
The 3GPP management detailed specification has defined protocols and
information model (network resource model) for use across Itf-N, i.e. the Type
2 management interface. Some, not all, of these protocols and network resource
model are applicable for use across the Itf-P2P, i.e. theType 4a management
interface.
The following lists identify the Itf-N protocols and information model
relevant for use across Itf-P2P. When certain part of a specific Interface IRP
specification (e.g. a particular operation) is not applicable for Itf-P2P,
that certain part shall be identified as Exception here.
  * List of Interface IRP :
    * [Names of Interface IRP, with possible Exception (see above), are included here. These are to be determined.]
  * List of NRM IRP :
    * [Names of NRM IRP included here. The names are to be determined.]
A particular NRM IRP may have defined IOCs that are visible across the Itf-P2P
but not visible across Itf-N. In such case, a note "This IOC is visible across
Itf-P2P only." should be part of the subject IOC description.
The standard does not specify which NRM IRP or which IOCs would be invisible
across Itf-P2P. That "invisibility" is determined by the two involved peer DMs
and is outside the scope of standardization.
At present, the standard does not expect the need to define NRM IRP(s) that
are exclusively used by Itf-P2P. In the possible event that the need is
required, the standard will specify a convention how to document those NRM
IRP(s).
#