# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project: Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
32**.111-1** Fault Management; Part 1: 3G fault management requirements
32**.111-2** Fault Management; Part 2: Alarm Integration Reference Point
(IRP): Information Service (IS)
32**.111-3** Fault Management; Part 3: Alarm Integration Reference Point
(IRP): Common Object Request Broker Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set (SS)
**32.111-5 Alarm Integration Reference Point (IRP): eXtensible Markup Language
(XML) definitions.**
32**.111-7** Alarm Integration Reference Point (IRP): SOAP Solution Set (SS).
The present document is part of a TS-family, which describes the requirements
and information model necessary for Telecommunications Management (TM). The TM
principles and TM architecture are specified in 3GPP TS 32.101 [1] and 3GPP TS
32.102 [2].
A communications system is composed of a multitude of Network Elements (NE) of
various types and, typically, different vendors, which inter-operate in a
coordinated manner in order to satisfy the network users\' communication
requirements.
The occurrence of faults in an NE may cause deterioration or loss of this
NE\'s function. Fault Management is the functional area, which allows the
operator to detect the occurrence of faults in the network in real-time.
Configuration Management and Performance Management are two more functional
areas, which require the operator to be alerted to certain conditions in the
network.
A standard general-purpose mechanism for the management of logs containing
selected notifications from the network is required to provide an ability to
perform historical analysis on faults and conditions, which occurred in the
network. The TS 32.33x-series, constituting the Notification Log IRP, sets
forth such a mechanism - and the present document contains the XML definition
related to Alarm IRP notifications.
Apart from being used for the Notification Log, the XML definitions for Alarm
IRP notifications are also used by the Alarm IRP SOAP SS [6], for which the
present document contains also additional related XML definitions.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the XML Definitions for the Alarm Integration
Reference Point (Alarm IRP) as it applies to Itf-N, in accordance with Alarm
IRP IS definitions [3] as well as Notification Log IRP XML Definitions [4].
The present document defines the XML syntax of Alarm IRP notifications that is
to be used for the Alarm IRP SOAP Solution Set and in conjunction with
Notification Log IRP XML Definitions for Notification Log IRP XML Data File
and the NL IRP XML Notification Format [4]. The document defines also the XML
syntax for the IOC definitions of the Alarm IRP IS [3], which are used by the
XML definitions for the Alarm IRP notifications and the Alarm IRP IS
operations.
This specification is related to 3GPP TS 32.111-2 V9.0.X.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.111-2: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management; Alarm
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.335: \"Telecommunication management; Notification Log (NL)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): eXtensible Markup Language (XML) solution
definitions\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.331: \"Telecommunication management; Notification Log (NL)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.111-7: \"Telecommunication management; Alarm Integration
Reference Point (IRP): SOAP Solution Set (SS)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102 [2], and 3GPP TS 32.331 [5] apply.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
IRP Integration Reference Point
IS Information Service
NL Notification Log
XML eXtensible Markup Language
# 4 Alarm IRP XML Definitions
## 4.1 Alarm IRP notifications XML definition structure
This section provides XML definitions of Alarm IRP notifications as defined in
[3]. These definitions are to be used for the Alarm IRP SOAP Solution Set and
in conjunction with Notification Log IRP XML Definitions for Notification Log
IRP XML Data File and the NL IRP XML Notification Format [4], as well as
considerations for NL IRP XML File Name Conventions defined therein.
{width="5.739583333333333in" height="3.6145833333333335in"}
{width="6.688194444444444in" height="2.6416666666666666in"}
{width="5.59375in" height="2.6354166666666665in"}
{width="6.690277777777778in" height="3.41875in"}
{width="6.69375in" height="3.497916666666667in"}
{width="6.690277777777778in" height="7.2652777777777775in"}
{width="6.686111111111111in" height="4.539583333333334in"}
{width="6.691666666666666in" height="2.186111111111111in"}
## 4.2 Alarm IRP XML Schema for notifications
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
## 4.3 Alarm IRP XML Schema for IOCs
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
###### ## Annex A (informative): Void
#