# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
**32.121: Advanced Alarm Management (AAM) Integration Reference Point (IRP):
Requirements.**
**32.122: Advanced Alarm Management (AAM) Integration Reference Point (IRP):
Information Service (IS).**
32.123: **Advanced Alarm Management (AAM)** Integration Reference Point (IRP):
Common Object Request Broker Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set.
32.125: **Advanced Alarm** Management (AAM) Integration Reference Point (IRP):
eXtensible Markup Language (XML) definitions.
**32.127: Advanced Alarm Management (AAM) Integration Reference Point (IRP):
SOAP Solution Set (SS).**
The Itf-N interface is built up by a number of IRPs and a related Name
Convention, which realise the functional capabilities over this interface. The
basic structure of the IRPs is defined in 3GPP TS 32.150 [1].
A single network fault may generate a large number of alarms over space and
time. In a large and complex network, simultaneous network faults may occur,
causing the network operator to be flooded with high volume of alarms. The
high volume of alarms, typically the one received by an IRPManager via the
getAlarmList or alarm notifications of Alarm IRP specification, greatly
inhibits the operator ability to quickly identify and locate the responsible
network faults. Advanced Alarm Management IRP is intended to provide methods
to improve this situation.
# 1 Scope
The present specifies the SOAP Solution Set for the IRP whose semantics are
specified in the Advanced Alarm Management (AAM) IRP Information Service (3GPP
TS 32.122 [3]).
This Solution Set specification is related to TS 32.122 v9.0.X.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.150: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Concept and definitions\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.122: \"Telecommunication management; Advanced Alarm Management
(AAM) Integrations Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.125: \"Telecommunication management; Advanced Alarm Management
(AAM) Integrations Reference Point (IRP); eXtensible Markup Language (XML)
file format definition\".
[7] W3C SOAP 1.1 specification (http://www.w3.org/TR/2000/NOTE-SOAP-20000508/)
[8] W3C XPath 1.0 specification (http://www.w3.org/TR/1999/REC-xpath-19991116)
[9] W3C WSDL 1.1 specification (http://www.w3.org/TR/2001/NOTE-wsdl-20010315)
[10] W3C SOAP 1.2 specification (http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-part1/)
[11] 3GPP TS 32.307: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP): SOAP solution set\".
[12] 3GPP TS 32.312: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Integration
Reference Point (IRP) management; Information Service (IS)"
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1], 3GPP TS 32.101 [2], 3GPP TS 32.102 [3], 3GPP TS 32.150 [4]
apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence over the
definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
**Alike Alarm** : Two alarms are considered alike, if the corresponding alarm
notifications are issued by the same object instance with the same alarmType,
same perceivedSeverity, same probableCause and same specificProblem (if
present).
**Lower Edge of Time Window** : The point in time which determines the begin
of a time span.
**Upper Edge of Time Window** : The point in time which determines the end of
a time span.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1], in 3GPP TS 32.101 [2], 3GPP TS 32.102 [3], 3GPP TS 32.150 [4], and the
following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
AAM Advanced Alarm Management
AAMRule Advanced Alarm Management Rule
# 4 Architectural features
## 4.1 General
The overall architectural feature of the Advanced Alarm Management IRP is
specified in 3GPP TS 32.122 [4]. This clause specifies features that are
specific to the SOAP solution set.
The SOAP 1.1 specification [7] and WSDL 1.1 specification [9] are supported.
The SOAP 1.2 specification [10] is supported optionally.
This specification uses \"document\" style in WSDL file.
This specification uses \"literal\" encoding style in WSDL file.
The filter language used in the SS is the XPath Language (see W3C XPath 1.0
specification [8]). IRPAgents may throw a FilterComplexityLimit fault when a
given filter is too complex.
Relevant definitions are imported from the Advanced Alarm Management IRP XML
definitions of 3GPP TS 32.125 [6].
This specification uses a number of namespace prefixes throughout that are
listed in Table 4.1. 1.
Table 4.1-1: Prefixes and Namespaces used in this specification
* * *
**PREFIX** **NAMESPACE** (no prefix) http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/wsdl/ soap
http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/wsdl/soap/ aamRPSystem
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/32_series/32.127#AAMRPSystem aamIRPData
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/32_series/32.127#AAMIRPData aam
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/specs/archive/32_series/32.125#aamIRP xn
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/specs/archive/32_series/32.625#genericNrm
genericIRPSystem
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/32_series/32.317/schema/32317/GenericIRPSystem
ntfIRPNtfSystem
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/32_series/32.307/schema/32307/
notification/NotificationIRPNtfSystem
* * *
# 5 Mapping
## 5.1 Operation and notification mapping
The Advanced Alarm Management IRP IS (3GPP TS 32.122 [5]) defines semantics of
operation and notification visible across the Itf-N. Table 5.1.1 indicates
mapping of these operations and notifications to their equivalents defined in
this SS.
Table 5.1.1: Mapping from IS Operation to SS Equivalents
* * *
IS Operations in 3GPP TS 32.122 [5] SS Operations Qualifier
activateAAMRule activateAAMRule M
getAAMRules getAAMRules M
deactivateAAMRule deactivateAAMRule M
getIRPVersion (note 1) getIRPVersion M
getOperationProfile (note 1) getOperationProfile O
getNotificationProfile (note 1) getNotificationProfile O
NOTE 1: These 3 operations are operations of ManagedGenericIRP IOC specified
in 3GPP TS 32.312 [12].\  
The AdvancedAlarmManagementIRP IOC of 3GPP TS 32.122 [5] inherits from it.
* * *
## 5.2 Operation parameter mapping
The Advanced Alarm Management IRP IS (3GPP TS 32.122 [5]) defines semantics of
parameters carried in the operations. The tables below show the mapping of
these parameters, as per operation, to their equivalents defined in this SS.
Table 5.2.1: Mapping from IS activateAAMRule parameters to SS equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Method parameter Qualifier aAMRuleType aAMRuleType M
aAMRuleParameterList aAMRuleParameterList M filter filter M aAMRuleIdentifier
aAMRuleIdentifier M status status M
* * *
Table 5.2.2: Mapping from IS getAAMRules parameters to SS equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Method parameter Qualifier aAMRuleList aAMRuleList M
status status M
* * *
Table 5.2.3: Mapping from IS deactivateAAMRule parameters to SS equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Method parameter Qualifier
advancedAlarmManagementRuleIdentifier advancedAlarmManagementRuleIdentifier M
status status M
* * *
## 5.3 Notification parameter mapping
The Advance Alarm Management IRP IS (3GPP TS 32.122 [5]) does not currently
define any notifications.
###### ## Annex A (normative): WSDL specifications
\
\
\
location=\"http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/32_series/32.307/schema/32307-910-wsdl.zip\"/>
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
#