# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
> **TS 32.150: Integration Reference Point (IRP) Concept and definitions**
>
> TS 32.151: Integration Reference Point (IRP) Information Service (IS)
> template
>
> **TS 32.152: Integration Reference Point (IRP) Information Service (IS)
> Unified Modelling Language (UML) repertoire**
>
> **TS 32.153 Integration Reference Point (IRP) technology specific
> templates**
>
> **TS 32.154 Backward and Forward Compatibility (BFC); Concept and
> definitions**
>
> **TS 32.155 Telecommunication management; Requirements template**
# 1 Scope
The present document provides the overall concept for all Integration
Reference Point (IRP) specifications.\ Relevant IRP overview and high-level
definitions are already provided in 3GPP TS 32.101 [1] and TS 32.102 [2].
IRP specifications are intended to be applicable to any management interface
(see definition of Integration Reference Point in subclause 3.1).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.151: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Information Service (IS) template\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.152: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Information Service (IS) Unified Modelling Language (UML)
repertoire\".
[5] ITU-T Recommendation M.3020: \"TMN Interface Specification Methodology\".
[6] OMG IDL Style Guide, ab/98-06-03, June 17, 1998.
[7] 3GPP TS 32.111-2: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management; Part
2: Alarm Integration Reference Point: Information Service (IS)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 32.601: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Basic CM Integration Reference Point (IRP); Requirements\".
[9] 3GPP TS 32.602: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Basic CM Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[10] 3GPP TS 32.603: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Basic CM Integration Reference Point (IRP): Common Object Request Broker
Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set (SS)\".
[11] 3GPP TS 32.621: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Generic network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP);
Requirements\".
[12] 3GPP TS 32.622: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Generic network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP): Network
Resource Model (NRM)\".
[13] 3GPP TS 32.623: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Generic network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP): Common
Object Request Broker Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set (SS)\".
[14] 3GPP TS 32.671: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); State Management Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements\".
[15] 3GPP TS 32.672: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); State Management Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service
(IS)\".
[16] 3GPP TS 32.673: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); State Management Integration Reference Point (IRP): Common Object
Request Broker Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set (SS)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102 [2], 3GPP TS 32.151 [3] and the following
apply:
**Data Definition IRP:** 3GPP publishes IRP specifications relating to
commonly used data definitions that can be imported for use by Interface IRP
and/or NRM IRP. This term represents all such specifications. An example of a
Data Definition IRP is the State Management IRP (32.671 [14], 32.672 [15],
32.673 [16], etc).
**Information Object Class (IOC):** Describes the information that can be
passed/used in management interfaces and is modelled using the stereotype
\"Class\" in the UML meta-model. For a formal definition of **Information
Object Class and its structure of specification, see 3GPP TS 32.151[3].**
**Integration Reference Point (IRP):** An architectural concept that is
described by a set of specifications for definition of a certain aspect of a
management interface, comprising a **Requirements** specification, an
**Information Service** specification, and one or more **Solution Set**
specifications.
**Interface IRP:** 3GPP publishes a number of IRP specifications each of which
is related to a set of operations and notifications for a specific telecom
management domain such as alarm management, configuration management, etc.
Interface IRPs also contain definitions of Support IOCs. This term represents
all such specifications. An example of an Interface IRP is the Basic CM IRP
(the set of TSs 32.601 [8], 32.602 [9], 32.603 [10], etc.).
**IRPAgent:** Encapsulates a well-defined subset of network (element)
functions. It interacts with IRPManagers using one or more IRPs. From the
IRPManager\'s perspective, the IRPAgent behaviour is only visible via the
IRP(s).
**Information Service (IS):** an IRP Information Service describes the
information related to the entities (either network resources or support
objects) to be managed and the way that the information may be managed for a
certain functional area (e.g. the Alarm IRP Information Service in the fault
management area). Information Services are defined for all IRPs.
**IRPManager:** Models a user of IRPAgent(s) and it interacts directly with
the IRPAgent(s) using IRP(s).\ Since the IRPManager represents an IRPAgent
user, it gives a clear picture of what the IRPAgent is supposed to do. From
the IRPAgent perspective, the IRPManager behaviour is only visible via the
IRP.
**Solution Set (SS):** contains a mapping of the IRP Information Service (IS)
to one of several technologies. An IS can be mapped to several different
Solution Sets. Different technology selections may be made for different IRP
Information Services. The functionality and information specified in a
Solution Set is constrained by the functionality and information specified in
the associated Information Service.
**Managed Object:** Entity used to represent information in a Solution Set.
The Managed Objects (MO) are obtained as the result of a mapping exercise of
Information Objects defined in IS, taking into account some engineering
choices and technology specificity.
**Network Resource Model (NRM):** An Information Service describing
Information Object Classes representing the manageable aspects of network
resources, e.g. an RNC or NodeB.
**NRM IRP:** 3GPP publishes a number of IRP specifications each of which is
related to a particular NRM (Network Resource Model) as defined in 3GPP TS
32.101 [1]. NRM IRPs do not define any operations or notifications. This term
represents all such specifications. Note: In some NRM IRP titles, for historic
reasons, they are named \"...network resources IRP\"). An example of an NRM
IRP is the Generic NRM IRP (32.621 [11], 32.622 [12], 32.623 [13], etc.).
**Support IOC:** IOC that represents a particular capability, introduced to
model a management service. As an example of Support IOC, in the Alarm IRP
Information Service [59] there are the AlarmInformation and AlarmList IOCs.
**YyyIRP:** 3GPP defines a number of support-IOCs (defined in Interface IRPs)
such as AlarmIRP, BasicCMIRP and EPIRP. This term represents all such support-
IOCs.
**Yyy IRP:** For a specific Interface IRP such as the Basic CM IRP, when the
letters Yyy are replaced by the specific key words naming that IRP (in the
given example the Yyy is replaced by "Basic CM"), this term represents all
specifications that are part of that Interface IRP.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TS
32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102 [2], 3GPP TS 32.151 [3] and the following apply:
CORBA Common Object Request Broker Architecture
EM Element Manager
GDMO Guidelines for the Definition of Managed Objects
GUI Graphical User Interface
IDL Interface Definition Language
IOC Information Object Class
IRP Integration Reference Point
IS Information Service
NE Network Element
NM Network Manager
NRM Network Resource Model
OMG Object Management Group
ORB Object Request Broker
PSA Product Specific Application
SMP System Management Processes
SNM Sub-Network Manager
SS **Solution Set**
TMF TeleManagement Forum
TOM Telecom Operations Map
UML Unified Modelling Language
# 4 Integration Reference Points (IRPs)
## 4.1 Introduction
For the purpose of management interface development 3GPP has developed an
interface concept known as Integration Reference Point (IRP) to promote the
wider adoption of standardized management interfaces in telecommunication
networks. The IRP concept and associated methodology employs protocol and
technology neutral modelling methods as well as protocol specific solution
sets to achieve its goals.
### 4.1.1 General
The three cornerstones of the IRP concept are:
**\- Top-down, process-driven modelling approach:** The purpose of each IRP is
automation of one specific task, related to TMF TOM. This allows taking a
\"one step at a time\" approach with a focus on the most important tasks.
**\- Technology-independent modelling:** To create from the requirements an
interface technology independent model. This is specified in the IRP
Information Service.
**\- Standards-based technology-dependent modelling: To create one or more
interface technology dependent models from the technology independent model.
This is specified in the IRP Solution Set(s).**
Figure 4.1: IRP components (with example Solution Sets; for definition of
valid 3GPP Solution Sets, see Annex C in TS 32.101 [1])
### 4.1.2 IRP Specifications Approach
As highlighted in the previous subclause, IRP specifications are specified
using a 3-level approach: Requirements, IS-level and SS-level.
Furthermore, there are three categories of IRP specifications (see formal and
more detailed definitions in subclause 3.1):
  * Interface IRPs
  * NRM IRPs
  * Data Definition IRPs.
Each category is partitioned into Requirements, IS-level and SS-level
specifications.
{width="6.426388888888889in" height="3.6597222222222223in"}
Figure 4.2: The IRP 3-Level Specifications Approach combined with the three
IRP categories.
**Level 1:**
The \"Requirements-level\" intends to provide conceptual and use cases
definitions for a specific management interface aspect as well as defining
subsequent requirements for this IRP.
**Level 2:**
  * The \"IS-level\" provides the technology independent specification > of an IRP.
**Level 3:**
The \"SS-level\" finally provides the mapping of IS definitions into one or
more technology-specific Solution Sets. This concept provides support for
multiple interface technologies as applicable on a vendor and/or network type
basis and also enables accommodation of future interface technologies -
without the need to redefine requirements and IS-level definitions.
## 4.2 Integration levels
Virtually all types of telecom/datacom networks comprise many different
technologies purchased from several different vendors. This implies that the
corresponding management solution need to be built by integrating product-
specific applications from different vendors with a number of generic
applications that each provide some aspect of multi‑vendor and/or
multi‑technology support. A complete management solution is thus composed of
several independent applications.
The following levels of integration are defined:
**\- Screen Integration:** Each application provides its own specific
Graphical User Interface (GUI) that need to be accessible from a single,
unified screen (a common desktop). A seamless integration between the various
GUIs is then required. Screen Integration is not specified in the present
document.
**\- Application Integration:** Applications need to interwork, on a machine-
machine basis, in order to automate various end-to-end processes of a
communication provider.
### 4.2.1 Application integration
Interfaces related to application integration can be divided in the following
three categories:
1) **High-level generic interfaces:** between generic applications on > the
network and service management layers. The same approach and > concepts apply
for these as the next category.
2) **High-level (technology-independent to the extent possible) >
interfaces:** between product-specific and generic applications > are needed
in order to automate and streamline frequently > occurring tasks applicable to
several types of network elements. A > top-down approach shall be taken when
defining these interfaces, > where the main input is:
```{=html}
``` a) business processes of a communication provider; and
b) the types of generic applications that are used to implement the process
support.
```{=html}
``` 3) **Detailed (product-specific) interfaces:** between product-specific >
applications and the corresponding network elements are of course > also
needed. These interfaces are defined using the traditional > bottom-up
approach, where the actual network infrastructure is > modelled. This is the
traditional TMN approach to element > management. The management information
in these interfaces is not > further discussed in the present document, as it
is internal to a > specific development organization and does not need to be
open. In > fact, by publishing the management information in these >
interfaces, too much of the internal design may be revealed and it > may
become impossible to later enhance the systems that are using > the
interfaces. The management services (operations and > notifications) and
protocol shall however be open and standardized > as long as they are
independent of the NRM describing the managed > NEs/NRs.
## 4.3 Application of IRPs
When providing integrated management solutions for multi-vendor networks,
there is a strong requirement that the NEs and the management solutions that
go together with them are systems integratable.
It should be noted that these IRPs could be provided by an IRPAgent on any
management interface.
These IRPs are introduced to ensure interoperability, for example between
Product-Specific Applications (PSA) and the Network and System Management
Processes (SMP) of the Network Manager (NM) - see figure 4.3 from TS 32.101
[1]. These IRPs are considered to cover the most basic needs of task
automation.
{width="6.534027777777778in" height="2.801388888888889in"}
Figure 4.3: Examples of IRPs for application integration
Taking one of the above mentioned IRPs as an example, the Network and System
Management Processes have similar need to receive notifications from various
PSAs. The corresponding service is formalized as a _Notification IRP_.\ It
specifies: firstly, an interface through which subscriptions to different
types of notifications can be set-up\ (or cancelled), and secondly, common
attributes for all notifications.
Further, applying a common _Name Convention for Managed Objects_ is useful for
co-operating applications that require identical interpretation of names
assigned to network resources under management.
## 4.4 Defining the IRPs
It is important to accommodate more than one specific technology, as the
technologies will change over time. Applications need to be future-proof. One
fundamental principle for achieving this is to clearly separate the semantics
of information definition from the protocols definitions (accessing the
information) for the external interfaces.
The framework being used to define IRPs allows the implementation of user
requirements for each management capability (e.g. configuration management),
by modelling the information related to the resources to be managed and the
way that the information may be accessed and manipulated. Such modelling is
done in a way that is independent of the technology and distribution used in
the implementation of a management system.
The IRP methodology uses the following steps:
a) Capture the management requirements.
b) Specify the semantics of the information to describe the system. Trace back
to item (a).
c) Specify the semantics of the interactions between the management system and
its clients. Trace back to item (a).
d) Specify the syntaxes of the information and interactions identified in (b)
and (c). The specification is technology dependent. Trace back to items (b)
and (c).
Figure 4.4 shows an example of how an IRP can be structured (the Alarm IRP).
Figure 4.4: Example of an IRP (Alarm IRP)
## 4.5 Void
## 4.6 Mandatory, Optional and Conditional qualifiers
This subclause defines a number of terms used to qualify the relationship
between the Information Service, the Solution Sets and their impact on the IRP
implementations. The qualifiers defined in this clause are used to qualify
IRPAgent behaviour only. This is considered sufficient for the specification
of the IRPs.
IS specifications define IOC attributes, interfaces, operations,
notifications, operation parameters and notification parameters. They can have
the following support/read/write qualifiers: M, O, CM, CO, C.
Definition of qualifier M (Mandatory):
  * Used for items that shall be supported.
Definition of qualifier O (Optional):
  * Used for items which may or may not be supported.
Definition of qualifier CM (Conditional-Mandatory):
  * Used for items that are mandatory under certain conditions, > specifically:
    * All items having the support qualifier CM shall have a > corresponding constraint defined in the IS specification. If > the specified constraint is met then the items shall be > supported.
Definition of qualifier CO (Conditional-Optional):
  * Used for items that are optional under certain conditions, > specifically:
    * All items having the support qualifier CO shall have a > corresponding constraint defined in the IS specification. If > the specified constraint is met then the items may be > supported.
Definition of qualifier C (SS-Conditional):
  * Used for items that are only applicable for certain but not all Solutions Sets (SSs).
SS specifications define the SS-equivalents of the IS-defined IOC attributes,
operations, notifications, operation parameters and notification parameters.
These SS-equivalents can have the following support/read/write qualifiers: M,
O, CM and CO.
The mapping of the qualifiers of IS-defined constructs to the qualifiers of
the corresponding SS-constructs is defined as follows:
  * For qualifier M, O, CM and CO, each IS-defined item (operation and notification, input and output parameter of operations, input parameter of notifications, information relationship and information attribute) shall be mapped to its equivalent(s) in all SSs. Mapped equivalent(s) shall have the same qualifier as the IS-defined qualifier.
  * For qualifier C, each IS-defined item shall be mapped to its equivalent(s) in at least one SS. Mapped equivalent(s) can have support qualifier M or O.
Table 4.6 defines the semantics of qualifiers of the Interface IRP SS
equivalents, in terms of support from the IRPAgent perspective.
Table 4.6: Semantics for Mandatory, Optional and Conditional qualifiers used
in Solution Sets
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Mapped SS | Mandatory | Optional | Conditiona | Condition | | Equivalent | | | l-Mandatory | al-Optional | | | | | (CM) | (CO) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Mapped | The | The | The | The | | n | IRPAgent | IRPAgent | IRPAgent | IRPAgent | | otification | shall | may or may | shall | may choose | | equivalent | generate | not | generate | whether or | | | the | generate | this | not to | | | no | it. | n | generate | | | tification. | | otification | it. If the | | | | | if the | IRPAgent | | | | | constraint | chooses to | | | | | described | generate | | | | | in the IS | it, the | | | | | for this | constraint | | | | | item is | described | | | | | satisfied. | in the IS | | | | | | for this | | | | | | n | | | | | | otification | | | | | | must be | | | | | | satisfied. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Mapped | The | The | The | The | | operation | IRPAgent | IRPAgent | IRPAgent | IRPAgent | | equivalent | shall | may or may | shall | may support | | | support it. | not support | support | this | | | | this | this | operation | | | | operation. | operation | if the | | | | If the | if the | constraint | | | | IRPAgent | constraint | described | | | | does not | described | in the IS | | | | support | in the IS | for this | | | | this | for this | item is | | | | operation, | item is | satisfied. | | | | the | satisfied. | | | | | IRPAgent | | | | | | shall | | | | | | reject the | | | | | | operation | | | | | | invocation | | | | | | with a | | | | | | reason | | | | | | indicating | | | | | | that the | | | | | | IRPAgent | | | | | | does not | | | | | | support | | | | | | this | | | | | | operation. | | | | | | The | | | | | | rejection, | | | | | | together | | | | | | with a | | | | | | reason, | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | returned to | | | | | | the | | | | | | IRPManager. | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Input | The | The | The | The | | parameter | IRPAgent | IRPAgent | IRPAgent | IRPAgent | | of the | shall | may or may | shall | may accept | | mapped | accept and | not support | accept and | and behave | | operation | behave | this input | behave | according | | equivalent | according | parameter. | according | to its | | | to its | If the | to its | value if | | | value. | IRPAgent | value if | the | | | | does not | the | constraint | | | | support | constraint | described | | | | this input | described | in the IS | | | | parameter | in the IS | for this | | | | and if it | for this | item is | | | | carries | item is | satisfied. | | | | meaning | satisfied. | | | | | (i.e. it | | | | | | does not | | | | | | carry | | | | | | no- | | | | | | information | | | | | | semantics), | | | | | | the | | | | | | IRPAgent | | | | | | shall | | | | | | reject the | | | | | | invocation | | | | | | with a | | | | | | reason | | | | | | (that it | | | | | | does not | | | | | | support the | | | | | | parameter). | | | | | | The | | | | | | rejection, | | | | | | together | | | | | | with the | | | | | | reason, | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | returned to | | | | | | the | | | | | | IRPManager. | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Input | The | The | The | The | | parameter | IRPAgent | IRPAgent | IRPAgent | IRPAgent | | of mapped | shall | may supply | shall | may supply | | n | supply this | this | supply this | this | | otification | parameter. | parameter. | parameter | parameter | | equivalent | | | if the | if the | | | | | constraint | constraint | | AND | | | described | described | | | | | in the IS | in the IS | | output | | | for this | for this | | parameter | | | item is | item is | | of mapped | | | satisfied. | satisfied. | | operation | | | | | | equivalent | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Mapped IOC | The | The | The | The | | attribute | IRPAgent | IRPAgent | IRPAgent | IRPAgent | | equivalent | shall | may support | shall | may support | | | support it. | it. | support | this | | | | | this | attribute | | | | | attribute | if the | | | | | if the | constraint | | | | | constraint | described | | | | | described | in the IS | | | | | in the IS | for this | | | | | for this | item is | | | | | item is | satisfied. | | | | | satisfied. | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
## 4.7 System context for Interface IRPs
Every Interface IRP on a management interface (e.g. Alarm IRP, Notification
IRP, Basic CM IRP, Bulk CM IRP) is subject to a System Context as described in
this subclause (also consistent with 3GPP TS 32.102 [2] clause 8).
Figure 4.7.1 and 4.7.2 identify system contexts of the Interface IRP in terms
of its implementation, called IRPAgent, and the user of the IRPAgent, called
IRPManager.
Each IRPAgent implements and supports one or more IRPs. The set of IRPs that
is related to each Interface IRP is defined by the System Context subclause in
each individual Interface IRP IS specification, e.g. subclause 4.2 in the
Alarm IRP IS [7].
An NE can be managed via System Context A or B. The criterion for choosing
System Context A or B to manage a particular NE is implementation dependent.
An IRPAgent shall support one of the two System Contexts. By observing the
interaction across the management interface, an IRPManager cannot deduce if
the EM and NE are integrated in a single system or if they run in separate
systems.
Figure 4.7.1: System Context A
Figure 4.7.2: System Context B
###### ## Annex A (informative): Void
###### ## Annex B (normative): Void
###### ## Annex C (informative): Void
###### ## Annex D (informative): Void
###### ## Annex E (normative): Void
###### ## Annex F (informative): Void
###### ## Annex G (normative): IOC Properties and Inheritance
# G.1 Property
The properties of an IOC (including Support IOC) are specified in terms of the
following:
a) An IOC attribute(s) including its semantics and syntax, its legal value
ranges and support qualifications. The IOC attributes are not restricted to
Configuration Management but also include those related to, for example, 1)
Performance Management (i.e., measurement types), 2) Trace Management and 3)
Accounting Management.
b) The non-attribute-specific behaviour associated with an IOC (see Note 1).
NOTE 1: As an example, the Link between MscServerFunction and CsMgwFunction is
optional. It is mandatory if the MscServerFunction instance belongs to one
ManagedElement instance while the CsMgwFunction instance belongs to another
ManagedElement instance. This Link behaviour is a non-attribute-specific
behaviour. It is expected that this behaviour, like others, will be inherited.
c) An IOC relationship(s) with another IOC(s).
d) An IOC notification type(s) and their qualifications.
e) An IOC's relation with its parents (see Note 2). There are three mutually
exclusive cases:
```{=html}
``` 1) The IOC can have any parent. In UML diagram, the class has a parent >
Any.
2) The IOC is abstract and all of the possible parent(s) have been >
designated and whether subclass IOCs can be designated as a root > IOC. In UML
diagram, the class has zero or more possible parents > of specific classes
(except Any).
3) The IOC is concrete and all of the possible parent(s) have been >
designated and whether the IOC can be designated as a root IOC. In > UML
diagram, the class has one or more possible parents of > specific classes
(except Any.)
> An IOC instance is either a root IOC or it has one and only one parent. Only
> 3GPP SA5 may designate an IOC class as a potential root IOC. Currently, only
> SubNetwork, ManagedElement or MeContext IOCs can be root IOCs.
NOTE 2: The parent and child relation in this clause is the parent name-
containing the child relation.
f) An IOC's relation with its children. There are three mutually exclusive
cases:
```{=html}
``` 1) An IOC shall not have any children (name-containment relation) IOCs. In
UML diagram, the class has no child.
2) An IOC can have children IOC(s). The maximum number of instances per
children IOC can be specified. An IOC may designate that vendor specific
objects are not allowed as children IOCs. In UML diagram, the class has a
child Any.
3) An IOC can only have the specific children IOC(s) (or their subclasses).
The maximum number of instances per children IOC can be specified. An IOC may
designate that vendor specific objects are not allowed as children IOCs. In
UML diagram, the class has one or more children of specific classes (except
Any).
```{=html}
``` g) Whether An IOC can be instantiated or not (i.e., whether An IOC is an
abstract IOC).
h) An attribute for naming purpose.
i) An optional attribute for holding IOC name. An IOC name is unique among all
3GPP-defined IOCs and vendor-defined IOCs. An IOC name must be unambiguous.
Editor\'s Note: No agreement on above point i) achieved yet. This is FFS.]
# G.2 Inheritance
An IOC (the subclass) inherits from another IOC (the superclass) in that the
subclass shall have all the properties of the superclass.
The subclass can change the inherited support-qualification(s) from optional
to mandatory but not vice versa. The subclass can change the inherited
support-qualification from conditional-optional to conditional-mandatory but
not vice versa.
An IOC can be a superclass of many IOC(s). A subclass cannot have more than
one superclass.
The subclass can:
a) Add (compared to those of its superclass) unique attributes including their
behaviour, legal value ranges and support-qualifications. Each additional
attribute shall have its own unique attribute name (among all added and
inherited attributes).
b) Add non-attribute behaviour on an IOC basis. This behaviour may not
contradict inherited superclass behaviour.
c) Add relationship(s) with IOC(s). Each additional relationship shall have
its own unique name (among all added and inherited relations).
d) Add additional notification types and their qualifications.
e) Designate all of the possible parent(s) (and their subclasses) if the
superclass has Property-e-1 such that an IOC will have Property-e-2 or
Property-e-3. Restrict possible parent(s) (and their subclasses) and/or remove
the capability of the subclass from being a root IOC, if the superclass has
Property-e-2 or Property-e-3.
f) Add children IOC(s) if the superclass has Property-f-2 such that an IOC
will have Property-f-3. Restrict the allowed children IOC(s) (or their
subclasses) if the superclass has Property-f-3.
g) Specify whether an IOC can be instantiated or not (i.e. the IOC is an
abstract IOC).
h) Restrict the legal value range of a superclass attribute that has a legal
value range.
###### ## Annex H (normative): Interface Properties and Inheritance
# H.1 Property
To be defined.
# H.2 Inheritance
To be defined.
###### ## Annex I (normative): Entity (Interface, IOC and Attribute) Import
IRP specifications define entities(e.g., IOCs, interfaces and attribute). To
facilitate re-use of entity definitions among IRP specifications, an import
mechanism is used. When an IRP specification (the subject IRP specification)
imports an entity defined in another IRP specification, the subject IRP
specification is considered to have defined the imported entity in its
specification. Furthermore, the subject IRP specification cannot change the
properties of this imported entity. If it requires an entity that is not
identical but similar to the imported entity, it should define a new entity
that inherits the imported entity and introduce changes in the new entity
definition.
#