# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
TS 32.150: Integration Reference Point (IRP) Concept and definitions
TS 32.151: Integration Reference Point (IRP) Information Service (IS) template
**TS 32.152: Integration Reference Point (IRP) Information Service (IS)
Unified Modelling Language (UML) repertoire**
**TS 32.153 Integration Reference Point (IRP) technology specific templates**
**TS 32.154 Backward and Forward Compatibility (BFC); Concept and
definitions**
**TS 32.155 Requirements template**
# 1 Scope
3GPP has chosen UML to capture systems behaviour in the IRP IS context.
UML provides a rich set of concepts, notations and model elements to model
distributive systems. Usage of all UML notations and model elements is not
necessary for the purpose of IRP IS specifications. This TS documents the
necessary and sufficient set of UML notations and model elements, including
the ones built by the UML extension mechanism \>, for use by
3GPP IRP IS authors. Collectively, this set of notations and model elements is
called the 3GPP IRP IS modelling repertoire.
The selection of the UML notations and model elements in this repertoire is
based on the needs of the existing 3GPP IRP IS specifications. Future IRP IS
releases may require the use of additional UML notations or model elements.
IRP IS specifications shall employ the UML notation and model elements of this
repertoire and may also employ other UML notation and model elements
considered necessary. However, before any other UML notation and model
elements may be employed in an approved 3GPP IRP specification, the other
notation and model elements should be agreed for inclusion first in this
repertoire.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.150: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Concept and definitions\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.151: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Information Service (IS) template\".
[5] OMG: \"Unified Modelling Language Specification, Version 1.5\".
http://www.omg.org/technology/documents/formal/uml.htm [ ]{.underline}
[6] 3GPP TS 32.602 \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Basic CM Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.612: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Bulk CM Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 32.302: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service
(IS)\".
[9] 3GPP TS 32.404: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM); Performance measurements - Definitions and template\".
[10] 3GPP TS 32.300: \"Name convention for Managed Objects\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102 [2], 3GPP TS 32.150 [3] and the following
apply:
**Distinguished Name:** See 3GPP TS 32.300 [10].
**IRPAgent:** See 3GPP TS 32.150 [3].
**IRPManager:** See 3GPP TS 32.150 [3].
**Naming attribute** : See 3GPP TS 32.300 [10].
**Notification** : See 3GPP TS 32.302 [8].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TS
32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102 [2], 3GPP TS 32.150 [3] and the following apply:
> CM Configuration Management
DN Distinguished Name
GERAN GSM/EDGE Radio Access Network
IRP Integration Reference Point
IS Information Service
NRM Network Resource Model
OMG Object Management Group
UML Unified Modelling Language (OMG)
# 4 Requirements
IRPAgent can be characterized by several different but related models. The
models can be exterior or interior to the IRPAgent. Exterior models are use
case models and interior models are object models.
Current version of this TS focuses on the interior model aspects of IRPAgents.
The notation elements captured in this repertoire shall be used to model all
aspects of NRM IRP IS (such as GERAN NRM IRP: IS) and (interface) IRP (such as
Alarm IRP: IS).
All quotes are from [5].
Capitalized words are defined by various 3GPP IRP IS specifications or the
reference [5].
# 5 Model Elements and Notations
## 5.1 Basic model elements
UML defined a number of basic model elements. This subclause lists the
selected subset for use in the repertoire. The semantics of the selected ones
are defined in [5].
### 5.1.1 attribute
See subclause 3.25 of [5].
This sample shows someattributes, listed as strings in the attribute
compartment of the class AlarmInformation.
{width="1.3465277777777778in" height="1.4333333333333333in"}
### 5.1.2 aggregation
See subclause 3.43.2.5 of [5].
This sample shows a hollow diamond attached to the end of a path to indicate
aggregation. The diamond is attached to the class that is the aggregate.
{width="5.106944444444444in" height="0.6777777777777778in"}
### 5.1.3 operation
See subclause 3.26 of [5].
This sample shows two operations, shown as strings in the operation
compartment of class NotificationIRPManagement, that the instance of
NotificationIRPManagement may be requested to perform. The operation has a
name, e.g. subscribe and a list of arguments (not shown).
{width="2.0395833333333333in" height="1.0666666666666667in"}
### 5.1.4 association and association name
See subclause 3.41 of [5].
These two samples show a binary association between exactly two model
elements. The association can include the possibility of relating a model
element to itself. The first sample shows a bi-directional association in that
each model element is aware of the other. The second sample shows a
unidirectional association (shown with an open arrow at the target model
element end) in that only the source model element is aware of the target
model element and not vice-versa.
Association can be named, such as _abcd_ and _label6_ in the following
samples.
{width="5.613194444444445in" height="0.6666666666666666in"}
{width="5.626388888888889in" height="0.6666666666666666in"}
### 5.1.5 realization relationship
See subclause 2.5.2.1 of [5].
This sample shows the realization relationship between a source model element,
AlarmIRP, and a target model element, AlarmIRPOperations_1. The source model
element implements the target model element. The target model element needs to
be an \>.
{width="5.222916666666666in" height="1.0666666666666667in"}
### 5.1.6 generalization relationship
See subclause 3.50 of [5].
This sample shows a generalization relationship between a more general element
(the **IRPAgent**) and a more specific element (the IRPAgent_vendor_A) that is
fully consistent with the first element and that adds additional information.
{width="5.1402777777777775in" height="0.6666666666666666in"}
### 5.1.7 dependency relationship
See subclause 3.51 of [5].
This sample shows that BClass instances have a semantic relationship with
AClass instances. It indicates a situation in which a change to the target
element will require a change to the source element in the dependency.
{width="5.770138888888889in" height="0.6805555555555556in"}
### 5.1.8 note
See subclause 3.11 of [5].
This sample shows a note, as a rectangle with a \"bent corner\" in the upper
right corner. The note contains arbitrary text. It appears on a particular
diagram and may be attached to zero or more modelling elements by dashed
lines.
{width="4.403472222222222in" height="0.6666666666666666in"}
### 5.1.9 multiplicity, a.k.a. cardinality
See subclause 3.44 of [5].
This sample shows a multiplicity attached to the end of an association path.
The meaning of this multiplicity is that one to many. Network instance(s) is
associated with zero, one or more SubNetwork instances.
In Release 7 and earlier versions, the cardinality zero can indicate that the
IOC has the so-called "transient state" characteristic. For example, it
indicates that the instance is not yet created but it is in the process of
being created. In Release 8 and onwards, the cardinality zero will not be used
to indicate this characteristic since such characteristic is considered
inherent in all IOCs. In Release 8 and onwards, all IOCs defined are
considered to have such inherent "transient state" characteristics.
{width="5.073611111111111in" height="0.6666666666666666in"}
### 5.1.10 Rolename
See subclause 3.43.2.6 of [5].
This sample shows a Person (say instance John) is associated with a Company
(say whose DN is "Company=XYZ"). We navigate the association by using the
opposite association-end such that John's Person.theCompany would hold the DN,
i.e.\"Company=XYZ\". Use noun for the rolename.
{width="5.733333333333333in" height="0.6666666666666666in"}
## 5.2 Stereotype
This subclause lists all allowable stereotypes to be used in IRP IS
specifications. One stereotype \> is defined in [5]. This
document lists it out for ease of reference and completness. Other stereotypes
are defined in this document.
Table: Stereotypes
* * *
Stereotype Base Class Affected Metamodel Elements Interface Class  
ProxyClass Class  
Notification Class  
Archetype Classifier (subclause 2.5.2.10 of [5])  
InformationObjectClass Classifier  
SupportIOC Classifier  
agent-internal-usage Association  
use Association  
may use Association  
may realize Association  
names Composition --
* * *
### 5.2.1 \>
Subclause 2.5.2.25 of [5]:
\"An interface is a named set of operations that characterize the behaviour of
an element. In the metamodel, an Interface contains a set of Operations that
together define a service offered by a Classifier realizing the Interface. A
Classifier may offer several services, which means that it may realize several
Interfaces, and several Classifiers may realize the same Interface.
Interfaces may not have Attributes, Associations, or Methods. An Interface may
participate in an Association provided the Interface cannot see the
Association; that is, a Classifier (other than an Interface) may have an
Association to an Interface that is navigable from the Classifier but not from
the Interface.\"
Subclause 2.5.4.6 of [5]: \"The purpose of an interface is to collect a set of
operations that constitute a coherent service offered by classifiers.
Interfaces provided a way to partition and characterize groups of operations.
An interface is only a collection of operations with a name. It cannot be
directly instantiated. Instantiable classifiers, such as class or use case,
may use interfaces for specifying different services offered by their
instances. Several classifiers may realize the same interface. All of them
must contain at least the operations matching those contained in the
interface. The specification of an operation contains the signature of the
operation (i.e. its name, the types of the parameters and the return type). An
interface does not imply any internal structure of the realizing classifier.
For example, it does not include which algorithm to use for realizing an
operation.\"
An operation may, however, include a specification of the effects [e.g. with
pre and post-conditions] of its invocation.
#### 5.2.1.1 Sample
This sample shows an AlarmIRPOperations_1 \> that has two
operations. The input and output parameters of the operations are hidden (i.e.
not shown). The AlarmIRP has a unidirectional mandatory realization
relationship with the \>.
{width="5.208333333333333in" height="1.0625in"}
\> Notation
### 5.2.2 Void
### 5.2.3 \>
It is a form or template representing a number of
\>. It encapsulates attributes, links, methods (or
operations), and interactions that are present in the represented
\>.
The semantics of a \> is that all behaviour of the
\> is present in the represented \>.
Since this class is simply a representation of other classes, this class
cannot define its own behaviour other than those already defined by the
represented \>.
A particular \> can be represented by zero, one or
more \> or \>. For example, the ManagedElement
\> can have MonitoredEntity \> and
ManagedEntity \>.
The attributes of the \> are accessible by the source entity
that has an association with the \>.
#### 5.2.3.1 Sample
This shows a \> named MonitoredEntity. It represents all NRM
\> (e.g. GgsnFunction \>)
whose instances are being monitored for alarm conditions.
Note that \> does not define any attribute. The attributes
are already defined by all NRM \>.
{width="3.45625in" height="0.8895833333333333in"}
\> Notation
See Annex A for more samples that use \>.
### 5.2.4 \>
It is a form or template representing common class properties (e.g.
attributes, links, operations and interactions) of a number of represented
\>.
The semantics of an \> is that all attributes, links operations
and interactions encapsulated by the \> may or may not be present
in the represented \>. The \>
represents a placeholder class that is most useful in technology neutral
analysis models that will require further specification and/or mapping within
a more complete construction model.
#### 5.2.4.1 Sample
This shows an \> StateManagement. It also shows an
\> IRPAgent that depends on this StateManagement.
Note that the StateManagement has defined a number of attributes (not shown in
the UML diagram).
The classes that depend on this StateManagement may or may not use all of the
StateManagement attributes. In other words, at least one of the attributes of
StateManagement is present in the IRPAgent. The precise set of StateManagement
attributes used by the IRPAgent is specified in specification that defines the
IRPAgent.
{width="4.8694444444444445in" height="0.6729166666666667in"}
\> Notation
### 5.2.5 \>
It is the descriptor for a set of network resources and network management
capabilities. Each \> represents a set of instances
with similar structure, behaviour and relationships.
This \> and other information classes such as
\> are mapped into technology specific model elements. The
mapping of IS modelling constructs to technology specific modelling constructs
are captured in the corresponding IRP Solution Set specifications.
The name of an \> has scope within the 3GPP IRP IS
document in which it is specified and the name must be unique among all
\> names within that 3GPP IRP IS document. The IRP
IS document name is considered in the similar way as the UML Package-name.
The \> is identical to UML _class_ except that it
does not include/define methods or operations.
Subclause 3.22.1 of [5]: \"A _class_ represents a concept within the system
being modelled. Classes have data structure and behaviour and relationships to
other elements.\"
See Annex B for information on various application of this Stereotype when
compared to that of \>.
#### 5.2.5.1 Sample
This sample shows an RncFunction \>.
{width="1.979861111111111in" height="0.6729166666666667in"}
\> Notation
### 5.2.6 \> and \>
The \> and \> are unidirectional associations. The target
must be an \> or \>.
In the case where the target is \>, the \> states that the
source class must have the capability to use the target \> in
that it can invoke the operations defined by the \>. Support of
the capability by the source entity is mandatory. The \> states
that the source class may have the capability to use the target
\> in that it may invoke the operations defined by the
\>. Support of the capability by the source entity is optional.
In the case the target is \>, the \> states that the
source class must be the originator of the notifications defined by the target
\>. Support of the capability by the source entity is
mandatory. The \> states that the source class may be the
originator of the notifications defined by the target \>.
Support of the capability by the source entity is optional.
#### 5.2.6.1 Sample for target \>
This shows that the IRPManager shall use the operations defined by
AlarmIRPOperations_1 and may use the operations defined by
AlarmIRPOperations_2.
{width="4.502777777777778in" height="2.6166666666666667in"}
\> and \> Notation for target \>
#### Sample for target \>
This shows that the PMIRP shall have the capability to emit or originate
notifications defined by PMIRPNotifications_1 and may have the capability to
emit or originate notifications defined by PMIRPNotifications_2.
{width="4.986111111111111in" height="3.3534722222222224in"}
\> and \> Notation for target \>
### 5.2.7 \>
The \> is an unidirectional association. The target must be an
\>. The \> shows that the source entity may
realize the operations defined by the target \>.
> Note that the UML basic element has defined the realize association (and
> therefore, there is no need to define a stereotype of such association). The
> realize association shows that the source entity must realize (or implement)
> the operations defined by the target \>.
#### 5.2.7.1 Sample
This shows that the AlarmIRP may realize the operation of
AlarmIRPOperations_2.
{width="5.433333333333334in" height="0.8868055555555555in"}
\> Notations
### 5.2.8 Void
### 5.2.9 \>
It specifies a unidirectional composition. The target instance is uniquely
identifiable, within the namespace of the source entity, among all other
targeted instances of the same target classifier and among other targeted
instances of other classifiers that have the same \> composition with
the source.
The source classifier and target classifier shall both have a naming
attribute.
Composition used as the act of name containment provides a semantic of a
whole-part relationship between the domain and the named elements that are
contained, even if only by name. From the management perspective access to the
part is through the whole. Multiplicity shall be indicated at both ends of the
relationship.
A target instance can not have multiple \> with multiple sources,
i.e. a target instance can not participate in or belong to multiple
namespaces.
#### 5.2.9.1 Sample
This shows that all instances of MscFunction are uniquely identifiable within
a ManagedElement instance\'s namespace.
{width="5.779861111111111in" height="0.6666666666666666in"}
\> Notation
### 5.2.10 \>
The \> (alternatively \>) enables the indication of
optionality of attributes, parameters and operations (respectively) within the
UML diagrams. The semantics of optionality are defined in TS 32.150 [3].
In the absence of the stereotype, the attribute, parameter, or operation in
question is mandatory.
#### 5.2.10.1 Sample
{width="1.5131944444444445in" height="1.6194444444444445in"}
\> Notation for operations
### 5.2.11 \>
\> is a named set of notifications.
#### 5.2.11.1 Sample
This sample shows a \> named "PMIRPNotifications_1" and
another \> named "PMIRPNotifications_2". Both of them have
notification(s). An example of a notification can be
notifyMeasurementJobStatusChanged().
{width="5.441666666666666in" height="2.5229166666666667in"}
\> Notation
### 5.2.12 \>
This is a unidirectional association. The source passes network management
information to target. The source and target are entities or processes running
in different IRP instances such as AlarmIRP, PMIRP. The instances may be name-
contained by the same IRPAgent or different IRPAgent instances. The precise
network management information passed and the information transfer mechanism
are not standardized and are vendor-specific.
#### 5.2.12.1 Sample
This shows that NLIRP (NotificationLog IRP) can pass some network management
information to FTIRP.
{width="6.269444444444445in" height="0.6666666666666666in"} \> Notation
### 5.2.13 \>
It is the descriptor for a set of management capabilities.
The \> is identical to UML _class_ except that it does not
include/define methods or operations.
Subclause 3.22.1 of [5]: \"A _class_ represents a concept within the system
being modelled. Classes have data structure and behaviour and relationships to
other elements.\"
#### 5.2.13.1 Sample
This sample shows an AlarmList \>.
{width="1.20625in" height="0.6729166666666667in"}
\> Notation
## 5.3 Void
## 5.4 Association classes
Subclause 3.46 of OMG: \"Unified Modelling Language Specification, Version
1.51\" [5] http://www.omg.org/technology/documents/formal/uml.htmd defines an
association class as
> \"An association class is an association that also has class properties (or
> a class that has association properties).\ Even though it is drawn as an
> association and a class, it is really just a single model element.\".
Association classes are appropriate for use when an «InformationObjectClass»
needs to maintain associations to several other «InformationObjectClass»\'s
and there are relationships between the members of the associations within the
scope of the \"containing\" «InformationObjectClass». For example, a namespace
maintains a set of bindings, a binding ties a name to an object. A Binding
«IOC» can be modelled as an Association Class that provides the binding
semantics to the relationship between a name and some other
«InformationObjectClass». This is depicted in the following figure (exemplary
only, not taken from another 3GPP specification).
{width="5.083333333333333in" height="3.8090277777777777in"}
Example of an Association Class
## 5.4 Association classes
Subclause 3.46 of OMG: \"Unified Modelling Language Specification, Version
1.51\" [5] http://www.omg.org/technology/documents/formal/uml.htmd defines an
association class as
> \"An association class is an association that also has class properties (or
> a class that has association properties).\ Even though it is drawn as an
> association and a class, it is really just a single model element.\".
Association classes are appropriate for use when an «InformationObjectClass»
needs to maintain associations to several other «InformationObjectClass»\'s
and there are relationships between the members of the associations within the
scope of the \"containing\" «InformationObjectClass». For example, a namespace
maintains a set of bindings, a binding ties a name to an object. A Binding
«IOC» can be modelled as an Association Class that provides the binding
semantics to the relationship between a name and some other
«InformationObjectClass». This is depicted in the following figure (exemplary
only, not taken from another 3GPP specification).
{width="5.083333333333333in" height="3.8090277777777777in"}
Example of an Association Class
## 5.5 Abstract Class
It specifies a \> as a base class to be inherited by
subclasses. An abstract class can not be.
Abstract class notation is the use of italics in the class name of the
corresponding \> in the diagram.
### 5.5.1 Sample
This shows that ManagedGenericIRP is an abstract \>.
{width="2.3368055555555554in" height="2.723611111111111in"}
Abstract Class Notation
###### ## Annex A (informative): Samples of using \> to model
Link related IOCs
# A.1 First Sample
This shows a \> named YyyFunction. It represents all IOCs listed
in the Note under the UML diagram. All the listed IOCs, in the context of this
sample, inherit from ManagedFunction IOC.
The use of \> eliminates the need to draw multiple UML
\> boxes, i.e. those whose names are listed in the
Note, in the UML diagram.
{width="1.979861111111111in" height="2.1569444444444446in"}
> Note: The YyyFunction \> represents AsFunction, AucFunction,
> BgFunction, ...
\> Notation Sample A.1
# A.2 Second Sample
This shows a \> named YyyFunction. It represents all IOCs listed
in the Note right under the UML diagram. All the listed IOCs, in the context
of this sample, have link (internal and external) relations.
The actual names of the IOC represented by InternalYyyFunction
\> and by the ExternalYyyFunction \> are listed
under the subsection of X.Y of the associated YyyFunction. For example, under
X.Y.1 for AsFunction, two paragraphs are added to list all peer internal
entities and external entities that are linked with AsFunction. See sample in
quotation below that is using AsFunction as a sample for YyyFunction.
The actual names of the IOC represented by Link_a_z \> and by
ExternalLink_a_z \> are listed under the subsection of X.Y of
the associated YyyFunction. For example, under X.Y.1 for AsFunction, two
paragraphs are added to list the names of the IOCs represented by Link_a_z and
by ExternalLink_a_z. See the quoted text below that is using AsFunction as a
sample for YyyFunction.
> "
### X.Y.1 AsFunction
#### X.Y.1.1 Definition
> This IOC represents As functionality. For more information about the As, see
> 3GPP TS 23.002 [15].
>
> The linked InternalYyyFunction \> represents SlsFunction,
> CscfFunction, HlrFunction ...
>
> The linked ExternalYyyFunction \> represents ...
>
> The Link_a_z \> represents Link_As_Scscf, Link_Bgcf_Scscf ...
>
> The ExternalLink_a_z \> represents ...
>
> "
{width="6.689583333333333in" height="1.554861111111111in"}
NOTE: The 'Yyy' of YyyFunction \> represents AsFunction,
AucFunction, ...
\> Notation Sample A.2
###### ## Annex B (normative): Application of \> and
\>
The \> and \> are stereotypes. These
two stereotypes serve similar purpose in that each is a named set of network
resource properties. However, their applications, in the context of supporting
network management over Itf-N, can be different. This Annex highlights their
similarities and differences of such application.
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | \> | | | ationObjectClass>> | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Can it be an | Yes | Yes | | abstract class? | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Can it be a concrete | Yes | Yes | | class? | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Can it inherit from | Yes | No | | \>? | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Can it inherit from | No | Yes | | \>? | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Can it be | Yes | Yes | | name-contained by | | | | \>? | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Can it be | No | Yes | | name-contained by | | | | \>? | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Can an instance have | \> | | a DN? | ationObjectClass>> | may be used by | | | must be a class of a | specification author | | | naming-tree meaning | for a class within a | | | all its instances | naming-tree. If so, | | | must have a DN. | it means that all | | | | its instances will | | | | have a DN. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Can IRPManager use | IRPManager can use | IRPManager can use | | operations of Basic | the Basic CM IRP and | the Basic CM IRP and | | CM IRP [6] and | Bulk CM IRP | Bulk CM IRP | | Bulk CM IRP [7] to | operations to access | operations to access | | access the | information of all | information of | | information in an | \> | \> | | | defined in all NRM | defined in their | | | IRPs, in accordance | respective Interface | | | to the qualifier | IRP, in accordance | | | values of the | to the qualifier | | | \>. | \>. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Can IRPManager use | No | IRPManager can use | | operations of | | the Interface IRP | | Interface IRP, | | operations to access | | except Basic CM | | information of | | IRP [6] and Bulk | | \> | | CM IRP [7] (e.g. | | defined in their | | Alarm IRP), to | | respective Interface | | access the | | IRP, in accordance | | information? | | to qualifier values | | | | of the | | | | \>. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Can IRPManager | Yes. | Yes if | | receive information | | \> | | via Notification | The types of | is a class of a | | [8] whose | notification emitted | naming-tree. | | objectClass and | are shown by the | | | objectInstance | Notification Table | The types of | | parameters carry the | associated with the | notification emitted | | instance DN? | class definition. | are shown by the | | | | Notification Table | | | | associated with the | | | | class definition. | | | | | | | | No if | | | | \> | | | | is not a class of a | | | | naming-tree. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Measurement [9] | Measurements can be | Measurements can be | | | associated with | associated with | | | \> | | | ationObjectClass>> | instances if | | | instances. | \> | | | | class is used in a | | | | naming-tree. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
#