# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is part of a series of documents that specify charging
functionality and charging management in 3GPP networks. The GSM/UMTS core
network charging architecture and principles are specified in 3GPP TS 32.240
[1], which provides an umbrella for other charging management documents that
specify
  * the content of the CDRs per domain and subsystem (offline charging);
  * the content of real-time charging messages per domain / subsystem > (online charging);
  * the functionality of online and offline charging for those domains > and subsystems;
  * the interfaces that are used in the charging framework to transfer > the charging information (i.e. CDRs or charging events).
The complete document structure for these TSs is defined in 3GPP TS 32.240
[1].
The present document covers all internal aspects of the Online Charging System
(OCS). The document contains the architecture and functions of the OCS logical
components and thereby derives the functionality of the OCS interfaces. A
detailed specification of interfaces between the logical OCS components is
also included. The functionality of the OCS, as described in the present
document, applies to all charging domains (bearer, session and service).
The interfaces connecting to the OCS (e.g. Ro, CAP) are out of the scope of
the present document.
NOTE: In the current release the present document is limited to the interface
between the charging function and the Rating Function, namely Re.
All terms, definitions and abbreviations used in the present document, that
are common across 3GPP TSs, are defined in 3GPP TR 21.905 [100]. Those that
are common across charging management in 3GPP domains, services, or subsystems
are provided in the umbrella document 3GPP TS 32.240 [1]. Finally, those items
that are specific to the present document are defined exclusively in the
present document.
Furthermore, requirements that govern the charging work are specified in 3GPP
TS 22.115 [101].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or nonâ€‘specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.240: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Charging Architecture and Principles\".
[2]-[10] Void.
> [11] 3GPP TS 32.251: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
> Packet Switched (PS) domain charging\".
>
> [12] 3GPP TS 32.252: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
> Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN) charging\".
>
> [13]-[19] Void
[20] 3GPP TS 32.260: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management; IP
Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) charging\".
[21]-[29] Void.
[30] 3GPP TS 32.270: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Multimedia Messaging Service (MMS) charging\".
[31] 3GPP TS 32.271: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Location Services (LCS) charging\".
[32] 3GPP TS 32.272: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Push-to-talk over Cellular (PoC) charging\".
[33] 3GPP TS 32.273: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Multimedia Broadcast and Multicast Service (MBMS) charging\".
[34] 3GPP TS 32.274: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Short Message Service (SMS) charging\".
[35] 3GPP TS 32.275: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
MultiMedia Telephony (MMTel) charging\".
[36]-[39] Void.
[40] 3GPP TS 32.280: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Advice of Charge (AoC) service \".
[41]-[49] Void.
[50] 3GPP TS 32.299: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Diameter charging application\".
[51] Void.
[52] 3GPP TS 32.297: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Charging Data Records (CDR) file format and transfer\".
[53]-[99] Void.
[100] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[101] 3GPP TS 22.115 \"Service aspects; Charging and billing\".
[101]-[109] Void.
[200] Void.
[201] 3GPP TS 22.024: \"Description of Charge Advice Information (CAI)\".
[202] 3GPP TS 23.078: \"Customized Applications for Mobile network Enhanced
Logic (CAMEL) Phase 4 - Stage 2\".
[203] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification\".
[204] 3GPP TS 29.002: \"Mobile Application Part (MAP) specification\".
[205] 3GPP TS 29.230: \"3GPP specific codes and identifiers\".
[206]-[299] Void.
[300]-[399] Void.
[400] Void.
[401] IETF RFC 3588: \"Diameter Base Protocol\".
[402] IETF RFC 4006: \"Diameter Credit-Control Application\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [100], 3GPP TS 32.240 [1] and the following apply:
**account:** structure residing in the OCS for holding dynamic subscription
data with monetary equivalence. Accounts may have balances/counters of
currency or a unit type. An account can have one or more users associated with
it. Examples of account type could include individual, family, corporate, etc.
As opposed to bank accounts, transaction history is not necessarily kept in
the OCS account data structure.
**account balance: represents the current numerical value from which service
delivery decisions can be determined.**
**chargeable event:** activity utilizing telecommunications network resources
and related services for:
  * user to user communication (e.g. a single call, a data communication > session or a short message); or
  * user to network communication (e.g. service profile administration); > or
  * inter-network communication (e.g. transferring calls, signalling, or > short messages); or
  * mobility (e.g. roaming or inter-system handover); and
  * that the network operator may want to charge for.
As a minimum, a chargeable event characterises the resource / service usage
and indicates the identity of the involved end user(s).
**charging:** a function within the telecommunications network and the
associated OCS/BD components whereby information related to a chargeable event
is collected, formatted, transferred and evaluated in order to make it
possible to determine usage for which the charged party may be billed (offline
charging) or the subscribers account balance may be debited (online charging).
**counter:** aggregation of units of service usage or monetary units, which
may be in relation to subscriber contractual terms (e.g. number of used SMS
per day or number of free minutes per month).\ These form the basis for any
type of loyalty program like discounts or bonus.
**domain:** part of a communication network that provides services using a
certain technology
**offline charging:** charging mechanism where charging information **does
not** affect, in real-time, the service rendered
**online charging:** charging mechanism where charging information can affect,
in real-time, the service rendered and therefore a direct interaction of the
charging mechanism with session/service control is required
**subscriber:** a subscriber is an entity (associated with one or more users)
that is engaged in a Subscription with a service provider. The subscriber is
allowed to subscribe and unsubscribe services, to register a user or a list of
users authorised to enjoy these services, and also to set the limits relative
to the use that associated users make of these services.
**subscription:** a subscription describes the commercial relationship between
the subscriber and the service provider.
## **tariff:** set of parameters defining the network utilization charges for
the use of a particular bearer / session / service3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
Bo Offline Charging Reference Point towards the operator\'s post-processing
system
Ga Reference point for CDR transfer between a CDF and the CGF
Rc Online Charging Reference Point towards the Account Balance Management
Function
Re Online Charging Reference Point towards the Rating Function
Ro Online Charging Reference Point towards the online charging functions
(EBCF, SBCF)
Rr Online Charging Reference Point towards an external account recharging
server
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
APN Access Point Name
AoC Advice of Charge
CAMEL Customized Applications for Mobile network Enhanced Logic
CAP CAMEL Application Part
CCA Credit Control Answer
CCR Credit Control Request
CDF Charging Data Function
CDR Charging Data Record
CGF Charging Gateway Function
CS Circuit Switched
CSCF Call Session Control Function
EBCF Event Based Charging Function
ECUR Event Charging with Unit Reservation
EPS Evolved Packet System
E-UTRAN Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
FBC Flow Based Charging
GMLC Gateway Mobile Location Center
GPRS General Packet Radio Service
HTTP HyperText Transfer Protocol
IEC Immediate Event Charging
IMS IP Multimedia core network Subsystem
IMSI International Mobile Subscriber Identity
IP Internet Protocol
ISC IMS Service Control
ISDN Integrated Services Digital Network
LCS LoCation Services
MAP Mobile Application Part
MBMS Multimedia Broadcast and Multicast Service
MMS Multimedia Messaging Service
MSC Mobile Services Switching Centre
MSISDN Mobile Station ISDN number
MVNO Mobile Virtual Network Operator
OCF Online Charging Function
OCS Online Charging System
PCC Policy and Charging Control
PCEF Policy and Charging Enforcement Function
PoC Push-to-talk over Cellular
PRQ PriceRequest
PRS PriceResponse
PS Packet-Switched
P-GW PDN Gateway
QoS Quality of Service
RF Rating Function
SBCF Session Based Charging Function
SGSN Serving GPRS Support Node
SIP Session Initiation Protocol
SMS Short Message Service
SUQ ServiceUsageRequest
SUS ServiceUsageResponse
TRQ TariffRequest
TRS TariffResponse
URL Uniform Resource Locator
WLAN Wireless Local Area Network
# 4 Required functionality of the OCS
The Online Charging System (OCS) shall support mechanisms for:
  * online bearer charging towards access / core network entities (e.g. > SGSN, PCEF, WLAN). Online charging interfaces to be supported are > Ro and CAP;
  * online charging of applications/services that are provided to > subscribers via service nodes (outside the core network) e.g. MMS > and LCS. The online charging interface to be supported is Ro;
  * IMS online charging. Online charging interface to be supported is > Ro;
  * account balance management towards external account management > servers e.g. recharge server, hot billing server;
  * generation of Charging Data Records (CDRs) and their transfer to the > operator\'s post-processing system.
The Online Charging System (OCS) may optionally support mechanisms for:
  * correlation of bearer, service and IMS charging.
To support these requirements, the functions listed below are necessary in the
OCS:
1\. rating (before and/or after service consumption):
  * unit determination: calculation and reservation of a number of > session-related non-monetary units (service units, data volume, > time and events);
  * price determination: calculation of monetary units (price) for a > given number of non-monetary units;
  * tariff determination: determination of tariff information based on > the subscribers contractual terms and service being requested > (e.g. information for AoC);
  * get/set counters applicable for rating (alternatively these counters > can be here or in the subscriber account balance management; for > further details refer to _subclause_ 5.2.2).
2\. subscriber account balance management:
  * check account balance;
  * account balance update (credit/debit);
  * account balance reservation;
  * get/set counters;
  * get/set expiry date of the (prepaid) account (optional).
3\. charging transaction control:
  * perform charging control on request basis for bearer and > events/services;
  * immediate charging and charging with reservation;
  * generation of charging information/CDR per charging transaction.
4\. Advice of charge support (defined in TS 32.280 [40]):
  1. receive tariff information from external system;
  2. provide Advice of Charge information (tariff and/or cost).
To support the correlation requirements, the functions listed below are
possible in the OCS:
5\. correlation function:
  * context handling of bearer, service and IMS charging events related > to a given subscriber;
  * generation of a combined multiple event and session requests to the > rating function.
# 5 Architectural concept
## 5.1 Architecture reference model for online charging
Figure 5.1 shows the OCS in the framework of the overall charging architecture
as defined in 3GPP TS 32.240 [1]. The present document covers only the OCS
internal architecture (i.e. the blue box in figure 5.1).
NOTE 1: The Rc, Re and Ga reference points connect both Online Charging
Functions (i.e. the Session Based Charging Function and the Event Based
Charging Function) with the Account Balance Management Function, the Rating
Function and the Charging Gateway Function.
NOTE 2: The support of ISC as charging interface towards IMS CSCF requires
additional functionality to be provided by the OCS. The support of Ro as
charging interface towards OCS requires additional functionality to be
provided by the IMS CSCF.
NOTE 3: Only network entities covered in this Release are depicted. Other
network entities may be connected to the OCS, but these are out of scope for
the current release.
Figure 5.1: Online charging system architecture
Towards the SGSN, the OCS or a separate function could provide a translation
between CAP and Ro. This is beyond the scope of the present document.
In case of Flow Based Charging (FBC), the PCEF is used for all PCC
interactions between P-GW and OCS, for details refer to 3GPP TS 32.251 [11].
For architectural details on the Ro reference point between WLAN and OCS,
refer to 3GPP TS 32.252 [12].
The architecture details on the Ro reference point used for IMS (IMS CSCF, IMS
Application Server and IMS MRFC) specified in 3GPP TS 32.260 [20].
The service specific architecture details on the Ro reference point are
specified for the MMS Relay/Server in 3GPP TS 32.270 [30], for the GMLC in
3GPP TS 32.271 [31], for the PoC Server in 3GPP TS 32.272 [32] for the MBMS
Server in 3GPP TS 32.273 [33], for the SMS in 3GPP TS 32.274 [34] and the
MMTel in 3GPP TS 32.275 [35].
The Session Based Charging Function (SBCF) performs session based charging on
the bearer level using the CAP interface towards MSC and SGSN, and the Ro
reference point towards other network elements. The Session Based Charging
Function (SBCF) also performs session based charging on the subsystem level
(i.e. IMS session charging) using the Ro reference point towards the IMS CSCF.
Whether the CSCF is directly connected to the OCS or via a gateway (IMS
Gateway Function) is beyond the scope of the present document.
The Event Based Charging Function (EBCF) performs event-based charging using
the CAP interface towards MSC and SGSN (e.g. for charging of SMS), and the Ro
reference point towards other network elements.
The Rating Function and the Account Balance Management Function are described
in clause 4. The Re reference point allows the interaction between the Online
Charging Functions (SBCF, EBCF) and the Rating Function.
The Rc reference point allows the interaction between the Online Charging
Functions (SBCF, EBCF) and the Account Balance Management Function to access
the subscribers account balance.
The Ga reference point allows the collection and transfer of charging
information from the Charging Data Functions (CDF) to the Charging Gateway
Function (CGF). In the context of online charging, the CDFs are always
integrated into the Online Charging Functions (SBCF, EBCF). Whether the CGF is
also integrated into the Online Charging Functions, or whether it is a
separate function inside the OCS, or whether it is an external function
outside the OCS is not defined in this 3GPP release.
The Bo reference point allows the transfer of charging information from the
Charging Gateway Function to the operator\'s post-processing system as the OCS
variant of the Bx interface description in 3GPP TS 32.297 [52].
The Rr reference point allows the interaction between the Account Balance
Management Function and an external recharging server.
There may be other external systems connected to the OCS (e.g. hot billing
server). These systems are not considered in the present document.
## 5.2 Functions within the OCS
### 5.2.1 Online Charging Functions
#### 5.2.1.1 Event Based Charging Function
The Event Based Charging Function (EBCF) performs event based charging and
credit control (e.g. content charging):
  * on the bearer level, based on bearer usage requests received from > the network. It controls the bearer usage in the network, e.g. > SMS;
  * on a subsystem level, based on session resource usage requests > received from the network (e.g. the IMS MRFC). It controls the > resource availability in network, e.g. it has the ability to grant > or deny the resource usage;
  * on service level, based on application server requests received from > the network (e.g. an IMS application server or MMS relay server). > It controls the application service availability in the network, > e.g. it has the ability to grant or deny the service usage in the > network.
It communicates with the Rating Function in order to determine the value of
the requested service usage. It communicates with the Account Balance
Management Function to query and update the subscribers\' account and counters
status (counters are not applicable if a class \"B\" Rating Function is used).
When a correlation process is enabled a correlation context may be consulted
or created. If multiple chargeable events exist in the correlation context a
combined request will be issued for the Rating Function.
#### 5.2.1.2 Session Based Charging Function
The Session Based Charging Function (SBCF) performs session based charging and
credit control:
  * on the bearer level, based on bearer usage requests received from > the network. It controls the bearer usage in the network, e.g. in > terms of time or volume granted;
  * on the subsystem level, based on session resource usage requests > received from the network (e.g. the IMS CSCF). It controls > sessions in the network, e.g. it has the ability to grant or deny > a session setup request and to terminate an existing session;
  * on the service level, based on service usage requests received from > the network. It controls service availability in the network, e.g. > it has the ability to grant or deny a usage of a service.
It communicates with the Rating Function in order to determine the value of
the requested bearer resources or the requested session. It communicates with
the Account Balance Management Function to query and update the subscribers\'
account and counters status (counters are not applicable if a class \"B\"
Rating Function is used).
When a correlation process is enabled a correlation context may be consulted
or created. If multiple chargeable events exist in the correlation context a
combined request will be issued for the Rating Function.
### 5.2.2 Rating Function
The Rating Function performs both monetary and non-monetary unit determination
(rating). It provides the following functionalities:
  * Rating for network- and external services and applications (session, > service, event) before and after service delivery;
  * Cross-product and cross-channel discounts, benefits and allowances.
The Rating Function must be able to handle a wide variety of rateable
instances, such as:
  * Rating of volume (in terms of granted units or money, e.g. based on > charging initiated by an access network entity);
  * Rating of time (in terms of granted units or money, e.g. based on > charging initiated by a SIP application);
  * Rating of events (e.g. based on charging of web content or MMS).
The Rating Function includes the determination of the tariff or the price of a
chargeable event or of multiple chargeable events (correlation scenario);
examples include the price of a call minute, data volume, multimedia session,
Web content, etc.
Upon receipt of a rate request (price or tariff request) from the Charging
Function, the Rating Function:
  * Evaluates the request. Rate requests include various rating > parameters such as service identifier, subscriber reference, > network identification, user location, service usage time, > transferred data volume, etc. Note that the rate request may > contain multiple service identifiers that reflect the list of > active services contained in the context handled by the Charging > Function.
  * Determines the applicable price or tariff model and returns it to > the Charging Function. Note that in case of multiple service > requests received, the Rating Function may apply a special price > or tariff which can be different to the price or tariff applied to > the related services handled separately. For example when sending > an MMS, the rating of volume associated with the bearer usage can > be free of charge while the rating of the event and/or volume > associated with the service level MMS submission is greater than > zero. This correlation procedure depends on the operator > configurable rating rules.
To support the online rating process, the Rating Function needs counters. The
counters may be maintained by the Rating Function or by the Account Balance
Management function. A Rating Function that does not maintain counters will be
marked as class \"A\" Rating Function. A Rating Function that maintains
counters will be marked as class \"B\" Rating Function.
Editor\'s Note: The handling of combined session and event requests is for
further study.
# 6 Functionalities and Message FlowsNumber range Chapter
## 6.1 Reference Point Required Functionality
### 6.1.1 Re Reference Point (EBCF, SBCF - Rating Function)
#### 6.1.1.1 Functionality for class \"A\" Rating Function
The following applies with respect to the Rating Interface:
  * The Rating Function will potentially cover all rating scenarios for > all charging levels (bearer, session and service) and all payment > channels (prepaid and postpaid).
  * The Rating Function will cover the methods **PriceRequest** and > **TariffRequest**.
  * The Rating Function will operate in a stateless way on a per request > basis. No context or state is stored internally.
  * The Rating Function will not modify accounts or bonus counters > directly. Instead it passes the corresponding information > (instruction how to modify counters) as part of the response. > Details are explained in the next subsection.
  * The Rating Interface is an interface in a trusted environment. > Session handling, transaction control or authentication / > authorization are not required.
  * No records are written by the Rating Function. Thus billing relevant > information is part of the response.
Resulting from these requirements following functionality of Re reference
point is proposed:
\- Basic methods:
  * Price Request (to calculate a price for given service usage);
  * Tariff Request (to request a tariff that is applicable).
\- Additional supported functionalities:
  * Discounts by use of consumer specific counters;
  * Loyalty programs;
  * Taxes;
  * Detailed information for use during invoice generation.
Depending on the service or product offered and on the customer\'s contract,
the Rating Function supports the following methods:
  * **PriceRequest** : Determination of a price for the execution of a > service or the delivery of a good. From the rating perspective > this is the same method if run before delivery (e.g. for balance > check or AoC), after delivery (post-rating for charging) or even > later in a rerating process. The same method applies for one-time > or recurrent charges. The PriceRequest is used by the EBCF.
  * **TariffRequest** : Determination of a tariff for a given service. > This method is used, e.g., for voice calls, where tariff is > returned by the Rating Function. Based on the tariff the charging > function calculates either the amount of units for a given price > or the price for a given number of units. The method can also be > used for various other services. The TariffRequest is used by the > SBCF.
Input for Rating:
  * Rating Request Type: Price Request, Tariff Request.
  * Service-specific data: Service-ID, Time/Date of Service usage, QoS, > etc.
  * Subscriber-specific static data: Subscriber-ID, Partner-ID (e.g. > MVNO, merchant), additional tariff information (e.g. \"Friends & > Family\" list), other static data.
  * Subscriber specific dynamic data: Account Balances incl. > units/currency (money, loyalty), Subscriber Counters (e.g. > Service-Type (SMS/MMS/Volume/Time) used per time-unit > (day/week/month/year), other dynamic data).
Output of Rating:
  * Rating Request Type Response: Price or Service units or Tariff incl. > tariff switch information\ > (Tariff Switch Time (absolute time/duration), etc.);
  * Charge and Recharge Information: Value for accounts and Subscriber > Counters (e.g. charge money, recharge loyalty accounts);
  * Tax information;
  * Detailed information to be used for invoice generation.
##### 6.1.1.1.1 Class \"A\" Counter Handling
As defined in subsection 5.2.2, if a class \"A\" Rating Function is used,
counters reside in the Account Balance Management Function. The Charging
Functions fetch the counters from the Account Balance Management Function over
the Rc Reference Point at the beginning of an online charging session,
together with the account balance. The counter values are passed on to the
Rating Function in the PriceRequest or TariffRequest method over the Re
Reference Point. On the Re Reference Point, counters have to be supported in a
very generic way in order to support the use of counters in the largest
possible variety of call scenarios. The structure of counter elements on the
Re interface is defined in section 7 of this document.
In the Rating Request, the Charging Function will inform the Rating Function
about the current value and the expiry date of all applicable counters.
In the Rating Response, the Rating Function may instruct the Charging Function
to modify counters. The following kinds of counter manipulation are supported:
  * increase or decrease one or more specified counters with a specified > value, once for this online charging session;
  * increase or decrease one or more specified counters with a specified > value per consumed service unit;
  * increase or decrease one or more specified counters with a specified > value per charged; the specified value and the tariff may change > due to a tariff switch;
  * set one or more specified counters explicitly to a specified value; > this instruction can be used to reset counters;\ > if the specified counter does not exist, the Charging Function > shall create this counter in the Account Balance Management > Function; hence, using this instruction, the Rating Function can > trigger the creation of new counters;
  * set a counter threshold for one or more specified counters; when a > threshold is reached, the tariff information from the Rating > Response message expires, and the Charging Function shall send a > new Rating Request message towards the Rating Function;
  * set the expiry date of one or more specified counters.
Additionally, the Rating Function may give the following information to the
Charging Function:
  * a list of counters, which are applicable to the present online > charging session; the Charging Function shall include only these > counters in subsequent rating requests within this session; the > list of applicable counters can be modified by the Rating Function > in each Rating Response; the purpose of this information is to > reduce load on the Re-interface.
Note that from a principal point of view, in class \"A\" the account balance
can be considered as a special kind of counter: It resides in the Account
Balance Management Function, it has a current value and an expiry date, and it
will be modified during an online charging session by the Charging Function
according to resource usage and according to information received from the
Rating Function.
#### 6.1.1.2 Functionality for class \"B\" Rating Function
If class \"B\" Rating Function is chosen, i.e. counters are maintained in the
Rating Function, then the Re Reference Point is modified with respect to the
previous clause in the following way:
  * the Rating Function has to become statefull;
  * the Rating Function has to modify counters directly;
  * the Rating Function has to handle sessions / has to support > transaction control;
  * the PriceRequest and TariffRequest have to support reservations;
  * **TariffRequest** : Determination of a tariff and price for a given > session oriented service. This method is used, e.g., for voice > calls, where tariff is returned by the Rating Function. At the > beginning or during the session, the Rating Function receives > requested service units and returns the tariff information. The > charging function can grant the requested units or recalculate the > granted units based on the returned tariff and the account > balance. At the end of the session, the Rating Function returns > the conclusive price of the consumed service. The method can also > be used for various other services. The TariffRequest is used by > the SBCF.
Scenarios involving granted units may be covered via a TariffRequest or by the
Class \"B\" Rating Function directly. The handling of the first case is part
of the charging function. For the latter case the Re interface offers a
special request type:
  * **ServiceUsageRequest** : This type of request, also called backward > rating, determines the amount of units of a given service given > the price. The ServiceUsageRequest is useful (but not limited) in > the case where the subscriber\'s price plan is formed in usage per > monetary units amount (e.g. 45 seconds per 100 Yen). Since the > basic requirements are covered by the former requests, this > request is optional.
### 6.1.2 Rc Reference Point (EBCF, SBCF - Account Balance Management
Function)
To be defined in a later release.
## 6.2 Re Message Flows
This subclause describes message flows for the Re Reference Point by
explaining example online charging sessions (i.e. credit control sessions on
the Ro interface or CAP dialogues).
On the interface towards the serving network nodes (i.e. Ro, CAP) the generic
message names \"online charging request\" and \"online charging response\" are
used. These generic names should be mapped to real messages depending on the
type of interface as indicated in the following table.
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | generic name | Ro Interface | CAP Interface | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | online charging | Credit Control | _first message, | | request | Request (CCR) | initiating the | | | | charging dialogue:_ | | | | | | | | - Initial DP, | | | | | | | | - Initial DP GPRS, | | | | | | | | - _Initial DP SMS_ | | | | | | | | _subsequent | | | | messages:_ | | | | | | | | - Apply Charging | | | | Report, _Event | | | | Report BCSM,_ | | | | | | | | - Apply Charging | | | | Report GPRS, | | | | Event Report | | | | GPRS, | | | | | | | | - _Event Report | | | | SMS_ | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | online charging | Credit Control | - Apply Charging, | | response | Answer (CCA) | Request Report | | | | BCSM Event (+ | | | | Connect / | | | | Continue), | | | | | | | | `{=html} | | | |  | | | |` | | | | - Apply Charging | | | | GPRS, Request | | | | Report GPRS | | | | Event (+ Connect | | | | GPRS /\ | | | | Continue GPRS), | | | | | | | | - Request Report | | | | SMS Event, | | | | Connect SMS, | | | | Continue SMS | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
For details on the CAP messages and message flows, refer to 3GPP TS 23.078
[202].
It should be noted that several service requests can be included in one
message using Services-Rating AVP. The basic functionality of the single or
multiple requests are the same so only single request scenario is described in
message flows.
In addition to the differences between a class \"A\" and a class \"B\" Rating
Function as described in the previous subclause, the Re message flows of both
classes differ from a principal point of view as follows:
  * In class \"A\", a TariffRequest is sent by the ChargingFunction only when an online charging request is received from the network, _and_ no valid tariff is known (i.e. at the beginning of an online charging session or after tariff expiry). Therefore, distinction between different scenarios in the following description is necessary.
  * In class \"B\", a TariffRequest is sent by the ChargingFunction after every online charging request received from the network. Therefore, no distinction between different TariffRequest scenarios is necessary.
### 6.2.1 Class \"A\" Rating Function Message Flows
#### 6.2.1.1 PriceRequest method
The PriceRequest method is used only for event based charging, i.e. only the
EBCF uses this method.
According to 3GPP TS 32.299 [50], two different scenarios need to be
distinguished, the Immediate Event Charging (IEC) and the event charging with
unit reservation (ECUR).
Both scenarios in this section describe the case where the EBCF invokes the
PriceRequest method for charging or Advice of Charge.
##### 6.2.1.1.1 PriceRequest scenario with Immediate Charging
The following figure describes the case where the EBCF invokes the
PriceRequest method in an Immediate Event Charging (IEC) scenario.
Figure : Price Request Method with immediate charging
Step 1: The EBCF receives an online charging request for a certain
event/service.
Step 2: The EBCF requests account and counter information for the subscriber
from the Account Balance Management Function.
Step 2\' (Optional):In case there is no existing subscriber\'s context, the
EBCF creates a new subscriber\'s context information. Otherwise, the EBCF
updates the existing subscriber\'s context and gets the list of active
services for the given subscriber (see note below). This Step only applies
when correlation is enabled.
Step 3: Upon receipt of this data, the EBCF sends a price request to the
Rating Function in order to determine the price of the desired service. Note
that this scenario assumes that the EBCF has not received any service cost
information in the online charging request. Note that the Price Request may
contain several service requests depending on the number of ongoing services.
Step 4: The Rating Function calculates the price and counter updates for the
given service according to the service and subscriber specific information
included in the request.
Step 5: The calculated price and counter updates are returned to the EBCF.
Step 6: The EBCF continues event charging and performs account and counter
control (i.e. it checks and adjusts the account and counter values).
Step 7: The EBCF sends the appropriate online charging response.
If the Price Request Method with immediate charging is used, the service
delivery may occur before or after the online charging dialogue.
In addition to the price, the PriceResponse may also include \"Basic Price\".
This may be used e.g. to realize a basic fee, that is applicable once per
day/week/month, if a certain service is used. Note that the Basic Price may be
service specific. The EBCF has to include the timestamp of the last charging
of the Basic Price in the PriceRequest, if the Basic Price is applicable. This
handling applies also for the PriceRequest scenario with Unit Reservation as
described in the following subsection.
NOTE: If a context already exists when the EBCF interrogates the context, then
the EBCF may optionally get the price for the desired service.
##### 6.2.1.1.2 PriceRequest scenario with Unit Reservation
The following figure describes the case where the EBCF invokes the
PriceRequest method in an event charging with unit reservation (ECUR)
scenario.
Figure : Price Request Method with unit reservation
Step 1: The EBCF receives an online charging request for a certain
event/service.
Step 2: The EBCF requests account and counter information for the subscriber
from the Account Balance Management Function.
Step 2\' (Optional):In case there is no existing subscriber\'s context, the
EBCF creates a new subscriber\'s context information. Otherwise, the EBCF
updates the existing subscriber\'s context and gets the list of active
services for the given subscriber. This Step only applies when correlation is
enabled.
Step 3: Upon receipt of this data, the EBCF sends a price request to the
Rating Function in order to determine the price of the desired service. Note
that this scenario assumes that the EBCF has not received any service cost
information in the online charging request.
Step 4: The Rating Function calculates the price and counter updates for the
given service according to the service and subscriber specific information
included in the request.
Step 5: The calculated price and counter updates are returned to the EBCF.
Step 6: The EBCF continues event charging and performs account and counter
control (i.e. it makes reservations for the requested service).
Step 7: The EBCF sends the appropriate online charging response (i.e. it
grants or denies service delivery).
Step 8: After service delivery, the serving network node sends an indication
of successful (or unsuccessful) service delivery to the EBCF.
Step 9: The EBCF performs account and counter control (i.e. it adjusts the
account and counter values accordingly).
Step 10: Finally, the EBCF sends an acknowledgment message to the serving
network node in order to terminate the online charging dialogue.
If the second online charging request (step 8) contains updated information
about the consumed service, a second Price Retrieval Operation may occur
between step 8 and step 9, i.e. the EBCF may send a second PriceRequest
containing the updated information to the Rating Function. The Rating Function
will send an appropriate PriceResponse, and the information contained in this
second PriceResponse may be used by the EBCF for account and counter control
(step 9).
If the second online charging request (step 9) contains information about the
release of the ongoing service, the EBCF updates the existing subscriber\'s
context to remove the entry related to this service and to get the list of
remaining active services. A second Price Retrieval Operation may occur
between step 9 and step 10\', i.e. the EBCF may send a second PriceRequest
containing the updated information to the Rating Function. The Rating Function
will send an appropriate PriceResponse containing the updated price for the
remaining ongoing services and the information contained in this second
PriceResponse may be used by the EBCF for account and counter control (step
10).
#### 6.2.1.2 TariffRequest method
The TariffRequest method is used for bearer charging and IMS session charging,
i.e. only the SBCF uses this method.
All scenarios in this section describe the case where the SBCF invokes the
tariffRequest method for charging or Advice of Charge. All scenarios are valid
independent of the type of applicable \"units\" (i.e. for both, time or
volume).
In the context of bearer charging or session charging, only the event charging
with unit reservation (ECUR) (3GPP 32.299 [50]) is relevant. Therefore, only
ECUR is considered in this section.
##### 6.2.1.2.1 Basic TariffRequest scenario
The following figure shows a basic message flow for the tariff request method.
Figure : Basic Tariff request method
Step 1: The SBCF receives an online charging request referring to an MS\'s
bearer/session resource usage.
Step 2: The SBCF requests account and counter information for the subscriber
from the Account Balance Management Function.
Step 2\' (Optional):In case there is no existing subscriber\'s context, the
SBCF creates a new subscriber\'s context information. Otherwise, the SBCF
updates the existing subscriber\'s context and gets the list of active
services for the given subscriber. This Step only applies when correlation is
enabled.
Step 3: Upon receipt of this data, the SBCF requests tariff information
applicable for this bearer/session.
Step 4: The Rating Function retrieves the appropriate tariff to be applied for
the bearer/session.
Step 5: The Rating Function returns the tariff information to the SBCF.
Step 6: Based on the received tariff information, the SBCF determines the
granted units and the price.
Step 7: The SBCF continues bearer/session charging and performs account and
counters control (i.e. it makes reservations).
Step 8: Assuming successful account control, the SBCF returns the granted
units to the requesting network element. Service usage can start immediately
or later.
Step 9: When the granted units have been used, a new request is send from the
serving network element to the SBCF.
Step 10: This time the SBCF can directly determine the granted units and the
price.
Step 11: The SBCF performs account and counter control (i.e. it makes
reservations).
Step 12: Again, assuming successful account control, a positive acknowledgment
(including granted units) is returned to the network entity.
Step 13: The MS terminates bearer/session usage. The used units are sent to
the SBCF.
Step 14: The SBCF performs final rating for the consumed bearer/session
resources.
Step 15: The SBCF adjusts the account and counters accordingly.
Step 16: Finally, the SBCF sends an acknowledgment message to the serving
network node in order to terminate the online charging dialogue.
In this basic scenario only one request to the Rating Function is needed
during the whole online charging session.
The message flow in the previous figure is an example of an online charging
session to illustrate the usage of the basic Tariff Request method on the Re
interface. The sequence of steps 6-9 can be repeated multiple times (or they
can be missing completely, if the session ends before the first quota of
granted units is consumed).
If the SBCF detects that the account balance is not sufficient for a minimum
number of granted units (in step 6 in the example), there will be no
reservation (step 7 will be skipped), and the SBCF will deny the online
charging request (in step 8), i.e. the service usage request will be rejected
by the mobile network. The same handling applies if the account reservation
fails (in step 7, 11). Note that this can only occur, if the account is
modified independently of the current online charging session, e.g. due to
several parallel online charging sessions. This handling of insufficient
account balances applies for all class \"A\" TariffRequest scenarios, i.e.
also for the following subsections.
This basic scenario assumes, that the tariff information is valid for the
whole online charging session (i.e. the tariff is not affected by the amount
of resources used, the time of day, etc.).
In addition to the tariff information, the TariffResponse may also include
\"Basic Price\", that is deducted directly from the subscriber\'s account
balance. This may be used e.g. to realize a basic fee, that is applicable once
per day/week/month, if a certain service is used. Note that the Basic Price
may be service specific. The SBCF has to include the timestamp of the last
charging of the Basic Price in the TariffRequest, if the Basic Price is
applicable. This handling applies for all class \"A\" TariffRequest scenarios,
i.e. also for the following subsections.
##### 6.2.1.2.2 TariffRequest Scenario with multiple Tariff Switches and
Expiry Time
The following figure shows a message flow for the tariff request method with
multiple tariff switches, i.e. the tariff will change at specified times,
multiple times during the online charging session.
To allow for correct charging of this kind of scenarios, the rating function
needs to make sure that all tariff information contained in a TariffResponse
message expires between the next two tariff switches, i.e. between the tariff
switch time that is defined within this TariffResponse message and the next
subsequent tariff switch time. For this purpose, a parameter ExpiryTime is
used. The ExpiryTime defines, how long the tariff information contained in the
TariffResponse message is valid after the timestamp of the TariffRequest that
triggered this response. For the handling of multiple tariff switches, it is
recommended to set the ExpiryTime to the difference between the next two
tariff switch times.
It should be noted that the ExpiryTime may also be used when _no_ tariff
switch is foreseen, to ensure a subsequent tariff retrieval operation after a
specified time period has passed.
Figure : Tariff request method with multiple tariff switches
Step 1: The SBCF receives an online charging request referring to an MS\'s
bearer usage/session resource usage.
Step 2: The SBCF requests account and counter information for the subscriber
from the Account Balance Management Function.
Step 2\' (Optional):In case there is no existing subscriber\'s context, the
SBCF creates a new subscriber\'s context information. Otherwise, the SBCF
updates the existing subscriber\'s context and gets the list of active
services for the given subscriber. This Step only applies when correlation is
enabled.
Step 3: Upon receipt of this data, the SBCF requests tariff information
applicable for this bearer/session.
Step 4: The Rating Function retrieves the appropriate tariff to be applied for
the bearer/session.
Step 5: The Rating Function returns the tariff information to the SBCF,
including indication of an upcoming tariff switch and the appropriate expiry
time.
Step 6: Based on the received tariff information, the SBCF determines the
granted units and the price.
Step 7: The SBCF continues bearer/session charging and performs account and
counter control (i.e. it makes reservations).
Step 8: It returns the granted units, an indication of the upcoming tariff
switch, and the expiry time to the requesting network element. Service usage
can start immediately or later.\ _If supported by the online charging response
message, the SBCF may return two quota of granted units, one valid before the
tariff switch, the other valid after the tariff switch._
Step 9: The (first) tariff switch occurs in the network.
Step 10: When the granted units have been used, a new request is send from the
serving network element to the SBCF. The units used before and after the
tariff switch are sent to the SBCF as separate values in this request.
Step 11: Since the tariff information from the last TariffResponse (step 5)
has not expired, the SBCF can directly determine the next granted units and
the price.
Step 12: The SBCF continues bearer/session charging and performs account and
counter control (i.e. it makes reservations).
Step 13: Again, assuming successful account control, a positive acknowledgment
(including granted units and an indication of the expiry time) is returned to
the requesting network element.
Step 14: When the tariff expires (i.e. the expiry time is reached), a new
request is send from the serving network element to the SBCF immediately. This
request includes the number of units consumed so far.
Step 15: The SBCF performs (final) rating for the bearer/session resources
consumed so far.
Step 16: The SBCF adjusts the account and counters accordingly.
Step 17: The SBCF again requests tariff information applicable for the
bearer/session.
Step 18: The Rating Function retrieves the appropriate tariff to be applied
for the bearer/session.
Step 19: The Rating Function returns the tariff information to the SBCF,
including indication of the next upcoming tariff switch and the appropriate
expiry time.
Step 20: Based on the received tariff information, the SBCF determines the
granted units and the price.
Step 21: The SBCF continues bearer/session charging and performs account and
counter control (i.e. it makes reservations).
Step 22: It returns the granted units, an indication of the next upcoming
tariff switch, and the expiry time to the requesting network element.
Step 23: The (second) tariff switch occurs in the network.
Step 24: The MS terminates bearer/session usage. The units used before and
after the (second) tariff switch are sent to the SBCF as separate values.
Step 25: The SBCF performs final rating for the consumed bearer/session
resources.
Step 26: The SBCF adjusts the account and counters accordingly.
Step 27: Finally, the SBCF sends an acknowledgment message to the serving
network node in order to terminate the online charging dialogue.
In this scenario one request to the Rating Function is needed for every tariff
switch. No messages are sent at the time when a tariff switch occurs. The SBCF
is informed about the units used before and after the tariff switch in the
_first_ online charging request, that is sent after the tariff switch has
occurred (steps 10 and 24 in the example scenario). The handling when the
tariff expires due to the parameter ExpiryTime is similar to the closing of
one online charging session and the immediate starting of a new online
charging session.
The message flow in the previous figure is an example of an online charging
session to illustrate the usage of the Tariff Request method on the Re
interface if handling of multiple tariff switches is required. Variations of
this message flow will occur, depending on the exact times when the tariff
switches occur, on the number of tariff switches during the online charging
session, etc. Of course, it is also possible that the granted units are used
in the network or that the session ends without the occurrence of a tariff
switch.
If only _one_ tariff switch is foreseen, the ExpiryTime parameter is not
needed. In this case, the message flow will be identical to the basic scenario
as described in subclause 6.2.1.2.1. A single tariff switch does not lead to
any additional messages, nor does it require any additional handling in the
SBCF.
##### 6.2.1.2.3 TariffRequest Scenario with limited validity
The following figure shows a message flow for the tariff request method with
limited validity, i.e. the tariff is only valid for a limited number of used
service units (e.g. seconds, Kbytes) or until a counter threshold is reached.
This scenario applies e.g. for regressive tariffs or for the usage of free /
discounted service units.
Figure : Tariff request method with valid units
Step 1: The SBCF receives an online charging request referring to an MS\'s
bearer usage/session resource usage.
Step 2: The SBCF requests account and counter information for the subscriber
from the Account Balance Management Function.
Step 2\' (Optional):In case there is no existing subscriber\'s context, the
SBCF creates a new subscriber\'s context information. Otherwise, the SBCF
updates the existing subscriber\'s context and gets the list of active
services for the given subscriber. This Step only applies when correlation is
enabled.Step 3: Upon receipt of this data, the SBCF requests tariff
information applicable for this bearer/session.
Step 4: The Rating Function retrieves the appropriate tariff to be applied for
the bearer/session.
Step 5: The Rating Function returns the tariff information to the SBCF,
including indication of the number of units for which this tariff is valid.
Step 6: Based on the received tariff information, the SBCF determines the
granted units and the price.
Step 7: The SBCF continues bearer/session charging and performs account and
counter control (i.e. it makes reservations).
Step 8: It returns the granted units to the requesting network element.
Service usage can start immediately or later. Note that the number of granted
units is in general different from the number of \"valid units\" received from
the Rating Function (i.e. the number of granted units can be smaller than the
number of valid units).
Step 9: When the granted units have been used, a new request is send from the
serving network element to the SBCF.
Step 10: The SBCF checks, whether all valid units have been used. If there are
valid units left, the scenario continues with step 6 again.
Step 11: If all valid units have been used, the SBCF performs (final) rating
for the bearer/session resources consumed so far.
Step 12: The SBCF adjusts the account and counters accordingly.
Step 13: The SBCF again requests tariff information applicable for the
bearer/session.
Step 14: The Rating Function retrieves the appropriate tariff to be applied
for the bearer/session.
Step 15: The Rating Function returns the tariff information to the SBCF,
including indication of the number of units for which this tariff is valid.
Step 16: Based on the received tariff information, the SBCF determines the
granted units and the price.
Step 17: The SBCF continues bearer/session charging and performs account and
counter control (i.e. it makes reservations).
Step 18: It returns the granted units to the requesting network element.
Step 19: The MS terminates bearer/session usage. The used units are sent to
the SBCF.
Step 20: The SBCF performs final rating for the consumed bearer/session
resources.
Step 21: The SBCF adjusts the account and counters accordingly.
Step 22: Finally, the SBCF sends an acknowledgment message to the serving
network node in order to terminate the online charging dialogue.
In this scenario two requests to the Rating Function are needed during the
online charging session. In general, one additional request is needed,
whenever a tariff expires (i.e. whenever the number of valid units has been
consumed or whenever a counter threshold is reached). The handling when the
number of valid units has been consumed is similar to the closing of one
online charging session and the immediate starting of a new online charging
session.
The message flow in the previous figure is an example of an online charging
session to illustrate the usage of the Tariff Request method on the Re
interface, if the tariff is valid only for a limited number of service units.
The sequence of steps 6-10 can be repeated multiple times (as already
indicated in step 6), and also the sequence of steps 6-15 can be repeated
multiple times (i.e. including the complete consumption of valid units and a
new request towards the Rating Function).
An optional optimization of the message flow with respect to service
availability is as follows: If the Charging Function is informed about the
tariff that is valid _after_ all valid units have been used, the SBCF can send
an online charging response and grant the usage of a limited amount of units
based on the new tariff _immediately_ after all valid units have been used
(i.e. after step 10); in parallel, the SBCF requests new tariff information
from the Rating Function as described above (steps 11 - 15); when the granted
units have been used, the mobile network will send an online charging request
to the SBCF, and processing continues in step 16 as described above.
A TariffRequest scenario with limited validity, where the tariff is only valid
for a limited number of used service units, may also be combined with a tariff
switch scenario (ref. subclause 6.2.1.2.2). Operators should take care, that
proper interworking is ensured. In general it is recommended, that the first
condition that leads to tariff expiry (i.e. expiry time or consumption of all
valid units) shall lead to an account and counters update and trigger a new
TariffRequest towards the RatingFunction if interworking between these
scenarios needs to be ensured.
##### 6.2.1.2.4 TariffRequest Scenario with unsolicited changes of session
parameters
The following figure shows a message flow for the tariff request method in a
scenario, where the tariff depends on the Quality of Service (QoS). In this
case, a new tariff applies whenever the QualityOfService in the network
changes. The QoS change is an example of an unsolicited change of charging
relevant session parameters in the network.
Figure : Tariff request method with charging based on QoS
Step 1: The SBCF receives an online charging request referring to an MS\'s
bearer usage/session resource usage.
Step 2: The SBCF requests account and counter information for the subscriber
from the Account Balance Management Function.
Step 2\' (Optional):In case there is no existing subscriber\'s context, the
SBCF creates a new subscriber\'s context information. Otherwise, the SBCF
updates the existing subscriber\'s context and gets the list of active
services for the given subscriber. This Step only applies when correlation is
enabled.Step 3: Upon receipt of this data, the SBCF requests tariff
information applicable for this bearer/session.
Step 4: The Rating Function retrieves the appropriate tariff to be applied for
the bearer/session.
Step 5: The Rating Function returns the tariff information to the SBCF.
Step 6: Based on the received tariff information, the SBCF determines the
granted units and the price.
Step 7: The SBCF continues bearer/session charging and performs account and
counter control (i.e. it makes reservations).
Step 8: It returns the granted units to the requesting network element.
Service usage can start immediately or later.
Step 9: When a QoS change occurs in the network, a new request is send from
the serving network element to the SBCF immediately. This request includes the
number of units consumed so far.
Step 10: The SBCF performs (final) rating for the bearer/session resources
consumed so far.
Step 11: The SBCF adjusts the account and counters accordingly.
Step 12: The SBCF again requests tariff information applicable for the
bearer/session. Note that the new (changed) QoS is included in this request.
Step 13: The Rating Function retrieves the appropriate tariff to be applied
for the bearer/session.
Step 14: The Rating Function returns the tariff information to the SBCF.
Step 15: Based on the received tariff information, the SBCF determines the
granted units and the price.
Step 16: The SBCF continues bearer/session charging and performs account and
counter control (i.e. it makes reservations).
Step 17: It returns the granted units to the requesting network element.
Step 18: The MS terminates bearer/session usage. The used units are sent to
the SBCF.
Step 19: The SBCF performs final rating for the consumed bearer/session
resources.
Step 20: The SBCF adjusts the account and counters accordingly.
Step 21: Finally, the SBCF sends an acknowledgment message to the serving
network node in order to terminate the online charging dialogue.
In this scenario two requests to the Rating Function are needed during the
online charging session. In general, one additional request is needed,
whenever the QualityOfService changes in the network. A change in the
QualityOfService is handled similar to the closing of one online charging
session and the immediate starting of a new online charging session.
The message flow in the previous figure is an example of an online charging
session to illustrate the usage of the Tariff Request method on the Re
interface, if the tariff expires due to an unsolicited change of charging
relevant session parameters in the mobile network. Besides a QualityOfService
change, other events in the network that could cause a tariff expiry include
e.g. a location change, an SGSN change, etc. Also, e.g. the sequence of steps
6-9 can be repeated multiple times (if no QoS change occurs and the granted
units have been used in step 9), and also the sequence of steps 6-14 can be
repeated multiple times (if multiple QoS changes occur).
### 6.2.2 Class \"B\" Rating Function Message Flows
#### 6.2.2.1 PriceRequest method
The PriceRequest method is used only for event based charging, i.e. only the
EBCF uses this method.
According to 3GPP TS 32.299 [50], two different scenarios need to be
distinguished, the Immediate Event Charging (IEC) and the event charging with
unit reservation (ECUR).
##### 6.2.2.1.1 PriceRequest scenario with Immediate Charging
The following figure describes the case where the EBCF invokes the
PriceRequest method in an Immediate Event Charging (IEC) scenario.
Figure : PriceRequest method with Immediate Charging
Step 1: The EBCF receives an online charging request for a certain
event/service.
Step 1\' (Optional):In case there is no existing subscriber\'s context, the
EBCF creates a new subscriber\'s context information. Otherwise, the EBCF
updates the existing subscriber\'s context and get the list of active services
for the given subscriber. This Step only applies when correlation is enabled.
Step 2: The EBCF sends a price request with a reserve instruction to the
Rating Function to determine the price of the desired service. Please note
that this scenario assumes that the EBCF has not received any service cost
information in the online charging request.
Step 3: The Rating Function calculates the price and reserves the counters
related to the given service according to the service and subscriber specific
information included in the request.
Step 4: The calculated price is returned to the EBCF.
Step 5: The EBCF continues event charging and performs account control (i.e.
it checks and adjusts the account balance).
Step 6: The EBCF sends the appropriate online charging response (i.e. service
granted or denied, based on the account control result).
Step 7: Assuming a successful account control, the EBCF sends a price request
with a debit instruction to the Rating Function. Otherwise, the EBCF sends a
price request with a release instruction.
Step 8: The Rating Function updates or releases counters as appropriate.
Step 9: The Rating Function acknowledges the operation to the EBCF.
Note that from the network perspective there is immediate charging as
described in 3GPP TS 32.299 [50], i.e. there is no reservation on the account
balance. Nevertheless, internal reservations in the OCS on the counters may be
involved as shown here.
##### 6.2.2.1.2 PriceRequest scenario with Unit Reservation
The following figure describes the case where the EBCF invokes the
PriceRequest method to make reservation but debits after service delivery. Two
PriceRequests are always issued (Reserve & Debit).
The service parameters may be changed in the second request.
Figure : PriceRequest method with Unit Reservation
Step 1: The EBCF receives an online charging request for a certain
event/service.
Step 1\' (Optional):In case there is no existing subscriber\'s context, the
EBCF creates a new subscriber\'s context information. Otherwise, the EBCF
updates the existing subscriber\'s context and get the list of active services
for the given subscriber. This Step only applies when correlation is enabled.
Step 2: The EBCF sends a price request with a reserve instruction to the
Rating Function in order to determine the price of the desired service. Please
note that this scenario assumes that the EBCF has not received any service
cost information in the online charging request.
Step 3: The Rating Function calculates the price and reserves the counters
related to the given service according to the service and subscriber specific
information included in the request and
Step 4: the calculated price is returned to the EBCF.
Step 5: The EBCF reserves the calculated price from the subscriber\'s account.
Step 6: Upon successful reservation it grants the service usage or rejects the
service if there is insufficient balance or if the reservation fails.
Step 7: After service delivery, the serving network node sends an indication
of successful (or unsuccessful) service delivery to the EBCF. (This step is
omitted if the service was rejected in the previous step.)
Step 8: Assuming a successful service delivery, the EBCF sends a price request
with a debit instruction to the Rating Function. Please note that the request
may contain updated information about the consumed service. If the service was
rejected in step 6 or was not successfully delivered, the EBCF sends a price
request with a release instruction instead.
Step 9: The Rating Function re-calculates the price if needed and updates or
releases the counters as necessary.
Step 10: The final calculated price is returned to the EBCF if the service was
delivered successfully. Otherwise a release acknowledgment is sent.
Step 11: The EBCF performs account control, if applicable.
Step 12: Finally, the EBCF sends an acknowledgment message to the serving
network node in order to terminate the online charging dialogue, if the
service was delivered successfully.
#### 6.2.2.2 TariffRequest method
The TariffRequest method is used for bearer charging and IMS session charging,
i.e. only the SBCF uses this method.
All scenarios in this section describe the case where the SBCF invokes the
tariffRequest method for charging or Advice of Charge. All scenarios are valid
independent of the type of applicable \"units\" (i.e. for both, time or
volume).
In the context of bearer charging or session charging, only the Session
charging with unit reservation (SCUR) (3GPP 32.299 [50]) is relevant.
Therefore, only SCUR is considered in this section.
##### 6.2.2.2.1 TariffRequest scenario with successful service delivery
The following figure describes the message flow for the tariff request method.
The scenario describes the case where the SBCF invokes the tariffRequest
method for charging several times during the same session, with successful
reservation and service delivery.
Figure : Tariff request scenario with successful service delivery
Step 1: The SBCF receives an online charging request referring to an MS\'s
bearer/session usage.
Step 1\' (Optional):In case there is no existing subscriber\'s context, the
SBCF creates a new subscriber\'s context information. Otherwise, the SBCF
updates the existing subscriber\'s context and get the list of active services
for the given subscriber. This Step only applies when correlation is enabled.
Step 2: The SBCF requests tariff information applicable for this
bearer/session. The initial amount of requested units is predetermined
according to the operator policy. Note that the requested units are required
for counters reservation in the Rating Function.
Step 3: The Rating Function retrieves the appropriate tariff to be applied for
the bearer/session and reserves counter values if needed.
Step 4: The Rating Function returns the tariff information to the SBCF.
Step 5: Based on the received tariff, the SBCF calculates the price. The SBCF
performs account balance reservation.
Step 6: If the reservation fails due to insufficient account balance, the SBCF
recalculates the granted units and price based on the received tariff
information and the available account balance. Note that the granted units are
limited by the amount of requested units and the amount of valid units. The
SBCF performs an adjusted account balance reservation.
Step 7: Assuming a successful account balance reservation, the SBCF returns
the granted units to the requesting network element. Otherwise, the service is
being denied (see subclause 6.2.2.2.2 for details).
Step 8: When the granted units have been used or the tariff has expired, a new
request is send from the network element to the SBCF.
Step 9: The SBCF requests another quota of requested units for the service.
The amount of requested units can be optimized, based on the tariff
information and account balance.
Step 9-Number range StepNumber range StepNumber range Step14: Repeat steps
2-7.
Step 15: The session ends and a final charging request is issued with updated
session details (e.g. exact session length).
Step 16: The SBCF sends a final rating request with a debit instruction.
Step 17: The Rating Function performs final rating for the consumed resources
and adjusts the counters accordingly.
Step 18: The Rating Function returns the final price to the SBCF.
Step 19: Based on the received price, the SBCF performs final account control.
Step 20: Finally, the SBCF sends an acknowledgment message to the serving
network node in order to terminate the online charging dialogue.
In this scenario a tariff request message is send whenever an online charging
request is received from the mobile network. The first tariff request message
at the beginning of the session is marked \"with reservation\". The last
tariff request at the end of the session is marked \"with debit\". Any number
(0 or more) of tariff requests (marked \"with reservation\") can appear during
the session. During the session steps 9-14 can be repeated multiple times.
Between any repetitions of those sequences, the charging session parameters
that are relevant for rating may change. The change can be solicited (e.g.
tariff switch) or unsolicited (e.g. QoS change). The network element issues
another charging request in those cases i.e. on expiry time if tariff switch
occurred, when granted units are consumed or QoS is changed.
To allow for correct charging of this kind of scenarios, the rating function
needs to make sure that all tariff information contained in a TariffResponse
message expires between the next two tariff switches, i.e. between the tariff
switch time that is defined within this TariffResponse message and the next
subsequent tariff switch time. For this purpose, a parameter ExpiryTime is
used. The ExpiryTime defines, how long the tariff information contained in the
TariffResponse message is valid after the timestamp of the TariffRequest that
triggered this response. For the handling of multiple tariff switches, it is
recommended to set the ExpiryTime to the difference between the next two
tariff switch times.
It should be noted that the ExpiryTime may also be used when _no_ tariff
switch is foreseen, to ensure a subsequent tariff retrieval operation after a
specified time period has passed.
The tariff request message contains session, subscriber and service
information, the number of the requested units (quota) from the service and
information about the previously consumed service quota, as applicable.
In the first tariff request message, the number of the requested units is
predetermined in the SBCF (e.g. according to the service; 15 Minutes for a
data service as an example). The rating function retrieves the appropriate
tariff, makes counters reservations and returns the tariff.
In subsequent tariff request messages, the charging function can take into
account the account balance and the applied tariff and try to optimize the
number of the requested units in order to minimize the number of tariff
retrievals. The charging function sends information on both, the passed quota
and the new quota. Specifically, when a tariff switch occurred, the charging
function shall pass the consumed units before and after the tariff switch in
the following tariff request message. The rating function, adjusts the
reserved counters if needed as a result from the updated information. The
rating function makes new counters reservations for the next quota and returns
the tariff for the next quota.
In the response to the tariff request message with reservation indication the
rating function returns the applicable tariff. The charging function is
responsible to calculate the price and to keep the account balance reservation
accordingly.
If the calculated price is higher than the account balance, the charging
function shall re-calculate the price and the number of the granted service
units based on the received tariff information and the account balance. The
rating function will adjust the counter reservation based on the actual number
of service units consumed in a subsequent Tariff Request message.
In response to a TariffRequest message with debit indication, the
TariffResponse message contains the final service price.
##### 6.2.2.2.2 TariffRequest scenario with service denial or unsuccessful
delivery
The following figure describes the message flow for the tariff request method.
The scenario describes the case where the SBCF invokes the tariffRequest
method and the service delivery is denied (e.g. due to insufficient account
balance) or where the service is not delivered (e.g. party didn\'t answer).
Figure : Tariff request scenario with service denial or unsuccessful delivery
Step 1-Number range StepNumber range StepNumber range StepNumber range Step6:
Repeat the same scenario in figure in subclause 6.2.2.2.1.
Step 7: Assuming a successful account balance reservation, the SBCF returns
the granted units to the requesting network element. Otherwise, the service is
being denied.
Step 8: The service is not delivered (e.g. the called party doesn\'t answer)
and the network element informs the SBCF about the unsuccessful delivery. (If
the service was denied on step 7, this step is omitted.)
Step 9: The SBCF sends a Tariff Request with a release instruction.
Step 10: The Rating Function releases the counters accordingly.
Step 11: The Rating Function acknowledges the operation to the SBCF.
Step 12: The SBCF performs final account control (i.e. releases account
balance reservations). If the reservation failed already in step 6, this step
is omitted.
Step 13: Finally, the SBCF sends an acknowledgment message to the serving
network node in order to terminate the online charging dialogue.
In this scenario the service was not delivered in one of the following cases:
  * **Service denied** \--e.g. in the case of insufficient account balance.
  * **Service delivery unsuccessful** \--e.g. network failure or destination party doesn\'t answer.
Reservations made to the account balance and to counters are fully released.
The charging function is using a tariff request message with a release request
subtype to explicitly denote that the service was not delivered.
#### 6.2.2.3 ServiceUsageRequest with reservation method
All message flows described in this section are applicable for the SBCF.
In the context of bearer charging or session charging, only the Session
charging with unit reservation (SCUR) [50] is relevant. Therefore, only SCUR
is considered in this section.
In the ServiceUsageRequest, a monetary quota is passed to the Rating Function
and the response contains the allowed service units for this monetary quota.
The following figure describes the message flow for the service usage request
method. The scenario describes the case where the SBCF invokes the
ServiceUsageRequest method for charging several times during the same session,
with reservation.
Figure : Service usage request method with reservation
Step 1: The SBCF receives an online charging request referring to an MS\'s
bearer/session usage.
Step 2: The SBCF performs account balance reservation, based on the operator
policy (typically the reservation will be service dependent). If there is
insufficient balance, the available amount in the account balance is reserved.
Step 2\' (Optional):In case there is no existing subscriber\'s context, the
SBCF creates a new subscriber\'s context information. Otherwise, the SBCF
updates the existing subscriber\'s context and get the list of active services
for the given subscriber. This Step only applies when correlation is enabled.
Step 3: The SBCF requests the allowed usage of this service (service units)
for the given monetary quota (i.e. the amount reserved from the account
balance). The SBCF provides also a minimal number of requested service units.
Step 4: The Rating Function retrieves the appropriate tariff to be applied for
the bearer/session. It calculates the number of service units that are allowed
for the given monetary quota. If the calculated number of service units is
lower than the minimal number of requested units for this service, the minimal
requested units will be used. The Rating Function reserves counter values if
needed and calculates the price. Note that the price may be different than the
given monetary units (e.g. the user has free units from this service or the
given monetary quota was insufficient for the minimal requested units from
this service).
Step 5: The Rating Function returns the allowed usage, price and tariff
information to the SBCF.
Step 6: If the Rating Function has returned a price which is higher than the
initial account balance reservation (e.g. for a premium service), the charging
function makes another reservation to meet the returned price.
Step 7: Assuming a successful account balance reservation, the SBCF returns
the granted units to the requesting network element. Otherwise the service is
denied.
Step 8: When the granted units have been used, a new request is send from the
network element to the SBCF.
Step 9: Based on the tariff information and the price received in step 5 and
the amount already reserved (either in step 2 or 6), the SBCF performs another
account balance reservation.
Step 10-Number range StepNumber range StepNumber range Step14: Repeat steps
3-7 .
Step 15: The session ends and a final charging request is issued with updated
session details (e.g. exact session length).
Step 16: The SBCF sends a final service usage request with a debit
instruction.
Step 17: The Rating Function performs final rating for the consumed resources
and adjusts the counters accordingly.
Step 18: The Rating Function returns the final price to the SBCF.
Step 19: Based on the received price, the SBCF performs final account control.
Step 20: Finally, the SBCF sends an acknowledgment message to the serving
network node in order to terminate the online charging dialogue.
In this scenario a service usage message request is send for every online
charging request. The sequence of steps 8-13 can be repeated multiple times.
Between any repetitions of those sequences, the charging session parameters
that are relevant for rating may change. The change can be solicited (e.g.
tariff switch) or unsolicited (e.g. QoS change). The network element shall
issue another charging request in those cases i.e. on expiry time if tariff
switch occurred, when granted units are consumed or when the QoS is changed.
In all those cases, the charging function, sends information on both, the
passed quota and the new quota. Specifically, when a tariff switch occurred,
the charging function shall pass the consumed units before and after to the
tariff switch in the following tariff request method. The rating function
adjusts the reserved counters if needed as a result from the new information
from the SBCF. The rating function makes new counters reservations for the
next quota and returns the allowed number of service units for the next quota.
To allow for correct charging of this kind of scenarios, the rating function
needs to make sure that all tariff information contained in a TariffResponse
message expires between the next two tariff switches, i.e. between the tariff
switch time that is defined within this TariffResponse message and the next
subsequent tariff switch time. For this purpose, a parameter ExpiryTime is
used. The ExpiryTime defines, how long the tariff information contained in the
TariffResponse message is valid after the timestamp of the TariffRequest that
triggered this response. For the handling of multiple tariff switches, it is
recommended to set the ExpiryTime to the difference between the next two
tariff switch times.
It should be noted that the ExpiryTime may also be used when _no_ tariff
switch is foreseen, to ensure a subsequent tariff retrieval operation after a
specified time period has passed.
The service usage request message contains the reserved monetary quota for the
service. The monetary quota in the first service usage request message is
predetermined in the SBCF (e.g. according to the service). The predetermined
monetary quota shall be designed to be sufficient for a minimal service usage.
In some cases (e.g. premium services), setting the monetary quota to meet a
minimal service usage can not be guaranteed. Hence, the first service usage
request contains also a minimal number of service units required. The Rating
Function retrieves the appropriate tariff and calculates the allowed number of
service units. The number of service units is calculated as the maximum of the
minimal requested units and the number of units that can be consumed for the
given monetary quota.
If the service is free of charge (e.g. the user has some free service units),
the Rating Function may not allow the whole quantity at once. If the free
service units are shared between several users, the rating function may break
the allowed units to smaller quotas to enable sharing of the free service
units between the users, based on the operators policy. The Rating Function
returns also the accumulated price for the consumed service and the requested
service in the current quota. The price is used by the Charging Function to
determine if additional account balance reservation is needed.
Service denial is being handled in the same manner as in the tariff request
scenario (see subclause 6.2.2.2.2 for details). If the service was not
delivered at all for any reason, an explicit service usage request with a
release request subtype is send from the charging function to the rating
function.
After the first service usage request, subsequent service usage request
messages can take into account the account balance and the applied tariff and
try to optimize the monetary quota in order to minimize the number of service
usage requests. The monetary quota is bounded by the account balance.
Requesting service usage for a very low monetary quota can result in a small
amount of granted service units. In this case, the SBCF may decide to deny the
service and close the session with the actual number of service units
consumed.
The allowed units are calculated as if consumed in the highest tariff
available for the subscriber (e.g. if the volume tariff is time dependent, the
price will be calculated as if the volume was consumed solely during the
higher rate period). If the tariff is not time dependent, but volume
dependent, the tariff steps will be taken into account in advance.
At the final service usage request message (with the debit indication), the
counters are updated and the final service price is returned. The charging
function is responsible to free any extra reservations made.
# 7 Definition of charging information
## 7.1 Re Message Types and Formats
### 7.1.1 General guidelines
#### 7.1.1.1 General Description of Data types and Message Formats
The messages and data types used on the Re interface are defined based on the
Diameter base protocol [401]. The contents of the messages is defined in
subclause 7.1.2. Primitive data types are used as defined in the specification
of the Diameter base protocol [401]. The structure of more complex data types
is defined in subclause 7.1.3. Details on the Diameter implementation of the
Re interface are described in subclause 7.1.4.
#### 7.1.1.2 Rating Function Class selection
Although the contents of the messages are almost identical, the handling of
the messages in the Rating Function will be different depending on the class
of Rating Function used in a network. To distinguish between both classes of
Rating Functions, the parameter RequestSubType is used.
If a \"Class A\" Rating Function is used, the parameter RequestSubType will
not be present, because there are no subtypes in this case.
If a \"Class B\" Rating Function is used, the parameter RequestSubType will
always be present.
### 7.1.2 Methods
#### 7.1.2.1 PriceRequest Method
This request type is used to determine the price for a given event.
The following tables indicate the contents of the PriceRequest and
PriceResponse messages.
The column \"Status\" denotes, whether the field is \'mandatory\' (M),
\'optional\' (O) or 'not applicable' (-). Optional means that this parameter
shall in general be included if available; if special conditions apply in
addition, then these conditions are described in the \"Description\" column.
The body of the **PriceRequest** message consists of the following fields.
+---------------+---------------+-------------+---------------+---+ | Name | Status in | Description | Example | | | | class | | | | +---------------+---------------+-------------+---------------+---+ | | "A" | "B" | | | +---------------+---------------+-------------+---------------+---+ | SessionID | M | M | Session | | | | | | id | | | | | | entification, | | | | | | used to match | | | | | | the request / | | | | | | response. | | +---------------+---------------+-------------+---------------+---+ | ActualTime | M | M | Actual | | | | | | timestamp of | | | | | | the current | | | | | | request. | | +---------------+---------------+-------------+---------------+---+ | Su | M | M | Identifies | | | bscription-Id | | | the Charged | | | | | | Party.\ | | | | | | This element | | | | | | contains one | | | | | | of the | | | | | | following;\ | | | | | | - MSISDN | | | | | | (E.164 | | | | | | format) | | | | | | | | | | | | - IMSI | | | | | | (E.212 | | | | | | format) | | | | | | | | | | | | - SIP-URL | | | | | | | | | | | | - NAI | | | | | | | | | | | | - private ID | | | | | | (i.e. | | | | | | operator | | | | | | specific). | | | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | Su | | | | | | bscription-Id | | | | | | is described | | | | | | in subclause | | | | | | 7.1.4.2.54. | | | | | | The | | | | | | definition is | | | | | | taken from | | | | | | IETF RRC 4006 | | | | | | [402]. | | | | | | | | | | | | Editor's | | | | | | Note: | | | | | | Applicability | | | | | | of NAI for | | | | | | 3GPP needs to | | | | | | be checked. | | +---------------+---------------+-------------+---------------+---+ | S | M | M | One or more | | | ervice-Rating | | | service | | | | | | elements. If | | | | | | several | | | | | | services are | | | | | | rated with | | | | | | one request, | | | | | | this grouped | | | | | | element is | | | | | | included | | | | | | several | | | | | | times. The | | | | | | structure of | | | | | | S | | | | | | ervice-Rating | | | | | | element is | | | | | | described in | | | | | | subclause | | | | | | 7.1.3.1. | | +---------------+---------------+-------------+---------------+---+
The body of the **PriceResponse** message from the Rating Engine consists of
the following fields:
* * *
Name Status in class Description Example  
"A" "B"  
SessionID M M Session identification, used to match the request / response.  
Service-Rating M M One or more service elements. If several services are rated
with one request, this grouped element is included several times. The
structure of Service-Rating element is described in subclause 7.1.3.1.
* * *
#### 7.1.2.2 TariffRequest Method
The following tables indicate the contents of the TariffRequest and
TariffResponse messages.
The column \"Status\" denotes, whether the field is \'mandatory\' (M),
\'optional\' (O) or 'not applicable' (-).Optional means that this parameter
shall in general be included if available; if special conditions apply in
addition, then these conditions are described in the \"Description\" column.
The body of the **TariffRequest** message consists of the following fields:
+---------------+---------------+-------------+---------------+---+ | Name | Status in | Description | Example | | | | class | | | | +---------------+---------------+-------------+---------------+---+ | | "A" | " B" | | | +---------------+---------------+-------------+---------------+---+ | SessionID | M | M | Session | | | | | | id | | | | | | entification, | | | | | | used to match | | | | | | the request / | | | | | | response. | | +---------------+---------------+-------------+---------------+---+ | FirstRequest | O | O | Indicates | | | | | | that this is | | | | | | the first | | | | | | TariffRequest | | | | | | within this | | | | | | rating | | | | | | dialogue. | | +---------------+---------------+-------------+---------------+---+ | BeginTime | O | O | Ev | | | | | | ent-timestamp | | | | | | of service | | | | | | activation | | | | | | request. | | +---------------+---------------+-------------+---------------+---+ | ActualTime | M | M | Actual | | | | | | timestamp of | | | | | | the current | | | | | | request. | | +---------------+---------------+-------------+---------------+---+ | Su | M | M | Identifies | | | bscription-Id | | | the Charged | | | | | | Party.\ | | | | | | This element | | | | | | contains one | | | | | | of the | | | | | | following;\ | | | | | | - MSISDN | | | | | | (E.164 | | | | | | format) | | | | | | | | | | | | - IMSI | | | | | | (E.212 | | | | | | format) | | | | | | | | | | | | - SIP-URL | | | | | | | | | | | | - NAI | | | | | | | | | | | | - private ID | | | | | | (i.e. | | | | | | operator | | | | | | specific). | | | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | Su | | | | | | bscription-Id | | | | | | is described | | | | | | in subclause | | | | | | 7.1.4.2.54. | | | | | | The | | | | | | definition is | | | | | | taken from | | | | | | IETF RRC 4006 | | | | | | [402]. | | | | | | | | | | | | Editor's | | | | | | Note: | | | | | | Applicability | | | | | | of NAI for | | | | | | 3GPP needs to | | | | | | be checked. | | +---------------+---------------+-------------+---------------+---+ | S | M | M | One or more | | | ervice-Rating | | | service | | | | | | elements. If | | | | | | several | | | | | | services are | | | | | | rated with | | | | | | one request, | | | | | | this grouped | | | | | | element is | | | | | | included | | | | | | several | | | | | | times. The | | | | | | structure of | | | | | | S | | | | | | ervice-Rating | | | | | | element is | | | | | | described in | | | | | | subclause | | | | | | 7.1.3.1. | | +---------------+---------------+-------------+---------------+---+
The body of the **TariffResponse** message from the Rating Engine consists of
the following fields:
* * *
Name Status in class Description Example  
"A" "B"  
SessionID M M Session identification, used to match the request / response.  
Service-Rating M M One or more service elements. If several services are rated
with one request, this grouped element is included several times. The
structure of Service-Rating element is described in subclause 7.1.3.1.
* * *
#### 7.1.2.3 ServiceUsageRequest Method
The ServiceUsageRequest Method is implemented only if Class B rating function
is used.
The following tables indicate the contents of the ServiceUsageRequest and
ServiceUsageResponse messages.
The column \"Status\" denotes, whether the field is \'mandatory\' (M),
\'optional\' (O) or 'not applicable' (-). Optional means that this parameter
shall in general be included if available; if special conditions apply in
addition, then these conditions are described in the \"Description\" column.
The body of the **ServiceUsageRequest** message consists of the following
fields:
+---------------+---------------+-------------+---------------+---+ | Name | Status in | Description | Example | | | | class | | | | +---------------+---------------+-------------+---------------+---+ | | "A" | "B" | | | +---------------+---------------+-------------+---------------+---+ | SessionID | - | M | Session | | | | | | id | | | | | | entification, | | | | | | used to match | | | | | | the request / | | | | | | response. | | +---------------+---------------+-------------+---------------+---+ | BeginTime | - | O | Ev | | | | | | ent-timestamp | | | | | | of service | | | | | | activation | | | | | | request. | | +---------------+---------------+-------------+---------------+---+ | ActualTime | - | M | Actual | | | | | | timestamp of | | | | | | the current | | | | | | request. | | +---------------+---------------+-------------+---------------+---+ | Su | - | M | Identifies | | | bscription-Id | | | the Charged | | | | | | Party.\ | | | | | | This element | | | | | | contains one | | | | | | of the | | | | | | following;\ | | | | | | - MSISDN | | | | | | (E.164 | | | | | | format) | | | | | | | | | | | | - IMSI | | | | | | (E.212 | | | | | | format) | | | | | | | | | | | | - SIP-URL | | | | | | | | | | | | - NAI | | | | | | | | | | | | - private ID | | | | | | (i.e. | | | | | | operator | | | | | | specific). | | | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | Su | | | | | | bscription-Id | | | | | | is described | | | | | | in subclause | | | | | | 7.1.4.2.54. | | | | | | The | | | | | | definition is | | | | | | taken from | | | | | | IETF RRC 4006 | | | | | | [402]. | | | | | | | | | | | | Editor's | | | | | | Note: | | | | | | Applicability | | | | | | of NAI for | | | | | | 3GPP needs to | | | | | | be checked. | | +---------------+---------------+-------------+---------------+---+ | S | M | M | One or more | | | ervice-Rating | | | service | | | | | | elements. If | | | | | | several | | | | | | services are | | | | | | rated with | | | | | | one request, | | | | | | this grouped | | | | | | element is | | | | | | included | | | | | | several | | | | | | times. The | | | | | | structure of | | | | | | S | | | | | | ervice-Rating | | | | | | element is | | | | | | described in | | | | | | subclause | | | | | | 7.1.3.1. | | +---------------+---------------+-------------+---------------+---+
The body of the **ServiceUsageResponse** message from the Rating Engine
consists of the following fields:
* * *
Name Status in class Description Example  
"A" "B"  
SessionID - M Session identification, used to match the request / response.  
Service-Rating M M One or more service elements. If several services are rated
with one request, this grouped element is included several times. The
structure of Service-Rating element is described in subclause 7.1.3.1.
* * *
### 7.1.3 Parameter Definitions
#### 7.1.3.1 Common Parameters
The **DestinationID** type has the following structure:
+----------------------+--------+-----------------------+---------+ | Name | Status | Description | Example | +----------------------+--------+-----------------------+---------+ | DestinationÂ­IDÂ­Type | M | Type of Subscriber | | | | | information contained | | | | | in the | | | | | DestinationIDData | | | | | element. | | | | | | | | | | Supported are the | | | | | following types: | | | | | | | | | | MSISDN, APN, URL, | | | | | e-mail address,... | | | | | | | | | | Editor's note: | | | | | Further types are | | | | | TBD. | | +----------------------+--------+-----------------------+---------+ | DestinationÂ­IDÂ­DataÂ­ | M | Identifies the | | | | | destination, to which | | | | | the requested service | | | | | is directed.\ | | | | | This element contains | | | | | one of the | | | | | following;\ | | | | | - Number (E.164 | | | | | format, e.g. MSISDN) | | | | | | | | | | - APN | | | | | | | | | | - URL | | | | | | | | | | - e-mail address | | | | | | | | | | - private ID (i.e. | | | | | operator specific). | | +----------------------+--------+-----------------------+---------+
The **Service-Rating** type has the following structure:
Name | Status in class | Description | Available |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| â€œAâ€ | â€œBâ€ |  | PRQ | PRS | TRQ | TRS | SUQ | SUS  
Service-Identifier | M | M | Identifies the service for which the online charging request was sent.  
If M-S-R AVP is not present, this AVP is mandatory. | X | X | X | X | X | X  
DestinationID | O | O | The structure of an individual DestinationID element is described in subclause 7.1.3.1.  
Multiple occurrences of this element are possible. | X |  | X |  | X |   
ServiceÂ­Information | O | O | The structure of a ServiceInformation element is defined in the middle-tier documents and formally specified in TS 32.299 [50]. The content of this parameter corresponds to the service indicated by the ServiceIdentifier. | X |  | X |  |  |   
Extension | O | O | Subscriber or operator-specific information, e.g. contract parameters. The format and content is out of scope for 3GPP standards. | X | X | X | X | X | X  
Counter | O | - | One or multiple Counter elements.  
The structure of an individual Counter element is described in subclause 7.1.3.2 | X |  | X |  |  |   
BasicPriceÂ­Â­TimeÂ­Stamp | O | - | The timestamp of the last charging of the Basic Price, if applicable for the service indicated by the ServiceID. | X |  | X |  |  |   
RequestSubÂ­Type | - | M | Request sub type as described in subclause 7.1.3.3. | X |  | X |  | X |   
Price | M | M | Price for the requested service. |  | X |  | X |  | X  
BillingInfo | O | O | Textual description for bill presentation. |  | X |  | X |  | X  
BasicPrice | O | - | Basic Price for the requested service, e.g. basic fee once per day. |  | X |  | X |  |   
CounterÂ­Â­Â­Price | O | - | One or multiple CounterPrice elements. The structure of an individual CounterPrice element is described in subclause 7.1.3.2. |  | X |  |  |  |   
ImpactOn  
Counter | - | O | Description of the impacted counters. This parameter is being used only in the result of a  
request with a debit request subtype. The structure of an individual impact on counter element is described in subclause 7.1.3.3. Multiple occurrences of this element might be used. |  | X |  | X |  | X  
RequestedUnits | - | O | The number of requested units from the service. This parameter is mandatory in a request with reservation request subtype. |  |  | X |  |  |   
ConsumedUnits | - | O | The total number of consumed units of the service since previous request. |  |  | X |  | X |   
ConsumedUnits  
AfterTariffSwitch | - | O | The number of consumed units of the service since previous request after tariff switch occurred. This parameter is mandatory if the tariff switch occurred since the previous request. |  |  | X |  | X |   
TariffSwitchÂ­Time | O | O | Time in Seconds from the time in parameter ActualTime of the TariffRequest until a tariff switch occurs.  
'0' means immediately (the second tariff is valid). |  |  |  | X |  | X  
Current-Tariff | M | O | Tariff that are currently valid. Tariff structure is defined in [50]. Class "B": This parameter is mandatory in the response message after a request with reservation subtype. |  |  |  | X |  | X  
Next-Â­Tariff | O | O | Tariff after the next TariffSwitch Tariff structure is defined in [50]. |  |  |  | X |  | X  
ExpiryTime | O | O | Time period in seconds from the time in parameter ActualTime of the TariffRequest until the expiration of all tariff information contained in this TariffResponse message.  
_This field may be used e.g. if multiple TariffSwitches are foreseen, or if interworking between limited valid units and TariffSwitches needs to be ensured._ |  |  |  | X |  | X  
ValidUnits | O | O | Defines for how many units the tariff is valid. |  |  |  | X |  |   
MonetaryÂ­Â­TariffÂ­AfterÂ­Â­ValidÂ­Â­Units | O | O | Tariff after all valid units have been used. Tariff structure is defined in subclause 7.1.4.2.45. _This field may be used to optimize service availability in scenarios with limited valid units._ |  |  |  | X |  |   
CounterÂ­Â­Tariff | O | - | One or multiple CounterTariff elements. The structure of an individual CounterTariff element is described in subclause 7.1.3.2. |  |  |  | X |  |   
RequestedÂ­Counter | O | - | One or multiple CounterIDs. Only the counters identified in this list shall be included by the SBCF in subsequent TariffRequest messages within this session. The list is valid until a modified list is received by the SBCF or until the session ends. |  |  |  | X |  |   
MonetaryQuota | - | O | Number of monetary units reserved for the service usage. Mandatory in a reservation request subtype. |  |  |  |  | X |   
Minimal  
RequestedUnits | - | O | The minimal number of requested units from the service. This parameter is mandatory in the first request with reservation request subtype. |  |  |  |  | X |   
AllowedUnits | - | O | Defines how many units can be granted for this monetary quota. Returning the AllowedUnits is mandatory in the reservation and AoC request subtypes. |  |  |  |  |  | X  
#### 7.1.3.2 Class "A" specific Parameters
The **Counter** type has the following structure:
* * *
Name Status Description Example CounterID M Identifies the Counter (i.e. used
to address the counter).  
CounterValue O The actual current value of the Counter. 17 CounterÂ­ExpiryÂ­Date
O Timestamp for the expiration date of the current counter value.
* * *
The **CounterPrice** type has the following structure:
* * *
Name Status Description Example CounterID M Identifies the Counter (i.e. used
to address the counter).  
CounterType O Operator specific value, for descriptive purposes.  
CounterChange O Value with which the counter shall be incremented or
decremented. -2 SetCounterTo O Value, to which the counter shall be set. 50
CounterÂ­ExpiryÂ­Date O Timestamp for the expiration date of the current counter
value.
* * *
The **CounterTariff** type has the following structure:
* * *
Name Status Description Example
CounterID M Identifies the Counter (i.e. used to address the counter).
CounterType O Operator specific value, for descriptive purposes.
CounterChangeÂ­PerSession O Value, with which the counter shall be incremented
or decremented for the whole session. 4
CounterChangeÂ­PerConsumedÂ­ServiceUnit O Value, with which the counter shall be
incremented or decremented per consumed service unit. -1
CounterChangeÂ­Â­Â­Â­Â­Â­Â­ForFirstÂ­ChargeableÂ­TimeUnit O Value, with which the
counter shall be incremented or decremented for the first chargeable unit (as
defined by\ -2 E-parameter E7 from MonetaryTariff).
CounterChangeÂ­Â­PerSubsequentÂ­ChargeableÂ­Â­TimeUnit O Value, with which the
counter shall be incremented or decremented per chargeable unit (as defined
by\ -1 E-parameter E2 from MonetaryTariff, i.e. except for the first unit).
CounterChangeÂ­PerChargeableÂ­VolumeUnit O Value, with which the counter shall
be incremented or decremented per chargeable unit (as defined by\ 3
E-parameter E6 from MonetaryTariff).
CounterChangeÂ­Â­Â­Â­Â­Â­Â­ForFirstÂ­ChargeableÂ­TimeUnitAfterÂ­Switch O Value, with
which the counter shall be incremented or decremented for the first chargeable
unit after a Tariff Switch has occurred (as defined by E-parameter E7 from
NextMonetaryTariff). -4
CounterChangeÂ­Â­PerSubsequentÂ­ChargeableÂ­Â­TimeUnitAfterÂ­Switch O Value, with
which the counter shall be incremented or decremented per chargeable unit
after a Tariff Switch has occurred (as defined by E-parameter E2 from
NextMonetaryTariff, i.e. except for the first unit). -1
CounterChangeÂ­PerChargeableÂ­VolumeUnitAfterÂ­Switch O Value, with which the
counter shall be incremented or decremented per chargeable unit after a Tariff
Switch has occurred (as defined by E-parameter E6 from NextMonetaryTariff). 5
CounterÂ­Threshold O Threshold value for this counter. If this threshold is
reached, all tariff information contained in this TariffResponse message
expires, and the Charging Function shall sent a new TariffRequest message. 30
SetCounterTo O Value, to which the counter shall be set. 50
CounterÂ­ExpiryÂ­Date O Timestamp for the expiration date of the current counter
value.
* * *
#### 7.1.3.3 Class "B" specific Parameters
The parameter RequestSubType can have the following values:
  * AoC - Advice of Charge. In this sub-type, there is no counter > reservation and no counter updates by the Rating Function.
  * Reservation - This Price Request sub-type is used at event > authorization time, prior to granting a service to a user. The > Rating Function will reserve counters as needed according to the > request. A Price Request with a Debit sub-type should follow after > a service successful delivery or a Release sub-type in case the > delivery failed.
  * Debit - This Price Request sub-type is issued when a session ends or > a service was granted successfully to a user, in order to debit a > previously reservation request. The Rating Function will free any > unused portion of an outstanding counter reservation. Note that > multiple Price Requests with a Debit sub-type can be sent during a > session for partial charging.
  * Release - This Price Request sub-type is issued when a service > delivery failed to release a previously reserved amount. The > Rating Function will free any outstanding counter reservation.
The following tables summarize the parameters\' presence in the various
methods and messages. For each request subtype, the column denotes, whether
the field is \'mandatory\' (M), \'optional\' (O) or 'not applicable' (-).
Parameter presence in the **PriceRequest** message:
* * *
Name Reservation Debit Release SessionID M M M ActualTime M M O Subscription-
Id M - - Service-Identifier M - - DestinationID O O - ServiceÂ­Information O O
- Extension O O O RequestSubÂ­Type M M M
* * *
Parameter presence in the **PriceResponse** message:
* * *
Name Reservation Debit Release
SessionID M M M
Price M M M
BillingInfo - O O
Extension O O O
BasicPrice - - -
CounterÂ­Â­Â­Price - - -
ImpactOn\ - O - Counter
* * *
Parameter presence in the **TariffRequest** message:
* * *
Name Reservation Debit Release
SessionID M M M
FirstRequest - - -
BeginTime O - -
ActualTime M M M
Subscription-Id M - -
Service-Identifier M - -
DestinationID O O -
ServiceÂ­Information O O -
Extension O O O
Counter - - -
BasicPriceÂ­Â­TimeÂ­Stamp - - -
RequestSubÂ­Type M M M
RequestedUnits M - -
ConsumedUnits O M -
ConsumedUnits\ O O - AfterTariffSwitch
* * *
Parameter presence in the **TariffResponse** message:
* * *
Name Reservation Debit Release
SessionID M M M
TariffSwitchÂ­Time O - -
Â­Current-Tariff M - -
Next-Â­Tariff O - -
ExpiryTime O - -
ValidUnits O - -
MonetaryÂ­Â­TariffÂ­AfterÂ­Â­ValidÂ­Â­Units - - -
BillingInfo - O -
Extension O O O
CounterÂ­Â­Tariff - - -
RequestedÂ­Counter - - -
BasicPrice - - -
Price - M -
ImpactOn\ - O - Counter
* * *
Parameter presence in the **ServiceUsageRequest** message:
* * *
Name Reservation Debit Release
SessionID M M M
BeginTime O - -
ActualTime M - -
Subscription-Id M M M
Service-Identifier M - -
DestinationID O O -
ServiceÂ­Information O O -
MonetaryQuota O O -
Minimal\ O - - RequestedUnits
Extension O O O
RequestSubType M M M
ConsumedUnits O M -
ConsumedUnits\ O O - AfterTariffSwitch
* * *
Parameter presence in the **ServiceUsageResponse** message:
* * *
Name Reservation Debit Release
SessionID M M M
TariffSwitchÂ­Time O - -
Current-Â­Tariff M - -
Next-Â­Tariff O - -
ExpiryTime O - -
AllowedUnits O - -
Price M M -
BillingInfo - O -
ImpactOn\ - O - Counter
Extension - O O
* * *
The **ImpactOnCounter** type has the following structure:
* * *
Name Status Description Example CounterID M Identifies the Counter (i.e. used
to address the counter).  
CounterValueBegin O The counter value at the beginning of the online charging
session. 17 CounterValueChange M The change in the counter value as result of
the current online charging session. -4 CounterValueEnd O The counter value at
the end of the online charging session. Note that this value may be different
from the value at the beginning of the online charging session plus the value
change in case of concurrent service consumption. 11
* * *
### 7.1.4 Diameter protocol specification
The messages for the Re interface, their formats and their contents are
defined in terms of the Diameter Rating Application, a new 3GPP specific
Diameter application based on the Diameter base protocol [401]. The
application ID for the Diameter Rating Application is _defined in TS 29.230
[205]_.
The messages for the Re interface are defined in the following subclause
7.1.4.1. These are new messages that are not included in the Diameter base
protocol, however, relevant AVPs from the Diameter base protocol are included
in the definition of these messages. Additional AVPs which are required for
the functionality of the Re interface are also included. These additional AVPs
are explained in detail in subclause 7.1.4.2.
Editor\'s Note: We have to define Finite State Machines (for class \"A\" only
for the OCFs, for class \"B\" for both, OCFs and RF)?
Editor\'s Note: Error handling needs to be defined (separate subclause).
#### 7.1.4.1 Diameter Rating messages on the Re interface
The table below describes the use of messages on the Re interface. Details on
the use of these messages can be found in subclause 6.2 of this document.
* * *
**Command-Name** **Source** **Destination** **Abbreviation** **Command-Code**
PriceRequest EBCF RF PRQ  
PriceResponse RF EBCF PRS  
TariffRequest SBCF RF TRQ  
TariffResponse RF SBCF TRS  
ServiceUsageRequest SBCF RF SUQ  
ServiceUsageResponse RF SBCF SUS
* * *
Editor\'s Note: Command codes shall be defined by CN4, and shall be included
in 3GPP TS 29.230.
Editor\'s Note: Do we have to include (some of the) other messages defined in
the Diameter base protocol?
The following subclauses describe the structure of the individual messages on
the Re interface. The descriptions are based directly on the format of the
_Accounting-Request_ and _Accounting-Answer_ messages defined in the base
Diameter protocol specification [401].
The following symbols are used in the tables:
  * \ indicates a mandatory AVP with a fixed position in the > message.
  * {AVP} indicates a mandatory AVP in the message.
  * [AVP] indicates an optional AVP in the message.
  * *AVP indicates that multiple occurrences of an AVP are possible.
##### 7.1.4.1.1 PriceRequest message
The Diameter _PriceRequest_ message as used on the Re interface has the
following structure.
\ :: = \\ \\ {Origin-Host}\
{Origin-Realm}\ {Destination-Realm}\ [Destination-Host]\ [Vendor-Specific-
Application-Id]\ [User-Name]\ [Event-Timestamp]\ {ActualTime}\ {Subscription-
Id}\ *{Service-Rating}
Editor\'s Note: Check if all included AVPs from the Diameter base protocol are
needed.\ Check if additional AVPs from the Diameter base protocol must be
included.
##### 7.1.4.1.2 PriceResponse message
The Diameter _PriceResponse_ message as used on the Re interface has the
following structure.
> \ :: = \\ \\ {Origin-Host}\
> {Origin-Realm}\ [Vendor-Specific-Application-Id]\ [User-Name]\ [Event-
> Timestamp]\ *{Service-Rating}
Editor\'s Note: Check if all included AVPs from the Diameter base protocol are
needed.\ Check if additional AVPs from the Diameter base protocol must be
included.
##### 7.1.4.1.3 TariffRequest message
The Diameter _TariffRequest_ message as used on the Re interface has the
following structure.
> \ :: = \\ \\ {Origin-
> Host}\ {Origin-Realm}\ {Destination-Realm}\ [Destination-Host]\ [Vendor-
> Specific-Application-Id]\ [User-Name]\ [Event-Timestamp]\ [FirstRequest]\
> [BeginTime]\ {ActualTime}\ {Subscription-Id}\ *{Service-Rating}
Editor\'s Note: Check if all included AVPs from the Diameter base protocol are
needed.\ Check if additional AVPs from the Diameter base protocol must be
included.
##### 7.1.4.1.4 TariffResponse message
The Diameter _TariffResponse_ message as used on the Re interface has the
following structure.
> \ :: = \\ \\ {Origin-Host}\
> {Origin-Realm}\ [Vendor-Specific-Application-Id]\ [User-Name]\ [Event-
> Timestamp]\ *{Service-Rating}
Editor\'s Note: Check if all included AVPs from the Diameter base protocol are
needed.\ Check if additional AVPs from the Diameter base protocol must be
included.
##### 7.1.4.1.5 ServiceUsageRequest message
The Diameter _ServiceUsageRequest_ message as used on the Re interface has the
following structure.
\ :: = \\ \\ {Origin-Host}\
{Origin-Realm}\ {Destination-Realm}\ [Destination-Host]\ [Vendor-Specific-
Application-Id]\ [User-Name]\ [Event-Timestamp]\ [BeginTime]\ {ActualTime}\
{Subscription-Id}\ *{Service-Rating}
Editor\'s Note: Check if all included AVPs from the Diameter base protocol are
needed.\ Check if additional AVPs from the Diameter base protocol must be
included.
Editor\'s Note: Check if the order of the AVPs is aligned with the tariff
request.
##### 7.1.4.1.6 ServiceUsageResponse message
The Diameter _ServiceUsageResponse_ message as used on the Re interface has
the following structure.
\ :: = \\ \\ {Origin-Host}\
{Origin-Realm}\ [Vendor-Specific-Application-Id]\ [User-Name]\ [Event-
Timestamp]\ *{Service-Rating}
Editor\'s Note: Check if all included AVPs from the Diameter base protocol are
needed.\ Check if additional AVPs from the Diameter base protocol must be
included.
Editor\'s Note: Check if the order of the AVPs is aligned with the tariff
response.
#### 7.1.4.2 AVPs for Rating on the Re interface
The use of the Attribute Value Pairs (AVPs) that are defined in the Diameter
Base Protocol [401] is specified in\ subclause 7.1.4.1 for the Re interface.
Detailed specification of these AVPs is available in the Diameter base
protocol specification.
Editor's Note: "The 3GPP Rating Application uses the value _xxx_ (3GPP) as
_Vendor-Id_." -- Do we need this ?
Additional AVPs which are not included in the Diameter base protocol are used
for rating purposes in all messages on the Re interface. The use of these AVPs
is described in subclause 7.1.4.1.
Detailed descriptions of AVPs that are used specifically for online rating are
provided in the subclauses below the table. The table contains all AVPs used
for the Diameter Rating application, in alphabetical order. For AVPs that are
just borrowed from other applications only the reference is provided in the
table below, and the detailed description is not repeated.
* * *
**AVP Name** **AVP Code** **Data Type** **Description / Reference**
**AVPs from Diameter base protocol**
[Destination-Host] [401]
{Destination-Realm} [401]
[Event-Timestamp] [401]
{Origin-Host} [401]
{Origin-Realm} [401]
\ [401]
[User-Name] [401]
[Vendor-Specific-Application-Id] [401]
**General Diameter Rating AVPs**
{ActualTime} _TBD_ Time subclause 7.1.4.2.1
[BeginTime] _TBD_ Time subclause 7.1.4.2.5
[FirstRequest] _TBD_ Enumerated subclause 7.1.4.2.41
*{Service-Rating} _TBD_ Grouped 
{Service-Identifier} _TBD_ UTF8String subclause 7.1.4.2.53; [402]
* [DestinationID] _TBD_ Grouped subclause 7.1.4.2.29
{DestinationIDType} _TBD_ Enumerated subclause 7.1.4.2.31
{DestinationIDData} _TBD_ UTF8String subclause 7.1.4.2.30
[ServiceInformation] _TBD_ Grouped Subclause 7.1.4.2.54
[Extension] _TBD_ Grouped subclause 7.1.4.2.40
[Price] _TBD_ Unsigned32 Subclause7.1.4.2.48;\ mandatory in PRS, optional in
TRS
[BillingInfo] _TBD_ UTF8String subclause 7.1.4.2.6
[TariffSwitchTime] _TBD_ Unsigned32 subclause 7.1.4.2.59
{Current-Tariff} _TBD_ Grouped As defined in [50]
[Next-Tariff] _TBD_ Grouped As defined in [50]
[ExpiryTime] _TBD_ Unsigned32 subclause 7.1.4.2.39
[ValidUnits] _TBD_ Unsigned32 subclause 7.1.4.2.60
[MonetaryTariffAfterValidUnits] _TBD_ Grouped subclause 7.1.4.2.45
{Subscription-Id} _TBD_ Grouped subclause 7.1.4.2.56
{Subscription-Id-Type} _TBD_ Enumerated subclause 7.1.4.2.58
{Subscription-Id-Data} _TBD_ UTF8String subclause 7.1.4.2.57; [402]
**Class A specific Diameter Rating AVPs**
*{Service-Rating} _TBD_ Grouped 
* [Counter] _TBD_ Grouped subclause 7.1.4.2.9
{CounterID} _TBD_ Unsigned32 subclause 7.1.4.2.20
[CounterValue] _TBD_ Integer32 subclause 7.1.4.2.25
[CounterExpiryDate] _TBD_ Time subclause 7.1.4.2.19
[BasicPriceTimeStamp] _TBD_ Time subclause 7.1.4.2.4
[BasicPrice] _TBD_ Unsigned32 subclause 7.1.4.2.3
* [CounterPrice] _TBD_ Grouped subclause 7.1.4.2.21
{CounterID} _TBD_ Unsigned32 subclause 7.1.4.2.20
[CounterType] _TBD_ Unsigned32 subclause 7.1.4.2.24
[CounterChange] _TBD_ Integer32 subclause 7.1.4.2.10
[SetCounterTo] _TBD_ Integer32 subclause 7.1.4.2.55
[CounterExpiryDate] _TBD_ Time subclause 7.1.4.2.19
* [CounterTariff] _TBD_ Grouped subclause 7.1.4.2.22
{CounterID} _TBD_ Unsigned32 subclause 7.1.4.2.20
[CounterType] _TBD_ Unsigned32 subclause 7.1.4.2.24
[CounterChangePerSession] _TBD_ Integer32 subclause 7.1.4.2.16
[CounterChangePerConsumedÂ­ ServiceUnit] _TBD_ Integer32 subclause 7.1.4.2.15
[CounterChangeForFirstÂ­ ChargeableTimeUnit] _TBD_ Integer32 subclause
7.1.4.2.11
[CounterChangePerSubsequentÂ­ ChargeableTimeUnit] _TBD_ Integer32 subclause
7.1.4.2.17
[CounterChangePerChargeableÂ­ VolumeUnit] _TBD_ Integer32 subclause 7.1.4.2.13
[CounterChangeForFirstÂ­ ChargeableTimeUnitAfterSwitch] _TBD_ Integer32
subclause 7.1.4.2.12
[CounterChangePerSubsequentÂ­ ChargeableTimeUnitAfterSwitch] _TBD_ Integer32
subclause 7.1.4.2.18
[CounterChangePerChargeableÂ­ VolumeUnitAfterSwitch] _TBD_ Integer32 subclause
7.1.4.2.14
[CounterThreshold] _TBD_ Integer32 subclause 7.1.4.2.23
[SetCounterTo] _TBD_ Integer32 subclause 7.1.4.2.55
[CounterExpiryDate] _TBD_ Time subclause 7.1.4.2.19
* [RequestedCounters] _TBD_ Unsigned32 subclause 7.1.4.2.50
**Class B specific Diameter Rating AVPs**
*{Service-Rating} _TBD_ Grouped 
[RequestSubType] _TBD_ Enumerated subclause 7.1.4.2.52
[ImpactonCounter] _TBD_ Grouped subclause 7.1.4.2.42
{CounterID} _TBD_ Unsigned32 subclause 7.1.4.2.20
[CounterValueBegin] _TBD_ Integer32 subclause 7.1.4.2.26
[CounterValueChange] _TBD_ Integer32 subclause 7.1.4.2.27
[CounterValueEnd] _TBD_ Integer32 subclause 7.1.4.2.28
[RequestedUnits] _TBD_ Unsigned32 subclause 7.1.4.2.51
[ConsumedUnits] _TBD_ Unsigned32 subclause 7.1.4.2.7
[ConsumedUnitsAfterTariffSwitch] _TBD_ Unsigned32 subclause 7.1.4.2.8
[MonetaryQuota] _TBD_ Unsigned32 subclause 7.1.4.2.46
[MinimalRequestedUnits] _TBD_ Unsigned32 subclause 7.1.4.2.43
[AllowedUnits] _TBD_ Unsigned32 subclause 7.1.4.2.2
* * *
Editor\'s Note: AVP codes shall be defined by CN4, and shall be included in
3GPP TS 29.230.
Editor\'s Note: Check if definitions of some AVPs can be replaced by reference
to IETF RRC 4006 [402].
##### 7.1.4.2.1 ActualTime AVP
The ActualTime AVP is of type Time. It contains the actual timestamp of the
current rating request message (i.e. PRQ or TRQ).
Editor\'s Note: Is this AVP necessary, or is the content equal to the Event-
Timestamp AVP from Diameter base?
##### 7.1.4.2.2 AllowedUnits AVP
The AllowedUnits AVP is of type Unsigned32. It defines how many service units
the charging function can grant for the MonetaryQuota reserved.
##### 7.1.4.2.3 BasicPrice AVP
The BasicPrice AVP is of type Unsigned32. It contains a basic fee, that is
applicable e.g. only once per day. If the BasicPrice AVP is received by an
online charging function, the charging function will deduct this price from
the subscriber\'s Account Balance, and it will store the current system time
internally as timestamp for the last charging of the Basic Price.
##### 7.1.4.2.4 BasicPriceTimeStamp AVP
The BasicPriceTimeStamp AVP is of type Time. It contains the timestamp of the
last charging of the Basic Price which is applicable for the service indicated
in the current request.
##### 7.1.4.2.5 BeginTime AVP
The BeginTime AVP is of type Time. It contains the timestamp of the service
activation request from the network.
##### 7.1.4.2.6 BillingInfo AVP
The BillingInfo AVP is of type UTF8String. It contains billing relevant
information. The content of this AVP is operator specific and out of scope for
3GPP standards.
##### 7.1.4.2.7 ConsumedUnits AVP
The ConsumedUnits AVP is of type Unsigned32. It defines how many service units
were totally consumed since the previous TRQ or SUQ message. This information
is being used by the RF to update counters and track the price.
##### 7.1.4.2.8 ConsumedUnitsAfterTariffSwitch AVP
The ConsumedUnitsAfterTariffSwitch AVP is of type Unsigned32. It defines how
many service units were totally consumed after tariff switch since the
previous TRQ or SUQ message. If no tariff switch occurred, the value 0 shall
be used. This information is being used by the RF to update counters and track
the price.
##### 7.1.4.2.9 Counter AVP
The Counter AVP is of type Grouped. It contains information related to a
specified counter of the subscriber, as stored in the Account Balance
Management Function. Multiple Counter AVPs can be included in one rating
request message (i.e. PRQ or TRQ).
The Counter AVP has the following format:
> Counter :: = \\ {CounterID}\ [CounterValue]\
> [CounterExpiryDate]
##### 7.1.4.2.10 CounterChange AVP
The CounterChange AVP is of type Integer32. It contains the value, with which
the addressed counter (as identified by the associated CounterID AVP) shall be
incremented or decremented.
##### 7.1.4.2.11 CounterChangeForFirstChargeableTimeUnit AVP
The CounterChangeForFirstChargeableTimeUnit AVP is of type Integer32. It
contains the value, with which the addressed counter (as identified by the
associated CounterID AVP) shall be incremented or decremented for the first
chargeable time unit. The first chargeable time unit is defined by the
EParameterE7 AVP in the MonetaryTariff AVP.
##### 7.1.4.2.12 CounterChangeForFirstChargeableTimeUnitAfterSwitch AVP
The CounterChangeForFirstChargeableTimeUnitAfterSwitch AVP is of type
Integer32. It contains the value, with which the addressed counter (as
identified by the associated CounterID AVP) shall be incremented or
decremented for the first chargeable time unit, if a tariff switch has
occurred immediately at the beginning of the online charging session. In this
case, the first chargeable time unit is defined by the EParameterE7 AVP in the
Next-Tariff AVP.
##### 7.1.4.2.13 CounterChangePerChargeableVolumeUnit AVP
The CounterChangePerChargeableVolumeUnit AVP is of type Integer32. It contains
the value, with which the addressed counter (as identified by the associated
CounterID AVP) shall be incremented or decremented per chargeable volume unit.
The chargeable volume unit is defined by the EParameterE6 AVP in the Current-
Tariff AVP.
##### 7.1.4.2.14 CounterChangePerChargeableVolumeUnitAfterSwitch AVP
The CounterChangePerChargeableVolumeUnitAfterSwitch AVP is of type Integer32.
It contains the value, with which the addressed counter (as identified by the
associated CounterID AVP) shall be incremented or decremented per chargeable
volume unit after a tariff switch has occurred. The chargeable volume unit is
defined by the EParameterE6 AVP in the Next-Tariff AVP.
##### 7.1.4.2.15 CounterChangePerConsumedServiceUnit AVP
The CounterChangePerConsumedServiceUnit AVP is of type Integer32. It contains
the value, with which the addressed counter (as identified by the associated
CounterID AVP) shall be incremented or decremented per consumed service unit.
##### 7.1.4.2.16 CounterChangePerSession AVP
The CounterChangePerSession AVP is of type Integer32. It contains the value,
with which the addressed counter (as identified by the associated CounterID
AVP) shall be incremented or decremented once for the whole online charging
session.
##### 7.1.4.2.17 CounterChangePerSubsequentChargeableTimeUnit AVP
The CounterChangePerSubsequentChargeableTimeUnit AVP is of type Integer32. It
contains the value, with which the addressed counter (as identified by the
associated CounterID AVP) shall be incremented or decremented per chargeable
time unit, except for the first chargeable time unit. The chargeable time unit
is defined by the EParameterE2 AVP in the Current-Tariff AVP.
##### 7.1.4.2.18 CounterChangePerSubsequentChargeableTimeUnitAfterSwitch AVP
The CounterChangePerSubsequentChargeableTimeUnitAfterSwitch AVP is of type
Integer32. It contains the value, with which the addressed counter (as
identified by the associated CounterID AVP) shall be incremented or
decremented per chargeable time unit (except for the first chargeable time
unit) after a tariff switch has occurred. In this case, the chargeable time
unit is defined by the EParameterE2 AVP in the Next-Tariff AVP.
##### 7.1.4.2.19 CounterExpiryDate AVP
The CounterExpiryDate AVP is of type Time. It contains the timestamp, at which
the current value of the addressed counter (as identified by the associated
CounterID AVP) expires.
##### 7.1.4.2.20 CounterID AVP
The CounterID AVP is of type Unsigned32. It is used to address a specific
counter, i.e. it identifies the counter. Therefore, the CounterID must be
unique for each subscriber.
##### 7.1.4.2.21 CounterPrice AVP
The CounterPrice AVP is of type Grouped. It is used in the PriceResponse
message, and it contains information on how the online charging function shall
modify a specified counter of the subscriber in the Account Balance Management
Function.
The CounterPrice AVP has the following format:
> CounterPrice :: = \\ {CounterID}\ [CounterType]\
> [CounterChange]\ [SetCounterTo]\ [CounterExpiryDate]
##### 7.1.4.2.22 CounterTariff AVP
The CounterTariff AVP is of type Grouped. It is used in the TariffResponse
message, and it contains information on how the online charging function shall
modify a specified counter of the subscriber in the Account Balance Management
Function.
The CounterTariff AVP has the following format:
> CounterTariff :: = \\ {CounterID}\ [CounterType]\
> [CounterChangePerSession]\ [CounterChangePerConsumedServiceUnit]\
> [CounterChangeForFirstChargeableTimeUnit]\
> [CounterChangePerSubsequentChargeableTimeUnit]\
> [CounterChangePerChargeableVolumeUnit]\
> [CounterChangeForFirstChargeableTimeUnitAfterSwitch]\
> [CounterChangePerSubsequentChargeableTimeUnitAfterSwitch]\
> [CounterChangePerChargeableVolumeUnitAfterSwitch]\ [CounterThreshold]\
> [SetCounterTo]\ [CounterExpiryDate]
##### 7.1.4.2.23 CounterThreshold AVP
The CounterThreshold AVP is of type Integer32. It contains a threshold value
for the addressed counter (identified by the associated CounterID AVP). If the
value of the specified counter reaches this threshold value, all tariff
information contained in the TRS message expires, and the Online Charging
Function shall sent a new TRQ message to the Rating Function.
##### 7.1.4.2.24 CounterType AVP
The CounterType AVP is of type Unsigned32. It contains an operator specific
value which characterizes the addressed counter (identified by the associated
CounterID AVP). The CounterType AVP is used only for descriptive purposes. In
contrast to the CounterID AVP, the CounterType AVP may be not unique.
##### 7.1.4.2.25 CounterValue AVP
The CounterValue AVP is of type Integer32. It contains the actual current
value for the addressed counter (identified by the associated CounterID AVP)
as stored in the Account Balance Management Function.
##### 7.1.4.2.26 CounterValueBegin AVP
The CounterValueBegin AVP is of type Integer32. It contains the value for the
addressed counter (identified by the associated CounterID AVP) at the
beginning of the current online charging session.
##### 7.1.4.2.27 CounterValueChange AVP
The CounterValueChange AVP is of type Integer32. It contains the change of the
value for the addressed counter (identified by the associated CounterID AVP)
as result of the current online charging session.
##### 7.1.4.2.28 CounterValueEnd AVP
The CounterValueEnd AVP is of type Integer32. It contains the value for the
addressed counter (identified by the associated CounterID AVP) at the end of
the current online charging session.
##### 7.1.4.2.29 DestinationID AVP
The DestinationID AVP is of type Grouped. It contains information about the
destination of the service usage in the network (e.g. the called party in a
telephony scenario). Multiple Destination AVPs can be included in one rating
request message (i.e. PRQ or TRQ), if the service is directed towards multiple
destinations (e.g. one SMS to multiple recipients).
The DestinationID AVP has the following format:
> DestinationID :: = \\ {DestinationIDType}\
> {DestinationIDData}
##### 7.1.4.2.30 DestinationIDData AVP
The DestinationIDData AVP is of type UTF8String. Its contents identify the
destination to which the requested service is directed (e.g. the called party
in a telephony scenario, the recipient of an SMS, ...). The DestinationIDType
AVP defines which type of identifier is used.
If an APN is included in the DestinationIDData AVP, it should be noted that
3GPP TS 23.003 [203] defines the APN with a maximum length of 100 octets, but
3GPP TS 29.002 [204] uses a length of 63.
##### 7.1.4.2.31 DestinationIDType AVP
The DestinationIDType AVP is of type Enumerated. It is used inside the
DestinationID AVP, and it indicates which kind of destination information is
contained in this DestinationIDData AVP.
The following values are currently defined for the DestinationIDType AVP:
> 0: Destination_Number\ 1: Destination_APN\ 2: Destination_URL\ 3:
> Destination_EmailAddress\ 4: Destination_PrivateID
##### 7.1.4.2.32 Void
##### 7.1.4.2.33 Void
##### 7.1.4.2.34 Void
##### 7.1.4.2.35 Void
##### 7.1.4.2.36 Void
##### 7.1.4.2.37 Void
##### 7.1.4.2.38 Void
##### 7.1.4.2.39 ExpiryTime AVP
The ExpiryTime AVP is of type Unsigned32. It is used in the TRS message. It
contains the time period in seconds from the time included in the ActualTime
AVP of the corresponding TRQ message until all tariff information contained in
this TRS message expires.
The online charging function shall start a timer whenever a TRQ message is
sent (i.e. at the timestamp indicated in the ActualTime AVP of the TRQ
message). When this timer reaches the value indicated in the ExpiryTime AVP of
the TRS message that is received in response, the online charging function
shall send a new TRQ message to the Rating Function.
##### 7.1.4.2.40 Extension AVP
The Extension AVP is of type Grouped. Its purpose is to allow transmission of
additional information elements not covered by this document, in order to meet
operator-specific requirements.
The format and the contents of this AVP are vendor- and/or operator-specific.
The definition of this AVP is out of scope for 3GPP standards.
Note that the format of the Extension AVP may be different in the various
messages of the Diameter Rating Application (i.e. PRQ, PRS, TRQ, TRS).
Editor\'s Note: Check if the notation \"* [AVP]\" can be used alternatively.
##### 7.1.4.2.41 FirstRequest AVP
The FirstRequest AVP is of type Enumerated. Its purpose is to indicate,
whether this TariffRequest message is the first Tariff Request message within
this rating dialogue, i.e. this message \"initiates\" the rating dialogue.
The following values are defined for the FirstRequest AVP:
> 0: Subsequent Request:\ this is not the first Tariff Request message within
> this rating dialogue\ 1: First Request:\ this is the first Tariff Request
> message in this rating dialogue
If the FirstRequest AVP is not included in a TariffRequest message, this shall
be interpreted as a FirstRequest AVP set to \"0\", i.e. the TariffRequest is
not the first request in this rating dialogue.
##### 7.1.4.2.42 ImpactOnCounter AVP
The ImpactOnCounter AVP is of type Grouped. It contains information on how the
counter has been modified as a result of the current online session. It is
used by the Charging Data Function for inclusion in the CDRs (refer to
subclause 7.2).
The ImpactOnCounter AVP has the following format:
> ImpactOnCounter:: = \\ {CounterID}\
> [CounterValueBegin]\ {CounterValueChange}\ [CounterValueEnd]
##### 7.1.4.2.43 MinimalRequestedUnits AVP
The MinimalRequestedUnits AVP is of type Unsigned32. It defines the minimal
number of service units the charging function intends to grant. This
information is being used by the RF to calculate the allowed units and to
reserve counters.
##### 7.1.4.2.44 Void
##### 7.1.4.2.45 MonetaryTariffAfterValidUnits AVP
The MonetaryTariffAfterValidUnits AVP is of type Grouped. It is used in the
TariffResponse message, and it contains the tariff information that is valid
after all valid units (as indicated in the ValidUnits AVP) have been used.
This AVP may be used to optimize service availability in call scenarios
involving a limited number of valid units (ref. to subsection 6.2.1.2.3 for
details).
The MonetaryTariffAfterValidUnits AVP may only be included in a TRS message,
if the ValidUnits AVP is also included in the same message.
> The MonetaryTariffAfterValidUnits AVP has the same structure as Next-Tariff
> AVP.
##### 7.1.4.2.46 MonetaryQuota AVP
The MonetaryQuota AVP is of type Unsigned32. It defines the amount of monetary
units reserved by the charging function. The rating function calculates the
amount of service units that can be consumed with this amount.
##### 7.1.4.2.47 Service-Rating AVP
The Service-Rating AVP is of type Grouped. It is used in the all messages once
if single service is rated or multiple times if several services are rated in
a single transaction.
The Service-Rating AVP has the following format:
> Service-Rating :: = \\ {Service-Identifier}\
> *[DestinationID]\ [ServiceInformation]\ [Extension]\ [Price]\ [BillingInfo]\
> [TariffSwitchTime]\ {MonetaryTariff}\ [NextMonetaryTariff]\ [ExpiryTime]\
> [ValidUnits]\ [MonetaryTariffAfterValidUnits]\ * [Counter]\
> [BasicPriceTimeStamp]\ [BasicPrice]\ * [CounterPrice]\ * [CounterTariff]\ *
> [RequestedCounters]\ [RequestSubType]\ [ImpactonCounter]\ [RequestedUnits]\
> [ConsumedUnits]\ [ConsumedUnitsAfterTariffSwitch]\ [MonetaryQuota]\
> [MinimalRequestedUnits]\ [AllowedUnits]
##### 7.1.4.2.48 Void
##### 7.1.4.2.49 Price AVP
The Price AVP is of type Unsigned32. It contains the price of the requested
service.
##### 7.1.4.2.50 RequestedCounter AVP
The RequestedCounter AVP is of type Unsigned32. An individual RequestedCounter
AVP contains the ID of a counter (ref. 7.1.4.2.19). Multiple RequestedCounter
AVPs may be included in one TRS message.
Only counters with CounterIDs included as a RequestedCounter AVP in a TRS
message shall be included by the online charging function in subsequent TRQ
messages within this session. The list of RequestedCounters is valid until a
modified list is received by the online charging function in a subsequent TRS
message or until the online charging session ends (i.e. if the list of
requested counters does not change during the online charging session, the
RequesedCounter AVPs must only be included in the first TRS message during
this online charging session).
##### 7.1.4.2.51 RequestedUnits AVP
The RequestedUnits AVP is of type Unsigned32. It defines how many service
units the charging function intends to grant. This information is being used
by the RF to reserve counters.
##### 7.1.4.2.52 RequestSubType AVP
The RequestSubType AVP is of type Enumerated. It is used when class \"B\"
rating function is used (for details see subclause 7.1.3.3).
The following values are currently defined for the RequestSubType AVP:
0: REQ_SUBTYPE_AOC\ 1: REQ_SUBTYPE_RESERVE\ 2: REQ_SUBTYPE_DEBIT\ 3:
REQ_SUBTYPE_RELEASE
##### 7.1.4.2.53 Service-Identifier AVP
Refer to IETF RRC 4006 [402] for details.
##### 7.1.4.2.54 ServiceInformation AVP
The ServiceInformation AVP is defined in 3GPP TS 32.299.
Note that the Location Information is included inside the Service Information
AVP.
##### 7.1.4.2.55 SetCounterTo AVP
The SetCounterTo AVP is of type Integer32. It contains a value, to which the
addressed counter (as identified by the associated CounterID AVP) shall be
set. This AVP may be used, e.g., to reset counters.
Using the SetCounterTo AVP, the Rating Function can also trigger the creation
of new counters: if the addressed counter does not exist, the Charging
Function shall create this counter in the Account Balance Management Function
and initialize it with the value contained in the SetCounterTo AVP.
##### 7.1.4.2.56 Subscription-Id AVP
The Subscription-Id AVP is of type Grouped. It contains information which
identifies the subscriber, to which the online charging session applies (i.e.
the charged party).
The SubscriberID AVP has the following format:
> Subscription-ID :: = \\ {Subscription-Id-Type}\
> {Subscription-Id-Data}
Refer to IETF RRC 4006 [402] for details.
##### 7.1.4.2.57 Subscription-Id-Data AVP
Refer to IETF RRC 4006 [402] for details.
##### 7.1.4.2.58 Subscription-Id-Type AVP
The Subscription-Id-Type AVP is of type Enumerated. It is used inside the
Subscription-Id AVP, and it indicates which kind of subscriber information is
contained in this Subscription-Id AVP.
The following values are currently defined for the Subscription-Id-Type AVP:
> 0: END_USER_E164\ 1: END_USER_IMSI\ 2: END_USER_SIP_URI\ 3: END_USER_NAI\ 4:
> END_USER_PRIVATE
Refer to IETF RRC 4006 [402] for details.
##### 7.1.4.2.59 TariffSwitchTime AVP
The TariffSwitchTime AVP is of type Unsigned32. It is used in the TRS message.
It contains the time period in seconds from the time included in the
ActualTime AVP of the corresponding TRQ message until the next tariff switch
occurs. A value \"0\" of the TariffSwitchTime AVP means, that the tariff
switch occurs immediately, i.e. the tariff information contained in the
NextMonetaryTariff AVP is valid immediately.
##### 7.1.4.2.60 ValidUnits AVP
The ValidUnits AVP is of type Unsigned32. It is used in the TRS message. It
defines, for how many consumed service units the tariff information in this
TRS message is valid. After the number of units defined in the ValidUnits AVP
has been consumed by the subscriber, the online charging function shall send a
new TRQ message to the Rating Function. If available, the online charging
function may use the MonetaryTariffAfterValidUnits AVP to charge service
consumption after all valid units have been consumed (ref. to subsection
6.2.1.2.3 for details).
## 7.2 OCS Charging data records
Only general requirements on the generation and the contents of OCS CDRs are
described in the present document. The detailed implementation is vendor
specific and may be standardized in a later release.
### 7.2.1 General description
OCS charging data records (CDRs) are created in the Charging Data Function
(CDF), which is always integrated in the Online Charging Functions (i.e. EBCF,
SBCF). The generation of an OCS CDR is triggered by the first incoming online
charging request from the network. The record remains open during the complete
online charging session. It is closed after the final online charging response
is sent from the OCF to the network (refer to subsection 6.2 for a definition
of online charging request and online charging response). Partial records may
be supported for some scenarios, e.g. for packet switched bearer charging.
OCS CDRs are transferred immediately from the CDF to the Charging Gateway
Function (CGF) via the Ga reference point. The CGF forwards CDRs via the Bo
reference point to the operator\'s post-processing systems.
The following types of OCS charging data records shall be supported:
  1. in the scope of bearer level charging:
     * OCS CDR(s) for CS Charging
     * OCS CDR(s) for PS Charging
     * OCS CDR(s) for WLAN Charging
> Note that bearer level charging also covers SMS.
  1. in the scope of subsystem level charging:
  2. OCS CDR(s) for IMS Charging
  3. in the scope of service (event) level charging:
  4. OCS CDR(s) for MMS Charging
  5. OCS CDR(s) for LCS Charging
  6. OCS CDR(s) for PoC Charging
  7. OCS CDR(s) for MBMS Charging
  8. OCS CDR(s) for SMS Charging
  9. OCS CDR(s) for MMTel Charging
Additional CDRs may be supported for further services.
OCS records include only data from the incoming online charging requests and
internal data from the OCS. The following charging data are required in CDRs
(if applicable for the online charging session):
  * data relevant for charging from CAP messages (InitialDP, ApplyChargingReport, ...)
  * data relevant for charging from Ro messages (Credit Control Request)
  * tariff information received from the Rating Function
  * call / session charges
  * account balance at the end of the online charging session
  * counter values at the beginning and at the end of the online charging session; optionally also the change of counter values that occurred due to the specific online charging session.\ Note that inclusion of the change of counter values is especially important, when multiple online charging sessions can occur in parallel (e.g. when counters are shared among several subscribers).
It is not required that the OCS collects further information from systems
outside the OCS just for inclusion in the records.
The Charging Gateway Function can be integrated with each of the Charging
Functions (SBCF, EBCF), because all data necessary for the generation of OCS
CDRs is already available in the Charging Functions.
OCS CDR files are transferred from the Charging Gateway Function to the
operator\'s post-processing systems via the Bo reference point (see [1], [52]
for details).
###### ## Annex A (informative): Bibliography
**a) 3GPP charging specifications**
> \- 3GPP TS 32.250: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
> Circuit Switched (CS) domain charging\".
\- 3GPP TS 32.298: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Charging Data Record (CDR) parameter description\".
**b) Common 3GPP specifications**
**-**
**c) Other Domain and Service specific 3GPP / ETSI specifications**
**-**
**d) Relevant ITU Recommendations**
**-**
**e) Relevant IETF RFCs**
-
#