# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
**32.301: Configuration Management (CM); Notification Integration Reference
Point (IRP): Requirements**
32.302: Configuration Management (CM); Notification Integration Reference
Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)
32.303: Configuration Management (CM); Notification Integration Reference
Point (IRP): Common Object Request Broker Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set
(SS)
32.305: Configuration Management (CM); Notification Integration Reference
Point **(IRP): eXtensible Markup Language (XML) definition**
32.307: Configuration Management (CM); Notification Integration Reference
Point (IRP): Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP) Solution Set (SS)
The Itf-N interface is built up by a number of Integration Reference Points
(IRPs) and a related Name Convention, which realise the functional
capabilities over this interface. The basic structure of the IRPs is defined
in 3GPP TS 32.101 [1] and 3GPP TS 32.102 [2].
Network Elements (NEs) under management and element managers generate
notifications of events about occurrences within the network. Different kinds
of events carry different kinds of information. For instance a new alarm as
specified in Alarm IRP: Information Service [3], is one possible kind of
event, an object creation as specified in Basic CM IRP: Information Service
[4] is another possible kind of event.
Information of an event is carried in notification. An IRPAgent (typically an
EM or a NE) emits notifications. IRPManager (typically a network management
system) receives notifications. The purpose of Notification IRP is to define
an interface through which an IRPManager can subscribe to IRPAgent for
receiving notifications.
This IRP bases its design on work captured in ITU-T Recommendation X.734 [5],
OMG Notification Service [6]. The central design ideas are:
  * Separation of notification Consumers (IRPManagers) from Producers > (IRPAgents);
  * Notifications are sent to IRPManagers without the need for > IRPManagers to periodically check for new notifications.
Common characteristics related to notifications in all other IRPs are gathered
in one IRP.
# 1 Scope
The purpose of Notification IRP is to define an interface through which an
IRPManager can subscribe to an IRPAgent for receiving notifications. The
present document is the \"Requirements\" of Notification IRP. It defines, for
the purpose of subscribing to an IRPAgent for receiving notifications, the
basic requirements that shall be fulfilled on Itf-N.
How IRPManager discovers the IRPAgent\'s address or reference (so that
IRPManager can invoke an operation) is outside the scope of the present
document.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.111-2: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management; Part
2: Alarm Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.602: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Basic CM Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[5] ITU-T Recommendation X.734: \"Information technology - Open Systems
Interconnection - Systems Management: Event report management function\".
[6] OMG: \"OMG Notification Service\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply:
**Element Manager (EM):** See 3GPP TS 32.101 [1].
**IRPAgent:** See 3GPP TS 32.102 [2].
**IRPManager:** See 3GPP TS 32.102 [2].
**Network Manager (NM):** See 3GPP TS 32.101 [1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
CM Configuration Management
CORBA Common Object Request Broker Architecture
EM Element Manager
FM Fault Management
IRP Integration Reference Point
ITU-T International Telecommunication Union - Telecommunication
MIB Management Information Base
NE Network Element
NR Network Resource
OMG Object Management Group
OS Operations System
TM Telecom Management
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System
# 4 Notification management functions over Itf-N
## 4.1 Notification mechanism subscription functions
The IRPAgent shall provide IRPManagers with the capabilities to subscribe and
unsubscribe to the notification mechanism. An IRPManager shall be able to
specify the types of notifications IRPAgent should emit to IRPManager during
subscription, to specify filtering criteria that shall be applied by the
notification mechanism. An IRPManager shall be able to subscribe several times
in order to include in a subscription different types of notifications. An
IRPManager shall also be able to request multiple subscriptions, which is
equivalent, from the IRPAgent perspective, to multiple IRPManagers each
providing one subscription.
## 4.2 Subscription control functions
The IRPAgent may provide to IRPManagers capabilities to control its
subscriptions. An IRPManager may then be able to check whether its
subscription is still active or not, to know the details of a particular
subscription and to know the list of all subscriptions it has opened.
## 4.3 Notification control functions
In principle, notifications are forwarded to the IRPManagers as soon as they
are available. The real-time forwarding of these notifications occurs via
appropriate filtering mechanisms (\"discriminators\" on CMIP interfaces,
\"subscription\" on CORBA interfaces) in accordance with ITU-T Recommendation
X.734 [5] or OMG event/notification service. Any IRPManager may be able to set
and change filter criteria applicable during the life-cycle of one if its
subscriptions in order to ensure that only the notifications which fulfil pre-
defined criteria are sent.. An IRPManager may also be able to enable and
disable the emission of notifications corresponding to its subscriptions.
## 4.4 Function to discover notification capabilities
The IRPAgent may provide IRPManagers with a capability to discover the IRPs
supported by the IRPAgent that are capable of sending notifications through
the notification IRP. Those IRPs shall be identified with their version.
## 4.5 Generic notification header
Notifications are emitted by the notification IRP. Those notifications can be
defined in any other IRP (e.g. a notification for a new alarm as specified in
3GPP TS 32.111-2 [3] Alarm IRP: Information Service). It is required that all
notifications emitted by the notification IRP support the same header that
contains enough information to identify the type of notification, the resource
at the origin of the notification and the time of the notification.
#