# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; Test management Integration Reference
Point (IRP), as identified below:
32.321: \"Test management Integration Reference Point (IRP); Requirements\"
32.322: \"Test management Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information
Service (IS)\"
32.323: \"Test management Integration Reference Point (IRP): Common Object
Request Broker Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set (SS)\"
32.325: \"Test management Integration Reference Point (IRP): eXtensible Markup
Language (XML) definitions\"
**32.327: \"Test management Integration Reference Point (IRP): SOAP Solution
Set (SS)\"**
A 3G telecommunication network is composed of a multitude of different Network
Elements (NE). For a successful operation of the network the operator must be
provided with mechanisms allowing him to manage the network. These management
activities can be grouped into several areas: configuration management, fault
management, performance management, accounting management and security
management.
A management function assisting in different high level management areas such
as fault management and performance management is test management. The purpose
of testing is to get information about the functionality and performance of
the 3G managed network subject to the test.
The present document is part of a TS-family defining the Telecommunication
Management (TM) of 3G systems.\ The TM principles are described in 3GPP TS
32.101 [5]. The TM architecture is described in 3GPP TS 32.102 [6].\ The other
specifications define the interface (Itf-N) between the managing system
(manager), which is in general the Network Manager (NM) and the managed system
(agent), which is either an Element Manager (EM) or the managed NE itself. The
Itf-N is composed of a number of integration reference points (IRPs) defining
the information in the agent that is visible for the manager, the operations
that the manager may perform on this information and the notifications that
are sent from the agent to the manager. One of these IRPs is the Test
Management IRP.
Each IRP is specified by the requirements part, the IS part and at least one
SS (e.g. CORBA SS).
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the SOAP SS for the IRP whose semantics is
specified in Test Management IRP IS (3GPP TS 32.322 [5]).
This Solution Set specification is related to 3GPP TS 32.322 V9.0.X.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.150: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Concept and definitions\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.322: \"Telecommunication management; Test management
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.325: \"Telecommunication management; Test management
Integration Reference Point (IRP); eXtensible Markup Language (XML)
definitions\".
[7] W3C SOAP 1.1 specification (http://www.w3.org/TR/2000/NOTE-SOAP-20000508/)
[8] W3C XPath 1.0 specification (http://www.w3.org/TR/1999/REC-xpath-19991116)
[9] W3C WSDL 1.1 specification (http://www.w3.org/TR/2001/NOTE-wsdl-20010315)
[10] W3C SOAP 1.2 specification (http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-part1/)
[11] 3GPP TS 32.307: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP): SOAP solution set\".
[12] 3GPP TS 32.312: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Integration
Reference Point (IRP) management; Information Service (IS)\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1], 3GPP TS 32.101 [2], 3GPP TS 32.102 [3], 3GPP TS 32.150 [4]
apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence over the
definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
**Test Category:** one or more tests sharing a common purpose and similar
characteristics
**Tester Object (TO):** managed object that is instantiated for the purpose of
monitoring and controlling a test invocation\ Each test invocation has one
associated TO. TOs are created and deleted by managed objects with TARR
functionality.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1], in 3GPP TS 32.101 [2], 3GPP TS 32.102 [3], 3GPP TS 32.150 [4], and the
following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
NE Network Element
NM Network Management Center
TARR Test Action Request Receiver
TO Tester Object
# 4 Architectural features
## 4.1 General
The overall architectural feature of the Test management IRP is specified in
3GPP TS 32.322 [5]. This clause specifies features that are specific to the
SOAP solution set.
The SOAP 1.1 specification [7] and WSDL 1.1 specification [9] are supported.
The SOAP 1.2 specification [10] is supported optionally.
This specification uses \"document\" style in WSDL file.
This specification uses \"literal\" encoding style in WSDL file.
The filter language used in the SS is the XPath Language (see W3C XPath 1.0
specification [8]). IRPAgents may throw a FilterComplexityLimit fault when a
given filter is too complex.
Relevant definitions are imported from the Test management IRP XML definitions
of 3GPP TS 32.325 [6].
This specification uses a number of namespace prefixes throughout that are
listed in Table 4.1. 1.
Table 4.1.1: Prefixes and Namespaces used in this specification
* * *
**PREFIX** **NAMESPACE** (no prefix) http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/wsdl/ soap
http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/wsdl/soap/ tmIRPSystem
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/32_series/32.327#TMIRPSystem tmIRPData
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/32_series/32.327#TMIRPData genericNrm
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/specs/archive/32_series/32.625#genericNrm
genericIRPSystem
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/32_series/32.317/schema/32317/GenericIRPSystem
ntfIRPNtfSystem
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/32_series/32.307/schema/32307/
notification/NotificationIRPNtfSystem
* * *
The WSDL structure is depicted in Figure 4.1.1 below, depicting port type,
binding and service. The port type contains port type operations, which again
contains input, output and fault messages. The binding contains binding
operations, which have the same name as the port type operations. The binding
connects to a port inside the service.
Figure 4.1.1: Test management IRP SOAP Solution Set WSDL structure
# 5 Mapping
## 5.1 Operation and notification mapping
The Test management IRP IS (3GPP TS 32.322 [5]) defines semantics of operation
and notification visible across the Itf-N. Table 5.1.1 indicates mapping of
these operations and notifications to their equivalents defined in this SS.
Table 5.1.1: Mapping from IS Operation to SS Equivalents
* * *
IS Operations in 3GPP TS 32.322 [5] SS Operations SS Port Qualifier
initiateTests initiateTests TMIRPControlOperationsPort M terminateTests
terminateTests TMIRPControlOperationsPort M monitorTest monitorTest
TMIRPMonitorOperationsPort M notifyFilePreparationError notify (note 1)
NotificationIRPNtfPort M NOTE 1: The IS equivalent maps to an XML definition
specified in 3GPP TS 32.325 [5], and this being an input parameter to the
operation notify under the port type ntfIRPNtfSystem:NotificationIRPNtf and
under the binding ntfIRPNtfSystem:NotificationIRPNtf of 3GPP TS 32.307 [11].
* * *
## 5.2 Operation parameter mapping
The Test management IRP IS (3GPP TS 32.322 [5]) defines semantics of
parameters carried in the operations. The tables below show the mapping of
these parameters, as per operation, to their equivalents defined in this SS.
Table 5.2.1: Mapping from IS initiateTests parameters to SS equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Method parameter Qualifier testInvocationInitiator
testInvocationInitiator M toBeInitiatedTests toBeInitiatedTests M response
response M
* * *
Table 5.2.2: Mapping from IS terminateTests parameters to SS equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Method parameter Qualifier toBeTerminatedTests
toBeTerminatedTests M response response M
* * *
Table 5.2.3: Mapping from IS monitorTest parameters to SS equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Method parameter Qualifier toBeMonitoredTO
toBeMonitoredTO M monitoredAttributeValues monitoredAttributeValues M error
error M
* * *
## 5.3 Notification parameter mapping
The Test management IRP Notifications are defined in 32.325 [6].
###### ## Annex A (normative): WSDL specifications
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
#