# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; Test management Integration Reference
Point (IRP), as identified below:
32.321: \"Test Management Integration Reference Point (IRP); Requirements\";
32.322: \"Test Management Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information
Service (IS)\";
32.323: \"Test Management Integration Reference Point (IRP); Common Object
Request Broker Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set (SS)\";
**32.325: \"Test Management Integration Reference Point (IRP); eXtensible
Markup Language (XML) definitions\".**
A 3G telecommunication network is composed of a multitude of different Network
Elements (NE). For a successful operation of the network the operator must be
provided with mechanisms allowing him to manage the network. These management
activities can be grouped into several areas: configuration management, fault
management, performance management, accounting management and security
management.
A management function assisting in different high level management areas such
as fault management and performance management is test management. The purpose
of testing is to get information about the functionality and performance of
the 3G managed network subject to the test.
The present document is part of a TS-family defining the Telecommunication
Management (TM) of 3G systems. The TM principles are described in 3GPP TS
32.101 [1]. The TM architecture is described in 3GPP TS 32.102 [2]. The other
specifications define the interface (Itf-N) between the managing system
(manager), which is in general the Network Manager (NM) and the managed system
(agent), which is either an Element Manager (EM) or the managed NE itself. The
Itf-N is composed of a number of integration reference points (IRPs) defining
the information in the agent that is visible for the manager, the operations
that the manager may perform on this information and the notifications that
are sent from the agent to the manager. One of these IRPs is the Test
Management IRP.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the XML Definitions for the Test Management IRP
(TMIRP) as it applies to Itf-N, in accordance with TM IRP IS definitions [3]
as well as Notification Log IRP XML Definitions [4].
This specification is related to 3GPP TS 32.322 V9.0.X.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.322: \"Test Management Integration Reference Point (IRP):
Information Service (IS)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.335: \"Telecommunication management; Notification Log (NL)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): eXtensible Markup Language (XML) solution
definitions\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.331: \"Telecommunication management; Notification Log (NL)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102 [2], and 3GPP TS 32.331 [5] apply.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
EM Element Manager
TM Test Management
TMIRP Test Management IRP
IRP Integration Reference Point
IS Information Service
NL Notification Log
XML eXtensible Markup Language
# 4 TM IRP XML Definitions
## 4.1 TM IRP XML Definitions
This section provides XML definitions of TM IRP notifications as defined in
3GPP TS 32.322 [3].
{width="6.542361111111111in" height="3.8131944444444446in"}
Figure 1
NOTE: The use of XML schema key word \"sequence\" to support IS-defined set
(not sequence) is for the purpose of XML processor efficiency. This shall not
imply the use of \"sequence\" in other technology.
## 4.2 TM IRP XML Schema
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
###### ## Annex A (informative): Void
#