# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced for the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
**TS 32.331 \"Notification Log (NL) Integration Reference Point (IRP);
Requirements\"**
TS 32.332 \"Notification Log (NL) (NL) Integration Reference Point (IRP);
Information Service (IS)\"
TS 32.333 \"Notification Log (NL) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Common
Object Request Broker Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set (SS)\"
TS 32.335 \"Notification Log (NL) Integration Reference Point (IRP);
eXtensible Markup Language (XML) solution definitions\"
The present document describes the requirements and information model
necessary for Telecommunications Management (TM). The TM principles and TM
architecture are specified in 3GPP TS 32.101 [1] and 3GPP TS 32.102 [2]
respectively.
A communications system is composed of a multitude of Network Elements (NE) of
various types and, typically, different vendors, which inter-operate in a co-
ordinated manner in order to satisfy the network users' communication
requirements.
The occurrence of faults in an NE may cause deterioration or loss of this NE's
function. Fault Management is the functional area, which allows the operator
to detect the occurrence of faults in the network in real-time. Configuration
Management and Performance Management are two more functional areas, which
require the operator to be alerted to certain conditions in the network.
A standard general-purpose mechanism for the management of Notification Logs
containing selected or all notifications from the network is required to
provide an ability to perform historical analysis on faults and conditions,
which occurred in the network. The TS 32.33x-series constituting the
Notification Log IRP, sets forth such a mechanism - and the present document
contains the concept and IRP requirements definition.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies overall requirements for Notification Log
Management over Itf-N.
Clause 4 provides the Notification Log Management concept for the manipulation
of Notification Logs and the retrieval of notifications selected for logging.
Clause 5 of the present document defines the functional requirements for the
Notification Log IRP, for the purpose of Notification Log Management, as seen
from a Network Manager (NM) though Itf-N. The Itf-N is fully standardized so
as to connect systems of any vendor to an NM via this interface.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.302: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service
(IS)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.662: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Kernel CM Information Service (IS)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.111-1: Telecommunication management; Fault Management; Part 1:
3G fault management requirements\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.111-2: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management; Part
2: Alarm Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.342: \"Telecommunication management; File Transfer (FT)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[8] ITU-T Recommendation X.735: \"Information technology - Open Systems
Interconnection - Systems Management: Log control function\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply:
**Alarm: defined in 3GPP TS 32.111-1 [5].**
**Alarm Notification:** **defined in 3GPP TS 32.111-1 [5].**
**Event: defined in 3GPP TS 32.111-1 [5].**
**Fault: defined in 3GPP TS 32.111-1 [5].**
**Notification: defined in 3GPP TS 32.111-1 [5].**
**Notification Log:** managed resource in which the notifications are stored\
Notifications logs contain Notification Log Records. Notification Log may
represent a physical or a logical/virtual storage, and which is not apparent
to an IRPManager.
**Notification Log Record:** records track information about when a particular
notification was entered into the Notification Log and the details of the
notification\ Each Notification Log Record is associated with one
notification, where a notification may be an alarm or an event.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
COTS Commercial Off The Shelf
EM Element Manager
IRP Integration Reference Point
LM Log Management
NE Network Element
NM Network Manager
OS Operations System
# 4 Notification log Management concept
A general-purpose Notification Logging mechanism is required to hold
notifications related to different functional areas in the network.
Any Notification Log must, at any one point in time, be capable of holding
fault management alarms, configuration management events, performance
management events, and event log management events. A log is capable of
capturing all semantics carried in a notification.
Only those requirements covered by clause 5 and as applicable to the
Notification Log IRP IS shall be considered as valid requirements for
compliance to the standard defined by the present document.
## 4.1 Notification Log Management
Notification logs are resources in a communications network. An operator needs
to be able to create Notification Logs, delete Notification Logs, query
Notification Logs and to delete records. To allow an operator to do this a
Notification Log management framework needs to be in place.
The following aspects for Notification Log Management are derived from ITU-T
Recommendation X.735 [8]:
a) The definition of a flexible Notification Log control service, which will
allow selection of Notification Log records that are to be logged by a
management system (NMs or EMs) in a Notification Log or a particular
Notification Log.
b) The ability for a client system to modify the criteria used in logging
notification records.
c) The ability for a client system to determine whether the logging
characteristics were modified or whether notifications log records has been
lost.
d) Specification of a mechanism to enable Notification Logging to be suspended
and subsequently to be resumed.
e) The ability for a client system to retrieve and delete Notification Log
records.
f) The ability for a client system to create and delete those Notification
Logs.
g) The ability to log partial notifications.
Another aspect is listed below:
\- Ability to export a log to an industry standard format such as XML.
Such an export facility would allow the analysis and reporting of logs to be
carried out by COTS tools.
## 4.2 Detection of the Notification Log state
The Notification Log management system must notify all interested OS about its
current state. An event-based approach is used to update OSs on the current
state of the Notification Log.
To facilitate the notification of attribute or state changes, a Notification
Log has the capability to generate such events, which all OSs may subscribe to
via the Notification IRP 3GPP TS 32.302 [3].
The Notification Log management system may also emit Notification Log creation
and log deletion notifications to signal the creation or deletion of a
particular log. Again all interested OSs may subscribe via 3GPP TS 32.302 [3]
to receive such notifications.
To notify OSs about the loss or imminent loss of Notification Log records, the
system is able to emit capacity threshold alarms that alert the subscribed OSs
that a capacity threshold has been crossed in a particular Notification Log.
This threshold value may indicate that the Notification Log is full and
incoming notifications shall be dealt with in a predetermined manner set by an
operator.
The system may emit other events to notify an OS of the completion of an I/O
intensive operation, such as deletion of Notification Log records, or the
exporting of a Notification Log.
## 4.3 Notification Log / Notification Log Record Retrieval
An OS may retrieve Notification Log records either by querying a particular
Notification Log with a filter, or by exporting a Notification Log, or a
particular section of a Notification LogNotification Log. Exporting a
Notification Log utilizing the File Transfer IRP (3GPP TS 32.342 [7]) allows
the OS to retrieve the Notification Log in a standard format such as XML. An
XML data format may be used by generic XML utilities and next generation web
browsers for analysis and reporting. XML is a widely accepted data interchange
format, and its application to Notification Log management provides an ease of
use unparalleled in traditional Notification Log systems.
## 4.4 Notification Log Full Action
The OS must be able to set the behaviour of a Notification Log that becomes
full. ITU-T Recommendation X.735 [8] recommends two actions, halt and wrap.
\- A Notification Log that halts when full implies the agent should notify the
OS by way of generating a capacity threshold alarm. New notifications, which
should be logged according to the Notification Log\'s filter criteria, are
discarded. This behaviour implies that the old Notification Log records are
more important than new ones.
\- An OS can set the behaviour of the Notification Log to wrap when full. In
this case the Notification Log behaves like a circular buffer, replacing the
oldest Notification Log records with new ones. This behaviour implies that new
Notification Log records are more important than old Notification Log records.
# 5 Notification log IRP requirements
## 5.1 Management of Logging/Log Records
The IRPManager may request the IRPAgent to start or stop logging of
notifications, or the IRPAgent may initiate logging by itself (an IRPAgent may
log notifications independent from IRPManager initiated logging). Upon start
of Notification Logging, the IRPAgent shall generate an identifier for it. All
Notification Logging activity identifiers must be unique within the IRPAgent.
The IRPAgent may alert all interested IRPManagers about the creation of the
new Notification Logging activity. An initiating IRPManager may request the
IRPAgent to stop logging of notifications, and the IRPAgent may then alert all
interested IRPManagers about the stop of this Notification Logging activity.
Deletion of Notification Log Records is in the realm of the IRPAgent, where
two methods should apply:
\- Notification Log Full Action: the IRPAgent should apply the \"circular
buffer\" or \"wrap\" method (see also clause 4.4); a one-time Notification Log
threshold capacity alarm (e.g. at 98 % full) will indicate to IRPManagers that
the IRPAgent is applying this method currently, while clearance will be
indicted as well (e.g. at 90 % full)
\- Maintenance: the IRPAgent may delete Notification Log Records from a
Notification Log.
The IRPManager may request a list of all IRPManager initiated or IRPAgent
initiated log activities currently managed by the IRPAgent. The IRPAgent
returns a list of Notification Log identifiers to the IRPManager. The
IRPManager may than use these identifiers to query or export a log or parts of
it.
## 5.2 Information contained in Notification Log / Notification Log Records
A Notification Log may be created by the IRPAgent upon request of the
IRPManager, or by the IRPAgent itself. A Notification Log may represent a
physical or a logical/virtual storage, and which is not apparent to an
IRPManager.
All Notifications available at the IRPAgent for potential transmission over
Itf-N shall be logged if requested by a start log request, irrespective of the
subscriptions and filter settings of IRPManagers.
The Notification Log Record will contain a notification as specified by 3GPP
TS 32.302 [3]. The Notification Log Record is time-stamped, allowing the
operator to determine the time at which the Notification Log Record was added
to the Notification Log.
The IRPAgent should avoid logging the following duplicated or recursive
notifications
\- Logging of notifications resulting from asynchronous alarm synchronization
(3GPP TS 32.111-2 [6]).
## 5.3 Notifications emitted by Notification Log IRP
LM reports are forwarded in real-time to the IRPManager via appropriate
filtering located in the IRPAgents. The Notification Log IRP reports consist
of:
\- Notification log starting and stopping reports, upon the
activation/deactivation of a Notification Logging activity.
\- Notification log capacity threshold reached report, and notification when
logging has resumed.
## 5.4 Retrieval of Notification Log Records
The IRPManager will request the IRPAgent to query the notifications log based
on filter criteria. The IRPAgent will then return the Notification Log Records
that match the IRPManager\'s filter criteria. Each Notification Log Record
returned will contain a notification that the IRPManager is interested in.
## 5.5 Exporting Notification Log Records
The IRPManager may request the IRPAgent to export either a Notification Log or
part thereof. In this case the IRPManager will supply a filter criteria and
Notification Log Records matching that criteria will be exported to a standard
format such as XML defined by the Notification Log IRP. The IRPAgent will
provide this export file to an IRPManager utilizing the File Transfer IRP
(3GPP TS 32.342 [7]).
## 5.6 Overview of IRPs related to Notification Log IRP
The Itf-N interface relies on the Notification IRP 3GPP TS 32.302 [3] as well
as File Transfer IRP (3GPP TS 32.342 [7]), and serves a number of IRPs. The
basic structure of the IRPs is defined in 3GPP TS 32.101 [1] and 3GPP TS
32.102 [2].
For the purpose of LM, the following IRPs are served:
\- Alarm IRP: Information Service 3GPP TS 32.111-2 [6].
\- Kernel CM IRP: Information Service 3GPP TS 32.662 [4].
\- All other IRP\'s emitting notifications.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Bibliography
\- World Wide Web Consortium: www.w3c.org[.]{.underline}
#