# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management, as identified below:
32.341: \"File Transfer (FT) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements\"
32.342: \"File Transfer (FT) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information
Service (IS)\"
32.343: \"File Transfer (FT) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Common Object
Request Broker Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set (SS)\"
32.34**5:** \"File Transfer (FT) Integration Reference Point (IRP): eXtensible
Markup Language (XML) definitions\"
**32.347: \"File Transfer (FT) Integration Reference Point (IRP): SOAP
Solution Set (SS)\"**
The present document is part of a TS-family which describe the requirements
and information model necessary for the Telecommunication Management (TM) of
3G systems. The TM principles and TM architecture are specified in 3GPP TS
32.101 [1] and 3GPP TS 32.102 [2].
Network Elements (NEs) under management, element managers as well as network
managers generate various management information stored in file format. This
IRP is addressing how these files are exchanged through Itf-N as well as
certain aspects of file management and maintenance. It is anticipated that
management functions (e.g. PM, Call Trace, CM) make reuse of capabilities
provided by this File Transfer IRP.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the SOAP Solution Set for the IRP whose
semantics are specified in File Transfer IRP: Information Service (3GPP TS
32.342 [4]).
This Solution Set specification is related to 3GPP TS 32.342 V9.0.X.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.341: \" Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; File Transfer (FT) Integration
Reference Point (IRP): Requirements \".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.342: \" Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; File Transfer (FT) Integration
Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.345: \" Telecommunication management; File Transfer (FT)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): eXtensible Markup Language (XML)
definitions\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.311: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Integration
Reference Point (IRP) management; Requirements\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.312: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Integration
Reference Point (IRP) management; Information Service (IS)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 32.317: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Integration
Reference Point (IRP) management; SOAP solution set\".
[9] 3GPP TS 32.150: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Concept and definitions\".
[10] 3GPP TS 32.307: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP): SOAP solution set\".
[11] W3C SOAP 1.1 specification (http://www.w3.org/TR/2000/NOTE-
SOAP-20000508/)
[12] W3C XPath 1.0 specification (http://www.w3.org/TR/1999/REC-
xpath-19991116)
[13] W3C WSDL 1.1 specification (http://www.w3.org/TR/2001/NOTE-wsdl-20010315)
[14] W3C SOAP 1.2 specification (http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-part1/)
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102 [2], 3GPP TS 32.150 [9] and 3GPP TS 32.341
[3] and the following apply:
**IRP document version number string (or \"IRPVersion\"):** See 3GPP TS 32.311
[6].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
IS Information Service
SS Solution Set
WSDL Web Service Description Language
# 4 Architectural features
## 4.1 General
The overall architectural feature of the File Transfer (FT) IRP is specified
in 3GPP TS 32.342 [4]. This clause specifies features that are specific to the
SOAP solution set.
The SOAP 1.1 specification [11] and WSDL 1.1 specification [13] are supported.
The SOAP 1.2 specification [14] is supported optionally.
This specification uses \"document\" style in WSDL file.
This specification uses \"literal\" encoding style in WSDL file.
The filter language used in the SS is the XPath Language (see W3C XPath 1.0
specification [12]). IRPAgents may throw a FilterComplexityLimit fault when a
given filter is too complex.
The FT IRP SOAP SS uses the Notification IRP SOAP SS of 3GPP TS 32.307 [10].
The IRPAgent shall support the push interface model, which means that the
IRPAgent sends FT notifications to the IRPManager as soon as new events occur.
The IRPManager does not need to check (\"pull\") for events.
Relevant definitions are imported from the FT IRP XML definitions of 3GPP TS
32.345 [5].
This specification uses a number of namespace prefixes throughout that are
listed in Table 4.1.
Table 4.1: Prefixes and Namespaces used in this specification
* * *
**PREFIX** **NAMESPACE** (no prefix) http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/wsdl/ soap
http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/wsdl/soap/ fTIRPSystem
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/32_series/32.347#FTIRPSystem fTIRPData
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/32_series/32.347#FTIRPData xfi
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/specs/archive/32_series/32.345#fTIRPIOCs
genericIRPSystem
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/32_series/32.317/schema/32317-810/GenericIRPSystem
ntfIRPNtfSystem
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/32_series/32.307/schema/32307-810/notification/NotificationIRPNtfSystem
* * *
The WSDL structure is depicted in Figure 4.1 below, depicting port type,
binding and service. The port type contains port type operations, which again
contains input, output and fault messages. The binding contains binding
operations, which have the same name as the port type operations. The binding
connects to a port inside the service.
{width="6.6875in" height="2.1527777777777777in"}
Figure 4.1: File Transfer IRP SOAP Solution Set WSDL structure
# 5 Mapping
## 5.1 Operation and notification mapping
The FT IRP IS (3GPP TS 32.342 [4]) defines the operations and their semantics.
Table 5.1 maps the operations defined in the FT IRP IS to their equivalent
port type and binding operations in this Solution Set (SS).
Table 5.1 also maps the notifications of the FT IRP IS, as well as inherited
operations.
Table 5.1 also qualifies if an operation is Mandatory (M) or Optional (O).
Table 5.1: Mapping from IS Operation to SS Equivalents
* * *
IS Operation in 3GPP TS 32.342 [4] SS: Operation for WSDL port type and WSDL
binding SS: Port of FileTransferIRPService Qualifier
listAvailableFiles listAvailableFiles (note 1) FileTransferIRPPort M
fileDownloadIndication fileDownloadIndication (note 1) FileTransferIRPPort O
notifyFileReady notify (note 2) NotificationIRPNtfPort M
notifyFilePreparationError notify (note 2) NotificationIRPNtfPort M
getIRPVersion (note 3) See TS 32.317 [8] GenericIRPPort M
getOperationProfile (note 3) See TS 32.317 [8] GenericIRPPort O
getNotificationProfile (note 3) See TS 32.317 [8] GenericIRPPort O
NOTE 1: The operation is under the port type
fTIRPSystem:FileTransferIRPPortType and under the binding
fTIRPSystem:FileTransferIRPBinding.
NOTE 2: The IS equivalent maps to an XML definition specified in 3GPP TS
32.345 [5], and this being an input parameter to the operation notify under
the port type ntfIRPNtfSystem:NotificationIRPNtf and under the binding
ntfIRPNtfSystem:NotificationIRPNtf of 3GPP TS 32.307 [10]. This binding is
linked to a port of the FileTransferIRPService as indicated in the table
above.
NOTE 3: The IS operation is inherited from the ManagedGenericIRP IOC specified
in 3GPP TS 32.312 [7].\  
This inheritance is by the FileTransferIRP IOC of 3GPP TS 32.342 [4]
inheriting from the ManagedGenericIRP IOC. The corresponding binding is linked
to a port of the FileTransferIRPService as indicated in the table above.
* * *
## 5.2 Operation parameter mapping
The FT IRP IS (3GPP TS 32.342 [4]) defines semantics of parameters carried in
the operations. The tables below show the mapping of these parameters, as per
operation, to their equivalents defined in this SS.
### 5.2.1 Operation listAvailableFiles
#### 5.2.1.1 Input parameters
Table 5.2.1.1: Mapping from IS listAvailableFiles input parameters to SS
equivalents
+------------------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS WSDL type sub-element | Qualifier | | | | | | | used in corresponding input message | | | | | | | | under corresponding port type operation | | | | | | | | as indicated in Table 5.1 | | +------------------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------+ | managementDataType | managementDataType | M | +------------------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------+ | beginTime | beginTime | M | +------------------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------+ | endTime | endTime | M | +------------------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------+
#### 5.2.1.2 Output parameters
Table 5.2.1.2: Mapping from IS listAvailableFiles output parameters to SS
equivalents
+------------------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS WSDL type sub-element | Qualifier | | | | | | | used in corresponding output message | | | | | | | | under corresponding port type operation | | | | | | | | as indicated in Table 5.1 | | +------------------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------+ | fileInfoList | fileInfoList | M | +------------------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------+ | status | status | M | +------------------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------+
#### 5.2.1.3 Fault definition
Table 5.2.1.3: Mapping from IS listAvailableFiles exceptions to SS equivalents
+----------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------+ | Assertion name | SS WSDL type enumeration value | Qualifier | | | | | | | used in corresponding fault message | | | | | | | | under corresponding port type operation | | | | | | | | as indicated in Table 5.1 | | +----------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------+ | invalidTimes | InvalidTimes | M | +----------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------+
### 5.2.2 Operation fileDownloadIndication
#### 5.2.2.1 Input parameters
Table 5.2.2.1: Mapping from IS fileDownloadIndication input parameters to SS
equivalents
+------------------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS WSDL type sub-element | Qualifier | | | | | | | used in corresponding input message | | | | | | | | under corresponding port type operation | | | | | | | | as indicated in Table 5.1 | | +------------------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------+ | fileInfoList | fileInfoList | M | +------------------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------+
#### 5.2.2.2 Output parameters
Table 5.2.2.2: Mapping from IS fileDownloadIndication output parameters to SS
equivalents
+------------------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS WSDL type sub-element | Qualifier | | | | | | | used in corresponding output message | | | | | | | | under corresponding port type operation | | | | | | | | as indicated in Table 5.1 | | +------------------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------+ | status | status | M | +------------------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------+
#### 5.2.2.3 Fault definition
Table 5.2.2.3: Mapping from IS fileDownloadIndication exceptions to SS
equivalents
+---------------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------+ | Assertion name | SS WSDL type enumeration value | Qualifier | | | | | | | used in corresponding fault message | | | | | | | | under corresponding port type operation | | | | | | | | as indicated in Table 5.1 | | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------+ | InvalidFileInfoList | InvalidFileInfoList | M | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------+
###### ## Annex A (normative): WSDL specifications
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
###### ## Annex B (informative): Void
#