# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project: Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management, as identified below:
> TS 32.351: \"Communication Surveillance (CS) Integration Reference Point
> (IRP); Requirements\";
>
> **TS 32.352: \"Communication Surveillance (CS) Integration Reference Point
> (IRP); Information Service (IS)\";**
>
> TS 32.353: \"Communication Surveillance (CS) Integration Reference Point
> (IRP); Common Object Request Broker Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set
> (SS)\";
The present document is part of a TS-family defining the Telecommunication
Management (TM) of 3G systems.
The TM principles are described in 3GPP TS 32.101 [1]. The TM architecture is
described in 3GPP TS 32.102 [2].
The other specifications define the interface (Itf-N) between the managing
system (manager), which is in general the Network Manager (NM) and the managed
system (agent), which is either an Element Manager (EM) or the managed NE
itself. The Itf-N is composed of a number of Integration Reference Points
(IRPs) defining the information in the agent that is visible for the manager,
the operations that the manager may perform on this information and the
notifications that are sent from the agent to the manager. Communication
Surveillance IRP (CSIRP) is one of these IRPs with special function.
To ensure the availability and reliability of the management, an automatic
surveillance of the communication between NM and the managed system are
required. CSIRP is defined as a capability to achieve this goal.
# 1 Scope
The present document defines the Information Service (IS) part of the
Communication Surveillance IRP (CSIRP).\ It describes the semantics of the
information and the interactions visible across Itf-N in a protocol
independent way.\ The information is specified by means of Information Object
Classes (IOCs) and the interactions by means of operations and notifications.
The present document does not specify the syntax (encoding) of the
information.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] Void
[4] 3GPP TS 32.351: \"Telecommunication management; **Communication
Surveillance (CS) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements** \".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.622: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Generic network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP): Network
Resource Model (NRM)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.312: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Integration
Reference Point (IRP) management: Information Service (IS)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.311: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Integration
Reference Point (IRP) management: Requirements\".
[8] 3GPP TS 32.302: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service
(IS)\".
[9] 3GPP TS 32.150: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Concept and definitions\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions defined in
3GPP TS 32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102 [2], 3GPP TS 32.351 [4] and the following
apply.
**IRPVersion:** See 3GPP TS 32.311 [7].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
CMIP Common Management Information Protocol
CORBA Common Object Request Broker Architecture
CS Communication Surveillance
CSIRP Communication Surveillance Integration Reference Point
DN Distinguished Name
EM Element Manager
IRP Integration Reference Point
IOC Information Object Class
IS Information Service
NE Network Element
NM Network Manager
NRM Network Resource Model
# 4 System Overview
## 4.1 System Context
The general definition of the System Context for the present IRP is found in
3GPP TS 32.150 [9] subclause 4.7.
In addition, the set of related IRP(s) relevant to the present IRP is shown in
the two diagrams below.
Figure 4.1: System Context A
Figure 4.2: System Context B
## 4.2 Compliance rules
For general definitions of compliance rules related to qualifiers
(Mandatory/Optional/Conditional) for _operations_ , _notifications_ _and_
_parameters_ (of operations and notifications) please refer to 3GPP TS 32.102
[2].
# 5 Information Object Classes (IOCs)
## 5.1 Information entities imported and local labels
* * *
Label reference Local label 3GPP TS 32.622 [5], information object class, Top
Top 3GPP TS 32.622 [5], information object class, IRPAgent IRPAgent 3GPP TS
32.622 [5], information attribute, systemDN systemDN 3GPP TS 32.622 [5],
information object class, GenericIRP GenericIRP 3GPP TS 32.312 [6],
information object class, ManagedGenericIRP ManagedGenericIRP
* * *
## 5.2 Class diagram
### 5.2.1 Attributes and relationships
This clause introduces the set of Information Object Classes (IOCs) that
encapsulate information within the IRPAgent. The intention is to identify the
information required for the CSIRP implementation of its operations.\ This
clause provides the overview of all support object classes in UML. Subsequent
clauses provide more detailed specification of various aspects of these
support object classes.
{width="2.05in" height="2.563888888888889in"}
### 5.2.2 Inheritance
{width="1.775in" height="1.7090277777777778in"}
## 5.3 IOCs definition
### 5.3.1 CSIRP
#### 5.3.1.1 Definition
This information object represents a capability that can emit heartbeat
notification periodically. The emission frequency is controlled by an
attribute named heartbeatPeriod. The notifications are submitted to
NotificationIRP that will distribute them to NtfSubscriber(s) according to
their related NtfSubscription(s). In addition, the CSIRP provide a method for
IRPManager to trigger a heartbeat notification at any time. The IOC CSIRP
inherits from the IOC ManagedGenericIRP specified in 3GPP TS 32.312 [6]. There
shall be at most one CSIRP instance per IRPAgent instance.
The heartbeat notifications are submitted via established notification
subscriptions, to IRPManagers. The distribution of notifications is subject to
the status of the related established notification subscription. For example,
the IRPManager will not be able to receive the heartbeat notification if the
notification subscription state is suspended or if the notification filter is
in effect that discards heartbeat notification. See Annex A for more
information.
#### 5.3.1.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Visibility Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
heartbeatPeriod + M M M countDownTimer - M - -
* * *
#### 5.3.1.3 Notification
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyHeartbeat M See clause 6.5.1.
* * *
## 5.4 Information attributes definition
This clause defines the semantics of the Attributes used in Information Object
Classes (IOCs).
### 5.4.1 Definitions and legal values
+-----------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | Attribute Name | Definition | Legal Values | +-----------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | heartbeatPeriod | It specifies the time | Type: Integral numeric | | | between two emissions | value | | | of heartbeat | | | | notifications. A value | Range: value range of | | | of zero implies there | heartbeat period is | | | is no heartbeat | from 5min to 60min, 0 | | | emission. The unit is | is also a legal value. | | | minute. | | +-----------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | countDownTimer | It represents the | | | | current value of a | | | | count down timer. | | +-----------------+------------------------+------------------------+
# 6 Interface definition
## 6.1 Class diagram representing interfaces
The following diagram depicts the interfaces of the CSIRP IOC with their
corresponding operations.
{width="4.745138888888889in" height="3.2111111111111112in"}
## 6.2 Generic rules
\- **Rule 1:** each operation with at least one input parameter supports a
pre-condition valid_input_parameter which indicates that all input parameters
shall be valid with regards to their information type. Additionally, each such
operation supports an exception operation_failed_invalid_input_parameter which
is raised when pre-condition valid_input_parameter is false. The exception has
the same entry and exit state.
\- **Rule 2:** Each operation with at least one optional input parameter
supports a set of pre-conditions supported_optional_input_parameter_xxx where
\"xxx\" is the name of the optional input parameter and the pre‑condition
indicates that the operation supports the named optional input parameter.
Additionally, each such operation supports an exception
operation_failed_unsupported_optional_input_parameter_xxx which is raised when
(a) the pre-condition supported_optional_input_parameter_xxx is false and (b)
the named optional input parameter is carrying information. The exception has
the same entry and exit state.
\- **Rule 3:** each operation shall support a generic exception
operation_failed_internal_problem that is raised when an internal problem
occurs and that the operation cannot be completed. The exception has the same
entry and exit state.
## 6.3 Interface CSIRPOperations_1 (M)
### 6.3.1 Operation getHeartbeatPeriod (M)
#### 6.3.1.1 Definition
IRPManager invokes this operation to obtain the current heartbeat period.
#### 6.3.1.2 Input parameters
There is no input parameter.
#### 6.3.1.3 Output parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment heartbeatPeriod M
CSIRP.heartbeatPeriod  
status M ENUM (Operation succeeded, Operation failed)
* * *
#### 6.3.1.4 Pre-condition
There is no pre-condition.
#### 6.3.1.5 Post-condition
There is no post-condition.
#### 6.3.1.6 Exceptions
There is no exception.
### 6.3.2 Operation triggerHeartbeat (M)
#### 6.3.2.1 Definition
The IRPManager invokes this operation to solicit a notifyHeartbeat
notification. After the successful completion of the operation, the IRPAgent
shall emit the notifyHeartbeat notification as specified in clause 6.4.1
immediately. One notification shall be emitted as follows:
a) one notification to the soliciting IRPManager; or
b) one notification to each of the subscribed IRPManagers.
If the operation fails the notification shall not be emitted.
One of the two options above shall be chosen depending on system performance
considerations.
Before invoking this operation, the soliciting IRPManger should make sure it
has subscribed the notifyHeartbeat notification.
#### 6.3.2.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment managerIdentifier M
String The identifier for the triggering IRPManager.
* * *
#### 6.3.2.3 Output parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment status M ENUM (Operation
succeeded, Operation failed)
* * *
#### 6.3.2.4 Pre-condition
validManagerIdentifier.
* * *
Assertion Name Definition validManagerIdentifier The input managerIdentifier
is valid.
* * *
#### 6.3.2.5 Post-condition
There is no post-condition.
#### 6.3.2.6 Exceptions
+--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | Name | Definition | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | invalidManagerIdentifier | **Condition:** The input parameter of | | | managerIdentifier is not valid. | | | | | | **Returned Information:** The output | | | parameter status. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry State | +--------------------------+------------------------------------------+
## 6.4 Interface CSIRPOperations_2 (O)
### 6.4.1 Operation setHeartbeatPeriod (M)
#### 6.4.1.1 Definition
The IRPManager invokes this operation to set the heartbeatPeriod.
As a consequence and indicative of successful completion of the operation the
IRPAgent shall emit the notifyHeartbeat specified in clause 6.4.1 immediately
and continue to emit based on the newly specified heartbeatPeriod, to all
established notification subscriptions of all subscribed IRPManagers.
**_If the_** heartbeatPeriod **_specified is the same as the current value in
IRPAgent, the operation shall fail._**
#### 6.4.1.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Information Type Comment heartbeatPeriod M
CSIRP.heartbeatPeriod
* * *
#### 6.4.1.3 Output parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment status M ENUM (Operation
succeeded, Operation failed)
* * *
#### 6.4.1.4 Pre-condition
validHeartbeatPeriod AND noconflictingHeartbeatPeriod.
* * *
Assertion Name Definition validHeartbeatPeriod The valid heartbeatPeriod as
defined in clause 5.4.1 (Definitions and legal values).
noconflictingHeartbeatPeriod The heartbeatPeriod specified is not same as the
current value in IRPAgent.
* * *
#### 6.4.1.5 Post-condition
heartbeatPeriodChanged AND notifyHeartbeatEmitted.
* * *
Assertion Name Definition heartbeatPeriodChanged CSIRP.heartbeatPeriod and
CSIRP.countDownTimer are both set to input parameter heartbeatPeriod.
CSIRP.countDownTimer begins to start counting down. notifyHeartbeatEmitted
CSIRP emits the notifyHeartbeat specified in clause 6.4.1 to all subscribed
IRPManagers.
* * *
#### 6.4.1.6 Exceptions
+----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Name | Definition | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | invalidHeartbeatPeriod | **Condition:** The input parameter of | | | heartbeatPeriod is not within the | | | allowed range. | | | | | | **Returned Information:** The output | | | parameter status. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry State | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | conflictingHeartbeatPeriod | **Condition:** The input parameter of | | | heartbeatPeriod is same as the current | | | value in IRPAgent. | | | | | | **Returned Information:** The output | | | parameter status. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry State | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+
## 6.5 Interface CSIRPNotifications (M)
### 6.5.1 Notification notifyHeartbeat (M)
#### 6.5.1.1 Definition
The subscribed IRPManager instances are notified that the resources supporting
the communication path between the Notification IRPAgent and the notification
receiving IRPManager are working.
#### 6.5.1.2 Input parameters
+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Matching | Comment | | | | Information | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | objectClass | M, Y | CSI | Notification | | | | RP.objectClass. | header - see | | | | | [8]. It shall | | | | | carry the CSIRP | | | | | class name. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | objectInstance | M, Y | CSIRP. | Notification | | | | objectInstance. | header - see | | | | | [8]. It shall | | | | | carry the DN of | | | | | the CSIRP. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | eventTime | M, Y | -- | Notification | | | | | header - see | | | | | [8]. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | notificationId | O, N | -- | Notification | | | | | header - see | | | | | [8]. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | systemDN | C, Y | -- | Notification | | | | | header - see | | | | | [8]. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | n | M, Y | \"no | Notification | | otificationType | | tifyHeartbeat\" | header - see | | | | | [8]. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | heartbeatPeriod | M, N | CSIRP. | | | | | heartbeatPeriod | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | locator | M, N | -- | This parameter, | | | | | together with | | | | | the knowledge | | | | | of Notification | | | | | IRPAgent system | | | | | internal | | | | | configuration, | | | | | can determine | | | | | the | | | | | communication | | | | | path used by | | | | | this | | | | | notification | | | | | (see Annex B | | | | | for more | | | | | information). | | | | | | | | | | IRPAgent | | | | | assigns its | | | | | value. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | triggerFlag | M, N | ENUM | If this | | | | {IRPManager, | notification is | | | | IRPAgent} | triggered by NM | | | | | positively by | | | | | invoking | | | | | \"tri | | | | | ggerHeartbeat\" | | | | | operation, the | | | | | value of this | | | | | parameter shall | | | | | be | | | | | \"IRPManager\", | | | | | otherwise, it | | | | | shall be | | | | | \"IRPAgent\". | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | ma | M, N | String | If the value of | | nagerIdentifier | | | triggerFlag is | | | | | \"IRPManager\", | | | | | this field is | | | | | the same as the | | | | | value of input | | | | | parameter | | | | | \"mana | | | | | gerIdentifier\" | | | | | of | | | | | \"tri | | | | | ggerHeartbeat\" | | | | | operation; | | | | | | | | | | If the value of | | | | | triggerFlag is | | | | | \"IRPAgent\", | | | | | this field is | | | | | null. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 6.5.1.3 Triggering Event
##### 6.5.1.3.1 From-state
heartbeatPeriodCountDownZero OR heartbeatPeriodReset OR
heartbeatTriggeredByNM.
* * *
Assertion Name Definition countDownTimerZero CSIRP.countDownTimer becomes
zero. heartbeatPeriodReset CSIRP.heartbeatPeriod is set, to a new or same
value, by setHeartbeatPeriod operation. heartbeatTriggeredByNM NM invoke
\"triggerHeartbeat\" operation to trigger \"notifyHeartbeat\" notification
positively.
* * *
##### 6.5.1.3.2 To-state
countDownTimerMayReset.
+------------------------+--------------------------------------------+ | Assertion Name | Definition | +------------------------+--------------------------------------------+ | countDownTimerMayReset | When this notification is triggered by | | | triggerHeartbeat operation, no effects on | | | CSIRP.countDownTimer. | | | | | | For normal notifyHeartbeat notification, | | | CSIRP.countDownTimer is set to | | | CSIRP.heartbeatPeriod. | +------------------------+--------------------------------------------+
###### ## Annex A (normative): IRPAgent behaviour regarding the sending of
heartbeat notification
Table A.1 specifies the IRPAgent behaviour regarding the sending of heartbeat
notification in relation to the subscribe operation defined in Notification
IRP.
Table A.1:
* * *
Subscription NotificationIRP supports the emission of heartbeat subscribe(
\"no notificationCategory specified\") Send heartbeat and notifications
supported by the IRPAgent such as notifications defined in Alarm IRP and in
BasicCM IRP, etc. subscribe( \"notificationCategory indicating xxxIRP where
\"xxx\" is not \"CSIRP\" and is \"Alarm\", \"BasicCM\", etc.) Send
notifications defined in xxxIRP. subscribe( \"notificationCategory indicating
CSIRP\") Send heartbeat notifications. subscribe( \"notificationCategory
indicating CSIRP and xxxIRP\") Send heartbeat and notifications defined in
xxxIRP.
* * *
Based on table A.1, when IRPManager subscribe 1) PMIRP, CSIRP and 2)
BasicCMIRP, AlarmIRP and CSIRP with the same manager reference in turn, two
subscriptions can only get one notifyHeartbeat notification according to
definition of subscribe operation in NotificationIRP (3GPP TS 32.302 [8]).
In case IRPManager would like to receive notifyHeartbeat notification for each
subscription, different manager reference should be chosen.
###### ## Annex B (informative): Identification of a failed communication path
# B.1 Background
This discussion is applicable to the CORBA SS (that uses the OMG Notification
Service) and other technology that uses similar notification technique as the
OMG Notification Service.
For CS IRP to be useful, the IRPManager needs to know:
ITEM-1: The number of communication paths used between the IRPManager and the
Notification IRPAgent for a particular notification subscription.
ITEM-2: The communication path used by a particular received heartbeat
notification.
If the IRPManager does not have the knowledge of ITEM-1 above, it would not
know if it has missed heartbeat notifications and therefore, could not detect
communication path failure, except the case of all communication paths
failure.
If the IRPManager have the knowledge of ITEM-1 but does not have knowledge of
ITEM-2, it could detect that there has been a communication path(s) failure
but would not be able to determine the identity of the failed communication
path(s).
To address how IRPManager can have the knowledge of ITEM-1 and ITEM-2, we
first characterize all possible Notification IRPAgent internal configurations.
It is noted that the internal configuration is not a subject for
standardization. The discussion on system characterization here is to clarify
the types of configurations that are meaningful to support the current CS IRP
specification.
# B.2 Notification IRPAgent Internal Configuration
We characterize four internal configurations for Notification IRPAgent.
Config-1: The Notification IRPAgent uses one OMG Notification Channel for all
supported notificationCategories.
Config-2: It uses one OMG Notification Channel for one supported
notificationCategory. For example, it uses Channel 1 for Alarm IRP only and it
uses Channel 2 for PM IRP only (see diagram below).
Config-3: It uses more than one OMG Notification Channel to support one
notificationCategory.
Config-4: This is a hybrid of config-1 and config-2. Some OMG Channels are,
individually, supporting one notificationCategory while some OMG Channels are,
individually, supporting more than one notificationCategory.
# B.3 The failed communication paths identification process
ITEM-1 Knowledge
The IRPManager should obtain this knowledge at IRPManager and Notification
IRPAgent installation times.\ The IRPManager cannot obtain this knowledge via
standardized IRP operation at run-time.
ITEM-2 Knowledge
> Config-1:
>
> When IRPManager has successfully subscribed for heart beat, the IRPManager
> expects 1 heartbeat per heartbeat period. Absence of heartbeat during the
> heartbeat period plus IRPAgent knowledge of its own configuration allows
> IRPAgent to determine the communication path that has failed.
>
> The IRPAgent shall use the locator parameter and the locator parameter may
> contain no information.
>
> Config-2:
>
> When IRPManager has successfully subscribed for heart beat, the IRPManager
> expects _n_ heartbeat per heartbeat period. The IRPManager knows the value
> of _n_ because _n_ equals to the number of notificationCategories
> subscribed. When IRPManager receives less than _n_ heartbeat per heartbeat
> period, it knows the exact number but not the identification of the failed
> communication path(s). The received locator values received and the IRPAgent
> knowledge of the Notification IRPAgent internal configuration enables the
> identification of the failed communication path(s).
>
> For example, the IRPAgent pushes notifyHeartbeat with locator=\"channel 1\"
> on CP-A1 and CP-B1 and pushes locator=\"channel 2\" on CP-B2 and CP-A2. When
> IRPManager-B, using subscription ID=3 and expecting two heartbeats per
> period, receives one notifyHeartbeat, detects/knows that one communication
> path has failed. The entity that knows:
(a) The locator (say ==\"channel 1\") of the received notifyHeartbeat
(b) The subscription ID involved and
(c) The IRPAgent knowledge of the Notification IRPAgent system configuration
> will be able to identify the failed communication path (i.e. in this case,
> CP-B2).
>
> The IRPAgent shall use the locator parameter. The value of \"channel 1\" is
> an example. IRPAgent could choose any other identification.
>
> Config-3 and config-4:
>
> There is no recommendation on how IRPManager can obtain answers for ITEM-1
> and ITEM-2. This is for further study.
The information provided through the locator parameter (empty, content) does
not indicate the used configuration.
Figure B.1: Hypothetical IRPAgent internal configuration supporting CS IRP
#