# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; Communication Surveillance management
Integration Reference Point (IRP), as identified below:
32.351: \"Communication Surveillance (CS) Integration Reference Point (IRP);
Requirements\"
32.352: \"Communication Surveillance (CS) Integration Reference Point (IRP):
Information Service (IS)\"
32.353: \"Communication Surveillance (CS) Integration Reference Point (IRP):
Common Object Request Broker Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set (SS)\"
32.355: \"Communication Surveillance (CS) Integration Reference Point (IRP):
eXtensible Markup Language (XML) definitions\"
**32.357: \"Communication Surveillance (CS) Integration Reference Point (IRP):
SOAP Solution Set (SS)\"**
The present document is part of a set of technical specifications defining the
telecommunication management (TM) of 3G systems. The TM principles are
described in 3GPP TS 32.101 [2]. The TM architecture is described in 3GPP TS
32.102 [3]. The other specifications define the interface (Itf-N) between the
managing system (manager), which is in general the network manager (NM) and
the managed system (agent), which is either an element manager (EM) or the
managed NE itself. The Itf-N is composed of a number of integration reference
points (IRPs) defining the information in the agent that is visible for the
manager, the operations that the manager may perform on this information and
the notifications that are sent from the agent to the manager. CS
(Communication Surveillance) IRP is one of these IRPs with special function.
To ensure the availability and reliability of the management, an automatic
surveillance of the communication between NM and the managed system are
required. CSIRP is defined as a capability to achieve this goal.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the SOAP SS for the IRP whose semantics is
specified in Communication Surveillance (CS) IRP IS (3GPP TS 32.352 [5]).
This Solution Set specification is related to 3GPP TS 32.352 V9.0.X.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.150: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Concept and definitions\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.352: \"Telecommunication management; Communication Surveillance
(CS) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.355: \"Telecommunication management; Communication Surveillance
(CS) Integration Reference Point (IRP); eXtensible Markup Language (XML)
definitions\".
[7] W3C SOAP 1.1 specification (http://www.w3.org/TR/2000/NOTE-SOAP-20000508/)
[8] W3C XPath 1.0 specification (http://www.w3.org/TR/1999/REC-xpath-19991116)
[9] W3C WSDL 1.1 specification (http://www.w3.org/TR/2001/NOTE-wsdl-20010315)
[10] W3C SOAP 1.2 specification (http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-part1/)
[11]
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1], 3GPP TS 32.101 [2], 3GPP TS 32.102 [3], 3GPP TS 32.150 [4]
apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence over the
definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1], in 3GPP TS 32.101 [2], 3GPP TS 32.102 [3], 3GPP TS 32.150 [4], and the
following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
CS Communication Surveillance
CSIRP Communication Surveillance IRP
IRP Integration Reference Point
IS Information Service
NE Network Element
NM Network Management
# 4 Architectural features
## 4.1 General
The overall architectural feature of the CSIRP is specified in 3GPP TS 32.352
[5]. This clause specifies features that are specific to the SOAP solution
set.
The SOAP 1.1 specification [7] and WSDL 1.1 specification [9] are supported.
The SOAP 1.2 specification [10] is supported optionally.
This specification uses \"document\" style in WSDL file.
This specification uses \"literal\" encoding style in WSDL file.
The filter language used in the SS is the XPath Language (see W3C XPath 1.0
specification [8]). IRPAgents may throw a FilterComplexityLimit fault when a
given filter is too complex.
Relevant definitions are imported from the CSIRP XML definitions of 3GPP TS
32.355 [6].
This specification uses a number of namespace prefixes throughout that are
listed in Table 4.1. 1.
Table 4.1.1: Prefixes and Namespaces used in this specification
* * *
**PREFIX** **NAMESPACE** (no prefix) http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/wsdl/ soap
http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/wsdl/soap/ csIRPSystem
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/32_series/32.357#CSIRPSystem csIRPData
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/32_series/32.357#CSIRPData
genericIRPSystem
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/32_series/32.317/schema/32317-810/GenericIRPSystem
ntfIRPNtfSystem
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/32_series/32.307/schema/32307-810/
notification/NotificationIRPNtfSystem
* * *
The WSDL structure is depicted in Figure 4.1.1 below, depicting port type,
binding and service. The port type contains port type operations, which again
contains input, output and fault messages. The binding contains binding
operations, which have the same name as the port type operations. The binding
connects to a port inside the service.
Figure 4.1.1: CSIRP SOAP Solution Set WSDL structure
# 5 Mapping
## 5.1 Operation and notification mapping
The CS IRP IS (3GPP TS 32.352 [5]) defines semantics of operation and
notification visible across the Itf-N. Table 5.1.1 indicates mapping of these
operations and notifications to their equivalents defined in this SS.
Table 5.1.1: Mapping from IS Operation to SS Equivalents
* * *
IS Operations in 3GPP TS 32.352 [5] SS Operations SS Port Qualifier
getHeartbeatPeriod getHeartbeatPeriod NLIRPOperations1Port M
setHeartbeatPeriod setHeartbeatPeriod NLIRPOperations2Port O triggerHeartbeat
triggerHeartbeat NLIRPOperations1Port M notifyHeartbeat notify (note 1)
NotificationIRPNtfPort M NOTE 1: The IS equivalent maps to an XML definition
specified in 3GPP TS 32.355 [6], and this being an input parameter to the
operation notify under the port type ntfIRPNtfSystem:NotificationIRPNtf and
under the binding ntfIRPNtfSystem:NotificationIRPNtf of 3GPP TS 32.307 [11].
* * *
## 5.2 Operation parameter mapping
The CS IRP IS (3GPP TS 32.352 [5]) defines semantics of parameters carried in
the operations. The tables below show the mapping of these parameters, as per
operation, to their equivalents defined in this SS.
Table 5.2.1: Mapping from IS getHeartbeatPeriod parameters to SS equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Method parameter Qualifier heartbeatPeriod
heartbeatPeriod M status status M
* * *
Table 5.2.2: Mapping from IS setHeartbeatPeriod parameters to SS equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Method parameter Qualifier heartbeatPeriod
heartbeatPeriod M status status M
* * *
Table 5.2.3: Mapping from IS triggerHeartbeat parameters to SS equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Method parameter Qualifier managerIdentifier
managerIdentifier M status status M
* * *
## 5.3 Notification parameter mapping
The CS IRP Notifications are defined in 32.355 [6].
###### ## Annex A (normative): WSDL specifications
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
#