# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project: Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management, as identified below:
**32.361: \"Entry Point (EP) Integration Reference Point (IRP):
Requirements\"**
32.362: \"Entry Point (EP) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information
Service (IS)\"
32.363: \"Entry Point (EP) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Common Object
Request Broker Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set (SS)\"
32.36**5:** \"Entry Point (EP) Integration Reference Point (IRP): eXtensible
Markup Language (XML) definitions\"
32.367: \"Entry Point (EP) Integration Reference Point (IRP): SOAP Solution
Set (SS)\"
The present document is part of a set of technical specifications defining the
Telecommunication Management (TM) of 3G systems. The TM principles are
described in 3GPP TS 32.101 [1]. The TM architecture is described in 3GPP TS
32.102 [2]. The other specifications define the interface (Itf-N) between the
managing system (manager), which is in general the Network Manager (NM) and
the managed system (agent), which is either an Element Manager (EM) or the
managed NE itself. The Itf-N is composed of a number of Integration Reference
Points (IRPs) defining the information in the agent that is visible for the
manager, the operations that the manager may perform on this information and
the notifications that are sent from the agent to the manager. EPIRP is one of
these IRPs with special function.
It is difficult for an NM to discover all IRPs in the environment where there
are several managed systems and/or if there are multiple IRPs related to each
managed system. This Entry Point is proposed to provide a convenient mechanism
for NM to discover the managed systems and their related IRPs.
# 1 Scope
The present document describes the requirements of the EPIRP.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.111-1: \"Telecommunication management; Fault management; Part
1: 3G fault management requirements\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.601: \" Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Basic CM Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.622: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Generic network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP): Network
Resource Model (NRM)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply:
**Entry Point (EP):** access point between NM and the managed systems and
provides the way for NM to discover the References of IRPs in the managed
systems
**Reference:** defines the IRP network management service access point. The
IRPManagers connect to this IRP Reference in order to request and obtain the
network management services (provided by that IRP). The implementation of IRP
Reference is technology dependent. For example, in CMIP, this is the address
of the CMIP IRPAgent and application context of the CMIP IRP. In CORBA, this
is the IOR of the IRP contained by the IRPAgent.
**Version negotiation:** when the managed system supports more than one IRP
versions, there is a mechanism for NM to select the needed IRP version, and
invoke the most appropriate management operations
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
CM Configuration Management
CORBA Common Object Request Broker Architecture
DN Distinguished Name
EP Entry Point
EPIRP Entry Point IRP
EM Element Manager
EP Entry Point
IOC Information Object Class
IOR (CORBA) Interoperable Object Reference
IRP Integration Reference Point
NE Network Element
NM Network Manager
NRM Network Resource Model
PM Performance Management
# 4 Entry Point concept and requirements
In the 3GPP Release 5 specifications and earlier Releases, the IRPs (such as
the Basic CM IRP Requirements in 3GPP TS 32.601 [4], the fault management
requirements in 3GPP TS 32.111-1 [3], etc.) are defined for specific
management domains and are all published. 3GPP specifications do not provide
standard mechanism for NM to discover the References of the IRPs in the
managed systems. The discovery is a vendor-specific matter.
In a large network, multiple IRPs, providing different network management
domains services exist. Multiple IRPs providing the same network management
services (e.g. fault management) but of different management scope may exist
(e.g. one AlarmIRP managing the eastern region while another AlarmIRP manages
the western region). It\'s difficult and fallible for an NM to discover all of
them. The matter is further complicated in a multi-vendor environment where
each vendor provides different way for NM to discover the References of its
IRPAgent and related IRPs.
A management service, allowing the NM to discover the References, in a
standard way would eliminate the NM\'s difficulties mentioned above. The Entry
Point is the name of such management service.
Entry Point provides the following:
  1. It allows NM to discover outline information of IRPs, including the DN of IRPs and the supported IRPVersions and their scope of management (e.g. the set of network resources that it is responsible for) in the managed systems.
  2. It supports NM to obtain the References of the IRPs of specific IRPVersion by means of the IRPManager inputting the DN of the IRP which supports the IRPVersion number it needs. Entry Point allows NM to indicate to the managed system the References it will not use again. Whether the managed system should release them or not is outside the scope of this specification.
A notification shall be supported for keeping IRPManager timely informed about
the changes of Entry Point contents, e.g. latest IRPAgent register information
or latest IRPAgent deregister information or their scope of management stored
in EPIRP at run time.
The EPIRP provides the References of various IRPs to the IRPManager at run
time. That interaction, to be standardised by this IRP specification, is shown
as the arrow from EPIRP to IRPManager in the Figure 1. Using the provided
Reference, say the Reference to PMIRP, the IRPManager invokes operations to
access the PM domain specific management services.
The context diagram figure 1 does not show the IRPAgent(s) and their
containment relations with IRPs. There can be a single or multiple IRPAgents.
Each IRPAgent can contain one or more IRPs.
An EPIRP is contained by an IRPAgent. This containing IRPAgent may or may not
contain other instances of other IRPs such as AlarmIRP. This is the choice of
the vendor producing such product.
The IRPAgent containment relation, with respect to other IOCs such as
SubNetwork, is defined by the Generic NRM IRP in 3GPP TS 32.622 [5]. This
containment relation has no relation to the EPIRP knowledge regarding IRP
References. To say it in another way, the EPIRP knowledge about IRP References
has no relationship to its Distinguished Name. An EPIRP, named under one
IRPAgent instance can have knowledge of IRP References of IRPs named under
other IRPAgent instances. An EPIRP, named under one particular SubNetwork
instance can have knowledge of IRP References of IRPs under other SubNetwork
instances. This is the choice of the vendor producing such product. See annex
A for example figures to show EPIRP knowledge.
All the IRP References provided by one vendor\'s product should be found in at
least in one of the EPIRPs implemented by that vendor, but not necessarily all
IRP References in one EPIRP. Each vendor should minimize the number of EPIRPs
for the support of all their IRP References.
How EPIRP is made aware of IRP References are outside the scope of
standardization.
NOTE: The \'*\' depicts the IRP Reference returned by EPIRP. See Reference
definition.
Figure 1: EPIRP context
# 5 Itf-N interface
## 5.1 Entry point
### 5.1.1 Access point
Before IRPManager can interact with an IRP to obtain network management
services, say AlarmIRP, it must know the IRP\'s Reference.
Without the EPIRP, the IRPManager shall get information about these IRP
References in a vendor-specific way.
With the EPIRP, the IRPManager can discover these IRP References using the
EPIRP defined protocol.
Before the IRPManager can interact with the EPIRP, it must know the EPIRP
Reference. How the IRPManager acquire this knowledge is outside the scope of
this specification.
### 5.1.2 Version negotiation
The version of IRPs may be updated for some appropriate reasons. Version
negotiation means that when a managed system supports several versions of one
IRP, there is a mechanism for NM to select the needed IRP version, and invoke
the most appropriate management operations.
In order to support version negotiation, the procedure for NM to achieve IRP
References can be divided into two steps. First, the managed system provides
the outline information of the IRPs it supports, including DNs of the IRPs,
versions of IRPs and their scope of management. Second, the NM obtains the
Reference of the IRP of specific version by inputting the DN of the IRP which
supports the version number it needs.
### 5.1.3 Changes indication
When the References or their scope of management of IRPs contained in IRPAgent
changed (create, delete or modified), the relative information shall be
reflected in EPIRP.
In addition, a notification shall be supported for keeping IRPManager timely
informed about the changes of Entry Point contents, e.g. latest IRPAgent
register information (e.g. IRP Reference) or latest IRPAgent deregister
information or their scope of management stored in EPIRP at run time.
### 5.1.4 Security
As an access point between NM and managed system, Entry Point needs security
guarantee on its access and the EP contents.
Editor\'s note: Other requirements to be added (FFS).
###### ## Annex A (informative): EPIRP knowledge
Figures A.1 to A.3 give the possible solutions to show EPIRP knowledge about
all the products of one vendor.
Figure A.1: EPIRP knowledge 1
Figure A.2: EPIRP knowledge 2
Figure A.3: EPIRP knowledge 3
#