# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
32.391: Delta Synchronization Integration Reference Point (IRP); Requirements.
32.392: Delta Synchronization Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information
Service (IS).
**32.393: Delta Synchronization Integration Reference Point (IRP); Common
Object Request Broker Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set.**
32.395: Delta Synchronization Integration Reference Point (IRP); **eXtensible
Markup Language (XML) file format definition.**
The Itf-N interface is built up by a number of IRPs and a related Name
Convention, which realise the functional capabilities over this interface. The
basic structure of the IRPs is defined in 3GPP TS 32.101 [1] and 3GPP TS
32.102 [2].
IRPManagers (typically Network Management Systems) and IRPAgents (typically
EMs or NEs) synchronize their data concerning alarms or configuration data. In
certain scenarios this synchronization is lost or not done. This IRP provides
functionality to significantly reduces the amount of data which needs to be
transferred in order to re-establish synchronization.
# 1 Scope
The purpose of Delta Synchronization IRP is to define an interface through
which an IRPManager can request only those data which changed (i.e. changed,
were created or deleted) from a synchronization point onwards.
The present document is the \"CORBA Solution Set\" of Delta Synchronization
IRP for the IRP whose semantics is specified in Delta Synchronization IRP:
Information Service (3GPP TS 32.392 [5]).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions that, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document in the same Release as the present document.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.302: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service
(IS)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.391: \"Configuration Management (CM); Delta Synchronization
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.392: \"Configuration Management (CM); Delta Synchronization
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.622: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Generic network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP): Network
Resource Model (NRM)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.312: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Integration
Reference Point (IRP) management; Information Service (IS)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 32.602: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Basic CM Integration Reference Point (IRP) management; Information
Service (IS)\".
[9] 3GPP TS 32.303: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP): Common Object Request
Broker Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set (SS)\".
[10] OMG TC Document telecom/98-11-01: \"OMG Notification Service\".
http://www.omg.org/technology/documents/
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102 [2] and 3GPP TS 32.391 [4] apply.
**IRP:** See 3GPP TS 32.101 [1].
**IRPAgent:** See 3GPP TS 32.102 [2].
**IRPManager:** See 3GPP TS 32.102 [2].
**Changed** : See 3GPP TS 32.391 [4].
**Changed instance** : See 3GPP TS 32.391 [4].
**Delta Synchronisation** : See 3GPP TS 32.391 [4].
**Delta Synchronisation Point** : See 3GPP TS 32.391 [4].
**Full Synchronisation** : See 3GPP TS 32.391 [4].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
EM Element Manager
IRP Integration Reference Point
IS Information Service (see 3GPP TS 32.101 [1])
Itf-N Interface N
NE Network Element
SS Solution Set
# 4 Architectural features
The overall architectural feature of Delta Synchronization IRP is specified in
3GPP TS 32.382 [5].
# 5 Mapping
## 5.1 General mappings
Not applicable.
## 5.2 Operation and notification mapping
The Delta Synchronization IS defines semantics of operations visible across
the Itf-N. Table 5.2-1 indicates mapping of these operations and notifications
to their equivalents defined in this SS.
Table 5.2-1: Mapping from IS Operation to SS equivalents
+---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation / | SS Method | Qualifier | | Notification | | | | | | | | (3GPP TS 32.392) | | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | m | m | M | | anageDeltaSynchronization | anageDeltaSynchronization | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | get | get | O | | AvailableDeltaSynchPoints | AvailableDeltaSynchPoints | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | triggerDeltaSynchOfCMData | triggerDeltaSynchOfCMData | O | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | triggerDeltaSynchOfAlarms | triggerDeltaSynchOfAlarms | O | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | notifySta | notifySta | M | | tusOfDeltaSynchronization | tusOfDeltaSynchronization | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | notifyNewDeltaSynchPoint | notifyNewDeltaSynchPoint | O | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
## 5.3 Operation parameter mapping
The Delta Synchronization IS defines semantics of parameters carried in
operations across the Itf-N. The following tables indicate the mapping of
these parameters, as per operation, to their equivalents defined in this SS.
Table 5.3-1: Mapping from IS manageDeltaSynchronization parameters to SS
equivalents
+---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS Method parameter | Qualifier | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | managerReference | DeltaSynchronizationCo | M | | | nstDefs::ManagerReference | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | man | DeltaSynchroniza | CM | | ageDeltaSynchForAlarmData | tionConstDefs::ManageDelt | | | | aSynchForXDataConditional | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | manageDeltaSynchForCMData | DeltaSynchroniza | CM | | | tionConstDefs::ManageDelt | | | | aSynchForXDataConditional | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | status | Exceptions: | M | | | | | | | DeltaSyn | | | | chronizationConstDefs::Ma | | | | nageDeltaSynchronization, | | | | GenericIRPManagementSyste | | | | m::ParameterNotSupported, | | | | | | | | GenericIRPManagement | | | | System::InvalidParameter, | | | | | | | | GenericIRPManagementS | | | | ystem::ValueNotSupported, | | | | | | | | GenericIRPManagementSyst | | | | em::OperationNotSupported | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
Table 5.3-2: Mapping from IS getAvailableDeltaSynchPoints parameters to SS
equivalents
+---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS Method parameter | Qualifier | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | managerReference | DeltaSynchronizationConst | O | | | Defs::ManagerReferenceOpt | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | sync | DeltaSynchro | CM | | hPointsForCMDataRequested | nizationConstDefs::SynchP | | | | ointsRequestedConditional | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | synchPo | DeltaSynchro | CM | | intsForAlarmDataRequested | nizationConstDefs::SynchP | | | | ointsRequestedConditional | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | synchPointListForAlarms | DeltaS | CM | | | ynchronizationConstDefs:: | | | | SynchPointListConditional | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | synchPointListForCMData | DeltaS | CM | | | ynchronizationConstDefs:: | | | | SynchPointListConditional | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | status | Exceptions: | M | | | | | | | DeltaSynchron | | | | izationConstDefs::DeltaSy | | | | nchNotSupportedForCMData, | | | | | | | | DeltaSynchroniza | | | | tionConstDefs::DeltaSynch | | | | NotSupportedForAlarmData, | | | | | | | | D | | | | eltaSynchronizationConstD | | | | efs::DeltaSynchNotActive, | | | | | | | | DeltaSynchro | | | | nizationConstDefs::DeltaS | | | | ynchForCMDataDeactivated, | | | | | | | | DeltaSynchroniz | | | | ationConstDefs::DeltaSync | | | | hForAlarmDataDeactivated, | | | | | | | | GenericIRPManagementSyste | | | | m::ParameterNotSupported, | | | | | | | | GenericIRPManagement | | | | System::InvalidParameter, | | | | | | | | GenericIRPManagementS | | | | ystem::ValueNotSupported, | | | | | | | | GenericIRPManagementSyst | | | | em::OperationNotSupported | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
Table 5.3-3: Void
Table 5.3-4: Mapping from IS triggerDeltaSynchOfCMData parameters to SS
equivalents
+------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS Method parameter | Qualifier | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | managerReference | DeltaSynchronizationConst | O | | | Defs::ManagerReferenceOpt | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | dataRequested | DeltaSynchronizationCons | O | | | tDefs::CMDataRequestedOpt | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | baseMOInstance | KernelCmConstDefs::DNOpt | O | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | scope | Kernel | O | | | CmConstDefs::ScopeTypeOpt | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | synchPoint | DeltaSynchroniza | M | | | tionConstDefs::SynchPoint | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | deltaLists | De | CM | | | ltaSynchronizationConstDe | | | | fs::DeltaListsConditional | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | newSynchPoint | De | CM | | | ltaSynchronizationConstDe | | | | fs::SynchPointConditional | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | status | Exceptions: | M | | | | | | | DeltaSy | | | | nchronizationConstDefs::T | | | | riggerDeltaSynchOfCMData, | | | | | | | | DeltaSynchro | | | | nizationConstDefs::Synchr | | | | onizationPointTooLongAgo, | | | | | | | | DeltaSynchronizationConst | | | | Defs::TooManyChangesFullS | | | | ynchronizationRecommended | | | | | | | | DeltaSynchronizationCons | | | | tDefs::SynchPointUnknown, | | | | | | | | DeltaSynchron | | | | izationConstDefs::DeltaSy | | | | nchNotSupportedForCMData, | | | | | | | | DeltaSynchro | | | | nizationConstDefs::DeltaS | | | | ynchForCMDataDeactivated, | | | | | | | | D | | | | eltaSynchronizationConstD | | | | efs::DeltaSynchNotActive, | | | | | | | | GenericIRPManagementSyste | | | | m::ParameterNotSupported, | | | | | | | | GenericIRPManagement | | | | System::InvalidParameter, | | | | | | | | GenericIRPManagementS | | | | ystem::ValueNotSupported, | | | | | | | | GenericIRPManagementSyst | | | | em::OperationNotSupported | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
Table 5.3-5: Mapping from IS triggerDeltaSynchOfAlarms parameters to SS
equivalents
+------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS Method parameter | Qualifier | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | managerReference | DeltaSynchronizationCo | M | | | nstDefs::ManagerReference | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | dataRequested | DeltaSynchronizationCons | M | | | tDefs::AlarmDataRequested | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | baseMOInstance | KernelCmConstDefs::DN | O | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | scope | Kernel | O | | | CmConstDefs::ScopeTypeOpt | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | synchPoint | DeltaSynchroniza | M | | | tionConstDefs::SynchPoint | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | deltaLists | De | CM | | | ltaSynchronizationConstDe | | | | fs::DeltaListsConditional | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | newSynchPoint | De | CM | | | ltaSynchronizationConstDe | | | | fs::SynchPointConditional | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | status | Exceptions: | M | | | | | | | DeltaSy | | | | nchronizationConstDefs::T | | | | riggerDeltaSynchOfAlarms, | | | | | | | | DeltaSynchro | | | | nizationConstDefs::Synchr | | | | onizationPointTooLongAgo, | | | | | | | | DeltaSynchronizationConst | | | | Defs::TooManyChangesFullS | | | | ynchronizationRecommended | | | | | | | | DeltaSynchronizationCons | | | | tDefs::SynchPointUnknown, | | | | | | | | DeltaSynchron | | | | izationConstDefs::DeltaSy | | | | nchNotSupportedForAlarms, | | | | | | | | DeltaSynch | | | | ronizationConstDefs::Delt | | | | aSynchForAlarmsNotActive, | | | | | | | | D | | | | eltaSynchronizationConstD | | | | efs::DeltaSynchNotActive, | | | | | | | | GenericIRPManagementSyste | | | | m::ParameterNotSupported, | | | | | | | | GenericIRPManagement | | | | System::InvalidParameter, | | | | | | | | GenericIRPManagementS | | | | ystem::ValueNotSupported, | | | | | | | | GenericIRPManagementSyst | | | | em::OperationNotSupported | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
## 5.4 Notification parameter mapping
The delta synchronization Information Service defines semantics of parameters
carried in notifications. The following table indicates the mapping of these
parameters to their OMG CORBA Structured Event (defined in OMG Notification
Service [n2!!]) equivalents. The composition of OMG Structured Event, as
defined in the OMG Notification Service [n2!!], is:
Header
Fixed Header
domain_name
type_name
event_name
Variable Header
Body
filterable_body_fields
remaining_body
The following tables list all OMG Structured Event attributes in the second
column. The first column identifies the delta synchronization Information
Service defined notification parameters.
Table 5.4-1: Mapping for notifyStatusOfDeltaSynchronization
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | IS Parameters | OMG CORBA | Qualifier | Comment | | | Structured | | | | | Event attribute | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | There is no | domain_name | M | It carries the | | corresponding | | | IRP document | | IS attribute. | | | version number | | | | | string. See | | | | | clause 3.1. | | | | | | | | | | It indicates | | | | | the syntax and | | | | | semantics of | | | | | the Structured | | | | | Event as | | | | | defined by the | | | | | present | | | | | document. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | n | type_name | M | This is the | | otificationType | | | NotifyDe | | | | | ltaSynchOfInsta | | | | | ncesDeactivated | | | | | of module | | | | | Delt | | | | | aSynchronizatio | | | | | nNotifications. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | There is no | event_name | M | It carries no | | corresponding | | | information. | | IS attribute. | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | There is no | Variable Header | | | | corresponding | | | | | IS attribute. | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | objectClass, | One NV pair of | M | NV stands for | | objectInstance | filterabl | | name-value | | | e_body_fields | | pair. Order | | | | | arrangement of | | | | | NV pairs is not | | | | | significant. | | | | | The name of | | | | | NV-pair is | | | | | always encoded | | | | | in string. | | | | | | | | | | Name of this NV | | | | | pair is the | | | | | MANAGED_O | | | | | BJECT_INSTANCE | | | | | of interface | | | | | Att | | | | | ributeNameValue | | | | | of module | | | | | Notificati | | | | | onIRPConstDefs. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | string. See | | | | | corresponding | | | | | table in | | | | | Notification | | | | | IRP: CORBA SS | | | | | (3GPP TS 32.303 | | | | | [1]). | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | notificationId | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | remaining_body | | is the | | | | | N | | | | | OTIFICATION_ID | | | | | of interface | | | | | Att | | | | | ributeNameValue | | | | | of module | | | | | Notificati | | | | | onIRPConstDefs. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a long. | | | | | See | | | | | corresponding | | | | | table in | | | | | Notification | | | | | IRP: CORBA SS | | | | | (3GPP TS 32.303 | | | | | [1]). | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | eventTime | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | filterabl | | is the | | | e_body_fields | | EVENT_TIME of | | | | | interface | | | | | Att | | | | | ributeNameValue | | | | | of module | | | | | Notificati | | | | | onIRPConstDefs. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is | | | | | IRPTime. See | | | | | corresponding | | | | | table in | | | | | Notification | | | | | IRP: CORBA SS | | | | | (3GPP TS 32.303 | | | | | [1]). | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | systemDN | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | filterabl | | is the | | | e_body_fields | | SYSTEM_DN of | | | | | interface | | | | | Att | | | | | ributeNameValue | | | | | of module | | | | | Notificati | | | | | onIRPConstDefs. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | string. See | | | | | corresponding | | | | | table in | | | | | Notification | | | | | IRP: CORBA SS | | | | | (3GPP TS 32.303 | | | | | [1]). | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | m | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | anagerReference | remaining_body | | is the | | | | | MAN | | | | | AGER_REFERENCE | | | | | of interface | | | | | notifyDe | | | | | ltaSynchOfInsta | | | | | ncesDeactivated | | | | | of module | | | | | Delt | | | | | aSynchronizatio | | | | | nNotifications. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is | | | | | M | | | | | anagerReference | | | | | of module | | | | | DeltaSynchroniz | | | | | ationConstDefs. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | deltaSynch | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | StatusForCMData | remaining_body | | is the | | | | | DEL | | | | | TA_SYNCH_STAT | | | | | US_FOR_CMDATA | | | | | of interface | | | | | notifyDe | | | | | ltaSynchOfInsta | | | | | ncesDeactivated | | | | | of module | | | | | Delt | | | | | aSynchronizatio | | | | | nNotifications. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is | | | | | D | | | | | eltaSynchStatus | | | | | of module | | | | | DeltaSynchroniz | | | | | ationConstDefs. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | deltaSynchSta | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | tusForAlarmData | remaining_body | | is the | | | | | DELTA_S | | | | | YNCH_STATUS_F | | | | | OR_ALARM_DATA | | | | | of interface | | | | | notifyDe | | | | | ltaSynchOfInsta | | | | | ncesDeactivated | | | | | of module | | | | | Delt | | | | | aSynchronizatio | | | | | nNotifications. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is | | | | | D | | | | | eltaSynchStatus | | | | | of module | | | | | DeltaSynchroniz | | | | | ationConstDefs. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+
Table 5.4-2: Mapping for notifyNewDeltaSynchPoint
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | IS Parameters | OMG CORBA | Qualifier | Comment | | | Structured | | | | | Event attribute | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | There is no | domain_name | M | It carries the | | corresponding | | | IRP document | | IS attribute. | | | version number | | | | | string. See | | | | | subclause 3.1. | | | | | | | | | | It indicates | | | | | the syntax and | | | | | semantics of | | | | | the Structured | | | | | Event as | | | | | defined by the | | | | | present | | | | | document. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | n | type_name | M | This is the | | otificationType | | | Notif | | | | | yDeltaSynchOfAl | | | | | armsDeactivated | | | | | of module | | | | | Delt | | | | | aSynchronizatio | | | | | nNotifications. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | There is no | event_name | M | It carries no | | corresponding | | | information. | | IS attribute. | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | There is no | Variable Header | | | | corresponding | | | | | IS attribute. | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | objectClass, | One NV pair of | M | NV stands for | | objectInstance | filterabl | | name-value | | | e_body_fields | | pair. Order | | | | | arrangement of | | | | | NV pairs is not | | | | | significant. | | | | | The name of | | | | | NV-pair is | | | | | always encoded | | | | | in string. | | | | | | | | | | Name of this NV | | | | | pair is the | | | | | MANAGED_O | | | | | BJECT_INSTANCE | | | | | of interface | | | | | Att | | | | | ributeNameValue | | | | | of module | | | | | Notificati | | | | | onIRPConstDefs. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | string. See | | | | | corresponding | | | | | table in | | | | | Notification | | | | | IRP: CORBA SS | | | | | (3GPP TS 32.303 | | | | | [1]). | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | notificationId | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | remaining_body | | is the | | | | | N | | | | | OTIFICATION_ID | | | | | of interface | | | | | Att | | | | | ributeNameValue | | | | | of module | | | | | Notificati | | | | | onIRPConstDefs. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a long. | | | | | See | | | | | corresponding | | | | | table in | | | | | Notification | | | | | IRP: CORBA SS | | | | | (3GPP TS 32.303 | | | | | [1]). | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | eventTime | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | filterabl | | is the | | | e_body_fields | | EVENT_TIME of | | | | | interface | | | | | Att | | | | | ributeNameValue | | | | | of module | | | | | Notificati | | | | | onIRPConstDefs. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is | | | | | IRPTime. See | | | | | corresponding | | | | | table in | | | | | Notification | | | | | IRP: CORBA SS | | | | | (3GPP TS 32.303 | | | | | [1]). | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | systemDN | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | filterabl | | is the | | | e_body_fields | | SYSTEM_DN of | | | | | interface | | | | | Att | | | | | ributeNameValue | | | | | of module | | | | | Notificati | | | | | onIRPConstDefs. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | string. See | | | | | corresponding | | | | | table in | | | | | Notification | | | | | IRP: CORBA SS | | | | | (3GPP TS 32.303 | | | | | [1]). | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | newSynchPoint | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | remaining_body | | is the | | | | | NEW_DELT | | | | | A_SYNCH_POINT | | | | | of interface | | | | | notif | | | | | yDeltaSynchOfAl | | | | | armsDeactivated | | | | | of module | | | | | Delt | | | | | aSynchronizatio | | | | | nNotifications. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is | | | | | SynchPoint of | | | | | module | | | | | DeltaSynchroniz | | | | | ationConstDefs. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | requ | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | estedSynchPoint | remaining_body | | is the | | | | | REQUESTE | | | | | D_SYNCH_POINT | | | | | of interface | | | | | notif | | | | | yDeltaSynchOfAl | | | | | armsDeactivated | | | | | of module | | | | | Delt | | | | | aSynchronizatio | | | | | nNotifications. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is | | | | | SynchPoint of | | | | | module | | | | | DeltaSynchroniz | | | | | ationConstDefs. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | delt | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | aSynchPointType | remaining_body | | is the | | | | | DELTA_SYN | | | | | CH_POINT_TYPE | | | | | of interface | | | | | notif | | | | | yDeltaSynchOfAl | | | | | armsDeactivated | | | | | of module | | | | | Delt | | | | | aSynchronizatio | | | | | nNotifications. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is | | | | | Delt | | | | | aSynchPointType | | | | | of module | | | | | DeltaSynchroniz | | | | | ationConstDefs. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | triggeredB | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | yAgentOrManager | remaining_body | | is the | | | | | TRI | | | | | GGERED_BY_AGE | | | | | NT_OR_MANAGER | | | | | of interface | | | | | notif | | | | | yDeltaSynchOfAl | | | | | armsDeactivated | | | | | of module | | | | | Delt | | | | | aSynchronizatio | | | | | nNotifications. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is | | | | | TriggeredB | | | | | yAgentOrManager | | | | | of module | | | | | DeltaSynchroniz | | | | | ationConstDefs. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | agentOrM | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | anagerReference | remaining_body | | is the | | | | | AGENT_OR_MAN | | | | | AGER_REFERENCE | | | | | of interface | | | | | notif | | | | | yDeltaSynchOfAl | | | | | armsDeactivated | | | | | of module | | | | | Delt | | | | | aSynchronizatio | | | | | nNotifications. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is | | | | | AgentOrM | | | | | anagerReference | | | | | of module | | | | | DeltaSynchroniz | | | | | ationConstDefs. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+
###### ## Annex A (normative): IDL specifications
# A.1 IDL specification (file name \"DeltaSynchronizationConstDefs.idl\")
// File: DeltaSynchronizationConstDefs.idl
#ifndef _DELTA_SYNCHRONIZATION_CONST_DEFS_IDL_
#define _DELTA_SYNCHRONIZATION_CONST_DEFS_IDL_
#include \
#include \
#include \
#include \
#include \
#include \
//FileTransferIRPConstDefs::FileLocation value;
// This statement must appear after all include statements
#pragma prefix \"3gppsa5.org\"
/* ## Module: DeltaSynchronizationConstDefs */
module DeltaSynchronizationConstDefs
{
/*****************************************************************************/
/* definition of types used in several operations for Delta Synchronization:
*/
/*****************************************************************************/
/* types used in several operations: */
typedef string ManagerReference;
typedef string AgentOrManagerReference;
/*
ManagerReferenceConditional is a type carrying an optional parameter.
The boolean shall be TRUE, if the condition described in TS 32.392 is
fulfilled. In this case the value is present. Otherwise the value is be
absent.
*/
union ManagerReferenceConditional switch (boolean)
{
case TRUE: ManagerReference value;
};
/*
ManagerReferenceOpt is a type carrying an optional parameter.
The boolean shall be TRUE, if the operation request uses this parameter. In
this case the value is present. Otherwise the value is absent.
*/
union ManagerReferenceOpt switch (boolean)
{
case TRUE: ManagerReference value;
};
enum ManageDeltaSynchForXData {ACTIVATE, DEACTIVATE};
/*
ManageDeltaSynchForXDataConditional is a type carrying a conditional
parameter.
The boolean shall be TRUE, if the condition described in TS 32.392 is
fulfilled. In this case the value is present. Otherwise the value is absent.
*/
union ManageDeltaSynchForXDataConditional switch (boolean)
{
case TRUE: ManageDeltaSynchForXData value;
};
typedef TimeBase::UtcT SynchPoint;
/*
SynchPointConditional is a type carrying a conditional parameter.
The boolean shall be TRUE, if the condition described in TS 32.392 is
fulfilled. In this case the value is present. Otherwise the value is absent.
*/
union SynchPointConditional switch (boolean)
{
case TRUE: SynchPoint value;
};
/*
SynchPointOpt is a type carrying an optional parameter.
The boolean shall be TRUE, if the operation request uses this parameter. In
this case the value is present. Otherwise the value is absent.
*/
union SynchPointOpt switch (boolean)
{
case TRUE: SynchPoint value;
};
/*
ScopeTypeOpt is a type carrying an optional parameter.
The boolean shall be TRUE, if the operation request uses this parameter. In
this case the value is present. Otherwise the value is absent.
*/
union ScopeTypeOpt switch (boolean)
{
case TRUE: KernelCmConstDefs::ScopePara value;
};
/*
BaseMOInstanceOpt is a type carrying an optional parameter.
The boolean shall be TRUE, if the operation request uses this parameter. In
this case the value is present. Otherwise the value is absent.
*/
union BaseMOInstanceOpt switch (boolean)
{
case TRUE: GenericIRPManagementConstDefs::DN value;
};
enum Status {SUCCESS, FAILURE};
/********************************************************************/
/* types used in operation manageDeltaSynchronization */
/********************************************************************/
enum ActivatedStatus {ACTIVATED, DEACTIVATED };
typedef ActivatedStatus ManageDeltaSynchMode;
/********************************************************************/
/* types used in operation getAvailableDeltaSynchPoints */
/********************************************************************/
typedef boolean SynchPointsRequested;
/*
SynchPointsRequestedConditional is a type carrying a conditional parameter.
The boolean shall be TRUE, if the condition described in TS 32.392 is
fulfilled. Otherwise the value may be absent.
*/
union SynchPointsRequestedConditional switch (boolean)
{
case TRUE: SynchPointsRequested value;
};
typedef sequence \ SynchPointList;
/*
SynchPointListConditional is a type carrying an optional parameter.
The boolean shall be TRUE, if the condition described in TS 32.392 is
fulfilled. In this case the value is present. Otherwise the value is be
absent.
*/
union SynchPointListConditional switch (boolean)
{
case TRUE: SynchPointList value;
};
/********************************************************************/
/* types used in operation triggerDeltaSynchOfCMData and */
/* in operation triggerDeltaSynchOfAlarmData */
/********************************************************************/
/*
AttributeListConditional is a type carrying a conditional parameter.
The boolean shall be TRUE, if the operation's dnsOnly=FALSE. In this case the
value is present.
Otherwise the value is absent.
*/
union AttributeListConditional switch (boolean)
{
case TRUE: GenericIRPManagementConstDefs::MOAttributeSet value;
};
struct ListedInstance
{
GenericIRPManagementConstDefs::DN moInstance; /* DN is a string; */
AttributeListConditional attributeList;
};
typedef sequence \ ListOfInstances;
struct DeltaListsWithRealLists
{
TimeBase::UtcT startTime;
TimeBase::UtcT endTime;
ListOfInstances listOfCreatedInstances;
ListOfInstances listOfChangedInstances;
ListOfInstances listOfDeletedInstances;
};
struct AlarmDeltaListsWithRealLists
{
TimeBase::UtcT startTime;
TimeBase::UtcT endTime;
AlarmIRPConstDefs::AlarmInformationSeq listOfNewAlarms;
AlarmIRPConstDefs::AlarmInformationSeq listOfChangedAlarms;
AlarmIRPConstDefs::AlarmInformationIdSeq listOfDeletedAlarms;
};
typedef sequence \ FileLocationList;
struct DeltaListsWithFileReferences
{
TimeBase::UtcT startTime;
TimeBase::UtcT endTime;
FileLocationList fileList;
/* if several files are used, then they shall be processed by the IRPmanager
in sequence, i.e. first file first, second file as second, ... */
};
enum DeltaListContentChoice {REAL_LISTS, FILE_REFERENCES};
//The CmDeltaList may contain a list of ListOfInstances or a list of filenames
union CmDeltaLists switch (DeltaListContentChoice)
{
case REAL_LISTS: DeltaListsWithRealLists deltaListRealLists;
case FILE_REFERENCES: DeltaListsWithFileReferences deltaListFileReferences;
};
//The AlarmDeltaLists may contain a list of ListOfInstances or a list of
filenames
union AlarmDeltaLists switch (DeltaListContentChoice)
{
case REAL_LISTS: AlarmDeltaListsWithRealLists deltaListRealLists;
case FILE_REFERENCES: DeltaListsWithFileReferences deltaListFileReferences;
};
/*
CmDeltaListsConditional is a type carrying a conditional parameter.
The boolean shall be TRUE, if the condition described in TS 32.392 is
fulfilled. In this case
the value is present. Otherwise the value is be absent.
*/
union CmDeltaListsConditional switch (boolean)
{
case TRUE: CmDeltaLists value;
};
/*
AlarmDeltaListsConditional is a type carrying a conditional parameter.
The boolean shall be TRUE, if the condition described in TS 32.392 is
fulfilled. In this case
the value is present. Otherwise the value is absent.
*/
union AlarmDeltaListsConditional switch (boolean)
{
case TRUE: AlarmDeltaLists value;
};
/********************************************************************/
/* types used in operation triggerDeltaSynchOfAlarmData */
/********************************************************************/
enum AlarmDataRequested { ALARM_IDS_ONLY, COMPLETE_ALARM_INFORMATION };
/*
AlarmDataRequestedOpt is a type carrying an optional parameter.
The boolean shall be TRUE, if the operation request uses this parameter. In
this case the value
is present. Otherwise the value is absent.
*/
union AlarmDataRequestedOpt switch (boolean)
{
case TRUE: AlarmDataRequested value;
};
/********************************************************************/
/* types used in operation triggerDeltaSynchOfCMData */
/********************************************************************/
enum CMDataRequested { DNS_ONLY, COMPLETE_DATA_SET };
/*
CMDataRequestedOpt is a type carrying an optional parameter.
The boolean shall be TRUE, if the operation request uses this parameter. In
this case the value
is present. Otherwise the value is absent.
*/
union CMDataRequestedOpt switch (boolean)
{
case TRUE: CMDataRequested value;
};
/*****************************************************************************/
/* definition of types in notifications for Delta Synchronization */
/*****************************************************************************/
enum DeltaSynchPointType { DELTA_SYNCH_POINT_FOR_ALARM,
DELTA_SYNCH_POINT_FOR_CM_DATA };
typedef ActivatedStatus DeltaSynchStatus;
enum TriggeredBy { IRP_AGENT, IRP_MANAGER };
/*********************************************************************************/
/* Definition of parameters specified in notifications for Delta
Synchronization */
/*********************************************************************************/
interface AttributeNameValue
{
const string MANAGER_REFERENCE = \"MANAGER_REFERENCE\";
const string AGENT_OR_MANAGER_REFERENCE = \"AGENT_OR_MANAGER_REFERENCE\";
const string DELTA_SYNCH_STATUS_FOR_CMDATA =
\"DELTA_SYNCH_STATUS_FOR_CMDATA\";
const string DELTA_SYNCH_STATUS_FOR_ALARM_DATA =
\"DELTA_SYNCH_STATUS_FOR_ALARM_DATA\";
const string NEW_DELTA_SYNCH_POINT = \"NEW_DELTA_SYNCH_POINT\";
const string DELTA_SYNCH_POINT_TYPE = \"DELTA_SYNCH_POINT_TYPE\";
const string REQUESTED_SYNCH_POINT = \"REQUESTED_SYNCH_POINT\";
const string TRIGGERED_BY_AGENT_OR_MANAGER =
\"TRIGGERED_BY_AGENT_OR_MANAGER\";
};
};
#endif // _DELTA_SYNCHRONIZATION_CONST_DEFS_IDL_
# A.2 IDL specification (file name \"DeltaSynchronizationSystem.idl\")
//File: DeltaSynchronizationSystem.idl
#ifndef _DELTA_SYNCHRONIZATION_SYSTEM_IDL_
#define _DELTA_SYNCHRONIZATION_SYSTEM_IDL_
#include \
#include \
#include \
#include \
#include \
#include \
// This statement must appear after all include statements
#pragma prefix \"3gppsa5.org\"
/* ## Module: DeltaSynchronizationSystem */
module DeltaSynchronizationSystem
{
/*
If the system fails to complete an operation, then it can provide a reason
to qualify the exception. The semantics carried in this reason are outside
the scope of the present document.
*/
exception ManageDeltaSynchronization { string reason; };
exception GetAvailableDeltaSynchPoints { string reason; };
exception TriggerDeltaSynchOfCMData { string reason; };
exception TriggerDeltaSynchOfAlarms { string reason; };
exception SynchronizationPointTooLongAgo { string reason; };
exception TooManyChangesFullSynchronizationRecommended { string reason; };
exception DeltaSynchNotSupportedForCMData { string reason; };
exception DeltaSynchNotSupportedForAlarmData { string reason; };
exception DeltaSynchNotActive { string reason; };
exception DeltaSynchForCMDataDeactivated { string reason; };
exception DeltaSynchForAlarmDataDeactivated { string reason; };
exception SynchPointTooLongAgo{ string reason; };
exception SynchPointUnknown { string reason; };
exception DeltaSynchNotSupportedForAlarms { string reason; };
exception DeltaSynchForAlarmsNotActive { string reason; };
interface DeltaSynchGenericParts
{
DeltaSynchronizationConstDefs::Status manageDeltaSynchronization
/* for the purpose of this operation see 3GPP TS 32.392 */
(
in DeltaSynchronizationConstDefs::ManagerReference managerReference,
in DeltaSynchronizationConstDefs::ManageDeltaSynchForXDataConditional
manageDeltaSynchForAlarmData,
in DeltaSynchronizationConstDefs::ManageDeltaSynchForXDataConditional
manageDeltaSynchForCMData
)
raises
(
ManageDeltaSynchronization,
GenericIRPManagementSystem::ParameterNotSupported,
GenericIRPManagementSystem::InvalidParameter,
GenericIRPManagementSystem::ValueNotSupported,
GenericIRPManagementSystem::OperationNotSupported
);
DeltaSynchronizationConstDefs::Status getAvailableDeltaSynchPoints
/* for the purpose of this operation see 3GPP TS 32.392 */
(
in DeltaSynchronizationConstDefs::ManagerReferenceOpt managerReference,
in DeltaSynchronizationConstDefs::SynchPointsRequestedConditional
synchPointsForCMDataRequested,
in DeltaSynchronizationConstDefs::SynchPointsRequestedConditional
synchPointsForAlarmDataRequested,
out DeltaSynchronizationConstDefs::SynchPointListConditional
synchPointListForAlarms,
out DeltaSynchronizationConstDefs::SynchPointListConditional
synchPointListForCMData
)
raises
(
GetAvailableDeltaSynchPoints,
DeltaSynchNotSupportedForCMData,
DeltaSynchNotSupportedForAlarmData,
DeltaSynchNotActive,
DeltaSynchForCMDataDeactivated,
DeltaSynchForAlarmDataDeactivated,
GenericIRPManagementSystem::ParameterNotSupported,
GenericIRPManagementSystem::InvalidParameter,
GenericIRPManagementSystem::ValueNotSupported,
GenericIRPManagementSystem::OperationNotSupported
);
};
interface DeltaSynchOfCMData
{
DeltaSynchronizationConstDefs::Status triggerDeltaSynchOfCMData
/* for the purpose of this operation see 3GPP TS 32.392 */
(
in DeltaSynchronizationConstDefs::ManagerReferenceOpt managerReference,
in DeltaSynchronizationConstDefs::CMDataRequestedOpt cmDataRequested,
in DeltaSynchronizationConstDefs::BaseMOInstanceOpt baseMOInstance,
in DeltaSynchronizationConstDefs::ScopeTypeOpt scope,
in DeltaSynchronizationConstDefs::SynchPoint synchPoint,
out DeltaSynchronizationConstDefs::CmDeltaListsConditional deltaLists,
out DeltaSynchronizationConstDefs::SynchPointConditional newSynchPoint
)
raises
(
TriggerDeltaSynchOfCMData,
SynchronizationPointTooLongAgo,
TooManyChangesFullSynchronizationRecommended,
SynchPointUnknown,
DeltaSynchNotSupportedForCMData,
DeltaSynchForCMDataDeactivated,
DeltaSynchNotActive,
GenericIRPManagementSystem::ParameterNotSupported,
GenericIRPManagementSystem::InvalidParameter,
GenericIRPManagementSystem::ValueNotSupported,
GenericIRPManagementSystem::OperationNotSupported
);
};
interface DeltaSynchOfAlarmData
{
DeltaSynchronizationConstDefs::Status triggerDeltaSynchOfAlarms
/* for the purpose of this operation see 3GPP TS 32.392 */
(
in DeltaSynchronizationConstDefs::ManagerReferenceOpt managerReference,
in DeltaSynchronizationConstDefs::AlarmDataRequestedOpt alarmDataRequested,
in DeltaSynchronizationConstDefs::BaseMOInstanceOpt baseMOInstance,
in DeltaSynchronizationConstDefs::ScopeTypeOpt scope,
in DeltaSynchronizationConstDefs::SynchPoint synchPoint,
out DeltaSynchronizationConstDefs::AlarmDeltaListsConditional deltaLists,
out DeltaSynchronizationConstDefs::SynchPointConditional newSynchPoint
)
raises
(
TriggerDeltaSynchOfAlarms,
SynchronizationPointTooLongAgo,
TooManyChangesFullSynchronizationRecommended,
SynchPointUnknown,
DeltaSynchNotSupportedForAlarms,
DeltaSynchForAlarmsNotActive,
DeltaSynchNotActive,
GenericIRPManagementSystem::ParameterNotSupported,
GenericIRPManagementSystem::InvalidParameter,
GenericIRPManagementSystem::ValueNotSupported,
GenericIRPManagementSystem::OperationNotSupported
);
};
interface DeltaSynchIRPSystem : DeltaSynchGenericParts, DeltaSynchOfCMData,
DeltaSynchOfAlarmData, GenericIRPManagementSystem::GenericIRPManagement{};
};
#endif // _DELTA_SYNCHRONIZATION_SYSTEM_IDL_
# A.3 IDL specification (file name \"DeltaSynchronizationNotifications.idl\")
//File: DeltaSynchronizationNotifications.idl
#ifndef _DELTA_SYNCHRONIZATION_NOTIFICATIONS_IDL_
#define _DELTA_SYNCHRONIZATION_NOTIFICATIONS_IDL_
#include \
#include \
// This statement must appear after all include statements
#pragma prefix \"3gppsa5.org\"
/* ## Module: DeltaSynchronizationNotifications
This contains the specification of notifications of Delta Synchronization.
==========================================================================
*/
module DeltaSynchronizationNotifications
{
/* Constant definitions for the NotifyDeltaSynchOfInstancesDeactivated
notification */
interface notifyDeltaSynchOfInstancesDeactivated:
NotificationIRPNotifications::Notify
{
const string EVENT_TYPE = \"notifyStatusOfDeltaSynchronization\";
/**
* This constant defines the name of the ManagerReference property,
* which is transported in the filterable_body fields.
* The data type for the value of this property is
* DeltaSynchronizationConstDefs::ManagerReferenceConditional.
*/
const string MANAGER_REFERENCE =
DeltaSynchronizationConstDefs::AttributeNameValue::MANAGER_REFERENCE;
/**
* This constant defines the name of the DeltaSynchStatusForCMData property,
* which is transported in the filterable_body fields.
* The data type for the value of this property is
* DeltaSynchronizationConstDefs::DeltaSynchStatus.
*/
const string DELTA_SYNCH_STATUS_FOR_CMDATA =
DeltaSynchronizationConstDefs::AttributeNameValue::DELTA_SYNCH_STATUS_FOR_CMDATA;
/**
* This constant defines the name of the DeltaSynchStatusForAlarmData property,
* which is transported in the filterable_body fields.
* The data type for the value of this property is
* DeltaSynchronizationConstDefs::DeltaSynchStatus.
*/
const string DELTA_SYNCH_STATUS_FOR_ALARM_CMDATA =
DeltaSynchronizationConstDefs::AttributeNameValue::DELTA_SYNCH_STATUS_FOR_ALARM_DATA;
};
/* Constant definitions for the notifyNewDeltaSynchPoint notification */
interface notifyNewDeltaSynchPoint: NotificationIRPNotifications::Notify
{
const string EVENT_TYPE = \"notifyNewDeltaSynchPoint\";
/**
* This constant defines the name of the AgentOrManagerReference property,
* which is transported in the filterable_body fields.
* The data type for the value of this property is
* DeltaSynchronizationConstDefs::AgentOrManagerReference.
*/
const string AGENT_OR_MANAGER_REFERENCE =
DeltaSynchronizationConstDefs::AttributeNameValue::AGENT_OR_MANAGER_REFERENCE;
/**
* This constant defines the name of the NewDeltaSynchPoint property,
* which is transported in the filterable_body fields.
* The data type for the value of this property is
* DeltaSynchronizationConstDefs::SynchPoint.
*/
const string NEW_DELTA_SYNCH_POINT =
DeltaSynchronizationConstDefs::AttributeNameValue::NEW_DELTA_SYNCH_POINT;
/**
* This constant defines the name of the RequestedSynchPoint property,
* which is transported in the filterable_body fields.
* The data type for the value of this property is
* DeltaSynchronizationConstDefs::SynchPoint.
*/
const string REQUESTED_SYNCH_POINT =
DeltaSynchronizationConstDefs::AttributeNameValue::REQUESTED_SYNCH_POINT;
/**
* This constant defines the name of the DeltaSynchPointType property,
* which is transported in the filterable_body fields.
* The data type for the value of this property is
* DeltaSynchronizationConstDefs:: DeltaSynchPointType.
*/
const string DELTA_SYNCH_POINT_TYPE =
DeltaSynchronizationConstDefs::AttributeNameValue::DELTA_SYNCH_POINT_TYPE;
/**
* This constant defines the name of the TriggeredByAgentOrManager property,
* which is transported in the filterable_body fields.
* The data type for the value of this property is
* DeltaSynchronizationConstDefs::TriggeredBy.
*/
const string TRIGGERED_BY_AGENT_OR_MANAGER =
DeltaSynchronizationConstDefs::AttributeNameValue::TRIGGERED_BY_AGENT_OR_MANAGER;
};
};
#endif // _DELTA_SYNCHRONIZATION_NOTIFICATIONS_IDL_
#