# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
32.391: \"Delta Synchronization Integration Reference Point (IRP);
Requirements\".
**32.392: \"Delta Synchronization Integration Reference Point (IRP);
Information Service (IS)\".**
32.393: \"Delta Synchronization Integration Reference Point (IRP); Common
Object Request Broker Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set\".
32.395: \"Delta Synchronization Integration Reference Point (IRP);
**eXtensible Markup Language (XML) file format definition\".**
The Itf-N interface is built up by a number of IRPs and a related Name
Convention, which realise the functional capabilities over this interface. The
basic structure of the IRPs is defined in 3GPP TS 32.101 [1] and 3GPP TS
32.102 [2].
IRPManagers (typically Network Management Systems) and IRPAgents (typically
EMs or NEs) synchronize their data concerning alarms or configuration data. In
certain scenarios this synchronization is lost or not done. This IRP provides
functionality to significantly reduces the amount of data which needs to be
transferred in order to re-establish synchronization.
# 1 Scope
The purpose of Delta Synchronization IRP is to define an interface through
which an IRPManager can request only those data which changed (i.e. changed,
were created or deleted) from a synchronization point onwards.
The present document is the Information Service of Delta Synchronization IRP.
It defines, for the purpose of Delta Synchronization, the information
observable and controlled by management system\'s client and it also specifies
the semantics of the interactions used to carry this information.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions that, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document in the same Release as the present document.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.302: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service
(IS)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.391: \"Telecommunication management; Delta Synchronization
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.150: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Concept and definitions\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.622: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Generic network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP): Network
Resource Model (NRM)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.312: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Integration
Reference Point (IRP) management; Information Service (IS)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 32.602: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Basic CM Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[9] 3GPP TS 32.662: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Kernel CM; Information Service (IS)\".
[10] 3GPP TS 32.342: \"Telecommunication management; File Transfer (FT);
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[11] 3GPP TS 32.111-2: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management; Part
2: Alarm Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102 [2] and 3GPP TS 32.391 [4] apply.
**synchPoint Creation Policy:** The IRPAgent may create synchronizationPoint
in different policies. These policies are called synchPoint creation policies.
There are two synchPoint Creation policies:
**AgentScheduledPolicy:** A new synchronizationPoint is created by the
IRPAgent on the IRPAgent\'s internal decision, that decision is not related to
any IRPManager\'s operations. In this mode, after successful delta
synchronization, the IRPAgent does not create a new synchronizationPoint.
**ManagerRequestPolicy:** The new synchronizationPoint is requested by the
IRPManager. The exact time for this synchronizationPoint is determined by the
IRPAgent.\ The IRPAgent that supports either AgentScheduledPolicy or
ManagerRequestPolicy to create a new synchronizationPoint can claim compliance
to this specification.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
CM Configuration Management
EM Element Manager
IOC Information Object Class
IRP Integration Reference Point
IS Information Service (see 3GPP TS 32.101 [1])
Itf-N Interface N
NE Network Element
# 4 System overview
## 4.1 System context
The general definition of the System Context for the present IRP is found in
3GPP TS 32.150 [5], clause 4.7.
In addition, the set of related IRP(s) relevant to the present IRP is shown in
figures 4.1-1 and 4.1-2.
Figure 4.1.1: System Context A
Figure 4.1.2 : System Context B
# 5 Information Object Classes
## 5.1 Information entities imported and local labels
* * *
Label reference Local label 3GPP TS 32.622 [6], information object class, Top
Top 3GPP TS 32.622 [6], information object class, IRPAgent IRPAgent 3GPP TS
32.622 [6], information object class, GenericIRP GenericIRP 3GPP TS 32.312
[7], information object class, ManagedGenericIRP ManagedGenericIRP 3GPP TS
32.302 [3], information object class, NotificationIRP NotificationIRP
* * *
## 5.2 Class Diagram
### 5.2.1 Attributes and relationships
This clause introduces the set of Information Object Classes (IOCs) that
encapsulate information within the IRPAgent. The intent is to identify the
information required for the delta synchronization IRP Agent implementation of
its operations and notification emission. This clause provides the overview of
all support object classes in UML. Subsequent clauses provide more detailed
specification of various aspects of these support object classes.
Figure 5.2.1: Information Object Class (IOC) UML Diagram
### 5.2.2 Inheritance
Figure 5.2.2: Information Object Class (IOC) Inheritance UML Diagram
## 5.3 Information Object Class (IOC) definitions
### 5.3.1 DeltaSynchronizationIRP
#### 5.3.1.1 Definition
DeltaSynchronizationIRP is the representation of the delta synchronization
capabilities specified by the present document. This IOC inherits from
ManagedGenericIRP IOC specified in 3GPP TS 32.312 [7].
## 5.4 Information relationship definitions
none
## 5.5 Information attribute definition
none
# 6 Interface definition
## 6.1 Class diagram
Figure 6.1: Class diagram
## 6.2 Generic rules
**Rule 1:** each operation with at least one input parameter supports a pre-
condition valid_input_parameter which indicates that all input parameters
shall be valid with regards to their information type. Additionally, each such
operation supports an exception operation_failed_invalid_input_parameter which
is raised when pre-condition valid_input_parameter is false. The exception has
the same entry and exit state.
**Rule 2:** each operation with at least one optional input parameter supports
a set of pre-conditions supported_optional_input_parameter_xxx where \"xxx\"
is the name of the optional input parameter and the pre‑condition indicates
that the operation supports the named optional input parameter. Additionally,
each such operation supports an exception
operation_failed_unsupported_optional_input_parameter_xxx which is raised when
(a) the pre-condition supported_optional_input_parameter_xxx is false and (b)
the named optional input parameter is carrying information. The exception has
the same entry and exit state.
**Rule 3:** each operation shall support a generic exception
operation_failed_internal_problem which is raised when an internal problem
occurs and that the operation cannot be completed. The exception has the same
entry and exit state.
## 6.3 deltaSynchGenericParts Interface (M)
### 6.3.1 Operation manageDeltaSynchronization (M)
#### 6.3.1.1 Definition
This operation allows an IRPManager to activate or deactivate the delta
synchronization functionality for CMData or/and AlarmData. A change of at
least one activation status triggers the sending of
notifyStatusOfDeltaSynchronization.
As default settings the delta synchronization functionality for both alarms
and CM data is deactivated.
#### 6.3.1.2 Input parameters
+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Information | Comment | | | | type | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | m | M | See 32.302 | See 3GPP TS | | anagerReference | | [3] | 32.302 [3] | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | manageDeltaSy | CM | ENUM ( | Constraint: | | nchForAlarmData | | | | | | | Activate, | manageDelt | | | | | aSynchForCMData | | | | Deactivate | is absent. | | | | | | | | | ) | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | manageDelt | CM | ENUM ( | Constraint: | | aSynchForCMData | | | | | | | Activate, | manageDeltaSy | | | | | nchForAlarmData | | | | Deactivate | is absent | | | | | | | | | ) | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 6.3.1.3 Output parameters
+----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Matching | Comment | | | | Information | | +----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | status | M | ENUM ( | If the | | | | | functionality | | | | Success, | is already | | | | | activat | | | | Failure | ed/disactivated | | | | | the output | | | | ) | value is | | | | | Success and no | | | | | noti | | | | | fyStatusOfDelta | | | | | Synchronization | | | | | is triggered. | | | | | | | | | | Failure reasons | | | | | are: | | | | | | | | | | De | | | | | ltaSynchNotSupp | | | | | ortedForCMData, | | | | | | | | | | Delt | | | | | aSynchNotSuppor | | | | | tedForAlarmData | | | | | and other | | | | | unspecified | | | | | reasons. | +----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 6.3.1.4 Pre-condition
deltaSynchSupported
* * *
Assertion Name Definition deltaSynchSupported The IRPAgent supports the delta
synchronization functionality.
* * *
#### 6.3.1.5 Post-condition
requestGranted
* * *
Assertion Name Definition requestGranted The delta synchronization
functionality is activated or deactivated according to the input parameters
manageDeltaSyncForAlarmData and manageDeltaSynchForCMData.
* * *
#### 6.3.1.6 Exceptions
+-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Name | Properties | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | operation_failed | **Condition:** the pre-condition is false or | | | the post-condition is false. | | | | | | **Returned Information:** The output parameter | | | status. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+
### 6.3.2 Operation getAvailableDeltaSynchPoints (O)
#### 6.3.2.1 Definition
This operation allows an IRPManager to request information about the
synchronization points for which the IRPManager can request delta synch data
from the IRPAgent.
#### 6.3.2.2 Input parameters
+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Information | Comment | | | | type | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | m | O | See 32.302 | See 3GPP TS | | anagerReference | | [3] | 32.302 [3] | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | synchPointsFor | CM | Boolean | Constraint: | | CMDataRequested | | | | | | | | sy | | | | | nchPointsForAla | | | | | rmDataRequested | | | | | is absent | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | sy | CM | Boolean | Constraint: | | nchPointsForAla | | | | | rmDataRequested | | | synchPointsFor | | | | | CMDataRequested | | | | | is absent | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
Remark: The constraints allow the simultaneous presence of both
synchPointsForCMDataRequested and synchPointsForAlarmDataRequested in the
input.
#### 6.3.2.3 Output parameters
+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Matching | Comment | | | | Information | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | synchPoi | CM | LIST of | Constraint: | | ntListForAlarms | | SynchPoint | | | | | | sy | | | | | nchPointsForAla | | | | | rmDataRequested | | | | | was present in | | | | | the input and | | | | | had value TRUE. | | | | | | | | | | If | | | | | sy | | | | | nchPointsForAla | | | | | rmDataRequested | | | | | was not | | | | | present, then | | | | | this parameter | | | | | shall not be | | | | | present in the | | | | | output. | | | | | | | | | | If delta | | | | | synchronization | | | | | for alarm data | | | | | is deactivated, | | | | | then this list | | | | | shall be empty. | | | | | | | | | | The content of | | | | | this list is | | | | | valid, if the | | | | | status is | | | | | either Success | | | | | or | | | | | D | | | | | eltaSynchNotSup | | | | | portedForCMData | | | | | or | | | | | DeltaSynchForCM | | | | | DataDeactivated | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | synchPoi | CM | LIST of | Constraint: | | ntListForCMData | | SynchPoint | | | | | | synchPointsFor | | | | | CMDataRequested | | | | | was present in | | | | | the input and | | | | | had value TRUE. | | | | | | | | | | If | | | | | synchPointsFor | | | | | CMDataRequested | | | | | was not | | | | | present, then | | | | | this parameter | | | | | shall not be | | | | | present in the | | | | | output. | | | | | | | | | | If delta | | | | | synchronization | | | | | for CM data is | | | | | deactivated, | | | | | then this list | | | | | shall be empty. | | | | | | | | | | The content of | | | | | this list is | | | | | valid, if the | | | | | status is | | | | | either Success | | | | | or | | | | | Delt | | | | | aSynchNotSuppor | | | | | tedForAlarmData | | | | | or | | | | | Del | | | | | taSynchForAlarm | | | | | DataDeactivated | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | status | M | ENUM ( | If both delta | | | | | synchronization | | | | Success, | for CM data and | | | | | alarm data are | | | | Failure | deactivated, | | | | | then status == | | | | ) | Delta | | | | | SynchNotActive. | | | | | | | | | | Failure reasons | | | | | are: | | | | | | | | | | De | | | | | ltaSynchNotSupp | | | | | ortedForCMData, | | | | | | | | | | Delta | | | | | SynchNotSupport | | | | | edForAlarmData, | | | | | | | | | | Delta | | | | | SynchNotActive, | | | | | | | | | | D | | | | | eltaSynchForCMD | | | | | ataDeactivated, | | | | | | | | | | Delt | | | | | aSynchForAlarmD | | | | | ataDeactivated, | | | | | | | | | | Failure and | | | | | other | | | | | unspecified | | | | | reasons. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 6.3.2.4 Pre-condition
deltaSynchronizationSupported
* * *
Assertion Name Definition deltaSynchronizationSupported The delta
synchronization functionality is supported.
* * *
#### 6.3.2.5 Post-condition
synchPointListsReturned
* * *
Assertion Name Definition synchPointListsReturned The available information is
returned.
* * *
#### 6.3.2.6 Exceptions
+-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Name | Properties | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | operation_failed | **Condition:** the pre-condition is false or | | | the post-condition is false. | | | | | | **Returned Information:** The output parameter | | | status. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+
### 6.3.3 Notification notifyNewDeltaSynchPoint (O)
#### 6.3.3.1 Definition
If the IRPAgent has successfully performed the creation of a new delta
synchronization point, then this notification is sent out to all subscribed
IRPManagers. If an implementation chooses that the new delta synchronization
point shall only be valid for specific IRPManagers, it can send the
notification only to those.
This notification is triggered by any of the following:
1\. An operation triggerDeltaSynchOfCMData or triggerDeltaSynchOfAlarmData
returns the status == Success and a new synchronization point is created).
2\. An IRPAgent\'s internal decision to create a new synchronization point and
that decision is not related to any IRPManager\'s operations.
The use of the synchronizationPoint delivered in this notification may result
in different views of the managed instances by IRPManager and IRPAgent, in
some scenarios. To avoid such pitfall, it is recommended that the IRPManager
should do the following:
1\. Establish the first synchronizationPoint using the full synchronization;
and
2\. Use the operations in the future to a) maintain/track the list of
synchronization points and b) to update its view of the CM managed instances
and FM alarm information.
#### 6.3.3.2 Input Parameters
+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Matching | Comment | | | | Information | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | newSynchPoint | M, Y | GeneralizedTime | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | requ | M, N | GeneralizedTime | This parameter | | estedSynchPoint | | | allows an | | | | | IRPManager to | | | | | relate this | | | | | notification to | | | | | its | | | | | t | | | | | riggerDeltaSync | | | | | hOfCM/AlarmData | | | | | request. | | | | | | | | | | In case the | | | | | newSynchPoint | | | | | was triggered | | | | | by an | | | | | IPRAgent's | | | | | internal | | | | | decision this | | | | | parameter | | | | | carries the | | | | | value 0. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | delt | M, Y | ENUM ( | | | aSynchPointType | | | | | | | deltaSync | | | | | hPointForAlarm, | | | | | | | | | | deltaSync | | | | | hPointForCMData | | | | | | | | | | ) | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | triggeredB | M, Y | ENUM ( | This parameter | | yAgentOrManager | | | indicates | | | | iRPAgent, | whether the | | | | | creation of the | | | | iRPManager | new | | | | | synchronization | | | | ) | point was | | | | | triggered by an | | | | | IPRAgent's | | | | | internal | | | | | decision or by | | | | | the request of | | | | | an IRPManager | | | | | for an | | | | | operation | | | | | tr | | | | | iggerDeltaSynch | | | | | OfCMData/alarms | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | agentOrM | M, Y | String | In case the new | | anagerReference | | | synch point was | | | | | triggered by an | | | | | IPRAgent's | | | | | internal | | | | | decision this | | | | | parameter | | | | | carries the | | | | | reference of | | | | | the IRPAgent, | | | | | else the | | | | | m | | | | | anagerReference | | | | | of the | | | | | IRPManager | | | | | which requested | | | | | the operation | | | | | tr | | | | | iggerDeltaSynch | | | | | OfCMData/alarms | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 6.3.3.3 Triggering Event
##### 6.3.3.3.1 From-state
newSynchPointSuccessfullyCreated
* * *
Assertion Name Definition newSynchPointSuccessfullyCreated The IRPAgent has
successfully performed the to creation of a new delta synchronization point,
see clause 6.3.3.1.
* * *
##### 6.3.3.3.2 To-state
irpManagersInformedAboutNewSynchPoint
* * *
Assertion Name Definition irpManagersInformedAboutNewSynchPoint The involved
IRPManagers are informed about the new synchPoint.
* * *
### 6.3.4 Notification notifyStatusOfDeltaSynchChanged (O)
#### 6.3.4.1 Definition
If the IRPAgent has successfully performed a manageDeltaSynchronization
request and the status of delta synchronization for alarm data and/or for CM
data has changed, then this notification is sent out.
#### 6.3.4.2 Input Parameters
+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Information | Comment | | | | type | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | m | M, Y | See 32.302 | See 3GPP TS | | anagerReference | | [3] | 32.302 [3] | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | deltaSynch | M, Y | ENUM ( | | | StatusForCMData | | | | | | | Activated, | | | | | | | | | | Deactivated | | | | | | | | | | ) | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | deltaSynchSta | M, Y | ENUM ( | | | tusForAlarmData | | | | | | | Activated, | | | | | | | | | | Deactivated | | | | | | | | | | ) | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 6.3.4.3 Triggering Event
##### 6.3.4.3.1 From-state
statusOfDeltaSynchWasChanged
* * *
Assertion Name Definition statusOfDeltaSynchWasChanged The IRPAgent has
successfully performed a manageDeltaSynchronization request and at least one
delta synchronization status changed.
* * *
##### 6.3.4.3.2 To-state
irpManagersInformedAboutTheStatusChange
* * *
Assertion Name Definition irpManagersInformedAboutTheStatusChange The
IRPManagers are informed about the new delta synch status.
* * *
## 6.4 deltaSynchOfCMData Interface (O)
### 6.4.1 Operation triggerDeltaSynchOfCMData (M)
#### 6.4.1.1 Definition
This operation allows an IRPManager to request information about CMData which
has changed since the specified synchronization point. The information
returned may be filtered/restricted by the input parameters baseMOInstance and
scope.
If the operation is successful, then a new delta synchronization point for
CMData is created, if the IRPAgent supports the ManagerRequestPolicy.
If the IRPAgent only supports AgentScheduledPolicy, the latest
synchronizationPoint is returned to the IRPManager as the newSynchPoint.
The Synchronization points created are not related to baseMOInstance and scope
used in operations. In other words, it is not possible to establish
synchronization points for just a subset of the managed objects.
For obtaining an initial synchronization point (e.g. in the case that the
IRPManager does not have any valid configuration management information),
IRPManager shall use this operation triggerDeltaSyncOfCMdata as follows to
obtain the first synch point:
\- the input parameter synchPoint is present and the value is set to 0.
The IRPAgent responds with newSynchPoint a Synchronization point that the
IRPManager can use as the input parameter synchPoint for future
triggerDeltaSynchOfCMData requests.
A Solution Set may choose to split this operation in several operations (e.g.
operations to get \"iterator\" which fulfil the criteria and other operations
to retrieve the detailed information of the files from the \"iterator\").
If in the output of this operation a reference to a file is identified, then
the availability of the file shall be announced by a notifyFileReady
notification (see [10]).
#### 6.4.1.2 Input parameters
+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Information | Comment | | | | type | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | m | O | See TS 32.302 | See 3GPP TS | | anagerReference | | [3] | 32.302 [3] | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | cmDataRequested | M | ENUM ( | If | | | | | cmDataRequ | | | | DNsOnly, | ested==DNsOnly: | | | | | Only the DNs of | | | | C | MOIs are | | | | ompleteDataSet) | delivered in | | | | | the output, not | | | | | the complete | | | | | data set of the | | | | | MOIs. | | | | | | | | | | If | | | | | d | | | | | ataRequested==C | | | | | ompleteDataSet: | | | | | The complete | | | | | data set of | | | | | MOIs (including | | | | | the attributes | | | | | and their | | | | | values) are | | | | | delivered in | | | | | the output. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | baseMOInstance | O | See TS 32.602 | See 3GPP TS | | | | [8] | 32.602 [8] | | | | | | | | | | This parameter | | | | | is used to | | | | | reduce the | | | | | amount of data | | | | | which is | | | | | returned in | | | | | deltaLists. | | | | | | | | | | Remark: The | | | | | parameter | | | | | objectInstance | | | | | of a | | | | | noti | | | | | fyCMsynchroniza | | | | | tionRecommended | | | | | notification | | | | | could be used | | | | | as input here. | | | | | | | | | | If this | | | | | parameter is | | | | | absent, then | | | | | the all MOIs | | | | | are used. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | scope | O | See TS 32.662 | See 3GPP TS | | | | [9] | 32.662 [9] | | | | | | | | | | This parameter | | | | | can be used to | | | | | reduce the | | | | | amount of delta | | | | | data which is | | | | | returned in | | | | | deltaLists. | | | | | | | | | | If | | | | | baseMOInstance | | | | | is present, | | | | | then this | | | | | parameter shall | | | | | be present. If | | | | | the parameter | | | | | baseMOInstance | | | | | is absent, then | | | | | this parameter | | | | | must be absent. | | | | | | | | | | If the | | | | | IRP-Agent has | | | | | no complete | | | | | view of the | | | | | requested | | | | | scope, then it | | | | | shall deliver | | | | | all known delta | | | | | data within the | | | | | scope. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | synchPoint | M | GeneralizedTime | The IRPManager | | | | | asks for data | | | | | which changed | | | | | since this | | | | | synchPoint. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 6.4.1.3 Output parameters
+----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Matching | Comment | | | | Information | | +----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | deltaLists | CM | STRUCT \ | value of status | | | | | equals | | | | , | "Success" an | | | | | empty list | | | | STRUCT \ | input | | | | | synchPoint==0, | | | | > | then this | | | | | parameter shall | | | | lis | be absent, else | | | | tOf...Instances | it shall be | | | | LIST: | present. | | | | | | | | | either | Remark: Square | | | | | brackets | | | | LIST of STRUCT | indicate | | | | \ | the IRPManager | | | | | requested | | | | or | DNsOnly, then | | | | | the attribute | | | | a list of file | list shall be | | | | reference | absent. | | | | | | | | | | If the values | | | | | of a managed | | | | | object, | | | | | identified by | | | | | its DN, at | | | | | startTime and | | | | | at endTime are | | | | | identical, then | | | | | | | | | | - either | | | | | nothing | | | | | about it | | | | | shall be | | | | | reported in | | | | | the | | | | | listOfC | | | | | hangedInstances | | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | | - the value | | | | | at endTime | | | | | (or | | | | | startTime) | | | | | reported, | | | | | provided | | | | | that the | | | | | value has | | | | | changed | | | | | between | | | | | startTime | | | | | and endTime | | | | | | | | | | If the managed | | | | | object does not | | | | | exist at | | | | | startTime and | | | | | endTime, then | | | | | nothing about | | | | | it shall be | | | | | reported, if | | | | | the IRPAgent | | | | | can fulfil the | | | | | delta | | | | | synchronization | | | | | request | | | | | exactly, i.e. | | | | | for exactly the | | | | | request | | | | | synchPoint. | | | | | | | | | | If an instance | | | | | is deleted and | | | | | a new instance | | | | | is created with | | | | | the same | | | | | identifier as | | | | | the deleted | | | | | instance, then | | | | | both the | | | | | creation and | | | | | the deletion | | | | | shall be | | | | | reported. | | | | | | | | | | If several file | | | | | references are | | | | | used, then | | | | | IRPManager | | | | | shall process | | | | | them in | | | | | sequence, i.e. | | | | | first file | | | | | first, second | | | | | file as second, | | | | | etc. . | +----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | newSynchPoint | CM | GeneralizedTime | Constraint: | | | | | | | | | | baseMOInstance | | | | | and scope were | | | | | absent in the | | | | | input | | | | | | | | | | This parameters | | | | | defines a new | | | | | synchronization | | | | | point which can | | | | | be used as | | | | | input to this | | | | | operation in | | | | | the future. | +----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Status | M | ENUM ( | Failure reasons | | | | | are: | | | | Success, | | | | | | SynchrP | | | | Failure | ointTooLongAgo, | | | | | | | | | ) | TooManyChangesF | | | | | ullSynchronizat | | | | | ionRecommended, | | | | | | | | | | Syn | | | | | chPointUnknown, | | | | | | | | | | De | | | | | ltaSynchNotSupp | | | | | ortedForCMData, | | | | | | | | | | D | | | | | eltaSynchForCMD | | | | | ataDeactivated, | | | | | | | | | | and other | | | | | unspecified | | | | | reasons. | | | | | | | | | | In case the | | | | | deltaSynch | | | | | ronizationIRP's | | | | | data has been | | | | | rebuilt, e.g. | | | | | after a | | | | | "crash", | | | | | Sy | | | | | nchPointUnknown | | | | | is used. | +----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 6.4.1.4 Pre-condition
baseMOInstanceExists AND deltaSynchronizationOfCMDataIsActive
* * *
Assertion Name Definition baseMOInstanceExists baseMOInstance does exist
(Assertion == TRUE if no baseMOInstance was specified).
deltaSynchronizationOfCMDataIsActive The delta synchronization functionality
for CMData is active
* * *
#### 6.4.1.5 Post-condition
deltaListsReturned
* * *
Assertion Name Definition deltaListsReturned The required information is
returned.
* * *
#### 6.4.1.6 Exceptions
+-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Name | Properties | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | operation_failed | **Condition:** the pre-condition is false or | | | the post-condition is false. | | | | | | **Returned Information:** The output parameter | | | status. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+
## 6.5 deltaSynchOfAlarmData Interface (O)
### 6.5.1 Operation triggerDeltaSynchOfAlarms (M)
#### 6.5.1.1 Definition
This operation allows an IRPManager to request information about all alarm
information which has changed since the specified synchronization point. The
information returned may be filtered/restricted by the input parameters
baseMOInstance and scope.
If the operation is successful, then a new delta synchronization point for
alarm data is created, if the IRPAgent supports the ManagerRequestPolicy.
If the IRPAgent only supports AgentScheduledPolicy, the latest
synchronizationPoint is returned to the IRPManager as the newSynchPoint.
The synchronization points created are not related to baseMOInstance and scope
used in operations. In other words, it is is not possible to establish
synchronization points for just a subset of the managed objects
For obtaining an initial synchronization point (e.g. in the case that the
IRPManager does not have any valid alarm information), IRPManager shall use
this operation triggerDeltaSynchOfAlarms as follows to obtain the first synch
point:
\- the input parameter synchPoint is present and the value is set to 0.
The IRPAgent responds with newSynchPoint a synchronization point that the
IRPManager can use as input parameter synchPoint for future
triggerDeltaSynchOfAlarms requests.
A Solution Set may choose to split this operation in several operations (e.g.
operations to get \"iterator\" which fulfil the criteria and other operations
to retrieve the detailed information of the files from the \"iterator\").
If in the output of this operation a reference to a file is identified, then
the availability of the file shall be announced by a notifyFileReady
notification (see [10]).
#### 6.5.1.2 Input parameters
+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Information | Comment | | | | type | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | m | O | See 3GPP TS | See 3GPP TS | | anagerReference | | 32.302 [3] | 32.302 [3] | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | ala | M | ENUM ( | If | | rmDataRequested | | | dataRequested== | | | | AlarmIdsOnly, | AlarmIdsOnly: | | | | | Only the | | | | CompleteA | alarmed values | | | | larmInformation | are delivered | | | | | in the output, | | | | ) | not the | | | | | complete alarm | | | | | information. | | | | | | | | | | If | | | | | d | | | | | ataRequested==C | | | | | ompleteDataSet: | | | | | The complete | | | | | alarm | | | | | information are | | | | | delivered in | | | | | the output. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | baseMOInstance | O | See 3GPP TS | See 3PP TS | | | | 32.602 [8] | 32.602 [8] | | | | | | | | | | This parameter | | | | | is used to | | | | | reduce the | | | | | amount of data | | | | | which is | | | | | returned in | | | | | deltaLists. | | | | | | | | | | Remark: The | | | | | parameter | | | | | objectInstance | | | | | of a | | | | | notifyA | | | | | larmListRebuilt | | | | | notification | | | | | could be used | | | | | as input here. | | | | | | | | | | If this | | | | | parameter is | | | | | absent, then | | | | | the all MOIs | | | | | visible via | | | | | Itf-N is used. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | scope | O | See 3PP TS | See 3PP TS | | | | 32.662 [9] | 32.662 [9] | | | | | | | | | | This parameter | | | | | can be used to | | | | | reduce the | | | | | amount of delta | | | | | data which is | | | | | returned in | | | | | deltaLists. | | | | | | | | | | If the | | | | | parameter | | | | | baseMOInstance | | | | | is present, | | | | | then this | | | | | parameter shall | | | | | be present. If | | | | | the parameter | | | | | baseMOInstance | | | | | is absent, then | | | | | this parameter | | | | | must be absent. | | | | | | | | | | If the | | | | | IRP-Agent has | | | | | no complete | | | | | view of the | | | | | requested | | | | | scope, then it | | | | | shall deliver | | | | | all known delta | | | | | data within the | | | | | scope. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | synchPoint | M | GeneralizedTime | The IRPManager | | | | | asks for data | | | | | which changed | | | | | since this | | | | | synchPoint. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 6.5.1.3 Output parameters
+----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Matching | Comment | | | | Information | | +----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | deltaLists | CM | STRUCT \ | value of status | | | | | equals | | | | , | "Success" an | | | | | empty list | | | | STRUCT \ | status is | | | | | different from | | | | > | Success OR | | | | | input | | | | listOf...Alarms | synchPoint==0, | | | | LIST: | then this | | | | | parameter shall | | | | either | be absent, else | | | | | it shall be | | | | LIST of STRUCT | present. | | | | \ | brackets | | | | | indicate | | | | or | optional parts | | | | | in the data | | | | a filename | structure. If | | | | | the IRPManager | | | | | requested | | | | | AlarmIdsOnly, | | | | | then the | | | | | parameter list | | | | | shall be | | | | | absent. | | | | | | | | | | If an alarm | | | | | information, | | | | | identified by | | | | | its alarmId, at | | | | | startTime and | | | | | at endTime is | | | | | identical, then | | | | | either | | | | | | | | | | - nothing | | | | | about it | | | | | shall be | | | | | reported | | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | | - the alarm | | | | | information | | | | | at endTime | | | | | (or | | | | | startTime) | | | | | reported, | | | | | provided | | | | | that the | | | | | alarm | | | | | information | | | | | has changed | | | | | between | | | | | startTime | | | | | and | | | | | endTime. | | | | | | | | | | If an alarm is | | | | | raised and | | | | | cleared again | | | | | and | | | | | acknowledged | | | | | between | | | | | startTime and | | | | | endTime, then | | | | | these changes | | | | | should not be | | | | | reported, if | | | | | the IRPAgent | | | | | can fulfil the | | | | | delta | | | | | synchronization | | | | | request exactly | | | | | | | | | | If an alarm is | | | | | deleted and a | | | | | new alarm | | | | | occurs with the | | | | | same parameter | | | | | values as the | | | | | deleted alarm, | | | | | then both the | | | | | occurrence and | | | | | the deletion | | | | | shall be | | | | | reported. | | | | | | | | | | If several file | | | | | references are | | | | | used, then | | | | | IRPManager | | | | | shall process | | | | | them in | | | | | sequence, i.e. | | | | | first file | | | | | first, second | | | | | file as second, | | | | | etc. . | +----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | newSynchPoint | CM | GeneralizedTime | Constraint: | | | | | | | | | | baseMOInstance | | | | | and scope were | | | | | absent in the | | | | | input | | | | | | | | | | This parameters | | | | | defines a new | | | | | synchronization | | | | | point which can | | | | | be used as | | | | | input to this | | | | | operation in | | | | | the future. | +----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Status | M | ENUM ( | Failure reasons | | | | | are: | | | | Success, | | | | | | SynchP | | | | Failure | ointTooLongAgo, | | | | | | | | | ) | TooManyChangesF | | | | | ullSynchronizat | | | | | ionRecommended, | | | | | | | | | | Syn | | | | | chPointUnknown, | | | | | | | | | | Delta | | | | | SynchNotSupport | | | | | edForAlarmData, | | | | | | | | | | DeltaSynchForA | | | | | larmsNotActive, | | | | | | | | | | and other | | | | | unspecified | | | | | reasons. | | | | | | | | | | In case the | | | | | deltaSynch | | | | | ronizationIRP's | | | | | data has been | | | | | rebuilt, e.g. | | | | | after a | | | | | "crash", | | | | | Sy | | | | | nchPointUnknown | | | | | is used. | +----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 6.5.1.4 Pre-condition
baseMOInstanceExists AND deltaSynchOfAlarmDataIsActive
* * *
Assertion Name Definition baseMOInstanceExists baseMOInstance does exist.
(Assertion == TRUE if no baseMOInstance was specified).
deltaSynchOfAlarmDataIsActive The delta synchronization functionality for
alarms is active
* * *
#### 6.5.1.5 Post-condition
deltaListsReturned
* * *
Assertion Name Definition deltaListsReturned The required file information is
returned.
* * *
#### 6.5.1.6 Exceptions
+-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Name | Properties | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | operation_failed | **Condition:** the pre-condition is false or | | | the post-condition is false. | | | | | | **Returned Information:** The output parameter | | | status. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+
# 7 Operation Modes
Several modes of operation for delta Synchronization are possible. An
implementation supporting at least one of them can claim compliance to this
specification.
For each mode of operation, the DeltaSynchronizationIRP needs to support
CMData delta Synchronization or AlarmData delta Synchronization or both.
Further details to the operation modes and examples how to use them are
supplied in Annex A.
## 7.1 Delta Synchronization Mode DSM1
In this operation mode DSM1 the DeltaSynchronizationIRP only needs to support
the following operations and notifications:
  * triggerDeltaSynchOfCMData
  * triggerDeltaSyncOfAlarmData
  * optionally notifyNewDeltaSynchPoint
In this mode of operation, the DeltaSynchronizationIRP may ignore the use of
managerReference input parameter.
## 7.2 Delta Synchronization Mode DSM2
In this operation mode DSM2, the use of managerReference is mandatory.
Otherwise, in this mode of operation the DeltaSynchronizationIRP supports all
operations and notifications and their parameters which are qualified as
M(andatory) in this specification.
## 7.3 Delta Synchronization Mode DSM3
In this mode of operation DSM3, the DeltaSynchronizationIRP supports all
operations and notifications and their parameters as defined in this
specification.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Modes of operation for delta synchronization
The following two modes of operations are possible. IRPAgent can claim
compliance if only one is supported.
# A.1 Operation Mode DSM1
Example for this mode of operation:
> Suppose t0, t1, t2, t3, t4 and so on are the synchPoints.
>
> Suppose an IRPManager invokes a trigger with synchPoint==0 (requesting full
> sync data) at tx where t2\ all data up to t2 and return the t2 as the newSynchPoint.
>
> This IRPManager should use t2 as the synchPoint for future trigger.
>
> Suppose this IRPManager invokes a trigger with synchPoint==t2 at ty where
> t4\ and t4.
This mode of operation is suitable for IRPManagers that do not require
synchronization of data at all time.
In this mode of operation, the DeltaSynchronizationIRP may pre-assign the
synch points based on a fixed frequency. In the example above, the durations
between sync points t0, t1, t2 and so on would be identical. This frequency
can be a system configuration time parameter and made known to IRPManager via
non-standard means.
# A.2 Operation Mode DSM2
This mode of operation supports to handle requests of individual IRPManagers
individually.
This mode of operation is suitable for an IRPManager that require
synchronization of data at any time, i.e. not requiring synchronization of
data at some predefined fixed intervals.
# A.3 Operation Mode DSM3
This mode of operation provides all options of delta Synchronization.
#