# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project: Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management, as identified below:
32.411: \"Performance Management (PM) Integration Reference Point (IRP):
Requirements\"
32.412: \"Performance Management (PM) Integration Reference Point (IRP):
Information Service (IS)\"
32.413: \"Performance Management (PM) Integration Reference Point (IRP):
Common Object Request Broker Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set (SS)\"
**32.415 \"Performance Management (PM) Integration Reference Point (IRP):
eXtensible Markup Language (XML) definitions\"**
32.417: \"Performance Management (PM) Integration Reference Point (IRP): SOAP
Solution Set (SS)\"
The present document is part of a set of TSs which describes the requirements
and information model necessary for the Telecommunication Management (TM) of
3G systems. The TM principles and TM architecture are specified in 3GPP TS
32.101 [1] and 3GPP TS 32.102 [2].
A 3G system is composed of a multitude of Network Elements (NE) of various
types and, typically, different vendors, which inter-operate in a co-ordinated
manner in order to satisfy the network users\' communication requirements. Any
evaluation of PLMN-system behaviour will require performance data collected
and recorded by its NEs according to a schedule established by the EM.
This aspect of the management environment is termed Performance Management.
The purpose of any Performance Management activity is to collect performance
related data, which can be used to locate potential problems in the network.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the XML definitions for the Performance
Management (PM) Integration Reference Point (IRP) as it applies to Itf-N, in
accordance with PM IRP IS definitions in 3GPP TS 32.412 [3], for usage with
the SOAP Solution Set [6] as well as Notification Log IRP XML definitions in
3GPP TS 32.335 [4].
This specification is related to 3GPP TS 32.412 V9.0.X.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.412: \"Performance Management (PM) Integration Reference Point
(IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.335: \"Telecommunication management; Notification Log (NL)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): eXtensible Markup Language (XML) solution
definitions\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.331: \"Telecommunication management; Notification Log (NL)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.417: \"Performance Management (PM) Integration Reference Point
(IRP): SOAP Solution Set (SS)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102 [2], and 3GPP TS 32.331 [5] apply.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
IRP Integration Reference Point
IS Information Service
NL Notification Log
PM Performance Management
PMIRP Performance Management Integration Reference Point
XML eXtensible Markup Language
# 4 PM IRP XML Definitions
## 4.1 PM IRP notifications XML definition structure
This section provides XML definitions of PM IRP notifications as defined in
3GPP TS 32.412 [3].
{width="6.145138888888889in" height="2.09375in"}
Figure 4.1.1
{width="6.688194444444444in" height="3.2569444444444446in"}
Figure 4.1.2
{width="5.999305555555556in" height="1.40625in"}
Figure 4.1.3
{width="6.436805555555556in" height="2.09375in"}
Figure 4.1.4
## 4.2 PM IRP XML Schema for notifications
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
## 4.3 PM IRP XML Schema for IOCs
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
###### ## Annex A (informative): Void
#