# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
32.441 \"Trace **Management Integration Reference Point (IRP):**
Requirements\".
32.442 \"Trace Management Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information
Service (IS)\".
32.443 \"Trace Management Integration Reference Point (IRP): Common Object
Request Broker Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set (SS)\".
32.445 \"Trace Management Integration Reference Point (IRP): eXtensible Markup
Language (XML) file format definition\".
**32.447 \"Trace Management Integration Reference Point (IRP): SOAP Solution
Set (SS)\".**
The present document is part of a TS-family which describes the information
service necessary for the Telecommunication Management (TM) of 3G systems. The
TM principles and TM architecture are specified in 3GPP TS 32.101 [2] and 3GPP
TS 32.102 [3].
Trace provides very detailed information on call level for a specific
subscriber or MS. This data is an additional information source to Performance
Measurements and allows deeper investigations in problems solving or in case
of optimization.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the SOAP Solution Set for the IRP whose
semantics are specified in Trace Management IRP: Information Service (3GPP TS
32.442 [5]).
This Solution Set specification is related to 3GPP TS 32.442 V9.0.X.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.150: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Concept and definitions\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.442: \"Telecommunication management; Trace Management
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.445: \" Trace Management Integration Reference Point (IRP):
eXtensible Markup Language (XML) file format definition\".
[7] W3C SOAP 1.1 specification (http://www.w3.org/TR/2000/NOTE-SOAP-20000508/)
[8] W3C XPath 1.0 specification (http://www.w3.org/TR/1999/REC-xpath-19991116)
[9] W3C WSDL 1.1 specification (http://www.w3.org/TR/2001/NOTE-wsdl-20010315)
[10] W3C SOAP 1.2 specification (http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-part1/)
[11] 3GPP TS 32.307: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP): SOAP solution set\".
[12] 3GPP TS 32.312: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Integration
Reference Point (IRP) management; Information Service (IS)\"
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1], 3GPP TS 32.101 [2], 3GPP TS 32.102 [3], 3GPP TS 32.150 [4]
apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence over the
definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1], in 3GPP TS 32.101 [2], 3GPP TS 32.102 [3], 3GPP TS 32.150 [4], and the
following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
# 4 Architectural features
## 4.1 General
The overall architectural feature of the Trace Management IRP is specified in
3GPP TS 32.442 [4]. This clause specifies features that are specific to the
SOAP solution set.
The SOAP 1.1 specification [7] and WSDL 1.1 specification [9] are supported.
The SOAP 1.2 specification [10] is supported optionally.
This specification uses \"document\" style in WSDL file.
This specification uses \"literal\" encoding style in WSDL file.
The filter language used in the SS is the XPath Language (see W3C XPath 1.0
specification [8]). IRPAgents may throw a FilterComplexityLimit fault when a
given filter is too complex.
The Trace Management IRP SOAP SS uses the Notification IRP SOAP SS of 3GPP TS
32.307 [11]. The IRPAgent shall support the push interface model, which means
that the IRPAgent sends trace management notifications to the IRPManager as
soon as new events occur. The IRPManager does not need to check (\"pull\") for
events.
Relevant definitions are imported from the Trace Management IRP XML
definitions of 3GPP TS 32.445 [6].
This specification uses a number of namespace prefixes throughout that are
listed in Table 4.1. 1.
Table 4.1.1: Prefixes and Namespaces used in this specification
* * *
**PREFIX** **NAMESPACE** (no prefix) http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/wsdl/ soap
http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/wsdl/soap/ traceRPSystem
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/32_series/32.447#TraceIRPSystem
traceIRPData
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/32_series/32.447#TraceIRPData xti
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/specs/archive/32_series/32.445#tMIRPIOCs xn
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/specs/archive/32_series/32.625#genericNrm
genericIRPSystem
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/32_series/32.317/schema/32317-810/GenericIRPSystem
ntfIRPNtfSystem
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/32_series/32.307/schema/32307-810/
notification/NotificationIRPNtfSystem
* * *
The WSDL structure is depicted in Figure 4.1.1 below, depicting port type,
binding and service. The port type contains port type operations, which again
contains input, output and fault messages. The binding contains binding
operations, which have the same name as the port type operations. The binding
connects to a port inside the service.
Figure 4.1.1: Trace Management IRP SOAP Solution Set WSDL structure
# 5 Mapping
## 5.1 Operation and notification mapping
The Trace Management IRP IS (3GPP TS 32.442 [5]) defines semantics of
operation and notification visible across the Itf-N. Table 5.1.1 indicates
mapping of these operations and notifications to their equivalents defined in
this SS.
Table 5.1.1: Mapping from IS Operation to SS Equivalents
* * *
IS Operations in 3GPP TS 32.442 [5] SS Operations SS Port Qualifier
activateTraceJob activateTraceJob TraceIRPManagementPort M deactivateTraceJob
deactivateTraceJob TraceIRPManagementPort M listTraceJob listTraceJob
TraceIRPManagementPort M listActivatedTraceJobs listActivatedTraceJobs
TraceIRPManagementPort O notifyTraceRecordingSessionFailure notify (note 1)
NotificationIRPNtfPort O notifyTraceSessionLocalActivation notify (note 1)
NotificationIRPNtfPort M NOTE 1: The IS equivalent maps to an XML definition
specified in 3GPP TS 32.445 [6], and this being an input parameter to the
operation notify under the port type ntfIRPNtfSystem:NotificationIRPNtf and
under the binding ntfIRPNtfSystem:NotificationIRPNtf of 3GPP TS 32.307 [11].
* * *
## 5.2 Operation parameter mapping
The Trace Management IRP IS (3GPP TS 32.442 [5]) defines semantics of
parameters carried in the operations. The tables below show the mapping of
these parameters, as per operation, to their equivalents defined in this SS.
Table 5.2.1: Mapping from IS activateTraceJob parameters to SS equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Method parameter Qualifier iOCInstance iOCInstance M
listOfInterfaces listOfInterfaces O listOfNeTypes listOfNeTypes CM traceDepth
traceDepth M traceReference traceReference M traceTarget traceTarget M
triggeringEvent triggeringEvent CO traceCollectionEntityAddress
traceCollectionEntityAddress CM unsupportedList unsupportedList M status
status M
* * *
Table 5.2.2: Mapping from IS deactivateTraceJob parameters to SS equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Method parameter Qualifier traceReference
traceReference M traceTarget traceTarget M traceRecordingSessionReference
traceRecordingSessionReference CM status status M
* * *
Table 5.2.3: Mapping from IS listTraceJob parameters to SS equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Method parameter Qualifier traceReference
traceReference M iOCInstance iOCInstance M listOfInterfaces listOfInterfaces O
traceDepth traceDepth M traceRecordingSessionReference
traceRecordingSessionReference CM traceTarget traceTarget M triggeringEvent
triggeringEvent O traceCollectionEntityAddress traceCollectionEntityAddress CM
status status M
* * *
Table 5.2.4: Mapping from IS listTraceJobs parameters to SS equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Method parameter Qualifier traceReferenceList
traceReferenceList M status status M
* * *
## 5.3 Notification parameter mapping
The Trace Management IRP IS (3GPP TS 32.442 [5]) defines semantics of
parameters carried in notifications. The following tables indicate the mapping
of these parameters to their SS equivalents.
Table 5.3.1: Mapping for notifyTraceRecordingSessionFailure
* * *
IS Parameters \ Parameters Qualifier Comment objectClass objectClass M  
objectInstance objectInstance M  
eventTime eventTime M  
notificationType notificationType M  
systemDN systemDN M  
notificationID notificationID O  
traceRecordingSessionReference traceRecordingSessionReference O  
traceReference traceReference M  
reason reason O
* * *
Table 5.3.2: Mapping for notifyTraceSessionLocalActivation
* * *
IS Parameters \ Parameters Qualifier Comment objectClass objectClass M  
objectInstance objectInstance M  
eventTime eventTime M  
notificationType notificationType M  
systemDN systemDN M  
notificationID notificationID O  
traceReference traceReference M  
traceTarget traceTarget M  
iOCInstance iOCInstance M
* * *
###### ## Annex A (normative): WSDL specifications
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
#