# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
32.401 Performance Management (PM); Concept and requirements
52.402 Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements -- GSM
32.404 Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements - Definitions and
template
**32.405 Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements Universal
Terrestrial Radio Access Network (UTRAN)**
32.406 Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements Core Network (CN)
Packet Switched (PS) domain
32.407 Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements Core Network (CN)
Circuit Switched (CS) domain
32.408 Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements Teleservice
32.409 Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements IP Multimedia
Subsystem (IMS)
**32.452 Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements Home Node B
Subsystem (HNS)**
32.453 Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements Home enhanced
Node B Subsystem (HeNS)
The present document is part of a set of specifications, which describe the
requirements and information model necessary for the standardised Operation,
Administration and Maintenance (OA&M) of a multi-vendor HNS.
During the lifetime of HNS, its logical and physical configuration will
undergo changes of varying degrees and frequencies in order to optimise the
utilisation of the network resources. These changes will be executed through
network configuration management activities and/or network engineering, see
3GPP TS 32.600 [1].
Many of the activities involved in the daily operation and future network
planning of HNS require data on which to base decisions. This data refers to
the load carried by the network and the grade of service offered. In order to
produce this data performance measurements are executed in the NEs, which
comprise the network. The data can then be transferred to an external system,
e.g. an Operations System (OS) in TMN terminology, for further evaluation. The
purpose of the present document is to describe the mechanisms involved in the
collection of the data and the definition of the data itself.
Annex B of TS 32.404 [2] helps in the definition of new performance
measurements that can be submitted to 3GPP for potential adoption and
inclusion in the present document. Annex B of TS 32.404 discusses a top-down
performance measurement definition methodology that focuses on how the end-
user of performance measurements can use the measurements.
# 1 Scope
The present document describes the measurements for Home Node B subsystem
(HNS).\ HNS [3] is consists of a HNB and HNB-GW. And, it appears as an RNS to
the core network and is connected by means of the Iu-CS interface to the MSC
and by means of the Iu-PS interface to the SGSN.\ TS 32.401 [4] describes
Performance Management concepts and requirements.\ The present document is
valid for all measurement types provided by an implementation of a HNS.\ Only
measurement types that are specific to HNS are defined within the present
documents. Vendor specific measurement types used in HNS are not covered.
Instead, these could be applied according to manufacturer\'s documentation.
Measurements related to \"external\" technologies (such as ATM or IP) as
described by \"external\" standards bodies (e.g. ITU-T or IETF) shall only be
referenced within this specification, wherever there is a need identified for
the existence of such a reference.
The definition of the standard measurements is intended to result in
comparability of measurement data produced in a multi-vendor network, for
those measurement types that can be standardised across all vendors\'
implementations.
The structure of the present document is as follows:
\- Header 1: Network Element (e.g. measurements related to HNB and HNB GW);
\- Header 2: Measurement function (e.g. HNB registration measurements);
\- Header 3: Measurements.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.600: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Concept and high-level requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.404: \"Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements -
Definitions and template\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.060: "General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); Service description;
Stage 2".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.401: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM); Concept and requirements\".
[5] 3GPP TS 25.469: \"Technical Specification Group Radio Access Network;
UTRAN Iuh interface Home Node B Application Part (HNBAP) signalling\"
# 3 Measurement family and abbreviations
## 3.1 Measurement family
The measurement names defined in the present document are all beginning with a
prefix containing the measurement family name (e.g. IUH.AttUeReg). This family
name identifies all measurements which relate to a given functionality and it
may be used for measurement administration (see 3GPP TS 32.401 [4]).
The list of families currently used in the present document is as follows:
\- IUH (measurements related to Iuh interface).
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
3G 3^rd^ Generation
3GPP 3G Partnership Project
CS Circuit switched
CN Core Network
NE Network Element
NM Network Manager
OA&M Operation, Administration and Maintenance
OS Operations System (EM, NM)
PM Performance Management
QoS Quality of Service
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System
You can find below a list of abbreviations used within the measurement types
for field E of the measurement template (see 3GPP TS 32.404 [2]).
Ans Answer(ed)
Att Attempted
Auth Authorization
Cs Circuit switched
DER Discrete Event Registration
DeReg De-Registration
Dmn Domain
Estab Establish(ment)
Fail Failed(/Failure)
Fwd Forwared(ed)
Inc Incoming
Ind Indication
Nbr Number
Rel Release(s,d)
Res Resource
Succ Success(es,ful)
# 4 Functionality related measurements
The measurements defined in this clause are related to the functionality
aspect performance. The detailed measurements for each function are defined in
the following subclauses.
  1. Measurements related to HNB-GW \------------------------------
    1. ### UE registration/de-registration related measurements
      1. #### Overview
The UE Registration procedure provides means for the HNB to convey UE
identification data to the HNB-GW in order to perform access control for the
UE in the HNB-GW. The UE Registration also establishes a UE specific context
identifier to be used between HNB and HNB-GW. The procedure triggered when the
UE attempts to access the HNB via an initial NAS message and there is no
context in the HNB allocated for that UE. The successful UE registration rate
thus poses an important impact on the QoE which accessing the HNB networks
from a macro view on the OA&M basis.
The de-registration procedure may be originated by either HNB or HNB GW.
Performance Measurement definitions in this subclause are based on 3PGG TS
25.469Error: Reference source not found[5].
The following paragraphs are of interest for this purpose:
  * UE REGISTER REQUEST
  * UE REGISTER ACCEPT
  * UE REGISTER REJECT
  * UE DE-REGISTER
These paragraphs show in particular the following diagrams:
Figure 1 UE Register Procedure: Successful Operation
Figure 2 UE Register Procedure: Unsuccessful Operation
Figure 3 UE De-Register Procedure: HNB Originated Successful Operation
Figure 4 UE De-Register Procedure: HNB-GW Originated Successful Operation
#### UE registration related measurements
The three measurement types defined in the clause 4.1.1.2 for HNB-GW are
subject to the \"2 out of 3 approach\".
##### 4.1.1.2.1 Attempted UE Registrations
a) This measurement provides the number of UE registration attempts sent from
HNB.
b) CC
c) Receipt of an HNBAP message UE REGISTER REQUEST from HNB to HNB-GW. (3GPP
TS 25.469Error: Reference source not found[5])
d) A single integer value.
e) IUH.AttUeReg.
f) HNBGWFunction
g) Valid for circuit switched and packet switched traffic.
h) UMTS
##### 4.1.1.2.2 Successful UE Registrations
a) This measurement provides the number of successful UE registrations sent
from HNB.
b) CC
c) Transmission of an HNBAP message UE REGISTER ACCEPT from HNB-GW to HNB.
(3GPP TS 25.469 [5])
d) A single integer value.
e) IUH.SuccUeReg.
f) HNBGWFunction
g) Valid for circuit switched and packet switched traffic.
h) UMTS
##### 4.1.1.2.3 Failed UE Registrations
a) This measurement provides the number of failed UE registrations sent from
HNB. This measurement is then further split into subcounters per failure
cause.
b) CC
c) Transmission of an HNBAP message UE REGISTER REJECT from HNB-GW to HNB.
(3GPP TS 25.469Error: Reference source not found)
d) A single integer value. The number of measurements is equal to the number
of causes plus a possible sum value identified by the _.sum_ suffix. (The
possible cause values are defined in 3GPP TS 25.469Error: Reference source not
found)
e) IUH.FailUeReg._cause_
f) HNBGWFunction
g) Valid for circuit switched and packet switched traffic.
h) UMTS
#### 4.1.1.3 UE de-registration related measurements
##### 4.1.1.3.1 HNB Originated Successful UE De-Registrations
a) This measurement provides the number of successful UE de-registrations
initiated by HNB. This measurement is then further split into sub-subcounters
per cause.
b) CC
c) Receipt of an HNBAP message UE DE-REGISTER from HNB to HNB-GW.(3GPP TS
25.469Error: Reference source not found)
d) A single integer value. The number of measurements is equal to the number
of causes plus a possible sum value identified by the _.sum_ suffix. (The
possible cause values are defined in 3GPP TS 25.469Error: Reference source not
found)
e) IUH.SuccUeDeRegHnb _.cause_
f) HNBGWFunction
g) Valid for circuit switched and packet switched traffic.
h) UMTS
##### 4.1.1.3.2 HNB GW Originated Successful UE De-Registrations
a) This measurement provides the number of successful UE de-registrations
initiated by HNB GW. This measurement is then further split into sub-
subcounters per cause.
b) CC
c) Transmission of an HNBAP message UE DE-REGISTER from HNB-GW to HNB.(3GPP TS
25.469Error: Reference source not found)
d) A single integer value. The number of measurements is equal to the number
of causes plus a possible sum value identified by the _.sum_ suffix. (The
possible cause values are defined in 3GPP TS 25.469Error: Reference source not
found)
e) IUH.SuccUeDeRegHnbGw _.cause_
f) HNBGWFunction
g) Valid for circuit switched and packet switched traffic.
h) UMTS
    1.  ### Signalling Plane related measurements
        1.  #### Numbers of incoming SCTP packets on the Iuh interface, from HNB to HNB GW
```{=html}
``` a) This measurement provides the number of SCTP data packets sent from HNB
to HNB GW which have been accepted and processed by the SCTP protocol entity
on the Iuh interface.
b) CC.
c) Receipt of a SCTP data PDU from HNB to HNB GW on the Iuh interface. (3GPP
TS 25.469Error: Reference source not found)
d) A single integer value.
e) IUH.IncSctpPkt
f) HNBGWFunction
g) Valid for circuit switched and packet switched traffic
h) UMTS
    1.  #### Numbers of outgoing SCTP packets on the Iuh interface, from HNB GW to HNB
```{=html}
``` a) This measurement provides the number of SCTP data packets sent from HNB
GW to HNB which have been generated by the SCTP protocol entity on the Iuh
interface.
b) CC.
c) Transmission of a SCTP data PDU from HNB GW to HNB on the Iuh interface.
.(3GPP TS 25.469Error: Reference source not found)
d) A single integer value.
e) IUH.OutSctpPkt
f) HNBGWFunction
g) Valid for circuit switched and packet switched traffic
h) UMTS
    1.  #### Numbers of octets of incoming SCTP packets on the Iuh interface, from HNB to HNB GW
```{=html}
``` a) This measurement provides the number of octets of SCTP data packets
sent from HNB to HNB GW which have been accepted and processed by the SCTP
protocol entity on the Iuh interface.
b) CC.
c) Receipt of a SCTP data PDU from HNB to HNB GW on the Iuh interface. (3GPP
TS 25.469Error: Reference source not found)
d) A single integer value.
e) IUH.IncSctpOct
f) HNBGWFunction
g) Valid for circuit switched and packet switched traffic
h) UMTS
    1.  #### Numbers of octets of outgoing SCTP packets on the Iuh interface, from HNB GW to HNB
```{=html}
``` a) This measurement provides the number of octets of SCTP data packets
sent from HNB GW to HNB which have been generated by the SCTP protocol entity
on the Iuh interface.
b) CC.
c) Transmission of a SCTP data PDU from HNB GW to HNB on the Iuh interface.
(3GPP TS 25.469Error: Reference source not found)
d) A single integer value.
e) IUH.OutSctpOct
f) HNBGWFunction
g) Valid for circuit switched and packet switched traffic
h) UMTS
### 4.1.3 HNB registration/de-registration related measurements
#### 4.1.3.1 Overview
The purpose of the HNB Registration Procedure is to register the HNB with the
HNB-GW to enable the HNB-GW to provide service and core network connectivity
for the HNB. This procedure shall be the first HNBAP procedure triggered after
the SCTP association has become operational.
The de-registration procedure may be originated by either HNB or HNB GW.
Performance Measurement definitions in this subclause are based on 3PGG TS
25.469 [5].
The following paragraphs are of interest for this purpose:
  * HNB REGISTER REQUEST
  * HNB REGISTER ACCEPT
  * HNB REGISTER REJECT
  * HNB DE-REGISTER
These paragraphs show in particular the following diagrams:
Figure 5 HNB Register Procedure: Successful Operation
Figure 6 HNB Register Procedure: Un-Successful Operation
Figure 7 HNB De-register Procedure: HNB GW Originated Successful Operation
#### 4.1.3.2 HNB registration related measurements
The three measurement types defined in the clause 4.1.3.2 are subject to the
\"2 out of 3 approach\".
##### 4.1.3.2.1 Attempted HNB Registrations
a) This measurement provides the number of HNB registration attempts per HNB.
b) CC
c) Receipt of an HNBAP message HNB REGISTER REQUEST from HNB to HNB-GW. (3GPP
TS 25.469 [5])
d) A single integer value.
e) IUH.AttHnbReg.
f) HNBGWFunction
g) Valid for circuit switched and packet switched traffic.
h) UMTS
##### 4.1.3.2.2 Successful HNB Registrations
a) This measurement provides the number of successful HNB registrations per
HNB.
b) CC
c) Transmission of an HNBAP message HNB REGISTER ACCEPTfrom HNB-GW to HNB.
(3GPP TS 25.469 [5])
d) A single integer value.
e) IUH. SuccHnbReg.
f) HNBGWFunction
g) Valid for circuit switched and packet switched traffic.
h) UMTS
##### 4.1.3.2.3 Failed HNB Registrations
a) This measurement provides the number of failed HNB registrations per HNB.
This measurement is then further split into sub-subcounters per failure cause.
b) CC
c) Transmission of an HNB REGISTER REJECT message from HNB-GW to HNB or an
expected HNB REGISTER ACCEPT message not received by HNB. Each HNB REGISTER
REJECT message received is added to the relevant per cause measurement. The
possible causes are included in TS 25.469 [5].\ Each expected HNB REGISTER
ACCEPT not received by the HNB is added to the measurement cause \'No Reply\'
(not specified in TS 25.469 [5]).
d) Each measurement is an integer value.. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of causes plus a possible sum value identified by the _.sum_
suffix. (The possible cause values are defined in 3GPP TS 25.469 [5])
e) IUH.FailHnbReg._cause\_ where _Cause_ identifies the Rejection Cause._\_
The cause _\'No Reply\'_ is identified by the _.NoReply_ suffix _._
f) HNBGWFunction
g) Valid for circuit switched and packet switched traffic.
h) UMTS
    3.  #### HNB de-registration related measurements
##### 4.1.3.3.1 HNB GW Originated Successful HNB De-Registrations
a) This measurement provides the number of successful HNB de-registrations
initiated by HNB GW.
b) CC
c) Transmission of an HNBAP message HNB DE-REGISTER from HNB-GW to HNB.(3GPP
TS 25.469 [5])
d) A single integer value. The number of measurements is equal to the number
of causes plus a possible sum value identified by the _.sum_ suffix. (The
possible cause values are defined in 3GPP TS 25.469 [5])
e) IUH.AttHnbDeRegHnbGw.cause
f) HNBGWFunction
g) Valid for circuit switched and packet switched traffic.
h) UMTS
### 4.1.4 User plane related measurements
The subclauses below can NOT be applied to the use case that there is a direct
GTP-U tunnel right between HNB and SGSN on the user plane of PS domain, i.e.
HNB GW is skipped and there is NO GTP-U protocol entity in HNB GW, for the
sake of PS bearer optimizations.
#### Numbers of incoming Iu-UP RTP packets of CS domain on Iuh interface, from
HNB to HNB GW
a) This measurement provides the number of Iu-UP RTP data packets on the user
plane of CS domain, sent from HNB to HNB GW on Iuh interface.
b) CC.
c) Receipt of an Iu-UP RTP data PDU from HNB to HNB GW on the user plane of CS
domain on Iuh interface.
d) A single integer value.
e) IUH.IncIuUpCsPkt
f) HNBGWFunction
g) Valid for circuit switched traffic
h) UMTS
    1.  #### Numbers of outgoing Iu-UP RTP packets of CS domain on Iuh interface, from HNB GW to HNB
```{=html}
``` a) This measurement provides the number of Iu-UP RTP data packets on the
user plane of CS domain, sent from HNB GW to HNB on Iuh interface.
b) CC.
c) Transmission of an Iu-UP RTP data PDU from HNB GW to HNB on the user plane
of CS domain on Iuh interface.
d) A single integer value.
e) IUH.OutIuUpCsPkt
f) HNBGWFunction
g) Valid for circuit switched traffic
h) UMTS
    1.  #### Numbers of octets of incoming Iu-UP RTP packets of CS domain on Iuh interface, from HNB to HNB GW
```{=html}
``` a) This measurement provides the number of octets of Iu-UP RTP data
packets on the user plane of CS domain, sent from HNB to HNB GW on Iuh
interface.
b) CC.
c) Receipt of an Iu-UP RTP data PDU from HNB to HNB GW on the user plane of CS
domain on Iuh interface.
d) A single integer value.
e) IUH.IncIuUpCsOct
f) HNBGWFunction
g) Valid for circuit switched traffic
h) UMTS
    1.  #### Numbers of octets of outgoing Iu-UP RTP packets of CS domain on Iuh interface, from HNB GW to HNB
```{=html}
``` a) This measurement provides the number of octets of Iu-UP RTP data
packets on the user plane of CS domain, sent from HNB GW to HNB on Iuh
interface.
b) CC.
c) Transmission of an Iu-UP RTP data PDU from HNB GW to HNB on the user plane
of CS domain on Iuh interface.
d) A single integer value.
e) IUH.OutIuUpCsOct
f) HNBGWFunction
g) Valid for circuit switched traffic
h) UMTS
    1.  #### Numbers of incoming Iu-UP GTP-U packets of PS domain on Iuh interface, from HNB to HNB GW
```{=html}
``` a) This measurement provides the number of Iu-UP GTP-U data packets on the
user plane of PS domain, sent from HNB to HNB GW on Iuh interface.
b) CC.
c) Receipt of an Iu-UP GTP-U data PDU from HNB to HNB GW on the user plane of
PS domain on Iuh interface.
d) A single integer value.
e) IUH.IncIuUpPsPkt
f) HNBGWFunction
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) UMTS
    1.  #### Numbers of outgoing Iu-UP GTP-U packets of PS domain on Iuh interface, from HNB GW to HNB
```{=html}
``` a) This measurement provides the number of Iu-UP GTP-U data packets sent
on the user plane of PS domain, from HNB GW to HNB on Iuh interface.
b) CC.
c) Transmission of an Iu-UP GTP-U data PDU from HNB GW to HNB on the user
plane of PS domain on Iuh interface.
d) A single integer value.
e) IUH.OutIuUpPsPkt
f) HNBGWFunction
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) UMTS
    1.  #### Numbers of octets of incoming Iu-UP GTP-U packets of PS domain on Iuh interface, from HNB to HNB GW
```{=html}
``` a) This measurement provides the number of octets of Iu-UP GTP-U data
packets on the user plane of PS domain, sent from HNB to HNB GW on Iuh
interface.
b) CC.
c) Receipt of an Iu-UP GTP-U data PDU from HNB to HNB GW on the user plane of
PS domain on Iuh interface.
d) A single integer value.
e) IUH.IncIuUpPsOct
f) HNBGWFunction
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) UMTS
    1.  #### Numbers of octets of outgoing Iu-UP GTP-U packets of PS domain on Iuh interface, from HNB GW to HNB
```{=html}
``` a) This measurement provides the number of octets of Iu-UP GTP-U data
packets on the user plane of PS domain, sent from HNB GW to HNB on Iuh
interface.
b) CC.
c) Transmission of an Iu-UP GTP-U data PDU from HNB GW to HNB on the user
plane of PS domain on Iuh interface.
d) A single integer value.
e) IUH.OutIuUpPsOct
f) HNBGWFunction
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) UMTS
    1.  Measurements related to HNB
        ---------------------------
# 5 Equipment related measurements
The measurements defined in this subclause are related to the equipment aspect
performance. The measurements defined in the following subclauses are common
for all of the equipments in HNS and shall be applied to all of the network
elements in HNS. TS 23.060 [3] has specified Home Node B subsystem. Therefore,
equipments related measurements should be performed on HNB and HNB-GW.
## 5.1 Equipment measurements for HNB
## 5.2 Equipment measurements for HNB-GW
###### ## Annex A: Use cases for performance measurements definition
This annex provides the concrete use cases for the HNS performance
measurements defined in clause 4.
# A.1 Use case of registration and de-registration measurements
UE registration is one of most important step to start delivering services by
the HNS to users.
The success or failure of a registration directly impacts the quality level
for delivering the service by the networks, and also user's experience. So the
success or failure of registration needs be monitored, this can be achieved by
the calculation of registration setup success rate which gives a direct view
to evaluate the user's access to the network and analyze the specific reason
causing the failure in order to find out the problem and ascertain the
solutions.
In addition, de-registration is another sort of indicator to guarantee user
QoS level. In the case of radio resource and transport resource shortage, HNB
or HNB-GW could initiates a de-registration requests. The collections of de-
registration would help to evaluate network deployment states. Depending on
these parameters meaning, network optimizations could be implemented. This can
be achieved by identifying the specific reason and splitting into sub-
subcounters per cause. These parameters give a direct view to evaluate network
states.
# A.2 Use case of the SCTP signalling measurements
In order to avoid the overload of HNB-GW, SCTP signaling measurements data
will be combined with HNB-GW user plane measurement data to reflect load
status on HNB-GW.
In addition, the ratio of signaling to data bandwidth usage is very useful to
monitor some abnormal events, such as if the ratio of them is too high, some
unusual events are possible happened. Therefore, the operator could analyze
whether some problems exist in the network or not, and may find out root-
causes leaded to the bad conditions, finally resolve the problems.
# A.3 Use case of HNB registration and de-registration measurements
HNB registration and de-registration are most important step to start or cease
delivering services by the networks to users.
The successful and failed HNB registration rate can reflect Iuh link status
between HNB and HNB-GW. It could be used to evaluate an operational quality
for operators. Especially, HNB uses a leased backhaul to connect to HNB-GW. A
successful HNB registration rate could be treated as a key performance
indicator to offer to users who signed SLA with operators. A failed HNB
registration could be aroused by several causes, such network congestion,
blacklisted HNB, unauthorized HNB location, etc. The monitor of failed reason
could facilitate trouble-shooting. Operator can determine root-causes
depending on the feedback. In addition, an operational optimization can be
performed in the specific area, where HNBs using similar LAC are often failed
to get service.
HNB-GW originated de-registration will be performed whenever HNB-GW needs to
terminate operations with an HNB. The specific causes can be extracted from
the signalling HNB DE-REGISTER, such as overload and unspecified. In the case
of overload, it can accurately reflect HNB-GW load status. And, operators
could implement further measures to avoid potential failures when specific
HNB-GW often initiates de-registration process with the cause of overload.
# A.4 Use case of HNB-GW user plane measurements
HNB-GW user plane related measurements are used to measure data volume on Iuh
interface including incoming and outgoing of data packets and octets for RTP
and GTP-U.
Based on that, the measurements are useful to analyze data volumes and
velocity from HNB-GW point-of-view. If the data volume is too high, more
interface bandwidth should be deployed, or HNB-GW load balance should be
considered. If data velocity is too high, the packet forwarding capacity of
HNB-GW should be enhanced to avoid data congestion.
In addition, differentiating user plane statistics on PS and CS domain can
allow operators to monitor respective data volume for different service type.
Furthermore, it can also reflect the load status on Iucs and Iups interfaces,
on which performance evaluations will benefit from distinguished data stream
monitoring
Finally, HNB-GW user plane related measurements could be together with other
performance measurements to analyze network performance to find out the
abnormal events.
#