# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects,
Telecommunication management; as identified below:
**32.501: Self-Configuration of Network Elements; Concepts and Integration
Reference Point (IRP) Requirements**
32.502: Self-Configuration of Network Elements Integration Reference Point
(IRP); Information Service (IS)
32.503: Self-Configuration of Network Elements Integration Reference Point
(IRP); Common Object Request Broker Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set (SS)
# 1 Scope
The present document describes the concepts how self-configuration works and
what IRP requirements need to be met to support this functionality. The
document also captures if a requirement shall be met via the Itf-N interface
or via other protocols. This version of the TS is restricted to
self-**configuration** of eNBs. The requirements in this document are not
imposed on HNBs.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[4] 3GPP TR 32.816: \"Telecommunication management; Study on Management of
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) and Evolved
Packet Core (EPC)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.531: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture; Software
Management Concepts and IRP Requirements \".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TS 32.101 [2], TS 32.102 [3] and TS 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term
defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the
same term, if any, in TS 32.101 [1], TS 32.102 [2] and TS 21.905 [5], in that
order.
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Self Configuration:** The process which brings a network element into
service requiring minimal human operator intervention or none at all.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
SC Self **Configuration**
# 4 Concepts and background
Provide here an update of See TS 32.816 [4] §5.1.3.1.1 "Establishment of new
eNodeB in network"
## 4.1 Self-Configuration Concept
### 4.1.1 Logical Function Blocs
#### 4.1.1.1 Address Allocation Function (AAF):
This functional bloc supports the following functions: [SC1], [SC3].
#### 4.1.1.2 OAM Connectivity Establishment Function (OAM CO_EF):
This functional bloc supports the following functions: [SC2], [SC3], [SC4],
[SC5], [SC13].
#### 4.1.1.3 Software Management Function (SW_MF):
This functional bloc supports the following functions: [SC3], [SC6], [SC7],
[SC8], [SC20], [SC21].
#### 4.1.1.4 Inventory Update Function (Inv_UF):
This functional bloc supports the following functions: [SC16].
#### 4.1.1.5 Self-Test Function (ST_F):
This functional bloc supports the following functions: [SC17].
This function performs eNodeB self-tests.
#### 4.1.1.6 Self-Configuration Monitoring and Management Function (SC_MMF):
This functional bloc supports the following functions: [SC18].
This function monitors the self-configuration process and provides the
operator with this information. This function must be able to get information
about all other functional blocs. In addition to this it allows the operator
to control the execution of the self-configuration process.
#### 4.1.1.6.1 Self-Configuration Monitoring and Management Function
(SC_MMF_NM):
SC_MMF_NM (IRP Manager): representing the NM portion of SC_MMF (necessary
monitoring and limited interaction capabilities to support an automated
optimization), as well as related IRPManager functionality
#### 4.1.1.6.2 Self-Configuration Monitoring and Management Function
(SC_MMF_EM):
SC_MMF_EM (IRP Agent): representing the portion of SC_MMF operating below
Itf-N, as well as related IRPAgent functionality
#### 4.1.1.7 Call Processing Link (CPL) Set Up Function (CPL_SUF):
This functional bloc supports the following functions: [SC14], [SC15].
#### 4.1.1.8 Radio Network Configuration Data Function (R_CD_F):
This functional bloc supports the following functions: [SC9], [SC11], [SC12].
#### 4.1.1.9 Transport Network Configuration Data Function (T_CD_F):
This functional bloc supports the following functions: [SC9], [SC11], [SC12].
#### 4.1.1.10 NRM IRP Update Function (NRM_UF):
This functional bloc supports the following functions: [SC19].
This function updates the E-UTRAN and EPC NRM IRP with information about the
new eNodeB.
#### 4.1.1.11 Radio Network and Transport Network Configuration Data
Preparation Function
This functional bloc supports the following functions: [SC10].
## 4.2 Automatic Radio Configuration Data handling Function (ARCF) Concept
### 4.2.1 Definitions
**ARCF Data:** ARCF data are the data which are required for successful
activation (of e.g. cell, eNB) that require coordination between several cells
and cannot be generated below Itf-N. Some of the ARCF data may be used
directly as eNodeB configuration data and some of the ARCF data may be used to
generate more other eNodeB configuration data. eNodeB will use the ARCF data
together with other configuration data as initial eNodeB radio configuration
data. The eNodeB initial radio configuration data will be used for self-
configuration.
**ARCF Handling:** This includes ARCF data preparation, ARCF Data Transfer and
ARCF Data Validation.
**ARCF Data Preparation:** This makes the ARCF data ready in operator's
network management system. How to prepare the ARCF data in operator's network
management system is out of scope of this specification.
**ARCF Data Transfer:** This transfers the ARCF data from IRPManager to the
IRPAgent,
**ARCF Data Validation:** This validates the syntax and semantics of ARCF
data. It takes place in the IRPAgent.
# 5 Business Level Requirements
## 5.1 Self- Configuration of eNodeB's
**REQ_SCMAN_CON_1** The actor on NM level shall be able to manage the self-
configuration process.
**REQ_SCMON_CON_1** The actor on NM level shall be able to monitor the
execution of the self-configuration process.
**REQ_SCMON_CON_2** To support the monitoring of the execution of the self-
configuration process, existing capabilities shall be reused as much as
possible.
**REQ_SCSW_CON_1** The software download, installation, activation and
fallback should be automated as much as possible so that no or only minimal
manual intervention is required.
**REQ_SCSW_CON_1** see **REQ_SW_CON_4**
**REQ_SCSW_CON_2** see **REQ_SW_CON_2**
**REQ_SCOCE__CON_1** The OAM connectivity (incl. the IP address allocation)
should be established in a fully automated manner.
**REQ_SCOCE_CON_2** The amount of parameters that needs to be preconfigured
should be minimized.
**REQ_SCIU_CON_1** Inventory information about the new equipment shall be
reported to the actor at NM level as part of the self-configuration process.
**REQ_SCIU_CON_2** Inventory information shall be made available to the
IRPManager reusing existing capabilities as much as possible.
**REQ_SCRCD_CON_1** The radio configuration data shall be made available to
the eNodeB as part of the self-configuration process.
**REQ_SCTCD_CON_1** The transport configuration data shall be made available
to the eNodeB as part of the self-configuration process.
**REQ_SCCPLSU_CON_1** X2- and S1-interfaces shall be set up as part of the
self-configuration process, based on the radio configuration, the transport
configuration and Neighbour cell Relation information made available to the
eNodeB.
> Note: If there is no Neighbour cell Relation information provided, then no
> X2 interface is set up as part of the self-configuration process.
### 5.1.1 Actor roles
### 5.1.2 Telecommunications resources
### 5.1.3 High-level use cases
# 6 Specification level requirements
## 6.1 General
## 6.2 Actor roles
## 6.3 Telecommunications resources
## 6.4 Use cases
### 6.4.1 Use case for Automatic Radio Network Configuration Data Handling
#### 6.4.1.1 Use case radio network configuration data request, transfer and
validity check
+-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Use Case Stage** | **Evolution / |** \>**| | | Specification** | | | | | **Related use** | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Goal (*) | Transfer the radio | | | | network configuration | | | | data to the IRPAgent | | | | and ensure that it is | | | | valid when it is used | | | | during | | | | self-configuration. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Actors and Roles (*) | IRPManager as user | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Telecom resources | The E-UTRAN network | | | | including its OSS. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Assumptions | OAM connection is | | | | working. | | | | | | | | IRPAgent cannot | | | | determine all radio | | | | configuration data on | | | | its own. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Pre conditions | NA | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Begins when | Radio network | | | | configuration data is | | | | to be made known to | | | | the IRPAgent. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Step 1 (O) | [ARCF-1-1] | | | | **IRPAgent indicates | | | | need for radio | | | | configuration data to | | | | the IRPManager** | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Step 2 (M) | [ARCF-1-2] | | | | IRPManager transfers | | | | the radio | | | | configuration **data | | | | to IRPAgent or** | | | | | | | | **indicates to | | | | IRPAgent where the | | | | radio configuration | | | | data is available and | | | | IRPAgent retrieves the | | | | data from there** | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Step 3 (O) | [ARCF-1-3] | | | | IRPManager requests | | | | IRPAgent to validate | | | | the received radio | | | | configuration data | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Step 4 (M) | [ARCF-1-4] IRPAgent | | | | validates the received | | | | radio configuration | | | | data | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Ends when | **Ends when all steps | | | | identified above are | | | | completed or when an | | | | exception occurs** | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Exceptions | One of the steps | | | | identified above | | | | fails. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Post Conditions | The self-configuration | | | | process can use the | | | | radio configuration | | | | data. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Traceability | FFS | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+
### 6.4.2 Use case Self-configuration of a new eNodeB
This use case starts with the first initial self test and ends when the eNodeB
is taken into operation.
+-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / | \> | | | Specification | | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Goal (*) | Put the eNodeB after | | | | physical installation | | | | into the operational | | | | state in an automated | | | | manner. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Actors and Roles (*) | FFS | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Telecom resources | The E-UTRAN/EPC network | | | | including its OSS. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Assumptions | IP network connectivity | | | | exists between the | | | | eNodeB and the OAM (sub) | | | | systems providing | | | | support for the | | | | self-configuration | | | | process. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Pre conditions | The eNodeB is physically | | | | installed and physically | | | | connected to an IP | | | | network. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Begins when | **The field personnel | | | | start the | | | | self-configuration | | | | process. It is also | | | | possible that the | | | | process is triggered | | | | automatically after the | | | | completion of an eNodeB | | | | self-test.** | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Step 1 (*) (M\|O) | The order of the bullet | | | | points in the list below | | | | does not imply any | | | | statements on the order | | | | of execution. | | | | | | | | [SC1] An eNodeB IP | | | | address is allocated to | | | | the new eNodeB. | | | | | | | | [SC2] Basic | | | | information about the | | | | transport network (e. g. | | | | gateways) environment is | | | | provided to the eNodeB. | | | | With this information | | | | the eNodeB is able to | | | | exchange IP packets with | | | | other internet hosts. | | | | | | | | [SC3] The eNodeB | | | | provides information | | | | about its type, hardware | | | | and other relevant data | | | | about itself to the OAM | | | | (sub) systems providing | | | | support for the | | | | self-configuration | | | | process. | | | | | | | | [SC4] The address(es) | | | | of the OAM (sub) | | | | system(s) providing | | | | support for the | | | | self-configuration | | | | process (e.g. subsystem | | | | for software download, | | | | subsystem for | | | | configuration data | | | | download) is provided to | | | | the eNodeB. The address | | | | is equal to an IP | | | | address and a port | | | | number, or a DNS name | | | | and port number, or an | | | | URI. | | | | | | | | [SC5] The address(es) | | | | of the OAM | | | | (sub)system(s) providing | | | | support for normal OAM | | | | functions after | | | | completion of the | | | | self-configuration | | | | process are provided to | | | | the eNodeB. The address | | | | is equal to an IP | | | | address and a port | | | | number, or a DNS name | | | | and port number, or an | | | | URI. | | | | | | | | [SC6] The eNodeB | | | | connects to the OAM | | | | system providing support | | | | for the software | | | | download. | | | | | | | | [SC7] The decision | | | | which software or | | | | software packages have | | | | to be downloaded to the | | | | eNodeB is taken. | | | | | | | | [SC8] The software is | | | | downloaded into the | | | | eNodeB. | | | | | | | | [SC9] The eNodeB | | | | connects to the OAM | | | | system providing support | | | | for the configuration | | | | data download. | | | | | | | | [SC10] The (transport | | | | and radio) configuration | | | | data for the eNodeB is | | | | made available by either | | | | preparing it or making | | | | prepared configuration | | | | data available. | | | | | | | | [SC11] The (transport | | | | and radio) configuration | | | | data is downloaded into | | | | the eNodeB. | | | | | | | | [SC12] Dependent nodes | | | | (MMEs, eNodeBs) are | | | | updated with new | | | | configuration data as | | | | well (if required). | | | | | | | | [SC13] The eNodeB | | | | connects to the OAM | | | | (sub) system(s) | | | | providing support for | | | | normal OAM functions | | | | after completion of the | | | | self-configuration | | | | process. | | | | | | | | [SC14] The S1-links | | | | are be set up. | | | | | | | | [SC15] The (planned) | | | | X2-links are be set up. | | | | | | | | **[SC16] The inventory | | | | system in the OAM is | | | | informed that a new | | | | eNodeB is in the | | | | field.** | | | | | | | | **[SC17] The eNodeB | | | | performs a self-test. | | | | Self-tests of different | | | | types can run at | | | | different places within | | | | the self-configuration | | | | procedure.** | | | | | | | | **[SC18] The operator | | | | is informed about the | | | | progess of the | | | | self-configuration | | | | process and important | | | | events occuring during | | | | the self-configuration | | | | process.** | | | | | | | | **[SC19] The network | | | | resource models visible | | | | over Itf-N are updated | | | | during and after the | | | | self-configuration | | | | process.** | | | | | | | | **[SC20] SW is | | | | installed, i.e. prepared | | | | in such a way, that the | | | | NE is ready to use it. | | | | For some implementations | | | | this step is done not at | | | | all or considered part | | | | of [SC21]** or of | | | | [SC8]**.** | | | | | | | | **[SC21] SW is | | | | activated, i.e. final | | | | provisions are done such | | | | that the NE is allowed | | | | to use the SW. For some | | | | implementations this | | | | step is considered part | | | | of [SC20]** or of | | | | [SC8]**.** | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Ends when (*) | **Ends when all steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully completed | | | | or when an exception | | | | occurs.** | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Exceptions | FFS. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Post Conditions | The eNodeB is | | | | operational and able to | | | | carry traffic. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Traceability (*) | | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+
Security aspects are FFS.
## 6.5 Requirements
### 6.5.1 Automatic Radio Network Configuration Data Handling
**REQ-ARCF-FUN-1:** IRPManager shall be able to transfer the ARCF data to
IRPAgent or indicate to IRPAgent where the ARCF data is available for
downloading.
**REQ-ARCF-FUN-2:** IRPManager should be able to request IRPAgent to validate
the previously downloaded ARCF data.
**REQ-ARCF-FUN-3:** IRPAgent shall be able to check the consistency, syntax
and semantic of the downloaded ARCF data to ensure that the ARCF data can be
implemented in the network.
### 6.5.2 Self-configuration of a new eNodeB
The following requirements apply to the macro eNB only. Requirements for the
HNB can be found in TR 32.821.
The way to make any information available to eNB is outside the scope of
standardisation.
Conflict resolution in case of contradicting information made aware to the
eNodeB is outside the scope of standardisation.
#### 6.5.2.1 Self-Configuration Management and Monitoring
##### 6.5.2.1.1 Management Part
**REQ_SCMAN_FUN_1**
It shall be possible for an IRPManager to retrieve
\- information regarding how an NE or a group of NEs behaves during self-
configuration, i.e. in which sequence the essential steps of self-
configuration are executed\ \- information regarding where the IRPManager can
interact with a self-configuration - by suspending the self-configuration
process at one or more self-configuration stop points.\ Steps, their sequence
and their stop point qualification are not imposed by the standard.
**REQ_SCMAN_FUN_2**
If choices for stop points to suspend the SWM process are offered, then it
shall be possible for an IRPManager to choose/select among them where it will
suspend (stop) a self-configuration process (i.e. to ensure fulfillment of
pre-conditions for the step like the fulfillment of the presence of required
input data for the step).
The IRPManager shall be able to read or select or de-select the stop points
offered.
The IRPManager shall be informed about creation and deletion of a profile
which is a holder of information regarding the offered self configuration
steps, the offered sequence of the steps and the configuration steps stop
points.
The IRPManager should be able to change the content of a created profile and
be informed about the change.
**REQ_SCMAN_FUN_3**
It shall be possible for an IRPManager to resume a suspended self-
configuration for one or multiple NEs.
**REQ_SCMAN_FUN_4**
It shall be possible for an IRPManager to terminate an currently ongoing self-
configuration for one or multiple NEs. After a terminattion it is not possible
to resume the self-configuration.
##### 6.5.2.1.2 Monitoring Part
**REQ_SCMON_FUN_1**
The IRPAgent shall send an alarm in case of failures during the self-
configuration process.
**REQ_SCMON_FUN_2**
The IRPAgent should report the progress of a self-configuration of one or
multiple NEs to the IRPManager.
**REQ_SCMON_FUN_3**
When a self-configuration profile is created or deleted, then the IRPAgent
shall inform the IRPManager about this creation and deletion.\ When the
optional change of a self-configuration profile is performed, then the
IRPAgent shall inform the IRPManager about such a change.
**REQ_SCMON_FUN_4**
It shall be possible for IRPManager to retrieve information about the progress
of a self-configuration.
**REQ_SCMON_FUN_5**
The IRPAgent shall send a notification about the start, stop, completion and
optionally cancellation of a self-configuration.
**REQ_SCMON_FUN_6**
The IRPAgent shall inform the IRPManager whenever the self-configuration
process has been suspended or resumed
##### 6.5.2.2 Software Management
**REQ_SCSW_FUN_1** see **REQ_SWM_FUN_1 in 32.531**
**REQ_SCSW_FUN_2** see **REQ_SWM_FUN_2 in 32.531**
**REQ_SCSW_FUN_3** see **REQ_SWM_FUN_4 in 32.531**
**REQ_SCSW_FUN_4** see **REQ_SWM_FUN_5 in 32.531**
**REQ_SCSW_FUN_5** see **REQ_ASWM_FUN_1 in 32.531**
**REQ_SCSW_FUN_6** see **REQ_ASWM_FUN_2 in 32.531**
**REQ_SCSW_FUN_7** see **REQ_ASWM_FUN_3 in 32.531**
**REQ_SCSW_FUN_8** see **REQ_ASWM_FUN_4 in 32.531**
**REQ_SCSW_FUN_9** see **REQ_ASWM_FUN_5 in 32.531**
#### 6.5.2.3 Address Allocation and OAM Connectivity Establishment
**REQ_SCOCE_FUN_1**
The automatic establishment of the OAM connectivity shall be fully secured.
**REQ_SCOCE_FUN_2**
The IRPManager shall be informed that the eNB has reached OAM connectivity.
#### 6.5.2.4 Inventory Update
The details of the inventory information to be reported are FFS.
#### 6.5.2.5 Self-Test
FFS
#### 6.5.2.6 Radio Configuration Data
**FFS**
#### 6.5.2.7 Transport Configuration Data
**FFS**
#### 6.5.2.8 Call Processing Link Set-Up
**FFS**
#### 6.5.2.9 NRM IRP Update
**REQ_SCNRMU_FUN_1**
The related E-UTRAN NRM IRP and EPC NRM IRP instances shall be created and
updated.
# 7\. Functions and Architecture
## 7.1 Self-Configuration Logical Architecture
The lines between the functional blocks do not indicate specific 3GPP
interfaces.
For the abbreviations used, please see the headlines of chapter 4.
Figure 7.1-1: Self-Configuration Logical Architecture
## 7.2 Self-Configuration Reference Model
The SC_MMF has a part located in the EM and a part located at the NM.
For the abbreviations used, please refer to Chapter 4.
Figure 7.2-1: Self-Configuration Reference Model
#