# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects,
Telecommunication management; as identified below:
32.521: Self-Organizing Networks (SON) Policy Network Resource Model (NRM)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements
**32.522: Self-Organizing Networks (SON) Policy Network Resource Model (NRM)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)**
32.523: Self-Organizing Networks (SON) Policy Network Resource Model (NRM)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Common Object Request Broker Architecture
(CORBA) Solution Set (SS)
32.525: Self-Organizing Networks (SON) Policy Network Resource Model (NRM)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Bulk CM eXtensible Markup Language (XML)
file format definition
# 1 Scope
The present document is part of an Integration Reference Point (IRP) named
Self Organizing Networks (SON) Policy Network Resource Model (NRM) IRP,
through which an IRPAgent can communicate management information to one or
several IRPManagers concerning SON policies. The SON policy NRM IRP comprises
a set of specifications defining Requirements, a protocol neutral Information
Service and one or more Solution Set(s).
The present document specifies the protocol neutral SON policy NRM IRP:
Information Service (IS).
In order to access the information defined by this NRM, an Interface IRP such
as the \"Basic CM IRP\" is needed (3GPP TS 32.602 [11]). However, which
Interface IRP is applicable is outside the scope of the present document.
The present document also contains stage 2 descriptions for those
functionalities for the Self-**Optimization OAM**.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.150: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Concept and definitions\".
[4] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.521: \"Telecommunication management; Self-Organizing Networks
(SON) Policy Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP):
Requirements\".
> [6] 3GPP TS 36.331: \"Technical Specification Group Radio Access Network;
> Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA); Radio Resource Control
> (RRC); Protocol specification\".
>
> [7] 3GPP TS 36.423: \"Technical Specification Group Radio Access Network;
> Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN); X2 Application
> Protocol (X2AP)\".
>
> [8] _3GPP TS 32.425:_ \"Technical Specification Group Services and System
> Aspects; Telecommunication management; Performance Management (PM);
> Performance measurements; Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
> (E-UTRAN)\"
[9] 3GPP TS 32.622: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Generic network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP): Network
Resource Model (NRM)\"
[10] 3GPP TS 32.762: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) network
resources Integration Reference Point (IRP): Network Resource Model (NRM)\"
[11] 3GPP TS 32.602: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Basic CM Integration Reference Point (IRP) Information Service (IS)\".
> [12] 3GPP TS 36.413: \"Technical Specification Group Radio Access Network;
> Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN); S1 Application
> Protocol (S1AP)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TS 32.101 [1], TS 32.102 [2], TS 32.150 [3] and TR 21.905 [4] and the
following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence over
the definition of the same term, if any, in TS 32.521 [5], TS 32.101 [1], TS
32.102 [2] and TR 21.905 [4], in that order.
**Target:** See 3GPP TS 32.521 [5].
**Trigger condition:** See 3GPP TS 32.521 [5].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[4], TS 32.521 [5] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the
present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
abbreviation, if any, in TR 21.905 [4] and TS 32.521 [5].
CAC CompositeAvailableCapacity
EM Element Manager
eNodeB evolved NodeB
E-UTRAN Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
HO Handover
HOO HandOver parameter Optimization
ICIC Inter Cell Interference Coordination
IOC Information Object Class
LB Load Balancing
LBO Load Balancing Optimization
NM Network Manager
NRM Network Resource Model
OAM Operation Administration Maintenance
SON Self Organizing Networks
UE User Equipment
# 4 SON Policy and Optimization Function Definitions
## 4.1 Monitoring and Management Operations for Self-Optimization
### 4.1.1 Monitoring and Management Function
#### 4.1.1.1 Usage of Itf-N
For specifically defined Itf-N NRM Interface see clause 5.
## 4.2 Load Balancing Optimization Function
### 4.2.1 Objective and Targets
The objective of LB Optimization is to cope with undesired traffic load
distribution and to minimize the number of handovers and redirections needed
to achieve the load balancing. One of the following targets or the combination
of the following targets shall be used. The specific target value or values
shall be configured by operators. Operators should assign priorities for
targets being used.
Targets drawn from the following table can be configured for LBO:
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Target Name | Definition | Legal Values | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | RRC connection | The number of Failed | Integer | | establishments | RRC connection | | | failure rate related | establishments | [0..100] in unit | | to load | related to load/ The | percentage | | | total number of | | | | Attempted RRC | | | | connection | | | | establishments | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | E-RAB setup failure | The number of E-RAB | Integer | | rate related to load | setup failure | | | | related to load/ The | [0..100] in unit | | | total number of | percentage | | | attempted E-RAB | | | | setup | | | | | | | | For E-RAB setup | | | | failure related to | | | | load, the causes | | | | "Reduce load in | | | | serving cell" and | | | | "Radio resources not | | | | available" defined | | | | in TS 36.413 [12] | | | | could be used. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | RRC Connection | The number of | Integer | | Abnormal Release | abnormal RRC | | | Rate Related to Load | connection release | [0..100] in unit | | | related to load/ The | percentage | | | total number of RRC | | | | connection release | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | E-RAB Abnormal | The number of E-RAB | Integer | | Release Rate Related | abnormal release | | | to Load | related to load/ The | [0..100] in unit | | | total number of | percentage | | | E-RAB release | | | | | | | | For E-RAB setup | | | | failure related to | | | | load, the causes | | | | "Reduce load in | | | | serving cell" and | | | | "Radio resources not | | | | available" defined | | | | in TS 36.413 [12] | | | | could be used. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Rate of failures | (_the number of | Integer | | related to handover | failure events | | | | related to | [0..100] in unit | | | handover_) / (the | percentage | | | total number of | | | | handover events) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
For the following targets out of the above table, the target values depend on
the composite available capacity range in the cell and are defined separately
for uplink and downlink. For these tuples can be configured, indicating the
capacity ranges together with the target value valid in that range.
RRC connection establishments failure rate related to load,
E-RAB setup failure rate related to load,
RRC Connection Abnormal Release Rate Related to Load,
E-RAB Abnormal Release Rate Related to Load
For the following targets shall be identical with the corresponding targets
defined in Handover Optimization.
> Rate of failures related to handover
### 4.2.2 Parameters To Be Optimized
To reach load optimization target, LBO may optimize some mobility settings (HO
and/or idle mobility configuration) defined in TS 36.331
### 4.2.3 Optimization Method
#### 4.2.3.1 Problem Detection
The problem detection is out of scope of this specification.
#### 4.2.3.2 Problem Solution
The problem solution is out of scope of this specification.
### 4.2.4 Architecture
#### 4.2.4.1 Definition of Logical Functions
**LB Monitor Function:** This function is used for monitoring the load balance
optimization (e.g. Monitoring related performance counters or alarms).
**LB Policy control function:** This function is used for configuring the load
balance optimization policies.
#### 4.2.4.2 Location of Logical Functions
For Load Balancing, the SON LB decision algorithm is located in eNB. The
detailed SON functionalities in eNB are out of scope of this specification.
### 4.2.5 PM
IRPManager may collect Load balancing related performance measurements.
Performance Measurements related with Load balancing are captured in the table
below:
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Performance | Description | Related targets | | measurement name | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | The number of Failed | Refer to _3GPP TS | RRC connection | | RRC connection | 32.425 [8]_ | establishments | | establishments | | failure rate related | | related to load | Failed RRC | to load | | | connection | | | | establishments | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | The total number of | Refer to _3GPP TS | RRC connection | | Attempted RRC | 32.425 [8]_ | establishments | | connection | | failure rate related | | establishments | Attempted RRC | to load | | | connection | | | | establishments | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | The number of E-RAB | Refer to _3GPP TS | E-RAB setup failure | | setup failure | 32.425 [8]_ | rate related to load | | related to load | | | | | Number of initial | | | | SAE Bearers failed | | | | to setup | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | The total number of | Refer to _3GPP TS | E-RAB setup failure | | attempted E-RAB | 32.425 [8]_ | rate related to load | | setup | | | | | Number of initial | | | | SAE Bearers | | | | attempted to setup | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | The number of | Number of UE CONTEXT | _RRC Connection | | abnormal RRC | Release Request | Abnormal Release | | connection release | initiated by eNodeB | Rate Related to | | related to load | | Load_ | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | The total number of | Number of Successful | _RRC Connection | | RRC connection | UE Context Release | Abnormal Release | | release | | Rate Related to | | | | Load_ | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | The number of E-RAB | Refer to _3GPP TS |_ E-RAB Abnormal | | abnormal release | 32.425 [8]_| Release Rate Related | | related to load | | to Load_ | | | Number of SAE | | | | Bearers requested to | | | | release initiated by | | | | eNodeB per cause | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | The total number of | Refer to _3GPP TS |_ E-RAB Abnormal | | E-RAB release | 32.425 [8]_| Release Rate Related | | | | to Load_ | | | Number of SAE | | | | Bearers successfully | | | | released | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | _the number of | Refer to 4.3.5 |_ Rate of failures | | failure events | | related to handover _| | related to handover_ | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | the total number of | Refer to 4.3.5 | _Rate of failures | | handover events | | related to handover_ | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
NOTE: The monitoring of performance measurements will make use of existing PM
IRP.
## 4.3 Handover (HO) Parameter Optimization Function
### 4.3.1 Objective and Targets
For intra-LTE, one of the following targets or the combination of the
following targets shall be used. The specific target value shall be configured
by operators. Operators should assign priorities for targets being used. The
first priority target will be tried to achieve by SON entity firstly. The
lower priority targets will be tried to achieve based on precondition that the
higher priority targets have already been achieved.
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Target Name | Definition | Legal Values | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Rate of failures | (the number of | Integer | | related to handover | failure events | | | | related to handover) | [0..100] in unit | | | / (the total number | percentage | | | of handover events) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
The objective of minimizing the number of unnecessary handovers shall always
be pursued in case the other target/s configured by the operator is/are
achieved. This objective may not need configuration of a target value.
### 4.3.2 Parameters To Be Optimized
The tables below summarise the handover parameters in TS 36.331 [6].
Table 4.3.2-1. Handover parameters that may be optimized for intra-frequency
and inter-frequency handovers
* * *
Event Summary Tunable parameters A3 Neighbour becomes offset better than
serving Ofn, Ofs, Ocn, Ocs, Hys, Off, timeToTrigger A4 Neighbour becomes
better than threshold Ofn, Ocn, Hys, Thresh, Off, timeToTrigger A5 Serving
becomes worse than threshold1 and neighbour becomes better than threshold2
Ofn, Ocn, Hys, Thresh1, Thresh2, Off, timeToTrigger
* * *
Table 4.3.2-2. Handover parameters that may be optimised for inter RAT
handover
* * *
Event Summary Tunable parameters B1 Inter RAT Neighbour becomes better than
threshold Ofn, Hys, Thresh, timeToTrigger B2 Serving becomes worse than
threshold1 and inter RAT neighbour becomes better than threshold2 Ofn, Hys,
Thresh1, Thresh2, timeToTrigger
* * *
### 4.3.3 Optimization Method
#### 4.3.3.1 Problem Detection
HO Parameter Optimization Function shall focus on detecting the problem
scenarios described in 32.521 [5]; namely: too early handovers, too late
handovers and inefficient use of NW resources due to HOs. For more information
about these scenarios see 32.521 [5] section 6.1.3.
The following inputs may be used for the identification of the problem
scenarios:
\- Event capture and analysis
\- UE measurements
\- Performance measurements
In event capture and analysis, the eNodeB exploits event information
associated with a UE context, such as evidence of previous handovers (UE
History, see 36.423 [7]) and HO failure details (such as in which cell the
handover failed and where the UE re-established the connection).
UE measurements are sent within UE measurement reports and they may indicate
whether HOs are too early or too late.
HO-related performance measurements (PMs) collected at the source and / or
target eNB can be useful in detecting HO-related issues on the cell level.
Since the impact of incorrect HO parameter setting will also be on the cell-
level, PMs can provide useful information that can be used to detect and
resolve HO-related issues due to incorrect parameter settings.
#### 4.3.3.2 Problem Solution
HO Parameter Optimization Function will aim at optimizing the HO parameters
listed in Section 4.3.2 in such way to mitigate the problem scenarios
discussed in Section 4.3.3.1. The optimization algorithms will not be
specified. The exact set of HO parameters that may be adjusted by the
algorithms is dictated by the choice of triggered HO measurements made by the
RRM entity in an eNodeB.
### 4.3.4 Architecture
#### 4.3.4.1 Definition of Logical Functions
**HO Parameter Optimization Monitor Function:** This function is used for
monitoring the handover parameter optimization (e.g. monitoring related
performance counters or alarms).
**HO Parameter Optimization Policy Control Function:** This function is used
for configuring the handover parameter optimization policies.
#### 4.3.4.2 Location of Logical Functions
For handover parameter optimization, the SON algorithm is located in eNB. The
detailed SON functionalities in eNB are out of scope of this specification.
### 4.3.5 PM
IRPManager shall collect HO-related performance measurements from the source
and / or target eNB which can be useful in detecting HO-related issues on the
cell level. The following input can be used for the identification of the
problem scenarios specified:
The number of RLF event happened within a interval after handover success
Performance Measurements related to handover failure are captured in the table
below.
The Performance Measurements are for outgoing handovers. Further, they should
be available on a cell relation basis.
* * *
Performance measurement name Description Related targets Number of handover
events Includes successful handovers plus all identified failures Rate of
failures related to handover Number of HO failures All failure cases Rate of
failures related to handover Number of too early HO failures Too early HO
failure cases Rate of failures related to handover Number of too late HO
failures Too late HO failure cases Rate of failures related to handover Number
of HO failures to wrong cell HO failures to wrong cell Rate of failures
related to handover
* * *
NOTE: The monitoring of performance measurements will make use of existing PM
IRP.
## 4.4 Interference Control Function
## 4.5 Capacity and Coverage Optimization Function
## 4.6 RACH Optimization Function
# 5 Information Object Classes (IOCs)
## 5.1 Information entities imported and local labels
* * *
Label reference Local label **3GPP TS 32.622 [9], IOC,** Top Top **3GPP TS
32.622 [9], IOC,** SubNetwork SubNetwork **3GPP TS 32.762 [10], IOC,**
ENBFunction ENBFunction **3GPP TS 32.762 [10], IOC,** EUtranRelation
EUtranRelation **3GPP TS 32.762 [10], IOC,** EUtranGenericCell
EUtranGenericCell
* * *
## 5.2 Class diagram
### 5.2.1 Attributes and relationships
{width="5.99375in" height="4.053472222222222in"}
NOTE: IOC SONControl shall be instantiated whenever one or more IOC SONTargets
are instantiated.
Figure 5.2.1.1: Cell view of SON Policy NRM
### 5.2.2 Inheritance
{width="3.972916666666667in" height="2.276388888888889in"}
Figure 5.2.2.1: SON Policy NRM Inheritance Hierarchy
## 5.3 Information Object Class (IOC) definitions
### 5.3.1 SONTargets
#### 5.3.1.1 Definition
This IOC represents targets for SON functions and their relative priorities.
Currently targets for Handover parameter optimization and Load Balancing
optimization are defined. Targets for other SON functions like Energy Saving,
Coverage and Capacity optimization, RACH optimization etc. are FFS.
Target hierarchy rule:
> An NRM IOC instance X may name-contain an IOC SONTargets instance T. The
> rule states that:
  * If X name-contains a SONTargets instance T, then T is applicable to X.
  * If X and all its superior instances do not name-contain any SONTargets instance, then no SONTargets instance is applicable to X.
  * If X does not name-contain any SONTargets instance, but one or more of X's superior instances name-contain a SONTargets instance, then the SONTargets instance of the superior intance closest to X, in X's naming tree, is applicable to X.
#### 5.3.1.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier id M M -
hoFailureRate O *) M M rrcConnectionEstablishmentFailureRateCharacteristic O
*) M M rrcConnectionAbnormalReleaseRateCharacteristic O *) M M
eRabSetupFailureRateCharacteristic O *) M M
eRabAbnormalReleaseRateCharacteristic O *) M M
* * *
*1) Note: At least one of the attributes shall be supported.
#### 5.3.1.3 Attribute constraints
None
#### 5.3.1.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.6.1 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 5.3.2 SONControl
#### 5.3.2.1 Definition
This IOC represents the possibility to switch on or off SON functions. This is
provided for Handover optimization and Load Balancing optimization. For other
SON functions like Energy Saving, Coverage and Capacity optimization, RACH
optimization etc. this is FFS.
#### 5.3.2.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier id M M -
hooSwitch CM M M lboSwitch CM M M
* * *
#### 5.3.2.3 Attribute constraints
* * *
Name Definition hooSwitch CM Support Qualifier Handover (HO) parameter
Optimization function is supported. lboSwitch CM Support Qualifier Load
Balancing Optimization function is supported.
* * *
#### 5.3.2.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.6.2 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
## 5.4 Information relationship definitions
None.
## 5.5 Information attribute definitions
### 5.5.1 Definition and legal values
Table 5.5.1.1 defines the attributes that are present in the Information
Object Classes (IOCs) of the present document.
Table 5.5.1.1: Attributes definitions and legal values
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Attribute Name | Definition | Legal Values | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | eRabAbnormalRelea | The target is on the | lowerEndOfCacRange | | seRateCharacteristic | number of E-RAB | and | | | abnormal release | upperEndOfCacRange: | | | related to load | | | | divided by the total | Integer 0..10000 | | | number of attempted | | | | E-RAB setups. | eRabAbnorm | | | | alReleaseRateTarget: | | | This attribute | | | | allows to define for | Integer 0..100 | | | a value the | (representing a | | | composite available | percentage) | | | capacity (CAC) range | | | | in which the target | targetPriority: | | | is valid. For this, | | | | it contains one | Integer 0..N. The | | | characteristic | lower the number the | | | dependent on Uplink | higher the priority. | | | CAC, one for | | | | Downlink CAC: | | | | eRabA | | | | bnormalReleaseRateCh | | | | aracteristicDownlink | | | | and | | | | eRabA | | | | bnormalReleaseRateCh | | | | aracteristicUplink.\ | | | | At least one of | | | | these charateristics | | | | must be present. | | | | | | | | Together with the | | | | characteristic its | | | | targetPriority as a | | | | SON target is | | | | defined as part of | | | | this attribute. | | | | | | | | The characteristics | | | | have the following | | | | structure: | | | | | | | | eRabAbn | | | | ormalReleaseRateChar | | | | acteristicDownlink:\ | | | | List of one or more | | | | entries, each | | | | consisting of:\ | | | | lowerEndOfCacRange,\ | | | | upperEndOfCacRange,\ | | | | eRabAbnor | | | | malReleaseRateTarget | | | | | | | | eRabA | | | | bnormalReleaseRateCh | | | | aracteristicUplink:\ | | | | List of one or more | | | | entries, each | | | | consisting of:\ | | | | lowerEndOfCacRange,\ | | | | upperEndOfCacRange,\ | | | | eRabAbnor | | | | malReleaseRateTarget | | | | | | | | Remark: | | | | | | | | Formula for | | | | composite available | | | | capacity:\ | | | | Available Capacity = | | | | Cell Capacity Class | | | | Value * Capacity | | | | Value | | | | | | | | For definition of | | | | Cell Capacity Class | | | | Value and Capacity | | | | Value see TS 36.331 | | | | [6]. These | | | | definitions lead to | | | | a value range of a | | | | composite available | | | | capacity from | | | | 0..10000.\ | | | | 36.423 [7] has | | | | cell capacity class | | | | value as optional | | | | parameter in case of | | | | intra-LTE load | | | | balancing. If cell | | | | capacity class value | | | | is not present, than | | | | 36.423 assumes that | | | | bandwidth should be | | | | used instead to | | | | assess the capacity. | | | | | | | | This target is | | | | suitable for LBO. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | eRabSetupFailu | The target is on the | lowerEndOfCacRange | | reRateCharacteristic | number of E-RAB | and | | | setup failures | upperEndOfCacRange | | | related to load | and targetPriority: | | | divided by the total | | | | number of attempted | See | | | E-RAB setups. | eRabAbnormalRelea | | | | seRateCharacteristic | | | For E-RAB setup | | | | failure related to | eRabSet | | | load the causes | UpFailureRateTarget: | | | "Reduce load in | | | | serving cell" and | Integer 0..100 | | | "Radio resources not | (representing a | | | available" defined | percentage) | | | in TS 36.413 are | | | | used. | | | | | | | | This attribute | | | | allows to define for | | | | a value the | | | | composite available | | | | capacity (CAC) range | | | | in which the target | | | | is valid. For this, | | | | it contains one | | | | characteristic | | | | dependent on Uplink | | | | CAC, one for | | | | Downlink CAC: | | | | eR | | | | abSetupFailureRateCh | | | | aracteristicDownlink | | | | and | | | | eR | | | | abSetupFailureRateCh | | | | aracteristicUplink.\ | | | | At least one of | | | | these charateristics | | | | must be present. | | | | | | | | Together with the | | | | characteristic its | | | | targetPriority as a | | | | SON target is | | | | defined as part of | | | | this attribute. | | | | | | | | The characteristics | | | | have the following | | | | structure: | | | | | | | | eRab | | | | SetupFailureRateChar | | | | acteristicDownlink:\ | | | | List of one or more | | | | entries, each | | | | consisting of:\ | | | | LowerEndOfCacRange,\ | | | | UpperEndOfCacRange,\ | | | | eRabSe | | | | tUpFailureRateTarget | | | | | | | | eR | | | | abSetupFailureRateCh | | | | aracteristicUplink:\ | | | | List of one or more | | | | entries, each | | | | consisting of:\ | | | | LowerEndOfCacRange,\ | | | | UpperEndOfCacRange,\ | | | | eRabSe | | | | tUpFailureRateTarget | | | | | | | | For CAC see | | | | eRabAbnormalRelea | | | | seRateCharacteristic | | | | | | | | This target is | | | | suitable for LBO. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | hoFailureRate | This indicates the | A set of two | | | assigned HOO target | numbers: | | | of the number of | | | | failure events | the first indicates | | | related to handover | a percentage, the | | | divided by the total | second a | | | number of handover | targetPriority (see | | | events, together | eRabAbnormalRelease | | | with its | RateCharacteristic). | | | targetPrioritiy. | | | | | | | | This target is | | | | suitable for HOO or | | | | LBO. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | hooSwitch | This attribute | On, off | | | determines whether | | | | the Handover | | | | parameter | | | | Optimization | | | | Function is | | | | activated or | | | | deactivated. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | id | An attribute whose | | | | \"name+value\" can | | | | be used as an RDN | | | | when naming an | | | | instance of the | | | | object class. This | | | | RDN uniquely | | | | identifies the | | | | object instance | | | | within the scope of | | | | its containing | | | | (parent) object | | | | instance. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | lboSwitch | This attribute | On, off | | | determines whether | | | | the Load Balancing | | | | Optimization | | | | Function is | | | | activated or | | | | deactivated. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | rrcCon | The target is on the | lowerEndOfCacRange | | nectionAbnormalRelea | number of abnormal | and | | seRateCharacteristic | RRC connection | upperEndOfCacRange | | | releases related to | and targetPriority: | | | load divided by the | | | | total number of RRC | See | | | connection releases. | eRabAbnormalRelea | | | | seRateCharacteristic | | | This attribute | | | | allows to define for | rrcConnectionAbnorm | | | a value the | alReleaseRateTarget: | | | composite available | | | | capacity (CAC) range | Integer 0..100 | | | in which the target | (representing a | | | is valid. For this, | percentage) | | | it contains one | | | | characteristic | | | | dependent on Uplink | | | | CAC, one for | | | | Downlink CAC: | | | | rrcConnectionA | | | | bnormalReleaseRateCh | | | | aracteristicDownlink | | | | and | | | | rrcConnectionA | | | | bnormalReleaseRateCh | | | | aracteristicUplink.\ | | | | At least one of | | | | these charateristics | | | | must be present. | | | | | | | | Together with the | | | | characteristic its | | | | targetPriority as a | | | | SON target is | | | | defined as part of | | | | this attribute. | | | | | | | | The characteristics | | | | have the following | | | | structure: | | | | | | | | rrcConnectionAbn | | | | ormalReleaseRateChar | | | | acteristicDownlink:\ | | | | List of one or more | | | | entries, each | | | | consisting of:\ | | | | lowerEndOfCacRange,\ | | | | upperEndOfCacRange,\ | | | | rrcConnectionAbnor | | | | malReleaseRateTarget | | | | | | | | rrcConnect | | | | ionAbnormalReleaseCh | | | | aracteristicUplink:\ | | | | List of one or more | | | | entries, each | | | | consisting of:\ | | | | lowerEndOfCacRange,\ | | | | upperEndOfCacRange,\ | | | | rrcConnectionAbnor | | | | malReleaseRateTarget | | | | | | | | For CAC see | | | | eRabAbnormalRelea | | | | seRateCharacteristic | | | | | | | | This target is | | | | suitable for LBO. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | rrcConnecti | The target is on the | lowerEndOfCacRange | | onEstablishmentFailu | number of RRC | and | | reRateCharacteristic | connection | upperEndOfCacRange | | | establishment | and targetPriority: | | | failures related to | | | | load divided by the | See | | | total number of | eRabAbnormalRelea | | | attempted RRC | seRateCharacteristic | | | connection | | | | establishments. | rrcC | | | | onnectionEstablishme | | | This attribute | ntFailureRateTarget: | | | allows to define for | | | | a value the | Integer 0..100 | | | composite available | (representing a | | | capacity (CAC) range | percentage) | | | in which the target | | | | is valid. For this, | | | | it contains one | | | | characteristic | | | | dependent on Uplink | | | | CAC, one for | | | | Downlink CAC: | | | | rrcConnectionEstabl | | | | ishmentFailureRateCh | | | | aracteristicDownlink | | | | and | | | | rrcConnectionEstabl | | | | ishmentFailureRateCh | | | | aracteristicUplink.\ | | | | At least one of | | | | these charateristics | | | | must be present. | | | | | | | | Together with the | | | | characteristic its | | | | targetPriority as a | | | | SON target is | | | | defined as part of | | | | this attribute. | | | | | | | | The characteristics | | | | have the following | | | | structure: | | | | | | | | r | | | | rcConnectionEstablis | | | | hmentFailureRateChar | | | | acteristicDownlink:\ | | | | List of one or more | | | | entries, each | | | | consisting of:\ | | | | lowerEndOfCacRange,\ | | | | upperEndOfCacRange,\ | | | | rrc | | | | ConnectionEstablishm | | | | entFailureRateTarget | | | | | | | | rrcConnectionEstabl | | | | ishmentFailureRateCh | | | | aracteristicUplink:\ | | | | List of one or more | | | | entries, each | | | | consisting of:\ | | | | lowerEndOfCacRange,\ | | | | upperEndOfCacRange,\ | | | | rrc | | | | ConnectionEstablishm | | | | entFailureRateTarget | | | | | | | | For CAC see | | | | eRabAbnormalRelea | | | | seRateCharacteristic | | | | | | | | This target is | | | | suitable for LBO. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### 5.5.2 Constraints
None.
## 5.6 Common Notifications
### 5.6.1 Configuration notifications
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyAttributeValueChange O  
notifyObjectCreation O  
notifyObjectDeletion O
* * *
#