# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects,
Telecommunication Management; as identified below:
32.581: "Telecommunications management; Home Node B (HNB) Operations,
Administration, Maintenance and Provisioning (OAM&P); Concepts and
requirements for Type 1 interface HNB to HNB Management System (HMS)\".
32.582: \"Telecommunications management; Home Node B (HNB) Operations,
Administration, Maintenance and Provisioning (OAM&P); Information model for
Type 1 interface HNB to HNB Management System (HMS)\".
32.583: \"Telecommunications management; Home Node B (HNB) Operations,
Administration, Maintenance and Provisioning (OAM&P); Procedure flows for Type
1 interface HNB to HNB Management System (HMS)\".
32.584: "Telecommunications management; Home Node B (HNB) Operations,
Administration, Maintenance and Provisioning (OAM&P); XML definitions for Type
1 interface HNB to HNB Management System (HMS)\".
# 1 Scope
The present document describes the architecture for Home NodeB (HNB)
Management and Data class definition for Fault Management, Configuration
Management and Performance Measurements. The stage 2 definitions captured in
this document shall be met via type 1 interface between HNB and Domain
Manager.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.401: "**Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM); Concept and requirements"**
[5] 3GPP TS 32.300: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Name convention for Managed Objects\".
[6] 3GPP TS 25.331: \"**Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol
specification\"**
[7] TR-069 Amendment 2, HNB WAN Management Protocol v1.1, Broadband Forum,
viewable at http://www.broadband-
forum.org/technical/download/TR-069Amendment2.pdf
[8] 3GPP TR 25.820: \"3G Home NodeB Study Item Technical Report\"
[9] 3GPP TS 25.413: \"**UTRAN Iu interface Radio Access Network Application
Part (RANAP) signalling\"**
[10] 3GPP TS 25.401\" \" Radio Access Network UTRAN Overall Description\"
[11] 3GPP TS 25.433: \"**UTRAN Iub interface Node B Application Part (NBAP)
signalling\"**
[12] 3GPP TR 32.821: \"Study of Self-Organizing Network(SON) related OAM for
Home NodeB\".
[13] 3GPP TS 25.467: \"UTRAN architecture for 3G Home NodeB, stage 2\".
[14] TR-106, _\"DSLHome^TM^ Data Model Template for TR-069-Enabled Devices\"_
Broadband Forum
[15] TR-196, _\"Femto Access Point Device Data Model\"_ , Broadband Forum,
2009
[16] 3GPP TS 32.432 \"Telecommunication management; Telecommunication
management; Performance measurement: File format definition\".
[17] 3GPP TS 32.111-2: \"**Telecommunication management; Fault Management;
Part 2: Alarm Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".**
**[18] 3GPP TS 32.111-5: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management;
Part 5: Alarm Integration Reference Point (IRP): eXtensible Markup Language
(XML) definitions\".**
**[19]** 3GPP TS 33.320: \"Security of Home Node B (HNB) / Home evolved Node B
(HeNB)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
**Home NodeB, 3G Home NodeB and HNB:** These terms, their derivations and
abbreviations are used synonymously throughout this document.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
DM Domain Manager
EM Element Manager
FFS For Further Study
HMS Home NodeB Management System
HNB Home NodeB
IP Internet Protocol
LTE Long Term Evolution
MME Mobile Management Entity
NGMN Next Generation Mobile Networks
OAM Operations, Administrator and Maintenance
PnP Plug and Play
SAE System Architecture Evolution
SON Self-Organising Networks
TBD To Be Discussed
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System
UTRAN UMTS Radio Access Network
# 4 Purpose
The purpose of this document is to specify the Information Model for Home
NodeB Type 1 Interface
for the remote management using the TR-069 CWMP Ref [7].
The strategy used to define the data model is as defined below :
  * Configuration Management: An abstraction of the data model definition from Broadband Forum Ref [15]
  * A complete information model is defined for Fault Management and Performance Management
# 5 Structure of HNB Information Model
Each of the three boxes represents the logical grouping of the parameters in
the Information Model.
_._
Figure 1. HNB Information Model Structure
# 6 Information Model Definition
## 6.1 Configuration Management
NOTE: State Management (Operational Status, Administrative status of the
device) is covered as part of configuration management
### 6.1.1 HNB Access Network
Table 6.1.1: HNB Access Network Related Parameter Types
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Parameter Type | Description | Reference | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | HNB-GW Gateway | Identity of the | 25.467 | | Identity | HNB-GW the HNB | | | | connects to. The | | | | type of identity may | | | | be either "name" or | | | | IP address. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Security Gateway | Identity of the | 25.467 | | Identity | Security GW the HNB | | | | connects to. The | | | | type of identity may | | | | be either "name" or | | | | IP address. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Access Mode | Indicates the type | 22.011 | | | of access mode the | | | | HNB is to operate; | | | | it can be either | | | | "Open Access," | | | | "Closed Access," or | | | | "Hybrid Access." | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | ACL list | Defines the ACL, | 22.011 | | | which consists of | | | | one or more IMSI of | | | | the UE that the | | | | access to the HNB is | | | | allowed. It is | | | | applicable to either | | | | "Closed Access" and | | | | "Hybrid Access." | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | CSG Identity | Defines the CSG ID | 22.011 | | | to which the HNB is | | | | a member of. It | | | | consists of one or | | | | more than one CSG | | | | ID. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | CSG specific info | Defines the CSG | 25.331, | | | specific split | 10.3.2.8,10.3.2.9, | | | information | 10.2.48.8.14a | | | including Primary | | | | Scrambling Code | | | | (PSC) and UARFCN | | | | dedicated to the | | | | CSG. This | | | | information is | | | | intended in the BCCH | | | | SIB information for | | | | the UEs under the | | | | HNB. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | HNB ID | Home NodeB | 22.011 | | | Identifier | | | | broadcasted when it | | | | operates as CSG cell | | | | and is to be | | | | displayed on the UE. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Home Zone Name | String with a length | 36.331 section 6.3.1 | | | 48 Bytes encoded in | | | | UTF-8 that defines | | | | the "home zone name" | | | | that is to be | | | | displayed to the UE | | | | that camps on to the | | | | HNB. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | URA list | List of one or more | 25.331, sec.10.3.2.6 | | | URA that the HNB | | | | belongs to. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | RNC ID | RNC-ID of the HNB. | 25.413, | | | | sec.9.2.1.39, | | | | 9.2.1.39a | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | RANAP Timers | RANAP message | 25.413, sec.9.5 | | | related timers, | | | | typically named as | | | | "T-xxx" | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Cell ID | Cell Identity, bit | 25.331, sec.10.3.2.2 | | | string (28). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | HSDPA related | HSDPA specific | 32.642, sec.6.3.9 | | parameter | parameters | | | | including: 1) HSDPA | | | | is used in the cell | | | | or not, 2) number of | | | | codes at the defined | | | | spreading factor | | | | within the code | | | | tree, 3) number of | | | | HS-SCCHs used in the | | | | HNB. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Measurement related | Measurement related | 25.331, | | parameter | parameters | sec.10.3.2.3, | | | including: 1) | 10.3.2.4 | | | measurement | | | | quantity, 2) minimum | | | | Rx signal level, 3) | | | | offset to the | | | | minimum Rx level, 4) | | | | cell re-selection | | | | hysteresis, 5) | | | | timers for | | | | re-selection, 6) | | | | threshold for | | | | re-selection. Note | | | | that separate sets | | | | of parameters exist | | | | for intra-frequency, | | | | inter-frequency, and | | | | inter-RAT frequency | | | | measurements. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | HCS related | Measurement related | 25.331, | | parameter | parameters | sec.10.3.2.3, | | | including: 1) | 10.3.7.12, | | | timers, threshold, | 10.3.7.47, | | | hysteresis for HCS | 10.3.7.54a | | | to determine when | | | | the UE enters or | | | | exists the | | | | high-mobility state, | | | | 2) quality threshold | | | | level for HCS, 3) | | | | flag to indicate HCS | | | | is used or not in | | | | the HNB, 4) HCS | | | | priority value for | | | | the HNB if the HCS | | | | is used. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | RACH related | RACH related | 25.331, | | parameter for UE | parameters for UE | sec.10.3.2.3, | | | when accessing the | 10.3.6.11, | | | PRACH, including: 1) | | | | Maximum Tx power | 10.3.6.54, 10.3.6.67 | | | level a UE may use, | | | | 2) initial Tx power, | 25.304, sec.5.2.3 | | | 3) ramp-up step, 4) | | | | maximum preamble | | | | retransmission | | | | value, 5) maximum | | | | RACH preamble | | | | cycles, 6) back-off | | | | period | | | | lo | | | | werbound/upperbound. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | DRX related | DRX related | 25.331, | | parameter | paramters including: | sec.10.3.3.6, | | | DRX cycle length | 10.3.3.49 | | | coefficient. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Cell Barred related | Cell barred related | 25.331, sec.10.3.2 | | parameter | parameters | | | | including: 1) | | | | Indicates whether | | | | the HNB is barred | | | | from service or not, | | | | 2) indicates whether | | | | the intra-frequency | | | | cell re-selection is | | | | allowed or not, 3) | | | | time period which | | | | the UE is barred | | | | from accessing the | | | | HNB, 4) list of | | | | Access Class barred, | | | | 5) indicates whether | | | | the HNB is reserved | | | | for operator use or | | | | not. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Intra-frequency | Intra-frequency | 25.331, | | measurement related | measurement related | sec.10.3.7.38, | | parameter | parameters | 10.3.7.39, 10.3.7.64 | | | including: 1) | | | | measurement | | | | quantity, 2) | | | | weighting factor, 3) | | | | hysteresis, 4) | | | | time-to-trigger, 5) | | | | threshold. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Inter-frequency | Inter-frequency | 25.331, | | measurement related | measurement related | sec.10.3.7.9, | | parameter | parameters | 10.3.7.18, | | | including: 1) filter | 10.3.7.19, | | | coefficient, 2) | 10.3.7.64, | | | measurement | | | | quantity, 3) | | | | weighting factor, 4) | | | | hysteresis, 5) | | | | time-to-trigger, 6) | | | | threshold. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Inter-RAT | Inter-RAT | 25.331, | | measurement related | measurement related | sec.10.3.7.9, | | parameter | parameters | 10.3.7.29, | | | including: 1) filter | 10.3.7.30, | | | coeffieicnt, 2) BSIC | 10.3.7.64, | | | verification | | | | required, 3) | | | | weighting factor, 4) | | | | hysteresis, 5) | | | | time-to-trigger, 6) | | | | threshold. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | RRC timers and | Timers and constants | 25.331, sec.13.1, | | constants | used in RRC. Timers | 10.3.3.43, 10.3.3.44 | | | and constants have | | | | names designated as | | | | "T3xx," and "N3xx," | | | | respectively. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE Internal | UE-internal | 25.331, 10.3.7.9, | | Measurement related | measurement related | 10.3.7.79, | | parameters | parameters | 10.3.7.80, | | | including: 1) filter | | | | coefficient, 2) UE | | | | Tx power threshold | | | | and time-to-trigger. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Radio physical layer | Radio physical layer | 25.433, sec. | | related parameters | related parameters | 9.2.2.33, 9.2.2.34, | | | including: 1) | 9.1.3.1, 9.1.6.1, | | | UARFCN, 2) Primary | 9.1.24, 9.2.1.21, | | | Scrambling Code, 3) | 9.2.1.40, 9.2.1.49A, | | | Max HNB Tx power, 4) | 9.2.1.65, 9.2.2.D. | | | Max UL Tx power, 5) | | | | P-CPICH power, 6) | 25.331, sec. | | | PDPDCH power, 7) | 10.3.6.3, 10.3.6.39, | | | P-SCH power, 8) | 10.3.6.50. | | | S-SCH power, 9) PICH | | | | power, 10) PCH | 25.104. | | | power, 11) FACH | | | | power, 12) BCH | 32.642, sec.6.3.9, | | | power, 13) AICH | 6.3.11, 9.3.11 | | | power. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Intra-frequency | Intra-frequency | 25.413, 9.2.1.39, | | neighbour list | neighbour list | 9.2.1.39a, 9.2.3.6, | | | parameters | 9.2.3.7 | | | including: 1) | | | | PLMN-ID, 2) RNC ID, | 23.003, sec.4.1, 4.2 | | | 3) LAC, 4) RAC, 5) | | | | URA, 6) P-CPICH | 24.008 | | | Scrambling Code, 7) | | | | P-CPICH Tx power | 25.331, sec.10.3.2.6 | | | | | | | | 25.433, sec.9.2.2.33 | | | | | | | | 32.642, sec.6.3.11 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Inter-frequency | Inter-frequency | 25.413, sec.9.2.3.7, | | neighbour list | neighbour list | 9.2.1.39, 9.2.1.39a, | | | parameters | 9.2.3.6, 9.2.3.7 | | | including: 1) | | | | PLMN-ID, 2) RNC ID, | 23.003, sec.4.1, 4.2 | | | 3) LAC, 4) RAC, 5) | | | | URA, 6) UARFCN, 7) | 24.008, | | | P-CPICH Scrambling | | | | Code, 8) P-CPICH Tx | 25.331, sec.10.3.2.6 | | | power. | | | | | 25.433, sec.9.2.2.33 | | | | | | | | 32.642, sec.6.3.11 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Inter-RAT neighbour | Inter-RAT neighbour | 25.413, | | list | list (GSM only) | sec.9.2.3.33, | | | parameters | | | | including: 1) | 23.003 | | | PLMN-ID, 2) LAC, 3) | sec.4.1,51.011, | | | BSIC, 4) Band | sec10.3.42, 24.008 | | | Indicator, BCCH | | | | ARFCN. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | State management | State management | 32.671 | | related parameters | related parameters | | | | such as: 1) | | | | enable/disable | | | | (operational state), | | | | 2) lock/unlock | | | | (administrative | | | | state) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### 6.1.2 Core Network
Table 6.1.2: CN Related Parameter Types
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Parameter Type | Description | Reference | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | PLMN information | PLMN information | 24.008 | | | includes parameters | | | | including: 1) PLMN | 23.003 | | | type, 2) PLMN ID. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Equivalent PLMN ID | Zero or more of | 24.008, | | | equivalent PLMN ID. | sec.10.5.1.13, | | | | 23.003 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | LAC | Location Area Code. | 23.003, sec.4.1 | | | | | | | | 25.413, sec.9.2.3.6 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | RAC | Routing Area Code | 23.003, sec.4.2, | | | | | | | | 25.413, sec.9.2.3.7 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | SAC | Service Area Code. | 23.003 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Service Area For | String with a length | 25.469, sec. 9.1.3 | | Broadcast | of 2 bytes that | | | | specifies the | | | | "Service Area For | | | | Broadcast". | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | CS domain specific | CS domain specific | 24.008, | | parameters | CN parameters | sec.10.5.1.12.2 | | | including: 1) T3212, | | | | 2) ATT | | | | (Attach/Detach flag) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | PS domain specific | PS domain specific | 23.003, sec.4.2 | | parameters | CN parameters | | | | including: 1) RAC, | 25.413, sec.9.2.3.7 | | | 2) NMO (Network Mode | 23.060, | | | of Operation) | | | | | 24.008, | | | | sec.10.5.1.12.3 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### 6.1.3 Transport Network
Table 6.1.3:Transport Network Related Parameter Types
+------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Parameter Type | Description | Reference | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | SCTP related | SCTP related | n/a | | parameters | parameters including: | | | | 1) heartbeat interval, | | | | 2) maximum number of | | | | retransmit, 3) | | | | retransmission | | | | timeout, 4) valid | | | | cookie life during the | | | | 4-way start up | | | | handshake procedure, | | | | 5) association peer | | | | status, 6) peer IP | | | | address and port | | | | number, | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | RTP/RTCP related | DSCP values for CS | n/a | | parameters | traffic (Conversation, | | | | Streaming). | | | | | | | | DSCP values for PS | | | | traffic (Conversation, | | | | Streaming, | | | | Interactive, | | | | Background) | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | IPsec usage indicator | Indicates whether or | TS 33.320 [19] | | | not to use IPsec for | | | | subsequent | | | | connections. This | | | | parameter is writable. | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Tunnel related | IKE specific | n/a | | parameters | information including: | | | | 1) status, 2) peer IP | | | | address, 3) virtual IP | | | | address and subnet | | | | mask assigned by | | | | IKEv2, 4) DNS and DHCP | | | | servers assigned by | | | | IKEv2. | | | | | | | | Child SA specific | | | | information including: | | | | 1) Parent ID, 2) SPI, | | | | 3) direction, 4) | | | | creation time. | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Security related | Shared secret | n/a | | parameters | information including: | | | | 1) type, 2) status, 3) | | | | UICC card ID. | | | | | | | | Public key information | | | | including: 1) last | | | | modification time, 2) | | | | serial number in X.509 | | | | certificate, 3) issuer | | | | of X.509 certificate, | | | | 4) valid period of | | | | X.509 certificate. | | | | | | | | Crypto profile | | | | information including: | | | | 1) selector | | | | destination IP address | | | | and port number, 2) | | | | selector protocol, 3) | | | | IKEv2 encryption | | | | algorithm, 4) IKEv2 | | | | pseudo-random | | | | function, 5) IKEv2 | | | | integrity function, 6) | | | | IPsec encryption | | | | algorithm, 7) IPsec | | | | integrity function, 8) | | | | anti-replay window | | | | size, 9) rekey | | | | lifetime (in second, | | | | in byte), 10) DPD | | | | timeout, 11) NATT | | | | keepalive timer | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+
## 6.2 Fault Management
### 6.2.1 Common Alarm Attributes
The HNB Fault Management utilises a common set of alarm parameters as follows:
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | **[Parameter | * |**[Valid | **[Traceback] | | Name] | *[Description] | values] | {.underline}** | | {.underline}**| {.underline}** | {.underline}**| | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Managed | It specifies | Encode the |** REQ-OAMP | | ObjectInstance | the instance | Managed | _FM-FUN-004**| | | of the | Objects | | | | Informational | representation | | | | Object Class | in string | | | | in which the | format as | | | | HNB event | defined in | | | | occurred by | reference | | | | carrying the | [4], 3GPP TS | | | | Distinguished | 32.300. | | | | Name (DN) of | | | | | this object | | | | | instance. This | | | | | object may or | | | | | may not be | | | | | identical to | | | | | the object | | | | | instance | | | | | actually | | | | | emitting the | | | | | notification | | | | | to the HMS | | | | | | | | | | It contains | | | | | two components | | | | | dnprefix and | | | | | identifier of | | | | | the Managed | | | | | Object. The | | | | | combination of | | | | | both convey | | | | | the uniqueness | | | | | of all managed | | | | | objects | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | EventType | It indicates | See 3GPP |** REQ-OAMP | | | the type of | TS32.111-2 | _FM-FUN-004**| | | HNB Alarm | Annex A for | | | | | information on | | | | | pre-defined | | | | | alarm types | | | | | from the 3GPP | | | | | standards for | | | | | alarm type and | | | | | 3GPP | | | | | TS32.111-5 for | | | | | supported | | | | | Event Type | | | | | values | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | ProbableCause | It qualifies | See 3GPP |** REQ-OAMP | | | the alarm and | TS32.111-2 | _FM-FUN-004**| | | provides | Annex B for | | | | further | information on | | | | information | pre-defined | | | | than Alarm | Probable | | | | Type. | Causes from | | | | | the 3GPP | | | | | standards and | | | | | 3GPP | | | | | TS32.111-5 for | | | | | supported | | | | | Probable Cause | | | | | values. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | S | It provides | Vendor defined |** REQ-OAMP | | pecificProblem | further | | _FM-FUN-004**| | | qualification | This will be | | | | on the alarm | empty if the | | | | than | HNB doesn't | | | | ProbableCause | support | | | | | inclusion of | | | | This | this | | | | identifies the | information | | | | specific alarm | for this | | | | over and above | particular | | | | the Probable | alarm | | | | Cause which | | | | | occurred on | | | | | the HNB which | | | | | is vendor | | | | | defined. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Per | It indicates | See 3GPP |** REQ-OAMP | | ceivedSeverity | the relative | TS32.111-2 for | _FM-FUN-004**| | | level of | information on | | | | urgency for | pre-defined | | | | operator | Perceived | | | | attention for | Severity and | | | | an alarm, | 3GPP | | | | please see | TS32.111-5 for | | | | ITU_T | supported | | | | Recommendation | Perceived | | | | X.733. | Severity | | | | | values | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | AdditionalText | This provides | Vendor defined |** REQ-OAMP | | | a textual | | _FM-FUN-004**| | | string which | This will be | | | | is vendor | empty if the | | | | defined. | HNB doesn't | | | | | support | | | | | inclusion of | | | | | this | | | | | information | | | | | for this | | | | | particular | | | | | alarm | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Additio | This contains | Vendor defined |** REQ-OAMP | | nalInformation | a list of | | _FM-FUN-004** | | | additional | This will be | | | | information | empty if the | | | | about the | HNB doesn't | | | | alarm and is | support | | | | vendor defined | inclusion of | | | | | this | | | | | information | | | | | for this | | | | | particular | | | | | alarm | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
### 6.2.2 Current Alarms List
The HNB maintains a list of current alarms not yet cleared on the HNB. Newly
raised alarms events result in a new entry in the Current Alarms Table being
added, any changes to the alarm as a result of an update event are updated in
the table, and a clear event raised against an alarm results in the alarm
being removed from this table, reference **REQ-OAMP_FM-FUN-007**
#### 6.2.2.1 Alarm Indexing Parameters
Entries in the Current Alarm Table shall be uniquely indexable using the
following parameters:
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | **[Parameter | * |**[Valid | **[Traceback] | | Name] | *[Description] | values] | {.underline}** | | {.underline}**| {.underline}** | {.underline}**| | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | A | It identifies | value greater |** REQ-OA | | larmIdentifier | one Alarm | than or equal | MP_FM-FUN-007 | | | Entry in the | to 0 | & | | | Alarm List. | | REQ-OAMP | | | | | _FM-FUN-004** | | | This is the | | | | | equivalent to | | | | | the AlarmId | | | | | identified in | | | | | 3GPP | | | | | TS32.111-2. | | | | | The AlarmList | | | | | assigns an | | | | | identifier, | | | | | called | | | | | alarmId, to | | | | | each | | | | | Al | | | | | armInformation | | | | | in the | | | | | AlarmList. An | | | | | alarmId | | | | | unambiguously | | | | | identifies one | | | | | Al | | | | | armInformation | | | | | in the | | | | | AlarmList | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
#### 6.2.2.2 Alarm Content Parameters
The Alarms List table shall contain a list of entries which shall contain the
parmeters identified in 6.2.3.1, the common set of alarm parameters which are
identified in clause 6.2.1, and the following additional information:
* * *
**[Parameter Name]{.underline}** **[Description]{.underline}** **[Valid
values]{.underline}** **[Traceback]{.underline}** AlarmRaisedTime It indicates
the date and time when the alarm is first raised by the HNB. dateTime **REQ-
OAMP_FM-FUN-007 & REQ-OAMP_FM-FUN-004** AlarmChangedTime It indicates the last
date and time when the Alarm Entry is changed by the alarm raising resource.
Changes to the Alarm Entry caused by invocations of the HMS would not change
this date and time. dateTime **REQ-OAMP_FM-FUN-007 & REQ-OAMP_FM-FUN-004**
* * *
### 6.2.3 Alarm History List
The HNB maintains an alarm history list which contains the alarms raised by
the HNB for each alarm that has appeared on the Alarms List as defined in
**REQ-OAMP_FM-FUN-007.**
#### 6.2.3.1 Alarm Indexing Parameters
Entries in the Alarms History Alarm Table shall be uniquely indexable using
the following parameters:
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | **[Parameter | * |**[Valid | **[Traceback] | | Name] | *[Description] | values] | {.underline}** | | {.underline}**| {.underline}** | {.underline}**| | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | EventTime | It indicates | dateTime |** REQ-OA | | | the date and | | MP_FM-FUN-007 | | | time when the | | & | | | alarm event is | | REQ-OAMP | | | raised by the | | _FM-FUN-004**| | | HNB | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | A | It identifies | value greater |** REQ-OA | | larmIdentifier | an Alarm Entry | than or equal | MP_FM-FUN-007 | | | in the Alarms | to 0 | & | | | List. | | REQ-OAMP | | | | | _FM-FUN-004** | | | This is the | | | | | equivalent to | | | | | the AlarmId | | | | | identified in | | | | | 3GPP | | | | | TS32.111-2. | | | | | The AlarmList | | | | | assigns an | | | | | identifier, | | | | | called | | | | | alarmId, to | | | | | each | | | | | Al | | | | | armInformation | | | | | in the | | | | | AlarmList. An | | | | | alarmId | | | | | unambiguously | | | | | identifies one | | | | | Al | | | | | armInformation | | | | | in the | | | | | AlarmList | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
#### 6.2.3.2 Alarm Content Parameters
The Alarms Event History table shall contain a list of entries which shall
contain the parameters identified in 6.2.3.1, the common set of alarm
parameters which are identified in section 6.2.1, and the following additional
information:
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | **[Parameter | * |**[Valid | **[Traceback] | | Name] | *[Description] | values] | {.underline}** | | {.underline}**| {.underline}** | {.underline}**| | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | No | It indicates | Can be one of |** REQ-OA | | tificationType | the reason for | the following | MP_FM-FUN-007 | | | sending the | : | & | | | alarm to the | | REQ-OAMP | | | HMS | > "N | _FM-FUN-004** | | | | otifyNewAlarm" | | | | | > | | | | | > "Notif | | | | | yChangedAlarm" | | | | | > | | | | | > "Notif | | | | | yClearedAlarm" | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
### 6.2.4 Expedited and Queued Alarm Handling
The HNB maintains expedited and queued alarm handling lists which contains the
alarms raised by the HNB for each alarm that has appeared on the Alarms List
which are waiting to be delivered to the HMS within the TR-069 RPC Methods as
either Active or Passive Notifications, as defined in **REQ-OAMP_FM-FUN-007**
#### 6.2.4.1 Alarm Indexing Parameters
Entries in the Expedited and Queued Alarm Handling Tables shall be uniquely
indexable using the following parameters:
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | **[Parameter | * |**[Valid | **[Traceback] | | Name] | *[Description] | values] | {.underline}** | | {.underline}**| {.underline}** | {.underline}**| | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | EventTime | It indicates | dateTime |** REQ-OA | | | the date and | | MP_FM-FUN-007 | | | time when the | | & | | | alarm event is | | REQ-OAMP | | | raised by the | | _FM-FUN-004**| | | HNB | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | A | It identifies | value greater |** REQ-OA | | larmIdentifier | an Alarm Entry | than or equal | MP_FM-FUN-007 | | | in the Alarms | to 0 | & | | | List. | | REQ-OAMP | | | | | _FM-FUN-004** | | | This is the | | | | | equivalent to | | | | | the AlarmId | | | | | identified in | | | | | 3GPP | | | | | TS32.111-2. | | | | | The AlarmList | | | | | assigns an | | | | | identifier, | | | | | called | | | | | alarmId, to | | | | | each | | | | | Al | | | | | armInformation | | | | | in the | | | | | AlarmList. An | | | | | alarmId | | | | | unambiguously | | | | | identifies one | | | | | Al | | | | | armInformation | | | | | in the | | | | | AlarmList | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
#### 6.2.4.2 Alarm Content Parameters
The Expedited and Queued Event Delivery tablea shall contain a list of entries
which shall contain the parameters identified in 6.2.5.1, the common set of
alarm parameters which are identified in section 6.2.1, and the following
additional information:
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | **[Parameter | * |**[Valid | **[Traceback] | | Name] | *[Description] | values] | {.underline}** | | {.underline}**| {.underline}** | {.underline}**| | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | No | It indicates | Can be one of |** REQ-OA | | tificationType | the reason for | the following | MP_FM-FUN-007 | | | sending the | : | & | | | alarm to the | | REQ-OAMP | | | HMS | > "N | _FM-FUN-004** | | | | otifyNewAlarm" | | | | | > | | | | | > "Notif | | | | | yChangedAlarm" | | | | | > | | | | | > "Notif | | | | | yClearedAlarm" | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
### 6.2.5 Supported Alarms and Reporting Mechanisms
The HNB identifies which Alarm Events can be generated by the HNB and based on
the reporting mechanism as defined in **REQ-OAMP_FM-FUN-008** the HNB shall
perform the identified actions.
The supported alarm table shall contain a list of entries containing the
following information:
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | **[Parameter | * |**[Valid | **[Traceback] | | Name] | *[Description] | values] | {.underline}** | | {.underline}**| {.underline}** | {.underline}**| | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | EventType | It indicates | See 3GPP |** REQ-OAMP | | | the type of | TS32.111-2 | _FM-FUN-008**| | | HNB alarm. | Annex A for | | | | | information on | | | | | pre-defined | | | | | alarm types | | | | | from the 3GPP | | | | | standards and | | | | | 3GPP | | | | | TS32.111-5 for | | | | | supported | | | | | Event Type | | | | | values | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | ProbableCause | It qualifies | See 3GPP |** REQ-OAMP | | | the alarm and | TS32.111-2 | _FM-FUN-008**| | | provides | Annex B for | | | | further | information on | | | | information | pre-defined | | | | than Alarm | Probable | | | | Type. | Causes from | | | | | the 3GPP | | | | | standards and | | | | | 3GPP | | | | | TS32.111-5 for | | | | | supported | | | | | Probable Cause | | | | | values. | | | | | | | | | | This will be | | | | | empty if the | | | | | HNB doesn't | | | | | support the | | | | | distinguishing | | | | | of different | | | | | reporting | | | | | mechanism per | | | | | level of | | | | | Probable | | | | | Cause. | | | | | | | | | | The can be set | | | | | to "*" to | | | | | indicate the | | | | | default case | | | | | if only a | | | | | subset of | | | | | Probable | | | | | Causes are to | | | | | be contained | | | | | within the | | | | | table | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | S | It provides | This is vendor |** REQ-OAMP | | pecificProblem | further | defined. | _FM-FUN-008**| | | qualification | | | | | on the alarm | This will be | | | | than | empty if the | | | | ProbableCause | HNB doesn't | | | | | support the | | | | This | distinguishing | | | | identifies the | of different | | | | specific alarm | reporting | | | | over an above | mechanisms per | | | | the Probable | level of | | | | Cause which | Specific | | | | occurred on | Problem | | | | the HNB which | | | | | is vendor | The can be set | | | | ddefined. | to "*" to | | | | | indicate the | | | | If the HNB | default case | | | | specifies more | if only a | | | | than one event | subset of | | | | for a | Specific | | | | particular | Problems are | | | | combination | to be | | | | | contained | | | | of alarm type | within the | | | | and probable | table. | | | | cause, the | | | | | Specific | | | | | Problems | | | | | parameter may | | | | | be used to | | | | | uniquely | | | | | identify the | | | | | event. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Per | It indicates | See 3GPP |** REQ-OAMP | | ceivedSeverity | the relative | TS32.111-2 for | _FM-FUN-008**| | | level of | information on | | | | urgency for | pre-defined | | | | operator | Perceived | | | | attention for | Severity and | | | | an alarm,. | 3GPP | | | | | TS32.111-5 for | | | | | supported | | | | | Perceived | | | | | Severity | | | | | values | | | | | | | | | | This will be | | | | | empty if the | | | | | HNB doesn't | | | | | want to | | | | | distinguish a | | | | | different | | | | | reporting | | | | | mechanism per | | | | | level of | | | | | Perceived | | | | | Severity | | | | | | | | | | Can be set to | | | | | "*" to | | | | | indicate the | | | | | default case | | | | | if only a | | | | | subset of | | | | | Per | | | | | ceivedSeverity | | | | | are to be | | | | | contained | | | | | within the | | | | | table. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Reporting | Expedited | Indicates the |** REQ-OA | | Mechanism | Handling -- | reporting | MP_FM-FUN-008 | | | the HNB | mechanism | & | | | connects to | setting of the | REQ-OA | | | the HMS | alarm. One of: | MP_FM-FUN-009 | | | immediately to | | & | | | raise the | > "0 -- | REQ-OAMP | | | alarm and logs | > Expedited" | _FM-FUN-013** | | | the alarm in | > | | | | the Alarm | > "1 -- | | | | History. | > Queued" | | | | | > | | | | Queued | > "2 -- | | | | Handling -- | > Logged" | | | | the HNB queues | | | | | the alarm | "3 -- | | | | internally | Disabled" | | | | pending | | | | | connection to | | | | | the HMS, logs | | | | | the alarmt in | | | | | the Alarm | | | | | History, | | | | | and.delivers | | | | | the alarm on | | | | | the next | | | | | connection to | | | | | the HMS | | | | | | | | | | Logged | | | | | Handling -- | | | | | the HNB does | | | | | not send the | | | | | alarm to the | | | | | HMS and logs | | | | | the alarm in | | | | | the Alarm | | | | | History. | | | | | | | | | | Disabled -- | | | | | the HNB does | | | | | not send the | | | | | alarm to the | | | | | HMS and will | | | | | not log the | | | | | alarm in the | | | | | Alarm History. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
### 6.2.6 Encoding
#### 6.2.6.1 dateTime
See Broadband Forum TR-069 HNB WAN Management Protocol Amendment 2, Table 9,
for a definition of the dateTime and supported values.
#### 6.2.6.2 Event Type
See 3GPP TS32.111-2 Annex A for information on pre-defined alarm types from
the 3GPP standards and 3GPP TS32.111-5 for supported alarm type values
#### 6.2.6.3 Probable Cause
See 3GPP TS32.111-2 Annex B for information on pre-defined Probable Causes
from the 3GPP standards and 3GPP TS32.111-5 for supported Probable Cause
values.
#### 6.2.6.4 PerceivedSeverity
See 3GPP TS32.111-2 for information on pre-defined Perceived Severity from the
3GPP standards and 3GPP TS32.111-5 for supported Perceived Severity values
Although "Indeterminate" is defined in TS32.111-2 it shouldn't be used by the
HNB as a Perceived Severity.
## 6.3 Performance Management
### 6.3.1 Periodic Performance File Upload
The HNB can be configured to send periodic performance files to a designated
File Server as defined in **REQ-OAMP-PM-FUN-003**
The File Management table shall contain the following information:
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | **[Parameter | * |**[Valid | **[Traceback] | | Name] | *[Description] | values] | {.underline}** | | {.underline}**| {.underline}** | {.underline}**| | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Period | Enables or | Can be one of |** REQ-OAM | | icUploadEnable | disables the | the following: | P-PM-FUN-003**| | | ability to | | | | | send HNB | FALSE - | | | | information | Disabled | | | | periodically | | | | | to a | TRUE - Enabled | | | | designated | | | | | File Server. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | URL | URL specifying | A valid URL |** REQ-OAM | | | the | which also | P-PM-FUN-003**| | | destination | indicates the | | | | file location. | mechanism to |** REQ-OAM | | | | tbe used for | P-PM-FUN-004**| | | This argument | file transfer | | | | specifies only | | | | | the | | | | | destination | | | | | file location, | | | | | and does not | | | | | indicate in | | | | | any way the | | | | | name or | | | | | location of | | | | | the local file | | | | | to be | | | | | uploaded. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Username | Username to be | This string is |** REQ-OAM | | | used by the | set to the | P-PM-FUN-003**| | | HNB to | empty string | | | | authenticate | if no | | | | with the file | authentication | | | | server. | is required. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Password | Password to be | This string is |** REQ-OAM | | | used by the | set to the | P-PM-FUN-003**| | | HNB to | empty string | | | | authenticate | if no | | | | with the file | authentication | | | | server. | is required. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Periodic | The duration | Integer value |** REQ-OAM | | UploadInterval | in seconds of | greater than | P-PM-FUN-003**| | | the interval | or equal to 0 | | | | for which the | | | | | HNB shall | | | | | create an | | | | | Event History | | | | | File and | | | | | attempt to | | | | | upload the | | | | | file to the | | | | | designated | | | | | destination | | | | | File location | | | | | if | | | | | Period | | | | | icUploadEnable | | | | | is true. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Peri | An absolute | An absolute |** REQ-OAM | | odicUploadTime | time reference | time reference | P-PM-FUN-003** | | | in UTC to | in UTC | | | | determine when | | | | | the HNB will | The Unknown | | | | initiate the | Time value | | | | periodic file | defined as | | | | upload. Each | 0001-0 | | | | file upload | 1-01T00:00:00Z | | | | shall occur at | indicates that | | | | this reference | no particular | | | | time plus or | time reference | | | | minus an | is specified. | | | | integer | That is, the | | | | multiple of | HNB MAY | | | | the | locally choose | | | | PeriodicU | the time | | | | ploadInterval. | reference, and | | | | | is required | | | | Peri | only to adhere | | | | odicUploadTime | to the | | | | is used only | specified | | | | to set the | PeriodicU | | | | "phase" of the | ploadInterval. | | | | periodic | | | | | Uploads. The | | | | | actual value | | | | | of | | | | | Peri | | | | | odicUploadTime | | | | | can be | | | | | arbitrarily | | | | | far into the | | | | | past or | | | | | future. | | | | | | | | | | For example, | | | | | if | | | | | Periodic | | | | | UploadInterval | | | | | is 86400 (a | | | | | day) and if | | | | | Peri | | | | | odicUploadTime | | | | | is set to UTC | | | | | midnight on | | | | | some day (in | | | | | the past, | | | | | present, or | | | | | future) then | | | | | periodic file | | | | | uploads will | | | | | occur every | | | | | day at UTC | | | | | midnight. | | | | | These shall | | | | | begin on the | | | | | very next | | | | | midnight, even | | | | | if | | | | | Peri | | | | | odicUploadTime | | | | | refers to a | | | | | day in the | | | | | future. | | | | | | | | | | If absolute | | | | | time is not | | | | | available to | | | | | the HNB, its | | | | | periodic file | | | | | upload | | | | | behavior shall | | | | | be the same as | | | | | if the | | | | | Peri | | | | | odicUploadTime | | | | | parameter was | | | | | set to the | | | | | Unknown Time | | | | | value. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
### 6.3.2 Periodic Statistics
#### 6.3.2.1 Sample Set Management
The HNB contains a collection of sample sets which consist of a collection of
periodic statistics for the HNB. Each configured sample set shall contain the
following Management Parameters:
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | **[Parameter | * |**[Valid | **[Traceback] | | Name] | *[Description] | values] | {.underline}** | | {.underline}**| {.underline}** | {.underline}**| | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Enable | Enables or | True - Enabled |** REQ-OAM | | | disables | | P-PM-FUN-001**| | | collection of | False - | | | | periodic | Disabled | | | | statistics for | | | | | this sample | | | | | set. | | | | | | | | | | When | | | | | collection of | | | | | periodic | | | | | statistics is | | | | | enabled, any | | | | | stored samples | | | | | are discarded, | | | | | and the first | | | | | | | | | | sample | | | | | interval | | | | | begins | | | | | immediately. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Name | The name of | A value which |** REQ-OAMP- | | | this sample | uniquely | PM-FUN-001**| | | set, which | distinguishes | | | | uniquely | each defined | | | | distinguishes | sample set on | | | | each sample | the HNB. | | | | set on the | | | | | HNB. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | SampleInterval | The sample | Numerical |** REQ-OAMP- | | | interval in | value in | PM-FUN-001**| | |_seconds_. | seconds | | | | Each statistic | | | | | is measured | Granularity | | | | over this | Period | | | | sample | referenced in | | | | interval. | 3GPP TS 32.401 | | | | | specifies that | | | | The | the only valid | | | | SampleInterval | values for the | | | | is equivalent | sample | | | | to the | interval are 5 | | | | granularity | minutes, 15 | | | | period | minutes, 30 | | | | referenced in | minutes, 1 | | | | 3GPP TS 32.401 | hour. | | | | which is the | | | | | time between | The sample | | | | the initiation | interval | | | | of two | cannot be | | | | successive | modified if | | | | gatherings of | the Sample Set | | | | measurement | Enable Flag is | | | | data. | set to False | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | ReportSamples | The number of | Numerical | **REQ-OAMP- | | | samples that | value | PM-FUN-001**| | | the HNB will | | | | | store for each | If the File | | | | statistic. | Upload | | | | | Periodic | | | | | UploadInterval | | | | | is greater | | | | | than 0 then | | | | | the | | | | | ReportSamples | | | | | value shall be | | | | | calculated by | | | | | dividing the | | | | | File Upload | | | | | Periodic | | | | | UploadInterval | | | | | by the | | | | | SampleInterval | | | | | value. If the | | | | | calculation is | | | | | fractional | | | | | then the value | | | | | wil be set to | | | | | 1. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | TimeReference | A time used to | An absolute |** REQ-OAMP- | | | determine when | time reference | PM-FUN-001**| | | sample | in UTC | | | | intervals will | | | | | be completed. | If the | | | | Each sample | SampleInterval | | | | interval shall | is set to 5 | | | | complete at | mins then the | | | | this reference | mins/secs | | | | time plus or | portions of | | | | minus an | the Time | | | | integer | Reference can | | | | multiple of | be set to one | | | |_Sa | of the | | | | mpleInterval_. | following | | | | | 00/00, 05/00, | | | | | 10/00, 15/00, | | | | | 20/00, 25/00, | | | | | 30/00, 35/00, | | | | | 40/00, 45/00, | | | | | 50/00 55/00 | | | | | | | | | | If the | | | | | SampleInterval | | | | | is set to 15 | | | | | mins then the | | | | | mins/secs | | | | | portions of | | | | | the Time | | | | | Reference can | | | | | be set to one | | | | | of the | | | | | following | | | | | 00/00, 15/00, | | | | | 30/00, 45/00 | | | | | | | | | | If the | | | | | SampleInterval | | | | | is 30 mins | | | | | then the | | | | | mins/secs | | | | | portions of | | | | | the Time | | | | | Reference can | | | | | be set to one | | | | | of the | | | | | following | | | | | 00/00, 30/00 | | | | | | | | | | If the | | | | | SampleInterval | | | | | is 1 hour then | | | | | the mins/secs | | | | | portions of | | | | | the Time | | | | | Reference can | | | | | be set to the | | | | | following | | | | | 00/00 | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | R | The time at | An absolute | **REQ-OAMP- | | eportStartTime | which the | time reference | PM-FUN-001**| | | sample | in UTC | | | | interval for | | | | | the first | | | | | stored sample | | | | | (for each | | | | | statistic) | | | | | started. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | ReportEndTime | The absolute | An absolute |** REQ-OAMP- | | | time at which | time reference | PM-FUN-001**| | | the sample | in UTC | | | | interval for | | | | | the last | | | | | stored sample | | | | | (for each | | | | | statistic) | | | | | ended. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | SampleSeconds | List of time | List of |** REQ-OAMP- | | | interval | numerical | PM-FUN-001** | | | values for the | values in | | | | sample set | seconds | | | | indicating the | | | | | time period | | | | | between each | | | | | sample | | | | | interval. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
#### 6.3.2.2 Sample Set Statistic Parameters
Each Sample set shall include a collection of periodic statistics in a table
whose values are to be sampled and each periodic statistic shall contain the
following:
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | **[Parameter | * |**[Valid | **[Traceback] | | Name] | *[Description] | values] | {.underline}** | | {.underline}**| {.underline}** | {.underline}**| | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Enable | Enables or | True - Enabled |** REQ-OAM | | | disables the | | P-PM-FUN-001**| | | sampling of | False - | | | | the specific | Disabled | | | | statistic | | | | | parameter | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Reference | This is the | A value which |** REQ-OAM | | | statistic | uniquely | P-PM-FUN-001** | | | parameter | distinguishes | | | | being | the statistic | | | | monitored by | parameter on | | | | the Periodic | the HNB. | | | | Statistics | | | | | mechanism. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
Note: The support of table 6.3.2.1 and 6.3.2.2 is optional by HNB.
### 6.3.3 PM File Content description
Table below lists all the PM file content items. It also provides a
description of the individual items.
> PM File Content Description
* * *
File Content Item Description measDataCollection See Table 4.1 of [16].
measFileHeader See Table 4.1 of [16]. measData See Table 4.1 of [16].
measFileFooter See Table 4.1 of [16]. fileFormatVersion See Table 4.1 of [16].
senderName See Table 4.1 of [16]. senderType See Table 4.1 of [16]. vendorName
See Table 4.1 of [16]. collectionBeginTime See Table 4.1 of [16]. neId See
Table 4.1 of [16]. neUserName See Table 4.1 of [16]. neDistinguishedName See
Table 4.1 of [16]. neSoftwareVersion See Table 4.1 of [16]. measInfo See Table
4.1 of [16]. measInfoId See Table 4.1 of [16]. measTimeStamp See Table 4.1 of
[16]. jobId See Table 4.1 of [16]. granularityPeriod See Table 4.1 of [16].
reportingPeriod See Table 4.1 of [16]. measTypes See Table 4.1 of [16].
measValues See Table 4.1 of [16]. measObjInstId See Table 4.1 of [16].
measResults See Table 4.1 of [16]. suspectFlag See Table 4.1 of [16].
timestamp See Table 4.1 of [16].
* * *
###### ## Annex A (normative): 3GPP Home Node B Type 1 Data Model
For 3GPP Home Node B Type 1 Data Model the following specification shall be
used:
\- TR-196 [15].
The following exception shall apply for this release:
\- All parameters and objects under TR-196
.FAPService.{i}.AccessMgmt.LocalIPAccess is not applicable for 3GPP and shall
not be required to be used nor implemented.
#