# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project: Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
**32.601: Configuration Management (CM); Basic CM Integration Reference Point
(IRP); Requirements**
32.602: Configuration Management (CM); Basic CM Integration Reference Point
(IRP); Information Service (SS)
32.603: Configuration Management (CM); Basic CM Integration Reference Point
(IRP); Common Object Request Broker Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set (SS)
32.607 Configuration Management (CM); Basic CM Integration Reference Point
(IRP); SOAP Solution Set (SS)
Configuration Management (CM), in general, provides the operator with the
ability to assure correct and effective operation of the 3G network as it
evolves. CM actions have the objective to control and monitor the actual
configuration on the Network Elements (NEs) and Network Resources (NRs), and
they may be initiated by the operator or by functions in the Operations
Systems (OSs) or NEs.
CM actions may be requested as part of an implementation programme (e.g.
additions and deletions), as part of an optimisation programme (e.g.
modifications), and to maintain the overall Quality of Service (QoS). The CM
actions are initiated either as single actions on single NEs of the 3G
network, or as part of a complex procedure involving actions on many
resources/objects in one or several NEs.
# 1 Scope
The present document defines, in addition to the requirements defined in [1],
[2] and [3], the requirements for the present IRP: Basic Configuration
Management IRP.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.600: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Concept and high-level requirements\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.622: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Generic network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP): Network
Resource Model (NRM)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.632: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Core Network Resources Integration Reference Point (IRP): Network
Resource Model (NRM)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.642: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); UTRAN network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP): Network
Resource Model (NRM)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.652: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); GERAN network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP): Network
Resource Model (NRM)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 32.742: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Signalling Transport Network (STN) Interface Network Resource Model
(NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[9] 3GPP TS 32.732: **\"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) Network Resource Model
(NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".**
> [10] 3GPP TS 32.150: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
> Point (IRP) Concept and definitions\".
>
> [11] 3GPP TS 32.172: \"Telecommunication management; Subscription Management
> (SuM) **Network Resource Model (NRM)** Integration Reference Point (IRP):
> **Information Service (IS)** \".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply.
**Data:** is any information or set of information required to give software
or equipment or combinations thereof a specific state of functionality.
**Element Manager (EM):** provides a package of end-user functions for
management of a set of closely related types of Network Elements (NEs). These
functions can be divided into two main categories:
  * _Element Management Functions_ for management of NEs on an individual basis. These are basically the same functions as supported by the corresponding local terminals.
  * _Sub-Network Management Functions_ that are related to a network model for a set of NEs constituting a clearly defined sub-network, which may include relations between the NEs. This model enables additional functions on the sub-network level (typically in the areas of network topology presentation, alarm correlation, service impact analysis and circuit provisioning).
**Integration Reference Point (IRP):** See 3GPP TS 32.150 [10].
**Information Service (IS):** See 3GPP TS 32.150 [10].
**Solution Set (SS):** See 3GPP TS 32.150 [10].
**Managed Object (MO):** an abstract entity, which may be accessed through an
open interface between two or more systems, and representing a Network
Resource (NR) for the purpose of management. The Managed Object (MO) is an
instance of a Managed Object Class (MOC) as defined in a Management
Information Model (MIM). The MIM does not define how the MO or NR is
implemented; only what can be seen in the interface.
**Managed Object Class (MOC):** a description of all the common
characteristics for a number of MOs, such as their attributes, operations,
notifications and behaviour.
**Managed Object Instance (MOI):** an instance of a MOC, which is the same as
a MO as described above.
**Management Information Base (MIB):** the set of existing managed objects in
a management domain, together with their attributes, constitutes that
management domain\'s MIB. The MIB may be distributed over several OS/NEs.
**Management Information Model (MIM)** : also referred to as NRM -- see the
definition below. There is a slight difference between the meaning of MIM and
NRM -- the term MIM is generic and can be used to denote any type of
management model, while NRM denotes the model of the actual managed
telecommunications Network Resources (NRs).
**Network Element (NE):** is a discrete telecommunications entity, which can
be, managed over a specific interface e.g. the RNC.
**Network Manager (NM)** : provides a package of end-user functions with the
responsibility for the management of a network, mainly as supported by the
EM(s) but it may also involve direct access to the NEs. All communication with
the network is based on open and well-standardised interfaces supporting
management of multi-vendor and multi-technology NEs.
**Network Resource (NR):** is a component of a NE, which can be identified as
a discrete separate entity and is in an object oriented environment for the
purpose of management represented by an abstract entity called Managed Object
(MO).
**Network Resource Model (NRM)** : a model representing the actual managed
telecommunications Network Resources (NRs) that a System is providing through
the subject IRP. An NRM describes Managed Object Classes (MOC), their
associations, attributes and operations. The NRM is also referred to as
\"MIM\" (see above) which originates from the ITU-T TMN.
**Object Management Group (OMG):** see http://www.omg.org.
**Operations System (OS):** indicates a generic management system, independent
of its location level within the management hierarchy.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
CM Configuration Management
CORBA Common Object Request Broker Architecture
EM Element Manager
FM Fault Management
IRP Integration Reference Point
IS Information Service (see 3GPP TS 32.101 [1])
MIB Management Information Base
MIM Management Information Model
MOC Managed Object Class
MOI Managed Object Instance
NE Network Element
NM Network Manager
NR Network Resource
NRM Network Resource Model
OMG Object Management Group
OS Operations System
PM Performance Management
TM Telecom Management
UML Unified Modelling Language (OMG)
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System
# 4 Requirements
## 4.1 General Requirements
This requirements specification defines requirements for the IS for this IRP.
As such, capabilities specified here as being required in the IS are not
necessarily required in the product implementation. That which is required in
the product implementation will be specified in the IS itself.
The following general and high-level requirements shall apply for the present
IRP:
  * IRP-related requirements in 3GPP TS 32.101 [1].
  * IRP-related requirements in 3GPP TS 32.102 [2].
  * IRP-related requirements in 3GPP TS 32.600 [3].
In addition to the above, the following more specific requirements shall
apply:
  * The IS defined by this IRP shall enable an NM to operate on (access) any NRMs defined in any NRM IRPs, such as those defined in [4], [5], [6], [7], [8], [9] and [11].
  * The IS defined by this IRP shall as far as possible be independent of any specific definitions of MOCs, attributes etc. in the NRMs referred to in item 1.
  * The IS specified by this IRP shall assume that when this IRP is implemented that the Kernel CM IRP is also implemented.
## 4.2 Passive CM Requirements
The IS defined by this IRP shall include the following operations that may be
invoked by the IRP Manager to retrieve management information from the MIB
maintained by the IRPAgent:
  * An operation to retrieve the value of attributes from one or more managed object instances.
  * An operation to retrieve the containment relationships between the managed object instances of a containment tree of managed objects.
  * An operation to retrieve the Basic CM IRP versions that are supported by the IRPAgent.
  * An operation to cancel a previously initiated operation if it has not completed. This operation shall, as a minimum, be able to cancel the operation that retrieves attributes. It may be specified to cancel any operation.
## 4.3 Active CM Requirements
Active CM requirements are specified as additions to Passive CM requirements
and not intended to be implemented without implementation of Passive CM.
The IS defined by this IRP shall include the following operations that may be
invoked by the IRP Manager to communicate management information to the
IRPAgent specifying changes to be made to the MIB maintained by that IRPAgent:
  * An operation to create an instance of a managed object.
  * An operation to delete one or more instances of managed objects.
  * An operation to modify one or more attributes of one or more instances of managed objects.
TS 32.600 [3] specifies the information that must provided in the NRM
specifications on a per managed object basis to support these Active CM
operations.
#