# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project: Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
32.601: Configuration Management (CM); Basic CM Integration Reference Point
(IRP); Requirements
32.602: Configuration Management (CM); Basic CM Integration Reference Point
(IRP); Information Service (IS)
32.603: Configuration Management (CM); Basic CM Integration Reference Point
(IRP); Common Object Request Broker Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set (SS)
**32.607: Configuration Management (CM); Basic CM Integration Reference Point
(IRP); SOAP Solution Set (SS)**
Configuration Management (CM), in general, provides the operator with the
ability to assure correct and effective operation of the 3G network as it
evolves. CM actions have the objective to control and monitor the actual
configuration on the Network Elements (NEs) and Network Resources (NRs), and
they may be initiated by the operator or by functions in the Operations
Systems (OSs) or NEs.
CM actions may be requested as part of an implementation programme (e.g.
additions and deletions), as part of an optimisation programme (e.g.
modifications), and to maintain the overall Quality of Service (QoS). The CM
actions are initiated either as single actions on single NEs of the 3G
network, or as part of a complex procedure involving actions on many
resources/objects in one or several NEs.
# 1 Scope
The purpose of this Basic CM IRP: SOAP Solution Set is to define the mapping
of the Basic CM IRP: IS (3GPP TS 32.602 [4]) to the protocol specific details
necessary for implementation of this IRP in a SOAP/WSDL environment.
The present document defines NRM independent data types and methods.
This Solution Set specification is related to 3G TS 32.602 V9.0.X.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.600: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Concept and high-level requirements\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.602: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Basic CM Integration Reference Point (IRP) Information Service (IS)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.300: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Name convention for Managed Objects\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.172: \"Telecommunication management; Subscription Management
(SuM) Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP):
Information Service\"
[7] 3GPP TS 32.311: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Integration
Reference Point (IRP) management; Requirement\".
[8] 3GPP TS 32.317: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Integration
Reference Point (IRP) management; SOAP solution set\".
[9] 3GPP TS 32.667: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Kernel CM Integration Reference Point (IRP): SOAP solution set\".
[10] W3C SOAP 1.1 specification (http://www.w3.org/TR/2000/NOTE-
SOAP-20000508/)
[11] W3C WSDL 1.1 specification (http://www.w3.org/TR/2001/NOTE-wsdl-20010315)
[12] W3C XPath 1.0 specification (http://www.w3.org/TR/1999/REC-
xpath-19991116)
[13] WS-I Basic Profile Version 1.1
([http://www.ws-i.org/Profiles/BasicProfile-1.1-2004-08-24.html]{.underline})
[14] W3C SOAP 1.2 specification (http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-part1/)
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For terms and definitions refer to 3GPP TS 32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102 [2],
3GPP TS 32.600 [3] and 3GPP TS 32.602 [4].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
DN Distinguished Name
IS Information Service
IRP Integration Reference Point
MO Managed Object
MOC Managed Object Class
NRM Network Resource Model
OMG Object Management Group
SS Solution Set
WSDL Web Service Description Language
WS-I Web Services Interoperability Organization
# 4 IRP document version number string
The IRP document version number (sometimes called \"IRPVersion\" or \"SS
version number\") string is used to identify this specification. The string is
derived using a rule described in 3GPP TS 32.311 [7].
This string (or sequence of strings, if more than one version is supported) is
returned in getBasicCmIRPVersion method.
# 5 Architectural features
## 5.1 General
The overall architectural feature of Basic Configuration Management IRP is
specified in 3GPP TS 32.602 [4].\ This clause specifies features that are
specific to the SOAP SS.
The SOAP 1.1 specification [10] and WSDL 1.1 specification [11] are supported.
The SOAP 1.2 specification [14] is supported optionally.
This specification uses \"document\" style in the WSDL description.
This specification uses \"literal\" encoding style in the WSDL description.
This specification uses a number of namespace prefixes throughout that are
listed in Table 5.1.
Table 5.1: Prefixes and Namespaces used in this specification
* * *
**Prefix** **Namespace** http http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/wsdl/http/ soap
http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/wsdl/soap/ SOAP-ENV
http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/soap/envelope/ SOAP-ENC or soapenc
http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/soap/encoding/ xs or xsd
http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema xsi http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance
basicCMIRPSystem
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/32_series/32607/schema/32607-800/BasicCMIRPSystem
basicCMIRPData
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/32_series/32607/schema/32607-800/BasicCMIRPData
genericIRPSystem
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/32_series/32317/schema/32317-800/GenericIRPSystem
* * *
The WSDL structure is like Figure 5.1:
{width="6.694444444444445in" height="1.5090277777777779in"}
Figure 5.1: BasicCM IRP SOAP Solution Set WSDL structure
## 5.2 Filter language
The filter language used in the SS is the XPath Language (see W3C XPath 1.0
specification [12]). IRPAgents may throw a FilterComplexityLimit fault when a
given filter is too complex.
## 5.3 Syntax for Distinguished Names and Versions
The format of a Distinguished Name is defined in 3GPP TS 32.300 [5].
The version of this IRP is represented as a string (see also clause 4).
# 6 Mapping
## 6.1 General mappings
The IS parameter name managedObjectInstance is mapped into DN.
Attributes modelling associations as defined in the NRM (here also called
\"reference attributes\") are in this SS mapped to attributes. The names of
the reference attributes in the NRM are mapped to the corresponding attribute
names in the MOC. When the cardinality for an association is 0..1 or 1..1 the
datatype for the reference attribute is defined as a MOReference. The value of
an MO reference contains the distinguished name of the associated MO. When the
cardinality for an association allows more than one referred MO, the reference
attribute will be of type MOReferenceSet, which contains a sequence of MO
references.
If a reference attribute is changed, an AttributeValueChange notification (see
3GPP TS 32.667 [9]) is emitted.
## 6.2 Operation mapping
The Basic CM IRP: IS (see 3GPP TS 32.602 [4]) defines semantics of operation
visible across the Basic Configuration Management IRP. Table 6.2 indicates
mapping of these operations to their equivalents defined in this SS.
Table 6.2: Mapping from IS Operation to SS equivalents
+---------------------------+------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation | SS Operation | Qualifier | | | | | | (3GPP TS 32.602 [4]) | | | +---------------------------+------------------------+-----------+ | getMoAttributes | getMOAttributes | M | +---------------------------+------------------------+-----------+ | getContainment | getContainment | O | +---------------------------+------------------------+-----------+ | cancelOperation (see note | N/A | N/A | | 1) | | | +---------------------------+------------------------+-----------+ | createMO | createMO | O | +---------------------------+------------------------+-----------+ | deleteMO | deleteMO | O | +---------------------------+------------------------+-----------+ | setMOAttributes | setMOAttributes | O | +---------------------------+------------------------+-----------+ | getIRPVersion (see note | getIRPVersion | M | | 2) | | | +---------------------------+------------------------+-----------+ | getOperationProfile (see | getOperationProfile | O | | note 2) | | | +---------------------------+------------------------+-----------+ | getNotificationProfile | getNotificationProfile | O | | (see note 2) | | | +---------------------------+------------------------+-----------+ | NOTE 1: This operation is | | | | NOT mapped because it's | | | | useful for | | | | one-reque | | | | st-and-multiple-responses | | | | operations, which are not | | | | used in this Solution | | | | Set. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: This operation is | | | | of IOC ManagedGenericIRP | | | | specified in [10]. The | | | | IOC BasicCmIRP of [4] | | | | inherits from it. | | | +---------------------------+------------------------+-----------+
## 6.3 Operation parameter mapping
The Basic CM IRP: IS (see 3GPP TS 32.602 [4]) defines semantics of parameters
carried in operations across the Basic Configuration Management IRP. The
following tables show the mapping of these parameters, as per operation, to
their equivalents defined in the present document.
### 6.3.1 Operation getMoAttributes
#### 6.3.1.1 Input parameters
Mapping from IS getMoAttributes input parameters to SS equivalents
+------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS Method parameter | Qualifier | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | invokeIdentifierIn | string invokeIdentifierIn | M | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | baseObjectInstance, | string queryXpathExp | M | | | | | | scope, | | | | | | | | filter, | | | | | | | | attributeListIn | | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
Here is the XML schema fragment of the getMOAttributes request:
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
\
> \
>
> \
>
> \
#### 6.3.1.2 Output parameters
Mapping from IS getMoAttributes output parameters to SS equivalents
+------------------------+------------------------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS Method parameter | Qualifier | +------------------------+------------------------------------------+-----------+ | invokeIdentifierOut | string invokeIdentifierOut | M | +------------------------+------------------------------------------+-----------+ | managedObjectClass, | basicCMIRPData:MOSequenceType moiListOut | M | | | | | | managedObjectInstance, | | | | | | | | attributeListOut | | | +------------------------+------------------------------------------+-----------+ | status | basicCMIRPData:getMOAttributesFault | M | +------------------------+------------------------------------------+-----------+
The specific "attributeListOut" definition depends on the corresponding NRM
XML definition.
Here is the XML schema fragment of the getMOAttributes response:
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
\
\
> \
>
> \
>
> \
#### 6.3.1.3 Fault definition
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
### 6.3.2 Operation getContainment
#### 6.3.2.1 Input parameters
Mapping from IS getContainment input parameters to SS equivalents
+------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS Method parameter | Qualifier | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | invokeIdentifierIn | string invokeIdentifierIn | M | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | baseObjectInstance, | string queryXpathExp | M | | | | | | scope | | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
Here is the XML schema fragment of the getContainment request:
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
#### 6.3.2.2 Output parameters
Mapping from IS getContainment output parameters to SS equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Method parameter Qualifier invokeIdentifierOut
string invokeIdentifierOut M containment string topContainerLoc M status
basicCMIRPData:getContainmentFault M
* * *
Here is the XML schema fragment of the getContainment response:
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
\
\
> \
>
> \
>
> \
#### 6.3.2.3 Fault definition
> \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
### 6.3.3 Operation createMO
#### 6.3.3.1 Input parameters
Mapping from IS createMO input parameters to SS equivalents
+-------------------------+--------------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS Method parameter | Qualifier | +-------------------------+--------------------------------+-----------+ | managedObjectClass, | string mOIElementLoc | M | | | | | | managedObjectInstance | | | +-------------------------+--------------------------------+-----------+ | referenceObjectInstance | string referenceObjectInstance | O | +-------------------------+--------------------------------+-----------+ | attributeListIn | basicCMIRPData:AnyMOType mO | M | +-------------------------+--------------------------------+-----------+
The specific "attributeListIn" definition depends on the corresponding NRM XML
definition.
Here is the XML schema fragment of the createMO request:
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
#### 6.3.3.2 Output parameters
Mapping from IS createMO output parameters to SS equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Method parameter Qualifier attributeListOut
basicCMIRPData:AnyMOType mO M status basicCMIRPData:createMOFault M
* * *
The specific "attributeListOut" definition depends on the corresponding NRM
XML definition.
Here is the XML schema fragment of the createMO response:
> \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
#### 6.3.3.3 Fault definition
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \ type=\"string\"/>
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
### 6.3.4 Operation deleteMO
#### 6.3.4.1 Input parameters
Mapping from IS deleteMO input parameters to SS equivalents
+------------------------+----------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS Method parameter | Qualifier | +------------------------+----------------------+-----------+ | baseObjectInstance, | string queryXpathExp | M | | | | | | scope, | | | | | | | | filter | | | +------------------------+----------------------+-----------+
Here is the XML schema fragment of the deleteMO request:
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
#### 6.3.4.2 Output parameters
Mapping from IS deleteMO output parameters to SS equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Method parameter Qualifier deletionList
basicCMIRPData:MOSequenceTypedeletionList M status
basicCMIRPData:deleteMOFault M
* * *
Here is the XML schema fragment of the deleteMO response:
> \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
#### 6.3.4.3 Fault definition
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
\
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
### 6.3.5 Operation setMOAttributes
#### 6.3.5.1 Input parameters
Mapping from IS setMOAttributes input parameters to SS equivalents
+------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS Method parameter | Qualifier | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | baseObjectInstance, | stringqueryXpathExp | M | | | | | | scope, | | | | | | | | filter, | | | | | | | | modificationList | | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | modificationList | basicCMIRPData:Att | M | | | ributeModificationSetType | | | | modificationList | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
Here is the XML schema fragment of the setMOAttributes request:
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \ type=\"basicCMIRPData:AttributeModificationSetType\"/>
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
#### 6.3.5.2 Output parameters
Mapping from IS setMOAttributes output parameters to SS equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Method parameter Qualifier modificationListOut
basicCMIRPData:MOSequenceTypemodificationListOut M status
basicCMIRPData:setMOAttributesFault M
* * *
Here is the XML schema fragment of the setMOAttributes response:
> \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
#### 6.3.5.3 Fault definition
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
\
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
###### ## Annex A (normative): WSDL specification
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
> \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
> \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
> \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
> \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
###### ## Annex B (informative): Void
#