# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
32.651: Configuration Management (CM); GERAN network resources Integration
Reference Point (IRP): Requirements
**32.652: Configuration Management (CM); GERAN network resources Integration
Reference Point (IRP): Network Resource Model (NRM)**
32.653: Configuration Management (CM); GERAN network resources Integration
Reference Point (IRP): Common Object Request Broker Architecture (CORBA)
Solution Set (SS)
32.655: Configuration Management (CM); GERAN network resources Integration
Reference Point (IRP): Bulk CM eXtensible Markup Language (XML) file format
definition
Configuration Management (CM), in general, provides the operator with the
ability to assure correct and effective operation of the 3G network as it
evolves. CM actions have the objective to control and monitor the actual
configuration on the Network Elements (NEs) and Network Resources, and they
may be initiated by the operator or by functions in the Operations Systems
(OSs) or NEs.
CM actions may be requested as part of an implementation programme (e.g.
additions and deletions), as part of an optimisation programme (e.g.
modifications), and to maintain the overall Quality of Service (QoS). The CM
actions are initiated either as single actions on single NEs of the 3G
network, or as part of a complex procedure involving actions on many
resources/objects in one or several NEs.
# 1 Scope
The present document is part of an Integration Reference Point (IRP) named
\"GERAN Network Resources IRP\", through which an \"IRPAgent\" (typically an
Element Manager or Network Element) can communicate Configuration Management
information to one or several \"IRPManagers\" (typically Network Managers)
concerning GERAN resources. The \"GERAN Network Resources IRP\" comprises a
set of specifications defining Requirements, a protocol neutral Network
Resource Model (NRM) and corresponding Solution Set(s).
The present document specifies the protocol neutral GERAN Network Resources
IRP: Network Resource Model. It reuses relevant parts of the generic NRM in TS
32.622 [16], either by direct reuse or sub-classing, and in addition to that
defines GERAN specific Managed Object Classes.
The Configuration Management (CM) area is very large. The intention is to
split the specification of the related interfaces in several IRPs -- as
described in the Introduction clause above. An important aspect of such a
split is that the Network Resource Models (NRMs) defined in different IRPs
containing NRMs are consistent, and that NRMs supported by an IRPAgent
implementation can be accessed as one coherent model through one IRP
Information Service.
To summarize, the present document has following main purpose: to define the
applied GERAN specific Network Resource Model, based on the generic NRM in TS
32.622 [16].
In order to access the information defined by this NRM, an IRP Information
Service (IS) is needed, such as the Basic CM IRP: IS (TS 32.602 [17]) or the
Bulk CM IRP: IS (TS 32.612 [18]). However, which Information Service that is
applicable is outside the scope of the present document.
Regarding the support of the State Management IRP: IS (TS 32.672 [9]), all
NRMs of one release shall support the same State Management IRP version.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile radio interface Layer 3 specification; Core
network protocols; Stage 3\".
[4] 3GPP TS 44.018: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 specification; Radio
Resource Control (RRC) protocol\".
[5] 3GPP TS 45.008: \"Radio subsystem link control\".
[6] 3GPP TS 45.002: \"Multiplexing and multiple access on the radio path\".
[7] ITU-T Recommendation X.710 (1991): \"Common Management Information Service
Definition for CCITT Applications\".
[8] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, Addressing and Identification\".
[9] 3GPP TS 32.672: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); State Management Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service
(IS)\".
[10] Void.
[11] 3GPP TS 32.111-2: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management (FM);
Part 2: Alarm Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[12] Void
[13] 3GPP TS 32.300: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Name convention for Managed Objects\".
[14] 3GPP TS 32.600: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Concept and high-level requirements\".
[15] Void.
[16] 3GPP TS 32.622: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Generic network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP): Network
Resource Model (NRM)\".
[17] 3GPP TS 32.602: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Basic CM Integration Reference Point (IRP) Information Service (IS)\".
[18] 3GPP TS 32.612: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Bulk CM Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[19] 3GPP TS 32.642: \" Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); UTRAN network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP); Network
Resource Model (NRM) \".
[20] 3GPP TS 32.762: \"Telecommunication management; Evolved Universal
Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) Network Resource Model (NRM)
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply. For terms and definitions not found here, please refer to 3GPP TS
32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102 [2] and 3GPP TS 32.600 [14].
**Association** : In general it is used to model relationships between Managed
Objects. Associations can be implemented in several ways, such as:
(1) name bindings,
(2) reference attributes, and
(3) association objects.
This IRP stipulates that containment associations shall be expressed through
name bindings, but it does not stipulate the implementation for other types of
associations as a general rule. These are specified as separate entities in
the object models (UML diagrams).
**Managed Element (ME)** : An instance of the IOC ManagedElement, defined in
3GPP TS 32.622 [16].
**Managed Object (MO)** : In the context of the present document, a Managed
Object (MO) is a software object that encapsulates the manageable
characteristics and behaviour of a particular Network Resource. The MO is
instance of a class defined in a MIM/NRM. This class, called **Information
Object Class (IOC)** has [attributes]{.underline} that provide information
used to characterize the objects that belong to the class (the term
\"attribute\" is taken from TMN and corresponds to a \"property\" according to
CIM). Furthermore, the IOC can have [operations]{.underline} that represent
the behaviour relevant for that class (the term \"operation\" is taken from
TMN and corresponds to a \"method\" according to CIM). The IOC may support the
emission of [notifications]{.underline} that provide information about an
event occurrence within a network resource.
**Management Information Base (MIB)** : A MIB is an instance of an NRM and has
some values on the defined attributes and associations specific for that
instance. In the context of the present document, an MIB consists of:
(1) a Name space (describing the MO containment hierarchy in the MIB through
Distinguished Names),
(2) a number of IOCs with their attributes and
(3) a number of Associations between these IOCs. Also note that TMN (ITU-T
Recommendation X.710 [7]) defines a concept of a [Management Information
Tree]{.underline} (also known as a Naming Tree) that corresponds to the name
space (containment hierarchy) portion of this MIB definition. Figure 3.1
depicts the relationships between a Name space and a number of participating
MOs (the shown association is of a non-containment type).
Figure 3.1: Relationships between a Name space and a number of participating
MOs
**Management Information Model (MIM)** : Also referred to as NRM -- see the
definition below.
**Name space** : A name space is a collection of names. The IRP name
convention (see 3GPP TS 32.300 [13]) restricts the name space to a
hierarchical containment structure, including its simplest form - the one-
level, flat name space.\ All Managed Objects in a MIB shall be included in the
corresponding name space and the MIB/name space shall only support a strict
hierarchical containment structure (with one root object). A Managed Object
that contains another is said to be the superior (parent); the contained
Managed Object is referred to as the subordinate (child). The parent of all
MOs in a single name space is called a Local Root. The ultimate parent of all
MOs of all managed systems is called the Global Root.
**Network Resource Model (NRM)** : A model representing the actual managed
telecommunications network resources that a System is providing through the
subject IRP. An NRM identifies and describes the IOCs, their associations,
attributes and operations. The NRM is also referred to as \"MIM\" (see above),
which originates from the ITU-T TMN.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
CIM Common Information Model
DN Distinguished Name (see 3GPP TS 32.300 [13])
EM Element Manager
FM Fault Management
GERAN GSM-EDGE Radio Access Network
GPRS General Packet Radio System
IOC Information Object Class
IRP Integration Reference Point
ME Managed Element
MIB Management Information Base
MIM Management Information Model
MO Managed Object
NE Network Element
NR Neighbour cell Relation
NRM Network Resource Model
RDN Relative Distinguished Name (see 3GPP TS 32.300 [13])
RNC Radio Network Controller
SS Solution Set
TMN Telecommunications Management Network
UML Unified Modelling Language
XML eXtensible Mark-up Language
# 4 System overview
## 4.1 Void
## 4.2 Compliance rules
The following defines the meaning of Mandatory and Optional IOC attributes and
associations between IOCs, in Solution Sets to the IRP defined by the present
document:
  * The IRPManager shall support all mandatory attributes/associations. The IRPManager shall be prepared to receive information related to mandatory as well as optional attributes/associations without failure; however the IRPManager does not have to support handling of the optional attributes/associations.
  * The IRPAgent shall support all mandatory attributes/associations. It may support optional attributes/associations.
An IRPAgent that incorporates vendor-specific extensions shall support normal
communication with a 3GPP SA5‑compliant IRPManager with respect to all
Mandatory and Optional information object classes, attributes, associations,
operations, parameters and notifications without requiring the IRPManager to
have any knowledge of the extensions.
Given that
  * rules for vendor-specific extensions remain to be fully specified, > and
  * many scenarios under which IRPManager and IRPAgent interwork may > exist,
it is recognised that the IRPManager, even though it is not required to have
knowledge of vendor-specific extensions, may be required to be implemented
with an awareness that extensions can exist and behave accordingly.
# 5 Modelling approach
The modelling approach adopted and used in this IRP is described in clause 5
of Generic Network Resources IRP: NRM 3GPP TS 32.622 [16].
# 6 Information Object Classes
## 6.1 Imported information entities and local labels
* * *
Label reference Local label 3GPP TS 32.622 [16], information object class,
ManagedElement ManagedElement 3GPP TS 32.622 [16], information object class,
ManagedFunction ManagedFunction 3GPP TS 32.622 [16], information object class,
SubNetwork SubNetwork 3GPP TS 32.622 [16], information object class, Top Top
3GPP TS 32.622 [16], information object class, VsDataContainer VsDataContainer
3GPP TS 32.642 [19], information object class, UtranRelation UtranRelation
3GPP TS 32.762 [20], information object class, EUtranRelation EUtranRelation
* * *
## 6.2 Class diagram
### 6.2.1 Attributes and relationships
This clause depicts the set of IOCs that encapsulate information relevant for
this service. This clause provides the overview of all information object
classes in UML. Subsequent clauses provide more detailed specification of
various aspects of these information object classes.
The figures below show the containment/naming hierarchy and the associations
of the GERAN NRM.
{width="6.689583333333333in" height="5.666666666666667in"}
NOTE 1: The listed cardinality numbers represent transient as well as steady-
state numbers, and reflect all managed object creation and deletion scenarios.
NOTE 2: Void.
NOTE 3: The ExternalBssFunction is used in the Core Network NRM.
Figure 6.1: GERAN NRM Containment/Naming and Association diagram
Each Managed Object is identified with a Distinguished Name (DN) according to
3GPP TS 32.300 [13] that expresses its containment hierarchy. As an example,
the DN of an IOC representing a cell could have a format like:
SubNetwork =Sweden,MeContext =MEC-Gbg-1, ManagedElement =RNC-Gbg-1,
BssFunction=BSS1.
{width="2.6770833333333335in" height="3.127083333333333in"}
NOTE 1: The listed cardinality numbers represent transient as well as steady-
state numbers, and reflect all managed object creation and deletion scenarios.
NOTE 2: Each instance of the VsDataContainer shall only be contained under one
IOC. The VsDataContainer can be contained under IOCs defined in other NRMs.
Figure 6.2: GERAN NRM Containment/Naming and Association diagram
The VsDataContainer is only used for the Bulk CM IRP.
### 6.2.2 Inheritance
This clause depicts the inheritance relationships that exist between IOCs.
Figure 6.3 shows the inheritance hierarchy for the GERAN NRM.
{width="6.688194444444444in" height="4.072916666666667in"}
Figure 6.3: GERAN NRM Inheritance Hierarchy
## 6.3 Information object class definitions
### 6.3.1 BssFunction
#### 6.3.1.1 Definition
This IOC represents BSS functionality. For more information about the BSS, see
GSM 03.02.
#### 6.3.1.2 Attributes
Table 6.1: Attributes of BssFunction
* * *
Attribute name Visibility Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
bssFunctionId + M M - userLabel + M M M
* * *
### 6.3.2 BtsSiteMgr
#### 6.3.2.1 Definition
This IOC contains site specific information for a BTS site.
#### 6.3.2.2 Attributes
Table 6.3a: Attributes of BtsSiteMgr
* * *
Attribute name Visibility Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
btsSiteMgrId + M M - userLabel + M M M latitude + O M M longitude + O M M
* * *
Table 6.3b: Additional attributes of BtsSiteMgr for the support of the State
Management IRP
* * *
Attribute Name Support Qualifier READ WRITE operationalState O M --- NOTE: No
state propagation shall be implied.
* * *
### 6.3.3 GsmCell
#### 6.3.3.1 Definition
This IOC represents the GSM radio cell. The applicability of instantiation of
this class is depending on the ME type. It may only be instantiated under ME
of type BSC.
#### 6.3.3.2 Attributes
Table 6.5: Attributes of GsmCell
* * *
Attribute name Visibility Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
gsmCellId + M M - userLabel + M M M cellIdentity + M M M cellAllocation + M M
M ncc + M M M bcc + M M M lac + M M M mcc + M M M mnc + M M M rac + O M M racc
+ O M M tsc + M M M rxLevAccessMin + M M M msTxPwrMaxCCH + M M M
hoppingSequenceList + M M M plmnPermitted + M M M
* * *
#### 6.3.3.3 Attribute constraints
The optionally attributes rac and racc shall be included if the cell is a GPRS
cell. Otherwise they shall not be included.
### 6.3.4 GsmRelation
#### 6.3.4.1 Definition
This IOC contains Neighbour cell Relation (NR) from a source cell to a target
cell, where the target cell is a GsmCell or ExternalGsmCell instance.
Note: In handover relation terms, the cell containing the GsmRelation object
is the source cell for the handover. The cell referred to in the GsmRelation
object is the target cell for the handover. This defines a one-way handover
relation where the direction is _from_ source cell _to_ target cell.
The source cell can be a GsmCell instance. This is the case for an Intra-GERAN
NR.
The source cell can be a UtranGenericCell instance. This is the case for
Inter-RAT NR from UTRAN to GERAN See 3GPP TS 32. 642 [19].
The source cell can be a EUtranGenericCell instance. This is the case for
Inter-RAT NR from E-UTRAN to GERAN See 3GPP TS 32. 762 [20].
#### 6.3.4.2 Attributes
Table 6.7: Attributes of GsmRelation
* * *
Attribute name Visibility Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
gsmRelationId + M M - adjacentCell + M M M bcchFrequency + O M - ncc + O M -
bcc + O M - lac + O M - isHOAllowed + CM M M isRemoveAllowed + CM M M
* * *
#### 6.3.4.3 Attribute constraints
The optionally attributes bcchFrequency, ncc, bcc and lac shall be included if
the EM does not guarantee consistency between the cell definition and what is
broadcasted on system information. Otherwise they shall not be included.
* * *
Name Definition isRemoveAllowed Support Qualifier The condition is \"Inter-RAT
ANR function is supported in the source cell, and the source cell is an
EUtranGenericCell\". isHOAllowed Support Qualifier The condition is \"Inter-
RAT ANR function is supported in the source cell, and the source cell is an
EUtranGenericCell\".
* * *
### 6.3.5 ExternalGsmCell
#### 6.3.5.1 Definition
This IOC represents a radio cell controlled by another IRPAgent. This IOC has
necessary attributes for inter-system handover. It contains a subset of the
attributes of related IOCs controlled by another IRPAgent. To maintain the
consistency between the attribute values of these two IOCs is outside the
scope of this document.
#### 6.3.5.2 Attributes
Table 6.9: Attributes of ExternalGsmCell
* * *
Attribute name Visibility Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
externalGsmCellId + M M - userLabel + M M M cellIdentity + M M M bcchFrequency
+ M M M ncc + M M M bcc + M M M lac + M M M mcc + M M M mnc + M M M rac + O M
M racc + O M M
* * *
#### 6.3.5.3 Attribute constraints
The optionally attributes rac and racc shall be included if the cell is a GPRS
cell. Otherwise they shall not be included.
### 6.3.6 ExternalBssFunction
#### 6.3.6.1 Definition
This IOC represents a BssFunction controlled by another IRPAgent. It contains
a subset of the attributes of related IOCs controlled by another IRPAgent. To
maintain the consistency between the attribute values of these two IOCs is
outside the scope of the present document.
#### 6.3.6.2 Attributes
Table 6.11: Attributes of ExternalBssFunction
* * *
Attribute name Visibility Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
externalBssFunctionId + M M - userLabel + M M M
* * *
#### 6.3.6.3 Attribute constraints
None.
## 6.4 Information relationship definitions
### 6.4.1 ExternalGsmNeighbourCellRelation (M)
#### 6.4.1.1 Definition
This represents a unidirectional relation from GsmRelation to the
ExternalGsmCell. The role of the relation shall be mapped to a reference
attribute, named adjacentCell, of the IOC.
#### 6.4.1.2 Roles
Table 6.11: Roles of the relation ExternalGsmNeighbourCellRelation
* * *
Name Definition gsmRelation-externalGsmNeighbourCell This role (when present)
represents GsmRelation capability to identify one ExternalGsmCell. When this
role is present, the GsmRelation.adjacentCell shall contain one
ExternalGsmCell DN.
* * *
#### 6.4.1.3 Constraints
* * *
Name Definition external_neighbour_cell_relation The role gsmRelation-
externalGsmNeighbourCell is only present if the target cell is managed by
another IRPAgent than the serving cell.
* * *
### 6.4.2 GsmNeighbourCellRelation (M)
#### 6.4.2.1 Definition
This represents the unidirectional relation from the GsmRelation to GsmCell.
The role of the relation shall be mapped to a reference attribute, named
adjacentCell, of the IOC.
#### 6.4.2.2 Roles
Table 6.12: Roles of the relation GsmNeighbourCellRelation
* * *
Name Definition gsmRelation-gsmNeighbourCell This role (when present)
represents GsmRelation capability to identify one GsmCell. When this role is
present, the GsmRelation.adjacentCell shall contain one GsmCell DN.
* * *
#### 6.4.2.3 Constraints
This role (for a particular GsmRelation) shall be present if the
ExternalGsmNeighbourCellRelation of this particular GsmRelation is absent.
This role shall be absent if the ExternalGsmNeighbourCellRelation of this
particular GsmRelation is present.
* * *
Name Definition internal_neighbour_cell_relation The role gsmRelation-
gsmNeighbourCell is only present if the target cell is managed by the same
IRPAgent as the serving cell.
* * *
## 6.5 Information attribute definitions
### 6.5.1 Definition and legal values
Table 6.13 defines the attributes that are present in several information
object classes of the present document.
Table 6.13: Attributes
+-----------------------+-------------------------+----------------+ | Attribute Name | Definition | Legal Values | +-----------------------+-------------------------+----------------+ | adjacentCell | Pointer to GsmCell or | | | | ExternalGsmCell. | | | | Distinguished Name of | | | | the corresponding | | | | object. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+----------------+ | bcc | [IOCs **GsmCell** and | []{.underline} | | | **External | | | | GsmCell** :]{.underline} | | | | | | | | Base station colour | | | | code, BCC (part of | | | | BSIC). Ref | | | | 3GPP TS 44.018 [4]. | | | | | | | | [IOC | | | | **GsmR | | | | elation** :]{.underline} | | | | | | | | Base station colour | | | | code, BCC (part of | | | | BSIC. Ref | | | | 3GPP TS 44.018 [4]) | | | | for another GSM cell or | | | | the external GSM cell, | | | | that is broadcast in | | | | System Information in | | | | the Cell. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+----------------+ | bcchFrequency | [IOC | | | | **External | | | | GsmCell** :]{.underline} | | | | | | | | This attribute contains | | | | the absolute radio | | | | frequency channel | | | | number of the BCCH | | | | channel of the GSM | | | | cell. | | | | | | | | [IOC | | | | **GsmR | | | | elation** :]{.underline} | | | | | | | | This attribute contains | | | | the absolute radio | | | | frequency channel | | | | number of the BCCH | | | | channel of another GSM | | | | cell or the external | | | | GSM cell, that is | | | | broadcast in System | | | | Information in the | | | | Cell. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+----------------+ | bssFunctionId | An attribute whose | | | | \"name+value\" can be | | | | used as an RDN when | | | | naming an instance of | | | | the object class. This | | | | RDN uniquely identifies | | | | the object instance | | | | within the scope of its | | | | containing (parent) | | | | object instance. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+----------------+ | btsSiteMgrId | An attribute whose | | | | \"name+value\" can be | | | | used as an RDN when | | | | naming an instance of | | | | the object class. This | | | | RDN uniquely identifies | | | | the object instance | | | | within the scope of its | | | | containing (parent) | | | | object instance. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+----------------+ | cellAllocation | This attribute defines | | | | the set of radio | | | | frequencies allocated | | | | and available to a | | | | cell, the first element | | | | sets the BCCH | | | | frequency, Ref | | | | 3GPP TS 44.018 [4]. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+----------------+ | cellIdentity | Cell Identity (Ref | | | | 3GPP TS 24.008 [3]). | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+----------------+ | externalBssFunctionId | An attribute whose | | | | \"name+value\" can be | | | | used as an RDN when | | | | naming an instance of | | | | the object class. This | | | | RDN uniquely identifies | | | | the object instance | | | | within the scope of its | | | | containing (parent) | | | | object instance. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+----------------+ | externalGsmCellId | An attribute whose | | | | \"name+value\" can be | | | | used as an RDN when | | | | naming an instance of | | | | the object class. This | | | | RDN uniquely identifies | | | | the object instance | | | | within the scope of its | | | | containing (parent) | | | | object instance. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+----------------+ | gsmCellId | An attribute whose | | | | \"name+value\" can be | | | | used as an RDN when | | | | naming an instance of | | | | the object class. This | | | | RDN uniquely identifies | | | | the object instance | | | | within the scope of its | | | | containing (parent) | | | | object instance. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+----------------+ | gsmRelationId | An attribute whose | | | | \"name+value\" can be | | | | used as an RDN when | | | | naming an instance of | | | | the object class. This | | | | RDN uniquely identifies | | | | the object instance | | | | within the scope of its | | | | containing (parent) | | | | object instance. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+----------------+ | hoppingSequenceList | A list of hopping | | | | sequence, which is a | | | | structure including | | | | MA(see 44.018[4]) and | | | | HSN(see 45.002[6]). | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+----------------+ | lac | [IOCs **GsmCell** and | | | | **External | | | | GsmCell** :]{.underline} | | | | | | | | Location Area Code, LAC | | | | . Ref 3GPP TS 24.008 | | | | [3]. | | | | | | | | [IOC | | | | **GsmR | | | | elation** :]{.underline} | | | | | | | | Location Area Code, LAC | | | | (Ref 3GPP TS 24.008 | | | | [3]) for another GSM | | | | cell or the external | | | | GSM cell, that is | | | | broadcast in System | | | | Information in the | | | | Cell. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+----------------+ | latitude | Used for geographical | | | | positioning of the | | | | sitemanager | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+----------------+ | longitude | Used for geographical | | | | positioning of the | | | | sitemanager | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+----------------+ | mcc | Mobile Country Code, | | | | MCC (part of the PLMN | | | | Id, Ref. 3GPP TS 23.003 | | | | [8]). | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+----------------+ | mnc | Mobile Network Code, | | | | MNC (part of the PLMN | | | | Id, Ref. 3GPP TS 23.003 | | | | [8]). | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+----------------+ | msTxPwrMaxCCH | Maximum Transmission | | | | Power for a Mobile | | | | Station on a CCH. | | | | Attribute description | | | | Ref 3GPP TS 45.008 | | | | [5] | | | | (MS_TXPWR_MAX_CCH) | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+----------------+ | ncc | [IOCs **GsmCell** and | | | | **External | | | | GsmCell** :]{.underline} | | | | | | | | Network Colour Code, | | | | NCC (part of BSIC). Ref | | | | 3GPP TS 44.018 [4]. | | | | | | | | [IOC | | | | **GsmR | | | | elation** :]{.underline} | | | | | | | | Network Colour Code, | | | | NCC (part of BSIC. Ref | | | | 3GPP TS 44.018 [4]) | | | | for another GSM cell or | | | | the external GSM cell, | | | | that is broadcast in | | | | System Information in | | | | the Cell. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+----------------+ | plmnPermitted | Network Colour Code | | | | Permitted. Attribute | | | | description reference | | | | 3GPP TS 45.008 [5] | | | | (NCC_PERMITTED) | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+----------------+ | rac | Routing Area Code, RAC. | | | | Ref 3GPP TS 44.018 | | | | [4]. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+----------------+ | racc | Routing Area Colour | | | | Code, RACC. Ref | | | | 3GPP TS 44.018 [4]. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+----------------+ | rxLevAccessMin | Minimum Access Level. | | | | Attribute description | | | | Ref 3GPP TS 45.008 | | | | [5] | | | | (RXLEV_ACCESS_MIN) | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+----------------+ | tsc | Training Sequence Code, | | | | an attribute of the | | | | class channel in Ref | | | | 3GPP TS 44.018 [4] | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+----------------+ | userLabel | [IOC | | | | **BssF | | | | unction** :]{.underline} | | | | | | | | A user-friendly (and | | | | user assigned) name of | | | | the associated object. | | | | Inherited from | | | | ManagedFunction. | | | | | | | | **Other IOCs** : | | | | | | | | A user-friendly (and | | | | user assigned) name of | | | | the associated object. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+----------------+ | isHOAllowed | [This indicates if HO | yes, no | | | is allowed or | | | | p | | | | rohibited.]{.underline} | | | | | | | | []{.underline} | | | | | | | | [If 'yes', handover is | | | | allowed from source | | | | cell to target cell. | | | | The source cell is | | | | identified by the | | | | name-containing | | | | EUtranGenericCell of | | | | the GsmRelation that | | | | has the isHOAllowed. | | | | The target cell is | | | | referenced by the | | | | GsmRelation that has | | | | this | | | | is | | | | HOAllowed.]{.underline} | | | | | | | | []{.underline} | | | | | | | | [If 'no', handover | | | | shall not be | | | | allowed.]{.underline} | | | | | | | | []{.underline} | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+----------------+ | isRemoveAllowed | [This indicates if the | yes, no | | | subject GsmRelation can | | | | be removed (deleted) or | | | | not.]{.underline} | | | | | | | | []{.underline} | | | | | | | | [If 'yes', the subject | | | | GsmRelation instance | | | | can be removed | | | | (deleted).]{.underline} | | | | | | | | []{.underline} | | | | | | | | [If 'no', the subject | | | | GsmRelation instance | | | | shall not be removed | | | | (deleted) by any entity | | | | but an | | | | I | | | | RPManager.]{.underline} | | | | | | | | []{.underline} | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+----------------+
### 6.5.2 Constraints
* * *
Name Definition \- -
* * *
## 6.6 Common Notifications
The following notifications apply to the following IOCs:
  * BssFunction;
  * BtsSiteMgr;
  * GsmCell.
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyAckStateChanged See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2
[11])  
notifyAttributeValueChange O  
notifyChangedAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])  
notifyClearedAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])  
notifyNewAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])  
notifyObjectCreation O  
notifyObjectDeletion O  
notifyComments See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])  
notifyAlarmListRebuilt See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])  
notifyPotentialFaultyAlarmList See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])
* * *
The following notifications apply to the following IOCs:
  * GsmRelation;
  * ExternalGsmCell;
  * ExternalBssFunction.
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyAttributeValueChange O  
notifyObjectCreation O  
notifyObjectDeletion O
* * *
## 6.7 Particular information configurations
Not applicable.
#