# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
32.661: \"Configuration Management (CM); Kernel CM; Requirements\".
32.662: \"Configuration Management (CM); Kernel CM; Information Service
(IS)\".
32.663: \"Configuration Management (CM); Kernel CM Integration Reference Point
(IRP): Common Object Request Broker Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set (SS)\".
**32.665 Configuration Management (CM); Kernel CM Integration Reference Point
(IRP): eXtensible Markup Language (XML) definitions.**
**32.667: \"Configuration Management (CM); Kernel CM Integration Reference
Point (IRP): SOAP solution set\".**
Configuration Management (CM), in general, provides the operator with the
ability to assure correct and effective operation of the 3G network as it
evolves. CM actions have the objective to control and monitor the actual
configuration on the Network Elements (NEs) and Network Resources (NRs), and
they may be initiated by the operator or by functions in the Operations
Systems (OSs) or NEs.
CM actions may be requested as part of an implementation programme (e.g.
additions and deletions), as part of an optimisation programme (e.g.
modifications), and to maintain the overall Quality of Service (QoS). The CM
actions are initiated either as single actions on single NEs of the 3G
network, or as part of a complex procedure involving actions on many
resources/objects in one or several NEs.
# 1 Scope
The purpose of the present document is to define the mapping of the Kernel CM
IRP: IS (3GPP TS 32.662 [4]) to the protocol specific details necessary for
implementation of this IRP in a SOAP/WSDL environment.
This Solution Set specification is related to 3GPP TS 32.662 V9.0.X.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.600: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Concept and high-level requirements\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.662: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Kernel CM; Information Service (IS)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.300: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Name convention for Managed Objects\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.311: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Integration
Reference Point (IRP) management; Information Service (IS)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.172: \"Telecommunication management; Subscription Management
(SuM) IRP; Network Resources Model (NRM)\"
[8] 3GPP TS 32.317: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Integration
Reference Point (IRP) management; SOAP solution set\".
[9] 3GPP TS 32.307: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP): SOAP solution set\".
[10] W3C SOAP 1.1 specification (http://www.w3.org/TR/2000/NOTE-
SOAP-20000508/)
[11] W3C WSDL 1.1 specification (http://www.w3.org/TR/2001/NOTE-wsdl-20010315)
[12] W3C XPath 1.0 specification (http://www.w3.org/TR/1999/REC-
xpath-19991116)
[13] WS-I Basic Profile Version 1.1
([http://www.ws-i.org/Profiles/BasicProfile-1.1-2004-08-24.html]{.underline})
[14] W3C SOAP 1.2 specification (http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-part1/)
[15] 3GPP TS 32.665: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Kernel CM; eXtensible Markup Language (XML) definition\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102 [2], 3GPP TS 32.600 [3] and 3GPP TS 32.662
[4] apply.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
DN Distinguished Name
IRP Integration Reference Point
IS Information Service
MO Managed Object
MOC Managed Object Class
NRM Network Resource Model
SS Solution Set
WSDL Web Service Description Language
WS-I Web Services Interoperability Organization
# 4 IRP document version number string
The IRP document version number (sometimes called \"IRPVersion\" or \"SS
version number\") string is used to identify this specification. The string is
derived using a rule described in 3GPP TS 32.311 [6]. The value of this string
is defined by a constant in annex A.
This string (or sequence of strings, if more than one version is supported) is
returned in getIRPVersion method and is carried in the first field of the
notification header of all notifications related to this IRP.
# 5 Architectural features
## 5.1 General
The overall architectural feature of Kernel Configuration Management IRP is
specified in 3GPP TS 32.662 [4].\ This clause specifies features that are
specific to the SOAP SS.
The SOAP 1.1 specification [10] and WSDL 1.1 specification [13] are supported.
The SOAP 1.2 specification [14] is supported optionally.
This specification uses \"document\" style in WSDL file.
This specification uses \"literal\" encoding style in WSDL file.
This specification uses a number of namespace prefixes throughout that are
listed in Table 5.1.
Table 5.1: Prefixes and Namespaces used in this specification
* * *
**PREFIX** **NAMESPACE** http http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/wsdl/http/ soap
http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/wsdl/soap/ SOAP-ENV
http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/soap/envelope/ SOAP-ENC or soapenc
http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/soap/encoding/ xs or xsd
http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema xsi http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance
kernelCMIRPSystem
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/32_series/32.667/schema/32667-800/KernelCMIRPSystem
kernelCMIRPData
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/32_series/32.667/schema/32667-800/KernelCMIRPData
ntfIRPSystem
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/32_series/32.307/schema/32307-800/notification/NotificationIRPNtfSystem
genericIRPSystem
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/32_series/32.317/schema/32317-800/GenericIRPSystem
* * *
The WSDL structure is like Figure 5.1:
{width="6.694444444444445in" height="1.0055555555555555in"}
Figure 5.1: kernelCM IRP SOAP Solution Set WSDL structure
## 5.2 Notifications
Notifications are sent according to the Notification IRP: SOAP SS (see 3GPP TS
32.307 [9]).
The contents of the Kernel CM IRP notifications are defined in KernelCM IRP
XML definition [15].
## 5.3 Syntax for Distinguished Names and Versions
The format of a Distinguished Name is defined in 3GPP TS 32.300 [5].
The version of this IRP is represented as a string (see also clause 4).
# 6 Mapping
## 6.1 General mappings
The IS parameter name managedObjectInstance is mapped into DN.
Attributes modelling associations as defined in the NRM (here also called
\"reference attributes\") are in this SS mapped to attributes. The names of
the reference attributes in the NRM are mapped to the corresponding attribute
names in the MOC. When the cardinality for an association is 0..1 or 1..1 the
datatype for the reference attribute is defined as an MOReference. The value
of an MO reference contains the distinguished name of the associated MO. When
the cardinality for an association allows more than one referred MO, the
reference attribute will be of type MOReferenceSet, which contains a sequence
of MO references.
If a reference attribute is changed, an AttributeValueChange notification is
emitted.
## 6.2 Operation and Notification mapping
The Kernel CM IRP: IS (see 3GPP TS 32.662 [4]) defines semantics of operation
and notification visible across the Kernel Configuration Management IRP. The
following table in this subclause indicates mapping of these operations and
notifications to their equivalents defined in this SS.
Table 6.2: Mapping from IS Notification/Operation to SS equivalents
+---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation/ | SS Operation | Qualifier | | notification | | | | | | | | (3GPP TS 32.662 [4]) | | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | getNRMIRPVersion | getNRMIRPVersion | M | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | notifyObjectCreation | ntfIRPSystem:notify (note | O | | | 2) | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | notifyObjectDeletion | ntfIRPSystem:notify (note | O | | | 2) | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | n | ntfIRPSystem:notify (note | O | | otifyAttributeValueChange | 2) | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | notifyCMS | ntfIRPSystem:notify (note | O | | ynchronizationRecommended | 2) | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | notifyStateChange | ntfIRPSystem:notify (note | O | | | 2) | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | getIRPVersion(see note 1) | getIRPVersion | M | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | getOperationProfile(see | getOperationProfile | O | | note 1) | | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | g | getNotificationProfile | O | | etNotificationProfile(see | | | | note 1) | | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | NOTE 1: This operation is | | | | of IOC ManagedGenericIRP | | | | specified in [10]. The | | | | IOC KernelCmIRP of [4] | | | | inherits from it. | | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | NOTE 2: The IS equivalent | | | | is mapped into parameters | | | | of ntfIRPSystem::notify. | | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
## 6.3 Operation parameter mapping
The Kernel CM IRP: IS (3GPP TS 32.662 [4]) defines semantics of parameters
carried in operations across the Kernel Configuration Management IRP. The
tables below show the mapping of these parameters, as per operation, to their
equivalents defined in this SS.
### 6.3.1 Operation getNRMIRPVersion
#### 6.3.1.1 Input parameters
None.
Here is the XML schema fragment of the getNRMIRPVersion request:
> \
>
> \
>
> \
#### 6.3.1.2 Output parameters
Table 6.3.1.2: Mapping from IS getNRMIRPVersion output parameters to SS
equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Operation parameter Qualifier versionNumberList
kernelCMIRPData:VersionNumberSetType versionNumberSet M vSEVersionNumberList
kernelCMIRPData:VersionNumberSetType vSEVersionNumberList M status
kernelCMIRPData:getNRMIRPVersionFault M
* * *
Here is the XML schema fragment of the getNRMIRPVersion response:
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \ type=\"kernelCMIRPData:VersionNumberSetType\"/>
>
> \ kernelCMIRPData:VersionNumberSetType\"/>
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
#### 6.3.1.3 Fault definition
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
###### ## Annex A (normative): WSDL Specification
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
###### ## Annex B (informative): Void
#