# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects,
Telecommunication management; as identified below:
**32.751: \"Evolved Packet Core (EPC) Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration
Reference Point (IRP): Requirements\"**
32.752: \"**Evolved Packet Core (EPC) Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration
Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\"**
32.753: \"**Evolved Packet Core (EPC)** Network Resource Model (NRM)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Common Object Request Broker Architecture
(CORBA) Solution Set (SS)\"
32.755: \"**Evolved Packet Core (EPC)** Network Resource Model (NRM)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Bulk CM eXtensible Markup Language (XML)
file format definition\"
# 1 Scope
The present document defines, in addition to the requirements defined in [1],
[2] and [3], the Requirements for the EPC Network Resource Model (NRM) IRP.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.600: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Concept and high-level requirements\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.150: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Concept and definitions\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply.
**Data:** is any information or set of information required to give software
or equipment or combinations thereof a specific state of functionality.
**Element Manager (EM):** provides a package of end-user functions for
management of a set of closely related types of Network Elements (NEs). These
functions can be divided into two main categories:
  * _Element Management Functions_ for management of NEs on an individual basis. These are basically the same functions as supported by the corresponding local terminals.
  * _Sub-Network Management Functions_ that are related to a network model for a set of NEs constituting a clearly defined sub-network, which may include relations between the NEs. This model enables additional functions on the sub-network level (typically in the areas of network topology presentation, alarm correlation, service impact analysis and circuit provisioning).
**Integration Reference Point (IRP):** See 3GPP TS 32.150 [4].
**Information Service (IS):** See 3GPP TS 32.150 [4].
**Solution Set (SS):** See 3GPP TS 32.150 [4].
**IRP Solution Set:** See 3GPP TS 32.101 [1].
**Managed Object (MO):** an abstract entity, which may be accessed through an
open interface between two or more systems, and representing a Network
Resource (NR) for the purpose of management. The Managed Object (MO) is an
instance of a Managed Object Class (MOC) as defined in a Management
Information Model (MIM). The MIM does not define how the MO or NR is
implemented; only what can be seen in the interface.
**Managed Object Class (MOC):** a description of all the common
characteristics for a number of MOs, such as their attributes, operations,
notifications and behaviour.
**Management Information Model (MIM)** : also referred to as NRM -- see the
definition below. There is a slight difference between the meaning of MIM and
NRM -- the term MIM is generic and can be used to denote any type of
management model, while NRM denotes the model of the actual managed
telecommunications Network Resources (NRs).
**Network Element (NE):** is a discrete telecommunications entity, which can
be, managed over a specific interface e.g. the RNC.
**Network Manager (NM)** : provides a package of end-user functions with the
responsibility for the management of a network, mainly as supported by the
EM(s) but it may also involve direct access to the NEs. All communication with
the network is based on open and well-standardised interfaces supporting
management of multi-vendor and multi-technology NEs.
**Network Resource (NR):** is a component of a NE, which can be identified as
a discrete separate entity and is in an object oriented environment for the
purpose of management represented by an abstract entity called Managed Object
(MO).
**Network Resource Model (NRM)** : a model representing the actual managed
telecommunications Network Resources (NRs) that a System is providing through
the subject IRP. An NRM describes Managed Object Classes (MOC), their
associations, attributes and operations. The NRM is also referred to as
\"MIM\" (see above) which originates from the ITU-T TMN.
**Object Management Group (OMG):** see http://www.omg.org.
**Operations System (OS):** indicates a generic management system, independent
of its location level within the management hierarchy.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
CM Configuration Management
EDGE Enhanced Data Rate for GSM Evolution
E-MBMS Evolved Multimedia Broadcast Multicast Service
EPC Evolved Packet Core
E-UTRAN Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
GERAN GSM/EDGE Radio Access Network
IOC Information Object Class
IRP Integration Reference Point
IS Information Service (see [1])
MME Mobility Management Entity
MOC Managed Object Class
NE Network Element
NRM Network Resource Model
OS Operations System
UTRAN Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
# 4 Requirements
## 4.1 General Requirement
The following general requirements apply for the present IRP:
A. IRP-related requirements in 3GPP TS 32.101 [1].
B. IRP-related requirements in 3GPP TS 32.102 [2].
C. IRP-related requirements in 3GPP TS 32.600 [3].
## 4.2 Business Level Requirement
In addition to the general requirement, the following more specific
requirements apply:
  1. The Network Resource Model defined by this IRP shall contain EPC specific IOCs and related definitions, supporting EPC Network entities in the 3GPP Release.
  2. The Network Resource Model defined by this IRP shall contain MME pool management specific IOCs and related definitions.
  3. The Network Resource Model defined by this IRP shall contain E-MBMS specific IOCs and related definitions.
  4. The Network Resource Model defined by this IRP shall contain EPC specific IOCs and related interaction relation definition, supporting the management of communication between EPC and 3GPP access, trusted non-3GPP access and untrusted non-3GPP access.
#