# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
32.761 Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) Network
Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements
**32.762 Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) Network
Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service
(IS)**
32.763 Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) Network
Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Common Object Request
Broker Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set (SS)
32.765 Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) Network
Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP): eXtensible Markup
Language (XML) file format definition
# 1 Scope
The present document is part of an Integration Reference Point (IRP) named
E-UTRAN Network Resource Model (NRM) IRP, through which an IRPAgent can
communicate configuration management information to one or several IRPManagers
concerning E-UTRAN resources. The E-UTRAN NRM IRP comprises a set of
specifications defining Requirements, a protocol neutral Information Service
and one or more Solution Set(s).
The present document specifies the protocol neutral E-UTRAN NRM IRP:
Information Service (IS). It reuses relevant parts of the Generic NRM IRP: IS
in 3GPP TS 32.622 [6], either by direct reuse or sub-classing, and in addition
to that defines E-UTRAN specific Information Object Classes.
In order to access the information defined by this NRM, an Interface IRP such
as the \"Basic CM IRP\" is needed (3GPP TS 32.602 [7]). However, which
Interface IRP is applicable is outside the scope of the present document.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.300: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Name convention for Managed Objects\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.600: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Concept and high-level requirements\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.622: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Generic network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP): Network
Resource Model (NRM)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.602: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Basic CM Integration Reference Point (IRP) Information Service (IS)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 32.612: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Bulk CM Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[9] 3GPP TS 23.401: \"Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; General Packet Radio Service (GPRS) enhancements for Evolved
Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) access\".
[10] 3GPP TS 36.331: \"Technical Specification Group Radio Access Network;
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) Radio Resource Control
(RRC); Protocol specification\".
[11] 3GPP TS 36.300: \" Technical Specification Group Radio Access Network;
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and Evolved Universal
Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN); Overall description; Stage 2 \".
[12] 3GPP TS 36.211: "Technical Specification Group Radio Access Network;
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA); Physical Channels and
Modulation"
[13] 3GPP TS 36.101: "Technical Specification Group Radio Access Network;
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA); User Equipment (UE) radio
transmission and reception"
[14] 3GPP TS 36.104: "Technical Specification Group Radio Access Network;
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E_UTRA); Base Station (BS) radio
transmission and reception"
[15] 3GPP TS 32.500: \" Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication Management; Self-Organizing Networks (SON);
Concepts and requirements\"
[16] 3GPP TS 32.150: \" Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; Integration Reference Point (IRP)
Concept and definitions\"
[17] 3GPP TS 21.905: \" Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\"
[18] 3GPP TS 32.111-2: "Telecommunication management; Fault Management; Part
2: Alarm Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)"
[19] 3GPP TS 23.002: "Network Architecture"
[20] 3GPP TS 32.652: "Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); GERAN network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP); Network
Resource Model (NRM)"
[21] 3GPP TS 32.642: "Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); UTRAN network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP); Network
Resource Model (NRM)"
[22] 3GPP2 S.S0028-D "OAM&P for cdma2000 (Overview, 3GPP R7 Delta
Specification, 3GPP2 Network Resource Model IRP)"
[23] 3GPP TS 32.752: "Telecommunication management; Evolved Packet Core (EPC)
Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information
Service (IS)"
[24] 3GPP TS 36.423: "Technical Specification Group Radio Access Network;
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN); X2 application
protocol (X2AP)"
[25] 3GPP TS 36.213: "Technical Specification Group Radio Access Network;
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA); Physical layer
procedures"
[26] 3GPP TS 32.672: "Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; Configuration Management (CM); State
Management Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)"
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TS 32.150 [16], TS 32.101 [1], TS 32.102 [2] and TS 21.905 [17] and the
following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence over
the definition of the same term, if any, in TS 32.150 [16], TS 32.101 [1], TS
32.102 [2] and TS 21.905 [17], in that order.
**Association** : In general it is used to model relationships between Managed
Objects. Associations can be implemented in several ways, such as:
(1) [name bindings]{.underline},
(2) [reference attributes]{.underline}, and
(3) [association objects]{.underline}.
This IRP stipulates that containment associations shall be expressed through
name bindings, but it does not stipulate the implementation for other types of
associations as a general rule. These are specified as separate entities in
the object models (UML diagrams).
**Managed Element (ME)** : An instance of the Information Object Class
ManagedElement defined in TS 32.622 [6].
**eNodeB:** A logical node responsible for radio transmission/reception in one
or more cells to/from the User Equipment.\ It terminates the S1 interface
towards the EPC.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TS 32.150
[16], TS 32.101 [1], TS 32.102 [2] and TS 21.905 [17] and the following apply.
An abbreviation defined in the present document takes precedence over the
definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TS 32.150 [16], TS 32.101 [1],
TS 32.102 [2] and TS 21.905 [17], in that order.
DN Distinguished Name (see 3GPP TS 32.300 [4])
E-UTRA Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
E-UTRAN Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
ME Managed Element
MO Managed Object
NR Neighbour cell Relation
PM Performance Management
RDN Relative Distinguished Name (see 3GPP TS 32.300 [4])
# 4 System overview
## 4.1 Compliance rules
The following defines the meaning of Mandatory and Optional IOC attributes and
associations between IOCs, in Solution Sets to the IRP defined by the present
document:
  * The IRPManager shall support all mandatory attributes/associations. The IRPManager shall be prepared to receive information related to mandatory as well as optional attributes/associations without failure; however the IRPManager does not have to support handling of the optional attributes/associations.
  * The IRPAgent shall support all mandatory attributes/associations. It may support optional attributes/associations.
An IRPAgent that incorporates vendor-specific extensions shall support normal
communication with a 3GPP SA5‑compliant IRPManager with respect to all
Mandatory and Optional information object classes, attributes and associations
without requiring the IRPManager to have any knowledge of the extensions.
Given that
  * rules for vendor-specific extensions remain to be fully specified, > and
  * many scenarios under which IRPManager and IRPAgent interwork may > exist,
it is recognised that the IRPManager, even though it is not required to have
knowledge of vendor-specific extensions, may be required to be implemented
with an awareness that extensions can exist and behave accordingly.
# 5 Modelling approach
The modelling approach adopted and used in this IRP is described in TS 32.622
[6].
# 6 Information Object Classes (IOCs)
## 6.1 Information entities imported and local labels
* * *
Label reference Local label **3GPP TS 32.672 [26],** attribute,
administrativeState administrativeState **3GPP TS 32.672 [26],** attribute,
availabilityStatus availabilityStatus **3GPP TS 32.672 [26],** attribute,
operationalState operationalState **3GPP TS 32.622 [6], IOC,** Top Top **3GPP
TS 32.622 [6], IOC,** ManagedElement ManagedElement **3GPP TS 32.622 [6],
IOC,** SubNetwork SubNetwork **3GPP TS 32.622 [6], IOC,** ManagedFunction
ManagedFunction **3GPP TS 32.622 [6], IOC,** Link Link **3GPP TS 32.752 [23],
IOC,** MMEFunction MMEFunction **3GPP TS 32.752 [23], IOC,**
ExternalMMEFunction ExternalMMEFunction **3GPP TS 32.642 [21], IOC,**
UtranRelation UtranRelation **3GPP TS 32.642 [21], IOC,** AntennaFunction
AntennaFunction **3GPP TS 32.642 [21], IOC,** TmaFunction TmaFunction **3GPP
TS 32.652 [20], IOC,** GsmRelation GsmRelation **3GPP2 TS S.S0028 [22], IOC,**
ExternalSector ExternalSector **3GPP TS 32.752 [23], IOC,** EP_RP_EPS
EP_RP_EPS **3GPP TS 32.752 [23], IOC,** QCISet QCISet
* * *
## 6.2 Class diagram
### 6.2.1 Attributes and relationships
{width="6.690277777777778in" height="5.267361111111111in"}
Figure 6.2.1.1: Cell view of E-UTRAN NRM
{width="5.761805555555555in" height="1.5361111111111112in"}
Figure 6.2.1.2: Transport view of E-UTRAN NRM
{width="6.688888888888889in" height="3.4604166666666667in"}
Figure 6.2.1.3: Radio equipment view of E-UTRAN NRM
### 6.2.2 Inheritance
{width="6.685416666666667in" height="3.8784722222222223in"}
Figure 6.2.2.1: E-UTRAN NRM Inheritance Hierarchy
## 6.3 Information Object Class (IOC) definitions
### 6.3.1 ENBFunction
#### 6.3.1.1 Definition
This IOC represents eNB functionality. For more information about the eNB, see
3GPP TS 23.002 [19].
#### 6.3.1.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier id M M -
x2BlackList CM M M x2WhiteList CM M M x2HOBlackList CM M M x2IpAddressList O M
-
* * *
#### 6.3.1.3 Attribute constraints
* * *
_Name_ _Definition_ _x2BlackList Support Qualifier_ _The condition is "ANR
function is supported"._ _x2WhiteList Support Qualifier_ _The condition is
"ANR function is supported"._ _x2HOBlackList Support Qualifier_ _The condition
is "ANR function is supported"._
* * *
#### 6.3.1.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.6.1 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.2 ExternalENBFunction
#### 6.3.2.1 Definition
This IOC represents an external eNB functionality. For more information about
the eNB, see 3GPP TS 23.002 [19].
#### 6.3.2.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier id M M -
* * *
#### 6.3.2.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 6.3.2.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.6.2 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.3 EUtranGenericCell
#### 6.3.3.1 Definition
This abstract IOC represents the common properties of an E-UTRAN generic cell.
For more information about cells, see 3GPP TS 23.401 [9].
#### 6.3.3.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name **Support Qualifier** **Read Qualifier** **Write Qualifier** id
M M - cellIdentity M M M cellSize M M M plmnIdList M M M tac M M M pci M M CM
pciList CM M M maximumTransmissionPower M M CM referenceSignalPower M M M pb M
M M partOfSectorPower CM M M relatedTmaList CO M - relatedAntennaList CO M -
relatedSector CM M -
* * *
* * *
Attribute Name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
operationalState O M _−_ administrativeState O M M availabilityStatus O M _-_
NOTE: No state or status propagation shall be implied.
* * *
#### 6.3.3.3 Attribute constraints
* * *
Name Definition pci CM Write Qualifier Centralized PCI assignment (see TS
32.500, ref [15] subclause 6.1.6) is supported. pciList CM Support Qualifier
Distributed PCI assignment (see TS 32.500, ref [15] subclause 6.1.6) is
supported. partOfSectorPower CM support qualifier The IOC
SectorEquipmentFunction is used. maximumTransmissionPower CM Write Qualifier
The IOC SectorEquipmentFunction is not used. relatedTmaList CO Support
Qualifier The IOC SectorEquipmentFunction is not used. relatedAntennaList CO
Support Qualifier The IOC SectorEquipmentFunction is not used. relatedSector
CM Support Qualifier The IOC SectorEquipmentFunction is used.
* * *
#### Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.6.1 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.4 ExternalEUtranGenericCell
#### 6.3.4.1 Definition
This abstract IOC represents the properties of an E-UTRAN generic cell
controlled by another IRPAgent. This IOC contains necessary attributes for
inter-system and intra-system handover. It also contains a subset of the
attributes of related IOCs controlled by another IRPAgent. The way to maintain
consistency between the attribute values of these IOCs is outside the scope of
the present document.
#### 6.3.4.2 Attributes
* * *
**Attribute name** **Support Qualifier** **Read Qualifier** **Write
Qualifier** id M M - pci M M M plmnIdList M M M cellIdentity M M M
* * *
#### 6.3.4.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.6.2 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.5 EUtranCellFDD
#### 6.3.5.1 Definition
This IOC represents the properties of E-UTRAN FDD cell.
#### 6.3.5.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier earfcnDl M M M
earfcnUl M M M
* * *
#### 6.3.5.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 6.3.5.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.6.1 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.6 ExternalEUtranCellFDD
#### 6.3.6.1 Definition
This IOC represents the common properties of external E-UTRAN FDD cell.
#### 6.3.6.2 Attributes
Table 6.3.5.2.1: Attributes of ExternalEUtranCellFDD
* * *
Attribute name **Support Qualifier** **Read Qualifier** **Write Qualifier**
earfcnDl M M M earfcnUl M M M
* * *
#### 6.3.6.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 6.3.6.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.6.2 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
####
### 6.3.7 EUtranCellTDD
#### 6.3.7.1 Definition
This IOC represents the properties of E-UTRAN cell TDD.
#### 6.3.7.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier earfcn M M M
sfAssignment M M M specialSfPatterns M M M
* * *
#### 6.3.7.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 6.3.7.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.6.1 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.8 ExternalEUtranCellTDD
#### 6.3.8.1 Definition
This IOC represents the common properties of external E-UTRAN cell TDD.
#### Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier earfcn M M M
* * *
#### 6.3.8.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 6.3.8.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.6.2 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.9 EUtranRelation
#### 6.3.9.1 Definition
This IOC represents a NR from one EUtranGenericCell instance to another
EUtranGenericCell or ExternalEUtranGenericCell instance. NRs are directional.
#### 6.3.9.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier id M M - tCI O
M M isRemoveAllowed CM M M isHOAllowed CM M M adjacentCell M M M
isICICInformationSendAllowed CM M M isLBAllowed CM M M
* * *
#### 6.3.9.3 Attribute constraints
* * *
_Name_ _Definition_ _isRemoveAllowed Support Qualifier_ _The condition is "ANR
function is supported"._ _isHOAllowed Support Qualifier_ _The condition is
"ANR function is supported"._ _isICICInformationSendAllowed Support Qualifier_
_The condition is "ICIC function is supported"._ _isLBAllowed Support
Qualifier_ _The condition is "LB function is supported"._
* * *
#### 6.3.9.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.6.1 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.10 Link_ENB_ENB
#### 6.3.10.1 Definition
This IOC represents the link between two ENBFunction.
#### Attributes
None.
#### 6.3.10.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 6.3.10.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.6.1 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.11 Void
### 6.3.12 SectorEquipmentFunction
#### 6.3.12.1 Definition
This IOC represents a set of cells within a geographical area that has common
functions relating to AntennaFunction, TMAFunction and supporting equipment,
such as power amplifier.
#### 6.3.12.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier id M M -
fqBand M M -- confOutputPower M M M relatedTmaList M M - relatedAntennaList M
M -
* * *
#### 6.3.12.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 6.3.12.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.6.1 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 6.3.13 Cdma2000Relation
#### 6.3.13.1 Definition
This IOC represents a NR from one EUtranGenericCell to a CDMA2000 sector. NRs
are directional.
See 3GPP2 TS S.S0028 [22]
#### 6.3.13.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier id M M -
adjacentSector M M -
* * *
#### 6.3.13.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 6.3.13.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 6.6.1 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
## 6.4 Information relationship definitions
### 6.4.1 EUtranNeighbourCellRelation (M)
#### 6.4.1.1 Definition
This association represents the unidirectional Neighbour cell Relation (NR)
from the EUtranGenericCell containing this EUtranRelation to another
EUtranGenericCell.
#### 6.4.1.2 Roles
* * *
Name Definition adjacentCell This role represents the associated
EUtranGenericCell of an EUtranNeighbourCellRelation .
* * *
#### 6.4.1.3 Constraints
Associations EUtranNeighbourCellRelation and
ExternalEUtranNeighbourCellRelation are mutually exclusive.
### 6.4.2 ExternalEUtranNeighbourCellRelation (M)
#### 6.4.2.1 Definition
This association represents the unidirectional Neighbour cell Relation (NR)
from the EUtranGenericCell containing this EUtranRelation to an
ExternalEUtranGenericCell.
#### 6.4.2.2 Roles
* * *
Name Definition adjacentCell This role represents the associated
ExternalEUtranGenericCell of an ExternalEUtranNeighbourCellRelation.
* * *
#### 6.4.2.3 Constraints
Associations EUtranNeighbourCellRelation and
ExternalEUtranNeighbourCellRelation are mutually exclusive.
### 6.4.3 ExternalCdma2000NeighbourCellRelation (M)
#### 6.4.3.1 Definition
This association represents the unidirectional Neighbour cell Relation (NR)
from the EUtranGenericCell containing this Cdma2000Relation to an
ExternalSector.
#### 6.4.3.2 Roles
* * *
Name Definition adjacentSector This role represents the associated
ExternalSector of an ExternalCdma2000NeighbourCellRelation.
* * *
#### 6.4.3.3 Constraints
### 6.4.4 EUtranCell-TmaRelation (M)
#### 6.4.4.1 Definition
This association represents the association between a EUtranGenericCell and
its related TmaFunctions, as well as between a TmaFunction and the
EUtranGenericCells it serves.
#### 6.4.4.2 Roles
+-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+ | Name | Definition | +-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+ | relatedTmaList | This role represents the TmaFunctions that | | | are associated with an EUtranGenericCell | +-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+ | relatedEUtranCellList | This role represents the EUtranGenericCells | | | that are associated with a TmaFunction. | | | | | | Note: The imported TmaFunction has defined | | | an association with UTRAN cell and | | | therefore, it defines an attribute called | | | tmaUtranCellList. The use of an association | | | with UTRAN cell is not appropriate in | | | EUTRAN case. But for backward compatibility | | | purposes, this IRP supports the use of the | | | imported tmaUtranCellList as an | | | implementation of an association with | | | EUTRAN cells, i.e. the tmaUtranCellList | | | would contain DNs of EUTRAN cells. | +-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+
#### 6.4.4.3 Constraints
* * *
Name Definition EUtranCell-TmaConstraint The EUtranGenericCell has no
association to any SectorEquipmentFunction
* * *
### 6.4.5 SectorEquipmentTma (M)
#### 6.4.5.1 Definition
This association represents the unidirectional association from a
SectorEquipmentFunction and its related TmaFunctions.
#### 6.4.5.2 Roles
* * *
Name Definition relatedTmaList This role represents the TmaFunctions that are
associated with a SectorEquipmentFunction.
* * *
#### 6.4.5.3 Constraints
None
### 6.4.6 EUtranCell-AntennaRelation (M)
#### 6.4.6.1 Definition
This association represents the association between a EUtranGenericCell and
its related AntennaFunctions, as well as between an AntennaFunction and the
EUtranGenericCells it serves.
#### 6.4.6.2 Roles
+-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+ | Name | Definition | +-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+ | relatedAntennaList | This role represents the AntennaFunctions | | | that are associated with an | | | EUtranGenericCell. | +-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+ | relatedEUtranCellList | This role represents the EUtranGenericCells | | | that are associated with an | | | AntennaFunction. | | | | | | Note: The imported AntennaFunction has | | | defined an association with UTRAN cell and | | | therefore, it defines an attribute called | | | retUtranCellList. The use of an association | | | with UTRAN cell is not appropriate in | | | EUTRAN case. But for backward compatibility | | | purposes, this IRP supports the use of the | | | imported retUtranCellList as an | | | implementation of an association with | | | EUTRAN cells, i.e. the retUtranCellList | | | would contain DNs of EUTRAN cells. | +-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+
#### 6.4.6.3 Constraints
* * *
Name Definition EUtranCell-AntennaConstraint The EUtranGenericCell has no
association to any SectorEquipmentFunction
* * *
### 6.4.7 SectorEquipmentAntenna (M)
#### 6.4.7.1 Definition
This association represents the unidirectional association from a
SectorEquipmentFunction and its related AntennaFunctions.
#### 6.4.7.2 Roles
* * *
Name Definition relatedAntennaList This role represents the AntennaFunctions
that are associated with a SectorEquipmentFunction.
* * *
#### 6.4.7.3 Constraints
None
### 6.4.8 EUtranCell-SectorRelation (M)
#### 6.4.8.1 Definition
This association represents the association between a EUtranGenericCell and
its related SectorEquipmentFunction, as well as between a
SectorEquipmentFunction and the EUtranGenericCells it serves.
#### 6.4.8.2 Roles
* * *
Name Definition relatedSector This role represents the SectorEquipmentFunction
that is associated with a EUtranGenericCell. relatedEUtranCellList This role
represents the EUtranGenericCells that are associated with a
SectorEquipmentFunction.
* * *
#### 6.4.8.3 Constraints
* * *
Name Definition EUtranCell-SectorConstraint The EUtranGenericCell has an
association with a SectorEquipmentFunction.
* * *
## 6.5 Information attribute definitions
### 6.5.1 Definition and legal values
Table 6.5.1.1 defines the attributes that are present in several Information
Object Classes (IOCs) of the present document.
Table 6.5.1.1: Attributes definitions and legal values
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Attribute Name | Definition | Legal Values | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | adjacentCell | This attribute | | | | contains the DN of a | | | | EUtranGenericCell or | | | | Extern | | | | alEUtranGenericCell. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | adjacentSector | This attribute | | | | contains the DN of | | | | an ExternalSector. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | relatedAntennaList | This attribute | | | | contains the DNs of | | | | one or more | | | | AntennaFunction | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | relatedTmaList | This attribute | | | | contains the DNs of | | | | one or more | | | | TmaFunction | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | r | This attribute | | | elatedEUtranCellList | contains the DNs of | | | | one or more | | | | EUtranGenericCell | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | cellIdentity | Unambiguously | Refer to TS | | | identify a cell | 36.331[10] | | | within a PLMN. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | cellSize | See cell-Size in TS | See cell-Size in TS | | | 36.423 [24]. | 36.423 [24]. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | confOutputPower | It defines the | | | | allowed total power | | | | to use for all cells | | | | together in this | | | | sector. It may be | | | | set by the operator | | | | and/or limited by HW | | | | limitation or | | | | licensed power, | | | | e.g.: 20, 40, 60, | | | | 80,120 watts | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | relatedSector | This attribute | | | | contains the DN of | | | | an | | | | Sec | | | | torEquipmentFunction | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | referenceSignalPower | This defines the | See 3GPP TS | | | cell specific | 36.331[10] | | | downlink reference | | | | signal transmit | | | | power, which is | | | | described in 3GPP TS | | | | 36.213[25] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | earfcn | It is the frequency | See 3GPP TS | | | number for the | 36.104[14]. | | | central frequency. | | | | See 3GPP TS | | | | 36.104[14]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | earfcnul | Specifies the | See EARFCN in TS | | | channel number for | 36.101 [13] | | | the central UL | subclause 5.7.3. | | | frequency. The | | | | mapping from channel | | | | number to physical | | | | frequency is | | | | described in 3GPP | | | | specification TS | | | | 36.101 [13] | | | | subclause 5.7.3. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | earfcnDl | Specifies the | See EARFCN in TS | | | channel number for | 36.101 [13] | | | the central DL | subclause 5.7.3 | | | frequency. The | | | | mapping from channel | | | | number to physical | | | | frequency is | | | | described in 3GPP | | | | specification TS | | | | 36.101 [13] | | | | subclause 5.7.3. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | farEndNeIpAddr | The IP address(s) of | | | | the far end network | | | | entity to which the | | | | reference point is | | | | related. | | | | | | | | This is an IPv4 or | | | | an IPv6 address. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | fqBand | This is the | See section 5 Table | | | frequency band | 5.2-1 "E-UTRA | | | supported by the | frequency band" of | | | hardware associated | TS 36.104 [14]. | | | with the | | | | Sect | Other legal values | | | orEquipmentFunction. | would be applicable | | | The earfcnDl and | for other | | | earfcnUl of cells | technologies such as | | | associated with the | for UTRA. | | | Sec | | | | torEquipmentFunction | | | | must be assigned | | | | with value within | | | | this fqBand value. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | id | An attribute whose | | | | \"name+value\" can | | | | be used as an RDN | | | | when naming an | | | | instance of the | | | | object class. This | | | | RDN uniquely | | | | identifies the | | | | object instance | | | | within the scope of | | | | its containing | | | | (parent) object | | | | instance. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | isRemoveAllowed (see | This indicates if | yes, no | | note 1) | the subject | | | | EUtranRelation can | | | | be removed (deleted) | | | | or not. | | | | | | | | If 'yes', the | | | | subject | | | | EUtranRelation | | | | instance can be | | | | removed (deleted). | | | | | | | | If 'no', the subject | | | | EUtranRelation | | | | instance shall not | | | | be removed (deleted) | | | | by any entity but an | | | | IRPManager. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | isHOAllowed (see | This indicates if HO | yes, no | | note 1) | is allowed or | | | | prohibited. | | | | | | | | If 'yes', handover | | | | is allowed from | | | | source cell to | | | | target cell. The | | | | source cell is | | | | identified by the | | | | name-containing | | | | EUtranGenericCell of | | | | the EUtranRelation | | | | that has the | | | | isHOAllowed. The | | | | target cell is | | | | referenced by the | | | | EUtranRelation that | | | | has this | | | | isHOAllowed. | | | | | | | | If 'no', handover | | | | shall not be | | | | allowed. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | isICICIn | This indicates if | yes, no | | formationSendAllowed | ICIC (Inter Cell | | | | Interference | | | | Coordination) load | | | | information message | | | | (see TS 36.423 | | | | [24] Section | | | | 9.1.2.1 LOAD | | | | INFORMATION) sending | | | | is allowed or | | | | prohibited. | | | | | | | | If 'yes', ICIC load | | | | information message | | | | sending is allowed | | | | from source cell to | | | | target cell. The | | | | source cell is | | | | identified by the | | | | name-containing | | | | EUtranGenericCell of | | | | the EUtranRelation | | | | that has the | | | | isICICInf | | | | ormationSendAllowed. | | | | The target cell is | | | | referenced by the | | | | EUtranRelation that | | | | has this | | | | isICICInf | | | | ormationSendAllowed. | | | | | | | | If 'no', ICIC load | | | | information message | | | | sending shall not be | | | | allowed. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | isLBAllowed | This indicates if | yes, no | | | load balancing is | | | | allowed or | | | | prohibited from | | | | source cell to | | | | target cell. | | | | | | | | If 'yes', load | | | | balancing is allowed | | | | from source cell to | | | | target cell. The | | | | source cell is | | | | identified by the | | | | name-containing | | | | EUtranGenericCell of | | | | the EUtranRelation | | | | that has the | | | | isLBAllowed. The | | | | target cell is | | | | referenced by the | | | | EUtranRelation that | | | | has this | | | | isLBAllowed. | | | | | | | | If 'no', load | | | | balancing shall be | | | | prohibited from | | | | source cell to | | | | target cell. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | maxi | This is the maximum | | | mumTransmissionPower | possible for all | | | | downlink channels, | | | | used simultaneously | | | | in a cell, added | | | | together. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | partOfSectorPower | This is the | 0 : 100 | | | requested part (i.e. | | | | %) of the total | | | | radio power | | | | available to the | | | | Sect | | | | orEquipmentFunction. | | | | The requested % | | | | power should be | | | | allocated to the | | | | cell. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | pb | $P_{B}$, which is | See 3GPP TS | | | described in Section | 36.213[25] | | | 5.2 of TS 36.213 | | | | [25] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | pci | This holds the | See TS 36.211 [12] | | | Physical Cell | subclause 6.11 for | | | Identity (PCI) of | legal values of pci. | | | the cell (for both | | | | Centralized and | | | | Distributed PCI | | | | assignment cases). | | | | | | | | In the case of | | | | Centralized PCI | | | | assignment, see TS | | | | 36.300, [11] | | | | subclause 22.3.5, | | | | IRPManager signals a | | | | specific value by | | | | writing this | | | | attribute. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | pciList | This holds a list of | See TS 36.211 [12] | | | physical cell | subclause 6.11 for | | | identities that can | legal values of pci. | | | be assigned to the | The number of pci in | | | pci attribute by | the list is 1 to | | | eNB. The assignment | 504. | | | algorithm is not | | | | specified. | | | | | | | | This attribute shall | | | | be supported if and | | | | only if the | | | | Distributed PCI | | | | Assignment is | | | | supported. See TS | | | | 32.500, ref [15] | | | | subclause 6.1.6. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | plmnIdList | List of unique | A list of at most | | | identities for PLMN. | six entries of PLMN | | | | Identifiers. The | | | Note: A cell can | PLMN Identifier is | | | broadcast up to 6 | composed of a Mobile | | | PLMN-id\'s. This is | Country Code (MCC) | | | to support the case | and a Mobile Network | | | that one cell can be | Code (MNC). | | | used by up to 6 | | | | operators' core | See TS 23.003 [3] | | | networks. | subclause 2.2 and | | | | 12.1. | | | One member of | | | | plmnIdList is the | | | | primary PLMN Id. | | | | | | | | See TS 36.331 [10] | | | | section 6.2.2: | | | | SystemInformat | | | | ionBlockType1/cellAc | | | | cessRelatedInformati | | | | on/plmn-IdentityList | | | | is a SEQUENCE (SIZE | | | | (1..6)) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | sfAssignment | This is the | See 3GPP TS | | | uplink-downlink | 36.211[12]. | | | subframe | | | | configuration number | | | | of a TDD E-UTRAN | | | | cell. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | specialSfPatterns | This is the special | See 3GPP TS | | | subframe | 36.211[12]. | | | configuration number | | | | of a TDD E-UTRAN | | | | cell. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | tac | Common Tracking Area | It is the Tracking | | | Code for the PLMNs. | Area Code (TAC). | | | The identity used to | | | | identify tracking | A cell can only | | | areas. | broadcast one TAC. | | | | See TS 36.300 | | | | [11], section | | | | 10.1.7 (PLMNID and | | | | TAC relation). | | | | | | | | TAC is defined in TS | | | | 23.003 [3], | | | | section 19.4.2.3. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | tCI | This is the Target | The Target Cell | | | Cell Identifier. It | Identifier is | | | consists of E-UTRAN | defined in TS 36.300 | | | Cell Global | [11]. See TS | | | Identifier (ECGI) | 36.211 [12] | | | and Physical Cell | subclause 6.11 for | | | Identifier (PCI) of | legal values of the | | | the target cell. | PCI. | | | | | | | The | | | | EUtranRelation.tCI | | | | identifies the | | | | target cell from the | | | | perspective of the | | | | EUtranGenericCell, | | | | the name-containing | | | | instance of the | | | | subject | | | | EUtranRelation | | | | instance. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | x2BlackList | This is a list of | | | | DNs of ENBFunction | | | | and | | | | ExternalENBFunction. | | | | If the target node | | | | DN is a member of | | | | the source node's | | | | ENBF | | | | unction.x2BlackList, | | | | the source node is: | | | | | | | | Prohibited from | | | | sending X2 | | | | connection request | | | | to target node; | | | | | | | | Forced to tear down | | | | established X2 | | | | connection to target | | | | node | | | | | | | | Not allowed to | | | | accept incoming X2 | | | | connection request | | | | from target node. | | | | | | | | The same DN may | | | | appear here and in | | | | ENBF | | | | unction.x2WhiteList. | | | | In such case, the DN | | | | in x2WhiteList shall | | | | be treated as if it | | | | is absent. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | x2IpAddressList | Represents one or | One or more IPv4 or | | | more IP addresses | IPv6 addresses | | | used by ENBFunction | | | | for this | | | | ENBFunction's X2 | | | | Interface | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | x2WhiteList | This is a list of | | | | DNs of ENBFunction | | | | and | | | | ExternalENBFunction. | | | | If the target node | | | | DN is a member of | | | | the source node's | | | | ENBF | | | | unction.x2WhiteList, | | | | the source node : | | | | | | | | - Is allowed to | | | | request the | | | | establishment of X2 | | | | connection with the | | | | target node; | | | | | | | | - Is not allowed to | | | | initiate the tear | | | | down of established | | | | X2 connection to | | | | target node | | | | | | | | The same DN may | | | | appear here and in | | | | ENBF | | | | unction.x2BlackList. | | | | In such case, the DN | | | | here shall be | | | | treated as if it is | | | | absent. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | x2HOBlackList | This is a list of | | | | DNs of ENBFunction | | | | and | | | | ExternalENBFunction. | | | | The | | | | ENBFu | | | | nction.x2HOBlackList | | | | identifies a list of | | | | neighbour | | | | ENBFunction and | | | | ExternalENBFunction | | | | with whom the | | | | subject ENBFunction | | | | is prohibited to use | | | | X2 interface for HOs | | | | even if the X2 | | | | interface exists | | | | between them. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
NOTE: Attributes isRemoveAllowed and isHOAllowed each has 2 legal values,
allow (A) and prohibited (P). The two attributes are semantically equivalent
to one attribute with 4 legal values such as:
hOAllow; hOProhibited; hOWhiteListed; hOBlackListed;
where
\- hOAllow == isRemoveAllowed is A and isHOAllowed is A;
\- hOProhibited == isRemoveAllowed is A and isHOAllowed is P;
\- hOWhiteListed == isRemoveAllowed is P and isHOAllowed is A;
\- hOBlackListed == isRemoveAllowed is P and isHOAllowed is P.
Therefore, the choice of an option is FFS.
### 6.5.2 Constraints
None.
## 6.6 Common Notifications
### 6.6.1 Alarm and configuration notifications
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyAckStateChanged See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2
[11])  
notifyAttributeValueChange O  
notifyChangedAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])  
notifyClearedAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])  
notifyNewAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])  
notifyObjectCreation O  
notifyObjectDeletion O  
notifyComments See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])  
notifyAlarmListRebuilt See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])  
notifyPotentialFaultyAlarmList See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])
* * *
Note that these notifications are issued based on occurrences on the IRPAgent
IOC and not on occurrences on other IOCs.
### 6.6.2 Configuration notifications
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyAttributeValueChange O  
notifyObjectCreation O  
notifyObjectDeletion O
* * *
Note that these notifications are issued based on occurrences on the IRPAgent
IOC and not on occurrences on other IOCs.
## 6.7 System State Model
None.
#