# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Background and Scope
Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) is gaining acceptance in the IS/IT
industry. It promises to manage change [1], automate and simplify IT processes
[1], optimize implementation [2], maximize (implementation) flexibility and
scalability [3], facilitate integration beyond the enterprise (between
companies, between partners and customers) [4], simplify development [5] and
maintenance; etc.
IRP (Interface Reference Point) is the predominant standard for wireless
network management since 2000. 3GPP developed it with 3GPP2 close
collaboration. IRP architecture follows closely with that defined by ITU-T TMN
work [6]. Besides publishing the IRP specifications, 3GPP also publishes its
IRP methodology (e.g., the guidelines, templates on how to develop, maintain
and publish IRP specifications). Today, the IRP specification methodology is
being shared and jointly evolved and maintained by consortium of SDOs, such as
ITU-T.
We note that the principles of SOA are currently being applied to the field of
network management [11,12,16,17].
The purpose of this document is to analyse the IRP architecture and to provide
a \"gap analysis\" on what enhancement is needed for the current set of IRP
specifications such that it can claim to have the full set of characteristics
of SOA.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] SOA Management and Security
[2] IBM CICS Service Flow Feature enables composition of CICS applications to
create CICS business services
[3] SOA/Web services-based applications
[4] Extending the Benefits of SOA beyond the Enterprise, TIBCO
[5] BEA Announces WebLogic 9.2; Award-Winning Family Raises the Bar on SOA
Enablement
[6] ITU-T TMN
[7] ROI of SOA, the Network World
[8] Open Group, Service-Oriented Architecture
[9] OASIS SOA Reference Model TC
[10] 3GPP TR 32.809; Feasibility Study of XML-based (SOAP/HTTP) IRP Solution
Sets
[11] ETSI TS 188 001: \"NGN Management OSS Architecture\".
[12] M.3060 Principles for the Management of Next Generation Networks, ITU-T
[13] 3GPP TS 32.111 Alarm IRP IS
[14] S5-080168 TR 32.822 Work on Resource Monitoring Requirement for Itf-N
[15] 32.363 Entry Point IRP
[16] TMF (http://www.tmforum.org/browse.aspx)
[17] IETF (http://www.ietf.org/)
[18] 3GPP TS 32.101 Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements.
[19] 3GPP TS 32.102 Telecommunication management; Architecture
[20] 3GPP TS 32.150 **Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Concept and definitions**
[21] RFC 2616: Hypertext Transfer Protocol -- HTTP/1.1 http://www.rfc-
editor.org/rfc/rfc2616.txt
[22] SOAP Version 1.2 http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-part0/
[23] WSDL 1.1 http://www.w3.org/TR/wsdl
[24] WSDL 2.0 http://www.w3.org/TR/wsdl20-primer/
[25] REST http://www.ics.uci.edu/~fielding/pubs/dissertation/top.htm chapters
5 and 6
[26] RESTful
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Representational_State_Transfer#RESTful_example:_the_World_Wide_Web
[27] UDDI Version 3.0.2 http://uddi.org/pubs/uddi_v3.htm
[28] UDDI tutorial http://www.tutorialspoint.com/uddi/uddi_data_model.htm
[29] Using WSDL in a UDDI Registry, Technical Note\ http://www.oasis-
open.org/committees/uddi-spec/doc/tn/uddi-spec-tc-tn-wsdl-v202-20040631.pdf
[30] SOAP Version 1.1\ http://www.w3.org/TR/soap/
[31] WS-I Basic Profile Version 1.1\
http://www.ws-i.org/Profiles/BasicProfile-1.1.html
[32] WS-I Basic Security Profile Version 1.0\
http://www.ws-i.org/Profiles/BasicSecurityProfile-1.0.html
[33] WS-I Basic Profile Version 1.2\
http://www.ws-i.org/Profiles/BasicProfile-1_2(WGAD).html
[34] WS-I Basic Profile Version 2.0\
http://www.ws-i.org/Profiles/BasicProfile-2_0(WGD).html
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply.
None
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
CMIP Common Management Information Protocol
COBRA Common Object Request Broker Architecture
DCOM Distributed Component Object Model
FCAPS Fault, Configuration, Accounting, Performance and Security
HTTP Hypertext transfer Protocol
IRP Interface Reference Point
IS Information Service
ITU-T International Telecommunication Union- Telecommunications
Standardization Sector
NRM Network Resource Model
OASIS Organization for the Advancement of Structured Information Standard
OMG Object Management Group
OOA Object Oriented Architecture
RPC Remote Procedure Call
SDO Standards Development Organization
SNMP Simple Network Management Protocol
SOA Service Oriented Architecture
SOAP Simple Object Access Protocol
SS Solution Set
WSDL Web Services Description Language
XML Extensible Markup Language
# 4 SOA
There are multiple definitions of SOA. The Open group SOA definition [8] and
OASIS SOA Reference Model [9] each defines its own SOA terms.
NOTE 1: Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) is a paradigm for organizing and
utilizing distributed capabilities that may be under the control of different
ownership domains.\" [9]
Both claim, and correctly so, that their definitions and terms can be applied
to technology and business domains.
The Network World provides a crisp description [7] of SOA from a high level
view point.
> \"SOA is a development (and deployment) methodology encourages sharing of
> remotely invocable application functions throughout networks. It\'s a way of
> doing more with less, where applications can be built more quickly and
> incrementally, with fewer lines of original code.\"
NOTE 2: The two words in bracket are added by author of this paper
SOA is not unlike other existing development and deployment methodology such
as 1980's (remote procedure call) RPC, 1990's OOA (Object Oriented
Architecture), CORBA and the 2000's IRP (see section 6), etc,
_One can characterize SOA as follows._
> \"An architectural style that provides services which are effectively the
> boundary of an application and coordinate the necessary response to service
> clients. This promotes reuse at a coarse granularity thereby encapsulating
> unnecessary implementation details. Often used in conjunction with existing
> legacy applications to provide a facade to the functionality these
> applications provide. In \"Patterns of Enterprise Application
> Architecture\", Martin Fowler describes the Service Layer pattern which
> essentially provides a facade to the domain layer of an application. SOA is
> commonly implemented through web services, but it is a common misconception
> that web-services are the only implementation of SOA. RPC, DCOM, and many
> others also provide implementations of SOA.\"
One can also characterize SOA as follows.
> \"The upside of SOA is that the marginal cost of building new applications
> will continue to drop as the service-reuse rate climbs. The catch is that
> there\'s a significant ramp-up cost, because adopting an SOA means you\'re
> going to need to rethink many of your traditional approaches to application
> modeling, development, integration, deployment and management.\"
# 5 IRP
3GPP developed the IRP set of specifications since 2000. The first set of
network management services standardized are based on those defined by ITU-T
(for the management of the wire-line networks), namely, the fault,
configuration, performance and security of the ITU-T defined FCAPS network
management domain services.
Major characteristics of IRP are:
## 5.1 Business logic independence
The IRP network management services are designed with business logic
independence in mind. For example, Alarm IRP network management service is
focused on how to provide network fault management services to its users
(applications). How the applications would make use of such services is not
part of the Alarm IRP design. Various applications, such as trouble ticketing
system, network planning tool, call tracing monitor system, routing table
generator, large network control room display system, of different
functionalities and purposes can make use of the same Alarm IRP network
management services.
## 5.2 Network management domains independence
The IRP network management services are based on that defined by ITU-T.
Identical to ITU-T case, the IRP network management services are domain
specific. For example, the Alarm IRP specifically deals with a particular
network management domain, i.e. the fault management domain. The Configuration
IRP specifically deals with the configuration management domain. They are
independent of each other, even though both IRPs deal with the same set of
managed nodes.
## 5.3 Protocol and Data independence
The IRP network management services are provided by IRPAgent and consumed by
multiple IRPManager(s). This service provisioning and consumption are realized
by invocation of sets of standardized operations, notifications collectively
called protocols. 3GPP standardized this set of protocols. In addition, 3GPP
standardized the data carried by these protocols as well. The set of IRP
specifications regarding protocol semantics and syntax are called the
Interface IRPs. The set of IRP specifications regarding data semantics and
syntax are called the Network Resource Model (NRM) IRP. The NRM IRP contains
information representing the 3GPP defined managed nodes. The Interface IRP
(such as Basic Configuration Management IRP) and NRM IRP (such as GERAN NRM
IRP) are independent of each other. This independence allows other SDOs to use
3GPP Interface IRP (unchanged) for managing their own managed nodes (not 3GPP
defined managed nodes). In other words, the SDO can recommend the use of 3GPP
Interface as is (unchanged) and design its own set of NRM IRPs representing
the managed nodes defined by the SDO. Currently, 3GPP2 is such SDO using such
approach.
## 5.4 Technologies independence
Within each Interface or NRM IRP, there are 3 levels of specification. The
first level is the Requirement level. The second level is the Information
Service (IS) level. This level specifies the semantics (the meaning) of the
operations, notifications, operation parameters, notification parameters,
class and class attributes. The third level is the Solution Set (SS) level. It
specifies the syntax of the constructs (e.g. operation parameter) defined by
the corresponding IS specification. Also, where appropriate, this level also
specifies the call model that is dependent on specific technology. For
example, in Alarm IRP, the alarm list is returned as the return parameter of
the get_alarm_list method in CORBA SS while it is returned as notifications in
CMIP SS. The three-level hierarchy reflects the relative stability of the
Requirement level specifications, IS level specifications and SS level
specifications. For example, the alarm management requirements, such as to
retrieve a list of active alarm, have been stable for a long time. The
operation to retrieve a list of active alarm (i.e. the IS level specification)
is also relatively stable. However, comparatively speaking, the syntax or the
technology to implement the retrieve operation have changed over time, e.g.
from ITU-T CMIP syntax, to SNMP syntax, to CORBA technology, to JAVA and
lately, to XML technology, etc.
It is noted that 3GPP has concluded a study [10] on XML-based (SOAP/HTTP) IRP
Solution Sets. The conclusion of that study is in Annex A for ease of
reference.
# 6 Relation of SOA and IRP
This clause presents a high level analysis of the 'gap' between attributes of
SOA and IRP architecture.
## 6.1 Reuse, composability, componentization, and interoperability
IRP has this attribute. From specification writing viewpoint, IRP follows the
above stated attributes. From implementation viewpoint, IRP does not mandate
these attributes since IRP implementation is considered outside 3GPP standard.
## 6.2 Compliance to standards (both common and industry-specific)
IRP is a set of standard published by 3GPP. The IRP specifications themselves
recommend use of available industrial standard where applicable, and will not
re-specify them.
## 6.3 Services identification and categorization, provisioning and delivery,
and monitoring and tracking
IRP provides set of network management services that is broadly categorized
along network management domain (see 5.2). Each IRP network management
service, e.g. service provided by Alarm IRP, service provided by Bulk
Configuration Management IRP, is identified by an identifier called \"**IRP
document version number string (IRPVersion)\" (see section 3 of [13])** whose
scope of uniqueness is within 3GPP. The IRPVersion also categorize the network
management service since it unambiguously identified the 3GPP IRP
specification title that bears the name of the network management service.
IRP today have not addressed the (network management service) provisioning
aspect. For example, IRP does not provide a standard means for new network
management service instances to register itself in a Registry so that a
potential IRPManager can discover the newly provisioned network management
service. For discussion on various aspects of Registry/Repository, see Annex
C.
IRP today does not provide a standard means to monitor and track the
performance of the deployed network management service, e.g. AlarmIRP,
BulkCMIRP, etc. However, 3GPP SA5 have begun the study [14] on this area.
## **6.4 Service encapsulation**
This attribute requires the service to hide internal implementation, internal
reference to other services and logic from external service consumer views.
One of the intent of this paper is to promote and encourage 3GPP SA5 to start
work on a new SS based on SOAP. See item 1 of Annex A. This new set of SS, if
agreed to be designed and specify, should be SOA 'compliant'. We do not
suggest spending effort to 'encapsulate' existing and future CORBA SS. For
discussion on technology specific aspects, see Annex D.
## **6.5 Service loose coupling**
This attribute requires services to maintain awareness of each other while
minimizing dependences in the service relationship
IRP has this attribute. IRP maintains loose coupling in the following ways
today.
The IRP notification system is one that provides the decoupling. Notification
producers need not be aware the notification consumer identities. Notification
producer produces whenever appropriate. Consumer decides when it wants to be
notified. They both need not to be \"on line\" at the same time.
All IRP interactions, except that of notification reception, do not require
state or session concept, e.g. an interaction can be implemented/described
regardless of the outcome of the previous interaction.
## 6.6 **Service contract**
This attribute requires services offered to adhere to a well defined agreement
describing among other things, the (kind of) services offered, the protocol to
access those services and any related constraints The syntax of the
description is also well defined so that the service contract can be read by
service consumer processes.
IRP has this attribute.
The 'contract' for IRP today is specified by the IRP interactions in terms
operation, operation parameters, notification, notification parameters, IOC
and IOC attributes. The IS-level specifies the semantics of the constructs
mentioned above. The SS-level specifies the syntax of constructs mentioned. In
addition, it also specifies the bindings in that the CORAB SS implies the
binding is CORBA technology while CMIP SS implies the binding is CMIP
technology. Furthermore, each type of SS, e.g. CORBA SS, also specifies the
transport technology used.
However, since the W3C WSDL is well established for describing web based
services therefore, we will need to investigate if WSDL is useful/suitable for
our proposed SOAP SS, see section 7 WID Proposal One), we would like to
investigate if the IS level specification (see 5.4) can effectively somehow
incorporate WSDL way of writing contract (i.e. service offerings). The mapping
of the logical contract (bindings) to SOAP or to CORBA and the mapping of the
physical contract (transport) to HTTP or IIOP, are matter of the SS-level.
This is to avoid two ways (i.e. the WSDL way and the current IRP IS-level way)
of describing a contract at the IS-level and SS-level.
It is noted that OMG has begun a process to determine if there is a need to
define the so-called non-functional characteristics, such as cost,
scalability, in SOA context. Once OMG has decided that it is relevant to
specify the non‑functional characteristics in SOA context, we will examine if
specification of these non-functional characteristics are applicable in 3GPP
SA5 SOA IRP context.
## **6.7 Service abstraction**
This attribute requires the services offered to be described in the service
contract and that the internal implementation and logic of the service be
hidden from service consumers
IRP has this attribute. The implementation of the IRP network management
services are not standardized (specified by IRP specification). Consumers of
such service cannot tell how the service is implemented. The only things
visible and observable are those defined by the 'contract', i.e. IRP
operations, notifications and IOCs.
## **6.8 Service reusability**
This attribute requires the service logic be divided into service components
with the intention of promoting reuse of those components by other services.
IRP has this attribute.
## **6.9 Service composability**
This attribute allows a collections of services be coordinated and assembled
to form a composite service.
There is no IRP defined services today that is an assembly of some other IRP
services. One IRP service, such as PM IRP, may use the Alarm IRP service to
register a threshold crossing alarm. But such interaction or assembly is
specified in the specification documentation level (and not at run-time).
Whether a product implementation does assembly at run-time or at \"factory\"
is outside the scope of 3GPP standard.
This attribute is at times called Service Orchestration.
## **6.10 Service autonomy**
This attribute requires the service offered to be self-managing and that it
has control over the logic it encapsulates
IRP has this attribute.
## **6.11 Service discoverability**
Network management services are offered and consumed. This attribute allows
the registration of service offered and also allows detection of service
offered by consumers.
IRP does not satisfy this attribute fully today.
IRP today provides the Entry Point IRP [15]. The service allows IRPManager(s)
(potential service consumers) to discover the \"service identification and
categorization\", i.e. IRPVersion of the current available services (including
the Interface IRP IRPVersion and NRM IRP IRPVersion) and the some aspects of
the \"contract\", i.e. operation and notification signatures. The IRPManager,
on reception of these IRPVersion, needs to relate them to specific 3GPP IRP
specifications to \"discover\" the semantics of the services offered.
3GPP in the past has discussion on specifying a mechanism where the
\"contract\", including the NRM schema, can be provided by IRPAgent to
IRPManager. See 7.2.
The EP IRP [15] provides the service where IRPManager can discover what and
where (the service attachment point) the IRP network services are provided.
The EP IRP does not provide a \"registration service\" where newly deployed
IRP network management service can register itself to announce its
availability. See 7.2.
## **6.12 Secured Access**
This attribute requires that the access to the various services offered be
secured. Securing access to information is critical in SOA environment due to
a) its loose coupling of service providers and service consumers and b) the
possibilities that the service providers and the service consumers can be
situated within their own trust zones or boundaries.
IRP has this attribute today. Operations across the Itf-N can be secured in
that, for example, the service requesters' identity can be authenticated, the
service provider's identity can be authenticated. Information across the Itf-N
can be secured in that, for example, corrupt information can be detected, the
information can be encrypted, etc.
# 7 Recommendations and Conclusions
SOA provides methods for systems development and integration where systems
group functionality around business processes and packages these as
interoperable services. A SOA infrastructure allows different applications to
exchange data with one another as they participate in business processes.\ \
The IRP approach is well suited for operating within a SOA environment (see
Section 6). In operator's environment, the FCAPS types of service, supported
by the various IRPs such as AlarmIRP, PMIRP, are one of many key inputs to the
aforementioned business processes. \ \ It is the conclusion and recommendation
of this paper that the various IRPs be evolved further, modified in such that
they can fit even better into an SOA infrastructure. Specifically, this paper
calls for a new Work Item for Release 9 entitled \"SOA for IRP\". This Work
Item would:
  * Enhance 32.101 [18] to include the support of SOA infrastructure as part of its Principles and high level requirements.
  * Enhance 32.102 [19] and 32.150 [20] to include the descriptions of a) the SOA infrastructure and b) the relationship between the SOA infrastructure and the IRP Architecture.
  * Enhance the relevant Interface IRPs in areas that require amendments for its implementations to improve participation in an SOA infrastructure environment. 
###### ### **Annex A:** Conclusion and recommendations of 3GPP TR 32.809;
Feasibility Study of XML-based (SOAP/HTTP) IRP Solution Sets [3]
As a result of this feasibility study, the following points are agreed and
accepted if 3GPP SA5 were to go ahead with an XML-Based Solution Set type:
  * XML-Based Solution Set would not introduce any significant restrictions when compared to existing and used Solution Sets. However, the ability to handle large volume real-time notifications is still to be demonstrated,
  * XML-based Solution Sets introduce fundamental and easy implementation concepts such as flexibility and extensibility, and independence on the transport layer. However, the study has reservation about extensibility in terms of backward compatibility and forward compatibility. Currently, W3C has recognized the importance of such capability and is studying this aspect pending conclusion,
  * Moving to XML-Based Solution Set is clearly a vehicle to use towards harmonization in the Telecom Industry,
This Feasibility Study indicates that SA5 goes ahead with the use of XML-Based
Solution Sets. The introduction of such technologies is beyond 3GPP Release 7.
For a start a particular focus should be set on Service Management but this
shouldn\'t be restrictive. Starting with Service Management implementation
should allow a smooth transition and to gain a know-how experience.
###### ## Annex B: (informative) Table of Solution Sets
This section lists SA5 Release 8 XML related Solution Set. This information is
for information only.
###### ### Annex C: Registry/Repository aspects
A registry/repository for a SOA can hold meta-data about services. It is
conventionally called a registry when it contains links to information about
the service. In a SOA, a registry is interesting at design time and runtime;
at design time for discovery and description of the service, and at runtime to
dynamically discover the service instances and bind to the contract and
policies in order to achieve true loose coupling of applications and services.
Repository functions where data regarding the service is stored may be desired
for a mature SOA, and repository functions may include code versions and
documentation for design time and functions such as message store and logging
for runtime.
For standardization purposes, we have several aspects to consider regarding
registry/repository:
  * publication of the standard in a registry
  * standardizing that services (i.e. IRP implementations with SOA > interface) are to be published in a registry and which information > to be published
  * runtime/machine discovery mechanism
  * runtime/machine binding to the found service
**Publication**
A standard can be published in a registry. The use of having a standard
published in a registry could be for developers and integrators during design
time to more easily check that own developed service contracts comply with the
standard, as well as identifying compatible/compliant published
implementations of those interfaces. Another usage is that services in runtime
could be validated for conformance to the standard.
There are (at least) two options for publishing the standard: 1) specify the
documentation to be published and specify a registry to where it shall be
published, 2) specify the documentation but leave the registry \"place\"
unspecified in the standard..
More importantly, the services implementing the standard can also be
published. The usage of having a service published in a registry is apparent
from the SOA principles: to be discovered and bound to.
The information about the standard-compliant services to be published could be
standardized.
A publish mechanism is needed for runtime or a machine to publish that a
service instance that complies with the standard is deployed.
An unpublish mechanism is needed for runtime or a machine to unpublish a
service instance that complies with the standard.
**Discovery**
A discovery mechanism is needed for runtime or a machine to dynamically find
deployed service instances that comply with the standard.
**Bind to / invoke the service**
A binding mechanism is needed for runtime or a machine to bind to a found
service instance that complies with the standard. Information to be able to
bind to the service instance must be available in the registry. The next step
is to invoke the service, which may be done in the same operation as binding
to the service. The binding/invocation mechanism itself is outside the concern
of a registry.
NOTE: The binding we talk about here is different than a WSDL binding to for
example SOAP.
**Technology**
The IRP methodology of documenting on a technology neutral level in terms of
requirements and IS and on a technology specific level in terms of solution
set, could be applied to the aspects of publishing, discovery and binding.
**UDDI**
A UDDI (Universal Description, Discovery, and Integration) [27] is the name of
a group of web-based registries that expose information about a business,
service or other entity and its technical interfaces (or API's).
Core components of the UDDI data model include the following, for which
descriptions are based on [28] and [29]:
tModel data structure: A tModel is a way of describing the various business,
service, and template structures stored within the UDDI registry. Any
definition of an abstract concept can be registered within UDDI as a tModel
(including for example the URI to a WSDL file or another document). When a
particular specification is registered in the UDDI registry as a tModel, it is
assigned a unique key, called a tModelKey. This key is used by other UDDI
entities to reference the tModel, for example to indicate compliance with the
specification.
bindingTemplate data structure: Binding templates are the technical
descriptions of the web services and represents the actual implementation of
the web service. Binding templates can refer tModels. Service vendors use
binding templates for their services, and these can refer to standards
represented in tModels.
businessService data structure: The business service structure represents an
individual web service and uses binding templates.
To access a UDDI, there are two interfaces; the Publisher interface and the
Inquiry interface. These interfaces provide for a publication mechanism and a
discovery mechanism.
Reference [29] recommends an approach for mapping between WSDL and the UDDI
data model. Creating such a mapping, the contract itself can be stored in the
UDDI registry. Such a mapping uses also the businessService data structure in
addition to the tModel data structure. Therefore, for the WSDLs of the IRPs,
such a mapping does not seem suitable since businessService is not to be
referenced from a binding template.
**Entry Point IRP**
The Entry Point IRP (EPIRP) provides some registry capabilities. It provides
information about the IRPs that are supported by the IRPAgent that contains
the EPIRP. Optionally, the EPIRP provides also information about IRPs that are
supported by other IRPAgents.
The standard does not specify how the information gets into the EPIRP, it only
specifies how to get information from the EPIRP and how to request information
to be released (deleted) from the EPIRP. A notification of changes to the
information is also provided.
###### ### Annex D: Technology specific aspects
# D.1 Background technical information
**HTTP**
A HTTP [21] message is either a request or a response. A request has a method,
either GET, PUT, POST, DELETE or another of the specified HTTP request
methods. These methods operate on a resource identified with a URI supplied
with the request, and this URI is called Request-URI.
GET requests to retrieve whatever information (in the form of an entity) is
identified by the supplied Request-URI.
PUT requests that the enclosed entity be stored as a resource identified with
the supplied Request-URI.
POST requests that enclosed entity be handled, and with the supplied Request-
URI identifies the resource that will handle the enclosed entity.
DELETE requests that the resource identified with the supplied Request-URI be
deleted.
**SOAP**
SOAP [22] wraps messages bound to SOAP in SOAP envelopes. A SOAP envelope
consists of an optional header and a mandatory body. SOAP binds SOAP messages
to an underlying protocol.
Binding to HTTP POST for the Request-Response message exchange pattern and
HTTP GET for the SOAP Response message exchange pattern is specified as the
binding called \"SOAP 1.2 HTTP Binding\". Other bindings are allowed although
not specified by the SOAP specifications.
The \"Web Method Feature\" in SOAP 1.2 provides methods GET, PUT, POST and
DELETE (within the SOAP layer). These are also bound to an underlying
protocol, so that a PUT can be bound to an HTTP POST.
SOAP 1.1 [30] only defines binding to the HTTP POST method for requests over
HTTP.
**WSDL**
A WSDL 1.1 [23] document consists of five parts:
  * _types_ : Constructs specifying the data structures used by the > service
  * _message_ : A construct specifying the data structure that is used in > a particular input, output, or fault message (each message > references a structure specified in the types section)
  * _portType_ : A construct defining a set of operations, and for each > operation specifies the input, output, and fault messages that are > exchanged for that operation. Each operation references the > messages described in the messages section. A portType can be used > by multiple services in different namespaces.
  * _binding_ : A construct that binds a service to a portType and > protocol. The protocol that can be bound to in a WSDL binding is > SOAP 1.1, SOAP 1.2, HTTP Get, or HTTP Post. If bound to SOAP, a > choice must be made between the two styles _document_ and _rpc_ > for bindings and operations, and a choice between the outlines > _literal_ or _encoded_ for the body parts. A binding can be used > by multiple services in different namespaces.
  * _service_ : A construct that specifies the physical endpoint that > provides access to a particular binding for the Web service. A > service _port_ defined within the _service_ , references a > _binding_.
WSDL 2.0 [24] has some changes compared to WSDL 1.1. The _message_ section is
removed, and _portType_ is renamed _interface_. An _interface_ defines its
input, output, and fault messages, and references the types directly (instead
of referencing the messages as in WSDL 1.1). WSDL 2.0 can bind to also the
other HTTP operations than HTTP Get and HTTP Post, and also HTTPS operations.
A single WSDL document may contain multiple services.
**SOAP based Web services**
The interface to a Web service can be represented by a WSDL document. We can
say that a WSDL description provides all the information a client needs to use
a Web service. This information includes the address, allowable communication
mechanisms, interface/portType, and messages. Therefore, from an interface
perspective, usage of WSDL for an Interface IRP would ensure that we provide
for a Web service based interface.
**RESTful Web services**
REST (Representational State Transfer) [25] and so-called RESTful [26] Web
services is commonly described as an alternative to using SOAP for Web
services. One can consider SOA being at a higher level of abstraction than
REST, so that also REST can be used as a technology in fulfilling a SOA,
similar as SOAP can be used in fulfilling a SOA.
A RESTful architecture is resource oriented and data-centric. The resources
are identified with URIs. A RESTful Web services is called so when it is
represented with a resource identified with a URI and MIME-encoded data,
together with either of the HTTP operations GET, PUT, POST, or DELETE.
For the specification of SOA services, one can specify contracts that consist
of resources and data operated on with HTTP operations directly. An option is
to specify the contract in a WSDL 2.0 document which binds the service to an
interface that uses appropriate HTTP operation.
As an exercise for giving an example and exploring the possibility, let us
consider the createMO operation of the Basic CM IRP as a service that we want
to expose in a SOA and realize with a RESTful Web service. We can then write a
contract for createMO, where we specify the Request-URI,
> http://URL_of_IRPAgent/32.607/createMO
and in the contract specify usage of HTTP POST and that the DN of the MO shall
be in the HTTP message body. When the IRPAgent receives this HTTP request, it
invokes intelligence as addressed by the Request-URI and creates the MO.
But one could argue that the above representation of the createMO service is
not particularly RESTful since it involves invocation of an operation in
addition to HTTP. A more RESTful method could be the following:
We write a contract for createMO, where we specify the Request-URI,
> http://URL_of_IRPAgent/32.607/\ syntax>
and in the contract specify usage of HTTP PUT. When the IRPAgent receives this
HTTP request, it creates the MO given in the Request-URI.
For many operations of the IRPs, for example subscribe (of the Notification
IRP), the mapping to a RESTful representation would be less straight forward.
RESTful services promise great scalability, and an example of a RESTful
architecture is the World Wide Web where the capabilities of HTTP are
utilized.
One limitation with RESTful services is that they are made for peer-to-peer
communication without the use of intermediaries.
**Discussion SOAP vs. RESTful for IRPs**
For the following discussion, it is assumed that the operations on IS level
are kept the same and represent services to be mapped to the solution set
level. Then on the solution set level we map the IS level to either a SOAP
based representation or a RESTful representation.
SOAP uses the Internet as transport. SOAP can be transported in HTTP or
another protocol. One can argue that in the case that SOAP uses HTTP, in this
case SOAP uses the Web. But it is only HTTP POST that is used (for requests),
not for example DELETE or PUT. Over the HTTP layer, SOAP constitutes a
messaging layer, so that instead of merely using HTTP operations, operations
such as createMO are encoded in SOAP messages transported over HTTP.
In distinction, RESTful services use HTTP operations as the actual operations
of the services. The service would then be represented by the combination of
operation (verb) and resource (noun).
In this perspective, usage of SOAP involves an extra layer of operations in
comparison to the RESTful approach.
Another perspective is that the semantics of a service is the same with both
approaches. If we simplify the operation part in the sense of limiting the
operation (verb) repertoire to GET, PUT, DELETE and POST, we will have to add
complexity to the nouns for many services. Therefore, the complexity of using
SOAP versus RESTful is debatable.
We can observe that there is nothing in SOAP based Web services that are
really related to the Web, since the Web is merely used as underlying
transport, or if SOAP binds to for example TCP directly then the Internet is
used as transport similarly as for CORBA. Therefore, for the discussion of
SOA, it seems the most constructive to consider Web services as just a name of
the category of services when the service is expressed in form of a WSDL
document, rather than presuming any characteristic of Web services that can be
associated with the ones of the Web.
To note is that WSDL 2.0 provides the mean of specifying a contract in a
standard XML format also for a RESTful Web service.
Given the operations already specified on IS level for the IRPs, it seems more
straight forward to map these operations to WSDL with binding to SOAP, rather
than representing them as RESTful services. However, if we in evolving to SOA
change the IS level, then a possibility is of course to adapt the IS level to
be more suitable to be represented as RESTful services.
**Web Service Interoperability**
The Web Services Interoperability Organization (WS-I) created profiles to
solve interoperability issues with Web Services. WS-I Basic Profile 1.1 [31]
is finalized and describes messaging based on SOAP 1.1 and service description
based on WSDL 1.1. Additionally the WS-I Basic Security Profile 1.0 has been
published, which describes interoperable secured communication between Web
services [30].
Among other things WS-I Basic Profile 1.1 limits the WSDL binding style to
Document/literal and RPC/literal.
WS-I Basic Profile 1.2 [33] is a working group approval draft and includes WS-
Addressing that provides transport neutral communication between Web Services.
WS-I Basic Profile 2.0 [34] is currently drafted and will include SOAP 1.2
messaging and service discovery based on UDDI 3.0.
In order to avoid interoperability issues and creation of another Web Service
profile WS-I profiles should be considered.
# D.2 Possible technology choices
The relevant choices are listed in the following table.
* * *
**Choice #** **Approach** **Documentation** **Binding** **WSDL binding style**
**Underlying protocol** 1 WSDL/SOAP WSDL v1.1 SOAP 1.1 Document/literal HTTP
1.1 (POST) 2 Unspecified 3 RPC/encoded _(not WS-I compliant)_ HTTP 1.1 (POST)
4 Unspecified 5 RPC/literal HTTP 1.1 (POST) 6 Unspecified 7 SOAP 1.2
Document/literal HTTP 1.1 (POST and GET) 8 Unspecified 9 RPC/encoded _(not
WS-I compliant)_ HTTP 1.1 (POST and GET) 10 Unspecified 11 RPC/literal HTTP
1.1 (POST and GET) 12 Unspecified 13 WSDL v2.0 SOAP 1.1 Document/literal HTTP
1.1 (POST ) 14 Unspecified 15 RPC/encoded _(not WS-I compliant)_ HTTP 1.1
(POST ) 16 Unspecified 17 RPC/literal HTTP 1.1 (POST ) 18 Unspecified 19 SOAP
1.2 Document/literal HTTP 1.1 (POST and GET) 20 Unspecified 21 RPC/encoded
_(not WS-I compliant)_ HTTP 1.1 (POST and GET) 22 Unspecified 23 RPC/literal
HTTP 1.1 (POST and GET) 24 Unspecified 25 RESTful WSDL 2.0 HTTP 1.1 (POST,
GET, PUT, DELETE) - - 26 HTTP 1.1 (POST, GET, PUT, DELETE) - - -
* * *
For information: Release 8 of the IRP SOAP solution sets; Generic (32.317),
Notification (32.307), Kernel CM (32.667), Basic CM (32.607), Bulk CM (617),
Alarm (32.111-7), Performance Management (32.417), File Transfer (32.347), and
Entry Point (32.367) have choice 1.
#