# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
One of the targets of SON is to keep the network quality and performance with
minimum operator attention and maintenance costs. Self-healing is a SON
functionality which detects problems itself and solves or mitigates these
problems to avoid user impact and to significantly reduce maintenance costs.
# 1 Scope
The present document is focused on studying on self-healing of SON. This study
provides the general procedure of self-healing, and collects the use cases of
self-healing and proposed related requirements. The findings and proposals of
the study may be used to help generate new Technical Specifications (TS)
and/or enhance existing Technical Specifications.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.111-1: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management; Part
1: 3G fault management requirements\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
alarm: See 3GPP TS 32.111-1 [2].
fault: See 3GPP TS 32.111-1 [2].
Stop condition: The self-healing procedure may include one or more iterations
until the related fault is resolved or the thresholds of some parameters (e.g.
iteration counter or iteration duration time, etc.) are reached. These
thresholds are used to determine whether to stop the procedure if the related
fault is still not resolved after several iterations or a long time. We call
these thresholds as well as fault resolution the stop conditions.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
EPC Evolved Packet Core
E-UTRAN Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
NE Network Element
OAM Operation Administration Maintenance
SON Self Organizing Networks
# 4 Self-healing overview
## **4.1 General description**
Self-healing is a functionality of SON. The purpose of self-healing is to
solve or mitigate the faults which could be solved automatically by triggering
appropriate recovery actions.
From the point of view of fault management, for each detected fault,
appropriate alarms shall be generated by the faulty network entity, regardless
of whether it is an ADAC or an ADMC fault.
So, the trigger of self-healing is alarm. The self-healing functionality
monitors the alarms, and when it finds alarm/s which could be solved
automatically, it gathers more necessary correlated information (e.g.
measurements, testing result, etc) and does deep analysis, and then according
to the analysis result, it triggers appropriate recovery actions to solve the
fault automatically.
The self-healing functionality also monitors the execution of the recovery
action/s and decides the next step accordingly. After a self-healing iteration
ended, the self-healing functionality shall generate and forward appropriate
notifications to inform the IRPManager about all the changes performed.
## **4.2 Recovery actions**
In the case of software faults, the recovery actions may be：
> a) system initializations (at different levels),
>
> b) reload of a backup of software,
>
> c) activation of a fallback software load,
>
> d) download of a software unit,
>
> e) reconfiguration, etc.
In the case of hardware faults, the recovery actions depend on the existence
and type of redundant (i.e. back-up) resources.
If the faulty resource has redundancy, the recovery action shall be
changeover.
If the faulty resource has no redundancy, the recovery actions may be:
> a) Isolate and remove the faulty resource from service so that it cannot
> disturb other working resources;
>
> b) Remove from service the physical and functional resources (if any) which
> are dependent on the faulty one. This prevents the propagation of the fault
> effects to other fault-free resources;
>
> c) State management related activities for the faulty resource and other
> affected/dependent resources;
>
> d) Reset the faulty resource;
>
> e) Other reconfiguration actions, etc
In the case of other kinds of faults, the recovery actions are FFS.
## **4.3 General self-healing procedure**
The logic view of the general self-healing procedure is shown in figure 1:
Figure 1: logic view of the general self-healing procedure
Step 1: The self-healing functionality monitors the alarms, and when it finds
alarm/s which can be solved automatically, go to step 2.
Step 2: It gathers more necessary correlated information (e.g. measurements,
CM data, testing result, etc).
Step 3: Based on the alarm and gathered correlated information, it does deep
analysis and diagnosis, and gives the result: recovery actions.
Step 4: It triggers appropriate recovery actions to solve the fault
automatically.
Step 5: It evaluates the result of self-healing:
> If it finds that the fault has been solved, then go to step 6.
>
> Else:
>
> If it finds that the stop condition of self-healing is reached, then go to
> step 7.
>
> If it finds that the stop condition of self-healing is not reached, then go
> to step 2.
Step 6: Clear the original alarm/s. Go to step 8.
Step 7: A notification shall be raised summarizing what the system has already
done trying to cure the problem. Go to step 8.
Step 8: The iteration of self-healing is ended.
# 5 Use cases of self-healing
## **5.1 High level use case**
### 5.1.1 Alarm monitoring and self-healing
+-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Use Case Stage** | **Evolution / |** \** | | | Specification** | | | | | **Related use** | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Goal (\\*) | In the OAM system, the | | | | alarms are monitored | | | | realtimely. When an | | | | alarm which can be | | | | self-healed is raised, | | | | it is treated as the | | | | trigger of the | | | | self-healing and the | | | | gathering of | | | | correlated | | | | information. By | | | | gathering the | | | | correlated information | | | | and further analysis, | | | | the self-healing | | | | actions of the fault | | | | shall be triggered. | | | | | | | | The monitored alarms | | | | and the self-healing | | | | actions shall be | | | | configurable by the | | | | operator. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Actors and Roles (\\*) | Self-healing function, | | | | IRPManager | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Telecom resources | The E-UTRAN/EPC | | | | network including its | | | | OSS. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Assumptions | The network is | | | | properly installed and | | | | running. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Pre conditions | Network is in normal | | | | operation. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Begins when | Automatically | | | | triggered when an | | | | alarm received, the | | | | alarm may be emitted | | | | by NE or OAM system. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Step 1 (\\*) (M) | The self-healing | | | | functionality monitors | | | | the alarms, and when | | | | it finds alarm/s which | | | | can be solved | | | | automatically, goes to | | | | step 2. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Step 2 (\\*) (M) | It gathers more | | | | necessary correlated | | | | information (e.g. | | | | measurements, CM data, | | | | testing result, etc). | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Step 3 (\\*) (M) | Based on the alarm and | | | | gathered correlated | | | | information, it does | | | | deep analysis and | | | | diagnosis, and gives | | | | the result: recovery | | | | actions. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Step 4 (\\*) (M) | It triggers | | | | appropriate recovery | | | | actions to solve the | | | | fault automatically. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Step 5 (\\*) (M) | It evaluates the | | | | result of | | | | self-healing: | | | | | | | | > If it finds that the | | | | > fault has been | | | | > solved, then the | | | | > iteration of | | | | > self-healing is | | | | > ended. | | | | > | | | | > If it finds that the | | | | > recovery is failed, | | | | > then an alarm shall | | | | > be raised | | | | > summarizing what the | | | | > system has already | | | | > done trying to cure | | | | > the problem. | | | | > | | | | > If the fault hasn't | | | | > been solved and the | | | | > recovery is not | | | | > failed, then the | | | | > iteration of | | | | > self-healing runs | | | | > again. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Ends when (*) | **Ends when all steps | | | | identified above are | | | | completed or when an | | | | exception occurs.** | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Exceptions | FFS. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Post Conditions | If the fault has been | | | | solved, the alarm is | | | | disappeared. Otherwise | | | | an alarm shall be | | | | raised summarizing | | | | what the system has | | | | already done trying to | | | | cure the problem. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Traceability (*) | | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+
## **5.2 Use cases**
### 5.2.1 Self Recovery of NE Software
+-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Use Case Stage** | **Evolution / |** \>**| | | Specification** | | | | | **Related use** | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Goal (*) | The NE software is | | | | recovered to the | | | | initial status or the | | | | status of latest | | | | backup, to ensure the | | | | NE software runs | | | | normally. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Actors and Roles (*) | FFS | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Telecom resources | The E-UTRAN/EPC | | | | network including its | | | | OSS. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Assumptions | The network is | | | | properly installed and | | | | running. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Pre conditions | The operator has the | | | | initial backup or the | | | | latest backup of the | | | | NE software and | | | | configuration data. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Begins when | The software | | | | monitoring | | | | functionality detects | | | | the abnormal status | | | | and emits appropriate | | | | alarm/s. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Step 1 (*) (M) | The software | | | | monitoring | | | | functionality detects | | | | the abnormal status | | | | and emits appropriate | | | | alarm/s. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Step 2 (*) (M) | The self-healing | | | | functionality | | | | monitoring the related | | | | alarm/s, and triggers | | | | the healing procedure: | | | | | | | | a. Verify the version | | | | of software, if it | | | | is found that the | | | | software is | | | | destroyed, restore | | | | the backup of the | | | | destroyed | | | | software. | | | | | | | | `{=html} | | | |  | | | |` | | | | a. Check the | | | | configuration | | | | data, if it is | | | | found that the | | | | configuration data | | | | is incorrect, | | | | reconfigure or | | | | restore the | | | | configuration | | | | data. | | | | | | | | b. If necessary, | | | | restart the | | | | process. | | | | | | | | c. If it is still | | | | abnormal after the | | | | healing procedure, | | | | a notificaton | | | | shall be raised to | | | | notify the | | | | IRPManager. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Ends when (*) | **Ends when all steps | | | | identified above are | | | | completed or when an | | | | exception occurs.** | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Exceptions | FFS. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Post Conditions | The NE software is | | | | running normally or | | | | the operator processes | | | | the problem manually. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Traceability (*) | | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+
### 5.2.2 Self-healing of board faults
+-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Use Case Stage** | **Evolution / |** \>**| | | Specification** | | | | | **Related use** | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Goal (*) | System detects board | | | | faults and mitigates | | | | or solves them | | | | automatically to avoid | | | | user impact (E.g. | | | | system switch to | | | | standby board | | | | automatically when | | | | active board | | | | malfunctions). | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Actors and Roles (*) | FFS | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Telecom resources | The E-UTRAN/EPC | | | | network including its | | | | OSS. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Assumptions | The network is | | | | properly installed and | | | | running. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Pre conditions | Network is in normal | | | | operation. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Begins when | The system detects a | | | | board fault. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Step 1 (*) (M) | The system detects a | | | | board fault | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Step 2 (*) (M) | The self-healing | | | | functionality | | | | monitoring the board | | | | faults and triggers | | | | the healing procedure: | | | | | | | | a. The self-healing | | | | functionality | | | | collects the | | | | redundant | | | | information of the | | | | faulty board, and | | | | processes | | | | accordingly: | | | | | | | | - If there is a | | | | stand-by board | | | | and the | | | | stand-by board | | | | is in | | | | operational | | | | state, then | | | | the failed | | | | board will be | | | | blocked and a | | | | changeover | | | | will be | | | | started | | | | automatically. | | | | Reset the | | | | blocked board, | | | | if it turns to | | | | normal, then | | | | it treated as | | | | the redundant | | | | board. | | | | | | | | - If there is | | | | not a | | | | redundant | | | | board or the | | | | redundant | | | | board is in | | | | abnormal | | | | status, then | | | | the failed | | | | board will be | | | | blocked. | | | | | | | | b. A notificaton | | | | shall be raised to | | | | notify the | | | | IRPManager the | | | | healing result and | | | | all the healing | | | | actions performed, | | | | whether | | | | successfully or | | | | not. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Ends when (*) | **Ends when all steps | | | | identified above are | | | | completed or when an | | | | exception occurs.** | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Exceptions | FFS. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Post Conditions | The device is running | | | | normally or the | | | | operator processes the | | | | problem manually. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Traceability (*) | | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+
### 5.2.3 Use case self-healing of Cell Outage
+-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Use Case Stage** | **Evolution / |** \>**| | | Specification** | | | | | **Related use** | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Goal (*) | When cell outage (e.g. | | | | sleeping, | | | | out-of-service, etc) | | | | faults are detected, | | | | the self-healing | | | | functionality resolves | | | | and compensates them | | | | automatically. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Actors and Roles (*) | Self-healing function, | | | | IRPManager | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Telecom resources | The E-UTRAN/EPC | | | | network including its | | | | OSS. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Assumptions | The network is | | | | properly installed and | | | | running. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Pre conditions | Network is in normal | | | | operation. | | | | | | | | The related NE does | | | | not have redundant | | | | hardware. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Begins when | A cell outage fault is | | | | detected. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Step 1 (*) (M) | The self-healing | | | | functionality monitors | | | | the cell outage | | | | conditions and | | | | triggers the healing | | | | procedure. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Step 2 (*) (M) | The self-healing | | | | functionality tries to | | | | heal the fault. The | | | | self-healing | | | | functionality may use | | | | different means to | | | | heal the fault, for | | | | example: | | | | | | | | - Try to | | | | re-establish the | | | | cell. The | | | | re-establishment | | | | can be tried | | | | several times. | | | | | | | | If the healing is | | | | successful, then the | | | | cell compensation is | | | | not needed; otherwise: | | | | | | | | Cell compensation is | | | | processed as below: | | | | | | | | 1. Disable the faulty | | | | cell; | | | | | | | | 2. Option: Backup | | | | related | | | | configuration | | | | information; | | | | | | | | 3. Reconfigure the | | | | adjacent cells to | | | | compensate the | | | | faulty cell. The | | | | details of | | | | reconfiguration of | | | | the adjacent cells | | | | are FFS. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Step 3(*) (M\|O) | The self-healing | | | | functionality monitors | | | | the removal of the | | | | cell outage alarm. If | | | | a cell outage is | | | | recovered and the | | | | related cell has been | | | | compensated by a | | | | reconfiguration of | | | | other cells, then: | | | | | | | | a. Check the state of | | | | the cell. If it is | | | | disabled, then | | | | enable it. | | | | | | | | b. May reconfigure | | | | the adjacent cells | | | | to recovery the | | | | performed | | | | compensating | | | | actions. The | | | | details of | | | | reconfiguration of | | | | the adjacent cells | | | | are FFS. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Ends when (*) | Ends when all steps | | | | identified above are | | | | completed or when an | | | | exception occurs. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Exceptions | FFS. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Post Conditions | The cell is running | | | | normally or the | | | | operator processes the | | | | problem manually but | | | | the end users are not | | | | or only minimally | | | | affected. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Traceability (*) | | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+
# 6 Requirements of self-healing
## **6.1 Business requirements**
**REQ_SH_CON_001** The IRPManager shall be able to choose the alarms to be
monitored and the corresponding self-healing actions.
**REQ_SH_CON_002** It shall be possible for the self-healing actions to be
confirmed by the IRPManager before they are executed.
**REQ_SH_CON_003** The self-healing functionality shall be performed with
minimal human intervention.
## **6.2 Specification level requirements**
**REQ_SH_FUN_001** If the self-healing fails, the IRPAgent shall inform the
IRPManager about the self-healing result.
**REQ_SH_FUN_002** The self-healing actions shall be logged and the log made
available through Itf-N.
**REQ_SH_FUN_003** The IRPAgent shall support a capability allowing the
IRPManager to enable and disable the self-healing functionalities.
# 7 Conclusions and Recommendations
According to the research result until now, although the procedures of
different self-healing functions are similar, the detail alarm/s which a self-
healing function monitors and the recovery actions are different. Even for the
same self-healing function from different vendors, the monitored alarm/s and
the recovery action/s may be different. So, it is recommended that the
solutions of self-healing should be implemented in case by case manner.
For further specification work, it is recommended to define a general
framework for the self-healing function, including the faults that a self-
healing function may resolve and the general method of the self-healing
function. The alarms monitored by the self-healing function and the recovery
actions of the self-healing function may not be specified for all self-healing
use cases.
#