# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The EMS (Element Management System) plays an important role in network
management architecture. In general, the EMS is provided by vendors of the
nodes and operators, using IRPManager, can manage the nodes through the EMS.
This study is to evaluate if some key or core EMS management functions can be
standardized to support a better (most cost/effective) management paradigm in
a multi-vendor network environment.
# 1 Scope
The present document studies key maintenance functions of element management
system (EMS) in order to decide which one is necessary and could be managed
over Itf-N, and makes a set of recommendations.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] ITU-T M.3020-2000: \"TMN interface specification methodology\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
(void)
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
(void)
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
EMS Element Management System
# 4 Concepts and background
The EMS plays an important role in network management architecture. In
general, the EMS is provided by vendors of the nodes and operators, using
IRPManager, can manage the nodes through the EMS. Therefore, when EMS is
unavailable or down, the operator, using IRPManager, would not be able to
manage the nodes. Vendors of EMS supply proprietary interface via which the
EMS itself can be managed and maintained.
This study is to evaluate if some key or core EMS management functions can be
standardized to support a better (most cost/effective) management paradigm in
a multi-vendor network environment.
# 5 Requirements of system maintenance over Itf-N
## 5.1 Business level requirements
_For production of the contents of this subclause, follow the instructions in
M.3020 [2] subclause "A.2.2.1"._
### 5.1.1 High-level use case
### 5.1.2 EMS maintenance over Itf-N
Manager directs agent to maintain the EMS in multi-vendor environment.
## 5.2 Specification level requirements
_For production of the contents of this subclause, follow the instructions in
M.3020 [2] subclause "A.2.2.2"._
### 5.2.1 Use cases
#### 5.2.1.2 Time synchronization between IRPManager and IRPAgent
Time synchronization between IRPManager and IRPAgent is necessary in many
occasions, especially in performance management and notification log
management.
The time difference between IRPManager and IRPAgent would lead to pontential
problems in the following use cases, which clearly show that it is necessary
to study the time synchronization solutions in the scope of SA5 in order to
ensure the correct implementation of the SA5 specifications.
**Use case1: When parameter _stopTime_ in the operation _createMeasurementJob_
is earlier than the current time in IRPAgent present time, the performance
Measurement Job can not be performed successfully.**\ \ For example, the time
of IRPManager is 4 hours later than IRPAgent, and IRPManager wants to create a
measurement job that should finish in 3 hours. This operation would fail as
depicted in the below figure:
Note: Because of the time difference, the IRPAgent would mistakenly consider
the stoptime parameter in operation as illegal and return a failure message.
Figure: Use case1:
**Use case2: IRPManager can not obtain the performance measurement data file
because the IRPAgent removed the files according to its _fileExpirationTime_
before the IRPManager could get it.**\ \ For example: the time of IRPManager
is 4 hours later than IRPAgent.\ The IRPAgent plans to remove the data file 1
hour later.,\ If the IRPManager has not obtained the file in time, the file
would not be available when an\ \"ftp get\" operation begin as in the below
figure:
Figure: Use case2:
**Use case3: IRPManager can not obtain the notification log (it has subscribed
for) when the parameter _loggingEndTime_ in the operation _subScribeLog_ is
equal or earlier than the present time in IRPAgent.\ \ **This case is similar
to Use case 1.
#### 5.2.1.3 Resources monitoring on EMS
The resources which should be (or are) monitored include: CPU usage ratio,
memory, hard disk and the status of processes on the EMS.
**Use case 1: getting the resource information and related notification**
> Sometimes, failures are the result of lack of system resources on the EMS.
> For example, the clear alarm operation would fail if the IRPManager tries to
> clear an alarm through Itf-N while the hard disk of the EMS is full, because
> the cleared alarm can not be written into the database of the EMS. And,
> there is no detailed reason in the output parameter of the operation. In
> this case, the resources monitoring on EMS would help to find out if the
> hard disk of the EMS is full.
>
> Furthermore, if the IRPManager can set the use ratio threshold of the
> resources on the EMS, and can receive corresponding notifications when the
> use ratio of the resources exceed the threshold, then the operator can be
> aware of the lack of the resources on the EMS and do appropriate operation
> in advance to avoid some problems.\ For example, when the use ratio of the
> hard disk exceeds the threshold (e.g. 95%), the IRPManager would receive the
> alarm notification, and then the operator may decide to remove some log data
> to reduce the use ratio of the Hard disk.
**Use case 2: the resource information report of the EMS**
> To keep the performance capability of the EMS and find potential problems,
> it is useful for the IRPManager to know the usage of the resources on the
> EMS. One method is to let the EMS report the information of the resources
> regularly.\ For example, if the operator reads the resource information
> report and finds that the average usage ratios of the resources (e.g. CPU,
> memory, hard disk, etc.) on the EMS are usually high, then the operator
> might consider upgrading the hardware of the EMS.
**Use case 3: monitoring the status of processes on the EMS**
> Sometimes, some functionality on the EMS is not available, and this problem
> might be caused by the fact that one or more processes on the EMS are not
> active. Consequently, in such a case, the operator could get the status of
> the processes on the EMS. Subsequently, the operator could find which
> processes are inactive and give the vendor more detailed information which
> might contribute to fast/rapid troubleshooting.
#### 5.2.1.4 Software management of EMS
EMSs become more and more powerful nodes. With the latest hardware it is
possible to manage major parts of the network with one EMS. This increases the
vulnerability of the operator.
The management of the software of EMS provides the operators a feature which
they can manage EMSs more effectively.
**Use case 1: Software version management of EMS**
Software version data of EMS is information pertaining to software version of
EMS, and shall be manageable.
Inaccurate software version data of EMS can impede daily network management.
It would be helpful for the operator if they can get the exact software
version data of EMS. For example, in software update procedure, the operator
need to know the correct software version number of EMS in advance, otherwise
the update may fail if the software version does not match the patch version.
Especially in a multiple-vendor environment, how to manage software version
data of different EMSs effectively is important for operators. Log into
different EMSs one by one to query each one's software version data is lengthy
and costly.
The software data may include software vendor name, software version number,
software filename, software file time, software upgrade history info, etc.
**Use case 2: Software upgrade of EMS**
Software upgrade procedure of EMS usually includes software download,
installation and activation. Traditionally, the EMS software upgrade has to be
done locally when it is confirmed by the operators. Quite often manual work is
necessary in the software upgrade procedure, which make it very complex and
time consuming.
It will be helpful for operators to manage the upgrade over Itf-N.
In a multiple-vendor environment, different EMS software upgrade procedures
need more different EMS vendor involved in, which means more **time** ,
**money** and resources are needed. Automated update trigger would be very
helpful for the successful implementation of these updates.
There are some common operations among these upgrade procedures. It will
reduce costs and simplify upgrade procedure if the IRPManager can manage the
EMS software upgrade in a centralized way.
### 5.2.2 Requirements
#### 5.2.2.1
(void)
#### 5.2.2.2 Time synchronization between IRPManager and IRPAgent
For the purpose of keeping the time synchronized between IRPManager(s) and
IRPAgent(s) and provide accurate time in data transferred over Itf-N, the
IRPManager(s) and IRPAgent(s) should synchronize their clocks against a time
reference, for example with the use of NTP [IETF RFC 1305].
#### 5.2.2.3 Resources monitoring on EMS
  1. The IRPManager shall be able to manage the resources (CPU, memory, hard disk, etc.) monitoring on EMS, the management include:
a. Start and stop the resources monitor on EMS
b. Setting the schedule of the reporting
c. Setting the thresholds of the resources
  2. The IRPManager shall be able to request the IRPAgent to report the usage information of the resources.
  3. The IRPAgent shall report the usage information of the resources according to the schedule or the request from the IRPManager.
  4. The IRPAgent shall emit alarm notifications (including clearing) when the usage of resources (CPU, memory, hard disk, etc.) is beyond the threshold (additional constraints may apply for different resources).
#### 5.2.2.4 Software version management of EMS
  1. The IRP manager shall be able to request the current active software version information of EMS.
  2. The IRP manager shall be able to initiate the download and activation of the EMS software.
  3. The IRP agent should be able to initiate the software download and activation according to the policy of software version management.
  4. All the IRP managers shall be notified by IRP agent after the software activation or upgrade of EMS. i.e., when new software is active in EMS, all the IRP managers shall be notified.
Editor's notes: The IRP agent notifies the IRP managers after software
activation of EMS may lead to a self-discovered solution.
# 6 Solution for system maintenance over Itf-N
## 6.1 Existing standards or de-facto standards
There are no existing standards or de facto standards for resources monitoring
on EMS currently.
There are no existing standards or de facto standards for time synchronization
between IRPManager and IRPAgent currently.
There are no existing standards or de facto standards for software management
of EMS currently.
## 6.2 Detailed proposal
### 6.2.1 Resources monitoring on EMS
For resources monitoring on EMS, there can be two solutions. One is to define
a new IRP for resources monitoring on EMS, the other is to re-use performance
management (PM) IRP.
**Solutions 1: Define a new IRP to get the usage information of the resources
on EMS**
a. The IRPManager shall be able to configure the resources (CPU, memory, hard
disk, etc.) monitoring on the IRPAgent, the configurations should include:
    i.  Setting the schedule of the reporting
    ii. Setting the thresholds of the resources
    iii. Detailed configuration parameters' data structure FFS
b. The IRPManager shall be able to request the IRPAgent to start the resources
monitoring.
c. The IRPManager shall be able to request the IRPAgent to stop the resources
monitoring.
d. The IRPManager shall be able to request the IRPAgent to report the usage
information of the resources in real time manner or in schedule manner.
e. The IRPAgent shall gather and report the usage information of the resources
according to the schedule or the request from the IRPManager. The detailed
data structure of usage information FFS.
f. The IRPAgent shall emit alarm notifications (including clearing) when the
usage of resources (CPU, memory, hard disk, etc.) beyond the threshold.
g. The IRP Agent shall fulfil the requirement of resource monitoring on EMSs
in real time.
**Advantage** : The IRPManager can get the usage information of the resources
in real time manner and schedule manner.
**Disadvantage** : Partly reduplicate with performance management (PM) IRP.
**Solution 2: Re-use the Performance Management (PM) IRP**
a) Add a new performance measurement family type for the EMS resources
b) Use the performance management (PM) IRP to get the usage information of the
resources according to the schedule
**Advantage** : Reduce costs and minimise both the standardisation and product
development efforts.
**Disadvantage** : The IRPManager can not get the usage information of the
resources in real time manner.
### 6.2.2 Software management of EMS
The software management of EMS can be implemented by using operations
initiated by IRPManager over Itf-N. It is proposed to add software management
related operations/notification in Itf-N to support software management of
EMS. The following operations/notification shall be included:
1) GetSWversion, which allows the IRPManager to get the software version
information of EMS
2) DownloadSW, which allows the IRPManager to download the software of EMS.
3) ActivateSW, which allows the IRPManager to activate the software of EMS.
The above operations can be defined by enhancing the existing interface IRPs
or by introducing new interface IRP.
### 6.3.3 Time synchronization between IRPManager and IRPAgent
The time synchronization between IRPManager and IRPAgent can be implemented by
using existing time synchronization protocol. It is vendor specific to make
necessary configuration to support the time synchronization.
# 7 Conclusions
The study has been conducted in order of the key management functions of EMS.
For each management function, use case, requirement and solution has been
provided. It has been acknowledged that there is no general consensus for the
EMS maintenance over Itf-N. For each management functions, recommendations
have been provided as:
  1. Resource monitoring: reuse/adapt the existing PM IRP to include the resource monitoring of EMS
  2. Time synchronization: no standardization over Itf-N needed.
  3. Software management: reuse/adapt the existing SWM IRP.
#