# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the Radio Frequency (RF) test methods and
conformance requirements for E-UTRA Relay. These have been derived from, and
are consistent with the E-UTRA Relay specifications defined in [2].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 36.116: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Relay radio transmission and reception\".
[3] 3GPP TS 36.141: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Base Station (BS) Conformance Testing (Release 11)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 36.104: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Base Station (BS) Radio Transmission and Reception (Release 11)\".
[5] 3GPP TR 36.826: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Base Station (BS) Relay Radio Transmission and Reception\".
[6] 3GPP TS 36.101: \"User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception\".
[7] 3GPP TS 36.521-1 \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and
Evolved Packet Core (EPC); User Equipment (UE) conformance specification; Part
1: Protocol conformance specification\".
[8] 3GPP TS 36.508 \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and
Evolved Packet Core (EPC); Common test environments for User Equipment (UE)
conformance testing\".
[9] 3GPP TS 36.211: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Physical channels and modulation\".
[10] 3GPP TS 36.213: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Physical layer procedures\".
[11] 3GPP TS 36.331: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol specification\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**access link:** Link for communication between Relay and UE.
**backhaul link:** Link for communication between Relay and BS.
**carrier: The modulated waveform conveying the E-UTRA or UTRA physical
channels**
**channel bandwidth:** The RF bandwidth supporting a single E-UTRA RF carrier
with the transmission bandwidth configured in the uplink or downlink of a
cell. The channel bandwidth is measured in MHz and is used as a reference for
transmitter and receiver RF requirements.
**channel edge:** The lowest and highest frequency of the E-UTRA carrier,
separated by the channel bandwidth.
**in-band relay:** A Relay where the access link and backhaul link operates in
the same operating band.
**measurement bandwidth** : The bandwidth in which an emission level is
specified.
**occupied bandwidth:** The width of a frequency band such that, below the
lower and above the upper frequency limits, the mean powers emitted are each
equal to a specified percentage β/2 of the total mean power of a given
emission.
**RRC filtered mean power:** The mean power of a UTRA carrier as measured
through a root raised cosine filter with roll-off factor α and a bandwidth
equal to the chip rate of the radio access mode.
NOTE: The RRC filtered mean power of a perfectly modulated UTRA signal is
0.246 dB lower than the mean power of the same signal.
**transmission bandwidth:** Bandwidth of an instantaneous transmission from a
UE or BS, measured in Resource Block units.
**transmission bandwidth configuration:** The highest transmission bandwidth
allowed for uplink or downlink in a given channel bandwidth, measured in
Resource Block units.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
Pout Output Power
Pmax Maximum total output power
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
ACLR Adjacent Channel Leakage Ratio
ACK Acknowledgement (in HARQ protocols)
ACS Adjacent Channel Selectivity
AWGN Additive White Gaussian Noise
BS Base Station
CP Cyclic prefix
CRC Cyclic Redundancy Check
CW Continuous Wave
DC Direct Current
DFT Discrete Fourier Transformation
DTX Discontinuous Transmission
DUT Device Under Test
DwPTS Downlink part of the special subframe (for TDD operation)
EARFCN E-UTRA Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number
EPA Extended Pedestrian A model
ETU Extended Typical Urban model
E-UTRA Evolved UTRA
EVA Extended Vehicular A model
EVM Error Vector Magnitude
FDD Frequency Division Duplex
FFT Fast Fourier Transformation
FRC Fixed Reference Channel
GP Guard Period (for TDD operation)
HARQ Hybrid Automatic Repeat Request
HD-FDD Half- Duplex FDD
ICS In-Channel Selectivity
ITU‑R Radiocommunication Sector of the ITU
LA Local Area
MCS Modulation and Coding Scheme
MCL Minimum Coupling Loss
OFDM Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplex
OOB Out-of-band
PA Power Amplifier
PBCH Physical Broadcast Channel
PDCCH Physical Downlink Control Channel
PDSCH Physical Downlink Shared Channel
PUSCH Physical Uplink Shared Channel
PUCCH Physical Uplink Control Channel
PRACH Physical Random Access Channel
PRAT Rated output power
PSS Primary Synchronization Signal
QAM Quadrature Amplitude Modulation
QPSK Quadrature Phase-Shift Keying
RAT Radio Access Technology
RB Resource Block
RE Resource Element
REFSENS Reference Sensitivity power level
RF Radio Frequency
RMS Root Mean Square (value)
R-PDCCH Relay Physical Downlink Control Channel
RS Reference Symbol
RX Receiver
RRC Root Raised Cosine
SNR Signal-to-Noise Ratio
SSS Secondary Synchronization Signal
TA Timing Advance
TDD Time Division Duplex
TX Transmitter
UE User Equipment
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System
UTRA UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access
UTRAN UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network
WA Wide Area
# 4\. General test conditions and declarations
Many of the tests in this specification measure a parameter relative to a
value that is not fully specified in the E-UTRA specifications. For these
tests, the Minimum Requirement is determined relative to a nominal value
specified by the manufacturer.
Certain functions of a relay are optional in the E-UTRA specifications.
Furthermore some requirements for the relay may be regional as listed in
clause 4.3.
When specified in a test, the manufacturer shall declare the nominal value of
a parameter, or whether an option is supported.
## 4.1 Measurement uncertainties and Test Requirements
### 4.1.1 General
The requirements of this clause apply to all applicable tests in the present
document.
The Minimum Requirements are given in 36.116 [2] except that they apply to a
relay node and test requirements are given in this specification. Test
Tolerances are defined in Annex G of TS 36.141 [3] and in Annex F of
TS36.521-1 [7]. Test Tolerances are individually calculated for each test. The
Test Tolerances are used to relax the Minimum Requirements in TS 36.116 [2] to
create Test Requirements.
### 4.1.2 Acceptable uncertainty of Test System
The maximum acceptable uncertainty of the Test System is specified below for
each test, where appropriate. The Test System shall enable the stimulus
signals in the test case to be adjusted to within the specified tolerance and
the equipment under test to be measured with an uncertainty not exceeding the
specified values. All tolerances and uncertainties are absolute values, and
are valid for a confidence level of 95%, unless otherwise stated.
A confidence level of 95% is the measurement uncertainty tolerance interval
for a specific measurement that contains 95% of the performance of a
population of test equipment.
For RF tests, it should be noted that the uncertainties in clause 4.1.2 apply
to the Test System operating into a nominal 50 ohm load and do not include
system effects due to mismatch between the DUT and the Test System.
#### 4.1.2.1 Measurement of relay access transmitter
The maximum test system uncertainty for relay access transmitter test shall be
as defined in Table 4.1.2.1 of TS 36.141 [3] except that the requirements
apply to relay nodes.
#### 4.1.2.2 Measurement of relay access receiver
The maximum test system uncertainty for relay access receiver tests shall be
as defined in Table 4.1.2.2 of TS 36.141 [3] except that the requirements
apply to relay nodes.
#### 4.1.2.3 Measurement of performance requirement
The maximum test system uncertainty for relay access performance requirements
shall be as defined in Table 4.1.2.3 of TS 36.141 [3] except that the
requirements apply to relay nodes.
## 4.2 Relay classes
The Relay classes are defined based on the RF scenarios expected for the Relay
access deployment, defined in terms of the Minimum Coupling Loss (MCL) between
Relay and UE. The following definitions are used:
\- High-CL Relay are characterised by requirements derived from outdoor Relay
scenarios with a Relay to UE minimum coupling loss equals to 59 dB
\- Low-CL Relay are characterised by requirements derived from indoor Relay
scenarios with a Relay to UE minimum coupling loss equals to 45 dB
## 4.3 Regional requirements
Some requirements in the present document may only apply in certain regions
either as optional requirements or set by local and regional regulation as
mandatory requirements. It is normally not stated in the 3GPP specifications
under what exact circumstances that the requirements apply, since this is
defined by local or regional regulation.
Table 4.3-1 of 36.141 [3] lists all the requirements that may be applied
differently to relay nodes in different regions.
## 4.4 Selection of configurations for testing
The requirements for selection of configurations for testing shall be the same
as in clauses 4.4 and 4.5 of TS 36.141 [3] except that the requirements shall
apply to relay nodes.
## 4.5 Manufacturer\'s declarations of regional and optional requirements
The requirements for manufacturer\'s declarations of regional and optional
requirements shall be the same as in clause 4.6 of TS 36.141 [3] except that
the requirements shall apply to relay nodes.
## 4.6 Specified frequency range and supported channel bandwidth
The requirements for specified frequency range and supported channel bandwidth
requirements shall be the same as in clause 4.6 of TS 36.141 [3] except that
the requirements shall apply to relay nodes.
## 4.7 Format and interpretation of tests
Each test in the following clauses has a standard format:
**X Title**
All tests are applicable to all equipment within the scope of the present
document, unless otherwise stated.
**X.1 Definition and applicability**
This subclause gives the general definition of the parameter under
consideration and specifies whether the test is applicable to all equipment or
only to a certain subset. Required manufacturer declarations may be included
here.
**X.2 Minimum Requirement**
This subclause contains the reference to the subclause to the 3GPP reference
(or core) specification which defines the Minimum Requirement.
**X.3 Test Purpose**
This subclause defines the purpose of the test.
**X.4 Method of test**
**X.4.1 Initial conditions**
This subclause defines the initial conditions for each test, including the
test environment, the RF channels to be tested and the basic measurement set-
up.
**X.4.2 Procedure**
This subclause describes the steps necessary to perform the test and provides
further details of the test definition like point of access (e.g. test port),
domain (e.g. frequency-span), range, weighting (e.g. bandwidth), and
algorithms (e.g. averaging).
**X.5 Test Requirement**
This subclause defines the pass/fail criteria for the equipment under test.
See subclause 4.1.2.5 Interpretation of measurement results.
# 5 Operating bands and Channel arrangement
## 5.1 General
The channel arrangements presented in this clause are based on the operating
bands and channel bandwidths defined in the present release of specifications.
NOTE: Other operating bands and channel bandwidths may be considered in future
releases.
## 5.2 Operating bands
E-UTRA is designed to operate in the operating bands defined in Table 5.5-1 of
TS 36.104 [4].
## 5.3 Channel bandwidth
Requirements in the present document are specified for the channel bandwidths
listed in Table 5.6-1 of TS 36.104 [4].
For the access link the manufacturer shall declare the channel bandwidths
supported by the Relay.
For the backhaul link the Relay shall support the channel bandwidths denoted
by \"Yes\" in Table 5.6.1-1 of TS 36.101 [6] for the supported operating band.
Note 1 in Table 5.6.1-1 does not apply.
## 5.4 Channel arrangement
The channel spacing is specified in clause 5.7.1 of TS 36.104 [4].
The channel raster is specified in clause 5.7.2 of TS 36.104 [4].
Carrier frequency and EARFCN is specified in clause 5.7.3 of TS 36.104 [4].
# 6\. Transmitter characteristics
## 6.1 General
General test conditions for transmitter tests are given in clause 4, including
interpretation of measurement results and configurations for testing. Test
configurations are defined in clause 4.5 of TS 36.141 [3] except that they
apply to relays, while Annex H of TS 36.141 [3] provides an informative
description of E-UTRAN test cases.
### 6.1.1 E-UTRA Test Models
The set-up of physical channels for the access transmitter tests shall be
according to one of the E-UTRA test models (E-TM) defined in clause 6.1.1 of
TS 36.141 [3] except that they apply to relay nodes.
The set-up of physical channels for the backhaul transmitter tests shall be
according to one of the E-UTRA test models (E-TM) defined in clause 4.1 of TS
36.508 [8] except that they apply to relay nodes. The following reference test
conditions shall apply
Test Environment: Normal, as defined in TS 36.508 [8] clause 4.1.
Frequencies to be tested: Mid Range, as defined in TS 36.508 [8] clause
4.3.1.1.
Channel Bandwidths to be tested: 10MHz, as defined in TS 36.508 [8] clause
4.3.1.1.
## 6.2 Output power
### 6.2.1 Definition and applicability
Output power, Pout, of the relay is the mean power of one carrier delivered to
a load with resistance equal to the nominal load impedance of the transmitter.
The maximum total output power (Pmax), of the relay is the mean power level
measured at the antenna connector during the transmitter ON period in a
specified reference condition.
Rated total output power of the relay is the mean power for relay operating in
single carrier or multiple carrier configurations that the manufacturer has
declared to be available at the antenna connector during the transmitter ON
period.
Relay maximum output power (Pmax, c), of the relay is the mean power level per
carrier measured at the antenna connector during the transmitter ON period in
a specified reference condition.
The rated output power, PRAT, is the mean power level that the manufacturer
has declared to be available at the antenna connector during the transmitter
ON period.
NOTE: Different PRATs may be declared for different configurations
In certain regions, the minimum requirement for normal conditions may apply
also for some conditions outside the ranges defined for the Normal test
environment in Annex D of TS 36.141 [3].
Two power classes are defined for relay access link and single power class is
defined for relay backhaul link, where the rated output power, PRAT, shall be
as specified in Table 6.2.1-2 and Table 6.2.1-3.
Table 6.2.1-1: Void
Table 6.2.1-2: Relay access link rated output power
+-------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | Access link Power class | PRAT [dBm] | +-------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | Power class 1 | ≤ +24 (for one transmit antenna port) | | | | | | ≤ +21 (for two transmit antenna ports) | | | | | | ≤ +18 (for four transmit antenna ports) | | | | | | ≤ +15 (for eight transmit antenna ports) | +-------------------------+------------------------------------------+ | Power class 2 | ≤ +30 (for one transmit antenna port) | | | | | | ≤ +27 (for two transmit antenna ports) | | | | | | ≤ +24 (for four transmit antenna ports) | | | | | | ≤ +21 (for eight transmit antenna ports) | +-------------------------+------------------------------------------+
Table 6.2.1-3: Relay backhaul link rated output power
+---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | Backhaul link Power class | PRAT [dBm] | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | Power class 1 | ≤ +24 (for one transmit antenna port) | | | | | | ≤ +21 (for two transmit antenna ports) | | | | | | ≤ +18 (for four transmit antenna ports) | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
NOTE: For coexistence with a victim base station a minimum MCL should be met
in all scenarios. This is particularly relevant for use cases where relays are
placed wall mounted or in rooftops. The value for this MCL is 45 dB.
### 6.2.2 Minimum Requirement
The minimum requirement is defined in TS 36.116 [2] clause 6.2.1.1.
### 6.2.3 Test purpose
The test purpose is to verify the accuracy of the maximum output power across
the frequency range and under normal and extreme conditions for all
transmitters in the relay node.
### 6.2.4 Method of test
The requirements for method of test for the relay access link maximum output
power shall be the same as in clause 6.2.4 of TS 36.141 [3] except that the
requirements shall apply to relay nodes.
The requirements for method of test for the relay backhaul link maximum output
power shall be the same as in clause 6.2.2.4 of TS 36.521 [7] except that the
requirements shall apply to relay nodes.
### 6.2.5 Test Requirements
Test Requirements for the relay access link shall be the same as defined in
Table 6.2.5-1
Table 6.2.5-1: Relay Rated output power
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Relay power | PRAT | Minimum | Test | | class | | requirement | requirements | | | | Tolerance in | in\ | | | | TS 36.116 | TS 36.117 | | | | [dB] for | [dB]\ | | | | | Tolerance | | | | normal | [dB] for | | | | conditions | | | | | | extreme | | | | | conditions | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Power class 1 | ≤+ 24 dBm (for | In normal | In normal | | | one transmit | conditions:\ | conditions:\ | | | antenna port) | within ±2 dB | within +2.7 dB | | | | of | and -2.7 dB of | | | ≤+ 21 dBm (for | m | the | | | two transmit | anufacturer\'s | m | | | antenna ports) | rated output | anufacturer\'s | | | | power | rated output | | | ≤+ 18 dBm (for | | power, f ≤ | | | four transmit | In extreme | 3.0GHz; | | | antenna ports) | conditions:\ | | | | | within ±2.5 dB | within +3.0 dB | | | ≤+ 15 dBm (for | of | and -3.0 dB of | | | eight transmit | m | the | | | antenna ports) | anufacturer\'s | m | | | | rated output | anufacturer\'s | | | | power | rated output | | | | | power, 3.0 GHz | | | | | \ 3 GHz)
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Parameter | Value | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Frequency | 0 MHz ≤ ∆f \ 3 GHz)
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Parameter | Value | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Frequency | 0 MHz ≤ ∆f \ 3 GHz)
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Parameter | Value | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Frequency | 0 MHz ≤ ∆f \ NOTE 1: As a general rule for the requirements in clause 6.5.3, the
> resolution bandwidth of the measuring equipment should be equal to the
> measurement bandwidth. However, to improve measurement accuracy, sensitivity
> and efficiency, the resolution bandwidth may be smaller than the measurement
> bandwidth. When the resolution bandwidth is smaller than the measurement
> bandwidth, the result should be integrated over the measurement bandwidth in
> order to obtain the equivalent noise bandwidth of the measurement bandwidth.
>
> NOTE 2: The requirement is not applicable when ∆f~max~ \ | RRC: | | | an | | _RNReconfig | | |_ RNReconfi | | urationComplete _| | | gurationComplete | | | | | message to | | | | | comfirm the | | | | | configuration of | | | | | backhal link_ | | | +---------+------------------+------------------+------------------+ | 20 | This message | --> | RRC: | | | includes the | | _ULInfo | | | ATTACH COMPLETE | | rmationTransfer_ | | | message. The | | | | | ACTIVATE DEFAULT | | NAS: ATTACH | | | EPS BEARER | | COMPLETE | | | CONTEXT ACCEPT | | | | | message is | | NAS: ACTIVATE | | | piggybacked in | | DEFAULT EPS | | | ATTACH COMPLETE. | | BEARER CONTEXT | | | | | ACCEPT | +---------+------------------+------------------+------------------+ | 21 | The SS transmits | \ | RRC: | | | an | | _RNReconfig | | |_ RNReconfi | | urationComplete _| | | gurationComplete | | | | | message to | | | | | comfirm the | | | | | configuration of | | | | | backhal link_ | | | +---------+------------------+------------------+------------------+ | 20 | This message | --> | RRC: | | | includes the | | _ULInfo | | | ATTACH COMPLETE | | rmationTransfer_ | | | message. The | | | | | ACTIVATE DEFAULT | | NAS: ATTACH | | | EPS BEARER | | COMPLETE | | | CONTEXT ACCEPT | | | | | message is | | NAS: ACTIVATE | | | piggybacked in | | DEFAULT EPS | | | ATTACH COMPLETE. | | BEARER CONTEXT | | | | | ACCEPT | +---------+------------------+------------------+------------------+ | 21 | The SS transmits | \ | RRC: | | | an | | _RNReconfig | | |_ RNReconfi | | urationComplete _| | | gurationComplete | | | | | message to | | | | | comfirm the | | | | | configuration of | | | | | backhal link_ | | | +---------+------------------+------------------+------------------+ | 20 | This message | --> | RRC: | | | includes the | | _ULInfo | | | ATTACH COMPLETE | | rmationTransfer_ | | | message. The | | | | | ACTIVATE DEFAULT | | NAS: ATTACH | | | EPS BEARER | | COMPLETE | | | CONTEXT ACCEPT | | | | | message is | | NAS: ACTIVATE | | | piggybacked in | | DEFAULT EPS | | | ATTACH COMPLETE. | | BEARER CONTEXT | | | | | ACCEPT | +---------+------------------+------------------+------------------+ | 21 | The SS transmits | \ | RRC: | | | an | | _RNReconfig | | |_ RNReconfi | | urationComplete _| | | gurationComplete | | | | | message to | | | | | comfirm the | | | | | configuration of | | | | | backhal link_ | | | +---------+------------------+------------------+------------------+ | 20 | This message | --> | RRC: | | | includes the | | _ULInfo | | | ATTACH COMPLETE | | rmationTransfer_ | | | message. The | | | | | ACTIVATE DEFAULT | | NAS: ATTACH | | | EPS BEARER | | COMPLETE | | | CONTEXT ACCEPT | | | | | message is | | NAS: ACTIVATE | | | piggybacked in | | DEFAULT EPS | | | ATTACH COMPLETE. | | BEARER CONTEXT | | | | | ACCEPT | +---------+------------------+------------------+------------------+ | 21 | The SS transmits | \<\-- | RRC: | | | an | | _RRCCo | | |_ RRCCo | | nnectionRelease _| | | nnectionRelease_ | | | | | message to | | | | | release RRC | | | | | connection and | | | | | move to | | | | | RRC_IDLE (State | | | | | 2A). | | | +---------+------------------+------------------+------------------+
###### 9.8.2.2.4.2 Test procedure
1\. SS transmits PDSCH via R-PDCCH DCI format 2C for C_RNTI to transmit the DL
RMC according to Table 9.8.2.2.2.3-1 and 9.8.2.2.3-2.The details of R-PDCCH
and PDSCH are specified in Table B1.1.2-1 of TR 36.826 [5] and R.4 TDD in
Table C.2-2 of TR 36.826 [5] respectively. The SS sends downlink MAC padding
bits on the DL RMC.
2\. Set the parameters of the propagation condition, antenna configuration,
the correlation matrix and the SNR according to Table 9.8.2.2.5-1 as
appropriate.
3\. Measure the Pm-dsg for a duration sufficient to achieve statistical
significance according to Annex G clause G.4 defined in TS 36.521-1[7]. Count
the number of NACKs, ACKs and statDTXs on the UL PUCCH during each subtest
interval. Pm-dsg is the ratio (statDTX)/(NACK+ACK+statDTX). If Pm-dsg is less
than the value specified in table 9.8.2.2.5-1, pass the RN. Otherwise fail the
RN
###### 9.8.2.2.4.3 Message contents
Message contents are according to TS 36.508 [8] clause 4.6 with the following
exceptions.
Table 9.8.2.2.4.3-1: PhysicalConfigDedicated-DEFAULT
* * *
Derivation Path: 36.331 clause 6.3.2  
Information Element Value/remark Comment Condition PhysicalConfigDedicated-
DEFAULT ::= SEQUENCE {  
antennaInfo-r10 CHOICE {  
AntennaInfoDedicated-r10::= SEQUENCE {  
transmissionMode tm9-v1020  
codebookSubsetRestriction-r10  
ue-TransmitAntennaSelection CHOICE {  
release NULL  
}  
}  
}  
}
* * *
Table 9.8.2.2.4.3-2: RRCConnectionSetupComplete
* * *
Derivation Path: 36.331 clause 6.2.2  
Information Element Value/remark Comment Condition RRCConnectionSetupComplete
::= SEQUENCE {  
rrc-TransactionIdentifier RRC-TransactionIdentifier-UL  
criticalExtensions CHOICE {  
c1 CHOICE {  
rrcConnectionSetupComplete-r8 SEQUENCE {  
selectedPLMN-Identity 1  
registeredMME Not checked  
dedicatedInfoNAS Present but contents not checked  
nonCriticalExtension SEQUENCE {  
lateNonCriticalExtension Not checked  
nonCriticalExtension SEQUENCE {  
gummei-Type-r10 native  
rlf-InfoAvailable-r10 true  
logMeasAvailable-r10 true  
rn-SubframeConfigReq-r10 required  
nonCriticalExtension SEQUENCE{} No checked  
}  
}  
}  
}  
}  
}
* * *
Table 9.8.2.2.4.3-3: RNReconfiguration
* * *
Derivation Path: 36.331 clause 6.2.2  
Information Element Value/remark Comment Condition RNReconfiguration ::=
SEQUENCE {  
rrc-TransactionIdentifier RRC-TransactionIdentifier-DL  
criticalExtensions CHOICE {  
c1 CHOISE {  
RnReconfiguration-r10 SEQUENCE{  
rn-SystemInfo-r10{} Not checked  
rn-SubframeConfig-r10 RN-SubframeConfig-r10  
lateNonCriticalExtension Not checked  
nonCriticalExtension SEQUENCE{} Not checked  
}  
}  
}
* * *
Table 9.8.2.2.4.3-4: RN-SubframeConfig
* * *
Derivation Path: 36.331 clause 6.3.2  
Information Element Value/remark Comment Condition RN-SubframeConfig-r10::=
SEQUENCE {  
subframeConfigPattern-r10 CHOICE{  
subframeConfigPatternTDD-r10 4  
}  
rpdcch-Config-r10 SEQUENCE{  
resourceAllocationType-r10 type0  
resourceBlockAssignment-r10 CHOICE{  
type01-r10 SEQUENCE{  
nrb50-r10 0000 0001 1000 0000 0  
}  
}  
demodulationRS-r10 CHOICE{  
noInterleaving-r10 dmrs  
}  
pdsch-Start-r10 3  
pucch-Config-r10 CHOICE{  
tdd choice{  
fallbackForFormat3 SEQUENCE{  
n1PUCCH-AN-P0-r10 0  
n1PUCCH-AN-P1-r10 Not Checked  
}  
}  
}  
}  
}
* * *
Table 9.8.2.2.4.3-5: RNReconfigurationComplete
* * *
Derivation Path: 36.331 clause 6.2.2  
Information Element Value/remark Comment Condition _RNReconfigurationComplete_
::= SEQUENCE {  
rrc-TransactionIdentifier RRC-TransactionIdentifier-UL  
criticalExtensions CHOICE {  
c1 CHOICE{  
rnReconfigurationComplete-r10 SEQUENCE{  
lateNonCriticalExtension Not checked  
nonCriticalExtension Not checked  
}  
}  
criticalExtensionsFuture SEQUENCE{} Not checked  
}  
}
* * *
##### 9.8.2.2.5 Test requirement
For the parameters specified in Table 9.8.2.2.3-1 the average probability of a
missed downlink scheduling grant (Pm-dsg) shall be below the specified value
in Table 9.8.2.2.5-1.
Table 9.8.2.2.5-1: Test requirement R-PDCCH without cross-interleaving (FRC)
* * *
Test number Bandwidth Reference channel OCNG Pattern Aggregation level DCI
format Propagation Condition Antenna configuration and correlation Matrix
Reference value  
Pm-dsg (%) SNR (dB) 2 10 MHz R.2 TDD B.2.2-1 of [5] 4 PRB Format 2C NLOS with
medium correlation 4x2 1 12.5
* * *
###### ## Annex A (normative): Propagation models for relay demodulation
requirements
# A.1 Propagation models for backhaul link
## A.1.1 Delay Profiles
Three representative delay profiles are selected corresponding to the LOS and
NLOS scenarios.
### A.1.1.1 LOS between eNB and relay
Table A.1.1-1 and Table A.1.1-2 show the delay profiles for the LOS scenarios:
one with strong dominant component and the other with medium dominant
component. Note that the first tap in both Table A.1.1-1 and Table A.1.1-2
corresponds to the LOS component, it is therefore a non-fading tap and the
corresponding Doppler frequency is 0.
Table A.1.1-1: Delay Profile for LOS Scenario (strong dominant component)
+-------------------------+----------------+ | Excess tap delay [ns] | Relative power | | | | | | [dB] | +-------------------------+----------------+ | 0 | 0.0 | +-------------------------+----------------+ | 30 | -21.0 | +-------------------------+----------------+ | 70 | -22.0 | +-------------------------+----------------+ | 90 | -23.0 | +-------------------------+----------------+
Note that as the first tap is at least 21dB stronger than the rest taps, this
channel may be considered as an AWGN channel. The exact one-tap static AWGN
channel model is FFS.
Table A.1.1-2: Delay Profile for LOS Scenario (medium dominant component)
+-------------------------+----------------+ | Excess tap delay [ns] | Relative power | | | | | | [dB] | +-------------------------+----------------+ | 0 | 0.0 | +-------------------------+----------------+ | 30 | -11.0 | +-------------------------+----------------+ | 70 | -12.0 | +-------------------------+----------------+ | 90 | -13.0 | +-------------------------+----------------+ | 110 | -18.0 | +-------------------------+----------------+ | 190 | -27.2 | +-------------------------+----------------+ | [410] | [-30.8] | +-------------------------+----------------+
Note that as the first tap is at least 11dB stronger than the rest taps, this
channel may be characterized by one dominant path combined with significant
scattering paths.
### A.1.1.2 NLOS between eNB and relay
For NLOS scenario, the delay profile is given in Table A.1.1-3.
Table A.1.1-3: Delay Profile for NLOS Scenario
+-------------------------+----------------+ | Excess tap delay [ns] | Relative power | | | | | | [dB] | +-------------------------+----------------+ | 0 | 0.0 | +-------------------------+----------------+ | 30 | -1.0 | +-------------------------+----------------+ | 70 | -2.0 | +-------------------------+----------------+ | 90 | -3.0 | +-------------------------+----------------+ | 110 | -8.0 | +-------------------------+----------------+ | 190 | -17.2 | +-------------------------+----------------+ | 410 | -20.8 | +-------------------------+----------------+
## A.1.2 Doppler Frequency
For NLOS between the eNB and the relay, as the relay nodes are often fixed,
hence a low Doppler frequency of 2Hz is used. Note that this 2 Hz Doppler
frequency is only used for the new channels (such as R-PDCCH).
## A.1.3 MIMO Correlation Matrices
For LOS component between the eNB and the relay, the spatial channel
correlation matrix is modeled as an all one matrix unless cross-polarized
antennas are deployed. This is because the correlation matrix for the channel
with single LOS component is of rank 1.
For NLOS scenario, the correlation matrices are given in the following tables.
Table A.1.3-1 defines the correlation matrices for the eNB:
Table A.1.3-1: eNB correlation matrix
* * *
                    One antenna                                                                           Two antennas                                                                         Four antennas
eNB Correlation {width="0.5840277777777778in" height="0.25416666666666665in"}
{width="1.1701388888888888in" height="0.5277777777777778in"}
{width="2.0368055555555555in" height="1.226388888888889in"}
* * *
Table A.1.3-2 defines the correlation matrices for the relay:
Table A.1.3-2: Relay correlation matrix
* * *
                      One antenna                                                                          Two antennas                                                              Four antennas
Relay Correlation {width="0.6034722222222222in" height="0.2548611111111111in"}
{width="1.1319444444444444in" height="0.48125in"}
{width="2.2083333333333335in" height="1.13125in"}
* * *
The values of _α_ and _β_ for different correlation types are given in Table
A.1.3-3.
Table A.1.3-3: Low, Medium and High Correlation Values
* * *
Low correlation Medium Correlation High Correlation  
α β α β α β 0 0 0.3 0.9 0.9 0.9
* * *
For the channel from the eNB to the relay, the channel spatial correlation
matrix {width="0.3013888888888889in" height="0.2361111111111111in"} is then
given as the Kronecker product of the eNB correlation matrix and the relay
correlation matrix, i.e. {width="1.2069444444444444in"
height="0.2361111111111111in"}.
# A.2 multipath propagation fading conditions for access link
Tables A.2-1 to Table A.2-3 show multi-path delay profiles that are used for
the performance measurements in multi-path fading environment. All taps have
classical Doppler spectrum, defined as:
(CLASS) {width="1.773611111111111in" height="0.25416666666666665in"} for _f_ ∈
-_fD_ , _fD_.
Table A.2-1: Extended Pedestrian A model (EPA)
* * *
Excess tap delay [ns] Relative power\ [dB]
0 0.0
30 -1.0
70 -2.0
90 -3.0
110 -8.0
190 -17.2
410 -20.8
* * *
Table A.2-2: Extended Vehicular A model (EVA)
* * *
Excess tap delay [ns] Relative power [dB] 0 0.0 30 -1.5 150 -1.4 310 -3.6 370
-0.6 710 -9.1 1090 -7.0 1730 -12.0 2510 -16.9
* * *
Table A.2-3: Extended Typical Urban model (ETU)
* * *
Excess tap delay [ns] Relative power [dB] 0 -1.0 50 -1.0 120 -1.0 200 0.0 230
0.0 500 0.0 1600 -3.0 2300 -5.0 5000 -7.0
* * *
A multipath fading propagation condition is defined by a combination of a
multi-path delay profile and a maximum Doppler frequency _f~D~_ which is
either 5, 70 or 300 Hz.
Note that the ETU model shown in Table A.2-3 and Doppler frequency of 300Hz
are optional for relay access link demodulation requirments.
The relay access link demodulation requirements are the same or subset of the
eNB requirements as described in TS 36.104.
###### ## Annex B (normative): Reference Measurement Channel
# B.1 Reference measurement channels for R-PDCCH performance requirements
## B.1.1 R-PDCCH format without cross-interleaving
### B.1.1.1 FDD
Table B.1.1.1-1: Fixed Reference Channel for R-PDCCH transmitted on single-
layer antenna port 7
* * *
Parameter Unit Value  
Reference channel R.1 FDD R.2 FDD Number of transmitter antennas 1 4 Channel
bandwidth MHz 10 10 Allocated RB for R-PDCCH RB 24, 25 23, 24, 25, 26
Aggregation level PRB 2 4 DCI Format Format 2C Format 2C Cell ID 0 0 Payload
(without CRC) Bits 42 42
* * *
### B.1.1.2 TDD
Table B.1.1.2-1: Fixed Reference Channel for R-PDCCH transmitted on single-
layer antenna port 7
* * *
Parameter Unit Value  
Reference channel R.1 TDD R.2 TDD Number of transmitter antennas 1 4 Channel
bandwidth MHz 10 10 Allocated RB for R-PDCCH RB 24, 25 23, 24, 25, 26
Aggregation level PRB 2 4 DCI Format Format 2C Format 2C Cell ID 0 0 Payload
(without CRC) Bits 45 45
* * *
# B.2 OCNG patterns for R-PDCCH performance requirements
The following OCNG patterns are used for modelling allocations to virtual UEs
(which are not under test) and/or allocations used for MBSFN. The OCNG pattern
for each sub frame specifies the allocations that shall be filled with OCNG,
and furthermore, the relative power level of each such allocation.
In each test case the OCNG is expressed by parameters OCNG_RA and OCNG_RB
which together with a relative power level ({width="0.14166666666666666in"
height="0.17847222222222223in"}) specifies the PDSCH EPRE-to-RS EPRE ratios in
OFDM symbols with and without reference symbols, respectively. The relative
power, which is used for modelling boosting per virtual UE allocation, is
expressed by:
{width="4.272916666666666in" height="0.25416666666666665in"}
where {width="0.1701388888888889in" height="0.25416666666666665in"} denotes
the relative power level of the i:th virtual UE. The parameter settings of
OCNG_RA, OCNG_RB, and the set of relative power levels
{width="0.14166666666666666in" height="0.17847222222222223in"}are chosen such
that when also taking allocations to the UE under test into account, as given
by a PDSCH reference channel, a constant transmitted power spectral density
that is constant on an OFDM symbol basis is targeted.
Moreover the OCNG pattern is accompanied by a PCFICH/PDCCH/PHICH reference
channel which specifies the control region. For any aggregation and PHICH
allocation, the PDCCH and any unused PHICH groups are padded with resource
element groups with a power level given respectively by PDCCH_RA/RB and
PHICH_RA/RB as specified in the test case such that a total power spectral
density in the control region that is constant on an OFDM symbol basis is
targeted.
## B.2.1 FDD
### B.2.1.1 OCNG FDD pattern 1for R-PDCCH
This OCNG Pattern fills with OCNG all empty PRB-s (PRB-s with no allocation of
data or system information) of the DL sub-frames, when the unallocated area is
discontinuous (divided in two parts by the allocated area -- two sided) or
continuous (one sided) in the frequency domain, starts with PRB 0 and ends
with PRB _N~RB~_ -1.
Table B.2.1-1: OCNG for FDD R-PDCCH
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | Relative | PDSCH | | | | | | power | Data | | | | | | level | | | | | | | _γ~PRB~_ | | | | | | | [dB] | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | Subframe | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | A | S | | | | | | llocated | ubframes | | | | | | s | una | | | | | | ubframes | llocated | | | | | | for | for | | | | | | R-PDCCH | R-PDCCH | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | The | The | 0 | 5 | Other | | | 1^st^ | 2^nd^ | | | s | | | slot | slot | | | ubframes | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | Al | | | | | | | location | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | 0 -- | First | First | First | First | | | (First | una | una | una | una | | | a | llocated | llocated | llocated | llocated | | | llocated | PRB | PRB | PRB | PRB | | | PRB-1) | | | | | | | | -- | -- | -- | -- | | | and | | | | | | | | Last | Last | Last | Last | | | (Last | una | una | una | una | | | a | llocated | llocated | llocated | llocated | | | llocated | PRB | PRB | PRB | PRB | | | PRB+1) | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | (_N | | | | | | | ~RB~_ -1) | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | Note 1 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | Note 1: | | | | | | | These | | | | | | | physical | | | | | | | resource | | | | | | | blocks | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | assigned | | | | | | | to an | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | rbitrary | | | | | | | number | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | virtual | | | | | | | UEs with | | | | | | | one | | | | | | | PDSCH | | | | | | | per | | | | | | | virtual | | | | | | | UE; the | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | tra | | | | | | | nsmitted | | | | | | | over the | | | | | | | OCNG | | | | | | | PDSCHs | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | unco | | | | | | | rrelated | | | | | | | pseudo | | | | | | | random | | | | | | | data, | | | | | | | which is | | | | | | | QPSK | | | | | | | mo | | | | | | | dulated. | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | arameter | | | | | | | _γ~PRB~_ | | | | | | | is used | | | | | | | to scale | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | power of | | | | | | | PDSCH. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: | | | | | | | If two | | | | | | | or more | | | | | | | transmit | | | | | | | antennas | | | | | | | with CRS | | | | | | | are used | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | test, | | | | | | | the OCNG | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | tra | | | | | | | nsmitted | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | virtual | | | | | | | users by | | | | | | | all the | | | | | | | transmit | | | | | | | antennas | | | | | | | with CRS | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | ccording | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | tran | | | | | | | smission | | | | | | | mode 2. | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | arameter | | | | | | | _γ~PRB~_ | | | | | | | applies | | | | | | | to each | | | | | | | antenna | | | | | | | port | | | | | | | sep | | | | | | | arately, | | | | | | | so the | | | | | | | transmit | | | | | | | power is | | | | | | | equal | | | | | | | between | | | | | | | all the | | | | | | | transmit | | | | | | | antennas | | | | | | | with CRS | | | | | | | used in | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | test. | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | antenna | | | | | | | tran | | | | | | | smission | | | | | | | modes | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | pecified | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | clause | | | | | | | 7.1 in | | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | | 36.213. | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+
## B.2.2 TDD
### B.2.2.1 OCNG TDD pattern 1for R-PDCCH
This OCNG Pattern fills with OCNG all empty PRB-s (PRB-s with no allocation of
data or system information) of the subframes available for DL transmission
(depending on TDD UL/DL configuration), when the unallocated area is
discontinuous (divided in two parts by the allocated area -- two sided) or
continuous (one sided) in the frequency domain, starts with PRB 0 and ends
with PRB _N~RB~_ -1.
Table B.2.2-1: OCNG for TDD R-PDCCH
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | R | PDSCH | | | | | | | elative | Data | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | | * | | | | | | | | γ~PRB~_| | | | | | | | [dB] | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | S | | | | | | | | ubframe | | | | | | | | (only | | | | | | | | if | | | | | | | | av | | | | | | | | ailable | | | | | | | | for DL | | | | | | | | ^No | | | | | | | | te\ 2^) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | Al | Su | | | | | | | located | bframes | | | | | | | su | unal | | | | | | | bframes | located | | | | | | | for | for | | | | | | | R-PDCCH | R-PDCCH | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | The | The | 0 | 5 |__1 and |__Other | | | 1^st^ | 2^nd^ | | | 6 (as | normal | | | slot | slot | | | special | subf | | | | | | | subfr | rames_ _| | | | | | | ames)__| | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | All | | | | | | | | ocation | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | 0 -- | First | First | First | First | First | | | (First | unal | unal | unal | unal | unal | | | al | located | located | located | located | located | | | located | PRB | PRB | PRB | PRB | PRB | | | PRB-1) | | | | | | | | | -- | -- | -- | -- | -- | | | and | | | | | | | | | Last | Last | Last | Last | Last | | | (Last | unal | unal | unal | unal | unal | | | al | located | located | located | located | located | | | located | PRB | PRB | PRB | PRB | PRB | | | PRB+1) | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | (_ N~ | | | | | | | | RB~_-1) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | Note 1 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | Note 1: | | | | | | | | These | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | hysical | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | esource | | | | | | | | blocks | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | ssigned | | | | | | | | to an | | | | | | | | ar | | | | | | | | bitrary | | | | | | | | number | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | virtual | | | | | | | | UEs | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | one | | | | | | | | PDSCH | | | | | | | | per | | | | | | | | virtual | | | | | | | | UE; the | | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | | tran | | | | | | | | smitted | | | | | | | | over | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | OCNG | | | | | | | | PDSCHs | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | uncor | | | | | | | | related | | | | | | | | pseudo | | | | | | | | random | | | | | | | | data, | | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | | is QPSK | | | | | | | | mod | | | | | | | | ulated. | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | pa | | | | | | | | rameter | | | | | | | | * | | | | | | | | γ~PRB~_ | | | | | | | | is used | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | scale | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | PDSCH. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: | | | | | | | | Su | | | | | | | | bframes | | | | | | | | av | | | | | | | | ailable | | | | | | | | for DL | | | | | | | | trans | | | | | | | | mission | | | | | | | | depends | | | | | | | | on the | | | | | | | | U | | | | | | | | plink-D | | | | | | | | ownlink | | | | | | | | config | | | | | | | | uration | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | 4.2-2 | | | | | | | | in 3GPP | | | | | | | | TS | | | | | | | | 36.211. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 3: | | | | | | | | If two | | | | | | | | or more | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | ransmit | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | ntennas | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | CRS are | | | | | | | | used in | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | test, | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | OCNG | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | tran | | | | | | | | smitted | | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | | virtual | | | | | | | | users | | | | | | | | by all | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | ransmit | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | ntennas | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | CRS | | | | | | | | ac | | | | | | | | cording | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | trans | | | | | | | | mission | | | | | | | | mode 2. | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | pa | | | | | | | | rameter | | | | | | | | * | | | | | | | | γ~PRB~* | | | | | | | | applies | | | | | | | | to each | | | | | | | | antenna | | | | | | | | port | | | | | | | | sepa | | | | | | | | rately, | | | | | | | | so the | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | ransmit | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | equal | | | | | | | | between | | | | | | | | all the | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | ransmit | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | ntennas | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | CRS | | | | | | | | used in | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | test. | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | antenna | | | | | | | | trans | | | | | | | | mission | | | | | | | | modes | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | sp | | | | | | | | ecified | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | clause | | | | | | | | 7.1 in | | | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | | | 36.213. | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+
###### ## Annex C (normative): Physical Channel Set-up for conformance tests
# C.1 Set-up for R-PDCCH
Table C.1-1 is applicable for demodulation performance requirements in which
uniform RS-to-EPRE boosting for R-PDCCH.
Table C.1-1: Downlink Physical Channels transmitted during a connection (FDD
and TDD)
* * *
Physical Channel EPRE Ratio Note R-PDCCH R-PDCCH_RA = ρ~A~  
R-PDCCH_RB = ρ~B~  
PDSCH PDSCH_RA = ρ~A~  
PDSCH_RB = ρ~B~
* * *
NOTE 1: ρ~A~= ρ~B~ = 0 dB means no RS boosting.
NOTE 2: ρ~A~ denotes the ratio of PDSCH EPRE to cell-specific RS EPRE among
PDSCH REs in all the OFDM symbols not containing cell-specific RS. ρ~B~
denotes the ratio of PDSCH EPRE to cell-specific RS EPRE among PDSCH REs in
all the OFDM symbols containing cell-specific RS.
The power allocation for OFDM symbols and reference signals is the same as
defined in Annex C.3.2 in TS 36.521-1 [7].
The PDCCH aggregation level for R-PDCCH demodulation tests is 8 CCE-s.
# C.2 Set-up for PDSCH
Table C.2-1: PDSCH Reference Channel FDD for R-PDCCH test
+--------------------------------+------+-------------+-------------+ | Parameter | Unit | Value | | +--------------------------------+------+-------------+-------------+ | Reference channel | | R.3 FDD | R.4 FDD | +--------------------------------+------+-------------+-------------+ | Number of transmitter antennas | | 1 | 4 | +--------------------------------+------+-------------+-------------+ | Channel bandwidth | MHz | 10 | 10 | +--------------------------------+------+-------------+-------------+ | Allocated Resource Blocks | | 24 (Note 2) | 21 (Note 3) | +--------------------------------+------+-------------+-------------+ | Modulation | | QPSK | QPSK | +--------------------------------+------+-------------+-------------+ | Target Coding Rate | | 1/3 | 1/3 | +--------------------------------+------+-------------+-------------+ | Information Bit Payload | | 2088 | | +--------------------------------+------+-------------+-------------+ | For Sub-Frames 1,2,3,4,6,7,8,9 | Bits | 2088 | 1480 | +--------------------------------+------+-------------+-------------+ | For Sub-Frame 5 | | n/a | n/a | +--------------------------------+------+-------------+-------------+ | For Sub-Frame0 | Bits | n/a | n/a | +--------------------------------+------+-------------+-------------+ | Number of Code Blocks per | | | | | Sub-Frame | | | | +--------------------------------+------+-------------+-------------+ | For Sub-Frames 1,2,3,4,6,7,8,9 | | 1 | 1 | +--------------------------------+------+-------------+-------------+ | For Sub-Frame 5 | | n/a | n/a | +--------------------------------+------+-------------+-------------+ | For Sub-Frame 0 | | n/a | n/a | +--------------------------------+------+-------------+-------------+ | Binary Channel Bits Per | | | | | Sub-Frame | | | | +--------------------------------+------+-------------+-------------+ | For Sub-Frames 1,2,3,4,6,7,8,9 | Bits | 6048 | 5040 | +--------------------------------+------+-------------+-------------+ | For Sub-Frame 5 | Bits | n/a | n/a | +--------------------------------+------+-------------+-------------+ | For Sub-Frame 0 | | n/a | n/a | +--------------------------------+------+-------------+-------------+ | Note 1: 2 symbols allocated to | | | | | PDCCH for all BW, and DMRS | | | | | port 7 is used. | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: PRB #0 to RPB #23 is | | | | | allocated for PDSCH | | | | | transmission. | | | | | | | | | | Note 3: PRB #0 to RPB #20 | | | | | is allocated for PDSCH | | | | | transmission. | | | | +--------------------------------+------+-------------+-------------+
Table C.2-2: PDSCH Reference Channel TDD for R-PDCCH test
+------------------+------+-------------+-------------+---+ | Parameter | Unit | Value | | | +------------------+------+-------------+-------------+---+ | Reference | | R.3 TDD | R.4 TDD | | | channel | | | | | +------------------+------+-------------+-------------+---+ | Number of | | 1 | 4 | | | transmitter | | | | | | antennas | | | | | +------------------+------+-------------+-------------+---+ | Channel | MHz | 10 | 10 | | | bandwidth | | | | | +------------------+------+-------------+-------------+---+ | Uplink-Downlink | | 1 | 1 | | | Configuration | | | | | | (Note 2) | | | | | +------------------+------+-------------+-------------+---+ | Special subframe | | 4 | 4 | | | co | | | | | | nfiguration(Note | | | | | | 3) | | | | | +------------------+------+-------------+-------------+---+ | Allocated | | 24 (Note 4) | 21 (Note 5) | | | Resource Blocks | | | | | +------------------+------+-------------+-------------+---+ | Modulation | | QPSK | QPSK | | +------------------+------+-------------+-------------+---+ | Target Coding | | 1/3 | 1/3 | | | Rate | | | | | +------------------+------+-------------+-------------+---+ | Information Bit | | | | | | Payload | | | | | +------------------+------+-------------+-------------+---+ | For Sub-Frame | | 2088 | 1480 | | | 4,9 | | | | | +------------------+------+-------------+-------------+---+ | For | Bits | n/a | n/a | | | Sub-Frame 1,6 | | | | | +------------------+------+-------------+-------------+---+ | For | Bits | n/a | n/a | | | Sub-Frame 5 | | | | | +------------------+------+-------------+-------------+---+ | For | Bits | n/a | n/a | | | Sub-Frame 0 | | | | | +------------------+------+-------------+-------------+---+ | Number of Code | | | | | | Blocks per | | | | | | Sub-Frame | | | | | +------------------+------+-------------+-------------+---+ | For Sub-Frame | Bits | 1 | 1 | | | 4,9 | | | | | +------------------+------+-------------+-------------+---+ | For | Bits | n/a | n/a | | | Sub-Frame 1,6 | | | | | +------------------+------+-------------+-------------+---+ | For | Bits | n/a | n/a | | | Sub-Frame 5 | | | | | +------------------+------+-------------+-------------+---+ | For | Bits | n/a | n/a | | | Sub-Frame 0 | | | | | +------------------+------+-------------+-------------+---+ | Binary Channel | | | | | | Bits Per | | | | | | Sub-Frame | | | | | +------------------+------+-------------+-------------+---+ | For | Bits | 6048 | 5040 | | | Sub-Frame 4,9 | | | | | +------------------+------+-------------+-------------+---+ | For | Bits | n/a | n/a | | | Sub-Frame 1,6 | | | | | +------------------+------+-------------+-------------+---+ | For | Bits | n/a | n/a | | | Sub-Frame 5 | | | | | +------------------+------+-------------+-------------+---+ | For | Bits | n/a | n/a | | | Sub-Frame 0 | | | | | +------------------+------+-------------+-------------+---+ | Note 1: 2 | | | | | | symbols | | | | | | allocated to | | | | | | PDCCH for all | | | | | | BW, and DMRS | | | | | | port 7 is used. | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: As per | | | | | | Table 4.2-2 in | | | | | | TS 36.211. | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 3: As | | | | | | specified in | | | | | | Table 4.2-1 in | | | | | | TS 36.211. | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 4: PRB #0 | | | | | | to RPB #23 is | | | | | | allocated for | | | | | | PDSCH | | | | | | transmission. | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 5: PRB #0 | | | | | | to RPB #20 is | | | | | | allocated for | | | | | | PDSCH | | | | | | transmission. | | | | | +------------------+------+-------------+-------------+---+
#