# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the standards for user data transport protocols
over the E-UTRAN M1 interface.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 29.281: \"General Packet Radio System (GPRS) Tunnelling Protocol
User Plane (GTPv1-U)\".
[3] IETF RFC 768 (1980-08): \"User Datagram Protocol\".
[4] IETF RFC 2474 (1998-12): \"Definition of the Differentiated Services Field
(DS Field) in the Ipv4 and Ipv6 Headers\".
[5] IETF RFC 2460 (1998-12): \"Internet Protocol, Version 6 (IPv6)
Specification\".
[6] IETF RFC 791 (1981-09): \"Internet Protocol\".
[7] IETF RFC 3376 (2002-10): "Internet Group Management Protocol, Version 3".
[8] IETF RFC3810 (2004-06): "Multicast Listener Discovery Version 2 (MLDv2)
for IPv6".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**M1:** interface between an eNB and an EPC for MBMS data delivery, providing
an interconnection point between the EUTRAN and the EPC. M1 is a user plane
interface between E-UTRAN and EPC. It is also considered as a reference point.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
Symbol format (EW)
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
DiffServ Differentiated Service
eNB E-UTRAN Node B
EPC Evolved Packet Core
E-UTRA Evolved UTRA
E-UTRAN Evolved UTRAN
GTP GPRS Tunnelling Protocol
IP Internet Protocol
MBMS Multimedia Broadcast Multicast Service
TCP Transmission Control Protocol
TEID Tunnel Endpoint Identifier
UDP User Datagram Protocol
# 4 Data Link Layer
The support of any suitable data link Layer technique - like Ethernet, etc
...- techniques shall not be prevented.
# 5 M1 interface user plane protocol
## 5.1 General
The transport layer for MBMS data streams over M1 is an IP based Transport.
The following figure shows the transport protocol stacks over M1.
Figure 5.1-1: Transport network layer for MBMS data streams over M1
The GTP-U (TS 29.281 [2]) protocol over UDP over IP shall be supported as the
transport for MBMS data streams on the M1 interface. The data link layer is as
specified in clause 4.
On IP multicast mode, the transport bearer is identified by the GTP-U TEID (TS
29.281 [2]) and the IP multicast address (source TEID, IP address of multicast
source, IP multicast address).
## 5.2 GTP-U
The GTP-U (TS 29.281 [2]) protocol shall be used over the M1 interface toward
the EPC.
## 5.3 UDP/IP
The path protocol used shall be UDP (IETF RFC 768 [3]).
The UDP port number for GTP-U shall be as defined in TS 29.281 [2].
eNB and EPC shall support fragmentation and assembly of GTP packets at the IP
layer.
The eNB and EPC shall support IPv6 (IETF RFC 2460 [5]) and/or IPv4 (IETF RFC
791 [6]).
IP multicast (IETF RFC 3376 [7], IETF RFC3810 [8]) shall be supported for
point-to-multipoint delivery of MBMS data streams for multi-cell transmission.
The packet processing function in the EPC shall send MBMS data of a given MBMS
bearer to the TNL IP multicast address associated to that particular MBMS
bearer.
## 5.4 Diffserv code point marking
IP Differentiated Services code point marking (IETF RFC 2474 [4]) shall be
supported. The mapping between traffic categories and Diffserv code points
shall be configurable by O&M based on QoS Class Identifier (QCI)
Characteristics and other E-UTRAN traffic parameters. Traffic categories are
implementation-specific and may be determined from the application parameters.
#