# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part 3 of a multi-part conformance test specification
for the 3GPP evolved User Equipment (UE). The specification contains a TTCN-3
design frame work and the detailed test specifications in TTCN-3 for evolved
UE at the UE-E-UTRAN radio interface.
\- 3GPP TS 36.523-1 [1]: \"User Equipment (UE) conformance specification; Part
1: Protocol conformance specification\".
\- 3GPP TS 36.523-2 [2]: \"User Equipment (UE) conformance specification; Part
2: Implementation Conformance Statement (ICS) proforma specification\".
\- **3GPP TS 36.523-3: \"Test Suites\" (the present document).**
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the protocol and signalling conformance testing
in TTCN-3 for the 3GPP UE at the UE‑E-UTRAN radio interface.
The following TTCN test specification and design considerations can be found
in the present document:
\- the test system architecture;
\- the overall test suite structure;
\- the test models and ASP definitions;
\- the test methods and usage of communication ports definitions;
\- the test configurations;
\- the design principles and assumptions;
\- TTCN styles and conventions;
\- the partial PIXIT proforma;
\- the test suites.
The Abstract Test Suites designed in the document are based on the test cases
specified in prose (3GPP TS 36.523‑1 [1]). The applicability of the individual
test cases is specified in the test ICS proforma specification (3GPP TS
36.523‑2 [1]).
The present document is valid for TTCN development for LTE, LTE-Advanced and
LTE-Advanced Pro (including NB-IoT) UE conformance test according to 3GPP
Releases starting from Release 8 up to the Release indicated on the cover page
of the present document.
In the remainder of the present document, unless explicitly stated otherwise,
the term E-UTRA(N) implicitly refers to the Wideband part of E-UTRA(N) known
as WB-E-UTRA(N). The Narrowband part of E-UTRA(N) is always explicitly
referred to as NB-IoT.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document in the same Release as the present document > unless the context in which the reference is made suggests a > different Release is relevant (information on the applicable > release in a particular context can be found in e.g. test case > title, description or applicability, message description or > content).
  * [1] to [71] (void)
> [72] 3GPP TS 36.523-3 Release 17: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio
> Access (E-UTRA) and Evolved Packet Core (EPC); User Equipment (UE)
> conformance specification; Part 3: Test Suites\"
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
Void
# 4 E-UTRAN/SAE system architecture and test models
## 4.1 Test system architecture
The requirements of the present document are provided in 3GPP TS 36.523-3
Release 17 [72].
# 5 to 11 Void
###### ## Annex A to F: Void
#