# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical report for Intra-band Carrier Aggregation
Rel-16 for xDL/yUL including contiguous and non-contiguous spectrum under
Rel-16 time frame. The purpose is to gather the relevant background
information and studies in order to address Intra-band Carrier Aggregation
requirements for the Rel-16 band combinations in Table 1-1 and Table 1-2.
Table 1-1: Release 16 Intra-band carrier contiguous aggregation combinations
CA combination
* * *
CA_3DL_41D_3UL_41D_BCS0 CA_4DL_41E_3UL_41D_BCS0 CA_5DL_41F_3UL_41D_BCS0
CA_2DL_48C_2UL_48C_BCS0 CA_3DL_48D_2UL_48C_BCS0 CA_4DL_48E_2UL_48C_BCS0
CA_2DL_48B_1UL_48A_BCS0 CA_2DL_48B_1UL_48B_BCS0
Table 1-2: Release 16 Intra-band carrier non-contiguous aggregation
combinations
CA combination
* * *
CA_3DL_48A-48C_2UL_48C_BCS0 CA_4DL_48C-48C_2UL_48C_BCS0
48C-48A-48A_1UL_48A_BCS0 42A-42A_BCS1 42A-42C_BCS1 42C-42C_BCS1
42A-42C_UL_42C_BCS1 42C-42C_UL_42C_BCS1 CA_66A-66B_UL_66B
CA_2DL_48A-48B_1UL_48A_BCS0 CA_2DL_48B-48B_1UL_48A_BCS0
CA_2DL_48B-48C_1UL_48A_BCS0 CA_2DL_48B-48D_1UL_48A_BCS0
CA_2DL_48B-48E_1UL_48A_BCS0 CA_2DL_48A-48B_1UL_48B_BCS0
CA_2DL_48B-48B_1UL_48B_BCS0 CA_2DL_48B-48C_1UL_48B_BCS0
CA_2DL_48B-48D_1UL_48B_BCS0 CA_2DL_48B-48E_1UL_48B_BCS0
This TR contains a band specific combination part. The actual requirements are
added to the corresponding technical specifications.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] RP-180806, "New WID on Rel16 LTE Intra-band CA for x DL/y UL including
contiguous and non-contiguous spectrum(x>=y)", RAN#80, Ericsson
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
BW~Channel_CA~ Aggregated channel bandwidth, expressed in MHz.
F~Interferer~ Frequency of the interferer
F~Ioffset~ Frequency offset of the interferer (between the center frequency of
the interferer and the closest edge of the carrier measured)
F~DL_low~ The lowest frequency of the downlink operating band
F~DL_high~ The highest frequency of the downlink operating band
F~UL_low~ The lowest frequency of the uplink operating band
F~UL_high~ The highest frequency of the uplink operating band
F~offset~ Frequency offset from F~C_high~ to the _higher edge_ or F~C_low~ to
the _lower edge._
ΔR~IB,c~ Allowed reference sensitivity relaxation due to support for inter-
band CA operation, for serving cell _c_.
ΔT~IB,c~ Allowed maximum configured output power relaxation due to support for
inter-band CA operation, for serving cell _c_.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
BS Base Station
BCS Bandwidth Combination Set
CA Carrier Aggregation
CA_X Intra-band contiguous CA of component carriers in one sub-block within
Band X where X is the applicable E-UTRA operating band
CA_X-X Intra-band non-contiguous CA of component carriers in two sub-blocks
within Band X where X is the applicable E-UTRA operating band
> CA_X-Y Inter-band CA of component carrier(s) in one sub-block within Band X
> and component carrier(s) in one sub-block within Band Y where X and Y are
> the applicable E-UTRA operating band
CA_X-X-Y CA of component carriers in two sub-blocks within Band X and
component carrier(s) in one sub-block within Band Y where X and Y are the
applicable E-UTRA operating bands
CC Component Carriers
DL Downlink
E-UTRA Evolved UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access
FDD Frequency Division Duplex
PA Power Amplifier
PCC Primary Component Carrier
REFSENS Reference Sensitivity power level
SCC Secondary Component Carrier
TDD Time Division Duplex
UE User Equipment
UL Uplink
# 4 Background
The present document is a technical report for Intra-band Carrier Aggregation
under Rel-16 timeframe. The document covers each band combination specific
issues (i.e. one sub-clause defined per band combination)
## 4.1 TR Maintenance
A single company is responsible for introducing all approved TPs in the
current TR, i.e. TR editor. However, it is the responsibility of the contact
person of each band combination to ensure that the TPs related to the band
combination have been implemented.
# 5 Intra-Band Contiguous Carrier Aggregation: Specific Band Combination Part
## 5.1 CA_3DL_41D_3UL_41D_BCS0 CA_4DL_41E_3UL_41D_BCS0 CA_5DL_41F_3UL_41D_BCS0
### 5.1.1 Channel bandwidths per operating band
Table 5.1.1-1 defines the supported E-UTRA CA configurations and bandwidth
combination set for LTE-advanced 3UL intra-band contiguous CA in Band 41.
Table 5.1.1-1: E-UTRA CA configurations and bandwidth combination sets for
CA_41D
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+---+ | | E | | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | | CA | | | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | | | figur | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | | ombin | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | set | | | | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=====+===+ | E | U | Comp | Ma | Band | | | | | | -UTRA | plink | onent | ximum | width | | | | | | CA | CA | car | a | c | | | | | | con | conf | riers | ggreg | ombin | | | | | | figur | igura | in | ated\ | ation | | | | | | ation | tions | order | band | set | | | | | | | | of | width | | | | | | | | (NOTE | incre | [ | | | | | | | | 3) | asing | MHz] | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+---+ | | | Ch | Ch | Ch | Ch | Ch | | | | | | annel | annel | annel | annel | annel | | | | | | bandw | bandw | bandw | bandw | bandw | | | | | | idths | idths | idths | idths | idths | | | | | | for | for | for | for | for | | | | | | ca | ca | ca | ca | ca | | | | | | rrier | rrier | rrier | rrier | rrier | | | | | | [ | [ | [ | [ | [ | | | | | | MHz] | MHz] | MHz] | MHz] | MHz] | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+---+ | CA | CA | 10 | 20 | 15 | | | 60 | 0 | | _41D | _41D | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+---+ | | | 10 | 15, | 20 | | | | | | | | | 20 | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+---+ | | | 15 | 20 | 10, | | | | | | | | | | 15 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+---+ | | | 15 | 10, | 20 | | | | | | | | | 15, | | | | | | | | | | 20 | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+---+ | | | 20 | 15, | 10 | | | | | | | | | 20 | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+---+ | | | 20 | 10, | 15, | | | | | | | | | 15, | 20 | | | | | | | | | 20 | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+---+ | CA | CA | 15, | 15, | 15, | 20 | | 80 | 0 | | _41E | _41D | 20 | 20 | 20 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+---+ | CA | CA | 1 | 15, | 20 | 20 | 20 | 100 | 0 | | _41F | _41D | 0,15, | 20 | | | | | | | | | 20 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+---+
### 5.1.2 UE maximum output power
The UE maximum output power for CA_41D is proposed to reuse requirement for
bandwidth class C.
Table 5.1.2-1 CA UE Power Class for intra-band contiguous CA_41D
E-UTRA CA Configuration Class 1 (dBm) Tolerance (dB) Class 2 (dBm) Tolerance
(dB) Class 3 (dBm) Tolerance (dB) Class 4 (dBm) Tolerance (dB)
* * *
CA_41D 23 +2/-2^2^  
NOTE 2: If all transmitted resource blocks (Figure 5.6A-1) over all component
carriers are confined within FUL_low and FUL_low + 4 MHz or/and FUL_high -- 4
MHz and FUL_high, the maximum output power requirement is relaxed by reducing
the lower tolerance limit by 1.5 dB
### 5.1.3 Spurious emission band UE co-existence
Table 5.1.3-1 shows the spurious emission band UE co-existence for CA_41D.
Table 5.1.3-1: Spurious emission band UE co-existence for CA_41D
* * *
E-UTRA CA Configuration Spurious emission  
Protected band Frequency range (MHz) Maximum Level (dBm) MBW (MHz) NOTE  
CA_41D E-UTRA Band 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 8, 10, 12, 13 , 14, 17, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28,
29, 30, 34, 39, 40, 42, 44, 65, 66, 70 F~DL_low~ - F~DL_high~ -50 1
* * *
### 5.1.4 UE maximum output power with additional requirements
Simulations were completed to determine A-MPR for 3CC in B41D. It was used a
validated PA model with PA calibration point MPR0 with QPSK 18RB single CC
waveform to meet minimum general requirements for E-UTRA ACLR, UTRA1 ACLR,
UTRA2 ACLR and General Spurious emissions. Carrier Leakage and Image
suppression were both at -25dBc with Counter IM3 at -60dBc.
Supporting simulation results are shown in the appendix.
Proposal to use A-MPR for contiguous allocations as shown in Table 5.1.4-1
Table 5.1.4-1: Contiguous Allocation A-MPR for CA_NS_04 (power class 3)
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | CA | R | L~CRB~ | R | A-MPR | A-MPR | | B | B~Start~ | [RBs] | B~start~ | for QPSK | for 16 | | andwidth | | | + L~CRB~ | [dB] | QAM, 64 | | Class D | | | [RBs] | | QAM and | | | | | | | 256 QAM | | | | | | | [dB] | +==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+ | 50 RB / | 0 -- 64 | >0 | N/A | ≤4dB | ≤4.5dB | | 75 RB/ | and 161 | | | | | | 100 RB | -- 224 | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | 65 -- | N/A | >161 | ≤3dB | ≤3.5dB | | | 160 | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 50 RB / | 0 -- 72 | >0 | N/A | ≤4dB | ≤4.5dB | | 100 RB / | and 178 | | | | | | 100 RB | -- 249 | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | 73 -- | N/A | >178 | ≤3dB | ≤3.5dB | | | 177 | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 75 RB / | 0 -- 72 | >0 | N/A | ≤4dB | ≤4.5dB | | 75 RB / | and 178 | | | | | | 100 RB | -- 249 | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | 73 -- | N/A | >178 | ≤3dB | ≤3.5dB | | | 177 | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 75 RB / | 0 -- 78 | >0 | N/A | ≤3.5dB | ≤4dB | | 100 RB / | and 197 | | | | | | 100 RB | -- 274 | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | 79 - 196 | N/A | >197 | ≤2.5dB | ≤3dB | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 100 RB / | 0 -- 96 | >0 | N/A | ≤3.5dB | ≤4dB | | 100 RB / | and 204 | | | | | | 100 RB | -- 300 | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | 97-- 203 | N/A | >204 | ≤2.5dB | ≤3dB | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | B~start~ | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | ndicates | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | lowest | | | | | | | RB index | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | tra | | | | | | | nsmitted | | | | | | | resource | | | | | | | blocks | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | L~CRB~ | | | | | | | is the | | | | | | | length | | | | | | | of a | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | ntiguous | | | | | | | resource | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | al | | | | | | | location | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | intra- | | | | | | | subframe | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | requency | | | | | | | hopping | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | tersects | | | | | | | regions, | | | | | | | notes 1 | | | | | | | and 2 | | | | | | | apply on | | | | | | | a per | | | | | | | slot | | | | | | | basis. | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | tra-slot | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | intra | | | | | | | -subslot | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | requency | | | | | | | hopping | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | tersects | | | | | | | regions, | | | | | | | notes 1 | | | | | | | and 2 | | | | | | | apply on | | | | | | | a per | | | | | | | T~no_ | | | | | | | hopping~ | | | | | | | basis.. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | intra- | | | | | | | subframe | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | requency | | | | | | | hopping | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | tersects | | | | | | | regions, | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | larger | | | | | | | A-MPR | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | may be | | | | | | | applied | | | | | | | for both | | | | | | | slots in | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | ubframe. | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | tra-slot | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | requency | | | | | | | hopping | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | tersects | | | | | | | regions, | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | larger | | | | | | | A-MPR | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | may be | | | | | | | applied | | | | | | | for the | | | | | | | slot. | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | intra | | | | | | | -subslot | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | requency | | | | | | | hopping | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | tersects | | | | | | | regions, | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | larger | | | | | | | A-MPR | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | may be | | | | | | | applied | | | | | | | for the | | | | | | | subslot. | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
Non-contiguous Allocations
For 3CC, there will be extra back-off required because of the triple beat
product, even though the PSD is lower for each allocation in each CC. A simple
study shows that the product is \~1.7dB higher than the equivalent 2 tone IMD
product in the 2CC case for the same power in the 2CC and 3CC case. The back
off required, assuming 3:1 will be \~0.57dB. A simple simulation study shows
this effect in Figure 1, and a more comprehensive simulation was completed and
shown in the appendix. As a result, the specification is bumped up by 0.5dB
for non-contiguous allocations.
Figure 5.1.4-2 is comparing Power Back-off for the same non-contiguous
allocation ratio for 2CC Vs 3CC (left). Comprehensive 3CC non-contiguous
simulation with proposed spec (right).
Figure 5.1.4-2
[[CHART]]{.chart}{width="3.125in" height="2.341666666666667in"}
Proposal to use A-MPR algorithm below for non-contiguous allocations.
If the UE is configured to CA_41D or any uplink inter-band CA configuration
containing CA_41D and it receives IE CA_NS_04 the allowed maximum output power
reduction applied to transmissions on two serving cells assigned to Band 41
with non-contiguous resource allocation is defined as follows for UE power
class 3
A-MPR = CEIL {M~A,~ 0.5}
Where M~A~ is defined as follows~:~
> M~A~ = 11.5, 0≤ A \
> = -55.0A + 14.25, 0.05≤ A \
> = -4.0A + 6.60, 0.15≤ A \
> = -0.833A + 5.333, 0.40 ≤ A ≤ 1
Where A = N~RB_alloc~ / N~RB_agg.~
### 5.1.5 Additional Spectrum emission mask for CA_41D
The FCC emission requirements defines emission boundaries as a function of
emission bandwidth. For the purpose of deriving 3GPP specifications, the
occupied bandwidth has been taken as equivalent to the FCC definition of
emission bandwidth. The existing specification for CA_NS_04 emissions only
considers uplink carrier aggregation class C with two component carriers.
Therefore, the emission requirement is symmetric; that is, the emission
requirement for BW~A~+BW~B~ is the same as it is for BW~A~+BW~B~. However,
when extending the same emission table to bandwidth class D with three
component carriers, the symmetry does not hold. For example, the emission
requirement for BW~A~+BW~B~+BW~C~ is not necessarily the same as that for
BW~A~+BW~C~+BW~B~. The reason is that the channel spacing between carriers,
and therefore the overall occupied bandwidth, is not necessarily the same. In
this example, the spacing between AB and BC is different than the spacing
between AC and CB (or BC). Thus, we define the CA_NS_04 SEM table for CA_41D
as shown below.
It is observed that the requirement within the first MHz of the channel edge
is progressively more challenging with increasing bandwidth. The FCC
requirement in the first MHz allows for the use of a measurement bandwidth
that is 2% of the emission bandwidth requiring an attenuation of 40+10logP
while 3GPP specifications have typically used 30 kHz measurement bandwidth.
Given the larger channel bandwidths for uplink bandwidth class D, it is
proposed to increase the measurement bandwidth to 300 kHz to more closely
reflect a 2% emission bandwidth for the bandwidths of interest. Note that this
formulation still complies with the -13 dBm requirement in 1% emission
bandwidth for the range from 2495 \-- 2496 MHz as required by FCC rules, for
the CA_41D bandwidths of interest.
Table 5.1.5-1: Additional SEM requirements for CA_41D and CA_NS_04
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Spe | | | | | | | | | ctrum | | | | | | | | | emi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | limit | | | | | | | | | [d | | | | | | | | | Bm]/ | | | | | | | | | BW~Ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | _CA~ | | | | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+ | Δf | 75+5 | 50+7 | 75+1 | 100+5 | 75+1 | 75+7 | M | | ~OOB~ | 0+100 | 5+100 | 00+50 | 0+100 | 00+75 | 5+100 | easur | | | or | or | or | RB | or | or | ement | | (MHz) | 100+ | 100+ | 50+1 | (48.8 | 100+1 | 100+ | band | | | 50+75 | 75+50 | 00+75 | MHz) | 00+50 | 75+75 | width | | | RB | RB | RB | | or | RB | | | | | | | | 50+10 | ( | | | | ( | (44.6 | ( | | 0+100 | 49.85 | | | | 44.15 | MHz) | 44.75 | | RB | MHz) | | | | MHz) | | MHz) | | (49.7 | | | | | | | | | MHz) | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ± 0-1 | -14.5 | -14.5 | -14.5 | -15 | -15 | -15 | 300 | | | | | | | | | kHz | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ± 1-5 | -10 | -10 | -10 | -10 | -10 | -10 | 1 MHz | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ± | -13 | -13 | -13 | -13 | -13 | -13 | 1 MHz | | 5- | | | | | | | | | 42.15 | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ± | -25 | -13 | -13 | -13 | -13 | -13 | 1 MHz | | 42.15 | | | | | | | | | -42.6 | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ± | -25 | -25 | -13 | -13 | -13 | -13 | 1 MHz | | 42.6- | | | | | | | | | 42.75 | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ± | -25 | -25 | -25 | -13 | -13 | -13 | 1 MHz | | 42.75 | | | | | | | | | -46.8 | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ± | -25 | -25 | -25 | -25 | -13 | -13 | 1 MHz | | 46.8 | | | | | | | | | -47.7 | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ± | -25 | -25 | -25 | -25 | -25 | -13 | 1 MHz | | 47.7- | | | | | | | | | 47.85 | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ± | -25 | -25 | -25 | -25 | -25 | -25 | 1 MHz | | 4 | | | | | | | | | 7.85- | | | | | | | | | 49.15 | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ± | | -25 | -25 | -25 | -25 | -25 | 1 MHz | | 49.15 | | | | | | | | | -49.6 | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ± | | | -25 | -25 | -25 | -25 | 1 MHz | | 49.6- | | | | | | | | | 49.75 | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ± | | | | -25 | -25 | -25 | 1 MHz | | 49.75 | | | | | | | | | -53.8 | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ± | | | | | -25 | -25 | 1 MHz | | 53.8 | | | | | | | | | -54.7 | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ± | | | | | | -25 | 1 MHz | | 54.7- | | | | | | | | | 54.85 | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Spe | | | | | | | | | ctrum | | | | | | | | | emi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | limit | | | | | | | | | [d | | | | | | | | | Bm]/ | | | | | | | | | BW~Ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | _CA~ | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Δf | 100+7 | 75+10 | 1 | | | | M | | ~OOB~ | 5+100 | 0+100 | 00+10 | | | | easur | | | RB | or | 0+100 | | | | ement | | (MHz) | | 100+1 | RB | | | | band | | | (54.2 | 00+75 | (59.6 | | | | width | | | MHz) | RB | MHz) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | 54.65 | | | | | | | | | MHz) | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ± 0-1 | -15.5 | -15.5 | -16 | | | | 300 | | | | | | | | | kHz | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ± 1-5 | -10 | -10 | -10 | | | | 1 MHz | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ± | -13 | -13 | -13 | | | | 1 MHz | | 5 | | | | | | | | | -52.2 | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ± | -25 | -13 | -13 | | | | 1 MHz | | 52.2- | | | | | | | | | 52.65 | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ± | -25 | -25 | -13 | | | | 1 MHz | | 52.65 | | | | | | | | | -57.6 | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ± | -25 | -25 | -25 | | | | 1 MHz | | 57.6 | | | | | | | | | -59.2 | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ± | | -25 | -25 | | | | 1 MHz | | 59.2- | | | | | | | | | 59.65 | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ± | | | -25 | | | | 1 MHz | | 59.65 | | | | | | | | | -64.6 | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Additionally, a spurious emission requirement is also applicable when CA_NS_04
is signaled. This requirement also applies for CA_41D.
Table 5.1.5-2: Additional spurious emissions requirements for CA_NS_04
+--------------------+-------------------------------+-----------------------+ | Frequency band | Spectrum emission limit (dBm) | Measurement bandwidth | | | | | | (MHz) | | | +====================+===============================+=======================+ | 2490.5 ≤ f \0 | ≤11dB | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | 100 RB / 25 RB | | | | +-----------------+------------------------+----------------+-----------------------+ | | 3 -- 27 | \85 | ≤5dB | +-----------------+------------------------+----------------+-----------------------+ | | 27 -- 120 | >0 | ≤2dB | +-----------------+------------------------+----------------+-----------------------+ | 50 RB / 100 RB | 0 -- 10 and 139 -- 149 | >0 | ≤13dB | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | 100 RB / 50 RB | | | | +-----------------+------------------------+----------------+-----------------------+ | | 11 -- 28 | \85 | ≤5dB | +-----------------+------------------------+----------------+-----------------------+ | | 29 -- 138 | >0 | ≤4dB | +-----------------+------------------------+----------------+-----------------------+ | 75 RB / 100 RB | 0 -- 18 and 156 -- 174 | >0 | ≤13dB | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | 100 RB / 75 RB | | | | +-----------------+------------------------+----------------+-----------------------+ | | 19 -- 42 | \95 | ≤6dB | +-----------------+------------------------+----------------+-----------------------+ | | 43 -- 155 | >0 | ≤4dB | +-----------------+------------------------+----------------+-----------------------+ | 100 RB / 100 RB | 0 -- 26 and 173 -- 199 | >0 | ≤14dB | +-----------------+------------------------+----------------+-----------------------+ | | 27 -- 45 | ≤100 | ≤3dB | +-----------------+------------------------+----------------+-----------------------+ | | | >100 | ≤6dB | +-----------------+------------------------+----------------+-----------------------+ | | 46 -- 172 | ≤100 | ≤2dB | +-----------------+------------------------+----------------+-----------------------+ | | | >100 | ≤5dB | +-----------------+------------------------+----------------+-----------------------+
#### 5.2.4.3 2-cluster RB transmission
The simulations for 2-cluster RB transmission shall have the same simulation
assumptions and requirement as Contiguous RB transmission.
Because of the large number of scenarios (almost 5 million combinations for 20
+ 20 MHz) a set of around 20 000 randomly created allocation scenarios were
simulated per bandwidth combination and appropriate back off value was
searched.
Results from these simulations with proposed A-MPR mask are shown in the
figures below
{width="5.354166666666667in" height="4.4311154855643045in"}
Figure 5.2.4.3-1: 2 clusters in 2CCs vs. allocation ratio, 25 RB + 100 RB
{width="5.46875in" height="4.511477471566054in"}
Figure 5.2.4.3-2: 2 clusters in 2CCs vs. allocation ratio, 50 RB + 100 RB
{width="5.467462817147856in" height="4.510416666666667in"}
Figure 5.2.4.3-3: 2 clusters in 2CCs vs. allocation ratio, 75 RB + 100 RB
{width="5.427083333333333in" height="4.491461067366579in"}
Figure 5.2.4.3-4: 2 clusters in 2CCs vs. allocation ratio, 100 RB + 100 RB
The mask shown in from figures 5.2.4.3-1 to figures 5.2.4.3-4 can be formally
defined as follows
A-MPR = CEIL {M~A,~ 0.5}
Where M~A~ is defined as follows
> M~A~ = 17; 0 ≤ A \
> -40A + 18; 0.025 ≤ A \
> -3.75A + 14.375; 0.1 ≤ A \
> -7A + 16; 0.5 ≤ A ≤ 1
Where A = N~RB_alloc~ / N~RB_agg.~
### 5.2.5 Vendor B, A-MPR for uplink CA bandwidth class C
#### 5.2.5.1 A-MPR concept
Emission requirements are tighter outside of the band compared to inside the
band with an exception that first 10 MHz on high side of that band has same
-13 dBm requirement as within the band. Therefore, it would be beneficial to
define two different A-MPRs firstly the band edge A-MPR which has higher -25
dBm...-40 dBm emission requirement on IMD3 region and secondly an inner-band
A-MPR which would have lower A-MPR as -13 dBm requirement would apply on IMD3
region. This concept is presented in Figure 5.2.5.1-1.
Figure 5.2.5.1-1: Two different A-MPRs per CC combination
#### 5.2.5.2 Simulation assumptions
**Simulation assumptions were as follows**
IQ-Image and LO leakage = 28 dBc
CIM3 = 60 dBc
PA calibration point was 20 MHz, 15 kHz, QPSK, DFT-S-OFMA, 100 RB at lower
channel edge with 0.5 dB MPR
SEM, ACLR, spurious emission and additional CBRS emission limits are
calculated for A-MPR.
The simulated A-MPR is assumed applied as max(A-MPR, MPR), where MPR is the
1CC MPR.
#### 5.2.5.3 Results for Contiguous CA Resource Allocations
The A-MPR regions illustrated in Figure5.2.5.1-1 are defined in Table
5.2.5.3-1.
Table 5.2.5.3-1: A-MPR regions for CA_48C
* * *
Channel Bandwidth, MHz Carrier Centre Frequency, Fc, MHz A-MPR
* * *
20+5 / 5 + 20 F~L~ + BW~CA~/2 ≤ F~C~ ≤ F~H~ + BW~CA~/2 A
                                                                                                                                       FL + 3\*BWCA/2 - 10 MHz ≤ F~C~ ≤ FH - 3\*BWCA/2 - 10 MHz   B
20+10 / 10 + 20 F~L~ + BW~CA~/2 ≤ F~C~ ≤ F~H~ + BW~CA~/2 A
                                                                                                                                       F~L~ + 3\*BW~CA~/2 - 10 MHz ≤\                             B
                                                                                                                                       F~C~ ≤ F~H~ - 3\*BW~CA~/2 - 10 MHz
20+15 / 15 + 20 F~L~ + BW~CA~/2 ≤ F~C~ ≤ F~H~ + BW~CA~/2 A
                                                                                                                                       F~L~ + 3\*BW~CA~/2 - 10 MHz ≤\                             B
                                                                                                                                       F~C~ ≤ F~H~ - 3\*BW~CA~/2 - 10 MHz
20+20 F~L~ + BW~CA~/2 ≤ F~C~ ≤ F~H~ + BW~CA~/2 A
                                                                                                                                       F~L~ + 3\*BW~CA~/2 - 10 MHz ≤\                             B
                                                                                                                                       F~C~ ≤ F~H~ - 3\*BW~CA~/2 - 10 MHz
NOTE: F~L~ = 3550 MHz, F~H~ = 3700 MHz and BW~CA~ is the combined bandwidth of
the contiguous CCs in the CA combination indicated.
* * *
A-MPR at the band edge positions defined in Table 5.2.5.3-1 is given in Table
5.2.5.3-2 this is the A-case. For the lower A-MPR region, the results are
given in Table 5.2.5.3-3 this is the B-case.
Herein, applied A-MPR should be considered as max(A-MRP, MPR), where A-MPR is
given in Table 5.2.5.3-2 and Table 5.2.5.3-3 and MPR for single CC scenario in
Table 6.2.3-1 of LTE specification 36.101.
Table 5.2.5.3-2: A-MPR regions for CA_48C at the band edge, (A)
BWs [MHz] RB_start L_CRB A-MPR [dB]
* * *
                                                    max(mods)
20+5 / 5 + 20 0 -- 7 and 117 - 124 ≤ 12 5 - 25 \ 85 ≤ 6.5 26 - 120
≤ 5 20+10 / 10 + 20 0 - 13 and 135 - 149 ≤ 11 14 - 33 \ 85 ≤ 7 34 -
134 ≤ 6 20+15 / 15 + 20 0 - 22 and 152 -174 ≤ 11 23 - 42 \ 95 ≤ 7
43 - 151 ≤ 6 20+20 0 - 31 and 165 - 199 ≤ 11 31 - 51 \ 100 ≤ 7 52
- 164 \ 100 ≤ 6
Table 5.2.5.3-3: A-MPR regions for CA_48C at the band center ("range for lower
A-MPR") (B)
BWs [MHz] RB_start L_CRB A-MPR [dB]
* * *
                                                    max(mods)
20+5 / 5 + 20 0 -- 7 and 117 - 124 ≤ 4 5 - 25 \ 85 ≤ 2.5 26 - 120 ≤
2 20+10 / 10 + 20 0 - 13 and 135 - 149 ≤ 4.5 14 - 33 \ 85 ≤ 2.5 34
- 134 ≤ 1.5 20+15 / 15 + 20 0 - 22 and 152 -174 ≤ 4.5 23 - 42 \ 95 ≤
2.5 43 - 151 ≤ 1 20+20 0 - 31 and 165 - 199 ≤ 4.5 31 - 51 \ 100 ≤
1.5 52 - 164 \ 100 ≤ 1
Furthermore, an example A-MPR scenario of 20+20 MHz CA combination with QPSK
modulation is shown in Figure 3 with contiguous CA allocations, considering
both the band edge scenario ("0 Hz offset") and the lower A-MPR region ("29.8
MHz offset").
{width="3.2766732283464566in"
height="2.456672134733158in"}{width="3.2766732283464566in"
height="2.456672134733158in"}
Figure 5.2.5.3-1: The A-AMPR triangles for contiguous resource allocations of
20+20 MHz CA combination at the lower band edge (left) and at the lower edge
of the range for lower A-MPR (right). EVM and IBE are not consider for A-MPR.
#### 5.2.5.4 Results for Non-contiguous CA Resource Allocations
As illustrated, with an example scenario of 20+20 MHz CA combination, in
Figure 5.2.5.4-1 with non-contiguous CA allocations higher A-MPR is needed. In
here, non-contiguous channel edge allocations are simulated as a worst-case-
scenario.
For the channel edge positions indicated in Figure 5.2.5.1-1, 18 dB A-MPR is
needed for the smallest allocation ratio resource allocations, i.e. the
narrowest non-contiguous edge allocations.
For the lower A-MPR range indicated in Figure 5.2.5.1-1, 12 dB A-MPR is needed
for the smallest allocation ratio resource allocations, i.e. the narrowest
non-contiguous edge allocations.
{width="3.2766732283464566in"
height="2.456672134733158in"}{width="3.2766732283464566in"
height="2.456672134733158in"}
Figure 5.2.5.4-1: The A-MPR for non-contiguous edge allocations of 20+20 MHz
CA combination at the lower band edge (left) and at the lower edge of the
range for lower A-MPR (right). EVM and IBE are not consider for A-MPR.
Considering the maximum A-MPR needed in the case of small allocation ratio,
the results for other BW combinations are quite consistent with 20+20 MHz
scenario presented in Figure 5.2.5.3-1.
Based on these results, the following formulation for A-MPR is proposed for
the edge scenario:
A-MPR = CEIL {M~A,~ 0.5}
where M~A~ is defined as follows
> M~A~ = 18.00 - 10.00 A; 0 ≤ A \
> 18.50 - 20.00 A; 0.05 ≤ A \
> 15.50 - 5.00 A; 0.2 ≤ A \ M~A~ = 11.50 - 10.00 A; 0 ≤ A \
> 10.88 - 5.88*A; 0.15 ≤ A \=y)
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | E | | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | | CA | | | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | | | figur | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | | ombin | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | set | | | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+ | E | U | Comp | Ma | Band | | | | | | -UTRA | plink | onent | ximum | width | | | | | | CA | CA | car | a | c | | | | | | con | conf | riers | ggreg | ombin | | | | | | figur | igura | in | ated\ | ation | | | | | | ation | tions | order | band | set | | | | | | | | of | width | | | | | | | | (NOTE | incre | [ | | | | | | | | 3) | asing | MHz] | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | Ch | Ch | Ch | Ch | Ch | | | | | | annel | annel | annel | annel | annel | | | | | | bandw | bandw | bandw | bandw | bandw | | | | | | idths | idths | idths | idths | idths | | | | | | for | for | for | for | for | | | | | | ca | ca | ca | ca | ca | | | | | | rrier | rrier | rrier | rrier | rrier | | | | | | [ | [ | [ | [ | [ | | | | | | MHz] | MHz] | MHz] | MHz] | MHz] | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | * | * | * | * | | | | * | **0** | | _CA_ |_ CA_ | _10_ _|_ 10**| | | | *20** | | | 48B**| 48B** | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
**E-UTRA CA Configuration** **Uplink CA configurations (NOTE 4)** **1.4**
**3** **5** **10** **15** **20** **Maximum aggregated bandwidth** **Bandwidth
combination set**
* * *
                                                                        **MHz**                                                                **MHz**   **MHz**   **MHz**   **MHz**   **MHz**   **\[MHz\]**
**CA_48A-48B** **CA_48B** Yes Yes Yes Yes **40** **0**  
See CA_48B Bandwidth combination set 0 in 36.101 Table 5.6A.1-3  
**CA_48B-48B** **CA_48B** **See CA_48B Bandwidth combination set 0 in 36.101
Table 5.6A.1-3** **40** **0**  
**See CA_48B Bandwidth combination set 0 in 36.101 Table 5.6A.1-3**  
**CA_48B-48C** **CA_48B** **See CA_48B Bandwidth combination set 0 in 36.101
Table 5.6A.1-3** **40** **0**  
**See CA_48C Bandwidth combination set 0 in 36.101 Table 5.6A.1-3**  
**CA_48B-48D** **CA_48B** **See CA_48B Bandwidth combination set 0 in 36.101
Table 5.6A.1-3** **80** **0**  
**See CA_48D Bandwidth combination set 0 in 36.101 Table 5.6A.1-3**  
**CA_48B-48E** **CA_48B** **See CA_48B Bandwidth combination set 0 in 36.101
Table 5.6A.1-3** **100** **0**  
**See CA_48E Bandwidth combination set 0 in 36.101 Table 5.6A.1-3**
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+----+---+ | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | | | CA | | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | | onfigu | | | | | | | | | | ration | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | Ban | | | | | | | | | | dwidth | | | | | | | | | | combi | | | | | | | | | | nation | | | | | | | | | | set | | | | | | | +========+========+========+========+========+========+========+====+===+ | E-UTRA | Uplink | Com | M | Ban | | | | | | CA | CA | ponent | aximum | dwidth | | | | | | c | co | ca | aggre | combi | | | | | | onfigu | nfigur | rriers | gated\ | nation | | | | | | ration | ations | in | ban | set | | | | | | | | order | dwidth | | | | | | | | (NOTE | of | \ | | | | | | | | 3) | incr | [MHz] | | | | | | | | | easing | | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | | arrier | | | | | | | | | | fre | | | | | | | | | | quency | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+----+---+ | | | C | C | C | C | C | | | | | | hannel | hannel | hannel | hannel | hannel | | | | | | band | band | band | band | band | | | | | | widths | widths | widths | widths | widths | | | | | | for | for | for | for | for | | | | | | c | c | c | c | c | | | | | | arrier | arrier | arrier | arrier | arrier | | | | | | \ | \ | \ | \ | \ | | | | | | [MHz] | [MHz] | [MHz] | [MHz] | [MHz] | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+----+---+ | C | C | 10 | 10 | | | | 20 | 0 | | A_48B | A_48B | | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+----+---+
### 5.3.2 Co-existence studies
Table 5.3.2-1 summarizes frequency ranges where harmonics occur due to Band
[48]{.underline} CA with 1 UL.
Table 5.3.2-1: Impact of 1 UL Harmonic Interference
                                                  2nd Harmonic       3rd Harmonic        4th Harmonic       5th Harmonic
* * *
Band UL Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge UL Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge UL
Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge UL Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge UL Low Band
Edge UL High Band Edge **48** **3550** **3700** **7100** **7400** **10650**
**11100** **14200** **14800** **17750** **1850**
Table 5.3.2-1 shows there are no harmonic issues for this combination.
So we can conclude that there is no issue on both DL/UL harmonic interference.
### 5.3.3 ΔT~IB,c~ and ΔR~IB,c~ values
No ΔTIB,c and ΔRIB,c values for intra-band combinations are needed
### 5.3.4 MSD
Table 5.4.1A-0eA: Reference sensitivity QPSK PREFSENS (CA 48)
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Ch | | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+ | EUTRA | EUTRA | 1.4 | 3 MHz | 5 MHz | 10 | 15 | 20 | D | | CA | band | MHz | | | MHz | MHz | MHz | uplex | | Con | | | (dBm) | (dBm) | | | | mode | | figur | | (dBm) | | | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | | | ation | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | * | 48 | | | -99 | -96 | -94.2 | -93 | TDD | | _CA_ | | | | | | | | | | 48B_ * | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
The MSD analysis was conducted when CA_48Awas discussed. Because of similarity
of CA_48B, we apply the MSD specified for CA_48A to that for CA_48
### 5.3.5 Vendor A, A-MPR for uplink CA bandwidth class B
#### 5.3.5.1 Contiguous RB Transmission
Results from these simulations are shown in the figures below.
{width="5.8125in" height="4.625in"}
Figure 5.3.5..1-1. Required A-MPR for 25 + 100 RB, QPSK
Based on the simulation results presented from Figure 5.3.5.1-1, the A-MPR
requirements for contiguously allocated CA_48B is given in Table 5.3.5.1-1.
Table 5.3.5.1-1: A-MPR requirements for contiguously allocated CA_48B
configuration
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | **CA_48B:** | RB~Start~ | L_CRB [RBs] | A-MPR for QPSK | | | | | [dB] | | CA_NS_xx | | | | +================+================+================+================+ | **25 RB / 100 |** 0 -- 2 and | **> 0** | **≤11dB** | | RB**| 121 - 124** | | | | | | | | | **and** | | | | | | | | | | **100 RB / 25 | | | | | RB** | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | **3 -- 27** | **\  85** | **≤5dB** | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | **27 -- 120** | **> 0** | **≤2dB** | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
#### 5.3.5.2 2-cluster RB transmission
The simulations for 2-cluster RB transmission shall have the same simulation
assumptions and requirement as Contiguous RB transmission.
Because of the large number of scenarios (almost 5 million combinations for 20
+ 20 MHz) a set of around 20 000 randomly created allocation scenarios were
simulated per bandwidth combination and appropriate back off value was
searched.
Results from these simulations with proposed A-MPR mask are shown in the
figures below
{width="5.354166666666667in" height="4.4375in"}
Figure 5.3.5.2-1: 2 clusters in 2CCs vs. allocation ratio, 25 RB + 100 RB
**The mask shown in figure 5.3.5.2-1 can be formally defined as follows**
**A-MPR = CEIL {M~A,~ 0.5}**
**Where M~A~ is defined as follows**
> **M~A~ = 17; 0 ≤ A \ 
> **-40A + 18; 0.025 ≤ A \ 
> **-3.75A + 14.375; 0.1 ≤ A \ 
> **-7A + 16; 0.5 ≤ A ≤ 1**
**Where A = N~RB_alloc~ / N~RB_agg.~**
### 5.3.5.3 Vendor B, A-MPR for uplink CA bandwidth class B
#### 5.3.5.3.1 A-MPR concept
**Emission requirements are tighter outside of the band compared to inside the
band with an exception that first 10 MHz on high side of that band has same
-13 dBm requirement as within the band. Therefore, it would be beneficial to
define two different A-MPRs firstly the band edge A-MPR which has higher -25
dBm...-40 dBm emission requirement on IMD3 region and secondly an inner-band
A-MPR which would have lower A-MPR as -13 dBm requirement would apply on IMD3
region. This concept is presented in Figure 5.2.5.1-1.**
Figure 5.3.5.3.1-1: Two different A-MPRs per CC combination
#### 5.3.5.3.2 Simulation assumptions
**Simulation assumptions were as follows**
**IQ-Image and LO leakage = 28 dBc**
**CIM3 = 60 dBc**
**PA calibration point was 20 MHz, 15 kHz, QPSK, DFT-S-OFMA, 100 RB at lower
channel edge with 0.5 dB MPR**
**SEM, ACLR, spurious emission and additional CBRS emission limits are
calculated for A-MPR.**
**The simulated A-MPR is assumed applied as max(A-MPR, MPR), where MPR is the
1CC MPR.**
#### 5.3.5.3.3 Results for Contiguous CA Resource Allocations
**_The A-MPR regions illustrated in Figure5.3.5.3 1-1 are defined in Table
5.2.5.3-1._**
Table 5.3.5.3-1: A-MPR regions for CA_48C
* * *
Channel Bandwidth, MHz Carrier Centre Frequency, Fc, MHz A-MPR
* * *
**20+5 / 5 + 20** **F~L~ + BW~CA~/2 ≤ F~C~ ≤ F~H~ - BW~CA~/2** **A**
                                                                                                                                           **FL + 3\*BWCA/2 - 10 MHz ≤ F~C~ ≤ FH - 3\*BWCA/2 + 10 MHz**   **B**
**20+10 / 10 + 20** **F~L~ + BW~CA~/2 ≤ F~C~ ≤ F~H~ - BW~CA~/2** **A**
                                                                                                                                           **F~L~ + 3\*BW~CA~/2 - 10 MHz ≤\                               **B**
                                                                                                                                           F~C~ ≤ F~H~ - 3\*BW~CA~/2 + 10 MHz**
**20+15 / 15 + 20** **F~L~ + BW~CA~/2 ≤ F~C~ ≤ F~H~ - BW~CA~/2** **A**
                                                                                                                                           **F~L~ + 3\*BW~CA~/2 - 10 MHz ≤\                               **B**
                                                                                                                                           F~C~ ≤ F~H~ - 3\*BW~CA~/2 + 10 MHz**
**20+20** **F~L~ + BW~CA~/2 ≤ F~C~ ≤ F~H~ - BW~CA~/2** **A**
                                                                                                                                           **F~L~ + 3\*BW~CA~/2 - 10 MHz ≤\                               **B**
                                                                                                                                           F~C~ ≤ F~H~ - 3\*BW~CA~/2 + 10 MHz**
**NOTE: F~L~ = 3550 MHz, F~H~ = 3700 MHz and BW~CA~ is the combined bandwidth
of the contiguous CCs in the CA combination indicated.**
* * *
**A-MPR at the band edge positions defined in Table 5.3.5.3-1 is given in
Table 5.3.5.3-2 this is the A-case. For the lower A-MPR region, the results
are given in Table 5.2.5.3-3 this is the B-case.**
**Herein, applied A-MPR should be considered as max(A-MRP, MPR), where A-MPR
is given in Table 5.3.5.3-2 and Table 5.3.5.3-3 and MPR for single CC scenario
in Table 6.2.3-1 of LTE specification 36.101.**
Table 5.3.5.3-2: A-MPR regions for CA_48C at the band edge, (A)
BWs [MHz] RB_start L_CRB A-MPR [dB]
* * *
                                                                max(mods)
**20+5 / 5 + 20** **0 -- 7 and 117 - 124** **≤ 12** **5 - 25** **\  85** **≤ 6.5** **26 - 120** **≤ 5** **20+10 / 10 + 20** **0 - 13 and
135 - 149** **≤ 11** **14 - 33** **\  85** **≤ 7** **34 -
134** **≤ 6** **20+15 / 15 + 20** **0 - 22 and 152 -174** **≤ 11** **23 - 42**
**\  95** **≤ 7** **43 - 151** **≤ 6** **20+20** **0 - 31
and 165 - 199** **≤ 11** **31 - 51** **\  100** **≤ 7**
**52 - 164** **\  100** **≤ 6**
Table 5.3.5.3-3: A-MPR regions for CA_48C at the band center ("range for lower
A-MPR") (B)
BWs [MHz] RB_start L_CRB A-MPR [dB]
* * *
                                                                max(mods)
**20+5 / 5 + 20** **0 -- 7 and 117 - 124** **≤ 4** **5 - 25** **\  85** **≤ 2.5** **26 - 120** **≤ 2** **20+10 / 10 + 20** **0 - 13 and
135 - 149** **≤ 4.5** **14 - 33** **\  85** **≤ 2.5** **34
- 134** **≤ 1.5** **20+15 / 15 + 20** **0 - 22 and 152 -174** **≤ 4.5** **23 -
42** **\  95** **≤ 2.5** **43 - 151** **≤ 1** **20+20** **0
- 31 and 165 - 199** **≤ 4.5** **31 - 51** **\  100** **≤
1.5** **52 - 164** **\  100** **≤ 1**
**Furthermore, an example A-MPR scenario of 20+20 MHz CA combination with QPSK
modulation is shown in Figure 3 with contiguous CA allocations, considering
both the band edge scenario ("0 Hz offset") and the lower A-MPR region ("29.8
MHz offset").**
{width="3.28125in" height="2.4583333333333335in"}{width="3.28125in"
height="2.4583333333333335in"}
Figure 5.3.5.3-1: The A-AMPR triangles for contiguous resource allocations of
20+20 MHz CA combination at the lower band edge (left) and at the lower edge
of the range for lower A-MPR (right). EVM and IBE are not consider for A-MPR.
#### 5.3.5.3.4 Results for Non-contiguous CA Resource Allocations
**As illustrated, with an example scenario of 20+20 MHz CA combination, in
Figure 5.3.5.3-1 with non-contiguous CA allocations higher A-MPR is needed. In
here, non-contiguous channel edge allocations are simulated as a worst-case-
scenario.**
**For the channel edge positions indicated in Figure 5.3.5.1-1, 18 dB A-MPR is
needed for the smallest allocation ratio resource allocations, i.e. the
narrowest non-contiguous edge allocations.**
**For the lower A-MPR range indicated in Figure 5.3.5.1-1, 12 dB A-MPR is
needed for the smallest allocation ratio resource allocations, i.e. the
narrowest non-contiguous edge allocations.**
{width="3.28125in" height="2.4583333333333335in"}{width="3.28125in"
height="2.4583333333333335in"}
Figure 5.2.5.4-1: The A-MPR for non-contiguous edge allocations of 20+20 MHz
CA combination at the lower band edge (left) and at the lower edge of the
range for lower A-MPR (right). EVM and IBE are not consider for A-MPR.
**Considering the maximum A-MPR needed in the case of small allocation ratio,
the results for other BW combinations are quite consistent with 20+20 MHz
scenario presented in Figure 5.3.5.3-1.**
**Based on these results, the following formulation for A-MPR is proposed for
the edge scenario:**
**A-MPR = CEIL {M~A,~ 0.5}**
**where M~A~ is defined as follows**
> **M~A~ = 18.00 - 10.00 A; 0 ≤ A \ 
> **18.50 - 20.00 A; 0.05 ≤ A \ 
> **15.50 - 5.00 A; 0.2 ≤ A \  **M~A~ = 11.50 - 10.00 A; 0 ≤ A \ 
> **10.88 - 5.88*A; 0.15 ≤ A \ =y): | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | ombin | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | set, | | | | | | | | | RE | | | | | | | | | FSENS | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | inse | | | | | | | | | rtion | | | | | | | | | loss | | | | | | | | | param | | | | | | | | | eters | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | CA\ | | | | | | | | | _48B, | | | | | | | | | CA | | | | | | | | | _48A | | | | | | | | | -48B, | | | | | | | | | CA | | | | | | | | | _48B | | | | | | | | | -48B, | | | | | | | | | CA | | | | | | | | | _48B | | | | | | | | | -48C, | | | | | | | | | CA | | | | | | | | | _48B | | | | | | | | | -48D, | | | | | | | | | C | | | | | | | | | A_48 | | | | | | | | | B-48E | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | 1UL | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | ", | | | | | | | | | Ch | | | | | | | | | arter | | | | | | | | | Comm | | | | | | | | | unica | | | | | | | | | tions | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | 3GPP | R4-20 | | | No | 0.6.0 | 0.9.0 | | 20-05 | RAN4 | 06044 | | | TP's | | | | | #95 | | | | im | | | | | | | | | pleme | | | | | | | | | nted. | | | | | | | | | Just | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | corre | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | ve | | | | | | | | | rsion | | | | | | | | | n | | | | | | | | | umber | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | align | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | 3GU | | | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | | | base. | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | 3GPP | RP-2 | | | No | 0.9.0 | 1.0.0 | | 20-06 | RAN | 00659 | | | TP's | | | | | #88 | | | | im | | | | | | | | | pleme | | | | | | | | | nted. | | | | | | | | | Pres | | | | | | | | | ented | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | app | | | | | | | | | roval | | | | | | | | | at | | | | | | | | | RAN | | | | | | | | | ple | | | | | | | | | nary. | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+