# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical report for the work item of 410 -- 430 MHz
E-UTRA FDD Band(s) for LTE PPDR and PMR/PAMR in Europe.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\"
[2] RP-182898, "New WID on 410 -- 430 MHz E-UTRA FDD Band(s) for LTE PPDR and
PMR/PAMR in Europe"
[3] ECC Report 283, Compatibility and sharing studies related to the
introduction of broadband and narrowband systems in the bands 410-430 MHz and
450-470 MHz
[4] ECC Decision (04)06, The availability of frequency bands for the
introduction of Wide Band Digital Land Mobile PMR/PAMR in the 400 MHz and
800/900 MHz bands
[5] ECC Decision (16)02, Harmonised technical conditions and frequency bands
for the implementation of Broadband Public Protection and Disaster Relief (BB-
PPDR) systems, [amended xx yy 2019]
[6] ECC Decision (19)02, Land mobile systems in the frequency ranges 68-87.5
MHz, 146-174 MHz, 406.1-410 MHz, 410-430 MHz, 440-450 MHz, and 450-470 MHz
[7] 3GPP TR 36.101: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception\"
[8] 3GPP TR 36.104: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception\"
# 3 Abbreviations
## 3.1 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
PAMR Public Access Mobile Radio
PMR Private Mobile Radio
PMSE Programme Making and Special Events
# 4 Frequency band arrangements and regulatory background
## 4.1 Frequency allocations and compatibility studies
The ECC Report 283 [3] considers the compatibility and sharing studies related
to the introduction of broadband and narrowband systems in the band 410-430
MHz and in adjacent bands. It is stated that the 400 MHz band is very complex
-- both in terms of which services already use the bands and on the density of
usage by country.
ECC Decision (04)06 [4] decides that Wide Band Digital Land Mobile PMR/PAMR
systems in this band shall be with 10 MHz duplex spacing between the transmit
frequencies of mobile stations (410-420 MHz) and the transmit frequencies of
base stations (420-430 MHz). The same duplex spacing applies to 450 MHz bands.
{width="4.290277777777778in" height="1.3125in"}
Figure 4.1-1: Illustrative mobile service allocations in the 400 MHz range:
Simplex (SI) and paired Mobile station (MS) Base station (BS) use (from [3])
The band 406.1-410 MHz is allocated to fixed, mobile (except aeronautical) and
radio astronomy services on a primary basis. Many countries in Europe have
this band registered for radio astronomy service, and administrations are
urged to take all practical steps to protect the service from harmful
interference. The service involves only passive systems, which are very
sensitive. To meet the needs of radio astronomy, there may be a need to limit
the unwanted emission levels of the radio transmitters and their use in the
vicinity of the radio astronomy observatories. The band is also used for many
simplex PMR/PAMR services.
In the band 420-430 MHz there is a secondary allocation to radiolocation
service in the majority of European countries, except for the UK where it is
allocated on a primary basis. On 430-440 MHz, radiolocation has a primary
allocation. 420-450 MHz is the tuning range of airborne and ground radars.
This frequency range is harmonised for NATO ground, air and naval military
radar systems.
The ECC Report 283 includes sharing studies with new LTE-based systems as
aggressors and various other systems as victims, and concludes on required
protection distances and unwanted emission masks. The compatibility is
considered with narrowband PMR, digital television above 470 MHz, radars
(radiolocation), radio astronomy, fixed links, PMSE, paging devices, and short
range devices. The study results are used for basis of the regulatory
decisions, which are outlined in section 4.2.
## 4.2 Relevant ECC Decisions
The technical conditions for operating broadband PPDR systems in the frequency
range 410-430 MHz in Europe are listed in ECC Decision (16)02, which has been
amended on [5]. The same Decision covers PPDR also for 700 MHz range and 450
MHz range. Regarding 410 MHz operation, the document lists the following new
frequency bands:
CEPT administrations wishing to introduce additional spectrum for BB-PPDR in
parts of the 400 MHz range **shall apply** LRTC with channelling arrangements
1.4 MHz, 3 MHz or 5 MHz within the following paired frequency ranges:
a) 450.5-456.0 MHz (uplink) / 460.5-466.0 MHz (downlink) those specified in
Annex 2;
b) 452.0-457.5 MHz (uplink) / 462.0-467.5 MHz (downlink) those specified in
Annex 2;
c) 410.0-415.0 MHz (uplink) / 420.0-425.0 MHz (downlink) those specified in
Annex 3;
d) 411.0-416.0 MHz (uplink) / 421.0-426.0 MHz (downlink) those specified in
Annex 3;
e) 412.0-417.0 MHz (uplink) / 422.0-427.0 MHz (downlink) those specified in
Annex 3.
Annex 3 of the Decision include the least restrictive technical conditions
derived from ECC Report 283 [3] for both user equipment and base stations.
Channel bandwidths of 1.4, 3, and 5 MHz are allowed.
The maximum mean in-block power for UE uplink transmissions is 23 dBm. Some
administrations may allow up to 31 dBm for special deployment scenarios e.g.
for fixed rural installations. Also the uplink maximum power may be limited to
protect other services on a cell-by-cell basis. The UE maximum unwanted
emission levels are the same as E-UTRA general spectrum emission mask (as in
TS 36.101 [7]).
The base station conditions only specify unwanted emission levels to protect
the UL band at 410-420 MHz with\ -43 dBm/100 kHz EIRP, and also the same level
is required to be met at 1 MHz offset from the DL transmit band edge. Based on
national requirements, additional 40 dB of unwanted emissions suppression may
be needed to protect radiolocation services.
The technical conditions for operating land mobile systems in the 410-430 MHz
range in Europe are covered in ECC Decision (19)02 [6]. The same frequency
ranges are identified as for PPDR systems:
CEPT administrations wishing to introduce spectrum for land mobile systems
with channel bandwidth of 1.25 MHz, 1.4 MHz, 3 MHz and 5 MHz in parts of the
400 MHz range shall apply technical conditions within the following paired
frequency arrangements:
a) 410-415 MHz (uplink) / 420-425 MHz (downlink) those specified in Annex 2;
b) 411-416 MHz (uplink) / 421-426 MHz (downlink) those specified in Annex 2;
c) 412-417 MHz (uplink) / 422-427 MHz (downlink) those specified in Annex 2;
d) 451-456 MHz (uplink) / 461-466 MHz (downlink) those specified in Annex 3;
e) 452.5-457.5 MHz (uplink) / 462.5-467.5 MHz (downlink) those specified in
Annex 3;
For land mobile, the least restrictive technical conditions in Annex 2 of the
Decision allow the same 1.4, 3, and 5 MHz channels as the PPDR for E-UTRA, but
additionally 1.25 MHz channels for CDMA systems.
The UE conditions for transmit power and unwanted emission mask are the same
as for PPDR, including the provision for 31 dBm output power in special
deployments. While the PPDR conditions do not include limits for spurious
emissions, the land mobile conditions include limits that are the same as for
E-UTRA in TS 36.101 [7] and TS 36.104 [8].
The base station conditions likewise are the same as for PPDR, except that
additional unwanted emission requirements apply within 0 to 1 MHz offset from
the band edge.
The following tables collect the regulatory requirements regarding in-block
and out-of-block emission requirements for E-UTRA UE and BS.
Table 4.2-1: UE transmitter characteristics (from [5] and [6])
* * *
Parameter Value
Channel bandwidth 1.25 MHz (CDMA)\ 1.4, 3, or 5 MHz (LTE)
Maximum mean in-block power 23 dBm (Note)
Note: administrations may use higher UE maximum mean in-block power for
special deployment scenarios, e.g. fixed terminal stations in rural areas
provided that protection of other services, networks and applications is not
compromised. Vice-versa, the maximum mean in-block power of UEs for the
protection of other services may be limited on a cell-by-cell basis.
* * *
Table 4.2-2: UE maximum unwanted emission levels (from [5] and [6])
* * *
Frequency offset from channel edge (MHz) Channel width Measurement bandwidth  
**1.4 MHz** **3 MHz** **5 MHz**  
± 0-1 -10 dBm -13 dBm -15 dBm 30 kHz ± 1-2.5 -10 dBm -10 dBm -10 dBm 1 MHz ±
2.5-2.8 -25 dBm -10 dBm -10 dBm 1 MHz ± 2.8-5 -10 dBm -10 dBm 1 MHz ± 5-6 -25
dBm -13 dBm 1 MHz ± 6-10 -25 dBm 1 MHz
* * *
Table 4.2-3: BS in-block e.i.r.p (dBm/cell) (from [5] and [6])
* * *
Parameter Value (dBm/cell) Maximum in-block e.i.r.p. 56 (optionally: no limit
for macro cells)
* * *
Table 4.2-4: BS frequency range of out-of-block emissions (OOBE) (from [5] and
[6])
* * *
Frequency range Maximum mean out-of-block e.i.r.p. (dBm/cell) Measurement
bandwidth UL band 410-420 MHz -43 100 kHz 0 MHz ≤ ∆ f \< 0.2 MHz offset from
BS transmit band edge -11 dBm (see note) 100 kHz 0.2 MHz ≤ ∆ f \< 1 MHz offset
from BS transmit band edge -26 dBm (see note) 100 kHz 1 MHz ≤ ∆ f \< 10 MHz
offset from BS transmit band edge -43 dBm (see note) 100 kHz Note: additional
40 dB of out-of-block emission reduction may be needed on national level for
the protection of radiolocation services.
* * *
Requirements regarding transmitter unwanted emissions in the spurious domain
follow the same limits that apply for E-UTRA UE and BS in Europe. For
receivers, the requirements likewise follow 3GPP definitions.
# 5 Operating band, channel bandwidths, channel numbering
**The core objectives of the WI stated the new operating bands to be
standardized:**
\- Standardization of two new FDD E-UTRA bands within 410-415 MHz UL / 420-425
MHz DL range and 412-417 MHz UL / 422-427 MHz DL range
_====== Start of text extracted from TS 36.101 ======_
**5.5 Operating bands**
New FDD E-UTRA bands will get operating band numbers from 65 -- 256 range. NR
has used numbers up to n86 thus 87 is the first available.
Table 5.5-1 E-UTRA operating bands
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-------+ | E | U | Dow | D | | | | | | ‑UTRA | plink | nlink | uplex | | | | | | Oper | (UL) | (DL) | Mode | | | | | | ating | oper | oper | | | | | | | Band | ating | ating | | | | | | | | band\ | band\ | | | | | | | | BS | BS | | | | | | | | rec | tran | | | | | | | | eive\ | smit\ | | | | | | | | UE | UE | | | | | | | | tra | re | | | | | | | | nsmit | ceive | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-------+ | | F~UL\ | F~DL\ | | | | | | | | _low~ | _low~ | | | | | | | | -- | -- | | | | | | | | F | F | | | | | | | | ~UL_ | ~DL_ | | | | | | | | high~ | high~ | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-------+ | 76 | | N/A | | 1427 | -- | 1432 | F | | | | | | MHz | | MHz | DD^2^ | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-------+ | 85 | 698 | -- | 716 | 728 | -- | 746 | FDD | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-------+ | 87 | 410 | -- | 415 | 420 | -- | 425 | FDD | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-------+ | 88 | 412 | -- | 417 | 422 | -- | 427 | FDD | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | 6, 23 | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | .... | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-------+
**5.5E Operating bands for UE category 0, UE category M1 and M2 and UE
category 1bis**
UE category M1 and M2 are in the scope of the WI this those are added into the
list of applicable M1/M2 bands.
UE category M1 and M2 is designed to operate in the E-UTRA operating bands
**1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 11, 12, 13, 14, 18, 19, 20, 21, 25, 26, 27, 28, 31, 66,
71, 72, 73, 74, 85, 87 and 88** in both half duplex FDD mode and full-duplex
FDD mode, and in bands 39, 40 and 41 in TDD mode. The E-UTRA bands are defined
in Table 5.5-1.
**5.5F Operating bands for category NB1 and NB2**
UE category NB1 and NB2 are in the scope of the WI this those are added into
the list of applicable NB1/NB2 bands.
Category NB1 and NB2 are designed to operate in the E-UTRA operating bands
**1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 8, 11, 12, 13, 14, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 25, 26, 28, 31, 41,
66, 70, 71, 72, 73, 74, 85, 87 and 88 which are** defined in Table 5.5-1.
Category NB1 and NB2 systems **operate in HD-FDD duplex mode or in TDD mode**.
**5.6 UE channel bandwidth**
From the WID objectives we can determine the applicable channel bandwidths.
Table 5.6.1-1: E-UTRA channel bandwidth
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | band / | | | | | | | | Channel | | | | | | | | ba | | | | | | | | ndwidth | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 1.4 MHz | 3 MHz | 5 MHz | 10 MHz | 15 MHz | 20 MHz | | Band | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 74 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | | | | | | **^1^** | **^1^** | **^1^** | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 85 | | | **Y |** Y | | | | | | | es^1^**| es^1^** | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 87 | Yes | Yes | Yes | | | | | | | **^1^** | **^1^** | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 88 | Yes | Yes | Yes | | | | | | | **^1^** | **^1^** | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | | **^1^** | | | | | | | | refers | | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | | ba | | | | | | | | ndwidth | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | which a | | | | | | | | rel | | | | | | | | axation | | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | | sp | | | | | | | | ecified | | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | eceiver | | | | | | | | sens | | | | | | | | itivity | | | | | | | | requ | | | | | | | | irement | | | | | | | | (su | | | | | | | | bclause | | | | | | | | 7.3) is | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | llowed. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | ... | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
5.7.3 Carrier frequency and EARFCN
EARFCN is specified as follows.
Table 5.7.3-1: E-UTRA channel numbers
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | D | Uplink | | | | | | Op | ownlink | | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | F~D | N~O | Range | F~U | N~O | Range | | | L_low~ | ffs-DL~ | of | L_low~ | ffs-UL~ | of | | | (MHz) | | N~DL~ | (MHz) | | N~UL~ | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 85 | 728 | 70366 | 70366 - | 698 | 134002 | 134002 | | | | | 70545 | | | - | | | | | | | | 134181 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 87 | 420 | 70546 | 70546 - | 410 | 134182 | 134182 | | | | | 70595 | | | - | | | | | | | | 134231 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 88 | 422 | 70596 | 70596 - | 422 | 134231 | 134231 | | | | | 70645 | | | - | | | | | | | | 134280 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | | numbers | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | signate | | | | | | | | carrier | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | uencies | | | | | | | | so | | | | | | | | close | | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | edges | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | carrier | | | | | | | | extends | | | | | | | | beyond | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | not be | | | | | | | | used. | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | implies | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | first | | | | | | | | 7, 15, | | | | | | | | 25, 50, | | | | | | | | 75 and | | | | | | | | 100 | | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | | numbers | | | | | | | | at the | | | | | | | | lower | | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | and the | | | | | | | | last 6, | | | | | | | | 14, 24, | | | | | | | | 49, 74 | | | | | | | | and 99 | | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | | numbers | | | | | | | | at the | | | | | | | | upper | | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | not be | | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | | ban | | | | | | | | dwidths | | | | | | | | of 1.4, | | | | | | | | 3, 5, | | | | | | | | 10, 15 | | | | | | | | and 20 | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | respec | | | | | | | | tively. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | ... | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
**5.7.4 TX--RX frequency separation**
TX-RX separation is 10 MHz.
Table 5.7.4-1: Default UE TX-RX frequency separation
* * *
E-UTRA Operating Band TX -- RX\ carrier centre frequency\ separation
85 30 MHz
87 10 MHz
88 10 MHz
NOTE 1: Default TX-RX carrier centre frequency separation.
* * *
_====== End of text extracted from TS 36.101 ======_
# 6 Study of UE and BS requirements
## 6.1 UE requirements
Due to exactly same operating band arrangement with bands 31 and 72 i.e.
uplink and downlink bandwidth of 5 MHz with a duplex-gap of 5 MHz and the fact
that these new bands are also very close to bands 31 and 72 in terms of center
frequency it is proposed to define the requirements based on the work done for
bands 31 and 72 [2].
_====== Start of text extracted from TS 36.101 ======_
**6.2.2 UE maximum output power**
**This work-item is for PC1 and PC3. Tolerances are adopted from E-UTRA bands
31 and 72.**
Table 6.2.2-1: UE Power Class
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | EUTRA | Class | Tole | Class | Tole | Class | Tole | Class | Tole | | band | 1 | rance | 2 | rance | 3 | rance | 4 | rance | | | (dBm) | (dB) | (dBm) | (dB) | (dBm) | (dB) | (dBm) | (dB) | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 85 | | | | | 23 | ±2^2^ | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 87 | 31 | +2/-3 | | | 23 | ±2 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 88 | 31 | +2/-3 | | | 23 | ±2 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | | Void | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | ... | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 8: | | | | | | | | | | Gener | | | | | | | | | | ally, | | | | | | | | | | PC1 | | | | | | | | | | UE is | | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | | tar | | | | | | | | | | geted | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | smart | | | | | | | | | | phone | | | | | | | | | | form | | | | | | | | | | fa | | | | | | | | | | ctor. | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
**6.2.2E UE maximum output power for Category M1 and M2 UE**
Bands 87 and 88 are added to M1 and M2 power class table.
Table 6.2.2E-1: UE Power Class
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | EUTRA | Class 3 | To | Class 5 | To | Class 6 | To | | band | (dBm) | lerance | (dBm) | lerance | (dBm) | lerance | | | | (dB) | | (dB) | | (dB) | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 31 | 23 | ±2 | 20 | ±2 | 14 | ±2.5 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 72 | 23 | ±2 | 20 | ±2 | 14 | ±2.5 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 87 | 23 | ±2 | 20 | ±2 | 14 | ±2.5 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 88 | 23 | ±2 | 20 | ±2 | 14 | ±2.5 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | | Void | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | ... | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
**6.2.2F UE maximum output power for category NB1 and NB2**
Bands 87 and 88 are added to NB1 and NB2 power class table.
Table 6.2.2F-1: UE Power Class
* * *
EUTRA band Class 3 (dBm) Tolerance (dB) Class 5 (dBm) Tolerance (dB) Class 6
(dBm) Tolerance (dB) 31 23 ±2 20 ±2 14 ±2.5 72 23 ±2 20 ±2 14 ±2.5 87 23 ±2 20
±2 14 ±2.5 88 23 ±2 20 ±2 14 ±2.5
* * *
**6.2.4 UE maximum output power with additional requirements**
No A-MPR is necessary.
**6.6.3.2 Spurious emission band UE co-existence**
UE to UE co-existence is specified as for band 72 with an exception that there
is no harmonic impact to bands 3, 8 or 40. Band 87 has second harmonic for
band 20.
Table 6.6.3.2-1: Requirements
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+---+---+ | E-UTRA | Sp | | | | | | | | Band | urious | | | | | | | | | em | | | | | | | | | ission | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+---+---+ | | Pro | Fre | M | MBW | NOTE | | | | | tected | quency | aximum | (MHz) | | | | | | band | range | Level | | | | | | | | (MHz) | (dBm) | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+---+---+ | 72 | E-UTRA | F~DL | - | F~DL\ | -50 | 1 | | | | Band | _low~ | | _high~ | | | | | | 1, 7, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 32, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 47, | | | | | | | | | 52, | | | | | | | | | 65, | | | | | | | | | 68, | | | | | | | | | [72] | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+---+---+ | | E-UTRA | F~DL | - | F~DL\ | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | Band | _low~ | | _high~ | | | | | | 3, 8, | | | | | | | | | 40 | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+---+---+ | | Fre | 470 | - | 694 | -42 | 8 | | | | quency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+---+---+ | 87 | E-UTRA | F~DL | - | F~DL\ | -50 | 1 | | | | Band | _low~ | | _high~ | | | | | | 1, 3, | | | | | | | | | 7, 8, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 32, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 47, | | | | | | | | | 52, | | | | | | | | | 65, | | | | | | | | | 68, 72 | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+---+---+ | | E-UTRA | F~DL | - | F~DL\ | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | Band, | _low~ | | _high~ | | | | | | 20 | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+---+---+ | | Fre | 470 | - | 694 | -42 | 8 | | | | quency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+---+---+ | 88 | E-UTRA | F~DL | - | F~DL\ | -50 | 1 | | | | Band | _low~ | | _high~ | | | | | | 1, 3, | | | | | | | | | 7, 8, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 32, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 47, | | | | | | | | | 52, | | | | | | | | | 65, | | | | | | | | | 68, 72 | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+---+---+ | | Fre | 470 | - | 694 | -42 | 8 | | | | quency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+---+---+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | F~DL | | | | | | | | | _low~ | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | F~DL\ | | | | | | | | | _high~ | | | | | | | | | refer | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | each | | | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | | fre | | | | | | | | | quency | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | spe | | | | | | | | | cified | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | | 5.5-1 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | ... | | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+---+---+
**6.6.3G Spurious emission for V2X Communication**
Bands 87 and 88 are added as protected bands for applicable V2X con-current
band Configurations.
Table 6.6.3G-0: Requirements for inter-band con-current V2X operation
* * *
V2X con-current band Configuration Spurious emission  
Protected band Frequency range (MHz) Maximum Level (dBm) MBW (MHz) NOTE  
V2X_3A-47A E-UTRA Band 1, 5, 7, 8, 26, 28, 34, 39, 40, 44, 45, 65, 87, 88
F~DL_low~ - F~DL_high~ -50 1  
E-UTRA Band 3 F~DL_low~ - F~DL_high~ -50 1 3 E-UTRA Band 22, 41, 42, 52
F~DL_low~ - F~DL_high~ -50 1 2 Frequency range 5925 - 5950 -30 1 7,8 Frequency
range 5815 - 5855 -30 1 7 V2X_7A-47A E-UTRA Band 1, 3, 5, 7, 8, 22, 26, 28,
34, 39, 40, 41, 42, 44, 45, 52, 65, 87, 88 F~DL_low~ - F~DL_high~ -50 1  
Frequency range 2570 - 2575 +1.6 5 3, 6, 4 Frequency range 2575 - 2595 -15.5 5
3, 6, 4 Frequency range 2595 - 2620 -40 1 3, 6 Frequency range 5925 - 5950 -30
1 7, 8 Frequency range 5815 - 5855 -30 1 7 V2X_8A-47A E-UTRA Band 1, 5, 26,
28, 34, 39, 40, 44, 45, 65, 87, 88 F~DL_low~ - F~DL_high~ -50 1  
E-UTRA Band 7, 22, 41, 42, 52 F~DL_low~ - F~DL_high~ -50 1 2 E-UTRA Band 3, 8
F~DL_low~ - F~DL_high~ -50 1 2, 3 Frequency range 5925 - 5950 -30 1 7, 8
Frequency range 5815 - 5855 -30 1 7 V2X_20A-47A E-UTRA Band 1, 3, 7, 8, 22,
31, 32, 33, 34, 40, 43, 65, 67, 87, 88 F~DL_low~ - F~DL_high~ -50 1  
E-UTRA Band 20 F~DL_low~ - F~DL_high~ -50 1 3 E-UTRA Band 38, 42, 52, 69
F~DL_low~ - F~DL_high~ -50 1 2 Frequency range 758 - 788 -50 1  
Frequency range 5925 - 5950 -30 1 7, 8 Frequency range 5815 - 5855 -30 1 7
V2X_28A-47A E-UTRA Band 1, 22, 42, 43, 65, 87, 88 F~DL_low~ - F~DL_high~ -50 1
2 E-UTRA Band 1 F~DL_low~ - F~DL_high~ -50 1 10, 11 E-UTRA Band 3, 7, 8, 20,
31, 38, 40 F~DL_low~ - F~DL_high~ -50 1  
Frequency range 470 - 694 -42 8 3, 12 Frequency range 470 - 710 -26.2 6 13
Frequency range 662 - 694 -26.2 6 3 Frequency range 758 - 773 -32 1 3
Frequency range 773 - 803 -50 1  
Frequency range 5925 - 5950 -30 1 7, 8 Frequency range 5815 - 5855 -30 1 7
V2X_34A-47A E-UTRA Band 1, 3, 5, 7, 8, 11, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 26, 28, 31, 32,
33, 34, 38,39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 52, 65, 67, 69, 87, 88 F~DL_low~ -
F~DL_high~ -50 1 9 Frequency range 5925 - 5950 -30 1 7, 8 Frequency range 5815
- 5855 -30 1 7
* * *
**7.3 Reference sensitivity power level**
Band 31 and 72 REFSENS is adopted.
Table 7.3.1-1: Reference sensitivity QPSK P~REFSENS~
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | E | 1.4 | 3 | 5 | 10 | 15 | 20 | D | | -UTRA | MHz\ | MHz\ | MHz\ | MHz\ | MHz\ | MHz\ | uplex | | Band | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | Mode | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 31 | -99.0 | -95.7 | -93.5 | | | | FDD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 72 | -99.0 | -95.7 | -93.5 | | | | FDD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 87 | -99.0 | -95.7 | -93.5 | | | | FDD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 88 | -99.0 | -95.7 | -93.5 | | | | FDD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | | ransm | | | | | | | | | itter | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | set | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | P~ | | | | | | | | | UMAX~ | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | subc | | | | | | | | | lause | | | | | | | | | 6.2.5 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | ... | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Table 7.3.1-2: Uplink configuration for reference sensitivity
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | E | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | Ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | N~RB~ | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | D | | | | | | | | | uplex | | | | | | | | | mode | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | E | 1.4 | 3 MHz | 5 MHz | 10 | 15 | 20 | D | | -UTRA | MHz | | | MHz | MHz | MHz | uplex | | Band | | | | | | | Mode | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 31 | 6 | 5^4^ | 5^4^ | | | | FDD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 72 | 6 | 5^4^ | 5^4^ | | | | FDD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 31 | 6 | 5^4^ | 5^4^ | | | | FDD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 72 | 6 | 5^4^ | 5^4^ | | | | FDD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | ^1^ | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | efers | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | UL | | | | | | | | | res | | | | | | | | | ource | | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | | locks | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | lo | | | | | | | | | cated | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | close | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | pos | | | | | | | | | sible | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | dow | | | | | | | | | nlink | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | but | | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | | figur | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | | 5. | | | | | | | | | 6-1). | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | | | sup | | | | | | | | | ports | | | | | | | | | both | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | 11 | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | 21 | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | plink | | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | | figur | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | refe | | | | | | | | | rence | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ensit | | | | | | | | | ivity | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | FFS. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 3: | | | | | | | | | ^3^ | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | efers | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | 20; | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | case | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | 15MHz | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | bandw | | | | | | | | | idth, | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | UL | | | | | | | | | res | | | | | | | | | ource | | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | | locks | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | lo | | | | | | | | | cated | | | | | | | | | at | | | | | | | | | RB~s | | | | | | | | | tart~ | | | | | | | | | 11 | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | case | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | 20MHz | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | bandw | | | | | | | | | idth, | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | UL | | | | | | | | | res | | | | | | | | | ource | | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | | locks | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | lo | | | | | | | | | cated | | | | | | | | | at | | | | | | | | | RB~s | | | | | | | | | tart~ | | | | | | | | | 16 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 4: | | | | | | | | | ^4^ | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | efers | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | Bands | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 72, | | | | | | | | | 73, | | | | | | | | | 87 | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | 88; | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | case | | | | | | | | | of 3 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | bandw | | | | | | | | | idth, | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | UL | | | | | | | | | res | | | | | | | | | ource | | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | | locks | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | lo | | | | | | | | | cated | | | | | | | | | at | | | | | | | | | RB~s | | | | | | | | | tart~ | | | | | | | | | 9 and | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | case | | | | | | | | | of 5 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | bandw | | | | | | | | | idth, | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | UL | | | | | | | | | res | | | | | | | | | ource | | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | | locks | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | lo | | | | | | | | | cated | | | | | | | | | at | | | | | | | | | RB~s | | | | | | | | | tart~ | | | | | | | | | 10. | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
**7.3.1E Minimum requirements (QPSK) for UE category 0, M1, M2 and 1bis**
Bands 87 and 88 are added to M1 and M2 REFSENS tables.
Table 7.3.1E-3: Reference sensitivity for FDD and TDD UE category M1 QPSK
PREFSENS
+--------------------------------------+---------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA Band | REFSENS (dBm) | Duplex Mode | +--------------------------------------+---------------+-------------+ | 31 | -96.5 | FDD | +--------------------------------------+---------------+-------------+ | 72 | -96.5 | FDD | +--------------------------------------+---------------+-------------+ | 87 | -96.5 | FDD | +--------------------------------------+---------------+-------------+ | 88 | -96.5 | FDD | +--------------------------------------+---------------+-------------+ | NOTE 1: The transmitter shall be set | | | | to P~UMAX~ as defined in subclause | | | | 6.2.5 | | | | | | | | ... | | | +--------------------------------------+---------------+-------------+
Table 7.3.1E-4: Reference sensitivity for HD-FDD UE category M1 QPSK
P~REFSENS~
+--------------------------------------+---------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA Band | REFSENS (dBm) | Duplex Mode | +--------------------------------------+---------------+-------------+ | 31 | -97.3 | HD-FDD | +--------------------------------------+---------------+-------------+ | 72 | -97.3 | HD-FDD | +--------------------------------------+---------------+-------------+ | 87 | -97.3 | HD-FDD | +--------------------------------------+---------------+-------------+ | 88 | -97.3 | HD-FDD | +--------------------------------------+---------------+-------------+ | NOTE 1: The transmitter shall be set | | | | to P~UMAX~ as defined in subclause | | | | 6.2.5 | | | | | | | | ... | | | +--------------------------------------+---------------+-------------+
Table 7.3.1E-5: FDD and TDD UE category M1 Uplink configuration for reference
sensitivity
* * *
E-UTRA Band N~RB~ Duplex Mode 31 6^1^ FDD and HD-FDD 72 6^1^ FDD and HD-FDD 87
6^1^ FDD and HD-FDD 88 6^1^ FDD and HD-FDD NOTE 1: ^1^ refers to the UL
resource blocks shall be located as close as possible to the downlink
operating band but confined within the transmission bandwidth configuration
for the channel bandwidth (Table 5.6-1).
* * *
**7.3.1F.1 Reference sensitivity for UE category NB1 and NB2**
Bands 87 and 88 are added to NB1 and NB2 REFSENS table.
Table 7.3.1F.1-1: Reference sensitivity for UE category NB1 and NB2
* * *
Operating band REFSENS [dBm] 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 11, 12, 13, 14, 17, 18, 19, 20,
21, 25, 26, 28, 31, 41, 66, 70, 71, 72, 73, 74, 85, 87, 88 - 108.2
* * *
**7.6.1 In-band blocking**
Bands 87 and 88 are added to in-band blocking table.
Table 7.6.1.1-2: In-band blocking
+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | E | Para | Unit | Case | Case | Case | Case | Case | Case | | -UTRA | meter | | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | | band | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | P~I | dBm | -56 | -44 | Void | Void | -38 | -15 | | | nterf | | | | | | | | | | erer~ | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | F~I | MHz | = | ≤ | | | -BW/2 | | | | nterf | | -BW/2 | -BW/2 | | | - 11 | | | | erer~ | | -- | -- | | | | | | | (of | | F~I | F~I | | | | | | | fset) | | offse | offse | | | | | | | | | t,cas | t,cas | | | | | | | | | e\ 1~ | e\ 2~ | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | & | & | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | = | ≥ | | | | | | | | | +BW/2 | +BW/2 | | | | | | | | | + | + | | | | | | | | | F~I | F~I | | | | | | | | | offse | offse | | | | | | | | | t,cas | t,cas | | | | | | | | | e\ 1~ | e\ 2~ | | | | | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1, 2, | F~I | MHz | (NOTE | F~DL\ | | | | | | 3, 4, | nterf | | 2) | _low~ | | | | | | 5, 6, | erer~ | | | -- 15 | | | | | | 7, 8, | | | | | | | | | | 9, | | | | to | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | | 11, | | | | F | | | | | | 12, | | | | ~DL_ | | | | | | 13, | | | | high~ | | | | | | 14, | | | | + 15 | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | | 18, | | | | | | | | | | 19, | | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | | 21, | | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | | 35, | | | | | | | | | | 36, | | | | | | | | | | 37, | | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | | 39, | | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | | 44, | | | | | | | | | | 45, | | | | | | | | | | 48, | | | | | | | | | | 50, | | | | | | | | | | 51, | | | | | | | | | | 52, | | | | | | | | | | 65, | | | | | | | | | | 66, | | | | | | | | | | 68, | | | | | | | | | | 70, | | | | | | | | | | 72, | | | | | | | | | | 73, | | | | | | | | | | 74, | | | | | | | | | | 85, | | | | | | | | | | 87, | | | | | | | | | | 88 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 30 | F~I | MHz | (NOTE | F~DL\ | | | F~DL\ | | | | nterf | | 2) | _low~ | | | _low~ | | | | erer~ | | | -- 15 | | | -- 11 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | F | | | | | | | | | | ~DL_ | | | | | | | | | | high~ | | | | | | | | | | + 15 | | | | | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 71 | F~I | MHz | (NOTE | F~DL\ | | | | F~DL | | | nterf | | 2) | _low~ | | | | -low~ | | | erer~ | | | -- 12 | | | | - 12 | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | F | | | | | | | | | | ~DL_ | | | | | | | | | | high~ | | | | | | | | | | + 15 | | | | | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | | ce | | | | | | | | | | rtain | | | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | | | ands, | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | unw | | | | | | | | | | anted | | | | | | | | | | modu | | | | | | | | | | lated | | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | | nterf | | | | | | | | | | ering | | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | | ignal | | | | | | | | | | may | | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | | fall | | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | | nside | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | | ceive | | | | | | | | | | band, | | | | | | | | | | but | | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | first | | | | | | | | | | 15 | | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | | below | | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | | above | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | | ceive | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | ... | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
**7.6.2 Out-of-band blocking**
Bands 87 and 88 are added to Out-of-band blocking table.
Table 7.6.2.1-2: Out of band blocking
+---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | Pa | Units | Fr | | | | | band | rameter | | equency | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | | Range 1 | Range 2 | Range 3 | Range 4 | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | P~Inte | dBm | -44 | -30 | -15 | -15 | | | rferer~ | | | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 1, 2, | F~Inte | MHz | F~D | F~D | F~D | - | | 3, 4, | rferer~ | | L_low~ | L_low~ | L_low~ | | | 5, 6, | (CW) | | -15 to | -60 to | -85 to | | | 7, 8, | | | | | | | | 9, 10, | | | F~D | F~D | 1 MHz | | | 11, 12, | | | L_low~ | L_low~ | | | | 13, 14, | | | -60 | -85 | | | | 17, 18, | | | | | | | | 19, 20, | | | | | | | | 21, 22, | | | | | | | | 23, 24, | | | | | | | | 25, 26, | | | | | | | | 27, 28, | | | | | | | | 30, 31, | | | | | | | | 33, 34, | | | | | | | | 35, 36, | | | | | | | | 37, 38, | | | | | | | | 39, 40, | | | | | | | | 41, 42 | | | | | | | | (NOTE | | | | | | | | 2), 43 | | | | | | | | (NOTE | | | | | | | | 2), 44, | | | | | | | | 45, 48 | | | | | | | | (NOTE | | | | | | | | 2), 50, | | | | | | | | 51, 52 | | | | | | | | (NOTE | | | | | | | | 6), 65, | | | | | | | | 66, 68, | | | | | | | | 70, 71, | | | | | | | | 72, 73, | | | | | | | | 74, 85, | | | | | | | | 87, 88 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | | F~DL | F~DL | F~DL | - | | | | | _high~ | _high~ | _high~ | | | | | | +15 to | +60 to | +85 to | | | | | | | | | | | | | | F~DL | F~DL | +12750 | | | | | | _high~ | _high~ | MHz | | | | | | + 60 | +85 | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 2, 5, | F~Inte | MHz | - | - | - | F~U | | 12, 17, | rferer~ | | | | | L_low\ | | 85 | | | | | | **-** ~ | | | | | | | | F~UL | | | | | | | | _high~ | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE | | | | | | | | 5) | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | | For the | | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | upports | | | | | | | | both | | | | | | | | Band 11 | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | Band 21 | | | | | | | | the out | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | locking | | | | | | | | is FFS. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | ... | | | | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
_====== End of text extracted from TS 36.101 ======_
## 6.2 BS requirements
The following BS specific TS 36.104 [8] changes are expected due to
introduction of Band 87 and 88:
_====== Start of text extracted from TS 36.104 ======_
**6.6.3.1 Minimum requirements for Wide Area BS (Category A)**
For E-UTRA BS operating in Bands 5, 6, 8, 12, 13, 14, 17, 18, 19, 26, 27, 28,
29, 31, 44, 68, 71, 72, 73, 85, 87, 88 emissions shall not exceed the maximum
levels specified in Tables 6.6.3.1‑1 to 6.6.3.1-3.
**6.6.3.2.1 Category B requirements (Option 1)**
For E-UTRA BS operating in Bands 5, 8, 12, 13, 14, 17, 20, 26, 27, 28, 29, 31,
44, 68, 67, 71, 72, 73, 85, 87, 88 emissions shall not exceed the maximum
levels specified in Tables 6.6.3.2.1-1 to 6.6.3.2.1-3:
**6.6.4.3 Additional spurious emissions requirements**
Table 6.6.4.3.1-1: BS Spurious emissions limits for E-UTRA BS for co-existence
with systems operating in other frequency bands
* * *
System type for E-UTRA to co-exist with Frequency range for co-existence
requirement Maximum Level Measurement Bandwidth Note E-UTRA Band 87 420 - 425
MHz -52 dBm 1 MHz This requirement does not apply to E-UTRA BS operating in
band 87 or 88. 410 -- 415 MHz -49 dBm 1 MHz This requirement does not apply to
E-UTRA BS operating in band 87, since it is already covered by the requirement
in sub-clause 6.6.4.2 E-UTRA Band 88 422 - 427 MHz -52 dBm 1 MHz This
requirement does not apply to E-UTRA BS operating in band 87 or 88. 412 - 417
MHz -49 dBm 1 MHz This requirement does not apply to E-UTRA BS operating in
band 88, since it is already covered by the requirement in sub-clause 6.6.4.2.
This requirement does not apply to E-UTRA BS operating in band 87.
* * *
**6.6.4.4 Co-location with other base stations**
Table 6.6.4.4.1-1: BS Spurious emissions limits for Wide Area BS co-located
with another BS
* * *
Type of co-located BS Frequency range for co-location requirement Maximum
Level Measurement Bandwidth Note WA E-UTRA Band 87 410 - 415 MHz -96 dBm 100
kHz  
WA E-UTRA Band 88 412 - 417 MHz -96 dBm 100 kHz
* * *
Table 6.6.4.4.1-2: BS Spurious emissions limits for Local Area BS co-located
with another BS
* * *
Type of co-located BS Frequency range for co-location requirement Maximum
Level Measurement Bandwidth Note LA E-UTRA Band 87 410 - 415 MHz -88 dBm 100
kHz  
LA E-UTRA Band 88 412 - 417 MHz -88 dBm 100 kHz
* * *
Table 6.6.4.4.1-3: BS Spurious emissions limits for Medium range BS co-located
with another BS
* * *
Type of co-located BS Frequency range for co-location requirement Maximum
Level Measurement Bandwidth Note MR E-UTRA Band 87 410 - 415 MHz -91 dBm 100
kHz  
MR E-UTRA Band 88 412 - 417 MHz -91 dBm 100 kHz
* * *
**7.6.1.1 Minimum requirement**
Table 7.6.1.1-1: Blocking performance requirement for Wide Area BS for E-UTRA
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Oper | C | I | W | I | Type | | | | ating | entre | nterf | anted | nterf | of | | | | Band | Freq | ering | S | ering | I | | | | | uency | S | ignal | s | nterf | | | | | of | ignal | mean | ignal | ering | | | | | I | mean | power | c | S | | | | | nterf | power | [ | entre | ignal | | | | | ering | [ | dBm] | freq | | | | | | S | dBm] | | uency | | | | | | ignal | | | mi | | | | | | [ | | | nimum | | | | | | MHz] | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | ffset | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | l | | | | | | | | | ower/ | | | | | | | | | upper | | | | | | | | | Base | | | | | | | | | St | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | RF | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | nside | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | gap | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | MHz] | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 31, | ( | to | (F | -43 | P~REF | See | See | | 72, | F~UL\ | | ~UL_ | | SENS~ | table | table | | 73, | _low~ | | high~ | | +6dB | 7.6. | 7.6. | | 74, | -20) | | +5) | | (Note | 1.1-2 | 1.1-2 | | 87, | | | | | 1) | | | | 88 | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 1 | to | ( | -15 | P~REF |  | CW | | | | | F~UL\ | | SENS~ | | ca | | | (F | to | _low~ | | +6dB | | rrier | | | ~UL_ | | -20) | | (Note | | | | | high~ | | | | 1) | | | | | +5) | | 12750 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Table 7.6.1.1-1a: Blocking performance requirement for Local Area BS for
E-UTRA
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Oper | C | I | W | I | Type | | | | ating | entre | nterf | anted | nterf | of | | | | Band | Freq | ering | S | ering | I | | | | | uency | S | ignal | s | nterf | | | | | of | ignal | mean | ignal | ering | | | | | I | mean | power | c | S | | | | | nterf | power | [ | entre | ignal | | | | | ering | [ | dBm] | freq | | | | | | S | dBm] | | uency | | | | | | ignal | | | mi | | | | | | [ | | | nimum | | | | | | MHz] | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | ffset | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | l | | | | | | | | | ower/ | | | | | | | | | upper | | | | | | | | | Base | | | | | | | | | St | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | RF | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | nside | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | gap | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | MHz] | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 31, | ( | to | (F | -35 | P~REF | See | See | | 72, | F~UL\ | | ~UL_ | | SENS~ | table | table | | 73, | _low~ | | high~ | | +6dB | 7.6. | 7.6. | | 74, | -20) | | +5) | | (Note | 1.1-2 | 1.1-2 | | 87, | | | | | 1) | | | | 88 | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 1 | to | ( | -15 | P~REF |  | CW | | | | | F~UL\ | | SENS~ | | ca | | | (F | to | _low~ | | +6dB | | rrier | | | ~UL_ | | -20) | | (Note | | | | | high~ | | | | 1) | | | | | +5) | | 12750 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Table 7.6.1.1-1c: Blocking performance requirement for Medium Range BS for
E-UTRA
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Oper | C | I | W | I | Type | | | | ating | entre | nterf | anted | nterf | of | | | | Band | Freq | ering | S | ering | I | | | | | uency | S | ignal | s | nterf | | | | | of | ignal | mean | ignal | ering | | | | | I | mean | power | c | S | | | | | nterf | power | [ | entre | ignal | | | | | ering | [ | dBm] | freq | | | | | | S | dBm] | | uency | | | | | | ignal | | | mi | | | | | | [ | | | nimum | | | | | | MHz] | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | ffset | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | lo | | | | | | | | | wer/h | | | | | | | | | igher | | | | | | | | | Base | | | | | | | | | St | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | RF | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | nside | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | gap | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | MHz] | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 31, | ( | to | (F | -38 | P~REF | See | See | | 72, | F~UL\ | | ~UL_ | | SENS~ | table | table | | 73, | _low~ | | high~ | | +6dB | 7.6. | 7.6. | | 74, | -20) | | +5) | | (Note | 1.1-2 | 1.1-2 | | 87, | | | | | 1) | | | | 88 | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 1 | to | ( | -15 | P~REF |  | CW | | | | | F~UL\ | | SENS~ | | ca | | | (F | to | _low~ | | +6dB | | rrier | | | ~UL_ | | -20) | | (Note | | | | | high~ | | | | 1) | | | | | +5) | | 12750 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Table 7.6.1.1-3: Blocking performance requirement for Wide Area BS for NB-IoT
standalone operation
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Oper | C | I | W | I | Type | | | | ating | entre | nterf | anted | nterf | of | | | | Band | Freq | ering | S | ering | I | | | | | uency | S | ignal | s | nterf | | | | | of | ignal | mean | ignal | ering | | | | | I | mean | power | c | S | | | | | nterf | power | [ | entre | ignal | | | | | ering | [ | dBm] | freq | | | | | | S | dBm] | | uency | | | | | | ignal | | | mi | | | | | | [ | | | nimum | | | | | | MHz] | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | ffset | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | l | | | | | | | | | ower/ | | | | | | | | | upper | | | | | | | | | Base | | | | | | | | | St | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | RF | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | nside | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | gap | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | MHz] | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 31, | ( | to | (F | -43 | P~REF | See | See | | 72, | F~UL\ | | ~UL_ | | SENS~ | table | table | | 73, | _low~ | | high~ | | +6dB | 7.6. | 7.6. | | 74, | -20) | | +5) | | (Note | 1.1-4 | 1.1-4 | | 87, | | | | | 1) | | | | 88 | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 1 | to | ( | -15 | P~REF |  | CW | | | | | F~UL\ | (Note | SENS~ | | ca | | | (F | to | _low~ | 2) | +6dB | | rrier | | | ~UL_ | | -20) | | (Note | | | | | high~ | | | | 1) | | | | | +5) | | 12750 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Table 7.6.1.1-3a: Blocking performance requirement for Local Area BS for NB-
IoT standalone operation
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Oper | C | I | W | I | Type | | | | ating | entre | nterf | anted | nterf | of | | | | Band | Freq | ering | S | ering | I | | | | | uency | S | ignal | s | nterf | | | | | of | ignal | mean | ignal | ering | | | | | I | mean | power | c | S | | | | | nterf | power | [ | entre | ignal | | | | | ering | [ | dBm] | freq | | | | | | S | dBm] | | uency | | | | | | ignal | | | mi | | | | | | [ | | | nimum | | | | | | MHz] | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | ffset | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | l | | | | | | | | | ower/ | | | | | | | | | upper | | | | | | | | | Base | | | | | | | | | St | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | RF | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | nside | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | gap | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | MHz] | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 31, | ( | to | (F | -35 | P~REF | See | See | | 72, | F~UL\ | | ~UL_ | | SENS~ | table | table | | 74, | _low~ | | high~ | | +6dB | 7.6. | 7.6. | | 87, | -20) | | +5) | | (Note | 1.1-4 | 1.1-4 | | 88 | | | | | 2) | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 1 | to | ( | -15 | P~REF |  | CW | | | | | F~UL\ | (Note | SENS~ | | ca | | | (F | to | _low~ | 2) | +6dB | | rrier | | | ~UL_ | | -20) | | (Note | | | | | high~ | | | | 2) | | | | | +5) | | 12750 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Table 7.6.1.1-3c: Blocking performance requirement for Medium Range BS for NB-
IoT standalone operation
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Oper | C | I | W | I | Type | | | | ating | entre | nterf | anted | nterf | of | | | | Band | Freq | ering | S | ering | I | | | | | uency | S | ignal | s | nterf | | | | | of | ignal | mean | ignal | ering | | | | | I | mean | power | c | S | | | | | nterf | power | [ | entre | ignal | | | | | ering | [ | dBm] | freq | | | | | | S | dBm] | | uency | | | | | | ignal | | | mi | | | | | | [ | | | nimum | | | | | | MHz] | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | ffset | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | l | | | | | | | | | ower/ | | | | | | | | | upper | | | | | | | | | Base | | | | | | | | | St | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | RF | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | nside | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | gap | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | MHz] | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 31, | ( | to | (F | -38 | P~REF | See | See | | 72, | F~UL\ | | ~UL_ | | SENS~ | table | table | | 74, | _low~ | | high~ | | +6dB | 7.6. | 7.6. | | 87, | -20) | | +5) | | (Note | 1.1-4 | 1.1-4 | | 88 | | | | | 1) | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 1 | to | ( | -15 | P~REF |  | CW | | | | | F~UL\ | (Note | SENS~ | | ca | | | (F | to | _low~ | 2) | +6dB | | rrier | | | ~UL_ | | -20) | | (Note | | | | | high~ | | | | 1) | | | | | +5) | | 12750 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Table 7.6.1.1-5: Blocking performance requirement for Wide Area BS for E-UTRA
with NB-IoT in-band/guard band operation
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Oper | C | I | W | I | Type | | | | ating | entre | nterf | anted | nterf | of | | | | Band | Freq | ering | S | ering | I | | | | | uency | S | ignal | s | nterf | | | | | of | ignal | mean | ignal | ering | | | | | I | mean | power | c | S | | | | | nterf | power | [ | entre | ignal | | | | | ering | [ | dBm] | freq | | | | | | S | dBm] | | uency | | | | | | ignal | | | mi | | | | | | [ | | | nimum | | | | | | MHz] | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | ffset | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | l | | | | | | | | | ower/ | | | | | | | | | upper | | | | | | | | | Base | | | | | | | | | St | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | RF | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | nside | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | gap | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | MHz] | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 31, | ( | to | (F | -43 | P~REF | See | See | | 72, | F~UL\ | | ~UL_ | | SENS~ | table | table | | 73, | _low~ | | high~ | | +6dB | 7.6. | 7.6. | | 74, | -20) | | +5) | | (Note | 1.1-6 | 1.1-6 | | 87, | | | | | 1) | | | | 88 | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 1 | to | ( | -15 | P~REF |  | CW | | | | | F~UL\ | (Note | SENS~ | | ca | | | (F | to | _low~ | 3) | +6dB | | rrier | | | ~UL_ | | -20) | | (Note | | | | | high~ | | | | 1) | | | | | +5) | | 12750 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Table 7.6.1.1-5a: Blocking performance requirement for Local Area BS for
E-UTRA with NB-IoT in-band/guard band operation
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Oper | C | I | W | I | Type | | | | ating | entre | nterf | anted | nterf | of | | | | Band | Freq | ering | S | ering | I | | | | | uency | S | ignal | s | nterf | | | | | of | ignal | mean | ignal | ering | | | | | I | mean | power | c | S | | | | | nterf | power | [ | entre | ignal | | | | | ering | [ | dBm] | freq | | | | | | S | dBm] | | uency | | | | | | ignal | | | mi | | | | | | [ | | | nimum | | | | | | MHz] | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | ffset | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | l | | | | | | | | | ower/ | | | | | | | | | upper | | | | | | | | | Base | | | | | | | | | St | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | RF | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | nside | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | gap | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | MHz] | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 31, | ( | to | (F | -35 | P~REF | See | See | | 72, | F~UL\ | | ~UL_ | | SENS~ | table | table | | 74, | _low~ | | high~ | | +6dB | 7.6. | 7.6. | | 87, | -20) | | +5) | | (Note | 1.1-6 | 1.1-6 | | 88 | | | | | 1) | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 1 | to | ( | -15 | P~REF |  | CW | | | | | F~UL\ | (Note | SENS~ | | ca | | | (F | to | _low~ | 3) | +6dB | | rrier | | | ~UL_ | | -20) | | (Note | | | | | high~ | | | | 1) | | | | | +5) | | 12750 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Table 7.6.1.1-5c: Blocking performance requirement for Medium Range BS for
E-UTRA with NB-IoT in-band/guard band operation
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Oper | C | I | W | I | Type | | | | ating | entre | nterf | anted | nterf | of | | | | Band | Freq | ering | S | ering | I | | | | | uency | S | ignal | s | nterf | | | | | of | ignal | mean | ignal | ering | | | | | I | mean | power | c | S | | | | | nterf | power | [ | entre | ignal | | | | | ering | [ | dBm] | freq | | | | | | S | dBm] | | uency | | | | | | ignal | | | mi | | | | | | [ | | | nimum | | | | | | MHz] | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | ffset | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | l | | | | | | | | | ower/ | | | | | | | | | upper | | | | | | | | | Base | | | | | | | | | St | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | RF | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | nside | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | gap | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | MHz] | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 31, | ( | to | (F | -38 | P~REF | See | See | | 72, | F~UL\ | | ~UL_ | | SENS~ | table | table | | 74, | _low~ | | high~ | | +6dB | 7.6. | 7.6. | | 87, | -20) | | +5) | | (Note | 1.1-6 | 1.1-6 | | 88 | | | | | 1) | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 1 | to | ( | -15 | P~REF |  | CW | | | | | F~UL\ | (Note | SENS~ | | ca | | | (F | to | _low~ | 3) | +6dB | | rrier | | | ~UL_ | | -20) | | (Note | | | | | high~ | | | | 1) | | | | | +5) | | 12750 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
**7.6.2 Co-location with other base stations**
Table 7.6.2.1-1: Blocking performance requirement for E-UTRA and NB-IoT Wide
Area BS when co-located with BS in other frequency bands.
* * *
Co-located BS type Centre Frequency of Interfering Signal (MHz) Interfering
Signal mean power (dBm) Wanted Signal mean power (dBm) Type of Interfering
Signal WA E-UTRA Band 87 420 -- 425 +16** P~REFSENS~ + 6dB* CW carrier WA
E-UTRA Band 88 422 -- 427 +16** P~REFSENS~ + 6dB* CW carrier
* * *
Table 7.6.2.1-2: Blocking performance requirement for E-UTRA and NB-IoT Local
Area BS when co-located with BS in other frequency bands.
* * *
Co-located BS type Centre Frequency of Interfering Signal (MHz) Interfering
Signal mean power (dBm) Wanted Signal mean power (dBm) Type of Interfering
Signal LA E-UTRA Band 87 420 -- 425 -6** P~REFSENS~ + 6dB* CW carrier LA
E-UTRA Band 88 422 -- 427 -6** P~REFSENS~ + 6dB* CW carrier
* * *
Table 7.6.2.1-3: Blocking performance requirement for E-UTRA and NB-IoT Medium
Range BS when co-located with BS in other frequency bands.
* * *
Co-located BS type Centre Frequency of Interfering Signal (MHz) Interfering
Signal mean power (dBm) Wanted Signal mean power (dBm) Type of Interfering
Signal MR E-UTRA Band 87 420 -- 425 +8** P~REFSENS~ + 6dB* CW carrier MR
E-UTRA Band 88 422 -- 427 +8** P~REFSENS~ + 6dB* CW carrier
* * *
_====== End of text extracted from TS 36.104 ======_
#