# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document captures the findings of the study item, \"Study on LTE-
based 5G terrestrial broadcast \" [2]. The purpose of this TR is to identify
the gaps between the LTE-based eMBMS and the 5G requirements for dedicated
broadcast networks defined in 3GPP TR 38.913 [3] and to study the solutions
for closing these gaps.
This document is a \'living\' document, i.e. it is permanently updated and
presented to TSG-RAN meetings.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\"
[2] 3GPP RP-181706: \"New SID on LTE-based 5G Terrestrial Broadcast\"
[3] 3GPP TR 38.913: \"Study on scenarios and requirements for next generation
access technologies\"
[4] 3GPP TR 36.814: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Further advancements for E-UTRA physical layer aspects\"
[5] 3GPP TR 38.901: \"Study on channel model for frequencies from 0.5 to 100
GHz\"
[6] ITU-R BT.2254-3: \"Frequency and network planning aspects of DVB-T2\"
[7] 3GPP TS 36.300: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN); Overall
description; Stage 2\"
[8] 3GPP TS 36.331: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol specification\"
[9] 3GPP TS 36.213: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Physical layer procedures\"
[10] R1-1902349: \"Evaluation results and potential enhancements\", Qualcomm
Incorporated, Athens, Greece, Feb 25 -- Mar 1, 2019
[11] R1-1901582, \"Simulation results on enhancement techniques for LTE
ENTV\", Huawei, HiSilicon, Athens, Greece, Feb 25 -- Mar 1, 2019
[12] R1-1902130: \"Evaluation Results for LTE-Based 5G Terrestrial
Broadcast\", EBU, BBC, IRT, Athens, Greece, Feb 25 -- Mar 1, 2019
[13] R1-1901780: \"Simulation results for legacy LTE-based broadcast and
effect of longer CP\", Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Athens, Greece, Feb 25
-- Mar 1, 2019
[14] R1-1812430, Evaluation Results for LTE-Based 5G Terrestrial Broadcast,
EBU, BBC, IRT, 3GPP TSG RAN WG1 #95, Spokane USA 12th - 16th November 2018
[15] R1-1903419, Performance of Non-Uniform Constellations for LTE-Based 5G
Terrestrial Broadcast, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Athens, Greece, Feb 25
-- Mar 1, 2019
[16] R1-1903512: \"Link level analysis of CAS\", Qualcomm Incorporated,
Athens, Greece, Feb 25 -- Mar 1, 2019
[17] 3GPP TS 23.246: \"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service (MBMS);
Architecture and functional description\"
[18] 3GPP TS 26.346: \"MBMS: Protocols and Codecs\"
[19] 3GPP TS 26.348: \"Northbound Application Programming Interface (API) for
Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service (MBMS) at the xMB reference point\"
[20] 3GPP TS 23.468: \"Group Communication System Enablers for LTE (GCSE_LTE),
Stage 2\"
[21] 3GPP TS 36.101: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception\"
[22] 3GPP TR 36.888: \"Study on provision of low-cost Machine-Type
Communications (MTC) User Equipments (UEs) based on LTE\"
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
> CAS Cell acquisition subframe
>
> EI Equalisation interval
>
> eMBMS Evolved MBMS
>
> MBMS Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast System
>
> MBSFN Multicast/Broadcast Single Frequency Network
mMTC massive Machine Type Communications
> MNO Mobile Network Operator
>
> NR New Radio
>
> NUC Non-uniform constellation
>
> PMCH Physical Multicast Channel
>
> RAT Radio Access Technology
>
> SC-PTM Single Cell Point To Multipoint
>
> TV Television
>
> V2X Vehicle to Everything
# 4 Introduction
3GPP TR 38.913 [3] defines the following requirements for support for MBMS in
NR:
> Req.1 The new RAT shall support existing Multicast/Broadcast services (e.g.
> download, streaming, group communication, TV, etc.) and new services (e.g.
> V2X, etc).
>
> Req.2 The new RAT shall support dynamic adjustment of the
> Multicast/Broadcast area based on e.g. the user distribution or service
> requirements.
>
> Req.3 The new RAT shall support concurrent delivery of both unicast and
> Multicast/Broadcast services to the users.
>
> Req.4 The new RAT shall support efficient multiplexing with unicast
> transmissions in at least frequency domain and time domain.
>
> Req.5 The new RAT shall support static and dynamic resource allocation
> between Multicast/Broadcast and unicast; the new RAT shall in particular
> allow support of up to 100% of DL resources for Multicast/Broadcast (100%
> meaning a dedicated MBMS carrier).
>
> Req.6 The new RAT shall support Multicast/Broadcast network sharing between
> multiple participating MNOs, including the case of a dedicated MBMS network.
>
> Req.7 The new RAT shall make it possible to cover large geographical areas
> up to the size of an entire country in SFN mode with network synchronization
> and shall allow cell radii of up to 100 km if required to facilitate that
> objective. It shall also support local, regional and national broadcast
> areas.
>
> Req.8 The new RAT shall support Multicast/Broadcast services for fixed,
> portable and mobile UEs. Mobility up to 250 km/h shall be supported.
>
> Req.9 The new RAT shall leverage usage of RAN equipment (hard- and software)
> including e.g. multi-antenna capabilities (e.g. MIMO) to improve
> Multicast/Broadcast capacity and reliability.
>
> Req.10 The new RAT shall support Multicast/Broadcast services for mMTC
> devices.
The objective of this document is to study these requirements for LTE-based
MBMS, to identify the gaps, and capture the potential solutions to close the
gaps.
The above requirements could be divided into two groups:
1\. Requirements whose analysis involves system-level and/or link-level
simulations; and
2\. Requirements whose analysis does not involve simulations.
Clause 5 provides the methodology for studying the requirements in general,
and for each of the two groups defined above. Specifically, for the
requirements requiring simulation work, the simulation assumptions and the
setup are described.
Clause 6 provides the analysis of each of the above requirements, based on the
methodology described in clause 5.
# 5 Methodology
## 5.1 General
The first step in the evaluation of a requirement should be to determine
whether the requirement is already met by LTE or not. If the requirement is
partially met, the remaining gaps should be identified.
It is identified that only Req.7 and Req.8 involve simulation work.
## 5.2 Methodology for requirements not involving simulations
Requirements not involving simulations (all requirements except Req.7 and
Req.8) are to be verified based on analysis of current specifications.
## 5.3 Simulation assumptions
### 5.3.1 System-level simulation assumptions
For system-level evaluations, four scenarios are introduced as follows:
Table 1: Scenarios for system-level evaluations
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Parameter | MPMT | HPHT-1 | HPHT-2 | LPLT | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | **ISD** | 50km | 125km | 173.2km | 15km | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | **BS | 60dBm | 70dBm | 70dBm | 46 dBm | | Power** | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | **BS | 100m | 300m | 300m | 35m | | effective | | | | | | antenna | | | | | | height** | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | **CPs/Num | CAS/SC-PTM: | | | | | erologies** | 4.7 us, | | | | | | 16.6us | | | | | | | | | | | | PMCH: | | | | | | 15kHz/7.5 | | | | | | kHz/1.25kHz | | | | | | as | | | | | | baseline. | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | **Carrier | 700MHz | | | | | frequency** | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | **Channel | 10MHz as | | | | | BW** | baseline | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | **BS | 10.5dBi | 13dBi | 13dBi | 15dBi | | antenna | | | | | | gain** | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | **BS | 1Tx: | 1Tx: | 1Tx: | 3 sector | | antenna | rooftop and | rooftop and | rooftop and | antenna | | pattern** | non-rooftop | non-rooftop | non-rooftop | pattern | | | | | | | | | 2Tx: | 2Tx: | 2Tx: | Each sector | | | non-rooftop | non-rooftop | non-rooftop | has a | | | (FFS for | (FFS for | (FFS for | horizontal | | | rooftop) | rooftop) | rooftop) | and | | | | | | vertical | | | | | | pattern as | | | | | | defined in: | | | | | | [4], | | | | | | Table | | | | | | A.1.1: 3GPP | | | | | | Case 1 and | | | | | | Case 3 | | | | | | (Macro | | | | | | Cell) | | | | | | | | | | | | 2Tx for | | | | | | non-rooftop | | | | | | (FFS for | | | | | | rooftop) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | **Cellular | Hexagonal | Hexagonal | Hexagonal | Hexagonal | | Layout** | grid, 61 | grid, 61 | grid, 61 | grid, 61 | | | cell sites, | cell sites, | cell sites, | cell | | | 1 sector | 1 sector | 1 sector | sites,3 | | | per site | per site | per site | sector per | | | | | | site | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | **Tx EVM** | [8%] | 8% | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
For each of the four scenarios, four different types of receivers are
considered:
Table 2: Channel characteristics for different scenarios
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Parameter | Rooftop | Car-mounted | In-car | Indoor | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | ** | ITU-R | | | | | Propagation | P.1546-5 | | | | | model**| | | | | | | 50% / 1% | | | | | | (serving / | | | | | | i | | | | | | nterfering) | | | | | | as | | | | | | preferred | | | | | | assumption | | | | | | | | | | | | 50%/50% | | | | | | (serving / | | | | | | i | | | | | | nterfering) | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ |** Fast | Delay | | | | | fading | spread and | | | | | channel | path delay | | | | | type**| profile: | | | | | | adopt | | | | | | UMA/RMA | | | | | | model | | | | | | (according | | | | | | to [5, | | | | | | Subclause | | | | | | 7.5]). | | | | | | | | | | | | Fading | | | | | | di | | | | | | stribution: | | | | | | Rayleigh | | | | | | except for | | | | | | the first | | | | | | path of | | | | | | rooftop | | | | | | (Rice). For | | | | | | rooftop, | | | | | | used fixed | | | | | | K=10dB. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE: this | | | | | | intends to | | | | | | describe | | | | | | the | | | | | | following | | | | | | procedure: | | | | | | | | | | | | - Run up | | | | | | to step 6 | | | | | | to obtain | | | | | | the delay | | | | | | c | | | | | | oefficients | | | | | | per cluster | | | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | Normalized | | | | | | as | | | | | | described | | | | | | | | | | | | - Instead | | | | | | of | | | | | | generating | | | | | | the rays | | | | | | per | | | | | | cluster, | | | | | | take each | | | | | | of the | | | | | | delay | | | | | | c | | | | | | oefficients | | | | | | for each | | | | | | cluster and | | | | | | generate a | | | | | | Gaussian | | | | | | random | | | | | | variable | | | | | | with the | | | | | | variance | | | | | | according | | | | | | to the | | | | | | power of | | | | | | the | | | | | | cluster. | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ |** Receiver | 0 | Up to | Up to | 3km/h | | velocity**| | 250km/h | 250km/h | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ |** Receiving | 10m | 1.5m | 1.5m | 1.5m | | antenna | | | | | | height**| | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ |** Height | 0dB | 16.5dB for | 16.5dB for | 16.5dB for | | Loss:**| | rural | rural | rural | | | | | | | |** The | | 23.5 dB for | 23.5 dB for | 23.5 dB for | | difference | | urban | urban | urban | | between the | | | | | | signal | | | | | | level at | | | | | | 10m and the | | | | | | actual | | | | | | receiving | | | | | | antenna | | | | | | height**| | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ |** Building | 0dB | 0dB | μ = 9dB and | 20dB for | | or I2O loss | | | | urban | | penetration | | | σ = 5dB | | | loss**| | | | 10dB for | | | | | | rural | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ |** Shadowing | 5.5dB | 5.5dB | 8dB for | 8dB for | | standard | | | rural | rural | | deviation**| | | | | | | | | 6dB for | 6dB for | | | | | urban | urban | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ |** Shadowing | 1 for same | 1 for same | 1 for same | 1 for same | | co | site | site | site | site | | rrelation** | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Table 3: Receiver characteristics for different scenarios
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Parameter | Rooftop | Car-mounted | In-car | Indoor | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | **Receiver | 6dB | 6dB | 9dB | 9dB | | noise | | | | | | figure** | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | **Receiver | 9MHz | 9MHz | 9MHz | 9MHz | | noise | | | | | | bandwidth** | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | **Receiver | 13.15 dBi | 3.0 dBi | -7.35dBi | -7.35dBi | | antenna** | | | | | | | Dis | Non- | Non- | Non- | | **(gain & | crimination | directional | directional | directional | | pattern)** | pattern | | | | | | according | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | | | ITU-R | | | | | | BT.419-3 | | | | | | band IV, V | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | **Antenna | 4dB | 0dB | 0dB | 0dB | | Cable | | | | | | Loss** | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | **2-Rx | No (FFS for | Yes | Yes | Yes | | Diversity** | 2Tx) | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | **Imp | 1dB | | | | | lementation | | | | | | Margin** | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | **Body loss | 0 | | | | | at | | | | | | receiver** | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | **Rx EVM** | 4% | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
For rooftop antenna alignment, one of the following two options (to be
declared by company) is used:
\- Opt1: Strongest transmitter (based on pathloss and shadowing).
\- Opt2: Closest transmitter
X% pre-processing SINR (to be mapped to X% throughput by link level
simulations) is used as a performance metric:
\- Reporting points: 95% SINR. Other percentiles may also be reported.
The following options may be used for the distribution of UEs in the system
level simulations:
\- Uniform in all cells as a baseline
\- \"Worst case\" (i.e., drop all UEs in the geographical point with the worst
coverage) as an additional option
For SINR calculation, the formula in [6, Section 3.5] is used. Positioning of
the EI is up to receiver implementation and should be declared in the
evaluation, including the length of the EI.
Spectral efficiency is one of the performance metrics to be used for
evaluation.
### 5.3.2 Link-level simulation assumptions
Table 4: Parameters for link-level simulations
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameter | Values | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **System BW** | 10 MHz | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Carrier frequency** | 700 MHz | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **CP/Numerology** | CAS/SC-PTM: 4.7 us, 16.6us | | | | | | PMCH: 15kHz/7.5kHz/1.25kHz as | | | baseline. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Doppler frequency** | 1Hz (rooftop antenna), Up to | | | 120km/h and 250km/h for | | | car-mounted/in-car, up to 3km/h | | | for Indoor | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Reference signal pattern** | For existing numerologies, use | | | existing reference signal | | | patterns as baseline. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Channel estimation** | Realistic based on RS design | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Channel model** | To be determined from system | | | level evaluations for different | | | ISDs. | | | | | | TDL-i for NLOS and TDL-v for LOS | | | with the scaled delay spread | | | derived from system level | | | simulations. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Number of Rx antennas at the | Rooftop: 1 (baseline) /2 | | UE** | | | | Mobile/car receiver: 2 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **MCS** | Fixed MCS, selected by proponent | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
# 6 Analysis of requirements
## 6.1 General
This clause contains the analysis of the requirements for dedicated broadcast
networks listed in clause 4, including potential enhancements.
## 6.2 Req.1: Support for existing and new services
Different use cases/services are supported by Rel-14 LTE specification:
\- Broadcast TV services have been supported since Release 9, and were
enhanced in Release 14.
\- Download, streaming, and group communication based on SC-PTM have been
supported since Release 13.
\- Broadcast/multicast for V2X has been supported since Release 13 (based on
SC-PTM or MBSFN transmission, see [7, Subclause 15.1.1]).
\- Broadcast/multicast for IoT devices (eMTC and NB-IOT) have been supported
from Release 14 (based on SC-PTM, see [7, Subclause 15.1]).
**[Conclusion:]{.underline}**
_Relevant for dedicated networks: Yes_
_Requirement met by Rel-14: Yes_
## 6.3 Req.2: Dynamic adjustment of the multicast/broadcast area
eMBMS supports mechanisms to adjust the Multicast/Broadcast area from BMSC,
specified in 3GPP TS 23.246 [18]. The BMSC can determine and adjust the MBMS
Service Areas and provide a list of cell IDs in the MBMS Session Start and
MBMS Session Update procedures. The MBMS Service Area and list of cell ID can
be determined by the BMSC in one of the following ways:
\- using procedures for \"MBMS operation on demand (aka MOOD)\" specified in
3GPP TS 23.246 [17]; or
\- based on the reporting from the GCS AS using either:
\- procedures over the xMB interface, specified in 3GPP TS 26.346 [18] and
3GPP TS 26.348 [19]; or
\- procedures over the MB2 interface, specified in 3GPP TS 23.468 [20].
**[Conclusion:]{.underline}**
_Relevant for dedicated networks: Yes\ \ Requirement met by Rel-14: Yes_
## 6.4 Req.3: Simultaneous support for broadcast/multicast and unicast
Rel-14 LTE can provide simultaneous support for broadcast/multicast and
unicast by the following means:
\- On the same carrier, by time-multiplexing MBSFN and non-MBSFN subframes
(TDM). The MBSFN subframes are signaled by fields _MBSFN-SubframeConfig_ ,
_MBSFN-SubframeConfig-v1430,_ in non-dedicated carriers. In dedicated
carriers, _nonMBSFN-SubframeConfig-r14_ includes the configuration for non-
MBSFN subframes. See [8] for more details. In a given subframe, the PMCH uses
the whole system bandwidth (see [9, Subclause 11.1]).
\- On the same carrier, using SC-PTM for multicast/broadcast (can be TDM or
FDM with unicast). SC-PTM uses PDSCH as the physical channel (see [7,
Subclauses 6.1.3.2 and 5.3.1]) and thus allows for similar time-frequency
granularity as unicast transmissions.
\- On separate carriers, using a dedicated MBMS carrier for
multicast/broadcast services.
**[Conclusion:]{.underline}**
_Relevant for dedicated networks: Yes_
_Requirement met by Rel-14: Yes_
## 6.5 Req.4: Multiplexing of multicast/broadcast and unicast
This requirement is not relevant to dedicated MBMS networks.
Rel-14 LTE can support multiplexing of multicast/broadcast and unicast by the
following means:
\- SC-PTM supports multiplexing with unicast transmission in both the
frequency domain and the time domain.
\- MBSFN supports multiplexing with unicast transmission in the time domain.
## 6.6 Req.5: Dynamic resource allocation between multicast/broadcast and
unicast and support for dedicated MBMS carrier
Regarding support for static and dynamic resource allocation between
Multicast/Broadcast and unicast, it is not relevant to dedicated MBMS
networks. Nevertheless, Rel-14 LTE can support dynamic resource allocation of
broadcast and unicast. The following partitions between unicast and broadcast
are supported depending on the type of carrier:
\- Between 0%-60%: Pre Rel-14. The carrier can be used as a PCell.
\- Between 60-80%: Rel-14 FeMBMS mixed carrier. The carrier supports unicast
but cannot be used as a PCell.
\- For SC-PTM transmission, partitions between 0 and 100% are supported
Regarding the requirement of support for a dedicated MBMS carrier, it is
relevant and Rel-14 supports dedicated carrier with 100% allocation to MBMS by
MBSFN and SC-PTM.
**[Conclusion:]{.underline}**
_Relevant for dedicated networks: Yes_
_Requirement met by Rel-14: Partially_
## 6.7 Req.6: Support for network sharing
Rel.14 network architecture documented in Annex D in 3GPP TS 23.246 [17]
supports shared eMBMS network over E-UTRAN, including dedicated eMBMS network.
**[Conclusion:]{.underline}**
_Relevant for dedicated networks: Yes_
_Requirement met by Rel-14: Yes_
## 6.8 Req.7: Support for service over large geographic area
The large geographic area refers to an area of an entire country and/or cell
size of 100 km.
### 6.8.1 General
In this context a large geographic area refers to the area covered by networks
with the following inter-site distances (ISD):
\- \~15 km, referred to as Low Power Low Tower (LPLT) network;
\- \~50 km, referred to as Medium Power medium Tower (MPMT) network; and
\- >100 km, referred to as High Power High Tower network, in particular:
\- \~125 km, referred to as HPHT-1 network; and
\- \~173 km, referred to as HPHT-2 network.
The measures of the ability to support the service over these networks are the
SNR and spectral efficiency (SE) available to 95% of the users. The study in
this TR comprised evaluating the 95% SNR and SE of the Rel.14 numerologies and
the improvements that are possible by using new numerologies and enhanced
receiver/transmitter schemes, such as MUST. The evaluations were performed for
MBSFN transmission and SC-PTM (including CAS). The complete set of results
related to the support of larger geographical areas can be found in annex A.
### 6.8.2 New numerologies for the support of larger ISDs for MBSFN
The MBSFN evaluations were performed by several sources and reported in [10],
[11], [12], [13]. Based on these evaluations, the following observations can
be summarized based on the 50/1 model (results for 50/50 can be found in the
Annex):
For LPLT networks:
\- Longer T~cp~ would provide limited improvement in SE in the LPLT network.
\- Longer T~u~ would provide SE improvement in the LPLT network by reducing
the CP overhead.
For MPMT networks:
\- Longer T~cp~ ≥300µs, combined with a longer T~u~ >= 2,600µs, provides
significant improvement in SNR and SE for rooftop scenarios compared to the
Rel.14 1.25kHz numerology:
\- the observed SNR gain is between 5dB and 10 dB;
\- the observed SE gain is \~100%.
\- Longer T~u~ would further improve the SE in the MPMT network by reducing
the CP overhead.
HPHT-1 networks:
\- Longer T~cp~ ≥300µs, ideally in the order of 400µs, combined with a longer
T~u~ >= 2,600µs would improve the in SNR in the HPHT-1 network of between 8dB
and 15dB for rooftop scenarios compared to the Rel.14 1.25kHz numerology.
\- Longer T~cp~ ≥300µs, ideally in the order of 400µs, combined with a longer
T~u~ >= 2,600µs would improve the SE in the HPHT-1 network of 500% for rooftop
scenarios compared to the Rel.14 1.25kHz numerology.
\- Longer T~u~ would further improve the SE in the MPMT network by reducing
the CP overhead.
HPHT-2 networks:
\- Longer Tcp ≥300µs would provide limited improvement in SNR in the HPHT2
network of between 1dB and 2dB compared to the Rel.14 1.25kHz numerology.
\- It would be challenging to provide service-level coverage even for the
rooftop receiver in the HPHT2 network.
For all considered ISDs:
\- It would be challenging to provide service-level coverage for 95% of users
for indoor and in-car receivers..
For a given Tu, reducing RS density in the frequency domain (reducing EI) in
the interference-limited scenarios incurs a 1-3 dB penalty in the SNR,
however, the corresponding RS overhead reduction may simultaneously increase
the SE.
### 6.8.3 CAS evaluation
CAS system level evaluations were performed by two sources and reported in
[10] and [14]. The achievable SINR in these evaluations were highly dependent
on the time variation assumptions, i.e. 50/1 or 50/50.
Synchronized CAS transmission (transmission of CAS in SFN manner with 15kHz
numerology and 16.7us CP) provides SNR gain of up to 1.5 dB with respect to
single-cell CAS. The results taking into account this consideration are
summarised in Table 6.8.2-1.
Table 6.8.3-1 -- SNR levels for CAS
* * *
                          50/50 \[10\]   50/1 \[14\]
Car Mounted LPLT 3.8 dB -3.6 dB MPMT 1.9 dB -6.1 dB Fixed Rooftop LPLT 12.8 dB
-0.4 dB MPMT -0.2 dB -1.8 dB HPHT1 0.5 dB -6.9 dB
* * *
In the absence of link level simulations, RAN4 performance requirements [21]
of the component channels of the CAS have been used to verify whether they
would perform sufficiently well to meet the observed SNRs above. It is
important to note that the RAN4 performance requirements in in TR 36.101 are
for at least 2 Rx antennas and, in some cases, with 2 Tx antennas, hence,
performance for the relevant fixed rooftop channel with 1 Tx and 1 Rx antennas
can only be implied.
**[- PDCCH]{.underline}** : the reference SNR is -1.7dB for 1 Tx and 2 Rx
antennas (1T2R) [21, 8.4.1.1]. This figure is applicable for car mounted
reception. The PDCCH would therefore be adequate for car mounted reception in
the LPLT and MPMT networks with the 50/50 model but inadequate in both of
these cases with the 50/1 model. The performance for 1T1R, applicable for
fixed rooftop, is not provided, but it is estimated to be at least 3dB higher
(1.3dB). With this reference SNR the PDCCH performance is inadequate for fixed
rooftop reception in the MPMT and HPHT1 networks for both the 50/50 model and
the 50/1 model. In [16] evaluation results are provided for PDCCH with the
highest supported aggregation level, which would enable an operating SNR of
-3.5dB SNR for rooftop reception assuming an AWGN channel. This provide
adequate performance for the 50/50 channel model but not for the 50/1 channel
model in some scenarios.
**[- PBCH]{.underline}** : the reference SNR is -6.1dB for 1T2R [21, 8.6.1.1].
This figure is applicable for car mounted reception. The PBCH would therefore
be adequate for car mounted reception from the LPLT and MPMT networks with
either time model. The performance for 1T1R, applicable for fixed rooftop, is
not provided, but it is estimated to be at least 3dB higher (-3.1dB). With
this reference SNR the PBCH performance would be adequate for all fixed
rooftop scenarios with the 50/50 model. However the PBCH would perform
inadequately for fixed rooftop reception from the HPHT1 network for 50/1
model. Lower operating SNRs for PBCH may be achieved by attempting multiple
decodes of PBCH.
**[- PDSCH]{.underline}** : the reference SNR is -5.4dB for 1T2R [21,
8.2.1.1.1, test num 19]. This figure is applicable for car mounted reception.
The PDSCH would therefore be adequate for car mounted reception from the LPLT
and MPMT networks for the 50/50 model, adequate for LPLT with 50/1 model, but
inadequate for MPMT with the 50/1 time model. The performance for 1T1R,
applicable for fixed rooftop, is not provided, but it is estimated to be at
least 3dB higher (-2.4dB). With respect to fixed rooftop, the PDSCH would only
be inadequate for HPHT1 with the 50/1 time model.
**[- PSS/SSS]{.underline}** : the operating SNR can be much lower than that
observed for CAS SFN, as confirmed by previous 3GPP studies (e.g. [22, Table
5.2.1.2-2]). Lower operating SNRs for PSS/SSS can be achieved by performing
non-coherent accumulation of these signals across multiple transmission
periods.
The analysis above is summarised in table 6.8.3-2 below.
Table 6.8.3-2 Analysis of CAS
+----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | CAS Component | Failures 50/50 | Failures 50/1 | | Channel | | | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | PDCCH | According to results | LPLT Car Mounted | | | extrapolated from | | | | RAN4 performance | MPMT Car Mounted | | | requirements: | | | | | MPMT Fixed Rooftop | | | MPMT Fixed Rooftop | | | | | HPHT1 Fixed Rooftop | | | HPHT1 Fixed Rooftop | | | | | | | | According to results | | | | extrapolated from | | | | link level | | | | evaluations provided | | | | in [16]:\ | | | | None | | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | PBCH | None | HPHT1 Fixed Rooftop | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | PDSCH | None | MPMT Car Mounted | | | | | | | | HPHT1 Fixed Rooftop | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | PSS/SSS | | | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | **Notes:** The | | | | performance for | | | | 1T1R, applicable for | | | | fixed rooftop, is | | | | not provided in TS | | | | 36.101, but it is | | | | estimated to be at | | | | least 3dB higher | | | | than the appropriate | | | | 1T2R reference SNR | | | | provided in the TS. | | | | | | | | The channel model in | | | | TS 36.101 is | | | | different from the | | | | one for the agreed | | | | evaluation | | | | assumptions which | | | | may lead to | | | | pessimistic results. | | | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+
### 6.8.4 MUST for support for larger ISDs
For the purpose of the evaluation, MUST was assumed to be the superposition of
two layers, called the basic layer and the enhanced layer, where the basic
layer is expected to provide large broadcasting coverage, and the enhanced
layer is expected to offer higher spectral efficiency for parts of the
broadcast users. The evaluations were performed and reported in [10] and [11],
leading to the following observations:
\- For MBSFN for rooftop receivers the reported gains from MUST are:
\- with 200us CP length, from 20% to 38%;
\- with 300us CP length, around 10%.
\- For SC-PTM for rooftop receivers, the reported gains from MUST are in the
range from 35% to 37%
\- The average SE gains from MUST largely depend on the trade-off between the
potential SE improvement in the target coverage area for the enhancement layer
and the potential SE loss in the original coverage area for the basic layer.
### 6.8.5 Non-uniform constellation for support of larger ISDs
The SNR gains of Non-uniform constellations over QAM were evaluated and
verified in AWGN channel and TDL channels, which were reported in [15]. Based
on the evaluations, the observations can be summarized as follows:
\- In general, SNR gains increase with the increasing order of the NUC.
\- In AWGN channel, 2D-16NUC provides about 0.1dB SNR gain over 16QAM while
2D-64NUC can provide 0.5dB SNR gain over 64QAM.
\- In TDL channel, 2D-16NUC provides limited gain over 16QAM, while 2D-64NUC
maintains a visible SNR gain (about 0.3-0.4dB) over 64QAM.
\- 2D-NUC provides more SNR gain than 1D-NUC over QAM.
### 6.8.6 Conclusion
_Relevant for dedicated networks: Yes_
_Requirement met by Rel-14: No/can be improved._
_The following conclusions are drawn with respect to Req.7:_
\- New numerologies with T~cp~ and T~u~ longer than the Rel.14 1.25 kHz
numerology are found to be beneficial and would support the use case of fixed
rooftop reception in the MPMT and HPHT1 networks with the following range of
improvements:
\- MPMT: \~100% improvement in spectral efficiency, SNR improvement in the
range of 5-10dB.
\- HPHT: up to \~500% improvement in spectral efficiency, SNR improvement in
the range of 8dB-15dB.
The T~cp~ and T~u~ should be at least 300 us (ideally in the order of 400µs)
and at least 2.6ms respectively.
\- New numerologies should target SE improvement, considering factors such as
the RS pattern, in both the time and frequency domains, CP overheads and
receiver complexity.
\- For certain differentiation of coverage between the base layer and the
enhanced layer, MUST can increase system spectral efficiency for both SC-PTM
and MBSFN in the range between 10-37% depending on factors such as target
coverage for the enhanced layer. As the target coverage of the enhancement
layer decreases, the spectral efficiency gain is larger.
\- For the case where the baseline scenario is 100% power and time allocation
to the base layer:
\- In most of the evaluated cases, there is a loss in spectral efficiency for
the base layer (which may be marginal).
\- For the case where the SNR loss due to introduction of the base layer
allows to keep the same MCS, MUST improves the system spectral efficiency
without reducing performance of the base layer.
\- With respect to the CAS, in lieu of LLS in the appropriate channel models
and antenna configurations:
\- Under the 50/50 channel model, and based on extrapolation of the minimum
performance requirements from [21], all channels in CAS perform adequately
except for PDCCH in rooftop MPMT and HPHT. For PDCCH, and based on
extrapolation from the link level results presented in [16], the PDCCH
performance is adequate for rooftop MPMT and HPHT.
\- Under the 50/1 channel model, and based on extrapolation of the minimum
performance requirements from [21], all channels in CAS may not perform
adequately. Improvements in all the component channels of the CAS may be
beneficial in order to support the use cases studied under the 50/1 time
model.
\- A realistic scenario for CAS reception may lie in between the 50/50 time
model and the 50/1 time model.
\- 16/64 NUCs can provide additional SNR gains over 16/64 QAM, which can
extend the coverage by 0.1-0.5dB. As the order of constellation increases, the
gain is larger.
## 6.9 Req.8: Support for different mobility scenarios
The mobility scenarios that need to be supported include fixed, portable and
mobile UEs and speeds up to 250 km/h.
### 6.9.1 General
The mobility scenarios that need to be supported include fixed, portable and
mobile UEs and speeds up to 250 km/h. This requirement is to be considered
along with Req.7, i.e. the high mobility needs to be supported for large ISDs.
The complete set of results related to support of different mobility scenarios
can be found in annex B.
### 6.9.2 New numerologies for support of different mobility scenarios
The MBSFN evaluations were performed by several sources and reported in [10],
[11] and [12]. Based on these evaluations, the following observations can be
summarized:
LPLT networks:
\- For LPLT, the performance comparison between 100/400/0.33 numerology and
the 1.25 kHz numerology at 250 kmph is as follows:
\- With channel estimation based on a very simple linear interpolator in time
and frequency domains, the results show 1.25kHz numerology is not decodable at
SE of 1bps/Hz.
\- With channel estimation based on 2D-MMSE, 100/400/0.33 outperforms 1.25kHz
in the high SNR regime (corresponding SE larger than 1.3bps/Hz) from a link
level perspective (which does not include the fact that 1.25kHz achieves
higher SNR from a system level perspective). For the SNR point corresponding
to 95% coverage in LPLT, 100/400/0.33 has a similar performance compared with
1.25kHz.
\- The Rel-14 numerology with 7.5 kHz subcarrier spacing (33.3 μs CP) is not
able to operate with sufficient SE in the considered LPLT networks due to the
large Delay Spread of the network and the channel estimation based on a very
simple linear interpolator in time and frequency domains.
\- A CP of 100 µs would be a good compromise between Doppler performance and
coverage for the LPLT car mounted reception use case.
MPMT networks:
\- The spectral efficiency for MPMT scenario with Rel-14 numerology (200/800)
provides the following spectral efficiencies at 120km/h:
\- Nominal transmitter height (100m): 0.88bps/Hz
\- 150m transmitter height: >1.14bps/Hz
\- The spectral efficiency for MPMT scenario with Rel-14 numerology (200/800)
provides the following spectral efficiencies at 250km/h:
\- Nominal transmitter height (100m): 0.68bps/Hz
### 6.9.3 MUST for mobility scenarios
The evaluations were performed and reported in [11], leading to the following
observations:
\- For MBSFN, the reported SE gains from MUST, relative to TDM, for the same
differentiated coverage, are in the range from 25% to 50%;
\- For SC-PTM, the corresponding reported gains from MUST are in the range
from 31% to 79%;
\- The average SE gains from MUST largely depend on the trade-off between the
potential SE improvement in the target coverage area for the added enhancement
layer and the potential SE loss in the original coverage area for the basic
layer.
### 6.9.4 Conclusion
_Relevant for dedicated networks: Yes_
_Requirement met by Rel-14: No/can be improved._
_The following conclusions are drawn with respect to Req.8:_
\- New numerology with 100µs T~cp~ and 400 µs T~u~ shorter than the Rel.14
1.25 kHz numerology is found to be beneficial in some cases and would support
the use case of car-mounted reception in the LPLT networks with the following:
\- For high SNR regime (corresponding SE larger than 1.3 bps/Hz), 100/400/0.33
may outperform Rel.14 1.25 kHz numerology from a link level perspective for
the same SNR level, but 1.25kHz achieves higher SNR from a system level
perspective
\- For the SNR point corresponding to 95% coverage in LPLT, 100/400/0.33 has
similar performance as Rel.14 1.25 kHz numerology.
\- For certain differentiation of coverage between the base layer and the
enhanced layer, MUST can increase system spectral efficiency for both SC-PTM
and MBSFN in the range between 25-79% depending on factors such as target
coverage for the enhanced layer. As the target coverage of the enhancement
layer decreases, the spectral efficiency gain is larger.
\- For the case where the baseline scenario is 100% power and time allocation
to the base layer:
\- In most of the evaluated cases, there is a loss in spectral efficiency for
the base layer (which may be marginal).
\- For the case where the SNR loss due to introduction of the base layer
allows to keep the same MCS, MUST improves the system spectral efficiency
without reducing performance of the base layer.
## 6.10 Req.9: Leverage RAN equipment to increase capacity and reliability
LTE Rel-14 can leverage the use of multiple transmit antennas at the eNB and
receive antennas at the UE by the following means:
\- For SC-PTM, multi-antenna eNB can use transmit diversity (SFBC) to increase
reliability.
\- For MBSFN, multi-antenna eNB can use implementation-based techniques such
as cyclic delay diversity to increase reliability.
\- Multiple antennas at the UE can be used to achieve diversity and array
gain.
LTE Rel-14 does not support multi-layer MIMO transmission for either SC-PTM or
MBSFN. Multi-layer transmission can increase the capacity of the broadcast
networks, at least in some scenarios.
**[Conclusion:]{.underline}**
_Relevant for dedicated networks: Yes_
_Requirement met by Rel-14: Partially_
## 6.11 Req.10: Support for mMTC UE
Rel-14 LTE supports delivery of broadcast services to NB-IoT and eMTC devices
by using SC-PTM [6, Subclause 15.1.1].
**[Conclusion:]{.underline}**
_Relevant for dedicated networks: Yes_
_Requirement met by Rel-14: Yes_
# 7 Conclusions
Table 7-1 summarizes the conclusions made in this TR with respect to the
different requirements.
* * *
Requirement Required simulations Relevant to dedicated networks Met by Rel-14
Notes 1 No Yes Yes  
2 No Yes Yes  
3 No Yes Yes  
4 No No -  
5 No Yes Partially  
6 No Yes Yes  
7 Yes Yes No/can be improved Enhancements needed to meet the requirement
proposed in sc. 6.8.6 8 Yes Yes No/can be improved Enhancements needed to meet
the requirement proposed in sc. 6.9.4 9 No Yes Partially  
10 No Yes Yes
* * *
###### ### Annex A: Simulation results for Req.7
## A.1. New numerologies for support of larger ISDs
### A.1.1 Evaluated numerologies
Table A.1.1-1 summarizes the numerologies evaluated by the source companies in
[10], [11], [13], [12]. Note that the Rel.14 1.25 kHz numerology is also
included.
Table A.1.1-1 Evaluated numerologies
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Source | Num | T~cp~ | Tu | Sub | FFT | RS | | | erology | [us] | [us] | carrier | size | density | | | ID | | | spacing | | | | | | | | | (T~s~ = | | | | | | | | 1/15.35 | | | | | | | | MHz) | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Source | 1 | 200 | 800 | 1.250 | 12288 | 1/3 | | 1 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 2 | 300 | 2700 | 0.370 | 41472 | 1/5 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 3 | 300 | 2700 | 0.370 | 41472 | 1/3 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 4 | 386 | 2400 | 0.417 | 36864 | 1/5 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 5 | 386 | 2400 | 0.417 | 36864 | 1/3 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Source | 1 | 200 | 800 | 1.250 | 12288 | 1/3 | | 2 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Source | 1 | 200 | 800 | 1.25 | 12288 | | | 3 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 2 | 200 | 1800 | 0.556 | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 3 | 200 | 2800 | 0.357 | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 4 | 200 | 3800 | 0.263 | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 5 | 200 | 4800 | 0.208 | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 6 | 300 | 1700 | 0.588 | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 7 | 300 | 2700 | 0.370 | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 8 | 300 | 3700 | 0.270 | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 9 | 300 | 4700 | 0.213 | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 10 | 400 | 1600 | 0.635 | 24576 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 11 | 400 | 2600 | 0.385 | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 12 | 400 | 3600 | 0.278 | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 13 | 400 | 4600 | 0.217 | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Source | 1 | 16.7 | 66.7 | 15 | 1024 | | | 4 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 2 | 33.3 | 133.3 | 7.5 | 2048 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 3 | 100 | 400 | 2.5 | 6144 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 4 | 200 | 800 | 1.25 | 12288 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 5 | 400 | 1600 | 0.6125 | 24576 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
### A.1.2 Simulation assumptions
Table A.1.2-1 summarizes the simulation assumptions used by the source
companies in [10], [11], [13], [12] in addition to the assumptions in
subclause 5.3.1.
Table A.1.2-1 Simulation assumptions
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+----------+ | Assumption | Qualcomm | Huawei | EBU | SJTU | | options | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+----------+ | Rooftop | **Opt1** | **Opt1** | **Opt2** | **Opt2** | | antenna | | | | | | alignment:\ | | | | | | Opt1: | | | | | | strongest | | | | | | transmitter | | | | | | (including | | | | | | shadowing)\ | | | | | | Opt2: | | | | | | closest | | | | | | transmitter | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+----------+ | UE | **Opt1** | **Opt1** | **Opt2** | **Opt1** | | di | | | | | | stribution: | | | | | | | | | | | | Opt1: | | | | | | Uniform | | | | | | | | | | | | Opt2: Worst | | | | | | case | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+----------+ | Pathloss | **Both |** Opt1 for | **Opt1** | **Opt1** | | model: | (evaluated | MBSFN**| | | | | se | | | | | Opt1: 50/1 | parately)** | **Opt2 for | | | | | | SC-PTM** | | | | Opt2: 50/50 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+----------+ | E | **Maximum |** Maximum | **First |**?**| | qualization | energy | energy | signal | | | interval | window** | window**| above | | | positioning | | | noise** | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+----------+ | Other | | | **No EVM | | | | | | applied** | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+----------+
### A.1.3 95% SNR levels and spectral efficiency
#### A.1.3.1 MBSFN
The tables in this section summarize the 95% SNR levels for MBSFN subframes
obtained from system-level simulations by the source companies in [10], [11],
[12], [13] for rooftop and indoor receivers. If the spectral efficiency
corresponding to the 95% SNR levels was computed, it is also reproduced in the
respective table. The results for the car-mounted receivers are shown in
subclause B.1.3.
Table A.1.3.1-1 95% SNR levels and SE for 50/1 model from Source 1 in [10].
* * *
                                                                                     Rooftop^(1)^   Indoor^(1)^    In-car^(1)^
Source Num 95% SNR (dB) SE (b/s/Hz) 95% SNR (dB) SE (b/s/Hz) 95% SNR (dB) SE
(b/s/Hz) Source 1 LPLT  
1 20.2 - 1.0 - -8.8 - 2 20.3 - 1.5 - -8.2 - 3 20.3 - 1.8 - -7.9 - 4 20.3 - 1.3
- -8.7 - 5 20.3 - 2.0 - -8.3 - MPMT  
1 6.2 0.52 -2.8 -  
2 12.2 - -2.0 -  
3 15.2 1.37 -1.6 -  
4 12.9 - -2.5 -  
5 15.2 - -1.5 -  
HPHT1  
1 -0.7 0.10  
2 5.9 -  
3 8.6 0.86  
4 6.5 -  
5 9.6 -  
HPHT2  
1 -7.3 -  
2 -1.4 -  
3 1.8 -  
4 -0.5 -  
5 1.8 -  
Note 1: All the values were obtained under the assumption of 50/1 pathloss
model
* * *
Table A.1.3.1-2 95% SNR levels and SE for 50/50 model from Source 1 in [10].
* * *
                                                                                      Rooftop^(1)^   Indoor^(1)^    In-car^(1)^
Source Num 95% SNR (dB) SE (b/s/Hz) 95% SNR (dB) SE (b/s/Hz) 95% SNR (dB) SE
(b/s/Hz) Source 1 LPLT  
1 20.2 - 1.2 - -8.0 - 2 20.3 - 1.8 - -7.8 - 3 20.3 - 2.0 - -7.3 - 4 20.4 - 1.4
- -8.0 - 5 20.4 - 1.5 - -7.8 - MPMT  
1 14.6 1.44 -2.4 -  
2 16.5 - -2.4 -  
3 16.5 1.44 -2.3 -  
4 16.5 - -2.1 -  
5 16.5 - -2.1 -  
HPHT1  
1 11.3 0.88  
2 14.8 -  
3 14.9 1.44  
4 14.7 -  
5 15.4 -  
HPHT2  
1 2.8 -  
2 5.3 -  
3 5.7 -  
4 4.8 -  
5 6.3 -  
Note 1: All the values were obtained under the assumption of 50/50 pathloss
model
* * *
Table A.1.3.1-3 95% SNR levels and SE from Source 2 in [11].
* * *
             Rooftop
Source Num 95% SNR (dB) SE Source 2 MPMT  
1 15.4 1.94 HPHT-1  
1 10.0 1.26 HPHT-2  
1 6.9 0.85
* * *
Table A.1.3.1-4 95% SNR levels and SE from Source 3 in [12].
+------------------+---------+------------------+------------------+ | | Rooftop | | | +------------------+---------+------------------+------------------+ | Source | Num | 95% SNR (dB) | SE improvement | | | | ^(1)^ | (%) ^(1,2,3)^ | +------------------+---------+------------------+------------------+ | Source 3 | LPLT | | | +------------------+---------+------------------+------------------+ | | 1 | 26 | 25-35% | +------------------+---------+------------------+------------------+ | | 2 | | | +------------------+---------+------------------+------------------+ | | 3 | | | +------------------+---------+------------------+------------------+ | | 4 | | | +------------------+---------+------------------+------------------+ | | 5 | | | +------------------+---------+------------------+------------------+ | | 6 | | 5-35% | +------------------+---------+------------------+------------------+ | | 7 | | | +------------------+---------+------------------+------------------+ | | 8 | | | +------------------+---------+------------------+------------------+ | | 9 | | | +------------------+---------+------------------+------------------+ | | 10 | | 0-30% | +------------------+---------+------------------+------------------+ | | 11 | | | +------------------+---------+------------------+------------------+ | | 12 | | | +------------------+---------+------------------+------------------+ | | 13 | | | +------------------+---------+------------------+------------------+ | | MPMT | | | +------------------+---------+------------------+------------------+ | | 1 | 8-12 | Up to 50% | +------------------+---------+------------------+------------------+ | | 2 | 8-16 | 25 -- 120% | +------------------+---------+------------------+------------------+ | | 3 | 13-17 | 95% -140% | +------------------+---------+------------------+------------------+ | | 4 | 16-17 | 105 -- 150% | +------------------+---------+------------------+------------------+ | | 5 | 18 | 120-170% | +------------------+---------+------------------+------------------+ | | 6 | 14.5-19 | 90 -- 140% | +------------------+---------+------------------+------------------+ | | 7 | 14-20 | 100-170% | +------------------+---------+------------------+------------------+ | | 8 | 17.5-20.5 | 125-175% | +------------------+---------+------------------+------------------+ | | 9 | 20.5 | 130-190% | +------------------+---------+------------------+------------------+ | | 10 | 14.5-21 | 75-145% | +------------------+---------+------------------+------------------+ | | 11 | 15-22 | 100-125% | +------------------+---------+------------------+------------------+ | | 12 | 18-22 | 76%-130% | +------------------+---------+------------------+------------------+ | | 13 | 22 | 80-140% | +------------------+---------+------------------+------------------+ | | HPHT1 | | | +------------------+---------+------------------+------------------+ | | 1 | up to 4 | Up to 80% | +------------------+---------+------------------+------------------+ | | 2 | up to 7 | 20%-180% | +------------------+---------+------------------+------------------+ | | 3 | up to 9 | 30-230% | +------------------+---------+------------------+------------------+ | | 4 | 8.5-10 | 220-260% | +------------------+---------+------------------+------------------+ | | 5 | 9-11 | 25-300% | +------------------+---------+------------------+------------------+ | | 6 | up to 9 | 200-220% | +------------------+---------+------------------+------------------+ | | 7 | up to 11 | 260-300% | +------------------+---------+------------------+------------------+ | | 8 | 9.5-12 | 260-320% | +------------------+---------+------------------+------------------+ | | 9 | 10-13 | 300-360% | +------------------+---------+------------------+------------------+ | | 10 | 11-13 | 290-310% | +------------------+---------+------------------+------------------+ | | 11 | 11-15.5 | 310-420% | +------------------+---------+------------------+------------------+ | | 12 | 11-16 | 310-420% | +------------------+---------+------------------+------------------+ | | 13 | 11-16.5 | 320-490% | +------------------+---------+------------------+------------------+ | Note 1: Exact | | | | | value depends on | | | | | the RS density | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: Values | | | | | computed | | | | | analytically | | | | | | | | | | Note 3: % | | | | | improvement | | | | | based on the | | | | | Rel.14 1.25kHz | | | | | numerology | | | | +------------------+---------+------------------+------------------+
Table A.1.3.1-5 95% SNR levels from Source 4 in [13].
* * *
             Rooftop   Indoor         In-car
Source Num 95% SNR (dB) 95% SNR (dB) 95% SNR (dB) Source 4 LPLT  
1 5.99 -10.46 -9.73 2 8.96 -9.45 -8.66 3 13.26 -8.46 -7.71 4 15.07 -8.31 -7.51
5 15.15 -8.29 -7.48 MPMT  
1 6.36 -16.16 -14.94 2 B2 -15.38 -14.23 3 7.83 -13.26 -12.15 4 14.59 -12.15
-10.91 5 19.88 -11.75 -10.62 HPHT1  
1 5.71 -1B6 -16.70 2 7.03 -16.65 -16.24 3 9.66 -13.41 -12.55 4 10.66 -11.55
-10.55 5 18.44 -10.65 -9.43 HPHT2  
1 2.73 -28.78 -28.18 2 3.62 -28.45 -28.01 3 6.45 -24.48 -24.08 4 8.52 -21.51
-21.03 5 9.57 -20.31 -19.51
* * *
### A.1.3.2 CAS/SC-PTM
The tables in this section summarize the 95% SNR levels for CAS/SC-PTM
obtained from system-level simulations by the source companies in [10], [11].
If the spectral efficiency corresponding to the 95% SNR levels was computed,
it is also reproduced in the respective table.
Table A.1.3.2-1 95% SNR levels for CAS for 50/1 model from Source 1 in [10].
* * *
             Rooftop   Indoor
Source Num 95% SNR (dB) 95% SNR (dB) Source 1 LPLT  
4.6us 7.5 -6.5 16.6us 7.4 -6.3 MPMT  
4.6us -6.7 -8.1 16.6us -6.4 -7.9 HPHT1  
4.6us -10.1 -10.2 16.6us -10.0 -9.9
* * *
Table A.1.3.2-2 95% SNR levels for CAS for 50/50 model from Source 1 in [10].
* * *
                                                                                      Rooftop^(1)^   Indoor^(1)^
Source Num 95% SNR (dB) 95% SNR (dB) Source 1 LPLT  
4.6us 11.2 -4.3 16.6us 11.7 -4.2 MPMT  
4.6us -1.0 -6.4 16.6us -0.8 -5.7 HPHT1  
4.6us 0 -6.4 16.6us 0.3 -6.3 Note 1: All the values were obtained under the
assumption of 50/50 pathloss model
* * *
Table A.1.3.2-3 95% SNR levels and SE values for SC-PTM for 50/50 model from
Source 2 in [11].
* * *
                                                                                      Rooftop^(1)^
Source Num 95% SNR (dB) SE Source 2 MPMT  
4.6us 12.0 2.26 HPHT1  
4.6us 13.6 2.51 HPHT2  
4.6us 11.3 1.96 Note 1: All the values were obtained under the assumption of
50/50 pathloss model
* * *
#### A.1.3.3 CAS SFN
The tables in this section summarize the 95% SNR levels for CAS SFN obtained
from system-level simulations by a source company in [10].
Table A.1.3.3-1 95% SNR levels for CAS SFN for 50/1 model from Source 1 in
[10].
* * *
             Rooftop   Indoor
Source Num 95% SNR (dB) 95% SNR (dB) Source 1 LPLT  
4.6us 8.1 -4.9 16.6us 8.4 -3.8 MPMT  
4.6us -6.1 -7.2 16.6us -5.8 -6.8 HPHT1  
4.6us -9.9 - 16.6us -9.3 -
* * *
Table A.1.3.3-2 95% SNR levels for CAS SFN for 50/50 model from Source 1 in
[10].
* * *
                                                                                      Rooftop^(1)^   Indoor^(1)^
Source Num 95% SNR (dB) 95% SNR (dB) Source 1 LPLT  
4.6us 12.1 -2.9 16.6us 12.8 -2.2 MPMT  
4.6us -0.4 -5.1 16.6us -0.2 -4.2 HPHT1  
4.6us 0.1 - 16.6us 0.5 - Note 1: All the values were obtained under the
assumption of 50/50 pathloss model
* * *
Table A.1.3.3-3 95% SNR levels for CAS SFN for 50/1 model from Source 3 in
[14].
* * *
                 **Rooftop**   **Indoor**
**Source** **Num** **95% SNR (dB)** **95% SNR (dB)** **Source 3** **LPLT**  
4.6us - - 16.6us -0.4 - **MPMT**  
4.6us - - 16.6us -1.8 - **HPHT1**  
4.6us - - 16.6us -6.9 -
* * *
## A.2 Evaluation of MUST
One source in [11] proposed MUST as an enhancement technique which could be
used for SC-PTM and MBSFN based broadcast and provided simulation results for
Rel-14 LTE baseline techniques (SC-PTM and MBSFN with 200us CP length) and for
MUST.
For the purpose of the evaluation, MUST was assumed to be the superposition of
two PDSCH channels for SC-PTM based broadcast, or two PMCH channels for MBSFN
based broadcast. The two superposition layers are assumed to be the basic
layer and the enhanced layer, where the basic layer is expected to provide
large broadcasting coverage, and the enhanced layer is expected to offer
higher spectral efficiency for parts of the broadcast users.
The pre-processing SINRs are provided by system-level simulation, which are
summarized in Table A.2-1 including 95%-tile SINR without MUST for the
baseline techniques and 95%-tile as well as 50%-tile SINR with MUST. Table
A.2-2 shows the corresponding spectral efficiency.
Table A.2-1: SINR of SC-PTM and MBSFN for Rooftop
+-----------+-----------+-----------+------+--------+--------+------+ | **Tec | SC | MBS | | | | | | hniques** | -PTM^(1)^ | FN^(2,3)^ | | | | | | | | | | | | | | **SINR | | | | | | | | (dB)** | | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+------+--------+--------+------+ | | HPHT-2 | HPHT-1 | MPMT | HPHT-2 | HPHT-1 | MPMT | +-----------+-----------+-----------+------+--------+--------+------+ | 95%-tile | 11.3 | 13.6 | 12.0 | 6.9 | 10.0 | 15.4 | | SINR w/o | | | | | | | | MUST | | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+------+--------+--------+------+ | 95%-tile | 9.9 | 12.1 | 11.1 | 6.1 | 8.4 | 13.7 | | SINR w/ | | | | | | | | MUST | | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+------+--------+--------+------+ | 50%-tile | 9.9 | 12.2 | 4.3 | 5.3 | 10.0 | 9.4 | | SINR w/ | | | | | | | | MUST | | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+------+--------+--------+------+ | Note 1: | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | signal | | | | | | | | time | | | | | | | | pr | | | | | | | | obability | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | serving | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | terfering | | | | | | | | tra | | | | | | | | nsmitters | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | SC-PTM | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | valuation | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | 50%/50%. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | signal | | | | | | | | time | | | | | | | | pr | | | | | | | | obability | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | serving | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | terfering | | | | | | | | tra | | | | | | | | nsmitters | | | | | | | | for MBSFN | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | valuation | | | | | | | | is 50%/1% | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 3: | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | n | | | | | | | | umerology | | | | | | | | is 200us | | | | | | | | CP | | | | | | | | length. | | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+------+--------+--------+------+
Table A.2-1: Spectral efficiency of SC-PTM and MBSFN for Rooftop
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-------+--------+--------+-------+ | **Tec | SC | MBS | | | | | | hniques** | -PTM^(1)^ | FN^(2,3)^ | | | | | | | | | | | | | | **S | | | | | | | | pectral** | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | **e | | | | | | | | fficiency | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | bps/Hz)** | | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-------+--------+--------+-------+ | | HPHT-2 | HPHT-1 | MPMT | HPHT-2 | HPHT-1 | MPMT | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-------+--------+--------+-------+ | w/o MUST | 1.96 | 2.51 | 2.26 | 0.85 | 1.26 | 1.94 | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-------+--------+--------+-------+ | w/ MUST | 2.70 | 3.39 | 2.57 | 1.11 | 1.74 | 2.33 | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-------+--------+--------+-------+ | w/ MUST | 37.8% | 35.1% | 13.7% | 30.6% | 38.1% | 20.1% | | gain | | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-------+--------+--------+-------+ | Note 1: | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | signal | | | | | | | | time | | | | | | | | pr | | | | | | | | obability | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | serving | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | terfering | | | | | | | | tra | | | | | | | | nsmitters | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | SC-PTM | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | valuation | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | 50%/50%. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | signal | | | | | | | | time | | | | | | | | pr | | | | | | | | obability | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | serving | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | terfering | | | | | | | | tra | | | | | | | | nsmitters | | | | | | | | for MBSFN | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | valuation | | | | | | | | is 50%/1% | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 3: | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | n | | | | | | | | umerology | | | | | | | | is 200us | | | | | | | | CP | | | | | | | | length. | | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-------+--------+--------+-------+
Another source in [10] evaluated a MUST receiver model in which the transmit
power is split between the base layer (BL) and the enhanced layer (EL), such
that the fraction _α_ of the transmit power is assigned to the EL. The BL
observes the EL layer signal as noise, whereas the EL can completely cancel
out the BL signal. The BL needs to maintain 95% of coverage whereas the
coverage % of the EL can vary. The total throughput with MUST is computed as
the aggregate of the throughputs of the BL and the EL, and it depends on _α_
and the coverage % of the EL. The total throughput gain with MUST (G~MUST~) is
computed w.r.t. the total throughput of a TDM scheme in which the required
coverage % is set based on the EL target during _x_ % of time and based on the
BL target (95%) during (1 -- _x_) % of time.
Figure A.2-2 shows that the MUST throughput gain with respect to the TDM
transmission (no MUST) obtained in [10].
{width="3.2020833333333334in" height="2.4in"} {width="3.1902777777777778in"
height="2.3916666666666666in"}
Figure A.2-2 -- Throughput gain [%] of MUST vs. TDM
The gain obtained from MUST is less than 1% for rooftop receiver in LPLT
scenario. For MPMT scenario, the gain is in single digits % and goes down
quickly as the EL coverage % grows. Furthermore, any increase in the transmit
signal power further reduces the gain.
## A.3 Evaluation of Non-uniform constellation
One source in [15] evaluated the SNR gain of Non-uniform constellations over
uniform QAM. Figure A.3-1 compares performance in AWGN for Uniform QAM and
NUCs (including 1D-NUCs and 2D-NUCs) in constellation order 16 and 64. Figure
A.3-2 compares the performance of 64QAM and 64NUCs in TDL-A channel.
{width="6.46875in" height="2.6875in"}
Figure A.3-1: Performance of NUCs in AWGN channel
{width="6.458333333333333in" height="2.9270833333333335in"}
Figure A.3-2: Performance of NUCs in TDL-A channel
###### ### Annex B: Simulation results for Req.8
## B.1 New numerologies for support of different mobility scenarios
### B.1.1 Evaluated numerologies
Table B.1.1-1 summarizes the numerologies evaluated by the source companies in
[10], [11], [13]. Note that the Rel.14 1.25 kHz numerology is also included.
Table B.1.1-1 Evaluated numerologies
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Source | Num | T~cp~ | Tu | Sub | FFT | RS | | | erology | [us] | [us] | carrier | size | density | | | ID | | | spacing | | | | | | | | | (T~s~ = | | | | | | | | 1/15.35 | | | | | | | | MHz) | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Source | 1 | 100 | 400 | 2.5 | 6144 | 1/3 | | 1 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 2 | 200 | 800 | 1.250 | 12288 | 1/3 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Source | 1 | 200 | 800 | 1.250 | 12288 | 1/3 | | 2 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Source | 1 | 16.7 | 66.7 | 15 | 1024 | 1/3 | | 3 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 2 | 33.3 | 133.3 | 7.5 | 2048 | 1/3 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 3 | 100 | 400 | 2.5 | 6144 | 1/3 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 4 | 100 | 400 | 2.5 | 6144 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 5 | 200 | 800 | 1.25 | 12288 | 1/3 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 6 | 200 | 800 | 1.25 | 12288 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
### B.1.2 95% SNR levels and spectral efficiency
#### B.1.2.1 MBSFN
The tables in this section summarize the 95% SNR levels for MBSFN subframes
obtained from system-level simulations by the source companies in [10], [11],
[13]. and the spectral efficiency corresponding to the 95% SNR levels for the
car-mounted scenarios.
Table B.1.2.1-1 95% SNR levels and SE for car-mounted scenario from Source 1
in [10].
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Car | | | | | | | -mounted | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | 50/1 | 50/50 | | | | | | model | model | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Source | Nu | 95% SNR | SE | 95% SNR | SE | | | merology | (dB) | (b/s/Hz) | (dB) | (b/s/Hz) | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Source 1 | LPLT | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | 1 | 12.8 | 0 | 13.7 | 1 | | | | | .99^(1)^ | | .14^(1)^ | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | 2 | 13.9 | 0 | 14.3 | 1 | | | | | .99^(1)^ | | .14^(1)^ | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | MPMT | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | 2 | 9.7 | 0. | 11.1 | | | | | | 88^(2)^/ | | | | | | | 1.1 | | | | | | | 4^(2,3)^ | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Note 1: | | | | | | | SE | | | | | | | values | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | car | | | | | | | -mounted | | | | | | | LPLT | | | | | | | scenario | | | | | | | are for | | | | | | | 250 kmph | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | was | | | | | | | obtained | | | | | | | with the | | | | | | | speed of | | | | | | | 120 kmph | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 3: | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | value is | | | | | | | obtained | | | | | | | with a | | | | | | | tra | | | | | | | nsmitter | | | | | | | height | | | | | | | of 150m, | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | provides | | | | | | | a higher | | | | | | | SNR | | | | | | | value | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
Table B.1.2.1-2 95% SNR levels and SE for car-mounted scenario from Source 3
in [11].
* * *
             Car-mounted
Source Num 95% SNR (dB) SE Source 2 MPMT  
1 5.4 0.68 HPHT-1  
1 0.9 0.28
* * *
Table B.1.2.1-3 95% SNR levels and SE for car-mounted scenario from Source 3
in [12].
* * *
Car-mounted  
Source Numerology 95% SNR (dB) SE (b/s/Hz) Source 3 LPLT  
1 2.32 1^(1)^ 2 5.87  
3 14.27  
4 11.56  
5 15.57  
6 15.52  
Note 1: SE of 1 bps/Hz was set as the target
* * *
#### B.1.2.2 CAS/SC-PTM
The tables in this section summarize the 95% SNR levels for CAS/SC-PTM for
car-mounted scenarios obtained from system-level simulations by the source
companies in [10], [11]. If the spectral efficiency corresponding to the 95%
SNR levels was computed, it is also reproduced in the respective table.
Table B.1.2.2-1 95% SNR levels for CAS for car-mounted scenarios from Source 1
in [10].
* * *
Car-mounted  
50/1 model 50/50 model  
Source Num 95% SNR (dB) 95% SNR (dB) Source 1 LPLT  
4.6us -3.9 -0.1 16.6us -3.4 0 MPMT  
4.6us -3.6 0.9 16.6us -3.5 1.0 HPHT1  
4.6us -7.0 1.8 16.6us -6.8 2.1
* * *
Table B.1.2.2-2 95% SNR levels and SE values for SC-PTM for 50/50 model from
Source 2 in [11].
* * *
                                                                                      Car-mounted^(1)^
Source Num 95% SNR (dB) SE Source 2 MPMT  
1 1.0 0.44 HPHT1  
1 1.5 0.44 Note 1: All the values were obtained under the assumption of 50/50
pathloss model
* * *
#### B.1.2.3 CAS SFN
The tables in this section summarize the 95% SNR levels for CAS SFN for car-
mounted scenarios obtained from system-level simulations by a source company
in [10].
Table B.1.2.3-1 95% SNR levels for CAS SFN from Source 1 in [10].
* * *
             Car-mounted                  
             50/1 model    50/50 model
Source Num 95% SNR (dB) 95% SNR (dB) Source 1 LPLT  
4.6us -0.7 2.8 16.6us 0.7 3.8 MPMT  
4.6us -2.8 1.4 16.6us -2.4 1.9 HPHT1  
4.6us -6.5 2.1 16.6us -6.4 2.7
* * *
Table B.1.2.3-2 95% SNR levels for CAS SFN from Source 3 in [14].
* * *
             Car-mounted                  
             50/1 model    50/50 model
Source Num 95% SNR (dB) 95% SNR (dB) Source 3 LPLT  
4.6us - - 16.6us -3.6 - MPMT  
4.6us - - 16.6us -6.1 - HPHT1  
4.6us - - 16.6us - -
* * *
## B.2 Evaluation of MUST
The pre-processing SINRs provided by one source in [11] by system-level
simulation are summarized in Table B.2-1 including 95%-tile SINR without MUST
for the baseline techniques and 95%-tile as well as 50%-tile SINR with MUST.
Table B.2-2 shows the resulting spectral efficiency.
Table B.2-1: SINR of SC-PTM and MBSFN for Rooftop
+-----------------+---------------+--------------+--------+------+ | **Techniques** | SC-PTM^(1,3)^ | MBSFN^(2,3)^ | | | | | | | | | | **SINR (dB)** | | | | | +-----------------+---------------+--------------+--------+------+ | | HPHT-1 | MPMT | HPHT-1 | MPMT | +-----------------+---------------+--------------+--------+------+ | 95%-tile SINR | 1.5 | 1.0 | 0.9 | 5.4 | | w/o MUST | | | | | +-----------------+---------------+--------------+--------+------+ | 95%-tile SINR | 0.8 | 0.1 | 0.3 | 4.1 | | w/ MUST | | | | | +-----------------+---------------+--------------+--------+------+ | 50%-tile SINR | 4.2 | 1.0 | 0.5 | 2.9 | | w/ MUST | | | | | +-----------------+---------------+--------------+--------+------+ | Note 1: The | | | | | | signal time | | | | | | probability of | | | | | | serving and | | | | | | interfering | | | | | | transmitters | | | | | | for SC-PTM | | | | | | evaluation is | | | | | | 50%/50%. | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: The | | | | | | signal time | | | | | | probability of | | | | | | serving and | | | | | | interfering | | | | | | transmitters | | | | | | for MBSFN | | | | | | evaluation is | | | | | | 50%/1% | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 3: The | | | | | | numerology is | | | | | | 200us CP | | | | | | length. | | | | | +-----------------+---------------+--------------+--------+------+
Table B.2-1: SINR of SC-PTM and MBSFN for Rooftop
+----------------+---------------+--------------+--------+-------+ | **Techniques** | SC-PTM^(1,3)^ | MBSFN^(2,3)^ | | | | | | | | | | **Spectral** | | | | | | | | | | | | **efficiency | | | | | | (bps/Hz)** | | | | | +----------------+---------------+--------------+--------+-------+ | | HPHT-1 | MPMT | HPHT-1 | MPMT | +----------------+---------------+--------------+--------+-------+ | w/o MUST | 0.44 | 0.44 | 0.28 | 0.68 | +----------------+---------------+--------------+--------+-------+ | w/ MUST | 0.79 | 0.58 | 0.42 | 0.85 | +----------------+---------------+--------------+--------+-------+ | w/ MUST gain | 79.5% | 31.8% | 50.0% | 25.0% | +----------------+---------------+--------------+--------+-------+ | Note 1: The | | | | | | signal time | | | | | | probability of | | | | | | serving and | | | | | | interfering | | | | | | transmitters | | | | | | for SC-PTM | | | | | | evaluation is | | | | | | 50%/50%. | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: The | | | | | | signal time | | | | | | probability of | | | | | | serving and | | | | | | interfering | | | | | | transmitters | | | | | | for MBSFN | | | | | | evaluation is | | | | | | 50%/1% | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 3: The | | | | | | numerology is | | | | | | 200us CP | | | | | | length. | | | | | +----------------+---------------+--------------+--------+-------+
#