# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical report for the work item of the E-UTRA 2.4
GHz TDD Band for US. The work item elements reflected in this document are (a)
study of impact of operations from 2483.5 MHz to 2495 MHz on unlicensed
Bluetooth and 802.11 operations in the ISM band, and (b) standardization of a
new E-UTRA band from 2483.5 MHz to 2495 MHz (Band 53).
# 2 References
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905 "Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications."
[2] Terrestrial Use of the 2473[2483.5]-2495 MHz Band for Low-Power Mobile
Broadband Networks; Amendments to Rules for the Ancillary Terrestrial
Component of Mobile Satellite Service Systems, IB Docket No. 13-213, Report
and Order, FCC 16-181
[3] 47 CFR Part 15.247. "Operation within the bands 902-928 MHz, 2400-2483.5
MHz, and 5725-5850 MHz."
[4] Satellite Communications, Title 47, Part 25 of e-CFR,
https://www.law.cornell.edu/cfr/text/47/part-25
[5] 3GPP TR 36.816, Study on Signaling and Procedure for Interference
Avoidance for In-Device Coexistence (Release 11)
[6] Federal Communications Commission Report TR 15-1002 (IB Docket No.
13-213), Electromagnetic Emissions Characterization of Samples Used at TLPS
Demonstration, May 7, 2015
[7] R2-114331, Solutions for IDC interference in LTE + BT voice scenario,
Ericsson, ST-Ericsson
[8] R2-115088, DRX for avoiding IDC interference with TDD configuration 6,
Ericsson, ST-Ericsson
# 3 Abbreviations
## 3.1 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
ACLR Adjacent Channel Leakage Ratio
ATC Ancillary Terrestrial Component
BAS Broadcast Auxiliary Service
BRS Broadband Radio Service
BLER Block Error Ratio
BS Base Station
BT Bluetooth
BW Bandwidth
CDF Cumulative Distribution Function
CFR Code of Federal Regulation
CW Continuous Wave
DL Downlink
DRX Discontinuous Reception
DUT Device Under Test
EARFCN E-UTRA Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number
EBS Educational Broadband Service
EIRP Effective Isotropic Radiated Power
E-UTRA Evolved UTRA
FCC Federal Communications Commission
FDD Frequency Division Duplex
GNSS Global Navigation Satellite System
HARQ Hybrid Automatic Repeat Request
IDC In-Device Coexistence
IMD Intermodulation Distortion
ISM Industrial, Scientific and Medical Band
LA Local Area
LNA Low Noise Amplifier
LO Local Oscillator
LTE Long Term Evolution
MCL Maximum Coupling Loss
MCS Modulation Coding Scheme
MIMO Multiple Input Multiple Output
MPR Maximum Power Reduction
MSS Mobile Satellite Service
NF Noise Figure
NOS Network Operating System
OFDM Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing
PA Power Amplifier
PHY Physical Layer
PRB Physical Resource Block
PSD Power Spectral Density
QPSK Quadrature Phase Shift Keying
RBW Receiver Bandwidth
RF Radio Frequency
RSSI Received Signal Strength Indication
RX Receiver
SEM Spectrum Emission Mask
SINR Signal to Interference plus Noise Ratio
STA Station
TCP Transmission Control Protocol
TDD Time Division Duplex
TDM Time Division Multiplexing
TX Transmitter
UDP User Datagram Protocol
UE User Equipment
UL Uplink
US United States
VoIP Voice over Internet Protocol
WLAN Wireless Local Area Network
# 4 Background
## 4.1 Justification
The FCC has recently adopted rules for terrestrial use of the 2.4 GHz MSS band
[2]. This band is authorized for TDD operation and spans 11.5 MHz from 2483.5
MHz to 2495 MHz.
{width="6.695833333333334in" height="1.261111111111111in"}
Figure 4.1-1: US 2.4 GHz Terrestrial Band
FCC rules permit low-power terrestrial services that may be deployed
independently of a satellite service and without conventional population
coverage or other substantial service requirements. This regulatory treatment
and the physical propagation characteristics associated with these wavelengths
bias the band towards small cell applications.
To facilitate 2.4 GHz LTE ecosystem development, RAN has approved a work item
to standardize a new E-UTRA operating band based upon the 11.5 MHz terrestrial
band authorized by the FCC (_see_ RP-181419).
## 4.2 Objectives
The work item consists of two parts.
Part 1 is the study phase of the WI, which is intended to define the impact of
operations from 2483.5 MHz to 2495 MHz on unlicensed Bluetooth and 802.11
operations in the ISM band. The core objectives of the study phase of the WI
are:
\- Define impact on 2.4 GHz Bluetooth operations.
\- Define impact on 2.4 GHz 802.11 operation.
\- Address potential Bluetooth and 802.11 coexistence issues.
Part 2 is the working phase of the WI, which is intended to complete the
remainder of the work item. The core objectives of the working phase of the WI
are:
\- Standardization of new TDD E-UTRA band spanning 2483.5 MHz to 2495 MHz
(compliant with FCC 16-181, including power, out of band emissions limits, and
interference protection rules).
\- Specify band numbering and RF characteristics of the new band.
\- Address potential BS and UE coexistence issues.
\- Update the related E-UTRA technical specifications to include support for
the new band.
# 5 Frequency Band Arrangement and Regulatory Background
## 5.1 Frequency band arrangement and channel bandwidths
### 5.1.1 Frequency band arrangement
The proposed band plan for the E-UTRA 2.4 GHz TDD Band for US (2.4 GHz
Terrestrial Band) is presented below. As shown in Table 5.1.1-1, the TDD
configuration of the band places BS receive / UE transmit and BS transmit / UE
receive on the same frequencies. Channels may be placed from 2483.5 MHz to
2495 MHz.
Table 5.1.1-1: Operating band arrangement
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+ | Uplink | D | Duplex | | | | | | (UL) | ownlink | Mode | | | | | | op | (DL) | | | | | | | erating | op | | | | | | | band BS | erating | | | | | | | receive | band BS | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | UE | ransmit | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | ransmit | UE | | | | | | | | receive | | | | | | +=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=====+ | > | > **\-- |** F~DL\ | **\--** | > * | | | | **F~UL\ | > FUL\ | _low~** | | _F~DL_ | | | | _low~__| _high_ _| | | high~_ * | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+ | 2483.5 | > \-- | 2495 | 2483.5 | -- | > 2495 | TDD | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | > MHz | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-----+
As shown in Figure 5.1.1-1, the US 2.4 GHz Terrestrial Band exists between the
ISM band and BRS / EBS bands. The ISM band terminates at 2483.5 MHz, with
commonly used unlicensed services such as 802.11 Wi-Fi and Bluetooth
terminating at 2473 MHz and 2480 MHz respectively. BRS / EBS bands begin with
the BRS-1 channel at 2496 MHz. A 1 MHz guard band exists between the
termination of the US 2.4 GHz Terrestrial Band at 2495 MHz and the beginning
of the first BRS channel at 2496 MHz.
{width="6.652083333333334in" height="1.6520833333333333in"}
Figure 5.1.1-1: US 2.4 GHz Terrestrial Band and Adjacent Band Services
### 5.1.2 Channel bandwidths
The FCC authorized band spans 2483.5 MHz to 2495 MHz and the regulator has not
divided the band into discrete channels or blocks. As shown in Table 5.1.2-1,
the 11.5 MHz allocation supports operating bandwidths up to 10 MHz.
Table 5.1.2-1: Proposed operating bandwidths
1.4 MHz 3 MHz 5 MHz 10 MHz 15 MHz 20 MHz
* * *
Yes Yes Yes Yes No No
## 5.2 Adjacent 3GPP Bands
### 5.2.1 Introduction
Nearby 3GPP bands are summarized in Figure 5.2.1-1. Band 7 and Band 38 are not
used in the US regulatory domain, where the 2.4 GHz Terrestrial Band is
currently authorized by the FCC. However, Band 41 is commonly used in all
areas of the US.
{width="6.652083333333334in" height="1.2868055555555555in"}
Figure 5.2.1-1: US 2.4 GHz Terrestrial Band and Adjacent 3GPP Bands
### 5.2.2 Co-Existence Between 2.4 GHz and 3GPP Band 41
3GPP Band 41 is a TDD band, which spans 2496 MHz to 2690 MHz. In the US, Band
41 operation is licensed through the Broadband Radio Service (BRS) and the
Educational Broadband Service (EBS). Figure 5.2.2-1 illustrates the 35 channel
blocks that comprise the BRS / EBS services and their relationship with the
2.4 GHz Terrestrial Band. The 5.5 MHz and 6 MHz channel blocks associated with
BRS / EBS licenses are a vestige of educational television use of this
spectrum. While educational services still operate in the EBS channel blocks,
Band 41 commercial LTE operations predominate across most of the US. The 2.4
GHz Terrestrial Band spanning 2483.5 MHz to 2495 MHz is separated by a 1 MHz
guard band from BRS-1, which is the lowest frequency channel block available
for Band 41 operations.
Co-existence between the proposed 2.4 GHz Terrestrial Band and Band 41 was a
central consideration during the FCC rule making process. These co-existence
requirements were addressed with power limits, emissions limits, and the
mandated integration of a Network Operating System (NOS) to administer use of
the 2.4 GHz Terrestrial Band (_see_ Section 5.4). While not required by the
regulator, Band 41 and 2.4 GHz Terrestrial Band operators may also rely upon
TDD synchronization to resolve interference issues that may be experienced as
a result of co-located base stations.
{width="6.652083333333334in" height="1.2868055555555555in"}
Figure 5.2.2-1: US 2.4 GHz Terrestrial Band and Adjacent BRS / EBS Spectrum
Comprising Band 41
### 5.2.3 Co-Existence Between 2.4 GHz and 3GPP Bands 7 and 38
The proposed 2.4 GHz TDD band spanning 2483.5 MHz to 2495 MHz is adjacent to
3GPP Bands 7 and 38. 3GPP Band 7 is an FDD band, with uplink spanning 2500 MHz
to 2570 MHz and downlink spanning 2620 MHz to 2690 MHz. 3GPP Band 38 is a TDD
band spanning 2570 MHz to 2620 MHz.
Currently, the proposed 2.4 GHz TDD band has terrestrial license authority
only in the US. Due to the presence of Band 41, neither Band 7 nor Band 38 is
utilized in the US regulatory domain.
## 5.3 Nearby non-3GPP Unlicensed Services
### 5.3.1 Co-Existence Between 2.4 GHz and Part 15 Services
Title 47 of the CFR, Part 15 permits unlicensed operations from 2400 MHz to
2483.5 MHz [3]. The 2.4 GHz unlicensed band (commonly known as the ISM band)
is especially notable for the heavy presence of 802.11 Wi-Fi and Bluetooth
operations. In the US, 802.11 channel 11 is the highest channel effectively
permitted by Part 15 rules, terminating at approximately 2473 MHz. Across all
regulatory domains, Bluetooth channel 39 is the highest, terminating at
approximately 2480 MHz. Figure 5.3.1-1 illustrates the relationship between
the 2.4 GHz Terrestrial Band and adjacent non-3GPP unlicensed services in the
ISM band.
{width="6.695833333333334in" height="1.2173611111111111in"}
Figure 5.3.1-1: S 2.4 GHz Terrestrial Band and Adjacent Unlicensed Band
## 5.4 FCC Regulatory Requirements
### 5.4.1 Introduction
Licensed wireless communications services in the 2.4 GHz band are governed by
Part 25 of Title 47 of the Code of Federal Regulations [4].
### 5.4.2 Frequency Limits
Frequency limits for the 2.4 GHz band are governed by Title 47 of the CFR,
Part 25.149. Terrestrial operation is limited to the licensed band from 2483.5
MHz to 2495 MHz. Bonding or aggregation with unlicensed services below 2483.5
MHz is prohibited by Title 47 of the CFR, Parts 15.205, 15.209, 15.247 and
15.249.
### 5.4.3 Power Limits
Power limits for the 2.4 GHz band are governed by Title 47 of the CFR, Part
25.149(c)(4)(i)-(iv). These power limits are identical to those found in Part
15 for unlicensed services authorized from 2400 MHz to 2483.5 MHz and they do
not distinguish between base station and user equipment. The relevant rules
for operational equipment are listed below:
(4) Applications for equipment authorization of terrestrial low-power system
equipment that will operate in the 2483.5-2495 MHz band shall demonstrate the
following:
(i) The transmitted signal is digitally modulated;
(ii) The 6 dB bandwidth is at least 500 kHz;
(iii) The maximum transmit power is no more than 1 W with a peak EIRP of no
more than 6 dBW;
(iv) The maximum power spectral density conducted to the antenna is not
greater than 8 dBm in any 3 kHz band during any time interval of continuous
transmission;
### 5.4.4 Emissions Limits
Emissions limits for the 2.4 GHz Terrestrial Band are governed by Title 47 of
the CFR, Part 25.149(c)(4)(v)-(vii). Figure 6.4.4-1 is a graphical summary of
emissions limits for the 2.4 GHz Terrestrial Band, assuming a 10 MHz emission
bandwidth. The relevant rules for operational equipment are listed below:
> (v) Emissions below 2483.5 MHz are attenuated below the transmitter power
> (P) measured in watts by a factor of at least 40 + 10 log (P) dB at the
> channel edge at 2483.5 MHz, 43 + 10 log (P) dB at 5 MHz from the channel
> edge, and 55 + 10 log (P) dB at X MHz from the channel edge where X is the
> greater of 6 MHz or the actual emission bandwidth.
>
> (vi) Emissions above 2495 MHz are attenuated below the transmitter power (P)
> measured in watts by a factor of at least 43 + 10 log (P) dB on all
> frequencies between the channel edge at 2495 MHz and X MHz from this channel
> edge and 55 + 10 log (P) dB on all frequencies more than X MHz from this
> channel edge, where X is the greater of 6 MHz or the actual emission
> bandwidth;
>
> (vii) Compliance with these rules is based on the use of measurement
> instrumentation employing a resolution bandwidth of 1 MHz or greater.
> However, in the 1 MHz bands immediately above and adjacent to the 2495 MHz a
> resolution bandwidth of at least 1 percent of the emission bandwidth of the
> fundamental emission of the transmitter may be employed. If 1 percent of the
> emission bandwidth of the fundamental emission is less than 1 MHz, the power
> measured must be integrated over the required measurement bandwidth of 1
> MHz. A resolution bandwidth narrower than 1 MHz is permitted to improve
> measurement accuracy, provided the measured power is integrated over the
> full required measurement bandwidth (i.e., 1 MHz). The emission bandwidth of
> the fundamental emission of a transmitter is defined as the width of the
> signal between two points, one below the carrier center frequency and one
> above the carrier center frequency, outside of which all emissions are
> attenuated at least 26 dB below the transmitter power. When an emission
> outside of the authorized bandwidth causes harmful interference, the
> Commission may, at its discretion, require greater attenuation than
> specified in this section;
{width="6.652083333333334in" height="2.2263888888888888in"}
Figure 5.4.4-1: US 2.4 GHz Terrestrial Band Emissions Limits (10 MHz Emission
BW)
### 5.4.5 Network Operating System
Special requirements for control of the 2.4 GHz band are governed by Title 47
of the CFR, Part 25.149(g)(2). The relevant rules are listed below:
> (2) An ATC licensee seeking to modify its license to add authority to
> operate a terrestrial low-power network shall certify in its modification
> application that its operations will utilize a Network Operating System
> (NOS), consisting of a network management system located at an operations
> center or centers. The NOS shall have the technical capability to address
> and resolve interference issues related to the licensee's network operations
> by (a) reducing operational power; (b) adjusting operational frequencies;
> (c) shutting off operations; or (d) any other appropriate means. The NOS
> shall also have the ability to resolve interference from the terrestrial
> low-power network to the licensee's MSS operations and to authorize access
> points to the network, which in turn may authorize access to the network by
> end-user devices. The NOS operations center shall have a point of contact in
> the United States available 24 hours a day, seven days a week, with a phone
> number and address made publicly-available by the licensee.
# 6 Special Co-Existence Considerations for Unlicensed Operations in the 2.4
GHz ISM Band
## 6.1 Introduction
While Part 15 services in the 2.4 GHz band are not entitled to interference
protection under FCC rules [4], unlicensed 2.4 GHz applications like 802.11
Wi-Fi and Bluetooth are of special significance. This section outlines the
regulatory history and technical basis for co-existence between the US E-UTRA
2.4 GHz TDD Band and non-3GPP unlicensed operation in the 2.4 GHz ISM Band.
## 6.2 2.4 GHz Terrestrial Band Plan Evolution
The Globalstar satellite network operates in a downlink configuration from
2483.5 MHz to 2500 MHz. Following the establishment of the ATC regulatory
construct, 2483.5 MHz to 2495 MHz became available for terrestrial allocation.
The satellite downlink band from 2496 MHz to 2500 MHz was already allocated
for terrestrial use as a portion of the high power BRS-1 service, which is now
integrated into 3GPP Band 41.
More details concerning the FCC ruling on this specific band could be found in
[3].
## 6.3 Ratified 2.4 GHz Terrestrial Band Relative to Common Unlicensed
Applications
### 6.3.1 2.4 GHz Terrestrial Band Relative to Entire Unlicensed Band in the
United States
This band is dedicated only for US usage. From regulatory perspective, FCC
approved this band after balancing the needs of coexistent WLAN and BT access
technologies in the ISM band. More details could be found in [3].
For informative purposes, Figure 6.3.1-1 depicts a spectrogram taken between
2400 MHz and 2483.5 MHz in Boston, which reflects some of the challenges
related to deploying this band in US band. Overlaid atop the spectrogram are
available 802.11 and Bluetooth channel configurations. As expected, the three
channel 802.11 system predominates, with significant activity on Channels 1,
6, and 11. Intermediate (overlapping) 802.11 channel use and microwave oven
activity contribute to a generally high noise and interference floor. In this
example, all three Bluetooth advertising channels are clearly evident.
{width="6.669444444444444in" height="5.3909722222222225in"}
Figure 6.3.1-1: Informative Spectrogram of 2.4 GHz Band Spanning 2400 MHz to
2495 MHz (Boston, US)
### 6.3.2 2.4 GHz Terrestrial Band Relative to Unlicensed Band in the Rest of
World (RoW)
It should be noted that the band plan and configuration of the 2.4 GHz
Terrestrial Band is currently specific to the US. The US band many not be
deployable outside of the US, due to regulatory restrictions concerning the
ISM band, outside US.
## 6.4 FCC Specifications for the 2483.5-2495 LTE Band
### 6.4.1 Special Emissions and Operations Rules to Protect Unlicensed Band
Conventional Part 15 unlicensed operations in the 2400 MHz to 2483.5 MHz band
are subject to the conditions that no harmful interference is caused, and that
interference must be accepted that may be caused by the operation of an
authorized radio station. The operator of a Part 15 unlicensed radio frequency
device is required to cease operating the device upon notification by an FCC
representative that the device is causing harmful interference. Radiated out
of band emissions from Part 15 unlicensed operation across 2400 to 2483.5 are
limited to 500 microvolts/meter at a measurement distance of 3 meters.
In authorizing the 2.4 GHz Terrestrial Band, FCC regulations were adapted to
ensure co-existence between licensed services in the band above 2483.5 MHz and
unlicensed services in the band below 2483.5 MHz. To protect the coexistent
Wi-Fi and Bluetooth services, special operating rules and conditions were
integrated into Part 27 rules. Summaries of key protective rules are listed
below.
(A) **Frequency Limits:** Commercial operations are limited solely to licensed
spectrum above 2483.5 MHz, and Part 25 licensed spectrum above 2483.5 MHz may
not be bonded with Part 15 unlicensed spectrum below 2483.5 MHz.
(B) **Power Limits:** Power limits are identical to those in the unlicensed
band with maximum permitted conducted power of 1 W (30 dBm) and EIRP of 6 dBW
(36 dBm).
(C) **Emissions Limits:** For a 10 MHz channel (maximum effective channel
width), emissions at must be attenuated by a factor of 40 + 10 log (P) dB (-10
dBm) at 2483.5, by a factor of 43 + 10 log (P) dB (-13 dBm) at 2478.5 MHz, and
55 + 10 log (P) dB at 2473.5 MHz (-25 dBm).
(D) **Network Operating System:** Operations must be under the control of a
Network Operating System (NOS). The NOS will have the ability to resolve
interference issues related to commercial operations of the 2.4 GHz licensed
service.
### 6.4.2 Frequency Limits and Prohibition Against Bonding and Aggregation
below 2483.5 MHz
Frequency limits for the 2.4 GHz band are governed by Title 47 of the CFR,
Part 25.149. Terrestrial operation is limited to the licensed band from 2483.5
MHz to 2495 MHz. Bonding or aggregation with unlicensed services below 2483.5
MHz is prohibited by Title 47 of the CFR, Parts 15.205, 15.209, 15.247 and
15.249.
This limitation of operational frequency is further clarified by FCC Report
and Order 16-181, Paragraph 32.
### 6.4.3 Power Limits for Operations Between 2483.5 MHz and 2495 MHz that
Equal Levels for Part 15 Services Below 2483.5 MHz
Power limits for the 2.4 GHz Terrestrial Band are governed by Title 47 of the
CFR, Part 25.149(c)(4)(i)-(iv). These power limits are identical to those
found in Part 15 for unlicensed services authorized from 2400 MHz to 2483.5
MHz and they do not distinguish between base station and user equipment.
Power limits for the 2.4 GHz Terrestrial Band were justified in FCC Report and
Order 16-181, Paragraph 22.
### 6.4.4 Emissions Limits Below 2483.5 MHz for Unlicensed Band Protection
Emissions limits for the 2.4 GHz Terrestrial Band are governed by Title 47 of
the CFR, Part 25.149(c)(4)(v)-(vii). Figure 6.4.6-1 is a graphical summary of
emissions limits for the 2.4 GHz Terrestrial Band, assuming a 10 MHz emission
bandwidth. OOBE limits to protect unlicensed operations below 2483.5 MHz are
justified by FCC Report and Order 16-181, Paragraphs 28-30.
{width="6.669444444444444in" height="2.173611111111111in"}
Figure 6.4.6-1: FCC Mandated Emissions Limits for ISM Protection (RBW=1MHz)
### 6.4.5 Mandatory Deployment of Network Operating System
Special requirements for continuous centralized control of the 2.4 GHz band
are governed by Title 47 of the CFR, Part 25.149(g)(2). These provisions
provide a unique mechanism for identification and resolutions of environmental
interference issues associated with the 2.4 GHz Terrestrial Band.
## 6.5 Co-Existence Evaluation for 10 MHz LTE Emission within FCC Ratified
Band Plan (2483.5 MHz to 2945 MHz)
### 6.5.1 UE Worst Case Emissions to ISM band
For uplink transmissions, the unwanted emissions that leak to the ISM band
were simulated using RAN4 minimum RF performance assumptions. The power
amplifier was calibrated so that after 4 dB post-PA losses, 22 dBm fully
populated QPSK signal is output at the antenna connector, with the emissions
profile just meeting 30 dB E-UTRA ACLR requirement. The model is based on
measured data from an LTE PA, related to a 23 dBm UE. No filter selectivity
has been assumed in order to evaluate the close-in emission margins to the
regulatory limits. The carrier frequency is placed at the lowest and the
highest position within the band.
{width="3.347916666666667in"
height="3.4347222222222222in"}{width="3.1305555555555555in" height="3.4in"}
Figure 6.5.1-1: Worst Case UE TX Leakage to ISM Band, at the maximum output
power for Power Class 3 UE (22 dBm for fully populated QPSK signal). Carrier
frequencies at 2488.5 MHz (left) and 2490 MHz (right) shown for LTE10.
Emission spectrum with 30 kHz and 1 MHz measurement bandwidth shown
It can be seen that the FCC emission mask is more relaxed than the LTE SEM (or
the same as the LTE SEM in case of 2488.5 MHz carrier frequency), guaranteeing
that the FCC limits are met. Also, the general spurious emission limit of\ -30
dBm/MHz is tighter than the FCC requirement on the ISM band, meaning that UEs
have no trouble meeting the limits regardless of whether the general spurious
limit applies. Placing the LTE10 carrier at the highest position within the
band slightly alleviates the out-of-band emissions towards the ISM band.
To further improve the coexistence with ISM band services, a conservative
emissions case assuming a TDD band filter have been studied. The assumptions
for the filter design are as follows:
\- Synchronization with Band 41 networks is assumed. This allows a relaxed
response on the upper side of the band, and the lower side may be designed
with a steep edge. Note that the LTE SEM should be sufficient to meet the FCC
unwanted emission limits above the band, without assuming any filter
selectivity.
\- Filter passband is 2485-2495 MHz, i.e. the transition band starts already
inside the 2.4 GHz Terrestrial Band.
\- Two different filter topologies have been considered. Both are based on
publicly available data sheets for 2.4 GHz (ISM) and 2.3 and 2.5 GHz (LTE)
acoustic wave filters, usually referenced by RAN4.
\- The first filter achieves 11 dB min., 13 dB typical attenuation at 12 MHz
offset from the passband edge, with max. 3 dB insertion loss.
\- The second filter achieves 20 dB min., 29 dB typical attenuation at 18.5
MHz offset from the passband edge, with max. 2.5 dB insertion loss.
\- Additional insertion loss is added due to RF Front end's switches and
mismatch losses amounting to a total of 4 dB on the RF passband filter.
The emission profiles are shown in Figure 6.5.1-2.
{width="3.2694444444444444in"
height="2.7736111111111112in"}{width="3.2694444444444444in"
height="2.7736111111111112in"}
Figure 6.5.1-2: Worst Case UE TX Leakage to ISM Band Including Band Filter
Minimum Response. The blue curves represent the baseline front end response
without any pass band RF filter
### 6.5.2 UE Typical Emissions to ISM Band
The previous section detailed worst case unwanted emissions at the RAN4
minimum RF performance level, which is not a typical design target for any
equipment. The worst-case conditions may occur across extreme temperature and
operating conditions (e.g. voltage) and manufacturing tolerances, and the UE
must still meet the regulatory requirements at these corners.
\- Normally, e.g. 3-5 dB margin is targeted for ACLR in typical testing
conditions, which indicates e.g. 5-7 dB improvement in the alternate adjacent
channel (where 5th order intermodulation dominates the spectrum). This
directly reduces the PA and antenna output unwanted emissions on the ISM band
by a similar amount, depending on the offset from the channel edge.
\- The band filter typical performance at the stopband edge depends heavily on
temperature (due to frequency drift) and manufacturing tolerances. Across the
stopband, it is normal to see 15-20 dB differences in the minimum vs. typical
attenuation. Again, in typical conditions and across UE samples, the ISM band
unwanted emissions will be lower than in the simulations shown above.
When fewer than the maximum amount of resource blocks are scheduled for a UE,
the transmission bandwidth is narrower, and also the PA spectral regrowth does
not reach as far as when transmitting full resource allocation. The emissions
vs. resource allocation size was simulated, assuming minimum RF performance
and Topology 1 filter (min. response, not typical). The results are shown in
Figure 6.5.2-1 for QPSK modulation. In all cases, the transmit output power
was set at maximum, i.e. 22 or 23 dBm depending on the allowed MPR.
{width="3.2694444444444444in"
height="2.8090277777777777in"}{width="3.390972222222222in"
height="2.7736111111111112in"}
Figure 6.5.2-1: Impact of PRB allocation on the UE TX leakage to ISM band
A conservative emissions case on Wi-Fi channel 11 (integrated over 2452-2472
MHz) spans from below -65 dBm/20MHz to below -40 dBm/20MHz, with only the
largest uplink allocations creating emissions reaching towards -35 dBm/20MHz.
Regarding emissions to the Bluetooth advertising channel at 2480 MHz, most of
the worst-case emissions are below -40 to -35 dBm/MHz, and in some rare cases
the emissions may reach up to -20 or even -16 dBm/MHz. Modulation indexes
16-QAM and above will in practice show slightly lower emission profile.
The edge PRB allocations, which are used for the uplink control channel, may
be typical narrowband resource configurations and deserve more detailed
analysis. Figure 6.5.2-2 shows the unwanted emissions spectrum at the maximum
23 dBm output power, using the same minimum RF performance requirement
assumptions as in Figure 6.5.1-1.
{width="3.7305555555555556in" height="3.817361111111111in"}
Figure 6.5.2-2: Worst case UE TX leakage to ISM band in case of edge PRB
allocation
The emission spectrum shows intermodulation peaks at around 2475 and 2480 MHz
frequencies. These are unwanted products of the transmit signal and its IQ
image or LO leakage, forming at the non-linear PA. The IMD products don't
reach Wi-Fi ch#11 but do reach the Bluetooth frequency range, explaining the
results shown in Figure 6.5.2-1. The magnitude of these IMD peaks depends
heavily on the PA implementation, and the LO and IQ image suppression of the
transmit chain; the result shown here represents the worst-case magnitude
found in simulation models.
As a potential mitigation for the impact of IMD products, the transmit power
spectral density of the PUCCH will be similar as for the PUSCH for any given
UE. For a UE transmitting 22 dBm 50 PRB QPSK signal, the PUCCH transmission
will be in the order of 5 dBm, significantly reducing the unwanted IMD
magnitude. Uplink control information is also piggybacked on PUSCH if such
allocation is scheduled, thereby reducing the amount of standalone PUCCH
transmissions.
LTE also uses UL closed loop power control. In the cases when a UE doesn't
operate in cell edge conditions, it may not operate at maximum power. The
unwanted emissions of practical UE transmitters would get reduced on average
by at least 1:1 in dB scale, when the output power is lowered from maximum. To
estimate this effect, a system simulation was performed, using Urban Macro and
Urban Micro TD-LTE scenarios, and the cumulative distribution functions of the
resulting output power is shown in figure 6.5.2-3. Since not all the
assumptions behind the UL Total TX power, presented below, are not available,
this simulation is considered informative.
{width="3.261111111111111in" height="3.1131944444444444in"}
Figure 6.5.2-3: Informative System Simulation of Total UL TX Power CDF in
Urban Macro and Micro Scenarios
The informative simulation results indicate that 50% of the UE transmissions
occur at power levels below about 2-3 dBm in Urban Micro deployment. In indoor
or small cell environments, typical transmit powers could be even lower. This
presents a significant reduction in the leakage power towards the ISM band,
compared to a conservative case figures shown above.
Concerning the typical emissions leaking to the ISM band we can summarize:
\- Worst case emissions with full UL allocation: -35 dBm/20MHz (Wi-Fi ch#11),
-20 dBm/MHz (BT 2480 MHz)
\- Effect of PA operation point: -5 to -7 dB (Wi-Fi ch#11), -3 to -5 dB (BT
2480 MHz)
\- Effect of filter typical vs. minimum performance: -2 to -5 dB (Wi-Fi
ch#11), 0 dB (BT 2480 MHz)
\- Effect of typical UL resource allocation (conservative estimates): 0 to -20
dB (Wi-Fi ch#11), 0 to -5 dB (BT 2480 MHz)
\- Effect of typical UL TX power (90th and 50th percentiles, conservative 1:1
estimate on emissions): -12 to -20 dB (both Wi-Fi and BT)
\- Typical emissions in the order of: **[-54 to -87 dBm/20MHz]{.underline}**
(Wi-Fi ch#11), **[-31 to -50 dBm/MHz]{.underline}** (BT 2480 MHz)
### 6.5.3 Base Station Worst Case Emissions to ISM Band
The base station classes are defined in TS 36.104 clause 4.2, and the maximum
conducted output power in clause 6.2. [Y1]
\- Medium Range Base Stations are characterized by requirements derived from
Micro Cell scenarios with a BS to UE minimum coupling loss equal to 53 dB.
\- Maximum rated power ≤ 38 dBm (conducted)
\- Local Area Base Stations are characterized by requirements derived from
Pico Cell scenarios with a BS to UE minimum coupling loss equal to 45 dB.
\- Maximum rated power ≤ 24 dBm (conducted)
The two classes described above are considered. The Medium Range base station
is limited to 1W (30 dBm) conducted power by the FCC rules applied to the 2.4
GHz Terrestrial Band, hence all calculations are based on that power. For
indoor operations, the Local Area base station class is assumed. Note that the
operation of equipment is not defined if the minimum coupling loss to the UE
is smaller than assumed. The 53 dB MCL for Medium Range base station means in
practice that it cannot be easily accessible by others than installation
professionals (MCL is equivalent to 4.3 meters in free space loss).
The adjacent channel leakage ratio requirement for Medium Range and Local Area
base stations on similar frequency bands is 45 dB (TS 36.104 clause 6.6.2). In
addition to the adjacent channel leakage ratio requirement, unwanted emission
masks apply (operating band unwanted emissions, and the spurious emissions).
The operating band unwanted emissions are defined in TS 36.104 clauses
6.6.3.2A (for Local Area base station) and 6.6.3.2C (for Medium Range base
station). The operating band unwanted emissions apply up to 10 MHz offset from
the band edge, i.e. above 2473.5 MHz.
The general spurious emissions applicable for the US at 1 GHz to 12.75 GHz
frequency range is -13 dBm/MHz. The FCC limit for the 2.4 GHz Terrestrial Band
is -25 dBm/MHz across the ISM band ≤ 2473.5 MHz, i.e. more stringent than the
general spurious emission limit.
Figure 6.5.3-1 shows the emission masks as well as simulated eNB TX emissions
which just meet the minimum RF requirements (ACLR = 45 dB). The FCC emission
mask is scaled to 100 kHz measurement bandwidth, i.e. to -35 dBm/100 kHz.
Center frequencies of 2488.5 MHz and 2490 MHz are shown. No TDD band filter
has been applied.
{width="3.3131944444444446in"
height="2.8958333333333335in"}{width="3.2694444444444444in"
height="2.8958333333333335in"}
{width="3.2784722222222222in"
height="2.8958333333333335in"}{width="3.2784722222222222in"
height="2.8958333333333335in"}
Figure 6.5.3-1: eNB emissions and emission limits toward the ISM band
It can be seen that the FCC limit is tighter than the 3GPP SEM only in the
case when Medium Range base station is transmitting LTE10 at fc = 2488.5 MHz.
In other cases, the 3GPP SEM is approximately 15 - 25 dB tighter on the
adjacent channel. Also, the ACLR requirement is tighter than the 3GPP SEM.
### 6.5.4 Base Station Typical Emissions to ISM Band
Typical ACLR design target for BS transmitters 50 - 55 dB. This implies that
the transmitter linearity is somewhat better than the simulated emissions
shown in clause 6.5.3.
A practical base station includes a TDD band filter, to improve receiver
blocking performance from out-of-band blockers (e.g. ISM band equipment), and
to suppress the emissions towards the ISM band. While there are no existing
filters for this band, publicly available data sheets of Band 41
infrastructure (small cell) bulk acoustic wave filters indicate that 24 dB
typical (10 dB minimum) attenuation at 14.5 MHz offset from passband edge may
be achieved, at \34 dB below \~2460 MHz, and between 6-20 dB at 2460
MHz - 2470 MHz.
### 6.5.5 Analysis of Environmental Coexistence Impacts of 10 MHz LTE Emission
Upon ISM Band Technologies
#### 6.5.5.1 General
Environmental coexistence analysis is presented for three scenarios. A 2.4 GHz
terrestrial band base station is operating LTE10 with center frequency at
2488.5 MHz (i.e. at the low edge of the band), and coexisting ISM equipment
that are close-by are considered. Both outdoor (Medium Range) and indoor
(Local Area) scenarios are considered. No TDD band filter selectivity has been
assumed in the base station transmitter, in order to estimate the worst case.
Emissions are calculated from the same simulation data source as in Figure
6.5.3-1 for the frequencies in question.
The ISM band equipment included in the analysis are a low-power Bluetooth
headset and mobile phone, and a Wi-Fi station and an access point.
#### 6.5.5.2 Bluetooth Coexistence
The assumptions for this scenario are listed in Table 6.5.5.2-1. Wi-Fi AP
operating on Ch#11 has been included for reference. The Wi-Fi unwanted
emissions at 2480 MHz have been estimated from the spectrum emission mask
using 5 dB margin. All power levels are referred at the antenna connector of
the equipment.
Table 6.5.5.2-1: Parameters for the Bluetooth coexistence evaluation
* * *
Parameter Value
* * *
Bluetooth carrier frequency 2480 MHz
Bluetooth channel bandwidth 1 MHz
Bluetooth data rate 1 Mbps
Bluetooth TX power -26 dBm
Bluetooth Signal-to-Interference requirement\ 11 dB \- 1 Mbps rate (GFSK, 0.1%
BER)
LTE carrier frequency 2488.5 MHz
LTE channel bandwidth 10 MHz
Medium Range BS transmit power 30 dBm
Medium Range BS leakage power at 2480 MHz -25 dBm/MHz
Medium Range BS maximum antenna gain 6 dBi
Local Area BS transmit power 24 dBm
Local Area BS leakage power at 2480 MHz -31 dBm/MHz
Wi-Fi AP carrier frequency 2462 MHz
Wi-Fi AP transmit power 24 dBm
Wi-Fi AP leakage power at 2480 MHz -20 dBm/MHz
* * *
The path loss available for the 1 Mbps Bluetooth link as a function of line-
of-sight distance (free space loss) from the LTE base station is presented
(note that this is not the same as total link budget -- to get the total link
budget, the minimum SNR may be added to the available path loss). The minimum
distances shown in Figure 6.5.5.2-1 illustrate the assumed minimum coupling
loss for the base station classes that are considered. Bluetooth path loss
calculation in the proximity of a Wi-Fi access point at Ch#11 has been
included for reference. Note that in this scenario, Bluetooth has no frequency
agility and cannot hop to a channel with less interference.
{width="5.426388888888889in" height="4.095833333333333in"}
Figure 6.5.5.2-1: Available path loss for low-power Bluetooth link
It can be seen, that the link budget for the low-power Bluetooth operation is
restricted in the proximity of an LTE base station using the 2.4 GHz
terrestrial band. The interference level of a Medium Range base station when
the victim Bluetooth receiver is at the boresight of the antenna is similar
compared to a Wi-Fi access point using Ch#11. In other cases, the amount of
interference is lower from the LTE base station.
If the link budget for the Bluetooth connection is insufficient during the LTE
DL subframes, there is still opportunity for ISM operations during the UL
subframes, which are about 20% to 80% of the radio frame in TD-LTE. This
pattern is also predictable, as the TDD configuration is static for a given
LTE network. Bluetooth also uses frequency hopping and may be able to switch
the operating frequency to a channel with less interference.
#### 6.5.5.3 Coexistence with Wi-Fi Stations at Ch#11
In this scenario, a Wi-Fi station at Ch#11 is receiving from its serving
access point. The link budget (or SINR) available for the Wi-Fi link is
evaluated at different distances between the Wi-Fi station and the interfering
LTE base station.
The assumptions for this scenario are listed in Table 6.5.5.3-1. Wi-Fi AP
operating on Ch#6 has been included for reference; the unwanted emissions at
Ch#11 have been estimated from the OFDM PHY spectrum emission mask using 5 dB
margin (resulting in 36 dB ACLR)
Table 6.5.5.3-1: Parameters for the Wi-Fi station coexistence evaluation
Parameter Value
* * *
Ch#11 Wi-Fi carrier frequency 2462 MHz Ch#11 Wi-Fi channel bandwidth 22 MHz
Ch#11 Wi-Fi AP transmit power 23 dBm Ch#11 Wi-Fi STA noise floor (9 dB NF)
-91.6 dBm/22MHz LTE carrier frequency 2488.5 MHz LTE channel bandwidth 10 MHz
Medium Range BS transmit power 30 dBm Medium Range BS leakage power at Ch#11
-25 dBm/22MHz Medium Range BS maximum antenna gain 6 dBi Local Area BS
transmit power 24 dBm Local Area BS leakage power at Ch#11 -31 dBm/22MHz Ch#6
Wi-Fi AP carrier frequency 2437 MHz Ch#6 Wi-Fi AP transmit power 23 dBm Ch#6
Wi-Fi AP leakage power at Ch#11 -13 dBm/22MHz
The available link budget (for path loss and required SINR) is presented as a
function of Ch#11 stations' distance from the interfering LTE10 base station
or Ch#6 Wi-Fi access point.
{width="5.434722222222222in" height="4.069444444444445in"}
Figure 6.5.5.3-1: Available link budget for Ch#11 Wi-Fi station
The LTE base station unwanted emissions at the Ch#11 do constrain the Wi-Fi
link budget by up to 15 dB, when the Wi-Fi station is very close to the base
station, or by up to 20 dB if the victim Wi-Fi station is also at the
boresight of the Medium Range base station antenna. The emissions
characteristics of Wi-Fi at Ch#6 have more impact than an LTE base station of
any type.
For the scenario, where the Wi-Fi Ch#11 station is at an equal distance from
its serving access point and an LTE10 base station, Figure 6.5.5.3-2 shows the
spectrum from the station's receive antenna perspective. 36 dBm BS EIRP has
been used in the figure to illustrate the potential worst case, and the
emission profile is based on the minimum requirements as described in clause
6.5.3. The Wi-Fi mask is used for illustrative purposes only, to show the
relative power spectral density between the BS and the AP. Note that the FCC
emission limit is based on conducted measurement with 30 dBm power and is
scaled to suit the 36 dBm EIRP level.
{width="4.373611111111111in" height="3.2694444444444444in"}
Figure 6.5.5.3-2: Available SINR for Ch#11 Wi-Fi station
The receiver SINR is summarized in Table 6.5.5.3-2 for different base station
classes and distances from the serving and interfering nodes. The table also
includes the scenario in which the victim Wi-Fi station is at 10x distance
from its serving access point than the interfering node. Wi-Fi Ch#6
interfering node is included for reference.
Table 6.5.5.3-2: Results for Wi-Fi station coexistence evaluation
**General parameters**
* * *
Interfering device Local Area BS Medium Range BS Medium Range BS, victim at
antenna boresight Wi-Fi Ch#6 AP Interferer EIRP 24 dBm 30 dBm 36 dBm 23 dBm
Leakage power -31 dBm/22MHz -25 dBm/22MHz -19 dBm/22MHz -13 dBm/22MHz Serving
AP transmit EIRP 23 dBm 23 dBm 23 dBm 23 dBm **Scenario a**  
Distance and path loss from interferer 1.7 m / 45 dB 4.3 m / 53 dB 4.3 m / 53
dB 1.7 m / 45 dB Distance and path loss from serving AP 1.7 m / 45 dB 4.3 m /
53 dB 4.3 m / 53 dB 1.7 m / 45 dB SINR 54 dB 48 dB 42 dB 36 dB **Scenario b**  
Distance and path loss from interferer 1.7 m / 45 dB 4.3 m / 53 dB 4.3 m / 53
dB 1.7 m / 45 dB Distance and path loss from serving AP 17 m / 65 dB 43 m / 73
dB 43 m / 73 dB 17 m / 65 dB SINR 34 dB 28 dB 22 dB 16 dB
The interference from the LTE base station does restrict the Wi-Fi receiver
SINR, when the victim receiver is very close to the interfering base station.
The impact is smaller from an LTE base station than from a Wi-Fi access point
on an adjacent channel, especially in the indoor scenarios (Local Area base
station).
If the link budget for the Wi-Fi connection is insufficient during the LTE DL
subframes, there is still opportunity for ISM operations during the UL
subframes, which are about 20% to 80% of the radio frame in TD-LTE.
#### 6.5.5.4 Coexistence with Wi-Fi Access Point at Ch#11
In this scenario, a Wi-Fi access point at Ch#11 is receiving from a station
that it serves. The link budget (or SINR) available for the Wi-Fi link is
evaluated at different distances between the Wi-Fi access point and the
interfering LTE base station.
The assumptions for this scenario are listed in Table 6.5.5.4-1. Wi-Fi AP
operating on Ch#6 has been included for reference; the unwanted emissions at
Ch#11 have been estimated from the OFDM PHY spectrum emission mask using 5 dB
margin (resulting in 36 dB ACLR).
Table 6.5.5.4-1: Parameters for the Wi-Fi AP coexistence evaluation
Parameter Value
* * *
Ch#11 Wi-Fi carrier frequency 2462 MHz Ch#11 Wi-Fi channel bandwidth 22 MHz
Ch#11 Wi-Fi STA transmit power 17 dBm Ch#11 Wi-Fi AP noise floor (6 dB NF)
-94.6 dBm/22MHz LTE carrier frequency 2488.5 MHz LTE channel bandwidth 10 MHz
Medium Range BS transmit power 30 dBm Medium Range BS leakage power at Ch#11
-25 dBm/22MHz Medium Range BS maximum antenna gain 6 dBi Local Area BS
transmit power 24 dBm Local Area BS leakage power at Ch#11 -31 dBm/22MHz Ch#6
Wi-Fi AP carrier frequency 2437 MHz Ch#6 Wi-Fi AP transmit power 23 dBm Ch#6
Wi-Fi AP leakage power at Ch#11 -13 dBm/22MHz
The available link budget (for path loss and required SINR) is presented as a
function of Ch#11 access point's distance from the interfering LTE10 base
station or Ch#6 Wi-Fi access point.
{width="5.417361111111111in" height="4.086805555555555in"}
Figure 6.5.5.4-1: Available link budget for Ch#11 Wi-Fi access point
Careless deployment of Wi-Fi access points and LTE base stations will
introduce some interference to the Wi-Fi AP receiver due to TX leakage from
the LTE base station. The same is true in the other direction, i.e. LTE base
station will suffer from some interference from the Wi-Fi AP leakage. However,
the adjacent channel interference to a Ch#11 Wi-Fi AP from a Ch#6 Wi-Fi AP is
higher than from any of the LTE base stations.
For the scenario, where the Wi-Fi Ch#11 access point is at an equal distance
from a transmitting station and an LTE10 base station, Figure 6.5.5.4-2 shows
the spectrum from the station's receive antenna perspective. 36 dBm BS EIRP
has been used in the figure to illustrate the potential worst case, and the
emission profile is based on the minimum requirements as described in clause
6.5.3. The Wi-Fi mask is used for illustrative purposes only, to show the
relative power spectral density between the BS and the AP. Note that the FCC
emission limit is based on conducted measurement with 30 dBm power and is
scaled to suit the 36 dBm EIRP level.
{width="4.373611111111111in" height="3.2694444444444444in"}
Figure 6.5.5.4-2: Available SINR for Ch#11 Wi-Fi access point
The receiver SINR is summarized in Table 6.5.5.4-2 for different base station
classes and distances from the served and interfering nodes. The table also
includes the scenario in which the victim Wi-Fi access point is at 10x
distance from the transmitting station than from the interfering node. Wi-Fi
Ch#6 interfering node is included for reference.
Table 6.5.5.4-2: Results for Wi-Fi access point coexistence evaluation
**General parameters**
* * *
Interfering device Local Area BS Medium Range BS Medium Range BS, victim at
antenna boresight Wi-Fi Ch#6 AP Interferer EIRP 24 dBm 30 dBm 36 dBm 23 dBm
Leakage power -31 dBm/22MHz -25 dBm/22MHz -19 dBm/22MHz -13 dBm/22MHz
Transmitting station EIRP 17 dBm 17 dBm 17 dBm 17 dBm **Scenario a**  
Distance and path loss from interferer 1.7 m / 45 dB 4.3 m / 53 dB 4.3 m / 53
dB 1.7 m / 45 dB Distance and path loss from station 1.7 m / 45 dB 4.3 m / 53
dB 4.3 m / 53 dB 1.7 m / 45 dB SINR 48 dB 42 dB 36 dB 30 dB **Scenario b**  
Distance and path loss from interferer 1.7 m / 45 dB 4.3 m / 53 dB 4.3 m / 53
dB 1.7 m / 45 dB Distance and path loss from station 17 m / 65 dB 43 m / 73 dB
43 m / 73 dB 17 m / 65 dB SINR 28 dB 22 dB 16 dB 10 dB
Based on the SINR results, it seems that in the indoor scenario (Local Area
BS), deploying Wi-Fi access points will require a higher degree of network
planning from adjacent channel coexistence perspective, than does the
deployment of LTE base stations; this seems to be the case for Medium Range
base stations as well. Also due to the potential interference from Wi-Fi Ch#11
access points to the LTE base stations, care must be taken to ensure
sufficient separation.
If the available link budget for the Wi-Fi radio link is insufficient during
the LTE DL subframes, there is still opportunity for ISM operations during the
UL subframes, which are about 20% to 80% of the radio frame in TD-LTE.
#### 6.5.5.5 Laboratory Testing of LTE Coexistence with Ch#11 AP and STA
Laboratory testing was performed that confirms the conclusions of coexistence
simulations and provides throughput performance relative to incident
interference power in real-world Wi-Fi AP and STA hardware.
##### 6.5.5.5.1 Test Environment, Setup and Execution
Testing was performed inside an anechoic chamber to isolate the test
environment from any external interference as well as to maintain test
conditions constant through different test iterations. A setup diagram of the
test is given in Figure 6.5.5.5.1-1.
A Wi-Fi link is established between a Wi-Fi Station (STA) and a Wi-Fi Access
Point (AP) separated by approximately one meter. Wi-Fi STA and Wi-Fi AP
antennas are placed approximately at the same height facing each other. The
Wi-Fi signal level between STA and AP is controlled by placing a RF attenuator
between AP and AP antennas. A signal generator was used to generate both TD-
LTE and Wi-Fi interference signals.
The antenna connected to the signal generator is located approximately one
meter away from the Wi-Fi STA and 1.35 meters away from the Wi-Fi AP. Wi-Fi AP
is placed 1.35 meters away from the Wi-Fi STA.
{width="5.261111111111111in" height="2.5652777777777778in"}
Figure 6.5.5.5.1-1: Wi-Fi Ch.11 and LTE coexistence test setup diagram
The traffic was generated by sending TCP or UDP packets directly to the
transport layer from application layer. In the case of TCP flows, packets are
transmitted continuously based on TCP protocol functionality.
An LTE interference signal with CF of 2490 MHz was generated using a signal
generator configured to a 10MHz TDD waveform and TDD Frame Structure
Configuration 1. Configuration 1 has DL/UL distribution of 60/40, which
translates in an approximately channel occupancy of 60% in DL scenario and 40%
in the UL scenario. The Wi-Fi Ch#6 interference signal was generated using a
signal generator configured to 20MHz waveform and MCS 7, 64QAM 5/6 Modulation.
Duty cycle was set to 60% for DL signal and 40% for UL Wi-Fi interference
scenarios.
Data was collected via the procedure outlined in Figure 6.5.5.5.1-2. For Wi-Fi
Ch#11, RSSI values of -55 dBm, -65 dBm, and -75 dBm are used. TD-LTE
interference levels at the DUT are stepped in 1 dBm increments from OFF, -55
dBm to -25 dBm. DL and UL Wi-Fi traffic directions are measured subject to DL
and UL TD-LTE interference sources.
{width="3.3131944444444446in" height="4.15625in"}
Figure 6.5.5.5.1-2: Wi-Fi Ch.11 and LTE coexistence test execution flow chart
##### 6.5.5.5.2 Ch#11 Wi-Fi Data Throughput with TD-LTE Interference
Using the test configuration and methodology outlined in Section 6.5.5.5.1,
absolute and relative Wi-Fi Ch#11 DL (AP to STA) throughput was measured in
the presence of an LTE interference source. Figure 6.5.5.5.2-1 shows absolute
Ch#11 DL throughput in the presence of a DL and UL LTE interference signals,
while Figure 6.5.5.5.2-2 shows the same test in relative throughput terms.
{width="3.3041666666666667in"
height="2.2868055555555555in"}{width="3.3131944444444446in"
height="2.2868055555555555in"}
Figure 6.5.5.5.2-1: DL Wi-Fi Ch#1 absolute throughput in presence of DL and UL
LTE interference signal
At all Wi-Fi RSSI levels, statistically significant impact to Ch#11 DL
throughput is observed at incident LTE interference powers ≥ -34 dBm. The
average impact to Ch#11 DL throughput is slightly higher for DL LTE
interference signals than for UL LTE interference signals. This is as expected
due to the higher channel occupancy of the DL LTE signal in Frame Structure
Configuration 1.
{width="3.2958333333333334in"
height="2.2868055555555555in"}{width="3.3131944444444446in"
height="2.2868055555555555in"}
Figure 6.5.5.5.2-2: DL Wi-Fi Ch#11 relative throughput in presence of DL and
UL LTE interference signal
Also using the test configuration and methodology outlined in Section
6.5.5.5.1, absolute and relative Wi-Fi Ch#11 UL (STA to AP) throughput was
measured in presence of an LTE interference source. Figure 6.5.5.5.2-3 shows
absolute Ch#11 UL throughput in the presence of a DL and UL LTE interference
signals, while Figure 6.5.5.5.2-4 shows the same test in relative throughput
terms.
{width="3.3041666666666667in"
height="2.2868055555555555in"}{width="3.2868055555555555in"
height="2.2868055555555555in"}
Figure 6.5.5.5.2-3: UL Wi-Fi Ch#11 absolute throughput in presence of DL and
UL LTE interference signal
At all Wi-Fi RSSI levels, statistically significant impact to Ch#11 UL
throughput is observed at incident LTE interference powers ≥ -32 dBm. As in
the UL case, the average impact to Ch#11 UL throughput is higher for DL LTE
interference signals than for UL LTE interference signals. This is as expected
due to the higher channel occupancy of the DL LTE signal in Frame Structure
Configuration 1. Ch#11 UL is less impacted than Ch#11 downlink, especially at
higher RSSI levels (-55 dBm and -65 dBm).
{width="3.321527777777778in"
height="2.3041666666666667in"}{width="3.2868055555555555in"
height="2.2868055555555555in"}
Figure 6.5.5.5.2-4: UL Wi-Fi Ch#11 relative throughput in presence of DL and
UL LTE interference signal
##### 6.5.5.5.3 Ch#11 Wi-Fi Data Throughput with Ch#6 Wi-Fi Interference
Using the test configuration and methodology outlined in Section 6.5.5.5.1,
absolute and relative Wi-Fi Ch#11 DL (AP to STA) and throughput was measured
in the presence of a Wi-Fi Ch#6 DL interference source with similar channel
occupancy to a DL LTE signal in Frame Configuration 1. Figure 6.5.5.5.3-1
shows absolute Ch#11 throughput in the presence of a DL Ch#6 interference
signal, while Figure 6.5.5.5.3-2 shows the same test in relative throughput
terms.
{width="3.3041666666666667in" height="2.2868055555555555in"}
Figure 6.5.5.5.3-1: DL Wi-Fi Ch#11 absolute throughput in presence of DL Wi-Fi
Ch#6 interference signal
At all Wi-Fi RSSI levels, statistically significant impact to Ch#11 DL
throughput is observed at incident Ch#6 interference powers ≥ -40 dBm. The
impact to Ch#11 DL throughput from Ch#6 DL interference is meaningfully higher
than the impact to Ch#11 DL throughput from LTE DL interference.
{width="3.2868055555555555in" height="2.2868055555555555in"}
Figure 6.5.5.5.3-2: DL Wi-Fi Ch#11 relative throughput in presence of DL Wi-Fi
Ch#6 interference signal
### 6.5.6 Analysis of In-Device Coexistence Impacts of 10 MHz LTE Emission
Upon ISM Band Technologies
#### 6.5.6.1 General
This clause presents frequency and time domain analysis of In-Device
Coexistence (IDC) within a UE incorporating 2.4 GHz TDD LTE radio and Wi-Fi /
Bluetooth 2.4 GHz ISM band radio(s).
TR 36.816 [5] presents the study results on IDC interference, and potential
solutions to address the impact. The usage scenarios identified in [5] are:
> 1a) LTE + BT earphone (VoIP service)
>
> 1b) LTE + BT earphone (Multimedia service)
>
> 2) LTE + WiFi portable router
>
> 3) LTE + WiFi offload
>
> 4) LTE + GNSS Receiver
No issues with GNSS Receiver are expected due to the large frequency
separation to the satellite receiver frequencies (\ISM Wi-Fi Bluetooth
* * *
                                 Ch\#11      Ch\#6       Ch\#1        2480         2460         2440         ≤2430
TX leakage power -27 dBm/\ -52 dBm/\ -75 dBm/\ -16 dBm/\ -60 dBm/\ -77 dBm/\
-88 dBm/\ 22 MHz 22 MHz 22 MHz MHz MHz MHz MHz
Antenna isolation 12 dB 12 dB 12 dB 12 dB 12 dB 12 dB 12 dB
TX leakage at ISM input -39 dBm/\ -64 dBm/\ -89 dBm/\ -28 dBm/\ -72 dBm/\ -89
dBm/\ -100 dBm/\ 22 MHz 22 MHz 22 MHz MHz MHz MHz MHz
ISM input-referred noise -91 dBm/\ -91 dBm/\ -91 dBm/\ -105 dBm/\ -105 dBm/\
-105 dBm/\ -105 dBm/\ 22 MHz 22 MHz 22 MHz MHz MHz MHz MHz
**ISM noise level increase** **52 dB** **27 dB** **4.1 dB** **77 dB** **33
dB** **16 dB** **6.2 dB**
* * *
Regarding receiver blocking, the ISM receiver desense can be estimated as
follows:
Table 6.5.6.2.2‑2: IDC impact of ISM receiver blocking
LTE->ISM Wi-Fi/BT Any
* * *
LTE TX power 23 dBm Antenna isolation 12 dB LTE blocking power at ISM input 11
dBm LTE blocking power at LNA input 7 dBm LNA gain to prevent mixer from
saturating (assuming 0 dBm peak output power and 10 dB peak-to-average power
ratio) -17 dB **Effect to RX NF due to AGC** **> 28 dB**
The NF effect is based on the assumption, that the LNA-mixer saturation is
largely independent on frequency offset, as the 2.4 GHz E-UTRA band is
practically inside the RF input passband. The LNA gain is lowered in order to
prevent saturation in the following receiver stages, and this increases the
front-end Noise Figure.
As a conclusion, the IDC interference from LTE10 uplink transmissions may
cause significant desense to the whole 2.4 GHz ISM band (in the excess of >28
dB to as much as 77 dB, depending on the victim receiver type and operating
frequency).
##### 6.5.6.2.3 ISM to LTE Interference
The TX leakage of Wi-Fi is based on measured Wi-Fi unwanted emissions [6],
Annex A (Conducted emissions test data). The measured Wi-Fi equipment are
access points, and it is estimated that similar or worse unwanted emissions
spectrum would be applicable for practical Wi-Fi mobile chipsets. The far-away
spurious emissions noise floor is assumed at -135 dBm/Hz (at around fc+50
MHz), and the emission spectrum is decaying from the shown level (at fc+25
MHz) linearly in the dB domain.
The TX spectral regrowth of Bluetooth is assumed to be narrowband, and the TX
leakage is based on wideband noise only. The level is estimated at -122
dBm/Hz. The IDC analysis is based on TX leakage and LTE receiver blocking.
Table 6.5.6.2.3-1: IDC impact of IDC TX leakage to LTE receiver noise level
Wi-Fi->LTE Wi-Fi Bluetooth
* * *
                                 Ch\#11            Ch\#6             Ch\#1             Any channel
TX leakage power -15 dBm/9 MHz -60 dBm/9 MHz -65 dBm/9 MHz -52 dBm/9 MHz
Antenna isolation 12 dB 12 dB 12 dB 12 dB TX leakage at LTE input -27 dBm/9
MHz -72 dBm/9 MHz -77 dBm/9 MHz -40 dBm/9 MHz LTE input-referred noise -95.5
dBm/9 MHz -95.5 dBm/9 MHz -95.5 dBm/9 MHz -95.5 dBm/9 MHz **LTE noise level
increase** **69 dB** **24 dB** **19 dB** **55.5 dB**
Table 6.5.6.2.3-2: IDC impact of LTE receiver blocking
ISM->LTE Wi-Fi Bluetooth
* * *
                                                                                                                       Ch\#11      Ch\#6       Ch\#1       2480        2470       ≤2460
ISM TX power 20 dBm 20 dBm 20 dBm 20 dBm 20 dBm 20 dBm Antenna isolation 12 dB
12 dB 12 dB 12 dB 12 dB 12 dB ISM blocking power at LTE input 8 dBm 8 dBm 8
dBm 8 dBm 8 dBm 8 dBm LTE filter suppression 11 dB 16 dB 16 dB 4 dB 11 dB 16
dB ISM blocking power at LNA input -3 dBm -8 dBm -8 dBm 4 dBm -3 dBm -8 dBm
LNA gain to prevent mixer from saturating (assuming 0 dBm peak output power
and 10 dB peak-to-average power ratio) -7 dB -2 dB -2 dB -4 dB 3 dB 8 dB
**Effect to RX NF due to AGC** **18 dB** **13 dB** **13 dB** **15 dB** **8
dB** **4 dB**
As a conclusion, the IDC interference from IDC transmitter to LTE receiver may
be dominated by the TX unwanted emissions, the noise floor increase being from
19 dB up to 69 dB. LTE receiver blocking is also not insignificant and may be
an important contributor.
#### 6.5.6.3 Time Domain Analysis
##### 6.5.6.3.1 General
Table 5.3-1 of TR 36.816 [5] lists the applicability of different identified
TDM solutions for each usage scenario. It may be noted that no 3GPP
specification for HARQ process reservation-based solution was developed during
the IDC WI; however, some additions to the DRX parameter values were done
during Rel-11, to make the DRX based solution more applicable to the usage
scenarios.
The DRX based solution is applicable to all usage scenarios listed in TR
36.816 [5]. As a complementary solution, some LTE uplink subframes may be
blocked by the UE autonomously, if the transmission would jeopardize critical
ISM signalling.
The basics of the DRX based solution is shown below (TR 36.816 [5] Figure
5.2.1.2.1-2):
{width="3.817361111111111in" height="1.6958333333333333in"}
Figure 6.5.6.3.1-1: Example of DRX configured by eNB to enable TDM [5]
The Rel-11 improvements to DRX to better work as a TDM solution for IDC allow
relatively sharp transition from the LTE active duration to the off-period.
This is achieved by using short DRX inactivity and retransmission timer
values, low maximum retransmission count, and by restricting the scheduling
towards the end of the active time. The penalty is \~1% data loss at HARQ
level (due to typical 10% BLER target), but may be compensated by more robust
MCS selection at the scheduler. In the following analysis, 8 ms of the LTE on-
duration is left unscheduled and still unavailable for ISM operations.
The theoretical data rate for TD-LTE 10 MHz channel is around 15-58 Mbps in DL
(20-80% of subframes), and 7-21 Mbps in UL (20-60% of subframes). This assumes
64-QAM modulation (256-QAM is an optional capability), 2 MIMO streams in DL
and a single stream in UL.
All of the TDM analysis are based on bi-directional interference scenario,
i.e. LTE TX causes interference to ISM RX, and ISM TX to LTE RX. In practical
cases, one of the interference directions may be missing, e.g. if the TX power
levels are sufficiently low.
##### 6.5.6.3.2 LTE + BT Earphone (VoIP Service)
Annex B of TR 36.816 [5] contains analysis for this scenario, when no specific
LTE solution is applied. The TD-LTE subframes and Bluetooth TX and RX slots
align so that TX and RX are not concurrent. For EV3 Bluetooth voice
connection, the following results have been obtained (TR 36.816 [5] Table
B.2.1A-1). Note that only the interference scenario which corrupts all
available Bluetooth channels is shown in the below table.
Table 6.5.6.3.2-1: BT EV3 and LTE collision ratio [5]
LTE TDD UL/DL Configuration BT Collision ratio LTE Collision ratio
* * *
0 0% 0% 1 0% 0% 2 0% 8.3% 3 0% 14.3% 4 0% 16.7% 5 12.5% 18.5% 6 25% 0%
For some TDD configurations, the amount of collisions may be significant. Note
that in the VoIP service scenario, LTE will typically only require some DL and
UL subframes during each VoIP period, so that some of the potential collisions
may be recovered by re-transmissions.
For TDD configurations 1 and 2, which are in use on E-UTRA Band 41, [5] shows
the time-domain analysis without any LTE IDC solution. The analysis assumes
that the Bluetooth link timing can be adjusted relative to the LTE frame
timing, which should be possible at least if the IDC Bluetooth is the master.
{width="5.04375in" height="1.8868055555555556in"}
Figure 6.5.6.3.2-1: TDD Configuration 1 and BT EV3 (Offset of BT relative to
LTE frame: 3.375 ms) [5]
{width="5.04375in" height="1.8868055555555556in"}
Figure 6.5.6.3.2-2: TDD Configuration 2 and BT EV3 (Offset of BT relative to
LTE frame: 2.375 ms) [5]
The UE requires a TDM solution for the Bluetooth earphone scenario. In this
case, some HARQ processes may be left unscheduled by the eNB. The UE may
provide bitmap assistance data in the IDC indication, and the eNB may
configure a suitable DRX cycle to allow sufficient time slots for BT operation
in all master and slave modes in all TDD configurations [7, 8].
Furthermore, knowledge of a fixed LTE frame structure and LTE TDD frame
configuration are basic elements which allow a TDM solution.
6.5.6.3.3 LTE + BT Earphone (Multimedia Service)
Based on the analysis done for VoIP scenario, it can be seen that the
collisions with Bluetooth may be mostly avoided in TD-LTE by aligning the
frame structures properly [5]. Further, since the multimedia streaming
application is somewhat delay tolerant, a reasonable DRX cycle may be applied
in addition to the synchronization mechanism between the UE's radio modules,
in case the Bluetooth frame structure cannot be aligned (e.g. when operating
in slave mode).
Based on [5], the LTE on-duration of the DRX cycle should be less than [60]
ms, and the opportunity for ISM transmissions around [15-60] ms. The LTE
throughput available using this solution would be roughly 48-77%. However, as
the performance in many TD-LTE configurations may already be manageable, the
performance using DRX should be sufficient.
Same as in previous use case, knowledge of a fixed LTE frame structure and LTE
TDD frame configuration are basic elements which allow a TDM solution.
6.5.6.3.4 LTE + Wi-Fi Portable Router
Based on [5], DRX is a potential solution for this usage scenario. The LTE on-
duration and the opportunity for ISM transmissions should be typically not
more than [20-60] ms. The LTE throughput available using this solution would
be roughly 15-65%, depending on the choice of DRX cycle parameters.
Since 54 Mbps PHY rate is available in Wi-Fi, the router usage scenario may be
satisfied by roughly equal time share, or by allocating more time for LTE than
for Wi-Fi.
6.5.6.3.5 LTE + Wi-Fi Offload
For the offload usage scenario, DRX based solution is also applicable [5]. The
difference to the portable router scenario is that the time shares should be
roughly proportional to the amount of traffic over both radio interfaces, and
the Wi-Fi beacon transmissions should align with the LTE off-time of the DRX
cycle. Some overhead for each DRX cycle (e.g. 8 ms as assumed in earlier
analysis) should be taken into account in the time share estimations.
In the IDC indication assistant information, the UE may indicate suitable DRX
cycle parameter values for on-duration, cycle length, and offset, to
accommodate best the traffic on both radios and the Wi-Fi beacon periods.
#### 6.5.6.4 IDC conclusions
The RF interference analysis shows that the IDC interference may be severe in
both directions and affect the whole 2.4 GHz ISM band. The situation is
similar as for the highest 20-25 MHz of E-UTRA band 40, according to analysis
done in [5]. However, the LTE receiver may be made somewhat immune to at least
Bluetooth transmissions on the lower part of the ISM band, by using a TDD band
filter that provides sufficient suppression.
In case the RF interference is strong enough to be an issue, the TDD
configuration may in some scenarios provide sufficient time slots for ISM
operations, especially if the amount of traffic through LTE is small.
In case the UE is not able to solve the IDC issues by itself, the IDC solution
specified in Rel-11 allows to indicate to the network a suitable TDM pattern
(DRX parameters or HARQ bitmap), and the network may then configure DRX with
suitable parameters to facilitate coexistence between the UE's radios. There
are DRX based solutions to cover all usage scenarios considered in this
clause. Any DRX based solution will impact maximum LTE throughput, and the
sharp transition from on-duration to off-time will typically incur in small
probability of data loss at HARQ level.
The TDM solutions for LTE BT IDC require the collocated BT device to have
knowledge of a fixed LTE frame structure and of the LTE TDD frame structure.
# 7 E-UTRA Specific Issues
## 7.1 UE Aspects
### 7.1.1 Power Spectral Density limit
According to the FCC power limits outlined in clause 5.4.3, the maximum power
spectral density conducted to the antenna is not greater than 8 dBm in any 3
kHz band during any time interval of continuous transmission. For UE
transmissions, the highest PSD may be found during narrowband 1 PRB
transmissions. Such resource allocation is simulated to verify that the limit
is not exceeded.
{width="3.426388888888889in"
height="3.7131944444444445in"}{width="3.2263888888888888in"
height="3.7131944444444445in"}
Figure 7.1.1-1: Power Spectral Density of 1 PRB UL transmission at maximum 23
dBm output power, complete channel bandwidth (left) and zoomed to the
transmitter resource block (right). The maximum PSD is 6.7 dBm/3 kHz.
At the maximum power, the highest power spectral density is 6.7 dBm/3 kHz,
thereby no special measures are required to meet the FCC requirement.
## 7.2 BS Aspects
The following BS specific TS 36.104 changes are expected due to introduction
of Band 53 (since -25dBm/MHz FCC limit was developed to protect ISM unlicensed
band on the lower side and Band 41 on the upper side, the proposed frequency
range for this requirement is 2400-2473.5/2477.5 MHz and 2501/2505-2690 MHz).
6.6.3 Operating band unwanted emissions
6.6.3.3 Additional requirements
The following requirement may apply to E-UTRA BS operating in Band 53 in
certain regions. Emissions shall not exceed the maximum levels specified in
Table 6.6.3.3-12.
Table 6.6.3.3-12: Additional operating band unwanted emission limits for Band
53
Channel bandwidth [MHz] Frequency range [MHz] Frequency offset of measurement
filter ‑3dB point, ∆f Frequency offset of measurement filter center frequency,
f_offset Minimum requirement Measurement bandwidth (Note 8)
* * *
1.4, 3, 5 2400 - 2477.5 6 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 83.5 MHz 6.5 MHz ≤ f_offset \< 83 MHz
-25 dBm 1 MHz 10 2400 - 2473.5 10 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 83.5 MHz 10.5 MHz ≤ f_offset \<
83 MHz -25 dBm 1 MHz 1.4, 3, 5 2477.5 - 2478.5 5 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 6 MHz 5.5 MHz -13
dBm 1 MHz 10 2473.5 - 2478.5 5 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 10 MHz 5.5 MHz ≤ f_offset \< 9.5
MHz -13 dBm 1 MHz All 2478.5 - 2483.5 0 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 5 MHz 0.5 MHz ≤ f_offset
\< 4.5 MHz -10 dBm 1 MHz 1.4, 3, 5 2495 - 2501 0 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 6 MHz 0.5 MHz ≤
f_offset \< 5.5 MHz -13 dBm 1 MHz 10 2495 - 2505 0 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 10 MHz 0.5 MHz
≤ f_offset \< 9.5 MHz -13 dBm 1 MHz 1.4, 3, 5 2501 - 2690 6 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 195
MHz 6.5 MHz ≤ f_offset \< 194.5 MHz -25 dBm 1 MHz 10 2505 - 2690 10 MHz ≤ ∆f
\< 195 MHz 10.5 MHz ≤ f_offset \< 194.5 MHz -25 dBm 1 MHz
6.6.4.3 Additional spurious emissions requirements
6.6.4.3.1 Minimum Requirement
Table 6.6.4.3.1-1: BS Spurious emissions limits for E-UTRA BS for co-existence
with systems operating in other frequency bands
System type for E-UTRA to co-exist with Frequency range for co-existence
requirement Maximum Level Measurement Bandwidth Note
* * *
E-UTRA Band 41 2496 - 2690 MHz -52 dBm 1 MHz This is not applicable to E-UTRA
BS operating in Band 41 or 53. E-UTRA Band 53 2483.5 - 2495 MHz -52 dBm 1 MHz
This is not applicable to E-UTRA BS operating in Band 41 or 53.
6.6.4.4 Co-location with other base stations
6.6.4.4.1 Minimum Requirement
Table 6.6.4.4.1-2: BS Spurious emissions limits for Local Area BS co-located
with another BS
Type of co-located BS Frequency range for co-location requirement Maximum
Level Measurement Bandwidth Note
* * *
LA E-UTRA Band 41 2496 -- 2690 MHz -88 dBm 100 kHz This is not applicable to
E-UTRA BS operating in Band 41 or 53 LA E-UTRA Band 53 2483.5 -- 2495 MHz -88
dBm 100 kHz This is not applicable to E-UTRA BS operating in Band 41 or 53
Table 6.6.4.4.1-3: BS Spurious emissions limits for Medium range BS co-located
with another BS
Type of co-located BS Frequency range for co-location requirement Maximum
Level Measurement Bandwidth Note
* * *
LA E-UTRA Band 41 2496 -- 2690 MHz -91 dBm 100 kHz This is not applicable to
E-UTRA BS operating in Band 41 or 53 LA E-UTRA Band 53 2483.5 -- 2495 MHz -91
dBm 100 kHz This is not applicable to E-UTRA BS operating in Band 41 or 53
7.6.1 General blocking requirement
7.6.1.1 Minimum requirement
Table 7.6.1.1-1a: Blocking performance requirement for Local Area BS for
E-UTRA
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Oper | C | I | W | I | Type | | | | ating | enter | nterf | anted | nterf | of | | | | Band | Freq | ering | S | ering | I | | | | | uency | S | ignal | s | nterf | | | | | of | ignal | mean | ignal | ering | | | | | I | mean | power | c | S | | | | | nterf | power | [ | enter | ignal | | | | | ering | [ | dBm] | freq | | | | | | S | dBm] | | uency | | | | | | ignal | | | mi | | | | | | [ | | | nimum | | | | | | MHz] | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | ffset | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | l | | | | | | | | | ower/ | | | | | | | | | upper | | | | | | | | | Base | | | | | | | | | St | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | RF | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | nside | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | gap | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | MHz] | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+ | 53 | ( | to | (F | -35 | P~REF | See | See | | | F~UL\ | | ~UL_ | | SENS~ | table | table | | | _low~ | | high~ | | + | 7 | 7.6. | | | -20) | | +12) | | 6dB* | .6.1. | 1.1-2 | | | | | | | | 1-2 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 1 | to | ( | -15 | P~REF |  | CW | | | | | F~UL\ | | SENS~ | | ca | | | (F | to | _low~ | | + | | rrier | | | ~UL_ | | -20) | | 6dB* | | | | | high~ | | | | | | | | | +12) | | 12750 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Table 7.6.1.1-1c: Blocking performance requirement for Medium Range BS for
E-UTRA
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Oper | C | I | W | I | Type | | | | ating | enter | nterf | anted | nterf | of | | | | Band | Freq | ering | S | ering | I | | | | | uency | S | ignal | s | nterf | | | | | of | ignal | mean | ignal | ering | | | | | I | mean | power | c | S | | | | | nterf | power | [ | enter | ignal | | | | | ering | [ | dBm] | freq | | | | | | S | dBm] | | uency | | | | | | ignal | | | mi | | | | | | [ | | | nimum | | | | | | MHz] | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | ffset | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | lo | | | | | | | | | wer/h | | | | | | | | | igher | | | | | | | | | Base | | | | | | | | | St | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | RF | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | nside | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | gap | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | MHz] | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+ | 53 | ( | to | (F | -38 | P~REF | See | See | | | F~UL\ | | ~UL_ | | SENS~ | table | table | | | _low~ | | high~ | | +6dB | 7.6. | 7.6. | | | -20) | | +20) | | (Note | 1.1-2 | 1.1-2 | | | | | | | 1) | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 1 | to | ( | -15 | P~REF |  | CW | | | | | F~UL\ | | SENS~ | | ca | | | (F | to | _low~ | | +6dB | | rrier | | | ~UL_ | | -20) | | (Note | | | | | high~ | | | | 1) | | | | | +20) | | 12750 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
7.6.2 Co-location with other base stations
7.6.2.1 Minimum requirement
Table 7.6.2.1-2: Blocking performance requirement for Local Area BS when co-
located with BS in other frequency bands.
Co-located BS type Center Frequency of Interfering Signal (MHz) Interfering
Signal mean power (dBm) Wanted Signal mean power (dBm) Type of Interfering
Signal
* * *
LA E-UTRA Band 53 2483.5 - 2495 -6 P~REFSENS~ + 6dB* CW carrier
Table 7.6.2.1-3: Blocking performance requirement for E-UTRA Medium Range BS
when co-located with BS in other frequency bands.
Co-located BS type Center Frequency of Interfering Signal (MHz) Interfering
Signal mean power (dBm) Wanted Signal mean power (dBm) Type of Interfering
Signal
* * *
MR E-UTRA Band 53 2483.5 - 2495 +8 P~REFSENS~ + 6dB* CW carrier
# 8 Channel Numbering
The E-UTRA Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Numbers (EARFCNs) allocated for
Band 53 are outlined in Table 8-1.
Table 8-1: E-UTRA channel numbers
E-UTRA Operating Band Downlink Uplink
* * *
                          F~DL\_low~ \[MHz\]   N~Offs-DL~   Range of N~DL~   F~UL\_low~ \[MHz\]   N~Offs-UL~   Range of N~UL~
53 2483.5 60140 60140 - 60254 2483.5 60140 60140 - 60254
#