# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
This document is related to the technical report for the study item \"Further
advancements for E-UTRA\" [1].
This activity involves the Radio Access work area of the 3GPP studies and has
impacts both on the Mobile Equipment and Access Network of the 3GPP systems.
This document is intended to gather all technical outcome of the study item,
and draw a conclusion on way forward.
In addition this document includes the results of the work supporting the3GPP
submission of \"_LTE Release 10 & beyond (LTE-Advanced)\"_to the ITU-R as a
candidate technology for the IMT-Advanced.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] Contribution to 3GPP TSG RAN meeting #45 RP-090735: \"Revised SID on LTE-
Advanced\".
[2] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[3] 3GPP TR 36.913: \"Requirements for Evolved UTRA (E-UTRA) and Evolved UTRAN
(E‑UTRAN)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.203: \"Policy and charging control architecture\".
[5] 3GPP TS 36.101: \"User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception\".
[6] 3GPP TS 36.104: \"Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception\".
[7] Report ITU-R M.2133: \"Requirements, evaluation criteria and submission
templates for the development of IMT-Advanced\" (Approved 2008-11).
[8] Report ITU-R M.2134: \"Requirements related to technical performance for
IMT-Advanced radio interface(s)\" (Approved 2008-11).
[9] Report ITU-R M.2135: \"Guidelines for evaluation of radio interface
technologies for IMT‑Advanced\" (Approved 2008-11).
[10] Document ITU-R IMT-ADV/3: \"Correction of typographical errors and
provision of missing texts of IMT-Advanced channel models in Report ITU-R
M.2135\" (July 2009).
[11] Document ITU-R IMT-ADV/2 Rev 1: \"Submission and evaluation process and
consensus building\" (Approved 2008-10).
[12] 3GPP TS 36.213: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Physical layer procedures\"
[13] Contribution to 3GPP TSG RAN meeting #45 RP-090744: \"TR36.912 Annex A3:
Self evaluation results\".
[14] Contribution to 3GPP TSG RAN meeting #45 RP-090745: \"TR36.912 Annex C1:
Updated characteristics template\".
[15] Contribution to 3GPP TSG RAN meeting #45 RP-090746: \"TR36.912 Annex C2:
Link budget template\".
[16] Contribution to 3GPP TSG RAN meeting #45 RP-090747: \"TR36.912 Annex C3:
Compliance template\".
[17] 3GPP TS 36.133: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Requirements for support of radio resource management\".
> [18] 3GPP TR 36.814: \" Feasibility study for Further Advancements for
> E-UTRA (LTE-Advanced)\"
Note: The RAN meeting contributions referenced above are provided with the
present Technical Report.
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [2] apply.
## 3.2 Symbols
Void
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations defined in TS
21.905 [2] and the following apply:
CoMP Coordinated MultiPoint
MBMS Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service
MU-MIMO Multi User Multiple Input Multiple Output
RIT Radio Interface Technology
SON Self Organising Networks
SRIT Set of Radio Interface Technologies
SU-MIMO Single User Multiple Input Multiple Output
# 4 Introduction
At the TSG RAN #39 meeting, the Study Item description on \"Further
Advancements for E-UTRA (LTE-Advanced)\" was approved [1]. The study item
covers technology components to be considered for the evolution of E-UTRA,
e.g. to fulfil the requirements on IMT-Advanced. This technical report covers
all RAN aspects of these technology components.
# 5 Support of wider bandwidth
## 5.1 General
LTE-Advanced extends LTE Rel.-8 with support for C _arrier Aggregation_ ,
where two or more _component carriers_ (CCs) are aggregated in order to
support wider transmission bandwidths up to 100MHz and for spectrum
aggregation.
It shall be possible to configure all component carriers which are LTE Rel-8
compatible, at least when the aggregated numbers of component carriers in the
UL and the DL are the same. Not all component carriers may necessarily be LTE
Rel-8 compatible.
A terminal may simultaneously receive or transmit one or multiple component
carriers depending on its capabilities:
\- An LTE-Advanced terminal with reception and/or transmission capabilities
for carrier aggregation can simultaneously receive and/or transmit on multiple
component carriers.
\- An LTE Rel-8 terminal can receive and transmit on a single component
carrier only, provided that the structure of the component carrier follows the
Rel-8 specifications.
Carrier aggregation is supported for both contiguous and non-contiguous
component carriers with each component carrier limited to a maximum of 110
Resource Blocks in the frequency domain using the LTE Rel-8 numerology
It is possible to configure a UE to aggregate a different number of component
carriers originating from the same eNB and of possibly different bandwidths in
the UL and the DL. In typical TDD deployments, the number of component
carriers and the bandwidth of each component carrier in UL and DL will be the
same.
Component carriers originating from the same eNB need not to provide the same
coverage.
The spacing between centre frequencies of contiguously aggregated component
carriers shall be a multiple of 300 kHz. This is in order to be compatible
with the 100 kHz frequency raster of LTE Rel-8 and at the same time preserve
orthogonality of the subcarriers with 15 kHz spacing. Depending on the
aggregation scenario, the n*300 kHz spacing can be facilitated by insertion of
a low number of unused subcarriers between contiguous component carriers.
## 5.1A Physical layer
### 5.1A.1 DL control signalling
The design principles for downlink control signalling of control region size,
uplink and downlink resource assignments, and downlink HARQ ACK/NACK
indication are described below.
\- Independent control region size is applied for each component carrier. On
any carrier with a control region, Rel-8 design (modulation, coding, mapping
to resource elements) for PCFICH is reused.
\- For signalling of resource assignments for downlink (PDSCH) and uplink
(PUSCH) transmission, following mechanisms are supported,
> \- PDCCH on a component carrier assigns PDSCH resources on the same
> component carrier and PUSCH resources on a single linked UL component
> carrier. Rel-8 PDCCH structure (same coding, same CCE-based resource
> mapping) and DCI formats are used on each component carrier.
>
> \- PDCCH on a component carrier can assign PDSCH or PUSCH resources in one
> of multiple component carriers using the carrier indicator field, where
> Rel-8 DCI formats are extended with 1 -- 3 bit carrier indicator field, and
> Rel-8 PDCCH structure (same coding, same CCE-based resource mapping) is
> reused.
where the presence of carrier indicator field is semi-statically configured.
\- For signalling of downlink HARQ ACK/NACK indication, following principles
are applied.
> \- PHICH physical transmission aspects from Rel-8 (orthogonal code design,
> modulation, scrambling sequence, mapping to resource elements) are reused.
>
> \- PHICH is transmitted only on the downlink component carrier that was used
> to transmit the UL grant
>
> \- At least in case that the number of downlink component carriers are more
> than or equal to that of uplink component carriers and no carrier indicator
> field is used, the Rel-8 PHICH resource mapping rule is reused.
### 5.1A.2 UL control signalling
The design principles for uplink control signalling of HARQ ACK/NACK,
scheduling request and channel state information (CSI) on PUCCH are described
below.
\- The Rel-10 PUCCH design supports up to five DL component carriers.
\- For signalling of HARQ ACK/NACK on PUCCH for downlink (PDSCH) transmission,
following mechanisms are supported:
\- All HARQ ACK/NACK for a UE can be transmitted on PUCCH in absence of PUSCH
transmission.
\- In general, transmission of one ACK/NACK for each DL component carrier
transport block is supported.
\- In case of power limitation, limited transmission of ACK/NACK for the DL
component carrier transport blocks is supported.
\- The design of the ACK/NACK resource allocation should consider performance
and power control aspects, while not aiming to optimise for the case of large
number of UEs being simultaneously scheduled on multiple DL component
carriers.
\- The scheduling request is transmitted on PUCCH and is semi-statically
mapped onto one UE specific UL component carrier.
\- Periodic CSI reporting on PUCCH is supported for up to five DL component
carriers. The CSI is semi-statically mapped onto one UE specific UL component
carrier and the design follows the Rel-8 principles for CQI/PMI/RI,
considering ways to reduce reporting overhead or to extend CSI payload.
## 5.2 User Plane
### 5.2.1 Structure
Compared to the Layer 2 structure of LTE Rel-8, the multi-carrier nature of
the physical layer is only exposed to the MAC layer for which one HARQ entity
is required per CC. The Layer 2 structure for the downlink is depicted on
Figured 5.2.1-1 below.
Figure 5.2.1-1: Layer 2 Structure for the DL
The Layer 2 structure for the uplink is depicted on Figured 5.2.1-2 below.
Figure 5.2.1-2: Layer 2 Structure for the UL
### 5.2.2 MAC
From a UE perspective, the Layer 2 aspects of HARQ are kept Rel-8 compliant
unless modifications provide significant gains. There is one transport block
(in absence of spatial multiplexing, up to two transport blocks in case of
spatial multiplexing) and one independent hybrid-ARQ entity per scheduled
component carrier. Each transport block is mapped to a single component
carrier only where all possible HARQ retransmissions also take place. A UE may
be scheduled over multiple component carriers simultaneously but at most one
random access procedure shall be ongoing at any time.
Whenever a UE is configured with only one CC, Rel-9 DRX is the baseline. In
other cases, the baseline is that the same DRX operation applies to all
configured CCs (i.e. identical active time for PDCCH monitoring). When in
active time, any CC may always schedule PDSCH on any other configured (and
possibly activated, FFS) CC.
### 5.2.3 RLC
The RLC protocol of LTE Rel-8 also applies to carrier aggregation and allows
LTE-A to handle data rate up to 1Gbps. Further enhancements (e.g. increased
RLC SN size) can be considered.
### 5.2.4 PDCP
The PDCP protocol of LTE Rel-8 also applies to carrier aggregation. Further
enhancements (e.g. increased PDCP SN size) can be considered.
## 5.3 Control plane
### 5.3.1 Structure
The C-Plane architecture of LTE Rel-8 also applies to carrier aggregation.
### 5.3.2 RRC procedures
#### 5.3.2.1 System Information
A cell is identified by a unique ECGI and corresponds to the transmission of
system information in one CC. Rel-8 relevant system information and possible
extensions for LTE-A are delivered on \"_backward compatible_ \" CCs. Each CC
provides on BCCH the system information which is specific to it. The handling
of system information for extension carriers is FFS.
#### 5.3.2.2 Connection Control
As in LTE Rel-8, the UE only has one RRC connection with the network. One cell
- the \"special cell\" - provides the security input (one ECGI, one PCI and
one ARFCN) and the NAS mobility information (e.g. TAI). There is only one
\"special cell\" per UE in connected mode.
After RRC connection establishment to the \"special cell\", the
reconfiguration, addition and removal of CCs can be performed by
_RRCConnectionReconfiguration_ including _mobilityControlInfo_ (i.e. \"intra-
cell handover\"). _RRCConnectionReconfiguration_ without _mobilityControlInfo_
can also be used for the addition of CCs, and for the removal of CCs with the
exception of the CC corresponding to the \"special cell\".
At intra-LTE handover, the _RRCConnectionReconfiguration_ with
_mobilityControlInfo_ (i.e. \"handover command\") can remove, reconfigure or
add CCs for usage in the target cell.
When adding a new CC, dedicated RRC signalling is used for sending CCs\'
system information which is necessary for CC transmission/reception (similarly
as in Rel-8 for handover).
Detection of failure of one CC by the UE does not necessarily trigger a
connection re-establishment. RRC connection re-establishment triggers at the
UE include:
1) The failure of all CCs on which the UE is configured to receive PDCCH;
NOTE: FFS if re-establishment is triggered under more restrictive conditions
(e.g. in case of problems on a smaller subset of CC\'s).
2) The loss of all UL communication;
NOTE: The conditions under which all UL communications are said to be lost are
FFS.
3) The indication from RLC that the maximum number of retransmissions has been
reached (as in Rel-8).
#### 5.3.2.3 Measurements
UE sees a CC as any other carrier frequency and a measurement object needs to
be set up for a CC in order for the UE to measure it. Inter-frequency
neighbour measurements (for which no serving cell is defined for measurement
purposes) encompass all the carrier frequencies which are not configured as
CCs.
### 5.3.3 Idle mode procedures
Idle mode mobility procedures of LTE Rel-8 also apply in a network deploying
carrier aggregation. It should be possible for a network to configure only a
subset of CCs for idle mode camping.
# 6 Uplink transmission scheme
## **_6.1 Uplink spatial multiplexing_**
LTE-Advanced extends LTE Rel-8 with support for uplink spatial multiplexing of
up to four layers.
In case of uplink single-user spatial multiplexing, up to two transport blocks
can be transmitted from a scheduled UE in a subframe per uplink component
carrier. Each transport block has its own MCS level. Depending on the number
of transmission layers, the modulation symbols associated with each of the
transport blocks are mapped onto one or two layers according to the same
principle as for LTE Rel-8 downlink spatial multiplexing. The transmission
rank can be adapted dynamically. It is possible to configure the uplink
single-user spatial-multiplexing transmission with or without the layer
shifting. In case of the layer shifting, shifting in time domain is supported.
If layer shifting is configured, the HARQ-ACKs for all transport blocks are
bundled into a single HARQ-ACK. One-bit ACK is transmitted to the UE if all
transport blocks are successfully decoded by the eNodeB. Otherwise, one-bit
NACK is transmitted to the UE.
If layer shifting is not configured, each transport block has its own HARQ-ACK
feedback signalling.
For FDD and TDD, precoding is performed according to a predefined codebook. If
layer shifting is not configured, precoding is applied after the layer
mapping. If layer shifting is configured, precoding is applied after the layer
shifting operation. Application of a single precoding matrix per uplink
component carrier is supported. In case of full-rank transmission, only
identity precoding matrix is supported. For uplink spatial multiplexing with
two transmit antennas, 3-bit precoding codebook as defined in Table 6.1-1 is
used.
Table 6.1-1: 3-bit precoding codebook for uplink spatial multiplexing with two
transmit antennas
* * *
Codebook index Number of layers $\upsilon$  
1 2 0  
1  
2  
3 - 4  
5
* * *
For uplink spatial multiplexing with four transmit antennas, 6-bit precoding
codebook is used. The subset of the precoding codebook used for 1-layer
transmission is defined in Table 6.1-2. The baseline for the subset of the
precoding codebook used for 2-layer transmission is defined in Table 6.1-3.
For 3-layer transmission, the number of precoding matrices is 20, and only
BPSK or QPSK alphabets are used for non-zero elements in precoding matrices.
Table 6.1-2: 6-bit precoding codebook for uplink spatial multiplexing with
four transmit antennas: precoding matrices for 1-layer transmission.
+----------+----------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | | Codebook | | | | | | | | +----------+----------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | Index | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 0 to 7 | | | | | | | | | +----------+----------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | Index | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 8 to 15 | | | | | | | | | +----------+----------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | Index | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 16 to 23 | | | | | | | | | +----------+----------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
Table 6.1-3: 6-bit precoding codebook for uplink spatial multiplexing with
four transmit antennas: precoding matrices for 2-layer transmission.
+---------+----------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | | Codebook | | | | | | | | +---------+----------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | Index | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 0 to 7 | | | | | | | | | +---------+----------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | Index | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 8 to 15 | | | | | | | | | +---------+----------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
## 6.1A Uplink transmit diversity
For UEs with multiple transmit antennas, an uplink Single Antenna Port Mode is
defined, where the UE behaviour is same as the one with single antenna from
eNodeB\'s perspective. For a given UE, the uplink Single Antenna Port Mode can
be independently configured for its PUCCH, PUSCH and SRS transmissions.
The uplink Single Antenna Port Mode is the default mode before eNodeB is aware
of the UE transmit antenna configuration.
### 6.1A.1 Transmit Diversity for Uplink Control Channel
For uplink control channels with Rel-8 PUCCH format 1/1a/1b, the spatial
orthogonal-resource transmit diversity (SORTD) scheme is supported for
transmissions with two antenna ports. In this transmit diversity scheme, the
same modulation symbol from the uplink channel is transmitted from two antenna
ports, on two separate orthogonal resources.
For the UE with four transmit antennas, the 2-tx transmit diversity scheme is
applied.
## 6.2 Uplink multiple access
DFT-precoded OFDM is the transmission scheme used for PUSCH both in absence
and presence of spatial multiplexing. In case of multiple component carriers,
there is one DFT per component carrier. Both frequency-contiguous and
frequency-non-contiguous resource allocation is supported on each component
carrier.
Simultaneous transmission of uplink L1/L2 control signalling and data is
supported through two mechanisms
\- Control signalling is multiplexed with data on PUSCH according to the same
principle as in LTE Rel-8
\- Control signalling is transmitted on PUCCH simultaneously with data on
PUSCH
## 6.3 Uplink reference signals
LTE Advanced retains the basic uplink reference-signal structure of LTE Rel-8,
with two types of uplink reference signals:
\- Demodulation reference signal
\- Sounding reference signal
In case of uplink multi-antenna transmission, the precoding applied for the
demodulation reference signal is the same as the one applied for the PUSCH.
Cyclic shift separation is the primary multiplexing scheme of the demodulation
reference signals.
The baseline for sounding reference signal in LTE-Advanced operation is non-
precoded and antenna-specific. For multiplexing of the sounding reference
signals, the LTE Rel-8 principles are reused.
## **_6.4 Uplink power control_**
Scope of uplink power control in LTE-Advanced is similar to Rel\'8:
\- UL power control mainly compensates for slow-varying channel conditions
while reducing the interference generated towards neighboring cells
\- Fractional path-loss compensation or full path-loss compensation is used on
PUSCH and full path-loss compensation on PUCCH
LTE-Advanced supports component carrier specific UL power control for both
contiguous and non-contiguous carrier aggregation for closed-loop case, and
for open loop at least for the cases that the number of downlink component
carriers is more than or equal to that of uplink component carriers.
# 7 Downlink transmission scheme
## 7.0 Physical channel mapping
LTE-Advanced supports the PDSCH to be mapped also to MBSFN (non-control)
region of MBSFN subframes that are not used for MBMS
\- In case of PDSCH mapping to MBSFN subframes, both normal and extended
cyclic prefix can be used for control and data region, same CP length is used
for control and data
\- Relation between CP length of normal and MBSFN subframes in the control
region is the same as in Rel-8
## **_7.1 Downlink spatial multiplexing_**
LTE-Advanced extends LTE Rel-8 downlink spatial multiplexing with support for
up to eight layers spatial multiplexing
In the downlink 8-by-X single user spatial multiplexing, up to two transport
blocks can be transmitted to a scheduled UE in a subframe per downlink
component carrier. Each transport block is assigned its own modulation and
coding scheme. For HARQ ACK/NAK feedback on uplink, one bit is used for each
transport block.
A transport block is associated with a codeword. For up to four layers, the
codeword-to-layer mapping is the same as for LTE Rel-8. For more than four
layers as well as the case of mapping one codeword to three or four layers,
which is for retransmission of one out of two codewords that were initially
transmitted with more than four layers, the layer mapping shall be done
according to Table 7.1-1. Complex-valued modulation symbols for code word
shall be mapped onto the layers, where is the number of layers and is the
number of modulation symbols per layer.
Table 7.1-1: Codeword-to-layer mapping for above four layers and the case of
mapping one codeword to three or four layers
+------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | Number of layers | Number of code | Codeword-to-layer | | | | words | mapping | | | | | | | | | | {width="1.0 | | | | | 965277777777778in" | | | | | height="0.26 | | | | | 38888888888889in"} | | +------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | 3 | 1 | | | +------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | 4 | 1 | | | +------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | 5 | 2 | | | +------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | | | | | +------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | 6 | 2 | | | +------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | | | | | +------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | 7 | 2 | | | +------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | | | | | +------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | 8 | 2 | | | +------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+ | | | | | +------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---+
### 7.1.1 Feedback in support of downlink spatial multiplexing
The baseline for feedback in support of downlink single-cell single-user
spatial multiplexing is codebook-based precoding feedback.
## **_7.2 Downlink reference signals_**
LTE-Advanced extends the downlink reference-signal structure of LTE with
\- Reference signals targeting PDSCH demodulation
\- Reference signals targeting CSI estimation (for CQI/PMI/RI/etc reporting
when needed)
The reference signal structure can be used to support multiple LTE-Advanced
features, e.g. CoMP and spatial multiplexing.
The reference signals targeting PDSCH demodulation are:
\- UE-specific, i.e, the PDSCH and the demodulation reference signals intended
for a specific UE are subject to the same precoding operation.
\- Present only in resource blocks and layers scheduled by the eNodeB for
transmission.
\- Mutually orthogonal between layers at the eNodeB.
The design principle for the reference signals targeting PDSCH modulation is
an extension to multiple layers of the concept of Rel-8 UE-specific reference
signals used for beamforming. Complementary use of Rel-8 cell-specific
reference signals by the UE is not precluded.
Reference signals targeting CSI estimation are
\- cell specific
\- sparse in frequency and time
\- punctured into the data region of normal/MBSFN subframe.
## 7.3 Downlink transmit diversity
For the downlink transmit diversity with more than four transmit antennas
applied to PDCCH, and PDSCH in non-MBSFN subframes, the Rel-8 transmit
diversity scheme is used.
# 8 Coordinated multiple point transmission and reception
Coordinated multi-point (CoMP) transmission/reception is considered for LTE-
Advanced as a tool to improve the coverage of high data rates, the cell-edge
throughput and/or to increase system throughput.
## **_8.1 Downlink coordinated multi-point transmission_**
Downlink coordinated multi-point transmission (CoMP) is a relatively general
term referring to different types of coordination in the downlink transmission
from multiple geographically separated transmission points (TP). This includes
coordination in the scheduling, including any beam-forming functionality,
between geographically separated transmission points and joint transmission
from geographically separated transmissions points.
## **_8.2 Uplink coordinated multi-point reception_**
Uplink CoMP reception is a relatively general term referring to different
types of coordination in the uplink reception at multiple, geographically
separated points. This includes coordination in the scheduling, including any
beam-forming functionality, between geographically separated reception points.
# 9 Relaying
## 9.1 General
LTE-Advanced extends LTE Rel-8 with support for relaying as a tool to improve
e.g. the coverage of high data rates, group mobility, temporary network
deployment, the cell-edge throughput and/or to provide coverage in new areas.
The relay node (RN) is wirelessly connected to a _donor cell_ of a _donor eNB_
via the Un interface, and UEs connect to the RN via the Uu interface as shown
on Figure 9.1-1 below.
Figure 9.1-1: Relays
With respect to the relay node\'s usage of spectrum, its operation can be
classified into:
_\- inband_ , in which case the eNB-RN link shares the same carrier frequency
with RN-UE links. Rel-8 UEs should be able to connect to the donor cell in
this case.
_\- outband_ , in which case the eNB-RN link does not operate in the same
carrier frequency as RN-UE links. Rel-8 UEs should be able to connect to the
donor cell in this case.
For both inband and outband relaying, it shall be possible to operate the eNB-
to-relay link on the same carrier frequency as eNB-to-UE links.
At least \"Type 1\" and \"Type 1a\" RNs are supported by LTE-Advanced.
A \"Type 1\" RN is an inband RN characterized by the following:
\- It controls cells, each of which appears to a UE as a separate cell
distinct from the donor cell
\- The cells shall have their own Physical Cell ID (as defined in LTE Rel-8)
and transmit their own synchronization channels, reference symbols, ...
\- In the context of single-cell operation, the UE receives scheduling
information and HARQ feedback directly from the RN and sends its control
channels (SR/CQI/ACK) to the RN
\- It shall appear as a Rel-8 eNodeB to Rel-8 UEs (i.e. be backwards
compatible)
\- To LTE-Advanced UEs, it should be possible for a relay node to appear
differently than Rel-8 eNodeB to allow for further performance enhancement.
A \"Type 1a\" relay node is characterised by the same set of features as the
\"Type 1\" relay node above, except \"Type 1a\" operates outband.
## 9.2 Architecture
On Uu interface between UE and RN, all AS control plane (RRC) and user plane
(PDCP, RLC and MAC) protocols are terminated in RN. On Un interface between RN
and eNB, the user plane is based on standardised protocols (PDCP, RLC, MAC).
The control plane on Un uses RRC (for the RN in its role as UE).
## 9.3 Relay-eNodeB link for inband relay
### 9.3.1 Resource partitioning for relay-eNodeB link
In order to allow inband relaying, some resources in the time-frequency space
are set aside for the backhaul link (Un) and cannot be used for the access
link (Uu). At least the following scheme is supported for this resource
partitioning:
Resource partitioning at the RN:
\- in the downlink, eNB → RN and RN → UE links are time division multiplexed
in a single carrier frequency (only one is active at any time)
\- in the uplink, UE → RN and RN → eNB links are time division multiplexed in
a single carrier frequency (only one is active at any time)
Multiplexing of backhaul links in FDD:
\- eNB → RN transmissions are done in the DL frequency band
\- RN → eNB transmissions are done in the UL frequency band
Multiplexing of backhaul links in TDD:
\- eNB → RN transmissions are done in the DL subframes of the eNB and RN
\- RN → eNB transmissions are done in the UL subframes of the eNB and RN
### 9.3.2 Backward compatible backhaul partitioning
Due to the relay transmitter causing interference to its own receiver,
simultaneous eNodeB-to-relay and relay-to-UE transmissions on the same
frequency resource may not be feasible unless sufficient isolation of the
outgoing and incoming signals is provided. Similarly, at the relay it may not
be possible to receive UE transmissions simultaneously with the relay
transmitting to the eNodeB.
One way to handle the interference problem is to operate the relay such that
the relay is not transmitting to terminals when it is supposed to receive data
from the donor eNodeB, i.e. to create \"gaps\" in the relay-to-UE
transmission. These \"gaps\" during which terminals (including Rel-8
terminals) are not supposed to expect any relay transmission can be created by
configuring MBSFN subframes as exemplified in Figure 9.1. Relay-to-eNodeB
transmissions can be facilitated by not allowing any terminal-to-relay
transmissions in some subframes.
Figure 9.1: Example of relay-to-UE communication using normal subframes (left)
and eNodeB-to-relay communication using MBSFN subframes (right).
### 9.3.3 Backhaul resource assignment
In case of downlink backhaul in downlink resources, the following is valid
\- At the RN, the access link downlink subframe boundary is aligned with the
backhaul link downlink subframe boundary, except for possible adjustment to
allow for RN transmit/receive switching
\- The set of downlink backhaul subframes, during which downlink backhaul
transmission may occur, is semi-statically assigned.
\- The set of uplink backhaul subframes, during which uplink backhaul
transmission may occur, can be semi-statically assigned, or implicitly derived
from the downlink backhaul subframes using the HARQ timing relationship
\- A new physical control channel (the R-PDCCH) is used to dynamically or
semi-persistently assign resources, within the semi-statically assigned sub-
frames, for the downlink backhaul data (corresponding to the R-PDSCH physical
channel). The R-PDCCH may assign downlink resources in the same and/or in one
or more later subframes.
\- The R-PDCCH is also used to dynamically or semi-persistently assign
resources for the uplink backhaul data (the R-PUSCH physical channel). The
R-PDCCH may assign uplink resources in one or more later subframes.
\- Within the PRBs semi-statically assigned for R-PDCCH transmission, a subset
of the resources is used for each R-PDCCH. The actual overall set of resources
used for R-PDCCH transmission within the above mentioned semi-statically
assigned PRBs may vary dynamically between subframes. These resources may
correspond to the full set of OFDM symbols available for the backhaul link or
be constrained to a subset of these OFDM symbols. The resources that are not
used for R-PDCCH within the above mentioned semi-statically assigned PRBs may
be used to carry R-PDSCH or PDSCH.
\- The detailed R-PDCCH transmitter processing (channel coding, interleaving,
multiplexing, etc.) should reuse Rel-8 functionality to the extent possible,
but allow removing some unnecessary procedure or bandwidth-wasting procedure
by considering the relay property.
\- If the search space approach of Rel-8 is used for the backhaul link, use of
common search space, which can be semi-statically configured (and potentially
includes entire system bandwidth), is the baseline. If RN-specific search
space is configured, it could be implicitly or explicitly known by RN.
\- The R-PDCCH is transmitted starting from an OFDM symbol within the subframe
that is late enough so that the relay can receive it.
\- R-PDSCH and R-PDCCH can be transmitted within the same PRBs or within
separated PRBs.
## 9.4 Relay-eNodeB link for outband relay
If relay-eNB and relay-UE links are isolated enough in frequency (possibly
with help of additional means such as antenna separation), then there is no
interference issue in activating both links simultaneously. Therefore, it
becomes possible for relay-eNodeB link to reuse the channels designed for UE-
eNodeB link.
# 10 Improvement for latency
## **_10.1 Improvement for C-Plane latency_**
In LTE-Advanced, the transition time requirement from Idle mode (with IP
address allocated) to Connected mode is less than 50 ms including the
establishment of the user plane (excluding the S1 transfer delay). The
transition requirement from a \"dormant state\" in Connected mode is less than
10 ms.
{width="2.5125in" height="1.6527777777777777in"}
Figure 10.1-1: C-Plane Latency
Although already LTE Rel-8 fulfills the latency requirements of ITU (see Annex
B), several mechanisms could be used to further reduce the latency and achieve
also the more aggressive LTE-Advanced targets set by 3GPP [3]:
\- **Combined RRC Connection Request and NAS Service Request** : combining
allows those two messages to be processed in parallel at the eNB and MME
respectively, reducing overall latency from Idle mode to Connected mode by
approx. 20ms.
\- **Reduced processing delays** : processing delays in the different nodes
form the major part of the delay (around 75% for the transition from Idle to
Connected mode assuming a combined request) so any improvement has a large
impact on the overall latency.
\- **Reduced RACH scheduling period** : decreasing the RACH scheduling period
from 10 ms to 5 ms results in decreasing by 2.5ms the average waiting time for
the UE to initiate the procedure to transit from Idle mode to Connected mode.
Regarding the transition from a \"dormant state\" in Connected mode, the
following mechanism could be used in LTE-Advanced to achieve the requirement:
\- **Shorter PUCCH cycle** : a shorter cycle of PUCCH would reduce the average
waiting time for a synchronised UE to request resources in Connected mode.
\- **Contention based uplink** : contention based uplink allows UEs to
transmit uplink data without having to first transmit Scheduling Request on
PUCCH, thus reducing the access time for synchronized UEs in Connected mode.
## 10.2 Improvement for U-Plane latency
LTE Rel-8 already benefits from a U-Plane latency below 10ms for synchronised
UEs (see Annex B). In situations where the UE does not have a valid scheduling
assignment, or when the UE needs to synchronize and obtain a scheduling
assignment, a reduced RACH scheduling period, shorter PUCCH cycle, contention
based uplink and reduced processing delays as described in clause 10.1 above
could also be used to improve the latency compared to LTE Rel-8.
# 11 Radio transmission and reception
## **_11.1 RF scenarios_**
### 11.1.1 Deployment scenarios
This clause reviews deployment scenarios that were considered for initial
investigation in a near term time frame. Scenarios are shown in Table
11.1.1-1.
Table 11.1.1-1: Deployment scenarios
* * *
Scenario Proposed initial deployment scenario for investigation a Single band
contiguous allocation for FDD (UL:40 MHz, DL: 80 MHz) b Single band contiguous
allocation for TDD (100 MHz) c Multi band non-contiguous allocation for FDD
(UL:40MHz, DL:40 MHz) d Multi band non contiguous allocation for TDD (90 MHz)
* * *
## **_11.2 Common requirements for UE and BS_**
### 11.2.1 Carrier Aggregation
#### 11.2.1.1 Bandwidth configuration of component carriers
Radio requirements shall be specified for aggregation of component carriers
for both contiguous and non-contiguous aggregation. The allowed channel
bandwidths for each component carrier are 1.4 MHz, 3.0 MHz, 5MHz, 10 MHz, 15
MHz and 20 MHz.
#### 11.2.1.2 Carrier spacing between component carriers
The carrier spacing between component carriers is a multiple of 300 kHz for
contiguous aggregation and non-contiguous aggregation in the same operating
band. It shall be possible to configure all component carriers LTE Release 8
compatible, at least when the aggregated numbers of component carriers in the
UL and the DL are same. Not all component carriers may necessarily be LTE
release 8 compatible.
### 11.2.2 Operating bands
Operating bands of LTE-Advanced will involve E-UTRA operating bands as well as
possible IMT bands identified by ITU-R. E-UTRA is designed to operate in the
operating bands as defined in [5, 6]. E-UTRA operating bands are shown in
Table 11.2.2-1.
Table 11.2.2-1 Operating bands for LTE-Advanced (E-UTRA operating bands):
* * *
Operating Band Uplink (UL) operating band\ Downlink (DL) operating band\
Duplex Mode  
BS receive/UE transmit BS transmit /UE receive
                   F~UL\_low~ -- F~UL\_high~     F~DL\_low~ -- F~DL\_high~
1 1920 MHz -- 1980 MHz 2110 MHz -- 2170 MHz FDD
2 1850 MHz -- 1910 MHz 1930 MHz -- 1990 MHz FDD
3 1710 MHz -- 1785 MHz 1805 MHz -- 1880 MHz FDD
4 1710 MHz -- 1755 MHz 2110 MHz -- 2155 MHz FDD
5 824 MHz -- 849 MHz 869 MHz -- 894MHz FDD
6 830 MHz- -- 840 MHz- 865 MHz -- 875 MHz- FDD
7 2500 MHz -- 2570 MHz 2620 MHz -- 2690 MHz FDD
8 880 MHz -- 915 MHz 925 MHz -- 960 MHz FDD
9 1749.9 MHz -- 1784.9 MHz 1844.9 MHz -- 1879.9 MHz FDD
10 1710 MHz -- 1770 MHz 2110 MHz -- 2170 MHz FDD
11 1427.9 MHz -- 1447.9 MHz 1475.9 MHz -- 1495.9 MHz FDD
12 698 MHz -- 716 MHz 728 MHz -- 746 MHz FDD
13 777 MHz -- 787 MHz 746 MHz -- 756 MHz FDD
14 788 MHz -- 798 MHz 758 MHz -- 768 MHz FDD
15 Reserved Reserved -
16 Reserved Reserved -
17 704 MHz -- 716 MHz 734 MHz -- 746 MHz FDD
18 815 MHz -- 830 MHz 860 MHz -- 875 MHz FDD
19 830 MHz -- 845 MHz 875 MHz -- 890 MHz FDD
20 832 MHz -- 862 MHz 791 MHz -- 821 MHz FDD
21 1447.9 MHz -- 1462.9 MHz 1495.9 MHz -- 1510.9 MHz FDD
22 3410 MHz 3500 MHz 3510 MHz 3600 MHz FDD
...
33 1900 MHz -- 1920 MHz 1900 MHz -- 1920 MHz TDD
34 2010 MHz -- 2025 MHz 2010 MHz -- 2025 MHz TDD
35 1850 MHz -- 1910 MHz 1850 MHz -- 1910 MHz TDD
36 1930 MHz -- 1990 MHz 1930 MHz -- 1990 MHz TDD
37 1910 MHz -- 1930 MHz 1910 MHz -- 1930 MHz TDD
38 2570 MHz -- 2620 MHz 2570 MHz -- 2620 MHz TDD
39 1880 MHz -- 1920 MHz 1880 MHz -- 1920 MHz TDD
40 2300 MHz -- 2400 MHz 2300 MHz -- 2400 MHz TDD
[41] [3400] MHz -- [3600] MHz [3400] MHz -- [3600] MHz TDD
* * *
Note: Frequency arrangement for certain operating bands in Table 11.2.2-1 may
be modified, eg. split into sub-bands, according as the future studies.
Introduction of the following other ITU-R IMT bands are not precluded in the
future.
(a) Possible frequency bands in 3.4-3.8 GHz band
(b) Possible frequency bands in 3.4-3.6GHz as well as 3.6-4.2GHz
(c) Possible frequency bands in 3.4-3.6 GHz band
(d) Possible frequency bands in 450−470 MHz band,
(e) Possible frequency bands in 698−862 MHz band
(f) Possible frequency bands in 790−862 MHz ban
(g) Possible frequency bands in 2.3−2.4 GHz band
(h) Possible frequency bands in 4.4-4.99 GHz band
## **_11.3 UE RF requirements_**
### 11.3.1 General
LTE-Advanced extends LTE release 8 with support for C _arrier Aggregation_ ,
where two or more _component carriers_ (CC) are aggregated in order to support
wider transmission bandwidths up to 100MHz and for spectrum aggregation. A
terminal may simultaneously receive one or multiple component carriers
depending on its capabilities
It will be possible to aggregate a different number of component carriers of
possibly different bandwidths in the UL and the DL. In typical TDD
deployments, the number of component carriers and the bandwidth of each
component carrier in UL and DL will be the same. Both Intra and Inter band
carrier aggregation are considered as potential Tx RF scenarios and parameters
and cover both of; Contiguous Component Carrier and non-contiguous Component
Carrier aggregation
RAN4, RF requirements are specified in terms of a Minimum Requirements
### 11.3.2 Transmitter characteristics
RAN4 Tx characteristic would need to support 3 generic aggregation scenarios
depending on UE capability;
\- Intra band contiguous **component** carrier (CC) aggregation
\- Intra band non - contiguous **component** carrier (CC) aggregation
\- Inter band non-contiguous **component** carrier (CC) aggregation
#### 11.3.2.1 Transmitter architecture
Figure 11.3.2.1-1 illustrates various TX architectures options according to
where the component carriers are combined, i.e., at digital baseband, or in
analog waveforms before RF mixer, or after mixer but before the PA, or after
the PA.
Option A
\- In an adjacent _contiguous common carrier_ aggregation scenario, the UE
very likely has one PA. Connected to the PA can be a single RF chain (a zero-
IF mixer, a wideband DAC, and a wideband IFFT)
Option-B
\- Combines analog baseband waveforms from component Carrier first (e.g., via
a mixer operating at an IF of roughly the bandwidth of the other component
carrier in the example of 2-component carrier aggregation). Then the resulting
wideband signal is up-converted to RF.
Option-C
\- Does ZIF up-conversion of each component carrier before combining and
feeding into a single PA.
Option-D
\- Employs multiple RF chains and multiple PAs after which the high-power
signals are combined and fed into a single antenna. PA coupling at the UE can
be challenging for option-D.
{width="6.01875in" height="5.449305555555555in"}
Figure 11.3.2.1-1: Possible UE Architectures in three aggregation scenarios
#### 11.3.2.2 Transmit power
In order to support backward related to UE maximum output power it is expect
that LTE-Advanced UE power class should be a subset of the current EUTRA and
UTRA Release 8 power classes. In the case of dual Tx antenna (separate or dual
PA) or CPE / Relay products the conducted transmit power may need to be
augmented to support these new features.
#### 11.3.2.3 Output power dynamics
In REL-8 power control is defined on sub-frame basis for a single component
carrier. For LTE-Advanced, the architecture of single or multiple PA can have
an impact on the power control dynamics. In the case where the PA supports a
component carrier, the CM is not a concern since each component carrier will
have a fixed maximum transmit power. But a single PA architecture can
potentially impact the power control procedure when its power is shared
amongst component carriers
For LTE-Advanced power control would need to consider the following scenarios
in the case of; OFF power, minimum power and power tolerance; In this case the
transmitter characteristic for output power dynamics could be defined;
\- Intra band contiguous **component** carrier (CC) aggregation
\- Intra band non - contiguous **component** carrier (CC) aggregation
\- Inter band non-contiguous **component** carrier (CC) aggregation
\- Single or multiple segment power control
#### 11.3.2.4 Transmit signal quality
In REL-8 EVM performance is defined on sub-frame basis for a single component
carrier.
For LTE-Advanced EVM would need to consider the following scenarios;
\- Intra band contiguous **component** carrier (CC) aggregation
\- Intra band non - contiguous **component** carrier (CC) aggregation
\- Inter band non-contiguous **component** carrier (CC) aggregation
#### 11.3.2.5 Output RF spectrum emissions
Spurious emissions are emissions which are caused by unwanted transmitter
effects such as harmonics emission, parasitic emissions, intermodulation
products and frequency conversion products, but exclude out of band emissions.
In REL8 the spectrum emission mask scales in proportion to the channel
bandwidth due to PA non-linearity for a single component carrier.
##### 11.3.2.5.1 Adjacent Channel Leakage ratio
In REL-8 the ALCR is defined for each channel bandwidth. For LTE-Advanced,
depending on the adjacent channel bandwidth (single or multiple CC) it may be
necessary to investigate the impact of ALCR with different number of CC.
In this case the transmitter characteristic for ACLR could be defined for;
\- Intra band contiguous **component** carrier (CC) aggregation
\- Intra band non - contiguous **component** carrier (CC) aggregation
\- Inter band non- contiguous **component** carrier (CC) aggregation
##### 11.3.2.5.2 Spurious emission (UE to UE co-existence)
One aspect relating to the emission spectrum would be UE to UE co-existence.
In this case the following aspects could be defined;
\- UE1 (Tx) and U2 (Rx) configuration for UE to UE co-existence analysis
\- Generic limit of (-50dBm /1MHz) be applicable for the case of contiguous CC
carrier
\- In the case of inter band scenario exceptions may need to be defined for
harmonic requirements
\- Guard band for TDD non synchronized operation
#### 11.3.2.6 Transmit intermodulation
The transmit intermodulation performance is a measure of the capability of the
transmitter to inhibit the generation of signals in its non linear elements
caused by presence of the wanted signal and an interfering signal reaching the
transmitter via the antenna.
The current RAN1 assumption assumes in the case of contiguous CC carriers then
RB can be freely allocated for the different CC carriers. In this case
intermodulation performance this may need to be defined in terms; per RB
allocation / per CC carrier / all CC.
### 11.3.3 Receiver characteristics
In order to define the consider the applicable Rx characteristic a number of
working assumptions will be needed to ensure the feature is applicable in
terms of UE implementation. Current REL8 working assumption has assumed some
constraints due to complexity and battery saving
One new form factor that could be consider is Customer Premise Equipment (CPE)
which would have the ability to initial these new features such as 2 Tx
antenna port and 4 Rx antenna port as a baseline work assumption in order to
address the Tx characteristics.
Rx characteristic would need to support 3 generic aggregation scenarios
depending on UE capability;
\- Intra band contiguous **component** carrier (CC) aggregation
\- Intra band non - contiguous **component** carrier (CC) aggregation
\- Inter band non-contiguous **component** carrier (CC) aggregation
#### 11.3.3.1 Receiver architecture
Table 11.3.3-1 illustrates various Rx architectures options for the three
scenarios
Table 11.3.3.1-1: Possible UE Architecture for the three aggregation scenarios
* * *
Rx Characteristics  
Option Description (Rx architecture) Intra Band aggregation Inter Band
aggregation  
Contiguous (CC) Non contiguous (CC) Non contiguous (CC) A Single (RF + FFT +
baseband) with BW>20MHz Yes B Multiple (RF + FFT + baseband) with BW≤20MHz Yes
Yes Yes
* * *
Option A
\- UE may adopt a single wideband-capable (i.e., >20MHz) RF front end (i.e.,
mixer, AGC, ADC) and a single FFT, or alternatively multiple \"legacy\" RF
front ends (\ Baseline asymmetry during 5 | | | > subframes period: | | | > | | | > \- 2 full DL subframes, | | | > | | | > \- Special subframe: DwPTS | | | > 11symbol, GP 1 symbol, UpPTS 2 | | | > symbol, | | | > | | | > \- 2 full UL subframes | | | > | | | > Alternative special subframe | | | > configurations may be used if | | | > stated. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Network synchronization | Synchronized | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Handover margin | 1.0 dB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Downlink transmission scheme | Baseline transmission scheme | | | (LTE Rel-8) | | | | | | - MIMO closed loop precoded | | | spatial multiplexing | | | (transmission mode 4 [12]): | | | Baseline: 4x2 MIMO | | | | | | - MIMO single stream | | | beamforming (transmission mode 7 | | | [12]) | | | | | | Advanced scheme (LTE- Rel-10 and | | | beyond (LTE-Advanced)) | | | | | | - MU-MIMO without coordination | | | | | | - Coordinated scheduling / | | | Beamforming (CS/CB)-CoMP | | | | | | - Joint processing (JP)-CoMP | | | | | | (SU-MIMO is possible for all | | | cases.) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Downlink scheduler | For baseline transmission scheme | | | (LTE Rel-8): | | | | | | > Proportional fair in time and | | | > frequency | | | | | | For advanced transmission scheme | | | (LTE- Rel-10 and beyond | | | (LTE-Advanced)) | | | | | | > Aligned with transmission | | | > scheme | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Downlink link adaptation | Non-ideal based on non-ideal | | | CQI/PMI/RI reports and/or | | | non-ideal sounding transmission, | | | reporting mode and period | | | selected according to scheduler | | | and MIMO transmission schemes; | | | reporting delay and MCS based on | | | LTE transport formats according | | | to [12]. | | | | | | Baseline (LTE Rel-8): | | | | | | A) Non-frequency selective PMI | | | and frequency selective CQI | | | report with 5ms periodicity, | | | subband CQI with measurement | | | error: N(0,1) per PRB | | | | | | B) Sounding-based precoding, | | | frequency selective CQI report | | | with 5ms periodicity, subband | | | CQI with measurement error: | | | N(0,1) per PRB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Downlink HARQ scheme | Incremental redundancy or Chase | | | combining | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Downlink receiver type | Baseline scheme | | | | | | > MMSE | | | | | | Advanced scheme | | | | | | > MMSE-SIC, MLD based receiver | | | | | | Each company should report a | | | description on interference | | | rejection and cancellation | | | capabilities. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Uplink transmission scheme | Baseline transmission scheme | | | (LTE Rel-8) | | | | | | - SIMO with and without MU-MIMO | | | | | | > Baseline: 1 x 4 SIMO | | | | | | Advanced transmission scheme | | | (LTE Rel-10 and beyond | | | (LTE-Advanced)) | | | | | | - SU-MIMO | | | | | | - UL CoMP | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Uplink scheduler | Channel dependent | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Uplink power control | Baseline: Fractional power | | | control. | | | | | | Alternative: Other Rel-8 | | | specified | | | | | | Power control parameters (P0 and | | | alpha) are chosen according to | | | the deployment scenario. (IoT | | | reported with simulation | | | results.) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Uplink link adaptation | Non-ideal based on delayed | | | SRS-based measurements: MCS | | | based on LTE transport formats | | | and SRS period and bandwidths | | | according to [12]. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Uplink HARQ scheme | Incremental redundancy or Chase | | | combining | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Uplink receiver type | MMSE or MMSE-SIC (MU-MIMO) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Antenna configuration\ | Baseline: 4 or 8 Tx antennas | | base station | with the following | | | configurations: | | | | | | A) Uncorrelated co-polarized:\ | | | Co-polarized antennas separated | | | 4 wavelengths\ | | | (illustration for 4 Tx: \| \| \| | | | \|) | | | | | | B) Grouped co-polarized:\ | | | Two groups of co-polarized | | | antennas. 10 wavelengths between | | | center of each group. 0.5 | | | wavelength separation within | | | each group\ | | | (illustration for 4 Tx: \|\| | | | \|\| ) | | | | | | C) Correlated: co-polarized:\ | | | 0.5 wavelengths between | | | antennas\ | | | (illustration for 4 Tx: \|\|\|\| | | | ) | | | | | | D) Uncorrelated | | | cross-polarized:\ | | | Columns with +-45deg linearly | | | polarized antennas\ | | | Columns separated 4 wavelengths\ | | | (illustration for 4 Tx: X X) | | | | | | E) Correlated cross-polarized\ | | | Columns with +-45deg linearly | | | polarized antennas\ | | | Columns separated 0.5 | | | wavelengths\ | | | (illustration for 8Tx: XXXX) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Antenna configuration UE | Baseline: | | | | | | > Vertically polarized antennas | | | > with 0.5 wavelengths | | | > separation at UE | | | | | | Alternative: | | | | | | > Columns with linearly | | | > polarized orthogonal antennas | | | > with 0.5 wavelengths spacing | | | > between columns | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Channel estimation | Non-ideal **\ | | | (consider both estimation errors | | (Uplink and downlink) | both for demodulation reference | | | signals and sounding reference | | | signals)** | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Control channel and reference | - For baseline transmission | | signal overhead, | (LTE) schemes: | | Acknowledgements etc. | | | | - Downlink | | | | | | - Overhead for CRS and antenna | | | port 5 according to DL | | | transmission schemes | | | | | | - Overhead for DL CCH of L OFDM | | | symbols (L=1,2,3) | | | | | | - Overhead for SS/PBCH | | | | | | - Uplink | | | | | | - SRS overhead according to UL | | | (and DL) scheduler and | | | transmission scheme | | | | | | - Overhead for UL CCH according | | | to CQI/PMI reporting mode and | | | periodicity used for DL | | | simulation for the same scenario | | | | | | - For advanced transmission | | | schemes (LTE Rel-10 and beyond | | | (LTE-Advanced)) | | | | | | - Downlink | | | | | | - Overhead assuming 6 MBSFN | | | subframes per DL radio frame | | | (FDD), 2 MBSFN subframes per DL | | | radio frame (TDD) | | | | | | - Overhead for DL CCH of L OFDM | | | symbols (L=1,2,3) | | | | | | - Overhead for SS/PBCH | | | | | | - Overhead for CRS with 1 | | | antenna port | | | | | | - Overhead for DRS | | | | | | - Uplink | | | | | | - UL overhead for CSI feedback | | | and SRS transmission according | | | to transmission scheme factored | | | into the uplink results for the | | | same scenarios | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Feedback and control channel | None | | errors | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
# A.2 CoMP assumption for evaluation
For the performance evaluation of DL CoMP schemes, following two types of CoMP
categories were evaluated.
\- Joint Processing (JP): data is available at each of the geometrically
separated points, and PDSCH transmission occurs from multiple points.
\- Coordinated Scheduling/Beamforming (CS/CB): data is only available at
serving cell (data transmission from that point) but user
scheduling/beamforming decisions are made with coordination among cells.
(a) Joint processing
(b) Coordinated Scheduling/Beamforming (CS/CB)
Figure A.2-1: Coordinated multi-point transmission
# A.3 Detailed simulation results
Detailed simulation results of cell spectral efficiency and cell edge spectral
efficiency for full-buffer traffic, VoIP capacity and mobility in Clause 16.4
are contained in RP-090744 [13]. The following 18 corporate entities (listed
below alphabetically) participated in these simulations:
Alcatel-Lucent/Alcatel-Lucent Shanghai Bell, CATT, CMCC, Ericsson/ST-Ericsson,
Fujitsu, Hitachi, Huawei, LGE, Motorola, NEC, Nokia/Nokia Siemens Networks,
NTT DOCOMO, Panasonic, Qualcomm, RITT, Samsung, Texas Instruments, ZTE
###### ### Annex B: Latency performance of Rel-8
# B.1 C-plane latency
## B.1.1 Transition IDLE to CONNECTED
Figure B.1 provides an example C-plane flow for the IDLE to CONNECTED
transition for Rel-8.
Figure B.1.1-1: C-plane activation procedure (example for Rel-8)
### B.1.1.1 FDD frame structure
Table B.1.1.1-1 provides a timing analysis, assuming FDD frame structure, of
the flow depicted in Figure B.1.1-1. The analysis illustrates that the state
transition from IDLE to CONNECTED can be achieved within a minimum of 76ms,
with 3ms msg2 window and 1ms PRACH cycle. Considering more reasonable settings
(5ms msg2 window and 5ms PRACH cycle), a 80ms transition time is achieved.
Table B.1.1.1-1: C-plane latency analysis for Rel-8\ (based on the procedure
depicted in Figure B.1.1-1)
+-----------+-----------------------------------+---------+---------+ | Component | Description | Minimum | Average | | | | | | | | | [ms] | [ms] | +-----------+-----------------------------------+---------+---------+ | 1 | Average delay due to RACH | 0.5 | 2.5 | | | scheduling period | | | +-----------+-----------------------------------+---------+---------+ | 2 | RACH Preamble | 1 | 1 | +-----------+-----------------------------------+---------+---------+ | 3-4 | Preamble detection and | 3 | 5 | | | transmission of RA response (Time | | | | | between the end RACH transmission | | | | | and UE\'s reception of scheduling | | | | | grant and timing adjustment) | | | +-----------+-----------------------------------+---------+---------+ | 5 | UE Processing Delay (decoding of | 5 | 5 | | | scheduling grant, timing | | | | | alignment and C-RNTI assignment + | | | | | L1 encoding of RRC Connection | | | | | Request) | | | +-----------+-----------------------------------+---------+---------+ | 6 | Transmission of RRC Connection | 1 | 1 | | | Request | | | +-----------+-----------------------------------+---------+---------+ | 7 | Processing delay in eNB (L2 and | 4 | 4 | | | RRC) | | | +-----------+-----------------------------------+---------+---------+ | 8 | Transmission of RRC Connection | 1 | 1 | | | Set-up (and UL grant) | | | +-----------+-----------------------------------+---------+---------+ | 9 | Processing delay in the UE (L2 | 15 | 15 | | | and RRC) | | | +-----------+-----------------------------------+---------+---------+ | 10 | Transmission of RRC Connection | 1 | 1 | | | Set-up complete (including NAS | | | | | Service Request) | | | +-----------+-----------------------------------+---------+---------+ | 11 | Processing delay in eNB (Uu --> | 4 | 4 | | | S1-C) | | | +-----------+-----------------------------------+---------+---------+ | 12 | S1-C Transfer delay | T_S1 | T_S1 | +-----------+-----------------------------------+---------+---------+ | 13 | MME Processing Delay (including | 15 | 15 | | | UE context retrieval of 10ms) | | | +-----------+-----------------------------------+---------+---------+ | 14 | S1-C Transfer delay | T_S1 | T_S1 | +-----------+-----------------------------------+---------+---------+ | 15 | Processing delay in eNB (S1-C | 4 | 4 | | | --> Uu) | | | +-----------+-----------------------------------+---------+---------+ | 16 | Transmission of RRC Security Mode | 1.5 | 1.5 | | | Command and Connection | | | | | Reconfiguration (+TTI alignment) | | | +-----------+-----------------------------------+---------+---------+ | 17 | Processing delay in UE (L2 and | 20 | 20 | | | RRC) | | | +-----------+-----------------------------------+---------+---------+ | | **Total delay [ms]** | **76** | **80** | +-----------+-----------------------------------+---------+---------+
Note 1: The figures included in Steps 12 and 14 are not included in the
latency requirement and are outside the scope of RAN WG2, therefore they are
not included in the total delay.
### B.1.1.2 TDD frame structure
Table B.1.1.2-1 provides a timing analysis, assuming TDD frame structure
(UL/DL configuration #1), of the flow depicted in Figure B.1.1-1 The analysis
illustrates that the state transition from IDLE to CONNECTED can be achieved
within a minimum of 82.6ms, with 3ms msg2 window and maximum PRACH density in
time domain (e.g. PRACH configuration Index = 12). Considering more reasonable
settings (5ms msg2 window and 5ms PRACH cycle), a 84.6ms transition time is
achieved.
Table B.1.1.2-1: C-plane latency analysis for Rel-8 (based on the procedure
depicted in B.1.1-1)
+-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Component | Description | Rel-8 | Rel-8 | Rel-8 | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Minimum(ms) | Average | | | | | | [ms] | | | | | PRACH in | | | | | | s | PRACH in | | | | | ubframe#2/ | s | | | | | #3/ #7/ | ubframe#1/ | | | | | #8 | #6 | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Msg1 in | Msg1 in | Msg1 in | | | | subframe#2 | subframe#3 | subframe#1 | | | | or #7 | or #8 | or #6 | | | | | | | | | | (proba | ( | | | | | bility=0.8) | probability | | | | | | =0.2) | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1 | Average | 2 | 0.5 | 2.5 | | | delay due | | | | | | to RACH | | | | | | scheduling | | | | | | period | | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 2 | RACH | 1 | 1 | 1 | | | Preamble | | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 3-4 | Preamble | 3 | 3 | 5 | | | detection | | | | | | and | | | | | | t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | of RA | | | | | | response | | | | | | (Time | | | | | | between the | | | | | | end RACH | | | | | | t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | and UE\'s | | | | | | reception | | | | | | of | | | | | | scheduling | | | | | | grant and | | | | | | timing | | | | | | adjustment) | | | | | | + delay for | | | | | | nearest DL | | | | | | subframe | | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 5 | UE | 6 | 5 | 5 | | | Processing | | | | | | Delay | | | | | | (decoding | | | | | | of | | | | | | scheduling | | | | | | grant, | | | | | | timing | | | | | | alignment | | | | | | and C-RNTI | | | | | | assignment | | | | | | + L1 | | | | | | encoding of | | | | | | RRC | | | | | | Connection | | | | | | Request) + | | | | | | delay for | | | | | | nearest UL | | | | | | subframe | | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 6 | T | 1 | 1 | 1 | | | ransmission | | | | | | of RRC | | | | | | Connection | | | | | | Request | | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 7 | Processing | 6 | 6 | 6 | | | delay in | | | | | | eNB (L2 and | | | | | | RRC) + | | | | | | delay for | | | | | | nearest DL | | | | | | subframe | | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 8 | T | 1 | 1 | 1 | | | ransmission | | | | | | of RRC | | | | | | Connection | | | | | | Set-up (and | | | | | | UL grant) | | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 9 | Processing | 17 | 17 | 17 | | | delay in | | | | | | the UE (L2 | | | | | | and RRC) + | | | | | | delay for | | | | | | nearest UL | | | | | | subframe | | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 10 | T | 1 | 1 | 1 | | | ransmission | | | | | | of RRC | | | | | | Connection | | | | | | Set-up | | | | | | complete | | | | | | (including | | | | | | NAS Service | | | | | | Request) | | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 11 | Processing | 4 | 4 | 4 | | | delay in | | | | | | eNB (Uu | | | | | | --> S1-C) | | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 12 | S1-C | T_S1 | T_S1 | T_S1 | | | Transfer | | | | | | delay | | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 13 | MME | 15 | 15 | 15 | | | Processing | | | | | | Delay | | | | | | (including | | | | | | UE context | | | | | | retrieval | | | | | | of 10ms) | | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 14 | S1-C | T_S1 | T_S1 | T_S1 | | | Transfer | | | | | | delay | | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 15 | Processing | 4 | 4 | 4 | | | delay in | | | | | | eNB (S1-C | | | | | | --> Uu) | | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 16 | T | 2.1 | 2.1 | 2.1 | | | ransmission | | | | | | of RRC | | | | | | Security | | | | | | Mode | | | | | | Command and | | | | | | Connection | | | | | | Reco | | | | | | nfiguration | | | | | | (+TTI | | | | | | alignment) | | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 17 | Processing | 20 | 20 | 20 | | | delay in UE | | | | | | (L2 and | | | | | | RRC) | | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | **Total |** 83.1**|** 80.6**|** 84.6**| | | delay | | | | | | [ms]** | | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | **Averaged | * |** N/A**| | | | Total delay |_83.1*0.8+ | | | | | [ms] | 80.6\ | | | | | ( |_ 0.2=82.6** | | | | | considering | | | | | | the | | | | | | probability | | | | | | of Msg1 | | | | | | t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | location)** | | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Note 2: The figures included in Steps 12 and 14 are not included in the
latency requirement and are outside the scope of RAN WG2, therefore they are
not included in the total delay.
## B.1.2 Transition Dormant to Active
In the dormant state, the UE has an established RRC connection and radio
bearers; it is thus known at cell level but may be in DRX to save power during
temporary inactivity. The UE may be either synchronized or unsynchronized. For
the purpose of the analysis presented in this clause, error free transmission
of data and signalling is assumed, and the DRX cycle is not considered.
### B.1.2.1 FDD frame structure
#### B.1.2.1.1 Uplink initiated transition, synchronized
Table B.1.2.1.1-1 provides a timing analysis, assuming FDD frame structure and
a PUCCH allocation for scheduling request of 5ms, of the uplink state
transition for a UE with uplink synchronization. The analysis illustrates that
the uplink transition from dormant to active for a synchronized UE can be
achieved within 11.5ms.
Table B.1.2.1.1-1: Uplink initiated dormant to active transition for
synchronized UE (error free)
* * *
Component Description Time [ms] 1 Average delay to next SR opportunity (5ms
PUCCH cycle) 2.5 2 UE sends Scheduling Request 1 3 eNB decodes Scheduling
Request and generates the Scheduling Grant 3 4 Transmission of Scheduling
Grant 1 5 UE Processing Delay (decoding of scheduling grant + L1 encoding of
UL data) 3 6 Transmission of UL data 1 Total delay 11.5
* * *
#### B.1.2.1.2 Uplink initiated transition, unsynchronized
Table B.1.2.1.2-1 provides a timing analysis of the uplink state transition
for a UE without uplink synchronization. The analysis illustrates that the
uplink transition from dormant to active for an unsynchronized UE can be
achieved within a minimum of 10.5ms, with 1ms PRACH cycle and a 3ms msg2
window.
Table B.1.2.1.2-1: Uplink initiated dormant to active transition for
unsynchronized UE (error free)
* * *
Component Description Minimum [ms] Average\ [ms]
1 Average delay due to RACH scheduling period 0.5 2.5
2 RACH Preamble 1 1
3 Preamble detection and transmission of RA response (Time between the end of
RACH transmission and UE\'s reception of scheduling grant and timing adj.) 3 5
4 UE Processing Delay (decoding of scheduling grant and timing alignment + L1
encoding of UL data) 5 5
5 Transmission of UL data 1 1
              Total delay                                                                                                                                              10.5             14.5
* * *
#### B.1.2.1.3 Downlink initiated transition, synchronized
A UE with uplink synchronization monitors PDCCH during the on-duration time of
the DRX cycle, and there is thus no additional delay component apart from the
DRX cycle when compared to the case of the uplink initiated for a synchronized
UE.
#### B.1.2.1.4 Downlink initiated transition, unsynchronized
Table B.1.2.1.4-1 provides a timing analysis, assuming FDD frame structure, of
the downlink state transition for a UE without uplink synchronization. For the
downlink initiated transition, a dedicated preamble is assumed and no
contention resolution is needed. The analysis illustrates that the downlink
transition from dormant to active for an unsynchronized UE can be achieved
within a minimum of 13.5ms, with 1ms PRACH cycle and a 3ms msg2 window.
Table B.1.2.1.4-1: Downlink initiated dormant to active transition (error
free)
* * *
Component Description Minimum [ms] Average\ [ms]
1 UE receives dedicated preamble on PDCCH and prepares UL Tx and cannot select
a PRACH occasion before n+6 6 6
2 Average delay due to RACH scheduling period 0.5 2.5
3 RACH Preamble 1 1
4 Preamble detection and transmission of RA response (Time between the end
RACH transmission and UE\'s reception of the timing adjustment) 3 5
5 Node B needs to wait 2 subframes before DL Tx to allow UE to adapt UL
response according to the time alignment 2 2
6 Transmission of DL data 1 1
              Total delay \[ms\]                                                                                                                         13.5             17.5
* * *
### B.1.2.2 TDD frame structure
#### B.1.2.2.1 Uplink initiated transition, synchronized
Table B.1.2.2.1-1 provides a timing analysis, assuming TDD frame structure
(UL/DL configuration#1) and a PUCCH allocation for scheduling request of 5ms,
of the uplink state transition for a UE with uplink synchronization. The
analysis illustrates that the uplink transition from dormant to active for a
synchronized UE can be achieved within 13.5ms.
Table B.1.2.2.1-1: Uplink initiated dormant to active transition for
synchronized UE (error free)
* * *
Component Description Time [ms] Time [ms] SR in subframe#2 or #7 SR in
subframe#3 or #8 1 Average delay to next SR opportunity (5ms PUCCH cycle) 2.5
2.5 2 UE sends Scheduling Request 1 1 3 eNB decodes Scheduling Request and
generates the Scheduling Grant + delay for nearest DL subframe 3 5 4
Transmission of Scheduling Grant 1 1 5 UE Processing Delay (decoding of
scheduling grant + L1 encoding of UL data) 5 3 6 Transmission of UL data +
delay for nearest UL subframe 1 1 Total delay 13.5 13.5
* * *
#### B.1.2.2.2 Uplink initiated transition, unsynchronized
Table B.1.2.2.2-1 provides a timing analysis, assuming TDD frame structure
(UL/DL configuration#1) and RACH cycle of 10ms, of the uplink state transition
for a UE without uplink synchronization. The analysis illustrates that the
uplink transition from dormant to active for an unsynchronized UE can be
achieved within a minimum of 12.5ms, with 3ms msg2 window and maximum PRACH
density in time domain (e.g. PRACH configuration Index=12).
Table B1.2.2.2-1: Uplink initiated dormant to active transition for
unsynchronized UE (error free)
+-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Component | Description | Minimum(ms) | Average | | | | | | [ms] | | | | | PRACH in | | | | | | s | PRACH in | | | | | ubframe#2/ | s | | | | | #3/ #7/ | ubframe#1/ | | | | | #8 | #6 | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Msg1 in | Msg1 in | Msg1 in | | | | subframe#2 | subframe#3 | subframe#1 | | | | or #7 | or #8 | or #6 | | | | | | | | | | (proba | (proba | | | | | bility=0.8) | bility=0.2) | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1 | Average | 2 | 0.5 | 2.5 | | | delay due | | | | | | to RACH | | | | | | scheduling | | | | | | period | | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 2 | RACH | 1 | 1 | 1 | | | Preamble | | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 3 | Preamble | 3 | 3 | 5 | | | detection | | | | | | and | | | | | | t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | of RA | | | | | | response | | | | | | (Time | | | | | | between the | | | | | | end of RACH | | | | | | t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | and UE\'s | | | | | | reception | | | | | | of | | | | | | scheduling | | | | | | grant and | | | | | | timing | | | | | | adj.) + | | | | | | delay for | | | | | | nearest DL | | | | | | subframe | | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 4 | UE | 6 | 5 | 5 | | | Processing | | | | | | Delay | | | | | | (decoding | | | | | | of | | | | | | scheduling | | | | | | grant and | | | | | | timing | | | | | | alignment + | | | | | | L1 encoding | | | | | | of UL data) | | | | | | + delay for | | | | | | nearest UL | | | | | | subframe | | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 5 | T | 1 | 1 | 1 | | | ransmission | | | | | | of UL data | | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Total delay | 13 | 10.5 | 14.5 | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Averaged | 12.5 | N/A | | | | Total delay | | | | | | [ms] | | | | | | ( | | | | | | considering | | | | | | the | | | | | | probability | | | | | | of Msg1 | | | | | | t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | location) | | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### B.1.2.2.3 Downlink initiated transition, synchronized
A UE with uplink synchronization monitors PDCCH during the on-duration time of
the DRX cycle, and there is thus no additional delay component apart from the
DRX cycle when compared to the case of the uplink initiated for a synchronized
UE.
#### B.1.2.2.4 Downlink initiated transition, unsynchronized
Tables B.1.2.2.4-1a and B.1.2.2.4-1b provide a timing analysis, assuming TDD
frame structure (UL/DL configuration#1), of the downlink state transition for
a UE without uplink synchronization. For the downlink initiated transition, a
dedicated preamble is assumed and no contention resolution is needed. The
analysis illustrates that the downlink transition from dormant to active for
an unsynchronized UE can be achieved within a minimum of 16.5ms, with 3ms msg2
window and maximum PRACH density in time domain (e.g. PRACH configuration
Index=12).
Table B.1.2.2.4-1a: Downlink initiated dormant to active transition (error
free)
+-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Component | Description | Minimum(ms) | | | | | | | | | | | | PRACH in | | | | | | s | | | | | | ubframe#2/ | | | | | | #3/ #7/ | | | | | | #8 | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | PDCCH in | PDCCH in | PDCCH in | | | | subframe#0 | subframe#1 | subframe#4 | | | | or #5 | or #6 | or #9 | | | | | | | | | | (proba | (proba | (proba | | | | bility=0.2) | bility=0.2) | bility=0.6) | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1 | Average | 0.5 | 0.5 | 1.5 | | | delay due | | | | | | to PDCCH | | | | | | t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 2 | UE receives | 7 | 6 | 8 | | | dedicated | | | | | | preamble on | | | | | | PDCCH and | | | | | | prepares UL | | | | | | Tx+ delay | | | | | | for nearest | | | | | | PRACH | | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 3 | RACH | 1 | 1 | 1 | | | Preamble | | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 4 | Preamble | 3 | 3 | 3 | | | detection | | | | | | and | | | | | | t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | of RA | | | | | | response | | | | | | (Time | | | | | | between the | | | | | | end RACH | | | | | | t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | and UE\'s | | | | | | reception | | | | | | of the | | | | | | timing | | | | | | adjustment) | | | | | | + delay for | | | | | | nearest DL | | | | | | subframe | | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 5 | Node B | 3 | 3 | 3 | | | needs to | | | | | | wait 2 | | | | | | subframes | | | | | | before DL | | | | | | Tx to allow | | | | | | UE to adapt | | | | | | UL response | | | | | | according | | | | | | to the time | | | | | | alignment+ | | | | | | delay for | | | | | | nearest DL | | | | | | subframe | | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 6 | T | 1 | 1 | 1 | | | ransmission | | | | | | of DL data | | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Total delay | 15.5 | 14.5 | 17.5 | | | [ms] | | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Averaged | 16.5 | | | | | Total delay | | | | | | [ms] | | | | | | ( | | | | | | considering | | | | | | the | | | | | | probability | | | | | | of PDCCH | | | | | | t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | location) | | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Table B.1.2.2.4-1b: Downlink initiated dormant to active transition (error
free)
+-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Component | Description | Average | | | | | | [ms] | | | | | | | | | | | | PRACH in | | | | | | s | | | | | | ubframe#1/ | | | | | | #6 | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | PDCCH in | PDCCH in | PDCCH in | | | | subframe#0 | subframe#1 | subframe#4 | | | | or #5 | or #6 | or #9 | | | | | | | | | | (proba | (proba | (proba | | | | bility=0.2) | bility=0.2) | bility=0.6) | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1 | Average | 0.5 | 0.5 | 1.5 | | | delay due | | | | | | to PDCCH | | | | | | t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 2 | UE receives | 6 | 10 | 7 | | | dedicated | | | | | | preamble on | | | | | | PDCCH and | | | | | | prepares UL | | | | | | Tx+ delay | | | | | | for nearest | | | | | | PRACH | | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 3 | RACH | 1 | 1 | 1 | | | Preamble | | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 4 | Preamble | 5 | 5 | 5 | | | detection | | | | | | and | | | | | | t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | of RA | | | | | | response | | | | | | (Time | | | | | | between the | | | | | | end RACH | | | | | | t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | and UE\'s | | | | | | reception | | | | | | of the | | | | | | timing | | | | | | adjustment) | | | | | | + delay for | | | | | | nearest DL | | | | | | subframe | | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 5 | Node B | 2 | 2 | 2 | | | needs to | | | | | | wait 2 | | | | | | subframes | | | | | | before DL | | | | | | Tx to allow | | | | | | UE to adapt | | | | | | UL response | | | | | | according | | | | | | to the time | | | | | | alignment+ | | | | | | delay for | | | | | | nearest DL | | | | | | subframe | | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 6 | T | 1 | 1 | 1 | | | ransmission | | | | | | of DL data | | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Total delay | 15.5 | 19.5 | 17.5 | | | [ms] | | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Averaged | 17.5 | | | | | Total delay | | | | | | [ms] | | | | | | ( | | | | | | considering | | | | | | the | | | | | | probability | | | | | | of PDCCH | | | | | | t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | location) | | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
# B.2 U-plane latency
## B.2.1 FDD frame structure
The LTE U-plane one way latency for a scheduled UE consists of the fixed node
processing delays (which includes radio frame alignment) and 1ms TTI duration
for FDD as shown in Figure B.2.1-1. Considering that the number of HARQ
processes is fixed to 8 for FDD, the one-way latency can calculated as:
DUP [ms] = 1.5 + 1 + 1.5+ n*8 = 4 + n*8,
where n is the number of HARQ retransmissions. Considering a typical case
where there would be 0 or 1 retransmission, the approximate average U-plane
latency is given by
D~UP,typical~ [ms] = 4 + p*8,
where p is the error probability of the first HARQ retransmission. The minimum
latency is achieved for a 0% BLER, but a more reasonable setting is 10% HARQ
BLER.
D~UP,0%HARQ_BLER~ [ms] = 4 (0% HARQ BLER)
D~UP,10%HARQ_BLER~ [ms] = 4.8 (10% HARQ BLER)
Figure B.2.1-1: User plane latency components for FDD
## B.2.2 TDD frame structure
The LTE U-plane one way latency for a scheduled UE consists of the fixed node
processing delays, radio frame alignment and TTI duration for TDD as shown in
Figure B.2.2-1.
(a) Downlink
(b) Uplink
Figure B.2.2-1: User plane latency components for TDD
Where:
a) The total one-way processing time is 2.5ms.
b) is radio frame alignment and depends on the frame structure.
c) The TTI duration is 1ms.
Based on the assumptions above, the LTE U-plane latency is given by:
D~UP~ [ms] = 1 + + 1 + 1.5 + n*
where is the average HARQ RTT and n is the number of HARQ retransmissions. In
typical cases there would be 0 or 1 re-transmissions yielding an approximate
average U-plane latency of
D~UP,typical~ [ms] = 3.5 + + p*
where p is the error probability of the first HARQ transmission. Tables
B.2.2-2a and B.2.2-2b show the U-plane latency in downlink and uplink,
respectively, for different TDD UL/DL configuration when 0% HARQ BLER is
assumed.
Table B.2.2-2a: U-plane latency analysis with 0% HARQ BLER (average in
downlink)
* * *
Step Description UL/DL configuration  
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 1 eNB Processing Delay 1ms 1ms 1ms 1ms 1ms 1ms 1ms 2 Frame
Alignment 1.7ms 1.1ms 0.7ms 1.1ms 0.8ms 0.6ms 1.4ms 3 TTI duration 1ms 1ms 1ms
1ms 1ms 1ms 1ms 4 UE Processing Delay 1.5ms 1.5ms 1.5ms 1.5ms 1.5ms 1.5ms
1.5ms **Total one way delay** **5.2ms** **4.6ms** **4.2ms** **4.6ms**
**4.3ms** **4.1ms** **4.9ms**
* * *
Table B.2.2-2b: U-plane latency analysis with 0% HARQ BLER (average in uplink)
* * *
Step Description UL/DL configuration  
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 1 UE Processing Delay 1ms 1ms 1ms 1ms 1ms 1ms 1ms 2 Frame
Alignment 1.1ms 1.7ms 2.5ms 3.3ms 4.1ms 5ms 1.4ms 3 TTI duration 1ms 1ms 1ms
1ms 1ms 1ms 1ms 4 eNB Processing Delay 1.5ms 1.5ms 1.5ms 1.5ms 1.5ms 1.5ms
1.5ms **Total one way delay** **4.6ms** **5.2ms** **6ms** **6.8ms** **7.6ms**
**8.5ms** **4.9ms**
* * *
Tables B.2.2-3a and B.2.2-3b show the U-plane latency in downlink and uplink,
respectively, for different TDD UL/DL configuration when 10% HARQ BLER is
assumed.
Table B.2.2-3a: U-plane latency analysis with 10% HARQ BLER (average in
downlink)
* * *
Step Description UL/DL configuration  
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 1 eNB Processing Delay 1ms 1ms 1ms 1ms 1ms 1ms 1ms 2 Frame
Alignment 1.7ms 1.1ms 0.7ms 1.1ms 0.8ms 0.6ms 1.4ms 3 TTI duration 1ms 1ms 1ms
1ms 1ms 1ms 1ms 4 UE Processing Delay 1.5ms 1.5ms 1.5ms 1.5ms 1.5ms 1.5ms
1.5ms 5 HARQ Retransmission 0.1*10ms 0.1*10.2ms 0.1*9.8ms 0.1*10.5ms
0.1*11.6ms 0.1*12.4ms 0.1*11.2ms **Total one way delay** **6.2ms** **5.62ms**
**5.18ms** **5.65ms** **5.46ms** **5.34ms** **6.02ms**
* * *
Table B.2.2-3b: U-plane latency analysis with 10% HARQ BLER (average in
uplink)
* * *
Step Description UL/DL configuration  
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 1 UE Processing Delay 1ms 1ms 1ms 1ms 1ms 1ms 1ms 2 Frame
Alignment 1.1ms 1.7ms 2.5ms 3.3ms 4.1ms 5ms 1.4ms 3 TTI duration 1ms 1ms 1ms
1ms 1ms 1ms 1ms 4 eNB Processing Delay 1.5ms 1.5ms 1.5ms 1.5ms 1.5ms 1.5ms
1.5ms 5 HARQ Retransmission 0.1*11.6ms 0.1*10ms 0.1*10ms 0.1*10ms 0.1*10ms
0.1*10ms 0.1*11.5ms **Total one way delay** **5.76ms** **6.2ms** **7ms**
**7.8ms** **8.6ms** **9.5ms** **6.05ms**
* * *
Note: The analysis shows that the 5ms U-plane latency requirement can be
simultaneously satisfied in TDD for both uplink and downlink using the UL/DL
configuration #6 when 0% HARQ BLER is assumed.
###### ### Annex C: ITU-R Submission Templates
The submission of the 3GPP \"LTE Release 10 & beyond (LTE-Advanced)\" to the
ITU-R as a candidate technology for the IMT-Advanced must include completed
templates according to Report ITU-R M.2133 [7].
# C.1 Description template -- characteristics (4.2.3.2)
The 3GPP description template -- characteristics (4.2.3.2) for both the FDD
and the TDD component is found in RP-090745 [14].
# C.2 Description template -- link budget (4.2.3.3)
The 3GPP description template -- link budget (4.2.3.3) for both the FDD and
the TDD component is found in RP-090746 [15].
# C.3 Compliance templates for services (4.2.4.1), for spectrum (4.2.4.2),
technical performance (4.2.4.3)
The 3GPP compliance templates for services (4.2.4.1), for spectrum (4.2.4.2),
technical performance (4.2.4.3) for both the FDD and the TDD component is
found in RP-090747 [16].
#