# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document contains scenarios and requirements for the small cell
enhancement for E-UTRA and E-UTRAN.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 36.839: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Mobility enhancements in heterogeneous networks\".
[3] 3GPP TR 36.913: \"Requirements for further advancements for Evolved
Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) (LTE-Advanced)\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
CDF: Cumulative Distribution Function
VoLTE Voice over LTE
# 4 Introduction
Small cells using low power nodes are considered promising to cope with mobile
traffic explosion, especially for hotspot deployments in indoor and outdoor
scenarios. A low-power node generally means a node whose Tx power is lower
than macro node and BS classes, for example Pico and Femto eNB are both
applicable. Small cell enhancements for E-UTRA and E-UTRAN will focus on
additional functionalities for enhanced performance in hotspot areas for
indoor and outdoor using low power nodes.
This document captures the scenarios and requirements for small cell
enhancements. 3GPP TR 36.913 [3] should be used as reference whenever
applicable in order to avoid duplication of the requirements.
# 5 Objective
The objectives of this document are as follows:
A) Define target scenarios for small cell enhancement considering:
\- Deployment scenarios of small cell nodes
\- Spectrum usage for small cell scenarios
\- Traffic characteristics in small cell scenarios
B) Define requirements for small cell enhancement scenarios considering:
\- System, mobility and coverage performance
\- Core network related aspects
\- Cost and energy efficiency aspects
\- Security aspects
# 6 Target scenarios
## 6.1 Deployment
Small cell enhancement should target both with and without macro coverage,
both outdoor and indoor small cell deployments and both ideal and non-ideal
backhaul. Both sparse and dense small cell deployments should be considered.
(See Fig. 6.1-1)
{width="5.904861111111111in" height="2.282638888888889in"}
NOTE 1: F1 and F2 are the carrier frequency for macro layer and local-node
layer, respectively
Figure 6.1-1: Deployment scenarios of small cell with/without macro coverage
### 6.1.1 With and without macro coverage
As shown in Fig. 6.1-1, small cell enhancement should target the deployment
scenario in which small cell nodes are deployed under the coverage of one or
more than one overlaid E-UTRAN macro-cell layer(s) in order to boost the
capacity of already deployed cellular network. Two scenarios can be
considered:
1\. Where the UE is in coverage of both the macro cell and the small cell
simultaneously
2\. Where the UE is not in coverage of both the macro cell and the small cell
simultaneously
Figure 6.1-1 also shows the scenario where small cell nodes are not deployed
under the coverage of one or more overlaid E-UTRAN macro-cell layer(s). This
scenario is also the target of the small cell enhancement Study Item.
### 6.1.2 Outdoor and indoor
Small cell enhancement should target both outdoor and indoor small cell
deployments. The small cell nodes could be deployed indoors or outdoors, and
in either case could provide service to indoor or outdoor UEs.
For indoor UE, only low UE speed (0 -- 3 km/h) is targeted. For outdoor, not
only low UE speed, but also medium UE speed (up to 30km/h and potentially
higher speeds) is targeted.
**Both throughput and mobility/connectivity shall be used as performance
metric for both low and medium mobility. Cell edge performance (e.g. 5%-tile
CDF point for user throughput) and power efficiency (of both network and UE)
are also used as metrics for further study.**
### 6.1.3 Ideal and non-ideal backhaul
Both ideal backhaul (i.e., very high throughput and very low latency backhaul
such as dedicated point-to-point connection using optical fiber) and non-ideal
backhaul (i.e., typical backhaul widely used in the market such as xDSL,
microwave, and other backhauls like relaying) should be studied. The
performance-cost trade-off should be taken into account.
A categorization of non-ideal backhaul based on operator inputs is listed in
Table 6.1-1:
Table 6.1-1: Categorization of non-ideal backhaul
* * *
Backhaul Technology Latency (One way) Throughput Priority (1 is the highest)
Fiber Access 1 10-30ms 10M-10Gbps 1 Fiber Access 2 5-10ms 100-1000Mbps 2 Fiber
Access 3 2-5ms 50M-10Gbps 1 DSL Access 15-60ms 10-100 Mbps 1 Cable 25-35ms
10-100 Mbps 2 Wireless Backhaul 5-35ms 10Mbps -- 100Mbps typical, maybe up to
Gbps range 1
* * *
A categorization of ideal backhaul based on operator inputs is listed in Table
6.1-2:
Table 6.1-2: Categorization of ideal backhaul
* * *
Backhaul Technology Latency (One way) Throughput Priority (1 is the highest)
Fiber Access 4 (NOTE 1) less than 2.5 us (NOTE2) Up to 10Gbps 1
* * *
NOTE 1: This can be applied between the eNB and the remote radio head.
NOTE 2: propagation delay in the fiber/cable is not included.
For interfaces between macro and small cell, as well as between small cells,
the studies should first identify which kind of information is needed or
beneficial to be exchanged between nodes in order to get the desired
improvements before the actual type of interface is determined. And if direct
interface should be assumed between macro and small cell, as well as between
small cell and small cell, X2 interface can be used as a starting point.
### 6.1.4 Sparse and dense
Small cell enhancement should consider sparse and dense small cell
deployments. In some scenarios (e.g., hotspot indoor/outdoor places, etc.),
single or a few small cell node(s) are sparsely deployed, e.g. to cover the
hotspot(s). Meanwhile, in some scenarios (e.g., dense urban, large shopping
mall, etc.), a lot of small cell nodes are densely deployed to support huge
traffic over a relatively wide area covered by the small cell nodes. The
coverage of the small cell layer is generally discontinuous between different
hotspot areas. Each hotspot area can be covered by a group of small cells,
i.e. a small cell cluster.
Furthermore, smooth future extension/scalability (e.g.: from sparse to dense,
from small-area dense to large-area dense, or from normal-dense to super-
dense) should be considered. For mobility/ connectivity performance, both
sparse and dense deployments should be considered with equal priority.
### 6.1.5 Synchronization
Both synchronized and un-synchronized scenarios should be considered between
small cells as well as between small cells and macro cell(s). For specific
operations e.g. interference coordination, carrier aggregation and inter-eNB
COMP, small cell enhancement can benefit from synchronized deployments with
respect to small cell search/measurements and interference/resource
management. Therefore time synchronized deployments of small cell clusters are
prioritized in the study and new means to achieve such synchronization shall
be considered.
## 6.2 Spectrum
Small cell enhancement should address the deployment scenario in which
different frequency bands are separately assigned to macro layer and small
cell layer, respectively, where F1 and F2 in Fig. 6.1-1 correspond to
different carriers in different frequency bands.
Small cell enhancement should be applicable to all existing and as well as
future cellular bands, with special focus on higher frequency bands, e.g., the
3.5 GHz band, to enjoy the more available spectrum and wider bandwidth.
Small cell enhancement should also take into account the possibility for
frequency bands that, at least locally, are only used for small cell
deployments.
Co-channel deployment scenarios between macro layer and small cell layer
should be considered as well.\ The duplication of activities with existing and
coming 3GPP Study Items / Work Items should be avoided.
Some example spectrum configurations are:
> 1\. Carrier aggregation on the macro layer with bands X and Y, and only band
> X on the small cell layer
>
> 2\. Small cells supporting carrier aggregation bands that are co-channel
> with the macro layer
>
> 3\. Small cells supporting carrier aggregation bands that are not co-channel
> with the macro layer
One potential co-channel deployment scenario is dense outdoor co-channel small
cells deployment, considering low mobility UEs and non ideal backhaul. All
small cells are under the Macro coverage.
Small cell enhancement should be supported irrespective of duplex schemes
(FDD/TDD) for the frequency bands for macro layer and small cell layer. Air
interface and solutions for small cell enhancement should be band-independent,
and **aggregated bandwidth per small cell should be no more than 100 MHz, at
least for 3GPP Release 12.**
## 6.3 Traffic
In a small cell deployment, it is likely that the traffic is fluctuating
greatly since the number of users per small cell node is typically not so
large due to small coverage.
In a small cell deployment, it is likely that the user distribution is very
fluctuating between the small cell nodes. It is also expected that the traffic
could be highly asymmetrical, either downlink or uplink centric.
Both uniform and non-uniform traffic load distribution in time-domain and
spatial-domain should be considered. Non-full buffer and full buffer traffic
are both included, and non-full buffer traffic is prioritized to verify the
practical cases. More detailed evaluation methodologies should be studied at
3GPP Working Group level in subsequent physical layer and high layers Study
Items of small cell enhancement.
CSG/hybrid is an independent topic which can be treated in other WI/SI.
Solutions agnostic to CSG/hybrid or open access can be also applied to
CSG/hybrid.
## 6.4 Backward compatibility
Backward compatibility, i.e. the possibility for legacy (pre-Release 12) UEs
to access a small-cell node/carrier, is desirable for small cell deployments.
The introduction of non-backwards compatible features should be justified by
sufficient gains.
# 7 Deployment-related requirements
## **7.1** Deployment use cases
Operator deployed scenario (i.e. the operator performs cell planning and
installs/maintains small cell nodes) should be supported for small cell
enhancement.
User deployed scenarios, for example small cell nodes deployed in office
buildings by organizational users, could be supported for small cell
enhancement with a lower priority.
Automatic mechanisms such as plug-and-play provisioning to support flexible
configuration and lower cost for operation and maintenance could be considered
for both operator- and user-deployed scenarios, taking into account the
possible absence of radio planning on these deployments.
Even in operator deployed scenario, the reduction in cell planning efforts
compared to Releases 10/11 should be considered.
## **7.2 Co-existence and interworking**
For small cell enhancement, the same inter-RAT interworking capabilities with
at least the same performance as in 3GPP Release 10/11 E-UTRAN shall be
supported assuming the small cells support the 3GPP Releases 10/11 mechanisms.
## **7.3 Core network aspects**
Small cell enhancement should minimize signalling load (e.g., caused by
mobility) to the core network as well as increase of backhaul traffic due to
increasing number of small cell nodes.
# 8 Capability and performance requirements
The enhancements shall focus on cell capacity i.e. achievable user throughput
and system throughput in typical coverage situations and with typical terminal
configurations, including terminals with 2 RX antennas and supporting a single
component carrier.
## 8.1 System performance
Small cell enhancement should support significantly increased user throughput
for both downlink and uplink with main focus on typical user throughput (e.g.
50% and, for coverage limited scenarios, 5% point of CDF of the user
throughput), given a reasonable system complexity. Actual quantitative
requirements can be determined in succeeding study items on physical and
higher layer enhancements.
Consistent user experience over the coverage area is highly desirable. Small
cell enhancement should keep the fairness of the user throughput for both
downlink and uplink in a scenario, where user distribution is dynamically
changing.
Small cell enhancement should target the capacity per unit area (e.g.
bps/km^2^) to be as high as possible, for a given user and small cell
distribution, typical traffic types and considering a reasonable system
complexity.
The small cell enhancements should evaluate the impact of the actual backhaul
delays and provide solutions with the aim of improved system performance.
Other aspects, for example service quality of VoLTE (e.g. MOS score) and
delay/jitter impacts on services (video streaming, video calls, .etc.), could
also be addressed in follow-on studies.
## **8.2 Mobility performance**
Small cell enhancement should support mobility which is required for the
deployment scenarios described in clause 6.1.
Small cell enhancement should support mobility which is required for the
future spectrum use in higher frequency bands (e.g. more available spectrum
and wider bandwidth).
Small cell enhancement should support mobility for flexible coverage
conditions described in clause 8.3.
For UEs being served on a macro layer and for the targeted mobile speeds up to
30 km/h, small cell nodes need to be discovered, and potential mobility to
small cell node performed, in a timely manner and with low UE power
consumption in a situation when the UE moves into the coverage area of the
small cell layer.
Mobility across densely deployed small cell nodes, and between macro and small
cell on the same frequency layer, should be targeted with good performance for
mobile speeds up to 30 km/h.
Mobility enhancements for higher speeds (e.g. 50-80 km/h) in small cell
enhancements, e.g. for offload from vehicular UEs in outdoor small cells, can
be studied in succeeding study items. Solutions for excluding very high
mobility users should be considered.
The benefits of allowing high speed UE in small cells should be evaluated e.g.
UE throughput gain, improved robustness of mobility, improved UE power
efficiency, and up to which speed offloading is beneficial. Other topics e.g.
how UE speed can be estimated in small cells can also be treated in succeeding
study items of small cell enhancements.
Real-time services should be supported in small cell enhancement. The impact
of mobility between small cell nodes and between small cell and overlaid macro
nodes on quality (e.g. interruption time, packet loss) should be less than or
equal to that provided by 3GPP Release 10/11 E-UTRA/E-UTRAN.
Small cell enhancement should consider techniques and mechanisms to reduce
C-plane/U-plane latency and packet loss during mobility between macro cell
nodes and small cell nodes, as well as between small cell nodes compared to
3GPP Release 10/11 E-UTRA/E-UTRAN.
Mobility enhancements considered under the future technical Study Item should
be relevant to the deployment scenarios described in clause 6.1. Further
enhancements which are not covered by other Study Items / Work Items (e.g.
HetNet Mobility) should be considered, and duplicated work should be avoided.
## **8.3 Coverage performance**
Small cell enhancement coverage should be sufficiently flexible for both
uplink and downlink to support a variety of deployment scenarios described in
clause 6.1.
# 9 Operational Requirements
## 9.1 Architecture
The E-UTRAN architecture should be able to achieve the system and mobility
performance targeted for small cell enhancement described in clause 8.1. The
studies for architecture should first identify which kind of information is
needed or beneficial to be exchanged between nodes in order to get the desired
improvements before the actual type of interface is determined.
## 9.2 Cost and complexity
Small cell enhancement shall satisfy the required performance. Additionally,
cost and complexity shall be minimized in order to support small cell
enhancement deployments described in clause 6.1.
Small cell enhancement should allow for low network cost by:
\- allowing for solutions aiming at different backhauls as listed in clause
6.1.3,
\- allowing for low-cost deployment, low operation and maintenance tasks, e.g.
by means of SON functionality, minimization of drive tests, etc.,
\- allowing for reduced base station implementation cost, considering e.g.
relaxation of RF requirements in small cell scenarios
\- NOTE: All the interfaces specified shall be open for multi-vendor equipment
interoperability.
Small cell enhancement should be possible to implement with low incremental
complexity of UE and allow for long UE battery life (standby and active).
Different UE capabilities should be considered for small-cell enhancements,
especially with respect to features related to UE RF complexity such as the
possibility for simultaneous transmission to and reception from the macro and
small cell layers.
System complexity shall be minimized in order to stabilize the system & inter-
operability in earlier stage and decrease the cost of terminal & network. For
these requirements, the following shall be taken into account:
a) Minimize the number of options
b) No redundant mandatory features
c) Limit the number of necessary test cases, e.g. by limiting the number of
states of protocols and the number of procedures, with appropriate parameter
range and granularity
## 9.3 Energy efficiency
Small cell enhancement should target the network energy efficiency to be as
high as possible, given a reasonable system complexity with considering the
traffic characteristics of small cell enhancement described in clause 6.3.
Furthermore, placing small cells in a dormant mode could be supported
considering the increased likelihood of small cells not serving any active
users. The trade-off between user throughput/capacity per unit area and
network energy efficiency should be considered.
High UE energy efficiency should be targeted taking into account the small
cell's short range transmission path. This means balancing effort in terms of
UE energy efficiency, e.g., reducing required energy/bit for the UL, UE
mobility measurements, cell identification and small cell discovery, end-user
experience and system performance.
## 9.4 Security
The small cell enhancement area architecture should have a comparable level of
security as Release 10/11 E-UTRA and E-UTRAN for the deployment scenarios of
small cell enhancement described in clause 6.1.
#