# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3GPP TSG SA to allow for
the standardisation in the area of lawful interception of telecommunications.
This document describes in general the requirements for lawful interception.
Laws of individual nations and regional institutions (e.g. European Union),
and sometimes licensing and operating conditions define a need to intercept
telecommunications traffic and related information in modern
telecommunications systems. It has to be noted that lawful interception shall
always be done in accordance with the applicable national or regional laws and
technical regulations.
# 1 Scope
The present document provides basic interception requirements within a Third
Generation Mobile Communication System (3GMS) based on ETSI TS 101 331 [2] and
other national regulatory requirements and GSM specifications GSM TS 01.33
[5], GSM TS 02.33 [6] and GSM TS 03.33 [7].
The specification describes the service requirements from a Law Enforcement
point of view only. The aim of this document is to define a 3GMS interception
system that supports a number of regional interception regulations, but these
regulations are not repeated here as they vary. Regional interception
requirements shall rely on this specification to derive such information as
they require.
These interception requirements shall be used to derive specific network
requirements.
For details see:
Stage 2: 3GPP TS 33.107 [9];
Stage 3: 3GPP TS 33.108 [10].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies.
[1] European Union Council Resolution on the Lawful Interception of
Telecommunications (17. January 1995)
[2] ETSI TS 101 331: \"Telecommunications security; Lawful Interception (LI);
Requirements of Law Enforcement Agencies\".
[3] ETSI ES 201 158: \"Lawful Interception; Requirements for network
functions\".
[4] ETSI ES 201 671: \"Handover Interface for the lawful interception of
telecommunications traffic\".
[5] GSM 01.33: \"Lawful Interception requirements for GSM\".
[6] GSM 02.33:\" Lawful Interception - stage 1\".
[7] GSM 03.33: \"Lawful Interception - stage 2\".
[8] J-STD-025‑A: \"Lawfully Authorized Electronic Surveillance\".
[9] 3GPP TS 33.107: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; 3G Security; Lawful
interception architecture and functions\".
[10] 3GPP TS 33.108: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; 3G Security; Handover
interface for Lawful Interception\".
[11] 3GPP TS 22.220: \"Service Requirements for Home NodeBs and Home
eNodeBs\".
[12] 3GPP TS 22.182: \"Customized Alerting Tones (CAT) Requirements; Stage
1\".
[13] 3GPP TR 23.872: \"Study on Architecture of IP Mulimedia subsystem (IMS)
based Customized Alerting Tone (CAT)\".
[14] 3GPP TS 24.182: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) Customized Alerting Tones
(CAT); Protocol Specificiation\".
[15] 3GPP TR 29.882: \"Customized Alerting Tone (CAT) in 3G CS Domain\".
[16] 3GPP TS 22.183: \"Customized Ringing Signal (CRS) Requirements; Stage
1\".
[17] 3GPP TS 24.183: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) customized Ringing Signal
(CRS); Protocol Specification\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply.
**Customized Alerting Tone:** An indication that is customized by the called
party or the calling subscriber that is played to the calling party during
call establishment or during an established call session indicating that the
called party is being alerted, the progress of commincation request, or any
alerting event during a call session. A Customized Alerting Tone may be a
piece of recorded or composed music, greeting words, voice, advertisement or
video.
**Customized Ringing Signal:** An indication to the called party as an
incoming communication indication during the establishment of a communication
that is customized by the calling party or the called party. A Customized
Ringing Signal (CRS) may e.g. be a picture, a piece of recorded or composed
music, greeting words, voice, advertisement or video.
**Interception Area:** is a subset of the Public Lands Mobile Network (PLMN)
service area comprised of a set of cells which define a geographical zone.
**Location Dependent Interception:** is interception within a PLMN service
area that is restricted to one or several Interception Areas (IA).
**Network Based Interception:** Interception that is invoked at a network
access point regardless of Target Identity.
**Subject Based Interception:** Interception that is invoked using a specific
Target Identity
**Target Identity:** A technical identity that uniquely identifies a target of
interception. One target may have one or several identities.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
CAT Customized Alerting Tone
CC Content of Communication
CRS Customized Ringing Signal
CSG Closed Subscriber Group
HeNB Home eNodeB
H(e)NB HNB and HeNB
HNB Home NodeB
IA Interception Area
IP Internet Protocol
IRI Intercept Related Information
LDI Location Dependent Interception
LEA Law Enforcement Agency
LEMF Law Enforcement Monitoring Facility
3GMS Third Generation Mobile Communications System
VHE Virtual Home Environment
# 4 Relationship to Regional Requirements
Interception requirements are subject to national law and international
treaties and should be interpreted in accordance with applicable national
policies.
Requirements universally called out in regional interception regulatory
requirements are supported by the system defined in this document.
Requirements unique to a specific region are not addressed (some examples are
given in Section 2 as references).
The intercept system defined here provides subject based interception. Network
based interception is not included.
# 5 Requirements
## 5.1 Description of requirements
This section gives the general description of lawful interception
requirements.
### 5.1.1 General technical requirements
Figure 1 shows the general system for interception. Technical interception is
implemented within a 3GMS by special functionality on network elements shown
in the figure.
Figure 1: General specification for interception
### 5.1.2 General principles
3GMS shall provide access to the intercepted Content of Communications (CC)
and the Intercept Related Information (IRI) of the mobile target and services
related to the target (e.g. Call Forwarding) on behalf of Law Enforcement
Agencies (LEAs).
A mobile target in a given 3GMS can be a subscriber of that 3GMS, or a user
roaming from another 3GMS or from any other network capable of using that 3GMS
(such as a GSM or mobile satellite). The intercepted CC and the IRI can only
be delivered for activities on that given 3GMS.
For interception, there needs to be a means of identifying the target,
correspondent and initiator of the communication. Target Identities used for
interception of CS and GPRS service shall be MSISDN, IMEI and IMSI. Target
Identities for multi-media shall be SIP URL. Other target identities for
multi-media are for further study. When encryption is provided and managed by
the network, it shall be a national option as to whether the network provides
the CC to the LEA decrypted, or encrypted with keys and additional information
to make decryption possible. Encryption not provided or managed by the
network, e.g. user provided end-to-end encryption, cannot be removed by the
network. In the case that the NWOs/ APs/SvPs provides encryption keys to the
subscriber or customer but does not provide the encryption itself, the NWOs/
APs/SvPs shall provide the keys to the LEA if required by national
regulations.
Location Dependent Interception, (LDI) allows a 3GMS to service multiple
interception jurisdictions within its service area. Multiple law agencies with
their own interception areas can be served by the 3GMS. All the information or
rules given for interception within a 3GMS apply to interception within an IA
when Location Dependent Interception is invoked. A target may be marked in one
or more different IAs within the same 3GMS. Interception is not required nor
prohibited by this standard when Location Dependent Interception is active and
the location of the target subscriber is not known or available.
### 5.1.3 Applicability to telecommunication services
The requirement for lawful interception is that all telecommunications
services for the 3GMS standards should be capable of meeting the requirements
within this document.
### 5.1.4 Interception within the Home and Visited Networks for roaming
scenarios
The introduction of the Virtual Home Environment, VHE, means that significant
portions of subscriber services can be executed in the home or visited
network, regardless of where the target is physically located.
The requirements in this clause are additional to the requirements described
elsewere in this specification which apply to the home network in a roaming
scenario.
National regulations cover the definition of services and the definition of
service provider categories which are subject to LI obligations. This can
include how and which IMS services are considered to be covered. For the
purpose of roaming, IMS VoIP Service or other 3GPP operator services (CS voice
replacement) shall be considered equivalent to a CS voice service and
therefore all requirements applicable to legacy CS voice (e.g. interception of
voice in isolation from other services) shall be applicable to IMS VoIP
Service or other equivalent services.
It shall be possible to intercept all basic voice, data and messaging services
provided to a target by a network. The visited network shall be able to
support the interception of all services without home network assistance or
visibility. However, the visited network is not required to be able to
intercept supplementary services (e.g. voicemail, home network based call
forwarding) or 3rd party services not directly provided by the visited
network. However, national regulation may specify minimum LI capabilities, if
such services are in the visited network then they shall be considered in
scope for interception (subject to an applicable lawful authorisation).
National regulations may require interception to take place in the home
network for outbound roamers, where the user session is routed via the home
network. There is no requirement to force traffic to the home network for this
purpose
All these requirements are based on conditions and definitions contained in
national regulations..
## 5.2 Normal operation
This section gives the expected operation for lawful interception.
### 5.2.1 Intercept administration requirements
A secure means of administrating the service by the 3GMS operator and
intercept requesting entity is necessary. This mechanism shall provide means
to activate, deactivate, show, or list targets in the 3GMS as quickly as
possible. The function shall be policed by appropriate authentication and
audit procedures. The administration function shall allow specific IAs to be
associated with target subscribers when Location Dependent Interception is
being used.
#### 5.2.1.1 Activation of LI
As a result of the activation (of a warrant) it shall be possible to request
for the specified target, either IRI, or both the IRI and the CC and designate
the LEA destination addresses for the delivery of the IRI and if required CC.
These shall be selectable on a 3GMS basis according to national options.
#### 5.2.1.2 Deactivation of LI
As a result of deactivation it shall be possible to stop all, or a part of,
interception activities for the specified target.
#### 5.2.1.3 Security of processes
The intercept function shall only be accessible by authorised personnel.
To be effective, interception must take place without the knowledge of either
party to the communication. Therefore, decryption must also take place without
either party being aware that it is happening.
No indication shall be given to any person except authorised personnel that
the intercept function has been activated on a target. Authentication,
encryption, audits, log files and other mechanisms may be used to maintain
security in the system. Audit procedures should be capable of keeping accurate
logs of administration commands.
NWOs/APs/SvPs shall ensure that its equipment, facilities, or services that
provide a customer or subscriber with the ability to originate, terminate, or
direct communications are capable of facilitating authorized communications
interceptions and access to intercept related information unobtrusively and
with a minimum of interference with any subscriber\'s telecommunications
service and in a manner that protects:
(A) the privacy and security of communications and intercept related
information not authorized to be intercepted; and
(B) information regarding the LEA's interception of communications and access
to intercept related information.
### 5.2.2 Intercept invocation
#### 5.2.2.1 Invocation events for lawful interception
In general, Lawful interception should be invoked when the transmission of
information or an event takes place that involves the target. Examples of when
Lawful interception could be invoked are when:
\- A circuit switched call is requested originated from, terminated to, or
redirected by the target,
\- Location information related to the target facility is modified by the
subscriber attaching or detaching from the network, or if there is a change in
location,
\- An SMS transfer is requested - either originated from or terminated to the
target,
\- A data packet is transmitted to or from a target,
\- A Conference Call is targeted.
#### 5.2.2.2 Invocation and removal of interception regarding services
The invocation of lawful interception shall not alter the operation of a
target\'s services or provide indication to any party involved in
communication with the target. Lawful interception shall not alter the
standard function of 3GMS network elements.
If lawful interception is activated during a circuit switched service, the
currently active circuit switched service is not required to be intercepted.
If lawful interception is deactivated during a circuit switched service, all
ongoing intercepted activities may continue until they are completed.
If lawful interception is activated when a packet data service is already in
use, the next packets transmitted shall be intercepted. If lawful interception
is deactivated during a packet data service, the next packets shall not be
transmitted.
#### 5.2.2.3 Correlation of information and product
When both IRI and CC are invoked, an unambiguous correlation shall be
established between associated IRI, IRI and CC, and associated CC within the
single domain (for example different legs in CS or different packets in PS).
The IRI and CC shall be delivered in as near real time as possible.
NOTE: Clarification about correlation limitations during inter-PLMN call or
session handovers is for further study.
## 5.3 Exceptional procedures
When a failure occurs while establishing the connection towards the LEA to
transfer the CC this shall not result in any interruption of the ongoing
telecommunications service. No further specific requirements apply for the CC
in the 3GMS.
A national option may be that when failure occurs while trying to provide the
IRI it shall be temporarily stored in the 3GMS and some further attempts shall
be made to deliver it if available.
## 5.4 Interworking considerations
For 3GMS, the network, homed or visited, shall not be responsible to interpret
the protocol used by the target, or to remove user level compression or
encryption.
## 5.5 Charging aspects
The 3GMS may charge for intercept service subject to national laws and
regulations. Charging mechanisms include the following:
\- Use of network resources,
\- Activation and deactivation of the target,
\- Every intercept invocation,
\- Flat rate.
The 3GMS shall be capable of producing intercept-charging data. It shall be
possible to produce this data in such a way that access by non-authorised
personnel or the target is precluded.
## 5.6 Minimum service requirements
Quality of service, capacity, integrity and reliability are the subject of
bilateral agreement between the relevant authorities and the 3GMS operator.
The QoS towards the delivery function provided by the network must be at least
that the network provides to the target.
## 5.7 LI Requirements for Encrypted Services
Clause 5.1.2 provides a general description of requirements relating to
network applied encryption. In addition to the general requirments, the
following additonal LI requirements shall apply to network provided and/or
network administered end to end or end to middle encryption, where this
encryption prevents en-clair capture of communications required to be
intercepted.
1\. When an encryption service is provided by the PLMN, lawful interception
shall take place as for a non encrypted communications.
a. In addition encrypted communications shall be decrypted, or the decryption
keys and any required associated information (e.g. roll over counters) shall
be provided to the LEMF.
b. For the specific case where a key server based solution is used, it is a
national option for the operator to make keys and any associated information
(e.g. roll over counters) directly available to the LEMF for the decryption of
communications.
2\. Interception shall be performed in such a manner as to avoid detectability
by the Target or others. In particular:
a. There shall be no significant difference in latency during call setup or
during communications compared to a non intercepted communications.
b. Interception of a Target shall not prevent the use of key exchange
applications which provide a user key confirmation mechanism.
NOTE: Key confirmation mechanisms such as an authentication string to be
exchanged verbally are commonly used to provide additional assurance of
authentication.
c. Should interception fail during a call (or during call setup), the call
shall be unaffected.
3\. Where the PLMN operator provides decryption of the communication, it is
the operator's choice where in the network this decryption is performed.
However, following decryption, all IRI and CC shall be provided to the LEMF
using handover mechanisms as per a non encrypted communication.
4\. An encryption solution shall not prohibit commencement of Interception and
decryption of an existing communication.
5\. If key material and any associated information are available, it shall be
possible to retrospectively decrypt encrypted communications.
NOTE: Unless national regulations require otherwise the operator is not
required to retain key material or any communications after the end of a
communication.
For requirements in the present clause and clause 5.1.2, the PLMN Operator is
not obligated to comply with the requirements for any encryption which a
Target may use which is outside the control of the PLMN Operator (e.g. 3^rd^
party end to end VOIP software).
In addition the requirements do not apply where encryption is provided by the
network between any network nodes or UEs where this encryption does not affect
the ability of the core network to perform interception (eg hop by hop IMS
signalling security or End to Access Edge radio bearer encryption).
## 5.8 Lawful Interception for Customized Alerting Tone (CAT)
CAT is a service defined in [12], [13], [14], and [15]. The target may be
either the calling or the called party. The PLMN operator providing the CAT
service, and doing the interception, should report the following:
\- The CAT sent to the calling party
\- When the target activates, modifies (e.g., changes to content, content
descriptors, and timing descriptors), and deactivates their CAT
\- When the target copies another subscriber's CAT
\- When another subscriber copies the target's CAT
\- When the target up loads or down loads CAT, the CAT should be delivered
\- When available, the access method (e.g., via MS/UE or web) the target used
to activate, modify, and deactivate their CAT settings
\- The identity whose CAT is played.
Intercepted CAT may, depending on national regulations, be:
\- \"played\" as part of the CC, during a call set up or,
\- Delivered as a file in the IRI Record.
NOTE: Depending on national regulations, intercepted CAT media may be
considered content or a signalling.
## 5.9 Lawful Interception for Customized Ringing Signal (CRS)
CRS is a service defined in [16] and [17]. The target may be either the
calling or the called party. The PLMN operator providing the CRS service, and
doing the interception, should report the following:
\- The CRS sent to the called party
\- When the target activates, modifies (e.g., changes to content, content
descriptors, and timing descriptors), and deactivates their CRS
\- When the target copies another subscriber's CRS
\- When another subscriber copies the target's CRS
\- When the target up loads or down loads CRS, the CRS should be delivered
\- When available, the access method (e.g., via MS/UE or web) the target used
to activate, modify, and deactivate their CRS settings
\- The identity whose CRS is played.
Intercepted CRS may, depending on national regulations, be:
\- \"played\" as part of the CC, during a call set up or,
\- Delivered as a file in the IRI Record.
NOTE: Depending on national regulations, intercepted CRS media may be
considered content or a signalling.
## 5.10 Lawful Interception for Home Node B and Home enhanced Node B (H(e)NB)
HNB and HeNB are jointly referred to as H(e)NB, as defined in [11]. The
location of the H(e)NB is the location information used by the operator to
verify the location for H(e)NB activation.
For the purpose of LI, a target may be a subscriber attached to a H(e)NB, a
Closed Subscriber Group (CSG), or it is a national issue to allow targeting a
H(e)NB itself.
The LI requirements for H(e)NB local routing, selected IP traffic offload
(SIPTO) or local IP access (LIPA) are FFS.
Interception should be done in such a manner to avoid detectability by the
target or others.
When a target receives service from the PLMN via a H(e)NB, the following
applies:
\- the interception capabilities shall take place as for normal PLMN use
\- H(e)NB information (e.g., location and identification) shall also be
provided to the LEMF
\- If available, the location reported for the target is the H(e)NB location
where the target's MS is attached
\- Target attachment to the H(e)NB and handovers to/from the H(e)NB shall be
reported to the LEMF
\- There may be national requirements to identify specific information that is
required to be reported
When the target is the CSG, the PLMN operator shall report the following:
\- modifications (e.g., additions, deletions, changes in time limits for
temporary CSG Members) of the CSG list for the H(e)NB
\- When available, the access method (e.g., via MS/UE or web) the H(e)NB
Hosting Party used to modify the CSG list, if multiple access methods are
allowed
\- CSG member's handovers to/from the H(e)NB
\- CSG members attachments to the H(e)NB
\- CSG members communications via the H(e)NB
\- It is a national option whether interception on CSG members' communications
continues after handover occurs from the H(e)NB
When the target is the H(e)NB, then the PLMN operator shall report the
following:
\- activation and deactivation of the targeted H(e)NB
\- IP address information regarding the secure tunnel endpoints between the
H(e)NB and the Femto Security Gateway in the home network
\- modifications (e.g., additions, deletions, changes in time limits for
temporary CSG Members) of the CSG list for the H(e)NB
\- When available, the access method (e.g., via MS/UE or web) the target used
for the modification of the CSG list, if multiple access methods are allowed
\- handovers to/from the H(e)NB.
\- MS/UE registrations on the H(e)NB
\- communications via the H(e)NB
\- It is a national option whether interception on H(e)NB communications
continues after handover occurs from the H(e)NB
NOTE: The requirements for the CSG are FFS.
# 6 Handover Interface Requirements
Handover interface requirements are defined in 3GPP TS 33.108 [10]. For
national or regional specifications, see ETSI ES 201 671 [4] and J‑STD‑025‑A
[8].
#