# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
This specification defines the security architecture, i.e., the security
features and the security mechanisms, for the third generation mobile
telecommunication system.
A security feature is a service capability that meets one or several security
requirements. The complete set of security features address the security
requirements as they are defined in \"3G Security: Threats and Requirements\"
(TS 21.133 [1]) and implement the security objectives and principles described
in TS 33.120 [2]. A security mechanism is an element that is used to realise a
security feature. All security features and security mechanisms taken together
form the security architecture.
An example of a security feature is user data confidentiality. A security
mechanism that may be used to implement that feature is a stream cipher using
a derived cipher key.
This specification defines 3G security procedures performed within 3G capable
networks (R99+), i.e. intra-UMTS and UMTS-GSM. As an example, UMTS
authentication is applicable to UMTS radio access as well as GSM radio access
provided that the serving network node and the MS are UMTS capable.
Interoperability with non-UMTS capable networks (R98-) is also covered.
GSM security functions are defined in the TS 43.020 [36].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document in the same Release as the present document.
[1] 3GPP TS 21.133: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP); Technical
Specification Group (TSG) SA; 3G Security; Security Threats and
Requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 33.120: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP); Technical
Specification Group (TSG) SA; 3G Security; Security Principles and
Objectives\".
[3] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP); Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; Vocabulary for 3GPP
Specifications (Release 1999)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.121: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP); Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; Architecture Requirements for
Release 99\".
[5] 3GPP TS 31.101: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP); Technical
Specification Group Terminals; UICC-terminal interface; Physical and logical
characteristics\".
[6] 3GPP TS 22.022: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP); Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; Personalisation of UMTS
Mobile Equipment (ME); Mobile functionality specification\".
[7] 3GPP TS 23.048: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP); Technical
Specification Group Terminals; Security Mechanisms for the (U)SIM application
toolkit; Stage 2\".
[8] ETSI GSM 03.20: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Security related network functions\".
[9] 3GPP TS 23.060: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; Digital cellular
telecommunications system (Phase 2+); General Packet Radio Service (GPRS);
Service description; Stage 2\".
[10] ISO/IEC 9798‑4: \"Information technology - Security techniques - Entity
authentication - Part 4: Mechanisms using a cryptographic check function\".
[11] 3GPP TS 35.201: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; Specification of the 3GPP
confidentiality and integrity algorithms; Document 1: f8 and f9
specifications\".
[12] 3GPP TS 35.202: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; Specification of the 3GPP
confidentiality and integrity algorithms; Document 2: Kasumi algorithm
specification\".
[13] 3GPP TS 35.203: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; Specification of the 3GPP
confidentiality and integrity algorithms; Document 3: Implementers\' test
data\".
[14] 3GPP TS 35.204: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; Specification of the 3GPP
confidentiality and integrity algorithms; Document 4: Design conformance test
data\".
[15] 3GPP TS 31.111: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Terminals; USIM Application Toolkit (USAT)\".
[16] 3GPP TS 22.048: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP); Technical
Specification Group Terminals; Security Mechanisms for the (U)SIM Application
Toolkit; Stage 1\".
[17] 3GPP TS 25.331: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Radio Access Network; RRC Protocol Specification\".
[18] 3GPP TS 25.321: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Radio Access Network; MAC protocol specification\".
[19] 3GPP TS 25.322: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Radio Access Network; RLC Protocol Specification\".
[20] 3GPP TS 31.102: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP); Technical
Specification Group Terminals; Characteristics of the USIM Application\".
[21] 3GPP TS 22.101: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; Service aspects; Service
principles\".
[22] 3GPP TS 23.195: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; Provision of User Equipment
Specific Behaviour Information (UESBI) to network entities\".
[23] 3GPP TS 43.129: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group GERAN; Packet-switched handover for GERAN A/Gb mode; Stage
2".
[24] 3GPP TS 35.215: \"Specification of the 3GPP Confidentiality and Integrity
Algorithms UEA2 & UIA2; Document 1: UEA2 and UIA2 specifications\".
[25] 3GPP TS 35.216: \"Specification of the 3GPP Confidentiality and Integrity
Algorithms UEA2 & UIA2; Document 2: SNOW 3G specification\".
[26] 3GPP TS 35.217: \"Specification of the 3GPP Confidentiality and Integrity
Algorithms UEA2 & UIA2; Document 3: Implementors' test data\".
[27] 3GPP TS 35.218: \"Specification of the 3GPP Confidentiality and Integrity
Algorithms UEA2 & UIA2; Document 4: Design conformance test data\".
[28] 3GPP TS 33.401: \"3GPP System Architecture Evolution: Security
architecture\".
[29] 3GPP TS 33.402: \"3GPP System Architecture Evolution: Security aspects of
non 3GPP accesses\".
[30] 3GPP TS 33.220: \"Generic Authentication Architecture (GAA); Generic
bootstrapping architecture\".
[31] 3GPP TS 25.413: \"UTRAN Iu interface RANAP signalling\".
[32] 3GPP TS 22.003: \"Circuit Teleservices supported by a Public Land Mobile
Network (PLMN)\".
[33] 3GPP TS 22.101: \"Service aspects; Service principles\".
[34] 3GPP TS 23.167: \" IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) emergency sessions\".
[35] 3GPP TS 24.008: \" Mobile radio interface Layer 3 specification; Core
network protocols; Stage 3\".
[36] 3GPP TS 43.020: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP); Technical
Specification Group (TSG) SA; Technical Specification Group Services and
system Aspects; Security related network functions\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols abbreviations and conventions
## 3.1 Definitions
In addition to the definitions included in TR 21.905 [3] and TS 22.101 [21],
for the purposes of the present document, the following definitions apply:
NOTE: \'User\' and \'Subscriber\' have been defined in TR 21.905 [3]. \'User
Equipment\', \'USIM\', \'SIM\' and \'IC Card\' have been defined in TS 22.101
[21].
**Confidentiality:** The property that information is not made available or
disclosed to unauthorised individuals, entities or processes.
**Data integrity:** The property that data has not been altered in an
unauthorised manner.
**Data origin authentication:** The corroboration that the source of data
received is as claimed.
**Entity authentication:** The provision of assurance of the claimed identity
of an entity.
**Key freshness:** A key is fresh if it can be guaranteed to be new, as
opposed to an old key being reused through actions of either an adversary or
authorised party.
**UMTS Entity authentication and key agreement:** Entity authentication
according to this specification.
**GSM Entity authentication and key agreement:** The entity Authentication and
Key Agreement procedure to provide authentication of a SIM to a serving
network domain and to generate the key Kc in accordance to the mechanisms
specified in GSM 03.20.
**User** : Within the context of this specification a user is either a UMTS
subscriber (Section 6.8.1) or a GSM Subscriber (Section 6.8.2) or a physical
person as defined in TR 21.905[3] (Section 5.3 and 5.5).
**UMTS subscriber** : a Mobile Equipment with a UICC inserted and activated
USIM-application.
**GSM subscriber** : a Mobile Equipment with a SIM inserted or a Mobile
Equipment with a UICC inserted and activated SIM-application.
**UMTS security context:** a state that is established between a user and a
serving network domain as a result of the execution of UMTS AKA or as a result
of inter RAT mobility from E-UTRAN [28] to UTRAN or GERAN. At both ends \"UMTS
security context data\" is stored, that consists at least of the UMTS
cipher/integrity keys CK and IK and the key set identifier KSI. One is still
in a UMTS security context, if the keys CK/IK are converted into Kc to work
with a GSM BSS.
**GSM security context:** a state that is established between a user and a
serving network domain usually as a result of the execution of GSM AKA. At
both ends \"GSM security context data\" is stored, that consists at least of
the GSM cipher key Kc and the cipher key sequence number CKSN.
**Quintet, UMTS authentication vector:** temporary authentication and key
agreement data that enables an VLR/SGSN to engage in UMTS AKA with a
particular user. A quintet consists of five elements: a) a network challenge
RAND, b) an expected user response XRES, c) a cipher key CK, d) an integrity
key IK and e) a network authentication token AUTN.
**Triplet, GSM authentication vector:** temporary authentication and key
agreement data that enables an VLR/SGSN to engage in GSM AKA with a particular
user. A triplet consists of three elements: a) a network challenge RAND, b) an
expected user response SRES and c) a cipher key Kc.
**Authentication vector:** either a quintet or a triplet.
**Temporary authentication data:** either UMTS or GSM security context data or
UMTS or GSM authentication vectors.
**R98‑:** Refers to a network node or ME that conforms to R97 or R98
specifications.
**R99+:** Refers to a network node or ME that conforms to R99 or later
specifications.
**Rel4‑ ME:** Refers to a ME that conforms to Rel‑4 or R99 specifications.
**Rel5+ ME** : Refers to a ME that conforms to Rel‑5 or later specifications.
**ME capable of UMTS AKA** : either a Rel4‑ ME that does support USIM-ME
interface or a Rel5+ ME.
**ME not capable of UMTS AKA** : a Rel4‑ ME that does not support USIM-ME
interface or a R98‑ ME.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\|\| Concatenation
⊕ Exclusive or
f1 Message authentication function used to compute MAC
f1* Message authentication function used to compute MAC‑S
f2 Message authentication function used to compute RES and XRES
f3 Key generating function used to compute CK
f4 Key generating function used to compute IK
f5 Key generating function used to compute AK in normal procedures
f5* Key generating function used to compute AK in re-synchronisation
procedures
K Long-term secret key shared between the USIM and the AuC
## 3.3 Abbreviations
In addition to (and partly in overlap to) the abbreviations included in TR
21.905 [3], for the purposes of the present document, the following
abbreviations apply:
AK Anonymity Key
AKA Authentication and key agreement
AMF Authentication management field
AUTN Authentication Token
AV Authentication Vector
CK Cipher Key
CKSN Cipher key sequence number
CS Circuit Switched
E-UTRAN Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
GERAN GSM/EDGE Radio Access Network
HE Home Environment
HLR Home Location Register
IK Integrity Key
IMSI International Mobile Subscriber Identity
Kc 64-bit GSM ciphering key
Kc~128~ 128-bit GSM ciphering key
KSI Key Set Identifier
KSS Key Stream Segment
LAI Location Area Identity
MAC The message authentication code included in AUTN, computed using f1
MAC The message authentication code included in AUTN, computed using f1*
ME Mobile Equipment
MS Mobile Station
MSC Mobile Services Switching Centre
PS Packet Switched
P-TMSI Packet-TMSI
Q Quintet, UMTS authentication vector
RAI Routing Area Identifier
RAND Random challenge
SQN Sequence number
SQN~HE~ Individual sequence number for each user maintained in the HLR/AuC
SQN~MS~ The highest sequence number the USIM has accepted
SGSN Serving GPRS Support Node
SIM (GSM) Subscriber Identity Module
SN Serving Network
SRVCC Single Radio Voice Call Continuity
T Triplet, GSM authentication vector
TMSI Temporary Mobile Subscriber Identity
UEA UMTS Encryption Algorithm
UIA UMTS Integrity Algorithm
UICC UMTS IC Card
USIM Universal Subscriber Identity Module
UTRAN Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
VLR Visitor Location Register
XRES Expected Response
## 3.4 Conventions
All data variables in this specification are presented with the most
significant substring on the left hand side and the least significant
substring on the right hand side. A substring may be a bit, byte or other
arbitrary length bitstring. Where a variable is broken down into a number of
substrings, the leftmost (most significant) substring is numbered 0, the next
most significant is numbered 1, and so on through to the least significant.
# 4 Overview of the security architecture
Figure 1 gives an overview of the complete 3G security architecture.
Figure 1: Overview of the security architecture
Five security feature groups are defined. Each of these feature groups meets
certain threats and accomplishes certain security objectives:
**\- Network access security (I):** the set of security features that provide
users with secure access to 3G services, and which in particular protect
against attacks on the (radio) access link;
**\- Network domain security (II):** the set of security features that enable
nodes in the provider domain to securely exchange signalling data, and protect
against attacks on the wireline network;
**\- User domain security (III):** the set of security features that secure
access to mobile stations;
**\- Application domain security (IV):** the set of security features that
enable applications in the user and in the provider domain to securely
exchange messages;
**\- Visibility and configurability of security (V):** the set of features
that enables the user to inform himself whether a security feature is in
operation or not and whether the use and provision of services should depend
on the security feature.
Figure 2 gives an overview of the ME registration and connection principles
within UMTS with a CS service domain and a PS service domain. As in GSM/GPRS,
user (temporary) identification, authentication and key agreement will take
place independently in each service domain. User plane traffic will be
ciphered using the cipher key agreed for the corresponding service domain
while control plane data will be ciphered and integrity protected using the
cipher and integrity keys from either one of the service domains. In clause 6
the detailed procedures are defined and when not otherwise stated they are
used in both service domains.
{width="5.239583333333333in" height="4.416666666666667in"}
Figure 2: Overview of the ME registration and connection principles within
UMTS for the separate CN architecture case when the CN consists of both a CS
service domain with evolved MSC/VLR, 3G_MSC/VLR, as the main serving node and
an PS service domain with evolved SGSN/GGSN, 3G_SGSN and 3G GGSN, as the main
serving nodes (Extract from TS 23.121 [4] -- Figure 4-8)
# 5 Security features
## 5.1 Network access security
### 5.1.1 User identity confidentiality
The following security features related to user identity confidentiality are
provided:
**\- user identity confidentiality:** the property that the permanent user
identity (IMSI) of a user to whom a services is delivered cannot be
eavesdropped on the radio access link;
**\- user location confidentiality:** the property that the presence or the
arrival of a user in a certain area cannot be determined by eavesdropping on
the radio access link;
**\- user untraceability:** the property that an intruder cannot deduce
whether different services are delivered to the same user by eavesdropping on
the radio access link.
To achieve these objectives, the user is normally identified by a temporary
identity by which he is known by the visited serving network. To avoid user
traceability, which may lead to the compromise of user identity
confidentiality, the user should not be identified for a long period by means
of the same temporary identity. To achieve these security features, in
addition it is required that any signalling or user data that might reveal the
user\'s identity is ciphered on the radio access link.
Clause 6.1 describes a mechanism that allows a user to be identified on the
radio path by means of a temporary identity by which he is known in the
visited serving network. This mechanism should normally be used to identify a
user on the radio path in location update requests, service requests, detach
requests, connection re-establishment requests, etc.
### 5.1.2 Entity authentication
The following security features related to entity authentication are provided:
**\- user authentication:** the property that the serving network corroborates
the user identity of the user;
**\- network authentication:** the property that the user corroborates that he
is connected to a serving network that is authorised by the user\'s HE to
provide him services; this includes the guarantee that this authorisation is
recent.
To achieve these objectives, it is assumed that entity authentication should
occur at each connection set-up between the user and the network. Two
mechanisms have been included: an authentication mechanism using an
authentication vector delivered by the user\'s HE to the serving network, and
a local authentication mechanism using the integrity key established between
the user and serving network during the previous execution of the
authentication and key establishment procedure.
Clause 6.3 describes an authentication and key establishment mechanism that
achieves the security features listed above and in addition establishes a
secret cipher key (see 5.1.3) and integrity key (see 5.1.4) between the user
and the serving network. This mechanism should be invoked by the serving
network after a first registration of a user in a serving network and after a
service request, location update request, attach request, detach request or
connection re-establishment request, when the maximum number of local
authentications using the derived integrity key have been conducted.
Clause 6.5 describes the local authentication mechanism. The local
authentication mechanism achieves the security features user authentication
and network authentication and uses an integrity key established between user
and serving network during the previous execution of the authentication and
key establishment procedure. This mechanism should be invoked by the serving
network after a service request, location update request, attach request,
detach request or connection re-establishment request, provided that the
maximum number of local authentications using the same derived integrity key
has not been reached yet.
### 5.1.3 Confidentiality
The following security features are provided with respect to confidentiality
of data on the network access link:
**\- cipher algorithm agreement:** the property that the MS and the SN can
securely negotiate the algorithm that they shall use subsequently;
**\- cipher key agreement:** the property that the MS and the SN agree on a
cipher key that they may use sub­se­quently;
**\- confidentiality of user data:** the property that user data cannot be
overheard on the radio access interface;
**\- confidentiality of signalling data:** the property that signalling data
cannot be overheard on the radio access interface;
Cipher key agreement is realised in the course of the execution of the
mechanism for authentication and key agreement (see 6.3). Cipher algorithm
agreement is realised by means of a mechanism for security mode negotiation
between the user and the network (see 6.6.9). This mechanism also enables the
selected ciphering algorithm and the agreed cipher key to be applied in the
way described in 6.6.
### 5.1.4 Data integrity
The following security features are provided with respect to integrity of data
on the network access link:
**\- integrity algorithm agreement:** the property that the MS and the SN can
securely negotiate the integrity algorithm that they shall use subsequently;
**\- integrity key agreement:** the property that the MS and the SN agree on
an integrity key that they may use subsequently;
**\- data integrity and origin authentication of signalling data:** the
property that the receiving entity (MS or SN) is able to verify that
signalling data has not been modified in an unauthorised way since it was sent
by the sending entity (SN or MS) and that the data origin of the signalling
data received is indeed the one claimed;
Integrity key agreement is realised in the course of the execution of the
mechanism for authentication and key agreement (see 6.3). Integrity algorithm
agreement is realised by means of a mechanism for security mode negotiation
between the user and the network (see 6.6.9). This mechanism also enables the
selected integrity algorithm and the agreed integrity key to be applied in the
way described in 6.4.
### 5.1.5 Mobile equipment identification
The SN may request the MS to send it the IMEI or IMEISV of the terminal. The
IMEI should be securely stored in the terminal. However, the presentation of
this identity to the network is not a security feature and the transmission of
the IMEI or IMEISV may be unprotected. Although it is not a security feature,
it should not be deleted from UMTS however, as it is useful for other
purposes.
## 5.2 Network domain security
### 5.2.1 Void
### 5.2.2 Void
### 5.2.3 Void
### 5.2.4 Fraud information gathering system
NOTE: Some feature will be provided which will allow fraud information to be
exchanged between 3GMS providers according to time constraints that yet have
to be defined.
## 5.3 User domain security
### 5.3.1 User-to-USIM authentication
This feature provides the property that access to the USIM is restricted until
the USIM has authenticated the user. Thereby, it is ensured that access to the
USIM can be restricted to an authorised user or to a number of authorised
users. To accomplish this feature, user and USIM must share a secret (e.g. a
PIN) that is stored securely in the USIM. The user gets access to the USIM
only if he/she proves knowledge of the secret.
This security feature is implemented by means of the mechanism described in TS
31.101 [5].
### 5.3.2 USIM-Terminal Link
This feature ensures that access to a terminal or other user equipment can be
restricted to an authorised USIM. To this end, the USIM and the terminal must
share a secret that is stored securely in the USIM and the terminal. If a USIM
fails to prove its knowledge of the secret, it will be denied access to the
terminal.
This security feature is implemented by means of the mechanism described in TS
22.022 [6].
## 5.4 Application security
### 5.4.1 Secure messaging between the USIM and the network
USIM Application Toolkit, as specified in TS 31.111 [15], provides the
capability for operators or third party providers to create applications which
are resident on the USIM (similar to SIM Application Toolkit in GSM). There
exists a need to secure messages which are transferred over the network to
applications on the USIM, with the level of security chosen by the network
operator or the application provider.
Security features for USIM Application Toolkit are implemented by means of the
mechanisms described in TS 23.048 [7]. These mechanisms address the security
requirements identified in TS 22.048 [16].
### 5.4.2 Void
### 5.4.3 Void
### 5.4.4 Void
## 5.5 Security visibility and configurability
### 5.5.1 Visibility
Although in general the security features should be transparent to the user,
for certain events and according to the user\'s concern, greater user
visibility of the operation of security features should be provided. This
yields to a number of features that inform the user of security-related
events, such as:
\- indication of access network encryption: the property that the user is
informed whether the confidentiality of user data is protected on the radio
access link, in particular when non-ciphered calls are set-up;
\- indication of the level of security: the property that the user is informed
on the level of security that is provided by the visited network, in
particular when a user is handed over or roams into a network with lower
security level (3G à 2G).
The ciphering indicator feature is specified in 3GPP TS 22.101 [ 21].
### 5.5.2 Configurability
Configurability is the property that that the user can configure whether the
use or the provision of a service should depend on whether a security feature
is in operation. A service can only be used if all security features, which
are relevant to that service and which are required by the configurations of
the user, are in operation. The following configurability features are
suggested:
\- Enabling/disabling user-USIM authentication: the user should be able to
control the operation of user-USIM authentication, e.g., for some events,
services or use.
\- Accepting/rejecting incoming non-ciphered calls: the user should be able to
control whether the user accepts or rejects incoming non-ciphered calls;
\- Setting up or not setting-up non-ciphered calls: the user should be able to
control whether the user sets up connections when ciphering is not enabled by
the network;
\- Accepting/rejecting the use of certain ciphering algorithms: the user
should be able to control which ciphering algorithms are acceptable for use.
# 6 Network access security mechanisms
## 6.1 Identification by temporary identities
### 6.1.1 General
This mechanism allows the identification of a user on the radio access link by
means of a temporary mobile subscriber identity (TMSI/P‑TMSI). A TMSI /P‑TMSI
has local significance only in the location area or routing area in which the
user is registered. Outside that area it should be a accompanied by an
appropriate Location Area Identification (LAI) or Routing Area Identification
(RAI) in order to avoid ambiguities. The association between the permanent and
temporary user identities is kept by the Visited Location Register (VLR/SGSN)
in which the user is registered.
The TMSI/P‑TMSI, when available, is normally used to identify the user on the
radio access path, for instance in paging requests, location update requests,
attach requests, service requests, connection re-establishment requests and
detach requests.
The procedures and mechanisms are described in GSM 03.20 [8] and TS 23.060
[9]. The following sections contain a summary of this feature.
### 6.1.2 TMSI reallocation procedure
The purpose of the mechanism described in this subsection is to allocate a new
TMSI/LAI pair to a user by which he may subsequently be identified on the
radio access link.
The procedure should be performed after the initiation of ciphering. The
ciphering of communication over the radio path is specified in clause 6.6. The
allocation of a temporary identity is illustrated in Figure 3.
Figure 3: TMSI allocation
The allocation of a temporary identity is initiated by the VLR.
The VLR generates a new temporary identity (TMSIn) and stores the association
of TMSIn and the permanent identity IMSI in its database. The TMSI should be
unpredictable. The VLR then sends the TMSIn and (if necessary) the new
location area identity LAIn to the user.
Upon receipt the user stores TMSIn and automatically removes the association
with any previously allocatedTMSI. The user sends an acknowledgement back to
the VLR.
Upon receipt of the acknowledgement the VLR removes the association with the
old temporary identity TMSIo and the IMSI (if there was any) from its
database.
### 6.1.3 Unacknowledged allocation of a temporary identity
If the serving network does not receive an acknowledgement of the successful
allocation of a temporary identity from the user, the network shall maintain
the association between the new temporary identity TMSIn and the IMSI and
between the old temporary identity TMSIo (if there is any) and the IMSI.
For a user-originated transaction, the network shall allow the user to
identify itself by either the old temporary identity TMSIo or the new
temporary identity TMSIn. This allows the network to determine the temporary
identity stored in the mobile station. The network shall subsequently delete
the association between the other temporary identity and the IMSI, to allow
the temporary identity to be allocated to another user.
For a network-originated transaction, the network shall identify the user by
its permanent identity (IMSI). When radio contact has been established, the
network shall instruct the user to delete any stored TMSI. When the network
receives an acknowledgement from the user, the network shall delete the
association between the IMSI and any TMSI to allow the released temporary
identities to be allocated to other users.
Subsequently, in either of the cases above, the network may initiate the
normal TMSI reallocation procedure.
Repeated failure of TMSI reallocation (passing a limit set by the operator)
may be reported for O&M action.
### 6.1.4 Location update
In case a user identifies itself using a TMSIo/LAIo pair that was assigned by
the visited VLRn the IMSI can normally be retrieved from the database. If this
is not the case, the visited VLRn should request the user to identify itself
by means of its permanent user identity. This mechanism is described in 6.2.
In case a user identifies itself using a TMSIo/LAIo pair that was not assigned
by the visited VLRn and the visited VLRn and the previously visited VLRo
exchange authentication data, the visited VLRn should request the previously
visited VLRo to send the permanent user identity. This mechanism is described
in 6.3.4, it is integrated in the mechanism for distribution of authentication
data between VLRs. If the previously visited VLRo cannot be contacted or
cannot retrieve the user identity, the visited VLRn should request the user to
identify itself by means of its permanent user identity. This mechanism is
described in 6.2.
## 6.2 Identification by a permanent identity
The mechanism described in here allows the identification of a user on the
radio path by means of the permanent subscriber identity (IMSI).
The mechanism should be invoked by the serving network whenever the user
cannot be identified by means of a temporary identity. In particular, it
should be used when the user registers for the first time in a serving
network, or when the serving network cannot retrieve the IMSI from the TMSI by
which the user identifies itself on the radio path.
The mechanism is illustrated in Figure 4.
{width="4.031944444444444in" height="0.9791666666666666in"}
Figure 4: Identification by the permanent identity
The mechanism is initiated by the visited VLR/SGSN that requests the user to
send its permanent identity. The user\'s response contains the IMSI in
cleartext. This represents a breach in the provision of user identity
confidentiality.
## 6.3 Authentication and key agreement
### 6.3.1 General
The mechanism described here achieves mutual authentication by the user and
the network showing knowledge of a secret key K which is shared between and
available only to the USIM and the AuC in the user\'s HE. In addition the USIM
and the HE keep track of counters SQN~MS~ and SQN~HE~ respectively to support
network authentication. The sequence number SQN~HE~ is an individual counter
for each user and the sequence number SQN~MS~ denotes the highest sequence
number the USIM has accepted.
The method was chosen in such a way as to achieve maximum compatibility with
the current GSM security architecture and facilitate migration from GSM to
UMTS. The method is composed of a challenge/response protocol identical to the
GSM subscriber authentication and key establishment protocol combined with a
sequence number-based one-pass protocol for network authentication derived
from ISO/IEC 9798-4 [10] (section 5.1.1).
An overview of the mechanism is shown in Figure 5.
{width="5.719444444444444in" height="5.604166666666667in"}
Figure 5: Authentication and key agreement
Upon receipt of a request from the VLR/SGSN, the HE/AuC sends an ordered array
of _n_ authentication vectors (the equivalent of a GSM \"triplet\") to the
VLR/SGSN. The authentication vectors are ordered based on sequence number.
Each authentication vector consists of the following components: a random
number RAND, an expected response XRES, a cipher key CK, an integrity key IK
and an authentication token AUTN. Each authentication vector is good for one
authentication and key agreement between the VLR/SGSN and the USIM.
When the VLR/SGSN initiates an authentication and key agreement, it selects
the next authentication vector from the ordered array and sends the parameters
RAND and AUTN to the user. Authentication vectors in a particular node are
used on a first-in / first-out basis. The USIM checks whether AUTN can be
accepted and, if so, produces a response RES which is sent back to the
VLR/SGSN. The USIM also computes CK and IK. The VLR/SGSN compares the received
RES with XRES. If they match the VLR/SGSN considers the authentication and key
agreement exchange to be successfully completed. The established keys CK and
IK will then be transferred by the USIM and the VLR/SGSN to the entities which
perform ciphering and integrity functions.
VLR/SGSNs can offer secure service even when HE/AuC links are unavailable by
allowing them to use previously derived cipher and integrity keys for a user
so that a secure connection can still be set up without the need for an
authentication and key agreement. Authentication is in that case based on a
shared integrity key, by means of data integrity protection of signalling
messages (see 6.4).
The authenticating parties shall be the AuC of the user\'s HE (HE/AuC) and the
USIM in the user\'s mobile station. The mechanism consists of the following
procedures:
A procedure to distribute authentication information from the HE/AuC to the
VLR/SGSN. This procedure is described in 6.3.2. The VLR/SGSN is assumed to be
trusted by the user\'s HE to handle authentication information securely. It is
also assumed that the intra‑system links between the VLR/SGSN to the HE/AuC
are adequately secure. It is further assumed that the user trusts the HE.
A procedure to mutually authenticate and establish new cipher and integrity
keys between the VLR/SGSN and the MS. This procedure is described in 6.3.3.
A procedure to distribute authentication data from a previously visited VLR to
the newly visited VLR. This procedure is described in 6.3.4. It is also
assumed that the links between VLR/SGSNs are adequately secure.
### 6.3.2 Distribution of authentication data from HE to SN
The purpose of this procedure is to provide the VLR/SGSN with an array of
fresh authentication vectors from the user\'s HE to perform a number of user
authentications.
Figure 6: Distribution of authentication data from HE to VLR/SGSN
The VLR/SGSN invokes the procedures by requesting authentication vectors to
the HE/AuC.
The _authentication data request_ shall include the IMSI and the requesting
node type (PS or CS).
Upon the receipt of the _authentication data request_ from the VLR/SGSN, the
HE may have pre-computed the required number of authentication vectors and
retrieve them from the HLR database or may compute them on demand. The HE/AuC
sends an authentication response back to the VLR/SGSN that contains an ordered
array of n authentication vectors AV(1..n). The authentication vectors are
ordered based on sequence number.
Figure 7 shows the generation of an authentication vector AV by the HE/AuC.
Figure 7: Generation of authentication vectors
The HE/AuC starts with generating a fresh sequence number SQN and an
unpredictable challenge RAND.
For each user the HE/AuC keeps track of a counter: SQN~HE~
The HE has some flexibility in the management of sequence numbers, but some
requirements need to be fulfilled by the mechanism used:
a) The generation mechanism shall allow a re-synchronisation procedure in the
HE described in section 6.3.5.
b) In case the SQN exposes the identity and location of the user, the AK may
be used as an anonymity key to conceal it.
c) The generation mechanism shall allow protection against wrap around the
counter in the USIM.\ A method how to achieve this is given in informative
Annex C.2.
The mechanisms for verifying the freshness of sequence numbers in the USIM
shall to some extent allow the out-of-order use of sequence numbers. This is
to ensure that the authentication failure rate due to synchronisation failures
is sufficiently low. This requires the capability of the USIM to store
information on past successful authentication events (e.g. sequence numbers or
relevant parts thereof). The mechanism shall ensure that a sequence number can
still be accepted if it is among the last x = 32 sequence numbers generated.
This shall not preclude that a sequence number is rejected for other reasons
such as a limit on the age for time-based sequence numbers.\ The same minimum
number x needs to be used across the systems to guarantee that the
synchronisation failure rate is sufficiently low under various usage
scenarios, in particular simultaneous registration in the CS- and the PS-
service domains, user movement between VLRs/SGSNs which do not exchange
authentication information, super-charged networks.
The use of SQNHE is specific to the method of generation sequence numbers. A
method is specified in Annex C.1 how to generate a fresh sequence number. A
method is specified in Annex C.2 how to verify the freshness of a sequence
number.
An authentication and key management field AMF is included in the
authentication token of each authentication vector. Annex H defines the usage
of the AMF. Example uses of the proprietary part of the AMF are included in
Annex F.
Subsequently the following values are computed:
\- a message authentication code MAC = f1~K~(SQN \|\| RAND \|\| AMF) where f1
is a message authentication function;
\- an expected response XRES = f2~K~ (RAND) where f2 is a (possibly truncated)
message authentication function;
\- a cipher key CK = f3~K~ (RAND) where f3 is a key generating function;
\- an integrity key IK = f4~K~ (RAND) where f4 is a key generating function;
\- an anonymity key AK = f5~K~ (RAND) where f5 is a key generating function or
f5 ≡ 0.
Finally the authentication token AUTN = SQN ⊕ AK \|\| AMF \|\| MAC is
constructed.
Here, AK is an anonymity key used to conceal the sequence number as the latter
may expose the identity and location of the user. The concealment of the
sequence number is to protect against passive attacks only. If no concealment
is needed then f5 ≡ 0 (AK = 0).
### 6.3.3 Authentication and key agreement
The purpose of this procedure is to authenticate the user and establish a new
pair of cipher and integrity keys between the VLR/SGSN and the USIM. During
the authentication, the USIM verifies the freshness of the authentication
vector that is used.
Figure 8: Successful UMTS Authentication and Key Agreement
The VLR/SGSN invokes the procedure by selecting the next unused authentication
vector from the ordered array of authentication vectors in the VLR/SGSN
database. Authentication vectors in a particular node are used on a first-in /
first-out basis. The VLR/SGSN sends to the USIM the random challenge RAND and
an authentication token for network authentication AUTN from the selected
authentication vector.
Upon receipt the user proceeds as shown in Figure 9.
Figure 9: User authentication function in the USIM
Upon receipt of RAND and AUTN the USIM first computes the anonymity key AK =
f5~K~ (RAND) and retrieves the sequence number SQN = (SQN ⊕ AK) ⊕ AK.
Next the USIM computes XMAC = f1~K~ (SQN \|\| RAND \|\| AMF) and compares this
with MAC which is included in AUTN. If they are different, the user sends _an
authentication failure message_ back to the VLR/SGSN with an indication of the
cause and the user abandons the procedure. In this case, VLR/SGSN shall
initiate an Authentication Failure Report procedure towards the HLR as
specified in section 6.3.6. VLR/SGSN may also decide to initiate a new
identification and authentication procedure towards the user, cf. TS 24.008
[35].
Next the USIM verifies that the received sequence number SQN is in the correct
range.
If the USIM considers the sequence number to be not in the correct range, it
sends _synchronisation failure_ back to the VLR/SGSN including an appropriate
parameter, and abandons the procedure.
The synchronisation failure message contains the parameter AUTS. It is AUTS =
Conc(SQN~MS~ ) \|\| MAC‑S. Conc(SQN~MS~) = SQN~MS~ ⊕ f5*~K~(RAND) is the
concealed value of the counter SQN~MS~ in the MS, and MAC‑S = f1*~K~(SQN~MS~
\|\| RAND \|\| AMF) where RAND is the random value received in the current
user authentication request. f1* is a message authentication code (MAC)
function with the property that no valuable information can be inferred from
the function values of f1* about those of f1, ... , f5, f5* and vice versa.
f5* is the key generating function used to compute AK in re-synchronisation
procedures with the property that no valuable information can be inferred from
the function values of f5* about those of f1, f1*, f2, ... , f5 and vice
versa.
The AMF used to calculate MAC‑S assumes a dummy value of all zeros so that it
does not need to be transmitted in the clear in the re-synch message.
The construction of the parameter AUTS in shown in the following Figure 10:
Figure 10: Construction of the parameter AUTS
If the sequence number is considered to be in the correct range however, the
USIM computes RES = f2~K~ (RAND) and includes this parameter in a _user
authentication response_ back to the VLR/SGSN. Finally the USIM computes the
cipher key CK = f3~K~ (RAND) and the integrity key IK = f4~K~ (RAND). Note
that if this is more efficient, RES, CK and IK could also be computed earlier
at any time after receiving RAND. If the USIM also supports conversion
function c3, it shall derive the 64-bit GSM cipher key Kc from the UMTS
cipher/integrity keys CK and IK. UMTS keys are sent to the MS along with the
derived 64-bit GSM key for UMTS-GSM interoperability purposes. USIM shall
store original CK, IK until the next successful execution of AKA.
Upon receipt of _user authentication response_ the VLR/SGSN compares RES with
the expected response XRES from the selected authentication vector. If XRES
equals RES then the authentication of the user has passed. The SGSN shall
compute the 128-bit GSM ciphering key Kc~128~ according to annex B.5 if it is
to use a 128-bit GSM ciphering algorithm. The VLR/MSC shall compute the
128-bit GSM ciphering key Kc~128~ according to annex B.5 if it signals a
128-bit GSM ciphering algorithm as a permitted GSM ciphering algorithm to the
BSS. The VLR/SGSN also selects the appropriate cipher key CK and integrity key
IK from the selected authentication vector. If XRES and RES are different,
VLR/SGSN shall initiate an Authentication Failure Report procedure towards the
HLR as specified in section 6.3.6. VLR/SGSN may also decide to initiate a new
identification and authentication procedure towards the user, cf. TS 24.008
[35].
**Re-use and re-transmission of (RAND, AUTN)**
The verification of the SQN by the USIM will cause the MS to reject an attempt
by the VLR/SGSN to re-use a quintet to establish a particular UMTS security
context more than once. In general therefore the VLR/SGSN shall use a quintet
only once.
There is one exception however: in the event that the VLR/SGSN has sent out an
_authentication request_ using a particular quintet and does not receive a
response message (_authentication response_ or _authentication failure_) from
the MS, it may re-transmit the _authentication request_ using the same
quintet. However, as soon as a response message arrives no further re-
transmissions are allowed. If after the initial transmission or after a series
of re-transmissions no response arrives, retransmissions may be abandoned. If
retransmissions are abandoned then the VLR/SGSN shall delete the quintet. At
the MS side, in order to allow this re-transmission without causing additional
re-synchronisation procedures, the ME shall store for the PS domain (and
optionally the CS domain) the last received RAND as well as the corresponding
RES, CK and IK. If the USIM returned SRES and Kc (for GSM access), the ME
shall store these values. When the ME receives an _authentication request_ and
discovers that a RAND is repeated, it shall re-transmit the response. The ME
shall delete the stored values RAND, RES and SRES (if they exist) as soon as
the 3G security mode command or the GSM cipher mode command is received by the
ME or the connection is aborted. If the ME can handle the retransmission
mechanism for CS domain then it shall be able to handle the retransmission for
both PS and CS domain simultaneously.
### 6.3.4 Distribution of IMSI and temporary authentication data within one
serving network domain
The purpose of this procedure is to provide a newly visited VLR/SGSN with
temporary authentication data from a previously visited VLR/SGSN within the
same serving network domain.
The procedure is shown in Figure 11.
{width="3.8340277777777776in" height="1.59375in"}
Figure 11: Distribution of IMSI and temporary authentication data within one
serving network domain
The procedure shall be invoked by the newly visited VLRn/SGSNn after the
receipt of a location update request (resp. routing area update request) from
the user wherein the user is identified by means of a temporary user identity
TMSIo (resp. P-TMSIo) and the location area identity LAIo (resp. routing area
identity RAIo) under the jurisdiction of a previously visited VLRo/SGSNo that
belongs to the same serving network domain as the newly visited VLRn/SGSNn.
The protocol steps are as follows:
a) The VLRn/SGSNn sends a _user identity request_ to the VLRo/SGSNo, this
message contains TMSIo and LAIo (resp. P-TMSIo and RAIo).
b) The VLRo/SGSNo searches the user data in the database.
If the user is found, the VLRo/SGSNo shall send a _user identity response_
back that:
i) shall include the IMSI,
ii) may include a number of unused authentication vectors (quintets or
triplets) ordered on a first-in / first-out basis, and
iii) may include the current security context data: CK, IK and KSI (UMTS) or
Kc and CKSN (GSM).
The SGSNn shall derive Kc~128~ from the current security context data
according to annex B.5 if it received a CK/IK pair and KSI from the SGSNo and
if the SGSNn is to use a 128-bit GSM ciphering algorithm in GSM. The VLRn
shall derive Kc~128~ from the current security context data according to annex
B.5 if it received a CK/IK pair and KSI from the VLRo and if the VLRn is to
signal a 128-bit GSM ciphering algorithm as a permitted ciphering algorithm to
the BSS in GSM.
The VLRo/SGSNo subsequently deletes the authentication vectors which have been
sent and the data elements on the current security context.
If the user cannot be identified the VLRo/SGSNo shall send a _user identity
response_ indicating that the user identity cannot be retrieved.
c) If the VLRn/SGSNn receives a _user identity response_ with an IMSI, it
creates an entry and stores any authentication vectors and any data on the
current security context that may be included.
If the VLRn/SGSNn receives a _user identity response_ indicating that the user
could not be identified, it shall initiate the user identification procedure
described in 6.2.
### 6.3.5 Re-synchronisation procedure
A VLR/SGSN may send two types of _authentication data requests_ to the HE/AuC,
the (regular) one described in subsection 6.3.2 and one used in case of
synchronisation failures, described in this subsection.
Upon receiving a _synchronisation failure_ message from the user, the VLR/SGSN
sends an _authentication data request_ with a \"_synchronisation failure
indication_ \" to the HE/AuC, together with the parameters:
_\- RAND_ sent to the MS in the preceding user authentication request, and
_\- AUTS_ received by the VLR/SGSN in the response to that request, as
described in subsection 6.3.3.
An VLR/SGSN will not react to unsolicited \"synchronisation failure
indication\" messages from the MS.
The VLR/SGSN does not send new user authentication requests to the user before
having received the response to its authentication data request from the
HE/AuC (or before it is timed out).
When the HE/AuC receives an _authentication data request_ with a
\"_synchronisation failure indication_ \" it acts as follows:
1\. The HE/AuC retrieves _SQN~MS~_ from Conc(_SQN~MS~_) by computing
Conc(_SQN~MS~_) ⊕ _f5^*^~K~(RAND)_.
2\. The HE/AuC checks if _SQN~HE~_ is in the correct range, i.e. if the next
sequence number generated _SQN~HE~_ using would be accepted by the USIM.
3\. If _SQN~HE~_ is in the correct range then the HE/AuC continues with step
(6), otherwise it continues with step (4).
4\. The HE/AuC verifies _AUTS_ (cf. subsection 6.3.3).
5\. If the verification is successful the HE/AuC resets the value of the
counter _SQN~HE~_ to _SQN~MS~_.
6\. The HE/AuC sends an _authentication data response_ with a new batch of
authentication vectors to the VLR/SGSN. If the counter _SQN~HE~_ was not reset
then these authentication vectors can be taken from storage, otherwise they
are newly generated after resetting _SQN~HE~_. In order to reduce the real-
time computation burden on the HE/AuC, the HE/AuC may also send only a single
authentication vector in the latter case.
Whenever the VLR/SGSN receives a new batch of authentication vectors from the
HE/AuC in an authentication data response to an authentication data request
with synchronisation failure indication it deletes the old ones for that user
in the VLR/SGSN.
The user may now be authenticated based on a new authentication vector from
the HE/AuC. Figure 12 shows how re-synchronisation is achieved by combining a
_user authentication request_ answered by a _synchronisation failure_ message
(as described in section 6.3.3) with an _authentication data request_ with
_synchronisation failure_ indication answered by an _authentication data
response_ (as described in this section)_._
{width="4.938194444444444in" height="1.8854166666666667in"}
Figure 12: Resynchronisation mechanism
### 6.3.6 Reporting authentication failures from the SGSN/VLR to the HLR
The purpose of this procedure is to provide a mechanism for reporting
authentication failures from the serving environment back to the home
environment.
The procedure is shown in Figure 13.
{width="4.625694444444444in" height="1.3118055555555554in"}
Figure 13: Reporting authentication failure from VLR/SGSN to HLR
The procedure is invoked by the serving network VLR/SGSN when the
authentication procedure fails. The _authentication failure report_ shall
contain:
1\. Subscriber identity;
2\. Failure cause code. The possible failure causes are either that the
network signature was wrong or that the user response was wrong;
3\. Access type. This indicates the type of access that initiated the
authentication procedure;
4\. Authentication re-attempt. This indicates whether the failure was produced
in a normal authentication attempt or it was due to an authentication
reattempt (there was a previous unsuccessful authentication). Details are
provided in subclause 6.3.6.1;
5\. VLR/SGSN address;
6\. RAND. This number uniquely identifies the specific AV that failed
authentication.
The HE may decide to cancel the location of the user after receiving an
_authentication failure report_ and may store the received data so that
further processing to detect possible fraud situations could be performed.
#### 6.3.6.1 Authentication re-attempt
The serving network sets the Authentication re-attempt to \"true\" if the
second authentication described in the following cases results in an
authentication failure report:
\- authentication with (P-)TMSI failed in MS (reject cause \'MAC failure\')
and new authentication procedure (re-attempt) is taken because an IMSI
obtained by the followed IDENTITY REQUEST procedure does not match to the
original IMSI that linked with (P‑)TMSI.
\- authentication failed in MS (reject cause \'GSM authentication
unacceptable\') and new authentication procedure (re-attempt) is taken after
MSC obtains UMTS authentication vectors from HLR.
\- authentication failed in MS (reject cause \'synch failure\') and new
authentication procedure (re-attempt) is taken after MSC obtains new
authentication vectors from HLR for re-synchronisation.
\- SRES mismatches with (P‑)TMSI in VLR/SGSN and new authentication procedure
(re-attempt) is taken because an IMSI obtained by the followed IDENTITY
REQUEST procedure does not match to the original IMSI that linked with
(P‑)TMSI.
Otherwise Authentication re-attempt is set to \"False\".
### 6.3.7 Length of authentication parameters
The authentication key (K) shall have a length of 128 bits.
The random challenge (RAND) shall have a length of 128 bits.
Sequence numbers (SQN) shall have a length of 48 bits.
The anonymity key (AK) shall have a length of 48 bits.
The authentication management field (AMF) shall have a length of 16 bits.
The message authentication codes MAC in AUTN and MAC‑S in AUTS shall have a
length of 64 bits.
The cipher key (CK) shall have a length of 128 bits.
The integrity key (IK) shall have a length of 128 bits.
The authentication response (RES) shall have a variable length of 4‑16 octets.
## 6.4 Local authentication and connection establishment
Local authentication is obtained by integrity protection functionality.
### 6.4.1 Cipher key and integrity key setting
Authentication and key setting are triggered by the authentication procedure
and described in 6.3. Authentication and key setting may be initiated by the
network as often as the network operator wishes. Key setting can occur as soon
as the identity of the mobile subscriber (i.e. P‑TMSI, TMSI or IMSI) is known
by the VLR/SGSN. The CK and IK are stored in the VLR/SGSN and transferred to
the RNC when needed. The CK and IK for the CS domain are stored on the USIM
and updated at the next authentication from this domain as specified in
subclause 6.8.1.5. The CK and IK for the PS domain are stored on the USIM and
updated at the next authentication from this domain as specified in subclause
6.8.1.5.
If an authentication procedure is performed during a connection (PS or CS
mode), the new cipher key CK and integrity key IK shall be taken in use in
both the RNC and the ME as part of the security mode set-up procedure (see
6.4.5) that follows the authentication procedure.
### 6.4.2 Ciphering and integrity mode negotiation
When an MS wishes to establish a connection with the network, the MS shall
indicate to the network in the MS/USIM Classmark which cipher and integrity
algorithms the MS supports. This information itself must be integrity
protected. As it is the case that the RNC does not have the integrity key IK
when receiving the MS/USIM Classmark this information must be stored in the
RNC. The data integrity of the classmark is performed, during the security
mode set-up procedure by use of the most recently generated IK (see section
6.4.5).
The network shall compare its integrity protection capabilities and
preferences, and any special requirements of the subscription of the MS, with
those indicated by the MS and act according to the following rules:
1) If the MS and the network have no versions of the UIA algorithm in common,
then the connection shall be released.
2) If the MS and the network have at least one version of the UIA algorithm in
common, then the network shall select one of the mutually acceptable versions
of the UIA algorithm for use on that connection.
The network shall compare its ciphering capabilities and preferences, and any
special requirements of the subscription of the MS, with those indicated by
the MS and act according to the following rules:
1) If the MS and the network have no versions of the UEA algorithm in common
and the network is not prepared to use an unciphered connection, then the
connection shall be released.
2) If the MS and the network have no versions of the UEA algorithm in common
and the user (respectively the user\'s HE) and the network are willing to use
an unciphered connection, then an unciphered connection shall be used.
3) If the MS and the network have at least one version of the UEA algorithm in
common, then the network shall select one of the mutually acceptable versions
of the UEA algorithm for use on that connection.
Because of the separate mobility management for CS and PS services, one CN
domain may, independent of the other CN, establish a connection to one and the
same MS. Change of ciphering and integrity mode (algorithms) at establishment
of a second MS to CN connection shall not be permitted. The preferences and
special requirements for the ciphering and integrity mode setting shall be
common for both domains. (e.g. the order of preference of the algorithms).
### 6.4.3 Cipher key and integrity key lifetime
Authentication and key agreement, which generates cipher/integrity keys, is
not mandatory at call set-up, and there is therefore the possibility of
unlimited and malicious re-use of compromised keys. A mechanism is needed to
ensure that a particular cipher/integrity key set is not used for an unlimited
period of time, to avoid attacks using compromised keys. The USIM shall
therefore contain a mechanism to limit the amount of data that is protected by
an access link key set.
Each time an RRC connection is released the values START~CS~ and START~PS~ of
the bearers that were protected in that RRC connection are compared with the
maximum value, THRESHOLD. If START~CS~ and/or START~PS~ have reached the
maximum value (THRESHOLD), the ME marks the START value in the USIM for the
corresponding core network domain(s) as invalid by setting the START~CS~
and/or START~PS~ to THRESHOLD, deletes the cipher key and the integrity key
stored on the USIM and sets the KSI to invalid (refer to section 6.4.4).
Otherwise, the START~CS~ and START~PS~ are stored in the USIM. The maximum
value THRESHOLD is set by the operator and stored in the USIM.
When the next RRC connection is established START values are read from the
USIM. Then, the ME shall trigger the generation of a new access link key set
(a cipher key and an integrity key) if START~CS~ and/or START~PS~ has reached
the maximum value THRESHOLD, for the corresponding core network domain(s).
This mechanism will ensure that a cipher/integrity key set cannot be reused
beyond the limit set by the operator.
When the user is attached to a UTRAN, a R99+ ME with a SIM inserted shall use
a default value for maximum value of START~CS~ or START~PS~ as described in
section 6.8.2.4.
### 6.4.4 Cipher key and integrity key identification
The key set identifier (KSI) is a number which is associated with the cipher
and integrity keys derived during authentication. The key set identifier is
allocated by the network and sent with the authentication request message to
the mobile station where it is stored together with the calculated cipher key
CK and integrity key IK. KSI in UMTS corresponds to CKSN in GSM. The USIM
stores one KSI/CKSN for the PS domain key set and one KSI/CKSN for the CS
domain key set.
The purpose of the key set identifier is to make it possible for the network
to identify the cipher key CK and integrity key IK which are stored in the
mobile station without invoking the authentication procedure. This is used to
allow re-use of the cipher key CK and integrity key IK during subsequent
connection set-ups.
KSI and CKSN have the same format. The key set identifier is three bits. Seven
values are used to identify the key set. A value of \'111\' is used by the
mobile station to indicate that a valid key is not available for use. At
deletion of the cipher key and integrity key, the KSI is set to \'111\'. The
value \'111\' in the other direction from network to mobile station is
reserved.
### 6.4.5 Security mode set-up procedure
This section describes one common procedure for both ciphering and integrity
protection set-up. It is mandatory to start integrity protection of signalling
messages by use of this procedure at each new signalling connection
establishment between MS and VLR/SGSN. The five exceptions when it is not
mandatory to start integrity protection are:
\- If the only purpose with the signalling connection establishment and the
only result is periodic location registration, i.e. no change of any
registration information.
\- If there is no MS-VLR/SGSNsignalling after the initial L3 signalling
message sent from MS to VLR/SGSN, i.e. in the case of deactivation indication
sent from the MS followed by connection release.
\- If the only MS-VLR/SGSN signalling after the initial L3 signalling message
sent from MS to VLR/SGSN, and possible user identity request and
authentication (see below), is a reject signalling message followed by a
connection release. However, it shall be mandatory for the VLR/SGSN to start
integrity protection before sending a reject signalling message that causes
the CSG list on the UE to be modified.
\- If the call is an emergency call teleservice as defined in TS 22.003, see
section 6.4.9.2 below.
\- If the PS connection establishment is for an emergency session, see clause
6.4.9.2 below.
When the integrity protection shall be started, the only procedures between MS
and VLR/SGSN that are allowed after the initial connection request (i.e. the
initial Layer 3 message sent to VLR/SGSN) and before the security mode set-up
procedure are the following:
\- Identification by a permanent identity (i.e. request for IMSI, IMEI or
IMEISV), and
\- Authentication and key agreement.
The message sequence flow below describes the information transfer at initial
connection establishment, possible authentication and start of integrity
protection and possible ciphering.
Figure 14: Local authentication and connection set-up
NOTE 1: The network must have the \"UE security capability\" information
before the integrity protection can start, i.e. the \"UE security capability\"
must be sent to the network in an unprotected message. Returning the \"UE
security capability\" later on to the UE in a protected message will give UE
the possibility to verify that it was the correct \"UE security capability\"
that reached the network.
Detailed description of the flow above:
1\. RRC connection establishment includes the transfer from MS to RNC of the
ME security capability optionally the GSM Classmarks 2 and 3 and the START
values for the CS service domain respective the PS service domain. The UE
security capability information includes the ciphering capabilities (UEAs) and
the integrity capabilities (UIAs) of the MS. The START values and the UE
security capability information are stored in the SRNC. If the GSM Clasmarks 2
and 3 are transmitted during the RRC Connection establishment, the RNC must
store the GSM ciphering capability of the UE (see also message 7).
2\. The MS sends the Initial L3 message (Location update request, CM service
request, Routing area update request, attach request, paging response etc.) to
the VLR/SGSN. This message contains e.g. the user identity and the KSI. The
included KSI (Key Set Identifier) is the KSI allocated by the CS service
domain or PS service domain at the last authentication for this CN domain.
3\. User identity request may be performed (see 6.2). Authentication of the
user and generation of new security keys (IK and CK) may be performed (see
6.3.3). A new KSI will then also be allocated.
4\. The VLR/SGSN determines which UIAs and UEAs that are allowed to be used in
order of preference.
5\. The VLR/SGSN initiates integrity and ciphering by sending the RANAP
message Security Mode Command to SRNC. This message contains an ordered list
of allowed UIAs in order of preference, and the IK to be used. If ciphering
shall be started, it contains the ordered list of allowed UEAs in order of
preference, and the CK to be used. If a new authentication and security key
generation has been performed (see 3 above), this shall be indicated in the
message sent to the SRNC. The indication of new generated keys implies that
the START value to be used shall be reset (i.e. set to zero) at start use of
the new keys. Otherwise, it is the START value already available in the SRNC
that shall be used (see 1. above). VLR/SGSN shall treat the keyset as \"new\"
only if the authentication and security key generation was performed while in
UTRAN, and the keyset has not been used for this UE in a previous successful
RANAP Security Mode Control, BSSMAP Cipher Mode Control procedure or in a
successful Handover/Relocation, otherwise the keyset shall be considered to be
\"old\".
6\. The SRNC decides which algorithms to use by selecting the highest
preference algorithm from the list of allowed algorithms that matches any of
the algorithms supported by the MS (see 6.4.2). The SRNC generates a random
value FRESH and initiates the downlink integrity protection. If the
requirements received in the Security mode command can not be fulfilled, the
SRNC sends a SECURITY MODE REJECT message to the requesting VLR/SGSN. The
further actions are described in 6.4.2.
7\. The SRNC generates the RRC message Security mode command. The message
includes the ME security capability, optionally the GSM ciphering capability
(if received during RRC Connection establishment), the UIA and FRESH to be
used and if ciphering shall be started also the UEA to be used. Additional
information (start of ciphering) may also be included. Because of that the MS
can have two ciphering and integrity key sets, the network must indicate which
key set to use. This is obtained by including a CN type indicator information
in the Security mode command message. Before sending this message to the MS,
the SRNC generates the MAC-I (Message Authentication Code for Integrity) and
attaches this information to the message.
8\. At reception of the Security mode command message, the MS controls that
the \"UE security capability\" received is equal to the \"UE security
capability\" sent in the initial message. The same applies to the GSM
ciphering capability if it was included in the RRC Connection Establishment.
The MS computes XMAC-I on the message received by using the indicated UIA,
COUNT-I generated from the stored START and the received FRESH parameter. The
MS verifies the integrity of the message by comparing the received MAC-I with
the generated XMAC-I.
9\. If all controls are successful, the MS compiles the RRC message Security
mode complete and generates the MAC-I for this message. If any control is not
successful, the procedure ends in the MS.
10\. At reception of the response message, the SRNC computes the XMAC-I on the
message. The SRNC verifies the data integrity of the message by comparing the
received MAC-I with the generated XMAC-I.
11\. The transfer of the RANAP message Security Mode Complete response,
including the selected algorithms, from SRNC to the VLR/SGSN ends the
procedure.
The Security mode command to MS starts the downlink integrity protection, i.e.
this and all following downlink messages sent to the MS are integrity
protected using the new integrity configuration. The Security mode complete
from MS starts the uplink integrity protection, i.e. this and all following
messages sent from the MS are integrity protected using the new integrity
configuration. When ciphering shall be started, the Ciphering Activation time
information that is exchanged between SRNC and MS during the Security mode
set-up procedure sets the RLC Sequence Number/Connection Frame Number when to
start ciphering in Downlink respective Uplink using the new ciphering
configuration.
Mechanisms are defined to allow networks to overcome early UE implementation
faults [22]. A potential early UE implementation fault could be a faulty UEA1
implementation. To allow networks to handle early UEs which have faulty UEA1
implementations, the SGSN/VLR may configure the security mode command based on
the UE's IMEISV so that certain UEs which claim to support UEA1 shall have
security established without ciphering (i.e. with UEA0), while other UEs which
claim to support UEA1 shall have security established with ciphering (i.e.
with UEA1). This procedure shall involve the SGSN/VLR retrieving the IMEISV
from the UE before the security mode set-up procedure has started.
If the above procedure to handle UEs which have faulty UEA1 implementations is
implemented and the security mode set-up procedure results in security being
established without ciphering (i.e. with UEA0) then the SGSN/VLR shall request
the IMEISV from the UE for a second time immediately after the security mode
set-up procedure has been completed. This second IMEISV request is integrity
protected. If the IMEISV request is not successful, or if the second IMEISV
received is different from the IMEISV received before the security mode set-up
procedure was started then the connection shall be released.
### 6.4.6 Signalling procedures in the case of an unsuccessful integrity check
The supervision of failed integrity checks shall be performed both in the MS
and the SRNC. In case of failed integrity check (i.e. faulty or missing MAC)
is detected after that the integrity protection is started the concerned
message shall be discarded. This can happen on the RNC side or on the MS side.
### 6.4.7 Signalling procedure for periodic local authentication
The following procedure is used by the RNC to periodically perform a local
authentication. At the same time, the amount of data sent during the RRC
connection is periodically checked by the RNC and the UE. The RNC is
monitoring the COUNT-C value associated to each radio bearer. The procedure is
triggered whenever any of these values reaches a critical checking value. The
granularity of these checking values and the values themselves are defined by
the visited network. All messages in the procedure are integrity protected.
Figure 15a: RNC periodic local authentication procedure
1\. When a checking value is reached (e.g. the value in some fixed bit
position in the hyperframe number is changed), a Counter Check message is sent
by the RNC. The Counter Check message contains the most significant parts of
the COUNT‑C values (which reflect amount of data sent and received) from each
active radio bearer.
2\. The UE compares the COUNT‑C values received in the Counter Check message
with the values of its radio bearers. Different UE COUNT-C values are included
within the Counter Check Response message.
3\. If the RNC receives a counter check response message that does not contain
any COUNT-C values, the procedure ends. If the RNC receives a counter check
response that contains one or several COUNT-C values, the RNC may release the
connection.
### 6.4.8 Initialisation of synchronisation for ciphering and integrity
protection
The ciphering and integrity protection algorithms are driven by counters
(COUNT-C and COUNT-I) that at connection establishment need to be initialised.
For that purpose the ME and the USIM have the ability to store a START value.
The ME and the USIM store a START~CS~ value for the CS cipher/integrity keys
and a START~PS~ value for the PS cipher/integrity keys. The length of START is
20 bits.
The ME only contains (valid) START values when it is powered-on and a USIM is
inserted. When the ME is powered-off or the USIM is removed, the ME deletes
its START values and the Kc~128~ if one was derived. After power-on or
insertion of a USIM, the USIM sends its START values to the ME, and the ME
stores them. During idle mode, the START values in the ME and in the USIM are
identical and static.
At radio connection establishment for a particular serving network domain (CS
or PS) the ME sends the START~CS~ and the START~PS~ value to the RNC in the
_RRC connection setup complete_ message. The ME marks the START values in the
USIM as invalid by setting START~CS~ and START~PS~ to THRESHOLD.
The ME and the RNC initialise the 20 most significant bits of the RRC HFN (for
integrity protection), the RLC HFN (for ciphering) and the MAC-d HFN (for
ciphering) to the START value of the corresponding service domain; the
remaining bits are initialised to 0. Also the RRC SN (for integrity
protection) and the RLC SN (for ciphering) are initialised to 0.
During an ongoing radio connection, the START~CS~ value in the ME and in the
SRNC is defined as the 20 most significant bits of the maximum of all current
COUNT-C and COUNT-I values for all signalling radio bearers and CS user data
radio bearers protected using CK~CS~ and/or IK~CS,~ incremented by2, i.e.:
START~CS~\' = MSB~20~ ( MAX {COUNT-C, COUNT-I \| all radio bearers (including
signalling) protected with CK~CS~ and IK~CS~}) +2.
\- If current START~CS~ \ network control signalling messages
(e.g. RRC, MM, CC, GMM, and SM messages) shall be integrity protected. The
Mobility Management layer in the MS supervises that the integrity protection
is started (see section 6.4.5).
All signalling messages except the following ones shall then be integrity
protected:
HANDOVER TO UTRAN COMPLETE
Paging Type 1
PUSCH CAPACITY REQUEST
PHYSICAL SHARED CHANNEL ALLOCATION
RRC Connection Request
RRC Connection Setup
RRC Connection Setup Complete
RRC Connection Reject
RRC CONNECTION RELEASE (CCCH only)
SYSTEM INFORMATION (BROADCAST INFORMATION)
SYSTEM INFORMATION CHANGE INDICATION
TRANSPORT FORMAT COMBINATION CONTROL (TM DCCH only)
### 6.5.2 Layer of integrity protection
Integrity protection shall be applied at the RRC layer.
### 6.5.3 Data integrity protection method
Figure 16 illustrates the use of the integrity algorithm f9 to authenticate
the data integrity of a signalling message.
Figure 16: Derivation of MAC-I (or XMAC-I) on a signalling message
The input parameters to the algorithm are the Integrity Key (IK), the
integrity sequence number (COUNT‑I), a random value generated by the network
side (FRESH), the direction bit DIRECTION and the signalling data MESSAGE.
Based on these input parameters the user computes message authentication code
for data integrity MAC-I using the integrity algorithm f9. The MAC-I is then
appended to the message when sent over the radio access link. The receiver
computes XMAC-I on the message received in the same way as the sender computed
MAC-I on the message sent and verifies the data integrity of the message by
comparing it to the received MAC-I.
### 6.5.4 Input parameters to the integrity algorithm
#### 6.5.4.1 COUNT-I
The integrity sequence number COUNT-I is 32 bits long.
For signalling radio bearers (RB 0-4) there is one COUNT-I value per up-link
signalling radio bearer and one COUNT-I value per down-link signalling radio
bearer.
COUNT-I is composed of two parts: a \"short\" sequence number and a \"long\"
sequence number. The \"short\" sequence number forms the least significant
bits of COUNT-I while the \"long\" sequence number forms the most significant
bits of COUNT-I. The \"short\" sequence number is the 4-bit RRC sequence
number (RRC SN) that is available in each RRC PDU. The \"long\" sequence
number is the 28-bit RRC hyper frame number (RRC HFN) which is incremented at
each RRC SN cycle.
Figure 16a: The structure of COUNT-I
The RRC HFN is initialised by means of the parameter START, which is described
in section 6.4.8. The ME and the RNC then initialise the 20 most significant
bits of the RRC HFN to START; the remaining bits of the RRC HFN are
initialised to 0.
#### 6.5.4.2 IK
The integrity key IK is 128 bits long.
There may be one IK for CS connections (IK~CS~), established between the CS
service domain and the user and one IK for PS connections (IK~PS~) established
between the PS service domain and the user. Which integrity key to use for a
particular connection is described in 6.5.5.
For UMTS subscribers IK is established during UMTS AKA as the output of the
integrity key derivation function f4, that is available in the USIM and in the
HLR/AuC. For GSM subscribers, that access the UTRAN, IK is established
following GSM AKA and is derived from the GSM cipher key Kc, as described in
6.8.2.
IK is stored in the USIM and a copy is stored in the ME. IK is sent from the
USIM to the ME upon request of the ME. The USIM shall send IK under the
condition that a valid IK is available. The ME shall trigger a new
authentication procedure if the current value of START~CS~ or START~PS~ in the
USIM are not up-to-date or START~CS~ or START~PS~ have reached THRESHOLD. The
ME shall delete IK from memory after power-off as well as after removal of the
USIM.
IK is sent from the HLR/AuC to the VLR/SGSN and stored in the VLR/SGSNas part
of a quintet. It is sent from the VLR/SGSN to the RNC in the (RANAP) _security
mode command_.
At handover, the IK is transmitted within the network infrastructure from the
old RNC to the new RNC, to enable the communication to proceed, and the
synchronisation procedure is resumed. The IK remains unchanged at handover.
#### 6.5.4.3 FRESH
The network-side nonce FRESH is 32 bits long.
There is one FRESH parameter value per user. The input parameter FRESH
protects the network against replay of signalling messages by the user. At
connection set-up the RNC generates a random value FRESH and sends it to the
user in the (RRC) _security mode command_. The value FRESH is subsequently
used by both the network and the user throughout the duration of a single
connection. This mechanism assures the network that the user is not replaying
any old MAC-Is.
At handover with relocation of the S-RNC, the new S-RNC generates its own
value for the FRESH parameter and sends it to the ME in the RRC message that
indicates a new UTRAN Radio Network Temporary Identity due to a SRNC
relocation (see TS 25.331 [17]).
#### 6.5.4.4 DIRECTION
The direction identifier DIRECTION is 1 bit long.
The direction identifier is input to avoid that the integrity algorithm used
to compute the message authentication codes would use an identical set of
input parameter values for the up-link and for the down-link messages. The
value of the DIRECTION is 0 for messages from UE to RNC and 1 for messages
from RNC to UE.
#### 6.5.4.5 MESSAGE
The signalling message itself with the radio bearer identity. The latter is
appended in front of the message. Note that the radio bearer identity is not
transmitted with the message but it is needed to avoid that for different
instances of message authentication codes the same set of input parameters is
used.
### 6.5.5 Integrity key selection
There may be one IK for CS connections (IK~CS~), established between the CS
service domain and the user and one IK for PS connections (IK~PS~) established
between the PS service domain and the user.
The data integrity of radio bearers for user data is not protected.
The signalling radio bearers are used for transfer of signalling data for
services delivered by both CS and PS service domains. These signalling radio
bearers are data integrity protected by the IK of the service domain for which
the most recent security mode negotiation took place. This may require that
the integrity key of an (already integrity protected) ongoing signalling
connection has to be changed, when a new connection is established with
another service domain, or when a security mode negotiation follow a re-
authentication during an ongoing connection. This change should be completed
by the RNC within five seconds after receiving the security mode command from
the VLR/SGSN.
NOTE: For the behaviour of the terminal regarding key changes see section
6.4.5.
### 6.5.6 UIA identification
Each UMTS Integrity Algorithm (UIA) will be assigned a 4-bit identifier.
Currently, the following values have been defined:
\"0001~2~\" : UIA1, Kasumi.
\"0010~2~\" : UIA2, SNOW 3G.
The remaining values are not defined.
UEs and RNCs shall implement UIA1 and UIA2.
The use of Kasumi for the integrity protection function f9 is specified in TS
35.201 [11] and TS 35.202 [12]. Implementers\' test data and design
conformance data is provided in TS 35.203 [13] and TS 35.204 [14].
The use of SNOW 3G for the integrity protection function f9 is specified in TS
35.215 [24] and TS 35.216 [25]. Implementers\' test data and design
conformance data is provided in TS 35.217 [26] and TS 35.218 [27].
## 6.6 Access link data confidentiality
### 6.6.1 General
User data and some signalling information elements are considered sensitive
and should be confidentiality protected. To ensure identity confidentiality
(see section 6.1), the temporary user identity (P‑)TMSI should be transferred
in a protected mode at allocation time and at other times when the signalling
procedures permit it.
These needs for a protected mode of transmission are fulfilled by a
confidentiality function which is applied on dedicated channels between the ME
and the RNC.
### 6.6.2 Layer of ciphering
The ciphering function is performed either in the RLC sub-layer or in the MAC
sub-layer, according to the following rules:
\- If a radio bearer is using a non-transparent RLC mode (AM or UM), ciphering
is performed in the RLC sub-layer.
\- If a radio bearer is using the transparent RLC mode, ciphering is performed
in the MAC sub-layer (MAC-d entity).
Ciphering when applied is performed in the S-RNC and the ME and the context
needed for ciphering (CK, HFN, etc.) is only known in S-RNC and the ME.
### 6.6.3 Ciphering method
Figure 16b illustrates the use of the ciphering algorithm f8 to encrypt
plaintext by applying a keystream using a bit per bit binary addition of the
plaintext and the keystream. The plaintext may be recovered by generating the
same keystream using the same input parameters and applying a bit per bit
binary addition with the ciphertext.
Figure 16b: Ciphering of user and signalling data transmitted over the radio
access link
The input parameters to the algorithm are the cipher key CK, a time dependent
input COUNT-C, the bearer identity BEARER, the direction of transmission
DIRECTION and the length of the keystream required LENGTH. Based on these
input parameters the algorithm generates the output keystream block KEYSTREAM
which is used to encrypt the input plaintext block PLAINTEXT to produce the
output ciphertext block CIPHERTEXT.
The input parameter LENGTH shall affect only the length of the KEYSTREAM
BLOCK, not the actual bits in it.
### 6.6.4 Input parameters to the cipher algorithm
#### 6.6.4.1 COUNT-C
The ciphering sequence number COUNT-C is 32 bits long.
There is one COUNT-C value per up-link radio bearer and one COUNT-C value per
down-link radio bearer using RLC AM or RLC UM. For all transparent mode RLC
radio bearers of the same CN domain COUNT-C is the same, and COUNT-C is also
the same for uplink and downlink.
COUNT-C is composed of two parts: a \"short\" sequence number and a \"long\"
sequence number. The \"short\" sequence number forms the least significant
bits of COUNT-C while the \"long\" sequence number forms the most significant
bits of COUNT-C. The update of COUNT-C depends on the transmission mode as
described below (see figure 16c).
{width="6.354861111111111in" height="3.0in"}
Figure 16c: The structure of COUNT-C for all transmission modes
\- For RLC TM on DCH, the \"short\" sequence number is the 8-bit connection
frame number CFN of COUNT‑C. It is independently maintained in the ME MAC‑d
entity and the SRNC MAC-d entity. The \"long\" sequence number is the 24-bit
MAC‑d HFN, which is incremented at each CFN cycle.
\- For RLC UM mode, the \"short\" sequence number is the 7-bit RLC sequence
number (RLC SN) and this is part of the RLC UM PDU header. The \"long\"
sequence number is the 25-bit RLC UM HFN which is incremented at each RLC SN
cycle.
\- For RLC AM mode, the \"short\" sequence number is the 12-bit RLC sequence
number (RLC SN) and this is part of the RLC AM PDU header. The \"long\"
sequence number is the 20-bit RLC AM HFN which is incremented at each RLC SN
cycle.
The hyperframe number HFN is initialised by means of the parameter START,
which is described in section 6.4.8. The ME and the RNC then initialise the 20
most significant bits of the RLC AM HFN, RLC UM HFN and MAC‑d HFN to START.
The remaining bits of the RLC AM HFN, RLC UM HFN and MAC‑d HFN are initialised
to zero.
When a new radio bearer is created during a RRC connection in ciphered mode,
the HFN is initialised by the current START value (see section 6.4.8).
#### 6.6.4.2 CK
The cipher key CK is 128 bits long.
There may be one CK for CS connections (CK~CS~), established between the CS
service domain and the user and one CK for PS connections (CK~PS~) established
between the PS service domain and the user. The CK to use for a particular
radio bearer is described in 6.6.5. For UMTS subscribers, CK is established
during UMTS AKA, as the output of the cipher key derivation function f3,
available in the USIM and in HLR/AuC. For GSM subscribers that access the
UTRAN, CK is established following GSM AKA and is derived from the GSM cipher
key Kc, as described in 8.2.
CK is stored in the USIM and a copy is stored in the ME. CK is sent from the
USIM to the ME upon request of the ME. The USIM shall send CK under the
condition that a valid CK is available. The ME shall trigger a new
authentication procedure if the current value of START~CS~ or START~PS~ in the
USIM have reached THRESHOLD. The ME shall delete CK from memory after power-
off as well as after removal of the USIM.
CK is sent from the HLR/AuC to the VLR/SGSN and stored in the VLR/SGSN as part
of the quintet. It is sent from the VLR/SGSN to the RNC in the (RANAP)
security mode command.
At handover, the CK is transmitted within the network infrastructure from the
old RNC to the new RNC, to enable the communication to proceed. The cipher CK
remains unchanged at handover.
#### 6.6.4.3 BEARER
The radio bearer identifier BEARER is 5 bits long.
There is one BEARER parameter per radio bearer associated with the same user
and multiplexed on a single 10ms physical layer frame. The radio bearer
identifier is input to avoid that for different keystream an identical set of
input parameter values is used.
#### 6.6.4.4 DIRECTION
The direction identifier DIRECTION is 1 bit long.
The direction identifier is input to avoid that for the keystreams for the up-
link and for the down-link would use the an identical set of input parameter
values. The value of the DIRECTION is 0 for messages from UE to RNC and 1 for
messages from RNC to UE.
#### 6.6.4.5 LENGTH
The length indicator LENGTH is 16 bits long.
The length indicator determines the length of the required keystream block.
LENGTH shall affect only the length of the KEYSTREAM BLOCK, not the actual
bits in it.
### 6.6.5 Cipher key selection
There is one CK for CS connections (CK~CS~), established between the CS
service domain and the user and one CK for PS connections (CK~PS~) established
between the PS service domain and the user.
The radio bearers for CS user data are ciphered with CK~CS~.
The radio bearers for PS user data are ciphered with CK~PS~.
The signalling radio bearers are used for transfer of signalling data for
services delivered by both CS and PS service domains. These signalling radio
bearers are ciphered by the CK of the service domain for which the most recent
security mode negotiation took place. This may require that the cipher key of
an (already ciphered) ongoing signalling connection has to be changed, when a
new connection is established with another service domain, or when a security
mode negotiation follows a re-authentication during an ongoing connection.
This change should be completed by the RNC within five seconds after receiving
the security mode command from the VLR/SGSN.
NOTE: For the behaviour of the terminal regarding key changes see section
6.4.5.
### 6.6.6 UEA identification
Each UEA will be assigned a 4-bit identifier. Currently the following values
have been defined:
\"0000~2~\" : UEA0, no encryption.
\"0001~2~\" : UEA1, Kasumi.
\"0010~2~\" : UEA2, SNOW 3G.
The remaining values are not defined.
UEs shall implement UEA0, UEA1 and UEA2.
The use of Kasumi for the ciphering function f8 is specified in TS 35.201 [11]
and TS 35.202 [12]. Implementers\' test data and design conformance data is
provided in TS 35.203 [13] and TS 35.204 [14].
The use of SNOW 3G for the ciphering function f8 is specified in TS 35.215
[24] and TS 35.216 [25]. Implementers\' test data and design conformance data
is provided in TS 35.217 [26] and TS 35.218 [27].
## 6.7 Void
## 6.8 Interoperation and handover between UMTS and GSM
### 6.8.1 Authentication and key agreement of UMTS subscribers
#### 6.8.1.1 General
For UMTS subscribers, authentication and key agreement will be performed as
follows:
\- UMTS AKA shall be applied when the user is attached to a UTRAN.
\- UMTS AKA shall be applied when the user is attached to a GSM BSS, in case
the user has a ME capable of UMTS AKA and also the VLR/SGSN is R99+. In this
case, the 64-bit GSM cipher key Kc is derived from the UMTS cipher/integrity
keys CK and IK, by the VLR/SGSN on the network side and by the USIM on the
user side.The 128-bit GSM cipher key Kc~128~ is derived from the UMTS
cipher/integrity keys CK and IK, by the VLR/SGSN on the network side and by
the ME on the user side if needed to support 128-bit ciphering algorithms in
GSM as described in subclause 6.3.3 of this specification.
\- GSM AKA shall be applied when the user is attached to a GSM BSS, in case
the user has a ME not capable of UMTS AKA. In this case, the GSM user response
SRES and the 64-bit GSM cipher key Kc are derived from the UMTS user response
RES and the UMTS cipher/integrity keys CK and IK. A R98- VLR/SGSN uses the
stored Kc and RES and a R99+ VLR/SGSN derives the SRES from RES and Kc from
CK, IK.
NOTE: To operate within a ME not capable of UMTS AKA, the USIM may support the
SIM-ME interface as defined in GSM 11.11, and support GSM AKA which provides
the corresponding GSM functionality for calculating SRES and Kc based on the
authentication key K and the 3G authentication algorithm implemented in the
USIM. Due to the fact that the UMTS authentication algorithm only computes
CK/IK and RES, conversion of CK/IK to Kc shall be achieved by using the
conversion function c3, and conversion of RES to SRES by c2.
\- GSM AKA shall be applied when the user is attached to a GSM BSS, in case
the VLR/SGSN is R98-. In this case, the USIM derives the GSM user response
SRES and the GSM cipher key Kc from the UMTS user response RES and the UMTS
cipher/integrity keys CK, IK.
The execution of the UMTS (resp. GSM) AKA results in the establishment of a
UMTS (resp. GSM) security context between the user and the serving network
domain to which the VLR/SGSN belongs. The user needs to separately establish a
security context with each serving network domain.
Figure 18 shows the different scenarios that can occur with UMTS subscribers
in a mixed network architecture.
Figure 18: Authentication and key agreement of UMTS subscribers
Note that the UMTS parameters RAND, AUTN and RES are sent transparently
through the UTRAN or GSM BSS and that the GSM parameters RAND and SRES are
sent transparently through the GSM BSS.
In case of a GSM BSS, ciphering is applied in the GSM BSS for services
delivered via the MSC/VLR, and by the SGSN for services delivered via the
SGSN. In the latter case the GSM cipher keys Kc or Kc~128~ are not sent to the
GSM BSS.
In case of a UTRAN, ciphering and integrity are always applied in the RNC, and
the UMTS cipher/integrity keys CK an IK are always sent to the RNC.
#### 6.8.1.2 R99+ HLR/AuC
Upon receipt of an _authentication data request_ from a R99+ VLR/SGSN for a
UMTS subscriber, a R99+ HLR/AuC shall send quintets, generated as specified in
6.3.
Upon receipt of an _authentication data request_ from a R98- VLR/SGSN for a
UMTS subscriber, a R99+ HLR/AuC shall send triplets, derived from quintets
using the following conversion functions:
a) c1: RAND~[GSM]~ = RAND
b) c2: SRES~[GSM]~ = XRES*~1~ xor XRES*~2~ xor XRES*~3~ xor XRES*~4~
c) c3: Kc~[GSM]~ = CK~1~ xor CK~2~ xor IK~1~ xor IK~2~
whereby XRES* is 16 octets long and XRES* = XRES if XRES is 16 octets long and
XRES* = XRES \|\| 0...0 if XRES is shorter than 16 octets, XRES*~i~ are all 4
octets long and XRES* = XRES*~1~ \|\| XRES*~2~ \|\| XRES*~3~ \|\| XRES*~4~,
CK~i~ and IK~i~ are both 64 bits long and CK = CK~1~ \|\| CK~2~ and IK = IK~1~
\|\| IK~2~
#### 6.8.1.3 R99+ VLR/SGSN
The AKA procedure will depend on the terminal capabilities, as follows:
**UMTS subscriber with R99+ ME**
When the user has R99+ ME, the VLR/SGSN shall send the ME a UMTS
authentication challenge (i.e. RAND and AUTN) using a quintet that is either:
a) retrieved from the local database,
b) provided by the HLR/AuC, or
c) provided by the previously visited R99+ VLR/SGSN.
Note: Originally all quintets are provided by the HLR/AuC.
When the ME is capable of the USIM-ME interface, then UMTS AKA is performed
and the VLR/SGSN receives the UMTS response RES.
UMTS AKA results in the establishment of a UMTS security context; the UMTS
cipher/integrity keys CK and IK and the key set identifier KSI are stored in
theVLR/SGSN.
When the user is attached to a UTRAN, the UMTS cipher/integrity keys are sent
to the RNC, where the cipher/integrity algorithms are allocated.
When the user is attached to a GSM BSS, UMTS AKA is followed by the derivation
of the GSM cipher keys Kc (and Kc~128~ when needed)from the UMTS
cipher/integrity keys. When the user receives service from an MSC/VLR, the
derived cipher keys Kc (and Kc~128~ when needed) are then sent to the BSC (and
forwarded to the BTS). When the user receives service from an SGSN, the
derived cipher key Kc or Kc~128~ applied in the SGSN itself.
UMTS authentication and key freshness is always provided to UMTS subscribers
with R99+ ME independently of the radio access network.
When the ME is not capable of the USIM-ME interface, then GSM AKA is performed
and the VLR/SGSN receives the GSM response SRES.
GSM AKA results in the establishment of a GSM security context; the 64-bit GSM
cipher key Kc and the cipher key sequence number CKSN are stored in the
VLR/SGSN.
The R99+ VLR/SGSN shall reject authentication if SRES is received in response
of a UMTS challenge (RAND, AUTN) over an Iu-Interface.
The R99+ VLR/SGSN shall accept authentication if a valid SRES is received in
response of a UMTS challenge (RAND, AUTN) over A or Gb-Interface. This will
happen in case a UICC is inserted in a ME that is not capable of UMTS AKA and
is attached to a GSM BSS. In this case the R99+ VLR/SGSN uses function c2 to
convert RES (from the quintet) to SRES to verify the received SRES.
**UMTS subscriber with R98- ME**
When the user has R98- ME, the R99+ VLR/SGSN sends the ME a GSM authentication
challenge using a triplet that is either:
a) derived by means of the conversion functions c2 and c3 in the R99+ VLR/SGSN
from a quintet that is:
i) retrieved from the local database,
ii) provided by the HLR/AuC, or
iii) provided by the previously visited R99+ VLR/SGSN, or
b) provided as a triplet by the previously visited VLR/SGSN.
NOTE 1: R99+ VLR/SGSN will always provide quintets for UMTS subscribers.
NOTE 2: For a UMTS subscriber, all triplets are derived from quintets, be it
in the HLR/AuC or in an VLR/SGSN.
GSM AKA results in the establishment of a GSM security context; the 64-bit GSM
cipher key Kc and the cipher key sequence number CKSN are stored in the
VLR/SGSN.
In this case the user is attached to a GSM BSS. When the user receives service
from an MSC/VLR, the 64-bit GSM cipher key is sent to the BSC (and forwarded
to the BTS). When the user receives service from an SGSN, the derived cipher
key Kc is applied in the SGSN itself.
UMTS authentication and key freshness cannot be provided to UMTS subscriber
with R98- ME.
#### 6.8.1.4 R99+ ME
Release 99+ ME that has UTRAN radio capability shall support the USIM-ME
interface as specified in TS 31.102 [20].
Rel4‑ ME that has no UTRAN radio capabilities may support the USIM-ME
interface as specified in TS 31.102 [20].
Rel5+ ME that has no UTRAN radio capabilities shall support the USIM-ME
interface as specified in TS 31.102 [20].
A ME capable of UMTS AKA with a USIM active and attached to a UTRAN shall only
participate in UMTS AKA and shall not participate in GSM AKA.
A ME capable of UMTS AKA with a USIM active and attached to a GSM BSS shall
participate in UMTS AKA and may participate in GSM AKA. Participation in GSM
AKA is required to allow registration in a R98- VLR/SGSN.
A ME that not capable of UMTS AKA with a USIM active can only participate in
GSM AKA.
The execution of UMTS AKA results in the establishment of a UMTS security
context; the UMTS cipher/integrity keys CK and IK and the key set identifier
KSI are passed to the ME. If the USIM supports conversion function c3 and/or
GSM AKA, the ME shall also receive a 64-bit GSM cipher key Kc derived at the
USIM.
If the ME supports 128-bit ciphering algorithms A5 and/or GEA for GSM, the ME
shall also support the key derivation function for Kc~128~ as specified in
annex B.5.The execution of GSM AKA results in the establishment of a GSM
security context; the 64-bit GSM cipher key Kc and the cipher key sequence
number CKSN are stored in the ME.
#### 6.8.1.5 USIM
The USIM shall support UMTS AKA and may support backwards compatibility with
the GSM system, which consists of:
Feature 1: 64-bit GSM cipher key derivation (conversion function c3) to access
GSM BSS attached to a R99+ VLR/SGSN using a dual-mode R99+ ME;
Feature 2: GSM AKA to access the GSM BSS attached to a R98‑ VLR/SGSN or when
using ME not capable of UMTS AKA;
Feature 3: SIM‑ME interface (GSM 11.11) to operate within ME not capable of
UMTS AKA.
When the ME provides the USIM with RAND and AUTN, UMTS AKA shall be executed.
If the verification of AUTN is successful, the USIM shall respond to the ME
with the UMTS user response RES and the UMTS cipher/integrity keys CK and IK.
The ME shall store CK and IK as current security context data on the USIM. If
the USIM supports access to 64-bit GSM cipher key derivation (feature 1), the
USIM shall also derive the 64-bit GSM cipher key Kc from the UMTS
cipher/integrity keys CK and IK using conversion function c3 and send the
derived Kc to the ME. In case the verification of AUTN is not successful, the
USIM shall respond with an appropriate error indication to the ME.
When the ME provides the USIM with only RAND, and the USIM supports GSM AKA
(Feature 2), GSM AKA shall be executed. The USIM first computes the UMTS user
response RES and the UMTS cipher/integrity keys CK and IK. The USIM then
derives the GSM user response SRES and the 64-bit GSM cipher key Kc using the
conversion functions c2 and c3 and send the GSM user response SRES and the
64-bit GSM cipher key Kc to the ME. The ME shall store the 64-bit GSM cipher
key Kc as the current security context on the USIM.
In case the USIM does not support 64-bit GSM cipher key derivation (Feature 1)
or GSM AKA (Feature 2), the ME shall be informed. An ME with a USIM that does
not support GSM cipher key derivation (Feature 1) shall not perform the GSM
cipher key derivation (conversion function c3) in the ME and therefore cannot
operate in any GSM BSS with 64-bit key ciphering enabled. An ME with a USIM
that does not support GSM AKA (Feature 2) cannot operate under a R98-
VLR/SGSN. A USIM that does not support GSM AKA (Feature 2) cannot work within
a ME that is not capable of UMTS AKA.
### 6.8.2 Authentication and key agreement for GSM subscribers
#### 6.8.2.1 General
For GSM subscribers, GSM AKA shall always be used.
The execution of the GSM AKA results in the establishment of a GSM security
context between the user and the serving network domain to which the VLR/SGSN
belongs. The user needs to separately establish a security context with each
serving network domain.
When in a UTRAN, the UMTS cipher/integrity keys CK and IK are derived from the
GSM cipher key Kc by the ME and the VLR/SGSN, both R99+ entities.
Figure 19 shows the different scenarios that can occur with GSM subscribers
using either R98- or R99+ ME in a mixed network architecture.
Figure 19: Authentication and key agreement for GSM subscribers
Note that the GSM parameters RAND and RES are sent transparently through the
UTRAN or GSM BSS.
In case of a GSM BSS, ciphering is applied in the GSM BSS for services
delivered via the MSC/VLR, and by the SGSN for services delivered via the
SGSN. In the latter case the GSM cipher key Kc is not sent to the GSM BSS.
In case of a UTRAN, ciphering is always applied in the RNC, and the UMTS
cipher/integrity keys CK an IK are always sent to the RNC.
#### 6.8.2.2 R99+ HLR/AuC
Upon receipt of an _authentication data request_ for a GSM subscriber, a R99+
HLR/AuC shall send triplets generated as specified in GSM 03.20.
#### 6.8.2.3 VLR/SGSN
The R99+ VLR/SGSN shall perform GSM AKA using a triplet that is either:
a) retrieved from the local database,
b) provided by the HLR/AuC, or
c) provided by the previously visited VLR/SGSN.
NOTE: All triplets are originally provided by the HLR/AuC.
GSM AKA results in the establishment of a GSM security context; the GSM cipher
key Kc and the cipher key sequence number CKSN are stored in the VLR/SGSN.
When the user is attached to a UTRAN, the R99+ VLR/SGSN derives the UMTS
cipher/integrity keys from the GSM cipher key using the following conversion
functions:
a) c4: CK~[UMTS]~ = Kc \|\| Kc;
b) c5: IK~[UMTS]~ = Kc~1~ xor Kc~2~ \|\| Kc \|\| Kc~1~ xor Kc~2~;
whereby in c5, Kc~i~ are both 32 bits long and Kc = Kc~1~ \|\| Kc~2~.
The UMTS cipher/integrity keys are then sent to the RNC where the ciphering
and integrity algorithms are allocated.
When the user is attached to a GSM BSS and the user receives service from an
MSC/VLR, the cipher key Kc is sent to the BSC (and forwarded to the BTS). When
the user receives service from an SGSN, the cipher key Kc is applied in the
SGSN itself.
#### 6.8.2.4 R99+ ME
R99+ ME with a SIM inserted, shall participate only in GSM AKA.
GSM AKA results in the establishment of a GSM security context; the GSM cipher
key Kc and the cipher key sequence number CKSN are stored in the ME.
When the user is attached to a UTRAN, R99+ ME shall derive the UMTS
cipher/integrity keys CK and IK from the GSM cipher key Kc using the
conversion functions c4 and c5. The ME shall handle the START~CS~ and
START~PS~ as described in section 6.4.8 with the exception that the START
values shall be stored in non-volatile memory on the ME rather than on the GSM
SIM. If a different SIM is inserted then the ME shall delete the GSM cipher
keys for the PS and CS domain (Kc), the derived UMTS cipher/integrity keys (CK
and IK) for the PS and CS domain, and reset the START values to zero. The ME
shall then trigger a new authentication and key agreement at the next
connection establishment by indicating to the network that no valid keys are
available for use using the procedure described in section 6.4.4.
When the user is attached to a UTRAN, a R99+ ME with a SIM inserted shall use
a default value of all ones for maximum value of START~CS~ or START~PS~. The
ME shall handle the maximum value of START~CS~ or START~PS~ as described in
section 6.4.3 with the exception that the maximum value of START~CS~ or
START~PS~ is stored on the ME rather than on the GSM SIM.
### 6.8.3 Distribution and use of authentication data between VLRs/SGSNs
The distribution of authentication data (unused authentication vectors and/or
current security context data) between R99+ VLRs/SGSNs of the same service
network domain is performed according to chapter 6.3.4. The following four
cases are distinguished related to the distribution of authentication data
between VLRs/SGSNs (of the same or different releases). Conditions for the
distribution of such data and for its use when received at VLRn/SGSNn are
indicated for each case:
a) R99+ VLR/SGSN to R99+ VLR/SGSN
UMTS and GSM authentication vectors can be distributed between R99+
VLRs/SGSNs. Note that originally all authentication vectors (quintets for UMTS
subscribers and triplets for GSM subscribers) are provided by the HLR/AuC.
Current security context data can be distributed between R99+ VLRs/SGSNs.
VLRn/SGSNn shall not use current security context data received from
VLRo/SGSNo to authenticate the subscriber using local authentication in the
following cases:
i) Security context to be established at VLRn/SGSNn requires a different set
of keys than the one currently in use at VLRo/SGSNo. This change of security
context is caused by a change of ME release (R'99 ME  R'98 ME) when the user
registers at VLRn/SGSNn.
ii) Authentication data from VLRo includes 64-bit Kc+CKSN but no unused AVs
and the subscriber has a R'99 ME (under GSM BSS or UTRAN). In this situation,
VLRn have no indication of whether the subscriber is GSM or UMTS and it is not
able to decide whether the 64-bit Kc received can be used (in case the
subscriber were a GSM subscriber).
In these two cases, received current security context data shall be discarded
and a new AKA procedure shall be performed.
b) R98- VLR/SGSN to R98- VLR/SGSN
Only triplets can be distributed between R98- VLRs/SGSNs. Note that originally
for GSM subscribers, triplets are generated by HLR/AuC and for UMTS
subscribers, they are derived from UMTS authentication vectors by R99+
HLR/AuC. UMTS AKA is not supported and only GSM security context can be
established by a R98- VLR/SGSN.
R98- VLRs are not prepared to distribute current security context data.
Since only GSM security context can be established under R98- SGSNs, security
context data can be distributed and used between R98- SGSNs.
c) R99+ VLR/SGSN to R98- VLR/SGSN
R99+ VLR/SGSN can distribute to a new R98- VLR/SGSN triplets originally
provided by HLR/AuC for GSM subscribers or can derive triplets from stored
quintets originally provided by R99+ HLR/AuC for UMTS subscribers. Note that
R98- VLR/SGSN can only establish GSM security context.
R99+ VLRs shall not distribute current security context data to R98- VLRs.
Since R98- SGSNs are only prepared to handle GSM security context data, R99+
SGSNs shall only distribute GSM security context data (64-bit Kc, CKSN) to
R98- SGSNs.
d) R98- VLR/SGSN to R99+ VLR/SGSN.
In order to not establish a GSM security context for a UMTS subscriber,
triplets provided by a R98- VLR/SGSN can only be used by a R99+ VLR/SGSN to
establish a GSM security context under GSM-BSS with a R98‑ ME.
In all other cases, R99+ VLR/SGSN shall request fresh AVs (either triplets or
quintets) to HE. In the event, the R99+ VLR/SGSN receives quintets, it shall
discard the triplets provided by the R98- VLR/SGSN.
R98- VLRs are not prepared to distribute current security context data.
R98- SGSNs can distribute GSM security context data only. The use of this
information at R99+ SGSNn shall be performed according to the conditions
stated in a).
### 6.8.4 Intersystem handover for CS Services -- from UTRAN to GSM BSS
If ciphering has been started when an intersystem handover occurs from UTRAN
to GSM BSS, the necessary information (e.g. Kc, supported/allowed GSM
ciphering algorithms) is transmitted within the system infrastructure before
the actual handover is executed to enable the communication to proceed from
the old RNC to the new GSM BSS, and to continue the communication in ciphered
mode. The RNC may request the MS to send the MS Classmarks 2 and 3 which
include information on the GSM ciphering algorithm capabilities of the MS.
This is necessary only if the MS Classmarks 2 and 3 were not transmitted from
UE to UTRAN during the RRC Connection Establishment. The intersystem handover
will imply a change of ciphering algorithm from a UEA to a GSM A5. The GSM BSS
includes the selected GSM ciphering mode in the handover command message sent
to the MS via the RNC.
The integrity protection of signalling messages is stopped at handover to GSM
BSS.
The START values (see section 6.4.8) shall be stored in the ME/USIM at
handover to GSM BSS.
#### 6.8.4.1 UMTS security context
A UMTS security context in UTRAN is only established for a UMTS subscriber
with a ME that is capable of UMTS AKA. At the network side, four cases are
distinguished:
a) In case of a handover to a GSM BSS controlled by the same MSC/VLR, the
MSC/VLR derives the 64-bit GSM cipher key Kc from the UMTS cipher/integrity
keys CK and IK used before the intersystem handover (using the conversion
function c3) and sends the 64-bit Kc to the target BSC (which forwards it to
the BTS). If the MSC/VLR is Rel-9+ and MSC/VLR has included a 128-bit GSM
ciphering algorithms as a permitted ciphering algorithm, the MSC/VLR shall
also derive the 128-bit ciphering key Kc~128~ and send also this to the target
BSC (which forwards it to the BTS).
b) In case of a handover to a GSM BSS controlled by another MSC/VLR, depending
on the capability of the inter-MSC communication protocol version, the initial
MSC/VLR sends to the target MSC/VLR the security keys associated with the
allowed security algorithms. If the inter-MSC communication protocol version
only allows inclusion of the 64-bit GSM security key Kc, and the initial
MSC/VLR includes a 64-bit GSM A5 ciphering algorithm as allowed ciphering
algorithm, the initial MSC/VLR derives the 64-bit Kc and sends it to the new
MSC/VLR. Otherwise, if the inter-MSC communication protocol version allows
inclusion of UMTS security keys, the initial MSC/VLR sends, in addition, the
UMTS cipher/integrity keys CK and IK used before the intersystem handover to
the new MSC/VLR. If the initial MSC/VLR includes a 128-bit GSM A5 ciphering
algorithm as an allowed ciphering algorithm, the initial MSC/VLR shall also
calculate a Kc~128~ from the CK/IK and forward this to the new MSC. The new
MSC/VLR stores the key(s) and then forwards them to the target BSC (which
forwards them to the BTS). The initial MSC/VLR remains the anchor point
throughout the service.
At the user side, in either case, the ME applies the derived 64-bit GSM cipher
key Kc from the key set which was used before the intersystem handover if the
selected GSM ciphering algorithm requires a 64-bit key. If the selected GSM A5
ciphering algorithm requires a 128-bit key, the ME shall apply the derived
128-bit GSM cipher key Kc~128~ from the key set which was used before the
intersystem handover.
#### 6.8.4.2 GSM security context
A GSM security context in UTRAN is only established for a GSM subscribers with
a R99+ ME. At the network side, two cases are distinguished:
a) In case of a handover to a GSM BSS controlled by the same MSC/VLR, the
MSC/VLR sends the 64-bit GSM cipher key Kc from the key set used before the
intersystem handover to the target BSC (which forwards it to the BTS).
b) In case of a handover to a GSM BSS controlled by another MSC/VLR (R99+ or
R98‑), the initial MSC/VLR sends the 64-bit GSM cipher key Kc from the key set
used before the intersystem handover to the BSC via the new MSC/VLR
controlling the target BSC. The initial MSC/VLR remains the anchor point
throughout the service.
If the non-anchor MSC/VLR is R99+, then the anchor MSC/VLR also derives and
sends to the non-anchor MSC/VLR the UMTS cipher/integrity keys CK and IK. The
non-anchor MSC/VLR stores all keys. This is done to allow subsequent handovers
in a non-anchor R99+ MSC/VLR.
At the user side, in either case, the ME applies the GSM cipher key Kc from
the key set which was used before the intersystem handover.
### 6.8.5 Intersystem handover for CS Services -- from GSM BSS to UTRAN
If ciphering has been started when an intersystem handover occurs from GSM BSS
to UTRAN, the necessary information (e.g. CK, IK, START value information,
supported/allowed UMTS algorithms) is transmitted within the system
infrastructure before the actual handover is executed to enable the
communication to proceed from the old GSM BSS to the new RNC, and to continue
the communication in ciphered mode. The GSM BSS requests the MS to send the
UMTS capability information, which includes information on the START values
and UMTS security capabilities of the MS. The intersystem handover will imply
a change of ciphering algorithm from a GSM A5 to a UEA. The target UMTS RNC
includes the selected UMTS ciphering mode in the handover to UTRAN command
message sent to the MS via the GSM BSS.
The integrity protection of signalling messages shall be started immediately
after the intersystem handover from GSM BSS to UTRAN is completed. The Serving
RNC will do this by initiating the RRC security mode control procedure when
the first RRC message (i.e. the Handover to UTRAN complete message) has been
received from the MS. In this case, the RRC security mode control procedure is
initiated by the Serving RNC without receipt of a corresponding RANAP security
mode control procedure from the MSC/VLR.The UE security capability
information, that has been sent from MS to RNC via the GSM radio access and
the system infrastructure before the actual handover execution, will be
included in the RRC Security mode command message sent to MS and then verified
by the MS (i.e. verified that it is equal to the UE security capability
information stored in the MS).
#### 6.8.5.1 UMTS security context
A UMTS security context in GSM BSS is only established for UMTS subscribers
with a ME that is capable of UMTS AKA under GSM BSS controlled by a R99+
VLR/SGSN. At the network side, two cases are distinguished:
a) In case of a handover to a UTRAN controlled by the same MSC/VLR, the UMTS
cipher/integrity keys CK and IK from the key set used before the intersystem
handover are sent to the target RNC.
b) In case of a handover to a UTRAN controlled by another MSC/VLR, the initial
MSC/VLR sends the UMTS cipher/integrity keys CK and IK from the key set used
before the intersystem handover to the new RNC via the new MSC/VLR that
controls the target RNC. The initial MSC/VLR remains the anchor point for
throughout the service.
The anchor MSC/VLR also derives and sends to the non-anchor MSC/VLR the 64-bit
GSM cipher key Kc , if any 64-bit ciphering algorithm is permitted, and/or the
128-bit ciphering key Kc~128~ if a 128-bit ciphering algorithm is also
permitted. The non-anchor MSC/VLR stores all keys. This is done to allow
subsequent handovers in a non-anchor R99+ MSC/VLR.
At the user side, in either case, the ME applies the UMTS cipher/integrity
keys CK and IK from the key set which was used before the intersystem
handover.
#### 6.8.5.2 GSM security context
Handover from GSM BSS to UTRAN with a GSM security context is possible for a
GSM subscriber with a R99+ ME or for a UMTS subscriber with a R99+ ME when the
initial MSC/VLR is R98-. At the network side, two cases are distinguished:
a) In case of a handover to a UTRAN controlled by the same MSC/VLR, UMTS
cipher/integrity keys CK and IK are derived from the 64-bit GSM cipher key Kc
used before the intersystem handover (using the conversion functions c4 and
c5) and sent to the target RNC. In case of subsequent handover in a non-anchor
R99+ MSC/VLR, a 64-bit GSM cipher key Kc is received for a UMTS subscriber if
the anchor MSC/VLR is R98-.
b) In case of a handover to a UTRAN controlled by another MSC/VLR, the initial
MSC/VLR (R99+ or R98‑) sends the 64-bit GSM cipher key Kc used before the
intersystem handover to the new MSC/VLR controlling the target RNC. That
MSC/VLR derives UMTS cipher/integrity keys CK and IK which are then forwarded
to the target RNC. The initial MSC/VLR remains the anchor point for throughout
the service.
At the user side, in either case, the ME derives the UMTS cipher/integrity
keys CK and IK from the 64-bit GSM cipher key Kc (using the conversion
functions c4 and c5) which was used before the intersystem handover and
applies them.
### 6.8.6 Intersystem change for PS Services -- from UTRAN to GSM BSS
#### 6.8.6.1 UMTS security context
A UMTS security context in UTRAN is only established for UMTS subscribers. At
the network side, four cases are distinguished:
a) In case of an intersystem change to a GSM BSS controlled by the same SGSN,
the SGSN derives the 64-bit GSM cipher key Kc from the UMTS cipher/integrity
keys CK and IK agreed during the latest UMTS AKA procedure (using the
conversion function c3) and applies it if the selected GEA ciphering algorithm
requires a 64-bit key.
b) In case of an intersystem change to a GSM BSS controlled by another R99+
SGSN, the initial SGSN sends the UMTS cipher/integrity keys CK and IK agreed
during the latest UMTS AKA procedure to the new SGSN. The new SGSN stores the
keys, derives the 64-bit GSM cipher key Kc and applies the latter. The new
SGSN becomes the new anchor point for the service.
c) In case of an intersystem change to a GSM BSS controlled by a R98- SGSN,
the initial SGSN derives the GSM cipher key Kc from the UMTS cipher/integrity
keys CK and IK agreed during the latest UMTS AKA procedure and sends the GSM
cipher key Kc to the new SGSN. The new SGSN stores the GSM cipher key Kc and
applies it. The new SGSN becomes the new anchor point for the service.
d) In case of a handover to another Rel-9+ SGSN, the initial SGSN sends the
UMTS cipher/integrity keys CK and IK agreed at the latest UMTS AKA procedure
to the new SGSN. The new SGSN derives the 64-bit Kc. The new SGSN stores the
keys. If the new SGSN selects a GEA ciphering algorithm requiring a 128-bit
key, the new SGSN shall compute Kc~128~ from the CK/IK and shall apply it. If
the new SGSN selects a GEA ciphering algorithm requiring a 64-bit key then Kc
shall be applied. The new SGSN becomes the new anchor point for the service.
At the user side, in all cases, the ME applies the derived 64-bit GSM cipher
key Kc received from the USIM during the latest UMTS AKA procedure if the
selected GEA ciphering algorithm requires a 64-bit key. If the selected GEA
ciphering algorithm requires a 128-bit key, the ME shall derive 128-bit GSM
cipher key Kc~128~ from the CK and IK agreed during the latest UMTS AKA and
apply it.
In case the current UMTS security context is mapped from an EPS security
context and there has been no UMTS AKA run since the current UMTS security
context was mapped, the CK , IK and Kc belonging to the mapped UMTS security
context shall be considered to be the keys from the latest AKA.
#### 6.8.6.2 GSM security context
A GSM security context in UTRAN is only established for GSM subscribers. At
the network side, two cases are distinguished:
a) In case of an intersystem change to a GSM BSS controlled by the same SGSN,
the SGSN starts to apply the 64-bit GSM cipher key Kc agreed during the latest
GSM AKA procedure.
b) In case of an intersystem change to a GSM BSS controlled by another SGSN,
the initial SGSN sends the 64-bit GSM cipher key Kc agreed during the latest
GSM AKA procedure to the (new) SGSN controlling the BSC. The new SGSN stores
the key and applies it. The new SGSN becomes the new anchor point for the
service.
At the user side, in both cases, the ME applies the GSM cipher key Kc received
from the SIM during the latest GSM AKA procedure.
### 6.8.7 Intersystem change for PS services -- from GSM BSS to UTRAN
#### 6.8.7.1 UMTS security context
A UMTS security context in GSM BSS is only established for UMTS subscribers
with a ME that is capable of UMTS AKA and connected to a R99+ VLR/SGSN. At the
network side, two cases are distinguished:
a) In case of an intersystem change to a UTRAN controlled by the same SGSN,
the UMTS cipher/integrity keys CK and IK agreed during the latest UMTS AKA
procedure are sent to the target RNC.
b) In case of an intersystem change to a UTRAN controlled by another SGSN, the
initial SGSN sends the UMTS cipher/integrity keys CK and IK agreed during the
latest UMTS AKA procedure to the (new) SGSN controlling the target RNC. The
new SGSN becomes the new anchor point for the service. The new SGSN then
stores the UMTS cipher/integrity keys CK and IK and sends them to the target
RNC.
At the user side, in both cases, the ME applies the UMTS cipher/integrity keys
CK and IK received from the USIM during the latest UMTS AKA procedure.
#### 6.8.7.2 GSM security context
A GSM security context in GSM BSS can be either:
**\- Established for a UMTS subscriber**
A GSM security context for a UMTS subscriber is established in case the user
has a ME not capable of UMTS AKA, where intersystem change to UTRAN is not
possible, or in case the user has a R99+ ME but the SGSN is R98-, where
intersystem change to UTRAN implies a change to a R99+ SGSN.
As result, in case of intersystem change to a UTRAN controlled by another R99+
SGSN, the initial R98- SGSN sends the 64-bit GSM cipher key Kc agreed during
the latest GSM AKA procedure to the new SGSN controlling the target RNC.
Since the new R99+ SGSN has no indication of whether the subscriber is GSM or
UMTS, a R99+ SGSN shall perform a new UMTS AKA when receiving the 64-bit Kc
from a R98- SGSN. A UMTS security context using fresh quintets is then
established between the R99+ SGSN and the USIM. The new SGSN becomes the new
anchor point for the service.
At the user side, new keys shall be agreed during the new UMTS AKA initiated
by the R99+ SGSN.
**\- Established for a GSM subscriber**
Handover from GSM BSS to UTRAN for GSM subscriber is only possible with R99+
ME. At the network side, three cases are distinguished:
a) In case of an intersystem change to a UTRAN controlled by the same SGSN,
the SGSN derives UMTS cipher/integrity keys CK and IK from the 64-bit GSM
cipher key Kc (using the conversion functions c4 and c5) agreed during the
latest GSM AKA procedure and sends them to the target RNC.
b) In case of an intersystem change from a R99+ SGSN to a UTRAN controlled by
another SGSN, the initial SGSN sends the 64-bit GSM cipher key Kc agreed
during the latest GSM AKA procedure to the (new) SGSN controlling the target
RNC. The new SGSN becomes the new anchor point for the service. The new SGSN
stores the 64-bit GSM cipher key Kc and derives the UMTS cipher/integrity keys
CK and IK which are then forwarded to the target RNC.
c) In case of an intersystem change from an R98-SGSN to a UTRAN controlled by
another SGSN, the initial SGSN sends the 64-bit GSM cipher key Kc agreed
during the latest GSM AKA procedure to the (new) SGSN controlling the target
RNC. The new SGSN becomes the new anchor point for the service. To ensure use
of UMTS keys for a possible UMTS subscriber (superfluous in this case), a R99+
SGSN will perform a new AKA when a R99+ ME is coming from a R98-SGSN.
At the user side, in all cases, the ME derives the UMTS cipher/integrity keys
CK and IK from the GSM cipher key Kc (using the conversion functions c4 and
c5) received from the SIM during the latest GSM AKA procedure and applies
them. In case c) these keys will be over-written with a new CK, IK pair due to
the new AKA.
### 6.8.8 PS handover from Iu to Gb mode
PS Handover is described in TS 43.129 [23]
#### 6.8.8.1 UMTS security context
A UMTS security context is only established for UMTS subscribers. At the
network side, two cases are distinguished:
a) In case of a PS intra SGSN Handover, the SGSN derives the 64-bit GSM cipher
key Kc from the UMTS cipher/integrity keys CK and IK agreed during the latest
UMTS AKA procedure (using the conversion function c3) and applies it if the
selected GEA ciphering algorithm requires a 64-bit key. If the selected GEA
ciphering algorithm requires a 128-bit key, the SGSN shall apply the 128-bit
GSM cipher key Kc~128~ derived from the CK and IK agreed during the latest
UMTS AKA.
b) In case of a PS inter SGSN handover, the initial SGSN sends the UMTS
cipher/integrity keys CK and IK agreed during the latest UMTS AKA procedure to
the new SGSN. The new SGSN stores the keys, derives the 64-bit GSM cipher key
Kc and applies the latter if the selected GEA ciphering algorithm requires a
64-bit key. If the selected GEA ciphering algorithm requires a 128-bit key,
the SGSN shall apply the 128-bit GSM cipher key Kc~128~ derived from the CK
and IK agreed during the latest UMTS AKA. The new SGSN becomes the new anchor
point for the service.
At the user side, in all cases, the ME applies the derived GSM cipher key Kc
received from the USIM during the latest UMTS AKA procedure if the selected
GEA ciphering algorithm requires a 64-bit key. If the selected GEA ciphering
algorithm requires a 128-bit key, the ME shall apply the derived 128-bit GSM
cipher key Kc~128~ from the key set agreed during the latest UMTS AKA.
#### 6.8.8.2 GSM security context
A GSM security context is only established for GSM subscribers. At the network
side, two cases are distinguished:
a) In case of a PS intra SGSN Handover, the SGSN starts to apply the 64-bit
GSM cipher key Kc agreed during the latest GSM AKA procedure.
b) In case of a PS inter SGSN Handover, the initial SGSN sends the 64-bit GSM
cipher key Kc agreed during the latest GSM AKA procedure to the (new) SGSN.
The new SGSN stores the key and applies it. The new SGSN becomes the new
anchor point for the service.
At the user side, in both cases, the ME applies the 64-bit GSM cipher key Kc
received from the SIM during the latest GSM AKA procedure.
### 6.8.9 PS handover from Gb to Iu mode
PS Handover is described in TS 43.129 [23]
#### 6.8.9.1 UMTS security context
A UMTS security context is only established for UMTS subscribers. At the
network side, two cases are distinguished:
a) In case of a PS intra SGSN Handover, the UMTS cipher/integrity keys CK and
IK agreed during the latest UMTS AKA procedure are sent to the target RNC or
BSC.
b) In case of a PS inter SGSN Handover, the initial SGSN sends the UMTS
cipher/integrity keys CK and IK agreed during the latest UMTS AKA procedure to
the new SGSN controlling the target RNC or BSC. The new SGSN becomes the new
anchor point for the service. The new SGSN then stores the UMTS
cipher/integrity keys CK and IK and sends them to the target RNC or BSC.
At the user side, in both cases, the ME applies the UMTS cipher/integrity keys
CK and IK received from the USIM during the latest UMTS AKA procedure.
#### 6.8.9.2 GSM security context
A GSM security context is only established for GSM subscribers. At the network
side, two cases are distinguished:
a) In case of a PS intra SGSN handover the SGSN derives UMTS cipher/integrity
keys CK and IK from the 64-bit GSM cipher key Kc (using the conversion
functions c4 and c5) agreed during the latest GSM AKA procedure and sends them
to the target RNC or BSC.
b) In case of a PS Inter SGSN handover the initial SGSN sends the 64-bit GSM
cipher key Kc agreed during the latest GSM AKA procedure to the new SGSN
controlling the target RNC or BSC. The new SGSN becomes the new anchor point
for the service. The new SGSN stores the 64-bit GSM cipher key Kc and derives
the UMTS cipher/integrity keys CK and IK which are then forwarded to the
target RNC or BSC.
At the user side, in all cases, the ME derives the UMTS cipher/integrity keys
CK and IK from the 64-bit GSM cipher key Kc (using the conversion functions c4
and c5) received from the SIM during the latest GSM AKA procedure and applies
them.
### 6.8.10 SRVCC -- from HSPA to UTRAN/GERAN
HSPA SRVCC to UTRAN/GERAN is described in TS 25.331 [17].
**Case 1: UMTS subscribers:**
**Case 1.1: HO to UTRAN**
When the SRNC decides to start a SRVCC from HSPA to UTRAN, it shall initiate
the SRVCC Preparation procedure described in TS 25.413 [31]. The source SGSN
shall generate a NONCE and derive CK\'~CS~\|\|IK\'~CS~ from the NONCE and the
CK~PS~\|\|IK~PS~ generated during the latest UMTS AKA procedure.
In case the current UMTS security context is mapped from an EPS security
context and there has been no UMTS AKA run since the current UMTS security
context was mapped, the CK~PS~, IK~PS~ and GPRS Kc belonging to the mapped
UMTS security context shall be considered to be the keys from the latest UMTS
AKA.
The source SGSN shall transfer CK'~CS~, IK'~CS~, KSI'~CS~ (=KSI~PS~) and the
NONCE to the SRNC and transfer CK'~CS~, IK'~CS~ and KSI'~CS~ (=KSI~PS~) to the
MSC server enhanced for SRVCC. The SRNC shall transfer the NONCE to the target
RNC. The target RNC shall include the NONCE in the handover command to be sent
to the UE. The SRNC shall also transfer the security context, including
CK'~CS~, IK'~CS~, KSI'~CS~ and START ~CS~ (which is received by the SRNC
during RRC connection establishment), to the target RNC.
Upon reception of the handover command, the ME shall derive
CK\'~CS~\|\|IK\'~CS~ from CK~PS~\|\|IK~PS~ and the NONCE, and set KSI'~CS~ to
KSI~PS~. The ME shall convert GSM ciphering key Kc' from CK'~CS~\|\|IK'~CS~,
and set GSM CKSN' ~CS~ equal to KSI'~CS~.
For the definition of the Key Derivation Function and its inputs see Annex
B.3.
NOTE 1: Due to replacing all the UTRAN CS key parameters CK, IK, KSI with
CK\'~CS~, IK\'~CS~ and KSI'~CS~ on USIM and in ME, a new GSM ciphering key Kc'
needs to be derived from the new UTRAN CS key parameters CK and IK (i.e.
CK'~CS~ and IK'~CS~), which is part of the new UMTS security context as well,
as any old GSM ciphering key Kc stored on USIM and in ME, belongs to an old
UMTS security context and can no longer be taken into use.
**Case 1.2: HO to GERAN**
When the SRVCC is from HSPA to GERAN, the source SGSN shall generate a NONCE
and derive CK'~CS~, and IK'~CS~ from the NONCE and the CK~PS~\|\|IK~PS~
generated during the latest UMTS AKA procedure.
In case the current UMTS security context is mapped from an EPS security
context and there has been no UMTS AKA run since the current UMTS security
context was mapped, the CK~PS~, IK~PS~ and GPRS Kc belonging to the mapped
UMTS security context shall be considered to be the keys from the latest UMTS
AKA.
The source SGSN shall append the NONCE to the GSM HO command, received from
the target BSS, when forwarding the command to the SRNC. The SRNC shall
forward the NONCE together with the GSM HO command to the UE.
The source SGSN shall transfer the security context, including CK'~CS~,
IK'~CS~ and KSI'~CS~ (=KSI~PS~) to the MSC server enhanced for SRVCC. The MSC
server enhanced for SRVCC and the ME shall convert CK'~CS~\|\|IK'~CS~ to GSM
ciphering key Kc', and set GSM CKSN' ~CS~ to KSI'~CS~.
Upon reception of the handover command, the ME shall derive CK'~CS~, and
IK'~CS~ from CK~PS~\|\|IK~PS~ and the NONCE, convert GSM ciphering key Kc'
from CK'~CS~\|\|IK'~CS~, and set GSM CKSN' ~CS~ to KSI'~CS~.
For the definition of the Key Derivation Function and its inputs see Annex
B.3.
NOTE 2: See note 1.
If a 128-bit GSM ciphering algorithm is taken into use, the target MSC server
enhanced for SRVCC and UE shall derive the GSM ciphering key Kc~128~ key
derived from CK\'~CS~\|\|IK\'~CS~ as described in annex B.5.
**For both cases 1.1 and 1.2:**
The MSC server enhanced for SRVCC shall overwrite the stored parameters
CK~CS~, IK~CS~ and KSI~CS~ if any, with the parameters CK'~CS~, IK'~CS~ and
KSI'~CS~ received from the source SGSN when the SRVCC handover has been
completed successfully. The ME shall overwrite the stored parameters CK~CS~,
IK~CS~ , KSI~CS~ , GSM ciphering key Kc and GSM CKSN ~CS~ if any, with the
derived parameters CK'~CS~, IK'~CS~, KSI'~CS~, GSM ciphering key Kc' and GSM
CKSN' ~CS~ in both ME and USIM when the SRVCC handover has been completed
successfully. If the SRVCC handover isn't completed successfully, the MSC
server enhanced for SRVCC and the UE shall discard CK'~CS~, IK'~CS~ and
KSI'~CS.~
NOTE 1: The new derived security context overwriting the stored values in the
USIM is for allowing reusing the derived security context without invoking the
authentication procedure in the subsequent connection set-ups, and also for
avoiding that one KSI value indicates to two different key sets and
consequently leads to security context desynchronization.
NOTE 2: An operator concerned about the security of keys received from an
UTRAN of another operator may want to enforce a policy in the MSC server to
run an AKA as soon as possible after the handover. One example of ensuring
this is the deletion of the derived security context in the MSC server after
the UE has left active state.
The MSC server enhanced for SRVCC shall delete the stored parameters CK~CS~
and IK~CS~ if the SRVCC handover is not completed successfully.
**Case 2: GSM subscribers**
**Case 2.1: HO to UTRAN**
When the SRNC decides to start a SRVCC from HSPA to UTRAN, it shall initiate
the SRVCC Preparation procedure (see TS 25.413). The source SGSN shall
generate a NONCE and derive GSM ciphering key Kc' from the NONCE and the GPRS
Kc generated in the latest successful GSM AKA.
The source SGSN shall set GSM CKSN'~CS~ and KSI'~CS~ to GPRS CKSN~PS~. . The
source SGSN shall compute CK'~CS~, IK'~CS~ from GSM ciphering key Kc', using
the conversion functions c4 and c5, and transfer CK'~CS~, IK'~CS~ and KSI'~CS~
to the SRNC. The SRNC shall transfer the NONCE to the target RNC. The target
RNC shall include the NONCE in the handover command to be sent to the UE. The
SRNC shall transfer the security context, including CK'~CS~, IK'~CS~, KSI'~CS~
and START ~CS~ (which is received by the SRNC during RRC connection
establishment), to the target RNC.
The source SGSN shall also transfer GSM ciphering key Kc' and GSM CKSN' ~CS~
to the MSC server enhanced for SRVCC.
Upon reception of the handover command, the UE shall derive GSM ciphering key
Kc' from the GPRS Kc generated in the latest successful GSM AKA and the NONCE.
The UE shall set GSM CKSN'~CS~ and KSI'~CS~ to GPRS CKSN~PS~. The UE shall
compute CK'~CS~, IK'~CS~ from GSM ciphering key Kc', using the conversion
functions c4 and c5.
For the definition of the Key Derivation Functions see Annex B.4.
**Case 2.2: HO to GERAN**
When the SRVCC is from HSPA to GERAN, the source SGSN shall generate a NONCE
and derive GSM ciphering key Kc' from the NONCE and the 64-bit GPRS Kc
generated in the latest successful GSM AKA.
The source SGSN shall append the NONCE to the GSM HO command, received from
the target BSS, when forwarding the command to the SRNC. The SRNC shall
forward the NONCE together with the GSM HO command to the UE.
The source SGSN shall set GSM CKSN'~CS~ to GPRS CKSN~PS~ and transfer GSM
ciphering key Kc' and GSM CKSN'~CS~ to the MSC server enhanced for SRVCC.
Upon reception of the handover command, the UE shall derive GSM ciphering key
Kc' from the GPRS Kc generated in the latest successful GSM AKA and the NONCE,
and set GSM CKSN'~CS~ to GPRS CKSN~PS~.
For the definition of the Key Derivation Functions see Annex B.4.
**For both cases 2.1 and 2.2:**
The MSC server enhanced for SRVCC shall overwrite the stored parameters 64-bit
GSM ciphering key Kc and GSM CKSN~CS~, if any, with the parameters GSM
ciphering key Kc' and GSM CKSN'~CS~ received from the source SGSN when the
SRVCC handover has been completed successfully. The UE shall overwrite the
stored parameters 64-bit GSM ciphering key Kc and GSM CKSN~CS~, if any, with
the derived parameters GSM ciphering key Kc' and GSM CKSN'~CS~ in both ME and
SIM when the SRVCC handover has been completed successfully. If the SRVCC
handover isn't completed successfully, the MSC server enhanced for SRVCC and
the UE shall discard GSM ciphering key Kc' and GSM CKSN'~CS.~
NOTE 3: The new derived security context overwriting the stored values in the
SIM is for allowing reusing the derived security context without invoking the
authentication procedure in the subsequent connection set-ups, and also for
avoiding that one CKSN value indicates to two different key sets and
consequently leads to security context desynchronization.
If the SRVCC is for an emergency call and the session in HSPA complies with
clause 6.4.9.1, the security procedure in this subclause shall be applied.
If the SRVCC is for an emergency call and the session in HSPA complies with
clause 6.4.9.2, the security procedure in this subclause shall not be applied,
i.e., no key derivation is needed.
The MSC server enhanced for SRVCC shall delete the stored parameters CK~CS~
and IK~CS~ if the SRVCC handover isn't completed successfully, **so for any
subsequent CS connection a new CS key-set is generated**.
# 7 Void
# 8 Application security mechanisms
## 8.1 Void
## 8.2 Void
## 8.3 Mobile IP security
The introduction of Mobile IP functionality for end users in 3G has no
influence on the security architecture for 3G.
Mobile IP terminals may be equipped with security functionality independent of
the 3G network access security in order to allow security functions outside
the 3G network.
3G networks, supporting Mobile IP services, should support its inherent
security functionality.
On the other hand, 3G network access security architecture can not be
influenced or reduced by the Mobile IP option.
The Mobile IP security functionality must thus be separate from the 3G network
access security and it is developed in an other forum, IETF.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Requirements analysis
[In this part of the document we will address the question \"do the features
meet the requirements?\"]
###### ## Annex B (normative): Key derivation function
# B.1 General
The KDF is used to derive different keys. The different input key and input
strings S used with the KDF is defined in the subclauses of this annex.The
general description of the KDF and the encodings of its inputs are as defined
by TS 33.220 [30] subclauses B.1 and B.2
# B.2 FC value allocations
The FC number space is controlled by TS 33.220 [30]. FC values allocated for
this specification are in range of 0x30 -- 0x3F.
# B.3 Derivation of CK'~CS~\|\| IK'~CS~ from CK~PS~\|\|IK~PS~
> This input string is used for UMTS subscribers when there is a need to
> derive CK'~CS~\|\| IK'~CS~ from CK~PS~\|\|IK~PS~ during mapping the security
> contexts from HSPA to UTRAN/GERAN. The Key is the concatenation of
> CK~PS~\|\|IK~PS~ (which are 128 bits each), and the output is
> CK'~CS~\|\|IK'~CS~ (which are 128 bits each).
  * FC = 0x30
  * P0 = NONCE
  * L0 = length of NONCE (i.e. 0x00 0x10)
Further, the GSM Kc' used in GERAN shall be derived from CK'~CS~\|\|IK'~CS~
using the key conversion function c3 defined in this specification.
# B.4 Derivation of Kc' from Kc
> This input string is used for GSM subscribers when there is a need to derive
> Kc' from the 64-bit Kc during mapping the security contexts from HSPA to
> UTRAN/GERAN. The Key is the concatenation of Kc \|\| Kc \|\| Kc \|\| Kc \|\|
> (which are 64 bits each), and the output Kc' is the 64 most significant bits
> of the KDF output.
  * FC = 0x31
  * P0 = NONCE
  * L0 = length of NONCE (i.e. 0x00 0x10)
The Kc' used in GERAN directly. When the access is over UTRAN,
CK'~CS~\|\|IK'~CS~ shall be further derived from Kc' using the key conversion
functions c4 and c5 defined in this specification.
# B.5 Derivation of Kc~128~
This input string is used when there is a need to derive Kc~128~ from CK and
IK. The key Kc~128~ is used as input to the GSM A5 and GEA ciphering
algorithms which requires 128-bit keys.
  * FC = 0x32
The Key input is the concatenation of CK and IK (i.e., CK \|\| IK). No input
parameters (Pi, Li) are used by this function. The KDF returns a 256-bit
output, where the 128 most significant bits are identified with Kc~128~ .
###### ## Annex C (informative): Management of sequence numbers
This annex is devoted to the management of sequence numbers for the
authentication and key agreement protocol.
# C.1 Generation of sequence numbers in the Authentication Centre
## C.1.1 Sequence number generation schemes
### C.1.1.1 General scheme
According to section 6.3 of this specification, authentication vectors are
generated in the authentication centre (AuC) using sequence numbers. This
section specifies how these sequence numbers are generated. Authentication
vectors may be generated and sent by the AuC in batches. The sequence numbers
for the authentication vectors in a batch are generated one after the other
according to the process described below.
(1) In its binary representation, the sequence number consists of two
concatenated parts _SQN_ = _SEQ_ \|\| _IND.\ IND_ is an index used in the
array scheme described in C.1.2 and C.2.2. _SEQ_ in its turn consists of two
concatenated parts _SEQ_ = _SEQ1_ \|\| _SEQ2. SEQ1_ represents the most
significant bits of _SEQ_ , and _SEQ2_ represents the least significant bits
of _SEQ_. _IND_ represents the least significant bits of _SQN_.
(2) There is a counter _SQN~HE~_ in the HE. _SQN_ is stored by this counter.
_SQN~HE~_ is an individual counter, i.e. there is one per user. We have
_SQN~HE~ = SEQ~HE~_ \|\| _IND~HE~_.
(3) There is a global counter, e.g. a clock giving universal time. For short
we call the value of this global counter at any one time _GLC_. If _GLC_ is
taken from a clock it is computed mod p, where p = _2^n^_ and n is the length
of _GLC_ and of _SEQ2_ in bits.
(4) If _GLC_ is taken from a clock then there is a number _D_ > 0 such that
the following holds:\ (i) the time interval between two consecutive increases
of the clock (the clock unit) shall be chosen such that, for each user, at
most _D_ batches are generated at the AuC during any _D_ clock units;\ (ii)
the clock rate shall be significantly higher than the average rate at which
batches are generated for any user;\ (iii) _D_ \1 as requests from the two different domains may arrive completely
independently.
2\. By setting the parameters in C.1.1.1 (1) to (5) in an appropriate way the
general scheme specified in this subsection also includes the cases where
either SEQ2 is void and SEQ = SEQ1 or else, SEQ1 is void and SEQ = SEQ2, as
follows:\ (a) If SEQ2 is void the generation of sequence numbers is not time-
based. We then formally set SEQ2 ≡ GLC ≡ 0 (identical to zero) and D = 1.
Conditions (4)(i) to (iii) do not apply as there is no clock. Then (5)(ii)
always holds, and SEQ is incremented by 1 at each request. For better
readability, this case is separated out in C.1.1.2.\ (b) If SEQ1 is void then
we set D = 1. Assuming a start condition _SEQ2~HE~_ \ ∆ if the HE/AuC functions correctly.
(2) In order to prevent that _SEQ~MS~_ ever reaches the maximum batch number
value _SEQmax_ during the lifetime of the USIM the minimum number of steps
_SEQmax /∆_ required to reach _SEQmax_ shall be sufficiently large.
## C.2.2 Verification of sequence number freshness in the USIM
The USIM shall maintain an array of _a_ previously accepted sequence number
components: _SEQ~MS~_ (0), _SEQ~MS~_ (1),... _SEQ~MS~_ (_a-_ 1). The initial
sequence number value in each array element shall be zero.
To verify that the received sequence number _SQN_ is fresh, the USIM shall
compare the received _SQN_ with the sequence number in the array element
indexed using the index value _IND_ contained in _SQN_ , i.e. with the array
entry _SEQ~MS~_ (i) where i = _IND_ is the index value.
(a) If _SEQ_ > _SEQ~MS~_ (i) the USIM shall consider the sequence number to be
guaranteed fresh and subsequently shall set _SEQ~MS~_ (i) to _SEQ_.
(b) If _SEQ_ ≤ _SEQ~MS~_ (i) the USIM shall generate a synchronisation failure
message using the highest previously accepted sequence number anywhere in the
array, i.e. _SQN~MS~_.
The USIM shall also be able to put a limit _L_ on the difference between
_SEQ~MS~_ and a received sequence number component _SEQ_. If such a limit _L_
is applied then, before verifying the above conditions (a) and (b), the
sequence number shall only be accepted by the USIM if _SEQ~MS~_ \- _SEQ_ \ 32.000 successful authentications (cf.
note 6 of C.2.3). We have ∆ > p, as required in note 7 of C.2.3.
**Age limit for sequence numbers:** \ The use of such a limit is optional. The
choice of a value for the parameter L affects only the USIM. It has no impact
on the choice of other parameters and it entirely up to the operator,
depending on his security policy. Therefore no particular value is suggested
here. To give an example: if the policy stipulates that authentication vectors
older than x seconds shall be rejected then L has to be set to x as the time
unit of the clock is 1 second.
**[User anonymity:]{.underline}** the value of SQN does not allow to trace the
user over longer periods. Therefore, there may be no need to conceal SQN by an
anonymity key as specified in section 6.3.
## C.3.2 Profile 2: management of sequence numbers which are not time-based
**[Generation of sequence numbers:]{.underline}**
This follows the scheme for the generation of sequence numbers specified in
Annex C.1.1.2. The following parameter values are suggested for reference:
**Length of IND in bits** = 5.
**Start conditions:** SQN~HE~ = 0 for all users.
**[Verification of sequence numbers in the USIM:]{.underline}**
**Length of the array:** a = 32
**Protection against wrap around** : Choose ∆ = 2^28^.\ Choosing ∆ = 2^28^
means that an attack to force the counter in the USIM to wrap around would
require at least SEQmax/∆ = 2^15^ > 32.000 successful authentications (cf.
note 6 of C.2.3). Note 7 of Annex C.2.3 does not apply.
**Age limit for sequence numbers:\** There is no clock here. So, the "age"
limit would be interpreted as the maximum allowed difference between SQN~MS~
(see section 6.3) and the sequence number received. The use of such a limit is
optional. The choice of a value for the parameter L affects only the USIM. It
has no impact on the choice of other parameters and it entirely up to the
operator, depending on his security policy. Therefore no particular value is
suggested here.
**[User anonymity:]{.underline}** the value of SQN may allow to trace the user
over longer periods. If this is a concern then SQN has to be concealed by an
anonymity key as specified in section 6.3.
## C.3.3 Profile 3: management of sequence numbers which are entirely time-
based
**[Generation of sequence numbers:]{.underline}**
This follows the scheme for the generation of sequence numbers specified in
Annex C.1.1.3. The following parameter values are suggested for reference:
**Time unit of the clock:** It has to be chosen in such a way that no two
requests for a batch of authentication vectors arrive during one time unit.
Value = 0.1 seconds
**Length of IND in bits** = 5.
**Start conditions:** GLC = 1 and, for all users, DIF = 0.
**[Verification of sequence numbers in the USIM:]{.underline}**
This is done according to the handling of sequence numbers in the USIM
specified in Annex C.2.
**Length of the array:** a = 32.\ This satisfies the requirement in section
6.3.2 that the mechanism for the verification of sequence numbers shall ensure
that a sequence number can still be accepted if it is among the last x
sequence numbers generated.
**Protection against wrap around** : Choose ∆ = 2^28^.\ Choosing ∆ = 2^28^
means that an attack to force the counter in the USIM to wrap around would
require at least SEQmax/∆ = 2^15^ > 32.000 successful authentications (cf.
note 6 of C.2.3). Note 7 of C.2.3 does not apply.
**Age limit for sequence numbers:** \ The use of such a limit is optional. The
choice of a value for the parameter L affects only the USIM. It has no impact
on the choice of other parameters and it entirely up to the operator,
depending on his security policy. Therefore no particular value is suggested
here. To give an example: if the policy stipulates that authentication vectors
older than x time units shall be rejected then L has to be set to x.
**[User anonymity:]{.underline}** the value of SQN does not allow to trace the
user over longer periods. Therefore, there may be no need to conceal SQN by an
anonymity key as specified in section 6.3.
## C.3.4 Guidelines for the allocation of the index values in the array scheme
\- **General rule** : index values _IND_ used in the array scheme, according
to Annex C.1.2, shall be allocated cyclically within its range 0, ... , _a-1_.
This means that the index value _IND_ used with the previously generated
authentication vector is stored in _SQN~HE~_ , and the next authentication
vector shall use index value _IND_ _+1 mod a_.
It may be useful to allow exceptions to this general rule when additional
information is available. This includes:
\- Authentication vectors distributed within the same batch shall have the
same index value.
The Authentication Data Request MAP message contains information about the
domain type (CS or PS) of the requesting serving node from which the request
originates. It is recommended to use this information in the following way.
Support for this use is, however, not required for an implementation to claim
compliance to Annex C.
\- Authentication vectors distributed to different service domains shall have
different index values (i.e. separate ranges of index values are reserved for
PS and CS operation).
In future releases there may be additional information about the requesting
node identity. If this information is available it is recommended to use it in
the following way:
\- If the new request comes from the same serving node as the previous
request, then the index value used for the new request shall be the same as
was used for the previous request.
# C.4 Guidelines for interoperability in a multi-vendor environment
The specification of a sequence number management scheme affects only the USIM
and the AuC which are both under the control of one operator. Therefore, the
specification of such a scheme is entirely at the discretion of an operator.
Nevertheless, certain operators may not want to define a scheme of their own.
Instead, they may want to rely on vendors implementing one of the schemes
according to the profiles in C.3 or variants thereof. If these operators have
multiple vendors for USIMs and/or AuCs, and the operators wish to move
subscribers from the AuC of one vendor to that supplied by another one
implementing a different scheme then this will work smoothly only when the
following guidelines are adhered to by all the sequence number management
schemes implemented in the operator's domain.
\- The array mechanism specified in clauses C.1.2 and C.2 is used in the USIM
to verify SQNs. The length of the IND used by the USIM to index the array
shall be not less than the length of the IND used by the AuC when allocating
index values. However, it is recommended that the same IND length of 5 bits is
used in USIMs and AuCs. This is the same IND length as proposed for all
profiles in clause C.3.
\- Relation to Annex F: if the AMF field is used to signal further parameters
relevant to sequence number management (age limit L) then the formats of the
AMF and its interpretation by the USIM must be the same for all
implementations in the operator's domain.
\- ∆ is larger than a specified minimum.\ This is necessary to accommodate
schemes as in C.3.2 according to note 7 of C.2.3.\ We propose ∆ ≥ 2^28^.
\- There are no requirements on the synchronicity of clocks in different AuCs
for the time-based schemes. For the entirely time-based scheme, the following
is recommended when moving users from one AuC to another one: The DIF value is
updated in an appropriate manner when moving subscribers from an AuC to
another AuC. More specifically, assume a user is moved from AuC1 to AuC2. If
AuC1 is of profile 3 and AuC2 is of any profile then AuC1 sends GLC+DIF as
SEQ_HE to AuC2. In the receiving end, if AuC2 is of profile 3 while AuC1 is of
any profile then AuC2 sets DIF value for this user as DIF = SEQ_HE - GLC.
###### ### Annex D: Void
###### ### Annex E: Void
###### ## Annex F (informative): Example uses of the proprietary part of the
AMF
# F.1 Support multiple authentication algorithms and keys
A mechanism to support the use of multiple authentication and key agreement
algorithms is useful for disaster recovery purposes. AMF may be used to
indicate the algorithm and key used to generate a particular authentication
vector.
The USIM keeps track of the authentication algorithm and key identifier and
updates it according to the value received in an accepted network
authentication token.
# F.2 Changing sequence number verification parameters
This mechanism is used in conjunction with the mechanism for the verification
of sequence number freshness in the USIM described in C.2.2.
The USIM shall also be able to put a limit _L_ on the difference between
_SEQ~MS\ ~_ (the highest SEQ accepted so far) and a received sequence number
_SEQ_. A mechanism to change this parameter _L_ dynamically is useful since
the optimum for these parameters may change over time. AMF is used to indicate
a new value of _L_ to be used by the USIM.
# F.3 Setting threshold values to restrict the lifetime of cipher and
integrity keys
According to section 6.4.3, the USIM contains a mechanism to limit the amount
of data that is protected by an access link key set. The AMF field may be used
by the operator to set or adjust this limit in the USIM. For instance, there
could be two threshold values and the AMF field instructs the USIM to switch
between them.
The USIM keeps track of the limit to the key set life time and updates it
according to the value received in an accepted network authentication token.
###### ## Annex G (normative): Support of algorithm change features
UEA2 and UIA2 have been developed as back up algorithms which should be
installed in RNCs as soon as possible so that they are available for use in
the hopefully unlikely event that the current algorithms UEA1 and UIA1 become
compromised. Therefore it is reasonable to expect that operators will have
been able to upgrade all their RNCs before the new algorithms need to be
enabled. Consequently, algorithm change is only required at inter-network
handover.
Based on the above assumptions, the following feature shall be supported:
\- Encryption/integrity algorithm change at SRNC relocation with hard inter-
network handover.
Based on the above assumptions, the following features do not have to be
supported:
\- Encryption/integrity algorithm change at \"UE not involved\" SRNC
relocation for both the DCH and FACH cases.
NOTE: Only applies to intra-network case, since Iur is not supported between
operators.
\- Encryption/integrity algorithm change at SRNC relocation with hard intra-
network handover.
###### ## Annex H (normative): Usage of the AMF
The 16 bits in the AMF are numbered from \"0\" to \"15\" where bit \"0\" is
the most significant bit and bit \"15\" is the least significant bit (see
subclause 3.4)
Bit \"0\" is called the \"AMF separation bit\". It is used for the purposes of
EPS (Evolved Packet System) and is specified in
> \- TS 33.401 [28] for E-UTRAN access to EPS;
\- TS 33.402 [29] for non-3GPP access to EPS.
Bits \"1\" to \"7\" are reserved for future standardization use. Bits \"1\" to
\"7\" shall be set to 0 while not yet specified for a particular use.
Bits \"8\" to \"15\" can be used for proprietary purposes. See Annex F for
examples usages.
#