# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
A number of services might be accessed over HTTP. For the Presence Service, it
shall be possible to manage the data on the Presence Server over the Ut
reference point, which is based on HTTP. Other services like conferencing,
messaging, push, etc. might be accessed using HTTP.
Access to services over HTTP can be done in a secure manner. The present
document describes how the access over HTTP can be secured using TLS in the
Generic Authentication Architecture.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies secure access methods to Network Application
Functions (NAF) using HTTP over TLS in the Generic Authentication Architecture
(GAA), and provides Stage 2 security requirements, principles and procedures
for the access. The present document describes both direct access to an
Application Server (AS) and access to an Application Server through an
Authentication Proxy (AP).
NOTE: Any application specific details for access to Applications Servers are
not in scope of this specification and are covered in separate documents. An
example of such a document is TS 33.141 [5], which specifies the security for
presence services.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 23.002: \"Network architecture\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.250: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) group management\"; Stage
1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 33.220: \"Generic Authentication Architecture (GAA); Generic
Bootstrapping Architecture\".
[4] 3GPP TR 33.919: \"Generic Authentication Architecture (GAA); System
description\".
[5] 3GPP TS 33.141: \"Presence Service; Security\".
[6] Void.
[7] Void.
[8] Void.
[9] IETF RFC 2818 (2000): \"HTTP Over TLS\".
[10] IETF RFC 2617 (1999): \"HTTP Authentication: Basic and Digest Access
Authentication\".
[11] IETF RFC 3310 (2002): \"Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) Digest
Authentication Using Authentication and Key Agreement (AKA)\".
[12] IETF RFC 2616 (1999): \"Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) -- HTTP/1.1\".
[13] 3GPP TS 33.210: \"3G Security; Network Domain Security; IP network layer
security\".
[14] Void.
[15] IETF RFC 4279 (2005) \"Pre-Shared Key Ciphersuites for Transport Layer
Security (TLS)\".
[16] 3GPP TS 33.221: \"Generic Authentication Architecture (GAA); Support for
subscriber certificates\".
[17] Void.
[18] 3GPP TS 24.109: \"Bootstrapping interface (Ub) and network application
function interface (Ua); Protocol details\".
[19] 3GPP TS 29.109: \"Generic Authentication Architecture (GAA), Zh and Zn
Interface based on the Diameter protocol; Stage 3\".
[20] 3GPP TS 33.310: \"Network Domain Security (NDS); Authentication Framework
(AF)\".
[21] IETF RFC 4366: \"Transport Layer Security (TLS) Extensions\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply.
**HTTPS:** For the purpose of this document, HTTPS refers to the general
concept securing the HTTP protocol using TLS. In some contexts, like in the
IETF, the term HTTPS is used to refer to the reserved port number (443) for
HTTP/TLS traffic.
**Reverse Proxy:** A reverse proxy is a web server system that is capable of
serving web pages sourced from other web servers (AS), making these pages look
like they originated at the reverse proxy.
**Session management mechanism:** A mechanism for creating stateful sessions
when using the HTTP protocol.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
AP Authentication Proxy
AS Application Server
B-TID Bootstrapping Transaction Identifier
BSF Bootstrapping Server Functionality
FQDN Fully Qualified Domain Name
GBA Generic Bootstrapping Architecture
HSS Home Subscriber System
HTTP Hypertext Transfer Protocol
HTTPS HTTP over TLS
IMPI IP Multimedia Private Identity
IMPU IP Multimedia Public Identity
NAF Operator-controlled network application function functionality
TLS Transport Layer Security
UE User Equipment
# 4 Overview of the Security Architecture
The overall security architecture conforms to the architecture defined in TS
33.220 [3]. Details of the solution with an authentication proxy are given in
clause 6.
# 5 Authentication schemes
## 5.1 Reference model
Figure 1 shows a network model of the entities that utilize the bootstrapped
secrets, and the reference points used between them.
Figure 1: High level reference model for NAF using a bootstrapping service
## 5.2 General requirements and principles
This document is based on the architecture specified in TS 33.220 [3]. All
notions not explained here can be found in TS 33.220 [3]. For the purposes of
the present document Ks_(ext)_NAF refers to the key shared between the UE and
a NAF. In the case of GBA_U, Ks_(ext)_NAF refers to Ks_ext_NAF, and in the
case of GBA_ME, Ks_(ext)_NAF refers to Ks_NAF. Ks_int_NAF refers to the key
shared between the UICC and a NAF.
The UE shall be able to indicate to the NAF which key (Ks_(ext)_NAF or
Ks_int_NAF) the UE intends to use to secure the HTTPS Ua reference point.
The subscriber\'s home operator shall be able to require that a certain key
(i.e., Ks_(ext)_NAF or Ks_int_NAF) shall be used to secure the HTTPS access
between the UE and the NAF. This home operator control is exercised using USS.
### 5.2.1 Requirements on the UE
To utilise GBA as described in this document the UE shall be equipped with a
HTTPS capable client (e.g. browser) implementing the particular features of
GBA as specified in TS 33.220 [3].
The UE hosts the HTTPS client (i.e. both the HTTP client and the TLS client).
The HTTP client and TLS client either resides both in the ME or in the UICC.
The HTTPS client may reside in the ME or in the UICC or both might host an
HTTPS client independently of each other. When the HTTPS capable client to be
used is in the ME, Ks_(ext)_NAF shall be used as the shared key between the UE
and the NAF. When the HTTPS capable client to be used is located in the UICC,
Ks_int_NAF shall be used as the shared key between the UE and the NAF.
### 5.2.2 Requirements on the NAF
To utilise GBA as described in this document the NAF shall support the
features of GBA as specified in TS 33.220 [3].
It shall be possible that the NAF is configured to restrict the access to the
service based on which key is used, (e.g., access is allowed only for those
HTTPS capable clients that reside in the UICC and use Ks_int_NAF). The key
selection indication given in the USS shall overrule the local policy of the
NAF.
NOTE: The support of GBA_U is optional for the NAF. However, as indicated in
TS 33.220 [3], the use of Ks_ext_NAF is supported by NAFs, which are GBA_U
unaware.
Additionally in the scope of this specification, HTTP and TLS shall be
supported by the NAF for the UE-NAF reference point (Ua).
## 5.3 Shared key-based UE authentication with certificate-based NAF
authentication
The authentication mechanism described in this section for ME-based
application is mandatory to implement in ME and NAF.
The authentication mechanism described in this section for UICC-based
application is optional to implement in the UICC and the NAF.
This section explains how the procedures specified in TS 33.220 [3] have to be
enhanced when HTTPS is used between a ME and a NAF or between the UICC and the
NAF. The following gives the complementary description with respect to the
procedure specified in clauses 4.5.3 and 5.3.3 of TS 33.220 [3]. This document
specifies the logical information carried in some header fields. The exact
definition of header fields and key selection logic in case of GBA_U (i.e.,
whether Ks_ext_NAF or Ks_int_NAF shall be used) in the NAF is part of TS
29.109 [19] and TS 24.109 [18]. In the text below, the HTTPS client can reside
in the ME or in the UICC.
1) When the HTTPS client starts communication via Ua reference point with the
NAF, it shall establish a TLS tunnel with the NAF. The NAF is authenticated to
the HTTPS client by means of a public key certificate. The HTTPS client shall
verify that the server certificate corresponds to the FQDN of the NAF it
established the tunnel with. No client authentication is performed as part of
TLS (no client certificate necessary).
2) The HTTPS client sends an HTTP request to the NAF inside the TLS tunnel
(HTTPS, i.e. HTTP over TLS). The HTTPS client shall indicate to the NAF that
GBA-based authentication is supported by adding a constant string to the
\"User-Agent\" HTTP header as a product token as specified in IETF RFC 2616
[12]. This constant string shall be either \"3gpp-gba\" for ME-based
applications or \"3gpp-gba-uicc\" for UICC based applications. The UE shall
send the hostname of the NAF in \"Host\" HTTP header.
NOTE 1: The ability to send the hostname of the NAF is particularly necessary
if a NAF can be addressed using different hostnames, and the NAF cannot
otherwise discover what is the hostname that the HTTPS client used to contact
the NAF. The hostname is needed by the BSF during key derivation.
3) In response to the HTTP request received from HTTPS client over the Ua
reference point, the NAF shall invoke HTTP digest as specified in RFC 2617
[10] with the HTTPS client in order to perform client authentication using the
shared key as specified in clauses 4.5.3 and 5.3.3 of TS 33.220 [3].
> The NAF first verifies that the type of application received in the HTTP
> request (\"3gpp-gba\" for a ME-based application or \"3gpp-gba-uicc\" for a
> UICC-based application). Then the NAF verifies if the right realm attribute
> within the WWW-Authenticate header field has been used i.e. the realm
> attribute shall contain the constant string \"3GPP-bootstrapping\" (in the
> case of a ME-based application) or \"3GPP-bootstrapping-uicc\" (in the case
> of a UICC-based application) and the FQDN of the NAF (for both cases), shall
> indicate GBA as the required authentication method.
>
> If the NAF has been configured to forbid the access to the service for the
> requested GBA mode (e.g. the HTTP request contains \"3gpp-gba\" whilst the
> NAF configuration for this service requires that Ks_int_NAF shall be used)
> or if the NAF does not support the requested GBA mode (i.e. when a NAF,
> which is GBA_U unaware receives an HTTP request with \"3gpp-gba-uicc\" in
> \"User-Agent\" HTTP header) then the NAF shall respond with the appropriate
> error code and terminate the TLS connection with the UE.
4) On receipt of the response from the NAF, the HTTPS client shall verify that
the FQDN in the realm attribute corresponds to the FQDN of the NAF it
established the TLS connection with. On failure the HTTPS client shall
terminate the TLS connection with the NAF.
5) In the following request to NAF the HTTPS client sends a response with an
Authorization header field where Digest is inserted using the B-TID as
username.The NAF-specific key (Ks_(ext)_NAF in the case of ME-based
application or Ks_int_NAF in the case of UICC-based application) is used as
password in the Digest calculation.
6) On receipt of this request the NAF shall verify the value of the password
attribute by means of the NAF-specific key (Ks_(ext)_NAF or Ks_int_NAF)
retrieved from BSF over Zn using the B-TID received as user name attribute in
the query.
> If the NAF has requested a USS, and the USS indicates to the NAF that the
> Ks_int_NAF shall be used for HTTPS, then the NAF shall only accept the use
> of Ks_int_NAF as the NAF specific key. Therefore, if the Ks_(ext)_NAF was
> used as the NAF specific key with the HTTPS client, then the NAF shall
> respond with the appropriate error code and terminate the TLS connection
> with the UE. For information on usage of USS see Annex C in TS 33.220 [3].
7) After the completion of step 6), UE and NAF are mutually authenticated as
the TLS tunnel endpoints.
NOTE 2: RFC 2617 [10] mandates in section 3.3 that all further HTTP requests
to the same realm must contain the Authorization request header field,
otherwise the server has to send a new \"401 Unauthorized\" with a new WWW-
Authenticate header. In principle it is not necessary to send an Authorization
header in each new HTTP request for security reasons as long as the TLS tunnel
exists, but this would not conform to RFC 2617 [10].
> In addition, there may be problems with the lifetime of a TLS session, as
> the TLS session may time-out at unpredictable (at least for the UE) times,
> so any request sent by UE can be the first request inside a newly
> established TLS tunnel requiring the NAF to re-check user credentials.
It shall be possible for the AP/AS to request a re-authentication of an active
UE, see clauses 4.5.3 and 5.3.3 of TS 33.220 [11],.
### 5.3.1 TLS profile
The UE and the NAF shall support TLS according to the TLS profile given in TS
33.310 [20], Annex E.
Support of certificate revocation and of the related fields in certificates is
optional. If supported, the certificate and CRL profiles in clause 6.1 and
6.1a of TS 33.310 [20] should be followed.
NOTE 1: The management of Root Certificates is out of scope of this Technical
Specification.
The UE and the NAF shall support the server_name TLS extension. All other TLS
extensions as specified in RFC 4366 [21] are optional for implementation.
NOTE 2: If the NAF is doing virtual name based hosting (e.g. in the case of
authentication proxy, see Annex A), the NAF needs to either have a TLS server
certificate that contains all the hostnames that the NAF can be addressed with
(i.e. virtual hostnames), or have one TLS server certificate for each of the
hostnames mentioned above. In the latter case, the server_name extension is
needed because the NAF needs to be able to select the correct TLS server
certificate.
#### 5.3.1.1 Protection mechanisms
The rules on allowed and mandatory ciphersuites are given in TS 33.310 [20],
Annex E .
Cipher Suites with NULL encryption may be used. If NULL encryption is
implemented and used, TLS_RSA_WITH_NULL_SHA shall be supported. The UE shall
always include at least one cipher suite that supports encryption during the
handshake phase.
Cipher Suites with NULL integrity protection (or HASH) are not allowed.
#### 5.3.1.2 Void
#### 5.3.1.3 Authentication of the AP/AS
The AP/AS is authenticated by the Client by use of a server certificate. The
client shall match the server name as specified in RFC 2818 [9] section 3.1.
The AP/AS certificate profile shall comply with the requirements for TLS
certificates in clause 6.1 of TS 33.310 [20].
#### 5.3.1.4 Authentication Failures
If the UE receives a Server Hello Message from the AP/AS that requests a
Certificate then the UE shall respond with a Certificate Message containing no
Certificate if it does not have a certificate. The AP/AS upon receiving this
message may respond with a failure alert, however if the AP/AS shall
authenticate the UE as configured by the policy of the operator the AP/AS
should continue the dialogue and assume that the UE will be authenticated as
specified in TS 33.220 [11].
If there is no response within a given time limit from a network initiated re-
authentication request an authentication failure has occurred after that the
request has been attempted for a limited number of times. This failure can be
due to several reasons, e.g. that the UE has powered off or due to that the
message was lost due to a bad radio channel. The AP/AS shall then still assume
that if a TLS session is still valid that it can be re-used by the UE at a
later time. Should then the UE re-use an existing session then the AP/AS shall
re-authenticate the UE and not give access to the AP/AS unless the
authentication was successful.
#### 5.3.1.5 Set-up of Security parameters
The TLS Handshake Protocol negotiates a session, which is identified by a
Session ID. The Client and the AP/AS shall allow for resuming a session. This
facilitates that a Client and Server may resume a previous session or
duplicate an existing session. The lifetime of a Session ID is maximum 24
hours. The Session ID shall only be used under its lifetime and shall be
considered by both the Client and the Server as obsolete when the Lifetime has
expired.
#### 5.3.1.6 Error cases
The AP/AS shall consider the following cases as a fatal error:
\- if the received ciphersuites do not comply with the TLS profile.
## 5.4 Shared key-based mutual authentication between UE and NAF
The authentication mechanism described in this section for ME-based
application is optional to implement in ME and NAF.
The authentication mechanism described in this section for UICC-based
application is optional to implement in UICC and NAF.
The HTTP client and server may authenticate each other based on the shared key
generated during the bootstrapping procedure. The shared key shall be used as
a master key to generate TLS session keys, and also be used as the proof of
secret key possession as part of the authentication function. The exact
procedure is specified in Pre-Shared Key Ciphersuites for Transport Layer
Security (TLS) [15].
This section explains how a GBA-based shared secret that is established
between the UE and the BSF as specified in TS 33.220 [3] is used with Pre-
Shared Key (PSK) Ciphersuites for TLS as specified in [15]. The HTTPS client
may reside in the ME or in the UICC. In former case, Ks_(ext)_NAF shall be
used to establish the TLS session keys. In latter case, Ks_int_NAF shall be
used to establish the TLS session keys.
1\. When an UE contacts a NAF, it may indicate to the NAF that it supports
PSK-based TLS by adding one or more PSK-based ciphersuites to the ClientHello
message. The UE shall include ciphersuites other than PSK-based ciphersuites
in the ClientHello message. The UE shall send the hostname of the NAF using
the server_name extension to the ClientHello message as specified in IETF RFC
4366 [21].
NOTE 1: The ability to send the hostname of the NAF is particularly necessary
if a NAF can be addressed using different hostnames, and the NAF cannot
otherwise discover what is the hostname that the UE used to contact the NAF.
The hostname is needed by the BSF during key derivation.
NOTE 2: When the UE adds one or more PSK-based ciphersuites to the ClientHello
message, this can be seen as an indication that the UE supports PSK-based TLS.
If the UE supports PSK-based ciphersuites but not GBA-based authentication,
the TLS handshake will fail if the NAF selected the PSK-based ciphersuite and
suggested to use GBA (as described in step 2). In this case, the UE should
attempt to establish the TLS tunnel with the NAF without including PSK-based
ciphersuites to the CientHello message, according to the procedure specified
in clause 5.3. This note does not limit the use of PSK TLS to HTTP-based
services.
2\. If the NAF is willing to establish a TLS tunnel using a PSK-based
ciphersuite, it shall select one of the PSK-based ciphersuites offered by the
UE, and send the selected ciphersuite to the UE in the ServerHello message.
> The NAF shall send the ServerKeyExchange message with a list of PSK-identity
> hints. A constant string \"3GPP-bootstrapping\" is used as PSK-identity hint
> to indicate that the local configuration in the NAF i.e. that the NAF
> accepts that Ks_(ext)_NAF is used establish the TLS session keys. A constant
> string \"3GPP-bootstrapping-uicc\" is used as PSK-identity hint to indicate
> that the local configuration in the NAF accepts that Ks_int_NAF is used to
> establish the TLS sessions keys. One of these PSK-identity hints shall be
> present in the ServerKeyExchange message, and it shall indicate the GBA as
> the required authentication method. If the local configuration in the NAF
> allows both authentication methods to be used to access its service then the
> ServerKeyExchange message shall include both of the PSK-identity hints,
> i.e., one identity hint contains the constant string \"3GPP-bootstrapping\"
> and the other contains \"3GPP-bootstrapping-uicc\". Also other PSK-identity
> hints may be supported, however, they are out of the scope of this
> specification. The NAF finishes the reply to the UE by sending a
> ServerHelloDone message.
NOTE 3: If the NAF does not wish to establish a TLS tunnel using a PSK-based
ciphersuite, it shall select a non-PSK-based ciphersuite and continue TLS
tunnel establishment based on the procedure described either in clause 5.3 or
clause 5.5.
3\. The UE shall use a GBA-based shared secret for PSK TLS, if the NAF has
sent a ServerHello message containing a PSK-based ciphersuite, and a
ServerKeyExchange message containing a constant string \"3GPP-bootstrapping\",
or \"3GPP-bootstrapping-uicc\", or both as the PSK identity hint. If the UE
does not have a valid GBA-based shared secret it shall obtain one by running
the bootstrapping procedure with the BSF over the Ub reference point as
specified in TS 33.220 [3].
If the HTTPS client resides in the ME, Ks_(ext)_NAF shall be used as the GBA
shared key. If the HTTPS client resides in the UICC, Ks_int_NAF shall be used
as the GBA shared key.
The UE derives the TLS premaster secret from the NAF specific key
(Ks_(ext)_NAF if the initiating HTTPS client resides on the ME or Ks_int_NAF
if the initiating HTTP client resides on the UICC) as specified in RFC 4279
[15].
The UE shall send a ClientKeyExchange message. The PSK identity in the
ClientKeyExchange message shall include a prefix indicating the PSK-identity
name space that was selected (i.e. \"3GPP-bootstrapping-uicc\" or \"3GPP-
bootstrapping\"), and the B-TID. The prefix shall match one of the PSK-
identity hints that NAF offered in ServerKeyExchange message. The precise
format of the PSK identity is specified in TS 24.109 [18]. The UE concludes
the TLS handshake by sending the ChangeCipherSuite and Finished messages to
the NAF.
4\. If the NAF receives the \"3GPP-bootstrapping\" prefix and the B-TID in the
ClientKeyExchange messages it fetches the NAF specific shared secret
(Ks_(ext)_NAF) from the BSF using the B-TID, else the NAF receives the \"3GPP-
bootstrapping-uicc\" prefix and the B-TID in the ClientKeyExchange messages it
fetches the NAF specific shared secret (Ks_int_NAF) from the BSF using the
B-TID.
> If the NAF has requested a USS, and the USS indicates to the NAF that only
> the Ks_int_NAF shall be allowed, then the NAF shall only accept the
> Ks_int_NAF as the NAF specific key. If the Ks_(ext)_NAF was used as the NAF
> specific key, the NAF shall respond with the appropriate error code and
> terminate the TLS connection with the UE.
The NAF derives the TLS premaster secret from the NAF specific key
(Ks_(ext)_NAF or Ks_int_NAF) as specified in [15].
The NAF concludes the TLS handshake by sending the ChangeCipherSuite and
Finished messages to the UE.
The UE and the NAF have established a TLS tunnel using GBA-based shared
secret, and then may start to use the application level communication through
this tunnel.
### 5.4.1 TLS Profile
If the PSK TLS based authentication mechanism is supported, the HTTPS client
in the UE or the NAF shall support the TLS version as specified in the TLS
profile given in TS 33.310 [20], Annex E, and PSK TLS [15], or higher. Earlier
versions are not allowed.
The HTTPS client in the UE and the NAF shall support the server_name TLS
extension. All other TLS extensions as specified in RFC 4366 [21] are optional
for implementation.
NOTE: If the NAF is doing virtual name based hosting (e.g. in the case of
authentication proxy, see Annex A), the NAF needs to be able to discover the
correct server name to indicate the correct NAF_ID to the BSF. Otherwise the
BSF is not able derive the correct NAF specific keys.
#### 5.4.1.1 Protection mechanisms
The same requirements as in clause 5.3.1.1 of the present document shall apply
with the following exception: the rules for mandatory ciphersuites are equal
to those in TS 33.310, Annex E, with the adaptation that the related PSK
ciphersuites are mandated (i.e. "TLS_RSA_WITH_" is replaced by
"TLS_PSK_WITH_").
#### 5.4.1.2 Authentication of the AP/AS
The AP/AS is authenticated by the Client as specified in PSK TLS [15].
#### 5.4.1.3 Authentication Failures
If there is no response within a given time limit from a network initiated re-
authentication request an authentication failure has occurred after that the
request has been attempted for a limited number of times. This failure can be
due to several reasons, e.g. that the UE has powered off or due to that the
message was lost due to a bad radio channel. The AP/AS shall then still assume
that if a TLS session is still valid that it can be re-used by the UE at a
later time. Should then the UE re-use an existing session then the AP/AS shall
re-authenticate the UE and not give access to the AP/AS unless the
authentication was successful.
If the AP/AS, acting as NAF, has requested a USS, and the USS indicates to the
NAF that only the Ks_int_NAF shall be allowed, then the NAF shall only accept
the Ks_int_NAF as the NAF specific key therefore if the Ks_(ext)_NAF was used
as the NAF specific key, then the NAF shall respond with the appropriate error
code and terminate the TLS connection with the UE.
#### 5.4.1.4 Set-up of Security parameters
The TLS Handshake Protocol negotiates a session, which is identified by a
Session ID. The Client and the AP/AS shall allow for resuming a session. This
facilitates that a Client and Server may resume a previous session or
duplicate an existing session. The lifetime of a Session ID is the lifetime of
the GAA shared secret or maximum of 24 hours. The Session ID shall only be
used under its lifetime and shall be considered by both the Client and the
Server as obsolete when the Lifetime has expired.
## 5.5 Certificate based mutual authentication between UE and application
server
### 5.5.1 General
The authentication mechanism described in this section is optional to
implement in UE and AS.
The certificate based mutual authentication between an UE and an application
server shall be based on TLS as specified in the TLS profile given in TS
33.310 [20], Annex E, and IETF RFC 4366 [21].
Annex B of this specification provides guidance on certificate mutual
authentication between UE and application server.
### 5.5.2 TLS Profile
#### 5.5.2.1 General
The UE and the AS shall support TLS according to the TLS profile given in TS
33.310 [20], Annex E.
Support of certificate revocation and of the related fields in certificates is
optional. If supported, the certificate and CRL profiles in clause 6.1 and
6.1a of TS 33.310 [20] should be followed.
NOTE 1: The management of Root Certificates is out of scope of this Technical
Specification.
The UE and the AS shall support the server_name TLS extension. All other TLS
extensions as specified in RFC 4366 [21] are optional for implementation.
NOTE 2: If the AS is doing virtual name base hosting (e.g. in the case of
authentication proxy, see Annex A) the AS needs to either have a TLS server
certificate that contains all the host names that the AS can be addressed with
(i.e. virtual hostnames), or have one TLS server certificate for each of the
hostnames mentioned above. In the latter case, the server_name extension is
needed because the AS needs to be able to select the correct TLS server
certificate.
#### 5.5.2.2 Protection mechanisms
The same requirements as in clause 5.3.1.1 of the present document apply.
#### 5.5.2.3 void
# 6 Use of Authentication Proxy
An Authentication Proxy (AP) is an HTTP proxy which takes the role of a NAF
for the UE. It handles the TLS security relation with the UE and relieves the
application server (AS) of this task. Based on GBA the AP can assure the ASs
that the request is coming from an authorized subscriber of the MNO.
## 6.1 Architectural view
Figure 2: Environment and reference points of AP
The use of an authentication proxy (AP) is fully compatible with the
architecture specified in TS 33.220 [3] and in clauses 4 and 5 of this
specification. When an AP is used in this architecture, the AP takes the role
of a NAF. When an HTTPS request is destined towards an application server (AS)
behind an AP, the AP terminates the TLS tunnel and performs UE authentication.
The AP proxies the HTTP requests received from UE to one or many application
servers. The AP may add an assertion of identity of the subscriber for use by
the AS, when the AP forwards the request from the UE to the AS.
NOTE: As an example, the following condition allows accessing multiple
application servers AS(s) through one shared TLS tunnel (over the Ua
interface) AS~n~ hostname = AP hostname = NAF_ID (e.g.:
_services.operator.com_). There might be alternative ways to access multiple
ASs behind an AP.
Figure 3 presents an architectural view of using Authentication Proxy, for
example, for IMS SIP based services. The UE shall manipulate own data such as
groups, through the Ua/Ut reference point. The reference point Ut specified in
TS 23.002 [1] shall be applicable to data manipulation of IMS based SIP
services, such as Presence, Messaging and Conferencing services. The stage 1
requirements are specified in TS 22.250 [2].
Figure 3: The architectural view using Authentication Proxy for IMS SIP based
services
Management of UE identities is described in clause 6.5.
Annex A contains further guidance on technical solutions for authentication
proxies.
## 6.2 Requirements and principles
The authentication proxy may reside between the UE and the AS as depicted in
figure 2. The usefulness of an Authentication Proxy may be to reduce the
consumption of authentication vectors and/or to minimize SQN synchronization
failures. Also the AP relieves the AS of security tasks.
The following requirements apply for the use of an Authentication Proxy:
\- authentication proxy shall be able to authenticate the UE using the means
of Generic Bootstrapping Architecture, as specified in TS 33.220 [3];
\- if the application server requires an authenticated identity of the UE the
authentication proxy shall send it to the application server belonging to the
trust domain with every HTTP request;
\- if required, the authentication proxy may not reveal the authenticated
identity of the UE to the application server not belonging to the trust
domain;
\- the authenticated identity management mechanism shall not prevent the
application server to use an appropriate session management mechanisms with
the client;
\- the UE shall be able to create multiple parallel HTTP sessions via the
authentication proxy towards different application servers;
NOTE 1: The used session management mechanism is out of the scope of 3GPP
specifications.
NOTE 2: One motivation for having AP between UE and AS\'s is to minimize the
number of TLS connections. However, there are situations when UE and AP may
end-up having parallel TLS connections, e.g. if two applications in the UE are
not able to share the same TLS connection.
\- implementation of check of asserted user identity in the AS is optional;
\- activation of transfer of asserted user identity shall be configurable in
the AP on a per AS basis.
The use of an authentication proxy should be such that there is no need to
manage the authentication proxy configuration in the UE.
NOTE 3: This requirement implies that the authentication proxy should be a
reverse proxy in the following sense: A reverse proxy is a web server system
that is capable of serving web pages sourced from other web servers - in
addition to web pages on disk or generated dynamically by CGI - making these
pages look like they originated at the reverse proxy.
## 6.4 Reference points
### 6.4.1 Ua reference point
The Ua reference point is standardised in specification TS 33.220 [3] and in
clauses 4 and 5 of this specification.
NOTE: The optional introduction of an AP has advantages which are stated
elsewhere. However, the following consequences should be taken into account to
decide whether an AP is to be used:
\- The AP terminates TLS and HTTP digest. This relieves the AS of the burden
to handle TLS and HTTP digest, but it should be noted that then the UE is not
able to establish an additional end-to-end TLS tunnel to the AS, nor can the
UE additionally authenticates itself to AS by use of client authentication
within TLS. Furthermore, if GBA authentication uses HTTP Digest
Authentication, then the UE cannot use Basic or Digest Authentication directly
with AS.
### 6.4.2 AP-AS reference point
The HTTP protocol is run over the AP-AS reference point.
Confidentiality and integrity protection can be provided for the reference
point between the AP and the AS using NDS/IP mechanisms as specified in TS
33.210 [13]. For traffic between different security domains, the Za reference
point shall be operated. For traffic inside a security domain, it is up to the
operator to decide whether to deploy the Zb reference point. As AP terminates
the TLS tunnel from UE, also a TLS tunnel is possible.
The AP may support the transfer of an identity of the UE authenticated by the
AP from AP to AS in a standardised format. The format of this information
element in the HTTP request header is left to stage 3 specifications.
## 6.5 Management of UE identity
Different ASs need different kinds of authentication information. To support
the requirements of different servers, the AP needs to perform authentication
with varying granularity and with varying degree of assertion to the AS. The
authentication and the corresponding assertion is therefore AS specific and
has to be configured in the AP per AS.
### 6.5.1 Granularity of Authentication and Access Control by AP
The AP is configured per AS if the particular application or applications
served by the AS is in need of an application specific user security setting,
see definitions in TS 33.220 [3]. This user security setting may contain the
public user identities in the authentication part of the USS. The
authorisation part of the USS may contain indications, which of the
applications residing on the AP, and the Application Servers behind the AP, a
user is allowed to access.
#### 6.5.1.1 Authorised Participant of GBA
The AP checks that the UE is an authorised participant of GBA. Access is
granted on success of the basic GBA mechanism, i.e. the HTTPS client in the UE
sends a valid B-TID and performs digest authentication with the NAF specific
keys received from BSF.
The AP is configured not to request an application specific user security
setting from BSF for the AS named in the request. Depending on configuration
of BSF the AP may receives the private user identity (IMPI) from BSF.
This case shall be supported by AP.
NOTE: This case may apply when all subscribers of an operator, but no other
users, are allowed access to operator defined services. The BSF may not send
the IMPI out of privacy considerations or because the AP does not need it. If
the BSF does not send the IMPI to the AP, the user remains anonymous towards
the AP; or more precisely, the B-TID functions as a temporary user pseudonym.
#### 6.5.1.2 Authorised User of Application
The AP is configured to request an application specific user security setting
from the BSF. Depending on the policy of the BSF, the AP receives the
application specific user security setting and the private user identity
(IMPI) from the BSF. Access is granted if allowed according to the application
specific user security setting received from BSF.
The AP may do further checks on user inserted identities in the HTTP request
if required according to clause 6.5.2.4.
This case shall be supported by AP.
NOTE: If there is no application specific user security setting configured for
an application, this case reduces to authentication according to clause
6.5.1.1.
### 6.5.2 Transfer of Asserted Identity from AP to AS
The AP is configured per AS to perform authentication and access control
according to one of the following subclauses: if required in the subclause,
the user identity is transferred to AS in every HTTP request proxied to AS.
#### 6.5.2.1 Authorised Participant of GBA
The AP checks that the UE is an authorised participant of GBA. If the
authentication of the UE by the AP fails, the AP does not forward the request
of the UE to the AS.
This case shall be supported by AP.
NOTE: This case simply implies that the NAF checks that the user is known to,
and has established a valid key, with the BSF, according to the GBA procedures
described in TS 33.220 [3].
#### 6.5.2.2 Authorised User of Application Anonymous to AS
The AP checks that the UE is an authorised user of the application according
to application specific user security setting received from BSF. No user
identity shall be transferred to AS.
This case shall be supported by AP.
#### 6.5.2.3 Authorised User of Application with Transferred Identity asserted
to AS
The AP checks that the UE is an authorised user of the application. The user
identity (or user identities) received from the BSF shall be transferred to
AS. Based on AS-specific configuration of the AP, any authorization flags
existing in application-specfic user security settings shall also be
transferred to AS.
Depending on the application specific user security setting and the AS-
specific configuration of the AP, the transferred user identity (or
identities) may be the private user identity (IMPI), or may be taken from the
application specific user security setting (e.g. an IMPU), or may be a
pseudonym chosen by AP (e.g. Random, B-TID).
This case may be supported by AP.
NOTE 1: If the AP is configured to transfer a pseudonym to AS, any binding of
this pseudonym to the user identity (e.g. for charging purposes by AS) is out
of scope of this specification.
NOTE 2: If the AP is configured not to request an application specific user
security setting from BSF, only the private user identity (IMPI) or a
pseudonym may be transferred to AS. In this case any authorised participant of
GBA is supposed to be an authorised user of the application.
#### 6.5.2.4 Authorised User of Application with Transferred Identity asserted
to AS and Check of User Inserted Identity
This case resembles clause 6.5.2.3 with the following extension:
Based on the user identity received from BSF, the AP authenticates user
related identity information elements as sent from UE. These \"user inserted
identities\" may occur within header fields or within the body of the HTTP
request.
Depending on application specific user security setting and AS-specific
configuration of AP, all user-inserted identities (or a subset thereof) are
authenticated by checking against the private user identity (IMPI) or the
application specific user security setting.
Depending on the application specific user security setting and the AS-
specific configuration of AP, the transferred user identity (or identities)
may also be selected from the authenticated user inserted identities.
This case may be supported by AP.
NOTE 1: If AP authenticates certain or all user related identity information
elements of a request, and the AS shall rely on the check of these elements,
then a corresponding policy between the AP and the AS needs to be in place
between the AP and the AS.
NOTE 2: Any application specific details are beyond the scope of this document
and may be specified within the application, e.g. for Presence in TS 33.141
[5]. This specification does not preclude that any other application specific
specifications (e.g. Presence) declare this feature as mandatory in their
scope.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Technical Solutions for Access to Application
Servers via Authentication Proxy and HTTPS
This annex gives some guidance on the technical solution for authentication
proxies so as to help avoid misconfigurations. An authentication proxy acts as
reverse proxy which serves web pages (and other content) sourced from other
web servers (AS) making these pages look like they originated at the proxy.
To access different hosts with different DNS names on one server (in this case
the proxy) the concept of virtual hosts was created.
One solution when running HTTPS is to associate each host name with a
different IP address (IP based virtual hosts). This can be achieved by the
machine having several physical network connections, or by use of virtual
interfaces which are supported by most modern operating systems (frequently
called \"_ip aliases_ \"). This solution uses up one IP address per AS and it
does not allow the notion of \"one TLS tunnel from UE to AP-NAF\" for all
applications behind a NAF together.
If it is desired to use one IP address only or if \"one TLS tunnel for all\"
is required, only the concept of name-based virtual hosts is applicable.
Together with HTTPS, however, this creates problems, necessitating workarounds
which may deviate from standard behaviour of proxies and/or browsers.
Workarounds, which affect the UE and are not generally supported by browsers,
may cause interoperability problems. Other workarounds may impose restrictions
on the attached application servers.
To access virtual hosts where different servers with different DNS names are
co-located on AP, either of the solutions could be used to identify the host
during the handshaking phase:
\- Extension of TLS is specified in RFC 4366 [21]. This RFC supports the UE to
indicate a virtual host that it intends to connect in the very initial TLS
handshaking message (see clause 5.3.1);
\- The other alternative is to issue a multiple-identities certificate for the
AP. The certificate will contain identities of AP as well as each server that
rely on AP\'s proxy function. The verification of this type of certificate is
specified in RFC 2818 [9].
Either approach may be chosen by the operator who operates the authentication
proxy.
###### ## Annex B (informative): Guidance on Certificate-based mutual
authentication between UE and application server
This section explains how subscriber certificates (see TS 33.221 [16]) are
used in certificate-based mutual authentication between a UE and an
application server. The certificate-based mutual authentication between a UE
and an application server shall be based on TLS as specified in the TLS
profile given in TS 33.310 [20], Annex E and IETF RFC 4366 [21].
When a UE and an application server (AS) want to mutually authenticate each
other based on certificates, the UE has previously enrolled a subscriber
certificate as specified in TS 33.221 [16]. After UE is in the possession of
the subscriber certificate it may establish a TLS tunnel with the AS as
specified in the TLS profile given in TS 33.310 [20], Annex E and RFC 4366
[21].
The AS may indicate to the UE, that it supports client certificate-based
authentication by sending a CertificateRequest message during the TLS
handshake. This message includes a list of certificate types and a list of
acceptable certificate authorities. The AS may indicate to the UE that it
supports subscriber certificate-based authentication if the list of acceptable
certificate authorities includes the certification authority of the subscriber
certificate (i.e. the operator\'s CA certificate).
The UE may continue with the subscriber certificate-based authentication if
the list of acceptable certificate authorities includes the certification
authority of the subscriber certificate. This is done by sending the
subscriber certificate as the Certificate message during the TLS handshake. If
the list of acceptable certificate authorities does not include the
certification authority of the subscriber certificate, then UE shall send a
Certificate message that does not contain any certificates.
NOTE 1: Due to the short lifetime of the subscriber certificate, the usage of
the subscriber certificate does not require on-line interaction between the AS
and the PKI portal that issued the certificate.
If the AS receives a Certificate message that does not contain any
certificates, it can continue the TLS handshake in two ways:
\- if subscriber certificate-based authentication is mandatory according to
the AS\'s security policy, it shall response with a fatal handshake failure
alert, or
\- if subscriber certificate-based authentication is optional according to
AS\'s security policy, AS shall continue with TLS handshake.
In the latter case, if the AS has NAF functionality, the NAF may authenticate
the UE as specified in clause 5.3 of the present specification, where after
establishing the server-authenticated TLS tunnel, the procedure continues from
step 4.
NOTE 2: In order to successfully establish a TLS tunnel between the UE and the
AS using certificates for mutual authentication, the UE must have the root
certificate of the AS\'s certificate in the UE\'s certificate store, and the
AS must have the root certificate of the UE\'s subscriber certificate (i.e.
operator\'s CA certificate) in the AS\'s certificate store. The root
certificate is the root of the certification path, and should be marked
trusted in the UE and the AS.
NOTE 3: In order to enable access to an AS in a visited network with
subscriber certificates requires that the AS has the CA certificate of
subscriber\'s home operator and it is marked trusted in the visited AS. The
procedure to do this is outside the scope of this specification.
#