# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
This document specifies the security architecture for the H(e)NB subsystem.
This includes security requirements on Home Node Bs, Home eNode Bs, and other
H(e)NB-associated network nodes (e.g. SeGW and H(e)MS), as well as the
procedures and features which are provided to meet those requirements.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.583: \"Telecommunications management; Home Node B (HNB)
Operations, Administration, Maintenance and Provisioning (OAM&P); Procedure
flows for Type 1 interface HNB to HNB Management System (HMS) \".
[3] IETF RFC 4187: \"Extensible Authentication Protocol Method for 3rd
Generation Authentication and Key Agreement (EAP-AKA) \".
[4] IETF RFC 4306: \"Internet Key Exchange (IKEv2) Protocol\".
[5] Void.
[6] IETF RFC 4739: \"Multiple Authentication Exchanges in the Internet Key
Exchange (IKEv2 Protocol", Nov 2006\".
[7] 3GPP TS 33.310: \"Network Domain Security (NDS); Authentication Framework
(AF) \".
[8] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification\".
[9] 3GPP TS 33.210: \"3G security; Network Domain Security (NDS); IP network
layer security\".
[10] 3GPP TS 33.234: \"3G security; Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN)
interworking security\".
[11] 3GPP TS 32.593: \"Telecommunication management; Procedure flows for Type
1 interface H(e)NB to H(e)NB Management System (H(e)MS) \".
[12] 3GPP TS 25.467: \"UTRAN architecture for 3G Home Node B (HNB); Stage 2\".
[13] - [14] Void.
[15] The Broadband Forum TR-069: \"CPE WAN Management Protocol v1.1\", Issue 1
Amendment 2, December 2007.
[16] - [17] Void.
[18] ETSI ES 282 004 (V1.1.1): \"Telecommunications and Internet Converged
Services and Protocols for Advanced Networking (TISPAN); NGN functional
architecture; Network Attachment Sub-System (NASS) \", 2006.
[19] ETSI ES 283 035 (V1.1.1): \"Telecommunications and Internet Converged
Services and Protocols for Advanced Networking (TISPAN); Network Attachment
Sub-System (NASS); e2 interface based on the DIAMETER protocol\", 2006.
[20] 3GPP TS 33.102: \"3G security; Security architecture\".
[21] 3GPP TS 33.401: \"3GPP System Architecture Evolution (SAE): Security
architecture\".
[22] IETF RFC 2560: \"X.509 Internet Public Key Infrastructure Online
Certificate Status Protocol -- OCSP\"
[23] Open Mobile Alliance OMA-WAP-OCSP V1.0: \"Online Certificate Status
Protocol Mobile Profile\". URL: http://www.openmobilealliance.org/
[24] IETF RFC 4806: \"Online Certificate Status Protocol (OCSP) Extensions to
IKEv2\".
[25] IETF RFC 4366: \"Transport Layer Security (TLS) Extensions\".
[26] IETF RFC 5280: \"Internet X.509 Public Key Infrastructure Certificate and
Certificate Revocation List (CRL) Profile\".
[27] 3GPP TS 36.300: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN); Overall
description; Stage 2\".
[28] 3GPP TS 25.367: \"Mobility procedures for Home Node B (HNB); Overall
description; Stage 2\".
[29] 3GPP TS 23.060: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); Service
description; Stage 2\".
> [30] 3GPP TS 23.401: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS) enhancements for
> Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) access\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**CSG:** A closed subscriber group identifies subscribers of an operator who
are permitted to access one or more cells of the PLMN of but having restricted
access ("CSG cells")
**Hosting party:** The party hosting the H(e)NB and having a contract with the
PLMN operator.
**Security Gateway:** Element at the edge of the core network terminating
security association(s) for the backhaul link between H(e)NB and core network.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
AAA Authentication, Authorization, and Accounting
ACL Access Control List
ACS Auto-Configuration Server
AKA Authentication and Key Agreement
CA Certification Authority
CPE Customer Premises Equipment
CRL Certificate Revocation List
CSG Closed Subscriber Group
DNS Domain Name System
DPD Dead Peer Detection
eNB Evolved Node-B
EAP Extensible Authentication Protocol
ESP Encapsulating Security Payload
E-UTRAN Evolved UTRAN
FQDN Fully Qualified Domain Name
GNSS Global Navigation Satellite System
H(e)NB Home NodeB or Home eNodeB
H(e)NB-GW Home (e)NodeB Gateway
H(e)MS Home NodeB Management or Home eNodeB Management System
HeMS Home eNodeB Management System
HeNB Home eNodeB
HMS Home NodeB Management System
HNB Home NodeB
HP Hosting Party
HPM HP Module
HW Hardware
IKE Internet Key Exchange
IMSI International Mobile Subscriber Identity
L-GW Local Gateway
LIPA Local IP Access
LTE Long Term Evolution
MME Mobility Management Entity
MSK Master Session Key
NAPT Network Address Port Translation
NAT Network Address Translation
NAT-T NAT-Traversal
OCSP Online Certificate Status Protocol
PKI Public Key Infrastructure
SA Security Association
SeGW Security Gateway
> SGSN Serving GPRS Support Node
S-GW Serving Gateway
TLS Transport Layer Security
TrE Trusted Environment
UDP User Datagram Protocol
UICC Universal Integrated Circuit Card
URI Uniform Resource Identifier
URL Uniform Resource Locator
USIM Universal Subscriber Identity Module
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System
UTRAN Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
WAP Wireless Application Protocol
# 4 Overview of Security Architecture and Requirements
## 4.1 System architecture of H(e)NB
{width="6.386111111111111in" height="1.6305555555555555in"}
Figure 4.1.1: System Architecture of H(e)NB
Description system architecture:
\- Air interface between UE and H(e)NB should be backwards compatible air
interface in UTRAN or E-UTRAN;
\- H(e)NB access operator's core network via a Security Gateway. The backhaul
between H(e)NB and SeGW may be insecure.
\- Security Gateway represent operator's core network to perform mutual
authentication with H(e)NB.
\- AAA server authenticates the hosting party based on the authentication
information retrieved from HSS when hosting party authentication is performed.
\- Security tunnel is established between H(e)NB and Security Gateway to
protect information transmitted in backhaul link.
\- HNB-GW performs the mandatory access control and HNB performs the optional
access control in case non-CSG capable UEs or non-CSG capable HNBs. SeGW and
HNB-GW are logically separate entities within operator's network. If the SeGW
and the HNB-GW are not integrated, then the interface between the HNB-GW and
the SeGW may be protected using NDS/IP [9].
\- HeNB-GW is optional to deploy. If HeNB-GW is deployed, then SeGW may be
integrated into HeNB-GW. If the SeGW and the HeNB-GW are not integrated, then
the interface between the HeNB-GW and the SeGW may be protected using NDS/IP
[9].
\- HMS [2] and/or HNB-GW [12] performs location verification of HNB.
\- HeMS [11] performs location verification of HeNB.
\- Secure communication is required to H(e)NB Management System (H(e)MS).
\- L-GW is optional to deploy. If L-GW is deployed, then the secured interface
between H(e)NB and Security Gateway is used by the L-GW to communicate with
the core network.
## 4.2 Network Elements
### 4.2.1 H(e)NB
The H(e)NB is a network element that connects User Equipment via its radio
interface to the operator's core network. The backhaul link to the operator's
core network is a broadband connection. A H(e)NB is typically deployed in
customers' premises.
NOTE: The term H(e)NB refers to both Home NodeB (HNB) and Home eNodeB (HeNB),
when both are meant without distinction.
### 4.2.2 Security Gateway (SeGW)
The SeGW is a network element at the border of the operator's core network.
After successful mutual authentication between the H(e)NB and the SeGW, the
SeGW connects the H(e)NB to the operator's core network. Any connection
between the H(e)NB and the core network is tunnelled through the SeGW.
### 4.2.3 H(e)NB Management System (H(e)MS)
The H(e)MS is a management server that configures the H(e)NB according to the
operator's policy. H(e)MS is also capable of installing software updates on
the H(e)NB. The H(e)MS server may be located inside the operator's core
network (accessible on the MNO Intranet) or outside of it (accessible on the
public Internet).
The HMS is specified in TS 32.583 [2].
The HeMS is specified in TS 32.593 [11].
### 4.2.4 UE
UE is a standard user equipment for UMTS (for HNB) or LTE (for HeNB).
### 4.2.5 H(e)NB Gateway (H(e)NB-GW) and MME
HNB-GW is specified in TS 25.467 [12] and HeNB-GW is specified in TS 36.300
[27].
### 4.2.6 AAA Server and HSS
HSS stores the subscription data and authentication information of the
H(e)NBs. When hosting party authentication is required, AAA server
authenticates the hosting party based on the authentication information
retrieved from HSS.
### 4.2.7 Void
### 4.2.8 Local Gateway (L-GW)
L-GW is specified in TS 23.060 [29] and in TS 23.401 [30]. The Local IP Access
(LIPA) is achieved using a L-GW colocated with the H(e)NB. The L-GW is
connected to the Serving Gateway (S-GW) or to the SGSN via the SeGW.
## 4.3 Interfaces (Reference Points)
### 4.3.1 Backhaul Link
The backhaul link used between H(e)NB and SeGW provides a secure tunnel
carrying both the user plane data and the control plane data that are
transmitted between the H(e)NB and network elements in the core network.
NOTE: If LIPA is activated, the secured backhaul link between the H(e)NB and
SeGW is used by the L-GW to communicate with the core network.
H(e)MS traffic is also tunnelled through this secure backhaul link, if the
H(e)MS is accessible on the MNO Intranet.
The backhaul link may also carry other data between H(e)NB and core network,
e.g. time protocol traffic.
### 4.3.2 H(e)MS Interface
The H(e)MS Interface between the H(e)NB and the H(e)MS server shall provide a
secure connection carrying configuration data., SW updates and additional
data, e.g. location information.
### 4.3.3 Interface between SeGW and AAA Server, AAA Server and HSS
The interface between the SeGW and AAA Server provides a secure connection
carrying authentication, authorization, and related information.
The interface between AAA Server and HSS provides a secure connection for the
retrieval of authentication vectors (e.g. for hosting party authentication)
and retrieval of H(e)NB access-related information for HPM.
## 4.4 Security Requirements and Principles
### 4.4.1 Operation
The requirements on operation are:
\- Only algorithms of adequate cryptographic strength shall be used for
authentication and protection of confidentiality and integrity.
\- Modifications of Hosting Party controlled information by the operator shall
only be allowed with the permission of the Hosting Party.
\- The extent of Hosting Party controllable information shall be controlled by
the operator.
\- IMSIs of UEs connected to H(e)NB shall not be revealed to the Hosting Party
of the H(e)NB.
### 4.4.2 Requirements on H(e)NB
The requirements on the H(e)NB are:
\- The integrity of the H(e)NB shall be validated before any connection into
the core network is established.
\- The H(e)NB shall be authenticated by the SeGW based on a globally unique
and permanent H(e)NB identity.
\- The H(e)NB shall authenticate the SeGW.
\- Optionally the hosting party of the H(e)NB may be authenticated.
\- If hosting party authentication is used, the H(e)NB shall shut down its air
interface and disconnect from the operator's core network on removal of the
HPM which was used for authentication towards the MNO.
\- The H(e)NB shall authenticate the H(e)MS, if the H(e)MS is accessed on the
public Internet.
\- The H(e)NB shall be authenticated by the H(e)MS using the same identity as
for authentication to the SeGW, if the H(e)MS is accessed on the public
Internet.
\- The configuration and the software of the H(e)NB shall only be updated in a
secure way, i.e. the integrity of the configuration data including the
licensed radio parameters and the integrity of the software updates must be
verified.
\- Sensitive data including cryptographic keys, authentication credentials,
user information, user plane data and control plane data shall not be
accessible at the H(e)NB in plaintext to unauthorized access.
\- The time base of the H(e)NB shall be synchronized to the core network.
\- The location of the H(e)NB shall be reliably transferred to the network.
\- The H(e)NB shall be capable of filtering unauthenticated traffic received
from the access network. Operator policy shall control which types of
unauthenticated traffic are filtered.
\- The H(e)NB shall implement a mechanism to shut down the air interface
within a certain time period after the connection between H(e)NB and the rest
of the operator network went out of service. This time period and the usage of
the mechanism shall be configurable by the operator.
\- The H(e)NB shall only activate its air interface after successful
establishment of the backhaul link (cf. sub-clause 4.4.5 of the present
document). The establishment of the backhaul link happens as a result of
successful integrity validation, device mutual authentication between H(e)NB
and SeGW, and optional hosting party authentication.
\- All security requirements of the eNB secure environment of TS 33.401 [21]
clause 5.3 shall apply to the HeNB. Security measures to establish this secure
environment shall be assured by the TrE (subclause 5.1.2) where they fall
under the capability of the TrE.
### 4.4.3 Requirements on SeGW
The requirements on the SeGW are:
\- The SeGW shall be authenticated by the H(e)NB using a SeGW certificate. The
SeGW certificate shall be signed by a CA trusted by the operator.
\- The SeGW shall authenticate the H(e)NB based on H(e)NB certificate.
\- The SeGW may authenticate the hosting party of the H(e)NB in cooperation
with the AAA server using EAP-AKA [3].
\- The SeGW shall allow the H(e)NB access to the core network only after
successful completion of all required authentications.
\- Any unauthenticated traffic from the H(e)NB shall be filtered out at the
SeGW.
### 4.4.4 Requirements on H(e)MS
The requirements on the H(e)MS are:
\- The H(e)MS shall be authenticated by the H(e)NB if the H(e)MS is accessible
on the public Internet and may be authenticated by H(e)NB if the H(e)MS is
accessible on the MNO Intranet using a H(e)MS certificate. The H(e)MS
certificate shall be provided by a MNO trusted CA.
\- The H(e)MS shall authenticate the identity of the H(e)NB if the H(e)MS is
accessible on the public Internet and may authenticate the identity of the
H(e)NB if the H(e)MS is accessible on the MNO Intranet, using a H(e)NB
certificate. This identity shall be the same as used during backhaul link
establishment (cf. sub-clause 4.4.5 of this document).
\- The H(e)MS may securely configure the H(e)NB according to the operator's
policy, whether or not to use IPsec for subsequent connections (cf. clause
4.4.5 of the present document).
\- If the H(e)MS is accessible on the MNO Intranet and the mutual
authentication between H(e)MS and H(e)NB is not performed the identity of
H(e)NB has to be transferred over the H(e)MS link.
NOTE 1: In case of H(e)MS accessible on the MNO intranet there may be an
additional secure end-to-end tunnel between H(e)NB and H(e)MS carried inside
the secure backhaul link.
NOTE 2: Mutual authentication between H(e)MS and H(e)NB may not be necessary
if the H(e)NB is connected to the H(e)MS through the core network and mutual
authentication between H(e)NB and SeGW has taken place.
### 4.4.5 Requirements on Backhaul Link
The requirements on the backhaul link are:
\- The establishment of the secure backhaul link shall be based on IKEv2 [4]
comprising the required authentications as given in subclauses 4.4.2 and 4.4.3
of this document.
\- The backhaul link shall provide integrity, confidentiality and replay
protection of the transmitted data.
\- IPsec use for the backhaul link is mandatory to implement but optional to
use based on an operator policy. To allow for such operator policy, the H(e)NB
may be configurable to IPsec or non-IPsec usage option. If this configuration
is supported, the default configuration set in the factory shall be the usage
of IPsec. Based on operator policy, the H(e)MS may securely configure the
H(e)NB, whether or not to use IPsec for subsequent connections. If the
operator chooses not to use IPsec, mutual authentication between the H(e)NB
device and the SeGW shall be performed and the interface between the H(e)NB
and SeGW shall be secured with a mechanism that provides layer 2 security for
confidentiality and integrity protection of communications. This mechanism
then shall also bind this secure communications to device authentication and
optional HPM authentication.
\- The security solution for the backhaul link shall be based on IPsec ESP
tunnel mode [9]. If the H(e)NB is configurable not to use IPsec, in addition a
suitable layer 2 protection mechanism shall be mandatory to support. If the
H(e)NB is configured not to use IPsec, this layer 2 mechanism shall be used
for the backhaul link protection.
NOTE: For the non-IPsec usage option the details of the authentication
mechanism, the layer 2 security mechanism and the binding are out of scope of
the present document.
\- Any connection between the H(e)NB/L-GW and the core network shall be
tunnelled through the Backhaul Link.
\- The security solution for the backhaul link shall be compatible with common
network address and port translation variations and support firewall
traversal.
### 4.4.6 Requirements on H(e)MS Link
The requirements on the H(e)MS link are:
\- The establishment of the secure H(e)MS link shall be based on the
authentication principles as given in subclauses 4.4.2 and 4.4.4 of this
document.
\- The H(e)MS link shall provide integrity, confidentiality and replay
protection of the transmitted data data between H(e)MS and H(e)NB.
### 4.4.7 Requirements on Local Gateway (L-GW)
From security point of view, the Local Gateway (L-GW) shall be an optional
element. The L-GW shall be tightly integrated with the H(e)NB, and share the
same security requirements with the H(e)NB.
The requirements on the L-GW are:
\- The L-GW shall use the same secure backhaul link established by the H(e)NB
as specified in subclause 4.4.5 of the present document.
\- The L-GW shall use the same secure H(e)MS link established by the H(e)NB as
specified in subclause 4.4.6 of the present document.
\- If the network allocated different IP addresses (remote, i.e. inner) to the
L-GW and H(e)NB, then the secure backhaul link established by the H(e)NB shall
carry traffic to and from both these addresses.
\- The L-GW shall be integrated into the security architecture of the H(e)NB,
in particular:
\- the L-GW shall be included in the device integrity check according to
clause 6.1 of the present document;
\- the L-GW shall be included in the device validation according to clauses
7.1 and 8.3.2.2 of the present document;
# 5 Security Features
## 5.1 Secure Storage and Execution
### 5.1.1 Hosting Party Module
The Hosting Party authentication shall be based on a Hosting Party Module. The
Hosting Party Module (HPM) is a physical entity distinct from the H(e)NB
physical equipment, dedicated to the identification and authentication of the
Hosting Party towards the MNO. The HPM shall have the following features:
  * The HPM shall be a tamper resistant environment and shall contain the credentials used to authenticate the Hosting Party.
  * The HPM shall be bound to the Hosting Party (e.g. by contractual agreement between Hosting Party and MNO) and supplied by the MNO to the Hosting Party.
  * The HPM shall be removable from the H(e)NB and it shall be possible for a Hosting Party to change the H(e)NB device by inserting the HPM in the new H(e)NB.
> The HPM is provided by means of a UICC.
### 5.1.2 Trusted Environment (TrE)
#### 5.1.2.1 General
The Trusted Environment (TrE) shall be a logical entity which provides a
trustworthy environment for the execution of sensitive functions and the
storage of sensitive data.
All data produced through execution of functions within the TrE shall be
unknowable to unauthorized external entities.
The TrE shall be built from an irremovable, HW-based root of trust by way of a
secure boot process, which shall occur whenever a H(e)NB is turned on or goes
through a hard reset. The root of trust shall be physically bound to the
H(e)NB. The secure boot process shall include checks of the integrity of the
TrE performed by the root of trust. Only successfully verified components
shall be loaded or started. The TrE , after having been successfully started,
shall proceed to verify other components of the H(e)NB (e.g. operating system
and further programs) that are necessary for trusted operation of the H(e)NB.
The TrE shall perform sensitive functions (such as storing private keys and
providing cryptographic calculations using those private keys) needed to
perform H(e)NB device integrity check (cf. clause 6.1) and device validation
as specifically described in clauses 7.1 and 8.3.2.2.
The TrE shall perform sensitive functions (such as storing private keys and
providing cryptographic calculations using those private keys ) needed for
H(e)NB device authentication with the operator network, as specifically
described in clauses 7.2 and 8.3.
## 5.2 Device Mutual Authentication
The device mutual authentication is mandatory for H(e)NB.
Device mutual authentication shall be performed using certificates. The
H(e)NB's credentials and critical security functions for device authentication
shall be protected inside a TrE.
The device mutual authentication shall be securely bound to device integrity
validation. This procedure, when successful, leads to mutual authentication
between the H(e)NB and the SeGW.
The certificate-based device authentication shall have the following parts:
\- The H(e)NB shall be provisioned with a device certificate. This device
certificate allows the authentication of the H(e)NB by the SeGW (and thus the
operator network). The device certificate shall be provided by a CA trusted by
the operator, e.g. the CA of the operator, the manufacturer or the vendor of
the H(e)NB, or by another party trusted by the operator.
\- The SeGW shall be configured with a certificate. This certificate allows
the authentication of the SeGW by H(e)NB. The certificate shall be provided by
an operator trusted CA.
\- A Fully Qualified Domain Name (FQDN) formatted identifier shall be used for
certificate based authentication of the H(e)NB and of the SeGW. For the H(e)NB
this FQDN shall be globally unique. If no DNS is available for resolution of
the FQDN of the SeGW, then the IP address of SeGW shall be used as identifier.
\- The H(e)NB may check the revocation status of certificates using OCSP.
\- The SeGW may check the revocation status of certificates using CRLs or
OCSP.
## 5.3 Hosting Party Mutual Authentication
The hosting party mutual authentication is optionally performed by the
operator's network following successful device mutual authentication.
An EAP-AKA based method [3] shall be used for hosting party authentication.
When Hosting Party Authentication is used, both device and hosting party
authentication must be completed successfully before a secure tunnel to the
operator network can be established.
The authentication of the hosting party is based on credentials contained in a
separate Hosting Party Module (HPM) in H(e)NB, and in the MNO HLR/HSS.
The EAP-AKA based hosting party authentication shall have the following parts:
\- An AKA credential shall be stored in HPM enabling to use EAP-AKA. The SeGW
is acting as EAP authenticator and forwards the EAP protocol messages to the
AAA server to retrieve an authentication vector from AuC via HSS/HLR.
\- A globally unique identifier in the format of an IMSI shall be used for
EAP-AKA based authentication. These IMSIs shall be marked in HLR/HSS as used
for H(e)NBs, e.g. by allocating dedicated ranges or by adding specific
attributes to avoid misuse of these IMSIs for ordinary UEs.
NOTE: The implementation of the related HLR/HSS entry is out of scope of this
document.
## 5.4 Other security features
The communication between time server and H(e)NB shall be provided with
adequate protection.
**_Access control shall be performed in the HNB-GW and optionally in HNB in
case of non-CSG capable UEs or non-CSG capable HNBs._**
**_In case of CSG capable UEs and CSG capable HNBs,_** the SGSN/MSC/VLR shall
perform access control for UE for accessing HNB, as described in [12].
MME shall perform access control for UEs accessing HeNB.as described in [27]
The HMS and/or HNB-GW shall perform HNB location verification. The HeMS shall
perform HeNB location verification.
NOTE: Location verification is needed to satisfy various security, regulatory
and operational requirements of operators.
# 6 Security Procedures in H(e)NB
## 6.1 Device Integrity Check
### 6.1.1 Device Integrity Check Procedure
The H(e)NB and TrE shall perform a device integrity check upon booting and
before connecting to the core network and/or to the H(e)MS. The device
integrity check shall be based on one or more trusted reference value(s) and
the TrE. The following requirements shall apply:
  * The TrE shall boot securely according to section 5.1.2.1.
\- The integrity of a component is verified by comparing the result of a
measurement (typically a cryptographic hash) of the component to the trusted
reference value. If these values agree, the component is successfully verified
and can be started.
  * For each of the component integrity checks, the TrE shall retrieve > the corresponding trusted reference value from secure memory.
  * The TrE shall check the integrity of all components necessary for > trusted operation of the device. Any individual component shall be > started only if its integrity check is successful.
> \- The integrity of the device is verified if all components necessary for
> trusted operation of the device are verified.
### 6.1.2 Protection of Trusted Reference Value(s)
  * The TrE shall securely store all trusted reference values at all times.
The TrE shall detect un-authorized modifications of the trusted reference
values necessary for trusted operation of the device.
## 6.2 Void
## 6.3 Measures for Clock Protection
### 6.3.1 Clock Synchronization Security Mechanisms for H(e)NB
The H(e)NB requires time synchronization with a time server. The H(e)NB shall
support receiving time synchronisation messages over the secure backhaul link
between H(e)NB and the SeGW.
Optionally other secure clock servers may be used, which do not use the secure
backhaul link. In this case the communication between these clock server(s)
and H(e)NB shall be secured.
NOTE 1: How to secure communication between clock servers and H(e)NB outside
the secure backhaul link is out of scope of the present document.
The availability of the correct current time is important for certificate
validation and thus for the establishment of secure links (IKEv2 and/or TLS).
This results in the following requirements:
\- The H(e)NB shall be equipped with a clock.
\- Upon the H(e)NB connecting to the CN, the clock shall be synchronized with
the secured time server.
\- During normal operation of the H(e)NB, the clock shall be re-synchronized
with the secured time signal from the network at least every 48 hours.
The following requirements on local time arise from certificate handling,
applying to operation of the H(e)NB before the secure backhaul link or the
secure H(e)MS connection is established and thus before secured clock
information is available from the clock server:
\- The last time at which the H(e)NB was active before the current power-up
shall be recorded and saved in the TrE.
\- Upon restoration of power of the H(e)NB, the clock shall resume counting
from the last saved time. If a continuously running clock exists, the clock
may resume counting from the later of the current time of the clock and the
last saved time
NOTE 2: Usage of the current time of the clock upon restoration of power of
the H(e)NB assumes that the clock starts at its own power-up at some point in
time which does not lie in the future. The start time could be at a fixed
date, e.g. the epoch 1970-01-01. Otherwise the H(e)NB may falsely interpret a
certificate as expired, if the start time of the clock lies after expiry time
of the certificates.
NOTE 3: If a HeNB clock erroneously received a time lying sufficiently far in
the future, the validation of the SeGW's or the H(e)MS's certificate will fail
and the H(e)NB will be unable to connect to the operator's network. No
specific solution to this scenario is given; a common solution for problems
with the H(e)NB authentication might be considered in the future.
# 7 Security Procedures between H(e)NB and SeGW
## 7.1 Device Validation
The H(e)NB shall support a device validation method where the device
implicitly indicates its validity to the SeGW or H(e)MS by successful
execution of device authentication. To achieve this, the following requirement
applies:
\- If the device integrity check according to clause 6.1 failed, the TrE shall
not give access to the sensitive functions using the private key needed for
H(e)NB device authentication with the SeGW.
\- The CA issuing the H(e)NB device certificate need to be trusted by the
manufacturer or vendor of the H(e)NB, whoever of both is responsible for the
device integrity of the H(e)NB.
NOTE: This trust in the CA issuing the device certificate is in addition to
the requirements given in clause 5.2.
## 7.2 Device Authentication
### 7.2.1 General
Device authentication of the H(e)NB shall be securely bound by the TrE to the
device validation of the H(e)NB platform.
Device authentication of H(e)NB shall be based on device certificate for
H(e)NB and network certificate for the core.
IKEv2 with certificates used for authentication shall be run between H(e)NB
and SeGW to mutually authenticate the H(e)NB and the SeGW. If the H(e)NB is
configurable not to use IPsec, then an appropriate authentication mechanism
for mutual authentication of H(e)NB and SeGW shall be mandatory to support. If
the H(e)NB is configured not to use IPsec, then this authentication mechanism
shall be used between H(e)NB and SeGW to mutually authenticate the H(e)NB and
the SeGW. The detailed authentication procedure is out of scope of the present
document.
### 7.2.2 SeGW and Device Mutual Authentication Procedure
Device authentication shall be performed using IKEv2 with public key signature
based authentication with certificates, as specified in RFC 4306 [4]. The
H(e)NB device shall authenticate itself to the SeGW with a certificate based
on the globally unique and permanent H(e)NB identity, signed by an operator
authorized entity. The SeGW shall authenticate itself to the H(e)NB using a
certificate signed by an operator trusted CA. The H(e)NB shall verify the SeGW
identity by checking the subjectAltName field of the SeGW certificate against
the name of the SeGW used by the H(e)NB to connect to the SeGW.
NOTE 1: If DNS is available, the SeGW's name is the FQDN used to resolve its
IP address; otherwise it is the IP address of the SeGW.
The H(e)NB may check the revocation status of the SeGW certificate using OCSP
as specified in [22] and [23] with the exception that the SHA-1 and SHA-256
hash functions shall be mandatory to support. For security reasons, the use of
SHA-1 is not recommended for newly created OCSP responses. If the profile in
[23] is used, support for WAP specific protocols is not required, and the
provisions on certificates and signatures given in TS 33.310 [7], clause 6.1,
shall be followed.
NOTE 1a: It is likely that in a future 3GPP release, OCSP responses which use
SHA-1 as the hash algorithm will be prohibited.
Support for OCSP is optional for the operator network. The H(e)NB should
support OCSP.
NOTE 2: It is strongly recommended to support OCSP in the H(e)NB, as this
feature may become mandatory for H(e)NB in future releases.
The OCSP communication between H(e)NB and OCSP server may use the in-band
signaling of certificate revocation status in IKEv2 according to RFC 4806
[24], through which the SeGW can include an OCSP response within IKEv2.
Support for this extension to IKEv2 in H(e)NB and SeGW is optional.
The SeGW may check the revocation status of the H(e)NB certificate using CRLs
according to TS 33.310 [7] or OCSP as specified in [22] and [23] with the
exception that the SHA-1 and SHA-256 hash functions shall be mandatory to
support. For security reasons, the use of SHA-1 is not recommended for newly
created CRLs and OCSP responses. If the profile in [23] is used, support for
WAP specific protocols is not required, and the provisions on certificates and
signatures given in TS 33.310 [7], clause 6.1, shall be followed.
NOTE 2a: It is likely that in a future 3GPP release, CRLs and OCSP responses
which use SHA-1 as the hash algorithm will be prohibited.
NOTE 2b: Methods for securely updating the device certificate remotely are out
of scope of the present document. If it is not possible to update the device
certificate, the certificate lifetime needs to exceed the expected lifetime of
the H(e)NB.
The SeGW shall implement support for either CRL checking or OCSP or both. The
locations of the CRL Server and OCSP Responder may be in the operator\'s
network or provided by the manufacturer/vendor. Neither the operator nor the
manufacturer is required to provide a CRL Server or an OCSP Responder. For the
case when the operator provides a CRL Server or OCSP Responder, the
manufacturer shall forward revocation data to the operator. The interface to
forward revocation data is out of scope of the present document.
If the H(e)NB certificate contains CRL or OCSP server information (cf. sub-
clause 7.2.5.2), then the SeGW may contact this server for revocation
information.
NOTE 3: A CRL or OCSP server located at manufacturer of H(e)NB allows
distribution of revocation information by the manufacturer directly. To use
such revocation information, normally the SeGW needs a CRL or OCSP client
capable to reach the public Internet to contact these servers.
Validity check of H(e)NB certificates in SeGW shall be configurable by the
operator, i.e. whether to use CRLs, OCSP or both and whether to use operator
CRL or OCSP server, manufacturer CRL or OCSP server, or more than one of them.
The H(e)NB's TrE shall be used to provide the following critical security
functions supporting the IKEv2 and certificate processes:.
\- The H(e)NB's identity shall be stored in the TrE and shall not be
modifiable.
\- The H(e)NB's private key shall be stored in the TrE and shall not be
exposed outside of the TrE.
\- The root certificate used to verify the signatures on the SeGW certificate
shall be stored in the H(e)NB's TrE and shall be writable by authorized access
only. The verification process for signatures shall be performed by the
H(e)NB's TrE.
\- The H(e)NB's TrE shall be used to compute the AUTH payload used during the
IKE_AUTH request message exchanges.
NOTE 4: Autonomous validation is performed during secure start-up and performs
validation of the H(e)NB. As IKEv2 allows the inclusion of information data
into Notify Payload, information regarding the trustworthy state of the H(e)NB
may be carried in the Notify Payload (see Annex A.1) during IKEv2 procedures
from the H(e)NB to the SeGW.Notify Payload within IKEv2\'s IKE_AUTH message is
protected by IKEv2 SK and AUTH. In addition, the Notify Payload, as
constructed by the TrE, should include a nonce and should be cryptographically
signed by the TrE.
### 7.2.3 H(e)NB/IKEv2 Processing Requirements for SeGW Certificates
The H(e)NB/IKEv2 processing requirements for SeGW certificates shall be as
follows:
1\. The SeGW shall not send certificate paths containing more than four
certificates.
2\. The H(e)NB shall be able to process SeGW certificate paths containing up
to four certificates. The SeGW certificate and the intermediate CA
certificates for the SeGW shall be obtained from the IKEv2 CERT payload. The
certificates of the trusted root CA shall be obtained from the TrE of the
H(e)NB.
3\. The H(e)NB shall check the validity time of the SeGW certificates, and
reject certificates that are either not yet valid or that are expired.
4\. In case the H(e)NB is configured to check the certificate revocation
status of the SeGW certificate, and it receives no valid OCSP response, the
H(e)NB shall abort the IKEv2 protocol.
NOTE 1: The execution of this check does not depend on the existence of an
OCSP server information in the SeGW certificate, if OCSP extension according
to RFC 4806 [24] is used.
NOTE 2: A H(e)NB may want to check the revocation status of the SeGW
certificate, but it may not have access to the OCSP server until the IPSec
tunnel is established. In this case, after the tunnel is established and
before user data is transmitted in the tunnel, the H(e)NB sends an OCSP
request message to the OCSP responder. When the H(e)NB receives the OCSP
response, it checks the certificate status. If the certificate of SeGW is
valid, the H(e)NB will allow user data to be transmitted to the SeGW in the
tunnel. If the certificate is not valid, the H(e)NB may terminate the tunnel
that just was established.
### 7.2.4 SeGW/IKEv2 Processing Requirements for H(e)NB Certificates
The SeGW/IKEv2 processing requirements for H(e)NB certificates shall be as
follows:
1\. The H(e)NB shall not send certificate paths containing more than four
certificates.
2\. The SeGW shall be able to process H(e)NB certificate paths containing up
to four certificates. The H(e)NB certificate and the intermediate CA
certificates for the H(e)NB shall be obtained from the IKEv2 CERT payload. The
trusted root CA shall be obtained from a SeGW local store of trusted CA
certificates.
3\. The SeGW shall check the validity time of the H(e)NB certificates, and
reject certificates that are either not yet valid or that are expired.
4\. The SeGW shall check the certificate revocation status if configured by
local policy.
NOTE: The mere existence of a CRL or OCSP server information in the H(e)NB
certificate does not mandate the SeGW to perform certificate status checking.
### 7.2.5 Security Profiles
#### 7.2.5.1 Profile for IKEv2
The H(e)NB and the SeGW shall conform to the profile of IKEv2 as specified in
clause 5.4.2 of TS 33.210 [9] with the exception that the use of pre-shared
secrets for authentication is not supported.
The following additional requirements on certificate based IKEv2
authentication for the IKE_INIT_SA and IKE_AUTH exchanges shall be applied:
\- The use of RSA signatures for authentication shall be supported.
\- The H(e)NB shall include its identity in the IDi payload of the first
IKE_AUTH request.
\- The H(e)NB identity in the IDi payload may be used for policy checks.
\- Initiating/responding end entities are required to send certificate
requests in the IKE_INIT_SA exchange for the responder and in the IKE_AUTH
exchange for the initiator.
\- The messages for the IKE_AUTH exchanges shall include a certificate or
certificate chain providing evidence that the key used to compute a digital
signature belongs to the identity in the ID payload.
\- The certificates in the certificate payload shall be encoded as type 4
(X.509 Certificate -- Signature).
#### 7.2.5.2 IKEv2 Certificate Profile
##### 7.2.5.2.1 IKEv2 Entity Certificates
The H(e)NB and SeGW certificates shall both conform to the requirements set
out in clauses 6.1.1 and 6.1.3 of TS 33.310 [7] with the following additions
and exceptions:
\- The H(e)NB certificate shall be signed by an entity that is authorized by
the operator, e.g. the manufacturer or the vendor. In addition, the entity
signing the H(e)NB certificate shall be authorized by the manufacturer or
vendor.
\- The H(e)NB certificate shall carry the HNB unique identity in FQDN format,
as specified in TS 23.003 [8], in the subjectAltName. This identity shall be
the same as the identity in the IDi payload of the first IKE_AUTH request.
\- If the manufacturer or vendor provides a CRL or OCSP server, the H(e)NB
certificate shall carry the CRL distribution point as specified in TS 33.310
[7] or the OCSP server information (AIA extension) as specified in RFC5280
[26] and RFC 2560 [22].
NOTE: Server information for CRL and/or OCSP servers deployed in operator
network may be configured in SeGW.
\- If the operator provides an OCSP server, the SeGW certificate shall carry
the OCSP server information as specified in RFC 2560 [22]. This OCSP server
information is not mandatory, if OCSP extension according to RFC 4806 [24] is
used.
##### 7.2.5.2.2 IKEv2 CA Certificates
IKEv2 CA certificates shall conform to the requirements set out for NE CA
certificates in clauses 6.1.1, and 6.1.4b of TS 33.310 [7].
NOTE: This requirement implies that there is no restriction in the issuer name
for both H(e)NB CA certificates and SeGW CA certificates.
## 7.3 Hosting Party Authentication
Device Authentication may optionally be followed with an EAP-AKA-based hosting
party authentication exchange. The IKEv2 certificate-based mutual
authentication is executed according to IETF RFC 4306 [4] as specified in 7.2,
extended by IKEv2's multiple authentication procedure defined in IETF RFC 4739
[6].
The IKEv2 EAP-AKA authentication will follow the TS 33.234 [10] specification.
The H(e)NB's HPM must be used to provide critical security functions
supporting the EAP-AKA authentication processes.
\- The secret key (K) used for HP authentication shall be stored in the HPM.
\- The HPM is responsible for computing the RES and AUTN parameters for the
EAP-AKA based hosting party authentication.
## 7.4 IPsec Tunnel Establishment
If the H(e)NB only supports usage of IPsec, or if it is configured to use
IPsec tunnel between the H(e)NB and the SeGW, the following procedure shall be
performed.
The H(e)NB shall use IKEv2 protocol to set up at least one IPsec tunnel to
protect the traffic with SeGW, i.e. a pair of unidirectional SAs between
H(e)NB and SeGW. All signalling, user, and management plane traffic over the
interface between H(e)NB and SeGW shall be sent through an IPsec ESP tunnel
(with NAT-T UDP encapsulation as necessary) that is established as a result of
the authentication procedure.
The H(e)NB shall initiate the creation of the SA i.e. it shall act as
initiator in the Traffic Selector negotiation. Upon H(e)NB's request, the SeGW
should allocate IP address (remote, i.e. inner) to the H(e)NB after successful
authentication. If LIPA is activated, SeGW may allocate a different remote
(i.e. inner) IP address to the L-GW than the remote (i.e. inner) IP address
allocated to the H(e)NB.
NOTE: If the SeGW allocates different remote IP addresses to the H(e)NB and
the L-GW, then the H(e)NB can retrieve both IP addresses (remote, i.e. inner)
via the IKEv2 CFG payload, the H(e)NB can retrieve its own IP address (remote,
i.e. inner) via the IKEv2 CFG payload and the L-GW IP address directly via the
IPsec tunnel (e.g. using DHCP or OAM), or the H(e)NB can retrieve only the
L-GW IP address via the IKEv2 CFG payload and the H(e)NB address directly via
the IPsec tunnel (e.g. using DHCP or OAM). In order to avoid any IP address
misconfiguration between the entities within the H(e)NB, the IP address
allocating entity can provide information about the IP address allocation and
the H(e)NB implementation can use the information to differentiate the IP
addresses assigned and then configure the H(e)NB and L-GW addresses
appropriately.
The H(e)NB and SeGW shall use the IKEv2 mechanisms for detection of NAT, UDP
encapsulation for NAT Traversal, H(e)NB initiated NAT keep-alive, IKEv2 SA and
IPsec SA rekeying, and Dead Peer Detection (DPD).
During setup of the tunnel, the H(e)NB shall include a list of supported ESP
authentication transforms and ESP encryption transforms as part of the IKEv2
signalling. The SeGW shall select an ESP authentication transform and an ESP
encryption transform conforming to clause 5.3 of TS 33.210 [9], and shall
signal this to the H(e)NB.
If the H(e)NB is configured not to use IPsec, an appropriate layer 2
protection mechanism that satisfies the requirements as described in clause
4.4.5 shall be used.
## 7.5 Device Authorization
Optionally an AAA server may be used to verify the authorization of the H(e)NB
to connect to the operator's network based on the authenticated device
identity extracted from the H(e)NB certificate. This authorization check is
separate from and in addition to the revocation status check via OCSP or CRL.
NOTE: If OCSP is used, the result of the authorization check may be included
in the certificate revocation check described in section 7.2.2 by having the
OCSP responder provide a certificate status of "good" as in RFC 2560 [22] only
when the certificate has not been revoked and the device is authorized to
connect to the operator's network. If either of these conditions is false, the
OCSP responder should provide a certificate status of \"revoked\".
# 8 Security Aspects of H(e)NB Management
## 8.1 Location Verification
### 8.1.1 General
Operators require assurance of the H(e)NB location to satisfy various
security, regulatory and operational requirements. The H(e)MS and/or HNB-GW
(referred to in this section as the "verifying node") shall perform location
verification. One or more types of location information of H(e)NB may be
optionally stored in the verifying node by operators for location
verification. It shall be possible for the verifying node to obtain one or
more of the following information which may be used to perform location
verification:
\- the public IP address of the broadband access device provided by the H(e)NB
\- the IP address and/or access line location identifier provided by broadband
access provider
\- information of macro-cells surrounding the H(e)NB provided by the H(e)NB
\- geo-coordinates provided by a GNSS receiver embedded into the H(e)NB
Different deployment scenarios and H(e)NB configurations will influence the
availability, accuracy and reliability of these types of location information.
### 8.1.2 IP Address provided by H(e)NB
A H(e)NB is normally connected to the IP network via some access device (e.g.
DSL modem, cable modem, home router, etc.). If the H(e)NB is capable of
acquiring the public IP address of the access device, it shall be able to
provide this IP address to the verifying node.
### 8.1.3 IP Address and/or access line location identifier provided by
broadband access provider
A H(e)NB is normally connected to the IP network via some access device (e.g.
DSL modem, cable modem, home router, etc.) This device will have an IP address
and/or access line location assigned by the broadband access provider. The
broadband access provider may, subject to regulatory approval, be able to
provide the verifying node with this information based on the solution in [18]
and [19]. An example information flow of location verification based on access
line identifier is provided in Annex B.
NOTE: The verifying node must receive the IP address as used in the NASS. This
may require either that the verifying node be located directly at the edge of
the NASS, or that the NASS uses public IP addresses without NAT or NAPT to
Internet.
### 8.1.4 Surrounding macro-cell information provided by H(e)NB
If the H(e)NB has the capability to receive transmissions from surrounding
macro-cells, it shall be capable of providing information on the identity of
any such macro-cells to the verifying node.
NOTE: A report that no macro-cells can be detected may be of use in
determining that the H(e)NB has been moved to an unauthorized location.
### 8.1.5 GNSS information provided by H(e)NB
If the H(e)NB has the capability to receive GNSS transmissions, it shall be
capable of sending GNSS determined location information to the verifying node.
To be able to determine H(e)NB location based on an internal GNSS, a H(e)NB
must be equipped with a GNSS receiver and be installed in a location where
GNSS satellites can be acquired.
### 8.1.6 Requirements
The verifying node shall be capable of requesting one or more of the types of
location information listed in section 8.1.1.
It shall be possible to configure how often the verifying node requests
location information, and what information types are requested.
It shall be possible to configure policies to control how the verifying node
evaluates the received location information in order to perform location
verification.
NOTE: The details of these policies are out of scope of this specification.
The verifying node may perform location verification using information
provided by the H(e)NB. This information may be provided automatically and/or
upon request.
It shall be possible for the verifying node to use and optionally store
ancillary information to perform location verification such as geo-coordinates
of surrounding macrocells, postal address of H(e)NB as claimed by H(e)NB
hosting party, IP address location information, etc.
It shall be possible for the verifying node to perform location verification
both before and after switching on the H(e)NB radio.
Depending on the result of location verification, the verifying node shall
take one or more of the following actions: raise an alarm, permit the H(e)NB
to radiate or prevent the H(e)NB from radiating.
According to operator policy, an operating H(e)NB which is ordered to cease
radiating may do so immediately, or it may wait until any calls in progress
have been completed before it complies with the order and ceases radiating. It
shall not allow new calls to be established during this waiting period.
## 8.2 Access Control Mechanisms for H(e)NB
### 8.2.1 Non-CSG Method
**_The ACL (Access Control List) based access control mechanism for a non CSG
capable UE accessing the HNB or a UE accessing a non CSG capable HNB is
handled in [12]. The ACL shall be securely stored in and integrity protected
in the HNB if_** the HNB performs access control** _._**
### 8.2.2 CSG Method
**_The CSG based access control mechanism for a CSG capable UE accessing the
CSG capable H(e)NB is handled in [12]._**
HSS shall push the latest subscriber\'s CSG membership list, relevant for the
currently used network, to the MME/SGSN/VLR. MME/SGSN/VLR shall update the CSG
lists on receiving the updated list from the HSS.
NOTE: In the HSS there is no differentiation required between entries in the
Allowed and Operator CSG List, as this is relevant for the UE only.
## 8.3 Protection of H(e)MS traffic between H(e)MS and H(e)NB
### 8.3.1 Connection to H(e)MS accessible on MNO Intranet
In case that the H(e)MS is accessible on MNO Intranet, H(e)MS traffic shall be
protected through the support of one of the two security mechanisms determined
by the Network Operator's Security Policies:
  * H(e)MS traffic is protected in hop-by-hop way. H(e)MS traffic is protected by IPsec tunnel between H(e)NB and SeGW. Network security mechanisms (cf. TS33.210 NDS/IP [9]) shall be used to protect H(e)MS traffic between SeGW and H(e)MS when the path from SeGW to H(e)MS is considered as insecure.
  * H(e)MS traffic is protected end-to-end between the H(e)NB and the H(e)MS by utilizing TLS tunnel inside the IPsec Tunnel for additional end-to-end security.
When TLS is performed between H(e)NB and H(e)MS, mutual authentication between
H(e)NB and H(e)MS shall be based on device certificate for the H(e)NB and
network certificate for the H(e)MS. H(e)NB and H(e)MS may check the validity
of the certificates as given in sub-clause 8.3.2.1 .
If the H(e)NB is configured not to use IPsec, an appropriate layer 2
protection mechanism that satisfies the requirements as described in clause
4.4.5 shall be used.
### 8.3.2 Connection to H(e)MS accessible on public Internet
#### 8.3.2.1 General
In case that the H(e)MS is accessible on the public Internet, the H(e)MS is
exposed to attackers located in insecure network. H(e)MS traffic shall be
protected by TLS tunnel established between H(e)NB and H(e)MS. In this case,
mutual authentication between H(e)NB and H(e)MS shall be based on device
certificate for the H(e)NB and network certificate for the H(e)MS. The H(e)NB
shall verify the H(e)MS identity by checking the subjectAltName field of the
H(e)MS certificate against the name of the H(e)MS.
NOTE 1: If DNS is available, the H(e)MS's name is the FQDN used to resolve its
IP address; otherwise it is the IP address of the H(e)MS.
The H(e)NB may check the revocation status of the H(e)MS certificate using
OCSP as specified in [22] and [23] with the exception that the SHA-1 and
SHA-256 hash functions shall be mandatory to support. For security reasons,
the use of SHA-1 is not recommended for newly created OCSP responses. If the
profile in [23] is used, support for WAP specific protocols is not required,
and the provisions on certificates and signatures given in TS 33.310 [7],
clause 6.1, shall be followed.
NOTE 1a: It is likely that in a future 3GPP release, OCSP responses which use
SHA-1 as the hash algorithm will be prohibited.
Support for OCSP is optional for the operator network. The H(e)NB should
support OCSP.
NOTE 2: It is strongly recommended to support OCSP in the H(e)NB, as this
feature may become mandatory for H(e)NB in future releases.
The OCSP communication between H(e)NB and OCSP server may use the in-band
signaling of certificate revocation status in TLS according to RFC 4366 [25].
Support for this extension to TLS in H(e)NB and H(e)MS is optional.
The H(e)MS may check the revocation status of the H(e)NB certificate using
CRLs according to TS 33.310 [7] or OCSP as specified in [22] and [23] with the
exception that the SHA-1 and SHA-256 hash functions shall be mandatory to
support. For security reasons, the use of SHA-1 is not recommended for newly
created CRLs and OCSP responses. If the profile in [23] is used, support for
WAP specific protocols is not required, and the provisions on certificates and
signatures given in TS 33.310 [7], clause 6.1, shall be followed.
NOTE 2a: It is likely that in a future 3GPP release, CRLs and OCSP responses
which use SHA-1 as the hash algorithm will be prohibited.
The H(e)MS shall implement support for either CRL checking or OCSP or both.
The locations of the CRL Server and OCSP Responder may be in the operator\'s
network or provided by the manufacturer/vendor. Neither the operator nor the
manufacturer is required to provide a CRL Server or an OCSP Responder. For the
case when the operator provides a CRL Server or OCSP Responder, the
manufacturer shall forward revocation data to the operator. The interface to
forward revocation data is out of scope of the present document.
If the H(e)NB certificate contains CRL or OCSP server information (cf. sub-
clause 8.3.3.1), then the H(e)MS may contact this server for revocation
information.
NOTE 3: A CRL or OCSP server located at manufacturer of H(e)NB allows
distribution of revocation information by the manufacturer directly. To use
such revocation information, normally the H(e)MS needs a CRL or OCSP client
capable to reach the public Internet to contact these servers.
Validity check of H(e)NB certificates in H(e)MS shall be configurable by the
operator, i.e. whether to use CRLs, OCSP or both and whether to use operator
CRL or OCSP server, manufacturer CRL or OCSP server, or more than one of them.
#### 8.3.2.2 Device Validation
The H(e)NB shall support a device validation method whereby the device
implicitly indicates its validity to the H(e)MS by successful execution of
device authentication. To achieve this, the following requirement applies:
\- If the device integrity check according to clause 6.1 failed, the TrE shall
not give access to the sensitive functions using the private key needed for
H(e)NB device authentication with the H(e)MS.
\- The CA issuing the H(e)NB device certificate need to be trusted by the
manufacturer or vendor of the H(e)NB, whoever of both is responsible for the
device integrity of the H(e)NB.
NOTE: This trust in the CA issuing the device certificate is in addition to
the requirements given in clause 5.2.
### 8.3.3 TLS certificate profile
#### 8.3.3.1 TLS entity certificates
The H(e)NB and H(e)MS certificates for use with TLS shall both conform to the
requirements set out in clauses 6.1.1 and 6.1.3a of TS 33.310 [7] with the
following additions and exceptions:
\- The H(e)NB certificate shall be signed by an entity that is authorized by
the operator, e.g. the manufacturer or the vendor. In addition, the entity
signing the H(e)NB certificate shall be authorized by the manufacturer or
vendor.
\- The H(e)NB certificate shall carry the HNB unique identity in FQDN format,
as specified in TS 23.003 [8], in both the subjectAltName extension of type
dNSName and in the common name field.
\- If the manufacturer or vendor provides a CRL or OCSP server, the H(e)NB
certificate shall carry the CRL distribution point as specified in TS 33.310
[7] or the OCSP server information (AIA extension) as specified in RFC 5280
[26] and RFC 2560 [22].
NOTE 1: Server information for CRL and/or OCSP servers deployed in operator
network may be configured in H(e)MS.
  * The H(e)MS certificate shall carry the identity of the H(e)MS in FQDN format in both the subjectAltName extension of type dNSName and in the common name field.
NOTE 2: The reason for carrying the identities in the common name field is
compatibility.
\- If an OCSP server is provided for the H(e)MS certificates, the H(e)MS
certificate shall carry the OCSP server information as specified in RFC 2560
[22]. This OCSP server information is not mandatory, if OCSP extension to TLS
according to RFC 4366 [25] is used.
NOTE 3: In general, it is possible to use a TLS client certificate in
accordance with this specification also for IKEv2, if key exchange algorithm
and used key length for both TLS and IKEv2 are chosen identically.
NOTE 4: Methods for securely updating the TLS client certificate remotely are
out of scope of the present document. If it is not possible to update the TLS
client certificate, the certificate lifetime needs to exceed the expected
lifetime of the H(e)NB.
#### 8.3.3.2 TLS CA certificates
TLS CA certificates shall conform to the requirements set out in clauses 6.1.1
and 6.1.4a of TS 33.310 [7] with the exception that there is no restriction in
the issuer name.
### 8.3.4 TR-069 protocol profile
For the management of the H(e)NB by the H(e)MS, the CPE WAN Management
Protocol TR-069 [15] shall be used with the following restrictions and
extensions:
\- The TLS profile specified in TS 33.310 [7], Annex E, shall apply.
\- Shared-secret-based authentication between H(e)NB acting as CPE and H(e)MS
acting as ACS shall not be allowed. Only certificate-based authentication
shall be allowed.
\- The use of TLS to transport the CPE WAN Management Protocol shall be
mandatory in case that the H(e)MS is accessible on public internet or when TLS
is used within the IPsec tunnel.
\- The H(e)MS URI shall be specified as an HTTPS URL in case that the H(e)MS
is accessible on public internet or when TLS is used within the IPsec tunnel.
\- Ciphersuites with RC4 shall not be used. The support of TLS cipher suite
RSA_WITH_RC4_128_SHA shall not be mandatory
\- The H(e)NB acting as CPE shall not be obliged to wait until it has accurate
absolute time before it contacts the H(e)MS acting as ACS.
NOTE 1: The term \"absolute time\" refers to UTC and its use is consistent
with its definition and use in the sections on \"Use of SSL/TLS and TCP and on
Data Types\" in TR-069 [15].
\- If the H(e)NB contacts the H(e)MS without having the accurate absolute
time, it shall not ignore components of the H(e)MS certificate related to
absolute time, e.g. not-valid-before and not-valid-after certificate
restrictions, but use the local clock set according to the procedure on
restoration of power specified in clause 6.3.1 of the present document.
\- The support for H(e)NB authentication using client-side (CPE side)
certificates shall be mandatory.
\- The H(e)NB acting as CPE shall be authenticated to the H(e)MS by the
globally unique H(e)NB identity contained in the H(e)NB certificate in case
that mutual authentication between H(e)NB and H(e)MS is performed. The exact
format of the TLS client certificate is specified in clause 8.3.3.1.
## 8.4 Protection of SW Download
The H(e)NB shall utilize the established TR-069 method to download software
from the H(e)MS or a server directed to by the H(e)MS according to TR-069
Version 1 Amendment 2 [15]. The following requirements are added for security:
\- The file shall use the signed package format according to TR-069 [15].
NOTE 1: Depending on the link to H(e)MS, transport security is provided by the
secure link according to clauses 4.3.1 (when H(e)MS is in operator network) or
4.3.2 (when H(e)MS is in public Internet).
\- The SignedData object in the signed package shall contain at least one
signature provided by a software signing entity, with certificate issued by an
operator trusted CA.
\- The TrE shall use a public key issued by an operator trusted CA to verify
the software signing entity certificate and the signature(s) in the SignedData
object. If the verification fails, the H(e)NB shall delete and not install the
software that failed the verification. All root certificates used for this
purpose shall be stored in the TrE.
NOTE 2: Notification of this failure is according to procedures in TR-069
[15].
\- The signed package shall also contain the trusted reference values needed
for the software integrity checks performed during secure boot.
NOTE 3: TR-069 [15] supports multiple signatures which can be used for the
purpose of supporting different hash algorithms.
# 9 Security Aspects of Emergency Call Handling
The H(e)NB and/or the H(e)NB-GW shall support security handling of Emergency
call as specified in TS 25.467[12], TS 33.102 [20] and TS 33.401 [21].
Emergency call shall be allowed by the H(e)NB and/or operator's core network
entities (e.g. H(e)NB-GW) regardless of whether UE can pass access control as
specified in section 8.2.
In case of non CSG UEs or non CSG HNBs, after Emergency call is finished, the
context (as described in [12]) established between the HNB and operator's core
network entities for UEs who can not get access over the HNB shall be released
to prevent the UE from accessing non-emergency services.
NOTE: In case of non CSG UEs or non CSG HNBs, a UE could establish a RRC
connection for an emergency call in order to skip the mandatory access control
and could then try to make an unauthorized normal call afterwards. In order to
alleviate that security risk the HNB-GW may check locally the consistency of
all messages related to the registration for and establishment of an emergency
call.
# 10 Security Aspects for Mobility
## 10.1 Inbound mobility
In mobility from macro NB or HNB towards HNB CSG/hybrid, access control or
membership verification for CSG capable UE and non CSG capable UE shall be
performed as described in [12].
Key management is done in core network as described in [20].
Access control or membership verification for UE in mobility from macro eNB or
HeNB towards HeNB CSG/hybrid is handled in mobility scenario in [27].
**_K_** ey handling shall follow that in [21].
## 10.2 Outbound mobility
For mobility from HNB, the normal procedure can be applied as stated in [28].
Key handling shall follow the macro mobility procedure.
For mobility from HeNB, the normal procedure can be applied as stated in [27].
Key handling shall follow the macro mobility procedure.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Authentication Call-flows
# A.1 Device Authentication Call-flow Example
Certificate based mutual authentication between the H(e)NB and the core
network is specified in clause 7.2. As example the call flow between the
H(e)NB and the SeGW is shown in Figure A.1. This example illustrates an
autonomous device integrity check followed by initiation of device
authentication. Also this example illustrates H(e)NB and L-GW IP address
assignments via the IKEv2 CFG payload.
Figure A.1: Certificate-based authentication with device integrity
1\. TrE brings H(e)NB to secure boot and performs device integrity check of
H(e)NB.
NOTE 1: If the device integrity check fails the following procedure is not
executed.
2\. Following successful device integrity check, the H(e)NB sends an
IKE_SA_INIT request to the SeGW.
3\. The SeGW sends IKE_SA_INIT response, requesting a certificate from the
H(e)NB.
4\. The H(e)NB sends its identity in the IDi payload in this first message of
the IKE_AUTH phase, and begins negotiation of child security associations.
Optionally a user profile may be selected based on the H(e)NB's identity
presented in the IDi payload and the authentication type indication in the
user profile may be used to enforce the choice of authentication (device only
or combined device and HP). The H(e)NB sends the AUTH payload and its own
certificate, and also requests a certificate from the SeGW. Configuration
payload is carried in this message if the H(e)NB's and/or L-GW's remote IP
address(es) should be configured dynamically. H(e)NB optionally includes a
Notify Payload containing integrity information of H(e)NB with a Notification
Type of INTEGRITY_INFO in the IKE_AUTH request. Computation of the AUTH
parameter is performed within the H(e)NB's TrE. If configured to check the
validity of the SeGW certificate the H(e)NB retrieves SeGW certificate status
information from the OCSP responder. Alternatively the H(e)NB may add an OCSP
request to the IKE message.
NOTE 2: Inclusion of the Notify Payload and further usage of data transferred
in this payload is not part of autonomous validation.
5\. The SeGW checks the correctness of the AUTH received from the H(e)NB and
calculates the AUTH parameter which authenticates the second IKE_SA_INIT
message. The SeGW verifies the certificate received from the H(e)NB. The SeGW
may check the validity of the certificates using CRL or OCSP. If the H(e)NB
request contained an OCSP request, or if the SeGW is configured to provide its
certification revocation status to the H(e)NB, the SeGW retrieves SeGW
certificate status information from the OCSP server, or uses a valid cached
response if one is available
6\. The SeGW processes the N payload of the IKE_AUTH request based on local
policy of the operator.
NOTE 3: SeGW may choose to retain the information carried in the N payload for
statistical analysis, send the information to a FIGS (Fraud Information
Gathering System) for fraud detection, or send the information to a validation
entity for validation.
7\. The SeGW sends its identity in the IDr payload, the AUTH parameter and its
certificate to the H(e)NB together with the configuration payload, security
associations, and the rest of the IKEv2 parameters and the IKEv2 negotiation
terminates. The Remote IP address(es) is (are) assigned in the configuration
payload (CFG_REPLY), if the H(e)NB requested for H(e)NB's and/or L-GW's Remote
IP address(es) through the CFG_REQUEST. If the SeGW allocates different remote
IP addresses to the H(e)NB and the L-GW, then the SeGW can include information
to differentiate the IP address assigned to the H(e)NB and the L-GW, in order
to avoid any misconfiguration. A possible mechanism to inform which IP address
is to be used for H(e)NB or L-GW is implementation specific and out of scope
of the present document. If the SeGW has SeGW certificate status information
available, this information is added to the IKE response to H(e)NB.
8\. The H(e)NB verifies the SeGW certificate with its stored root certificate.
The root certificate for the SeGW certificate shall be stored in the TrE. The
H(e)NB checks that the SeGW identity as contained in the SeGW certificate
equals the SeGW identity as provided to H(e)NB by initial configuration or by
H(e)MS. The H(e)NB checks the validity of the SeGW certificates using the OCSP
response if configured to do so.
9\. If the SeGW detects that an old IKE SA for that H(e)NB already exists, it
will delete the IKE SA and send the H(e)NB an INFORMATIONAL exchange with a
Delete payload in order to delete the old IKE SA in H(e)NB.
NOTE 4: If the Notify Payload is used to convey integrity information, then an
available values in the Private Use Status Types range of Notification Type
values in IKEv2 may be used. In case the integrity information payload carries
security information, security mechanisms have to be used. The detailed
security mechanisms are out of scope of present document.
# A.2 Combined Device and HP Authentication Call-flow Example
The certificate based mutual authentication between the H(e)NB and the core
network, followed by an EAP-AKA-based HP authentication exchange between the
H(e)NB/HPM and the AAA server, is specified in clause 7.2. As example the call
flow between the H(e)NB, SeGW and AAA server is shown in Figure A.2. This
example illustrates an autonomous device integrity check followed by
initiation of combined device and HP authentication. Also this example
illustrates H(e)NB and L-GW IP address assignments via IKEv2 CFG payload.
Figure A.2: Combined certificate and EAP-AKA-based authentication
1\. TrE brings H(e)NB to secure boot and performs device integrity check of
H(e)NB.
NOTE: If the device integrity check fails the following procedure is not
executed.
2\. Following successful device integrity check, the H(e)NB sends an
IKE_SA_INIT request to the SeGW.
3\. The SeGW sends IKE_SA_INIT response, requesting a certificate from the
H(e)NB. The SeGW indicates that it support Multiple Authentication by
including the MULTIPLE_AUTH_SUPPORTED payload.
4\. The H(e)NB inserts its identity in the IDi payload in this first message
of the IKE_AUTH phase, computes the AUTH parameter within its TrE, and begins
negotiation of child security associations. The authentication type indication
in user profile which is selected selected by H(e)NB's identity presented in
the IDi payload may be used and enforce the choice of authentication (device
only or combined device and HP). The H(e)NB then sends IKE_AUTH request with
the AUTH payload, its own certificate, and also requests a certificate from
the SeGW. Configuration payload is carried in this message if the H(e)NB's
and/or L-GW's remote IP address(es) should be configured dynamically. The
H(e)NB indicates that it support Multiple Authentication and that it wants to
do a second authentication by including the MULTIPLE_AUTH_SUPPORTED and
ANOTHER_AUTH_FOLLOWS attributes. If configured to check the validity of the
SeGW certificate the H(e)NB retrieves SeGW certificate status information from
the OCSP responder. Alternatively the H(e)NB may add an OCSP request to the
IKE message.
5\. The SeGW checks the correctness of the AUTH received from the H(e)NB and
calculates the AUTH parameter which authenticates the second IKE_SA_INIT
message. The SeGW verifies the certificate received from the H(e)NB. The SeGW
may check the validity of the certificates using CRL or OCSP. If the H(e)NB
request contained an OCSP request, or if the SeGW is configured to provide its
certification revocation status to the H(e)NB, the SeGW retrieves SeGW
certificate status information from the OCSP server, or uses a valid cached
response if one is available.
6\. The SeGW sends IKE_AUTH response with its identity in the IDr payload, the
AUTH parameter and its certificate to the H(e)NB. If the SeGW has SeGW
certificate status information available, this information is added to the IKE
response to H(e)NB.
7\. The H(e)NB verifies the SeGW certificate with its stored root certificate.
The root certificate for the SeGW certificate shall be stored in the TrE. The
H(e)NB checks that the SeGW identity as contained in the SeGW certificate
equals the SeGW identity as provided to H(e)NB by initial configuration or by
H(e)MS. The H(e)NB checks the validity of the SeGW certificates using the OCSP
response if configured to do so.
8\. The H(e)NB sends another IKE_AUTH request message with the HP's identity
in the IDi payload and the AUTH payload omitted to inform the SeGW that the
H(e)NB want to perform EAP authentication.
9\. The SeGW sends the Authentication Request message with an empty EAP AVP to
the 3GPP AAA Server, containing the identity received in IKE_AUTH request
message received in step 8.
10\. The AAA Server shall fetch the subscription data and authentication
vectors from HSS/HLR.
11\. The AAA Server initiates the authentication challenge.
12\. The SeGW sends IKE_AUTH response to H(e)NB. The EAP message received from
the AAA Server (EAP-Request/AKA-Challenge) is included in order to start the
EAP procedure over IKEv2.
13\. The H(e)NB processes the EAP challenge message and uses the HPM for
verification of the AUTN and generating the RES parameters. Optionally,
processing of the whole EAP challenge message, including verification of the
received MAC with the newly derived keying material may be performed within
the H(e)NB's HPM.
14\. The H(e)NB sends the IKE_AUTH request with the EAP-Response/AKA-Challenge
to the SeGW.
15\. The SeGW forwards the EAP-Response/AKA-Challenge message to the AAA
Server.
16\. When all checks are successful, the AAA Server sends the Authentication
Answer including an EAP success and the key material to the SeGW. This key
material should consist of the MSK generated during the authentication
process.
17\. The EAP Success message is forwarded to the H(e)NB over IKEv2 in IKE_AUTH
response.
18 The H(e)NB takes its own copy of the MSK as input to generate the AUTH
parameter to authenticate the first IKE_SA_INIT message. Optionally the
computation of the AUTH parameter is performed within the H(e)NB's HPM.
19\. IKE_AUTH request with the AUTH parameter is sent to the SeGW.
20\. The MSK received in step 16 is used by the SeGW to generate the AUTH
parameters in order to authenticate the IKE_SA_INIT phase messages.
21\. The SeGW checks the correctness of the AUTH received from the H(e)NB. The
SeGW should send the assigned Remote IP address(es) in the configuration
payload (CFG_REPLY), if the H(e)NB requested for H(e)NB's and/or L-GW's Remote
IP address(es) through the CFG_REQUEST. If the SeGW allocates different remote
IP addresses to the L-GW and to the H(e)NB, then the SeGW can include
information to differentiate the IP address assigned to the H(e)NB and the
L-GW, in order to avoid any misconfiguration.A possible mechanism to inform
which IP address is to be used for H(e)NB or L-GW is implementation specific
and out of scope of the present document. Then the IKE_AUTH response with AUTH
parameter is sent to the H(e)NB together with the configuration payload,
security associations and the rest of the IKEv2 parameters and the IKEv2
negotiation terminates.
22\. If the SeGW detects that an old IKE SA for that H(e)NB already exists, it
will delete the IKE SA and send the H(e)NB an INFORMATIONAL exchange with a
Delete payload in order to delete the old IKE SA in H(e)NB.
###### ## Annex B (informative): Location Verification Examples
# B.1 Example of Location verification based on IP address and line identifier
in NASS
The NASS (Network Attachment Subsystem) standard in TISPAN [18] has defined
the interface through which the mobile core network is able to query the
geographic location information based on the IP address. The network-based
database can be the CLF (connectivity Session Location and Repository
Function) element . The CLF registers the following information provided by
the NACF (network access configuration function ), and make them relevant: the
IP address located to the fixed access point, the network location
information, and geography location information. The CLF provides e2 interface
for service layer entity. The reference document [19] specifies e2 interface
based on Diameter protocol.
NOTE 1: The verifying node must receive the IP address as used in the NASS.
This may require either that the verifying node be located directly at the
edge of the NASS, or that the NASS uses public IP addresses without NAT or
NAPT to Internet.
The entity used to query CLF is located in the verifying node.
The contract location exists in the verifying node already before the location
verification process can be performed. The contract location can be defined by
the operator when H(e)NB service is subscribed to the network.
The location authentication procedure consists of the following steps:
a) H(e)NB sends request message to the verifying node, carrying its IP address
in this message.
b) According to the IP address, the verifying node queries the CLF to obtain
the access line location identifier.
c) Verifying node authenticates whether the access line location identifier
stored in the verifying node (i.e. the legal contract location) corresponds to
the location identifier it retrieves from the CLF based on IP address obtained
from the H(e)NB. If it is the same, this means that the H(e)NB location has
not been changed.
d) Other procedures, e.g. provisioning of configuration parameters from the
verifying node to the H(e)NB, can be performed only after successful location
verification of the H(e)NB by the verifying node.
NOTE 2: Storage of the location information in the verifying node as a
subscription profile is preferable.
NOTE 3 : The above procedure provides an effective method to query the CLF
according the H(e)NB's IP address. If the CLF is not available to the mobile
operator, similar methods using the broadband connection information can be
implemented.
# B.2 Example process of location verification when the verifying node receive
different types of location information
1\. Different types of H(e)NB location identifiers corresponding to the
location of H(e)NB are stored in verifying node or CLF.
2\. Upon obtaining new location information from H(e)NB, verifying node should
verify the new location information by the stored different types of location
identifiers or query the CLF for the corresponding location identifiers . If
all of the new location information is verified successfully, it means the
location of H(e)NB is not changed. Or else, verifying node or the CLF should
re-register the new location identifiers corresponding to the new location
information of the H(e)NB on condition that the availability of the new
location information is verified by the operators.
3\. Other procedures, e.g. provisioning of configuration parameters from the
verifying node to the H(e)NB, can be performed only after successful location
verification of the H(e)NB by the verifying node.
NOTE: This example assumes that a TISPAN NASS may be deployed using the CLF as
a location information storage node as described in [18].
#