# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
The present document specifies the half rate speech traffic channels for the
digital cellular telecommunications system. The present document is part of a
series covering the half rate speech traffic channels as described below:
GSM 06.02 \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half rate
speech; Half rate speech processing functions\".
**GSM 06.06 \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half rate
speech; ANSI‑C code for the GSM half rate speech codec\".**
GSM 06.07 \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half rate
speech; Test sequences for the GSM half rate speech codec\".
GSM 06.20 \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half rate
speech; Half rate speech transcoding\".
GSM 06.21 \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half rate
speech; Substitution and muting of lost frames for half rate speech traffic
channels\".
GSM 06.22 \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half rate
speech; Comfort noise aspects for half rate speech traffic channels\".
GSM 06.41 \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half rate
speech; Discontinuous Transmission (DTX) for half rate speech traffic
channels\".
GSM 06.42 \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half rate
speech; Voice Activity Detector (VAD) for half rate speech traffic channels\".
# 1 Scope
The present document contains an electronic copy of the ANSI‑C code for the
GSM half rate codec. The ANSI‑C code is necessary for a bit exact
implementation of the half rate speech transcoder (GSM 06.20 [2]), Voice
Activity Detector (GSM 06.42 [6]), comfort noise (GSM 06.22 [4]),
Discontinuous Transmission (GSM 06.41 [5]) and example solutions for
substituting and muting of lost frames (GSM 06.21 [3]).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
```{=html}
``` \- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] GSM 01.04: \"Digital cellular telecommunication system (Phase 2+);
Abbreviations and acronyms\".
[2] GSM 06.20: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half
rate speech; Half rate speech transcoding\".
[3] GSM 06.21: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half
rate speech; Substitution and muting of lost frame for half rate speech
traffic channels\".
[4] GSM 06.22: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half
rate speech; Comfort noise aspects for half rate speech traffic channels\".
[5] GSM 06.41: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half
rate speech; Discontinuous Transmission (DTX) for half rate speech traffic
channels\".
[6] GSM 06.42: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half
rate speech; Voice Activity Detector (VAD) for half rate speech traffic
channels\".
[7] GSM 06.07: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half
rate speech; Test sequences for the GSM half rate speech codec\".
[8] American National Standards Institute ANSI 9899 (1990): \"Programming
Language ‑ C (ISO)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
Definition of terms used in the present document can be found in GSM 06.20
[2], GSM 06.21 [3], GSM 06.22 [4], GSM 06.41 [5] and GSM 06.42 [6].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
ANSI American National Standards Institute
DS‑HD Double Sided High Density
ETS European Telecommunication Standard
GSM Global System for Mobile communications
I/O Input/Output
ROM Read Only Memory
For abbreviations not given in this clause, see GSM 01.04 [1].
# 4 C code structure
This clause gives an overview of the structure of the bit‑exact C code and
provides an overview of the contents and organization of the electronic
attachment accompanying the present document.
The C code has been verified on the following systems:
‑ Sun Microsystem\'s [^1]**^)^** workstations and Sun Microsystems acc;
‑ IBM [^2]**^)^** PC/AT compatible computers and Borlands Turbo‑C [^3]**^)^**
compiler;
‑ VAX [^4]**^)^** and Digital Equipment Corporations CC.
ANSI‑C 9899 [8] was selected as the programming language because portability
was desirable.
The code representation is contained in a MS‑DOS [^5]**^)^** file (called Disk
and contained in archive en_300967v080001p0.ZIP which accompanies the present
document.
## 4.1 Directory structure
A listing of the directories is given in table 1.
Table 1: Directory structure listing
* * *
Directory name Contents Size (bytes) \c C files and headers 1 215 563 \d
example binary data input and output files 72 400 \exec executables and
makefiles 5 509 \utils utility programs and the \"reid\" program 49 531
readme.txt usage description of files 9 116
* * *
The C code file (called Disk and contained in archive en_300967v080001p0.ZIP)
which accompanies the present document has one main directory and four
subdirectories. The top directory has in it the file readme.txt which explains
the installation procedure, along with some miscellaneous descriptive
information regarding the code.
Below this directory, are the four subdirectories. The \"c\" subdirectory
contains all the source code and header files. This directory alone is
essential, the others aid in the building, or testing of the code. All ROM
data is in this source directory. After installation, this directory can be
made read only.
The \"d\" subdirectory contains all the speech coder installation verification
data files. All of the data files are written/read as 16 bit words, so these
may require byte swapping on the target platform. All data and text files are
formatted such that they are correct for an IBM PC/AT compatible.
Final verification is to be performed using the GSM half rate test sequences
described in GSM 06.07 [7].
The \"utils\" subdirectory contains miscellaneous utilities which may be
useful in the installation of the software. Two programs are provided to
transform text files: topcwild and tosnwild. The program topcwild takes UNIX
text files and converts them to pc text files. tosnwild does the opposite. The
program swapbin is also in this directory. This performs byte swapping on a
binary data file. A fourth program, reid, is also contained in this sub
directory. This is the residual error insertion program which also provides
the format conversion between the encoder output file format and the decoder
input file format.
The \"exec\" subdirectory contains the makefiles for the various platforms.
Once the software is installed, this directory will have a compiled version of
gsm_hr (the bit‑exact C executable), programs from the \"utils\" directory,
and all the object files.
The program gsm_hr is the name of the GSM half rate codec executable file.
## 4.2 Program execution
The GSM half rate speech codec is implemented as two separate programs:
‑ (gsm_hr) speech codec;
‑ (reid) encoder/decoder interface.
The gsm_hr program operates in one of two modes:
‑ (0) encoding only;
‑ (1) decoding only.
For encoding, the input is a binary speech file (*.inp) and the output is a
binary encoded parameter file (*.cod). For decoding, the input is a binary
parameter files (*.dec) and the output is a binary synthesized speech file
(*.out). Note that the format for the parameter input file required for
decoding (*.dec) is not the same as the format of the parameter output file
generated by encoding (*.cod). The reid program will translate an *.cod file
into an *.dec file (select error‑free mode, EP0).
See the file readme.txt for more information on how to run the gsm_hr and reid
programs.
## 4.3 Code hierarchy
Figures 1 to 7 are call graphs that show the functions used in the speech
codec.
The encode call graph is broken down into six separate call graphs. Those
clauses, which are large, are separated from the primary encode call tree and
given their own call tree. Each vertical column represents a call level. For
example, main() is at level 0, encode() at level 1, speechEncoder() at level
2, openLoopLagSearch() at level 3, getCCThreshold() at level 4, etc. The basic
operations are not counted as extending the depth, therefore the deepest level
is this software is level 6.
Some items have been omitted from this call graph. All standard C functions:
printf(), fwrite(), etc. have been omitted. Also, no basic operations (add(),
L_add(), mac(), etc.) or double precision extended operations (e.g.
L_mpy_ls()) appear in the graphs.
Figure 1: Speech decoder call graph
Figure 2: Speech encoder call graph
Figure 3: Speech encoder LPC quantization call graph
Figure 4: Speech encoder open‑loop lag search call graph
Figure 5: Speech encoder subframe processing call graph
Figure 6: Comfort noise call graph
Figure 7: Voice Activity Detector (VAD) call graph
# 5 ANSI‑C code for the GSM half rate speech codec
NOTE: This clause is contained in archive en_300967v080001p0.ZIP which
accompanies the present document.
#