# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The present document defines a frame substitution and muting procedure which
is used by the Receive (RX) Discontinuous Transmission (DTX) handler when one
or more lost speech or Silence Descriptor (SID) frames are received from the
Radio Sub System (RSS) within the digital cellular telecommunications system.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document defines a frame substitution and muting procedure which
shall be used by the Receive (RX) Discontinuous Transmission (DTX) handler
when one or more lost speech or Silence Descriptor (SID) frames are received
from the Radio Sub System (RSS).
The requirements of the present document are mandatory for implementation in
all GSM Base Station Systems (BSS)s and Mobile Stations (MS)s capable of
supporting the enhanced Full Rate speech traffic channel. It is not mandatory
to follow the bit exact implementation outlined in the present document and
the corresponding C‑source code.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
```{=html}
``` \- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] GSM 05.03: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Channel coding\".
[2] GSM 06.60: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Enhanced Full Rate (EFR) speech transcoding\".
[3] GSM 06.81: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Discontinuous transmission (DTX) for Enhanced Full Rate (EFR) speech traffic
channels\".
[4] GSM 08.60: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Inband
control of remote transcoders and rate adaptors for Enhanced Full Rate (EFR)
and full rate traffic channels\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following term and definition
applies:
**5-point median operation:** consists of sorting the 5 elements belonging to
the set for which the median operation is to be performed in an ascending
order according to their values, and selecting the third largest value of the
sorted set as the median value.
Further definitions of terms used in the present document can be found in GSM
06.60 [2], GSM 06.81 [3], GSM 05.03 [1] and GSM 08.60 [4].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
BFI Bad Frame Indication from Radio Sub System
BSI_Abis Bad Sub-block Indication obtained from A-bis CRC checks
CCU Channel Coding Unit
CRC Cyclic Redundancy Check
DTX Discontinuous transmission
median5 5-point median operation
PrevBFI Bad Frame Indication of Previous frame
RSS Radio Sub System
RX Receive
SID SIlence Descriptor frame
TRAU Transcoding Rate Adaptation Unit
# 4 General
The purpose of frame substitution is to conceal the effect of lost frames. The
purpose of muting the output in the case of several lost frames is to indicate
the breakdown of the channel to the user and to avoid generating possible
annoying sounds as a result from frame substitution procedure.
The RSS indicates lost speech or SID frames by setting its Bad Frame
Indication flag (BFI) based on its 3‑bit and 8-bit CRCs and possibly other
error detection mechanisms. The TRAU calculates from the CRCs inserted by the
CCU in the TRAU frames one BSI_Abis flag for every sub-block of speech
parameters. If either one or more of these flags is set, the speech decoder
shall either perform frame substitution or subframe substitution.
The example solution provided in clause 6 applies only for bad frame handling
on a complete speech frame basis. However some parts could be modified for
substitution of bad sub-blocks.
# 5 Requirements
## 5.1 Error detection
An error is detected and the BFI-flag is set-by the RSS according to the
principle described in clause 4.
## 5.2 Lost speech frames
Normal decoding of lost speech frames would result in very unpleasant noise
effects. In order to improve the subjective quality, lost speech frames shall
be substituted with either a repetition or an extrapolation of the previous
good speech frame(s). This substitution is done so that it will gradually
decrease the output level, resulting in silencing of the output. Clause 6.1
gives an example solution.
## 5.3 First lost SID frame
A single lost SID frame shall be substituted by the last valid SID frame and
the procedure for valid SID frames be applied as described in GSM 06.81 [3].
## 5.4 Subsequent lost SID frames
For the second lost SID frame, a muting technique shall be used on the comfort
noise that will gradually decrease the output level (‑3 dB/frame), resulting
in silencing of the output of the decoder.
For subsequent lost SID frames, the muting of the output shall be maintained.
Clause 6.2 gives an example solution.
# 6 Example solution
The C-code of the following example is embedded in the bit exact software of
the enhanced full rate codec.
## 6.1 Example solution for substitution and muting of lost speech frames
This example solution for substitution and muting is based on a state machine
with seven states (figure 1).
The system starts in state 0. Each time a bad frame is detected, the state
counter is incremented by one and is saturated when it reaches 6. Each time a
good speech frame is detected, the state counter is reset to zero, except when
we are in state 6, where we set the state counter to 5\. The state indicates
the quality of the channel: the bigger the state counter, the worse the
channel quality is. The control flow of the state machine can be described
with the following C-code (**BFI** = bad frame indicator, **State** = state
variable):
**if(BFI != 0 )**
**State = State + 1;**
**else if(State == 6)**
**State = 5;**
**else**
**State = 0;**
**if(State > 6 )**
**State = 6;**
In addition to this state machine, the **Bad Frame Flag** from the previous
frame is checked (**PrevBFI**). The processing depends on the value of the
**State** -variable. In states 0 and 5, the processing depends also on the two
flags **BFI** and **PrevBFI**.
The procedure can be described as follows:
Figure 1: State machine for controlling the bad frame substitution
**BFI = 0, PrevBFI = 0, State = 0**
No error is detected in the received or in the previous received speech frame.
The received speech parameters are used normally in the speech synthesis. The
current frame of speech parameters is saved.
**BFI = 0, PrevBFI = 1, State = 0 or 5**
No error is detected in the received speech frame but the previous received
speech frame was bad. The LTP-gain and fixed codebook gain are limited below
the values used for the last received good subframe:
$g^{p} = \left{ \begin{matrix} g^{p},g^{p} \leq g^{p}\left( - 1 \right) \
g^{p}\left( - 1 \right),g^{p} > g^{p}\left( - 1 \right) \ \end{matrix}
\right.\ $ (1)
where = current decoded LTP-gain,$g^{p}\left( - 1 \right)$= LTP-gain used for
the last good subframe (BFI = 0), and
(2)
where = current decoded fixed codebook-gain and $g^{c}\left( - 1 \right)$=
fixed codebook gain used for the last good subframe (BFI = 0).
The rest of the received speech parameters are used normally in the speech
synthesis. The current frame of speech parameters is saved.
**BFI = 1, PrevBFI = 0 or 1, State = 1...6**
An error is detected in the received speech frame and the substitution and
muting procedure is started. The LTP-gain and fixed codebook gain are replaced
by attenuated values from the previous subframes:
$g^{p} = \left{ \begin{matrix} P(\text{state})g^{p}( - 1),\begin{matrix} & & &
& & \ \end{matrix}g^{p}( - 1) \leq \text{median}5(g^{p}( -
1),\text{.}\text{.}\text{.},g^{p}( - 5)) \
P(\text{state})\text{median}5(g^{p}( - 1),\text{.}\text{.}\text{.},g^{p}( -
5)),g^{p}( - 1) > \text{median}5(g^{p}( - 1),\text{.}\text{.}\text{.},g^{p}( -
5)) \ \end{matrix} \right.\ $ (3)
where = current decoded LTP-gain, = LTP-gains used for the last n subframes,
_median5()_ = 5-point median operation, _P(state)_ = attenuation factor
(_P(1)_ = 0.98, _P(2)_ = 0.98, _P(3)_ = 0.8, _P(4)_ = 0.3, _P(5)_ = 0.2,
_P(6)_ = 0.2), _state_ = state number, and
$g^{c} = \left{ \begin{matrix} C(\text{state})g^{c}( - 1),\begin{matrix} & & &
& & \ \end{matrix}g^{c}( - 1) \leq \text{median}5(g^{c}( -
1),\text{.}\text{.}\text{.},g^{c}( - 5)) \
C(\text{state})\text{median}5(g^{c}( - 1),\text{.}\text{.}\text{.},g^{c}( -
5)),g^{c}( - 1) > \text{median}5(g^{c}( - 1),\text{.}\text{.}\text{.},g^{c}( -
5)) \ \end{matrix} \right.\ $ (4)
where = current decoded fixed codebook gain, = fixed codebook gains used for
the last n subframes, _median5()_ = 5-point median operation, _C(state)_ =
attenuation factor (_C(1)_ = 0.98, _C(2)_ = 0.98, _C(3)_ = 0.98, _C(4)_ =
0.98, _C(5)_ = 0.98, _C(6)_ =__ 0.7), and _state_ =__ state number.
The higher the state value is, the more the gains are attenuated. Also the
memory of the predictive fixed codebook gain is updated by using the average
value of the past four values in the memory:
$\text{ener}\left( 0 \right) = \frac{1}{4}\sum_{i = 1}^{4}{\text{ener}\left( -
i \right)}$ (5)
The past LSFs are used by shifting their values towards their mean:
$\text{lsf}_{q1}\left( i \right) = \text{lsf}_{q2}\left( i \right) =
\alpha\text{past}_{\text{lsf}_{q}}\left( i \right) + (1 -
\alpha)\text{mean}_{\text{lsf}}\left( i \right),i =
0\text{.}\text{.}\text{.}9$ (6)
where α = 0.95, _lsf_q1_ and _lsf_q2_ are two sets of LSF-vectors for current
frame, _past_lsf_q_ is _lsf_q2_ from the previous frame, and _mean_lsf_ is the
average LSF-vector.
The LTP-lag values are replaced by the past value from the 4th subframe of the
previous frame.
The received fixed codebook excitation pulses from the erroneous frame are
always used as such.
## 6.2 Example solution for substitution and muting of lost SID frames
The first lost SID frame is replaced by the last valid SID frame.
For subsequent lost SID frames, the last valid SID frame is repeated, but the
fixed codebook gain is decreased with a constant value of ‑3 dB in each frame
down to the minimum value of 0. This value is maintained if additional lost
SID frames occur.
#