# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document defines management objects that can be used by the Access
Network Discovery and Selection Function (ANDSF) and the UE.
The Management Object (MO) is compatible with the OMA Device Management (DM)
protocol specifications, version 1.2 and upwards, and is defined using the OMA
DM Device Description Framework (DDF) as described in the Enabler Release
Definition OMA-ERELD-DM-V1_2 [5].
The MO consists of relevant parameters for intersystem mobility policy- and
access network discovery information that can be managed by the ANDSF.
The service requirements and the functional requirements for the access
network discovery and selection are described in 3GPP TS 22.278 [2] and in
3GPP TS 23.402 [4] respectively.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.278: \"Service requirements for the Evolved Packet System
(EPS)\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification\".
[3A] 3GPP TS 23.032: \"Universal Geographical Area Description (GAD)\".
[3AA] 3GPP TS 24.302: \"Access to the 3GPP Evolved Packet Core (EPC) via
non-3GPP access networks\".
[3AB] 3GPP TS 24.303: \"Mobility management based on Dual-Stack Mobile IPv6\".
[3B] 3GPP TS 25.331: \"Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol Specification\".
[3C] 3GPP TS 36.331: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA)
Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol specification\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.402: \"Architecture enhancements for non-3GPP accesses\".
> [4A] OMA-DDS-DM_ConnMO-V1_0- 20081107-A: \"Standardized Connectivity
> Management Objects\", Approved Version 1.0 -- 07 Nov 2008.
>
> [4B] OMA-DDS-DM_ConnMO_WLAN-V1_0-20081024-A: \"Standardized Connectivity
> Management Objects WLAN Parameters\", Approved Version 1.0 -- 24 Oct 2008.
[5] OMA-ERELD-DM-V1_2: \"Enabler Release Definition for OMA Device
Management\".
[6] WiMAX Forum Network Architecture Release 1.0 version 1.2.2 -- Stage 2:
\"Architecture Tenets, Reference Model and Reference Points\", May 2008.
[7] WiMAX Forum Network Architecture Release 1.0 version 1.2.2 -- Stage 3:
\"Detailed Protocols and Procedures\", May 2008.
[8] WiMAX Forum Mobile System Profile Release 1.0 Approved Specification
Revision 1.4.0, April 2007.
[9] IEEE Std 802.11™-2007: \"Information Technology- Telecommunications and
information exchange between systems-Local and metropolitan area networks-
Specific requirements-Part 11: Wireless LAN Medium Access Control (MAC) and
Physical Layer (PHY) Specifications\".
[10] IEEE Std 802.16e-2005 and IEEE Std 802.16-2004/Cor1-2005: \"IEEE Standard
for Local and Metropolitan Area Networks, Part 16: Air Interface for Fixed and
Mobile Broadband Wireless Access Systems Amendments 2 and Corrigendum 1\",
February 2006.
[10A] IETF RFC 3260 (April 2002): \"New Terminology and Clarifications for
Diffserv\".
[11] IETF RFC 3629 (November 2003): \"UTF-8, a transformation format of ISO
10646\".
[12] \"Unicode 5.1.0, Unicode Standard Annex #15; Unicode Normalization
Forms\", March 2008. http://www.unicode.org
[13] 3GPP2 C.S0005: \"Upper Layer (Layer 3) Signaling Standard for cdma2000
Spread Spectrum Systems\".
[14] 3GPP2 C.S0016: \"Over-the-Air Service Provisioning of Mobile Stations in
Spread Spectrum Standards\".
[15] 3GPP2 C.S0024: \"cdma2000 High Rate Packet Data Air Interface
Specification\".
[16] ISO 8601:2004: \"Data elements and interchange formats -- Information
interchange -- Representation of dates and times\".
[17] IEEE 802.11u: \"Draft Amendment to Standard for Information Technology -
Telecommunications and information exchange between systems-Local and
metropolitan area networks-Specific requirements Part 11: Wireless LAN Medium
Access Control (MAC) and Physical Layer (PHY) specifications: Amendment 7:
Interworking with External Networks\".
[18] IANA Assigned Internet Protocol Numbers
(http://www.iana.org/assignments/protocol-numbers/protocol-numbers.xml)
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] apply.
For the purpose of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 24.302 [3AA] apply:
**Home ANDSF**
**Visited ANDSF**
**Inter-System Routing Policy rule:** In this specification, Inter-System
Routing Policy (ISRP) consists of one or more ISRP rules. ISRP rule is a
single instance of \/ISRP/\. The ISRP rule consists of one or more flow
distribution container.
**Flow distribution container: in this specification,** Flow distribution
container **denotes the node \ /ISRP/\/ForFlowBased,
\/ISRP/\/ForServiceBased or \/ISRP/\/ForNonSeamlessOffload/.**
**Flow distribution rule: In this specification, Flow distribution rule
denotes a single instance of \ /ISRP/\/ForFlowBased/\,
\/ISRP/\/ForServiceBased/\ or
\/ISRP/\/ForNonSeamlessOffload/\.**
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 24.303 [3AB] apply:
**Home Agent**
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
ANDSF Access Network Discovery and Selection Function
DDF Device Description Framework
DM Device Management
DS Differenciated Services
IFOM IP Flow Mobility
ISMP Inter-System Mobility Policy
ISRP Inter-System Routing Policy
MAPCON Multi Access PDN Connectivity
MO Management Object
OMA Open Mobile Alliance
RSSI Receive Signal Strength Indicator
ToS Type of Service
UE User Equipment
WNDS WiMAX Network Discovery and Selection
# 4 ANDSF MO
## 4.1 Descriptions
### 4.1.1 General
The ANDSF MO is used to manage Inter-System Mobility Policy (ISMP) and Inter-
System Routing Policy (ISRP) as well as access network discovery information
stored in a UE supporting provisioning of such information from an ANDSF.
The ANDSF may initiate the provision of information from the ANDSF to the UE
as specified in 3GPP TS 24.302 [3AA].
The UE may initiate the provision of information from the ANDSF, using a
client initiated session alert message of code \"Generic Alert\". The \"Type\"
element of the OMA DM generic alert message shall be set to
\"urn:oma:at:ext-3gpp-andsf:1.0:provision\".
The UE configured for IFOM or MAPCON or non-seamless WLAN offload or any
combination of these capabilities, may initiate the provision of information
from the ANDSF, using a client initiated session containing a generic alert.
The \"Type\" element of the OMA DM generic alert message shall be set to
\"urn:oma:at:ext-3gpp-andsf:1.0:provision-multiple-if\".
The UE capable of any combinations of IFOM or MAPCON or non-seamless WLAN
offload with all those combination of capabilities disabled, or a UE which is
not IFOM capable and is not MAPCON capable and is not non‑seamless WLAN
offload capable, may initiate the provision of information from the ANDSF,
using a client initiated session containing a generic alert. The \"Type\"
element of the OMA DM generic alert message shall be set to
\"urn:oma:at:ext-3gpp-andsf:1.0:provision-single-if\".
The relation between ISMP, ISRP and DiscoveryInformation is that ISMP
prioritize the access network when the UE is not capable to connect to the EPC
through multiple accesses, ISRP indicate how to distribute traffic among
available accesses when the UE is capable to connect to the EPC through
multiple accesses (i.e. the UE is configured for IFOM, MAPCON, non-seamless
WLAN offload or any combination of these capabilities), while
DiscoveryInformation provide further information for the UE to access the
access network defined in the ISMP or in the ISRP.
The MO defines validity areas, position of the UE and availability of access
networks in terms of geographical coordinates. The way such coordinates are
retrieved is implementation dependant (e.g. GPS receiver).
The UE is not required to switch on all UE\'s supported radios for deducing
its location for ANDSF purposes or for evaluating the validity area condition
of a policy or discovery information.
The Management Object Identifier is: urn:oma:mo:ext-3gpp-andsf:1.0.
The OMA DM Access Control List (ACL) property mechanism as standardized (see
Enabler Release Definition OMA-ERELD-DM-V1_2 [5]) may be used to grant or deny
access rights to OMA DM servers in order to modify nodes and leaf objects of
the ANDSF MO.
### 4.1.2 Policy (ISMP)
The Policy node represents ISMP and the information consists of a set of one
or more ISMP rules. At any point in time there shall be at most one rule
applied, that rule is referred to as the \'active\' rule. There may hence be
zero or one \'active\' rule.
The rules have a number of conditions (e.g. current access technology and
location) where one or more may be present and set to a value. The rules also
have a number of results (e.g. preferred access technology and restricted
access technology) to be used whenever a rule is \'active\'. If there are no
results for the \'active\' rule, it is implementation dependent how UE
performs network selection. Irrespective of whether any rule is \'active\' or
not, the UE shall periodically re-evaluate ANDSF policies. When ANDSF policy
selection rules identify an available network, the highest priority rule
becomes \'active\' rule and network re-selection is performed.
While the rule remains \'active\', UE shall keep considering higher priority
networks, than currently selected, in the prioritized network list of the
rule. In addition to conditions and results there is a rule-priority that
shall be set for each rule in order for the UE to determine which rule, out of
potentially several valid rules, it should consider as \'active\'. The trigger
for (re-)evaluating rules is that the \'active\' rule becomes invalid
(conditions no longer fulfilled), or some other manufacturer specific trigger.
The validity of the policy takes into account ValidityArea, Roaming, and
TimeOfDay, which must all match in order to make the policy valid.
The ANDSF server shall include at least one of the leaves (i.e. HESSID, SSID
or BSSID) to be present in a single instance of WLAN_Location interior node of
the ValidityArea of the Policy node.
### 4.1.3 Discovery information
The UE which requires DiscoveryInformation node may initiate the provision of
information from the ANDSF using a client initiated session containing a
generic alert. The \"Type\" element of the OMA DM generic alert message shall
be set to \"urn:oma:at:ext-3gpp-andsf:1.0:provision-disc-info\".
The ANDSF server shall include at least one of the leaves (i.e. HESSID, SSID
or BSSID) to be present in a single instance of WLAN_Location interior node of
the AccessNetworkArea of the DiscoveryInformation node.
### 4.1.4 UE location
The MO has a node indicating the position of the UE. The trigger for updating
the value of this node is that the location information it contains is no
longer valid (i.e. the UE has changed its position) or some other manufacturer
specific trigger. The update of the information contained in this node doesn't
necessarily imply any interaction with the ANDSF server.
### 4.1.5 ISRP
The ISRP information consists of a set of one or more ISRP rules. Each ISRP
rule contains indication on traffic distribution for UEs that are configured
for IFOM, MAPCON or non-seamless WLAN offload.
Each ISRP rule has a PLMN leaf and an optional Roaming leaf. Roaming and PLMN
leaves are used by the UE to determine if an ISRP rule is applied. At any
point in time there shall be at most one ISRP rule applied, that ISRP rule is
referred to as the \'active\' ISRP rule. When the UE is roaming, there can be
multiple applicable ISRP rules: in this case the ISRP rule received from the
Visited ANDSF takes precedence over the ISRP rule received from the Home
ANDSF.
An ISRP rule can contain one or more flow distribution containers. A UE
evaluates only the flow distribution containers of the \'active\' ISRP rule. A
flow distribution container can have one or more flow distribution rules.
A flow distribution rule can have a validity condition defined by the
RoutingCriteria node. A flow distribution rule is applied only if the validity
condition is fulfilled and if the flow distribution rule is contained by the
\'active\' ISRP rule. A flow distribution rule has a number of results (e.g.
preferred access technology and restricted access technology) defined in the
RoutingRule node to be used whenever the flow distribution rule is applied.
Each flow distribution rule has also a mandatory node identifying the data
traffic (e.g. based on APN or IP flow description) to which the results
contained in RoutingRule node apply.
The ANDSF server shall include at least one of the leaves (i.e. HESSID, SSID
or BSSID) to be present in a single instance of WLAN_Location interior node of
the ValidityArea of the RoutingCriteria node.
If there are no results for an \'active\' ISRP rule, it is implementation
dependent how UE performs network selection for the class of traffic to which
the results apply. The UE shall periodically re-evaluate the flow distribution
rules of the \'active\' ISRP rule. The value of the periodic re-evaluation
timer is implementation dependant.
In addition to conditions, results and traffic class, there is a rule-priority
that shall be set for each flow distribution rule. The rule-priority enables
the UE to determine which flow distribution rule, out of potentially several
flow distribution rules, it should apply to an IP flow matching the data
traffic description of the multiple flow distribution rules.
If there are multiple applied flow distribution rules within the \'active\'
ISRP rule and they prefer the same access technology but different access
networks and the UE is not able to have connection to all of them at the same
time, the selection of the access network is implementation dependant.
## 4.2 Figures
The following nodes and leaf objects are possible under the ANDSF node as
described in figure 4.2.1 through figure 4.2.8:
Figure 4.2.1: The ANDSF MO (1 of 8)
Figure 4.2.2: The ANDSF MO (2 of 8)
Figure 4.2.3: The ANDSF MO (3 of 8)
Figure 4.2.4: The ANDSF MO (4 of 8)
Figure 4.2.5: The ANDSF MO (part 5 of 8)
Figure 4.2.6: The ANDSF MO (part 6 of 8)
Figure 4.2.7: The ANDSF MO (part 7 of 8)
Figure 4.2.8: The ANDSF MO (part 8 of 8)
# 5 ANDSF MO parameters
## 5.1 General
This clause describes the parameters for the ANDSF MO.
## 5.2 Node: _\ _
This interior node acts as a placeholder for zero or one accounts for a fixed
node.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: N/A
## 5.3 _\ _/Name
The Name leaf is a name for the ANDSF MO settings.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: \
The User displayable name shall be represented by Unicode characters encoded
as UTF-8 as specified in IETF RFC 3629 [11] and formatted using Normalization
Form KC (NFKC) as specified in Unicode Standard Annex #15; Unicode
Normalization Forms [12].
## 5.4 Policy
### 5.4.1 _\ _/Policy
The Policy node acts as a placeholder for ISMP information.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
### 5.4.2 _\ _/Policy/_\ _
This interior node acts as a placeholder for one or more ISMP rules.
\- Occurrence: OneOrMore
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
### 5.4.3 _\ _/Policy/_\ _/RulePriority
The RulePriority leaf represents the priority given to one particular rule and
is represented as a numerical value.
\- Occurrence: One
\- Format: int
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
In case more than one valid ISMP rule exists, the UE shall treat the rule with
the lowest RulePriority value as the rule having the highest priority among
the valid rules. If there are overlapping rules (e.g. by location, for
example: rule by CGI, rule by PLMN), they should not have the same priority.
If the UE finds multiple rules with the same priority, the choice of the rule
is UE implementation specific. If there are no matching access networks
according to the rule, other rules with the same priority shall be considered.
### 5.4.4 _\ _/Policy/_\ _/PrioritizedAccess
The PrioritizedAccess node indicates the preferred access for one particular
rule.
\- Occurrence: One
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
### 5.4.5 _\ _/Policy/_\ _/PrioritizedAccess/_\ _
This interior node acts as a placeholder for one or more prioritized accesses.
\- Occurrence: OneOrMore
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
### 5.4.6 _\ _/Policy/_\ _/PrioritizedAccess/_\ _/ AccessTechnology
The AccessTechnology leaf indicates a prioritized access technology.
\- Occurrence: One
\- Format: int
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
Possible values for the Access technology are specified in table 5.4.6.1.
Table 5.4.6.1: Possible values for the AccessTechnology leaf
* * *
Value Description 0 Reserved 1 3GPP 3 WLAN 4 WiMAX 5-255 Reserved
* * *
### 5.4.7 _\ _/Policy/_\ _/PrioritizedAccess/_\ _/ AccessId
The AccessId leaf represents an access network identifier.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
The AccessId contains an identifier for a specific radio access network. Only
SSID for WLAN and NAP-ID for WiMAX radio access network are contained in this
leaf. AccessIds in numerical format shall be encoded as character string. The
AccessId be represented by Unicode characters encoded as UTF-8 as specified in
IETF RFC 3629 [11] and formatted using Normalization Form KC (NFKC) as
specified in Unicode Standard Annex #15; Unicode Normalization Forms [12].
### 5.4.8 \/Policy/\/PrioritizedAccess/\/ SecondaryAccessId
The SecondaryAccessId leaf represents a secondary access network identifier.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
The SecondaryAccessId contains an identifier for a specific radio access
network. Only HESSID for WLAN radio access network is contained in this leaf.
The SecondaryAccessId leaf may only be present when the corresponding AccessId
leaf for a WLAN radio access network is present. The format of the HESSID is
defined by IEEE 802.11u [17].
### 5.4.9 _\ _/Policy/_\ _/PrioritizedAccess/_\ _/
AccessNetworkPriority
The AccessNetworkPriority leaf represents an access technology priority.
\- Occurrence: One
\- Format: int
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
In case more than one valid PrioritizedAccess are available and if the value
of the priority belongs to the range 1-250, the UE shall consider the access
network (with the corresponding access identifier if present) with the lowest
AccessNetworkPriority value as the access network (with the corresponding
access identifier if present) having the highest priority, as defined in table
5.4.9.1. The AccessNetworkPriority value \'Restricted access\' (254) indicates
an access that should not be used by the UE. The AccessNetworkPriority value
\'Forbidden\' (255) indicates an access that shall not be used by the UE. The
same AccessNetworkPriority value may be used for more than one AccessId and
more than one Access Technology. If more than one AccessId or more than one
Access Technology with the same value of the AccessNetworkPriority are
avilable, the UE selects one of them in an implementation dependant way. If
the UE is not able to find an access network according to ANDSF policies, it
is implementation dependent how to proceed with network selection.
Table 5.4.9.1: Values of AccessNetworkPriority leaf
* * *
Value Description 0 Reserved 1-250 Priority value 251-253 Reserved 254
Restricted access. This access should be avoided if the current rule is
active. 255 Forbidden. UE is not allowed to use this access if the current
rule is active.
* * *
NOTE: It is implementation dependent if or when a restricted access is
selected if there are no other accesses available.
### 5.4.10 _\ _/Policy/_\ _/ValidityArea
The ValidityArea node acts as a placeholder for location conditions for a
particular rule.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
This is considered to be fulfilled if at least one of 3GPP_Location, or
3GPP2_Location or WiMAX_Location, or WLAN_Loaction, or Geo_Location is a
match. If UE is not able to deduce its location by any means, only rules
without Validity Area can be considered for active rule.
### 5.4.11 _\ _/Policy/_\ _/ValidityArea/3GPP_Location
The 3GPP_Location node acts as a placeholder for 3GPP location descriptions.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
If the UE is currently aware that it is located in the coverage area described
by this node, the UE shall consider the corresponding rule as valid. In case
of overlapping validity domains of multiple policy rules, RulePriority leaf is
used as discriminator.
### 5.4.12 _\ _/Policy/_\ _/ValidityArea/3GPP_Location/_\ _
This interior node acts as a placeholder for one or more 3GPP location
descriptions.
\- Occurrence: OneOrMore
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
### 5.4.13 _\ _/Policy/_\ _/ValidityArea/3GPP_Location/_\ _/PLMN
The PLMN leaf indicates a PLMN code for one particular 3GPP location condition
for the ISMP rule.
\- Occurrence: One
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
The format of the PLMN is defined by 3GPP TS 23.003 [3].
### 5.4.14 _\ _/Policy/_\ _/ValidityArea/3GPP_Location/_\ _/TAC
The TAC leaf indicates a Tracking Area Code for one particular 3GPP location
condition for the ISMP rule.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
The format of the TAC is defined by 3GPP TS 23.003 [3].
### 5.4.15 _\ _/Policy/_\ _/ValidityArea/3GPP_Location/_\ _/LAC
The LAC leaf indicates a Location Area Code for one particular 3GPP location
condition for the ISMP rule.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
The format of the LAC is defined by 3GPP TS 23.003 [3].
### 5.4.16 _\ _/Policy/_\ _/ValidityArea/3GPP_Location/_\ _/GERAN_CI
The GERAN_CI leaf indicates a cell identity for one particular GERAN network
related location description.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: bin
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
The format of the Cell Global Identity, of which the Cell Identity is part, is
defined in 3GPP TS 23.003 [3].
The GERAN_CI value is set to the Cell Identity, CI, obtained from lower layers
of the UE. The CI is part of the Cell Global Identity as defined in 3GPP TS
23.003 [3]. The value of GERAN_CI is coded as a bit string with fixed length
of 16 bits.
### 5.4.17 \/Policy/\/ValidityArea/3GPP_Location/ \/UTRAN_CI
The UTRAN_CI leaf indicates a cell identity for one particular UTRAN network
related location description.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: bin
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
The UTRAN_CI value is set to the UTRAN Cell Identity as defined in 3GPP TS
25.331 [3B] and obtained from lower layers of the UE. The value of UTRAN CI is
coded as a bit string with fixed length of 28 bits.
### 5.4.18 \/Policy/\/ValidityArea/3GPP_Location/ \/EUTRA_CI
The EUTRA_CI leaf indicates a cell identity for one particular E-UTRA network
related location description.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: bin
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
The EUTRA_CI value is set to the cell identity part of the Evolved Cell Global
Identifier, as described in 3GPP TS 36.331 [3C] and obtained from lower layers
of the UE. The value of EUTRA_CI is coded as a bit string with fixed length of
28 bits.
### 5.4.19 _\ _/Policy/_\ _/ValidityArea/3GPP2_Location
This 3GPP2_Location node acts as a placeholder for 3GPP2 location
descriptions.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
If the UE is currently aware that it is located in the coverage area described
by this node, the UE shall consider the corresponding rule as valid. In case
of overlapping validity domains of multiple policy rules, RulePriority leaf is
used as discriminator.
If ANDSF provides 3GPP2_Location as a validity area, either the 1x or HRPD
interior node, or both, shall be provided.
### 5.4.20 _\ _/Policy/_\ _/ValidityArea/3GPP2_Location/1x
This 1x node acts as a placeholder for 3GPP2 1x RAT location descriptions.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
### 5.4.21 _\ _/Policy/_\ _/ValidityArea/3GPP2_Location/1x _/\ _
This interior node acts as a placeholder for one or more 3GPP2 1x RAT location
descriptions.
\- Occurrence: OneOrMore
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
### 5.4.22 _\ _/Policy/_\ _/ValidityArea/3GPP2_Location/1x _/\ _/ SID
This SID leaf indicates a System Identification code for one particular 3GPP2
1x RAT location condition for the ISMP rule.
\- Occurrence: One
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
The format of the SID is defined by 3GPP2 C S0016 [14].
### 5.4.23 _\ _/Policy/_\ _/ValidityArea/3GPP2_Location/1x _/\ _/ NID
This NID leaf indicates a Network Identification code for one particular 3GPP2
1x RAT location condition for the ISMP rule.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: \
The format of the NID is defined by 3GPP2 C.S0016 [14].
### 5.4.24 _\ _/Policy/_\ _/ValidityArea/3GPP2_Location/1x/_\ _/
Base_ID
This Base_ID leaf indicates a Base Station Identification code for one
particular 3GPP2 1x RAT location condition for the ISMP rule.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
The format of the Base_ID is defined by 3GPP2 C.S0005 [13].
### 5.4.25 _\ _/Policy/_\ _/ValidityArea/3GPP2_Location/HRPD
This HRPD node acts as a placeholder for 3GPP2 HRPD RAT location descriptions.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
### 5.4.26 _\ _/Policy/_\ _/ValidityArea/3GPP2_Location/HRPD _/\ _
This interior node acts as a placeholder for one or more 3GPP2 HRPD RAT
location descriptions.
\- Occurrence: OneOrMore
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
### 5.4.27 _\ _/Policy/_\ _/ValidityArea/3GPP2_Location/HRPD/_\ _/
Sector_ID
This Sector_ID leaf indicates a Sector Identification code for one particular
3GPP2 HRPD RAT location condition for the ISMP rule.
\- Occurrence: One
\- Format: bin
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
The format of the Sector_ID is defined by 3GPP2 C.S0024-0 [15]. The length of
Sector ID contained in this node is 128 bits.
### 5.4.28 _\ _/Policy/_\ _/ValidityArea/3GPP2_Location/HRPD/_\ _/
Netmask
This Netmask leaf indicates a Netmask code for one particular 3GPP2 HRPD RAT
location condition for the ISMP rule.
\- Occurrence: One
\- Format: bin
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
The format of Netmask is defined by 3GPP2 C.S0024-0 [15]. The length of
Netmask contained in this node is 8 bits. The mask contained in this leaf
shall be applied to the Sector_ID bit string contained in the correspondent
leaf of interior node _\ _/Policy/_\
_/ValidityArea/3GPP2_Location/HRPD/_\ _/Sector_ID.
### 5.4.29 _\ _/Policy/_\ _/ValidityArea/WiMAX_Location
The WiMAX_Location node acts as a placeholder for WiMAX location descriptions.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
If the UE is currently aware that it is located in the coverage area described
by this node, the UE shall consider the corresponding rule as valid. In case
of overlapping validity domains of multiple policy rules, RulePriority leaf is
used as discriminator.
## 5.4.30 _\ _/Policy/_\ _/ValidityArea/WiMAX_Location/_\ _
This interior node acts as a placeholder for one or more WiMAX location
descriptions.
\- Occurrence: OneOrMore
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
### 5.4.31 _\ _/Policy/_\ _/ValidityArea/WiMAX_Location/_\ _/NAP-ID
The NAP-ID leaf indicates the Network Access Provider for a particular WiMAX
location condition for the ISMP rule.
\- Occurrence: One
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
The format of the NAP-ID is defined by the WiMAX Forum Network Architecture
Release 1.0 version 1.2.2 -- Stage 2 [6] and WiMAX Forum Network Architecture
Release 1.0 version 1.2.2 -- Stage 3 [7].
### 5.4.32 _\ _/Policy/_\ _/ValidityArea/WiMAX_Location/_\ _/BS-ID
The BS-ID leaf indicates the BS identifier for a particular WiMAX location
condition for the ISMP rule.
\- Occurrence: One
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
The format of the BS-ID is defined by the IEEE Std 802.16e-2005 and IEEE Std
802.16-2004/Cor1-2005 [10].
### 5.4.33 _\ _/Policy/_\ _/ValidityArea/WLAN_Location
The WLAN_Location node acts as a placeholder for WLAN location descriptions.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
If the UE is currently aware that it is located in the coverage area described
by this node, the UE shall consider the corresponding rule as valid. In case
of overlapping validity domains of multiple policy rules, RulePriority leaf is
used as discriminator.
### 5.4.34 _\ _/Policy/_\ _/ValidityArea/WLAN_Location/_\ _
This interior node acts as a placeholder for one or more WLAN location
descriptions.
\- Occurrence: OneOrMore
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
### 5.4.35 _\ _/Policy/_\ _/ValidityArea/WLAN_Location/_\ _/HESSID
The HESSID leaf indicates the HESSID for a particular WLAN location condition
for the ISMP rule.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
The format of the HESSID is defined by IEEE 802.11u [17].
### 5.4.36 _\ _/Policy/_\ _/ValidityArea/WLAN_Location/_\ _/SSID
The SSID leaf indicates the SSID for a particular WLAN location condition for
the ISMP rule.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
The format of the SSID is defined by IEEE Std 802.11™-2007 [9].
### 5.4.37 _\ _/Policy/_\ _/ValidityArea/WLAN_Location/_\ _/BSSID
The BSSID leaf indicates the AP identifier for one particular WLAN location
condition for the ISMP rule.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
The format of the BSSID is defined by IEEE Std 802.11™-2007 [9].
### 5.4.38 _\ _/Policy/_\ _/ValidityArea/Geo_Location
The Geo_Location node acts as a placeholder for Geographical location
descriptions for one ISMP rule.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
If the UE is currently aware that it is located in the area described by this
node, the UE shall consider the corresponding rule as valid. In case of
overlapping validity domains of multiple policy rules, RulePriority leaf is
used as discriminator.
### 5.4.39 _\ _/Policy/_\ _/ValidityArea/Geo_Location/Circular
The Circular node acts as a placeholder for circular areas location
descriptions for one ISMP rule.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
### 5.4.40 _\ _/Policy/_\ _/ValidityArea/Geo_Location/Circular/_\ _
The interior node acts as a placeholder for one or more circular area location
descriptions for one ISMP rule.
\- Occurrence: OneOrMore
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
### 5.4.41 _\ _/Policy/_\ _/ValidityArea/Geo_Location/Circular/_\ _/
AnchorLatitude
The AnchorLatitude node acts as a placeholder for the latitude value of the
center of the circular area.
\- Occurrence: One
\- Format: bin
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
The Latitude is defined in subclause 6.1 of 3GPP TS 23.032 [3A].
### 5.4.42 _\ _/Policy/_\ _/ValidityArea/Geo_Location/Circular/_\ _/
AnchorLongitude
The AnchorLongitude node acts as a placeholder for the longitude value of the
centre of the circular area.
\- Occurrence: One
\- Format: bin
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
The Longitude is defined in subclause 6.1 of 3GPP TS 23.032 [3A].
### 5.4.43 _\ _/Policy/_\ _/ValidityArea/Geo_Location/Circular/_\ _/
Radius
The Radius node acts as a placeholder for the radius value of the circular
area.
\- Occurrence: One
\- Format: int
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
The Radius is given in meters and is defined in subclause 6.6 of 3GPP TS
23.032 [3A].
### 5.4.44 _\ _/Policy/_\ _/Roaming
The Roaming leaf indicates the roaming condition for the ISMP rule.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: bool
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: 0, 1
0 Indicates that the rule is only valid when the UE is not roaming.
1 Indicates that the rule is only valid when the UE is roaming.
The UE shall consider a rule with the Roaming leaf present as valid only if
the current roaming state (roaming/not roaming) of the UE matches the one
indicated in the Roaming value.
NOTE: When the UE is roaming, how it discovers and interacts with the ANDSF is
not specified in the specification of this release.
### 5.4.45 _\ _/Policy/_\ _/PLMN
The PLMN leaf indicates a PLMN code of the operator, which created this
policy.
\- Occurrence: One
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
The format of the PLMN is defined by 3GPP TS 23.003 [3].
### 5.4.46 _\ _/Policy/_\ _/TimeOfDay
The TimeOfDay node indicates the time of day condition for the ISMP rule.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
The UE shall consider a rule with the TimeOfDay present as valid only if the
time of day in the current time zone, as indicated by the UE, matches at least
one time interval indicated in the TimeOfDay node.
UE that does not support calendar or clock application does not need to
interpret the TimeOfDay leaf.
### 5.4.47 _\ _/Policy/_\ _/TimeOfDay/_\ _
This interior node acts as a placeholder for one or more time of day condition
for the ISMP rule.
\- Occurrence: OneOrMore
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
If the time interval is indicated with more than one leaf value pair (e.g.
with TimeStart-TimeStop pair and DateStart-DateStop pair), the UE shall
consider a rule with the TimeOfDay present as valid only if all the leaf value
pairs in the node match with the time indicated by the UE.
### 5.4.48 _\ _/Policy/_\ _/TimeOfDay/_\ /TimeStart_
The TimeStart leaf acts as a place holder containing the time of the day that
indicates when the UE shall start to apply the intersystem policy rule.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
The value this leaf can assume is time of the day represented in string
format, as defined in ISO 8601:2004 [16].
### 5.4.49 _\ _/Policy/_\ _/TimeOfDay/_\ /TimeStop_
The TimeStop leaf node acts as a place holder containing the time of the day
that indicates when the UE shall stop to apply the intersystem policy rule.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
The value this leaf can assume is time of the day represented in string
format, as defined in ISO 8601:2004 [16].
If within the same occurrence of TimeOfDay the value of TimeStop is smaller
than TimeStart, the UE shall consider as validity period of the policy the
time starting at TimeStart and ending at TimeStop of the following day.
### 5.4.50 _\ _/Policy/_\ _/TimeOfDay/_\ /DateStart_
The DateStart leaf acts as a place holder containing the date that indicates
when the UE shall start to apply the intersystem policy rule.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
The value this leaf can assume is a date represented in string format, as
defined in ISO 8601:2004 [16]. The UE handling of semantical error where
DateStart node indicates a date that does not exist is UE implementation
specific.
### 5.4.51 _\ _/Policy/_\ _/TimeOfDay/_\ /DateStop_
The DateStop leaf acts as a place holder containing the date that indicates
when the UE shall stop to apply the intersystem policy rule.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
The value this leaf can assume is a date represented in string format, as
defined in ISO 8601:2004 [16].
The UE handling of semantical error where DateStop node indicates a date that
does not exist is UE implementation specific.
The value of this leaf shall be greater (i.e. a later date) than the value of
corresponding DateStart leaf.
### 5.4.52 _\ _/Policy/_\ _/UpdatePolicy
The UpdatePolicy leaf indicates the update policy for the ISMP rule.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: bool
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: 0, 1
0 Indicates that the UE is not required to request an update of the rules.
1 Indicates that the UE is required to request an update of the rules.
The UpdatePolicy value may be used by the UE to determine whether or not to
request an update of its ISMP when the rule is no longer considered to be
valid by the UE.
## 5.5 Discovery information
### 5.5.1 _\ _/DiscoveryInformation
The DiscoveryInformation node acts as a placeholder for access network
discovery information.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
The operator may provide information on available access networks through the
ANDSF. The UE may use the information as an aid in discovering other access
networks.
### 5.5.2 _\ _/DiscoveryInformation/_\ _
This interior node acts as a placeholder for one or more access network
information elements.
\- Occurrence: OneOrMore
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
### 5.5.3 _\ _/DiscoveryInformation/_\ _/AccessNetworkType
The AccessNetworkType leaf represents the type of an access network.
\- Occurrence: One
\- Format: int
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
The value of AccessNetworkType indicates the type of the network for which
discovery assistance information is provided. Possible values are specified in
table 5.5.3.1.
Table 5.5.3.1: Possible values for the AccessNetworkType leaf
* * *
Value Description 0 Reserved 1 3GPP 2 Reserved 3 WLAN 4 WiMAX 5-255 Reserved
* * *
### 5.5.4 _\ _/DiscoveryInformation/_\ _/AccessNetworkArea
The AccessNetworkArea node acts as a placeholder for a description of the
location where one particular access network is expected to be available.
\- Occurrence: One
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
If the UE is aware that it is located in at least one of the locations
described under this node, the UE may assume the corresponding access network
to be available.
### 5.5.5 _\ _/DiscoveryInformation/_\ _/AccessNetworkArea/
3GPP_Location
The 3GPP_Location node acts as a placeholder for 3GPP location descriptions.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
If the UE is currently aware that it is located in the coverage area described
by this node, the networks described in the correspondent
AccessNetworkInformationRef are expected to be available.
### 5.5.6 _\ _/DiscoveryInformation/_\ _/AccessNetworkArea/
3GPP_Location/_\ _
This interior node acts as a placeholder for one or more 3GPP location
descriptions.
\- Occurrence: OneOrMore
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
### 5.5.7 _\ _/DiscoveryInformation/_\ _/AccessNetworkArea/
3GPP_Location/_\ _/PLMN
The PLMN leaf indicates a PLMN code for one particular 3GPP location
description.
\- Occurrence: One
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
The format of the PLMN is defined by 3GPP TS 23.003 [3].
### 5.5.8 _\ _/DiscoveryInformation/_\ _/AccessNetworkArea/
3GPP_Location/_\ _/TAC
This TAC leaf indicates a Tracking Area Code for one particular 3GPP location
description.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
The format of the TAC is defined by 3GPP TS 23.003 [3].
### 5.5.9 _\ _/DiscoveryInformation/_\ _/AccessNetworkArea/
3GPP_Location/_\ _/LAC
This LAC leaf indicates a Location Area Code for one particular 3GPP location
description.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
The format of the LAC is defined by 3GPP TS 23.003 [3].
### 5.5.10 _\ _/DiscoveryInformation/_\ _/AccessNetworkArea/
3GPP_Location/_\ _/GERAN_CI
The GERAN_CI leaf indicates a GERAN Cell Identity for one particular 3GPP
network related location description.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: bin
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
The leaf format and usage is defined in subclause 5.4.16.
### 5.5.11 \/DiscoveryInformation/\/AccessNetworkArea/
3GPP_Location/\/UTRAN_CI
The UTRAN_CI leaf indicates a UTRAN Cell Identity for one particular 3GPP
network related location description.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: bin
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
The leaf format and usage is defined in subclause 5.4.17.
### 5.5.12 \/DiscoveryInformation/\/AccessNetworkArea/
3GPP_Location/\/EUTRA_CI
The EUTRA_CI leaf indicates an E-UTRA Cell Identity for one particular 3GPP
network related location description.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: bin
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
The leaf format and usage is defined in subclause 5.4.18.
### 5.5.13 _\ _/DiscoveryInformation/_\ _/AccessNetworkArea/
3GPP2_Location
This 3GPP2_Location node acts as a placeholder for 3GPP2 location description.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
If the UE is currently aware that it is located in the coverage area described
by this 3GPP2_Location node, the networks described in the correspondent
AccessNetworkInformationRef are expected to be available.
If ANDSF provides 3GPP2_Location in AccessNetworkArea interior node, either
the 1x or HRPD interior node, or both, shall be provided.
### 5.5.14 _\ _/DiscoveryInformation/_\ _/AccessNetworkArea/
3GPP2_Location/1x
This 1x node acts as a placeholder for one or more 3GPP2 1x RAT location
descriptions.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
### 5.5.15 _\ _/DiscoveryInformation/_\ _/AccessNetworkArea/
3GPP2_Location/1x/_\ _
This interior node acts as a placeholder for one or more 3GPP2 1x RAT location
descriptions.
\- Occurrence: OneOrMore
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
### 5.5.16 _\ _/DiscoveryInformation/_\ _/AccessNetworkArea/
3GPP2_Location/1x/_\ _/SID
This SID leaf indicates a System Identification code for one particular 3GPP2
1x RAT location description.
\- Occurrence: One
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
The format of the SID is defined by 3GPP2 C.S0016 [14].
### 5.5.17 _\ _/DiscoveryInformation/_\ _/AccessNetworkArea/
3GPP2_Location/1x/_\ _/NID
This NID leaf indicates a Network Identification code for one particular 3GPP2
1x RAT location description.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
The format of the NID is defined by 3GPP2 C.S0016 [14].
### 5.5.18 _\ _/DiscoveryInformation/_\ _/AccessNetworkArea/
3GPP2_Location/1x/_\ _/Base_ID
This Base_ID leaf indicates a Base Station Identification Code for one
particular 3GPP2 1x RAT location description.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
The format of the Base_ID is defined by 3GPP2 C.S0005 [13].
### 5.5.19 _\ _/DiscoveryInformation/_\ _/AccessNetworkArea/
3GPP2_Location/HRPD
This HRPD node acts as a placeholder for one or more 3GPP2 HRPD RAT location
descriptions.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
### 5.5.20 _\ _/DiscoveryInformation/_\ _/AccessNetworkArea/
3GPP2_Location/HRPD/_\ _
This interior node acts as a placeholder for one or more 3GPP2 HRPD RAT
location descriptions.
\- Occurrence: OneOrMore
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
### 5.5.21 _\ _/DiscoveryInformation/_\ _/AccessNetworkArea/
3GPP2_Location/HRPD/_\ _/Sector_ID
This Sector_ID leaf indicates a Sector Identification code for one particular
3GPP2 HRPD RAT location description.
\- Occurrence: One
\- Format: bin
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
The format of the Sector ID is defined by 3GPP2 C.S0024-0 [15]. The length of
Sector ID contained in this node is 128 bits.
### 5.5.22 _\ _/DiscoveryInformation/_\ _/AccessNetworkArea/
3GPP2_Location/HRPD/_\ _/Netmask
This Netmask leaf indicates a Netmask code for one particular 3GPP2 HRPD RAT
location description.
\- Occurrence: One
\- Format: bin
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
The format of Netmask is defined by 3GPP2 C.S0024-0 [15]. The length of
Netmask contained in this node is 8 bits. The mask contained in this leaf
shall be applied to the Sector_ID bit string contained in the correspondent
leaf of interior node _\ _/DiscoveryInformation/_\
_/AccessNetworkArea/3GPP2_Location/HRPD/_\ _.
### 5.5.23 _\ _/DiscoveryInformation/_\ _/AccessNetworkArea/
WiMAX_Location
The WiMAX_Location node acts as a placeholder for WiMAX location descriptions.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
If the UE is currently aware that it is located in the coverage area described
by this node, the networks described in the correspondent
AccessNetworkInformationRef are expected to be available.
### 5.5.24 _\ _/DiscoveryInformation/_\ _/AccessNetworkArea/
WiMAX_Location/_\ _
This interior node acts as a placeholder for one or more WiMAX location
descriptions.
\- Occurrence: OneOrMore
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
### 5.5.25 _\ _/DiscoveryInformation/_\ _/AccessNetworkArea/
WiMAX_Location/_\ _/NAP-ID
The NASP-ID leaf indicates the Network Access Provider for a particular WiMAX
location description.
\- Occurrence: One
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
The format of the NAP-ID is defined by the WiMAX Forum Network Architecture
version 1.2.2 -- Stage 2 [6] and WiMAX Forum Network Architecture Release 1.0
version 1.2.2 -- Stage 3 [7].
### 5.5.26 _\ _/DiscoveryInformation/_\ _/AccessNetworkArea/
WiMAX_Location/_\ _/BS-ID
The BS-ID leaf indicates the BS identifier for a particular WiMAX location
description.
\- Occurrence: One
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
The format of the BS-ID is defined by the IEEE Std 802.16e-2005 and IEEE Std
802.16-2004/Cor1-2005 [10].
### 5.5.27 _\ _/DiscoveryInformation/_\ _/AccessNetworkArea/
WLAN_Location
The WLAN_Location node acts as a placeholder for WLAN location descriptions.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
If the UE is currently aware that it is located in the coverage area described
by this node, the networks described in the correspondent
AccessNetworkInformationRef are expected to be available.
### 5.5.28 _\ _/DiscoveryInformation/_\ _/AccessNetworkArea/
WLAN_Location/_\ _
This interior node acts as a placeholder for one or more WLAN location
descriptions.
\- Occurrence: OneOrMore
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
### 5.5.29 _\ _/DiscoveryInformation/_\ _/AccessNetworkArea
/WLAN_Location/_\ _/HESSID
The HESSID leaf indicates the HESSID for a particular Home WLAN Specific
Identifier location description.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
The format of the HESSID is defined by IEEE 802.11u [17].
### 5.5.30 _\ _/DiscoveryInformation/_\ _/AccessNetworkArea
/WLAN_Location/_\ _/SSID
The SSID leaf indicates the SSID for a particular WLAN location description.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
The format of the SSID is defined by IEEE Std 802.11™-2007 [9].
### 5.5.31 _\ _/DiscoveryInformation/_\ _/AccessNetworkArea/
WLAN_Location/_\ _/BSSID
The BSSID leaf indicates the AP identifier for one particular WLAN location
description.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
The format of the BSSID is defined by IEEE Std 802.11™-2007 [9].
### 5.5.32 _\ _/DiscoveryInformation/_\ _/AccessNetworkArea/
Geo_Location
This Geo_Location node acts as a placeholder for geographical location
descriptions for location of one or more access networks.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
If the UE is currently aware that it is located in the area described by this
Geo_Location node, the networks described in the correspondent
AccessNetworkInformationRef are expected to be available.
### 5.5.33 _\ /DiscoveryInformation/\/_ AccessNetworkArea
/Geo_Location/Circular
The Circular node acts as a placeholder for circular areas location
descriptions.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
### 5.5.34 _\ /DiscoveryInformation/\/_ AccessNetworkArea _/_
Geo_Location/Circular/_\ _
The interior node acts as a placeholder for one or more circular area location
descriptions.
\- Occurrence: OneOrMore
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
### 5.5.35 _\ /DiscoveryInformation/\/_ AccessNetworkArea _/_
Geo_Location/Circular/_\ _/AnchorLatitude
The AnchorLatitude node acts as a placeholder for the latitude value of the
center of the circular area.
\- Occurrence: One
\- Format: bin
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
The Latitude is defined in subclause 6.1 of 3GPP TS 23.032 [3A].
### 5.5.36 _\ /DiscoveryInformation/\/_ AccessNetworkArea _/_
Geo_Location/Circular/_\ _/AnchorLongitude
The AnchorLongitude node acts as a placeholder for the longitude value of the
center of the circular area.
\- Occurrence: One
\- Format: bin
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
The Longitude is defined in subclause 6.1 of 3GPP TS 23.032 [3A].
### 5.5.37 _\ /DiscoveryInformation/\/_ AccessNetworkArea _/_
Geo_Location/Circular/_\ _/Radius
The Radius node acts as a placeholder for the radius value of the circular
area.
\- Occurrence: One
\- Format: int
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
The Radius is given in meters and is defined in subclause 6.6 of 3GPP TS
23.032 [3A].
### 5.5.38 _\ _/DiscoveryInformation/_\ _/ AccessNetworkInformationRef
The AccessNetworkInformationRef leaf represents a reference to an access
network information object.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
The value of AccessNetworkInformationRef is a reference to an object with
access network type specific information.For example WLAN related values for
the AccessNetworkInformationRef are defined in the OMA Connectivity Management
Objects defined e.g. in OMA-DDS-DM_ConnMO-V1_0- 20081107-A [4A] and OMA-DDS-
DM_ConnMO_WLAN-V1_0-20081024-A [4B], and WiMAX related values for the
AccessNetworkInformationRef are defined in the WiMAX MO in clause 6, etc.
### 5.5.39 _\ _/DiscoveryInformation/_\ _/PLMN
The PLMN leaf indicates a PLMN code of the operator which created this
discovery information.
\- Occurrence: One
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
The format of the PLMN is defined by 3GPP TS 23.003 [3].
## 5.6 UE location
### 5.6.1 _\ _/UE_Location
The UE_Location node acts as a placeholder for describing the current location
of the UE.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: N/A
### 5.6.2 _\ _/UE_Location/3GPP_Location
The 3GPP_Location node acts as a placeholder for 3GPP location descriptions.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: N/A
The UE should insert the parameters of all the 3GPP networks it has discovered
when updating this node.
### 5.6.3 _\ _/UE_Location/3GPP_Location/_\ _
This interior node acts as a placeholder for one or more 3GPP location
descriptions.
\- Occurrence: OneOrMore
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: N/A
### 5.6.4 _\ _/UE_Location/3GPP_Location/_\ _/PLMN
The PLMN leaf indicates a PLMN code for one particular 3GPP network related
location of the UE.
\- Occurrence: One
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: \
The format of the PLMN is defined by 3GPP TS 23.003 [3].
### 5.6.5 _\ _/UE_Location/3GPP_Location/_\ _/TAC
This TAC leaf indicates a Tracking Area Code for one particular 3GPP network
related location of the UE.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: \
The format of the TAC is defined by 3GPP TS 23.003 [3].
### 5.6.6 _\ _/UE_Location/3GPP_Location/_\ _/LAC
This LAC leaf indicates a Location Area Code for one particular 3GPP network
related location of the UE.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: \
The format of the LAC is defined by 3GPP TS 23.003 [3].
### 5.6.7 _\ _/UE_Location/3GPP_Location/_\ _/GERAN_CI
The GERAN_CI leaf indicates a GERAN Cell Identity for one particular 3GPP
network related location description.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: bin
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: \
The leaf format and usage is defined in subclause 5.4.16.
### 5.6.8 \/UE_Location/3GPP_Location/\/ UTRAN_CI
The UTRAN_CI leaf indicates a UTRAN Cell Identity for one particular 3GPP
network related location description.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: bin
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: \
The leaf format and usage is defined in subclause 5.4.17.
### 5.6.9 \/UE_Location/3GPP_Location/\/EUTRA_CI
The EUTRA_CI leaf indicates an E-UTRA Cell Identity for one particular 3GPP
network related location description.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: bin
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: \
The leaf format and usage is defined in subclause 5.4.18.
### 5.6.10 _\ _/UE_Location/3GPP2_Location
This 3GPP2_Location node acts as a placeholder for 3GPP2 network related
location description of UE\'s position.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: N/A
The UE should insert the parameters of all the 3GPP2 networks it has
discovered when updating this node.
### 5.6.11 _\ _/UE_Location/3GPP2_Location/1x
This 1x node acts as a placeholder for one or more 3GPP2 1x RAT network
related location descriptions of UE\'s position.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: N/A
### 5.6.12 _\ _/UE_Location/3GPP2_Location/1x/_\ _
This interior node acts as a placeholder for one or more 3GPP2 1x RAT location
descriptions of UE position.
\- Occurrence: OneOrMore
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: N/A
### 5.6.13 _\ _/UE_Location/3GPP2_Location/1x/_\ _/SID
This SID leaf indicates a System Identification code for one particular 3GPP2
1x RAT location used to indicate UE position.
\- Occurrence: One
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: \
The format of the SID is defined by 3GPP2 C.S0016 [14].
### 5.6.14 _\ _/UE_Location/3GPP2_Location/1x/_\ _/NID
This NID leaf indicates a Network Identification code for one particular 3GPP2
1x RAT location used to indicate UE position.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: \
The format of the NID is defined by 3GPP2 C.S0016 [14].
### 5.6.15 _\ _/UE_Location/3GPP2_Location/1x/_\ _/Base_ID
This Base_ID leaf indicates a Base Station Identification code for one
particular 3GPP2 1x RAT location used to indicate UE position.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: \
The format of the Base_ID is defined by 3GPP2 C.S0005 [13].
### 5.6.16 _\ _/UE_Location/3GPP2_Location/HRPD
This HRPD node acts as a placeholder for one or more 3GPP2 HRPD RAT location
descriptions of UE position.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: N/A
### 5.6.17 _\ _/UE_Location/3GPP2_Location/HRPD/_\ _
This interior node acts as a placeholder for one or more 3GPP2 HRPD RAT
location descriptions of UE position.
\- Occurrence: OneOrMore
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: N/A
### 5.6.18 _\ _/UE_Location/3GPP2_Location/HRPD/_\ _/Sector_ID
This Sector_ID leaf indicates a Sector Identification code for one particular
3GPP2 HRPD RAT location used to indicate UE position.
\- Occurrence: One
\- Format: bin
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: \
The format of the Sector_ID is defined by 3GPP2 C.S0024-0 [15]. The length of
Sector ID contained in this node is 128 bits.
### 5.6.19 _\ _/UE_Location/3GPP2_Location/HRPD/_\ _/Netmask
The Netmask leaf indicates a Netmask code for one particular 3GPP2 HRPD RAT
location used to indicate UE position.
\- Occurrence: One
\- Format: bin
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: \
The format of Netmask is defined by 3GPP2 C.S0024-0 [15]. The length of
Netmask contained in this node is 8 bits. The mask contained in this leaf
shall be applied to the Sector_ID bit string contained in the correspondent
leaf of interior node.
### 5.6.20 _\ _/UE_Location/WiMAX_Location
The WiMAX_Location node acts as a placeholder for WiMAX location descriptions.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: N/A
The UE should insert the parameters of all the WiMAX networks it has
discovered when updating this node.
### 5.6.21 _\ _/UE_Location/WiMAX_Location/_\ _
This interior node acts as a placeholder for one or more WiMAX location
descriptions.
\- Occurrence: OneOrMore
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: N/A
### 5.6.22 _\ _/UE_Location/WiMAX_Location/_\ _/NAP-ID
The NAP-ID leaf indicates the Network Access Provider for a particular WiMAX
network related location of the UE.
\- Occurrence: One
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: \
The format of the NAP-ID is defined by the WiMAX Forum Network Architecture
version 1.2.2 -- Stage 2 [6] and WiMAX Forum Network Architecture Release 1.0
version 1.2.2 -- Stage 3 [7].
### 5.6.23 _\ _/UE_Location/WiMAX_Location/_\ _/BS-ID
The BS-ID leaf indicates the BS identifier for a particular WiMAX network
related location of the UE.
\- Occurrence: One
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: \
The format of the BS-ID is defined by the IEEE Std 802.16e-2005 and IEEE Std
802.16-2004/Cor1-2005 [10].
### 5.6.24 _\ _/UE_Location/WLAN_Location
The WLAN_Location node acts as a placeholder for WLAN location descriptions.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: N/A
The UE should insert the parameters of all the WLAN networks it has discovered
when updating this node.
### 5.6.25 _\ _/UE_Location/WLAN_Location/_\ _
This interior node acts as a placeholder for one or more WLAN location
descriptions.
\- Occurrence: OneOrMore
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: N/A
### 5.6.26 _\ _/UE_Location/WLAN_Location/_\ /HESSID_
The HESSID leaf indicates the HESSID for a particular WLAN network related
location of the UE.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: \
The format of the HESSID is defined by IEEE 802.11u [17].
### 5.6.27 _\ _/UE_Location/WLAN_Location/_\ _/SSID
The SSID leaf indicates the SSID for a particular WLAN network related
location of the UE.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: \
The format of the SSID is defined by IEEE Std 802.11™-2007 [9].
### 5.6.28 _\ _/UE_Location/WLAN_Location/_\ _/BSSID
The BSSID leaf indicates the AP identifier for one particular WLAN network
related location of the UE.
\- Occurrence: One
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: \
The format of the BSSID is defined by IEEE Std 802.11™-2007 [9].
### 5.6.29 _\ _/UE_Location _/_ Geo_Location/
This node acts as a placeholder for one or more UE Geo_Location location
descriptions.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: \
If the UE is aware of its geographical position, it shall insert the
coordinates of its position in this Geo_Location node.
### 5.6.30 _\ /_UE_Location _/_ Geo_Location/Latitude
The Latitude node acts as a placeholder for the latitude value of the position
of the UE.
\- Occurrence: One
\- Format: bin
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: \
The Latitude is defined in subclause 6.1 of 3GPP TS 23.032 [3A].
### 5.6.31 _\ /_UE_Location _/_ Geo_Location _/_ Longitude
The Longitude node acts as a placeholder for the longitude value of the
position of the UE.
\- Occurrence: One
\- Format: bin
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: \
The Longitude is defined in subclause 6.1 of 3GPP TS 23.032 [3A].
### 5.6.32 _\ /_UE_Location _/_ RPLMN
The RPLMN leaf indicates a PLMN code of the registered PLMN the UE is
connected to.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: \
The format of the PLMN is defined by 3GPP TS 23.003 [3].
## 5.7 ISRP
### 5.7.11 _\ /ISRP/_
The ISRP node acts as a placeholder for policies for ISRP.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
### 5.7.2 _\ _/ISRP/_\ _
This interior node acts as a placeholder for one or more ISRP rules.
\- Occurrence: OneOrMore
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
An ISRP rule can contain one or more of the following nodes: ForFlowBased,
ForServiceBased or ForNonSeamlessOffload.
### _5.7.3 \ _/ISRP/_\ _/ForFlowBased
The ForFlowBased node represents flow distribution container indicating data
distribution among accesses based on flow description.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
If this node is present, it implies that the Home Agents of the PLMN
identified in the leaf \/ISRP/\/PLMN of the same rule support IFOM.
### _5.7.4 \ _/ISRP/_\ _/ForFlowBased/_\ _/
This interior node acts as a placeholder for one or more flow distribution
rule.
\- Occurrence: OneOrMore
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
### _5.7.5 \ _/ISRP/_\ _/ForFlowBased/_\ _/IPFlow
The IPFlow node indicates the flow description for a particular flow
distribution rule.
\- Occurrence: One
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
An empty IPFlow node indicates the match-all flow description.
### _5.7.6 \ _/ISRP/_\ _/ForFlowBased/_\ _/IPFlow/_\ _/
This interior node acts as a placeholder for one or more flow description.
\- Occurrence: OneOrMore
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
### _5.7.7 \ _/ISRP/_\ _/ForFlowBased/_\ _/IPFlow/_\ _/
AddressType
The AddressType leaf indicates the IP version of the addresses describing the
IP flow.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \'IPv4\', \'IPv6\'
The absence of this leaf indicates that the IP flow described by the rule can
have both IPv4 and IPv6 addresses. This field is mandatory if
StartSourceIPaddress leaf, or StartDestIPaddress leaf or both are present.
### _5.7.8 \ _/ISRP/_\ _/ForFlowBased/_\ _/IPFlow/_\ _/
StartSourceIPaddress
The StartSourceIPaddress leaf indicates the first IP source address of the IP
address range of the IP flow description. The source address refers to the IP
address of the data packets destined for the UE.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \, \.
The value of this leaf is an IPv4 address if the AddressType leaf value of the
same rule is equal to IPv4. The value of this leaf is an IPv6 address if the
AddressType leaf value of the same rule is equal to IPv6. If this leaf
represents the first value of an IP source address range, the values of this
leaf and the corresponding
\/ISRP/\/ForFlowBased/\/IPFlow/\/EndSourceIPaddress leaf are set
so that the IP address range can be represented in prefix notation.
EXAMPLE: IPv4 address range 192.0.2.0 - 192.0.2.255 is equal to 192.0.2.0/24
in prefix notation, and IPv6 address range 2001:db8::/128 -
2001:db8:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff/128 equals 2001:db8::/32 in prefix
notation.
The absence of this leaf indicates that source address field of the IP header
is not examined when matching packets against the IP flow description of the
rule.
The UE discards an IPFlow instance with a StartSourceIPaddress leaf without a
correspondent AddressType leaf. If the IPFlow instance is the only one
contained in the flow distribution rule, the UE discards the flow distribution
rule.
### _5.7.9 \ _/ISRP/_\ _/ForFlowBased/_\ _/IPFlow/_\ _/
EndSourceIPaddress
The EndSourceIPaddress leaf indicates the last IP source address of the IP
source address range of the IP flow description. The source address refers to
the IP address of the data packets destined for the UE.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \, \.
This leaf can be present only if the leaf _\ _/ISRP/_\ _/ForFlowBased/_\
_/IPFlow/_\ _/StartSourceIPaddress is present. The absence of this leaf
indicates that the IP source address range of the IP flow described by the
rule is equal to the address contained in _\ _/ISRP/_\ _/ForFlowBased/_\
_/IPFlow/_\ _/StartSourceIPaddress. When representing the IP source
address range with more than one IP address, the values of this leaf and the
corresponding _\ _/ISRP/_\ _/ForFlowBased/_\ _/IPFlow/_\
_/StartSourceIPaddress leaf are set as defined in subclause 5.7.8.
The value of this leaf is an IPv4 address if the AddressType leaf value of the
same rule is equal to IPv4. The value of this leaf is an IPv6 address if the
AddressType leaf value of the same rule is equal to IPv6.
The UE discards an IPFlow instance with a EndSourceIPaddress leaf without a
correspondent StartSourceIPaddress leaf. If the IPFlow instance is the only
one contained in the flow distribution rule, the UE discards the flow
distribution rule.
### _5.7.10 \ _/ISRP/_\ _/ForFlowBased/_\ _/IPFlow/_\ _/
StartDestIPaddress
The StartDestIPaddress leaf indicates the first IP destination address of the
IP destination address range of the IP flow description. The IP destination
address is any one of the IP addresses allocated to the UE that the UE uses as
source address when generating IP traffic.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \, \.
The value of this leaf is an IPv4 address if the AddressType leaf value of the
same rule is equal to IPv4. The value of this leaf is an IPv6 address if the
AddressType leaf value of the same rule is equal to IPv6. If this leaf
represents the first value of an IP destination address range, the values of
this leaf and the corresponding
\/ISRP/\/ForFlowBased/\/IPFlow/\/EndDestIPaddress leaf are set so
that the IP address range can be represented in prefix notation.
EXAMPLE: IPv4 address range 192.0.2.0 - 192.0.2.255 is equal to 192.0.2.0/24
in prefix notation, and IPv6 address range 2001:db8::/128 -
2001:db8:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff/128 equals 2001:db8::/32 in prefix
notation.
The absence of this leaf indicates that IP destination address field of the IP
header is not examined when matching packets against the IP flow description
of the rule.
The UE discards an IPFlow instance with a StartDestIPaddress leaf without a
correspondent AddressType leaf. If the IPFlow instance is the only one
contained in the flow distribution rule, the UE discards the flow distribution
rule.
### _5.7.11 \ _/ISRP/_\ _/ForFlowBased/_\ _/IPFlow/_\ _/
EndDestIPaddress
The EndDestIPaddress leaf indicates the last IP destination address of the IP
destination address range of the IP flow description. The IP destination
address is any one of the IP addresses allocated to the UE that the UE uses as
source address when generating IP traffic.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \, \
This leaf can be present only if the leaf _\ _/ISRP/_\ _/ForFlowBased/_\
_/IPFlow/_\ _/StartDestIPaddress is present. The absence of this leaf
indicates that the the IP destination address range of the IP flow described
by the rule is equal to the address contained in _\ _/ISRP/_\
_/ForFlowBased/_\ _/IPFlow/_\ _/StartDestIPaddress. When representing
the IP destination address range with more than one IP address, the values of
this leaf and the corresponding _\ _/ISRP/_\ _/ForFlowBased/_\
_/IPFlow/_\ _/StartDestIPaddress leaf are set as defined in subclause
5.7.10.
The value of this leaf is an IPv4 address if the AddressType leaf value of the
same rule is equal to IPv4. The value of this leaf is an IPv6 address if the
AddressType leaf value of the same rule is equal to IPv6.
The UE discards an IPFlow instance with a EndDestIPaddress leaf without a
correspondent StartDestIPaddress leaf. If the IPFlow instance is the only one
contained in the flow distribution rule, the UE discards the flow distribution
rule.
### _5.7.12 \ _/ISRP/_\ _/ForFlowBased/_\ _/IPFlow/_\ _/
ProtocolType
The ProtocolType leaf indicates the protocol type in a flow description.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: int
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
The value of ProtocolType leaf is a value among the internet protocol numbers
as defined in IANA Assigned Internet Protocol Numbers [18]. In case of IPv4
flow description, the value contained in this leaf is compared with the value
of the last protocol type field. In case of IPv6 flow description, the value
contained in this leaf is compared with the value of the last next header
field. The UE discards an IPFlow instance with a ProtocolType leaf indicating
a protocol type not supported by the UE. If the IPFlow instance is the only
one contained in the flow distribution rule, the UE discards the flow
distribution rule.
### _5.7.13 \ _/ISRP/_\ _/ForFlowBased/_\ _/IPFlow/_\ _/
StartSourcePortNumber
The StartSourcePortNumber leaf indicates the first source port number of the
source port numbers range of the IP flow description. The source port refers
to the source port of the data packets destined for the UE.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: int
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: any value in the range 1-65535.
The absence of this leaf indicates that source port field of the transport
protocol header is not examined when matching packets against the IP flow
description of the rule.
### _5.7.14 \ _/ISRP/_\ _/ForFlowBased/_\ _/IPFlow/_\ _/
EndSourcePortNumber
The EndSourcePortNumber leaf indicates the last source port number of the
source port numbers range of the IP flow description. The source port refers
to the source port of the data packets destined for the UE.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: int
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: any value in the range 1-65535.
This leaf can be present only if the leaf _\ _/ISRP/_\ _/ForFlowBased/_\
_/IPFlow/_\ _/StartSourcePortNumber is present. The absence of this leaf
indicates that the source port number range of the IP flow described by the
rule is equal to the source port number contained in _\ _/ISRP/_\
_/ForFlowBased/_\ _/IPFlow/_\ _/StartSourcePortNumber.
The UE discards an IPFlow instance with a EndSourcePortNumber leaf without a
correspondent StartSourcePortNumber leaf. If the IPFlow instance is the only
one contained in the flow distribution rule, the UE discards the flow
distribution rule.
### _5.7.15 \ _/ISRP/_\ _/ForFlowBased/_\ _/IPFlow/_\ _/
StartDestPortNumber
The StartDestPortNumber leaf indicates the first destination port number of
the destination port numbers range of the IP flow description. The destination
port refers to the destination port of the data packets sent by the
corresponding node.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: int
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: any value in the range 1-65535.
The absence of this leaf indicates that destination port field of the
transport protocol header is not examined when matching packets against the IP
flow description of the rule.
### _5.7.16 \ _/ISRP/_\ _/ForFlowBased/_\ _/IPFlow/_\ _/
EndDestPortNumber
The EndDestPortNumber leaf indicates the last destination port number of the
destination port numbers range of the IP flow description. The destination
port refers to the destination port of the data packets sent by the
corresponding node.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: int
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: any value in the range 1-65535.
This leaf can be present only if the leaf _\ _/ISRP/_\ _/ForFlowBased/_\
_/IPFlow/_\ _/StartDestPortNumber is present. The absence of this leaf
indicates that the destination port number range of the IP flow described by
the rule is equal to the port number contained in _\ _/ISRP/_\
_/ForFlowBased/_\ _/IPFlow/_\ _/StartDestPortNumber.
The UE discards an IPFlow instance with a EndDestPortNumber leaf without a
correspondent StartDestPortNumber leaf. If the IPFlow instance is the only one
contained in the flow distribution rule, the UE discards the flow distribution
rule.
### _5.7.17 \ _/ISRP/_\ _/ForFlowBased/_\ _/IPFlow/_\ _/QoS
The QoS node indicates the DS or ToS values parameters in a flow description.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: bin
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: any value in the range 0-63 expressed in a binary form
The DS and ToS values are defined in IETF RFC 3260 [10A].
### _5.7.18 \ _/ISRP/_\ _/ForFlowBased/_\ _/RoutingCriteria
The RoutingCriteria node acts as a placeholder for validity conditions for a
particular flow distribution rule.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
### _5.7.19 \ _/ISRP/_\ _/ForFlowBased/_\ _/RoutingCriteria/_\ _/
This internal node acts as a placeholder for one or more validity conditions
for a particular flow distribution rule.
\- Occurrence: OneOrMore
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
### _5.7.20 \ _/ISRP/_\ _/ForFlowBased/_\ _/RoutingCriteria/_\ _/
ValidityArea
The ValidityArea node acts as a placeholder for location conditions for a
particular flow distribution rule.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
This node and its descendants are the same as defined in _\ _/Policy/_\
_/ValidityArea.
### _5.7.21 \ _/ISRP/_\ _/ForFlowBased/_\ _/RoutingCriteria/_\ _/
TimeOfDay
The TimeOfDay node acts as a placeholder for day condition for a particular
flow distribution rule.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
This node and its descendants are the same as defined in _\ _/Policy/_\
_/TimeOfDay.
### _5.7.22 \ _/ISRP/_\ _/ForFlowBased/_\ _/RoutingCriteria/_\
_/APN
The APN leaf indicates the APN for which a particular flow distribution rule
is valid.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
The APN format is defined in 3GPP TS 23.003 [3].
### _5.7.23 \ _/ISRP/_\ _/ForFlowBased/_\ _/RoutingRule
The RoutingRule node indicates the preferred access for a flow distribution
rule.
\- Occurrence: OneOrMore
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
This node and its descendants are the same as defined in
\/Policy/\/PrioritizedAccess
### _5.7.24 \ _/ISRP/_\ _/ForFlowBased/_\ _/RulePriority
The RulePriority leaf represents the priority given to one particular flow
distribution rule and is represented as a numerical value.
\- Occurrence: One
\- Format: int
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
RulePriority leaf is used to establish to which flow description rule a data
traffic matching multiple flow distribution rules apply. The data traffic
matching multiple flow distribution rules applies to the flow description rule
with the highest priority. The UE shall treat the rule with the lowest
RulePriority value as the rule having the highest priority. If the UE finds
multiple rules with the same priority, the choice of the rule is UE
implementation specific. If there are no matching access networks according to
the rule, other rules with the same priority may be considered. If there are
no matching access networks according to any rule with a certain priority,
rules with lower priority may be considered.
### _5.7.25 \ _/ISRP/_\ _/ForServiceBased
The ForServiceBased node represents flow distribution container indicating
data distribution among accesses based on APN.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
### _5.7.26 \ _/ISRP/_\ _/ForServiceBased/_\ _/
This interior node acts as a placeholder for one or more flow distribution
rules indicating data distribution among accesses based on APN.
\- Occurrence: OneOrMore
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
### _5.7.27 \ _/ISRP/_\ _/ForServiceBased/_\ _/APN
The APN leaf indicates the APN for which a particular flow distribution rule
is valid.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
The APN format is defined in 3GPP TS 23.003 [3].
### _5.7.28 \ _/ISRP/_\ _/ForServiceBased/_\ _/RoutingCriteria
The RoutingCriteria node acts as a placeholder for validity conditions for a
particular flow distribution rule.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
### _5.7.29 \ _/ISRP/_\ _/ForServiceBased/_\ _/RoutingCriteria/_\
_/
This internal node acts as a placeholder for one or more validity conditions
for a particular flow distribution rule.
\- Occurrence: OneOrMore
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
### _5.7.30 \ _/ISRP/_\ _/ForServiceBased/_\ _/RoutingCriteria/_\
_/ ValidityArea
The ValidityArea node acts as a placeholder for location conditions for a
particular flow distribution rule.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
This node and its descendants are the same as defined in _\ _/Policy/_\
_/ValidityArea.
### _5.7.31 \ _/ISRP/_\ _/ForServiceBased/_\ _/RoutingCriteria/_\
_/ TimeOfDay
The TimeOfDay node acts as a placeholder for day condition for a particular
flow distribution rule.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
This node and its descendants are the same as defined in _\ _/Policy/_\
_/TimeOfDay.
### _5.7.32 \ _/ISRP/_\ _/ForServiceBased/_\ _/RoutingRule
The RoutingRule node indicates the preferred access for a flow distribution
rule.
\- Occurrence: OneOrMore
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
This node and its descendants are the same as defined in
\/Policy/\/PrioritizedAccess.
### _5.7.33 \ _/ISRP/_\ _/ForServiceBased/_\ _/RulePriority
The RulePriority leaf represents the priority given to a particular flow
distribution rule and is represented as a numerical value.
\- Occurrence: One
\- Format: int
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
RulePriority leaf is used to establish to which flow description rule a data
traffic matching multiple flow distribution rules apply. The data traffic
matching multiple flow distribution rules applies to the flow description rule
with the highest priority. The UE shall treat the rule with the lowest
RulePriority value as the rule having the highest priority. If the UE finds
multiple rules with the same priority, the choice of the rule is UE
implementation specific. If there are no matching access networks according to
the rule, other rules with the same priority may be considered. If there are
no matching access networks according to any rule with a certain priority,
rules with lower priority may be considered.
### 5.7.34 _\ _/ISRP/_\ _/ForNonSeamlessOffload/
The ForNonSeamlessOffload node represents a flow distribution container
indicating data permissible for non-seamless WLAN offload routing based on
flow description.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
### _5.7.35 \ _/ISRP/_\ _/ForNonSeamlessOffload/_\ _/
This interior node acts as a placeholder for one or more flow distribution
rules indicating data distribution among accesses based on flow description.
\- Occurrence: OneOrMore
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
### _5.7.36 \ _/ISRP/_\ _/ForNonSeamlessOffload/\/IPFlow
The IPFlow node indicates the flow description for a particular flow
distribution rule.
\- Occurrence: One
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
An empty IPFlow node indicates the match-all flow description.
### 5.7.37 \/ISRP/_\ _/ForNonSeamlessOffload/\/ IPFlow/_\ _
This interior node acts as a placeholder for one or more flow description.
\- Occurrence: OneOrMore
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
### _5.7.38 \ _/ISRP/_\ _/ForNonSeamlessOffload/\/IPFlow/_\ _/
AddressType
The AddressType leaf indicates the IP version of the addresses describing the
IP flow.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \'IPv4\', \'IPv6\'
The absence of this leaf indicates that the IP flow described by the rule can
have both IPv4 and IPv6 addresses. This field is mandatory if
StartSourceIPaddress leaf, or StartDestIPaddress leaf or both are present.
### _5.7.39 \ _/ISRP/_\ _/ForNonSeamlessOffload/\/IPFlow/_\ _/
StartSourceIPaddress
The StartSourceIPaddress leaf indicates the first IP source address of the IP
address range of the IP flow description. The source address refers to the IP
address of the data packets destined for the UE.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \, \.
The value of this leaf is an IPv4 address if the AddressType leaf value of the
same rule is equal to IPv4. The value of this leaf is an IPv6 address if the
AddressType leaf value of the same rule is equal to IPv6. If this leaf
represents the first value of an IP source address range, the values of this
leaf and the corresponding \/ISRP/\/ForNonSeamlessOffload
/\/IPFlow/\/EndSourceIPaddress leaf are set so that the IP address range
can be represented in prefix notation.
EXAMPLE: IPv4 address range 192.0.2.0 - 192.0.2.255 is equal to 192.0.2.0/24
in prefix notation, and IPv6 address range 2001:db8::/128 -
2001:db8:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff/128 equals 2001:db8::/32 in prefix
notation.
The absence of this leaf indicates that source address field of the IP header
is not examined when matching packets against the IP flow description of the
rule.
The UE discards an IPFlow instance with a StartSourceIPaddress leaf without a
correspondent AddressType leaf. If the IPFlow instance is the only one
contained in the flow distribution rule, the UE discards the flow distribution
rule.
### _5.7.40 \ _/ISRP/_\ _/ForNonSeamlessOffload/\/IPFlow/_\ _/
EndSourceIPaddress
The EndSourceIPaddress leaf indicates the last IP source address of the IP
source address range of the IP flow description. The source address refers to
the IP address of the data packets destined for the UE.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \, \.
This leaf can be present only if the leaf _\ _/ISRP/_\ _/
ForNonSeamlessOffload /_\ _/IPFlow/_\ _/StartSourceIPaddress is present.
The absence of this leaf indicates that the IP source address range of the IP
flow described by the rule is equal to the address contained in _\
_/ISRP/_\ _/ ForNonSeamlessOffload /_\ _/IPFlow/_\
_/StartSourceIPaddress. When representing the IP source address range with
more than one IP address, the values of this leaf and the corresponding _\
_/ISRP/_\ _/ ForNonSeamlessOffload /_\ _/IPFlow/_\
_/StartSourceIPaddress leaf are set as defined in subclause 5.7.39.
The value of this leaf is an IPv4 address if the AddressType leaf value of the
same rule is equal to IPv4. The value of this leaf is an IPv6 address if the
AddressType leaf value of the same rule is equal to IPv6.
The UE discards an IPFlow instance with a EndSourceIPaddress leaf without a
correspondent StartSourceIPaddress leaf. If the IPFlow instance is the only
one contained in the flow distribution rule, the UE discards the flow
distribution rule.
### _5.7.41 \ _/ISRP/_\ _/ForNonSeamlessOffload/\/IPFlow/_\ _/
StartDestIPaddress
The StartDestIPaddress leaf indicates the first IP destination address of the
IP destination address range of the IP flow description. The IP destination
address is any one of the IP addresses allocated to the UE that the UE uses as
source address when generating IP traffic.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \, \.
The value of this leaf is an IPv4 address if the AddressType leaf value of the
same rule is equal to IPv4. The value of this leaf is an IPv6 address if the
AddressType leaf value of the same rule is equal to IPv6. If this leaf
represents the first value of an IP destination address range, the values of
this leaf and the corresponding \/ISRP/\/ForNonSeamlessOffload
/\/IPFlow/\/EndDestIPaddress leaf are set so that the IP address range
can be represented in prefix notation.
EXAMPLE: IPv4 address range 192.0.2.0 - 192.0.2.255 is equal to 192.0.2.0/24
in prefix notation, and IPv6 address range 2001:db8::/128 -
2001:db8:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff/128 equals 2001:db8::/32 in prefix
notation.
The absence of this leaf indicates that IP destination address field of the IP
header is not examined when matching packets against the IP flow description
of the rule.
The UE discards an IPFlow instance with a StartDestIPaddress leaf without a
correspondent AddressType leaf. If the IPFlow instance is the only one
contained in the flow distribution rule, the UE discards the flow distribution
rule.
### _5.7.42 \ _/ISRP/_\ _/ForNonSeamlessOffload/\/IPFlow/_\ _/
EndDestIPaddress
The StartDestIPaddress leaf indicates the last IP destination address of the
IP destination address range of the IP flow description. The IP destination
address is any one of the IP addresses allocated to the UE that the UE uses as
source address when generating IP traffic.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \, \.
This leaf can be present only if the leaf _\ _/ISRP/_\
_/ForNonSeamlessOffload/_\ _/IPFlow/_\ _/StartDestIPaddress is
present. The absence of this leaf indicates that the the IP destination
address range of the IP flow described by the rule is equal to the address
contained in _\ _/ISRP/_\ _/ForNonSeamlessOffload/_\ _/IPFlow/_\
_/StartDestIPaddress. When representing the IP destination address range
with more than one IP address, the values of this leaf and the corresponding
\/ISRP/\/ForNonSeamlessOffload/\/IPFlow/\/StartDestIPaddress leaf
are set as defined in subclause 5.7.41.
The value of this leaf is an IPv4 address if the AddressType leaf value of the
same rule is equal to IPv4. The value of this leaf is an IPv6 address if the
AddressType leaf value of the same rule is equal to IPv6.
The UE discards an IPFlow instance with a EndDestIPaddress leaf without a
correspondent StartDestIPaddress leaf. If the IPFlow instance is the only one
contained in the flow distribution rule, the UE discards the flow distribution
rule.
### _5.7.43 \ _/ISRP/_\ _/ForNonSeamlessOffload/\/IPFlow/_\ _/
ProtocolType
The ProtocolType leaf indicates the protocol type in a flow description.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: int
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
The value of ProtocolType leaf is a value among the internet protocol numbers
as defined in IANA Assigned Internet Protocol Numbers [18]. In case of IPv4
flow description, the value contained in this leaf is compared with the value
of the last protocol type field. In case of IPv6 flow description, the value
contained in this leaf is compared with the value of the last next header
field. The UE discards an IPFlow instance with a ProtocolType leaf indicating
a protocol type not supported by the UE. If the IPFlow instance is the only
one contained in the flow distribution rule, the UE discards the flow
distribution rule.
### _5.7.44 \ _/ISRP/_\ _/ForNonSeamlessOffload/\/IPFlow/_\ _/
StartSourcePortNumber
The StartSourcePortNumber leaf indicates the first source port number of the
source port numbers range of the IP flow description. The source port refers
to the source port of the data packets destined for the UE.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: int
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: any value in the range 1-65535.
The absence of this leaf indicates that source port field of the transport
protocol header is not examined when matching packets against the IP flow
description of the rule.
### _5.7.45 \ _/ISRP/_\ _/ForNonSeamlessOffload/\/IPFlow/_\ _/
EndSourcePortNumber
The EndSourcePortNumber leaf indicates the last source port number of the
source port numbers range of the IP flow description. The source port refers
to the source port of the data packets destined for the UE.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: int
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: any value in the range 1-65535.
This leaf can be present only if the leaf _\ _/ISRP/_\ _/ForFlowBased/_\
_/IPFlow/_\ _/StartSourcePortNumber is present. The absence of this leaf
indicates that the source port number range of the IP flow described by the
rule is equal to the source port number contained in _\ _/ISRP/_\
_/ForFlowBased/_\ _/IPFlow/_\ _/StartSourcePortNumber.
The UE discards an IPFlow instance with a EndSourcePortNumber leaf without a
correspondent StartSourcePortNumber leaf. If the IPFlow instance is the only
one contained in the flow distribution rule, the UE discards the flow
distribution rule.
### _5.7.46 \ _/ISRP/_\ _/ForNonSeamlessOffload/\/IPFlow/_\ _/
StartDestPortNumber
The StartDestPortNumber leaf indicates the first destination port number of
the destination port numbers range of the IP flow description. The destination
port refers to the destination port of the data packets sent by the
corresponding node.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: int
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: any value in the range 1-65535.
The absence of this leaf indicates that destination port field of the
transport protocol header is not examined when matching packets against the IP
flow description of the rule.
### _5.7.47 \ _/ISRP/_\ _/ForNonSeamlessOffload/\/IPFlow/_\ _/
EndDestPortNumber
The EndDestPortNumber leaf indicates the last destination port number of the
destination port numbers range of the IP flow description. The destination
port refers to the destination port of the data packets sent by the
corresponding node.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: int
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: any value in the range 1-65535.
This leaf can be present only if the leaf _\ _/ISRP/_\ _/ForFlowBased/_\
_/IPFlow/_\ _/StartDestPortNumber is present. The absence of this leaf
indicates that the destination port number range of the IP flow described by
the rule is equal to the port number contained in _\ _/ISRP/_\
_/ForFlowBased/_\ _/IPFlow/_\ _/StartDestPortNumber.
The UE discards an IPFlow instance with a EndDestPortNumber leaf without a
correspondent StartDestPortNumber leaf. If the IPFlow instance is the only one
contained in the flow distribution rule, the UE discards the flow distribution
rule.
### _5.7.48 \ _/ISRP/_\ _/ForNonSeamlessOffload/\/IPFlow/_\ _/ QoS
The QoS node indicates the DS or ToS values parameters in a flow description.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: bin
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: Unsigned integer with a range from 0 up to and including 63.
The DS and ToS values are defined in IETF RFC 3260 [10A].
### _5.7.49 \ _/ISRP/_\ _/ForNonSeamlessOffload/\/ RoutingCriteria
The RoutingCriteria node acts as a placeholder for validity conditions for a
particular flow distribution rule.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
### _5.7.50 \ _/ISRP/_\ _/ForNonSeamlessOffload/\/ RoutingCriteria/_\
_/
This internal node acts as a placeholder for one or more validity conditions
for a particular flow distribution rule.
\- Occurrence: OneOrMore
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
### _5.7.51 \ _/ISRP/_\ _/ForNonSeamlessOffload/\/ RoutingCriteria/_\
_/ValidityArea
The ValidityArea node acts as a placeholder for location conditions for a
particular flow distribution rule.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
This node and its descendants are the same as defined in _\ _/Policy/_\
_/ValidityArea.
### _5.7.52 \ _/ISRP/_\ _/ForNonSeamlessOffload/\/ RoutingCriteria/_\
_/TimeOfDay
The TimeOfDay node acts as a placeholder for day condition for a particular
flow distribution rule.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
This node and its descendants are the same as defined in _\ _/Policy/_\
_/TimeOfDay.
### _5.7.53 \ _/ISRP/_\ _/ForNonSeamlessOffload/\/ RoutingCriteria/_\
_/APN
The APN leaf indicates the APN for which a particular flow distribution rule
is valid.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
The APN format is defined in 3GPP TS 23.003 [3]. If this node is omitted, the
flow description applies to any APN.
### _5.7.54 \ _/ISRP/_\ _/ForNonSeamlessOffload/\/ RoutingRule
The RoutingRule node indicates the preferred access for a flow distribution
rule.
\- Occurrence: OneOrMore
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
This node is the same as defined in \/Policy/\/PrioritizedAccess.
### 5._7.55 \ _/ISRP/_\ _/ForNonSeamlessOffload/\/ RoutingRule/\/
This interior node acts as a placeholder for one or more prioritized accesses.
\- Occurrence: OneOrMore
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: N/A
### _5.7.56 \ _/ISRP/_\ _/ForNonSeamlessOffload/\/
RoutingRule/AccessId
The AccessId leaf represents an access network identifier.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
The format of the SSID is defined by IEEE Std 802.11™-2007 [9].
### _5.7.57 \ _/ISRP/_\ _/ForNonSeamlessOffload/\/
RoutingRule/SecondaryAccessId
The SecondaryAccessId leaf represents a secondary access network identifier.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
This node is the same as defined in
\/Policy/\/PrioritizedAccess/\/SecondaryAccessId.
### _5.7.58 \ _/ISRP/_\ _/ForNonSeamlessOffload/\/
RoutingRule/AccessNetworkPriority
The AccessNetworkPriority leaf represents an access technology priority.
\- Occurrence: One
\- Format: int
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
This node is the same as defined in
\/Policy/\/PrioritizedAccess/\/AccessNetworkPriority.
### _5.7.59 \ _/ISRP/_\ _/ForNonSeamlessOffload/_\ _/ RulePriority
The RulePriority leaf represents the priority given to one particular flow
distribution rule and is represented as a numerical value.
\- Occurrence: One
\- Format: int
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
RulePriority leaf is used to establish to which flow description rule a data
traffic matching multiple flow distribution rules apply. The data traffic
matching multiple flow distribution rules applies to the flow description rule
with the highest priority. The UE shall treat the rule with the lowest
RulePriority value as the rule having the highest priority. If the UE finds
multiple rules with the same priority, the choice of the rule is UE
implementation specific. If there are no matching access networks according to
the rule, other rules with the same priority may be considered. If there are
no matching access networks according to any rule with a certain priority,
rules with lower priority may be considered.
### 5.7.60 _\ _/ISRP/_\ _/Roaming
The Roaming leaf indicates the roaming condition for the ISRP rule.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: bool
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: 0, 1
0 Indicates that the rule is only valid when the UE is not roaming.
1 Indicates that the rule is only valid when the UE is roaming.
The UE shall consider a rule with the Roaming leaf present as valid only if
the current roaming state (roaming/not roaming) of the UE matches the one
indicated in the Roaming value.
The default value 0 applies if this leaf is not provisioned.The node is not
used by the UE when the ISRP rule is provided by the V-ANDSF.
### 5.7.61 _\ _/ISRP/_\ _/PLMN
The PLMN leaf indicates a PLMN code of the operator, which created this ISRP
rule.
\- Occurrence: One
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
The format of the PLMN is defined in 3GPP TS 23.003 [3].
When evaluating the PLMN leaf the following applies:
\- if the value contained in this leaf is equal to the HPLMN (or an equivalent
HPLMN) of the UE and the UE is not roaming, the ISRP rule is applicable;
\- if the value contained in this leaf is equal to the HPLMN (or an equivalent
HPLMN) of the UE, the value contained in the Roaming leaf of the ISRP rule is
set to 1 and the UE is roaming, the ISRP rule is applicable;
\- if the value contained in this leaf is equal to a VPLMN (or an equivalent
VPLMN) of the UE, and the UE is roaming in that VPLMN, the ISRP rule is
applicable independently from the Roaming leaf;
\- if there are multiple ISRP rules with the same value in the PLMN leaf and
the PLMN values is not the HPLMN or an equivalent HPLMN, only one ISRP rule is
applied. The choice of the ISRP rule to apply is implementation dependant; and
\- if there are multiple ISRP rules with the same value in the PLMN leaf, the
same value in the Roaming leaf and the PLMN values is the HPLMN or an
equivalent HPLMN, only one ISRP rule is applied. The choice of the ISRP rule
to apply is implementation dependant.
### 5.7.62 _\ _/ISRP/_\ _/UpdatePolicy
The UpdatePolicy leaf indicates the update policy for the ISRP.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: bool
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: 0, 1
0 Indicates that the UE is not required to request an update of the rules.
1 Indicates that the UE is required to request an update of the rules.
The UpdatePolicy value may be used by the UE to determine whether or not to
request an update of its ISRP when the rule is no longer considered to be
valid by the UE.
The default value 0 applies if this leaf is not provisioned.
## 5.8 _\ _/Ext
The Ext is an interior node for where the vendor specific information about
the ANDSF MO is being placed (vendor meaning application vendor, device vendor
etc.). Usually the vendor extension is identified by vendor specific name
under the ext node. The tree structure under the vendor identifier is not
defined and can therefore include one or more un-standardized sub-trees.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: N/A
# 6 MO for WiMAX
## 6.1 Introduction
This section defines the WiMAX Network Discovery and Selection (WNDS) MO and
the corresponding behaviour of the UE with regard to discovering and selecting
WiMAX access networks in the home operator network. The service requirements
for the WiMAX network discovery and selection function are described in 3GPP
TS 23.402 [4].
The WNDS MO is compatible with the OMA Device Management (DM) protocol
specifications, version 1.2 and upwards, and is defined using the OMA DM
Device Description Framework (DDF) as described in the Enabler Release
Definition OMA-ERELD-DM-V1_2 [5].
## 6.2 WNDS MO
The WNDS MO is used to manage WiMAX network discovery and selection
information stored in the UE and supports provisioning of such information
from the ANDSF.
The ANDSF may initiate the provisioning of WiMAX specific information using a
server initiated session alert message. The UE may initiate the provision of
information from the ANDSF using a client initiated session alert message.
The Management Object Identifier is: urn:oma:mo:ext-3gpp-wnds:1.0.
The OMA DM Access Control List (ACL) property mechanism as standardized (see
Enabler Release Definition OMA-ERELD-DM-V1_2 [5]) may be used to grant or deny
access rights to OMA DM servers in order to modify nodes and leaf objects of
the WNDS MO.
The following nodes and leaf objects are possible under the WiMAX Network
Discovery and Selection node as described in figure 6.2.1:
Figure 6.2.1: WNDS MO
## 6.3 WNDS MO parameters
### 6.3.1 General
This clause describes the parameters for the WNDS MO.
### 6.3.2 Node: _\ _
This interior node acts as a placeholder for zero or one accounts for a fixed
node.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: N/A
### 6.3.3 _\ _/Name
The Name leaf is a name for the WNDS MO settings.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: \
### 6.3.4 _\ _/NetworkList
This interior node acts as a placeholder for available WiMAX Network.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
### 6.3.5 _\ _/NetworkList/_\ _
This interior node acts as a placeholder for properties of one or more WiMAX
Network.
\- Occurrence: OneOrMore
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
### 6.3.6 _\ _/NetworkList/_\ _/FrequencyInfo
The FrequencyInfo node contains WiMAX operating frequency related information.
\- Occurrence: One
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
### 6.3.7 _\ _/NetworkList/_\ _/FrequencyInfo/\
This interior node acts as a placeholder for one or more FrequencyInfo node
properties..
\- Occurrence: OneOrMore
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
### 6.3.8 _\ _/NetworkList/_\ _/FrequencyInfo/\FirstFreq
The FirstFreq leaf specifies the first center frequency in KHz for this
channel.
\- Occurrence: One
\- Format: int
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
### 6.3.9 _\ _/NetworkList/_\ _/FrequencyInfo/\LastFreq
The LastFreq leaf specifies the last center frequency in KHz for this channel.
If this value equals to the FirstFreq or the leaf node is omitted, then this
entry refers to a single channel rather than a channel range. If this field is
present then NextFreqStep shall be present as well.
\- Occurrence: One
\- Format: int
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
### 6.3.10 _\ _/NetworkList/_\ _/FrequencyInfo/\NextFreqStep
The NextFreqStep leaf defines the frequency step in KHz to reach the next
central frequency when defining the frequency range using FirstFreq and
LastFreq.
\- Occurrence: One
\- Format: int
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
When this leaf node is omitted there is only one central frequency (i.e
FirstFreq). If this field is present LastFreq shall be present as well. The
formula to calculate the next central frequency is:
CurrentFreq = FirstFreq
While (CurrentFreq \_/NetworkList/_\ _/ FrequencyInfo/\ChannelBandwidth
The ChannelBandwidth leaf is the system bandwith in KHz that is supported by
the WiMAX network.
\- Occurrence: One
\- Format: int
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
### 6.3.12 _\ _/NetworkList/_\ _/ FrequencyInfo/\DuplexMode
The DuplexMode leaf is the duplex mode supported by the network. The
DuplexMode can be TDD, FDD or hybrid FDD (HFDD)
\- Occurrence: One
\- Format: int
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
The value of the DuplexMode shall be used as specified in Table 6.3.15.1.
Table 6.3.15.1: Values of DuplexMode
* * *
Value Description 0 Reserved 1 TDD 2 FDD 3 HFDD 4-255 Reserved
* * *
### 6.3.13 _\ _/NetworkList/_\ _/ FrequencyInfo/\FFT_Size
The FFT_Size leaf specifies the channel's FFT.
\- Occurrence: One
\- Format: int
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
### 6.3.14 _\ _/NetworkList/_\ _/ FrequencyInfo/\Preambles
The Preambles leaf specifies the valid preambles for each channel in the
channel range.
\- Occurrence: One
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
The value is a hexadecimal string which is 29 digits long. The two MSB are
zeroed and the LSB indicates channel 0.
### 6.3.15 _\ _/ NetworkList /_\ _/NAP-ID
The NAP-ID leaf is the identifier of the WiMAX radio access infrastructure
provider. For further details on Network Access Provider please refer to the
WiMAX Forum Network Architecture version 1.2.2 -- Stage 2 [6] and WiMAX Forum
Network Architecture Release 1.0 version 1.2.2 -- Stage 3 [7].
\- Occurrence: One
\- Format: int
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
### 6.3.16 _\ _/NetworkList/_\ _/CellType
The CellType leaf represents the type of cell. The cell type can be femto,
pico, micro or macro.
\- Occurrence: One
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
### 6.3.17 _\ _/NetworkList/_\ _/OperatorDifferentiatedTextField
The OperatorDifferentiatedTextField leaf represents textual information that
the operator wants to associate with the access technology.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: chr
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
The text field contains alphanumeric characters.
### 6.3.18 _\ _/Ext
The Ext is an interior node for where the vendor specific information about
the WNDS MO is placed (vendor can be application vendor, device vendor etc.).
Usually the vendor extension is identified by vendor specific name under the
ext node. The tree structure under the vendor identifier is not defined and
can therefore include one or more un-standardized sub-trees.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: N/A
###### ## Annex A (informative): ANDSF MO DDF
This DDF is the standardized minimal set. A vendor can define its own DDF for
the complete device. This DDF can include more features than this minimal
standardized version.
\
\
\
\1.2\
\\--The device manufacturer--\
\\--The device model--\
\
\ANDSF\
\
\
\
\
\ANDSF settings\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\The ANDSF Management Object.\
\
\
\
\
\
\Name\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\User displayable name for the node.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\Policy\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Policies for access network selection.\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\RulePriority\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Rule priority.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\PrioritizedAccess\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Prioritized access.\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\AccessTechnology\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Access technology.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\AccessId\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Access identity.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\SecondaryAccessId\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Access identity.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\AccessNetworkPriority\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Access network priority.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\ValidityArea\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Validity area.\
\
\
\
\
\
\_3GPP_Location\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Validity area for 3GPP access.\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\PLMN\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\PLMN.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\TAC\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\TAC.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\LAC\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\LAC.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\GERAN_CI\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\GERAN_CI.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\UTRAN_CI\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\UTRAN_CI.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\EUTRA_CI\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\EUTRA_CI.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\_3GPP2_Location\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\ Validity area for 3GPP2 access.\
\
\
\
\
\
\1x\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\ Validity area for 3GPP2-1x access.\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\SID\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\1x-SID.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\NID\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\1x-NID.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\Base_ID\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\1x-Base ID.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\HRPD\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\ Validity area for 3GPP2-HRPD access\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\Sector_ID\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\HRPD Sector ID\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\Netmask\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\HRPD netmask\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\WiMAX_Location\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\ Validity area for WiMAX access.\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\NAP-ID\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\NAP-ID\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\BS-ID\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\BS-ID\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\WLAN_Location\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\ Validity area for WLAN access.\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\HESSID\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\HESSID\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\SSID\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\SSID\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\BSSID\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\BSSID\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Geo_Location\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Geographical location.\
\
\
\
\
\
\Circular\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Circular location descripton.\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\AnchorLatitude\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Anchor latitude\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\AnchorLongitude\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Anchor longitude\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\Radius\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Radius\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Roaming\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Rule priority.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\PLMN\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\PLMN which created the policy.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\TimeOfDay\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Time of day.\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\TimeStart\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Start condition for time of rule.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\TimeStop\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Stop condition for time of rule.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\DateStart\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Starting date for time condition of rule.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\DateStop\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Stop date for time condition of rule.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\UpdatePolicy\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Update policy.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\DiscoveryInformation\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Access network discovery information.\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\AccessNetworkType\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Access network type.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\AccessNetworkArea\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Access network area.\
\
\
\
\
\
\_3GPP_Location\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Discovery information for 3GPP access.\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\PLMN\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\PLMN.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\TAC\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\TAC.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\LAC\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\LAC.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\GERAN_CI\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\GERAN_CI.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\UTRAN_CI\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\UTRAN_CI.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\EUTRA_CI\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\EUTRA_CI.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\_3GPP2_Location\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Discovery information for 3GPP2 access.\
\
\
\
\
\
\1x\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Discovery information for 3GPP2-1x access.\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\SID\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\1x-SID.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\NID\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\1x-NID.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\Base_ID\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\1x-Base ID.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\HRPD\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Discovery information for 3GPP2-HRPD access\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\Sector_ID\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\HRPD Sector ID\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\Netmask\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\HRPD netmask\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\WiMAX_Location\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Discovery information for WiMAX access.\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\NAP-ID\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\NAP-ID\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\BS-ID\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\BS-ID\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\WLAN_Location\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Discovery information for WLAN access.\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\HESSID\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\HESSID\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\SSID\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\SSID\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\BSSID\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\BSSID\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Geo_Location\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Geographical location.\
\
\
\
\
\
\Circular\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Circular location descripton.\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\AnchorLatitude\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Anchor latitude\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\AnchorLongitude\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Anchor longitude\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\Radius\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Radius\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\AccessNetworkInformationRef\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Access network information reference.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\PLMN\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\PLMN which created the policy.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\UE_Location\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Current location of the UE\
\
\
\
\
\
\_3GPP_Location\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Current 3GPP location of the UE\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\PLMN\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Current PLMN\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\TAC\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Current TAC\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\LAC\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Current LAC\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\GERAN_CI\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Current GERAN_CI\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\UTRAN_CI\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Current UTRAN_CI\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\EUTRA_CI\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Current EUTRA_CI\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\_3GPP2_Location\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Current 3GPP2 location of the UE\
\
\
\
\
\
\1x\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Current 3GPP2-1x location of the UE\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\SID\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Current SID\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\NID\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Current NID\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\Base_ID\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Current Base ID\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\HRPD\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Current 3GPP2-HRPD location of the UE\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\Sector_ID\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Current Sector ID\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\Netmask\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\HRPD netmask\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\WiMAX_Location\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Current WiMAX location of the UE\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\NAP-ID\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Current NAP-ID\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\BS-ID\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Current BS-ID\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\WLAN_Location\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Current WLAN location of the UE\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\HESSID\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Current HESSID\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\SSID\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Current SSID\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\BSSID\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Current BSSID\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Geo_Location\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Current Geographical location of the UE\
\
\
\
\
\
\AnchorLatitude\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Anchor latitude\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\AnchorLongitude\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Anchor longitude\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\
\RPLMN\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\RPLMN.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\
\ISRP\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\ISRP rules for routing of specific IP Flows of PDN
connections\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\ForFlowBased\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\List of ISRP for IFOM case.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\IPFlow\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\IPFlow description\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\AddressType\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\IP version of the IP addresses\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\StartSourceIPAddress\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Start IP src address\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\EndSourceIPAddress\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\End IP src address\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\StartDestIPAddress\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Start IP dest address\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\EndDestIPAddress\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\End IP Dst address\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\ProtocolType\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\protocol type\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\StartSourcePortNumber\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Start src port number\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\EndSourcePortNumber\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\End src port number\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\StartDestPortNumber\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Start dest port\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\EndDestPortNumber\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\End Dst port\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\QoS\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\QoS value\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\RoutingCriteria\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Routing criteria -- area, time and APN validity\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\ValidityArea\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Validity area.\
\
\
\
\
\
\_3GPP_Location\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Validity area for 3GPP access.\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\PLMN\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\PLMN.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\TAC\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\TAC.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\LAC\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\LAC.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\GERAN_CI\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\GERAN_CI.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\UTRAN_CI\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\UTRAN_CI.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\EUTRA_CI\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\EUTRA_CI.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\_3GPP2_Location\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\ Validity area for 3GPP2 access.\
\
\
\
\
\
\1x\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\ Validity area for 3GPP2-1x access.\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\SID\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\1x-SID.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\NID\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\1x-NID.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\Base_ID\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\1x-Base ID.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\HRPD\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\ Validity area for 3GPP2-HRPD access\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\Sector_ID\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\HRPD Sector ID\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\Netmask\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\HRPD netmask\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\WiMAX_Location\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\ Validity area for WiMAX access.\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\NAP-ID\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\NAP-ID\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\BS-ID\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\BS-ID\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\WLAN_Location\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\ Validity area for WLAN access.\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\HESSID\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\HESSID\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\SSID\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\SSID\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\BSSID\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\BSSID\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Geo_Location\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Geographical location.\
\
\
\
\
\
\Circular\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Circular location descripton.\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\AnchorLatitude\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Anchor latitude\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\AnchorLongitude\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Anchor longitude\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\Radius\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Radius\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\TimeOfDay\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Time of day.\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\TimeStart\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Start condition for time of rule.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\TimeStop\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Stop condition for time of rule.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\DateStart\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Starting date for time condition of rule.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\DateStop\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Stop date for time condition of rule.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\APN\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\APN.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\RoutingRule\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Prioritized access.\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\AccessTechnology\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Access technology.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\AccessId\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Access identity.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\SecondaryAccessId\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Access identity.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\AccessNetworkPriority\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Access network priority.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\
\RulePriority\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Rule priority.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\ForServiceBased\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\List of ISRP for MAPCON case.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\APN\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\IPFlow description\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\RoutingCriteria\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Routing criteria -- area, time and APN validity\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\ValidityArea\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Validity area.\
\
\
\
\
\
\_3GPP_Location\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Validity area for 3GPP access.\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\PLMN\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\PLMN.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\TAC\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\TAC.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\LAC\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\LAC.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\GERAN_CI\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\GERAN_CI.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\UTRAN_CI\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\UTRAN_CI.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\EUTRA_CI\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\EUTRA_CI.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\_3GPP2_Location\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\ Validity area for 3GPP2 access.\
\
\
\
\
\
\1x\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\ Validity area for 3GPP2-1x access.\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\SID\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\1x-SID.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\NID\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\1x-NID.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\Base_ID\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\1x-Base ID.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\HRPD\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\ Validity area for 3GPP2-HRPD access\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\Sector_ID\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\HRPD Sector ID\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\Netmask\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\HRPD netmask\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\WiMAX_Location\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\ Validity area for WiMAX access.\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\NAP-ID\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\NAP-ID\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\BS-ID\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\BS-ID\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\WLAN_Location\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\ Validity area for WLAN access.\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\HESSID\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\HESSID\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\SSID\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\SSID\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\BSSID\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\BSSID\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Geo_Location\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Geographical location.\
\
\
\
\
\
\Circular\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Circular location descripton.\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\AnchorLatitude\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Anchor latitude\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\AnchorLongitude\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Anchor longitude\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\Radius\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Radius\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\TimeOfDay\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Time of day.\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\TimeStart\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Start condition for time of rule.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\TimeStop\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Stop condition for time of rule.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\DateStart\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Starting date for time condition of rule.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\DateStop\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Stop date for time condition of rule.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\RoutingRule\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Prioritized access.\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\AccessTechnology\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Access technology.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\AccessId\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Access identity.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\SecondaryAccessId\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Access identity.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\AccessNetworkPriority\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Access network priority.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\
\RulePriority\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Rule priority.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\ForNonSeamlessOffload\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\List of ISRP for non-Seamless WLAN offload case.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\IPFlow\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\IPFlow description\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\AddressType\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\IP version of the IP addresses\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\StartSourceIPAddress\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Start IP src address\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\EndSourceIPAddress\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\End IP src address\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\StartDestIPAddress\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Start IP dest address\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\EndDestIPAddress\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\End IP Dst address\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\ProtocolType\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\protocol type\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\StartSourcePortNumber\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Start src port number\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\EndSourcePortNumber\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\End src port number\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\StartDestPortNumber\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Start dest port\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\EndDestPortNumber\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\End Dst port\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\QoS\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\QoS value\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\RoutingCriteria\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Routing criteria -- area, time and APN validity\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\ValidityArea\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Validity area.\
\
\
\
\
\
\_3GPP_Location\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Validity area for 3GPP access.\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\PLMN\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\PLMN.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\TAC\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\TAC.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\LAC\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\LAC.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\GERAN_CI\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\GERAN_CI.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\UTRAN_CI\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\UTRAN_CI.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\EUTRA_CI\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\EUTRA_CI.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\_3GPP2_Location\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\ Validity area for 3GPP2 access.\
\
\
\
\
\
\1x\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\ Validity area for 3GPP2-1x access.\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\SID\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\1x-SID.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\NID\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\1x-NID.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\Base_ID\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\1x-Base ID.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\HRPD\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\ Validity area for 3GPP2-HRPD access\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\Sector_ID\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\HRPD Sector ID\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\Netmask\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\HRPD netmask\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\WiMAX_Location\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\ Validity area for WiMAX access.\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\NAP-ID\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\NAP-ID\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\BS-ID\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\BS-ID\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\WLAN_Location\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\ Validity area for WLAN access.\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\HESSID\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\HESSID\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\SSID\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\SSID\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\BSSID\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\BSSID\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Geo_Location\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Geographical location.\
\
\
\
\
\
\Circular\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Circular location descripton.\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\AnchorLatitude\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Anchor latitude\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\AnchorLongitude\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Anchor longitude\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\Radius\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Radius\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\TimeOfDay\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Time of day.\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\TimeStart\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Start condition for time of rule.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\TimeStop\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Stop condition for time of rule.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\DateStart\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Starting date for time condition of rule.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\DateStop\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Stop date for time condition of rule.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\APN\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\APN.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\RoutingRule\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Prioritized access.\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\
\
\
\AccessId\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Access identity.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\SecondaryAccessId\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Access identity.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\AccessNetworkPriority\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Access network priority.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\
\RulePriority\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Rule priority.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Roaming\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\validity in case of Roaming\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\PLMN\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\PLMN which created the policy.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\UpdatePolicy\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Update policy.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Ext\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\A collection of all Extension objects\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
###### ## Annex B (informative): WNDS MO DDF
This DDF is the standardized minimal set. A vendor can define its own DDF for
the complete device. This DDF can include more features than this minimal
standardized version.
\
\
\
\1.2\
\\--The device manufacturer--\
\\--The device model--\
\
\WiMAX_NDS\
\
\
\
\
\WiMAX NDS settings\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\The WiMAX NDS Management Object.\
\
\
\
\
\
\Name\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\User displayable name for the node.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\NetworkList\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Properties for each of the network in NetworkList.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\The \"name\" node for properties of NetworkList.\
\
\
\
\
\
\FrequencyInfo\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Frequency Information for the network.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\The \"name\" node for frequency Information of network.\
\
\
\
\
\
\FirstFreq\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\The First Center Frequency.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\LastFreq\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\The Last Center Frequency.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\NextFreqStep\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\The frequency step for next central frequency.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\ChannelBandwidth\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\The channel bandwidth in KHz.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\DuplexMode\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\The duplex mode for this channel.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\FFTSize\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\The FFT size for this channel.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\Preambles\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\The Preambles for this channel.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\CellType\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\The Cell Type.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\NAP-ID\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\The Network Access Provider Identifier.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\OperatorDifferentiatedTextField\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\The differentiated operator text field for this cell.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\Ext\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\A collection of all Extension objects.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
#