# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document defines a Management Object (MO) that can be used to
configure the UE with parameters related to Non-Access Stratum (NAS)
functionality.
The MO is compatible with the OMA Device Management (DM) protocol
specifications, version 1.2 and upwards, and is defined using the OMA DM
Device Description Framework (DDF) as described in the Enabler Release
Definition OMA-ERELD-DM-V1_2 [2].
The MO consists of relevant parameters for NAS related configuration of a UE.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] OMA-ERELD-DM-V1_2: \"Enabler Release Definition for OMA Device
Management\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.122: \"Non-Access-Stratum (NAS) functions related to Mobile
Station (MS) in idle mode\".
[4] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile radio interface Layer 3 specification; Core
network protocols; Stage 3\".
[5] 3GPP TS 24.301: \"Non-Access-Stratum (NAS) protocol for Evolved Packet
System (EPS); Stage 3\".
[6] 3GPP TS 31.102: \"Characteristics of the USIM Application\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] apply.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
ACL Access Control List
DDF Device Description Framework
DM Device Management
MO Management Object
NAS Non-Access Stratum
OMA Open Mobile Alliance
# 4 NAS configuration MO
The NAS configuration MO is used to manage configuration parameters related to
NAS functionality for a UE supporting provisioning of such information. The
presence and format of the non access stratum configuration file on the USIM
is specified in 3GPP TS 31.102 [6].
The MO identifier is: urn:oma:mo:ext-3gpp-nas-config:1.0.
The OMA DM Access Control List (ACL) property mechanism (see OMA-ERELD-DM-V1_2
[2]) may be used to grant or deny access rights to OMA DM servers in order to
modify nodes and leaf objects of the NAS configuration MO.
The following nodes and leaf objects are possible in the NAS configuration MO
as described in figure 4-1:
Figure 4-1: The NAS configuration Management Object
# 5 NAS configuration MO parameters
## 5.1 General
This clause describes the parameters for the NAS configuration MO.
## 5.2 Node: _\ _
This interior node acts as a placeholder for zero or one accounts for a fixed
node.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: N/A
## 5.3 _\ /NAS_SignallingPriority_
The NAS_SignallingPriority leaf indicates a NAS signalling priority which is
used to determine the NAS signalling priority included in NAS messages as
specified in 3GPP TS 24.008 [4] and 3GPP TS 24.301 [5].
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: int
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: \
Possible values for the NAS signalling priority are specified in table 5.3.1.
Table 5.3.1: Values of NAS_SignallingPriority leaf
* * *
Value Description 0 Reserved 1 NAS signalling low priority 2-255 Reserved
* * *
## 5.4 _\ /AttachWithIMSI_
The AttachWithIMSI leaf indicates whether attach with IMSI is performed when
moving to a non-equivalent PLMN as specified in 3GPP TS 24.008 [4] and 3GPP TS
24.301 [5].
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: bool
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: 0, 1
0 Indicates that normal behaviour is applied.
1 Indicates that attach with IMSI is performed when moving to a non-equivalent
PLMN.
The default value 0 applies if this leaf is not provisioned.
## 5.5 _\ /MinimumPeriodicSearchTimer_
The MinimumPeriodicSearchTimer leaf gives a minimum value in minutes for the
timer T controlling the periodic search for higher prioritized PLMNs as
specified in 3GPP TS 23.122 [3].
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: int
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: 0-255
The default value 0 applies if this leaf is not provisioned.
## 5.6 _\ /NMO_I_Behaviour_
The NMO_I_Behaviour leaf indicates whether the \"NMO I, Network Mode of
Operation I\" indication as specified in 3GPP TS 24.008 [4] is applied by the
UE.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: bool
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: 0, 1
0 Indicates that the \"NMO I, Network Mode of Operation I\" indication is not
used.
1 Indicates that the \"NMO I, Network Mode of Operation I\" indication is
used, if available.
The default value 0 applies if this leaf is not provisioned.
## 5.7 _\ /Timer_T3245_Behaviour_
The Timer_T3245_Behaviour leaf indicates whether the timer T3245 and the
related functionality as specified in 3GPP TS 24.008 [4] and 3GPP TS 24.301
[5] is used by the UE.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: bool
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: 0, 1
0 Indicates that the timer T3245 is not used.
1 Indicates that the timer T3245 is used.
The default value 0 applies if this leaf is not provisioned.
## 5.8 _\ /ExtendedAccessBarring_
The ExtendedAccessBarring leaf indicates whether the extended access barring
is applicable for the UE as specified in 3GPP TS 23.122 [3].
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: bool
\- Access Types: Get, Replace
\- Values: 0, 1
0 Indicates that the extended access barring is not applied for the UE.
1 Indicates that the extended access barring is applied for the UE.
The default value 0 applies if this leaf is not provisioned.
## 5.9 _\ _/Ext
The Ext is an interior node for where the vendor specific information about
the NAS configuration MO is being placed (vendor meaning application vendor,
device vendor etc.). Usually the vendor extension is identified by vendor
specific name under the ext node. The tree structure under the vendor
identifier is not defined and can therefore include one or more un-
standardized sub-trees.
\- Occurrence: ZeroOrOne
\- Format: node
\- Access Types: Get
\- Values: N/A
###### ## Annex A (informative): NAS configuration MO DDF
This DDF is the standardized minimal set. A vendor can define its own DDF for
the complete device. This DDF can include more features than this minimal
standardized version.
\
\
\
\1.2\
\\--The device manufacturer--\
\\--The device model--\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\NAS configuration\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\The NAS configuration Management Object.\
\
\urn:oma:mo:ext-3gpp-nas-config:1.0\
\
\
\
\NAS_SignallingPriority\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\NAS Signalling Priority.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\AttachWithIMSI\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Attach with IMSI.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\MinimumPeriodicSearchTimer\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Minimum periodic search timer.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\NMO_I_Behaviour\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\NMO I behaviour.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\Timer_T3245_Behaviour\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Timer T3245 Behaviour.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\ExtendedAccessBarring\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Extended Access Barring.\
\
\text/plain\
\
\
\
\
\Ext\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\A collection of all extension objects.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
#