# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
This Technical Report provides background information, motivations, concepts
and requirements regarding an extended Network Assisted Cell Change (NACC)
feature for external cell change support. Cell change between GERAN and UTRAN
cells is outside the scope of this report, although consideration has been
taken in order to allow an easier extensibility to that case. The extension is
based on the Release 4 version of the NACC feature where the mobile station is
only supported by the NACC when performing internal cell re-selection, i.e.
within a BSC. The extension of the feature is for GERAN just affecting BSS and
for the core network the SGSN and signalling links between these network
nodes. To support cell changes between GERAN and UTRAN, also the Um and the Uu
interfaces are affected.
The evolved Release 4 NACC proposal as described in this TR provides the basis
for the detailed Stage 2 and stage 3 specification work. The feature will be
developed in a phased approach and a longer-term vision is presented in the
report.
The focus of the TR is to:
\- Define the requirements on different nodes
\- Specify the requirements for the interfaces
\- Propose a plan for the work item project
\- Evaluation of what does and does not need to be standardised
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TD GP-010361, "Network Assisted Cell Change; Concept document"
[2] 3GPP TS 48.018: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); BSS GPRS Protocol
(BSSGP)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following definitions apply:
**External cell change:** Change of cells where old and new cell do not belong
to the same BSC.
**External neighbouring cells:** Cells listed in the BA-lists within a BSC
that belongs to other BSCs.
**Extended neighbouring cell list:** List of System information received from
the external neighbour cells to be used in the Network Assisted Cell Change
procedure.
**Service outage time:** The time between the last received uplink RLC block
from the mobile station in the\ old cell and the mobile station\'s first
uplink RLC block received in the new cell.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
> CCN Cell Change Notification
>
> EDGE Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution
>
> GERAN GSM/EDGE Radio Access Network
>
> GPRS General Packet Radio Service
>
> NACC Network Assisted Cell Change
>
> NC Network Control mode (can be NC0, NC1 or NC2)
>
> O&M Operations and Maintenance
>
> PACCH Packet Associated Common Control Channel
>
> PS Packet Switched
>
> QoS Quality of Service
>
> RN Radio Network
>
> RAN Radio Access Network
>
> RIM RAN Information Management
>
> UE User Equipment
UTRAN Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
# 4 Introduction and Motivation
## 4.1 Task Description
The purpose of this new work task is to shorten the service outage time at
cell reselection in packet transfer mode when the originating and the target
cells belong to different BSCs/RNCs. This will improve the delivered quality
of service for most QoS classes.
## 4.2 GPRS Cell Reselection pre-Release 4
A pre-Release 4 GPRS/EDGE mobile station shall in modes NC0 and NC1 perform
cell reselection purely based on neighbour cell measurements and independent
of whether a packet transfer is ongoing or not. The cell change is performed
without notifying the network. The MS is then not allowed to make random
access in order to restart the data transfer in the new cell until a
consistent set of system information for that cell has been correctly
received. This behaviour is also used in Release 4 for the cases when a GPRS
mobile station moves between GSM cells belonging to different BSCs or from a
GSM to a UMTS cell.
If the MS is trying to collect the target cell system information before the
cell change, the MS may lose downlink data, which then has to be retransmitted
in the new cell. If on the other hand the system information is collected
after entering the target cell, the MS must first synchronise to the system
information broadcast cycle and then collect the required system information
before starting to re-establish the data transfer. In both cases the MS will
lose a certain amount of time and downlink data when collecting the system
information. There is also a risk that one or more RLC SDUs have to be
completely retransmitted in the new cell as the cell change can be performed
anytime during an ongoing transfer.
For these reasons the Network Assisted Cell Change feature was introduced in
Release 4 for MSs performing cell changes between cells belonging to the same
BSC. The feature reduced the service outage time for an MS in packet transfer
mode from a couple of seconds down to 300-700 ms by giving the network a
possibility to assist the MS before and during the cell change. The assistance
is given both as sending of neighbouring cell system information and with
introduction of new procedures.
## 4.3 NACC in GERAN Release 4, Short description
NACC, the Network Assisted Cell Change feature introduced in Release 4 is a
tool to minimize the service outage time for all QoS classes when a GPRS MS in
packet transfer mode moves between GSM cells belonging to the same BSC. An
overview of the Release 4 behaviour is described in GP-010361.
NOTE: In the Release 4, NACC is not implemented to support cell reselections
between GERAN and UTRAN or between BSCs. In this technical report a possible
introduction of these cases is outlined.
The NACC procedures are introduced as a mandatory feature for an Release 4 MS
to speed up the cell re-selection. There are two main set of procedures
specified for NACC, independent from each other:
\- One set which supports the mobile station with neighbouring cell system
information and
\- One set which prepares the MS and puts the MS into Cell Change Notification
mode (CCN mode) during a short period of time before the cell change.
### 4.3.1 System Information Reception
In the first set of procedures the network may - independent of the NC and the
CCN modes - send neighbouring cell system information to an MS. The
information is sent on the PACCH and is required for initial access after a
cell change. An MS in Packet Transfer mode, which receives this information,
shall store the information for 30 seconds. The MS may then use this
information in the new cell. In the new cell the MS may then initiate access
and receive missing system information from BCCH or PBCCH on PACCH by using
the Packet PSI/SI Status procedures.
### 4.3.2 Cell Change Notification (CCN) Mode Procedures
In the second set of procedures a Release 4 MS in packet transfer mode enters
CCN mode when a cell reselection is determined and if the network has ordered
the MS to use CCN within the cell and towards the target cell. This order can
either be generally given by the network in system information or be
individually addressed to a certain mobile.
When in CCN mode the MS informs the network with a Cell Change Notification
message that the MS wants to reselect cell. The message contains the identity
of the target cell. After sending the message to the network the mobile
station continues the ongoing packet transfer for either a maximum time of
about 1 second or until the network responds with a Packet Cell Change
Continue or Packet Cell Change Order message. The Packet Cell Change Order
message may indicate another target cell than the one proposed by the mobile
station. After the delay, the MS leaves CCN mode. The MS also leaves CCN mode
if it returns to Packet Idle mode, if it enters NC2 mode or if the criteria
for camping on the old cell are no longer fulfilled.
In CCN mode the network also has an opportunity to send neighbouring cell
system information required for immediate initial access in the new cell when
the re-selection has been performed. In CCN mode, the network may also
terminate the ongoing packet transfer before sending the Packet Cell Change
Continue or the Packet Cell Change Order message to the MS.
## 4.4 Extension of NACC in Release 5
### 4.4.1 General
In Release 4 of the GERAN specifications, the NACC procedures cover only cell
re-selection to other GERAN cells within the same BSC where the BSC has system
information available for the target cell.
This limits the value of NACC, as external BSC cell changes and also cell
changes between GERAN and UTRAN cells in some network configurations are of
frequent occurrence. Extensions of the NACC feature to handle also external
cell changes will therefore be of a certain value. For cell changes between Gb
and Iu mode within GERAN and between GERAN _A/Gb mode_ and UTRAN _Iu-mode_ it
is not obvious that the service for the user is improved by NACC. These cases
might require rather heavy signalling to re-establish the RRC, the radio
access bearers and the MM connections before the user service can be restarted
in the target cell.
A rough estimation of the occurrence of inter BSC cell changes in an assumed
scenario where the BSC area consists of a regular hexagonal area surrounded by
other BSC areas (Figure 4.1.1.a) and subdivided into smaller, hexagonal
clusters is shown in Table 4.1.1.a. The traffic between these areas is then
assumed to be equal distributed.
Figure 4.1.1.a: Example of internal/external cells for a BSC
Table 4.1.1.a: Relation between External to Total number of cell changes
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **BSC Area Size** | No of possible | Relation | | | external cell | External/Total no of | | **(in # of cells)** | changes | cell changes (in %) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 1 | 6 | 100 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 7 | 18 | 43 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 19 | 30 | 26 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 37 | 42 | 19 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 61 | 54 | 15 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 91 | 66 | 12 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 127 | 78 | 10 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 169 | 90 | 9 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 271 | 114 | 7 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 397 | 138 | 6 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 547 | 162 | 5 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 721 | 186 | 4 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 1141 | 234 | 3 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
The case with a network composed of a mixture of BTSs and BSCs from different
vendors will also give much higher figures (approximately30 - 50% of external
cell changes) as the cell clusters for a certain BSC will look like islands
among cell clusters from other vendors BSCs. This will also be the case having
overlapping GERAN and UTRAN coverage.
This is a simplified network where cell reselection is assumed to be possible
only to the 6 closest neighbours. In normal case the neighbouring cell lists
can contain cells not directly close to the serving cell. So the figures for
external cell changes will probably be higher.
There is also the case when UTRAN and GERAN overlay, which means that the two
access technologies have different nodes in the access network.
Based on the reasons described above this study considers an extension of NACC
to cover also cell changes to a cell managed by another BSC/RNC where the
origin BSC/RNC does not have system information available for the target cell.
This requires new signalling between BSCs/RNCs. The signalling may then be
performed via the A, Gb, Iu and/or Iur-g interfaces to inform each BSC/RNC of
the neighbouring cell system information.
NOTE: the exchange of information between BSCs/RNCs via A and Iu-cs interfaces
is out of the scope of this document, although care has been taken in order to
allow an easy extension for other features using inter BSC/RNC communication.
The Table 4.1.1.b below indicates scenarios to be considered for cell
reselection between different BSCs/RNCs and the possibility to add the NACC
feature to each case is then further discussed in this document. GERAN Gb
indicates a BSC connected to SGSN only via Gb; GERAN Iu indicates a BSC
connected to SGSN only via Iu and GERAN Iu/Gb indicates a BSC connected to
SGSN via both Iu and Gb. This paper does not consider cell reselection
scenarios involving CDMA 2000 cells.
Table 4.1.1.b: Possible combinations of cell changes
* * *
Case No From To Traffic via 1 GERAN Gb GERAN Gb SGSN 2 GERAN Gb GERAN Iu/Gb
SGSN 3 GERAN Gb GERAN Iu SGSN 4 GERAN Gb UTRAN SGSN 5 GERAN Iu GERAN Gb SGSN 6
GERAN Iu GERAN Iu/Gb SGSN or Iur-g 7 GERAN Iu GERAN Iu SGSN or Iur-g 8 GERAN
Iu UTRAN SGSN or Iur 9 GERAN Iu/Gb GERAN Gb SGSN 10 GERAN Iu/Gb GERAN Iu/Gb
SGSN or Iur-g 11 GERAN Iu/Gb GERAN Iu SGSN or Iur-g 12 GERAN Iu/Gb UTRAN SGSN
or Iur 13 UTRAN GERAN Gb SGSN 14 UTRAN GERAN Iu/Gb SGSN or Iur 15 UTRAN GERAN
Iu SGSN or Iur 16 UTRAN UTRAN SGSN or Iur
* * *
### 4.4.2 Short Technical Description
For fast reselection of cells, the MS needs to have knowledge of certain
system information of the target cell before performing the cell change. If
the cells then belong to different BSCs/RNCs, the required system information
has to be transported between BSCs/RNCs when updated to be made available to
the MSs when re-selecting cells. The required system information is proposed
to be packed into a container within a new RAN-INFORMATION message that may be
sent on the Iur-g interface or routed via the Core Network (by one or more
SGSNs) from the origin to the target RAN node. The information in the
container shall be transparent for the Core Network.
When system information is received, the target BSC/RNC can be ordered to
acknowledge the information. If the acknowledgement is requested but not
received by the source BSC/RNC, it is an implementation option how to perform
retransmission. When system information is received, the information can
optionally be associated with a validity timer. After the validity timer
expiration the associated system information shall not be used for immediate
initial access in the new cell.
A BSC/RNC may request another BSC/RNC to respond with one or multiple RAN-
INFORMATION messages or to stop transmission of event driven messages.
# 5 Requirements
## 5.1 Architectural Requirements
In order to fulfil all the traffic cases as listed in Table 4.1.1.b, the BSC,
the RNC and the SGSN nodes are all affected. The interfaces which requires
update are Um, Uu, Gb, Iu, Gn and Iur-g. The Table 5.1.a below lists the
required changes for the different cases.
Table 5.1.a: Required changes for the different cell changes.
* * *
Case No From To Affected nodes Affected Network Interface Affected Radio
Interface 1 GERAN Gb GERAN Gb BSC, SGSN Gb, Gn - 2 GERAN Gb GERAN Iu/Gb BSC,
SGSN Gb, Gn and opt Iu - 3 GERAN Gb GERAN Iu BSC, SGSN Gb, Gn and Iu - 4 GERAN
Gb UTRAN BSC, RNC, SGSN Gb, Gn and Iu Um and Uu 5 GERAN Iu GERAN Gb BSC, SGSN
Gb, Gn and Iu - 6 GERAN Iu GERAN Iu/Gb BSC, SGSN Iu, Gn and opt (Gb and Iur-g)
- 7 GERAN Iu GERAN Iu BSC, SGSN Iu, Gn and opt Iur-g - 8 GERAN Iu UTRAN BSC,
RNC, SGSN Iu, Gn and opt Iur-g Um and Uu 9 GERAN Iu/Gb GERAN Gb BSC, SGSN Gb,
Gn and opt Iu - 10 GERAN Iu/Gb GERAN Iu/Gb BSC, SGSN Gb, Gn or alternatively
(Iu or Iur-g) - 11 GERAN Iu/Gb GERAN Iu BSC, SGSN Iu, Gn and opt (Gb or Iur-g)
- 12 GERAN Iu/Gb UTRAN BSC, RNC, SGSN Iu, Gn and opt (Gb and Iur-g) Um and Uu
13 UTRAN GERAN Gb BSC, RNC, SGSN Iu, Gn and Gb Uu 14 UTRAN GERAN Iu/Gb BSC,
RNC, SGSN Iu, Gn and opt (Gb and Iur-g) Uu 15 UTRAN GERAN Iu BSC, RNC, SGSN
Iu, Gn and opt Iur-g Uu 16 UTRAN UTRAN RNC, SGSN Iu, Gn and opt Iur Uu
* * *
NOTE: The introduction of NACC for the different cases where UTRAN is a part
might be of various importance. If any of these seven cases shall be covered
is a decision to be taken together with the RAN subgroups.
### 5.1.1 Case 16 - Intra-UTRAN case
In Case 16 fast cell re-selection is already available when the neighbouring
cells are operating on same frequency which is assumed to be the normal case
in UTRAN. A single-RX UE will then be able to read the broadcast information
from the new cell while still listening to the PICH/FACH in the old cell.
Since this means that the UE can read broadcast information before actually
moving to the new cell, the service interruption for the cell re-selection in
CELL-PCH or CELL-FACH state is already faster than the NACC supported intra-
BCS Cell change specified for Release 4.\ Conclusion: No improvements are
required for the intra frequency cell change within UTRAN.\ \ There will also
be inter-frequency cell-reselection case. Then the UE will not have read the
system information broadcast yet (comparable to pre-release 4 GERAN situation)
and the service interruption time is not so predictable since the scheduling
of system broadcast information is not standardized. 3GPP TS 34.108 does
specify a system -broadcast schedule for testing purposes. The more important
information is only transmitted every 2.5 seconds, which would mean that the
service interruption could take to at most something like 2.6 seconds
(including reading Master Information Block which is scheduled every 80ms). In
an implementation, the system information broadcast schedule can be assumed to
be something around 2 seconds.\ \ 2 seconds service outage time in this case
is probably not severe since:
1) Most of the time the UE will perform the intra-frequency case;
2) When the UE is in CELL-PCH state, the probability of requesting service
should be quite low.
So the service interruption is mainly a problem for CELL-FACH state. Then the
question is how often the UE is in CELL-FACH state when having PS services. If
the UTRAN keeps the UE in Cell-DCH quite long (where handover is performed
instead of cell reselections), the UE might not be in CELL-FACH state that
often.
Conclusion: The inter-frequency cell change is not a relevant issue in UTRAN.
### 5.1.2 Case 4, 8, 12: GERAN  UTRAN
Cases 4, 8 and 12 where the UTRAN is the target cell might be of limited value
as the service interrupt for the user will be significant due to complex and
time consuming procedures to read system information and to and re-establish
the layer 2 and layer 3 in the target cell.\ \ Conclusion: It is questionable
if it is important that the inter-RAT cell re-selection has the same or better
performance than the intra-RAT inter frequency cell reselection.
### 5.1.3 Case 13 - 15: UTRAN  GERAN
The cases 13-15 will imply introduction of the same NACC procedures in UTRAN
as specified for GERAN Release 4.
## 5.2 Node Requirements
### 5.2.1 BSC
The BSC is involved in all cases of Table 5.1.a except case 16. The following
functionality has to be added in the BSC:
\- An origin BSC shall immediately when changed or, in case of periodic
refresh (implementation option), at certain time intervals put in a container
and distribute over the Gb, Iu or Iur-g interfaces part of the system
information for a certain cell to all BSCs and RNCs parenting neighbouring
cells..
\- At start up, restart or deletion of a cell the system information shall
also be sent to all external neighbouring BSCs/RNCs affected.
\- There may be one or more RAN information messages for each target BSC/RNC.
A container message may contain multiple container units each carrying updated
system information for one source cell and addressed to one destination
BSC/RNC.
\- The origin BSC can choose any of the available interfaces and CN domain for
the transport of the RAN information messages. It is up to the BSC to analyze
if the used interface and the first receiving node allows the transport. If
not, the RAN information message shall not be sent over that interface. When
using the Gb interface the origin BSC will via the Feature bitmap mechanism in
the BSSGP protocol be informed whether the RIM procedures are supported.
\- A BSC/RNC shall be able to request information from any BSC/RNC with
neighbouring cells.
\- A target BSC/RNC shall be able order another BSC/RNC to stop event driven
transmission of information to the target BSC/RNC.
\- The originating RAN node is required to keep information regarding the
addressing method to use for each external neighboring cell.
\- When using a 2G address only one CI of any valid cell is required by the
core network for routing purposes in order to find the route to a certain
BSC/RNC.
\- The External NACC procedure requires consistent software in several nodes
to operate properly. There will be occasions when the complete set of network
nodes is not all updated with the required software. As an implementation
option an algorithm can be used to detect whether the destination BSC node
support external NACC. Such an algorithm can e.g. draw conclusions when not
receiving external NACC procedure response messages and after loss of several
response messages in a row during a specified time period it could be
concluded that the External NACC procedure is not supported in a remote node.
### 5.2.2 RNC
The RNC is involved in cases 4, 8 and 12-16 of Table 5.1.a. In addition to the
requirements listed above for the BSC, the following requirements has to be
added if all cases shall be covered:
\- If required for optimised cell reselection from GERAN to UTRAN or within
UTRAN, procedures for optimised access have to be introduced.
\- For support of optimised cell re-selection from UTRAN to GERAN (cases
13-15) and internally within UTRAN (case 16) for inter-frequency cell change,
the RNC has to include the functionality of NACC specified for BSC in Release
4 which mainly affects the Uu interface. That includes support for the Cell
Change Notification mode procedures and distribution of neighbouring cell
system information to mobile stations in packet transfer mode.
\- All changes affecting the RNC is outside the responsibility of TSG GERAN.
### 5.2.3 SGSN
The SGSN is involved in all cases where the Gb, Iu and the Gn interface is
used. The following main requirements concern the SGSN node:
\- The RAN information messages shall be routed to target BSC/RNC either over
Iu or Gb or for the inter SGSN case tunnelled over the Gn interface to another
SGSN
\- The SGSN shall be able to identify from the addresses in the RAN specific
information messages whether it is connected directly to the RAN node for
which the message is intended. From the Routeing Area Identity
(MCC+MNC+LAC+RAC) of the destination cell address, the SGSN shall decide
whether or not it is connected to the destination BSS. If the SGSN is not
connected to the destination BSS, then it shall use the RAI to route the
message to the correct SGSN via the Gn interface. The SGSN connected to the
destination BSS decides which BSS to send it to based on the CI of the
destination address.
\- The SGSN shall perform relaying between BSSGP messages and GTP messages to
support the end-to-end transport between BSCs.
\- The SGSN shall not interpret the information contained in the payload of
the RAN information messages.
### 5.2.4 MSC
NOTE: The use of the MSC is for further study.
## 5.3 Interface Requirements
### 5.3.1 Gb interface
The Gb interface may be used for transmission of the RAN information messages
between the BSC and the SGSN when it exists. The following main requirements
concerns the Gb interface:
\- The RAN Information Management (RIM) procedure shall transport information
between BSCs/RNCs via one or more SGSNs. The SGSNs shall perform a simple
relay of the messages from the Gb interface to the Gn interface and vice
versa.
\- The RAN Information Management procedure may provide end-to-end
acknowledgements between BSCs.
\- The RAN Information Management procedure shall provide end-to-end error
handling between BSCs.
\- The origin BSC will at the Gb interface from the Feature bitmap mechanism
in the BSSGP protocol check whether the RIM procedures aresupported.
### 5.3.2 A interface
NOTE: The use of the A-interface is for further study.
### 5.3.3 Iu interface
The Iu interface can be used for transmission of the RAN information messages
between the BSC/RNC and the SGSN when it exists. The requirements concerning
the Iu interface are the same as for the Gb interface above.
NOTE: The use of the Iu-interface is for further study.
### 5.3.4 Iur-g (Iur) interface
The Iur-g interface is an optional interface which, if available, may be used
instead of routing the information via the CN. The requirements concerning the
Iur-g interface are the same as for the Gb interface above.
NOTE: The use of the Iur-g (Iur)-interface is for further study.
### 5.3.5 Gn interface
The Gn interface (GTP protocol) shall be used by the SGSN for transfer of RAN
information messages between two SGSNs. The requirements concerning the Gn
interface are the following:
\- The SGSNs shall perform a simple relay of the messages from the Gb
interface to the Gn interface and vice versa.
\- The required service from GTP for the transfer between SGSN nodes is the
unconfirmed type (i.e. no request/response message pair should be required on
GTP). Ran Information Management will include the option for confirmed service
operating end-to-end between the BSCs.
\- Requirement for error handling in SGSN are as follows. When the SGSN
receives a GTP message related to some RIM functionality and this message
contains a protocol error, it is an implementation choice to log the error in
the SGSN node. It would be possible to include mapping in the Relay function
in the SGSN of GTP cause codes to BSSGP cause codes, and vice versa. This
mapping of cause codes will however complicate both standardization and
implementation. Very limited improvements on the overall functionality will be
achieved via cause code mapping. Therefore no mapping function of cause codes
is required.
\- The SGSN node needs to be able to cope with communication between
inconsistent releases of GTP without system failure. The requirement on the
GTP entity which receives an unsupported PDU is to discard the PDU. No
notification is required back to the sending node.
### 5.3.6 Uu interface
If cases 4, 8 and 12-16 shall be supported the Uu interface has to be updated
with the NACC feature as specified for Release 4 of the GERAN specifications.
For the cases 4, 8 and 12 where the mobile station reselects from a GERAN to a
UTRAN cell, changes has to be done to support fast access (distribution of
UTRAN system information to the MS after the transfer has been re-established
in the UTRAN cell). For the cases 13-15 where the mobile station reselects
from a UTRAN to a GERAN cell, the CCN mode procedures as specified in Release
4 for GERAN has to be added. That includes distribution of GSM system
information on UTRAN associated channels.
All changes affecting the Uu interface are outside the responsibility of TSG
GERAN.
### 5.3.7 Um interface
If cases 4, 8 and 12 shall be supported, the Um interface (GPRS RLC/MAC
protocol) has to be updated to distribute also the UTRAN system information to
the MS before the MS reselects from a GERAN to a UTRAN cell. These are the
only cases which requires update of the NACC feature in the GPRS mobile
stations.
# 6 Generic mechanism for exchange of RAN information
## 6.1 General
These clauses describe generic RAN Information Management (RIM) procedures for
the exchange of RAN information between RAN nodes. In order to make it
transparent for the Core Network, the message(s) conveying the RAN information
include a container that shall not be interpreted by the Core Network nodes.
For future extensibility of this generic mechanism to features other than
external NACC, the container includes independent Container Units which can be
customised for different applications.
## 6.2 Generic RIM procedures for exchange of RAN information
### 6.2.1 General
The following RIM procedures are defined in order to allow the exchange of
information between RAN nodes:
**\- RAN Information Request procedure** : This procedure is initiated by a
BSC/RNC when it requires information from another BSC/RNC or when it requires
stop of event driven reports from another BSC/RNC.
\- **RAN Information Send procedure** : This procedure is initiated by a
BSC/RNC when it has information to be sent to another BSC/RNC. The procedure
may be event triggered (e.g. change of System Information) or scheduled (e.g.
by a request procedure). Event driven reports may be stopped by the RAN
Information Request procedure.
These procedures are defined in detail in the following clauses. The
description of the procedures assumes a means of communication between the two
RAN nodes involved. The messages may go directly if there is an Iur-g
interface between the two RAN nodes. Alternatively, they shall be routed via
the Core Network.
NOTE: Which CN domain the BSC/RNC shall choose to send the information to the
other BSC/RAN is implementation dependent.
The RAN Information Send procedure shall be completed using the same CN domain
and set of interfaces used by the RAN Information Request procedure that
triggered it.
Multiple procedures can exist in parallel.
### 6.2.2 RAN Information Request procedure
This procedure is initiated by a BSC/RNC when it requires to start or stop the
RAN information flow from another BSC/RNC.\ The BSC/RNC starts the procedure
by sending the RAN INFORMATION REQUEST message to the BSC/RNC from which
information is required. In the message is indicated if single or multiple
reports are requested, or if the transmission of multiple reports shall be
stopped. If single or multiple reports are requested, the receiving BSC/RNC
shall immediately initiate a RAN Information Send procedure containing the
requested information. If the transmission of multiple reports shall be
stopped, the application in the receiving BSC shall initiate a RAN Information
Send Procedure to send one single RAN INFORMATION message and thereafter
immediately stop sending of further reports. If the RAN INFORMATION message is
not received, it is an implementation option if and how to perform periodic
retransmission of the RAN INFORMATON REQUEST message to the target BSC/RNC.
**Figure 6.2.2.a: RAN Information Request procedure.**
### 6.2.3 RAN Information Send procedure
The RAN Information Send procedure is initiated by a BSC/RNC when it has
information to be sent to another BSC/RNC. This procedure may be event
triggered (e.g. change of System Information) or scheduled (e.g. by a RAN
Information Request procedure). The procedure is initiated by sending a RAN
INFORMATION message to another BSC/RNC. The RAN INFORMATION message also
contains an indication of whether or not acknowledgement is needed. If such
indication is not present, the procedure concludes.
If the RAN INFORMATION message contains a request for acknowledgement, the
receiving BSC/RNC shall send a RAN INFORMATION ACK. If the acknowledgement is
not received, it is an implementation option if and how to perform periodic
retransmissions of the RAN INFORMATON message to the target BSC/RNC.
**Figure 6.2.3.a: RAN Information Send procedure.**
### 6.2.4 RIM support in CN/RAN nodes.
The end-to-end support of the RIM procedures require Core Network nodes,
source and destination BSC's to provide support for RIM. The following
functions may discover if nodes support or not the RIM procedures:
\- The BSSGP protocol will via the Feature bitmap indicate if RIM procedures
are supported between 2 specific BSC/SGSN nodes.
\- The reception of a RAN INFORMATION or a RAN INFORMATION REQUEST PDU
indicates that the BSC identified by the source cell address is supporting the
RIM procedures.
\- As an implementation option an algorithm can be used to detect whether the
destination BSC node parenting the addressed cell supports the RIM procedures.
Such an algorithm can draw conclusions from not receiving RIM response
messages. After loss of several response messages in a row during a specified
time period it could be concluded that the RIM procedures are not supported by
the BSC parenting the addressed cell.
\- Operation and Maintenance procedures can be used to configure whether or
not the BSC parenting the external neighbouring cells support the RIM
procedures.
NOTE: The functions in the first two bullets are based on standardised
mechanism and functions in bullets 3 and 4 are examples of implementation
options.
## 6.3 Messages for RAN information
### 6.3.1 Message format {#message-format .headin-3}
All the messages for the exchange of information between RAN nodes have the
format which is shown in figure 4. The message type identifies the message and
how the payload is coded. All messages contain a source address and a
destination address that are used for the routeing between the RAN nodes. The
Container Units are optional and not included for all message types.
* * *
Message Header Message Type  
Destination Address  
Source Address  
Message Payload RIM Application Identity Container Prefix PDU specific IEs  
Container Unit 1 Container Units Container Unit 2  
  
Container Unit N
* * *
**Figure 6.3.1.a: Generic format of a RIM message.**
### 6.3.2 Message Type {#message-type .headin-3}
The following messages are defined:
\- RAN INFORMATION REQUEST message,
\- RAN INFORMATION message,
\- RAN INFORMATION ACK message and
\- RAN INFORMATION ERROR message
### 6.3.3 Addressing and routeing {#addressing-and-routeing .headin-3}
The RAN information shall be transferred to and from GERAN and UTRAN. This
information may be routed directly within GERAN or between GERAN and UTRAN if
the Iur-g interface is present. Alternatively, it may be routed via the Core
Network using different interfaces: potentially A, Gb, Iu, Gn and E
interfaces.
For the direct routeing case via the Iur-g interface, no addressing mechanism
at Layer 3 is necessary. When the information is sent via the Core Network,
addressing information is needed in order to route the information to the
correct destination RAN node. In this case the routeing is performed in three
stages:
**1\. Routeing to a source CN node** : the source RAN node sends the message
to a parenting CN node (MSC or SGSN). No address evaluation is needed for this
routeing.
**2\. Routeing to a destination CN node** : the CN node parenting the source
RAN node shall route the information towards the CN node parenting the
destination RAN node. There are two cases:
If the _Circuit Switched_ domain of the Core Network is used, the LAI (i.e.
MCC, MNC and LAC) shall be used to identify the source and destination MSC.
If the _Packet Switched_ domain of the Core Network is used, the RAI (i.e.
MCC, MNC, LAC and RAC) shall be used to identify the source and destination
SGSN.
This step is not present when source and destination RAN nodes are parented by
the same CN node.
**3\. Routeing to a destination RAN node** : the address shall contain
information to help the destination CN node route the information to its
correct RAN node. This information is different depending on whether the
destination RAN node supports _A/Gb mode_ and/or _Iu mode_ :
\- In A/Gb mode, the Cell Identity (CI) is known by both domains of the core
network and shall be used to address the target RAN node. In A/Gb mode, there
is no specific RAN node identity available.
\- In Iu mode the cell identity is not known by the core network. Instead, the
address contains a BSC-Id/RNC-Id that shall be used for routeing of RAN
information from the CN node to a 3G BSC/RNC.
NOTE: If the destination RAN node supports both _A/Gb_ _mode_ and _Iu mode,_
it is an implementation issue which interface shall be used.
Consequently RAN information messages have to be addressed differently by the
originating RAN node depending on:
\- the CN domain used.
\- whether the destination RAN node supports _A/Gb mode_ , _Iu mode_ or both.
The addresses used shall contain the Information Fields listed in table
6.3.3.a.
**Table 6.3.3.a: Generic format of a RAN node address.**
* * *
Information Field Presence Length Comments MCC+MNC Mandatory 3 octets =PLMN-
code; see 3GPP TS 24.008 LAC Mandatory 2 octets  
RAC Optional 1 octet See note 1 BSC-Id/RNC-Id Conditional 12 bits See note 2
* * *
NOTE 1: This Information Field is required if the message or the response to
the message has to be sent via the Packet Switched domain of the Core Network.
NOTE 2: This Information Field may be used to address a 3G RAN node (i.e. that
supports _Iu mode_).
NOTE 3: This Information Field may be used to address a 2G RAN node (i.e. that
supports _A/Gb mode_).
### 6.3.4 Container Prefix and Container Units {#container-prefix-and-
container-units .headin-3}
#### 6.3.4.1 General
Only the message type and destination address information elements of the RAN
INFORMATION messages are to be interpreted by CN nodes. The rest of the
information is routed by the CN without interpretation. The payload is
collected in the form of containers. For an easier reuse of this transport
mechanism for different features, the information is defined in a Co _ntainer
Prefix_ and in one or more _Container Unit IEs_.
#### 6.3.4.2 Container Prefix
The _Container Prefix_ consists of:
\- RIM Application Identity (e.g. NACC),
\- Message specific information (e.g. optional Sequence Number,
Acknowledgement required in the RAN INFORMATION message, Multiple Report
Indication in the RAN INFORMATION REQUEST message).
Table 6.3.4.2.a: Generic format of the Container prefix.
+----------------------+-----------+---------+----------------------+ | Information Field | Presence | Length | Comments | +----------------------+-----------+---------+----------------------+ | RIM Application | Mandatory | 1 octet | 0=NACC; All other | | Identity | | | values reserved | +----------------------+-----------+---------+----------------------+ | Message specific | Optional | | For sequence number | | Information | | | see NOTE 1, | | | | | | | Optional sequence | | | | | number\ | | | | | .... | | | | +----------------------+-----------+---------+----------------------+
NOTE 1: End-to-end transport can be supervised by the ACK mechanism. Anyhow
the need for having an acknowledged service shall be based on the probability
of losing messages. The sequence number is valuable to avoid duplicates and to
reorder messages in the destination node. The sequence number is also required
for the ACK handling and reports the correct reception of the RAN INFORMATION
message sent with the same sequence number. The sequence number is not
included in the error message.
#### 6.3.4.3 Container Unit
One message may carry zero, one or more Container Units all related to the
same application (e.g. NACC). Each Container Unit carries information related
to one entity (e.g. cell). The coding of a Container Unit is specific to the
application using it.
# 7 Exchange of RAN information for external NACC
## 7.1 Principles for use of the generic mechanism for exchange of RAN
information for NACC application
### 7.1.1 General
The rules specified below apply when the Container Unit Type is NACC:
\- The RAN INFORMATION message is used to send system information for one or
more cells (one container unit is used per source cell) from a source BSC to a
destination BSC/RNC.
\- The RAN INFORMATION REQUEST message is used to let a source BSC/RNC request
or stop transmission of system information from a destination BSC.
\- The RAN INFORMATION ACK message is used to send acknowledgement for a
correctly received RAN INFORMATION message back from the destination BSC/RNC
to the source BSC.
\- The RAN INFORMATION ERROR message is used to indicate that a PDU could not
be successfully decoded.
### 7.1.2 Container Unit Disposition for NACC
Each Container Unit includes a 'Container Unit Length'. The coding of the rest
of the Container Unit depends on the Message Type and the _Container Unit Type
IEs_ as defined in the 3GPP TS 48.018.
### 7.1.3 Error Handling
The BSSGP entity in the destination BSC will send the following type of error
message to the source BSC under the following circumstances:
\- The RAN INFORMATION ERROR message, including a relevant cause code, will be
sent when the destination BSC is unable to comply with part of or all
information elements in any of the RAN INFORMATION message types.
### 7.1.4 External NACC software support in RAN nodes
The end-to-end support of the external NACC procedure requires Core Network
nodes to support the RIM procedures and source and destination BSC's to
provide support for external NACC. The following functions may discover if
nodes support or not the external NACC procedure:
\- The reception of a RAN INFORMATION or a RAN INFORMATION REQUEST PDU with
RIM Application Identity equal to NACC indicates that the BSC identified by
the source cell address is supporting the external NACC procedure.
\- As an implementation option an algorithm can be used to detect whether the
destination BSC node support or not external NACC. Such an algorithm can draw
conclusions from not receiving external NACC procedure response messages.
After loss of several response messages in a row during a specified time
period it could be concluded that the External NACC procedure is not supported
for all nodes.
\- Operation and Maintenance procedures can be used to configure whether or
not the BSCs parenting the external neighbouring cells supports external NACC.
NOTE: The functions in the first bullet are based on standardised mechanisms
and functions in bullets 2 and 3 are examples of implementation options.
# 8 Interface load
The signalling load on interfaces between the BSCs is depending on the
frequency of the system information updates in each cell with external
neighbours.
If the same assumptions as in clause 4.4.1 are used and the following
assumptions are added
\- there is 3 external cells which has to be informed if system information is
changed in a cell,
\- the system information for a cell is updated N times per hour and each
update generates 3 container messages,
\- each container message sent to an external cell consists of 250 octets (
based on an estimated need to send 11 system information messages (instances),
\- there is only one SGSN serving the 2 BSCs.
the resulting load on the Iu/Gb interface between the BSC and SGSN will be as
shown in table 4. As seen from the table the reduction of a 2Mbit Gb (Iu)
capacity for the container transport will for the largest BSC be N* 5*10^-5^.
Note that it is assumed here that there is one message sent to each external
neighbouring cell and not only one to each external BSC.
Table 8.a: Iu/Gb load for external NACC.
+------------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | BSC Area Size | No of cells with | No of octets | | | external neighbours | transmitted over | | (in # of cells) | | Gb(Iu)/hour (one | | | | direction) | +------------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | 1 | 1 | N*750 | +------------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | 7 | 6 | N*4500 | +------------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | 19 | 12 | N*9000 | +------------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | 37 | 18 | N*13500 | +------------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | 61 | 24 | N*18000 | +------------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | 91 | 30 | N*22500 | +------------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | 127 | 36 | N*27000 | +------------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | 169 | 42 | N*31500 | +------------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | 271 | 48 | N*36000 | +------------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | 397 | 60 | N*45000= N*100 | | | | bits/sec | +------------------+------------------------+------------------------+
# 9 Phased approach for the implementation
The distribution of neighbouring cell system information between BSC/RNC nodes
to support the mobile stations at inter BSC/RNC cell change can be developed
in a phased approach:
Phase 1: distribution of neighbouring cell system information between BSCs
over the Gb interface.
Phase 2: distribution of neighbouring cell system information between BSCs
over the Iu and the Iur-g interfaces. The phase 2 is required first when 'Iu-
only' cells not supporting pre-REL5 mobile stations will be introduced.
Phase 3: distribution of neighbouring cell system information for cell changes
from UTRAN to GERAN.
# 10 Open Issues
NOTE: This section will list issues where agreement and/or solutions have not
been reached. It may be removed before a final decision(s) is made.
\- Behaviour of the BSC/RNC after a re-start is proposed to be an
implementation option.
\- Is inter-RAN NACC needed? RAN2 and GERAN2 agree that there are no clear
benefits for the GERAN→UTRAN direction; the UTRAN→GERANdirection is for
further study.
# 11 Specification Impact and Associated Change Requests
## 11.1 General
This section will discuss the impact of the external NACC Work Item on current
GERAN/UTRAN specifications as identified at present. It may be the case that
this WI impacts other specifications not identified as yet, or after study the
specifications listed below are not impacted upon. There may be a sub-section
for each specification impacted.
## 11.2 3GPP TS 23.060 GPRS; Stage 2 description
A new clause -- 'External Network Assisted Cell Change' shall be added
describing the procedures in chapter 7.
## 11.3 3GPP TS 44.018 Mobile radio interface layer 3 specification
It shall be updated if the cell reselection cases from GERAN to UTRAN in table
4.1.1.b shall be included in the work Item.. It might be affected if new
system information essential for access in the new cell has to be added for
GERAN Release 5.
### 11.4 3GPP TS 44.060 GPRS RLC/MAC Protocol
It shall be updated if the cell reselection cases from GERAN to UTRAN in table
2 shall be included in the work Item.. It might be affected if new system
information essential for access in the new cell has to be added for GERAN
Release 5.
## 11.5 3GPP TS 48.018 BSS GPRS Protocol (BSSGP)
It shall be updated for all traffic cases in table 4.1.1.b where the Gb
interface is involved.
## 11.6 3GPP TS 29.060 GPRS Tunneling Protocol (GTP)
It shall be updated for all traffic cases in table 4.1.1.b where the Gn
interface is involved.
## 11.7 3GPP TS 25.41x UTRAN Iu interface
It shall be updated for all traffic cases in table 4.1.1.b where the Iu
interface is involved.
###### ### Annex A: Change History