# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document defines a generic Terminal/Integrated Circuit Card (ICC)
interface for 3GPP applications. The present document is based on ETSI TS 102
221 [1], which defines a generic platform for any IC card application. The
functionality provided by this platform may be operated either over the
electrical interface specified in ETSI TS 102 221 [1], or by transporting
APDUs over the Inter-Chip USB Terminal/ICC interface specified in ETSI TS 102
600 [7].
Requirements that are common to all 3GPP smart card based applications are
also listed in this specification.
The aim of the present document is to ensure interoperability between an ICC
and a terminal independently of the respective manufacturer, card issuer or
operator. The present document does not define any aspects related to the
administrative management phase of the ICC. Any internal technical realisation
of either the ICC or the terminal is only specified where these are reflected
over the interface.
Application specific details for applications residing on an ICC are specified
in the respective application specific documents.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the interface between the UICC and the Terminal
for 3G telecom network operation.
The present document specifies:
  * the requirements for the physical characteristics of the UICC;
  * the electrical interface between the UICC and the Terminal;
  * the initial communication establishment and the transport protocols;
  * the model which serves as a basis for the logical structure of the UICC;
  * the communication commands and the procedures;
  * the application independent files and protocols.
The administrative procedures and initial card management are not part of the
present document.
For the avoidance of doubt, references to clauses of ETSI TS 102 221 [1]
include all the subclauses of that clause, unless specifically mentioned.
The target specification ETSI TS 102 221 [1] contains material that is outside
of the scope of 3GPP requirements and the present document indicates which
parts are in the scope and which are not.
A 3GPP ME may support functionality that is not required by 3GPP, but the
requirements to do so are outside of the scope of 3GPP.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] ETSI TS 102 221 V11.1.0: \"Smart Cards; UICC-Terminal interface; Physical
and logical characteristics \".
[2] 3GPP TS 31.102: \"Characteristics of the USIM Application\".
[3] ETSI TS 101 220: \"Smart cards; ETSI numbering system for
telecommunication application providers\".
> [4] Void.
[5] ITU-T Recommendation T.50: \"International Reference Alphabet (IRA)
(Formerly International Alphabet No. 5 or IA5) - Information technology -
7-bit coded character set for information interchange\".
[6] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile Radio Interface Layer 3 specification; Core
Network Protocols;\ Stage 3\".
[7] ETSI TS 102 600 V7.6.0: \"Smart cards; UICC-Terminal interface;
Characteristics of the USB interface\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols, abbreviations and coding
All definitions, symbols, abbreviations applicable to the terminal are
specified in ETSI TS 102 221 [1] and ETSI TS 102 600 [7].
The coding of Data Objects in the present document is according to ETSI TS 102
221 [1].
\'XX\': Single quotes indicate hexadecimal values. Valid elements for
hexadecimal values are the numbers \'0\' to \'9\' and \'A\' to \'F\'.
Within the context of the present document, the term \"terminal\" used in ETSI
TS 102 221 [1] refers to the Mobile Equipment (ME).
Within the context of the present document, the term \"NAA\" used in ETSI TS
102 221 [1] refers to the (U)SIM or the ISIM.
# 4 General 3GPP platform requirements
## 4.1 GSM/USIM application interaction and restrictions
Activation of a USIM session excludes the activation of a GSM session. In
particular, this implies that once a USIM application session has been
activated, commands sent to the UICC with CLAss byte set to \'A0\' shall
return SW1SW2 \'6E 00\' (class not supported) to the terminal.
Similarly, activation of a GSM session excludes the activation of a USIM
session.
At most one USIM session can be active at the same time.
## 4.2 3GPP platform overview
The UICC/terminal interface shall support the interface specified in ETSI TS
102 221 [1]. In addition, the UICC/terminal interface may support the Inter-
Chip USB interface defined in ETSI TS 102 600 [7].
3GPP ICC based applications (e.g. USIM, USIM Application Toolkit, ISIM, SIM)
are supported over both interfaces (see figure 1).
Figure 1: Terminal/UICC interface
## 4.3 TS 102 221 UICC/terminal interface
The UICC/terminal interface shall comply with all requirements stated in ETSI
TS 102 221 [1]. Where options are indicated in ETSI TS 102 221 [1], the
present document specifies which options are to be used for a TS 102 221
UICC/terminal interface where the UICC supports a 3GPP application.
## 4.4 TS 102 600 Inter-Chip USB UICC/terminal interface
If the Inter-Chip USB UICC/terminal interface is supported, it shall comply
with ETSI TS 102 600 [7]. Where options are indicated in ETSI TS 102 600 [7],
the present document specifies which options are to be used for an Inter-Chip
USB UICC/terminal interface where the UICC supports a 3GPP application.
The protocol stack for APDU-level exchanges that are described in ETSI TS 102
600 [7] allow the transmission of APDUs. USB UICCs and USB UICC-enabled
terminals shall comply with the functionality of the TS 102 221 interface.
Where options are indicated in ETSI TS 102 221 [1], the present document
specifies which options are to be used for APDU-based applications where the
UICC supports a 3GPP application.
The mapping of APDU into TPDU (see ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 7.3.1.1) and
transmission oriented commands (see ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 12) do not
apply in the USB context as the APDU commands and responses are transmitted
over USB as encoded at the application layer (i.e. C-APDU and R-APDU are
directly encapsulated).
In the context of UICC applications running over USB, the card activation and
deactivation process, the cold and warm reset procedures and the request for
additional processing time as described in ETSI TS 102 221 [1] shall be
performed by USB commands as described in ETSI TS 102 600 [7]. Any reference
to the above procedures shall be interpreted in a USB context according to
ETSI TS 102 600 [7]. When an ATR is received then the corresponding provisions
and error handling procedures of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] apply.
# 4A Physical Characteristics
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 4 apply.
The usage of contact C6 for contactless as defined in ETSI 102 221 [1] is not
required by 3GPP. This impacts the following sub-clauses:
ETSI TS 102 221 [1] sub-clause 4.5.1.1
ETSI TS 102 221 [1] sub-clause 4.5.1.2
ETSI TS 102 221 [1] sub-clause 4.5.2.1
ETSI TS 102 221 [1] sub-clause 4.5.2.2
ETSI TS 102 221 [1] sub-clause 4.5.3
# 5 Physical and logical characteristics
## 5.1 Transmission speed
See clause 6A.3.2.
## 5.2 Voltage classes
See clause 6A.2.
## 5.3 File Control Parameters (FCP)
See clause 11.1.1.4.
### 5.3.1 Minimum application clock frequency
See clause 11.1.1.4.6.
## 5.4 Interface protocol
See clause 6A.3.
# 5A Electrical specifications of the UICC -- Terminal interface
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 5 apply.
## 5A.1 Class A operating conditions
Class A operating conditions as specified in ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 5.1 is
not required by 3GPP.
3G MEs shall not support class A operating conditions as specified in ETSI TS
102 221 [1] clause 5.1 on the ME -- UICC interface.
## 5A.2 Class B operating conditions
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 5.2 apply.
## 5A.3 Class C operating conditions
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 5.3 apply.
# 6 Application protocol
See clause 7A.4.
# 6A Initial communication establishment procedures
## 6A.1 UICC activation and deactivation
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 6.1 apply.
## 6A.2 Supply voltage switching
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 6.2 apply.
In addition, a UICC holding a 3GPP application shall support at least two
consecutive voltage classes as defined in ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 6.2.1,
e.g. AB or BC. If the UICC supports more than two classes, they shall all be
consecutive, e.g. ABC
## 6A.3 Answer To Reset content
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 6.3 apply.
In addition, no extra guard time, indicated in TC1 in the ATR, needs to be
supported when sending characters from the terminal to the card. The terminal
may reject a UICC indicating values other than 0 or 255 in TC1.
### 6A.3.1 Coding of historical bytes
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 6.3.1 apply.
### 6A.3.2 Speed enhancement
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 6.3.2 apply.
In addition, cards and terminals supporting an application based on the
present specification shall support the transmission factor (F,D)=(512,32).
It is recommended that terminals and cards supporting Multimedia Message
storage functionality (see TS 31.102 [2]) support the transmission factor
(F,D)=(512,64) in addition to those specified in the present document.
### 6A.3.3 Global Interface bytes
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 6.3.3 apply.
## 6A.4 PPS procedure
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 6.4 apply.
## 6A.5 Reset procedures
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 6.5 apply.
## 6A.6 Clock stop mode
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 6.6 apply.
## 6A.7 Bit/character duration and sampling time
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 6.7 apply.
## 6A.8 Error handling
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 6.8 apply.
## 6A.9 Compatibility
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 6.9 are not required by 3GPP.
# 7 User verification and file access conditions
See clause 9.6.
# 7A Transmission protocols
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 7 apply.
## 7A.1 Physical layer
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 7.1 apply.
## 7A.2 Data link layer
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 7.2 apply.
## 7A.3 Transport layer
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 7.3 apply.
## 7A.4 Application layer
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 7.4 apply.
In addition, when involved in administrative management operations, a 3GPP
application interfaces with appropriate equipment. These operations are
outside the scope of the present document.
When involved in network operations a 3GPP application interfaces with a
terminal with which messages are exchanged. A message can be a command or a
response.
> ‑ A 3GPP Application command/response pair is a sequence consisting of a
> command and the associated response.
>
> ‑ A 3GPP Application procedure consists of one or more 3GPP Application
> command/response pairs which are used to perform all or part of an
> application‑oriented task. A procedure shall be considered as a whole, that
> is to say that the corresponding task is achieved if and only if the
> procedure is completed. The terminal shall ensure that, when operated
> according to the manufacturer\'s manual, any unspecified interruption of the
> sequence of command/response pairs which realise the procedure, leads to the
> abortion of the procedure itself.
>
> ‑ A 3GPP application session is the interval of time starting at the
> completion of the 3GPP application initialisation procedure and ending
> either with the start of the 3GPP session termination procedure, or at the
> first instant the link between the UICC and the terminal is interrupted.
During the 3GPP network operation phase, the terminal plays the role of the
master and the 3GPP application plays the role of the slave.
A 3GPP application specification may specify some commands defined in ETSI TS
102 221 [1] as optional or define additional commands. The 3GPP application
shall execute all applicable commands in such a way as not to jeopardise, or
cause suspension, of service provisioning to the user. This could occur if,
for example, execution of the AUTHENTICATE is delayed in such a way which
would result in the network denying or suspending service to the user.
# 8 Application and file structure
## 8.0 General
This clause specifies general requirements for EFs for 3GPP applications.
EFs contain data items. A data item is a part of an EF which represents a
complete logical entity. The 3GPP application specification defines the access
conditions, data items and coding for each file.
EFs or data items having an unassigned value, or which are cleared by the
terminal, shall have their bytes set to \'FF\'. After the administrative phase
all data items shall have a defined value or have their bytes set to \'FF\',
unless specified otherwise in other 3GPP specifications. For example, for a
deleted LAI in the EF~LOCI~ file defined in TS 31.102 [2], the last byte takes
the value \'FE\' (refer to TS 24.008 [6]). If a data item is modified by the
allocation of a value specified in another 3GPP TS, then this value shall be
used and the data item is not unassigned.
EFs are mandatory (M), optional (O), or conditional (C). A conditional file is
mandatory if required by a supported feature, as defined by the 3GPP
application (e.g. PBR in TS 31.102 [2]). The file size of an optional EF may
be zero. All implemented EFs with a file size greater than zero shall contain
all mandatory data items. Optional data items may either be filled with \'F\',
or, if located at the end of an EF, need not exist.
When the coding is according to ITU-T Recommendation T.50 [5], bit 8 of every
byte shall be set to 0.
## 8.1 Contents of the EFs at the MF level
See clause 13.
8.1A UICC application structure
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 8.1 apply.
## File types
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 8.2 apply.
## 8.3 File referencing
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 8.3 apply.
## 8.4 Methods for selecting a file
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 8.4 apply.
## 8.5 Application characteristics
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 8.5 apply.
## 8.6 Reservation of file IDs
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 8.6 apply.
## 8.7 Logical channels
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 8.7 apply.
## 8.8 Shareable versus not-shareable files
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 8.8 apply.
## 8.9 Secure channels
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 8.9 apply.
# 9 Security features
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 9 apply.
## 9.1 Supported security features
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 9.1 apply.
## 9.2 Security architecture
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 9.2 apply.
## 9.3 Security environment
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 9.3 apply.
## 9.4 PIN definitions
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 9.4 apply.
## 9.5 PIN and key reference relation ship
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 9.5 apply.
## 9.6 User verification and file access conditions
A 3GPP application uses 2 PINs for user verification, PIN and PIN2. PIN2 is
used only in the ADF. The PIN and PIN2 are mapped into key references as
defined in ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 9.5.1. The Universal PIN shall be
associated with a usage qualifier, and other key references may also be
associated with a usage qualifier as defined in ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause
9.5.2. The PIN status is indicated in the PS_DO, which is part of the FCP
response when an ADF/DF is selected. The coding of the PS_DO is defined in
ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 9.5.2.
PIN and PIN2 are coded on 8 bytes. Only (decimal) digits (0‑9) shall be used,
coded in ITU‑T T.50 [5] with bit 8 set to zero. The minimum number of digits
is 4. If the number of digits presented by the user is less than 8 then the ME
shall pad the presented PIN with \'FF\' before sending it to the 3GPP
application.
The coding of the UNBLOCK PINs is identical to the coding of the PINs.
However, the number of (decimal) digits is always 8.
The security architecture as defined in ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 9 applies
to 3GPP applications with the following definitions and additions:
  * A 3GPP application may reside on either a single-verification capable UICC or a multi-verification capable UICC.
  * A 3GPP application residing on a multi-verification capable UICC shall support the replacement of its application PIN with the Universal PIN, key reference \'11\', as defined in ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 9.4.1. Only the Universal PIN is allowed as a replacement.
  * A multi-verification capable UICC holding a 3GPP application shall support the referenced format using SEID as defined in ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 9.2.7.
  * Every file related to a 3GPP application shall have a reference to an access rule stored in EF~ARR~.
  * Disabling of PIN2 is allowed if supported by the 3GPP application, unless indicated otherwise.
The security architecture as defined in ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 9 applies
to terminals supporting 3GPP applications with the following definitions and
requirements:
  * A terminal shall support the use of level 1 and level 2 user verification requirements as defined in ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 9.1.
  * A terminal shall support the multi-application capabilities as defined in ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 9.1.
> \- A terminal shall support the replacement of a 3GPP application PIN with
> the Universal PIN, key reference \'11\', as defined in ETSI TS 102 221 [1]
> clause 9.4.1.
>
> \- A terminal shall support the security attributes defined using tag\'s
> \'8C\', \'AB\' and \'8B\' as defined in ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 9.2.4. In
> addition both the referencing methods indicated by tag \'8B\' shall be
> supported as defined in ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 9.2.7.
The access rule is referenced in the FCP using tag \'8B\'. The TLV object
contains the file ID (the file ID of EF~ARR~) and record number, or file ID
(the file ID of EF~ARR~), SEID and record number, pointer to the record in
EF~ARR~ where the access rule is stored. Each SEID refers to a record number
in EF~ARR~. EFs having the same access rule use the same record reference in
EF~ARR~. For an example EF~ARR~, see ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 13.4.
# 10 Structure of commands and responses
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 10 apply.
## 10.1 Command APDU structure
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 10.1 apply.
### 10.1.1 Coding of Class Byte
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 10.1.1 apply.
### 10.1.2 Coding of Instruction Byte
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 10.1.2 apply except for the
coding of the Instruction byte of the following commands which are not
required by 3GPP:
  * GET CHALLENGE
### 10.1.3 Coding of parameter bytes
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 10.1.3 apply.
### 10.1.4 Coding of Lc byte
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 10.1.4 apply.
### 10.1.5 Coding of data part
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 10.1.5 apply.
### 10.1.6 Coding of Le byte
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 10.1.6 apply.
## 10.2 Response APDU structure
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 10.2 apply.
### 10.2.1 Status conditions returned by the UICC
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 10.2.1 apply.
#### 10.2.1.1 Normal processing
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 10.2.1.1 apply.
#### 10.2.1.2 Postponed processing
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 10.2.1.2 apply.
#### 10.2.1.3 Warnings
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 10.2.1.3 apply.
#### 10.2.1.4 Execution errors
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 10.2.1.4 apply.
#### 10.2.1.5 Checking errors
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 10.2.1.5 apply.
##### 10.2.1.5.1 Functions in CLA not supported
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 10.2.1.5.1 apply.
##### 10.2.1.5.2 Command not allowed
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 10.2.1.5.2 apply.
##### 10.2.1.5.3 Wrong parameters
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 10.2.1.5.3 apply.
#### 10.2.1.6 Application errors
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 10.2.1.6 apply.
### 10.2.2 Status words of the commands
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 10.2.2 apply with the following
exceptions which are not required by 3GPP:
  * column \'GET CHALLENGE\' of table 10.16
## 10.3 Logical channels
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 10.3 apply.
# 11 Commands
## 11.1 Generic commands
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 11.1 apply.
### 11.1.1 SELECT
#### 11.1.1.1 Functional description
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 11.1.1.1 apply.
#### 11.1.1.2 Command parameters and data
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 11.1.1.2 apply.
#### 11.1.1.3 Response Data
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 11.1.1.3 apply.
#### 11.1.1.4 File control parameters
This clause defines the contents of the data objects which are part of the FCP
information where there is a difference compared to the values as specified in
ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 11.1.1.4. Where options are indicated in ETSI TS
102 221 [1] clause 11.1.1.4, this clause specifies the values to be used in
the FCP related to 3GPP applications.
##### 11.1.1.4.1 File size
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 11.1.1.4.1 apply.
##### 11.1.1.4.2 Total file size
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 11.1.1.4.2 apply.
##### 11.1.1.4.3 File Descriptor
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 11.1.1.4.3 apply.
##### 11.1.1.4.4 File identifier
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 11.1.1.4.4 apply.
##### 11.1.1.4.5 DF name
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 11.1.1.4.5 apply.
##### 11.1.1.4.6 Proprietary information
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 11.1.1.4.6 apply.
The Minimum application clock frequency data object is indicated by tag \'82\'
in the proprietary constructed data object in the FCP information, identified
by tag \'A5\', as defined in ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 11.1.1.4.6. This data
object specifies the minimum clock frequency to be provided by the terminal
during the 3GPP application session. The value indicated in this data object
shall not exceed 3 MHz, corresponding to \'1E\'. The terminal shall use a
clock frequency between the value specified by this data object and the
maximum clock frequency for the UICC as defined in ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause
11.1.1.4.6.3. If this data object is not present in the FCP response or the
value is \'FF\' then the terminal shall assume that the minimum clock
frequency is 1 MHz.
##### Security attributes
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 11.1.1.4.7 apply.
##### 11.1.1.4.8 Short file identifier
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 11.1.1.4.8 apply.
##### 11.1.1.4.9 Life cycle status integer
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 11.1.1.4.9 apply.
##### 11.1.1.4.10 PIN status template DO
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 11.1.1.4.10 apply.
### 11.1.2 STATUS
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 11.1.2 apply.
### 11.1.3 READ BINARY
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 11.1.3 apply.
### 11.1.4 UPDATE BINARY
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 11.1.4 apply.
### 11.1.5 READ RECORD
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 11.1.5 apply.
### 11.1.6 UPDATE RECORD
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 11.1.6 apply.
### 11.1.7 SEARCH RECORD
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 11.1.7 apply.
### 11.1.8 INCREASE
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 11.1.8 apply.
### 11.1.9 VERIFY PIN
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 11.1.9 apply.
### 11.1.10 CHANGE PIN
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 11.1.10 apply.
### 11.1.11 DISABLE PIN
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 11.1.11 apply.
### 11.1.12 ENABLE PIN
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 11.1.12 apply.
### 11.1.13 UNBLOCK PIN
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 11.1.13 apply.
### 11.1.14 DEACTIVATE FILE
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 11.1.14 apply.
### 11.1.15 ACTIVATE FILE
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 11.1.15 apply.
### 11.1.16 AUTHENTICATE
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 11.1.16 apply.
### 11.1.17 MANAGE CHANNEL
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 11.1.17 apply.
### 11.1.18 GET CHALLENGE
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 11.1.18 are not required by 3GPP.
### 11.1.19 TERMINAL CAPABILITY
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 11.1.19 apply.
### 11.1.20 MANAGE SECURE CHANNEL
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 11.1.20 apply.
### 11.1.21 TRANSACT DATA
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 11.1.21 apply.
## 11.2 CAT commands
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 11.2 apply.
## 11.3 Data Oriented commands
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 11.3 apply.
# 12 Transmission oriented commands
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 12 apply.
# 13 Application independent files
There are four EFs at the Master File (MF) level specified in ETSI TS 102 221
[1] clause 13 (EF~ICCID~; EF~DIR~, EF~PL~ and EF~ARR~), which are all
mandatory for 3GPP.
The EF~DIR~ file contains the Application Identifiers (AIDs) and the
Application Labels of the 3GPP applications present on the card as mandatory
elements. The AIDs of 3GPP applications are defined in ETSI TS 101 220 [3].
The 3GPP applications can only be selected by means of the AID selection. The
EF~DIR~ entry shall not contain a path object for application selection. It is
recommended that the application label does not contain more than 32 bytes.
# 14 Application independent protocol
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 14 apply.
# 15 Support of APDU-based UICC applications over USB
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] clause 15 apply taking into account
clauses 6A.3, 7A.4, 8, 9, 10, 11, 13 and 14 in the present document.
# Annex A (normative):
# UCS2 coding of Alpha fields for files residing on the UICC
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] annex A apply.
###### ## Annex B (informative): Main states of a UICC
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] annex B apply.
###### ## Annex C (informative): APDU protocol transmission examples
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] annex C apply.
###### ## Annex D (informative): ATR examples
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] annex D apply.
###### ## Annex E (informative): Security attributes mechanisms and examples
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] annex E apply.
###### ## Annex F (informative): Example of contents of EFARR \'2F06\'
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] annex F apply.
###### ## Annex G (informative): Access Rules Referencing (ARR)
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] annex G apply.
###### ## Annex H (normative): List of SFI Values
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] annex H apply.
###### ## Annex I (informative): Resets and modes of operation
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] annex I apply.
###### ## Annex J (informative): Example of the use of PINs
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] annex J apply.
###### ## Annex K (informative): Examples of the PIN state transition on multi
verification capable UICC
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] annex K apply.
###### ## Annex L (informative): Examples of SET DATA and RETRIEVE DATA usage
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] annex L apply.
###### ## Annex M (informative): Examples of ODD AUTHENTICATE instruction code
usage
The provisions of ETSI TS 102 221 [1] annex M apply.
#