# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
Y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document defines the external interface characteristics of the
Contact Manager for 3GPP UICC applications (e.g. USIM [3] and ISIM [4]). The
Contact Manager provides an interface for the management of contact
information including rich content without any structural limitations.
The Contact Manager Server application resides on the UICC, an IC card
specified in TS 31.101 [2]. TS 31.101 [2] specifies the application
independent properties of the UICC/terminal interface such as the physical
characteristics.
The external interface between the Contact Manager Server application on the
UICC and the Contact Manager Client application on the ME enables the
synchronization of the contact information, contacts grouping, configuration
of contact structure, configuration of the triggering mechanism, and
configuration of user actions which may be performed using contact
information.
# 1 Scope
The present document defines the Contact Manager for 3GPP UICC applications
based on OMA DS [7].
The present document specifies the external interface between the Contact
Manager Server in the UICC and the Contact Manager External Client in the ME;
Any internal technical realization of either the Contact Manager Server or
clients is only specified where these are reflected over the interfaces.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 31.101: \"UICC-Terminal Interface, Physical and Logical
Characteristics\".
[3] 3GPP TS 31.102: \"Characteristics of the Universal Subscriber Identity
Module (USIM) application\".
[4] 3GPP TS 31.103: \"Characteristics of the IP Multimedia Services Identity
Module (ISIM) application\".
[5] 3GPP TS 31.111: \"USIM Application Toolkit (USAT)\".
[6] OMA SCWS: \"OMA TS Smartcard Web Server v1_0-20070209-C\",
www.openmobilealliance.org
[7] OMA DS: \"OMA TS DS Protocol V1.2\", www.openmobilealliance.org
[8] OMA vObject Profile: \"OMA TS vObject OMA Profile V1.0\",
www.openmobilealliance.org
[9] ETSI TS TS 102 483 V8.1.0: \"UICC-Terminal interface; Internet Protocol
connectivity between UICC and Terminal\"
[10] OMA DS Folder: \"Folder data object specification v1.2\",
www.openmobilealliance.org
[11] OMA DS File: \"File data object specification v1.2\",
www.openmobilealliance.org
[12] OMA SAN: \"SyncML Server Alerted Notification v1.2\",
http://www.openmobilealliance.org
[13] IETF RFC 3629: \"UTF-8, a transformation format of ISO 10646\".
[14] Void
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Contact Manager External Client:** The Contact Manager client application
that resides on the ME. This client application acts as an OMA DS client.
**Contact Manager Server:** An application residing on the UICC that provides
services to the External clients. It acts as an OMA DS server for the Contact
Manager External Client.
**Contact Manager External Interface:** the interface between the Contact
Manager Server residing on the UICC and the Contact Manager External Client.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\|\| Concatenation
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
DS Data Synchronization
DTD Document Type Definition
OMA Open Mobile Alliance
PIN Personal Identification Number
SCWS Smart Card Web Server
URL Universal Resource Location
XML eXtensible Markup Language
# 4 Contact Manager External interface characteristics
## 4.1 Reference model
The following figure shows the architecture of the interface between the
Contact Manager Server and the Contact Manager External Client.
Figure 1: External interface reference model
## 4.2 External interface definition
### 4.2.1 General
This clause defines the Contact Manager External Interface.
In case both the ME and the 3GPP UICC application support both the 3G Phone
Book (i.e. as defined in TS 31.102 [3]) and the Contact Manager, the Contact
Manager should be used.
### 4.2.2 Contact Manager Server capabilities
The Contact Manager Server shall implement the mandatory OMA DS server
functionalities defined in OMA DS [7]. The Contact Manager Server shall also
support the following functionalities:
> \- The Contact Manager Server shall support at least two External clients.
>
> \- The Contact Manager Server shall use the same contact database account if
> more than one client is used.
### 4.2.3 Contact Manager External client capabilities
The Contact Manager External client shall implement the mandatory OMA DS
client functionalities defined in OMA DS [7]. The Contact Manager client shall
also support the following functionalities:
> \- The Contact Manager External client shall support an automatic triggering
> mechanism based on a policy. A default policy may be based either on time or
> on number of updated contacts. The default policy parameters shall be stored
> in \"Provisioning.xml\". If the default policy parameters are present in
> \"Provisioning.xml\" they shall be used unless otherwise configured by the
> user. Otherwise, the triggering mechanism shall be based on ME local policy.
> The synchronization initiated by this mechanism shall be totally transparent
> for the end-user (i.e. without any display, popup or progress bar).
### 4.2.4 Contact Manager Server and External Client capabilities
Both the Contact Manager Server and the Contact Manager External Client shall
support the following functionalities:
> \- The Contact Manager Server and External client shall support the Field
> Level Filtering functionality as defined in OMA DS [7].
>
> \- The Contact Manager Server and External Client shall support and use the
> Device Memory Management mechanism defined in OMA DS [7]. The Contact
> Manager Server and External Client shall indicate their dynamic memory
> capabilities using \ and \ elements as described in OMA DS
> [7]. The Contact Manager Server and External Client shall indicate their
> permanent memory capabilities using \, \ and \
> elements as described in OMA DS [7].
>
> \- The Contact Manager Server and External Client shall comply with the
> vCard2.1 Minimum Interoperability Profile guidelines specified in OMA
> vObject Profile [8]. The vCard profile shall also comply with the
> implementation requirements in Annex D.
>
> \- The Contact Manager Server and External Client should comply with vCard
> 3.0. If vCard 3.0 is supported, the Contact Manager Server and External
> Client shall comply with the vCard2.1 Minimum Interoperability Profile
> guidelines specified in OMA vObject Profile [8]. The vCard profile shall
> also comply with the implementation requirements in Annex D.
>
> \- The Contact Manager Server and External Client shall specify the
> \ and \ elements in their Device Information for the
> vCard Properties. The receiving device shall not send more than the
> specified number of property values/bytes for this property.
>
> \- The Contact Manager Server and External Client shall support the HTTP
> transport binding as defined in OMA DS [7].
>
> \- The Contact Manager Server and External Client shall support the Smart
> Card Web Server as defined in OMA SCWS [6].
>
> \- For the support of the exchange of device capabilities functionality as
> defined in OMA DS [7], the following requirements apply:
>
> \- The Contact Manager Client shall be able to process and use the server
> device information.
>
> \- The Contact Manager Server and Client shall send all its content type
> capabilities with each of its supported properties, e.g.: it shall send all
> its supported properties name and value of vCard 2.1.
>
> \- The Contact Manager Server shall not send all its device specific data if
> it is clear that the Contact Manager External Client cannot utilize it.
> E.g., if the client indicates that it does not support the vCard3.0 content
> format, the server shall not send the supported properties of vCard3.0
> although the server supports it.
## 4.3 Access rules
The Contact Manager Server may be associated with one or several UICC
applications by including the associated UICC applications AIDs in
\"Provisioning.xml\".
If the access conditions of one of the associated UICC applications are
fulfilled (e.g. PIN disabled or PIN verified), the Contact Manager Server
shall not initiate an MD5 Digest authentication with the client (see OMA DS
[7]).
If none of the associated UICC applications corresponding to the Contact
Manager is activated, and if the PIN is not disabled, the Contact Manager
Client shall successfully verify the PIN of one of the associated UICC
applications.
## 4.4 Server configuration
The device type of the Contact Manager Server shall be set to \"3GPPCM\":
\3GPPCM \
The device identifier of the Contact Manager Server shall be set to the
\"ICCID\": \ICCID\. The ICCID shall be encoded as described in
TS 31.101 [2].
The relative contacts database URI of the Contact Manager Server shall be set
to \"./contacts/3GPPCM\": \./contacts/3GPPCM \.
The absolute Contact Manager Server address shall be set to http://[SCWS
@]/3GPPCM. For example, when the external interface is implemented over the
APDU interface, the server address is: http://127.0.0.1:3516/3GPPCM.
The Contact Manager configuration parameters shall not be editable by the
user.
The absolute Contact Manager Server address and other provisioning parameters
may be configured using OMA CP SmartCard Provisioning or OMA DM SmartCard
bootstrapping mechanism as described in OMA DS [7].
## 4.5 External Client configuration
### 4.5.1 Framework
The Contact Manager Server and External Client shall support:
\- the OMA DS Folder [10] and OMA DS File [11].
\- the Large Object handling functionality as defined in OMA DS [7].
The 3GPPCM folder is organized as depicted hereafter:
3GPPCM/
\|_____ Provisioning.xml
\|
\|_____ Actions.xml
\|
\|_____ GroupsDefinition.xml
### 4.5.2 Basic configuration
When present, the \"Provisioning.xml\" file shall be accessible under
\"3GPPCM/\". This file shall be \"readable\" only. The \"cctype\" (see OMA DS
File [11]) shall be set to \"text/xml\".
This file contains the triggering mechanisms parameters, the associated UICC
applications AIDs and the contacts structure.
If the ME supports the \"vCardProperties\" element defined in
\"Provisioning.xml\" (see annex A), the Contact Manager External Client shall:
\- only use the properties that are provided in \"vCardProperties\" element
and that are supported by the ME
\- use the Labels provided in the \"vCardProperties\" element
\- display the contact fields in the order of their appearance in the
\"vCardProperties\" element.
The DTD of the \"Provisioning.xml\" file is provided in annex A of the present
document.
### 4.5.3 User Actions configuration
When present, the \"Actions.xml\" file shall be accessible under \"3GPPCM/\".
This file shall be \"readable\" only. The \"cctype\" (see OMA DS File [11])
shall be set to \"text/xml\".
If the Contact Manager External client supports the User Actions
configuration, and if the ME supports one or more applications required for
the execution of these actions, it shall present the supported actions to the
user when the contact is selected.
The DTD of the \"Actions.xml\" file is provided in annex B of the present
document.
## 4.6 Contacts grouping
When present, the \"GroupsDefinition.xml\" file shall be accessible under
\"3GPPCM/\". This file shall be \"readable\" and \"writable\" only. The
\"cctype\" (see OMA DS File [11]) shall be set to \"text/xml\".
A group definition shall at least contain a Unique Identifier and a Label. A
group definition may additionally contain multimedia elements or links to
multimedia elements (e.g. a picture, a ring tone, a voice tag and/or a video).
The DTD of the \"GroupsDefinition.xml\" file is provided in annex C of the
present document.
3GPP-specific vCard Type may be used to associate a vCard with a group defined
in \"GroupsDefinition.xml\". For that purpose, the \"X-3GPP-GroupUID\" Type
shall be inserted in the vCard to point to the corresponding group definition
in the \"GroupsDefinition.xml\" file.
If \"X-3GPP-GroupUID\" contains a group Unique Identifier that does not exist
in \"GroupsDefinition.xml\" (e.g. because it was deleted), then the Contact
Manager External Client shall remove \"X-3GPP-GroupUID\" from the vCard(s).
\"X-3GPP-GroupUID\" is defined in Annex D.
The DTD of the \"GroupsDefinition.xml\" file is provided in annex C of the
present document.
## 4.7 3GPP specific contacts elements
3GPP-specific vCard Types may be used to associate additional multimedia
elements to a vCard (e.g. a ring tone, a voice tag and/or a video) or to store
additional contact information in a vCard (e.g. SIP URI, TEL URI). In this
case, the 3GPP-specific vCard Types are used.
The 3GPP-specific vCard Types are defined in Annex D.
## 4.8 Synchronization with an external device
The support of synchronization with an external device (e.g. a Laptop Computer
connected to the ME through a local link) is optional.
An ME supporting synchronization with an external device shall play the role
of an IP router (i.e. port forwarding and address translation in IPv4), as
described in TS 102 483 [9].
###### ## Annex A (normative): Contact Manager Provisioning DTD
# A.1 Document Type Definition
The Document Type Definition, according to XML syntax definitions, is defined
hereafter:
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\:** This is the root element of the Provisioning XML body. It
shall always be present. The version described in the present document is 1.
**\ :** Contains the associated UICC application AID, which is
encoded as a text string (see TS 31.101 [2]).
**\ :** Contains the Type of the triggering mechanism and its
corresponding Parameter.
**\ :** Contains the type of the triggering mechanism, which is encoded
as a text string. It shall have one the following values: ME_POLICY, TIME,
EVENT.
**\ :** Contains the triggering mechanism parameter, which is
encoded as a text string representing an integer. For TIME Type, the parameter
represents the time interval in minutes. For EVENT Type, the parameter
represents the number of updated contacts.
**\ :** It describes the vCards structure.
**\ :** Contains the Label (optional) and the Descriptor of a
contact.
**\ :** A text string, which contains the Label to be displayed to the
user.
**\ :** A text string, which contains the field descriptor. It
shall be encoded as a vCard Property.
###### ## Annex B (normative): User Actions DTD
# B.1 Document Type Definition
The Document Type Definition, according to XML syntax definitions, is defined
hereafter:
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\**: This is the root element of the Groups Definition XML body. It
shall always be present. The version described in the present document is 1.
**\ **: A text string, which contains the Label to be displayed to the
user. This Label is displayed to the user as part of the actions that may be
performed using the selected contact information.
**\ **: Contains a text string representing an integer defining
the mobile application to be launched when the user selects this action menu.
**\ **: Describes an input parameter passed to the application when
the action is launched. The number of parameters depends on the mobile
application to launch. The table below defines for each application the
expected parameters and their corresponding names and values.
**\ **: Contains a text string, which represents the name of an input
parameter. It allows the mobile application to recognize the parameter. If the
Name field begins with the character \"@\", the corresponding value shall be
input by the user. The string text following the \"@\" shall be used as a
label to prompt the user.
**\ **: Contains a text string, which represents the value of a
parameter. The parameter value can mix constant text and references to
variables. The references to variables are placed between curly brackets ({})
and encoded as a vCard Property. The ME shall replace the variable references
with the vCard Property value of the selected contact. **If the vCard property
value is a concatenation of several fields, the value inside the curly
brackets could be suffixed with \"-x\", where x is the field number (e.g.
{N-2} will refer to the second field of N property which is the given name;
{ADR;HOME-3} will refer to the third field of ADR property, which is the
street name).**
**\ : Contains the unique identifier of a group, which is encoded as
a text string representing an integer value. If this element is present in the
action description, the corresponding action shall only be applied to the
contacts that belong to this group (i.e. to the contacts with a vCard
containing a X-3GPP-GroupUID that is set to the same integer value as the
GroupUID).**
Table 1: Action codes and parameters
* * *
**Action Code** **Mobile application to launch** **Expected Parameter(s)**  
Name(s) **Value(s)** 1 Browser \"url\" url to browse 2 Application to send an
SMS \"Phone number\", \"text\" Phone number and text to send. 3 Application to
send an MMS \"Phone number\", \"subject\", \"text\", \"multimedia\" Phone
number, subject, text to send, local url(s) of multimedia elements to attach
to the MMS. 4 Instant messaging \"Phone number\", \"text\", \"multimedia\"
Phone number, text to send, local url(s) of multimedia elements to attach to
the Instant Message. 5 Application to send an email \"TO\", \"CC\", \"BCC\",
\"subject\", \"text\", \"multimedia\" Email destination address, subject, text
to send, local url(s) of multimedia elements to attach to the EMAIL
* * *
###### ## Annex C (normative): Groups definition DTD
# C.1 Document Type Definition
The Document Type Definition, according to XML syntax definitions, is defined
hereafter:
\
\
\
\
\
\
\:** This is the root element of the Groups Definition XML
body. It shall always be present. The version described in the present
document is 1.
**\ :** Contains the unique identifier of a group, which is encoded as a
text string representing an integer value. The vCards that belong to a
particular group shall contain a X-3GPP-GroupUID that is set to the same
integer value as the UID of this group.
**\ :** Contains a label representing the group, which is encoded as a
text string.
**\ :** Contains the icon (or a link to the icon) to be displayed to
the user. It shall be encoded as vCard 2.1 PHOTO Property in a text string
format.
**\ :** Contains a link to a multimedia element that is associated
with a group (e.g. ring tone, voice tag, video). It shall be encoded as a text
string using the same syntax as a vCard Property. The following Properties may
be used to indicate the type of the multimedia element: RINGTONE, VOICETAG,
VIDEO. The VALUE property shall be used to indicate the URL of the Multimedia
file, which may be located in the UICC Multimedia File System or in the SCWS.
###### ## Annex D (normative): vCard properties requirements and extensions
# D.1 vCard properties requirements
If a property does not have a value, the Contact Manager Server and External
Client shall not include it in the corresponding vCard object.
> Note: OMA DS protocol ensures the uniqueness of contacts. The use of the UID
> property in vCards as an OMA DS LUID results in contacts duplication.
The Contact Manager External Client shall support the BDAY property.
If the ME supports JPEG files, the Contact Manager External Client shall
support the PHOTO property.
A Contact Manager External Client supporting vCard 3.0 shall support the
following vCard Types: Geographical Types, Nickname Type and Sort String Type.
# D.2 vCard 3GPP extensions
The Contact Manager Server and External Client should support the 3GPP-
specific vCard Types, which are defined hereafter:
\- \"X-3GPP-Multimedia\":
> The following Properties may be used to indicate the type of the multimedia
> elements: RINGTONE, VOICETAG, VIDEO. The VALUE property shall be used to
> indicate the URL of the Multimedia File which may be located in the UICC
> Multimedia File System or in the SCWS (e.g. X-3GPP-
> Multimedia;RINGTONE;VALUE=URL:http://127.0.0.1:3516/pub/files/ringtone10.wav).
> This Type encoding shall be 8bit. A vCard may contain several X-3GPP-
> Multimedia entries with different types (e.g. a ring tone and a voice tag).
\- \"X-3GPP-GroupUID\":
> This Type is used to specify a value that represents a unique identifier of
> the Group to which this vCard belongs (see Annex E). This Type encoding
> shall be 8bit. This Type value shall be an integer (e.g. X-3GPP-
> GroupUID:19).
\- \"X-3GPP-IM-Id\":
> This Type is used to store the IM address in a vCard. Coded as vCard 2.1
> EMAIL type.
\- \"X-3GPP-SIP-URI\":
> This Type is used to store the SIP number in a vCard. This Type encoding
> shall be 8bit. This Type value shall be a sting representing a SIP URI.
\- \"X-3GPP-TEL-URI\":
> This Type is used to store the TEL URI in a vCard. This Type encoding shall
> be 8bit. This Type value shall be a sting representing a TEL URI.
###### ## Annex E (informative): Mapping of OMA DS functionalities and the
Contact Manager
The following table lists the optional OMA DS functionalities that are
required for the Contact Manager implementation.
Table 1: Mapping of optional OMA DS 1.2 functionalities and Contact Manager
+-----------+--------+-----------+----------+--------+-----------+ | Func | DS 1.2 | Contact | Comments | | | | tionality | | Manager | | | | +-----------+--------+-----------+----------+--------+-----------+ | | Server | Client | Server | Client | | +-----------+--------+-----------+----------+--------+-----------+ | HTTP | O | O | M | M | HTTP | | Bindings | | | | | Bindings | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | required | | | | | | | for the | | | | | | | tra | | | | | | | nsmission | | | | | | | of DS | | | | | | | protocol | | | | | | | messages | | | | | | | over the | | | | | | | Contact | | | | | | | Manager | | | | | | | external | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | nterface. | +-----------+--------+-----------+----------+--------+-----------+ | Field | O | O | M | M | The UICC | | level | | | | | is a | | Filtering | | | | | device | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | limited | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | esources. | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | amount of | | | | | | | free | | | | | | | memory | | | | | | | available | | | | | | | for the | | | | | | | Contact | | | | | | | Manager | | | | | | | can vary | | | | | | | from few | | | | | | | tenth of | | | | | | | Kbytes to | | | | | | | hundred | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | egabytes. | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | func | | | | | | | tionality | | | | | | | enables | | | | | | | the UICC | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | indicate | | | | | | | to the ME | | | | | | | what | | | | | | | vCard | | | | | | | elements | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | syn | | | | | | | chronized | | | | | | | according | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | amount of | | | | | | | available | | | | | | | memory | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | network | | | | | | | operator | | | | | | | policy. | | | | | | | In case | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | function | | | | | | | is not | | | | | | | imp | | | | | | | lemented, | | | | | | | the ME | | | | | | | needs to | | | | | | | implement | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | pr | | | | | | | oprietary | | | | | | | filtering | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | echanism. | +-----------+--------+-----------+----------+--------+-----------+ | Vcard 2.1 | O | O | M | M | This is | | Minimum | | | | | to | | Interop | | | | | address | | erability | | | | | w | | Profile | | | | | ell-known | | | | | | | interop | | | | | | | erability | | | | | | | issues | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | motivated | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | velopment | | | | | | | of this | | | | | | | profile. | +-----------+--------+-----------+----------+--------+-----------+ | Folders | O | O | M | M | This is | | and Files | | | | | to enable | | Data | | | | | Contact | | Objects | | | | | Manager | | | | | | | conf | | | | | | | iguration | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | contacts | | | | | | | grouping. | +-----------+--------+-----------+----------+--------+-----------+ | Sending | O | O | M | M | This is | | Large | | | | | required | | Object | | | | | for the | | | | | | | optimal | | | | | | | support | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | Folders | | | | | | | and Files | | | | | | | Data | | | | | | | Objects | | | | | | | since the | | | | | | | DS server | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | UICC have | | | | | | | limited | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | esources. | +-----------+--------+-----------+----------+--------+-----------+ | Receiving | M | O | M | M | This is | | Large | | | | | required | | Object | | | | | for the | | | | | | | optimal | | | | | | | support | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | Folders | | | | | | | and Files | | | | | | | Data | | | | | | | Objects | | | | | | | since the | | | | | | | DS server | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | UICC have | | | | | | | limited | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | esources. | +-----------+--------+-----------+----------+--------+-----------+ | Device | O | O | M | M | Highly | | Memory | | | | | re | | M | | | | | commended | | anagement | | | | | in OMA | | | | | | | DS. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | This is | | | | | | | required | | | | | | | because | | | | | | | the UICC | | | | | | | is a | | | | | | | device | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | limited | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | esources. | +-----------+--------+-----------+----------+--------+-----------+ | \ | | | | | related | | and | | | | | to Device | | \ | | | | | Memory | |  | | | | | M | | elements | | | | | anagement | | | | | | | (see | | | | | | | above). | +-----------+--------+-----------+----------+--------+-----------+ | Device | O | O | M | M | Highly | | In | | | | | re | | formation | | | | | commended | | proce | | | | | in OMA | | ssing/Cap | | | | | DS. | | abilities | | | | | | | Exchange | | | | | This is | | | | | | | required | | | | | | | to avoid | | | | | | | interop | | | | | | | erability | | | | | | | problems. | +-----------+--------+-----------+----------+--------+-----------+ | \'Device | | | | | | | Info | | | | | | | rmation\' | | | | | | | elements | | | | | | +-----------+--------+-----------+----------+--------+-----------+ | CTCap | M | M | M | M | The | | | | | | | Server | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | Client | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | declare | | | | | | | all | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | tent-type | | | | | | | it | | | | | | | supports. | | | | | | | This is | | | | | | | required | | | | | | | to avoid | | | | | | | interop | | | | | | | erability | | | | | | | problems. | +-----------+--------+-----------+----------+--------+-----------+ | DSMem | O | O | M | M | This is | | | | | | | related | | | | | | | to Device | | | | | | | Memory | | | | | | | M | | | | | | | anagement | | | | | | | (see | | | | | | | above). | +-----------+--------+-----------+----------+--------+-----------+ | MaxID | O | O | M | M | This is | | | | | | | related | | | | | | | to Device | | | | | | | Memory | | | | | | | M | | | | | | | anagement | | | | | | | (see | | | | | | | above). | +-----------+--------+-----------+----------+--------+-----------+ | MaxMem | O | O | M | M | This is | | | | | | | related | | | | | | | to Device | | | | | | | Memory | | | | | | | M | | | | | | | anagement | | | | | | | (see | | | | | | | above). | +-----------+--------+-----------+----------+--------+-----------+ | MaxOccur | M | O | M | M | This is | | | | | | | required | | | | | | | to avoid | | | | | | | contacts | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | formation | | | | | | | loss in | | | | | | | case of | | | | | | | mismatch | | | | | | | between | | | | | | | server | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | client | | | | | | | capa | | | | | | | bilities. | +-----------+--------+-----------+----------+--------+-----------+ | MaxSize | M | O | M | M | This is | | | | | | | required | | | | | | | to avoid | | | | | | | contacts | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | formation | | | | | | | loss in | | | | | | | case of | | | | | | | mismatch | | | | | | | between | | | | | | | server | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | client | | | | | | | capa | | | | | | | bilities. | +-----------+--------+-----------+----------+--------+-----------+ | O: | | | | | | | Optional | | | | | | | | | | | | | | M: | | | | | | | Mandatory | | | | | | | | | | | | | | N/A: Not | | | | | | | A | | | | | | | pplicable | | | | | | +-----------+--------+-----------+----------+--------+-----------+
###### ## Annex F (informative): Contact Manager XML files examples
# F.1 Provisioning XML file example
The example hereafter indicates that the Contact Manager Server should be
triggered each 120 minutes. The Contact Manager is associated with a USIM and
an ISIM. This example also shows a contact structure comprising a Name and a
Cell Phone.
\
\A0000000871002000000000011223399\
\A0000000871004000000000011223399\
\
> \TIME\
>
> \120\
\
\
> \
>
> \Name\
>
> \N\
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \Mobile\
>
> \TEL;CELL\
>
> \
\
\
# F.2 User Actions XML file example
The example hereafter shows a User Actions XML file.
\
\send greeting SMS?\
\2\
\
\phone number\
\{TEL;CELL}\
\
\
\text\
\Merry Christmas {N-2} and happy new year\
\
\
\
\Locate your contact?\
> \1\
>
> \
>
> \url\
\
> http://www.map.fr/search_map?street={ADR;HOME-3}&locality={ADR;HOME-4}
>
> \
\
\
# F.3 Groups Definition XML file
The example hereafter shows a Groups Definition file.
\
\19\
\My 3GPP CT6 colleagues\
\PHOTO;ENCODING=BASE64;TYPE=JPEG:R05G0Dfkjhgfdtrolki\
> \
>
> RINGTONE;VALUE=URL:http://127.0.0.1:3516/pub/files/ringtone10.wav
>
> \
\
#