# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The rapid globalization of the smart phone market is putting pressure on
legacy EDGE networks to improve throughput and spectrum efficiency.
To meet the demands on throughput and spectrum efficiency, MIMO for downlink
provides an interesting prospect because it neither puts too high requirements
on LTE enabled smart devices nor on legacy EDGE networks. All LTE enabled
smart devices come with two receive antennas, which is a valuable radio asset
that should be fully utilized. Similarly, legacy EDGE networks are often
configured with two transmit antennas to support air combining or transmit
diversity.
Performance evaluation submitted to GERAN#54 in GP-120762, to GERAN#55 in
GP-121019 and GP-121030 and to GERAN#56 in GP-121248 shows potential of this
technique to support significantly higher data peak throughput compared to
EGPRS and EGPRS2-A and as well as improving the spectral efficiency.
# 1 Scope
The present document contains investigations carried out and during the 3GPP
study item on MIMO for GSM/EDGE Downlink.
The following items are covered in this study report:
\- Objectives for the study
\- Overview of MIMO for Downlink concept
\- Conceptual design of several functional blocks of this solution
\- Performance evaluations related to envisaged functional blocks belonging to
MIMO for Downlink
\- Compatibility analysis
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] GP-130288: \"New Study Item on Downlink MIMO\", source Nokia Siemens
Networks, NOKIA Corporation, Com-Research GmbH, TELECOM ITALIA S.p.A.
[3] 3GPP TS 45.005 (V7.25.0): \"Radio transmission and reception (Release
7)\".
[4] 3GPP TR 45.860 (V11.5.0): \"Signal Precoding Enhancements for EGPRS2 DL\".
[5] 3GPP TS 45.002 (V11.0.0): \"Multiplexing and multiple access on the radio
path\".
[6] 3GPP TS 44.060 (V11.6.0): \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); Mobile
Station (MS) - Base Station System (BSS) interface; Radio Link Control /
Medium Access Control (RLC/MAC) protocol\".
[7] 3GPP TS 36.101 (V11.0.0): \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
(E-UTRA); User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception (Release 11)\".
[8] 3GPP TR 25.814 (V7.1.0): \"Physical layer aspects for evolved Universal
Terrestrial Radio Access (UTRA) (Release 7)\".
[9] 3GPP TR 25.996 (V10.0.0): \"Spatial channel model for Multiple Input
Multiple Output (MIMO) simulations (Release 10)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].)
BMD Blind Modulation Detection
DAS Downlink level A modulation and coding scheme
MSRD Mobile Station Receive Diversity
NSR Normal Symbol Rate
> SCPIR Sub Channel Power Imbalance Ratio
SINR Signal to Interference and Noise Ratio
# 4 Objectives
The objective of the study is to investigate the feasibility of single user
MIMO in the downlink for PS data services including EGPRS and EGPRS2-A.
For MIMO support, two operational modes are foreseen:
a) spatial multiplexing mode based on dual stream 2x2 MIMO; and
b) single stream diversity mode based on either MSRD or Tx diversity in
combination with MSRD.
In general, the study item re-uses as much as possible existing functionality
in GERAN and existing spatial channel models and principles used for UTRAN and
E-UTRAN. Different aspects of MIMO, as outlined in MIMO study item proposal
[2], are studied based on the following performance and compatibility
objectives.
## 4.1 Performance Objectives
The introduction of MIMO for downlink will significantly improve data
throughput performance as compared to realistic EGPRS and EGPRS2-A
performance. The performance of MIMO will be evaluated over the SINR range
relevant in GERAN networks.
## 4.2 Compatibility Objectives
The impact of MIMO for downlink on GSM speech codecs, GPRS, EGPRS and EGPRS2
will be kept at a minimum. There should be no negative HW impact due to the
introduction of MIMO to the base station and mobile station, assuming the
mobile station already supports diversity antenna reception.
Any technique that requires changes to MCS design for GSM/EDGE are not part of
the study.
# 5 Overview of 2x2 MIMO System
## 5.1 Spatial multiplexing mode (dual stream)
In this mode, two different encoded bit-streams with orthogonal training
sequences are modulated and transmitted simultaneously through two different
antennas to the same mobile having two receiving antennas. In this \'dual
stream transmission mode\', there are in effect 4 different propagation paths.
When the spatial correlation between the propagation paths is sufficiently
low, it should be possible for MIMO receiver to estimate the propagation paths
(a minimum SINR might be needed to estimate the propagation paths with
sufficient accuracy) and to jointly or iteratively detect each of the two
streams. When the above conditions are met, the throughput is maximized by
transmitting independent data streams from both transmitters. Henceforth this
is referred to as spatial multiplexing mode.
{width="2.4583333333333335in" height="1.3541666666666667in"}
Figure 5.1.1: 2x2 MIMO Transmission in Spatial Multiplexing Mode
## 5.2 Diversity mode (single stream)
When the spatial correlation between the propagation paths is insufficient to
support spatial multiplexing, a single bit-stream with legacy training
sequence is modulated and transmitted either through two antennas or single
antenna. It should be possible for the receiver to benefit from transmit
diversity (Figure 5.2.1(a)) and/or receive diversity (Figure 5.2.1(b)).
Henceforth this is referred to as diversity mode. A popular transmit diversity
scheme is Delay Diversity, whereby the second transmit path is delayed
relative to the first to create an artificial propagation path that can be
exploited by a conventional equalizer. If an MS with dual receiver
architecture experiences significant blocking in one of its receivers, it can
still benefit from single antenna reception if network switches to transmit
diversity mode.
{width="5.780555555555556in" height="1.1041666666666667in"}
(a) (b)
Figure 5.2.1: Single Stream Transmission in Diversity Mode. (a) Transmit
Diversity, (b) Receive Diversity
# 6 MIMO Channel Model
To obtain a realistic evaluation of the performance of MIMO receiver, the
channel model will need to consider the correlation between the propagation
channels (e.g. due to the spatial proximity of the antennas or due to the
orientation of the polarization of the antennas).
## 6.1 MSRD Antenna Correlation Model
In [3] Annex N, a Single-Input-Multiple-Output (SIMO) model has been defined
(depicted in Figure 6.1.1 in the present document) which is based on a
magnitude of complex correlation parameter ρ and an antenna gain imbalance G.
To use the model in the performance evaluation, the model would need to be
extended to a MIMO system comprising independent paths for a second transmit
antenna and with realistic spatial correlation values for the transmit
antennas and the receive antennas (two values of ρ are given in the MSRD
performance requirements, but these only loosely correspond to best and worst
case values).
{width="3.975in" height="1.7368055555555555in"}
Figure 6.1.1: Single-Input-Multiple-Output channel model for MS Receiver
Diversity.
## 6.2 Spatial Channel Model (SCM)
Spatial Channel Models were first introduced to 3GPP RAN4 based on work in the
WINNER project for systems beyond 3G, for a bandwidth up to 20 MHz. The
spatial channel model for use in system-level simulations is described in 3GPP
TR 25.996 (clause 5) [9] for generic antenna configurations in the Node-B and
UE. For performing link simulations, the model requires a significant amount
of simulation time. Therefore, taking into consideration specific antenna
configurations for the Node-B and UE, relevant aspects of the channel
properties and reasonable simulation assumptions, simplified models have been
defined for four scenarios namely SCM-A, SCM-B, SCM-C and SCM-D (see [8]). The
model used in this study is SCM-A unless otherwise stated.
The simplified model consists of two components:
\- a tapped delay line propagation model similar to the GSM models in 3GPP TS
45.005 Appendix C.3 [3], and,
\- covariance matrices for describing the correlation between the propagation
paths .
These covariance matrices assume antenna configurations consisting of two
spatially separated +45/-45 degree slant cross-polarized antennas in the
Node-B and one double-polarized antenna (V and H) in the mobile station. For
each tap a distinct covariance matrix is defined.
The per-tap covariance matrix **R** _~tap~_ is obtained from the Kronecker
product of the polarization covariance matrix **Г** and the Node B and UE
spatial correlation matrices **A** and **B** , further weighted by the antenna
gains at Node B and UE:
{width="2.2333333333333334in" height="0.24166666666666667in"} (6.2.1)
where _p~tap~_ is the relative power of the tap, {width="0.5833333333333334in"
height="0.2638888888888889in"} is the effective antenna gain at the Node B,
{width="0.44027777777777777in" height="0.2638888888888889in"} is the antenna
gain at the UE, {width="0.94375in"
height="0.5833333333333334in"},{width="0.9590277777777778in"
height="0.5833333333333334in"} and _α_ and _β_ are the spatial correlation
parameters of Node B and UE respectively. {width="0.17430555555555555in"
height="0.19930555555555557in"}denotes Kronecker multiplication.
The values of _α_ , _β_ , **Г** and _p~tap~_ can be found for all the four
scenarios in the tables A.1.3-2 to A.1.3.-5 of TR 25.814 [8].
{width="0.5833333333333334in" height="0.2638888888888889in"}and
{width="0.44027777777777777in" height="0.2638888888888889in"}are assumed to be
unity.
The antenna polarization correlation matrix **Г** is organized as
[NodeB+45UEvert, NodeB-45UEvert, NodeB+45UEhor, NodeB-45UEhor]. Here the
notation NodeB+45UEvert refers to \"from +45° slant element at NodeB to
vertically polarized element of UE\".
For the performance evaluation of the downlink MIMO concept with 2 transmit
antennas and 2 receive antennas, it is possible to simplify these models
further and apply these in the GSM link simulations.
To derive a 2x2 configuration it can be assumed that one +45/-45 degree slant
cross-polarized antenna at the BTS and one double-polarized antenna (V and H)
at the MS are used. With this assumption one can ignore both spatial
correlation matrices **A** and **B** and use only the 4x4 polarization
covariance matrix **Г** for computing the per-tap covariance matrix for 2x2
MIMO simulation. One can also extend the assumption of unity antenna gains at
transmitting and receiving antennas for simplicity.
In tables A.1.3-2 to A.1.3.-5 of TR 25.814 [8], the delay values and the power
of taps for each profile are given in six clusters, with 3 taps in each
cluster. The 3 taps in each cluster are each 12.5 nanoseconds apart. Also the
relative powers of taps within the cluster is same in all clusters. This fine
resolution is applicable only to wideband carriers; hence for narrowband GSM,
one can simply take a single value from each cluster without loss of
precision. This study takes the first value from each cluster. So, there are
six delay values and six corresponding tap powers for GSM simulation.
Further details about the realization of the modified SCM can be found in the
Annex A.
In case of MSRD simulation (see clause 6.1), there are only two paths. So the
4x4 correlation matrix **Г** is unsuitable. Since the **Г** matrix is
organized as [NodeB+45UEvert, NodeB-45UEvert, NodeB+45UEhor, NodeB-45UEhor],
one can take the 1^st^ and 3^rd^ element of the 1^st^ and 3^rd^ row of each
4x4 matrix to form the 2x2 correlation matrix. The correlation matrix computed
in this way is applied in the same way as the 4x4 correlation matrix is
applied but for two paths (_L_ =2) (see Annex A).
## 6.3 Channel model with variable correlation
Although the modified SCMs described in clause 6.2 are sufficient enough in
most scenarios, there is no flexibility to change the amount of correlation
between the propagation paths. Performance of a MIMO receiver largely depends
on correlation between the multiple propagation paths between the transmitter
and receiver. Moreover, MS possibly needs to detect the channel rank and thus
indicate to the network if MIMO with spatial multiplexing is the better mode
of transmission. Therefore, to evaluate such detection performance, it is
essential to use a channel model with variable correlation.
MIMO Channel Correlation Matrices for 3G and LTE system is defined in annex
B.2.3.1 of [7] for 1x2, 2x2, 4x2 and 4x4 antenna configurations. The overall
spatial correlation matrix, _R~spat~_ is expressed as the Kronecker product of
correlation matrix for the eNodeB (_R~eNB~_) and the UE (_R~UE~_) i.e.
$R_{\text{spat}} = \left( R_{\text{eNB}} \otimes R_{\text{UE}} \right)$
(6.3.1.1)
The 2x2 MIMO system in this study assumed 2 spatially separated antennas at
the transmitter and 2 spatially separated antennas at the receiver. For this
configuration, _R~eNB~_ and _R~UE~_ are defined using correlation parameters
_α_ and _β_ as:
$R_{\text{eNB}} = \begin{matrix} \left( 1\text{\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ }\alpha
\middle| \right) \ \ \end{matrix}$ and $R_{\text{UE}} = \begin{matrix} \left(
1\text{\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ }\beta \middle| \right) \ \ \end{matrix}$ (6.3.1.2)
Using equations 6.3.1.1 and 6.3.1.2, it is possible to compute the channel
correlation matrix for 2x2 MIMO simulation for any value of _α_ and _β_
between 0 and 1.
It is necessary to note that Annex B.2.3A of [7] also defines spatial
correlation matrix for cross polarized antennas according to
$R_{\text{spat}} = P\left( R_{\text{eNB}} \otimes \Gamma \otimes R_{\text{UE}}
\right)P^{T}$ (6.3.1.3)
where, **Г** is the polarization correlation matrix and P is the permutation
matrix whose elements depend on antenna element labelling system. However,
**Г** is defined for at least one pair of cross polarized antennas at eNodeB
and one pair of cross polarized antennas at the UE. So, for a 2x2 MIMO system,
the spatial correlation matrix _R~eNB~_ and _R~UE~_ become redundant in
equation (6.3.1.3) and the _R~spat~_ matrix turns into the polarization
covariance matrix of the SCM profiles described in clause 6.2. Therefore, 2x2
MIMO simulations with variable correlation spatial channel model assumes only
spatially separated antennas at the transmitter and receiver.
The realization of the correlation in the simulation as described in Annex A
is also applicable here. Instead of the principle square root of polarization
covariance matrix, it is necessary to apply the principle square root of
_R~spat~_ to the independent Rayleigh faded waveforms to achieve the desired
correlation between the paths.
In the single stream receive diversity mode, _R~eNB~_ is ignored in the
computation of the _R~spat~_ matrix using equation (6.3.1.1). Therefore, the
amount of correlation can be varied only by varying _β_.
# 7 Concepts
## 7.1 Training sequences
When estimating the channel taps of the four spatial propagation channels
(depicted in Figure 5.1.1), it would be advantageous if the training sequences
assumed orthogonal properties.
Already, orthogonal training sequences were introduced in Rel-9 for VAMOS.
These training sequences, referred to as TSC Set 2, were optimized to give low
cross-correlation when used pair-wise with the legacy training sequence set,
which has been referred to as TSC Set 1 (Table 5.2.3a and Table 5.2.3b in TS
45.002).
While both TSC Set 1 and TSC Set 2 are binary, TSC Set 1 has been modified for
use with 8-PSK and higher order modulations by mapping each binary value of
GMSK bit-mapping to each of the constellation points of the respective
modulation scheme (see Normal burst for 8-PSK, 16-QAM and 32-QAM in TS 45.002
Clause 5.2.3).
Hence, a straight-forward procedure to obtain an orthogonal set for 8-PSK and
higher order modulations is to apply the same antipodal mapping for TSC Set 2.
## 7.2 Modulations
### 7.2.1 Impact of Mixed Modulations
A comprehensive analysis is done in [7.2-1] to evaluate the impact of same or
different modulations used on both streams in spatial multiplexing mode in a
number of scenarios. In [7.2-1], the impact is analysed using 8-PSK, 16-QAM
and 32-QAM modulations and associated EGPRS2-A coding schemes. When different
modulations are used in two MIMO streams, all possible MCSs in each modulation
is simulated. GMSK modulation is not used in this investigation because GMSK
modulation is attractive only at low SINR region and in that region dual
stream MIMO throughput with GMSK modulation will likely be outperformed by
transmission in diversity mode.
In the dual stream MIMO transmission mode, however, GMSK is considered to be a
candidate modulation for one stream or two streams if mixed modulation is
used. For instance, the control channel messages on PACCH are sent with GMSK
modulation in one stream, while the traffic channel messages on the other
stream are sent using either 8-PSK, QAM or GMSK modulation depending on radio
channel quality.
A simple MIMO receiver is used for the analysis in [7.2-1]. This receiver
employs channel estimation, followed by separate interference cancellation and
bit-detection for each stream. This is neither a successive interference
cancellation (SIC) type of receiver, nor a joint detection (JD) receiver, but
it is expected that performance will be similar if SIC or JD receivers were
used instead. Blind modulation detection (BMD) is enabled in the receiver. BMD
is performed after the channel estimation assuming all possible modulations
schemes including GMSK. The BMD mechanism is similar to what is used in
[7.2-2].
#### 7.2.1.1 Simulation Parameters
Table 7.2.1.1.1: Simulation Parameters
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Parameter** | **Value** | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Frequency bands | 1800 MHz | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Propagation | SCM-A | | | conditions | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Mobile speed | 3 km/hr | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Frequency hopping | Ideal | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | BTS/MS RF | Typical Tx/Rx (see | | | impairments | Table 7.2.1.1.3 and | | | | Table 7.2.1.1.4) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Interference | Single co-channel | | | | interference, with | | | | 8PSK modulation. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Channel Correlation | SCM-A specific for | | | | wanted signal, 0.7 | | | | for interference | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | SCPIR [dB] | CCI: 0dB and 6dB | | | | Sensitivity: 0, 2, | | | 10log~10~(Power of | 4, 6, 8 and 10dB | | | stream 1/power of | | | | stream 2) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Back-off [dB] | Sensitivity: | | | | Theoretical PAR | | | | taken from TR45.860, | | | | clause 8: 3.2dB for | | | | 8PSK, 4.7dB for | | | | 16-QAM and 5.1dB for | | | | 32-QAM. | | | | | | | | CCI: 0dB for all | | | | modulations. | | | | | | | | Additional back-off | | | | based on SCPIR | | | | (given in Table | | | | 7.2.1.1.2) is used | | | | in the transmit | | | | power in spatial | | | | multiplexing mode, | | | | for both sensitivity | | | | and CCI, to compare | | | | with single antenna | | | | transmission power | | | | (see Table | | | | 7.2.1.1.2). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | MCSs | EGPRS2-A | 8-PSK | | | | (DAS-5...DAS-7) | | | | | | | | 16-QAM | | | | (DAS-8...DAS-9) | | | | | | | | 32-QAM | | | | (DAS-10...DAS-12) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | EGPRS | Not used | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Blind modulation | Enabled where | | | detection | mentioned | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Blind MIMO mode | Ideal | | | detection | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | MCS link adaptation | Ideal | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Rank adaptation | Ideal | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Training sequence | 1^st^ Stream: 5 from | | | codes | VAMOS Set 1 | | | | | | | | 2^nd^ Stream: 5 from | | | | VAMOS Set 2 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
In order to make a fair comparison of throughput between dual stream
transmission mode and single stream mode, it is necessary to use appropriate
back-off on the transmitted power of dual stream transmission mode. However,
the back-off value depends on the SCPIR used. At SCPIR=0 dB, a 3 dB back-off
from the total power is needed to compare with the transmitted power in the
single stream transmission mode. However, if a non-zero SCPIR is used, a lower
back-off need to be applied assuming the total transmitted power is the
limiting factor and it should be kept same as the power in single stream
transmission mode. The formula used for back-off calculation in the dual
stream transmission mode is given in equation 7.2.1.1.1 and the values
computed from the equation are given in Table 7.2.1.1.2.
$\text{backoff} = \text{10}\text{log}_{\text{10}}(1 + \text{10}^{\frac{-
\text{SCPIR}}{\text{10}}})$ (7.2.1.1.1)
Table 7.2.1.1.2: Back-off in dual stream transmission mode
* * *
**SCPIR (dB)** **Back-off (dB)** 0 3.00 2 2.12 4 1.46 6 0.97 8 0.64 10 0.41
* * *
Table 7.2.1.1.3: Transmitter Impairments
* * *
**Impairment** **Legacy single carrier BTS (per TRX)**
Phase noise [degrees (RMS)] 1.2
I/Q gain imbalance [dB] 0.1
I/Q phase imbalance [degrees] 0.1
DC offset [dBc] -45
Frequency error [Hz] 15 (900 MHz)\ 30 (1800 MHz)
Tx path time misalignment [normal symbol periods] 0.25
* * *
Table 7.2.1.1.4: Receiver Impairments
* * *
**Impairment** **Rx diversity capable device (per Rx path) (Taken from 3GPP TR
45.860 [4])**
Phase noise [degrees (RMS)] 1.2
I/Q gain imbalance [dB] 0.2
I/Q phase imbalance [degrees] 2.0
DC offset [dBc] -40
Frequency error [Hz] 25 (900 MHz)\ 50 (1800 MHz)
Rx path time misalignment [symbols] negligible
* * *
#### 7.2.1.2 Simulation Results
Before presenting the impact of mixed modulation on combined MIMO throughput,
it is worthwhile to show the impact of mixed modulation on throughput of the
first stream when a different modulations is used in the second stream. Figure
7.2.1.2.1 presents this in a group of plots with legends in each plot showing
modulation type of first stream on the left hand side of \"+\" sign and that
of the second stream on the right hand side.
From these figures, it is quite evident that the impact on the first stream\'s
throughput is minor regardless of the modulation scheme used in the second
stream.
{width="2.9902777777777776in"
height="2.189583333333333in"}{width="2.9902777777777776in"
height="2.189583333333333in"}{width="2.9902777777777776in"
height="2.189583333333333in"}{width="2.9902777777777776in"
height="2.189583333333333in"}{width="2.9930555555555554in"
height="2.154166666666667in"}{width="2.9930555555555554in"
height="2.154166666666667in"}
Figure 7.2.1.2.1: Throughput of Stream 1 with same or different modulation in
stream 2 in 2x2 MIMO
It should be noted that acceptable throughput is achieved from different
modulations at different Es/No or C/I ranges. Therefore, it is worthwhile to
look at combined MIMO throughput for different modulation mixes over a wider
range of Es/No or C/I.
In order to analyse the impact of mixed modulation on the combined throughput
of both streams, following two scenarios are considered.
a) Same modulation is used on both streams but coding schemes within the
modulation are flexible. Simulation is run over all possible pairs of EGPRS2-A
coding schemes in a particular modulation over a range of Es/No or C/I. At
each Es/No or C/I point, maximum throughput among all possible pairs of coding
schemes (within the same modulation) is taken to compute MIMO throughput at
that Es/No or C/I point.
b) Different modulations and coding schemes are used in both streams. In this
case, simulation is run over all possible EGPRS2-A MCS combinations (with the
restriction that both streams do not have same modulation) and at each Es/No
or C/I point, throughput of the MCS pair providing maximum combined throughput
is chosen in computing the combined MIMO throughput at that Es/No or C/I
point.
Results of both scenarios a) and b) are plotted in Figure 7.2.1.2.2 using
solid and dashed lines respectively. Since, in case of non-zero SCPIR, second
stream is weaker than first stream, plots for mixed modulation schemes are
presented twice for each modulation combination i.e. one plot is shown, for
example, for 8PSK+16QAM and another for 16QAM+8PSK.
{width="5.854166666666667in"
height="3.339583333333333in"}{width="5.854166666666667in"
height="3.339583333333333in"}{width="5.854166666666667in"
height="3.339583333333333in"}
{width="5.854166666666667in" height="3.339583333333333in"}
Figure 7.2.1.2.2: Combined MIMO throughput with the same or different
modulations in the two streams
From Figure 7.2.1.2.2, it is obvious that overall maximum throughput is
achieved over the entire range of simulated Es/No if the same modulation is
used in both MIMO streams provided that there is no imbalance between the
powers of the two MIMO streams. The situation changes, however, at higher
power imbalance. As the SCPIR increases, the throughput from a mixed
modulation pair gets higher than that from a same modulation pair in the mid-
range of Es/No.
Similar analyses are also done in [7.5-1] and [7.2-3] showing same observation
as in [7.2-1].
### 7.2.2 Blind Modulation Detection
Performance of blind modulation detection is evaluated in [7.2-1] and [7.5-1].
In both technical contributions, it is assumed that the receiver detects the
modulation separately for each MIMO stream. With separate detection per
stream, the total number of hypothesis to verify for each stream is 4 (GMSK,
8-PSK, 16-QAM and 32-QAM), i.e. 8 in total for MS supporting EGPRS2-A MIMO.
The computational complexity involved in blind modulation detection in MIMO
is, therefore, similar to that for EGPRS2-B, which involves a total of 7
hypotheses.
Figure 7.2.2.1 shows the impact of blind modulation detection in overall MIMO
throughput when ideal link and mode adaptation is assumed. The plots in this
figure are taken from [7.2-1]; the simulation parameter setting is given in
Tables 7.2.1.1.1 to 7.2.1.1.4. The plots are in fact the envelope of the mixed
modulation throughputs shown in clause 7.2.1. It is clear that the BMD error
in the modelled MIMO receiver has almost no impact on the performance. The
observation is in line with what is shown in [7.5-1] although a SIC type of
receiver is used with similar simulation parameter settings as in [7.2-1].
It is evident that the BMD error has almost no impact on the MIMO peak
throughput in spatial multiplexing mode.
{width="4.664583333333334in" height="3.1354166666666665in"}
{width="4.678472222222222in" height="3.1243055555555554in"}
Figure 7.2.2.1: Impact of blind modulation detection on combined MIMO
throughput.
### 7.2.3 Impact of SCPIR
Overall throughput with mixed modulation pairs and at different SCPIR values
is shown in Figure 7.2.3.1 (taken from [7.2-1]). The figure shows the overall
peak throughput decreasing with the increase in SCPIR. For comparison,
EGPRS2-A MSRD performance in the same condition is shown in the same figure.
The Es/No at which spatial multiplexing mode outperforms diversity mode varies
between 15 dB (SCPIR=0) and 22 dB (SCPIR=10 dB).
{width="6.500694444444444in" height="4.091666666666667in"}
Figure 7.2.3.1: Impact of SCPIR on combined MIMO throughput.
Similar results are also presented in [7.2-3] using a SIC type of receiver and
different training sequence pairs. In [7.2-3], it is shown that, with SCPIR
10dB MIMO still outperforms MSRD at SNR > 25 dB. It is also shown in [7.5-2],
that if a legacy MS is multiplexed with MIMO capable MS, spatial multiplexing
mode can be used to transmit data to MIMO capable MS and USF to the legacy MS.
Generally a large SCPIR is needed to meet the USF performance requirement by
the legacy MS in such case. MIMO performance in general degrades with
increased SCPIR. Therefore, the network should ensure that there is
performance benefit to the MIMO MS by applying spatial multiplexing mode with
a large SCPIR instead of applying single stream transmission.
### 7.2.4 Conclusion
This sub-clause presents the performance of 2x2 MIMO in spatial multiplexing
mode when same or different modulations are used in the MIMO streams. The
following conclusions can be drawn from the study in this sub-clause:
The impact of mixed modulation on the overall peak throughput depends on the
power imbalance between the streams. In case of SCPIR=0dB (i.e. equal power in
both streams), the overall maximum throughput is achieved if both streams have
the same modulation. As the SCPIR increases, the throughput with a mixed
modulation pair gets higher than that with a same modulation pair in the mid-
range of C/I or Es/No.
The BMD error has almost no impact on the MIMO peak throughput in spatial
multiplexing mode. In this evaluation BMD is performed in the two streams
separately.
However, the overall peak throughput decreases with the increase of the
absolute value of the SCPIR (in dB). The Es/No or C/I at which the spatial
multiplexing mode outperforms the diversity mode depends on the SCPIR.
The advantage of mixed modulation is that the link adaptation can be applied
independently on both streams in the same way as it is done in downlink dual
carrier operation. It may also be beneficial for retransmissions in EGPRS2-A
where otherwise the modulation scheme would have to be aligned between the
streams because not all modulations provide all MCS families. On the other
hand, the receiver is likely to make more modulation detection errors if mixed
modulation is used in the MIMO streams. However, it has been shown that the
impact of the BMD error is negligible.
By analysing the technical contributions in [7.2-1], [7.5-1], [7.2-3] and
[7.5-2], it can be concluded that the usage of mixed modulation for Downlink
MIMO is beneficial in case of non-zero SCPIR. The SCPIR value with a pair of
cross polarized antenna is likely to be zero, but the amount of SCPIR that can
naturally occur in the MIMO transmission system is not clear. Use of
artificially large SCPIR, in order to multiplex legacy user for USF
transmission, should be limited to reasonably high SNR condition only.
### 7.2.5 References
  1. GP-130983, \"Impact of Mixed Modulation on Downlink MIMO\", source NSN, GERAN#60.
  2. GP-130668, \"Blind detection for MIMO\", source Telefon AB LM Ericsson, ST-Ericsson SA, GERAN#59.
  3. GP-130469, \"_On SCPIR for MIMO\", source Telefon AB LM Ericsson, ST-Ericsson SA, GERAN#58._
  4. GP-130470, \"_On multiplexing with legacy services in MIMO\", source Telefon AB LM Ericsson, ST-Ericsson SA, GERAN#58._
## 7.3 Mode Adaptation
### 7.3.0 Overview
This clause depicts use cases of different modes and exemplary realizations of
the blind mode detection algorithm in the MS and of the mode adaptation
strategy executed by the network.
### 7.3.1 Use of different modes
In the \'dual stream transmission mode\', there are in effect 4 different
propagation paths. When the spatial correlation between the propagation paths
is sufficiently low, it should be possible for the MIMO receiver to estimate
the propagation paths and to jointly or iteratively detect each of the two
streams. The throughput is maximized by transmitting independent data streams
from both transmitters. Hence, this is referred to as spatial multiplexing
mode.
When the spatial correlation between the propagation paths is insufficient to
support spatial multiplexing, a single bit-stream with legacy training
sequence is modulated and transmitted either through two antennas or single
antenna. In this case the receiver benefits from transmit diversity and/or
receive diversity. Hence, this is referred to as diversity mode.
Figure 7.3.1.1 provides the impact of low, medium and high channel correlation
on EGPRS2-A peak MIMO throughput in dual stream spatial multiplexing mode as
well as in single stream diversity mode. Simulation results show that the
impact of channel correlation on the throughput of MIMO spatial multiplexing
mode is significant. Moreover, the Es/No at which the throughput of dual
stream spatial multiplexing mode exceeds the throughput of single stream
diversity mode varies from 13dB at low correlation to 25 dB at medium
correlation and to 33 dB at high correlation, see Figure 7.3.1.1.
{width="5.1in" height="3.7694444444444444in"}
Figure 7.3.1.1: Impact of different channel correlations on MIMO throughput
(2x2 Spatial Multiplexing and 1x2 MSRD), [7.3-1]
Therefore, it is important for the network to select one of the two
transmission modes depending on the channel correlation and Es/No in order to
maximize the overall throughput. Measurement and processing at the MS and
network side need to be considered in more detail, thus both the impact of
blind mode detection by the MS and the impact of transmission mode adaptation
by the network are described in the following clauses.
### 7.3.2 Blind mode detection at MS
In order to avoid any signalling to the MS by the network about the selected
transmission mode, it is essential that the MIMO capable MS blindly detects
the transmission mode in its receiver. There are two potential types of
detection errors:
a) false detection of single stream mode when actually dual stream mode is
used
b) false detection of dual stream mode when actually single stream is
transmitted
In case a) information sent on one of the MIMO streams will not be demodulated
and consequently lost.
In case b) however, the MS will try to demodulate two streams even though the
second stream does not exist. This causes unnecessary computations in the MS.
The transmitted information in the first stream might be impacted depending on
the receiver architecture. In a successive interference cancellation (SIC)
type receiver, where the demodulation of one stream affects the demodulation
of the other stream, there might be negative impact on the actually
transmitted stream if the receiver assumes the second stream (non-existent
stream) as the stronger one. However, this is very unlikely.
It has been shown in [7.3-2] that the impact of false detection of dual stream
transmission when actually single stream is transmitted is very small.
#### 7.3.2.1 Simulation Assumptions
In this analysis, the impact of false detection of single stream transmission
(case a in clause 7.3.2 above) is presented from link level simulations. The
simulation parameters are listed in Table 7.3.2.1.1.
Table 7.3.2.1.1: Simulation Parameters for Mode Detection
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Parameter** | **Value** | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Frequency bands | 1800 MHz | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Propagation | SCM-A | | | conditions | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Mobile speed | 3 km/hr | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Frequency hopping | Ideal | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | BTS/MS RF | Typical Tx/Rx (see | | | impairments | clause 7.2.1.1) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Interference | Single co-channel | | | | interference, with | | | | 8PSK modulation. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Channel Correlation | SCM-A specific for | | | | wanted signal, 0.7 | | | | for interference | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | SCPIR [dB] | 6 dB and 10 dB | | | | | | | 10log~10~(Power of | | | | stream 1/power of | | | | stream 2) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Back-off [dB] | Same as earlier | | | | simulations (see | | | | clause 7.2.1.1) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | MCSs | EGPRS2-A | 8-PSK | | | | (DAS-5...DAS-7) | | | | | | | | 16-QAM | | | | (DAS-8...DAS-9) | | | | | | | | 32-QAM | | | | (DAS-10...DAS-12) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | EGPRS | Not used | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Blind modulation | Enabled and | | | detection | independent in the | | | | two streams | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | MCS link adaptation | Ideal | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Training sequence | 1^st^ Stream: 5 from | | | codes | VAMOS Set 1 | | | | | | | | 2^nd^ Stream: 5 from | | | | VAMOS Set 2 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
The receiver used in this simulation employs channel estimation, followed by
separate interference cancellation and bit-detection for each stream. This is
neither a SIC type of receiver, nor a joint detection receiver. Blind
modulation detection (BMD) is enabled in the receiver for each stream
independently. BMD is performed after the channel estimation assuming all
possible modulations schemes including GMSK. The same receiver is also used in
the study of the impact of mixed modulation schemes in MIMO (see [7.3-3]).
The mode detection in the receiver is based on SNR estimation after the
interference cancellation. **In order to compute the SNR following steps were
used:**
a. energy of the received signal is calculated in the training sequence >
portion
b. reference signal was computed as convolution of the training > sequence
symbols and the estimated channel taps
c. the difference between the reference signal and the received signal > over
the training sequence portion is considered noise
d. summation of square of the noise samples (in step c) is the noise > energy
e. SNR is the signal energy computed in step a divided by the noise > energy
computed in step d
If SNR of the second stream is found to be below 2 dB, the receiver assumes
that single stream is not transmitted.
#### 7.3.2.2 Simulation Results
The simulation results are presented for the sensitivity case in Figure
7.3.2.2.1 and for the Cochannel interferer case in in Figure 7.3.2.2.2.
* * *
{width="3.3340277777777776in" height="2.2993055555555557in"}
{width="3.3340277777777776in" height="2.3055555555555554in"} Figure 7.3.2.2.1
Impact of Mode Detection when Dual Stream is transmitted (Sensitivity) Figure
7.3.2.2.2 Impact of Mode Detection when Dual Stream is transmitted (CCI)
* * *
It is noted that in both scenarios plots with ideal mode detection are
overlapping with the plots with mode detection enabled.
With the above depicted approach and within the simulated range of Es/No or
C/I, there is no single case of false detection of dual stream when actually
single stream is transmitted. When dual stream is transmitted, there are very
few occurrences of false detection of single stream transmission at very low
Es/No or C/I levels. However, the difference in throughput is so small that
the throughput plots with mode detection overlap with the reference plots as
it can be seen from Figure 7.3.2.2.1 and Figure 7.3.2.2.2. Most of the false
detection happens at very low Es/No of C/I levels, but at those levels even
with ideal detection transmitted data are not correctly decoded.
Therefore, it can be concluded that the impact of false detection has very
negligible impact on the overall throughput.
### 7.3.3 Transmission Mode Adaptation by the Network
The network needs to select the transmission mode based on the measurement
report provided by the MS. The elements in the measurement report in current
EGPRS and EGPRS2 system may not be sufficient and new elements will have to be
added to support the MIMO mode adaptation. As seen in Figure 7.3.1.1, the
overall throughput of MIMO is maximized if the right transmission mode is
selected by the transmitter based on the channel correlation and Es/No. This
clause analyses a mode adaptation technique based on the channel correlation
and SNR estimated by MS and reported to the network.
#### 7.3.3.1 Simulation Assumptions
In case of dual stream mode, the channel correlation estimation is based on
the four sets of channel taps estimated by the receiver. The four sets h~11~,
h~12~, h~21~, h~22~ correspond to the four paths between the two transmitting
antennas and the two receiving antennas, see Figure 5.2.1. Following co-
variance values are computed:
\- -cv1 between h~11~ and h~12~
\- cv2 between h~11~ and h~21~
\- cv3 between h~12~ and h~22~
\- cv4 between h~21~ and h~22~
The average of cv2 and cv3 is defined as Tx correlation and the average of cv1
and cv4 is defined as Rx correlation. The SNR is estimated before the bit
detection and the larger of the two values computed for the two streams is
selected. The SNR estimation method is the same as what is described in clause
7.3.2.
In case of single stream mode, the channel correlation is based only on the
two sets of channel taps h~11~ and h~12~ corresponding to the two paths
between the single transmitting antenna and the two receiving antennas.
Therefore, only cv1 is computed and it is defined as Rx correlation. Tx
correlation is set to 0. Since there is only one stream, only single SNR is
considered.
The metrics described above are averaged over a period of 4 TDMA frames i.e.
one RLC block period. The transmitter in the simulation setup makes a decision
about the transmission mode for the next RLC block period based on the metrics
computed by the receiver in the preceding RLC block. The decision logic used
by the network in selecting the transmission mode is given below.
\- Condition 1: SNR \0.5 and Rx Correlation>0.7
\- Condition 3: SNR \0.5 and Rx Correlation>0.9
If any of the above conditions is fulfilled, the transmitter selects the
single stream transmission mode, otherwise it selects the dual stream
transmission mode.
The algorithm described above is evaluated with a limited set of simulations.
The simulation parameters are listed in Table 7.3.3.1.1.
Table 7.3.3.1.1: Simulation Parameters for Mode Adaptation
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Parameter** | **Value** | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Frequency bands | 1800 MHz | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Propagation | SCM-A | | | conditions | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Mobile speed | 3 km/hr | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Frequency hopping | Ideal | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | BTS/MS RF | Typical Tx/Rx (see | | | impairments | clause 7.2.1.1) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Interference | Not used. Only | | | | sensitivity | | | | considered. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Channel Correlation | Variable correlation | | | | model with | | | | | | | | Low correlation α, β | | | | = {0.0, 0.0}, | | | | | | | | Medium correlation | | | | α, β = {0.3, 0.9}, | | | | | | | | High correlation α, | | | | β = {0.3, 0.9} | | | | | | | | (see clause 6.3.1 | | | | for description of | | | | the channel model) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | SCPIR [dB] | 0 dB (other SCPIR | | | | values will be | | | 10log~10~(Power of | evaluated later) | | | stream 1/power of | | | | stream 2) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Back-off [dB] | Same as earlier | | | | simulations (see | | | | clause 7.2.1.1) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | MCSs | EGPRS2-A | 8-PSK | | | | (DAS-5...DAS-7) | | | | | | | | 16-QAM | | | | (DAS-8...DAS-9) | | | | | | | | 32-QAM | | | | (DAS-10...DAS-12) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | EGPRS | Not used | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Blind modulation | Enabled and | | | detection | independent in the | | | | two streams | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | MCS link adaptation | Ideal | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Training sequence | 1^st^ Stream: 5 from | | | codes | VAMOS Set 1 | | | | | | | | 2^nd^ Stream: 5 from | | | | VAMOS Set 2 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
The reference in this comparative evaluation is defined as the throughput with
constant single stream mode and also constant dual stream mode without mode
adaptation. The envelope of this is defined as the throughput with ideal mode
adaptation. The reference case also assumes mode detection in the receiver.
The aim of the mode adaptation technique is to meet the performance of ideal
mode adaptation.
#### 7.3.3.2 Simulation Results
The simulation results are presented for low, medium and high channel
correlation in Figures 7.3.3.2.1 to 7.3.3.2.3.
{width="4.596527777777778in" height="3.3152777777777778in"}
Figure 7.3.3.2.1: Impact of Mode Adaptation in case of low correlation
{width="4.603472222222222in" height="3.3159722222222223in"}
Figure 7.3.3.2.2: Impact of Mode Adaptation in case of medium correlation
{width="4.603472222222222in" height="3.3201388888888888in"}
Figure 7.3.3.2.3: Impact of Mode Adaptation in case of high correlation
It is evident from Figures 7.3.3.2.1 to 7.3.3.2.3 that the overall throughput
envelope with mode adaptation enabled follows the envelope with constant dual
stream transmission at medium and high Es/No irrespective of channel
correlation used in the simulation. At low Es/No, the mode adaptation
algorithm switches to single stream mode and leads to better throughput.
However, the improvement is still not meeting the throughput of constant
single stream transmission mode at the low Es/No values.
In case of high channel correlation setting (Figure 7.3.3.2.3) the mode
adaptation algorithm is sticking to dual stream mode for a range of Es/No
values where switching to single stream mode would provide slightly better
overall throughput. Thus there is room for optimization of the algorithm
depicted in clause 7.3.3.1 to minimize this performance loss.
It is noted that for the above depicted investigation, the feedback channel,
carrying the signalling of the channel correlation estimate, has been assumed
ideal (i.e. no latency and error free). Further investigation is needed to
assess the impact due to non-ideal feedback channel conditions.
### 7.3.4 References
[7.3-1] GP-130686, \"MIMO Channel Model with Variable Spatial Correlation\",
source NSN, GERAN#59.
[7.3-2] GP-130668, \"Blind detection for MIMO\", source Telefon AB LM
Ericsson, ST-Ericsson SA, GERAN#59.
[7.3-3] _GP-130983, \"Impact of Mixed Modulation on Downlink MIMO\", source
NSN, GERAN#60._
## 7.4 Link Adaptation
Link adaptation in the single stream mode follows the existing procedure for
EGPRS or EGPRS2, respectively. Link adaptation in the spatial multiplexing
mode is treated in the following.
In the spatial multiplexing mode, efficiency will further improve if link
adaptation works independently on each stream. This requires channel quality
measurements independently in each stream. Thus, the existing link quality
reporting for Downlink Dual Carrier (DLDC) can be reused:
  * In DL DC, a second EGPRS Channel Quality Report was incorporated > into the EGPRS Packet Downlink Ack/Nack message, so that link > quality measurements for both carriers can be reported in the same > message (see 3GPP _TS 44.060,_ clause 11.2.6a). This includes > support for EGPRS2-A modulation and coding schemes.
  * DLDC also introduced a reporting procedure for when there is > insufficient space in the EGPRS Packet Downlink Ack/Nack message > for two reports whereby only the channel quality report pertaining > to the carrier on which the poll was received will be sent.
  * Mapping the carrier specific measurements to the MIMO stream > specific measurements. The existing MEAN_BEP and CV_BEP > measurement quantities, already introduced for DLDC for both > carriers, together with the total signal power of the stream can > therefore be utilized to control the used modulation and coding > scheme on a per stream basis.
In addition, link quality reporting for Downlink MIMO requires signalling a
channel correlation estimate (such as channel correlation between both streams
is high, medium or low) to decide at the network side if link adaptation
should be performed on the basis of a single or two spatial streams. The
latter aspect was investigated in clause 7.3.3 as part of the MIMO
transmission mode adaptation.
## 7.5 Other RLC/MAC Protocol Aspects
### 7.5.1 Multi-slot Class
It is assumed that an MS supporting DL MIMO supports dual stream transmission
on all assigned timeslots of a DL TBF wherein the maximum number of timeslots
supported for DL MIMO is indicated by the multislot class as defined in TS
45.002 Annex B [5] unless restricted by the DL MIMO multislot reduction
parameter as described below.
A DL MIMO capable MS may need a multislot capability reduction to support the
MS to reduce the baseband processing load as the DL MIMO receiver would be
more complex than a legacy MS receiver. This is taken into account by a new DL
MIMO multislot capability reduction parameter, e.g. signalled by the MS to the
network. In this case, the network will reduce the timeslot assignment for the
MS in DL MIMO configuration in accordance with the signalled multislot class
and multislot capability reduction parameter. The details of the encoding of
the multislot capability reduction parameter are left for the specification
phase.
It is left for further study to find out how multislot capability reduction
signalling can be designed if a DL MIMO capable MS also supports DLDC or DLMC.
### 7.5.2 TBF Establishment
If the network and mobile station both support DL MIMO, the network may send a
packet assignment message or a PS HANDOVER COMMAND message to a mobile station
indicating support for DL MIMO configuration. The configuration can be changed
via a subsequent packet assignment message. There will be a new IE in the
assignment message indicating an assignment type of \'MIMO assignment\'.
The same timeslot (PDCH) assignment is used for both spatial streams in
spatial multiplexing mode. Both streams belong to the same TBF. Block sequence
numbers for both streams belong to the same RLC engine.
In order to avoid added complexity, multiple TBF mode will not to be supported
with DL MIMO configuration.
### 7.5.3 TBF Operation
A MIMO capable MS in DL MIMO configuration is able to receive both dual stream
and single stream transmission mode. Single stream mode can be used
occasionally in DL MIMO configuration due to radio conditions, or when a
legacy MS is allocated the same timeslot. Whether the MIMO capable MS detects
the transmission mode blindly or it needs signalling from the network about
the used transmission mode is left for further study. It has been demonstrated
in [7.5-1] that even if the MIMO capable MS always operates its receiver in
spatial multiplexing mode, the overall performance loss due to occasional
false detection of spatial multiplexing mode while the network actually used
single stream mode is negligible. Continuous operation of the receiver in
spatial multiplexing mode, however, will lead to additional power consumption
as the complexity of the MIMO receiver for spatial multiplexing mode is higher
than that of the receiver for a dedicated single stream transmission mode.
Different coding schemes and modulations can be used on the two streams in
spatial multiplexing mode.
For Downlink MIMO configurations TBFs will operate in EGPRS TBF mode (DL MIMO
supports also EGPRS2-A which uses EGPRS TBF mode).
In dual stream transmission, any control message is sent on either stream
(control messages are as defined in 3GPP TS 44.060 [6]). All segments
belonging to each RLC/MAC control message will be sent on the same stream.
In dual stream transmission the same USF is sent on both streams. However, if
different modulations are used in two streams, the encoded USF bits in the air
interface are different. The mobile transmits in the next RLC block period(s)
according to the signalled USF granularity if the decoded USF is targeted to
itself.
### 7.5.4 Multiplexing of legacy MSs (USF, PAN)
The multiplexing of a MIMO capable MS in DL MIMO configuration on the same
timeslot as a legacy mobile, with the USF/PAN intended for the legacy MS, can
be achieved with either a temporary transmission of a single stream or dual
stream transmission.
When using spatial multiplexing mode, a large SCPIR is typically needed to be
used. This is explained in detail in [7.5-2]. Based on the analysis given in
[7.5-2], it can be deduced that the network will have to decide carefully when
to use this mechanism because spatial multiplexing mode may have negative
impact on USF/PAN decoding performance in some type of legacy MS. The network
should also ensure that there is performance benefit to the MIMO MS by
applying spatial multiplexing mode with a large SCPIR instead of applying
single stream transmission.
### 7.5.5 References
  1. GP-130668, \"Blind detection for MIMO\", source Telefon AB LM Ericsson, ST-Ericsson SA, GERAN#59.
  2. GP-130470, \"_On multiplexing with legacy services in MIMO\", source Telefon AB LM Ericsson, ST-Ericsson SA, GERAN#58._
## 7.6 Signalling
### 7.6.1 MS Capability Signalling
_This clause treats how a MIMO capable MS can signal its MIMO capabilities
(e.g. level of support in terms of MIMO modes and modulation types) to the
network._
_In particular, a MIMO capable MS needs to notify the network about its multi-
slot capability for DL MIMO operation prior to entering the EGPRS TBF mode
using DL MIMO. For DL MIMO operation, it is required to specify support for
assignment of a TBF using up to 16 PDCHs (corresponding to a maximum of 8
PDCHs for each of the spatial streams). Given that the same principle exists
in Downlink Dual Carrier (DLDC), where up to 16 PDCHs can be assigned for a
TBF on two carriers, it is expected that the existing multislot
configurations, specified for DLDC, based on the same or similar equivalent
multislot class and multislot capability reduction indicator, can largely be
reused for DL MIMO._
_Assuming that the support of modulation and coding schemes is signalled
within the EGPRS or EGPRS2 capability, the DL MIMO capable MS needs to signal
its DL MIMO capability (1 bit indicator) within MSRAC to the network. In
addition, it needs to signal its MIMO multislot class capability to the
network, similar as being the case for a DLDC capable MS. In case the MS also
supports DLDC, information on the DL MIMO multislot capability may be reduced
to indicate only differences with regard to DLDC, for instance signalling a
different multislot capability reduction indicator._
### 7.6.2 Mode Adaptation Signalling
_This clause depicts the benefit of signalling means for mode adaptation._
_As described in clauses 7.3 and 7.4, the network needs to have means to
decide to transmit using a single or two spatial streams. In addition to the
link quality which is reported on a per stream basis, the network is hence
required to receive a channel correlation estimate (such as channel
correlation between both downlink streams is high, medium or low) to decide on
transmission mode adaptation using a single or two spatial streams. The MS
needs to send such channel correlation estimate as part of a measurement
report when being polled by the network. Due to the latency of the feedback
channel and the delay due to the determination of the channel correlation
estimate, the decision at the network side is not able to follow the change in
channel correlation in case of high mobility or short channel coherence time.
In such cases, the control loop needs to be based on longer averaging of the
measurements._
_For supporting the determination of channel correlation estimates at the MS,
the network needs to send specific thresholds and parameters on the dedicated
signalling channel to the MS. The signalling depends on the required
resolution of the reported channel correlation estimate. For instance if a
decision on low, medium and high correlation between the streams is
sufficient, then a couple of thresholds may be sufficient, otherwise more
information needs to be signalled to the MS prior to EGPRS TBF operation in DL
MIMO mode._
# 8 Performance Evaluation
## 8.1 Transmitter assumption
Transmitter impairment values for a typical BTS, as given in Table 8.1.1, are
used for performance evaluations [8-1].
Table 8.1.1: Transmitter Impairments
* * *
**Impairment** **Legacy single carrier BTS (per TRX)**
Phase noise [degrees (RMS)] 1.2
I/Q gain imbalance [dB] 0.1
I/Q phase imbalance [degrees] 0.1
DC offset [dBc] -45
Frequency error [Hz] 15 (900 MHz)\ 30 (1800 MHz)
Tx path time misalignment [normal symbol periods] 0.25
* * *
## 8.2 Receiver assumptions
The MIMO receiver being used in the analysis in clause 7.2 is also used for
the performance evaluation. The block diagram of the receiver is shown in
Figure 8.2.1. This receiver employs channel estimation, followed by separate
interference cancellation (IRC) and bit-detection for each stream. Before bit
detection, a frequency domain prefiltering is used to convert the system to
minimum phase. The frequency domain prefilter (SC-FDE), shown in Figure 8.2.2,
multiplies FFT output of signal, {R~n~}, by the complex-valued forward
equalizer coefficients {W~n~} (which compensate for the frequency selective
channel\'s variations of amplitude and phase with frequency). An IFFT
operation brings the weight-equalized complex-valued samples in time-domain
sequences. Finally the time domain sequence goes through the reduced state
bit-detection process for soft bit detection in each stream.
This is neither a successive interference cancellation (SIC) type of receiver,
nor a joint detection (JD) receiver and it is seen in a number of simulations
that the performance is similar to SIC or JD receivers but with much less
complexity.
Blind modulation detection (BMD) is enabled in the receiver. BMD is performed
after the channel estimation assuming all possible modulations schemes
including GMSK. In addition, blind mode detection is enabled. The mode
detection in the receiver is based on SNR estimation after the interference
cancellation. If SNR of the second stream is found to be below the chosen
threshold of 2 dB, the receiver assumes that single stream is transmitted
[8-2]. The blocks with hatched lines in Figure 8.2.1 are used if the mode
detection process detects the presence of second stream.
The blocks with solid white filling constitute the reference MSRD receiver for
legacy non-MIMO operation. Therefore, the complexity of the MIMO receiver is
approximately twice the complexity of the reference non-MIMO receiver.
Receiver impairment values are given in Table 8.2.1.
{width="6.689583333333333in" height="1.3375in"}
Figure 8.2.1: MIMO receiver structure used for performance evaluation
{width="3.607638888888889in" height="0.625in"}
Figure 8.2.2: Single Carrier Frequency Domain Equalizer (SC-FDE)
Table 8.2.1: Receiver Impairments
* * *
**Impairment** **Rx diversity capable device (per Rx path) (Taken from 3GPP TR
45.860 [4])**
Phase noise [degrees (RMS)] 1.2
I/Q gain imbalance [dB] 0.2
I/Q phase imbalance [degrees] 2.0
DC offset [dBc] -40
Frequency error [Hz] 25 (900 MHz)\ 50 (1800 MHz)
Rx path time misalignment [symbols] negligible
* * *
## 8.3 Simulation scenario
The link level performance evaluation is first grouped according to the
correlation models used, i.e. SCM and variable correlation channel model. In
each group the results are divided into sensitivity and interference
scenarios. In each scenario, the results are further grouped according to
propagation conditions. The simulation parameters relevant to simulation
scenarios are listed in Table 8.3.1 [8-1].
Table 8.3.1: Simulation scenarios and parameters
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Parameter** | **Value** | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Transmission Mode | Single stream MSRD | | | | (reference) | | | | | | | | Single stream (in | | | | MIMO mode, blind | | | | mode detection | | | | enabled) | | | | | | | | - with MSRD | | | | | | | | - with Tx | | | | > diversity and | | | | > MSRD | | | | | | | | Dual stream (2x2 | | | | MIMO) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Training Sequence | Single stream mode: | | | | TSC 5 from TSC Set 1 | | | | | | | | Dual stream mode: | | | | TSC 5 from TSC Set 1 | | | | and TSC Set 2. | | | | | | | | In case of mixed | | | | modulation other | | | | combinations can be | | | | used if benefit is | | | | seen. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Channel model | A modified SCM as | | | | described in clause | | | | 6.2 for dual stream | | | | mode | | | | | | | | Variable correlation | | | | model as described | | | | in clause 6.3 for | | | | both dual stream | | | | mode and single | | | | stream mode | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Modulations | Single stream mode: | | | | all supported | | | | modulations in EGPRS | | | | and EGPRS2-A | | | | | | | | Dual stream mode: | | | | all supported | | | | modulations in EGPRS | | | | and EGPRS2-A except | | | | GMSK. Both streams | | | | can have the same or | | | | different | | | | modulations. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Frequency bands | - 900 MHz (antenna | | | | correlation model) | | | | | | | | -1800 MHz (SCM) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Propagation | 900 MHz | | | conditions | | | | | - Sensitivity | | | | | | | | - SCM-A3iFH | | | | | | | | - TU3iFH | | | | | | | | - Interference | | | | | | | | - SCM-A3iFH | | | | | | | | - TU3iFH | | | | | | | | 1800 MHz | | | | | | | | - Sensitivity | | | | | | | | - SCM-A3iFH | | | | | | | | - TU3iFH | | | | | | | | - RA130nFH | | | | | | | | - Interference | | | | | | | | - SCM-A3iFH | | | | | | | | - TU3iFH | | | | | | | | - RA130nFH | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Interference | Multiple | | | | interference sources | | | | as defined for DTS-2 | | | | interference profile | | | | with 8PSK | | | | modulation. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Channel Correlation | Wanted signal: | | | | | | | | For SCM model it is | | | | SCM specific. | | | | | | | | For variable | | | | correlation model: | | | | α, β = {0.0, 0.0}, | | | | {0.0, 0.7} and {0.3, | | | | 0.7} | | | | | | | | Interference: | | | | | | | | 0.7 (if SCM model is | | | | used for wanted | | | | signal) | | | | | | | | β (if variable | | | | correlation model is | | | | used for wanted | | | | signal) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | SCPIR [dB] | 0 dB and 10 dB | | | | [SCPIR = | | | | 10log~10~(Power of | | | | stream 1/power of | | | | stream 2)] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Back-off [dB] | Sensitivity: | | | | Theoretical PAR | | | | taken from TR | | | | 45.860, clause 8: | | | | 3.2 dB for 8PSK, 4.7 | | | | dB for 16-QAM and | | | | 5.1 dB for 32-QAM | | | | | | | | DTS-2: 0 dB for all | | | | modulations | | | | | | | | Additional back-off | | | | based on SCPIR (as | | | | given in Table | | | | 7.2.1.1.2) in the | | | | transmit power in | | | | dual stream mode and | | | | single stream Tx | | | | diversity mode, for | | | | both sensitivity and | | | | DTS-2, to compare | | | | with single antenna | | | | transmission power. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | MCSs | EGPRS2-A | GMSK (MCS-1...MCS-4) | | | | | | | | 8-PSK | | | | (DAS-5...DAS-7) | | | | | | | | 16-QAM | | | | (DAS-8...DAS-9) | | | | | | | | 32-QAM | | | | (DAS-10...DAS-12) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | EGPRS | GMSK (MCS-1...MCS-4) | | | | | | | | 8-PSK | | | | (MCS-5...MCS-9) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Blind modulation | Enabled | | | detection | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Blind MIMO mode | Enabled | | | detection | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | MCS link adaptation | Ideal | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
## 8.4 Simulation results using SCM profiles
In these simulations the channel correlation values are taken from the SCM-A
profile as described in clause 6.2 and in [8]. The tap-delay settings are
taken from the following three propagation conditions:
1) SCM-A 3 km/hr with ideal frequency hopping ([8]),
2) TU 3 km/hr with ideal frequency hopping ([3]) and
3) RA 130 km/hr with no frequency hopping ([3]).
As mentioned in Table 8.3.1, only the 1800 MHz frequency band is used. In case
of dual stream transmission, modulations in both streams are the same if SCPIR
is 0 dB and mixed otherwise.
The plots below show the envelope throughput with ideal link adaptation in
different scenarios mentioned above (i.e. sensitivity and DTS-2 interference
profile).
{width="3.1506944444444445in"
height="2.1708333333333334in"}{width="3.1506944444444445in"
height="2.1805555555555554in"}
a) SCM-A 3 km/hr ideal FH b) TU3 km/hr ideal FH
{width="3.1506944444444445in" height="2.178472222222222in"}
c) RA 130 km/hr no FH
Figure 8.4.1: Sensitivity performance with SCM-A correlation, 1800 MHz,
SCPIR=0 dB
From Figures 8.4.1 (a) and (b), it can be seen that the dual stream MIMO mode
offers significant increase in throughput compared with single stream mode at
moderate and high Es/No. While this is true for the low speed scenario, at
high speed (RA 130 km/hr) (see Figure 8.4.1c), no benefit of the dual stream
MIMO mode is observed.
{width="3.1506944444444445in" height="2.175in"}{width="3.1506944444444445in"
height="2.175in"}
a) SCM-A 3 km/hr ideal FH b) TU3 km/hr ideal FH
{width="3.1506944444444445in" height="2.175in"}
c) RA 130 km/hr no FH
Figure 8.4.2: Sensitivity performance with SCM-A correlation, 1800 MHz,
SCPIR=10 dB
From Figures 8.4.2 (a) and (b), it can be seen that, if the SCPIR is high, the
dual stream MIMO mode offers increased throughput compared with the single
stream mode only at high Es/No. If high SCPIR is combined with high speed
(e.g. RA 130 km/hr in Figure 8.4.2c), single stream MSRD mode actually
outperforms dual stream mode.
{width="3.1506944444444445in"
height="2.1708333333333334in"}{width="3.1506944444444445in"
height="2.1708333333333334in"}
a) SCM-A 3 km/hr ideal FH b) TU3 km/hr ideal FH
{width="3.1506944444444445in" height="2.1708333333333334in"}
c) RA 130 km/hr no FH
Figure 8.4.3: DTS-2 interference performance SCM-A correlation, 1800 MHz,
SCPIR=0 dB
{width="3.1506944444444445in" height="2.175in"}{width="3.1506944444444445in"
height="2.175in"}
a) SCM-A 3 km/hr ideal FH b) TU3 km/hr ideal FH
{width="3.1506944444444445in" height="2.175in"}
c) RA 130 km/hr no FH
Figure 8.4.4: DTS-2 interference performance in RA 130 km/hr no FH with SCM-A
correlation, 1800 MHz, SCPIR=10 dB
MIMO performance in case of DTS-2 interference scenario is similar to the
performance in sensitivity scenario as can be seen in Figures 8.4.3 and 8.4.4.
Dual stream MIMO mode offers significant increase in throughput compared with
the single stream mode at moderate and high C/I if SCPIR is low and only at
high C/I if SCPIR is high. If high SCPIR is combined with high speed (e.g. RA
130 km/hr), single stream MSRD mode actually outperforms dual stream mode.
## 8.5 Simulation results with variable channel/antenna correlation
In these simulations, the variable correlation channel model as described in
clause 6.3 and in [7] is used. The tap-delay settings are taken from the
following two propagation conditions:
1) SCM-A 3 km/hr with ideal frequency hopping ([8]) and
2) TU 3 km/hr with ideal frequency hopping ([3])
As mentioned in Table 8.3.1, only the 900 MHz frequency band is used. Three
different correlation settings as mentioned in Table 8.3.1 are simulated. In
order to limit the simulation effort only SCPIR of 0 dB is considered. In case
of dual stream transmission, modulations in both streams are considered to be
the same.
The plots below show the envelope throughput with ideal link adaptation in
different scenarios mentioned above (i.e. sensitivity and DTS-2 interference
profile).
{width="3.1506944444444445in"
height="2.1708333333333334in"}{width="3.1506944444444445in"
height="2.1708333333333334in"}
a) SCM-A 3 km/hr ideal FH b) TU3 km/hr ideal FH
Figure 8.5.1: Sensitivity performance in 900 MHz, SCPIR=0 dB, correlation α=0,
β=0
{width="3.1506944444444445in"
height="2.1708333333333334in"}{width="3.1506944444444445in"
height="2.1708333333333334in"}
a) SCM-A 3 km/hr ideal FH b) TU3 km/hr ideal FH
Figure 8.5.2: Sensitivity performance in 900 MHz, SCPIR=0 dB, correlation α=0,
β=0.7
{width="3.1506944444444445in"
height="2.1708333333333334in"}{width="3.1506944444444445in"
height="2.1708333333333334in"}
a) SCM-A 3 km/hr ideal FH b) TU3 km/hr ideal FH
Figure 8.5.3: Sensitivity performance 900 MHz, SCPIR=0 dB, correlation α=0.3,
β=0.7
{width="3.1506944444444445in"
height="2.1708333333333334in"}{width="3.1506944444444445in"
height="2.1708333333333334in"}
a) SCM-A 3 km/hr ideal FH b) TU3 km/hr ideal FH
Figure 8.5.4: DTS-2 interference performance 900 MHz, SCPIR=0 dB, correlation
α=0, β=0
{width="3.1506944444444445in"
height="2.1708333333333334in"}{width="3.1506944444444445in"
height="2.1708333333333334in"}
a) SCM-A 3 km/hr ideal FH b) TU3 km/hr ideal FH
Figure 8.5.5: DTS-2 interference performance in 900 MHz, SCPIR=0 dB,
correlation α=0, β=0.7
{width="3.1506944444444445in"
height="2.1708333333333334in"}{width="3.1506944444444445in"
height="2.1708333333333334in"}
a) SCM-A 3 km/hr ideal FH b) TU3 km/hr ideal FH
Figure 8.5.6: DTS-2 interference performance in 900 MHz, SCPIR=0 dB,
correlation α=0.3, β=0.7
From the figures in this clause one can see that the MIMO performance in case
of variable correlation channel model is similar to the performance in SCM-A
model. Dual stream MIMO mode offers significant increase in throughput
compared with the single stream mode at moderate and high Es/No and C/I. In
case of higher correlation settings i.e. α=0.3, β=0.7, there is a slight
degradation in performance.
## 8.6 Performance Summary
Based on the detailed performance evaluation results provided in clauses 8.4
and 8.5, this clause provides a summary of the throughput comparison between
dual stream MIMO mode and single stream MSRD mode. In order to make the
comparison over a range of realistic SINR values, a SINR probability
distribution, shown in Table 8.6.1, is taken from Table A.1 in Annex A of TR
45.860 [4] for a 3/9 frequency reuse network.
Table 8.6.1: SINR distribution used in Sensitivity and DTS-2 scenario.
* * *
**SINR** **Probability** 10 0.04 15 0.18 20 0.29 25 0.23 30 0.13 35 0.07 40
0.06
* * *
In a particular propagation profile, the throughput gains at each SINR value
given in Table 8.6.1 is multiplied by the probability of the respective SINR
and the products for all the SINR values are added to compute the overall
throughput gain in that profile.
In case of DTS-2 simulation, the C/I1 levels are converted into appropriate
SINR value using the relative levels of multiple interference sources and the
thermal noise compared to the dominant interference level as specified for
DTS-2 setup in [3].
The overall summary of 2x2 MIMO throughput gain as percentage improvement over
single stream MSRD mode is given in Table 8.6.2 to Table 8.6.5.
It is already explained in clauses 8.4 and 8.5 that at high SCPIR and high
speed, single stream MSRD outperforms dual stream MIMO mode. Therefore, a
negative gain is observed in case of RA130 profile in the summary tables.
The overall throughput of dual stream MIMO, however, can be about 33% higher
than that of single stream MSRD mode at low MS speed. The gain is reduced in
case very high SCPIR or high spatial correlation.
It is also evident that the overall gain of the dual stream MIMO mode over the
single stream MSRD mode is seen more in EGPRS than in EGPRS2-A. It is because,
in case of EGPRS2-A operation, the gain is observed only at a very high SINR
range. The probability of experiencing such high SINR is much less in the real
network and hence the overall gain is less compared to the gain seen in case
of EGPRS operation.
Table 8.6.2: 2x2 MIMO Throughput Gain over Single Stream MSRD: EGPRS, SCM
Profiles
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | SCPIR 0 | SCPIR | | | | | | | dB | 10 dB | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | ** ** | SCM-A | TU 3 | RA130 | SCM-A | TU 3 | RA130 | | | | km/hr | km/hr | | km/hr | km/hr | | | 3 km/hr | ideal | no FH | 3 km/hr | ideal | no FH | | | | FH | | | FH | | | | ideal | | | ideal | | | | | FH | | | FH | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Sens | 32% | 33% | 2% | 12% | 11% | -20% | | itivity | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | DTS-2 | 27% | 37% | 7% | 15% | 18% | -18% | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
Table 8.6.3: 2x2 MIMO Throughput Gain over Single Stream MSRD: EGPRS2-A, SCM
Profiles
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | ** ** | **SCPIR |** SCPIR | | | | | | | 0 dB**| 10 dB** | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | ** ** | ** | **TU 3 |** RA130 | ** | **TU 3 |** RA130 | | | SCM-A**| km/hr | km/hr | SCM-A** | km/hr | km/hr | | | | ideal | no FH**| | ideal | no FH** | | | **3 | FH** | | **3 | FH** | | | | km/hr**| | | km/hr** | | | | | | | | | | | | | **ideal | | |** ideal | | | | | FH**| | | FH** | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | * | **17%** | **12%** | * | **-2%** | **-7%** | * | | _Sensit | | |_ -16%**| | | *-20%** | | ivity**| | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | ** |** 2%**|** 1%**| * |** -7%**| * | * | | DTS-2** | | | _-24%__| |_ -12%**| *-22%** | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
Table 8.6.4: 2x2 MIMO Throughput Gain over Single Stream MSRD: EGPRS, Variable
Correlation Profiles (SCPIR 0 dB)
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | ** ** | * | * | * | | | | | | _α=0.0, |_ α=0.0, | _α=0.3, | | | | | | β=0.0_ _| β=0.7_ _| β=0.7_ _| | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | ** ** | ** |__TU 3 | ** |__TU 3 | ** |__TU 3 | | | SCM-A_ _| km/hr | SCM-A_ _| km/hr | SCM-A_ _| km/hr | | | | ideal | | ideal | | ideal | | |__3 | FH_ _|__3 | FH_ _|__3 | FH_ _| | | km/hr_ _| | km/hr_ _| | km/hr_ _| | | | | | | | | | | |__ideal | |__ideal | |__ideal | | | | FH_ _| | FH_ _| | FH_ _| | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | * |__33%__|__27%__|__32%__|__27%__|__31%__|__26%__| |_ Sensit | | | | | | | | ivity**| | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | ** |** 35%**|** 28%**|** 31%**|** 26%**|** 30%**|** 25%**| | DTS-2** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
Table 8.6.5: 2x2 MIMO Throughput Gain over Single Stream MSRD: EGPRS2-A,
Variable Correlation Profiles (SCPIR 0 dB)
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | ** ** | * | * | * | | | | | | _α=0.0, |_ α=0.0, | _α=0.3, | | | | | | β=0.0_ _| β=0.7_ _| β=0.7_ _| | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | ** ** | ** |__TU 3 | ** |__TU 3 | ** |__TU 3 | | | SCM-A_ _| km/hr | SCM-A_ _| km/hr | SCM-A_ _| km/hr | | | | ideal | | ideal | | ideal | | |__3 | FH_ _|__3 | FH_ _|__3 | FH_ _| | | km/hr_ _| | km/hr_ _| | km/hr_ _| | | | | | | | | | | |__ideal | |__ideal | |__ideal | | | | FH_ _| | FH_ _| | FH_ _| | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | * |__22%__|__12%__|__20%__|__13%__|__19%__|__11%__| |_ Sensit | | | | | | | | ivity**| | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | ** |** 11%**|** -3%**|** 7%**|** -5%**|** 5%**|** -6%**| | DTS-2** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
The legacy single stream transmission mode with single receive antenna is out
of scope in the comparison analysis, but it is expected to see further gains
from dual stream MIMO mode if single stream mode with single antenna receiver
is used as the baseline.
## 8.7 References
[8-1] GP-140335, \"Downlink MIMO Simulation Assumptions for Final Performance
Evaluation\", source NSN, GERAN#62.
[8-2] GP-140581, \"Mode Adaptation in Downlink MIMO\", source Nokia Networks,
GERAN#63.
[8-3] David Falconer, \"Frequency domain Equalisation for Single-Carrier
Broadband Wireless Systems,\" IEEE Communications Magazine, Apr. 2002, pp.
58-66.
[8-4] GP-130686 -- \"MIMO Channel Model with Variable Spatial Correlation\",
source NSN, GERAN#59.
# 9 Compatibility analysis
This clause depicts the compatibility study for DL MIMO according to the
defined compatibility objectives. Both coexistence of MIMO users with legacy
GSM/EDGE users and impact to network elements such as base station and mobile
station are analysed.
## 9.1 Coexistence with Legacy Services
This clause investigates the impact from MIMO for Downlink channels to speech
and data performance for legacy users while priority is given to avoid
negative impact to legacy speech service. The impact of the new interference
type on legacy channels is investigated by link level simulation.
### 9.1.1 Simulation Assumptions
The impact from the 2x2 DL MIMO interference type is compared in terms of FER
or BLER performance, respectively, against the reference case where the wanted
signal experiences the legacy interference. Table 9.1.1.1 shows the simulation
scenarios and parameters.
Table 9.1.1.1: Simulation Assumptions
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameter | Value | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Frequency bands | 1800 MHz | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Propagation conditions | TU 1.5 km/hr ideal Frequency | | | Hopping | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | BTS/MS RF impairments | Typical Tx/Rx (see Table | | | 7.2.1.1.3 and Table 7.2.1.1.4) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Interference types | Single Co-channel and DTS-2 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Modulation types for legacy | 8PSK | | interference | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Modulation types for DL MIMO | Dual stream 8PSK+8PSK | | interference | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | Dual stream 16QAM+16QAM | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | Dual stream 16QAM+8PSK | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Logical channels for the wanted | Speech: TCH/AFS12.2 | | signal | | | | Data: EGPRS PDTCH MCS-1, MCS-4, | | | MCS-5, MCS-7 and MCS-9 | | | | | | EGPRS2-A DAS-9 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Receiver type | Single receiving antenna | | | | | | SAIC processing for GMSK speech | | | | | | Time domain MMSE+DFE receiver | | | for 8PSK and 16QAM | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
An attenuation of 3 dB is applied to each of the interference signals
transmitted in dual stream MIMO mode in order to make the total power
equivalent to a legacy interference signal.
### 9.1.2 Simulation Results
The first set of simulation results evaluates the impact of 2x2 MIMO
interference in a single co-channel interference scenario and the second set
in a DTS-2 type interference scenario. Figure 9.1.2.1 provides the simulation
results for the CCI case and Figure 9.1.2.2 for the DTS-2 case.
{width="4.277777777777778in" height="2.6777777777777776in"}
a) TCH/AFS12.2
> {width="3.2083333333333335in"
> height="2.0083333333333333in"}{width="3.2083333333333335in"
> height="2.0083333333333333in"}
b) MCS-1 c) MCS-4
{width="3.2083333333333335in"
height="2.0083333333333333in"}{width="3.2083333333333335in"
height="2.0083333333333333in"}
d) MCS-5 e) MCS-7
{width="3.2083333333333335in"
height="2.0083333333333333in"}{width="3.2083333333333335in"
height="2.0083333333333333in"}
f) MCS-9 g) DAS-9
Figure 9.1.2.1: Impact of 2x2 DL MIMO Interference in Single Co-Channel
Interference Scenario
> {width="4.277777777777778in" height="2.6777777777777776in"}
>
> a) TCH/AFS12.2
{width="3.2083333333333335in"
height="2.0083333333333333in"}{width="3.2083333333333335in"
height="2.0083333333333333in"}
b) MCS-1 c) MCS-4
{width="3.2083333333333335in"
height="2.0083333333333333in"}{width="3.2083333333333335in"
height="2.0083333333333333in"}
d) MCS-5 e) MCS-7
{width="3.2083333333333335in"
height="2.0083333333333333in"}{width="3.2083333333333335in"
height="2.0083333333333333in"}
f) MCS-9 g) DAS-9
Figure 9.1.2.2: Impact of 2x2 DL MIMO Interference in DTS-2 Interference
Scenario
### 9.1.3 Evaluation Summary
Table 9.1.3.1 summarizes the gain/loss at 1% FER for speech service and 10%
BLER for data service.
Table 9.1.3.1: Simulation Results Summary
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Logical Channel | Degradation in dB at | Degradation in dB at | | Types | 1% FER or | 1% FER or | | | | | | | 10% BLER in case of | 10% BLER in case of | | | CCI | DTS-2 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | TCH/AFS12.2 | 0.6 | 0.1 to 0.2 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | MCS-1 | 0 to 0.3 | 0.2 to 0.5 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | MCS-4 | 0 | 0 to 0.2 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | MCS-5 | 0.4 to 0.6 | 0.3 to 0.6 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | MCS-7 | 0.2 to 0.3 | 0.1 to 0.3 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | MCS-9 | 0.1 to 0.5 | 0 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | DAS-9 | 0.2 to 0.3 | 0.3 to 0.4 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
It is observed from the simulation results above that the performance of
legacy speech and data channels can be degraded by about 0.4 dB on average
when exposed to 2x2 DL MIMO interference. However, in a practical network, the
likelihood of experiencing only MIMO interference is very low. It is expected
that the legacy speech channels will experience a mixture of MIMO and non-MIMO
type interferences and hence the overall negative impact is expected to be
rather limited.
## 9.2 Impacts to Network and Mobile Station
This clause depicts the hardware and network planning impacts due to the
introduction of MIMO for Downlink to the base station and mobile station,
assuming that the mobile station already supports diversity antenna reception.
### 9.2.1 Impact to Network
The HW impact to the network for operating MIMO for Downlink is limited to the
BTS. Mode and link adaptation procedures do not require faster signaling
methods than depicted in the specifications. Hence, no impact on Abis
interface is seen due to signaling of mode and link adaptation commands.
The minimum requirement for the BTS is the provision of two transmit antennas
and of two transmit carrier units to carry both spatial streams. For single
carrier BTS equipment an additional TRX unit is thus needed, whilst for
multicarrier BTS equipment two transmit paths are required to serve this
purpose.
BTS configurations in current GSM/EDGE networks employing two transmit
antennas include:
\- configurations that employ air combining for 2 or more transceivers or,
\- transmit diversity schemes including antenna hopping and delay diversity.
In both of the BTS configurations, the TRX capacity to support the second
spatial stream will already be available. In addition, TRX capacity can be
freed with VAMOS multiplexing of two speech users onto one resource.
Due to these requirements MIMO for Downlink will not be supported on pico BTS
or Local Area multicarrier BTS, generally equipped with a single transmit
antenna.
In order to achieve a significant increase in data rate, MIMO subchannels
require sufficient decorrelation, which can be achieved by sufficient spacing
of transmit antennas in case of vertical polarized antennas or by use of
cross-polarized antennas. The constraints here are similar as for the usage of
TX antenna hopping or TX delay diversity, thus no impact is expected in case
the BTS supports either of them.
In addition, the network planning impact, especially for networks using single
carrier BTS equipment needs to be taken into consideration.
It is beneficial to use MIMO for Downlink in networks supporting frequency
hopping. In current GSM/EDGE networks, two major network configurations for
frequency hopping are used.
\- RF synthesizer hopping: the addition of a MIMO carrier requires the
addition of one TRX, unless sufficient HW for MIMO is already supported.
\- Baseband hopping: especially if the BCCH is included in the hopping set,
the addition of one MIMO carrier in effect requires a doubling of the TRX
volume in the cell.
Hence, depending on the network configuration, there is a different impact to
network planning due to the introduction of MIMO for Downlink.
### 9.2.2 Impact to MS
The underlying assumption for this feasibility study is that the mobile
station supports diversity antenna reception.
The MIMO feature for GSM/EDGE is proposed to re-use LTE enabled terminals to
make use of the two receive antennas supported by these devices. Since the
scope of the work is to re-use design available and driven by other RATs, it
is also of interest to consider realistic implementations and how they apply
to GSM/EDGE. In fact, LTE enabled multi-mode terminals and modem chips
commonly support two antennas and receiver paths, because at least two RX
antennas are required in the LTE device [9-1]. An exemplary L1 architecture of
a handset is depicted in Figure 9.2.2.1, where the RX chains for LTE have been
doubled. The second RX chain can then be made available for EDGE, especially
in the common frequency bands. The main elements are:
\- A pair of receive antennas, already optimized for LTE MIMO from correlation
point of view.
\- Front end consists of filters and RF switches for filter selection, but may
be partly integrated into transceiver part.
\- Related to filter selection, support of a narrowband channel filter with
180 kHz bandwidth in both receive paths is required to meet receiver blocking
requirements. In case a single narrowband channel filter, the receiver has to
account for provision of a fall back to single antenna branch reception with
subsequent narrow band filtering as foreseen for Downlink Multicarrier in the
specifications.
\- Transceiver part performs down and up-conversions as well as digital
interfacing towards baseband and is capable for two RX branches.
\- Power amplifier.
MIMO optimized receivers may not necessarily support Downlink Dual Carrier
operation if both RX chains share the same VCO. Some chips may support also
TD-SCDMA or CDMA with the same architecture.
{width="4.9875in" height="1.7590277777777779in"}
Figure 9.2.2.1: Block diagram for L1 of a multi-mode MS. Note that the
baseband processing operations might be partitioned between LTE, HSPA and
GSM/EDGE to optimize power consumption.
As for the transmit side, the capacity of a MIMO system is dependent on the
correlation between the sub-channels, where a low correlation will facilitate
a high capacity. For instance, for achieving sufficient spatial diversity,
this requirement is generally fulfilled if a sufficient spacing exists between
the two receive (RX) antennas. In recent spectrum refarming scenarios, LTE
networks are also deployed in band 8 (LTE 900) and band 3 (LTE 1800), which
suggests that sufficient performance for LTE receivers in those bands is
available, which can be re-used for Downlink MIMO operation in GSM/EDGE
networks. The same applies for polarization diversity based receivers.
Due to the higher level of decorrelation between MS receive antennas in DCS
1800 or PCS 1900 compared to GSM 900 due to lower required spacings or antenna
sizes, it is expected that the high bands (DCS 1800 and PCS 1900) are
preferred bands for Downlink MIMO operation.
## 9.3 References
[9-1] 3GPP TS 36.101 V8.18.0 Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
(E-UTRA); User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception (Release 8).
[9-2] GP-160119, \"Mode Adaptation in Downlink MIMO\", source Nokia Networks,
GERAN#69.
# _10 Conclusion_
This feasibility study on MIMO for Downlink has presented the concept of using
2x2 MIMO on DL for EGPRS and EGPRS2-A, in order to improve throughput and
spectrum efficiency in legacy EDGE networks. The rapid increase of smart phone
devices with LTE support with two receive antennas provides us a valuable
radio asset which can be fully utilized for 2x2 DL MIMO. Similarly, legacy
EDGE networks are often configured with two transmit antennas to support air
combining or transmit diversity.
The concept of the 2x2 MIMO system, applying the spatial multiplexing mode,
has been described. MIMO spatial channel models are described that are used in
the performance evaluation. Usage of mixed modulations on both streams and
blind modulation detection are investigated. The sensitivity and interference
performance is evaluated for the 2x2 MIMO system for different propagation
channels and compared to the reference throughput for a system using the
diversity mode (1 TX antenna at BTS and RX diversity at the mobile station).
The performance evaluation shows the potential of this technique to support
significantly higher data peak throughput (up to around 35%) compared to EGPRS
and EGPRS2-A as well as improving the spectral efficiency.
Performance for DL MIMO in a 3/9 frequency reuse network has been accessed for
various channel conditions using two channel models (Spatial Channel Model
SCM-A (see Annex A), channel with variable correlation), and is captured in
the performance summary (clause 8.6). This is replicated in Tables 10.1 to
10.4 below. In particular gains versus the diversity mode (1Tx x2 Rx) are
higher for EGPRS than for EGPRS2-A, and reach up to around 35%, which is
confirmed for both used channel models. Only for radio channel RA130 without
frequency hopping and high subchannel power imbalance ratio (SCPIR) Downlink
MIMO is observed to perform worse than the single stream diversity mode.
Nevertheless, in most conditions a significant gain of 2x2 DL MIMO over the
diversity mode is observed.
Performance for blind mode detection and mode adaptation has been evaluated
assuming an ideal feedback channel. Signalling for mode and link adaptation
has been investigated in terms of impacts to channel quality reporting by MS
and signalling of additional thresholds and parameters by the network, where
the signalling of information on the observed correlation between both streams
to the network was seen as viable for transmission mode adaptation. In
addition, changes to the MS capability signalling for a DL MIMO capable MS
were analysed.
RLC/MAC protocol aspects, such as multislot class support for MIMO, TBF
establishment and TBF operation were investigated. Multiplexing with legacy MS
is possible when using single stream mode or a high SCPIR in case of spatial
multiplexing mode, but the latter should be applied with caution to prevent
decoding failures at legacy MS. The existing link quality reporting for
Downlink Dual Carrier (DLDC) can be widely reused.
A compatibility study was carried out to evaluate the impact of the new DL
MIMO interference to performance of legacy voice channels or EGPRS/EGPRS2-A
data channels. The impact was expected to be rather limited in a system with
typical mixed legacy and DL MIMO interference. In addition, the impact to base
station and mobile station hardware was studied.
For the base station the provision of two transmit antennas and of two
transmit carrier units to carry both spatial streams is required. Depending on
the network configuration, in particular whether baseband hopping or RF
synthesizer hopping is used, there is a different impact to network planning
due to the introduction of MIMO for Downlink (lower for RF synthesizer hopping
compared to baseband hopping).
For a MS that is equipped with two receive antennas as the underlying
assumption, the major impact is on receiver filtering and processing with the
provision of a narrowband channel filter with 180 kHz bandwidth in both
receive paths to meet receiver blocking requirements or provision of a fall
back to single antenna branch reception with subsequent narrow band filtering
in case of instantaneous detected blocking on the receive path not equipped
with such narrow channel filter. Nevertheless DL MIMO puts relaxed
requirements to the MS compared to DLDC, as only a single VCO is needed.
Due to the higher level of decorrelation between MS receive antennas in DCS
1800 or PCS 1900 compared to GSM 900 due to lower required spacing or antenna
sizes, which is essential for decent DL MIMO performance, it is expected that
the high bands (DCS 1800 and PCS 1900) are preferred bands for Downlink MIMO
operation. Thus, DL MIMO identifies a viable candidate for enhancing data
throughput in GSM/EDGE networks with limited impacts to base stations and dual
antenna mobile stations.
Table 10.1: 2x2 MIMO Throughput Gain over Single Stream MSRD: EGPRS, SCM
Profiles
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | SCPIR 0 | SCPIR | | | | | | | dB | 10 dB | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | SCM-A | TU 3 | RA130 | SCM-A | TU 3 | RA130 | | | | km/hr | km/hr | | km/hr | km/hr | | | 3 km/hr | ideal | no FH | 3 km/hr | ideal | no FH | | | | FH | | | FH | | | | ideal | | | ideal | | | | | FH | | | FH | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Sens | 32% | 33% | 2% | 12% | 11% | -20% | | itivity | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | DTS-2 | 27% | 37% | 7% | 15% | 18% | -18% | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
Table 10.2: 2x2 MIMO Throughput Gain over Single Stream MSRD: EGPRS2-A, SCM
Profiles
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | SCPIR 0 | SCPIR | | | | | | | dB | 10 dB | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | SCM-A | TU 3 | RA130 | SCM-A | TU 3 | RA130 | | | | km/hr | km/hr | | km/hr | km/hr | | | 3 km/hr | ideal | no FH | 3 km/hr | ideal | no FH | | | | FH | | | FH | | | | ideal | | | ideal | | | | | FH | | | FH | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Sens | 17% | 12% | -16% | -2% | -7% | -20% | | itivity | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | DTS-2 | 2% | 1% | -24% | -7% | -12% | -22% | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
Table 10.3: 2x2 MIMO Throughput Gain over Single Stream MSRD: EGPRS, Variable
Correlation Profiles (SCPIR 0 dB)
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | α=0.0, | α=0.0, | α=0.3, | | | | | | β=0.0 | β=0.7 | β=0.7 | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | SCM-A | TU 3 | SCM-A | TU 3 | SCM-A | TU 3 | | | | km/hr | | km/hr | | km/hr | | | 3 km/hr | ideal | 3 km/hr | ideal | 3 km/hr | ideal | | | | FH | | FH | | FH | | | ideal | | ideal | | ideal | | | | FH | | FH | | FH | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Sens | 33% | 27% | 32% | 27% | 31% | 26% | | itivity | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | DTS-2 | 35% | 28% | 31% | 26% | 30% | 25% | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
Table 10.4: 2x2 MIMO Throughput Gain over Single Stream MSRD: EGPRS2-A,
Variable Correlation Profiles (SCPIR 0 dB)
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | α=0.0, | α=0.0, | α=0.3, | | | | | | β=0.0 | β=0.7 | β=0.7 | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | SCM-A | TU 3 | SCM-A | TU 3 | SCM-A | TU 3 | | | | km/hr | | km/hr | | km/hr | | | 3 km/hr | ideal | 3 km/hr | ideal | 3 km/hr | ideal | | | | FH | | FH | | FH | | | ideal | | ideal | | ideal | | | | FH | | FH | | FH | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Sens | 22% | 12% | 20% | 13% | 19% | 11% | | itivity | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | DTS-2 | 11% | -3% | 7% | -5% | 5% | -6% | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
Legend:
* * *
gains > 20% > 10% > 0% \< 0% \< -10% \< -20%
* * *
###### ### Annex A: SCM Realization in GSM
The Spatial Channel Models can be realized for GSM simulation in the following
way.
First independent Rayleigh fading waveforms are generated as a sum-of-
sinusoids representing scatterers emanating from transmitting antenna arriving
with random but uniformly distributed phase at the receiving antenna. A
modified Jakes model can be used to achieve independence between different
paths from transmitting to receiving antennas. The sum of sinusoid is defined
in the equation below.
{width="4.7340277777777775in" height="0.48333333333333334in"}
{width="2.05in" height="0.3416666666666667in"}
{width="2.1416666666666666in" height="0.16666666666666666in"}
Here,
_t_ = sample time, i.e. from 0 to number of samples in the burst-1 multiplied
by sample duration
_L_ = number of paths between transmitting and receiving antenna (e.g. 4 in
case of 2x2 MIMO)
_K_ = number of channel taps in each path (6 in our case)
_N_ ~0~ = Number of scatterers for each tap in each path (used 200 in our
simulation)
_w~M~_ = maximum Doppler frequency=2π _v_ /_λ_
_v_ = speed of MS, _λ_ =wavelength
and for {width="3.7083333333333335in" height="0.175in"} are 2 _LKN_ ~0~
independent random phases, each of which is uniformly distributed in [0, 2π]
{width="0.2in" height="0.16666666666666666in"} is random initial arrival angle
which satisfies following condition:
{width="2.1333333333333333in" height="0.3416666666666667in"}
Once the independent Rayleigh faded waveforms are generated as above, these
are then correlated with the square-root of the polarization covariance matrix
**Г** to achieve the desired correlation between the paths. These waveforms
are then weighted according to the tap power for each tap and convolved with
the transmitted signal. Finally, appropriate scaling factors are applied to
faded signals to achieve unity power over a long periods of time.
#