# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document provides a reference to an independent performance
evaluation report of the Tuak algorithm set carried out by the ISG Smart Card
Centre of the Royal Holloway University of London.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 35. 231: \"Specification of the Tuak algorithm set: A second
example algorithm set for the 3GPP authentication and key generation functions
f1, f1*, f2, f3, f4, f5 and f5*; Document 1: Algorithm specification \".
[2] \"Performance Evaluation of the TUAK algorithm in support of the ETSI Sage
standardisation group\"; Keith Mayes; ISG Smart Card Centre, Royal Holloway
University of London; (available at
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/35_series/35.936/SAGE_report/Perfevaluation.zip)
[3] \"Performance Evaluation of the TUAK algorithm in support of the GSMA and
ETSI SAGE standardisation group\"\"; Keith Mayes; ISG Smart Card Centre, Royal
Holloway University of London; Crisp Telecom Limited; (available at
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/35_series/35.936/SAGE_report/Perfevaluationext.zip)
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TS 35.231 apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence over
the definition of the same term, if any, in TS 35.231 [1].
# 4 Performance evaluation of the Tuak algorithm set
The performance evaluation report of the Tuak algorithm set [1] can be found
here: [2].
An extension to the performance evaluation report can be found here: [3].
#