# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The purpose of the present document is to describe the functionality of a
Multiband GSM/DCS Network operated by a single operator and the Multiband
GSM/DCS Mobile Station (MS). It also describes the necessary amendments to the
GSM/DCS phase 2 specifications for the technical realization of the function.
The resulting Amendment Requests (AR) and Change Requests (CR) necessary for
Multiband Operation are listed in annex A.
## 1.1 References
Not relevant to the present document.
## 1.2 Abbreviations
Abbreviations used in the present document are listed in GSM 01.04.
# 2 General
Multiband operation of GSM/DCS by a single operator enables an operator, with
licenses in more than one of the frequency bands specified in the GSM
specifications, to support the use of multiband MSs in all bands of the
licenses. In addition it also enables the operator to support the use of
single band MSs in, at least, one band of the licenses.
Multiband GSM/DCS MSs, are MSs which are capable of using more than one of the
frequency bands specified in the GSM specifications. The multiband MS is
specified in GSM 02.06. (AR02.06‑A001) and in section 2.1.
The use of multiband operation and development of multiband MSs are optional
for operators and manufactures.
## 2.1 Multiband MSs
A MS which supports more than one band and the functionality below is defined
as a Multiband MS.
The multiband MS has the functionality to perform handover, channel
assignment, cell selection and cell re‑selection between all its bands of
operation within one PLMN, i.e. when one PLMN code is used in all bands. In
addition it has the functionality to make PLMN selection, in manual or
automatic mode, in all its bands of operation. The multiband MS shall meet all
requirements specified for each individual band supported. In addition it
shall meet the extra functional requirements for the multiband MSs.
## 2.2 Frequency bands of operation
Multiband operation shall be possible with any combination of the frequency
bands specified in the GSM specifications. No frequency band is treated as a
primary band in the specification. The operators may however use control
mechanisms to make the MSs treat one of the bands with priority.
As a first implementation of Multiband operation only operation with GSM 900
(Standard or Extended) and DCS 1 800 is included in the standard. The proposed
procedures shall however make it possible for operation between other bands if
such are included in the core specifications in the future.
## 2.3 Backwards compatibility
Backwards compatibility with phase 1 and phase 2 single band mobiles shall be
ensured by the specification of multiband operation. A multiband PLMN shall
therefore, in addition to support of multiband MSs, be able to support the use
of single band mobiles for, at least one of the bands of operation.
Backwards compatibility by the multiband MSs shall also be ensured. The MSs
shall therefore be able to, functionally, work as single band mobiles in a
single band network.
## 2.4 PLMN codes
Multiband operation of GSM/DCS by a single operator, with handover and
assignment between the bands, implies that only one PLMN code is used in all
bands of operation. Handover or assignment between PLMNs is not covered by
this document or the work item.
An operator, with license in more than one band, may however support multiband
mobiles without handover and assignment between the bands. If so, more than
one PLMN code may be used. This is already covered with the phase 1 and phase
2 specifications.
## 2.5 Other systems
Multiband operation by a single operator does not include multi mode
operation, i.e. handover, assignment or roaming between GSM/DCS and systems
covered by other specifications or standards. The amendments of the GSM/DCS
specifications for multiband operation may however be done in a flexible way
so that multi mode operation can make use of the same procedures.
# 3 Requirements
## 3.1 User requirements
No special actions by the user shall be necessary to use a multiband MS. The
possibility for the user to decide to operate the MS in a single band mode may
however be supported. Indications may also be given to the user of which band
is being used.
The user of a multiband MS shall be able to roam between PLMNs operating in
any of the MS\'s frequency bands of operation. The MS shall therefore, at PLMN
selection, present all available PLMNs within its frequency bands of
operation.
## 3.2 Operator requirements
The use of multiband operation shall be optional for the operator. Multiband
MSs must therefore be able to, functionally, work as single band MSs in a
single band network.
When multiband operation is used, it shall be possible to provide coverage in
one frequency band independently of the coverage in another band..
Two options can be implemented by an operator when operating a multiband
network :
i) a BCCH in each band of operation;
ii) a common BCCH in only one of the band of operation when resources across
all bands are co-located and synchronized.
NOTE: For case ii), in order to ensure proper operation of the network, the
operator should take into account issues related to the difference of
propagation between the different bands, e.g GSM and DCS when performing cell
planning. As far as synchronization issues are concerned, the requirements for
TA for multiband BTSs may only be fulfilled when the TA is the same in the two
bands, i.e. within the tolerance as defined in GSM 05.10. This imposes some
restrictions on the cells where the two bands are supported (e.g. small
cells).
## 3.3 Radio requirements
The radio requirements for GSM and DCS in the present GSM/DCS specification
differs in some cases. A multiband MS and the multiband network shall meet all
requirements for each band of operation respectively. Type approval of
multiband MSs will be covered by the respective test specifications and some
additional tests for the multiband functionality.
## 3.4 Relation to frequency hopping
The multiband MS and the multiband network shall support frequency hopping
within each band of operation. Frequency hopping between the bands of
operation is not required.
# 4 Functional description
To understand the necessary amendments of the phase 2 specifications
functional descriptions of different procedures and solutions are described
below. The technical realization are described in clause 5 and the actual
amendments are listed in annex 1 with a brief description.
## 4.1 Idle mode procedures
The idle mode procedures will not be different for multiband MSs or networks.
Only the fact that more than one band is available has to be taken into
account.
### 4.1.1 PLMN selection
A multiband MS shall use the normal PLMN selection procedures, as specified in
GSM 02.11 and 03.22, with the additional requirement to select from all
available PLMNs in all bands of operation. When presenting available PLMNs it
shall show all available PLMNs within the MSs bands of operation. A multiband
PLMN may have BCCHs available on more than one band but shall still be treated
as one PLMN and must therefore only be presented once.
PLMN search time, at switch on, will be the sum of the search times presently
specified for each band of operation if no prior knowledge is stored in the
MS.
### 4.1.2 Cell re‑selection
The multiband network will send out neighbour cell lists which may contain a
mixture of channels from different frequency bands. The multiband MSs shall
follow the normal cell‑re‑selection procedures with the addition to monitor
all channels within the neighbour cell list which are within the MS\'s bands
of operation. All MSs shall ignore channel numbers which are outside its bands
of operation. Channels within the MS\'s bands of operation shall be monitored.
Priority at cell re‑selection can be given to one of the bands of operation by
using existing phase 2 parameters.
Compatibility with phase 1 and phase 2 MSs will be ensured by the procedures
described in clause 6.
### 4.1.3 Location areas
No special requirements are specified for the allocation of location areas
among the cells in a multiband network. It shall therefore be possible the use
the same or different location areas for cells in different frequency bands
irrespective of their location.
## 4.2 Connected mode procedures
The multiband network will send out neighbour cell lists which may contain a
mixture of channels from different frequency bands. The multiband MS shall use
the normal monitor and reporting procedures with the additional requirement to
monitor and report from all channels within its bands of operation.
## 4.3 Handover
Based on the measurement reports sent by the multiband MS the network will
send handover commands to any channel within the MS\'s bands of operation.
To ensure that handover is possible to a cell which was not reported to be the
strongest candidate, e.g. for traffical reasons, a multiband MS shall report
at least the number of strongest candidates on each band measured and
identified as indicated by the parameter Multiband_Reporting sent in System
Information 2ter/5ter. The coding of this parameter is specified in AR
05.08‑A006.
Any MS will only send measurement reports from cells within its bands of
operation. Handover commands to cells outside the bands of operation will
therefore not occur..
## 4.4 Frequency and power capabilities
The network will be informed by the MS of its frequency and power capabilities
to ensure that all procedures, e.g. the handover algorithm, gets accurate
information.
# 5 Technical realization and amendments
The technical realization, e.g. bit mapping, is described in this clause.
Also, the necessary amendment is described and reference is made to the
amendment request presented.
## 5.1 Mixed neighbour cell lists
A multiband network may use System Information 2/5, System Information
2bis/5bis and a new System Information 2ter/5ter to inform the MSs about the
available neighbour cell frequencies. The BCCH channel list consists either of
only the sub list derived from the neighbour cell description information
element(s) in SI 2/5 (and possibly SI 2bis/5bis) or that sub list concatenated
with the neighbour cell description information element received in SI
2ter/5ter in case SI 2ter/5ter is also received. Indication that 2ter is
available is included in the SI3 rest octets. Channel numbers which are
outside the bands of operation of a MS will be ignored. The scheduling of the
sending of SI 2ter on BCCH is specified in AR05.02‑A001.
Solution to problems with backwards compatibility are described in clause 6.
Different encoding of the BCCH frequencies in the BA list give different
numbers of possible combinations and number of neighbour cells in the list.
The limitations are given below:
**1024 range\** This allows to encode 2 ‑ 16 frequencies, the frequencies
being spread among up to 1024 ARFCNs. This cover more than P‑GSM, E‑GSM and
DCS 1800 together.
**512 range\** This allows to encode 2‑18 frequencies, the frequencies being
spread among up to 512 consecutive ARFCNs. This would cover the E‑GSM and DCS
for instance.
**256 range\** This allows to encode 2‑22 frequencies, the frequencies being
spread among up to 256 consecutive ARFCNs.
**128 range\** This allows to encode 2‑29 frequencies, the frequencies being
spread among up to 128 consecutive ARFCNs.
**Variable bit map\** This allows any combination among 112 consecutive
ARFCNs.
**Bit map 0\** This allows to encode 124 frequencies among ARFCNs 1‑124.
## 5.2 Frequency and power capabilities
The network has to be informed of the frequency capabilities and the
associated power capability of the multiband MS, on each frequency band, at
call set up to ensure a reliable functionality. A multiband mobile shall
therefore send a classmark change message with CM3 information as early as
possible according to the procedure described in AR 04.08‑A069 and AR
04.08‑A071 (Early Classmark Sending)_._ In order to give an early indication
to the network that the MS is capable of using the Early Classmark Sending,
one bit in CM1 and CM2 is used (the spare bit in front of the A5/1 bit).
The network may forbid the MS to use Early Classmark Sending by setting the
Early Classmark Sending Control (ECSC) bit in the SI3 rest octets to \"L\".
The requirement on the timing of the Classmark Change message, such that the
MS send CM change in the empty uplink block following the reception of the L2
UA frame, is specified in AR 04.13‑A001.
An operator may decide to delay or inhibit the sending of the Classmark Change
message from the BSC to the MSC if it was received immediately after the
initial L3 message. This is described in AR08.08‑A013.
Any combination of frequency bands and power capabilities in the GSM
specifications shall be possible. The coding of frequency and power
capabilities according to the solution in AR04.08‑A007 ensure this flexibility
and also give room for further evolution.
## 5.3 Measurement reports
The multiband MS will normally report the signal strength of six strongest and
identified neighbour cells as a normal MS. These cells may however not use the
same frequency band.
To ensure that handover is possible, e.g. for traffical reasons, to a cell
which was not reported to be the strongest candidate, a multiband MS shall,
for each band, report at least the number of strongest candidate cells
measured and identified as indicated by the MultibandReporting parameter. This
parameter is sent in the 5ter and 2ter messages with two bits from the Skip
Indicator, which will not be used in 2ter/5ter. The maximum of six cells
reported is still unchanged.
The sending of the MultibandReporting parameter is specified in
AR04.08‑A015.The coding of the two bits in the parameter is specified in AR
05.08‑A006.
# 6 Backwards compatibility
Multiband operation will be specified to be backwards compatible so that no
harm is made to existing networks and that phase 1 and phase 2 single band
mobiles will work in a multiband network.
## 6.1 Support of single band operation
### 6.1.1 Single band MSs
A multiband network will normally support single band mobiles in each of the
bands of operation but in some cases (common BCCH in one band), it will only
support single band mobiles in one of the bands of operation. Single band
signalling will be present as well as multiband signalling.
### 6.1.2 Single band networks
The multiband MSs will, functionally, work as single band mobiles in a single
band network.
## 6.2 Mixed neighbour cell lists
### 6.2.1 Phase 1 MSs
Some phase 1 DCS mobiles ignores the whole BA list if frequencies outside the
DCS band is contained in the BA list. System Information 2ter/5ter are
therefore introduced to solve this problem. In multiband PLMNs, where phase 1
DCS MSs will be present, SI 2ter/5ter will be used to indicate the ARFCNs
outside the DCS1800 band. SI 2ter/5ter will then be ignored by the phase 1 MSs
but SI2/5 and 2bis/5bis will still be used.
### 6.2.2 Phase 2 MSs
Phase 2 mobiles will only ignore channel numbers, i.e. not the whole BA list,
which are outside the bands of operation of the MS. This is already included
in the phase 2 specifications (CR‑04.08‑665).
## 6.3 Detected compatibility problems and their solutions (when possible)
### 6.3.1 New messages on the BCCH
Some GSM 900 phase 1 mobiles will not operate properly if new SI messages with
a L2 pseudolength greater than 1 are received. To be able to provide service
to these mobiles in a multiband 900-1800 network with P-GSM 900 phase 2
mobiles, the handling of the pseudolength received in SI messages have been
modified and some measures to avoid the situation have been defined in ETR
09.94. The changes introduced are:
\- Phase 2 mobiles are recommended to ignore the L2 pseudolength received in
all SI messages. For the System Information 2ter message mobiles are required
to ignore the received L2 pseudolength. (CR -04.08-A239 rev 2 and 238 rev 2)
\- Networks shall set the L2 pseudolength in the SI 2ter message to 0. SI 2bis
must not be used in the P-GSM band. (CR -09.94-A007 rev 1)
### 6.3.2 New messages on the SACCH
Some phase 1 mobiles may experience performance degradations if the network
sends SI messages not defined in phase 1 on the SACCH. The recommended
measures to avoid this degradation have been defined in ETR 09.94 (CR
-09.94-A007 rev 1):
\- Networks shall not send SI 5ter messages on the SACCH to phase 1 GSM or DCS
mobiles or SI 5bis messages on the SACCH to phase 1 GSM mobiles.
###### ### Annex A: List of amendments necessary
# A.1 Approved by TC SMG for Phase 2
##### A.1.1 CR‑04.08‑665 on mixed frequency lists {#a.1.1-cr04.08665-on-mixed-
frequency-lists .H6}
Compatibility ensured for phase 2 mobiles in a multiband PLMN.
# A.2 Approved by TC SMG and put on HOLD
##### A.2.1 AR 08.58‑A005r4 \"Sending of SACCH System Information on a
call‑by‑call basis\" {#a.2.1-ar-08.58a005r4-sending-of-sacch-system-
information-on-a-callbycall-basis .H6}
Procedures to send SI on SACCH based on the MS capabilities. This is part of
WI \"Technical Enhancements\" and was approved at SMG#14.
# A.3 Proposed for WI \"Technical enhancements\" and required by WI
\"Multiband operation\"
##### A.3.1 AR 04.08‑069 \"Early Classmark Sending\" and AR 04.08‑071 \"Early
Classmark Sending\" {#a.3.1-ar-04.08069-early-classmark-sending-and-
ar-04.08071-early-classmark-sending .H6}
The multiband MS shall automatically send the CLASSMARK CHANGE message as soon
as the main signalling link is established (Early Classmark Sending) if so
permitted by the network, as indicated in the last reception in the accessed
cell of the SYSTEM INFORMATION 3 message.
##### A.3.2 AR 04.13‑A002r1 \"Performance requirements on the sending of the
CLASSMARK CHANGE message\" {#a.3.2-ar-04.13a002r1-performance-requirements-on-
the-sending-of-the-classmark-change-message .H6}
Requirements on the MS to send CM Change in the first uplink block after
receiving UA‑frame in downlink.
##### A.3.3 AR 08.08‑A013r3 \"Early sending of CLASSMARK CHANGE\"
{#a.3.3-ar-08.08a013r3-early-sending-of-classmark-change .H6}
Inclusion of the option for the BSS to delay or suppress the sending of the
CLASSMARK UPDATE message to the MSC in case the CLASSMARK CHANGE message was
received at initial connection establishment.
##### A.3.4 CR 09.90‑033 \"Early sending of Classmark change indication in
CLASSMARK IE\" {#a.3.4-cr-09.90033-early-sending-of-classmark-change-
indication-in-classmark-ie .H6}
A phase 2 MS uses one bit in Classmark 1 and 2 IE to indicate its capability
in terms of early sending of classmark change message. This bit was associated
to another meaning and its use leads to the use of a former reserved value.
# A.4 Proposed for WI \"Multiband operation\"
##### A.4.1 AR 02.06‑A001r2 \"Definition of multiband MS type\"
{#a.4.1-ar-02.06a001r2-definition-of-multiband-ms-type .H6}
Inclusion of multiband possibilities and definition of the multiband MS.
##### A.4.2 AR 02.11‑A004 \"Clarifications for multiband operation\"
{#a.4.2-ar-02.11a004-clarifications-for-multiband-operation .H6}
Clarifications about the possibilities to use multiband operation and
presentation of available PLMNs.
##### A.4.3 AR 03.22‑A004 \"Support of multiband operation by a single
operator\" {#a.4.3-ar-03.22a004-support-of-multiband-operation-by-a-single-
operator .H6}
Removal of inconsistencies with multiband operation.
##### A.4.4 AR 04.08‑A007r2 \"Multiple band MSs in a dual band network\"
{#a.4.4-ar-04.08a007r2-multiple-band-mss-in-a-dual-band-network .H6}
Extended coding of frequency and power capabilities in CM3.
##### A.4.5 AR 04.08‑A015r5 \"New SI messages 2ter and 5 ter\"
{#a.4.5-ar-04.08a015r5-new-si-messages-2ter-and-5-ter .H6}
Introduction of the two new SI messages 2ter and 5ter to ensure backwards
compatibility.
##### A.4.6 AR 05.01‑A004 \"Amendments for multiband operation\"
{#a.4.6-ar-05.01a004-amendments-for-multiband-operation .H6}
Clarification of the functionality of, and radio requirements on, multiband
MSs.
##### A.4.7 AR05.02‑A001 \"Inclusion of System Information 2ter for multiband
operation\" {#a.4.7-ar05.02a001-inclusion-of-system-information-2ter-for-
multiband-operation .H6}
Scheduling of the sending of System Information 2ter on BCCH.
##### A.4.8 AR 05.05‑A008 \"Amendments for multiband operation\"
{#a.4.8-ar-05.05a008-amendments-for-multiband-operation .H6}
Specification of possible frequency bands and the functionality of the
multiband MS.
##### A.4.9 AR 05.08‑A006 \"Amendments for multiband operation\"
{#a.4.9-ar-05.08a006-amendments-for-multiband-operation .H6}
Specification of the radio requirements, e.g. measurement reporting, on the
multiband MS.
##### A.4.10 AR08.58‑A006r1 \"Introduction of SI 2ter and 5ter\"
{#a.4.10-ar08.58a006r1-introduction-of-si-2ter-and-5ter .H6}
New code points for SI 2ter and 5ter included in GSM 08.58.
##### A.4.11 CR11.10‑ 846 \"Introduction of new section 26.11 for Multiband
specific signalling tests\" {#a.4.11-cr11.10-846-introduction-of-new-
section-26.11-for-multiband-specific-signalling-tests .H6}
##### A.4.12 CR11.10‑ 847 \"Inclusion of reference to new section 26.11 in
introduction to section 26\" {#a.4.12-cr11.10-847-inclusion-of-reference-to-
new-section-26.11-in-introduction-to-section-26 .H6}
##### A.4.13 CR11.10‑ 848 \"Immediate assignment procedures: multiband\"
{#a.4.13-cr11.10-848-immediate-assignment-procedures-multiband .H6}
##### A.4.14 CR11.10‑ 849 \"Handover procedure: Multiband MSs\"
{#a.4.14-cr11.10-849-handover-procedure-multiband-mss .H6}
##### A.4.15 CR11.10‑ 850 \"Structured procedures, multiband\"
{#a.4.15-cr11.10-850-structured-procedures-multiband .H6}
##### A.4.16 CR11.10‑ 851 \"Default message contents for section 26.11\"
{#a.4.16-cr11.10-851-default-message-contents-for-section-26.11 .H6}
##### A.4.17 CR11.10‑ 852 \"Modification of section 26.3 for Multiband MSs\"
{#a.4.17-cr11.10-852-modification-of-section-26.3-for-multiband-mss .H6}
##### A.4.18 CR11.10‑ 853 \"Received signal measurements for multiband MSs\"
{#a.4.18-cr11.10-853-received-signal-measurements-for-multiband-mss .H6}
##### A.4.19 CR11.10‑ 854 \"Measurement reporting for Multiband MS\"
{#a.4.19-cr11.10-854-measurement-reporting-for-multiband-ms .H6}
# A.5 Change Requests related to WI \"Multiband operation\" after 1996
NOTE: This may not be a complete list, and is provided for indicative purposes
only.
##### A.5.1 CR04.08‑A178 \"Handling of multiple frequency redefinitions\"
{#a.5.1-cr04.08a178-handling-of-multiple-frequency-redefinitions .H6}
A179 was the matching CR for the phase 2 specification.
##### A.5.2 CR04.08‑A154r2 \"Indication of multislot class\"
{#a.5.2-cr04.08a154r2-indication-of-multislot-class .H6}
##### A.5.3 CR03.26‑ A002r1 \"Amendment for multiband Operation (common BCCH
for the different bands of operation)\" {#a.5.3-cr03.26-a002r1-amendment-for-
multiband-operation-common-bcch-for-the-different-bands-of-operation .H6}
A001r1 was the matching CR for the phase 2 specification.
##### A.5.4 CR05.08‑A035 \"Amendment for multiband operation (common BCCH for
the different bands of operation)" {#a.5.4-cr05.08a035-amendment-for-
multiband-operation-common-bcch-for-the-different-bands-of-operation .H6}
A034 was the matching CR for the phase 2 specification. Linked to CR03.26
A002r1 above.
##### A.5.5 CR04.08‑A214 \"Coding of classmark information for multiband
mobiles\" {#a.5.5-cr04.08a214-coding-of-classmark-information-for-multiband-
mobiles .H6}
A210r1 was the matching CR for the phase 2 specification.
##### A.5.6 CR04.08‑A207r1 \"Handling of classmark information at band
change\" {#a.5.6-cr04.08a207r1-handling-of-classmark-information-at-band-
change .H6}
A204r2 was the matching CR for the phase 2 specification.
##### A.5.7 CR 04.08-A239r2 "Clarification of use of L2 Pseudo Length in
SYSTEM INFORMATION messages" (phase 2 , release -95)
{#a.5.7-cr-04.08-a239r2-clarification-of-use-of-l2-pseudo-length-in-system-
information-messages-phase-2-release--95 .H6}
##### A.5.8 CR 04.08-A238r2 "Clarification of use of L2 Pseudo Length in
SYSTEM INFORMATION messages" (phase 2+, release -96)
{#a.5.8-cr-04.08-a238r2-clarification-of-use-of-l2-pseudo-length-in-system-
information-messages-phase-2-release--96 .H6}
##### A.5.9 CR 09.94- A007r1 "Handling of new phase 2 BCCH and SACCH messages
by phase 1 MS" {#a.5.9-cr-09.94--a007r1-handling-of-new-phase-2-bcch-and-
sacch-messages-by-phase-1-ms .H6}
#