# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document describes the transmission planning aspects pertaining to
the speech service in the GSM PLMN system. Due to technical and economic
factors, there cannot be full compliance with the general characteristics of
international telephone connections and circuits recommended by the ITU‑T.
The present document gives guidance as to the precautions, measures and
minimum requirements needed for successful interworking of the PLMN with the
national and international PSTN. The present document identifies a number of
routeing and network configurations. The objective is to reach a quality as
close as possible to ITU‑T standards in order to safeguard the performance
seen by PSTN customers.
The requirements stated for acoustics in dual mode GSM/3GPP handsets shall be
interpreted as requirement on acoustics in the GSM mode.
## 1.1 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 41.004: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Abbreviations and acronyms\".
[2] 3GPP TS 43.004: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Signalling requirements relating to routeing of calls to mobile subscribers\".
[3] 3GPP TS 46.001: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Full rate speech processing functions\".
[4] 3GPP TS 46.010: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Full rate speech; Transcoding\".
[5] 3GPP TS 46.011: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Full rate speech; Substitution and muting of lost frames for full rate speech
channels\".
[6] 3GPP TS 46.012: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Full rate speech; Comfort noise aspect for full rate speech traffic
channels\".
[7] 3GPP TS 46.031: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Full rate speech; Discontinuous Transmission (DTX) for full rate speech
traffic channels\".
[8] 3GPP TS 46.032: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Voice Activity Detection (VAD)\".
[9] 3GPP TS 46.002: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Half rate speech; Half rate speech processing functions\".
[10] 3GPP TS 46.020: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Half rate speech; Half rate speech transcoding\".
[11] 3GPP TS 46.021: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Half rate speech; Substitution and muting of lost frames for half rate speech
traffic channels\".
[12] 3GPP TS 46.022: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Half rate speech; Comfort noise aspects for half rate speech traffic
channels\".
[13] 3GPP TS 46.041: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Half rate speech; Discontinuous Transmission (DTX) for half rate speech
traffic channels\".
[14] 3GPP TS 46.042: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Half rate speech; Voice Activity Detection (VAD) for half rate speech traffic
channels\".
[15] I‑ETS 300 245‑2: \"Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN): Technical
characteristics of telephony terminals: Part 2: PCM A‑Law handset telephony\".
[16] ITU‑T Recommendation G.103 (1998): \"Hypothetical reference
connections\".
[17] ITU‑T Recommendation G.111 (1993): \"Loudness ratings (LRs) in an
international connection\".
[18] ITU‑T Recommendation G.113 (1996): \"Transmission impairments\".
[19] ITU‑T Recommendation G.114 (2000): \"Mean one‑way propagation time\".
[20] ITU‑T Recommendation G.121 (1993): \"Loudness ratings (LRs) of national
systems\".
[21] ITU‑T Recommendation G.122 (1993): \"Influence of national systems on
stability, talker echo, and listener echo in international connections\".
[22] ITU‑T Recommendation G.131 (1996): \"Control of talker echo\".
[23] ITU‑T Recommendation G.168 (2000): \"Digital network echo cancellers\".
[24] ITU‑T Recommendation G.223 (1988): \"Assumptions for the calculation of
noise on hypothetical reference circuits for telephony\".
[25] ITU‑T Recommendation G.703 (1998): \"Physical/electrical characteristics
of hierarchical digital interfaces\".
[26] ITU‑T Recommendation G.711 (1988): \"Pulse code modulation (PCM) of voice
frequencies\".
[27] ITU‑T Recommendation G.712 (1996): \"Transmission performance
characteristics of pulse code modulation\".
[28] ITU‑T Recommendation G.167 (1993): \"Acoustic Echo Controllers\".
[29] ITU‑T Recommendation M.1020 (1993): \"Characteristics of special quality
international leased circuits with special bandwidth conditions\".
[30] ITU‑T Recommendation M.1025 (1993): \"Characteristics of special quality
international leased circuits with basic bandwidth conditioning\".
[31] ITU‑T Recommendation M.1030 (1988): \"Characteristics of ordinary quality
international leased circuits forming part of private switched telephone
networks\".
[32] ITU‑T Recommendations M.1040 (1988): \"Characteristics of ordinary
quality international leased circuits\".
[33] ITU‑T Recommendation O.132 (1988): \"Specification for a quantizing
distortion measuring apparatus using a sinusoidal test signal\".
[34] ITU‑T Recommendation P.11 (1993): \"Effect of transmission impairments\".
[35] ITU‑T Recommendation P.340(2000): \"Transmission characteristics of
hands‑free telephones\".
[36] ITU‑T Recommendation P.38 (1993): \"Transmission characteristics of
operator telephone systems (OTS)\".
[37] ITU‑T Recommendation P.50 (1999): \"Artificial voices\".
[38] ITU‑T Recommendation P.51 (1996): \"Artificial mouths\".
[39] ITU‑T Recommendation P.64 (1999): \"Determination of
sensitivity/frequency characteristics of local telephone systems\".
[40] ITU‑T Recommendation P.76 (1988): \"Determination of loudness ratings;
fundamental principles\".
[41] ITU‑T Recommendation P.79 (1999): \"Calculation of loudness ratings\".
[42] ITU‑T Recommendation Q.35/E180 (1998): \"Technical characteristics of
tones for the telephone service\".
[43] ITU‑T Recommendation Q.551 (1996): \"Transmission characteristics of
digital exchanges\".
[44] ITU‑T Blue Book (1988): \"Volume V, Supplement 13: Noise spectra\".
[45] ISO 3 (1973): \"Preferred numbers -- series of preferred numbers\".
[46] ITU‑T Recommendation P.57 (1996): \"Artificial Ears\".
[47] ITU‑T Recommendation P.58 (1996): \"Head and Torso Simulator for
Telephonometry\".
[48] I‑ETS 300 245‑3: \"Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN): Technical
characteristics of telephony terminal: Part 3: PCM A‑law loudspeaking and
handsfree telephony\".
[49] 3GPP TS 26.131: "Terminal Acoustic Characteristics for Telephony;
Requirements"
[50] 3GPP TS 26.132: "Speech and video telephony terminal acoustic test
specification"
> [51] 3GPP TS 51.010: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase
> 2+); Mobile Station (MS) conformance specification\"
## 1.2 Abbreviations
In addition to those below, the abbreviations used in the present document are
listed in GSM 01.04.
ADC Analogue to Digital Converter
ADPCM Adaptive Differential Pulse Code Modulation
AEC Acoustic Echo Control
BSC Base Station Controller (excluding transmission systems
BTS Base Transceiver Station (excluding transmission systems)
DAC Digital to Analogue Converter
DMR Digital Mobile Radio
DSI Digital Speech Interpolation
EEC Electric Echo Control
EL Echo Loss
ERP Ear Reference Point
FDM Frequency Division Multiplex
ISC International Switching
LE Local Exchange
LSTR Listener Sidetone Rating
MRP Mouth Reference Point
OLR Overall Loudness Rating
PCM Pulse Code Modulation
POI Point of Interconnection (with PSTN)
RLR Receiver Loudness Rating
SLR Send Loudness Rating
STMR Sidetone Masking Rating
UPCMI 13‑bit Uniform PCM Interface
## 1.3 Introduction
Since the transmission quality and the conversational quality of the PLMN will
in general be lower than the quality of the PSTN connection due to coding
distortion, delay, etc., only some transmission aspects can be brought in line
with ITU‑T Recommendations. It is therefore necessary to improve the overall
quality as much as possible by implementing proper routeing and network
configurations.
It should be recognized that the transmission plan for the GSM PLMN cannot
lead to major changes in the PSTN. However, it is important to use the
improvements in the evolving PSTN (e.g. digitalization, introduction of echo
cancellers) in an effective way.
The transmission requirements are in the first place based on international
connections. When the quality is sufficient for international connections, it
can be assumed that the national connections will have the same or better
quality.
In order to obtain a sufficient quality in the connection, it is preferable to
have digital connectivity between the Base Station System (BSS) and the
international exchange. The PLMN requirements are based on this assumption.
When this situation cannot be provided, a lower quality must temporarily be
accepted.
The present document consists of two parts: one will deal with network
configurations, the other with transmission performance.
The part about network configurations gives information about the reference
connections, on which the transmission plan is based. Furthermore, some
guidelines are presented for improvement of the transmission quality in the
evolving (digital) PSTN.
The part about transmission performance gives mainly characteristics of the
transmission between MS acoustic interface (MRP/ERP) and the interface between
the PLMN and the PSTN (POI). For transmission aspects where it is impossible
to give overall characteristics, it is in some cases necessary to make
recommendations for individual parts of the equipment.
Annex A considers the effects of the type of acoustic interfaces of the MS.
# 2 Network configurations
## 2.1 General
The basic configuration for the interworking with the PSTN is shown in figure
1.
## 2.2 Model of the PLMN
A more detailed model of the PLMN used for the consideration of transmission
planning issues for speech is shown in figure 2. This model represents the
main functions required and does not necessarily imply any particular physical
realization. Routeing of calls is given in GSM 03.04.
Any acoustic echo control is not specifically shown as it will be provided by
analogue processing of digital processing or a combination of both techniques.
## 2.3 Interfaces
The main interfaces identified within the GSM specifications are shown in
figure 1. For the purposes of the present document, the Air Interface and the
Point of Interconnect (POI) are identified along with two other interfaces,
Interface Z and a 13‑bit Uniform PCM Interface (UPCMI). These interfaces are
needed to define the PLMN transmission characteristics and the overall system
requirements.
The Air Interface is specified by GSM 05 series specifications and is required
to achieve MS transportability. Analogue measurements can be made at this
point by using the appropriate radio terminal equipment and speech transcoder.
The losses and gains introduced by the test speech transcoder will need to be
specified.
The POI with the PSTN will generally be at the 2 048 kbits/s level at an
interface, in accordance with ITU‑T Recommendation G.703. At the point, which
is considered to have a relative level of O dBr, the analogue signals will be
represented by 8‑bit A‑law, according to ITU‑T Recommendation G.711. Analogue
measurements may be made at this point using a standard send and receive side,
as defined in ITU‑T Recommendations.
Interface Z might be used in the case of direct MSC to MSC connections.
Interface Z is of the same nature as the POI.
The UPCMI is introduced for design purposes in order to separate the speech
transcoder impairments from the basic audio impairments of the MS.
## 2.4 Configurations of connections
### 2.4.1 General configurations of connections
Figure 3 shows a variety of configurations of connections. There are a number
of PSTN features which should be avoided from such connections. These include:
1) echo control devices in the international network. If present, and not
disabled, these devices will be in tandem with PLMN echo cancellers and may
introduce degradation;
2) satellite routeings. The delay inherent in the connections when added to
the PLMN delay, may result in conversational difficulties. Double satellite
links are likely to cause severe difficulties and special precautions should
be taken to avoid this situation under call forwarding arrangements;
3) Digital Speech Interpolation systems (DSI). There is likely to be an
adverse interaction between DSI and DTX;
4) ADPCM. The distortion introduced by ADPCM on routes where PSTN echo control
is not provided is likely to reduce the echo cancellation provided by the PLMN
electric echo canceller;
5) significant differences in clock rates on non‑synchronized digital network
components. The resulting phase roll and slips are likely to degrade the
performance of the PLMN echo canceller;
6) those analogue FDM routeings which exhibit phase roll. Any phase roll due
to the absence of synchronization between the carrier frequencies on the two
directions of transmission is likely to degrade the performance of the PLMN
echo canceller;
7) tandem connections of sources of quantization distortion. The PLMN speech
transcoder is estimated to be equivalent to 7 QDUs between uniform PCM
interfaces (see ITU‑T Recommendation G.113).
It is recognized that on some connections it may not be feasible to avoid
these features, but in many cases, especially if taken into account at the
planning stage, this should be possible.
### 2.4.2 Reference configurations to illustrate delay and echo control issues
Three basic reference configuration types shown in figures 4 to 6 are defined
to illustrate delay and echo control issues. Intermediate echo control devices
as shown in the figures are disabled by appropriate signalling between the MSC
and ISC or MSC and MSC.
Reference configurations A (see figure 4) represent national or international
connections where there is no echo control device in the PSTN. These reference
configurations include re‑routeing configurations where the overall delay of
the transmission path has not been extended.
Reference configurations B (see figure 5) represent national or international
connections where echo control is provided in the PSTN. These reference
configurations include re‑routeing configurations where the overall delay of
the transmission path has not been extended.
Reference configurations C (see figure 6) represent national or international
connections where re‑routeing has lead to an increase in the overall delay of
the transmission path beyond recommended limits.
## 2.5 4‑wire circuits in the PLMN
As shown in figure 2, the PLMN will usually contain transmission systems.
Where present, they should provide 4‑wire circuits.
In the case of digital circuits which do not include any speech processing
devices, the overall system requirements of the PLMN will not be affected by
the presence of the link.
In the case of analogue links, the transmission characteristics (e.g.
attenuation, attenuation distortion, noise) will affect the overall system
requirements of the PLMN. ITU‑T Recommendations M.1020, M.1025, M.1030 and
M.1040 describe several transmission characteristics for leased circuits. In
cases where the analogue link introduces loss, provision will have to be made
at the interface to restore the loss.
# 3 Transmission performance
The overall transmission performance of connections in alternate conversation
mode can be considered as a summation of the effects of:
1) the audio part between the MRP/ERP and the UPCMI interface;
2) the speech transcoder part including the effects of radio transmission, and
speech processing between the UPCMI and the POI;
3) the overall characteristics of the connection between POI and the other
user.
There is not only a linear addition of these effects but there is also an
influence from different parts of the connection on the performance of the
speech transcoder and other speech processing devices.
Where possible, the transmission performance is specified between the MRP/ERP
and the POI. Where this is not possible, the transmission aspects of the audio
part mentioned above have been specified. The transmission aspects of the
speech transcoder are specified in GSM 06 series specifications. In the
following paragraphs, requirements are specified for the UPCMI, the Air
Interface or the POI as appropriate.
The transmission requirements of the MS have been derived from the
requirements of digital telephones stated in I‑ETS 300 245‑2 and 3.
MSs will have to work in a variety of environments ranging from quiet office
locations to very noisy environments as found in moving cars. In noisy
conditions, different values for the sending and receiving sensitivities
relative to the nominal values can increase the performance of the terminal.
Some guidance is given in annex E.
The overall transmission performance in full duplex conversation mode will
also greatly depend on the performance of the echo control devices which may
be included in the connection.
The handsfree requirements in the present document are designed to provide a
basic level of performance and to avoid adverse interactions with other
networks. Testing is carried out in one configuration in a vehicle, whilst
this gives some confidence that the system can work in a typical environment,
the testing is by no means complete. It is assumed that the manufacturer
submits the handsfree system with the transducers fitted in reasonable
locations within the vehicle (the transducers should not impede the normal
operation of the vehicle or its fittings). Unusual installations should be
agreed for suitability with the relevant Type Approval Authority before
testing.
In a real vehicle installation, care should be taken to allow for the acoustic
properties of that vehicle and the likely acoustic environment. It is
important that the best possible coupling between the microphone and the MS
user is achieved. Hence the microphone should be directional and mounted as
close to the user\'s mouth as practical. The loudspeakers should be mounted in
such a way that the maximum receive signal is directed at the user, rather
than dissipated by the various obstacles in that vehicle, such as the seats.
Proper consideration for the noise environment and the direct coupling between
the microphone and loudspeakers is necessary. Excessive noise coupled into the
microphone can mask the MS user\'s send speech and potentially affect the
operation of DTX. The vehicle noise environment can potentially mask the
received speech, unless sufficient volume is provided. However, direct
coupling between the transducers can cause annoying echo to be heard by the
far end user.
Primary factors affecting the coupling between the loudspeaker(s) and
microphone(s) include:
1) directionality of the microphone(s);
2) directionality of the loudspeaker(s);
3) location of the transducers in relation to each other and reflecting
surfaces such as the windows and windscreen.
## 3.1 Overall Loss/Loudness ratings
The overall international connection involving PLMNs and the PSTN should meet
the overall loudness rating (OLR) limits in ITU‑T Recommendation G.111. The
national parts of the connection should therefore meet the send and receive
loudness rating (SLR, RLR) limits in ITU‑T Recommendation G.121.
For the case where digital routeings are used to connect the PLMN to the
international chain of circuits, the SLR and RLR of the national extension
will be largely determined by the SLR and RLR of the PLMN. The limits given
below are consistent with the national extension limits and long term
objectives in CCITT Recommendation G.121.
The SLR and RLR values for the PLMN apply up to the POI. However, the main
determining factors are the characteristics of the MS, including the analogue
to digital conversion (ADC) and digital to analogue conversion (DAC). Hence,
in practice, it will be convenient to specify loudness ratings to the Air
Interface. For the normal case, where the PLMN introduces no additional loss
between the Air Interface and the POI, the loudness ratings to the PSTN
boundary (POI) will be the same as the loudness ratings measured at the Air
Interface. However, in some cases loss adjustment may be needed for
interworking situations in individual countries.
These values are directly applicable to the case of an MS operating in a
conventional non‑mobile noise environment. Studies have shown that under the
PLMN noise environment, speech levels are likely to be higher. Hence, in order
to avoid clipping in the speech transcoder, the value of SLR may need to be
increased.
NOTE: In [51] 3GPP TS 51.010, measurement of SLR and RLR for handset MS is
specified using sinusoidal test frequencies. This may not be the optimum
method of measuring the loudness ratings because of the adaptive
characteristics of the GSM speech transcoders. However the actual measurement
is only performed over the linear portion of the MS. When developing the
subsequent test methods for handsfree MS, in annex B and annex C, it was
decided to use the artificial voice described in ITU‑T Recommendation P.50, to
measure send and receive sensitivities.
### 3.1.1 Connections with handset MSs
Overall Loss/Loudness ratings shall be as specified in [49], 3GPP TS 26.131.
For a dual mode GSM/3GPP telephone compliance shall be checked according to
the procedures described in [50] , 3GPP TS 26.132.
For a single mode GSM MS conformance shall be checked according to either the
procedures described in [51] 3GPP TS 51.010 or the procedures described in
[50] 3GPP TS 26.132.
### 3.1.2 Connections with handsfree MSs
Overall Loss/Loudness ratings shall be as specified in [49], 3GPP TS 26.131.
For a dual mode GSM/3GPP telephone as well as a single mode GSM MS compliance
shall be checked according to the procedures described in [50] , 3GPP TS
26.132.
### 3.1.3 Connections with headset MSs
Overall Loss/Loudness ratings shall be as specified in [49], 3GPP TS 26.131.
For a dual mode GSM/3GPP telephone as well as a single mode GSM MS compliance
shall be checked according to the procedures described in [50] , 3GPP TS
26.132.
## 3.2 Stability Loss
The stability loss presented to the PSTN by the PLMN at the POI shall be as
specified for the stability loss presented to the PSTN by the 3GPP network in
[49], 3GPP TS 26.131.
For a dual mode GSM/3GPP telephone as well as a single mode GSM MS compliance
shall be checked according to the procedures described in [50] , 3GPP TS
26.132.
## 3.3 Delay
### 3.3.1 General
A significant propagation time between the two ends of a connection causes
difficulties in conversation over the connection. This arises from two causes.
Firstly, the signal is reflected back from the distant end causing an echo to
the talker (this is considered in subclause 3.4). Secondly, even if ideal echo
control were achieved, the delay between a user talking and receiving a reply
from the user at the distant end of the connection could cause conversational
difficulty.
PLMNs will be connected to the PSTN at a point where present planning rules
allow for a delay of less than 18 ms (see ITU‑T Recommendation G.114 subclause
A.2 a). The delay within the PLMN will greatly exceed this. If unacceptable
circuit delays are not to be experienced by users, action will have to be
taken when planning routes or during call set‑up.
### 3.3.2 Sources of delay
#### 3.3.2.1 Elements of the PLMN that cause delay
The delay of the PLMN is made up of the following elements:
1) speech transcoding delay;
2) radio channel coding delay;
3) PLMN network delay (i.e. fixed elements such as multiplexing, propagation,
switching, echo control);
4) speech processing for echo cancelling and noise reduction in Handsfree
Mode.
#### 3.3.2.2 Elements of the PSTN that cause delay
ITU‑T recommendation G.114 identifies various elements present in some PSTN
connections which cause delay. These include:
1) coaxial, radio and optical fibre terrestrial transmission systems;
2) geostationary satellites;
3) digital speech interpolators;
4) digital exchanges (see also ITU‑T recommendation Q.551);
5) echo cancellers.
### 3.3.3 Effects of delay
Some recent studies have suggested that under ideal conditions, i.e.:
1) effective control of all echoes without clipping by the use of good echo
cancellers;
2) low background noise leading to an absence of perceptible noise contrast;
3) low distortion of transmitted signals;
4) ideal loudness ratings.
Users can tolerate a circuit delay well in excess of 400 ms (currently the
maximum delay recommended in ITU‑T Recommendation G.114). Other studies
indicate that the difficulty caused by circuit delay increases when
impairments, such as imperfect echo control caused by echo suppressers,
clipping and noise contrast, are present.
However, the mobile environment is very harsh, with high background noise
levels and distortion from the speech transcoder. In particular, the use of
acoustic echo suppression could give rise to severe speech clipping and noise
contrast. Also the operation of the voice switching used with DTX will give
impairments similar to those caused by echo suppression. All subjective tests
performed with echo suppressers indicate that, because of the increased effect
of clipping with increased delay, the difficulty experienced by users
increases rapidly with delay. According to curve 2 of figure A.1 of ITU‑T
Recommendation G.114, the percentage of users experiencing difficulties with
echo suppressers reaches 20 % with a delay of 150 ms rising to 40 % with a
delay of 300 ms. ITU‑T Recommendation G.114 annex A details the test
conditions under which this curve was derived and it concludes that
connections with more than 300 ms can only be used by very disciplined users
who are aware of the problems involved in such a connection. However, recent
work has indicated that delays of up to 500 ms can be used satisfactorily,
provided that effective echo cancellation is incorporated in the link.
### 3.3.4 Allocation of delay to the PLMN
#### 3.3.4.1 Allocation of delay to the PLMN when using a full rate system
Taking account of Recommendations on the separate factors described in
subclause 3.3.2.1, the maximum both‑way in the PLMN between the MRP/ERP and
the Point of Interconnection (see figure 1) will be 180 ms. In the case that
the transcoder is positioned outside the BTS, the maximum distance between the
POI and the furthest border of the cell controlled by the BTS is limited by a
one‑way propagation delay of 1,5 ms (approximately 300 km). If the transcoder
is positioned at the BTS, the limit is 6,5 ms (approximately 1 300 km). These
limits may be subject to increase resulting from savings made in the overall
network.
#### 3.3.4.2 Allocation of delay to the PLMN when using a half rate system
If it is assumed that the speech quality associated with the half rate system
is the same as the full rate system (considering both the speech transcoder
and the radio sub‑system), then in order to achieve the same overall
transmission quality, the maximum delay within the PLMN should be maintained
at 180 ms.
### 3.3.5 Delay of various network configurations
#### 3.3.5.1 National and international connections with no echo control in
the PSTN (reference configurations A)
Reference configurations A (see figure 4) contain no echo control in the PSTN
because present planning rules require the use of echo control devices only
when the PSTN delay between two fixed PSTN users exceeds 25 ms. This leads to
a maximum PSTN delay of 22 ms from the point of interconnection to the PLMN
(see subclause 3.4.2).
#### 3.3.5.2 National and international connections with echo control in the
PSTN (reference configurations B)
Reference configurations B (see figure 5) contain echo control in the PSTN
because present planning rules require their use when the PSTN delay between
PSTN users exceeds 25 ms. However, action may have to be taken by
administrations when planning routes or at call set‑up to limit the maximum
delay.
Subclause 3.3.3 describes how the impairments from the harsh mobile
environment when coupled with delay can give rise to difficulty. If very good
cancellation of both electrical and acoustic echo can be achieved and there
are no sources of speech clipping or noise contrast either in the PLMN or the
PSTN part of the connection, the circuit delay should be kept below 400 ms.
This means that every attempt should be made to avoid mobile to mobile calls
via satellite (expected delay > 440 ms).
If acoustic echo suppression is used or DTX is enabled, or there is any other
source of clipping or noise contrast present in the PSTN, the additional
distortion introduced makes it desirable to avoid any satellite routeing
whenever possible in order to keep the delay below 300 ms.
#### 3.3.5.3 Connections where re‑routeing leads to a significant increase in
transmission path length (reference configurations C)
A number of possible combinations of re‑routeing are described by reference
configurations C (see figure 6), all of which increase the path length and
hence the delay and some of which increase the number of impairments in the
network.
These routeings are likely to cause severe degradation to the quality of the
connection and may result in significant difficulty, particularly when the
connection contains one or maybe more satellite links.
These connections should be avoided in network planning and, if this is not
possible, then the facilities of Signalling System No. 7 should be used to
control the routeing of the call at call set‑up to minimize the effects.
### 3.3.6 Delay related requirements on the MS
#### 3.3.6.1 Full rate MS
In accordance with the outline of transmission delays in various GSM system
elements contained in GSM 03.05, the round trip delay in the MS shall not
exceed 143,9 ms as defined in annex D.
#### 3.3.6.2 Half rate MS
The round trip delay in the MS shall not exceed 143,9 ms as defined in annex
D.
#### 3.3.6.3 Handsfree MS
The round trip delay in the MS, including the handsfree processing stages,
shall not exceed 143,9 ms + 39 ms. The 143,9 ms is as defined in annex D, the
39 ms is to allow for additional processing for handsfree.
The method of measurement is defined in annex C, subclause C.10.
## 3.4 Echo
### 3.4.1 General
There are two main sources of echo:
1) acoustic echo caused by the acoustic path between receive and transmit
transducers;
2) electrical echo caused by coupling between the transmit and receive
directions of transmission. The primary source of this form of echo is a
two‑to‑four wire converter.
Electrical echo can be eliminated by the use of end‑to‑end four‑wire
transmission. Acoustic echo will be generated in all telephone instruments
with the exception of carefully designed headsets.
In general, electrical echo is characterized by a short reverberation time and
low dispersion while acoustic echo is likely to have a longer reverberation
time and greater dispersion. The case of the acoustic echo may be further
complicated by the time variant nature of acoustic echo which may be more
severe in the mobile environment.
Curves showing the tolerance to echo, taking account of the relationship
between the delay and the level of the echo, are given in ITU‑T Recommendation
G.131 figure 1/G.131 . In practice, it has been found that for any connection
with a delay of greater than 25 ms, some form of echo control will be required
to reduce the level of the echo (ITU‑T Recommendation G.131 Rule M).
With the expected maximum one‑way delay in the PLMN of 90 ms, acoustic echo
control will be required in the MS to reduce the echo returned to the distant
end and electrical echo control will be required at the POI to reduce the echo
returned to the PLMN user from the PSTN. The design of these echo control
devices should be such as to provide operation in full duplex mode (as opposed
to alternate mode).
The echo loss (EL) presented by the PLMN at the POI shall be as specified in
the 3GPP Network in [49], 3GPP TS 26.131.
For a dual mode GSM/3GPP telephone as well as a single mode GSM MS compliance
shall be checked according to the procedures described in [50] , 3GPP TS
26.132.
### 3.4.2 Electrical echo control in the PLMN (Reference configurations A)
The electrical echo control device at the interface with the PSTN should meet
the requirements given in ITU‑T Recommendation G.168, but with an end delay of
60 ms. This refers to td in subclause 1.3.10 of ITU‑T Recommendation G.168.
The 60 ms is calculated as follows. ITU‑T Recommendation G.131 states that the
maximum length of connection which need not have echo control has a mean
one‑way propagation time of 25 ms. However, this figure is the sum of the
delays of the international connection and the maximum national delays at each
end of the connection. Since the interconnection of the PLMN to the PSTN is
unlikely to be at a point where the PSTN delay is > 22 ms, and the dispersion
may be up to 8 ms, the maximum expected end delay which the echo canceller in
the MSC should expect is:
(22 + 8) x 2 = 60 ms (see figure 7).
Certain countries on the geographical limits of a continent may need to
increase this limit as there may be a proportion of connections which do not
comply with ITU‑T Recommendation G.131 having a mean one‑way delay of greater
than 25 ms and yet are not provided with echo control.
### 3.4.3 Acoustic echo control in the PLMN
Acoustic echo control in the PLMN shall be as specified in the 3GPP Network in
[49], 3GPP TS 26.131.
For a dual mode GSM/3GPP telephone as well as a single mode GSM MS compliance
shall be checked according to the procedures described in [50] , 3GPP TS
26.132.
### 3.4.4 Interaction between tandem echo control devices (reference
configurations B & C)
On long international routes or routes containing a satellite path, network
echo control devices will be present in accordance with ITU‑T Recommendation
G.131 Rule M. These devices will be echo suppressers or echo cancellers
generally with centre clippers. The tandem connection of such devices can lead
to increased clipping and, if echo suppressers are used, additional loss. It
is recommended that signalling or routeing means be used to avoid the tandem
connections of echo control devices whenever possible (see figure 7).
## 3.5 Clipping
### 3.5.1 General
The loss of the start or the end of a speech burst is known as clipping, the
main cause of which is voice switching controlled by voice activity detection.
Voice switching occurs in devices within the network or within terminal
devices. The following devices employ voice switching:
1) echo suppressers. These are generally located at an ISC at either end of a
long international connection or connections using satellites;
2) echo cancellers with centre clippers. These are located as for the echo
suppressers above. In addition, it is recommended that they be used in the MSC
at the interface with the PSTN. Clipping in these devices arises from the
action of the centre clipper only;
3) digital speech interpolators (DSI). These devices are used in circuit
multiplication equipment\'s which are often employed on international
connections;
4) discontinuous transmission (DTX) devices. These are located in the PLMN;
5) loudspeaking telephones. These are used in the PSTN and in the PLMN. It
should be noted that regulations in certain countries prohibit the use of
handheld MSs by drivers of moving vehicles.
### 3.5.2 Properties of voice switches in the PLMN
GSM 06.32 specifies the requirements for the voice activity detector used for
DTX and the total clipping allowed in the MS. Any voice switching used for
acoustic echo control should not exceed these limits. Information on
recommended characteristics of handsfree telephones is given in clause 4 of
ITU‑T Recommendation P.340.
### 3.5.3 Problems of tandem voice switching
The effect of tandem voice switches which are not under one common control
will be an increase in clipping. Moreover, under conditions of high or rapidly
changing ambient noise, false detection of speech is likely to occur in the
voice activity detectors in DSI equipment or network echo control devices.
These devices are generally designed for constant and low levels of noise.
In order to minimize clipping, the following action should be taken:
1) intermediate tandem voice switching devices in the network should be either
disabled by signalling means or avoided by routeing means;
2) the voice switching for the MS for acoustic control and for DTX should be
under one common control.
However, it should be noted that, in many cases, it will not be possible to
exclude DSI equipment or loudspeaking telephones from the connection.
## 3.6 Idle channel noise (handset and headset MS)
### 3.6.1 Sending
The maximum noise level produced by the apparatus at the UPCMI under silent
conditions in the sending direction shall be as specified in [49] 3GPP TS
26.131.
For a dual mode GSM/3GPP telephone compliance shall be checked according to
the procedures described in [50] , 3GPP TS 26.132. For a single mode GSM MS
conformance shall be checked according to the procedures described in [51]
3GPP TS 51.010.
### 3.6.2 Receiving
The maximum (acoustic) noise level at the handset and headset MS when no
signal (O‑level) is received from the speech transcoder shall be as specified
in [49] 3GPP TS 26.131.
For a dual mode GSM/3GPP telephone compliance shall be checked according to
the procedures described in [50] , 3GPP TS 26.132.
For a single mode GSM MS conformance shall be checked according to the
procedures described in [51] 3GPP TS 51.010.
## 3.7 Noise contrast
### 3.7.1 General
On any PLMN call there is likely to be continuous background noise which is
present regardless of whether the users are talking or not. There may also be
one or more voice‑operated devices; these effectively break the circuit when
there is no speech on it.
Noise contrast problems are caused by the background noise being interrupted
when the circuit is broken so that the user listening on the circuit hears the
background noise being continually switched on and off. This is particularly
disturbing for a user talking to a PLMN user in a moving vehicle because the
background noise being modulated in this way is at a very high level. In this
situation, it has been found that speech intelligibility can be impaired.
The main sources of background noise are:
1) background acoustic noise picked up by the microphone. For a loudspeaking
telephone in a moving vehicle the speech/noise ratio can be as low as 0 dB;
2) idle channel noise. This includes noise generated in the transmission
system (thermal noise and crosstalk) the switching system and in speech
transcoders.
### 3.7.2 Elements of a PLMN which can cause noise contrast impairment
The following elements can cause noise contrast impairments:
1) the acoustic echo control device in the MS. A moving vehicle presents a
very difficult environment for an echo canceller, so an echo suppresser is
likely to be used (possibly in conjunction with an echo canceller). Echo
suppressers contain voice‑operated switches;
2) DTX. The transmitter switching will cause a PSTN user talking to a PLMN
user to hear modulation of the mobile background noise. It will also cause the
PLMN user to hear modulation of the PSTN noise. The PSTN noise will vary from
connection to connection and should decrease in the future with increasing
network digitalization;
3) the electric echo control devices protecting the PLMN user against echo
returned from the PSTN. The centre clipper in this echo canceller will cause
some noise modulation.
### 3.7.3 Reduction of noise contrast
A reduction in noise contrast:
1) reduces conversational difficulty, particularly for long conversations;
2) allows a greater tolerance on the matching of the level and spectrum of the
comfort noise to the ambient noise.
NOTE: Preliminary tests in vehicles indicate that, in a constant noise
environment with a handsfree MS and a signal‑to‑noise ratio of approximately
10 dB, a maximum level mismatch of 2 dB can be tolerated. The comfort noise
spectrum was a reconstruction of the averaged medium term ambient noise
spectrum.
#### 3.7.3.1 Reduction of noise contrast by limiting the noise received by the
microphone
The characteristics of the ambient noise (spectrum and level) depend on the
environment in which the MS is used. As a microphone is characterized by its
sensitivity and directivity, only part of this noise will enter the
microphone.
A general principle for reducing noise contrast is to maximize the
signal‑to‑noise ratio at the microphone input. This can be achieved by
simultaneously increasing directivity, reducing sensitivity, and placing the
microphone close to the mouth of the talker. Consequently, the implementation
of the acoustic terminal will significantly affect the dynamic range of the
noise contrast.
##### 3.7.3.1.1 Headset MS
In the case of a headset and if DTX is disabled, then noise contrast will not
be present since acoustic echo control (with centre clipping) is not required.
If DTX is enabled, then only a small amount of noise contrast might result
since the microphone would be close to the talker\'s mouth and would follow
the movement of the talker\'s head, thus fulfilling the general principle
described above. In the worst case, the headset is likely to give a minimum of
15 dB signal‑to‑noise ratio (this value is for further study).
##### 3.7.3.1.2 Handset MS
In the case of a handset, and if DTX is disabled, then noise contrast will not
be present if optimized echo cancelling techniques (without residual echo
clipping) are used to control the acoustic echo (providing 46 dB EL). If DTX
is enabled or acoustic echo control with centre clipping is used, then only a
small amount of noise contrast might result since the microphone would be
close to the talker\'s mouth and would follow the movement of the talker\'s
head, thus fulfilling the general principle described above. In the worst
case, the handset is likely to give a minimum of 15 dB signal‑to‑noise ratio
(this value is for further study).
##### 3.7.3.1.3 Handsfree MS
In the case of a handsfree telephone and even if DTX is disabled, noise
contrast will be introduced unless 46 dB EL can be provided without the use of
centre clipping. This is unlikely to be achievable. As the microphone is
distant from the talker\'s mouth, and as the talker may be moving during the
conversation, the sensitivity of the microphone has to be high and directivity
low. This could result in a worse case signal‑to‑noise ratio of 0 dB. (This
value is for further study.)
The following is given as interim guidelines. In the case of a vehicle mounted
handsfree MS, the characteristics of the microphone should be such as to limit
the change in speech level to 5 dB for all positions of the talker while
sitting.
#### 3.7.3.2 Reduction of noise contrast by insertion of comfort noise
GSM 06.12 specifies comfort noise to be used both for acoustic echo control
with centre clipping and DTX.
### 3.7.4 Consequence of the introduction of high comfort noise levels on
other voice‑operated devices
Two problems associated with other voice switching devices (e.g. DSI) may
result from the introduction of high levels of comfort noise:
1) the high comfort noise level may be interpreted as a voice signal;
2) if the high level of comfort noise is detected as noise, then another
source of comfort noise at a different level may be introduced downstream,
thus increasing the noise contrast.
## 3.8 Sensitivity/frequency characteristics
### 3.8.1 Headset and Handset MSs
#### 3.8.1.1 Sending
For a dual mode GSM/3GPP telephone as well as single mode GSM MS sending
Sensivity/frequency characteristics shall be as specified in [49] 3GPP TS
26.131.
For a dual mode GSM/3GPP telephone compliance shall be checked according to
the procedures described in [50] , 3GPP TS 26.132.
For a single mode GSM MS conformance shall be checked according to either the
procedures described in [51] 3GPP TS 51.010 or the procedures described in
3GPP TS 26.132.
#### 3.8.1.2 Receiving
For a dual mode GSM/3GPP telephone as well as a single mode GSM MS receiving
Sensivity/frequency characteristics shall be be as specified in [49] 3GPP TS
26.131.
For a dual mode GSM/3GPP telephone compliance shall be checked according to
the procedures described in [50] , 3GPP TS 26.132.
For a single mode GSM MS conformance shall be checked according to either the
procedures described in [51] 3GPP TS 51.010 or the procedures described in
3GPP TS 26.132.
### 3.8.2 Handsfree MS
#### 3.8.2.1 Sending
For a dual mode GSM/3GPP telephone as well as single mode GSM MS sending
Sensivity/frequency characteristics shall be be as specified in [49] 3GPP TS
26.131.
For a dual mode GSM/3GPP telephone as well as a single mode GSM MS compliance
shall be checked according to the procedures described in [50] , 3GPP TS
26.132.
#### 3.8.2.2 Receiving
For a dual mode GSM/3GPP telephone as well as single mode GSM MS receiving
Sensivity/frequency characteristics shall be be as specified in [49] 3GPP TS
26.131.
For a dual mode GSM/3GPP telephone compliance shall be checked according to
the procedures described in [50] , 3GPP TS 26.132.
## 3.9 Distortion (handset and headset MS)
The requirements for sending and receiving distortion shall be as specified in
[49] 3GPP TS 26.131.
For a dual mode GSM/3GPP telephone compliance shall be checked according to
the procedures described in [50], 3GPP TS 26.132.
For a single mode GSM MS conformance to the requirement on receiving
distortion shall be checked according to the procedures described in [51] 3GPP
TS 51.010. Conformance to the requirement on sending distortion shall be
checked according to either the procedure described in [51] 3GPP TS 51.010 or
the procedure described in [50] 3GPP TS 26.132.
### 3.9.1 Gain variation, sending
The requirement on gain variation, sending is applicable to single mode GSM MS
only.
The gain variation relative to the gain for ARL shall remain within the limits
given in table 6. For intermediate levels, the same limits for gain variation
apply.
Table 6: Variation of gain with input level, sending
* * *
Sending level dB relative to ARL Upper limit (dB) Lower limit (dB) 13 0,5 ‑0,5
0 0,5 ‑0,5 ‑20 0,5 ‑0,5 ‑20 0,5 ‑2 ‑30 0,5 ‑2 ‑30 1 ‑ ‑40 1 ‑ ‑40 2 ‑ ‑45 2 ‑
* * *
Compliance of the gain variation in the sending direction shall be checked by
the test described in annex C, subclause C.5.1.
### 3.9.2 G ain variation, receiving
The requirement on gain variation, sending is applicable to single mode GSM MS
only.
The gain variation relative to the gain at an input level of --10 dBm0, shall
be within the limits given in table 8. For intermediate levels, the same
limits for gain variation apply. The requirement is valid for sound pressures
up to +10 dBPa. For sound pressures exceeding +10 dBPa at the ERP there is no
lower limit requirement.
Table 8: Variation of gain with input level, receiving
* * *
Receiving level at the digital interface (dBm0) Upper limit (dB) Lower limit
(dB) +3 0,5 ‑0,5 ‑10 0,5 ‑0,5 ‑40 0,5 ‑0,5 ‑40 1 ‑1 ‑50 1 ‑1 ‑50 2 ‑2
* * *
Compliance of the gain variation in the receiving direction shall be checked
by the test described in annex C, subclause C.5.2.
## 3.10 Sidetone (handset and headset MS)
### 3.10.1 Sidetone loss
A sidetone requirement is appropriate for MSs using handsets and headsets.
There are separate requirements for listener sidetone (LSTR) and talker
sidetone (STMR). The listener sidetone performance is considered as the major
parameter affecting the user perception of the system. Though talker sidetone
is important to give the user some comfort in using the equipment.
#### 3.10.1.1 LSTR
There is no explicit requirement on LSTR, since the requirements on ambient
noise rejection in combination with the requirement on STMR should suffice to
ensure acceptable LSTR.
#### 3.10.1.2 STMR
For a dual mode GSM/3GPP telephone as well as for a single mode GSM MS the
Side Tone Masking Rate (STMR) shall be as specified in [49] 3GPP TS 26.131.
Where a user‑controlled receiving volume control is provided, the STMR shall
meet the requirement given above at the setting where the RLR is equal to the
nominal value.
It is recommended that the STMR is independent of the volume control.
For a dual mode GSM/3GPP telephone compliance shall be checked according to
the procedures described in [50] 3GPP TS 26.132.
For a single mode GSM MS conformance shall be checked according to the
procedures described in [51] 3GPP TS 51.010.
### 3.10.2 Sidetone distortion
The requirement on sidetone distortion is applicable to single mode GSM MS
only.
The third harmonic distortion generated by the terminal equipment shall not be
greater than 10 %. Compliance shall be checked by the relevant procedures in
[51] 3GPP TS 51.010.
## 3.11 Not used
## 3.12 Requirements for information tones
The PLMN should be capable of transmitting information tones generated by the
PSTN conforming to I‑ETS 300 245‑7.
## 3.13 Crosstalk
### 3.13.1 Near and far end crosstalk
The near end or far end crosstalk ratio between two complete PLMN connections
should not be less than 65 dB.
### 3.13.2 Go/return crosstalk
The crosstalk ratio between the go and return channels of a single PLMN
connection should not be less than 55 dB. This is to avoid nullifying the
effect of the electrical echo canceller at the MSC. The requirement applies
for an acoustic input signal at the MRP with a measurement being made at the
UPCMI in the opposite direction of transmission.
## 3.14 MS Ambient Noise Rejection
For a dual mode GSM/3GPP telephone as well as for a single mode GSM MS ambient
noise rejection ANR shall be as specified for narrowband telephony
transmission in [49] TS 26.131Compliance shall be checked according to the
procedures described in [50] 3GPP TS 26.132.
NOTE 1: For transmission planning purposes. Interfaces A and A bis are not
required.
NOTE 2: The speech transcoder may be at either the BTS or the BSC.
Figure 1: Basic Configuration for Interworking with the PSTN
NOTE 1: Speech detection is incorporated in the speech transcoder. Speech
detection is needed to provide the function of DTX and, if required, acoustic
echo control (see note 2).
NOTE 2: Acoustic echo control may not be provided in the case of the headset.
NOTE 3: Includes filtering.
NOTE 4: In the case of direct MSC to MSC connections, the EEC function should
not be active. The EEC device should be either disabled or not inserted in the
circuit.
NOTE 5: In single talk and in double talk, when no centre clipper is used, and
in double talk only if a centre clipper is used, the level of quantizing noise
introduced by the speech transcoding will effect the level of residual
acoustic echo when echo cancellation techniques are used for AEC.
NOTE 6: The transmission system need not be present.
Figure 2: PLMN System Model Used for Consideration of Transmission Planning
Issues
NOTE 1: A direct link between MSC and ISC may be used in cases where
Signalling System No. 7 is not provided in the PSTN or where a link via the
PSTN would have excessive delay.
NOTE 2: An echo canceller should be provided at every POI to cancel any echo
returning to the PLMN from the PSTN. This is necessary because the one‑way
echo path back to the MS greatly exceeds 25 ms (see ITU‑T Recommendation
G.131).
NOTE 3: A direct link between MSCs reduces the number of echo control devices
that need to be provided and avoids the tandem connection of such devices.
These direct links may be expected to have less delay than PSTN connections.
NOTE 4: This arrangement may be provided.
Figure 3: PLMN to PSTN Interconnection Configurations
Direct routeing and re‑routeing where the overall delay of the transmission
path has not been extended and no echo control in the PSTN.
Normal configurations.
Figure 4: (continued) Reference Configurations A
Where direct MSC‑MSC connections exist, these configurations may apply.
Figure 4: (concluded)
Direct routeing and re‑routeings where the overall delay of the transmission
path has not been extended and with echo control in the PSTN.
Normal configurations.
Figure 5: (continued) Reference Configurations B
Where direct MSC -- MSC connections exist, these configurations may apply.
Figure 5: (concluded)
Re‑routeings where the overall delay of the transmission path has been
extended beyond transmission planning limits.
Figure 6: Reference Configuration C
No echo control in PSTN.
Echo control in PSTN.
Figure 7: End Delay Requirements for PLMN EEC
###### ## Annex A (informative): Considerations on the Acoustic Interface of
the Mobile Station
# A.1 Handsfree MS
The handsfree MS will almost certainly require the use of non‑linear
processing for the acoustic echo control, the extraction of the speech from
high levels of ambient noise. The implementation of these functions may well
cause degradation to the overall transmission quality and cause difficulty to
the distant end user especially during duplex conversation.
# A.2 Handset MS
The handset MS, depending on the detailed implementation, might not require
the use of non‑linear processing for the acoustic echo control. Also, the
position of the microphone should give a significantly improved
signal‑to‑noise ratio, compared with a handsfree MS especially in noisy
environments. This is likely to result in significantly improved transmission
quality compared with the handsfree MS and easier duplex conversation.
# A.3 Headset MS
The headset MS is likely to be the simplest, since with careful design, it
might not require acoustic echo control. As with the handset case, the
signal‑to‑noise ratio should be significantly improved compared with the
handsfree MS especially in noisy environments. Consequently, the headset MS is
likely to give the best transmission quality and easiest duplex conversation.
# A.4 Inter‑reaction with DTX
Because of the improved signal‑to‑noise ratio, both the headset MS and the
handset MS are likely to give better transmission quality when DTX is enabled
than that of handsfree MS.
###### ## Annex B (normative): Test considerations
Test setups for terminal acoustics shall be as specified in [50] 3GPP TS
26.132.
When DAI is used for testing of single mode GSM MS, the measurement signals
shall be as specified in the relevant test-cases in [51] 3GPP TS 51.010.
###### ## Annex C (normative): Transmission requirements testing
Unless otherwise stated, testing shall be performed according to [50] 3GPP TS
26.132.
# C.1 Not usedC.2 Not usedC.3 Not usedC.4 Not usedC.5 Variation of gain with
input level
## C.5.1 Sending
The handset is mounted at LRGP and the earpiece is sealed to the knife‑edge of
the artificial ear.
A sine‑wave signal with a frequency in the range 1 004 Hz to 1 025 Hz is
applied at the MRP. The level of this signal is adjusted until the output of
the terminal is --10 dBm0. The level of the signal at the MRP is then the ARL.
The test signal shall be applied at the following levels: ‑45, ‑40, ‑35, ‑30,
‑25, ‑20, ‑15, ‑10, ‑5, 0, 5, 10, 13 dB relative to ARL.
The variation of gain relative to the gain for ARL is measured.
NOTE: Selective measurement may be used to avoid the effects of ambient noise.
## C.5.2 Receiving
The handset is mounted at LRGP and the earpiece is sealed to the knife‑edge of
the artificial ear.
A digitally simulated sine‑wave signal with a frequency in the range 1 004 Hz
to 1 025 Hz shall be applied at the digital interface at the following levels:
‑50, ‑45, ‑40, ‑35, ‑30, ‑25, ‑20, ‑15, ‑10, ‑5, 0, 3 dBm0.
The variation of gain relative to the gain at an input level of \--10 dBm0
shall be measured at the ERP.
NOTE: Selective measurement may be used to avoid the effects of ambient noise.
# C.6 Not used
# C.7 Not used
# C.8 Not used
# C.9 Not used
# C.10 Delay for handsfree MS
## C.10.1 Uplink
**Configuration**
The handsfree microphone is mounted physically close to the loudspeaker
producing the test signal. The RF of the MS is connected to the System
Simulator.
NOTE 1: For handsfree equipment fitted with multiple microphones, there must
be sufficient sensitivity for one of the microphones for this test to be
performed.
**Procedure**
The SS sets up a handsfree speech call to the MS. The SS sends a known speech
like test signal (delytest.pcm) to the loudspeaker of the test system and
monitors the received RF bursts.
The SS performs a correlation of the stimulus file with the received, decoded
information and calculates the delay.
NOTE 2: The timing of the stimulus signal has to be related to the frame
timing and the timing of the received signal has to be related to the frame in
which it is received to be able to calculate the delay in the MS.
## C.10.2 Downlink
**Configuration**
The handsfree loudspeaker is mounted physically close to the measuring
microphone of the SS. The RF of the MS is connected to the System Simulator.
**Procedure**
The SS sets up a handsfree speech call to the MS. The SS sends a known speech
like test signal (delytest.cod which is the speech coder processed version of
delytest.pcm) to the MS and monitors the audio received at the loudspeaker.
The SS performs a correlation of the stimulus file with the received audio and
calculates the delay.
NOTE: The timing of the received audio signal has to be related to the frame
timing and the timing of the transmitted speech test signal has to be related
to the frame in which it is sent to be able to calculate the delay in the MS.
## C.10.3 Result
The round trip delay attributable to the MS is the sum of the delay values
measured in C.10.1 and C.10.2 less the calibrated delay in the test system.
As the timing of all signals is related to air interface frame timing, the
delay in the test system will only be due to operations between the timing
system and the acoustic interface. This can be calibrated by running a
correlation test, similar to the above, but sending the pcm file to the SS
loudspeaker and measuring with the SS microphone. The delay measured by this
correlation will be the sum of all the SS delays. Care should be taken in the
SS to ensure that this delay is not subject to unnecessary variation.
###### ## Annex D (normative): MS delay requirement definition
# D.1 Full rate MS delay requirement definition
The symbol definitions for the calculations in this clause are:
Trftx: The time required for transmission of a TCH radio interface frame over
the air interface due to the interleaving and de‑interleaving (system
dependent).
Ttransc: The speech encoder processing time, from input of the last PCM sample
to output of the final encoded bit (implementation dependent).
Tsample: The duration of the segment of PCM speech operated on by the speech
transcoder.
Tencode: The time required for the channel encoder to perform channel encoding
(implementation dependent).
Trxproc: The time required after reception over the air interface to perform
equalization, channel decoding and SID frame detection (implementation
dependent).
Tproc: The time required after reception of the first RPE‑sample to process
the speech encoded data for the full rate speech decoder and to produce the
first PCM output sample (implementation dependent).
Ta/d: Delay in the analogue to digital converter in the downlink.
Tmargin: An allowance for system entities that are implementation dependent.
Td/a: Delay in the digital to analogue converter in the uplink.
Tpcm: The duration of a segment of PCM speech for the downlink processing
delay.
The full rate MS speech delay in the uplink direction is the delay between an
acoustic event at the MRP to the last bit of the corresponding speech frame at
the antenna connector and shall not exceed:
MS uplink delay = Ta/d + Tmargin + Tsample + Ttransc + Tencode + Trftx
= 2,0 + 3,0 + 20,0 + 8,0 + 1,6 + 37,5 ms
= 72,1 ms
The full rate MS speech delay in the downlink direction is the delay between
the first bit of a speech frame at the antenna connector and the last acoustic
event at the ERP corresponding to that speech frame and shall not exceed:
MS downlink delay = Tpcm + Trftx + Trxproc + T proc + Tmargin + Td/a
= 20,0 + 37,5 + 8,8 + 1,5 + 3,0 + 1,0 ms
= 71,8 ms
The round trip delay shall therefore not exceed:
72,1 ms + 71,8 ms = 143,9 ms.
# D.2 Half rate MS delay requirement definition
The symbol definitions for the calculations in this clause are:
Trftx: The time required for transmission of a TCH radio interface frame over
the air interface due to the interleaving and de‑interleaving (system
dependent).
Ttransc: The speech encoder processing time, from input of the last PCM sample
to output of the final encoded bit (implementation dependent).
Tsample: The duration of the segment of PCM speech operated on by the speech
transcoder.
Tencode: The time required for the channel encoder to perform channel encoding
(implementation dependent).
Trxproc: The time required after reception over the air interface to perform
equalization, channel decoding and SID frame detection (implementation
dependent).
Tproc: The time required after reception of the first gain vector (GSPO) to
process the speech encoded data for the half rate speech decoder and to
produce the first PCM output sample (implementation dependent).
Ta/d: Delay in the analogue to digital converter in the downlink.
Tmargin: An allowance for system entities that are implementation dependent.
Td/a: Delay in the digital to analogue converter in the uplink.
Tpcm: The duration of a segment of PCM speech for the downlink processing
delay.
The half rate MS speech delay in the uplink direction is the delay between an
acoustic event at the MRP to the last bit of the corresponding speech frame at
the antenna connector and shall not exceed:
MS uplink delay = Ta/d + Tmargin + Tsample + Ttransc + Tencode + Trftx
= 1,0 + 1,9 + 24,4 + 12,1 + 1,2 + 32,9 ms
= 73,5 ms
The half rate MS speech delay in the downlink direction is the delay between
the first bit of a speech frame at the antenna connector and the last acoustic
event at the ERP corresponding to that speech frame and shall not exceed:
MS downlink delay = Tpcm + Trftx + Trxproc + T proc + Tmargin + Td/a
= 24,4 + 32,9 + 8,8 + 1,9 + 1,9 + 0,5 ms
= 70,4 ms
The round trip delay shall therefore not exceed:
143,9 ms (see subclause 3.3.6.2).
###### ## Annex E (informative): Adaptive gain control
In noisy surroundings the speaker automatically raises his voice to compensate
for the noise. The sending sensitivity can therefore be reduced, giving the
same voice output to the line as under quiet conditions and at the same time
reducing the output line noise level.
On the other hand the receiving sensitivity has to be increased under noisy
conditions to give a better perceived sound quality.
The Sending and receiving sensitivities may be modified automatically by
implementing an Adaptive gain control. The gain variation in the set
corresponds to a gain in the receiving path and to a symmetrical attenuation
in the sending path for increased ambient noise level.
The following table presents, for guidance and illustration only, three
examples of gain variation characteristics.
Table E.1: Gain variation characteristics
* * *
                         **Ambient noise level**         **Relative Gain variation**
**Single threshold** between --44 and --39 dBPa(A) 8 dB **Double** ‑44 dBPa(A)
5 dB **threshold** ‑34 dBPa(A) 10 dB **Continuous** from --64 to --44 dBPa(A)
3 dB **variation** from --44 to --24 dBPa(A) 8 dB
* * *
#