# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
_The present document captures the results of the feasibility study for GERAN
improvements for Machine-type Communications._
# 1 Scope
The present document contains the results from the study of improvements for
Machine-type Communications in GERAN.
The following items shall be covered in the study:
  * GERAN enhancements for Smart metering
  * Enhancements which enable or improve efficient use of RAN resources and/or which lower complexity when a large number of MTC devices are served.
  * GERAN enhancements for overload and congestion control on the radio, A and Gb interface
  * GERAN enhancements regarding identifiers used for MTC devices in the radio access network
[Editor's note: The scope may be expanded as the study progresses.]
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.368: \"Service requirements for machine-type communications;
Stage 1\".
[3] SP-100224 Liaison Statement: Prioritization of NIMTC functions in Rel-10
[4] 3GPP TS 44.018 Mobile radio interface layer 3 protocol; Radio Resource
Control (RRC) protocol
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**MTC Device:** A MTC Device is a UE equipped for Machine Type Communication,
which communicates through a PLMN with MTC Server(s) and/or other MTC
Device(s).
> NOTE: A MTC Device might also communicate locally (wirelessly, possibly
> through a PAN, or hardwired) with other entities which provide the MTC
> Device "raw data" for processing and communication to the MTC Server(s)
> and/or other MTC Device(s). Local communication between MTC Device(s) and
> other entities is out of scope of this technical specification.
**MTC Feature:** MTC Features are network functions to optimise the network
for use by M2M applications.
**example:** text used to clarify abstract rules by applying them literally.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].)
CCCH Common Control Channel
GERANIMTC GERAN Improvements for Machine Type Communications
IP Internet Protocol
KPI Key Performance Indicator
MS Mobile Station
MTC Machine Type Communications
PDCH Packet Data Channel
# 4 Areas for study to effectively support MTC in GERAN
## 4.1 General
Sub-section 4 contains the outcome of the study of GERAN enhancements driven
by the prioritized general MTC functions as defined in [3] that are considered
applicable to GERAN specifications.
### 4.2 Overload control
#### 4.2.1 General
Overload Control refers to use cases Radio Network Congestion, Signalling
Network and Core Network Congestion as described in [2] Annex A.
#### 4.2.2 Description and Analysis
[Editor's note: This section provides the description and the analysis of the
functionality.]
#### 4.2.3 Result
[Editor's note: This section identifies the impacts on GERAN specifications
resulting from the functionality.]
.....
### 4.3 Identifiers
#### 4.3.1 General
The functionality Identifiers refers to sub-section 7.1.4 in [2].
#### 4.3.2 Description and Analysis
[Editor's note: This section provides the description and the analysis of the
functionality.]
#### 4.3.3 Result
[Editor's note: This section identifies the impacts on GERAN specifications
resulting from the functionality.]
....
# 5 MTC Use Cases
## 5.1 General
Sub-section 5 contains the outcome of the study of GERAN enhancements for
prioritized general MTC functions specific for MTC uses cases seen as relevant
to support within a GERAN network.
### 5.2 Smart Metering
#### 5.2.1 Overload control
##### 5.2.1.1 Enhancement: ...
[Editor's note: This section provides the description and the analysis of
functional enhancements.
##### 5.2.1.2 Result
[Editor's note: This section identifies the impacts on GERAN specifications
resulting from functional enhancements.]
#### 5.2.2 Identifiers
##### 5.2.2.1 Enhancement: ...
[Editor's note: This section provides the description and the analysis of
functional enhancements.
##### 5.2.2.2 Result
[Editor's note: This section identifies the impacts on GERAN specifications
resulting from functional enhancements.]
###
### 5.3 _\ _
# 6 Common Assumptions
## 6.1 Traffic model
### 6.1.1 General
The traffic model is assumed to be mobile originated, meaning that the MTC
server will not poll/request reports from the MTC devices. Hence, the MTC
devices will require access to the network rather autonomously and thus the
network need not page the MTC devices.
### 6.1.2 CCCH Signalling
In order to capture different network access behaviors the investigated
scenarios are divided in both synchronized and non-synchronized access.
Three different traffic models are used as listed in Table 1.
> Table 1. Traffic models.
* * *
**Traffic model** **Description** T1 MTC devices accessing the network in an
uncoordinated/non-synchronized manner T2 MTC devices accessing the network in
a coordinated/synchronized manner with a certain distribution T3 Legacy
devices accessing the network in an uncoordinated/non-synchronized manner
* * *
> Table 2. CCCH Traffic Scenarios
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | **Scenario** | **T1** | **T2** | **T3** | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Number of | λ / (Reporting | X | λ / (Reporting | | devices | interval)[^2] | | interval) | | | | | * | | | | | _^Error:\ Refe | | | | | rence\ source\ | | | | | not\ found^_ * | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Arrival | Poisson | Time limited | Poisson | | process | | deterministic | | | | Arrival | event | Arrival | | | intensity: λ | distribution. | intensity: λ | | | [arr | See 2.1.1. | [arr | | | ivals/second] | | ivals/second] | | | | The | | | | | time-spread of | Case 1: λ = 5 | | | | the | for CS traffic | | | | distribution | | | | | is controlled | Case 2: λ = 5 | | | | by parameter T | for CS traffic | | | | [s], which | and\ | | | | shall include | λ = 15 for PS | | | | T=1. | traffic | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Reporting | - 5 seconds | > NOTE: With | N/A | | interval | | > this traffic | | | | - 15 minutes | > model | | | | | > reporting | | | | - 1 hour | > interval is | | | | | > not defined | | | | - 1 day | > since the | | | | | > number of | | | | | > devices are | | | | | > fixed and | | | | | > the access | | | | | > need to be | | | | | > finished by | | | | | > all devices | | | | | > before the | | | | | > following | | | | | > access can | | | | | > take place. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Report Sizes | - 10 byte | - 10 byte | N/A | | | | | | | | - 200 byte | - 200 byte | | | | | | | | | - 1000 byte | - 1000 byte | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
Scenario T1 can be considered to be quite realistic, since for a large amount
of users the overall arrival process can be modelled as a Poisson arrival
process regardless of the individual arrival process.
_Scenario T2 models the behavior when e.g. multitude of ill-configured power
meters are set to deliver their measurements at the same time or when the
meters starts reporting after e.g. a power outage. The MTC devices are here
assumed to be synchronized within an interval of T seconds._
Scenario T3 models the behavior of CS _and_ PS legacy devices where the
overall arrival _processes (separate for CS and PS)_ can _each_ be modelled as
a Poisson arrival process as the devices are assumed to be initiated
independently of each other. Scenario T3 shall be regarded as the reference
case when evaluating impacts on legacy mobiles and the ASR for CS services
simulated in Scenario T3 shall be over 98%.
The overall objective of the T3 scenario is to be used in conjunction with
either the T1 or T2 scenario, respectively, to evaluate the impact of the MTC
traffic on the legacy traffic.
In the simulations, the network shall not use pre-emptive retransmissions of
messages on the CCCH/D.
#### 6.1.2.1 Time limited deterministic event distribution
Following considerations are made:
Assuming that all events take place between _t=0_ and _t=T_ , the intensity is
described by the distribution p(t) and the total number of devices in the cell
is X, then the number of arrivals in the _i_ :th TDMA frame is given by:
Equation 1 -- Number of arrivals in a given TDMA-frame
Any distribution should preserve the total number of access attempts when time
duration T is changed, and should be limited in time:
$\int_{0}^{T}{p(t)\text{dt} = 1}$.
The distribution used in this feasibility study is the so called Beta
distribution, please see section 6.2.2.1.1.
##### 6.1.2.1.1 Beta distribution
The benefit of this model is:
  * This deterministic traffic model simplifies simulation (by virtue of being deterministic). It may be considered to approximate the traffic load generated by multiple devices accessing the network quasi-simultaneously (the selection of a time window of 1 second is arbitrary).
$p(t) = \frac{t^{\alpha - 1}(T - t)^{\beta - 1}}{T^{\alpha + \beta -
1}\text{Beta}(\alpha,\beta)}\alpha > 0,\beta > 0$, where
$\text{Beta}(\alpha,\beta)$ is the Beta function.
{width="3.75in" height="2.8152777777777778in"}
Figure 1 - The Beta distribution with α=3, β=4 when T=1
The values of α=3 and β=4 for traffic model T2 are used, which gives the PDF
that is depicted in Figure 1 above for the case when T=1.
### 6.1.3 Traffic model on PDCH
It is assumed that traces from CCCH Signalling simulations as defined in
section 6.2.2 are used to model the traffic for the PDCH simulations.
## 6.2 Methodology
### 6.2.1 Simulator methodology
A single cell evaluation of possible congestion of the CCCH and PDCH is used.
Either a single cell simulator (sometimes also referred to as a protocol level
simulator) or system level type simulator can be used where the basic
difference is in that the system level simulator models dynamic interference
from neighbouring cells while the single cell simulator uses network traces
(see 6.3.1.1) to generate external interference.
Irrespective of simulator level used network traces, as described in 6.3.1.1,
shall be presented for easier comparison of results from different companies.
#### 6.2.1.1 Network trace
In order to get a simplified distribution of the interfering signal that
network level simulations are run to collect the signal distributions of the
interferer.
Further on, the derived interference distribution is presented in tabulated
format to allow for easier comparison and verification of contributions from
different companies.
Note that the collection of signal interferers might be different depending on
the traffic scenario investigated, i.e. CCCH or PDCH congestion. E.g. the CCCH
distributions will be based on I~ext~, as defined in section 6.3.2.5.1, while
the distributions used for the PDCH evaluation is left vendor specific, see
section 6.3.2.5.2 .
An example of a tabulated distribution of external interference for the RACH
simulations is given in Figure 2.
* * *
**I~ext~**  
Signal level [dBm] CDF value -110 0 -109 0.02 -108 0.03 -107 0.05 **.** **.**
**.** **.** **.** **.** **.** **.** -29 0.98 -30 1
* * *
> Figure 2. Example of RACH interferer distribution.
#### 6.2.1.2 Network load
The resource allocation from the background traffic in neighbouring cells is
assumed to be fully allocated (constant transmission), transmitted at full
power (no power control) using 8PSK modulation (for assumptions on power back-
off see Table 3).
#### 6.2.1.3 Cell under investigation
For the cell under investigation all traffic is assumed to be MTC devices
while the background noise is assumed to be best effort PS traffic modelled as
described in section 6.3.1.2. This should be seen as a worst case scenario in
terms of network access attempts.
#### 6.2.1.4 Service coverage
Full service coverage of stationary MTC devices should be assumed, i.e. no
service outage is accepted. This is ensured by allowing only minimum signal
levels of -104 dBm -- 3 for each MTC device, where an additional gain of 3 dB
is assumed for a dual antenna MRC type BTS architecture. This would guarantee
GMSK coverage. The minimum signal level shall include fast fading, since TU0
is used (see 6.3.2.2).
### 6.2.2 Simulation assumptions
#### 6.2.2.1 General
This section defines the parameters required for the simulations which may be
required to conduct the study. The parameters are referenced where
appropriate.
> Table 3. Network level simulator parameters
+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+ | ** | **Value** | **Unit** | **Comment** | | | Parameter** | | | | | +-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+ | Sectors per | 3 | | | | | site | | | | | +-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+ | Sector | 65º deg | dBi | 18 dBi | | | antenna | H-plane,\ | | antennas in | | | pattern | max TX gain | | 900‑band | | | | 15 | | are large | | | | | | and not | | | | | | considered | | | | | | to be | | | | | | common in | | | | | | urban | | | | | | areas. | | +-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+ | Path loss | Per 30.03, | dB | In urban | | | model | | | areas, 5 m | | | | Hb = 5 m, | | over | | | | | | average | | | | | | roof height | | | | | | is | | | | | | considered | | | | | | more | | | | | | typical | | | | | | than the | | | | | | default | | | | | | value of 15 | | | | | | m in 30.03. | | +-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+ | Minimum | 64 | dB | 1800: TR | | | coupling | | | 25.942 2 | | | loss | | | GHz. | | | | | | | | | | | | 900: | | | | | | assumed 6 | | | | | | dB lower | | +-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+ | Building | 15 / 20 | dB | Indoor 1 / | | | penetration | | | Indoor 2 | | | loss | | | | | +-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+ | Indoor | 90 / 10 | \% | Scenario 1 | | | 1/Outdoor | | | | | | devices | | | | | +-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+ | Indoor | 50 / 50 | \% | Scenario 2 | | | 1/Indoor 2 | | | | | | devices | | | | | +-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+ | I | N | | The | | | nterference | eighbouring | | n | | | model | cells BCCH | | eighbouring | | | | | | cells | | | | | | according | | | | | | to the BCCH | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | reuse | | | | | | pattern are | | | | | | modelled as | | | | | | if they | | | | | | have full | | | | | | traffic. | | +-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+ | Log-normal | Standard | 8 | dB | | | fading | deviation | | | | +-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+ | | Correlation | 110 | m | NOTE: For | | | distance | | | the cell | | | | | | under | | | | | | in | | | | | | vestigation | | | | | | it is not | | | | | | essential | | | | | | to model | | | | | | stationary | | | | | | devices | | | | | | (TU0), thus | | | | | | a | | | | | | correlation | | | | | | distance of | | | | | | 0 m can be | | | | | | used. Fewer | | | | | | cell | | | | | | r | | | | | | ealizations | | | | | | needed if | | | | | | this value | | | | | | is zero. | +-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+ | Channel | See table 6 | | | | | propagation | | | | | +-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+ | Output | 33 | dBm | Excluding | | | power | | | backoff | | | | 43 | | | | | - MS | | | | | | | | | | | | - BTS | | | | | +-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+ | Backoff | 6 | dB | | | | | | | | | | - MS | | | | | +-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+ | - BTS | 4 | dB | 8PSK | | | | | | modulation | | | | | | assumed. | | +-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+ | Noise | 10 | dB | | | | figure | | | | | | | | | | | | - MS | | | | | +-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+ | - BTS | 8 | dB | | | +-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+ | Inter-site | 0 | | Low | | | log-normal | | | correlation | | | correlation | | | in urban | | | coefficient | | | scenarios. | | +-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+
> Table 4. Network scenario
* * *
**Parameter** **Value** **Unit** **Comment** Frequency band 900 MHz  
Cell radius 500 m  
Bandwidth 2.4 MHz  
Number of channels 12  
BCCH frequency reuse 4/12  
BCCH or TCH under interest BCCH
* * *
> Table 5. Protocol level parameters
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Parameter** | **Value** | **Comment** | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | CCCH assumptions | 20 | These default values | | | | shall be included | | - Tx-integer | 109 | among those | | | | evalutated. | | - S | 4 | | | | | See 3GPP TS 44.018 | | - Max. retrans (M) | 5 sec. | for implementation | | | | details | | - T3142 | (Tx+2S)/217=1.1 sec. | | | | | | | - T3146 | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | BCCH configuration | Non-combined | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | # PDCHs | 4 | Number of PDCHS | | | | availabale data | | | | traffic | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | # AGCHs per | 6 | | | 51-multiframe | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | PDCH Resource | 1 TS UL + 1 TS DL | | | Assignment | (BTTI) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Link adaptation | Enabled | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Service type | 1. EGPRS | | | | | | | | 2. GPRS | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | RLC mode of | Acknowledged Mode | | | operation | (AM) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
> Table 6. Link specific settings.
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Parameter** | **Value** | **Comment** | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Channel profile | TU3 | For PS users to | | [MTC] | | derive network level | | | TU0 | trace on UL | | | | | | | | 1. For MTC devices | | | | in protocol level | | | | simulations | | | | | | | | 2. For PS users to | | | | derive network level | | | | trace on DL | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Receiver type UL | MRC | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Incremental | Enabled (only for | See Table 5 | | redundancy | EGPRS) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
#### 6.2.2.2 Path loss
It is assumed that the gain (path loss + shadow fading + antenna gain) from a
given MS to its serving BTS is the same in UL and DL.
#### 6.2.2.3 Channel propagation
It is assumed that the external interferers experience a TU3-channel while the
MTC devices are assumed to be stationary and subject to TU0-channel
propagation.
#### 6.2.2.4 External interference
It is assumed that the external interference levels are uncorrelated between
the DL and UL, i.e. that uncorrelated samples are used from the respective
distributions.
#### 6.2.2.5 Application protocol
It is assumed that the MTC application is using UDP as a transport protocol
with acknowledgments on the application layer from the MTC server to the MTC
client will be transmitted, i.e. there will both be PUANs and data blocks
(containing application Acks) transmitted in the DL for the PDCH evaluation.
Details are left FFS.
During a simulation session the application performs a single access attempt,
i.e. there shall be no re-attempts triggered by the application.
##### 6.2.2.5.1 IP version
The IP version to use for the evaluation is left FFS.
#### 6.2.2.6 Link model
##### 6.2.2.6.1 CCCH
A simplistic link-to-system interface is assumed.
It is assumed that only a total co-channel interference level needs to be
assumed for each burst. Adjacent channel suppression is assumed to be 18 dB.
To capture the correct combined channel propagation behavior of the total
interfering signal, impacts on fast fading is proposed to be included in the
signal distribution of the interferer.
###### 6.2.2.6.1.1 RACH (CCCH/U)
For possible reception of an access burst, C~RACH~/(I~RACH~ + I~TOT~) needs to
be greater than 9 -- 3 = 6 dB. RACH reference interference ratio is specified
at 9 dB (Channel propagation TU3, 3GPP TS45.005) and an additional gain of 3
dB is assumed for a dual antenna MRC type BTS architecture.
On top of this an error rate of 15% is added (RACH reference interference
performance, TU3, 45.005).
This should be seen as a worst case scenario since no errors could be expected
above a certain C~RACH~/(I~RACH~ + I~TOT~) threshold.
NOTE: The figures above are being investigated. It could be considered instead
to leave this unspecified and document it when results are displayed.
###### 6.2.2.6.1.2 AGCH (CCCH/D)
For possible reception of an access grant, C~AGCH~/I~TOT~ needs to be greater
than 9 dB. AGCH reference interference ratio is specified at 9 dB (Channel
propagation TU3, 3GPP TS45.005).
On top of this an error rate of 22% is added (AGCH reference interference
performance, TU3, 45.005).
NOTE: The figures above are being investigated. It could be considered instead
to leave this unspecified and document it instead when results are displayed.
##### 6.2.2.6.2 PDCH
Vendor specific L2S mapping methodology is to be used that can be verified
against a set of pre-defined interferer scenarios.
Common assumptions for the UL receiver include:
  * Dual antenna base station
  * MRC receiver algorithm.
Common assumptions for the DL receiver include:
  * Single antenna mobile station
#### 6.2.2.7 Number of CCCHs
The CCCH performance is evaluated using a single CCCH.
## 6.3 Output
### 6.3.1 General
All results should be presented as per indicated below. It should be noted
that this list is not exhaustive and that outputs not currently listed cannot
be precluded that could affect the conclusions of this work.
Upon evaluation of different proposals, the KPIs of services with a higher
priority shall be seen to take precedence over the KPIs of services with lower
priority. The Access success rate for legacy CS services shall be considered
more crucial than the Access success rate of a MTC device configured for low-
access-priority.
### 6.3.2 Overall MTC simulation and evaluation output
  * MTC success rate = Number of successfully received reports (i.e. all application level payload associated with this report) sent from the device to the network divided by the total number of arrivals.
  * MTC delay = The time it takes for a MTC device to successfully transfer its application level payload, as from when it makes its first application initiated access [50/95/99 percentile].
  * MTC coverage outage = Percentage of MTC devices that are initially placed out of coverage.
### 6.3.3 CCCH signalling output
  * Access success rate = Number of successful Immediate Assignment procedures, see sub-clause 3.3.1.1 in [4] divided by total number of Immediate Assignment procedures, inclusive of both RACH and AGCH.
  * Access attempts needed = Number of access attempts per successfully completed Immediate Assignment procedures, inclusive of both RACH and AGCH [histogram].
  * Access time = Time from when an Immediate Assignment procedure is initiated by higher layers until successful completion of the said Immediate Assignment procedure, inclusive of both RACH and AGCH [50/95 percentile].
  * CCCH Capacity Used = Percentage of CCCH capacity used. To be evaluated for both RACH and AGCH.
The impact on the legacy traffic shall be evaluated for both T1 and the T2
scenario as described below.
For the T1 scenario in conjunction with the legacy traffic modelled by T3, the
evaluation of the Access success rate for the legacy traffic should be
conducted with a time-window starting at a period in time such that all
initialization effects from different random access procedures are excluded.
Furthermore, when the T2 scenario is evaluated in conjunction with the legacy
traffic modelled by T3, a windowed evaluation shall be performed of the Access
success rate, evaluating all legacy devices initiating their random access
procedure within consecutive 10 second time-windows. The T2 peak traffic shall
be initiated when the traffic load modelled by T3 has reached a stable level.
> Figure 3 - Periodic evaluation of random access procedure
The statement above is clarified in Figure 3, where [_i_] denotes where device
_i_ initiates its Immediate Assignment procedure and the dashed line for how
long period the current Immediate Assignment procedure is active. The access
success rate for the first period (0 -- 10 s) should be calculated for users
1, 2 and 3, even though the end of the Immediate Assignment procedure for the
user is in the subsequent evaluation period. The access success rate for the
second period (10 -- 20 s) should be calculated for users 4, 5, 6 and 7, and
the access success rate for the third period (20 -- 30 s) should be calculated
for users 8, 9 and 10.
Upon the windowed evaluation of the Access success rate an overall measure of
the access success rate should be provided. This measure should use a time-
window large enough to cover all effects from the MTC devices accesses.
The Average access success rate for the legacy CS services when MTC traffic is
added shall not be significantly decreased as compared to the reference case
of the T3 scenario (see sub-clause 6.1.2). The Average access success rate of
legacy PS services may have some relaxation.
### 6.3.4 PDCH traffic output
  * TBF Blocking Rate = Blocking rate due to insufficient resources (e.g. USF and TFI identifiers), which makes it impossible for the network to assign uplink PDCHs to the MTC devices. The output should be differentiated between different causes.
  * MTC payload transfer delay = The time it takes for a MTC device to successfully transfer its application level payload, as from when it received its TBF assignment [50/95/99 percentile].
## 6.4 _\ _
# 7 Summary and conclusions
The impacts on GERAN specifications identified in sub-sections 4 and 5 shall
be used as a basis for additional normative specification work.
###### ###
#