# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document describes the Representational State Transfer (REST)
protocol-based St reference point, which is used to provision the traffic
steering control information to the TSSF from the PCRF.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.203: \"Policy and charging control architecture\".
[3] IETF RFC 793: \"Transmission Control Protocol\".
[4] IETF RFC 2616: \"Hypertext Transfer Protocol -- HTTP/1.1\".
[5] 3GPP TS 29.201: \"Representational State Transfer (REST) reference point
between Application Function (AF) and Protocol Converter (PC)\".
[6] IETF RFC 1786: \"Uniform Resource Locators (URL)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 33.210: \"3G security; Network Domain Security (NDS); IP network
layer security\".
[8] IETF RFC 1983: "Internet Users\'
[9] IETF RFC 3588: \"Diameter Base Protocol\".
[10] IETF RFC 7159: \"The JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Data Interchange
Format\".
> [11] Void.
>
> [12] IETF RFC 5789: \"PATCH Method for HTTP\".
>
> [13] IETF RFC 3986: \"Uniform Resource Identifier (URI): Generic Syntax\".
[14] IETF RFC 6902: \"JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Patch\".
> [15] IETF RFC 6901: \"JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Pointer\".
>
> [16] IETF draft-newton-json-content-rules-09: \"A Language for Rules
> Describing JSON Content\".
NOTE: This individual draft will not further progress in IETF. It is available
from the following link: https://www.ietf.org/archive/id/draft-newton-json-
content-rules-09.txt.
> [17] 3GPP TS 29.212: \"Policy and Charging Control (PCC); Reference
> points\".
[18] 3GPP TS 29.213: \"Policy and charging control signalling flows and
Quality of Service (QoS) parameter mapping\".
[19] IETF RFC 2818: \"HTTP Over TLS\".
[20] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
(S)Gi-LAN: The network infrastructure connected to the 3GPP network over the
SGi or Gi reference point that provides various IP-based services.
(S)Gi-LAN service function: A function located in the (S)Gi-LAN that provides
value-added IP-based services e.g. NAT, anti-malware, parental control, DDoS
protection.
JSON Content Rules: JSON Content Rules (JCR), as defined in IETF draft-newton-
json-content-rules [16] is a language specifying the interchange of data in
JSON as defined in RFC 7159 [10].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
JCR JSON Content Rules
JSON JavaScript Object Notation
PCRF Policy and Charging Rules Function
TSSF Traffic Steering Support Function
# 4 St reference point
## 4.1 Overview
The St reference point resides between the PCRF and TSSF. St reference point
is used to provision the traffic steering control information from the PCRF to
the TSSF.
## 4.2 Reference model
The St reference point resides between the PCRF and TSSFas depicted in figure
4.2.1. The overall PCC architecture is depicted in subclause 3a of 3GPP TS
29.213 [18].
Figure 4.2.1: St reference model
## 4.3 Functional elements
### 4.3.1 TSSF
The TSSF is a function that receives traffic steering control information from
the PCRF and ensures that the related traffic steering policy is enforced in
the (S)Gi-LAN.
A traffic steering policy is locally configured in TSSF and can be used for
uplink, downlink or for both directions. To ensure that the traffic steering
policy is enforced, the TSSF performs deployment specific actions as
configured for that traffic steering policy.
### 4.3.2 PCRF
The PCRF functionality defined in 3GPP TS 23.203 [2] is applicable. In
addition, the PCRF shall be able to make a decision of traffic steering
policies used to control the steering of the subscriber's traffic to
appropriate (S)Gi-LAN service functions.
NOTE: In order to allow the PCRF to select and provision an application based
traffic steering policy, the reporting of detected applications to the PCRF or
any other information can be used.
## 4.4 Procedures over St reference point
### 4.4.1 General
The procedures which can be operated at the St interface are described in the
following subclauses.
### 4.4.2 Traffic Steering Policy Provisioning over St
When the PCRF determines the traffic steering control information needed for
the IP-CAN session; the PCRF shall send an HTTP POST message to the TSSF to
create a new session resource. The PCRF shall provide the representation of
the session resource within the body of the HTTP POST. Within the body of the
HTTP POST, the PCRF shall provide the St Session ID, the PDN information if
required by the operator policies, the UE IPv4 address and/or UE IPv6 prefix
and one or more sets of traffic steering control information to the TSSF.
The PCRF may modify or remove traffic steering control information at any time
(e.g. due to subscription change or network status change) by sending either
an HTTP PUT or HTTP PATCH message to the TSSF including the St session ID
within the request URL. When using an HTTP PUT to modify the session resource,
the PCRF shall provide the entire state of the session resource within the
body of the HTTP PUT. In this case, the TSSF shall replace the existing
session information associated with this resource with the information
provided in the body of the HTTP PUT. When using an HTTP PATCH to modify the
session resource, the PCRF shall provide the modifications within the body of
the HTTP PATCH as defined in subclause 5.3.3.3. In this case, the TSSF shall
update the existing session resource based on the content of the body of the
HTTP PATCH.
In order to remove all of the traffic steering control information associated
with an IP-CAN session when the IP-CAN session is terminated, the PCRF shall
send to the TSSF an HTTP DELETE message including the St Session ID within the
request URL.
Once the PCRF has requested the creation of a session resource, the PCRF may
request the state of the session at any time by sending an HTTP GET request to
the TSSF including the Session ID within the request URL. Upon receipt of an
HTTP GET from the PCRF, the TSSF shall provide the session representation
within the body of the response. Based on the received information, the PCRF
may decide whether re-installation, modification, removal of the traffic
steering control information or any other action applies.
When a combination of PCEF/TDF with traffic steering control feature and TSSF
is deployed, the TSSF shall behave as specified in subclause 6.1.17 of 3GPP TS
23.203 [7]. In this case, the PCRF shall provide the traffic detection
information as part of the service data flow information included in the tos-
traffic-class within the flow-information field or within the tdf-application-
identifier field. If traffic detection is performed using the flow-information
field, the PCRF shall ensure that the relevant value of the tos-traffic-class
field included within the flow-information field used for traffic detection is
the same as the value provided in the traffic steering policy identifier(s)
provided over Gx or Sd reference point. If traffic detection is performed
using the tdf-application-identifier field, the PCRF shall ensure that the
identifier included within the tdf-application-identifier refers to the
configured value(s) in the TSSF that correspond to the value provided in the
traffic steering policy identifier(s) over Gx or Sd reference point. See 3GPP
TS 29.212 [17].
NOTE 1: The PCRF and TSSF are configured with the traffic detection mechanism
to be applied when the tdf-application-identifier field is used for traffic
detection.
NOTE 2: The tdf-application-identifier can refer to the configured traffic
detection information for uplink and/or downlink traffic.
### 4.4.3 Traffic Steering Rule Error Handling
If the installation/activation of one or more traffic steering rules fails,
the TSSF shall inform the PCRF of the failed traffic steering rules in the
corresponding JSON body of the HTTP response, by including a ts-rule-reports
field, and by setting the error-tag to TS_RULE_EVENT. The ts-rule-reports
field is an array of rule failure reports. Within each rule failure report,
the TSSF shall identify the failed traffic steering rule(s) by including the
resource-paths field containing a list of JSON pointer(s) to the relevant
traffic steering rule resource(s), shall specify the failed reason code by
including a rule-failure-code field and a rule-status as described below:
\- If the installation/activation of one or more new traffic steering rules
(i.e., rules which were not previously successfully installed) fails, the TSSF
shall set the rule-status field to INACTIVE.
\- If the modification of a currently active traffic steering rule fails, the
TSSF shall retain the existing traffic steering rule as active without
modification unless the reason for the failure also has an impact on the
existing traffic steering rule.
Depending on the value of the rule-failure-code field, the PCRF may decide
whether retaining of the old traffic steering rule, re-installation,
modification, removal of the traffic steering rule or any other action
applies.
If a traffic steering rule was successfully installed/activated, but can no
longer be enforced by the TSSF, and if the notification supported feature is
supported by the TSSF and PCRF, the TSSF shall notify the PCRF of the rule
enforcement failure by sending an HTTP POST request to the notification URL
provided by the PCRF as defined in subclause 5.3.3.2. The JSON body of this
HTTP POST shall include a notification-info field containing a ts-rule-reports
field and a notification-tag field set to a value of TS_RULE_EVENT filled.
Each item of the ts-rule-reports shall include the corresponding rule-failure-
code field and rule-status field to INACTIVE.
Note that the PCRF may poll the session state from the TSSF at any time via
the HTTP GET method as described in subclause 4.4.2; and take further
decisions based on the status of the traffic steering rules reported in the
session state.
### 4.4.4 UE IPv4 address provisioning
When the PCRF is notified by the PCEF that either a UE_IP_ADDRESS_ALLOCATE or
a UE_IP_ADDRESS_RELEASE event of the IP-CAN session occured in the PCEF, the
PCRF shall send an HTTP PATCH or PUT meesage to the TSSF including the St
session ID within the request URL.
If the PCRF uses HTTP PUT to update the St session, the PCRF shall provide the
entire state of the session resource including the new IPv4 in case a new IPv4
was allocated or omitting the IPv4 in case the IPv4 was released. If the PCRF
uses the HTTP PATCH method to update the St session, and if the IPv4 was
allocated, the PCRF shall use the \"add\" operation within the body of the
HTTP PATCH to include the new IPv4 as specified in subclause 5.3.3.4;
otherwise if the IPv4 was released, the PCRF shall use the \"remove\"
operation within the body of the HTTP PATCH to remove the IPv4 as specified in
subclause 5.3.3.4. If the PCRF provides the new UE Ipv4 address to the TSSF,
the TSSF shall additionally apply the traffic steering rules to the user plane
traffic with the IP address matching the new UE Ipv4 addres. If the PCRF
notifies to the TSSF that the UE Ipv4 address has been released, the TSSF
shall stop applying the traffic steering rule to the user plane traffic with
the IP address matching the released UE Ipv4 address.
# 5 St protocol
## 5.1 Introduction
The following layers of the protocol stack for the St reference point between
PCRF and TSSF are described in subclauses:
\- TCP [3] provides the communication service at the transport layer.
\- An optional communication security layer can be added between the transport
and the application delivery layer (see subclause 6).
\- The application delivery layer provides the transport of the specific
application communication data using HTTP [4].
\- The specific application communication layer constitutes the transport of
the JSON content type.
Figure 5.1.1 illustrates the protocol stack of the RESTful St reference point.
> Figure 5.1.1: Protocol stack of the RESTful St reference point
## 5.2 Transport layer
HTTP is layered over TCP, which provides a reliable transport.
For traffic steering policy provisioning and querying, the PCRF acts as an
HTTP client and the TSSF acts as an HTTP server. As a result, the PCRF shall
initiate a TCP connection with the TSSF.
If the notification feature is supported by TSSF and PCRF, then the TSSF and
PCRF shall also respectively act as HTTP client and server. In this case, the
TSSF shall initiate a TCP connection with the PCRF.
## 5.3 Application delivery layer
The application delivery layer shall use RESTful HTTP.
The application delivery layer provides the following services:
\- session establishment including the creation of the session resource.
\- session modification and termination procedures.
\- session notification procedures.
In order to establish an St session, the PCRF shall send an HTTP POST message
to the TSSF including all session information required. The PCRF shall assign
a globally and eternally unique St Session ID and shall include it as part of
the session resource representation within the body of the HTTP POST. The St
Session ID is defined in subclause 5.3.4. If the session resource is
successfully created at the TSSF, the TSSF shall provide the session resource
URI within the Location header of the HTTP response.
In order to modify an St session, the PCRF shall send an HTTP PUT (full
replacement of the St session resource) or an HTTP PATCH message, which
includes the St session ID as a path element of the URI.
In order to query the state of an St session, the PCRF shall send an HTTP GET
message including the St Session ID as a path element of the request URI.
In order to delete an St session, the PCRF shall send an HTTP DELETE message
including the St session ID as a path element of the request URI.
In order to report traffic steering rule enforcement failures for an St
session, if the notification feature is supported by both the PCRF and TSSF,
the TSSF shall send an HTTP POST message including the St session ID as a path
element of the notification URI.
Every HTTP message contains the specific communication information required
for this case in its body.
### 5.3.1 Methods
Methods indicate to the server what action has to be performed. Every HTTP
request message has a method. The following HTTP methods can be used [9]:
\- POST:
\- Used to create a resource state. The request URI defines the address
responsible for the creation of the resource.
\- Used to report traffic steering rule enforcement failures from the TSSF to
the PCRF. The notification report is provided in the body of the message. The
request URI defines the address of the impacted resource.
\- PUT: Used to replace a resource state. The full state of the resource is
provided in the body of the message. The request URI defines the resource
which will be replaced.
\- PATCH: The PATCH method applies partial modifications to a resource. The
request URI defines the resource which will be modified.
\- GET: Used to retrieve a resource state. The request URI defines the
resource which is queried. The server returns the resource state
representation within the body of the response.
\- DELETE: Used to delete a resource state. The request URI defines the
resource which will be deleted.
Every HTTP request results in a response message that comes back with a status
code and further information in its body, if required. The PCRF waits for this
response before initiating a further request for the same resource.
### 5.3.2 Resources and URI design
The St session is a RESTful resource that shall be identified by a URI.
The URI design shall be based on the structure defined in IETF RFC 3986 [13]:
scheme \":\" hier-part [ \"?\" query ] [ \"#\" fragment ]\ hier-part = \"//\"
authority path-abempty\ / path-absolute\ / path-rootless\ / path-empty
The scheme may be HTTP or HTTPS for the REST St interface. Within a scheme the
definition of names shall follow the rules of HTTP URIs. Host and port are the
main parts of the authority. The path element identifies the resources.
For the REST St interface, the following required parts of the URI shall be
used as follows:
\- scheme: The application delivery layer protocol \"http\" or \"https\".
\- authority: It includes the server address and optionally a port as follows:
host [\":\" port]
\- path-absolute: The path-absolute should have the following ABNF: \"/\"
mainapp \"/\" mainresource [\"/\" resourcepath], where for this release,
\"mainapp" is \"stapplication\", \"mainresource\" is \"sessions\" and
\"resourcepath contains the path to identify a session resource, which in this
release is the St Session ID as defined in subclause 5.3.4.
NOTE: A different path can be used when the Resource URI is preconfigured in
the PCRF.
An example of the URI to identify the \"sessions\" main resource is:
http://tssfserver.example.com/stapplication/sessions.
### 5.3.3 HTTP request/response formats
#### 5.3.3.1 General
Session establishment, modification, termination and query procedures are
performed through HTTP transactions consisting of a request initiated by the
PCRF and its corresponding response provided by the TSSF.
Table 5.3.3.1-1 summarizes the content of the requests and responses. More
detailed information is specified in the corresponding subclauses as indicated
in the table.
Table 5.3.3.1-1: St requests/response summary table
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Method | Resource | Clause | Request | Response | | | URI's path | Defined | body | body | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 1) | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | POST | / | 5.3.3.2 | Co | Successful | | | stapplicati | | ntent-Type: | response: | | | on/sessions | | appli | The TSSF | | | | | cation/json | may include | | | | | | in | | | | | The PCRF | formational | | | | | shall | data in the | | | | | include the | body of the | | | | | state of | response as | | | | | the session | per Annex | | | | | resource | B.2 | | | | | using the | | | | | | schema | Error | | | | | defined in | response: | | | | | Annex B.1. | The TSSF | | | | | | should | | | | | | include | | | | | | error data | | | | | | in the body | | | | | | of the | | | | | | response as | | | | | | per Annex | | | | | | B.2 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | PUT | /sta | 5.3.3.3 | Co | Successful | | | pplication/ | | ntent-Type: | response: | | | sessions/{s | | appli | The TSSF | | | tsessionid} | | cation/json | may include | | | | | | in | | | | | The PCRF | formational | | | | | shall | data in the | | | | | include the | body of the | | | | | state of | response as | | | | | the session | per Annex | | | | | resource | B.2 | | | | | using the | | | | | | schema | Error | | | | | defined in | response: | | | | | Annex B.1. | The TSSF | | | | | | should | | | | | | include | | | | | | error data | | | | | | in the body | | | | | | of the | | | | | | response as | | | | | | per Annex | | | | | | B.2 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | PATCH | /sta | 5.3.3.4 | Co | Successful | | | pplication/ | | ntent-Type: | response: | | | sessions/{s | | appli | The TSSF | | | tsessionid} | | cation/json | may include | | | | | -patch+json | in | | | | | | formational | | | | | The PCRF | data in the | | | | | shall | body of the | | | | | include the | response as | | | | | partial | per Annex | | | | | mo | B.2 | | | | | difications | | | | | | to the | Error | | | | | state of | response: | | | | | the session | The TSSF | | | | | resource | should | | | | | using the | include | | | | | schema | error data | | | | | defined in | in the body | | | | | Annex B.1. | of the | | | | | | response as | | | | | | per Annex | | | | | | B.2 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | DELETE | /sta | 5.3.3.5 | None | Successful | | | pplication/ | | | response: | | | sessions/{s | | | The TSSF | | | tsessionid} | | | may include | | | | | | in | | | | | | formational | | | | | | data in the | | | | | | body of the | | | | | | response as | | | | | | per Annex | | | | | | B.2 | | | | | | | | | | | | Error | | | | | | response: | | | | | | The TSSF | | | | | | should | | | | | | include | | | | | | error data | | | | | | in the body | | | | | | of the | | | | | | response as | | | | | | per Annex | | | | | | B.2 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | GET | /sta | 5.3.3.6 | None | Successful | | | pplication/ | | | response: | | | sessions/{s | | | The TSSF | | | tsessionid} | | | shall | | | | | | include the | | | | | | rep | | | | | | resentation | | | | | | of the | | | | | | co | | | | | | rresponding | | | | | | session | | | | | | resource in | | | | | | the body of | | | | | | the | | | | | | response as | | | | | | per Annex | | | | | | B.2 | | | | | | | | | | | | Error | | | | | | response: | | | | | | The TSSF | | | | | | should | | | | | | include | | | | | | error data | | | | | | in the body | | | | | | of the | | | | | | response as | | | | | | per Annex | | | | | | B.2 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | POST | /{n | 5.3.3.7 | Co | Successful | | | otification | | ntent-Type: | response: | | | baseurl}/{s | | appli | The PCRF | | | tsessionid} | | cation/json | may include | | | | | | in | | | | | The TSSF | formational | | | | | shall | data in the | | | | | report | body of the | | | | | traffic | response as | | | | | steering | per Annex | | | | | rule | B.2 | | | | | enforcement | | | | | | failures to | Error | | | | | the PCRF | response: | | | | | using the | The PCRF | | | | | JSON format | should | | | | | definition | include | | | | | in Annex | error data | | | | | B.4 | in the body | | | | | | of the | | | | | | response as | | | | | | per Annex | | | | | | B.2 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE: A | | | | | | different | | | | | | path from | | | | | | /s | | | | | | tapplicatio | | | | | | n/sessions/ | | | | | | may be used | | | | | | when it is | | | | | | configured | | | | | | in the | | | | | | PCRF. In | | | | | | that case | | | | | | the | | | | | | \"path\" | | | | | | part set in | | | | | | the | | | | | | different | | | | | | methods | | | | | | should use | | | | | | the | | | | | | configured | | | | | | one. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### 5.3.3.2 POST /stapplication/sessions
The establishment of a session shall be performed by the PCRF by using the
POST method as follows:
> \- the request URI formatted as defined in subclause 5.3.2 with the \"path\"
> part set to: /stapplication/sessions.
>
> \- the Content-Type header field set to \"application/json\"
>
> \- the body of the message encoded in JSON format as defined in Annex B.1,
> including the \"session-id\" field allocated by the PCRF.
The PCRF sets the URI based on the pre-configuration at the PCRF.
If the PCRF supports the Notification feature, it shall follow the procedures
defined in subclause 5.3.6.1 to advertise support of the feature. In addition,
the PCRF shall include the 3gpp-Notification-Base-URL header as defined in
subclause 5.3.7.4.
Upon receipt of the HTTP POST, the TSSF shall respond to the PCRF indicating
whether the creation of the resource was successful or not using one of the
HTTP status codes as defined in subclause 5.3.5. If the resource creation is
successful, the TSSF shall respond with an HTTP 201 (Created) status code,
including a Location header field containing the URI for the created session
resource based on the St Session ID as defined in subclause 5.3.4. If the
creation of the session resource was not successful, the TSSF shall indicate
the reason using an appropriate HTTP status code for the St interface as
defined in subclause 5.3.5 and optionally additional information in the body
of the response as defined in Annex B.2.
If both the PCRF and TSSF support the Notification feature, the TSSF shall
remember the value of the 3gpp-Notification-Base-URL for the lifetime of the
corresponding St session and shall initiate a TCP connection towards the PCRF
(if it is not already established) based on the hostname and optional port
elements of the 3gpp-Notification-Base-URL.
NOTE: Network deployment scenario with overlapping IP address assignment where
the PCRF connects to multiple PCEFs connecting to the same PDN and where these
multiple PCEFs connect to the same TSSF is not supported in this release.
Below is an example of an HTTP POST and a corresponding successful response:
POST /stapplication/sessions HTTP/1.1
Host: tssfserver.example.com
3gpp-Notification-Base-URL:
http://pcrfserver.example.com:8080/stapplication/notification
3gpp-Optional-Features: Notification
Content-Type: application/json
Content-Length: ...
{
\"session-id\": \"pcrf.example.com;378388838383;123232\",
\"ue-ipv4\": \"10.0.0.2\",
\"called-station-id\": \"apncompany.com\",
\"tsrules\": {
\"ts-rule-3\": {
\"ts-rule-name\": \"ts-rule-3\",
\"tdf-application-identifier\": \"ftp-download\",
\"precedence\": 1,
\"ts-policy-identifier-dl\": \"firewall\"
}
}
}
Here is an example of a successful response:
HTTP/1.1 201 Created
Location: http://
tssfserver.example.com/stapplication/sessions/pcrf.example.com;378388838383;123232
Date: Mon, 23 Apr 2012 17:10:00 GMT
Server: tssf.example.com
3gpp-Accepted-Features: Notification
Content-Type: application/json
{
\"success-message\": \"Session was created successfully.\",
}
#### 5.3.3.3 PUT /stapplication/sessions/{stsessionid}
The full modification of a session resource may be performed by the PCRF using
the PUT method. In this case, the PCRF shall send an HTTP PUT request as
follows:
> \- the request URI formatted as defined in subclause 5.3.2 with the \"path\"
> part set to: /stapplication/sessions/{stsessionid}, where the stsessionid is
> the St Session ID as defined in subclause 5.3.4.
>
> \- the Content-Type header field set to \"application/json\"
>
> \- the body of the message encoded in JSON format as defined in Annex B.1
> specifying the full representation of the session resource
Upon receipt of the HTTP PUT, the TSSF shall respond to the PCRF indicating
whether the modification of the resource was successful or not using one of
the HTTP status codes as defined in subclause 5.3.5. If the resource
modification is successful, the TSSF shall respond with an HTTP 200 OK status
code if it includes optional informational data in the body of the response as
per Annex B.2 or HTTP 204 No Content status code otherwise. If the
modification of the session resource was not successful, the TSSF shall
indicate the reason using an appropriate HTTP status code for the St interface
as defined in subclause 5.3.5 and optionally additional information in the
body of the response as defined in Annex B.2.
Below is an example of an HTTP PUT:
PUT /stapplication/sessions/pcrf.example.com;378388838383;123232 HTTP/1.1
Host: tssfserver.example.com
Content-Type: application/json
Content-Length: ...
{
\"session-id\": \"pcrf.example.com;378388838383;123232\",
\"ue-ipv4\": \"10.0.0.2\",
\"tsrules\": {
\"ts-rule-1\": {
\"ts-rule-name\": \"ts-rule-1\",
\"tdf-application-identifier\": \"ftp-download\",
\"precedence\": 1,
\"ts-policy-identifier-dl\": \"firewall\"
},
\"ts-rule-2\": {
\"ts-rule-name\": \"ts-rule-2\",
\"tdf-application-identifier\": \"application-x\",
\"precedence\": 2,
\"ts-policy-identifier-dl\": \"firewall\"
}
}
}
Here is an example of a successful response:
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 23 Apr 2012 17:11:00 GMT
Server: tssf.example.com
Content-Type: application/json
{
\"success-message\": \"Session was updated successfully.\",
}
#### 5.3.3.4 PATCH /stapplication/sessions/{stsessionid}
The partial modification of a session resource may be performed by the PCRF
using the PATCH method as defined in IETF RFC 5789 [12]. In this case, the
PCRF shall send an HTTP PATCH request as follows:
> \- the request URI formatted as defined in subclause 5.3.2 with the \"path\"
> part set to: /stapplication/sessions/{stsessionid}, where the stsessionid is
> the St Session ID as defined in subclause 5.3.4.
>
> \- the Content-Type header field set to \"application/json-patch+json\"
>
> \- the body of the message shall be encoded using the JSON Patch format as
> defined in IETF RFC 6902 [14]. The following operations from [14] may be
> used:
>
> \- add: to create a new traffic steering rule.
>
> \- remove: to delete a traffic steering rule.
>
> \- replace: to replace an existing rule with a new definition.
Upon receipt of the HTTP PATCH, the TSSF shall respond to the PCRF indicating
whether the modification of the resource was successful or not using one of
the HTTP status codes as defined in subclause 5.3.5. If the resource
modification is successful, the TSSF shall respond with an HTTP 200 OK status
code if it includes optional informational data in the body of the response as
per Annex B.2 or HTTP 204 No Content status code otherwise. If the
modification of the session resource was not successful, the TSSF shall
indicate the reason using an appropriate HTTP status code for the St interface
as defined in subclause 5.3.5 and optionally additional information in the
body of the response as defined in Annex B.2.
Below is an example of an HTTP PATCH that modifies a traffic steering rule and
deletes another one:
PATCH /stapplication/sessions/pcrf.example.com;378388838383;123232 HTTP/1.1
Host: tssfserver.example.com
Content-Type: application/json-patch+json
Content-Length: ...
[
{
\"op\": \"replace\",
\"path\": \"/tsrules/ts-rule-1\",
\"value\": {
\"ts-rule-name\": \"ts-rule-1\",
\"tdf-application-identifier\": \"ftp-download\",
\"precedence\": 1,
\"ts-policy-identifier-dl\": \"firewall2\"
}
},
{
\"op\": \"remove\",
\"path\": \"/tsrules/ts-rule-2\",
}
]
Here is an example of a successful response:HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 23 Apr 2012 17:12:00 GMT
Server: tssf.example.com
Content-Type: application/json
{
\"success-message\": \"Session was patched successfully.\",
}
#### 5.3.3.5 DELETE /stapplication/sessions/{stsessionid}
To delete an St session, the PCRF shall send an HTTP DELETE request to the
TSSF as follows:
> \- the request URI formatted as defined in subclause 5.3.2 with the \"path\"
> part set to: /stapplication/sessions/{stsessionid}, where the stsessionid is
> the St Session ID as defined in subclause 5.3.4.
Upon receipt of the HTTP DELETE, the TSSF shall respond to the PCRF indicating
whether the deletion of the resource was successful or not using one of the
HTTP status codes as defined in subclause 5.3.5. If the resource deletion is
successful, the TSSF shall respond with an HTTP 200 OK status code if it
includes optional informational data in the body of the response as per Annex
B.2 or HTTP 204 No Content status code otherwise. If the deletion of the
session resource was not successful, the TSSF shall indicate the reason using
an appropriate HTTP status code for the St interface as defined in subclause
5.3.5 and optionally additional information in the body of the response as
defined in Annex B.2.
Below is an example of an HTTP DELETE:
DELETE /stapplication/sessions/pcrf.example.com;378388838383;123232 HTTP/1.1
Host: tssfserver.example.com
Here is an example of a successful response:
HTTP/1.1 204 No Content
Date: Mon, 23 Apr 2012 17:15:00 GMT
Server: tssf.example.com
#### 5.3.3.6 GET /stapplication/sessions/{stsessionid}
To query the state of an St session resource, the PCRF shall send an HTTP GET
request to the TSSF as follows:
> \- the request URI formatted as defined in subclause 5.3.2 with the \"path\"
> part set to: /stapplication/sessions/{stsessionid}, where the stsessionid is
> the St Session ID as defined in subclause 5.3.4.
Upon receipt of the HTTP GET, the TSSF shall respond to the PCRF indicating
whether the querying of the resource was successful or not using one of the
HTTP status codes as defined in subclause 5.3.3. If the resource exists, the
TSSF shall respond with an HTTP 200 OK status code and include the session
representation state within the body of the response as defined in Annex B.2.
The TSSF shall also include the Content-Type header field set to
\"application/json\".
The TSSF shall also include the set of features it supports in common with the
PCRF within the \"3gpp-Accepted-Features\" HTTP header in the response to the
HTTP GET.
Below is an example of an HTTP GET:
GET /stapplication/sessions/pcrf.example.com;378388838383;123232 HTTP/1.1
Host: tssfserver.example.com
Here is an example of a successful response :
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Server: tssfserver.example.com
Content-Type: application/json
Content-Length: ...
{
\"session-id\": \"pcrf.example.com;378388838383;123232\",
\"ue-ipv4\": \"10.0.0.2\",
\"called-station-id\": \"apncompany.com\",
\"tsrules\": {
\"ts-rule-1\": {
\"ts-rule-name\": \"ts-rule-1\",
\"tdf-application-identifier\": \"ftp-download\",
\"precedence\": 1,
\"ts-policy-identifier-dl\": \"firewall\"
},
\"ts-rule-2\": {
\"ts-rule-name\": \"ts-rule-2\",
\"tdf-application-identifier\": \"application-x\",
\"precedence\": 2,
\"ts-policy-identifier-dl\": \"firewall\"
}
}
}
#### 5.3.3.7 POST /{notificationbaseurl}/{stsessionid}
If the notification feature is supported, the TSSF shall inform the PCRF of
state changes related to a session resource or sub resources (e.g. traffic
steering rules). The TSSF does so by sending an HTTP POST request as follows:
\- the request URI formatted as defined in subclause 5.3.2 with the \"path\"
part set to: /{notificationbaseurl}/ {stsessionid}, where the \"stsessionid\"
is the St Session ID as defined in subclause 5.3.4, and the
\"notificationbaseurl\" is set to the value of the 3gpp-Notification-Base-URL
provided by the PCRF.
\- the Content-Type header field set to \"application/json\"
\- the body of the message encoded in JSON format as defined in Annex B.4
specifying the representation of the notification report.
Upon receipt of the notification HTTP POST, the PCRF shall respond to the TSSF
with one of the HTTP status codes as defined in subclause 5.3.5. If the PCRF
is able to successfully process the request, the PCRF shall answer with an
HTTP 200 OK status code if it includes optional informational data in the body
of the response as per Annex B.2 or HTTP 204 No Content status code otherwise.
If the PCRF cannot successfully process the request, the PCRF shall indicate
the reason using an appropriate HTTP status code for the St interface as
defined in subclause 5.3.5 and optionally include additional information in
the body of the response as defined in Annex B.2.
Below is an example of an HTTP POST used for notification of traffic steering
rule enforcement failure.
POST /stapplication/notification/pcrf.example.com;378388838383;123232 HTTP/1.1
Host: pcrfserver.example.com
Content-Type: application/json
Content-Length: ...
{
\"notifications\": [
{
\"notification-message\": \"Traffic steering rules became inactive.\",
\"notification-type\": \"application\",
\"notification-tag\": \"TS_RULE_EVENT\",
\"notification-info\": {
\"ts-rule-reports\": [
{
\"resource-paths\": [
\"/tsrules/ts-rule-1\",
\"/predefined-tsrules/ts-rule-2\",
\"/predefined-group-of-tsrules/group-rules-1\"
],
\"rule-status\": \"INACTIVE\",
\"rule-failure-code\": \"RESOURCES_LIMITATION\"
}
]
}
}
]
}
Here is an example of a successful response:
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 23 Apr 2012 17:11:00 GMT
Server: pcrfserver.example.com
Content-Type: application/json
{
\"success-message\": \"Notification was processed successfully.\",
}
### 5.3.4 St session ID
The PCRF shall allocate an St Session ID that is used to uniquely identify the
St session resource between the PCRF and TSSF. The St Session ID is provided
as part of the session resource representation within the body of the HTTP
message and shall remain unmodified during the lifetime of the St session
resource. If the session resource is successfully created at the TSSF, the
TSSF shall include the St session ID in the path element of an HTTP request
URI to address the corresponding session resource.
NOTE: The PCRF allocates the St Session ID as opposed to the TSSF to avoid
creating duplicate sessions at the TSSF in case an HTTP POST message is
received twice by the TSSF (e.g. due to a retry by the PCRF). The PCRF ensures
that the St Session ID is globally unique as described in this subclause to
avoid conflicts at the TSSF.
The Session ID shall be globally and eternally unique. The Session ID includes
a mandatory portion and an implementation specific portion.
The mandatory portion shall start with the PCRF's FQDN [8]. The remainder of
the Session ID is delimited by a ';' character and may be any sequence that
the PCRF can guarantee to be eternally unique as follows:
\;\
The implementation specific sequence should follow the recommended
implementation specific portion of the Session-Id AVP as defined in section
8.8 of IETF RFC 3588 [9] .
Here is an example of the Session ID: pcrf123.acme.com;1876543210;523. Here is
an example of a corresponding session URI:
http://tssfserver.example.com/stapplication/sessions/pcrf123.acme.com;1876543210;523
Because the Session ID is included as a path element of the request URI, it
shall follow the implementation-specific syntax standardized for path elements
of URLs as defined in [6].
NOTE: Characters in the reserved set are protected from normalization and are
therefore safe to be used by scheme-specific and producer-specific algorithms
for delimiting data subcomponents within a URI [6].
### 5.3.5 HTTP status codes
A subset of the HTTP status codes as defined in IETF RFC 2616 [4] are
applicable to the REST based St interface. Table 5.3.5-1 lists the applicable
status codes for the St interface for the current release. Note that if the
PCRF or TSSF receive a response with a status code not listed in the table
below, they shall treat it based on the class of the status code as defined in
[4].
Table 5.3.5-1: St HTTP status codes
* * *
Status Code Description 200 OK The HTTP request has succeeded. The information
returned with the response is dependent on the method used in the request. 201
Created The HTTP POST request has been fulfilled and resulted in a new
resource being created at the TSSF. 204 No Content The recipient has fulfilled
the request but does not need to return an entity-body. 400 Bad Request The
request could not be understood by the recipient due to malformed syntax. The
sender should not repeat the request without modifications. 403 Forbidden The
recipient understood the request, but is refusing to fulfill it. 404 Not Found
The recipient has not found any resources matching the Request-URI. 405 Method
Not Allowed The method specified in the Request-Line is not allowed for the
resource identified by the Request-URI. 408 Request Timeout The recipient did
not respond to the request within the time that the sender is prepared to
wait. The sender may repeat the request without modifications at any later
time. 412 Precondition Failed The precondition given in one or more of the
request-header fields evaluated to false when it was tested on the recipient.
413 Request Entity Too Large The recipient is refusing to process a request
because the request entity is larger than the recipient is willing or able to
process. 414 Request-URI Too Large The recipient is refusing to service the
request because the Request-URI is longer than the recipient is willing to
interpret. 500 Internal Server Error The recipient encountered an unexpected
condition which prevented it from fulfilling the request. 501 Not Implemented
The recipient does not support the functionality required to fulfill the
request. 503 Service Unavailable The recipient is currently out of service.
* * *
### 5.3.6 Feature negotiation
#### 5.3.6.1 General
The REST based St interface needs to provide a mechanism to advertise required
and optional features supported by both the PCRF and TSSF for interoperability
reasons as the functionality of the REST St based interface is augmented.
The PCRF shall include in the HTTP POST the set of supported features as
follows:
\- if a feature is required for the proper operation of the St session, it
shall be included within the 3gpp-Required-Features header;
\- if a feature is optional for the proper operation of the St session, it
shall be included within the 3gpp-Optional-Features header.
The TSSF shall include, within the 3gpp-Accepted-Features header in the
response to the HTTP POST, the set of features it supports in common with the
PCRF.
If the TSSF does not support any of the required features advertised by the
PCRF within the 3gpp-Required-Features header, the TSSF shall reject the HTTP
POST with an HTTP 412 Precondition Failed status code and shall include the
commonly supported features with the PCRF within the 3gpp-Accepted-Features.
If the TSSF requires certain features to be supported that aren't advertised
by the PCRF, the TSSF shall reject the HTTP POST with an HTTP 412 Precondition
Failed status code and shall include the commonly supported features with the
PCRF within the 3gpp-Accepted-Features and the required features in the 3gpp-
required-features.
If the PCRF and TSSF successfully negotiate supported features, the list of
commonly supported features shall be applicable for the lifetime of the St
session. Features that are not advertised as supported shall not be used
within the lifetime of the St session.
The table below defines the features applicable to the REST St interface.
Table 5.3.6.1-1: Features used in REST St Protocol
+------------------------------+-----+------------------------------+ | Feature | M/O | Description | +------------------------------+-----+------------------------------+ | Notification | O | This feature indicates the | | | | support of the HTTP | | | | notification procedure from | | | | the TSSF to the PCRF. | +------------------------------+-----+------------------------------+ | Feature: A short name that | | | | can be used to refer to the | | | | bit and to the feature, e.g. | | | | \"Notification\". | | | | | | | | M/O: Defines if the | | | | implementation of the | | | | feature is mandatory (\"M\") | | | | or optional (\"O\") in this | | | | 3GPP Release. | | | | | | | | Description: A clear textual | | | | description of the feature. | | | +------------------------------+-----+------------------------------+
### 5.3.7 HTTP custom headers
This subclause defines any new HTTP custom headers introduced by this
specification.
#### 5.3.7.1 3gpp-Optional-Features
This header is used by the PCRF to advertise the optional features that are
supported by the PCRF.
The encoding of the header follows the ABNF as defined in [4].
3gpp-Optional-Features = \"3gpp-Optional-Features\" \":\" 1#token
An example is: 3gpp-Optional-Features: feature1, feature2
#### 5.3.7.2 3gpp-Required-Features
This header is used by the PCRF to announce the mandatory features that must
be supported in TSSF.
This header is also used by the TSSF to indicate the missing features that
must be supported in PCRF.
The encoding of the header follows the ABNF as defined in [4].
3gpp-Required-Features = \"3gpp-Required-Features\" \":\" 1#token
An example is: 3gpp-Required-Features: feature1, feature2
#### 5.3.7.3 3gpp-Accepted-Features
The header is used by the TSSF to confirm the commonly supported set of
features with the PCRF.
The encoding of the header follows the ABNF as defined in [4].
3gpp-Accepted-Features = \"3gpp-Accepted-Features\" \":\" 1#token
An example is: 3gpp-Accepted-Features: feature1, feature2
#### 5.3.7.4 3gpp-Notification-Base-URL
This header is used by the PCRF to provide the notification base URL.
The encoding of the header follows the ABNF as defined in [4].
3gpp-Notification-Base-URL = \"3gpp-Notification-Base-URL \" \":\" 1#token
An example is: 3gpp-Notification-Base-URL:
http://pcrfserver.example.com:8080/stapplication/notification
## 5.4 Specific application communication
### 5.4.1 General
Specific application communication represents the presentation of application
data structures by transforming data into the form that the application
accepts. It establishes the context between application-layer entities.
Note: This release only supports the content type JSON
### 5.4.2 Content type
The body of HTTP messages shall be in JSON format. The content of the JSON
text is defined in subclause 5.4.3 and Annex B.
The MIME media type that shall be used within the Content-Type header field is
"application/json" as defined in IETF RFC 7159 [10].
## 5.4.3 JSON session fields
### 5.4.3.1 General
Table 5.4.3.1.1 describes the JSON fields used within the body of the HTTP
messages representing the session information. The table includes the
information about the name of the field, the type of the fields and the
applicability of the JSON field.
Table 5.4.3.1.1: St Specific JSON fields
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | | | Ap | | | | | | plicability | | | | | | (NOTE 3) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Field Name | Subclause | JSON Value | JCR Type | | | | defined | Type | (NOTE 2) | | | | | (NOTE 1) | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | called | 5.4.3.20 | string | string | | | -station-id | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | session-id | 5.4.3.2 | string | string | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | ue-ipv4 | 5.4.3.3 | string | ipv4 | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | ue- | 5.4.3.4 | string | Ipv6 | | | ipv6-prefix | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | tsrules | 5.4.3.5 | object | object | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | t | 5.4.3.6 | string | string | | | s-rule-name | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Precedence | 5.4.3.7 | number | number: | | | | | | | | | | | | 0. | | | | | | .4294967295 | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | tdf- | 5.4.3.8 | string | string | | | application | | | | | | -identifier | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | flow- | 5.4.3.9 | array | array | | | information | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | flow- | 5.4.3.10 | string | string | | | description | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | tos-tr | 5.4.3.11 | string | /\^[0-9A-F | | | affic-class | | | a-f]{4}\$/ | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 4) | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | se | 5.4.3.12 | string | /\^[0-9A-F | | | curity-para | | | a-f]{8}\$/ | | | meter-index | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 4) | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | flow-label | 5.4.3.13 | string | /\^[0-9A-F | | | | | | a-f]{6}\$/ | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 4) | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | flo | 5.4.3.14 | string | \"BIDI | | | w-direction | | | RECTIONAL\" | | | | | | | | | | | | \"UPLINK\" | | | | | | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | "DOWNLINK\" | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 5) | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | t | 5.4.3.15 | string | string | | | s-policy-id | | | | | | entifier-dl | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | t | 5.4.3.16 | string | string | | | s-policy-id | | | | | | entifier-ul | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | predefi | 5.4.3.17 | object | object | | | ned-tsrules | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | prede | 5.4.3.18 | object | object | | | fined-group | | | | | | -of-tsrules | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | ts-rul | 5.4.3.19 | string | string | | | e-base-name | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | | | basic JSON | | | | | | value types | | | | | | are defined | | | | | | in IETF | | | | | | RFC 7 | | | | | | 159 [15]. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The | | | | | | JCR types | | | | | | are defined | | | | | | in IETF | | | | | | draft-new | | | | | | ton-json-co | | | | | | ntent-rules | | | | | | [16]. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | Fields | | | | | | marked with | | | | | | a supported | | | | | | feature are | | | | | | applicable | | | | | | as | | | | | | described | | | | | | in | | | | | | subcl | | | | | | ause 5.3.6. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: The | | | | | | regular | | | | | | expression | | | | | | for a | | | | | | string | | | | | | type. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 5: The | | | | | | quoted | | | | | | strings for | | | | | | a string | | | | | | type. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
### 5.4.3.2 session-id
The session-id field is of type string, and contains the session id allocated
by the PCRF. The session id format is defined in subclause 5.3.4.
### 5.4.3.3 ue-ipv4
The ue-ipv4 field is of type string and ip4 literal as defined in IETF draft-
newton-json-content-rules [16].
### 5.4.3.4 ue-ipv6-prefix
The ue-ipv6-prefix field is of type string and ip6 literal as defined in IETF
draft-newton-json-content-rules [16]. The PCRF uses it to indicate the IPv6
prefix allocated for the user.
### 5.4.3.5 tsrules
The tsrules field is of type object. It contains all of the dynamic traffic
steering rules defined in the JSON body.
The following defines the content of the dynamic traffic steering rule:
The ts-rule-name field shall be included within the dynamic traffic steering
rule.
A precedence value may be included.
Either flow-information(s) or the tdf-application-identifier field shall be
included within the dynamic traffic steering rule.
The ts-policy-identifier-ul field and/or the ts-policy-identifier-dl field
shall be included. If the traffic steering policies are identical in both
downlink and uplink directions, the values of the ts-policy-identifier-ul
field and the ts-policy-identifier-dl field shall be identical.
Below are the JCR for the dynamic traffic steering rule:
\$tsrule = // : {
\$ts-rule-name,
\$precedence ?,
( \$flow-information \| \$tdf-application-identifier ),
( \$ts-policy-identifier-ul \| \$ts-policy-identifier-dl \| ( \$ts-policy-
identifier-ul, \$ts-policy-identifier-dl ) )
}
### 5.4.3.6 ts-rule-name
The ts-rule-name is of type string, and it defines a name for traffic steering
rule. For traffic steering rules provisioned by the PCRF, it uniquely
identifies a traffic steering rule within one St session. For traffic steering
rules pre-defined at the TSSF, it uniquely identifies a traffic steering rule
within the TSSF.
### 5.4.3.7 precedence
The precedence is of type number. Its value ranges from 0 to 4294967295.
Within the tsrule JSON content, the precedence field determines the order for
the service data flow detection/the application detection at the TSSF to
perform traffic steering. A traffic steering rule with a lower precedence
value shall be applied prior to a traffic steering rule with a higher
precedence value.
NOTE: The precedence value range defined within the traffic steering rule is
operator configurable.
### 5.4.3.8 tdf-application-identifier
The tdf-application-identifier is of type string. It references the
application detection filter defined at the TSSF.
### 5.4.3.9 flow-information
The flow-information field is of type array. It is sent from the PCRF to the
TSSF and contains the information for a single IP flow packet filter.
The flow-description, a tos-traffic-class, security-parameter-index and flow-
label specify the parameters to be used for matching payload packets. One of
these fields shall be present in the object. The flow-direction field shall
also be included.
The JCR for the flow-information is as follows:
\$flow-information = \"flow-information\" : [
{
\$flow-description ?,
\$tos-traffic-class ?,
\$security-parameter-index ?,
\$flow-label ?,
\$flow-direction
} +
]
### 5.4.3.10 flow-description
The flow-description field is of type string, it defines a packet filter for
an IP flow.
The content has the same encoding as the IPFilterRule AVP value as defined in
IETF RFC 3588 [9]. All limitations applicable to the Flow-Description AVP in
subclause 5.4.2 of 3GPP TS 29.212 [17] apply to this field.
### 5.4.3.11 tos-traffic-class
The tos-traffic-class field is of type string. It is encoded on two octets,
and represented as a hex string. The first octet contains the IPv4 Type-of-
Service or the IPv6 Traffic-Class field and the second octet contains the
ToS/Traffic Class mask field. When used for traffic detection, it defines the
packet marking information used for traffic detection in the TSSF.
### 5.4.3.12 security-parameter-index
The security-parameter-index field is of type string, and it contains the
security parameter index of the IPSec packet.
### 5.4.3.13 flow-label
The flow-label field is of type string, and it contains the IPv6 flow label
header field.
### 5.4.3.14 flow-direction
The flow-direction field is of type string with three enumerations. It
indicates the direction(s) that a filter is applicable, downlink only, uplink
only or both down- and uplink (bidirectional).
DOWNLINK
The corresponding filter applies for traffic to the UE.
UPLINK
The corresponding filter applies for traffic from the UE.
BIDIRECTIONAL
The corresponding filter applies for traffic both to and from the UE.
### 5.4.3.15 ts-policy-identifier-dl
The ts-policy-identifier-dl is of type string and contains a reference to a
pre-configured traffic steering policy at the TSSF in the downlink direction.
### 5.4.3.16 ts-policy-identifier-ul
The ts-policy-identifier-ul is of type string and contains a reference to a
pre-configured traffic steering policy at the TSSF in the uplink direction.
### 5.4.3.17 predefined-tsrules
The predefined-tsrules contains all of the predefined traffic steering rules
in the session.
The ts-rule-name field uniquely identifies the traffic steering rule defined
at the TSSF.
The JCR definition for the predefined traffic steering rule is as follows:
\$predefined-tsrule = // : {
ts-rule-name
}
### 5.4.3.18 predefined-group-of-tsrules
The predefined-group-of-tsrules field is of type object and contains the
groups of the predefined traffic steering rules in the session.
The ts-rule-base-name field uniquely identifies the group of predefined
traffic steering rules at the TSSF.
The JCR definition for the group of the dynamic traffic steering rules:
\$predefined-group-of-tsrule = // : {
ts-rule-base-name
}
### 5.4.3.19 ts-rule-base-name
The ts-rule-base-name field is of type string, and it indicates the name of a
predefined group of traffic steering rules residing at the TSSF.
### 5.4.3.20 called-station-id
The called-station-id is of type string, and it defines the address the user
is connected to (i.e. the PDN identifier). For GPRS and EPS the APN. When used
to contain the APN, the APN is composed of the APN Network Identifier only, or
the APN Network Identifier and the APN Operator Identifier as specified in
3GPP TS 23.003 [20], subclause 9.1. The inclusion of the APN Operator
Identifier can be configurable.
## 5.4.4 JSON errors and informational response fields
### 5.4.4.1 General
Table 5.4.4.1.1 describes the JSON fields defined for the errors and
informational responsesincluding their types and the filed names.
Table 5.4.4.1.1: JSON fields for errors and informational response
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Field Name | Subclause | JSON Value | JCR Type (NOTE | | | defined | Type (NOTE 1) | 2) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | errors | 5.4.4.2 | array | array | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | error-type | 5.4.4.3 | string | \ | | | | | "application\" | | | | | | | | | | \"interface\" | | | | | | | | | | \"server\" | | | | | | | | | | \"other\" | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 3) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | error-message | 5.4.4.4 | string | string | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | error-tag | 5.4.4.5 | string | string | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | error-path | 5.4.4.6 | string | string | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | error-info | 5.4.4.7 | object | object | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | s | 5.4.4.8 | string | string | | uccess-message | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | success-path | 5.4.4.9 | string | string | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | success-info | 5.4.3.10 | object | object | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | | basic JSON | | | | | value types | | | | | are defined in | | | | | IETF | | | | | RF | | | | | C 7159 [10]. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The | | | | | JCR types are | | | | | defined in | | | | | IETF | | | | | dra | | | | | ft-newton-json | | | | | -content-rules | | | | | [16]. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: The | | | | | quoted strings | | | | | for a string | | | | | type. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
### 5.4.4.2 errors
The errors field is of type array, and it contains a list of errors. Each
error is defined as an object in the array. This field shall be present when
the TSSF responds with error(s) back to an HTTP request initiated by the PCRF.
An error object shall contain the error-type field and the error-message.
Optionally, it may include the error-tag field, error-path field and error-
info field for further details. The error tag is used to classify a special
error from other errors. The error-path is used to identify which resource has
the error. The error-info is provided for additional information.
The JCR format:
e
\$errors = \"errors\" : [
{
\$error-type,
\$error-message,
\$error-tag ?,
\$error-path ?,
\$error-info ?
} +
]
### 5.4.4.3 error-type
The error-type field is of type string. It can be one of \'application\',
\'interface\', \'server\' and \'other\'.
When an error is related to the application processing in the TSSF, the error
type shall be specified as \'application\'. When the error is a protocol
compliance error, \'interface\' shall be used. A server failure is represented
with the \'server\' error type. For all other errors, the \'other\' error type
shall be used.
### 5.4.4.4 error-message
The error-message field is of type string. It is a textual description of the
error.
### 5.4.4.5 error-tag
The error-tag field is of type string. It defines a tag for a particular
error.
TS_RULE_EVENT
This error-tag shall be used when the traffic steering rules cannot be
installed/activated at the TSSF. Affected traffic steering rules shall be
provided in the error-info with a sub field named ts-rule-reports including
the reason and status of the rules as described insubclause 5.4.5.
### 5.4.4.6 error-path
The error-path field is of type string. It shall contain a JSON pointer as
defined in IETF RFC 6901 [15] pointing to a resource where the error occurs.
### 5.4.4.7 error-info
The error-info field is defined as an object type. It represents informational
details regarding the error.
### 5.4.4.6 success-message
The success-message is of type string. When included in the JSON body of an
HTTP response, it shall be included under the root level of the JSON content.
### 5.4.4.7 success-path
The success-path field is of type string. It is a JSON pointer as defined in
IETF RFC 6901 [15] pointing to the resource that was successfully operated on.
It is an optional root level field provided along with a success-message
field.
### 5.4.4.8 success-info
### The success-info field is defined as an object type. It may include any
additional information under the root level of the JSON content for an
informational response.
## 5.4.5 JSON report fields
### 5.4.5.1 General
Table 5.4.5.1.1 describes the JSON fields defined for the report information
objects which are included in the error-info field or the notification-info
field.
Table 5.4.5.1.1: JSON fields for Report from the TSSF
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Field Name | Subclause | JSON Value | JCR Type | | | defined | Type (NOTE 1) | (NOTE 2) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | t | 5.4.5.2 | array | array | | s-rule-reports | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | resource-paths | 5.4.5.3 | array | array | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | rule-status | 5.4.5.4 | string | string | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | rul | 5.4.5.5 | string | string | | e-failure-code | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | | basic JSON | | | | | value types | | | | | are defined in | | | | | IETF RF | | | | | C 7159 [10]. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The | | | | | JCR types are | | | | | defined in | | | | | IE | | | | | TF draft-newto | | | | | n-json-content | | | | | -rules [16]. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
### 5.4.5.2 ts-rule-reports
The ts-rule-reports field is of type array and it contains a list of traffic
steering rule reports.
The ts-rule-reports field can be used in an HTTP response to report failures
in the installation/activation of traffic steering rules. In this case, it
shall be provided as a sub field of the error-info field.
The ts-rule-reports field can also be used in a HTTP request from the TSSF to
notify the PCRF about enforcement failures of traffic steering rules. In this
case, it shall be provided as a sub field of the notification-info field.
Multiple traffic steering rule report instances shall be provided within the
ts-rule-reports field if different rule-status or rule-failure-code values are
applicable within the same HTTP response or notification.
A report instance shall contain the resource-paths, rule-status and rule-
failure-code fields.
The JCR format for the ts-rule-reports is:
\$ts-rule-reports = \"ts-rule-reports\" : [
{
\$resource-paths,
\$rule-status,
\$rule-failure-code
} +
]
### 5.4.5.3 resource-paths
The resource-paths field is of type array of strings. Each string shall be a
JSON pointer as defined in IETF RFC 6901 [15].
Each JSON pointer within the resource-paths field shall be a reference to a
specific traffic steering rule or to a group of traffic steering rules which
cannot be installed/activated or enforced at the TSSF.
### 5.4.5.4 rule-status
The rule-status is of type string and shall contain one of the string
representations of the PCC-Rule-Status AVP values as defined in subclause
5.3.19 of 3GPP TS 29.212 [17].
NOTE: For the current release, only the INACTIVE value is used.
### 5.4.5.5 rule-failure-code
The rule-failure-code is of type string.
The following values defined in the Rule-Failure-Code AVP in subclause 5.3.38
of 3GPP TS 29.212 [17] are applicable for traffic steering rule errors.
UNKNOWN_RULE_NAME
GW/PCEF_MALFUNCTION
RESOURCES_LIMITATION
MISSING_FLOW_INFORMATION
INCORRECT_FLOW_INFORMATION
TDF_APPLICATION_IDENTIFIER_ERROR
FILTER_RESTRICTIONS
The following value defined in the Rule-Failure-Code AVP is reused for traffic
steering rule errors, however with a different explanation:
RESOURCE_ALLOCATION_FAILURE
This value is used to indicate that the traffic steering rule could not be
successfully installed or maintained since the resources or services of the
traffic steering control specified by the rule cannot be reserved in the TSSF
and/or the (S)Gi-LAN; or those resources or services were released in the TSSF
and/or the (S)Gi-LAN, for example, due to the switch eviction mechanism.
In addition, the following values are added:
RESOURCE_TIMEOUT
This value is used to indicate that the traffic steering rule could not be
successfully installed or maintained since the booked resources or services of
the traffic steering control specified by the rule have expired in the TSSF
and/or the (S)Gi-LAN; for example, due to the flow expiry mechanism in the
switches.
TS_POLICY_IDENTIFIER_ERROR
This value is used to indicate that the rule could not be successfully
installed or enforced because both the ts-policy-identifier-dl and ts-policy-
identifier-dl are invalid, unknown, or not applicable to the downlink and
uplink traffic flows for the traffic steering control.
TS_POLICY_IDENTIFIER_DL_ERROR
This value is used to indicate that the rule could not be successfully
installed or enforced because the ts-policy-identifier-dl is invalid, unknown,
or not applicable to the downlink traffic flows for the traffic steering
control.
TS_POLICY_IDENTIFIER_UL_ERROR
This value is used to indicate that the rule could not be successfully
installed or enforced because the ts-policy-identifier-ul is invalid, unknown,
or not applicable to the uplink traffic flows for the traffic steering
control.
## 5.4.6 JSON notification fields
### 5.4.6.1 General
Table 5.4.6.1.1 describes the JSON fields defined for the notification HTTP
messages from the TSSF to the PCRF, including their JSON value types, and JCR
types as well.
Table 5.4.6.1.1: JSON fields for notifications from the TSSF
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Field Name | Subclause | JSON Value | JCR Type (NOTE | | | defined | Type (NOTE 1) | 2) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | notifications | 5.4.6.2 | array | array | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | not | 5.4.6.3 | string | \ | | ification-type | | | "application\" | | | | | | | | | | \"other\" | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 3) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | notifi | 5.4.6.4 | string | String | | cation-message | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | no | 5.4.6.5 | string | String | | tification-tag | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | not | 5.4.6.6 | object | Object | | ification-info | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | | basic JSON | | | | | value types | | | | | are defined in | | | | | IETF RF | | | | | C 7159 [10]. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The | | | | | JCR types are | | | | | defined in | | | | | IETF | | | | | draft-newto | | | | | n-json-content | | | | | -rules [16]. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: The | | | | | quoted strings | | | | | for a string | | | | | type. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
[]{#__RefHeading___Toc493228815 .anchor}
### 5.4.6.2 notifications
The notifications field is of type array, and it contains a list of
notifications provided by the TSSF. Each notification is defined as an object
in the array.
A notification object shall contain the notification-type and the
notification-message fields.
Optionally, it may include the notification-tag and notification-info fields.
The notification-tag is used to distinguish a specific notification from
others. The notification-info is provided for additional information.
The JCR format of the notifications is as follows:
\$notifications = \"notifications\" : [
{
\$notification-type,
\$notification-message,
\$notification-tag ?,
\$notification-info ?
} +
### ]5.4.6.3 notification-type
The notification-type field is of type string. It can be one of
\'application\' or \'other\'.
When a notification is due to a change to one of the St session resources/sub-
resources, the type shall be specified as \'application\'. For all other
notifications, the \'other\' type shall be used.
### 5.4.6.4 notification-message
The notification-message field is of type string. It is a textual description
of the notification.
### 5.4.6.5 notification-tag
The notification-tag field is of type string. It defines a tag for a
particular notification.
TS_RULE_EVENT
This notification-tag value shall be used when the traffic steering rules
cannot be enforced at the TSSF. Affected traffic steering rules shall be
provided by the TSSF in the notification-info with a sub field named ts-rule-
reports including the report reason and status of the rules.
### 5.4.6.6 notification-info
The notification-info field is defined as an object type. It represents
informational details regarding the notification.
## 5.5 TSSF discovery
The TSSF URI is pre-configured on the PCRF, e.g. per PCEF.
# 6 Secure communication
Either the NDS/IP network layer security defined in 3GPP TS 33.210 [7] or HTTP
over TLS as defined in [19] should be used to secure communication over the
REST based St interface.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Call Flows
# A.1 General
This annex describes the procedures for the interactions between the PCRF and
the TSSF
# A.2 Traffic Steering Control Information Provisioning
This subclause describes the signalling flow for the traffic steering control
information provisioning.
Figure A.2.1: Traffic Steering Control Information Provisioning
1\. The PCRF sends the HTTP POST to the TSSF to initiate the creation of a
resource state to provision the traffic steering control information including
the parameters defined in subclause 4.4.2.
2\. The TSSF sends the HTTP 201 CREATED response to the PCRF including the
parameters defined in subclause 4.4.2.
# A.3 Traffic Steering Control Information Update
This subclause describes the signalling flow for the traffic steering control
information update or the allocation/release notification of the UE IPv4
address.
Figure A.3.1: Traffic Steering Control Information Update
1\. The PCRF sends the HTTP PUT/PATCH to the TSSF to initiate the traffic
steering control information update including the parameters defined in
subclause 4.4.2. The PCRF also sends the HTTP PUT/PATCH to the TSSF to notify
the UE IPv4 address allocation or release including the parameters defined in
subclause 4.4.4.
2\. The TSSF sends the HTTP 200 OK to the PCRF.
# A.4 Traffic Steering Control Information Removal
This subclause describes the signalling flow for the traffic steering control
information removal.
Figure A.4.1: Traffic Steering Control Information Removal
1\. The PCRF sends the HTTP DELETE to the TSSF to initiate the traffic
steering control information removal including the parameters defined in
subclause 4.4.2.
2\. The TSSF removes/deactivates all the ADC rules and sends the HTTP 200 OK
to the PCRF including the parameters defined in subclause 4.4.2.
# A.5 Traffic Steering Control Notification
This subclause describes the signalling flow for the traffic steering control
notification.
Figure A.5.1: Traffic Steering Control Notification
1\. The TSSF sends an HTTP POST to the PCRF to inform it of changes to the
state of traffic steering control rules as defined in subclause 4.4.3.
2\. The PCRF acknowledges the notification and sends an HTTP 200 OK to the
TSSF.
###### ## Annex B (normative): JSON Schema
# B.1 Session body schema
This subclause defines the JSON schema for the body of HTTP requests and
responses providing the state of a session resource. The schema is based on
IETF draft-newton-json-content-rules [16] and is defined below:
# jcr-version 0.7
# ruleset-id 3gpp.stapplication.session
; A JCR representing the session resource
\$session-root = @{root}{
\$session-id,
( \$ue-ipv4 \| \$ue-ipv6-prefix \| ( \$ue-ipv4 , \$ue-ipv6-prefix ) ),
\$called-station-id ?,
\$tsrules ?,
\$predefined-tsrules ?,
\$predefined-group-of-tsrules ?
}
; Resource fields definitions
; Session ID allocated by the PCRF
\$session-id = \"session-id\" : string
; The UE IPv4 address
\$ue-ipv4 = \"ue-ipv4\" : ipv4
; The UE IPv6 prefix
\$ue-ipv6-prefix = \"ue-ipv6-prefix\" : ipv6
; The PDN the UE accesses
\$called-station-id = \"called-station-id\" : string
; The dynamic traffic steering rules
\$tsrules = \"tsrules\" : { \$tsrule + }
; The traffic steering rule
\$tsrule = // : {
\$ts-rule-name,
\$precedence ?,
( \$flow-information \| \$tdf-application-identifier ),
( \$ts-policy-identifier-ul \| \$ts-policy-identifier-dl \| ( \$ts-policy-
identifier-ul, \$ts-policy-identifier-dl ) )
}
; The name of the traffic steering rule in the TSSF
\$ts-rule-name = \"ts-rule-name\" : string
; The precedence of the traffic steering rule. From 0 to 4294967295.
\$precedence = \"precedence\" : 0..4294967295
; The flow traffic information
\$flow-information = \"flow-information\" : [
{
\$flow-description ?,
\$tos-traffic-class ?,
\$security-parameter-index ?,
\$flow-label ?,
\$flow-direction
}
]
; The IP filter rule for a service data flow
\$flow-description = \"flow-description\" : string
; The ToS traffic class is encoded on two octets, and represented in hex
string display.
\$tos-traffic-class = \"tos-traffic-class\" : /\^[0-9A-Fa-f]{4}\$/
; The security parameter index is encoded on four octets, and represented in
hex string display.
\$security-parameter-index = \"security-parameter-index\" :
/\^[0-9A-Fa-f]{8}\$/
; The flow label is encoded on three octets, and represented in hex string
display.
\$flow-label = \"flow-label\" : /\^[0-9A-Fa-f]{6}\$/
; The direction of the flow traffic
\$flow-direction = \"flow-direction\" : ( \"BIDIRECTIONAL\" \| \"UPLINK\" \|
\"DOWNLINK\" )
; The detected application traffic id in the TSSF
\$tdf-application-identifier = \"tdf-application-identifier\" : string
; The traffic steering policy id for uplink data
\$ts-policy-identifier-ul = \"ts-policy-identifier-ul\" : string
; The traffic steering policy id for downlink data
\$ts-policy-identifier-dl = \"ts-policy-identifier-dl\" : string
; The predefined traffic steering rules
\$predefined-tsrules = \"predefined-tsrules\" : { \$predefined-tsrule + }
; The predefined traffic steering rule
\$predefined-tsrule = // : { \$ts-rule-name }
; The predefined traffic steering group rules
\$predefined-group-of-tsrules = \"predefined-group-of-tsrules\" : {
\$predefined-group-of-tsrule + }
; The predefined traffic steering group rule
\$predefined-group-of-tsrule = // : { \$ts-rule-base-name }
; The name of the traffic steering group rule in the TSSF
\$ts-rule-base-name = \"ts-rule-base-name\" : string
# B.2 Error and Informational response schema
This subclause defines the JSON schema for the body of HTTP responses in case
of errors or success. The schema is based on IETF draft-newton-json-content-
rules [16] and is defined below:
# jcr-version 0.7
# ruleset-id 3gpp.stapplication.info
# import 3gpp.stapplication.report as report
; A JCR for the error/successful response body
; Errors information
\$errors-root = @{root} { \$errors }
; Success information
\$success-root = @{root} {
\$success-message,
\$success-path ?,
\$success-info ?
}
; Resource fields definitions
; The list of errors returned in responses sent by the PCRF or TSSF
\$errors = \"errors\" : [
{
\$error-type,
\$error-message,
\$error-tag ?,
\$error-path ?,
\$error-info ?
} +
]
; The error type for an error. It can be one of \'application\',
\'interface\', \'server\' and \'other\'.
\$error-type = \"error-type\" : ( \"application\" \| \"interface\" \|
\"server\" \| \"other\" )
; The error text message
\$error-message = \"error-message\" : string
; The error tag for a specific error
\$error-tag = \"error-tag\" : string
; A JSON pointer path to the error resource
\$error-path = \"error-path\" : string
; Any additional information for the error
\$error-info = \"error-info\" : {
\$report.ts-rule-reports ?,
// : any *
}
; The successful text message
\$success-message = \"success-message\" : string
; A JSON pointer path to the success resource
\$success-path = \"success-path\" : string
; Any additional information for the success.
\$success-info = \"success-info\" : { // : any *}
# B.3 Report schema
This clause defines the JSON schema for reports provided by the TSSF to the
PCRF. The schema is based on IETF draft-newton-json-content-rules [16] and is
defined below:
# jcr-version 0.7
# ruleset-id 3gpp.stapplication.report
; A JCR for the notification body
; Report fields definitions
; The list of ts rule reports sent to the PCRF
\$ts-rule-reports = \"ts-rule-reports\" : [
{
\$resource-paths,
\$rule-status,
\$rule-failure-code
} +
]
; The list of JSON pointers to the resources
\$resource-paths = \"resource-paths\" : [ string + ]
; The status for a traffic steering rule. It can be \'INACTIVE\'.
\$rule-status = \"rule-status\" : \$rule-status-type
; The string format for the traffic steering rule status
\$rule-status-type =: (\"INACTIVE\")
; The failure code for a traffic steering rule
\$rule-failure-code = \"rule-failure-code\" : \$rule-failure-code-type
; The string format for the traffic steering rule failure code
\$rule-failure-code-type =: (
\"UNKNOWN_RULE_NAME\" \|
\"GW/PCEF_MALFUNCTION\" \|
\"RESOURCES_LIMITATION\" \|
\"MISSING_FLOW_INFORMATION\" \|
\"INCORRECT_FLOW_INFORMATION\" \|
\"TDF_APPLICATION_IDENTIFIER_ERROR\" \|
\"FILTER_RESTRICTIONS\" \|
\"RESOURCE_ALLOCATION_FAILURE\" \|
\"RESOURCE_TIMEOUT\" \|
\"TS_POLICY_IDENTIFIER_ERROR\" \|
\"TS_POLICY_IDENTIFIER_DL_ERROR\" \|
\"TS_POLICY_IDENTIFIER_UL_ERROR\"
)
# B.4 Notification schema
This clause defines the JSON schema for the body of the notification from the
TSSF to the PCRF via the HTTP POST request. The schema is based on IETF draft-
newton-json-content-rules [16] and is defined below:
# jcr-version 0.7
# ruleset-id 3gpp.stapplication.notification
# import 3gpp.stapplication.report as report
; A JCR for the notification body
\$notifiction-root = @{root} { \$notifications }
; Resource fields definitions
; The list of notifications notified to the PCRF
\$notifications = \"notifications\" : [
{
\$notification-type,
\$notification-message,
\$notification-tag ?,
\$notification-info ?
} +
]
; The notification type for a notification. It can be one of \'application\'
or \'other\'.
\$notification-type = \"notification-type\" : ( \"application\" \| \"other\" )
; The notification text message
\$notification-message = \"notification-message\" : string
; The notification tag for a specific notification
\$notification-tag = \"notification-tag\" : string
; Any additional information for the notification
\$notification-info = \"notification-info\" : { \$report.ts-rule-reports ?, //
: any *}
#