# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document describes Domain Name System (DNS) Procedures for the
Evolved Packet System. This document covers the Evolved Packet Core gateway
node selection using DNS (e.g. SGW and PGW nodes) excluding all User Equipment
(UE) initiated DNS-based discovery and selection procedures.
The present document specifies functions, procedures and information which
apply to GERAN Iu mode. However, functionality related to GERAN Iu mode is
neither maintained nor enhanced.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] IETF RFC 1034:\"DOMAIN NAMES - CONCEPTS AND FACILITIES\".
[3] IETF RFC 1035:\"DOMAIN NAMES - IMPLEMENTATION AND SPECIFICATION\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification\".
[5] GSMA PRD IR.67: \"DNS Guidelines for Operators\" Version 2.1.0.
[6] IETF RFC 3596: \"DNS Extensions to Support IP Version 6\".
[7] IETF RFC 3403: \" Dynamic Delegation Discovery System (DDDS) Part Three:
The Domain Name System (DNS) Database\".
[8] IETF RFC 2782: \"A DNS RR for specifying the location of services (DNS
SRV)\".
[9] IETF RFC 3958: \"Domain-Based Application Service Location Using SRV RRs
and the Dynamic Delegation Discovery Service (DDDS)\".
[10] IETF RFC 3401: \"Dynamic Delegation Discovery System (DDDS) Part One: The
Comprehensive DDDS\".
[11] 3GPP TS 23.401: \"GPRS enhancements for E-UTRAN access \".
[12] 3GPP TS 25.413: \"UTRAN Iu interface RANAP signalling\".
[13] IETF RFC 2671: \"Extension Mechanisms for DNS (EDNS0)\".
[14] IETF RFC 3402: \"Dynamic Delegation Discovery System (DDDS) Part Two: The
Algorithm\".
[15] IETF RFC 2308: \"**Negative Caching of DNS Queries (DNS NCACHE)** \".
[16] IETF RFC 3330: \"**Special Use IPv4 Addresses** \".
[17] IETF RFC 3849: \"**IPv6 Address Prefix Reserved for Documentation** \".
[18] 3GPP TS 23.060: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); Service
Description; Stage 2\".
[19] 3GPP TS 36.413: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Access Network (E-UTRAN);
S1 Application Protocol (S1AP)\".
[20] 3GPP TS 23.216: \"Single Radio Voice Call Continuity (SRVCC)\".
[21] 3GPP TS 36.413: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
(E-UTRAN); S1 Application Protocol (S1AP)\".
[22] 3GPP TS 36.300: \" Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA)
and Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN); Overall
description; Stage 2\".
[23] 3GPP TS 29.274: \"3GPP Evolved Packet System (EPS); Evolved General
Packet Radio Service (GPRS) Tunnelling Protocol for Control plane (GTPv2-C);
Stage 3\".
[24] 3GPP2 X.S0057‑B: \"E‑UTRAN - eHRPD Connectivity and Interworking: Core
Network Aspects\".
[25] 3GPP TS 23.402: \"Architecture enhancements for non-3GPP accesses\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
Domain Name System as defined in IETF RFC 1034 [2], IETF RFC 1035[3], and as
used in 3GPP in 3GPP TS 23.003 [4] and GSMA PRD IR.67 [5]
The phrase \"operators shall provision\" in this document is intended to
convey what is required to provision in DNS to provide DNS based selection for
the corresponding function documented here. If there is a non-DNS procedure in
an operator\'s network for that function then there is no functional
requirement for the operator to provision such DNS records.
The term \"S4-SGSN\" refers to a Release-8 SGSN that has at least one set of
S4/S3/S16 interfaces enabled.
The term \"Release 8 SGSN supporting only Gn/Gp\" refers to a Release 8 or
later SGSN that either explicitly does not support S4 interfaces or all
S4/S3/S16 interfaces are disabled due to operator policy. Such a node cannot
use an SGW but can use a collocated PGW/GGSN. See 3GPP TS 23.401 [11] Annex D
for use cases.
The term \"Release-8 SGSN\" applies to either case.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
DCN Dedicated Core Network
DDDS Dynamic Delegation Discovery Service
DNS Domain Name System
ECGI E-UTRAN Cell Global Identification
eHRPD evolved High Rate Packet Data
FQDN Fully Qualified Domain Name
GUTI Globally Unique Temporary Identity
HSGW eHRPD Serving Gateway
LGW Local Gateway
LIPA Local IP Access
PGW PDN Gateway
RAI Routing Area Identity
SGW Serving Gateway
SIPTO Selected IP Traffic Offload
TAI Tracking Area Identity
TAU Tracking Area Update
TWAN Trusted WLAN Access Network
# 4 General DNS Based Node Selection Description
## 4.1 Resource Records
### 4.1.1 A and AAAA
The A resource record is used to define IPv4 host address corresponding to
fully qualified name of the host as defined in IETF RFC 1035 [3]. The AAAA
resource record is used to define IPv6 host address corresponding to fully
qualified name of the host as defined in IETF RFC 3596 [6].
It should be noted that in DNS A or AAAA record names, in general, represent a
host and its \"equivalent\" interface. Host names, in general, cannot be used
as node names. A node may need to have more than one host name for the simple
reason that it can have multiple interfaces for different purposes.
### 4.1.2 NAPTR
The NAPTR resource record is defined in IETF RFC 3403 [7] and is a powerful
tool that allows DNS to be used to lookup services for a wide variety of
resource names, which are not in domain name syntax. NAPTR would be used by a
client program to rewrite a string into a domain name. The rewrite process is
controlled by flags that provide information on how to communicate with the
host at the domain name that was the result of the rewrite. If DNS returns
multiple NAPTR resource records those can be prioritized using embedded order
and preference values defined by the DNS administrator.
The S-NAPTR procedure i.e., the \"Straightforward-NAPTR\" procedure, is
defined in IETF RFC 3958 [9] and describes a Dynamic Delegation Discovery
System (DDDS) [10] application procedures on how to resolve a domain name,
application service name, and application protocol dynamically to target
server and port by using both NAPTR and SRV (see IETF RFC 2782 [8]) resource
records. The S-NAPTR also simplifies the use of NAPTR by limiting the NAPTR
flags only to \"a\", \"s\" and \"\". Furthermore, only NAPTR \"replacement\"
expressions are allowed, not \"regular expressions\", during the rewrite
process. The changes compared to IETF RFC 3403 [7] NAPTR usage are procedural
and are limited only to the resolver. The S-NAPTR use of the NAPTR resource
record is exactly the same as defined in IETF RFC 3403 [7] from the DNS server
and DNS infrastructure point of view. Additional information on S-NAPTR usage
is provided in Annex B and Annex C.
The NAPTR resource record flags \"s\" and \"\" allow another layer of
indirection in the DNS configuration. The \"\" flag causes the S-NAPTR
procedure to query for new NAPTR resource records from the DNS infrastructure.
The \"s\" flag causes the S-NAPTR procedure to query for an intermediary SRV
resource record pointing to A/AAAA resource records. This additional query
provides a selection mechanism by which the operator is able to assign
different weights to different A/AAAA resource records while larger weights
are given a proportionately higher probability of being selected. A DNS server
might provide the A/AAAA records together with the SRV resource records as per
IETF RFC 2782 [7]. The length of the NAPTR resource record indirection chain
enabled using the \"\" flag is unbounded and may lead to a deep chaining of
resource records over time in the DNS configuration. Additional layer of
indirection and possible deep chaining both grows the DNS configuration
significantly in size and complexity, and also makes the configuration prone
to hard to trace errors. The use of NAPTR resource record \"\" flag pointing
to other NAPTR resource records with flag \"\" is strongly discouraged.
Specifically, NAPTR resource flag \"\" should only be provisioned to point to
terminal NAPTR records (i.e., flag \"a\" or flag \"s\"). Generally, the use of
flag \"a\" or of flag \"s\" is encouraged.
### 4.1.3 SRV
The SRV resource record is defined in IETF RFC 2782 [8] and allows DNS
administrators to use pool of servers for a single domain with static load
balancing to each server, to move services from host to host, and to designate
some hosts as primary servers for a service from a pool of hosts. A resolver
can ask for a specific service/protocol combination for a specific domain name
and get back a Fully Qualified Domain Names (FQDN) of any available servers.
## 4.2 Selecting Domain Names
When using the S-NAPTR procedure under the DDDS framework, it becomes
essential which domain name gets used for querying the actual NAPTR records.
In the S-NAPTR procedure, the Application-Unique String used by the DDDS
algorithm is the starting domain name for which the information of the
services, protocols and actual canonical node names are sought. Related to the
Application-Unique String, the First well-Known Rule of the DDDS algorithm in
the S-NAPTR procedure outputs the same domain name that constitutes the
Application-Unique String. For each node type in EPC that can be queried for
information using the S-NAPTR procedure, the authoritative DNS server for the
given domain should be provisioned with unique domain name for each EPC node
or other identifier that is explicitly specified by a procedure in this
specification (for example one based on APN, TAI,GUTI, etc) and corresponding
NAPTR records. The authoritative DNS server for a given domain shall provision
at least the EPC node names that may be exposed to the inter-operator roaming
interfaces.
## 4.3 Identifying Nodes, Services and Protocols
### 4.3.1 IETF RFC 3958 Service and Protocol service names for 3GPP
Service and protocol service names for the S-NAPTR procedure shall be used in
accordance with 3GPP TS 23.003 [4], subclause 19.4.3.
### 4.3.2 Identification of canonical node names
There are many use cases where it is desirable to select a collocated node in
preference to a non-collocated node, or a topologically closer (with respect
to the network topology) node in preference to a less topologically closer
node. To easily do this action a \"canonical\" node name shall be employed so
that the \"canonical\" node names from two or more sets of records can be
compared to see if nodes are actually the same nodes, or topologically closer
nodes.
In DNS neither A or AAAA host names, in general, represent a node name, but
rather a set of \"equivalent\" interfaces. A node may need to have more than
one host name for the simple reason that it can have different interfaces for
different purposes. For example, a node can have a set of roaming interfaces
on a completely different network than the internal network due to security
needs. Hence, there are always situations where multiple A/AAAA record sets
must exist that implies multiple distinct host names. Therefore, host names,
in general, cannot be used as node names.
Instead of creating new DNS records to map a host name to a node name this
specification defines how host names shall be constructed and used in S-NAPTR
procedure within 3GPP EPC.
The host names shall have form:
\ . \ . \
Where the first label is \"topon\" or \"topoff\" to indicate whether or not
collocated and topologically close node selection shall be preferred,
\"single-label-interface-name\" is a single label used to name a specific
interface on a node (e.g. Eth-0, S8, vip, board3), \"canonical-node-name\" is
a the canonical node name of a specific node. A node shall have exactly one
canonical node name so a host name always includes the unique canonical node
name of the node.Hence, when comparing the host name FQDNs to find out whether
the nodes are actually the same, the first two labels of the host name FQDN
shall be ignored.
NOTE 1: The canonical node name is not related to canonical name in the CNAME
DNS record.
When using host names with \"topon\" as the first label the canonical node
names of nodes shall be hierarchically structured to allow an operator to
reflect the topological closeness of two nodes by naming the nodes with
canonical node names sharing a common suffix domain name. The number of labels
in the common suffix shall represent how close the operator considers them
during node selection. The higher the number of labels in the common suffix
is, the closer the nodes are. In other words, two topologically closest nodes
are those with the longest matching suffix in their respective canonical node
names.
The following list contains examples of domain names where canonical node
names are in bold:
topon.Eth-0.**gw32.california.west. example.com**
topon.S8.**gw32.california.west. example.com**
topon.vip.**sgw3.oregon.west. example.com m**
topon.board3.**pgw1.cluster1.net27. example.net**
topon.S5.**gw4.cluster1.net27. example.net**
topon.board3.**pgw1.cluster2.net27. example.net**
In the examples above, \"Eth-0.gw32.california.west.example.com \" and
\"S8.gw32.california.west. example.com \" are two different interfaces on the
same node, \"gw32.california.west. example.com \". On the other hand,
\"gw4.cluster1.net27.example.net\" is topologically closer to
\"pgw1.cluster1.net27. example.net\" (they are both connected to the
\"cluster1.net27. example.net\" subnetwork) than to \"pgw1.cluster2.net27.
example.net\" (only connected to the wider \"net.27. example.net\"
subnetwork.)
Interface names and node names do NOT identify a function in the procedures
here. The interface is part of the natural hierarchy within a node and the
host name is already returned with the existing DNS records. The approach of
identifying a canonical node name from a host name is believed to be simpler
and more logical to maintain than creating additional DNS records simply to
return a node name.
The topologically aware naming restriction (i.e. the format above using
\"topon\" or \"topoff\") shall be placed only on all targets/replacements
pointing logically to a A/AAAA record sets from the S-NAPTR procedure. These
targets/replacements are denoted host names here (following the normal DNS
terminology unless a CNAME is used to point to the actual A or AAAA record).
This restriction shall NOT apply to any other DNS records the operator may be
using.
Specifically, a NAPTR with flag \"a\" will have a replacement target pointing
to the A/AAAA record directly, thus the topologically aware naming restriction
on the host name applies to the replacement in the NAPTR record with a flag
\"a\". For the NAPTR flag \"s\" case the topologically aware naming
restriction on the host name applies to the target in the SRV record, and not
the NAPTR record replacement. For the NAPTR empty flag \"\" case the
topologically aware naming does not apply any restriction since this is not a
host name. Other flags are not used in S-NAPTR.
During DNS provisioning for the S-NAPTR procedure the operator is free to add
another layer of indirection using a CNAME record (see section 6.6.2 of IETF
RFC 1034 [2]).
While operators shall provision host names in DNS according to the above
rules, it is still possible that the host name might be incorrectly configured
(i.e. not conforming to the above format with first label of \"topon\" or
\"topoff\"). For such misconfigured records implementations shall treat the
misconfigured host name as valid within the S-NAPTR procedure where that host
name was found, but may favor correctly configured records. Misconfigured host
name for topological matching and colocation checks shall be treated as if the
misconfigured host name had the label \"topoff.\" prepended. Operators shall
not depend on this behavior.
The order of using DNS records to contact a node is based on following
ordering. When collocation of a pair of node types is explicitly stated as
applicable in a procedure, collocation of the nodes shall have high est
importance . When topological matching is explicitly stated as applicable in a
procedure then topological matching with \"topon\", is of second highest
importance. Then finally the ordering obtained by the S-NAPTR output . When
collocation and topological ordering applies, collocated sets of nodes have
highest importance, then sets of nodes with \"topon\" and the most labels in
their common suffix, then sets of nodes with \"topon\" and second most number
of labels and so on until we reach non-colocated nodes with \"topoff\" and
within sets with same colocation or topological order then S-NAPTR order of
one of the two nodes is used (specified in the specific procedure). Additional
informative clarifications on how S-NAPTR is employed in the context of 3GPP
EPC node usage and specifically how topological matching using the \"topon\"
label interacts with S-NAPTR ordering is provided in Annex C.4.
### 4.3.3 Services from node names or other FQDN identifying a service
#### 4.3.3.1 General
There are potential use cases where a node has a logical name of a peer or
other FQDN identifier for a service but does not have the protocols it
supports. The NAPTR record for any of the services can be provisioned at the
nodes logical name or other FQDN identifier for a service. The node logical
name or other FQDN identifier for a service is equal to the domain name under
which NAPTR records are provisioned. This allows any core network node to
discover the available services based on node's logical name or other FQDN
identifier for a service.
#### 4.3.3.2 Procedure
##### 4.3.3.2.1 S-NAPTR Procedure - General
These procedures are employed when any core network node has the FQDN of an
entity and needs to find one or more services at that entity.
NOTE: There are three likely sources of the entity name. O&M provisioned, 3GPP
specified based on some other identifier of a service (such as GUTI, TAC,
IMSI, MISDN etc.), or the canonical node name obtained from a previous S‑NAPTR
procedure. Note that a node can have more than one name, i.e. an alias, but
there shall be only one canonical node name for a node. (CNAME records are a
way to create aliases for the canonical node name or any other FQDN as per
IETF RFC 1034 [2])
The S-NAPTR procedure requires that DNS NAPTR records shall be consistently
provisioned as described in IETF RFC 3958 [9]. This means a NAPTR record for
each protocol using \"a\" flag and the service field populated with the
service and proto value may be provisioned. If a more sophisticated load
balancing or non-standard ports are desired, NAPTR with \"s\" flag for each
protocol and the corresponding SRV records with relative weighting for each
interface need to be provisioned. NAPTR records with empty \"\" flag records
may also be used.
A DNS resolver that intends to use the S-NAPTR procedure shall use the FQDN of
the node or a specified FQDN identifier of a service as the Application-Unique
String. If all protocols are desired, then the resolver simply runs the
S-NAPTR procedure as if all protocols match.
The S-NAPTR procedure logically outputs a list of host names each with a
service, protocol, port and a list of IPv4 and IPv6 addresses. This list can
be obtained one host name at a time, in a procedure similar to Annex C.2, or a
complete ordered list of all nodes, in a procedure similar to Annex C.3. Such
a complete list obtained from an S-NAPTR procedure is referred here as a
candidate list.
NOTE: The candidate list is valid for at most for finite period of time due to
DNS time to live and order of the records can change due to statistical
selection. Operators should provision records with reasonable time to live
values.
##### 4.3.3.2.2 S-NAPTR Procedure for a canonical node name
One very important special case is S-NAPTR based on a node\'s canonical node
name.
Operators shall provision NAPTR records for all enabled interfaces of a node
that are explicitly listed in subclause 19.4.3 of 3GPP TS 23.003 [4] at the
FQDN of the node\'s unique canonical node name.
NOTE 1: Exception to this rule: The NAPTR records for x-3gpp-mme: x- s1-mme
and x-3gpp-sgw:x-s1-u from subclause 19.4.3 of 3GPP TS 23.003 [4] are to be
considered entirely optional in this release of 3GPP.
With such provisioning by an operator a DNS resolver can at any time use the
S-NAPTR procedure with a valid canonical node name to find all interfaces and
protocols supported by that node that are listed in subclause 19.4.3 of 3GPP
TS 23.003 [4]. This includes interfaces of co-located functions that might not
be easily discovered by other means.
NOTE 2: The remaining subclauses within subclause 4.3.3 cover cases where the
FQDN used for the Application-Unique String is known to correspond to the
resource of exactly one node and are relatively simple. These include the
cases where an explicit identifier is defined by 3GPP for S-NAPTR lookup and
examples of S-NAPTR based on canonical node names (the later is not intended
to be an exhaustive list of examples). More complicated cases that cover
identifiers for multiple nodes are covered in other subclauses.
#### 4.3.3.3 Services of a PGW from PGW node name (or collocated PGW/GGSN)
A UE with both a 3GPP access capability and non-3GPP access capability can
roam in and out of the 3GPP network while maintaining the same PDN connection.
To support roaming to or from a non-3GPP network the HSS (or AAA) server can
have an FQDN of a particular PGW or collocated PGW/GGSN node. One reason for
using an FQDN instead of an IP address is that a PGW can be multihomed (i.e.
more than one IP address). Another possible use case is when the PGW interface
needs to be changed between PMIP and GTP. Even if each interface type only
uses one IP address, the different interfaces can still use different IP
addresses. For example, roaming and non-roaming interfaces are likely to be
separated from each other using firewall or other mechanisms. Another possible
use case is when the Home Agent (HA) functionality of a particular PGW needs
to be discovered, e.g., during the HA reallocation procedure.
If the PGW node name employed by the operator is the PGW canonical node name
then see sub-clause 4.3.3.2 for provisioning.
If the PGW node name employed by the operator is not the PGW canonical node
name then the operators shall provision at least the NAPTR records for S5 and
S8 interfaces of a PGW node (see subclause 19.4.3 of 3GPP TS 23.003 [4]) at
that PGW node name. If the GGSN function is co-located then the NAPTR records
for the Gn/Gp interfaces of the collocated PGW/GGSN shall be included as well.
Only interfaces that exist and are allowed by the operator policy need be
included.
NOTE 1: The PGW node name in HSS/AAA may or may not be the PGW\'s canonical
node name if the PGW\'s FQDN was placed in the HSS/AAA from a non-3GPP source.
To resolve the allowed PMIPv6 interfaces the S-NAPTR procedure shall be used
with the \"Service Parameters\" of
\"x-3gpp-pgw:x-s5-pmip\" , \"x-3gpp-pgw:x-s8-pmip\"
as defined in subclause 19.4.3 of 3GPP TS 23.003 [4], and the Application-
Unique String set to the FQDN of the PGW or collocated PGW/GGSN node.
The S-NAPTR procedure logically outputs a list of host names each with a
service, protocol, port and a list of IPv4 and IPv6 addresses. This list can
be obtained one host name at a time, in a procedure similar to Annex C.2, or a
complete ordered list of all nodes, in a procedure similar to Annex C.3. Such
a complete list obtained from an S-NAPTR procedure is referred here as a
candidate list.
For a more explicit example, an operator might provision a PGW name at:
gw1.pgw.node.epc.mnc\.mcc\.3gppnetwork.org
Similarly for the GTPv2 interfaces the S-NAPTR procedure shall use \"Service
Parameters\" of
\"x-3gpp-pgw:x-s5-gtp\" , \"x-3gpp-pgw:x-s8-gtp\"
as defined in subclause 19.4.3 of 3GPP TS 23.003 [4], and the Application-
Unique String set to the FQDN of the specific PGW or collocated PGW/GGSN node.
Similarly for the GTPv1 Gn/Gp interfaces the S-NAPTR procedure shall use
\"Service Parameters\" of
\"x-3gpp-pgw:x-gn\" , \"x-3gpp-pgw:x-gp\" \"x-3gpp-ggsn:x-gn\" , \"x-3gpp-
ggsn:x-gp\"
as defined in subclause 19.4.3 of 3GPP TS 23.003 [4], and the Application-
Unique String set to the FQDN of the specific PGW , collocated PGW/GGSN node.
The \"Service Parameters\" of \"x-3gpp-pgw:x-gn\", \"x-3gpp-pgw:x-gp\"
represent collocated PGW/GGSN nodes and \"x-3gpp-ggsn:x-gn\", \"x-3gpp-
ggsn:x-gp\" represent a GGSN that does not have a PGW co-located.
Similarly for the Home Agent functionality of a PGW the S-NAPTR procedure
shall use \"Service Parameters\" of
\"x-3gpp-pgw:x-s2c-dsmip\"
as defined in subclause 19.4.3 of 3GPP TS 23.003 [4], and the Application-
Unique String set to the FQDN of the specific PGW.
Similarly for the S2a interface the S-NAPTR procedure shall use \"Service
Parameters\" of
\"x-3gpp-pgw:x-s2a-pmip\" , \"x-3gpp-pgw:x-s2a-gtp\"
as defined in subclause 19.4.3 of 3GPP TS 23.003 [4], and the Application-
Unique String set to the FQDN of the specific PGW.
Similarly for the S2b interface the S-NAPTR procedure shall use \"Service
Parameters\" of
\"x-3gpp-pgw:x-s2b-pmip\" , \"x-3gpp-pgw:x-s2b-gtp\"
as defined in subclause 19.4.3 of 3GPP TS 23.003 [4], and the Application-
Unique String set to the FQDN of the specific PGW.
Additional requirements to support DCN are specified in subclause 5.8.It is
also possible for the DNS resolver to leave \"Service Parameters\" unspecified
in the S-NAPTR procedure in order to identify all interfaces for all supported
services and protocols.
NOTE 2: The services based on S-NAPTR at the canonical node name of the PGW
might return services other than ones starting with x-3gpp-pgw or x-3gpp-ggsn
since the PGW node can have a co-located SGW function or other functions.
#### 4.3.3.4 Services of a MME from MME node name (or GUTI)
There are procedures where the old MME must be contacted by the new MME or S4
SGSN(a Release-8 SGSN supporting only Gn/Gp may also optionally use this
procedure). The primary use case is context transfer.
The 3GPP defined MME node FQDN shall be constructed as defined in subclause
19.4.2.4 of 3GPP TS 23.003 [4] where the needed data can be obtained from the
UE\'s old GUTI (or mapped from old P-TMSI and old RAI see subclause 4.3.3.5
for more details). The 3GPP defined MME node FQDN is either the canonical node
name itself or an alias of the MME\'s canonical node name (the operator is
free to choose the canonical node name).
If the MME node name employed by the operator is the 3GPP defined MME node
FQDN then see sub-clause 4.3.3.2 for provisioning.
If the MME node name employed by the operator is the 3GPP defined MME node
FQDN the operator shall provision NAPTR records under the 3GPP defined MME
node FQDN for at least \"x-3gpp-mme:x-s10\", \"x-3gpp-mme:x-s3\" if S3/S4
GERAN/UTRAN is supported, and \"x-3gpp-mme:x- gn \" or \"x-3gpp-mme:x-gp\" if
Gn/Gp is supported.
So, for example, for an MME to find all S10 interfaces of an MME based on the
old GUTI the S-NAPTR procedure shall be prefixed with \"Service Parameters\"
of
\"x-3gpp-mme:x-s10\"
and set the Application-Unique String to the FQDN as defined in subclause
19.4.2.4 of 3GPP TS 23.003 [4], with the initial query targeted at 3GPP
defined MME node FQDN.
The S-NAPTR procedure logically outputs a list of host names each with a
service, protocol, port and a list of IPv4 and IPv6 addresses. This list can
be obtained one host name at a time, in a procedure similar to Annex C.2, or a
complete ordered list of all nodes, in a procedure similar to Annex C.3. Such
a complete list obtained from an S-NAPTR procedure is referred here as a
candidate list.
Similarly, for an S4 -SGSN to find all S3 interfaces of an MME based on the
old GUTI it would use a \"Service Parameter\" of \"x-3gpp-mme:x-s3\".
Similarly, for a Release 8 Gn/Gp-SGSN to find all Gn and Gp interfaces of an
MME based on the old GUTI it would use a \"Service Parameter\" of \" x-3gpp-
mme:x-gn\", \" x-3gpp-mme:x-gp\".
To find all MME related services of an MME based on the MME\'s canonical node
name the S-NAPTR procedure shall be prefixed with \"Service Parameters\" of
\"x-3gpp-mme:x-s10\", \"x-3gpp-mme:x-s3\", \"x-3gpp-mme:x-s11\", \"x-3gpp-
mme:x-gn\", \"x-3gpp-mme:x-gp\",
and set the Application-Unique String to the MME\'s canonical node name.
It is also possible for the DNS resolver to use only the interfaces it is
interested in or leave \"Service Parameters\" unspecified in the S-NAPTR
procedure in order to identify all interfaces for all supported services and
protocols.
NOTE 1: The services based on MME canonical node name can return services not
starting with x-3gpp-mme since the MME node might, for example, have a co-
located SGSN.
#### 4.3.3.5 Services of an SGSN from a P-TMSI
There are procedures where the source SGSN must be contacted by the target MME
or a target S4-SGSN. A Release 8 SGSN supporting only Gn/Gp may also
optionally use this procedure.
During a mobility procedure towards a new core network node, a UE served by a
SGSN has a previously assigned P‑TMSI by the source SGSN. A pre-Release-8 UE
will provide the P‑TMSI. A Release-8 UE will map P‑TMSI to a derived GUTI
using the procedure in 3GPP TS 23.003 [4] sub-clause 2.8.2and referred to in
Annex H of 3GPP TS 23.401 [11].
The targetMME or a target S4-SGSN extracts the source\'s NRI, RAC, LAC, MNC
and MCC from the P‑TMSI (or GUTI based on the procedure described in 3GPP TS
23.003 [4] sub-clause 2.8.2).
The FQDN based on NRI, RAC, LAC, MNC and MCC as defined in 3GPP TS 23.003 [4]
sub-clause 19.4.2.6 is denoted in this specification as the NRI-RAI FQDN.
If the SGSN canonical node name employed by the operator is the NRI-RAI FQDN
then see sub-clause 4.3.3.2 for provisioning.
If the 3GPP defined NRI-RAI FQDN is not employed by an operator as the SGSN\'s
canonical node name then the operator shall provision NAPTR records under the
NRI-RAI FQDN with at least \"x-3gpp-sgsn:x-s3\", \"x-3gpp-sgsn:x-s4\",
\"x-3gpp-sgsn:x-s16\" (assuming the SGSN supports S3/S4/S16 GERAN/U-TRAN) and
at least \"x-3gpp-sgsn:x-gn\", \"x-3gpp-sgsn:x-gp\" (assuming the SGSN
supports legacy Gn/Gp).
The S-NAPTR procedure for finding the old SGSN services and interfaces from
the P‑TMSI is started with \"Service Parameters\" of
\"x-3gpp-sgsn:x-gn\", \"x-3gpp-sgsn:x-gp\", \"x-3gpp-sgsn:x-s3\", \"x-3gpp-
sgsn:x- s16\"
as defined in 3GPP TS 23.003 [4] and setting the Application-Unique String to
the NRI-RAI FQDN based on NRI, RAC, LAC, MNC and MCC as defined in 3GPP TS
23.003 [4] sub-clause 19.4.2.6:
NOTE 1: In the event a valid NRI is not available then the \ value shall
be excluded from the FQDN. The default SGSN in the SGSN pool shall be
provisioned under that record (or the sole SGSN if there is no SGSN pool for
that RAI).
NOTE 2: Service Parameters are logically limited to those supported by the
target node that is performing the search for the source SGSN. So for example,
a target Release-8 SGSN supporting only Gn/Gp would employ \"x-3gpp-
sgsn:x-gn\" and \"x-3gpp-sgsn:x-gp\". An S4-SGSN only supporting S4/S3/S16
would employ \"x-3gpp-sgsn:x-s3\", \"x-3gpp-sgsn:x-s16\". A target MME would
employ \"x-3gpp-sgsn:x-s3\" and may additionally include \"x-3gpp-sgsn:x-gn\"
and \"x-3gpp-sgsn:x-gp\", to support the procedures in Annex D of 3GPP TS
23.401 [11].
The S-NAPTR procedure logically outputs a list of host names each with a
service, protocol, port and a list of IPv4 and IPv6 addresses. This list can
be obtained one host name at a time, in a procedure similar to Annex C.2, or a
complete ordered list of all nodes, in a procedure similar to Annex C.3. Such
a complete list obtained from an S-NAPTR procedure is referred here as a
candidate list.
NOTE 3: The services based on canonical node name can return services not
starting with x-3gpp-sgsn since the SGSN node might, for example, have a co-
located MME.
For a pre-Release-8 target node i.e. a UE moving from eUTRAN to pre-Release-8
UTRAN/GERAN the UE will provide a derived P-TMSI based on a GUTI (See Annex H
of 3GPP TS 23.401 [11]). As a result the source MME or Release-8 SGSN looks
like a pre-Release-8 SGSN to a pre-Release-8 target node. For pre-Release‑8
compatibility operators would continue to provision A/AAAA records as
described in Annex C.1 of 3GPP TS 23.003 [4] for the corresponding Gn/Gp
interfaces regardless of whether the source SGSN is pre-Release-8 or not.
NOTE 4: Gn/Gp interfaces are provisioned redundantly for both \".gprs\" and
\".3gppnetwork.org\" top level domains during the transition to Release-8 to
allow a gradual forward migration to 3ggpnetwork.org while still supporting
existing pre-Release‑8 usage.
#### 4.3.3.6 Services of an SGW from SGW canonical node name
An MME or S4-SGSN may need to find SGW interfaces on a SGW based solely on
SGW\'s canonical node name. The most common use cases are:
\- An MME finding an S11 interface from an SGW node name where the SGW node
name was determined from an S5/S8 interface selection based on TAI/eNodeB-ID
(see sub-clause 5.2).
\- An S4-SGSN finding an S4 interface from an SGW node name where the SGW node
name was determined from an S5/S8 interface selection based on RAI/RNC-ID (see
sub-clause 5.2).
\- Finding if an SGW node has PGW interfaces from an SGW node name (both SGW
and PGW functions would be listed under one canonical node name for co-located
PGW/SGW).
See sub-clause 4.3.3.2 for DNS provisioning of the canonical node name
records.
For LTE initial attach cases, the S11 interface is initially unknown by an
MME. The S5/S8 interface and the SGW hostname will be selected by procedures
in subclause 5. The MME will obtain SGW S11 interfaces from the SGW canonical
node name. The S-NAPTR procedure shall use \"Service Parameter\" of
\"x-3gpp-sgw:x-11\"
as defined in subclause 19.4.3 of 3GPP TS 23.003 [4], and the Application-
Unique String set to the canonical node name of the specific SGW node to find
the available S11 interfaces
The S-NAPTR procedure logically outputs a list of host names each with a
service, protocol, port and a list of IPv4 and IPv6 addresses. This is a
\"candidate\" list of services and interfaces of that SGW (see Annex C.2 for a
more detailed description of a candidate list).
For example, an operator might provision an SGW name at:
gw21.sgw.node.epc.mnc\.mcc\.3gppnetwork.org
Similarly, for GERAN/UTRAN initial attach cases the S4-SGSN will need to
obtain the SGW S4 interface after procedures in subclause 5 select the S5/S8
interface and SGW hostname. The only change from the MME case is the \"Service
Parameter\" of
\"x-3gpp-sgw:x-s4\"
is employed.
In cases where a new PDN connection is added to an existing SGW the available
SGW S5/S8 interfaces are commonly needed.
To resolve the allowed SGW PMIPv6 interfaces the S-NAPTR procedure shall be
used with the \"Service Parameters\" of
\"x-3gpp-sgw:x-s5-pmip\", \"x-3gpp-sgw:x-s8-pmip\"
as defined in subclause 19.4.3 of 3GPP TS 23.003 [4], and the Application-
Unique String set to the canonical node name of the specific SGW node
Similarly for the S5/S8 GTP interfaces the S-NAPTR procedure shall use
\"Service Parameters\" of
\"x-3gpp-sgw:x-s5-gtp\", \"x-3gpp-pgw:x-s8-gtp\"
as defined in subclause 19.4.3 of 3GPP TS 23.003 [4], and the Application-
Unique String set to the FQDN of the specific SGW node.
Additional requirements to support DCN are specified in subclause 5.8.
It is also possible to combine the \"Service Parameters\" in the S-NAPTR or to
leave \"Service Parameters\" as logically unspecified initially in the S-NAPTR
procedure in order to identify all interfaces for all 3GPP TS 29.303 supported
protocols of the node.
NOTE 1: The services based on canonical node name can return services not
starting with x-3gpp-sgw since the SGW node might, for example, have a co-
located PGW.
#### 4.3.3.7 Services of an MSC Server from MSC Server canonical node name
During the SRVCC operations (see 3GPP TS 23.216 [20]), an MME or an SGSN may
need to find the MSC Server Sv interface based on MSC Server canonical node
name. The most common use cases are:
\- An MME or an SGSN finding the Sv interface from an MSC Server node name,
where the MSC server node name was determined from the Sv interface selection
based on the Target RAI.
See sub-clause 4.3.3.2 for DNS provisioning of the canonical node name
records.
To find the MSC server services under the MSC server node name, the operator
shall at least provision the \"Service Parameter\" of
\"x-3gpp-msc:x-sv\"
# 4A SGW/PGW selection using GTP-C load control
## 4A.1 General
The nodes responsible for the SGW or PGW selection (i.e. the MME, S4-SGSN,
TWAN or ePDG) shall apply the additions specified in this clause, if GTP-C
load control is supported and enabled (see subclause 12.2 of 3GPP TS 29.274
[23]).
GTP-C load control allows for the advertising of load information at node
level (i.e. the SGW or PGW load) or at APN level (for a PGW only) and
selecting the target node (i.e. the SGW or PGW) based on this information.
The nodes responsible for the SGW or PGW selection shall take into account the
load control information reported via GTP-C signalling and shall implement a
SGW or PGW selection logic according to the principles specified in the
following subclauses.
NOTE: The exact algorithm used at the node performing the SGW or PGW
selection, as per the aforementioned requirements, is implementation specific.
## 4A.2 Node-level load control
This subclause specifies the extensions to the SGW or PGW selection procedures
which shall be supported when GTP-C load control is supported and enabled at
node level.
The node level load information consists of the \"Load Metric\" of the target
node, i.e. the SGW or PGW, representing the current utilization of the
resources as compared to the overall available resources at the target node.
Using the DNS based procedures specified in this document, the node performing
the SGW or PGW selection (i.e. the MME, S4-SGSN, ePDG or TWAN), referred to as
\"selecting node\" hereafter, shall prepare the candidate list of the target
nodes satisfying the required criteria to serve the new session request.
The criteria for ordering the candidate list of target nodes shall be as
specified in subclause 4.3.2, i.e. giving priority to collocation when
applicable, then to topological matching when applicable, then to the ordering
obtained by the S-NAPTR output and then to the ordering obtained by the
priority in the SRV records (when SRV records are used). However, the
selecting node may select a candidate target node with a lower relative order
if all the candidate target nodes with a higher relative order are not
available, e.g. when they have reported a Load-Metric=100. [ ]{.underline}
Then within sets of available candidates with the same relative order (e.g.
with the same topological order or with the same NAPTR order field) and with
the same priority in SRV records (when SRV records are used), further called
the \"TNodeList\" for the list of candidate target nodes \"TNode\", the node
performing the SGW or PGW selection shall use the \"Load Metric\" and, if
available (i.e. when SRV records are used), the DNS-weight-factor of each
candidate target node to perform the node selection as indicated below:
1) The selecting node shall calculate the effective available load of each
candidate target nodes, considering the current available load and the DNS
weight-factor of the target node as follows:
TNode-effective-available-load = (100 -- TNode-load-metric)% X TNode-weight-
factor
2) The selecting node shall then calculate the relative available load of each
candidate target node, representing the effective-available-load of the target
node, as compared to the effective-available-load of all the other candidate
target nodes as follows:
TNode-relative-available-load = (TNode-effective-available-load / sum-of-
effective-available-load-of-all-the-nodes-in-TNodeList) X 100%
3) The selecting node shall then select the SGW or PGW for new session
requests according to the TNode-relative-available-load of each target
candidate node, e.g. a TNode-relative-available-load value of X% indicates
that the corresponding target node should be selected for X% of the new
sessions requests.
The selecting node shall assume the following in the calculations above:
\- The selecting node shall assume the TNode-load-metric=0 for a candidate
target node for which no node level load-metric is available (e.g. due to the
load control feature being not supported between two PLMNs and that the PGW
and the MME are from different PLMNs);
\- The selecting node shall compute the TNode-weight-factor as (65535-NAPTR
preference), as per Annex B.2, for each candidate target node if no SRV weight
factor is received from the DNS, i.e. when only NAPTR records with the \"a\"
flag are provisioned.
Annex E.1 provides an example illustrating these principles.
When using GTP-C load control, the DNS should not be provisioned with a mix of
NAPTR records with an \"s\" flag and with an \"a\" flag for a given FQDN.
NOTE: It is not possible to directly compare the TNode-weight-factor used with
SRV records with the TNode-weight-factor used when there is no SRV record. It
is implementation specific how to distribute the load among candidate SGW or
PGWs if the DNS is provisioned with a mix of NAPTR records with an \"s\" flag
and with an \"a\" flag.
## 4A.3 APN-level load control
This subclause specifies the extensions to the PGW selection procedures which
shall be supported when GTP-C load control is supported and enabled at node
level and APN level.
A PGW may report the following APN load control information for a given APN
via GTP-C signalling (see subclause 12.2.4 of 3GPP TS 29.274 [23]):
\- APN-Load-Metric: this indicates the current resource utilization for a
particular APN, as a percentage, compared to the total resources reserved for
that APN at the target PGW; and
\- APN-relative-capacity: this indicates the total resources configured for a
given APN, compared to the total resources of the target PGW, as a percentage.
It is a static parameter and does not change unless the resources configured
for the APN change.
The selecting node shall calculate the TNode APN weight factor of each
candidate target node, considering the TNode APN relative capacity and the
TNode weight factor as follows:
TNode-APN-weight-factor = TNode-weight-factor X TNode-APN-relative-capacity.
The node performing the PGW selection shall then apply the principles and
assumption specified in clause 4A.1 with the following additions or
modifications:
\- the selecting node shall substitute node level (TNode-\"X\") parameters
with their corresponding APN level (TNode-APN-\"X\") parameters to calculate
the relative APN available load of each candidate target node, i.e.:
TNode-APNx-effective-available-load = (100 -- TNode-APNx-load-metric)% X
TNode-APNx-weight-factor
TNode-APNx-relative-available-load = (TNode-APNx-effective-available-load /
sum-of-APNx-effective-available-load-of-all-the-nodes-in-TNodeList) X 100%
\- the selecting node shall then select the PGW for new session requests
according to the TNode-APN-relative-available-load of each target candidate
node, e.g. a TNode-APN-relative-available-load value of X% indicates that the
corresponding target node should be selected for X% of the new sessions
requests towards the requested APN.
\- If the candidate PGW did not provide APN load control information for an
APN (called \"APNx\"), but provided APN load control information for other
APNs (called \"APNn\"), the selecting node shall assume the following when
computing the relative APN available load for that candidate PGW for the
\"APNx\":
TNode-APNx-relative-capacity = (100 -- sum of [TNode-APN-relative-capacity of
other APNs \"APNn\")]) for the same PGW
TNode-APNx-load-metric = {TNode-load-metric -- sum of [for each APNs in APNn
(TNode-APN-load-metric X TNode-APN-relative-capacity) / 100]} / {100 -- sum of
[TNode-APN-relative-capacity of each APNs in APNn]) / 100}
NOTE: The formula to compute the APNx load metric results from the following
equation:\ \ TNode-load-metric X TNode-capacity = sum of [for each APNs in
APNn (TNode-APN-load-metric X TNode-capacity X TNode-APN-relative-capacity /
100)] + TNode-APNx-load-metric X TNode-capacity X (100 -- sum of [ TNode-APN-
relative-capacity of each APNs in APNn) / 100
\- If the candidate PGW did not provide APN load control information for any
APN, the selecting node shall assume the following when computing the relative
APN available load for that candidate PGW for an APN:
TNode-APNx-relative-capacity = 100
TNode-APNx-load-metric = TNode-load-metric (i.e. the load at the target node
level)
Annex E.2 provides examples illustrating these principles.
# 5 Procedures for EPC Node Discovery and Selection
## 5.1 Procedures for Discovering and Selecting a PGW
### 5.1.1 Discovering a PGW for a 3GPP Access
#### 5.1.1.1 General
The procedures here give a list of possible PGWs and their interfaces that
serve a particular APN. This is very similar to the existing function that
resolves the GGSN IP address based on an APN.
NOTE 1: The RAI/RNC-ID FQDN is used in addition to the APN FQDN when selecting
the GGSN for SIPTO above RAN enabled APN. See subclause 5.6.
However, the Release-8 behaviour includes more functionality than pre-
Release-8 systems since the PGW now can support more than one protocol and
there is sometimes a desire to have the PGW and SGW collocated or
topologically close to each other (with respect to the network topology), if
possible. New DNS records are required to distinguish between different
protocols and interfaces and assist in the more complicated selections.
The operator shall provision the authoritative DNS server(s) responsible for
the APN‑FQDN, including all derivatives used by the operator in the APN‑OI
replacement field (as defined in 3GPP TS 23.060 [18] and 3GPP TS 23.401
[11])with NAPTR records for the given APN-FQDN and corresponding PGWs under
the APN-FQDN.
See subclause 19.4.2.2 of 3GPP TS 23.003 [4].
The above format is used in DNS for use in DNS queries by S4-SGSN and MME to
networks with DNS provisioned to Release-8. A Release-8 SGSN only supporting
Gn/Gp may also optionally use this procedure.
The DNS records provisioned at that location are NAPTR records and include all
S5/S8 and Gn/Gp interfaces for PGW, GGSN, and collocated PGW/GGSN that are
intended to be used for that APN.
The pre-Release-8 format APN as specified in subclause 9.1 of 3GPP TS 23.003
[4] is still used in pre-Release-8 SGSN DNS queries and continues to be used
as a fallback in Release-8 SGSN for discovering Gn/Gp interfaces.
The DNS records provisioned at that location are A and/or AAAA records but
only for the Gn/Gp interfaces of a standalone GGSN or collocated PGW/GGSN.
The APN-FQDN is derived from the APN where the APN is typically in the legacy
format of \"\.mnc\.mcc\.gprs\" as specified in sub-clause
9.1of 3GPP TS 23.003 [4].
NOTE 2: The APN-FQDN is used for DNS query purposes in Release-8. It does not
imply a change in the use or format of the APN in other protocols, nodes or
UE/MS. The APN-FQDN and the APN use independent formats but are related as
below for DNS usage by the MME and S4-SGSN.
The APN received by the EPC node discovery function for 3GPP accesses, is
always of the form of an APN-NI part and operator part. It is the output from
Annex A of 3GPP TS 23.060 [18], which is exactly three labels with last label
\"gprs\".
If the APN is constructed using the default APN-OI or using the APN-OI
Replacement field (as defined in 3GPP TS 23.060 [18] and 3GPP TS 23.401 [11]),
then the APN-FQDN shall be obtained from the APN as specified in sub-clause
19.4.2.2.1 of 3GPP TS 23.003 [4], otherwise the APN is considered to be
invalid and cannot be used.
In Annex A of 3GPP TS 23.060 [18] the SDL diagram refers to a \"DNS
interrogation\" succeeding or failing which is the only DNS interaction. This
is clarified as follows:
For the procedures defined in the present document the APN-FQDN shall be used
in the S-NAPTR with a NAPTR query (see later subclauses for details). If the
S-NAPTR procedure succeeds the \"DNS interrogation\" succeeds. If the S-NAPTR
procedure fails to find a PGW or collocated PGW/GGSN then the \"DNS
interrogation\" fails.
For the legacy procedures defined in Annex A of 3GPP TS 23.060 [18] the
unmodified APN shall be used in the DNS A query and DNS AAAA query. If either
query succeeds, the \"DNS interrogation\" succeeds. If the A and AAAA queries
both fail then the \"DNS interrogation\" fails.
The nodes responsible for the PGW selection (i.e. the MME or S4-SGSN) shall
apply the additions specified in clause 4A, if GTP-C load control is supported
and enabled.
#### 5.1.1.2 Discovering a PGW or collocated PGW/GGSN for a 3GPP Access -
S8/Gp roaming case existing PDN
This section covers the case where the SGW or S4-SGSN is in the visiting
network, the SGW is already pre-selected by having at least one existing PDN
connection and a UE attempts to create a new PDN connection for a different
APN to be selected in the home network.
Operators shall provision NAPTR records for each APN-FQDN that allows roaming
with at least \"Service Parameters\" of
\"x-3gpp-pgw:x-s8-gtp\", \"x-3gpp-pgw:x-s8-pmip\", \"x-3gpp-ggsn:x-gp\",
\"x-3gpp-pgw:x-gp\"
for each such supported interface of that type.
The S-NAPTR procedure, employed by the MME or S4-SGSN, to discover all
S8interfaces shall use \"Service Parameters\" of
\"x-3gpp-pgw:x-s8-gtp\", \"x-3gpp-pgw:x-s8-pmip\"\"
as defined in subclause 19.4.3 of 3GPP TS 23.003 [4], and set the Application-
Unique String to the APN FQDN as defined in subclause 19.4.2.2 of 3GPP TS
23.003 [4]. The \"Service Parameter\" of \"x-3gpp-pgw:x-gp\" shall be included
if the MME or S4-SGSN wishes to potentially bias towards a collocated
PGW/GGSN.
Additional requirements to support DCN are specified in subclause 5.8.
The S-NAPTR procedure logically outputs a list of host names each with a
service, protocol, port and a list of candidate IPv4 and IPv6 addresses. This
is a \"candidate\" list of PGW or collocated PGW/GGSN for that APN (see Annex
C.2 for an informative description of a candidate list and Annex B for the
S-NAPTR procedure).
The above procedure shall be used by the MME or S4-SGSN to select the PGW or
collocated PGW/GGSN.
NOTE 1: When an LTE capable terminal is in GERAN/UTRAN access, the S4-SGSN
might wish to preferentially select a node with both Gp and S8 (i.e. a co-
located PGW/GGSN) based on an operator policy. A preference for a co-located
PGW/GGSN may also exist in an LTE access based on operator policy. The MME, or
Release-8 SGSN, may find co-located PGW/GGSN nodes by searching the APN
\"candidate\" list for interfaces with the same canonical node name in a Gp
interface host name and S8 interface host name.
The PGW and SGW cannot be collocated in this case since the SGW and PGW are in
different operator networks. Furthermore, topological matching by DNS host
names shall not be done since the host names are under different operators\'
administrative control.
The Service Parameter of \"x-3gpp-pgw:x-gp\" denotes a collocated Release 8
GGSN function on a PGW. A PGW with a collocated Release 8 GGSN function may be
preferred subject to operator policies. If that is the case the collocated
PGW/GGSN nodes should be moved to the front of the candidate list but
otherwise retaining the same relative order. The interfaces from the candidate
list that are not S8 based shall be removed. The PGW S8 interfaces are tried
in order from the candidate list.
NOTE 2: Contrary to the non-roaming case, in the roaming case the domain name
of the SGW interface selected does not influence the PGW selection.
In the above procedure after the PGW has been contacted, the selected PGW node
name, selected IP address, port (if non standard) and selected protocol type
(GTPv2 vs. PMIP) shall be stored in the MME or S4-SGSN so it can be accessed
on a PDN basis.
NOTE 3: In this release of 3GPP only standard ports are used.
3GPP TS 23.401 [11] currently indicates only one of PMIP or GTPv2 will be used
based on roaming agreements so the above query would actually not require both
_gtp_ and _pmip_. The operator could use the order field in the NAPTR records
to accomplish an optional fallback to the other protocol type.
Use cases where a SGW needs to be selected are covered in sub-clause 5.2.
However, since Gn/Gp access bypasses SGW selection completely both for
subsequent PDP context activations and initial attach we note that special
case here.
If the UE is in GERAN or UTRAN access and the Release 8 SGSN supports Gp, but
not S4, the procedure above is modified as follows. The \"Service Parameters\"
shall be
\"x-3gpp-pgw:x-gp\" , \"x-3gpp-ggsn:x-gp\"
Additional requirements to support DCN are specified in subclause 5.8.
If an LTE capable mobile is in GERAN/UTRAN access a PGW with a collocated
PGW/GGSN function may be preferred subject to operator policies. If that is
the case the PGW/GGSN nodes should be moved to the front of the candidate list
but otherwise retaining the same relative order. The rest of the procedure is
the same as above.
If the APN record does not exist at the .3gppnetwork.org domain and the UE is
in GERAN or UTRAN access and the Release 8 SGSN supports Gp then the pre
Release-8 DNS procedures shall apply for the APN lookup by the Release 8 SGSN
(i.e. APN lookup by A/AAAA records in the domain .gprs).
#### 5.1.1.3 Discovering a PGW or collocated PGW/GGSN for a 3GPP Access -
S5/Gn intra-operator existing PDN
Operators shall provision NAPTR records for each APN-FQDN for use within their
network with at least \"Service Parameters\" of
\"x-3gpp-pgw:x-s5-gtp\", \"x-3gpp-pgw:x-s5-pmip\", \"x-3gpp-ggsn:x-gn\",
\"x-3gpp-pgw:x-gn\"
for each such supported interface of that type.
Assuming the SGW is already pre-selected by having an existing PDN connection
and a UE attempts to create a new PDN connection for a different APN in the
user\'s home network, then the MME or S4-SGSN shall perform the following
procedure:
The S-NAPTR procedure, employed by the MME or S4-SGSN to discover S5
interfaces shall use \"Service Parameters\" of
\"x-3gpp-pgw:x-s5-gtp\", \"x-3gpp-pgw:x-s5-pmip\"
as defined in subclause 19.4.3 of 3GPP TS 23.003 [4], and set the Application-
Unique String to the APN FQDN as defined in subclause 19.4.2.2 of 3GPP TS
23.003 [4]. The \"Service Parameter\" of \"x-3gpp-pgw:x-gn\" shall be included
if the MME or S4-SGSN wishes to potentially bias towards a collocated
PGW/GGSN.
Additional requirements to support DCN are specified in subclause 5.8.
The S-NAPTR procedure logically outputs a list of host names each with a
service, protocol, port and a list of candidate IPv4 and IPv6 addresses. This
is a \"candidate\" list of PGW or collocated PGW/GGSN for that APN (see Annex
C.2 for an informative description of a candidate list and Annex B for the
S-NAPTR procedure).
Collocation and topological ordering between the PGW and SGW applies in this
case.
If the existing SGW hostname has \"topoff\" then the candidate list of PGW
shall be used in the order given to try to contact a PGW, after moving any
colocated SGW/PGW to the front of the candidate list while maintaining
relative order within that set.
The Service Parameter of \"x-3gpp-pgw:x-gn\" denotes a collocated Release 8
GGSN function on a PGW. A PGW with a collocated Release 8 GGSN function may be
preferred subject to operator policies. If that is the case the collocated
PGW/GGSN nodes should be moved to the front of the candidate list but
otherwise retaining the same relative order. The interfaces from the candidate
list that are not S5 based shall be removed. The PGW S5 interfaces are tried
in order from the candidate list..
If the existing SGW hostname has \"topon\" the two candidate lists shall be
used in the procedure in Annex C.4 with the PGW as \"A\" and the SGW as \"B\".
Annex C.4 results in a list of PGW to try in order.
Once a PGW is successfully contacted the selected PGW host name, PGW IP
address used, port (if non-standard) and selected protocol type (GTP vs PMIP)
shall be stored in the MME or S4-SGSN so it can be accessed on a PDN basis.
NOTE 1: In this release of 3GPP only standard ports are used.
Use cases where a SGW needs to be selected are covered in sub-clause 5.2 and
sub-clause 5.3. However, since Gn/Gp access bypasses SGW selection completely
both for subsequent PDP context activations and initial attach we note that
special case here.
If the UE is in GERAN or UTRAN access and the Release 8 SGSN supports Gn, but
not S4, the procedure above is modified as follows. The \"Service Parameters\"
shall be
\"x-3gpp-pgw:x-gn\" , \"x-3gpp-ggsn:x-gn\"
Additional requirements to support DCN are specified in subclause 5.8.
NOTE 2: When the SGSN supports Gn selects the GGSN or collocated PGW/GGSN for
SIPTO above RAN enabled APN, in addition to the APN FQDN, the S-NAPTR
procedure use the \"Service Parameters\" of \"x-3gpp-pgw:x-gn\" , \"x-3gpp-
ggsn:x-gn\", and set the Application-Unique String to the RAI FQDN as
specified in sub-clause 5.5.2 or the RNC-ID FQDN as specified in sub-clause
19.4.2.7 of 3GPP TS 23.003 [4] . See subclause 5.6.
If an LTE capable mobile is in GERAN/UTRAN access a PGW with a collocated
PGW/GGSN function may be preferred subject to operator policies. A preference
for a co-located PGW/GGSN may also exist in an LTE access based on operator
policy. The MME, or Release-8 SGSN, may find co-located PGW/GGSN nodes by
searching the APN \"candidate\" list for interfaces with the same canonical
node name in a Gn interface host name and S5 interface host name. If that is
the case the PGW/GGSN nodes should be moved to the front of the candidate list
but otherwise retaining the same relative order. The rest of the procedure is
the same as above.
If the APN record does not exist at the .3gppnetwork.org domain and the UE is
in GERAN or UTRAN access and the Release 8 SGSN supports Gn then the pre
Release-8 DNS procedures shall apply for the APN lookup by the Release 8 SGSN
(i.e. APN lookup by A/AAAA records in the domain .gprs).
Those procedures apply also to the case of roaming with local breakout when
subscription data and network policy allow selection of a PGW from the VPLMN
(see e.g. subclause 4.2.2 in 3GPP TS 23.401 [11]).
#### 5.1.1.4 Discovering a PGW, collocated PGW/GGSN or GGSN for a 3GPP Access
- S5/Gn intra-operator initial attach
During the initial attach and PDN connection creation using a 3GPP access both
a PGW and an SGW need to be selected by an MME and will also be used by a
S4-SGSN in PDP context creation. The discovery and selection procedures for
cases employing a SGW are the same as for the PGW and the SGW discovery and
selection procedure described in subclause 5.3.
The discovery and selection procedures for a Release-8 SGSN selecting a Gn
interface for PDP context creation are in subclause 5.1.1.3.
### 5.1.2 Discovering a PGW for a non-3GPP Access with Network Based Mobility
Management
#### 5.1.2.1 Discovering a PGW for a non-3GPP Access -- S2a/S2b initial attach
for roaming and non-roaming
The MAG functionality or TWAN within the trusted non-3GPP IP access or the
e-PDG shall use the S-NAPTR procedure with \"Service Parameters\" of
\"x-3gpp-pgw:x-s2a-pmip\", \"x-3gpp-pgw:x-s2b-pmip\", \"x-3gpp-
pgw:x-s2a-mipv4\",\"x-3gpp-pgw:x-s2b-gtp\",\ \"x-3gpp-pgw:x-s2a-gtp\"
and the APN-FQDN as the Application-Unique String.
\.apn.epc.mnc\.mcc\.3gppnetwork.org
See subclause 19.4.2.2 of 3GPP TS 23.003 [4].
Additional requirements to support DCN are specified in subclause 5.8.
The S-NAPTR procedure logically outputs a list of host names each with a
service, protocol, port and a list of IPv4 and IPv6 addresses. This is a
\"candidate\" list of PGW for that APN (see Annex B for S-NAPTR procedure and
see Annex C.2 for an informative description of a candidate list).
There is no requirement for selection for a collocated PGW/SGW in this
procedure. In the above procedure, the selected PGW node name, port and
selected type (PMIPv6, MIPv4 or GTP) shall be stored in the MAG functionality,
TWAN or the ePDG so it can be accessed on a PDN basis.
The nodes responsible for the PGW selection (i.e. the TWAN or ePDG) shall
apply the additions specified in clause 4A, if GTP-C load control is supported
and enabled.
#### 5.1.2.2 Discovering a PGW for a non-3GPP Access -- S2a/S2b initial attach
and chained PMIP-based S8-S2a/S2b
The MAG functionality within the trusted non-3GPP IP access or the e-PDG shall
use the S-NAPTR procedure with the \"Service Parameters\" of
\"x-3gpp-pgw:x-s2a-pmip\", \"x-3gpp-pgw:x-s2b-pmip\"
and the APN-FQDN as the Application-Unique String.
\.apn.epc.mnc\.mcc\.3gppnetwork.org
See subclause 19.4.2.2 of 3GPP TS 23.003 [4].
The S-NAPTR procedure logically outputs a list of host names each with a
service, protocol, port and a list of IPv4 and IPv6 addresses. This is a
\"candidate\" list of PGW for that APN (see Annex B for S-NAPTR procedure and
see Annex C.2 for an informative description of a candidate list).
The MAG selects a PGW based on the protocol type (GTP v/s PMIPv6) supported
over the S5/ S8 interface based on information received over STa and SWm
interfaces.
The PGW and SGW cannot be collocated in this case since the SGW and PGW are in
different operator networks.
The DNS records in the order returned are then used to contact the PGW node.
The nodes responsible for the PGW selection (i.e. the TWAN or ePDG) shall
apply the additions specified in clause 4A, if GTP-C load control is supported
and enabled.
### 5.1.3 Discovering a PGW for a non-3GPP Access with DSMIPv6
#### 5.1.3.1 Discovering a PGW for a non-3GPP Access -- S2c initial attach
This section covers the case where the IP address of the Home Agent (HA)
functionality of a particular PGW needs to be discovered from the FQDN of the
PGW. This query may be sent from a trusted access gateway or from an ePDG. The
trusted access gateway or ePDG shall use the S-NAPTR procedure with \"Service
Parameters\" of
\"x-3gpp-pgw:x-s2c-dsmip\"
as defined in subclause 19.4.3 of 3GPP TS 23.003 [4], and the Application-
Unique String set to the FQDN of the specific PGW.
The nodes responsible for the PGW selection (i.e. the TWAN or ePDG) shall
apply the additions specified in clause 4A, if GTP-C load control is supported
and enabled.
## 5.2 Procedures for Discovering and Selecting a SGW
### 5.2.1 General
These procedures are employed when an SGW needs to be selected by an EPC core
node and a PGW has already been selected. In particular for the tracking area
update procedure with SGW change.
The SGW is selected based on the target cell where the UE has moved into. The
MME has the new target eNodeB cell ID (eCID)/target eNodeB-ID and TAI
available . The MME shall construct the TAI FQDN as defined in subclause
19.4.2.3 of 3GPP TS 23.003 [4] and the MME shall construct the eNodeB-ID FQDN
as defined in subclause 19.4.2.10 of 3GPP TS 23.003 [4].
The selected SGW shall serve the UE\'s TAI and/or eNodeB-ID. During the
attach/TAU/Handover procedure the MME receives the TAI value and eNodeB-ID
which is derived from the ECGI or received from the source MME/SGSN. The MME
shall contruct the TAI FQDN as defined in subclause 19.4.2.3 of 3GPP TS 23.003
[4] and eNodeB-ID FQDN as defined in subclause 19.4.2.10 of 3GPP TS 23.003
[4].
Operators shall provision, for each TAI/eNodeB-ID value in their network,
NAPTR records under the TAI/eNodeB-ID FQDN corresponding to each valid SGW
interfaces from the following \"Service Parameters\"
\"x-3gpp-sgw:x-s8-gtp\", \"x-3gpp-sgw:x-s8-pmip\", \"x-3gpp-sgw:x-s5-gtp\",
\"x-3gpp-sgw:x-s5-pmip\"
where additional \"Service Parameters\" may be included optionally.
Additional requirements to support DCN are specified in subclause 5.8.
For each RAI/RNC-ID value that is served by a S4-SGSN the same records would
be provisioned under the RAI FQDN (see sub-clause 5.5.2 for the RAI FQDN) or
the RNC-ID FQDN (see sub-clause 19.4.2.7 of 3GPP TS 23.003 [4] for the RNC-ID
FQDN).
The S-NAPTR procedure employed by an MME for finding a candidate set of SGW
nodes shall use the TAI FQDN/eNodeB-ID FQDN as the Application-Unique String.
For the purposes of this document the NAPTR record-set at that location will
be called the TAI/eNodeB-ID NAPTR record-set.
The MME selects the S11 interface of the SGW from the SGW\'s canonical node
record (see subclause 4.3.3) if it is not obtained from the TAI/eNodeB-ID
records.
NOTE: If an operator does not use the \"a\" and \"s\" flags in the TAI/eNodeB-
ID NAPTR records (i.e. they use the \"\" flag) and they are using SGW service
areas it is strongly recommended that the TAI/eNodeB-ID NAPTR records point
directly to NAPTR records representing the SGW service areas. This is to
facilitate possible future use in the SGW Load Re-balancing procedure.
For the case of an S4-SGSN making the SGW selection the RAI FQDN (see sub-
clause 5.5.2) or the RNC-ID FQDN (see sub-clause 19.4.2.7 of 3GPP TS 23.003
[4] for the RNC-ID FQDN ) is used instead of the TAI FQDN or the eNodeB-ID
FQDN to select the SGW but is otherwise the same as the MME handling TAU. The
S4-SGSN selects the S4 interface of the SGW from the SGW\'s canonical node
record (see subclause 4.3.3) if it is not obtained from the RAI/RNC-ID
records.
S-GW selection when SGW that acts as a local anchor for non-3GPP access in the
case of S8-S2a/b chained roaming is outside the scope of this specification.
The nodes responsible for the SGW selection (i.e. the MME or S4-SGSN) shall
apply the additions specified in clause 4A, if GTP-C load control is supported
and enabled.
### 5.2.2 SGW Selection during TAU or RAU with SGW change - 3GPP roaming case
For the roaming case the type of protocol (PMIP vs. GTP) is chosen based on a
roaming agreement according to 3GPP TS 23.401 [11]. The MME shall therefore
use the S-NAPTR procedure with \"Service Parameters\" of
\"x-3gpp-sgw:x-s8-gtp\" or \"x-3gpp-sgw:x-s8-pmip\"
Additional requirements to support DCN are specified in subclause 5.8.(based
on whetherGTP v2 or PMIPv6 is used for the current PDN connection)
as defined in subclause 19.4.3 of 3GPP TS 23.003 [4], and possibly restricted
based ona roaming agreement to use only GTPv2 or PMIPv6 and set the
Application-Unique String to the TAI FQDN as defined in subclause 19.4.2.3 of
3GPP TS 23.003 [4] or the eNodeB-ID FQDN as defined in subclause 19.4.2.10 of
3GPP TS 23.003 [4].
The S-NAPTR procedure logically outputs a list of host names each with a
service, protocol, port and a list of IPv4 and IPv6 addresses. This is a
\"candidate\" list of SGW for that TAI/eNodeB-ID (see Annex B for S-NAPTR
procedure and see Annex C.2 for an informative description of a candidate
list).
If the first choice protocol (PMIP or GTPv2) fails the second choice MAY be
tried subject to the operators\' roaming agreements.
Neither collocation of PGW and SGW nor topological ordering rules apply in
this case.
The present sub-clause to this point implicitly assumes only one PDN
connection is currently employed by a UE which may not be the case with
multiple PDN connections for the same UE. All PDN connections after the TAU
must be on the same SGW since there is only one SGW at a time for a UE.
If an existing PDN for the UE is PMIPv6 S8 and some existing PDN for the UE is
GTPv2 S8 then a SGW supporting both protocols is required. If that occurs and
there are no such SGW then the PDN connections with the least important
retention (from the ARP value) would have to be dropped until a list of viable
SGW of one protocol meeting the retention policies is found. If there are non
viable SGW they are removed from the original SGW candidate list. After this
point the SGW candidate list order is used in the same way as it was in the
case of only one PDN connection.
Once an SGW is successfully contacted the selected SGW host name, selected SGW
IP address, selected port (if non-standard) and selected protocol type (GTPv2
vs. PMIP - which is unchanged here) shall be stored in the MME so it can be
accessed on a PDN basis.
NOTE 1: In this release of 3GPP only standard ports are used.
For the case of an S4-SGSN making the SGW selection the RAI FQDN (see sub-
clause 5.5.2) or the RNC-ID FQDN (see sub-clause 19.4.2.7 of 3GPP TS 23.003
[4] for the RNC-ID FQDN) is used instead of the TAI/eNodeB-ID FQDN to select
the SGW but is otherwise the same as the MME handling TAU. The S4-SGSN selects
the S4 interface of the SGW from the SGW\'s canonical node record (see
subclause 4.3.3) if it is not obtained from the RAI/RNC-ID records.
NOTE 2: A SGW will need to be selected at a handover attach from another
access type. The SGW selection method is the same as presented here since
there are existing PDN connections (typically PMIPv6 for non-3GPP accesses).
### 5.2.3 SGW Selection during TAU or RAU with SGW change - non-roaming case
This differs from the 3GPP roaming case in 5.2.2 primarily in that the PGW and
the SGW are in the same network. Hence, there is a need to be able of
selecting a SGW collocated with the PGW or a topologically close SGW. The
current PGW\'s node name should previously have been stored in the MME or
S4-SGSN when the default bearer was established or transported from the old
MME to the new MME, and is therefore available for comparison.
For the non-roaming case the S-NAPTR procedure shall be initiated with
\"Service Parameters\" of
\"x-3gpp-sgw:x-s5-gtp\" and/or \"x-3gpp-sgw:x-s5-pmip\"
Additional requirements to support DCN are specified in subclause 5.8.(based
on whether GTPv2 or PMIPv6 is used for the current PDN connection)
as defined in subclause 19.4.3 of 3GPP TS 23.003 [4], and set the Application-
Unique String to the TAI FQDN as defined in subclause 19.4.2.3 of 3GPP TS
23.003 [4]. The Application-Unique-String may be set to the eNodeB-ID FQDN as
defined in subclause 19.4.2.10 of 3GPP TS 23.003 [4] as an operator specific
deployment option.
The S-NAPTR procedure logically outputs a list of host names each with a
service, protocol, port and a list of IPv4 and IPv6 addresses. This is a
\"candidate\" list of SGW for that TAI/eNodeB-ID (see Annex B for S-NAPTR
procedure and see Annex C.2 for a more detailed informative description of a
candidate list).
Collocation of PGW and SGW and topological ordering rules both apply in this
case.If the existing PGW hostname for the PDN has \"topoff\" then the
\"candidate\" list of SGW would be used in the order given to try to contact a
SGW after moving the PGW with the same SGW node name to the front of the list
keeping relative order..
If the existing PGW hostname has \"topon\" the two candidate lists shall be
used in the procedure in Annex C.4 with the SGW as \"A\" and the PGW as \"B\".
Annex C.4 results in a list of SGW to try in order.
The present sub-clause to this point implicitly assumes only one PDN
connection is currently employed by a UE which may not be the case with
multiple PDN connections for the same UE.
If an existing PDN for the UE is PMIPv6 S5 and some existing PDN for the UE is
GTPv2 S5 then a SGW supporting both protocols is required. If that occurs and
there are no such SGW then the PDN connections with the least important
retention (from the ARP value) would have to be dropped until a list of viable
SGW of one protocol meeting the retention policies is found. If there are non
viable SGW they are removed from the original SGW candidate list. After this
point the SGW candidate list order is used in the same way as it was in the
case of only one PDN connection.
After this point it is a matter of operator policy or vendor implementation
which PDN or PDNs (and hence their corresponding PGW canonical node names) are
used for selecting the corresponding best SGW interface.
NOTE 1: One possible option would be as follows. First try to maximize the
number of PDN connections that are on PGW colocated on the same viable SGW. If
there are no collocated choices the PGW giving the closest topological match
to any viable SGW are used. If they are all equal then SGW ordering from the
SGW candidate list is used. This approach would be very similar, but not
identical, to passing the list of PGW being used as list \"B\" and the SGW
candidate list with only viable SGW as list \"A\' in the procedure in Annex
C.4
Once an SGW is successfully contacted the selected SGW host name, SGW IP
address used, port (if non-standard) and selected type (GTP vs PMIP) shall be
stored in the MME so it can be accessed on a PDN basis.
NOTE 2: In this release of 3GPP only standard ports are used.
For the case of an S4-SGSN making the SGW selection the RAI FQDN (see sub-
clause 5.5.2) is used or as an operator deployment option the Application-
Unique-String may be set to the RNC-ID FQDN as defined in subclause 19.4.2.7
of 3GPP TS 23.003 [4] instead of the TAI/eNodeB-ID FQDN to select the SGW but
is otherwise the same as the MME handling for TAU. The S4-SGSN selects the S4
interface of the SGW from the SGW\'s canonical node record (see subclause
4.3.3) if it is not obtained from the RAI or RNC-ID records.
NOTE 3: A SGW will need to be selected at a handover attach from another
access type. The SGW selection method is the same as presented here since
there are existing PDN connections (typically PMIPv6 for non-3GPP accesses).
NOTE 4: eNodeB-ID and RNC-ID FQDN are only employed by Release 10 or onwards
MME/SGSNs for SGW selection.
### 5.2.4 SGW Selection during non-3GPP handover to 3GPP access
The SGW selection is similar with other cases. For the non-roaming case, there
is a need of selecting a SGW collocated with the PGW or a topologically close
SGW. The current PGW\'s node name should previously have been stored in the
HSS and would be sent to the MME during the access authentication procedure
and is therefore available for comparison.
The S-NAPTR procedure for SGW Selection is same as section 5.2.2 for roaming
case, and is same as section 5.2.3 for non-roaming case.
## 5.3 Procedures for Discovering and Selecting a PGW and SGW
This scenario applies to the UE initial attach and PDP context activation
cases, where the MME or S4-SGSN has not yet assigned a PGW or a SGW to the UE.
During the attach procedures, the MME shall select the SGW and the PGW as
described below. During the UTRAN/GERAN PDP context activation procedure, the
S4-SGSN shall select the SGW and the PGW as described below.
NOTE 1: The procedure specified in this clause is not applied for the LGW
selection for LIPA service or for SIPTO at the local network with LGW
collocated with (H)(e)NB. The MME/S4 SGSN uses the LGW address proposed by the
(H)(e)NB in the S1-AP/RANAP message as specified in 3GPP TS 36.413 [19] and
3GPP TS 25.413 [12] to select the appropriate LGW for LIPA service or for
SIPTO at the local network with LGW collocated with (H)(e)NB.
For SIPTO at the local network with stand-alone GW, the SGW shall be selected
based on the \ provided by the (H)(e)NodeB during the attach or
SIPTO at local network PDN connection creation. The MME shall construct the
Local Home Network-ID FQDN defined in subclause 19.4.2.11 of 3GPP TS 23.003
[4].
The selected SGW shall serve the UE\'s TAI/eNodeB-ID. During the attach
procedure the MME receives the TAI value and eNodeB-ID which is derived from
the ECGI. The S-NAPTR procedure to obtain a list of \"candidate\" SGW shall be
used with \"Service Parameters\" of
\"x-3gpp-sgw:x-s5-gtp\", \"x-3gpp-sgw:x-s5-pmip\"
Additional requirements to support DCN are specified in subclause 5.8.as
defined in subclause 19.4.3 of 3GPP TS 23.003 [4], and set the Application-
Unique String set to the TAI FQDN as defined in subclause 19.4.2.3 of 3GPP TS
23.003 [4] or as an operator specific deployment option the Application-
Unique-String may be set to the eNodeB-ID FQDN as defined in subclause
19.4.2.10 of 3GPP TS 23.003 [4]. For SIPTO at the Local Network with stand-
alone GW the Local Home Network ID as defined in subclause 19.4.2.11 of 3GPP
TS 23.003 [4] shall be used to select the SGW.
The S-NAPTR procedure logically outputs a list of host names each coupled with
a service, a protocol, a port, and a list of IPv4 and IPv6 addresses. This is
the \"candidate\" list of SGWs for a specific TAI/eNodeB-ID (see Annex B for
S-NAPTR procedure and see Annex C.2 for an informativedescription of the
candidate list).
The list of \"candidate\" PGW is obtained as follows:
The S-NAPTR procedure to get the list of \"candidate\" PGW shall use \"Service
Parameters\" of
\"x-3gpp-pgw:x-s5-gtp\", \"x-3gpp-pgw:x-s5-pmip\", \"x-3gpp-pgw:x-gn\"
Additional requirements to support DCN are specified in subclause 5.8.
as defined in subclause 19.4.3 of 3GPP TS 23.003 [4], and the Application-
Unique String set to the APN FQDN as defined in subclause 19.4.2.2 of 3GPP TS
23.003 [4].
The S-NAPTR procedure logically outputs a list of host names each coupled with
a service, a protocol, a port, and a list of IPv4 and IPv6 addresses. This is
the \"candidate\" list of PGWs for a specific APN (see Annex C.2 for a
detailed description of a candidate list).
The two candidate lists shall be used in the procedure described in Annex C.4
with the SGW as an \"A\" node type and the PGW as a \"B\" node type in the
procedure.
The procedure described in Annex C.4 results in a selection of a SGW and a PGW
along with the protocol, the IP address and the port. In the case of a failure
to contact the SGW or the PGW, the required gateway reselection procedures are
described in Annex C.4.
The MME selects the S11 interface of the SGW from the SGW\'s canonical node
record (see subclause 4.3.3) if it is not obtained from the TAI records.
NOTE 2: The MME (S4-SGSN) send a GTPv2 Create Session Request to the SGW
respectively over S11 or S4 with the IPv4/IPv6 address of the PGW. After the
SGW has been successfully contacted over S11 or S4, the SGW can try to contact
the PGW over S5/S8.
Once the SGW has successfully been contacted, the selected SGW host name, the
used SGW IP address, the port number and the selected protocol type shall be
stored in the MME or S4-SGSN per PDN.
Once the PGW has successfully been contacted, the selected PGW host name, the
used PGW IP address, the port number and the selected protocol type shall be
stored in the MME or S4-SGSN per PDN.
For the case of an S4-SGSN making the selection the RAI FQDN is used, or as an
operator deployment option the Application-Unique-String may be set to the
RNC-ID FQDN as defined in subclause 19.4.2.7 of 3GPP TS 23.003 [4] instead of
the TAI FQDN/eNodeB-ID FQDN to select the SGW but is otherwise the same as an
MME doing the selection. The S4-SGSN selects the S4 interface of the SGW from
the SGW\'s canonical node record (see subclause 4.3.3) if it is not obtained
from the RAI or RNC-ID records.
The nodes responsible for the SGW and PGW selection (i.e. the MME or S4-SGSN)
shall apply the additions specified in clause 4A, if GTP-C load control is
supported and enabled.
## 5.4 Procedures for Discovering and Selecting an MME
These procedures can be used as part of:
\- the \'Inter eNodeB handover with MME relocation\' procedure to select an
MME,
\- part of the RAN Information Management (RIM) procedure to select an MME,
\- part of UTRAN/GERAN to E-UTRAN SRVCC procedure to select an MME as
specified in 3GPP TS 23.216 [20] or
\- IMSI and APN Information retrieval procedure for RAN User Plane Congestion
mitigation to select an MME as specified in sub-clause 5.9.3 of 3GPP TS
23.401[11].
\- NAS Message Redirection procedure to retrieve the MMEGI identifying the DCN
serving a particular UE usage type as specified in 3GPP TS 23.401[11].
In the \'Inter eNodeB handover with MME relocation\' procedure, the \'UTRAN Iu
mode to E-UTRAN Inter RAT handover\' procedure, the \'GERAN A/Gb mode to
E-UTRAN Inter RAT handover\' procedure, the \'UTRAN/GERAN to E-UTRAN SRVCC\'
procedure, the MME is selected based on the target cell where the UE has just
moved into. The MME has the new target eNodeB cell ID (eCID) and TAI
available. The TAI includes the TAC, the MNC and the MCC.
In the \'IMSI and APN Information retrieval\' procedure, the MME is selected
based on the TAI of the cell or eNodeB that is congested in the user plane.
The RCAF has the congested eNodeB cell ID (eCID) and TAI available. The TAI
includes the TAC, the MNC and the MCC.
The S-NAPTR procedure for finding a candidate set of MME nodes for a target
TAI is always started at the TAI FQDN as defined in subclause 19.4.2.3 of 3GPP
TS 23.003 [4]. The S-NAPTR procedure performed at the source MME/S4-SGSN for
finding a candidate set of target MME nodes is started with at least the
\"Service Parameters\" of
\"x-3gpp-mme:x-s10\"
as defined in subclause 19.4.3 of 3GPP TS 23.003 [4].
Additional requirements to support DCN are specified in subclause 5.8.
The S-NAPTR procedure logically outputs a list of host names each with a
service, protocol, port and a list of IPv4 and IPv6 addresses. This is a
\"candidate\" list of MME for that TAI (see Annex C.2 for a more detailed
description of a candidate list).
Topological closeness shall not be used for the MME selection so the MME
candidate list would be used in the order given to try to contact a MME.
NOTE 1: The source MME/S4-SGSN may wish to preferentially select a target MME
that is co-located with a SGSN function based on an operator policy. The
S-NAPTR procedure using the canonical node name (sub-clause 4.3.3) may be used
to find any co-located SGSN interfaces in the candidate list. Optionally an
operator may provision NAPTR records with \"x-3gpp-sgsn:x-gn\" and/or
\"x-3gpp-sgsn:x-s4\" at the TAI FQDN to allow an MME to directly get a
candidate list for the co-located SGSN and hence for the source MME to match
node names from the hostnames in the two candidate lists.
NOTE 2: If an operator does not use the \"a\" and \"s\" flags in the TAI NAPTR
records (i.e. they use the \"\" flag) it is strongly recommended that the TAI
NAPTR records point directly to NAPTR records at
mmegi\.mme.epc.mnc\. mcc\.3gppnetwork.org (i.e. an MME pool )
For an S4-SGSN making the selection the \"Service Parameter\" of \"x-3gpp-
mme:x-s3\" shall be employed instead of \"x‑3gpp-mme:x-s10\".
Additional requirements to support DCN are specified in subclause 5.8.
For an MSC making the selection the \"Service Parameter\" of \"x-3gpp-
mme:x-sv\" shall be employed instead of \"x‑3gpp-mme:x-s10\".
For an RCAF making the selection of an MME the \"Service Parameter\" of
\"x-3gpp-mme:x-nq\" shall be employed.
An SGSN supporting only Gn/Gp may also optionally use this procedure with
\"Service Parameter\" of \"x-3gpp-mme:x-gn\" in the \'3G Gn/Gp SGSN to MME
Combined Hard Handover and SRNS Relocation\' procedure as specified in Annex
D.3.4 of 3GPP TS 23.401 [11] .
Additional requirements to support DCN are specified in subclause 5.8.
NOTE 3: The SGSN supporting only Gn/Gp need map the eNodeB id to the RNC id to
avoid updating the Target ID IE in the GTPv1 Forward Relocation Request
message.
For the case when a UE is moving from a pre-Release-8 UTRAN/GERAN to an MME
the pre‑Release‑8 source node will not be able to use the .3ggpnetwork.org
based records. As a result the MME being selected looks like a pre-Release‑8
SGSN to a pre-Release-8 node performing a selection. For pre-Release 8
compatibility, operators would continue to provision A/AAAA records as per
Annex C.1 of 3GPP TS 23.003 [4] for the corresponding MME Gn/Gp interfaces
under the RNC-ID corresponding to the mapped targed ID value (see subclause
D.3.4 of 3GPP TS 23.401 [11] and subclause 5.5.3 of the present document).
In the RAN Information Management (RIM) procedure, the MME is selected based
on the Target eNodeB Identifier specifed by source RAN node.
## 5.5 Procedures for Discovering and Selecting an SGSN
### 5.5.1 General
These procedures are employed:
\- when a target SGSN that serves the target cell or RNC needs to be initially
selected by an EPC core node or Release-8 SGSN or an MSC. It explicitly does
not cover selection of an SGSN by a RNC or BSS;
\- as part of the UTRAN/GERAN to UTRAN (HSPA) SRVCC procedure to select an
SGSN as specified in 3GPP TS 23.216 [20]; or
\- for APN Information retrieval procedure for RAN User Plane Congestion
mitigation to select an SGSN as specified in sub-clause 6.17 of 3GPP TS
23.060[18].
\- NAS Message Redirection procedure to retrieve Null-NRI or the SGSN Group ID
identifying the DCN serving a particular UE usage type as specified in 3GPP TS
23.401[11].
Subclause 4.3.3.5 \"Services of an SGSN from a P-TMSI\" specifies how a target
MME/S4-SGSN discovers the IP address of the source SGSN during Idle Mode
Mobility from GERAN /UTRAN.
EPC core nodes, i.e. the MME and the S4-SGSN employ the procedures below
during the SRNS relocation procedure and the RAN Information Management (RIM)
procedure. A Release‑8 SGSN supporting only Gn/Gp may also optionally use this
procedure. An MSC supporting UTRAN/GERAN to UTRAN (HSPA) SRVCC procedure to
select an SGSN may also use this procedure as specified in 3GPP TS 23.216
[20].
The SGSN is selected based on information in the Target ID (see 3GPP TS 23.003
[4] and 3GPP TS 25.413 [12]). For PS GERAN the Target ID has the global cell
ID including PLMN and for U-TRAN the Target ID has RAC, RNC-ID and PLMN.
For the Fallback to GTPv1 scenario as specified in 3GPP TS 29.274 [23] clause
7.10, the new SGSN/MME shall send the related GTPv1 request message with the
peer SGSN IP address on the Gn/Gp interface after receiving the GTPv2 response
message with Cause \"Fallback to GTPv1\". The new MME/SGSN shall make another
DNS query to obtain the peer SGSN IP address on the Gn/Gp interface if that
address is not available. The A/AAAA query shall be used to obtain the peer
SGSN IP address on the Gn/Gp interface.
### 5.5.2 SGSN initial target selection based on RAI (UTRAN target/GERAN Iu
mode target/GERAN Gb mode target)
In both U-TRAN and GERAN cases the target RAC, LAC, MNC, and MCC are available
from the information in the Target ID. This selection is done by an MME or
Release-8 SGSN during SRNS relocation procedures and the RAN Information
Management (RIM) procedures.
The S-NAPTR procedure for an MME/SGSN finding a candidate set of SGSN services
and interfaces serving the target Routing Area is started with \"Service
Parameters\" of
\"x-3gpp-sgsn:x-gn\", \"x-3gpp-sgsn:x-gp\", \"x-3gpp-sgsn:x-s3\",\"x-3gpp-
sgsn:x-nqprime\"
Additional requirements to support DCN are specified in subclause 5.8.
as defined in 3GPP TS 23.003 [4] and setting the Application-Unique String to
the RAI FQDN based on RAC, LAC, MNC, MCC as defined in 3GPP TS 23.003 [4] sub-
clause 19.4.2.5:
rac\.lac\.rac.epc.mnc\. mcc\.3gppnetwork.org
The S-NAPTR procedure logically outputs a list of host names each with a
service, protocol, port and a list of IPv4 and IPv6 addresses. This is a
\"candidate\" list of SGSN for that RAI (see Annex B for S-NAPTR procedure and
see Annex C.2 for a more informative description of a candidate list).
NOTE 1: In the SRNS relocation procedure, for an MME making the selection
there is an existing PDN connection (and hence an existing SGW) so the S3
interfaces would logically be preferred over the Gn/Gp interfaces to keep the
existing PDN connection. However, if there is a colocated PGW/GGSN being
employed with the 3GPP TS 23.401 [11] Annex D procedures then the Gn/Gp
interfaces on the target SGSN can also be valid. Operators should prioritize
the DNS records according to their preference.
For an S4-SGSN making the selection the \"Service Parameter\" of \"x-3gpp-
sgsn:x-s16\" shall be employed instead of \"x-3gpp-sgsn:x-s3\".
Additional requirements to support DCN are specified in subclause 5.8.
For an MSC making the selection the \"Service Parameter\" of \"x-3gpp-
sgsn:x-sv\" shall be employed instead of \"x‑3gpp-sgsn:x-s3\".
For an RCAF making the selection of an SGSN the \"Service Parameter\" of
\"x-3gpp-sgsn:x-nqprime\" shall be employed.
A Release 8 SGSN supporting only Gn/Gp may also optionally use this procedure
with \"Service Parameters\" of \"x‑3gpp-sgsn:x-gn\" and \"x-3gpp-sgsn:x-gp\".
Additional requirements to support DCN are specified in subclause 5.8.
Operators shall provision, for each RAI value in their network, NAPTR records
under the RAI FQDN corresponding to each valid SGSN interfaces from at least
the following \"Service Parameters\"
\"x-3gpp-sgsn:x-gn\", \"x-3gpp-sgsn:x-gp\", \"x-3gpp-sgsn:x-s3\",\"x-3gpp-
sgsn:x-s16\", \"x-3gpp-sgsn:x-nqprime\"
Additional requirements to support DCN are specified in subclause 5.8.
where NAPTR records for additional \"Service Parameters\" may be included
optionally.
NOTE 2: The NAPTR record at the RAI FQDN can be provisioned to correspond to
only the default SGSN node(s) in the SGSN pool(s) serving that RAI. The
default SGSN after the DNS procedure exits would be contacted with GTP, the
default SGSN then selects the actual SGSN within that SGSN pool. This results
in all relocation requests being handled by the default SGSN nodes. If the
operator\'s goal is to avoid load on the default SGSN nodes then the records
provisioned at the RAI FQDN should instead include the entire set of SGSN in
all SGSN pools that service that RAI. The S-NAPTR procedure would then return
each SGSN in the SGSN pool based on the provisioned DNS weights and priority.
NOTE 3: The NAPTR record at the RAI FQDN for the service parameter of
\"x-3gpp-sgsn:x-nqprime\" is provisioned with the entire set of SGSN in all
SGSN pools that are serving that RAI.
NOTE 4: The SGSN(s) closest to the geographical region covered by the RAI can
be biased by provisioning the DNS records with higher priority or weights.
3GPP does not require that collocation and \"topon\" naming is applicable in
SGSN selection.
NOTE 5: Service parameters are limited to those supported by the node doing
the search.
NOTE 6: SGW records will also be provisioned under the RAI FQDN see subclause
5.2
In the SRNS relocation procedure, for the case when a UE is moving from a pre-
Release-8 UTRAN/GERAN to a Release-8 target SGSN the pre‑Release‑8 source node
will not be able to use the .3ggpnetwork.org based records. As a result the
Release 8 SGSN (or MME) being selected looks like a pre-Release 8 SGSN to a
pre-Release-8 node performing a selection. For pre-Release 8 compatibility
operators would continue to provision A/AAAA records as per Annex C.1 of 3GPP
TS 23.003 [4] for the corresponding Gn/Gp interfaces regardless of whether the
SGSN is pre-Release-8 or not. Vendors shall support pre-Release 8 DNS
procedures on Release 8 SGSN.
In the RAN Information Management (RIM) procedure, the SGSN is selected based
on the RAI specifed by source RAN node.
### 5.5.3 SGSN initial target selection based on RNC-ID (UTRAN target/GERAN Iu
mode target)
NOTE 1: In the SRNS relocation procedure, the finer granularity this procedure
allows only applies to UTRAN/GERAN Iu mode and only when different RNC-IDs
have the same RAI values.
This procedure is used for a UTRAN/GERAN Iu mode target in the SRNS relocation
procedure and the RAN Information Management (RIM) procedure.
In UTRAN/GERAN Iu mode case the target RNC-ID, MNC, and MCC are available from
the information in the Target ID.
The S-NAPTR procedure for an MME/S4- SGSN finding a candidate set of SGSN
services and interfaces serving the target RNC is started with \"Service
Parameters\" of
\"x-3gpp-sgsn:x-gn\", \"x-3gpp-sgsn:x-gp\", \"x-3gpp-sgsn:x-s3\"
Additional requirements to support DCN are specified in subclause 5.8.
as defined in 3GPP TS 23.003 [4] and setting the Application-Unique String to
the RNC-ID FQDN based on RNC‑ID,MNC,MCC as defined in 3GPP TS 23.003 [4] sub-
clause 19.4.2. 5.
The S-NAPTR procedure logically outputs a list of host names each with a
service, protocol, port and a list of IPv4 and IPv6 addresses. This is a
\"candidate\" list of SGSN for that RNC-ID (see Annex B for S-NAPTR procedure
and see Annex C.2 for a more informative description of a candidate list).
NOTE 2: In the SRNS relocation procedure, for an MME making the selection
there is an existing PDN connection (and hence an existing SGW) so the S3
interfaces would logically be preferred over the Gn/Gp interfaces to keep the
existing PDN connection. However, if there is a colocated PGW/GGSN being
employed with the 3GPP TS 23.401 [11] Annex D procedures then the Gn/Gp
interfaces on the target SGSN can also be valid. Operators should prioritize
the DNS records accordingly.
For an S4-SGSN making the selection the \"Service Parameter\" of \"x-3gpp-
sgsn:x-s16\" shall be employed instead of \"x‑3gpp-sgsn:x-s3\".
Additional requirements to support DCN are specified in subclause 5.8.
For an MSC making the selection the \"Service Parameter\" of \"x-3gpp-
sgsn:x-sv\" shall be employed instead of \"x‑3gpp-sgsn:x-s3\".
A Release 8 SGSN supporting only Gn/Gp may also optionally use this procedure
with \"Service Parameters\" of \"x‑3gpp-sgsn:x-gn\" and \"x-3gpp-sgsn:x-gp\".
Additional requirements to support DCN are specified in subclause 5.8. If
there are no NAPTR records at that RNC-ID then the RAI based lookup in
subclause 5.5.2 shall be used as a fallback.
Operators using this feature shall provision, for each RNC-ID value in their
network, NAPTR records under the RNC-ID FQDN corresponding to each valid SGSN
interfaces from the following \"Service Parameters\"
\"x-3gpp-sgsn:x-gn\", \"x-3gpp-sgsn:x-gp\", \"x-3gpp-sgsn:x-s3\", \"x-3gpp-
sgsn:x-s16\",
Additional requirements to support DCN are specified in subclause 5.8.
where NAPTR records for additional \"Service Parameters\" may be included
optionally.
Operators not using this feature shall not provision the RNC-ID records.
NOTE 3: The NAPTR record at the RNC-ID FQDN can be provisioned to correspond
to only the default SGSN node(s) in the SGSN pool(s) serving that RNC. The
default SGSN after the DNS procedure exits would be contacted with GTP, the
default SGSN then selects the actual SGSN within that SGSN pool. This results
in all relocation requests being handled by the default SGSN nodes. If the
operator\'s goal is to avoid load on the default SGSN nodes then the records
provisioned at the RNC-ID FQDN should instead include the entire set of SGSN
in all SGSN pools that service that RNC. The S-NAPTR procedure would then
return each SGSN in the SGSN pool based on the provisioned DNS weights and
priority.
NOTE 4: The SGSN(s) closest to the geographical region serving the RNC can be
biased by provisioning the DNS records with higher priority or weights.
3GPP does not require that collocation and \"topon\" naming is applicable in
SGSN selection.
NOTE 5: Service parameters are limited to those supported by the node doing
the search.
In the SRNS relocation procedure, for the case when a UE is moving from a pre-
Release-8 UTRAN/GERAN to a Release-8 target SGSN the pre‑Release‑8 source node
will not be able to use the .3ggpnetwork.org based records. As a result the
target Release‑8 SGSN (or MME) looks like a pre‑Release‑8 SGSN to a pre-
Release‑8 source node. For pre-Release 8 compatibility operators would
continue to provision A/AAAA records as per Annex C.3 of 3GPP TS 23.003 [4]
for the corresponding Gn/Gp interfaces regardless of whether the target SGSN
is pre‑Release‑8 or not. Vendors shall support pre-Release 8 DNS procedures on
Release 8 SGSN.
In the RAN Information Management (RIM) procedure, the SGSN is selected based
on the RNC-ID specifed by source RAN node.
### 5.5.4 Void
## 5.6 GW Selection for SIPTO
### 5.6.1 SIPTO above RAN
DNS procedures defined in the clause 5 in this specification also apply for
the GW selection for SIPTO service.
The S-NAPTR based selection of the SGW (based on TAI, eNodeB-ID, RAI, or RNC-
ID) gives the shortest user plane path from the UE to the SGW from the S-NAPTR
ordering. Topological naming should be employed (as specified in subclause
4.3.2) to find the shortest user plane path from the SGW to the PGW based on
the topological closeness. With this approach, the MME or SGSN can select an
SGW and PGW to achieve the shortest user plane path to the UE for a SIPTO
enabled APN.
The S-NAPTR based selection of the GGSN gives the shortest user plane path
from the UE to the GGSN from the S-NAPTR ordering. When the network supports
Direct Tunnel, separate S-NAPTR procedures should be used, with APN FQDN and
then with RAI FQDN or RNC-ID FQDN, to retrieve a list of candidates
respectively, the common one from the S-NAPTR ordering should be selected.
### 5.6.2 SIPTO at the local network with LGW collocated with the (H)(e)NB
The LGW shall reside in the local network and be collocated with the (H)(e)NB.
The MME/SGSN shall use the LGW address proposed by the (H)(e)NB in the
S1-AP/RANAP message, instead of selecting the PGW via DNS interrogation as
specified in clause 5.
The SGW shall remain in the mobile operator\'s core network, i.e. collocation
of the SGW and LGW is not applicable.
DNS procedures defined in the clause 5 in this specification apply for the SGW
selection (i.e. based on TAI, eNodeB-ID, RAI, or RNC-ID).
Editor\'s Note: procedures for Gn SGSN are FFS.
### 5.6.3 SIPTO at the local network with stand-alone GW (LGW collocated with
SGW)
The stand-alone GW shall reside in the local network and be collocated with
the SGW.
DNS procedures defined in the clause 5 in this specification also apply for
the GW selection for SIPTO service with the following additions.
The MME/SGSN shall use the Local (H)(e)NB Network ID provided by the (H)(e)NB
in the S1-AP/RANAP message to discover the SGW via the DNS. The S-NAPTR based
selection of the SGW (based on the Local (H)(e)NB Network ID) gives the
shortest user plane path from the UE to the SGW from the S-NAPTR ordering.
Topological naming should be employed (as specified in subclause 4.3.2) to
find collocated SGW and LGW.
NOTE: Based on operator policy, the MME/SGSN can select a local SGW (based on
the Local (H)(e)NB Network ID) at UE attachment to the (H)eNB regardless of
whether a SIPTO at the local network PDN connection is established or not (see
TS 23.401 subclause 4.3.15.2).
### 5.6.4 SIPTO for eHRPD
For the support of the SIPTO service for eHRPD access, topological naming
should be employed (as specified in subclause 4.3.2) to find the shortest user
plane path from the HSGW to the PGW based on the topological closeness. With
this approach, the HSGW can select a PGW to achieve the shortest userplane to
the UE for a SIPTO enabled APN. Details related to SIPTO support for eHRPD
access are specified in 3GPP2 X.S0057 [24] and 3GPP TS 23.402 [25].
## 5.7 Procedures for Discovering and Selecting an MSC Server
### 5.7.1 General
These procedures are employed when a target MSC Server that serves the target
cell or RNC needs to be initially selected by an EPC core node or Release-8
SGSN for the SRVCC operation. It explicitly does not cover selection of an MSC
Server by a RAN node nor the selection of an MSC server at an SRNS relocation.
EPC core nodes, i.e. the MME and the S4-SGSN employ the procedures below
during the PS-to-CS relocation procedure for the SRVCC operation. A Release‑8
SGSN supporting only Gn/Gp may also optionally use this procedure.
The MSC server enhanced for SRVCC is selected based on information received in
the Target ID from the source E-UTRAN or UTRAN (see 3GPP TS 23.003 [4], 3GPP
TS 25.413 [12] and 3GPP TS 36.413 [21]).
### 5.7.2 Selection of the MSC server enhanced for SRVCC based on target RAI
(UTRAN / GERAN Iu & A/Gb mode target)
In SRVCC operations towards UTRAN and GERAN, the target MCC, MNC, LAC and
optionally the RAC are available from the information in the Target ID.
The S-NAPTR procedure for an MME/SGSN finding the MSC Sv service and
interfaces serving the target Routing Area is started with \"Service
Parameters\" of
\"x-3gpp-msc:x-sv\"
as defined in 3GPP TS 23.003 [4] and setting the Application-Unique String to
the RAI FQDN based on RAC, LAC, MNC, MCC as defined in 3GPP TS 23.003 [4] sub-
clause 19.4.2.5:
rac\.lac\.rac.epc.mnc\. mcc\.3gppnetwork.org
The MME/SGSN shall set the RAC to a default value, e.g. hexadecimal value
\'FF\', if it is not available from the information in the Target ID.
A Release 8 SGSN supporting only Gn/Gp may also optionally use this procedure
with \"Service Parameters\" of \"x‑3gpp-msc:x-sv\".
Operators shall provision, for each RAI value in their network, NAPTR records
under the RAI FQDN corresponding to each valid MSC interfaces from at least
the following \"Service Parameters\"
\"x-3gpp-msc:x-sv\",
where NAPTR records for additional \"Service Parameters\" may be included
optionally.
NOTE 1: The NAPTR record at the RAI FQDN can be provisioned to correspond to
only the default MSC server node(s) in the MSC pool(s) serving that RAI. The
default MSC Server would be contacted with GTP, the default MSC server then
selects the actual MSC Server within that MSC Server pool. This results in all
SRVCC PS to CS service requests being handled by the default MSC Server nodes.
If the operator\'s goal is to avoid load on the default MSC Server nodes then
the records provisioned at the RAI FQDN should instead include the entire set
of MSC Servers in all MSC Server pools that service that RAI. The S-NAPTR
procedure would then return each MSC Server in the MSC Server pool based on
the provisioned DNS weights and priority.
NOTE 2: The MSC Server closest to the geographical region covered by the RAI
can be biased by provisioning the DNS records with higher priority or weights.
3GPP does not require that collocation and \"topon\" naming is applicable in
MSC Server selection.
NOTE 3: Service parameters are limited to those supported by the node doing
the search.
NOTE 4: SGW records will also be provisioned under the RAI FQDN see subclause
5.2
## 5.8 Procedures to support Dedicated Core Networks
### 5.8.1 General
These procedures shall be employed in PLMNs deploying DCNs for:
\- discovering and selecting an SGW, PGW or GGSN in a DCN serving a particular
UE usage type;
\- retrieving the MMEGI or Null-NRI/SGSN Group ID to identify the DCN serving
a particular UE usage type and to determine whether to perform a NAS Message
Redirection procedure (see subclause 5.19.1 of 3GPP TS 23.401 [11]);
\- discovering and selecting a target MME or SGSN serving a particular UE
usage type during a handover procedure with a MME or SGSN change.
DNS procedures to support DCNs shall be supported as specified in the rest of
the specification, with the additions specified in the following subclauses.
The UE usage type used during DNS procedure shall be the one mapped from the
UE Usage Type received from the HSS as part of the subscription, based on the
serving network operator configured policies and the UE related context
information available at the serving network, e.g. information about roaming.
### 5.8.2 SGW, PGW and GGSN Selection Procedure
The S-NAPTR procedure employed to discover and select an SGW, PGW or GGSN in a
DCN shall use the Application-Unique String set to the FQDN specified in the
rest of this specification, e.g. with the APN-FQDN for PGW selection or with
the TAI/eNodeB-ID/RAI/RNC-ID FQDN for SGW selection, and use the enhanced
\"Service Parameters\" as specified in subclause 19.4.3 of 3GPP TS 23.003 [4],
i.e. appending the character string \"+ue-\\" to the \'app-
protocol\" name identifying the UE usage type for which the discovery and
selection procedure is performed.
For example, the MME or S4-SGSN shall discover all GTP based S8 interfaces
using \"Service Parameters\" of
\"x-3gpp-pgw:x-s8-gtp+ue-\\"
Operators shall provision corresponding NAPTR records for these FQDNs, with
enhanced \"Service Parameters\" appending the character string \"+ue-\\" to the \'app-protocol\" name identifying the UE usage type(s)
for which the record applies.
The S-NAPTR procedure shall logically output a candidate list of SGWs, PGWs or
GGSNs serving at least the requested UE usage type, according to the general
principles specified in subclause 4.3.3.2.1 and Annex B.3. If no candidate
SGW, PGW or GGSN is found for the requested UE usage type, possibly also after
using local configuration, the procedure shall be performed with Service
Parameters without the \"+ue-\\" appended to the \'app-
protocol\' name.
NOTE 1: This is required to discover and select an SGW, PGW or GGSN when no
dedicated SGW, PGW or GGSN is configured for a particular UE usage type and
FQDN.
As an exception to the above requirement if no candidate SGW, PGW or GGSN is
found for the requested UE usage type for the selection of an SGW, PGW or GGSN
in the same PLMN, the MME/SGSN, TWAN or ePDG may decide not to perform an
S-NAPTR procedure with Service Parameters without the \"+ue-\\"
appended to the \'app-protocol\' name if so configured by operator policies
and abort the selection procedure.
NOTE 2: This can avoid selecting an SGW, PGW or GGSN not intended to support
specific UE usage type.
Annex A.4 provides examples of DNS provisioning for SGW and PGW discovery and
selection procedures in a DCN, and examples of procedures for discovery and
selection of SGW/PGW.
### 5.8.3 MMEGI and Null-NRI/SGSN Group ID Retrieval Procedure
To retrieve the MMEGI identifying the DCN serving a particular UE usage type,
the S-NAPTR procedure shall use the Application-Unique String set to the TAI
FQDN as defined in subclause 19.4.2.3 of 3GPP TS 23.003 [4] and use the
enhanced service parameters as specified in subclause 19.4.3 of 3GPP TS 23.003
[4], i.e. appending the character string \"+ue-\\" to the
\'app-protocol\" name identifying the UE usage type for which the discovery
and selection procedure is performed. The MME shall discover the MMEGI for a
particular UE usage type by using the \"Service Parameters\" of
\"x-3gpp-mme:x-s10+ue-\\"
To retrieve the Null-NRI/SGSN Group ID identifying the DCN serving a
particular UE usage type, the S-NAPTR procedure shall use the Application-
Unique String set to the RAI FQDN as defined in subclause 19.4.2.5 of 3GPP TS
23.003 [4] and use the enhanced service parameters as specified in subclause
19.4.3 of 3GPP TS 23.003 [4], i.e. appending the character string \"+ue-\\" to the \'app-protocol\" name identifying the UE usage type for
which the discovery and selection procedure is performed. Gn/Gp SGSN shall
discover the Null-NRI/SGSN Group ID for a particular UE usage type by using
\"Service Parameters\" of
\"x-3gpp-sgsn:x-gn+ue-\\"
S4-SGSN shall discover the Null-NRI/SGSN Group ID for a particular UE usage
type by using \"Service Parameters\" of
\"x-3gpp-sgsn:x-s16+ue-\\"
Operators shall provision corresponding NAPTR records for these FQDNs, with
enhanced \"Service Parameters\" appending the character string \"+ue-\\" to the \'app-protocol\" name identifying the UE usage type(s)
for which the record applies. The MMEGI or Null-NRI/SGSN Group ID shall be
provisioned in the host name of these records. The MMEGI or Null-NRI/SGSN
Group ID shall be retrieved from the host name.
The NAPTR records associated to the TAI FQDN shall be provisioned with a host
name in the replacement part, as specified in 4.3.2, having the canonical-
node-name start as:
mmec\.mmegi\
The NAPTR records associated to the RAI FQDN shall be provisioned with a host
name in the replacement part, as specified in 4.3.2, having the canonical-
node-name start as:
nri-sgsn\.null-nri\
The NAPTR records associated to the RAI FQDN shall be provisioned with a host
name in the replacement part, as specified in 4.3.2, having the canonical-
node-name start as:
nri-sgsn\.sgsngi\
\and \shall be Hex coded digits representing the
Null-NRI code of the SGSNs and SGSN Group ID respectively (see 3GPP TS 25.413
[12]). If there are less than 4 significant digits in \ and \, one or more \"0\" digit(s) is/are inserted at the left side to fill
the 4 digit coding respectively. Coding for other fields is the same as
specified in 3GPP TS 23.003 [4].
NOTE 1: Annex A provides examples of the MMEGI and Null-NRI/SGSN Group ID
retrieval procedures.
### 5.8.4 MME and SGSN Selection Procedure
The S-NAPTR procedure employed to discover and select an MME or SGSN serving a
particular UE usage type, during a handover procedure with a MME or SGSN
change, shall use the Application-Unique String set to the FQDN specified in
the rest of this specification, e.g. with the TAI-FQDN for MME selection or
with an RAI or RNC-ID FQDN for SGSN selection, and use the enhanced \"Service
Parameters\" as specified in subclause 19.4.3 of 3GPP TS 23.003 [4], i.e.
appending the character string \"+ue-\\" to the \'app-
protocol\" name identifying the UE usage type for which the discovery and
selection procedure is performed.
For example, the procedure for an MME to find a candidate set of target MMEs
makes use of the \"Service Parameters\" of:
\"x-3gpp-mme:x-s10+ue-\\"
and the procedure for an MME to find a candidate set of target SGSNs makes use
of the \"Service Parameters\" of:
\"x-3gpp-sgsn:x-s3+ue-\\"
Operators shall provision corresponding NAPTR records for these FQDNs, with
enhanced \"Service Parameters\" appending the character string \"+ue-\\" to the \'app-protocol\" name identifying the UE usage type(s)
for which the record applies.
The S-NAPTR procedure shall logically output a candidate list of MMEs and
SGSNs serving at least the requested UE usage type, according to the general
principles specified in subclause 4.3.3.2.1 and Annex B.3. If no candidate MME
or SGSN is found for the requested UE usage type, possibly also after using
local configuration, the procedure shall be performed with Service Parameters
without the \"+ue-\\" appended to the \'app-protocol\' name.
NOTE 1: This is required to discover and select an MME or SGSN when no
dedicated MME or SGSN is configured for a particular UE usage type and FQDN.
As an exception to the above requirement if no candidate MME or SGSN is found
for the requested UE usage type for the selection of an MME or SGSN in the
same PLMN, the MME/SGSN may decide not to perform an S-NAPTR procedure with
Service Parameters without the \"+ue-\\" appended to the \'app-
protocol\' name if so configured by operator policies and abort the selection
procedure.
NOTE 2: This can avoid selecting an MME or SGSN not intended to support
specific UE usage types.
Annex A.4 provides examples of DNS provisioning for MME discovery and
selection procedures in a DCN.
## 5.9 Procedures to support Cellular Internet of Things
### 5.9.1 DCN based solution
When DCN is supported in the network, the node performing the selection
function may use the DNS procedures enhanced for supporting DCNs as specified
in subclause 5.8, to select an EPC entity, e.g. an SGW or PGW, which supports
CIoT by configuring a specific UE Usage Type(s) for CIoT.
### 5.9.2 Alternative solution
The MME shall use the DNS procedures specified in this specification for
selecting a PGW optimised for CIoT without any change. The PGWs configured in
the DNS for an APN which can be used for NB-IoT access or for a Non-IP PDN
connection shall all support NB-IoT or the Non-IP PDN type respectively.
The MME shall select an SGW optimised for CIoT, using the DNS procedures for
selecting an SGW specified in subclauses 5.2 and 5.3, but retaining then one
SGW, from the candidate SGWs list, which is also known to support of CIoT. The
MME knows whether an SGW supports CIoT via the Notification of Supported
features over the S11 interface (for the CIoT feature), as specified in 3GPP
TS 29.274 [23].
The MME shall select a target MME, during a handover procedure for a WB-E-
UTRAN UE supporting some CIoT EPS Optimisations, using the DNS procedures for
selecting an MME during a handover procedure specified in subclause 5.4, but
retaining then one target MME, from the candidate target MME list, which is
also known by local configuration to support at least one CIoT EPS
optimisation. The selected target MME may forward the Forward Relocation
Request to another MME in the target MME pool, as specified in 3GPP TS 29.274
[23].
## 6 Procedures for OAM System Node Discovery
## 6.1 Procedures for Relay Node OAM System Discovery
### 6.1.1 General
These procedures may be employed when a relay node (see 3GPP TS 36.300 [22],
sub-clause 4.7) needs to discover its Operations and Maintainence (OAM)
system. The relay nodes employ the procedures below during the startup
procedure in order to discover the OAM system, from which it obtains its
configuration and updated software.
The OAM system is selected based on the operator identitity and the type
allocation code identifying the relay node vendor, and optionally the tracking
area code (see 3GPP TS 23.003 [4]). This enables vendor-specific OAM systems
for relay nodes.
### 6.1.2 OAM System Selection based on Type Allocation Code
In both UTRAN and E-UTRAN cases the operator identity in terms of MNC and MCC
is available from the information in IMSI (see 3GPP TS 23.003 [4], sub-clause
2.2). The type allocation code (IMEI-TAC) identifying the relay node vendor is
available from IMEI or IMEISV (see 3GPP TS 23.003 [4], sub-clause 6.2).
1) In relay node startup procedure, the relay node may use the vendor-specific
relay node OAM system FQDN as it is defined in 3GPP TS 23.003 [4], clause
23.3.2.2, to discover its OAM system. Operator provisions A/AAAA record under
3GPP vendor-specific relay node OAM system FQDN.
###### ## Annex A (Informative): Examples
## A.1 Introduction
This annex includes examples of the DNS provisioning needed for EPC node
discovery and selection procedures. Examples are not exhaustive either in
scope or in content but are intended to be sufficient to illustrate the
general techniques and some of the more important use cases.
## A.2 Preconditions
The following are general comments applying to all examples provided here.
a) DNS master file format follows IETF RFC 1035 [3] chapter 5. The reader is
reminded that in that format the character \":\" is used for comments, \"\$\"
is used for directives, and enclosing parenthesis ( ) combine lines.
b) Examples are built from smaller files and merged with the \$INCLUDE
directive. This is to allow each file to be documented in a separate subclause
and to allow reuse of files in some of the examples.
c) Only one operator\'s network is used in all examples using MCC=311 (United
States) and MNC=990 (currently an unassigned MNC value). All DNS records
presented here are within the zone cut epc.mnc990.mcc311.3gppnetwork.org.
d) Since the fully qualified domain names here are relatively long to avoid
line wrapping and to save space in the examples we use the standard \$ORIGIN
directive\ \$ORIGIN epc.mnc990.mcc311.3gppnetwork.org.\ Hence any domain names
in the file that are not fully qualified (i.e. does not end with a period)
would have epc.mnc990.mcc311.3gppnetwork.org. appended to them to form the
fully qualified value. In the descriptive text in this Annex we use the same
convention.
e) When a printout is provided, it is from an actual printout of the \"dig\"
command (from the BIND distribution) but with all values of the string
.epc.mnc990.mcc311.3gppnetwork.org. replaced with .\$ORIGIN in order to keep
the output on one line when possible. Note the \"+tcp\" option is used in the
\"dig\" command to avoid truncating large DNS responses in the examples.
f) Files provided here have been tested with a recent version of BIND and are
presented here unmodified. In the examples the BIND server was set as
authoritative only with default settings to make the configuration self
contained. In a real network a recursive server is likely to be used as an
intermediary and/or multiple authoritative servers.
g) The time to live (TTL) in the examples are all set to 1 hour = 3600 seconds
by using the \$TTL directive from IETF RFC 2308 [15].
h) IPv4 addresses in the examples are from the IPv4 example documentation
address space of 192.0.2.0/24 of IETF RFC 3330 [16] and IPv6 addresses are
from the IPv6 documentation address space of IETF RFC 3849 [17] . These are by
no means representative and are used solely for example purposes.
i) Since A/AAAA records are well known we only provide A/AAAA records for the
simpler examples and do not document every A and AAAA lookup in detail.
## A.3 Collocated Simple LTE Example
### A.3.1 Network description
This is a fairly complete example of an operator network with the following
properties.
1) Network only has LTE access with only interworking with LTE access. There
is no support for Gn/Gp and no support for S3/S4.
2) Network does not support PMIPv6 for S5 but does allow very limited roaming
use of S8 PMIPv6. This is a policy that is extremely unlikely to be used by a
real operator and is used only for illustrative purposes.
3) There are two combined PGW/SGW nodes and two standalone MME nodes.
4) Any load balancing between nodes of the same functional type is on a strict
bias. Hence, SRV records are not needed.
5) Operator desires the flattest DNS structure possible due to desire to
minimize the number of DNS queries. The use of NATPR with flag \"\" is
therefore not used by operator policy. This is feasable since the network is
small.
6) Due to 4) and 5) only NAPTR records with flag \"a\" are used by the
operator in this example.
7) One MME pool area.
8) One SGW service area.
9) Operator desires that S1-U link cost is minimized (i.e. SGW closest to
eNodeB is used)
10) Operator does not care about distance or transport costs between SGW and
PGW beyond the collocation for S5. Hence it does not use \"topon\" naming.
11) Small number of APNs
Other than item 2) this set of conditions might fit a green field operator or
government agency deploying LTE for use on laptop computers or high end hand
held devices for internet access. This represents one of the simpler networks
possible while still being non-trivial.
Very large networks would tend to use MME pool areas and SGW service areas and
NAPTR empty flag records. How complex the structure in DNS is employed between
the initial NAPTR entry point and the final A/AAAA record set(s) is solely the
operator\'s choice so long as the S-NAPTR requirements are met.
Additional comments on this example are in each section as needed. Also
commented out DNS records are often included in the sample files to illustrate
how additional interface types would be added.
### A. 3.2 Master file for \"Collocated Simple LTE Example\"
The master file for this example will be CS_EX.txt and has following content.
\$ORIGIN epc.mnc990.mcc311.3gppnetwork.org.
;
\$TTL 3600 ; 1 hour - this directive is defined in IETF RFC 2308 not RFC 1035
;
\$INCLUDE SOA_DB.txt
;
\$INCLUDE CS_MME_DB.txt
;
\$INCLUDE CS_SGW_PGW_NODE_DB.txt
;
\$INCLUDE CS_TAI_DB.txt
;
\$INCLUDE CS_APN_DB.txt
;
; End of file
The included files are detailed in following sections.
### A. 3.3 SOA and NS records
The SOA and NS records need to exist for any DNS zone. Our example will use
the following file with name SOA_DB.txt whose content is:
; SOA and NS glue records
; Note @, ns1, ns2 are relative to \$ORIGIN
;
@ 1D IN SOA @ administrator.example.com. (
2008122401 ; serial
1H ; refresh
15 ; retry
1w ; expire
1h ; minimum - note this parameter
; is used for negative caching
; see RFC 2308 chapter 4
)
IN NS ns1
IN NS ns2
;
; Glue records for the two DNS servers
ns1 IN A 192.0.2.247
ns2 IN A 192.0.2.248
; End of file
### A. 3.4 MME file for \"Collocated Simple LTE Example\"
The MME S10 record lookup by GUTI is probably the simplest example of the
NAPTR records and is the simplest introduction to the S-NAPTR procedure as
well.
A NAPTR record is required to be provisioned at mmec\.mmegi\.mme
(see subclause 4.3.3.4 of this TS). This is used for GUTI based lookup of the
old or source MME. Specifically, the target MME takes the UE\'s old GUTI value
and derives the old MME\'s DNS name. The goal of the target MME is usually to
be able to do a context transfer of the old MME\'s data (or similar action).
MME to MME communication is done over S10. Hence, S10 is critical for the GUTI
record in an LTE only network.
The mmec\.mmegi\.mme is also the natural place for the MME
canonical node record set. For this example we place the MME canonical node
records and the required record for GUTI based lookup at the same location
both for simplicity and better DNS caching.
For this example we have two MMEs with MMEC codes of 1 and 2 respectively and
both in the same MME pool (MMEGI = 8000 hexadecimal).
The file containing the MME records for this example will be CS_MME_DB.txt and
has following NAPTR record content.
;
; This is the GUTI related record and the MME node record
; The operator has decided to use the 3GPP name as the canononical node name
of the MME
; rather than having two records (the 3GPP one and an operator defined value)
;
mmec01.mmegi8001.mme (
; IN NAPTR order pref. flag service regexp replacement
IN NAPTR 100 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-mme:x-s10\" \"\"
topoff.eth1.mmec01.mmegi8001.mme )
IN NAPTR 200 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-mme:x-s11\" \"\"
topoff.eth3.mmec01.mmegi8001.mme
; IN NAPTR 300 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-mme:x-s3\" \"\"
topoff.eth5.mmec01.mmegi8001.mme
; IN NAPTR 400 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-mme:x-gn\" \"\"
topoff.eth6.mmec01.mmegi8001.mme
; IN NAPTR 500 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-mme:x-s1-mme\" \"\"
topoff.eth7.mmec01.mmegi8001.mme
; This particular operator only supports LTE access in their accesses etc.
; So the S3 record is commented out above. If the operator wants the MME to be
used with S3/S4
; SGSN nodes then the record would have to be included.
; The Gn/Gp interface is commented out for same reason. This operator does not
support it.
; If the operator wants the MME to be used for Gn/Gp SGSN interworking
; then the record would have to be included.
;
; Reminder: Canonical node name records must be complete.
; However, \"x-3gpp-mme:x-s1-mme\" is an exception.
; While S1-MME interface must be physically present and used in a MME
; it is explicitly optional for an operator to provision in this release of
3GPP
;. So it too is commented out
; NAPTR order plays no major role in this particular example since the MME
node is already
; selected in GUTI case and as a canonical node name. In most cases the
interface type
;(S10 vs S11 etc) is functionally determined so the NAPTR order is rarely used
in this record set
; If the S3 and Gn records were not commented out the S10 is preferred over S3
over Gn
; I.e. a combined MME/SGSN could communicate to the MME above using any of the
three protocols
; at context transfer.
; So the operator is stating that S10 is preferred over S3 over Gn
;
; Of course if the MME had multiple S10 interfaces
; the operator could provision more than one S10 record with different orders
; perhaps to select S10 IPv6 over S10 IPv4
; We have the same type of records for the other MME (same comments would
apply)
;
mmec02.mmegi8001.mme (
; IN NAPTR order pref. flag service regexp replacement
IN NAPTR 100 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-mme:x-s10\" \"\"
topoff.eth1.mmec02.mmegi8001.mme )
IN NAPTR 200 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-mme:x-s11\" \"\"
topoff.eth3.mmec02.mmegi8001.mme
; IN NAPTR 300 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-mme:x-s3\" \"\"
topoff.eth5.mmec02.mmegi8001.mme
; IN NAPTR 400 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-mme:x-gn\" \"\"
topoff.eth6.mmec02.mmegi8001.mme
; IN NAPTR 500 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-mme:x-s1-mme\" \"\"
topoff.eth7.mmec02.mmegi8001.mme
;
;
; All MME IP addresses for both MME
;
topoff.eth1.mmec01.mmegi8001.mme IN A 192.0.2.11
IN A 192.0.2.12
IN AAAA 2001:db8:0:0:0:0:0:0
IN AAAA 2001:db8:0:1:0:0:0:0
topoff.eth3.mmec01.mmegi8001.mme IN A 192.0.2.13
IN A 192.0.2.14
IN AAAA 2001:db8:0:2:0:0:0:0
IN AAAA 2001:db8:0:3:0:0:0:0
topoff.eth1.mmec02.mmegi8001.mme IN A 192.0.2.17
IN A 192.0.2.18
IN AAAA 2001:db8:0:6:0:0:0:0
IN AAAA 2001:db8:0:7:0:0:0:0
topoff.eth3.mmec02.mmegi8001.mme IN A 192.0.2.19
IN A 192.0.2.110
IN AAAA 2001:db8:0:8:0:0:0:0
IN AAAA 2001:db8:0:9:0:0:0:0
; end of file
The partially qualified MME host names are topoff.eth1.mmec01.mmegi8001.,
topoff.eth3.mmec02.mmegi8001.mme and similar. The (partially qualified)
canonical node names are mmec01.mmegi8001.mme and mmec02.mmegi8001.mme
(obtained by stripping off the first two labels of the host names).
The fully qualified MME node names are the relatively long
mmec01.mmegi8001.mme.epc.mnc990.mcc311.3gppnetwork.org.
and
mmec02.mmegi8001.mme.epc.mnc990.mcc311.3gppnetwork.org.
which are obtained by appending the value of \$ORIGIN to the partially
qualified MME node names. As stated before we will use the partially qualified
names in this Annex to avoid this visual clutter and for typographical
reasons.
Note that hostnames such as topoff.eth1.mmec01.mmegi8001.mme intentionally
give back the node name mmec01.mmegi8001.mme so this record set is both for
GUTI lookup and MME canonical node name lookup (and it is self consistent).
For the purposes of GUTI lookup the S10 record is sufficient for LTE only
access and LTE only interworking. As stated in the comments above, S3 would be
added for S4-SGSN support and the Gn/Gp records for Gn/Gp SGSN support.
For the purposes of being a canonical node record the S10 and S11 MME records
are included (and they are mandatory to provision in the canonical node record
of the MME).
NOTE 1: The rule for canonical node records is to always include all services
that are allowed to be used on a node and are defined in 3GPP TS 23.003 [4]
subclause 19.4.3 for that node. Node records are meant to be complete. We have
an exception here since x-3gpp-mme:x-s1-mme is explicitly optional in this
release of 3GPP.
### A. 3.5 APN file for \"Collocated Simple LTE Example\"
Reminder, the format of the APN FQDN is standardized by 3GPP TS 23.003 [4]
subclause 19.4.2.2 and is of form \.apn.epc.mnc\.mcc\.3gppnetwork.org
Service names are in 3GPP TS 23.003 [4] subclause 19.4.3
There are two APN-NI in this network \"imsTV1\", and \"imsTV2\".
The file containing the APN records for this example will be CS_APN_DB.txt and
has following content.
;
;
imsTV1.apn (
; IN NAPTR order pref. flag service regexp replacement
IN NAPTR 100 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-pgw:x-s5-gtp:x-s8-gtp\" \"\"
topoff.vip1.gw01.nodes )
IN NAPTR 200 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-pgw:x-s5-gtp:x-s8-gtp\" \"\"
topoff.vip1.gw21.nodes
; IN NAPTR 300 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-pgw:x-gn:x-gp\" \"\" topoff.vip3.gw01.nodes
; IN NAPTR 400 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-pgw:x-gn:x-gp\" \"\" topoff.vip3.gw21.nodes
IN NAPTR 500 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-pgw:x-s8-pmip\" \"\" topoff.vip2.gw01.nodes
IN NAPTR 600 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-pgw:x-s8-pmip\" \"\" topoff.vip2.gw21.nodes
;
; Operator has imsTV1.apn using gw01.nodes when possible. Possibly one IMS
core and video server
; are closer to gw01.nodes than gw21.nodes
;
; Operator only allows PMIPv6 for roaming type scenarios and only as a last
choice
; The operator does not support Gn/Gp so those records are commented out
imsTV2.apn (
; IN NAPTR order pref. flag service regexp replacement
IN NAPTR 200 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-pgw:x-s5-gtp:x-s8-gtp\" \"\"
topoff.vip1.gw01.nodes )
IN NAPTR 100 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-pgw:x-s5-gtp:x-s8-gtp\" \"\"
topoff.vip1.gw21.nodes
; IN NAPTR 400 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-pgw:x-gn:x-gp\" \"\" topoff.vip3.gw01.nodes
; IN NAPTR 300 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-pgw:x-gn:x-gp\" \"\" topoff.vip3.gw21.nodes
IN NAPTR 600 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-pgw:x-s8-pmip\" \"\" topoff.vip2.gw01.nodes
IN NAPTR 500 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-pgw:x-s8-pmip\" \"\" topoff.vip2.gw21.nodes
;
; This is almost the same as imsTV1.
; However, NAPTR order values for a particular interface type are reverse in
comparision
; to imsTV1.apn
;
; Operator has imsTV2.apn using gw21.nodes when possible.
; Obviously more APN would exist for a real operator
;
; end of file
If collocation were not a consideration then the APN-NI \"imsTV1\" causes
topoff.vip1.gw01.nodes to be selected and the APN-NI \"imsTV2\" causes
topoff.vip1.gw21.nodes to be selected. This is because in the corresponding
record set the order 100 record is taken before the order 200 record in the
S-NAPTR. In case of failure of a PGW then the other PGW can be used (the
record with order 200). If there is deliberate bias to a specific PGW is
solely the concern of this operator, the S-NAPTR procedure simply honors this.
However, collocation is a consideration (topological checks are not relevant
here since all records use topoff).
The (partially qualified) PGW node names are gw01.nodes and gw21.nodes
(obtained by stripping off the first two labels of the partially qualified
host names topoff.vip1.gw01.nodes, topoff.vip1.gw21.nodes and so on).
### A. 3.6 PGW/SGW node file for \"Collocated Simple LTE Example\"
The file containing the PGW/SGW canonical node name records (and A/AAAA
records for the PGW/SGW nodes) for this example will be CS_SGW_PGW_NODE_DB.txt
and has following content.
; Node records for the combined PGW/SGW
gw01.nodes (
; IN NAPTR order pref. flag service regexp replacement
IN NAPTR 200 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-pgw:x-s5-gtp:x-s8-gtp\" \"\"
topoff.vip1.gw01.nodes )
IN NAPTR 400 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-pgw:x-s8-pmip\" \"\" topoff.vip2.gw01.nodes
; IN NAPTR 500 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-pgw:x-gn:x-gp\" \"\" topoff.vip3.gw01.nodes
; Above record is commented out since this operator does not support Release 8
Gn/Gp functions
; Would have to be included otherwise
;
; Above are PGW records.
; Note this operator does NOT support PMIP for S5
; Following are SGW records
IN NAPTR 100 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-sgw:x-s11\" \"\" topoff.eth1.gw01.nodes
IN NAPTR 300 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-sgw:x-s5-gtp:x-s8-gtp\" \"\"
topoff.eth4.gw01.nodes
IN NAPTR 600 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-sgw:x-s8-pmip\" \"\" topoff.eth9.gw01.nodes
; IN NAPTR 700 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-sgw:x-s4\" \"\" topoff.eth6.gw01.nodes
; IN NAPTR 710 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-sgw:x-s12\" \"\" topoff.eth6.gw01.nodes
; IN NAPTR 800 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-sgw:x-gn:x-gp\" \"\" topoff.eth8.gw01.nodes
; Above records are commented out since this operator does not support any
SGSN variant
; or UTRAN support. The operator is pure LTE in this example
; Above records would be included if the SGWs were able to be used with the
corresponding
; SGSN function (or direct tunnel function)
;
; Reminder: Canonical node records must be complete.
;
; Exception, \"x-3gpp-sgw:x-s1-u\" records could be listed but are purely
optional for an operator to provision
; in this release of 3GPP.
; NAPTR order plays no real role in this particular example (except for S8)
; Reasons for this example are:
; This is the PGW/SGW canonical node record so there is no node selection
based from the record
; The interface type is functionally determined in most use cases using this
record set except S5/S8
; This operator does NOT support PMIP for S5 and there is only one S5-GTP
record.
; So order is not important except for S8.
; For S8 the operator does places PMIP with highest order just to be sure that
GTP based S8 will be
; used first when possible even at re-selection of an S8 interface on the SGW
or PGW as per this
; particular operators policy
; This is of course subject to the roaming agreements this operator has.
; Same record for the other combined PGW/SGW
gw21.nodes (
; IN NAPTR order pref. flag service regexp replacement
IN NAPTR 200 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-pgw:x-s5-gtp:x-s8-gtp\" \"\"
topoff.vip1.gw21.nodes )
IN NAPTR 400 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-pgw:x-s8-pmip\" \"\" topoff.vip2.gw21.nodes
; IN NAPTR 500 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-pgw:x-gn:x-gp\" \"\" topoff.vip3.gw21.nodes
; Above are PGW records.
; Following are SGW records
IN NAPTR 100 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-sgw:x-s11\" \"\" topoff.eth1.gw21.nodes
IN NAPTR 300 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-sgw:x-s5-gtp:x-s8-gtp\" \"\"
topoff.eth4.gw21.nodes
IN NAPTR 600 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-sgw:x-s8-pmip\" \"\" topoff.eth9.gw21.nodes
; IN NAPTR 700 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-sgw:x-s4\" \"\" topoff.eth6.gw21.nodes
; IN NAPTR 710 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-sgw:x-s12\" \"\" topoff.eth6.gw21.nodes
; IN NAPTR 800 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-sgw:x-gn:x-gp\" \"\" topoff.eth8.gw21.nodes
; A/AAAA records
;
; IP addresses for gw01
;
topoff.vip1.gw01.nodes IN A 192.0.2.113
IN A 192.0.2.114
IN AAAA 2001:db8:0:c:0:0:0:0
IN AAAA 2001:db8:0:d:0:0:0:0
topoff.vip2.gw01.nodes IN A 192.0.2.143
IN A 192.0.2.144
IN AAAA 2001:db8:0:2a:0:0:0:0
IN AAAA 2001:db8:0:2b:0:0:0:0
topoff.eth1.gw01.nodes IN A 192.0.2.129
IN A 192.0.2.130
IN AAAA 2001:db8:0:1c:0:0:0:0
IN AAAA 2001:db8:0:1d:0:0:0:0
topoff.eth4.gw01.nodes IN A 192.0.2.131
IN A 192.0.2.132
IN AAAA 2001:db8:0:1e:0:0:0:0
IN AAAA 2001:db8:0:1f:0:0:0:0
topoff.eth9.gw01.nodes IN A 192.0.2.133
IN A 192.0.2.134
IN AAAA 2001:db8:0:20:0:0:0:0
IN AAAA 2001:db8:0:21:0:0:0:0
; IP addresses for gw21
;
topoff.vip1.gw21.nodes IN A 192.0.2.115
IN A 192.0.2.116
IN AAAA 2001:db8:0:e:0:0:0:0
IN AAAA 2001:db8:0:f:0:0:0:0
topoff.vip2.gw21.nodes IN A 192.0.2.135
IN A 192.0.2.136
IN AAAA 2001:db8:0:22:0:0:0:0
IN AAAA 2001:db8:0:23:0:0:0:0
topoff.eth1.gw21.nodes IN A 192.0.2.137
IN A 192.0.2.138
IN AAAA 2001:db8:0:24:0:0:0:0
IN AAAA 2001:db8:0:25:0:0:0:0
topoff.eth4.gw21.nodes IN A 192.0.2.139
IN A 192.0.2.140
IN AAAA 2001:db8:0:26:0:0:0:0
IN AAAA 2001:db8:0:27:0:0:0:0
topoff.eth9.gw21.nodes IN A 192.0.2.141
IN A 192.0.2.142
IN AAAA 2001:db8:0:28:0:0:0:0
IN AAAA 2001:db8:0:29:0:0:0:0
;end of file
The above records are essentially standalone records representing the PGW/SGW
node and its interfaces. An operator would normally define the records when a
new node is brought into service and would only modify it when new IP
interfaces or services are added to that particular node.
The fact both record types are here under the same name is a result of the
PGW/SGW being collocated and having the same canonical node name.
NOTE: The rule for node records is to always include all services that are
allowed to be used on a node and are defined in 3GPP TS 23.003 [4] subclause
19.4.3 for that node. Node records are meant to be complete.
The lack of a record in a canonical node name record set is just as important
as the records that are there. The commented out records in the example would
be included for supporting S4-SGSN and/or Gn/Gp interfaces. Their absence
states that the node does not support the function.
### A. 3.7 TAI/TAC file for \"Collocated Simple LTE Example\"
The format of the TAI/TAC name is standardized by 3GPP 23.003 [4] subclause
19.4.2.3 and is of form tac‑lb\.tac‑hb\.tac.epc.mnc\.mcc\.3gppnetwork.org and service names are in
3GPP 23.003 [4] subclause 19.4.3.
The file containing the TAI/TAC records for this example will be
SIMPLE_TAI_DB.txt and has following content.
; All TAC codes for one region
*.tac-hb01.tac (
; IN NAPTR order pref. flag service regexp replacement
IN NAPTR 100 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-sgw:x-s5-gtp:x-s8-gtp\" \"\"
topoff.eth4.gw01.nodes )
IN NAPTR 200 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-sgw:x-s5-gtp:x-s8-gtp\" \"\"
topoff.eth4.gw21.nodes
IN NAPTR 300 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-sgw:x-s8-pmip\" \"\" topoff.eth9.gw01.nodes
IN NAPTR 400 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-sgw:x-s8-pmip\" \"\" topoff.eth9.gw21.nodes
; Above records are needed for SGW selection in initial attach of a UE (or TAU
or handover attach)
;
IN NAPTR 500 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-mme:x-s10\" \"\"
topoff.eth1.mmec01.mmegi8001.mme
IN NAPTR 600 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-mme:x-s10\" \"\"
topoff.eth1.mmec02.mmegi8001.mme
; Above two records are needed for target MME selection by source MME
;
; IN NAPTR 700 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-sgw:x-s11\" \"\" topoff.eth1.gw01.nodes )
; IN NAPTR 800 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-sgw:x-s11\" \"\" topoff.eth1.gw21.nodes
; Above two S11 records are purely optional for an operator to provision and
are only
; an optimizaton when included so they are commented out for this example
; IN NAPTR 900 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-sgw:x-s4\" \"\" topoff.eth6.gw01.nodes )
; IN NAPTR 1000 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-sgw:x-s4\" \"\" topoff.eth6.gw21.nodes
; This operator does not support S3/S4 so they are commented out for this
example
; Above two S4 records are purely optional for an operator to provision even
if S3/S4 is supported
; Note relative value of NAPTR order is important between the S5/S8 records,
; relative value of NAPTR order is important between the S10 records,
; relative value of NAPTR order is important between the S11 records
; but is not really important between different interface types used here
; (i.e. the MME selection procedure does not look for an SGW interface)
;
; This operators policy is PMIPv6 is used only as last choice
; and only for S8 they don\'t allow S5 PMIPv6 at all
; All TAC codes for another region
*.tac-hb40.tac (
; IN NAPTR order pref. flag service regexp replacement
IN NAPTR 200 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-sgw:x-s5-gtp:x-s8-gtp\" \"\"
topoff.eth4.gw01.nodes )
IN NAPTR 100 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-sgw:x-s5-gtp:x-s8-gtp\" \"\"
topoff.eth4.gw21.nodes
IN NAPTR 400 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-sgw:x-s8-pmip\" \"\" topoff.eth9.gw01.nodes
IN NAPTR 300 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-sgw:x-s8-pmip\" \"\" topoff.eth9.gw21.nodes
;
IN NAPTR 600 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-mme:x-s10\" \"\"
topoff.eth1.mmec01.mmegi8001.mme
IN NAPTR 500 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-mme:x-s10\" \"\"
topoff.eth1.mmec02.mmegi8001.mme
;
; IN NAPTR 800 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-sgw:x-s11\" \"\" topoff.eth1.gw01.nodes )
; IN NAPTR 700 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-sgw:x-s11\" \"\" topoff.eth1.gw21.nodes
; IN NAPTR 1000 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-sgw:x-s4\" \"\" topoff.eth6.gw01.nodes )
; IN NAPTR 900 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-sgw:x-s4\" \"\" topoff.eth6.gw21.nodes
; For the example the TAC values *.tac-hb40.tac are on other side of network
than the *.tac-hb01.tac
; Relative order reverses in comparison to since those TAI are closer to the
other set of nodes
; end of file
SGW records are here since TAI is used to select the SGW in the initial attach
procedure (and TAU with SGW change). The MME record is here for the the
\'Inter eNodeB handover with MME relocation\' procedure where a target MME
must be selected by the source MME.
Wild cards are used in this example to simplify provisioning assuming that the
operator picks tac codes with the same high byte for each eNodeB that are
equivalent in terms of prioritization. Otherwise each TAC code needs to be
provisioned individually in DNS requiring a small amount of additional
repetitive provisioning as each set of TAC codes is added to a network.
From above SGW records we see only GTP based S5 so there is no PMIPv6 S5
support for the SGWs. The operator insists on GTP based S5 i.e. when one of
their PGW is used and the UE is in their network (the operator does let
roamers use another operators PMIPv6 PGW though). The S5/S8 SGW interfaces
with (partially qualified) canonical node name gw01.nodes is used when
possible for tac codes with high byte of 01 hex and the S5/S8 SGW interfaces
with (partially qualified) canonical node name gw21.nodes is used when
possible for tac codes with high byte of 40 hex. This follows from the NAPTR
order 100 record being used before the order 200 record in the corresponding
record set. This is the general mechanism an operator can use to steer the SGW
selection based on which TAI the user initially attaches to (or during TAU
with SGW service change). So an operator trying to minimize S1-U link costs
would set the order to the smallest value for the SGW with the least cost S1-U
link(s) to the eNodeB(s) serving that TAI and use higher order for the TAI
corresponding to the more expensive links.
The gw01.nodes and gw21.nodes are the collocated PGW/SGW canonical node names
the operator chooses. These were defined in the file CS_SGW_PGW_NODE_DB.txt.
The TAI records are not intended to determine the SGW S11 interface directly
but only the candidate list SGW S5/S8 interfaces with node names. S11
interface lookup can be done from the SGW canonical node name (see records in
CS_SGW_PGW_NODE_DB.txt ) so inclusion of S11 here is not strictly needed.
### A. 3.8 MME lookup based on GUTI for \"Simple LTE Example\"
Here we \"manually\" execute the S-NAPTR procedure using the standard \"dig\"
command for finding the source MME at the target MME (for example in a TAU
procedure) to illustrate the procedure and show how the DNS records work in
practice.
The target MME receives the LTE UE\'s old GUTI. The target MME extracts the
MNC, MCC, MMEC and MMEGI values. In this example the UE is in a cell where the
MME selected by the RAN is assumed to be MMEC=1 and MMEGI=8000 hexadecimal.
The MME creates the Application Unique String mmec01.mmegi8001.mme.\$ORIGIN
(see subclause 4.3.3.4 of this TS)
NOTE: Reminder \$ORIGIN is epc.mnc990.mcc311.3gppnetwork.org. and is employed
here simply to keep the length of the example text manageable.
The target MME starts the S-NAPTR with Application Unique String =
mmec01.mmegi8001.mme.\$ORIGIN and desired services x-3gpp-mme:x-s10 since it
is trying to contact the old MME to do a context transfer.
Here we emulate the same action manually with the dig command.
\--------- Command to DNS server----------
command: dig \@192.0.2.247 +tcp NAPTR mmec01.mmegi8001.mme.\$ORIGIN
\---------Start Response from DNS server----------
; \> DiG 9.5.0-P2-W2 \> \@192.0.2.247 +tcp NAPTR
mmec01.mmegi8001.mme.\$ORIGIN
; (1 server found)
;; global options: printcmd
;; Got answer:
;; ->>HEADER\> DiG 9.5.0-P2-W2 \> \@192.0.2.247 +tcp NAPTR imsTV2.apn.\$ORIGIN
; (1 server found)
;; global options: printcmd
;; Got answer:
;; ->>HEADER\> DiG 9.5.0-P2-W2 \> \@192.0.2.247 +tcp NAPTR tac-lb11.tac-
hb40.tac.\$ORIGIN
; (1 server found)
;; global options: printcmd
;; Got answer:
;; ->>HEADER\> DiG 9.5.0-P2-W2 \> \@192.0.2.247 +tcp NAPTR gw21.node.\$ORIGIN
; (1 server found)
;; global options: printcmd
;; Got answer:
;; ->>HEADER\.apn.epc.mnc\.mcc\.3gppnetwork.org.
Service names are in 3GPP TS 23.003 [4] subclause 19.4.3 with +ue-\ appended to the \'app-protocol\' name.
The file containing the APN records for this example will be CS_APN_DB.txt and
has following content.
imsTV1.apn (
; IN NAPTR order pref. flag service regexp replacement
IN NAPTR 100 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-pgw:x-s5-gtp+ue-1.10.20:x-s8-gtp+ue-1.10.20\"
\"\" topoff.vip1.gw01.nodes )
IN NAPTR 200 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-pgw:x-s5-gtp:x-s8-gtp\" \"\"
topoff.vip1.gw21.nodes
; IN NAPTR 300 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-pgw:x-gn+ue-1.10.20:x-gp+ue-1.10.20\" \"\"
topoff.vip3.gw01.nodes
; IN NAPTR 400 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-pgw:x-gn:x-gp\" \"\" topoff.vip3.gw21.nodes
IN NAPTR 500 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-pgw:x-s8-pmip+ue-1.10.20\" \"\"
topoff.vip2.gw01.nodes
IN NAPTR 600 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-pgw:x-s8-pmip\" \"\" topoff.vip2.gw21.nodes
;The operator uses PGW01 for UE usage type of 1,10,20 and PGW21 for non DCN
user.
;The operator does not support Gn/Gp so those records are commented out
### A.4.3 PGW/SGW node file for \"Collocated Simple LTE Example\"
The file containing the PGW/SGW canonical node name records (and A/AAAA
records for the PGW/SGW nodes) for this example will be CS_SGW_PGW_NODE_DB.txt
and has following content.
; Node records for the combined PGW/SGW
gw01.nodes (
; IN NAPTR order pref. flag service regexp replacement
IN NAPTR 200 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-pgw:x-s5-gtp+ue-1.10.20:x-s8-gtp+ue-1.10.20\"
\"\" topoff.vip1.gw01.nodes )
IN NAPTR 400 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-pgw:x-s8-pmip+ue-1.10.20\" \"\"
topoff.vip2.gw01.nodes
; IN NAPTR 500 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-pgw:x-gn+ue-1.10.20:x-gp+ue-1.10.20\" \"\"
topoff.vip3.gw01.nodes
; The operator does not support Gn/Gp so those records are commented out
;
; Above are PGW records.
; Following are SGW records
IN NAPTR 100 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-sgw:x-s11+ue-1.10.20\" \"\"
topoff.eth1.gw01.nodes
IN NAPTR 300 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-sgw:x-s5-gtp+ue-1.10.20:x-s8-gtp+ue-1.10.20\"
\"\" topoff.eth4.gw01.nodes
IN NAPTR 600 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-sgw:x-s8-pmip+ue-1.10.20\" \"\"
topoff.eth9.gw01.nodes
; IN NAPTR 700 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-sgw:x-s4+ue-1.10.20\" \"\"
topoff.eth6.gw01.nodes
; IN NAPTR 710 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-sgw:x-s12+ue-1.10.20\" \"\"
topoff.eth6.gw01.nodes
; IN NAPTR 800 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-sgw:x-gn+ue-1.10.20:x-gp+ue-1.10.20\" \"\"
topoff.eth8.gw01.nodes
; The records related to the non supported interfaces are commented out
;
; Same record for the other combined PGW/SGW
; As gw21 does not support any particular UE usage type, so no changes in the
existing records
gw21.nodes (
; IN NAPTR order pref. flag service regexp replacement
IN NAPTR 200 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-pgw:x-s5-gtp:x-s8-gtp\" \"\"
topoff.vip1.gw21.nodes )
IN NAPTR 400 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-pgw:x-s8-pmip\" \"\" topoff.vip2.gw21.nodes
; IN NAPTR 500 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-pgw:x-gn:x-gp\" \"\" topoff.vip3.gw21.nodes
; Above are PGW records.
; Following are SGW records
IN NAPTR 100 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-sgw:x-s11\" \"\" topoff.eth1.gw21.nodes
IN NAPTR 300 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-sgw:x-s5-gtp:x-s8-gtp\" \"\"
topoff.eth4.gw21.nodes
IN NAPTR 600 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-sgw:x-s8-pmip\" \"\" topoff.eth9.gw21.nodes
; IN NAPTR 700 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-sgw:x-s4\" \"\" topoff.eth6.gw21.nodes
; IN NAPTR 710 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-sgw:x-s12\" \"\" topoff.eth6.gw21.nodes
; IN NAPTR 800 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-sgw:x-gn:x-gp\" \"\" topoff.eth8.gw21.nodes
; For A/AAAA records, see A.3.6.
### A.4.4 TAI/TAC file for DCN
The format of the TAI/TAC name is standardized by 3GPP 23.003 [4] subclause
19.4.2.3 and is of form tac‑lb\.tac‑hb\.tac.epc.mnc\.mcc\.3gppnetwork.org and service names are in
3GPP 23.003 [4] subclause 19.4.3 with +ue-\ appended to the
\'app-protocol\' name.
The file containing the TAI/TAC records for this example will be
SIMPLE_TAI_DB.txt and has following content.
; All TAC codes for one region
; MME pool represented by mmegi8001 and mmegi8002 are for DCN user and non DCN
user respectively.
*.tac-hb01.tac (
; IN NAPTR order pref. flag service regexp replacement
IN NAPTR 100 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-sgw:x-s5-gtp+ue-1.10.20:x-s8-gtp+ue-1.10.20\"
\"\" topoff.eth4.gw01.nodes )
IN NAPTR 200 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-sgw:x-s5-gtp:x-s8-gtp\" \"\"
topoff.eth4.gw21.nodes
IN NAPTR 300 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-sgw:x-s8-pmip+ue-1.10.20\" \"\"
topoff.eth9.gw01.nodes
IN NAPTR 400 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-sgw:x-s8-pmip\" \"\" topoff.eth9.gw21.nodes
; The operator uses PGW01 for UE usage type of 1,10,20 and PGW21 for non DCN
user.
; Above records are needed for SGW selection in initial attach of a UE (or TAU
or handover attach)
;
IN NAPTR 500 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-mme:x-s10+ue-1.10.20\" \"\"
topoff.eth1.mmec01.mmegi8001.mme
IN NAPTR 600 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-mme:x-s10+ue-1.10.20\" \"\"
topoff.eth1.mmec02.mmegi8001.mme
IN NAPTR 700 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-mme:x-s10\" \"\"
topoff.eth1.mmec03.mmegi8002.mme
IN NAPTR 800 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-mme:x-s10\" \"\"
topoff.eth1.mmec04.mmegi8002.mme
; From the above records with +ue-\, MMEGI information can be
retieved when necessary.
;
*.tac-hb40.tac (
; IN NAPTR order pref. flag service regexp replacement
IN NAPTR 100 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-sgw:x-s5-gtp+ue-1.10.20:x-s8-gtp+ue-1.10.20\"
\"\" topoff.eth4.gw01.nodes )
IN NAPTR 200 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-sgw:x-s5-gtp:x-s8-gtp\" \"\"
topoff.eth4.gw21.nodes
IN NAPTR 300 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-sgw:x-s8-pmip+ue-1.10.20\" \"\"
topoff.eth9.gw01.nodes
IN NAPTR 400 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-sgw:x-s8-pmip\" \"\" topoff.eth9.gw21.nodes
;
IN NAPTR 600 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-mme:x-s10+ue-1.10.20\" \"\"
topoff.eth1.mmec01.mmegi8001.mme
IN NAPTR 500 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-mme:x-s10+ue-1.10.20\" \"\"
topoff.eth1.mmec02.mmegi8001.mme
IN NAPTR 800 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-mme:x-s10\" \"\"
topoff.eth1.mmec03.mmegi8002.mme
IN NAPTR 700 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-mme:x-s10\" \"\"
topoff.eth1.mmec04.mmegi8002.mme
; From the above records with +ue-\, MMEGI information can be
retieved when necessary.
;
###### ## Annex B (Normative): DNS procedures clarifications
# B.1 DNS RFC procedures general clarifications
This sub-clause clarifies DNS resolver use of the S-NAPTR procedures in EPC
core network nodes.
NOTE: The only EPC core network nodes identified explicitly at this time that
employ S-NAPTR procedures are the MME and Release 8 SGSN.
DNS resolvers in EPC core network nodes shall support recursive queries and
responses over UDP transport as specified in IETF RFC 1035 [3]. The EPC core
network nodes may assume the existence of a local caching DNS server (see GSMA
PRD IR.67 [5]) and hence may not need to do iterative queries as specified in
IETF RFC 1035 [3]. However, the final deployment decision of local caching DNS
servers is up to the operators. It is recommended that the EPC core network
nodes support DNS queries and responses over TCP transport up to the 65535
byte maximum. Support of IETF RFC 2671 [13] (EDNS0) is recommended, in order
to allow DNS response packets sizes over 512 octets when using UDP transport.
It is recommended that resolvers in EPC core network nodes cache frequently
used DNS queries in order to lower load on DNS infrastructure.
EPC core network nodes shall support SRV records as specified in IETF RFC 2782
[8]. However, in the 3GPP scope the ordering of SRV records of the same
priority SHALL use the algorithm described in IETF RFC 2782 [8] page 4 instead
of the the \"SHOULD\" requirement in the IETF RFC. This is a 3GPP specific
requirement to strengthen the described algorithm and actually allow
predictable behavior of the IETF RFC 2782 [8] based load balancing.
# B.2 DNS procedures 3GPP clarifications on S-NAPTR
IETF RFC 3958 [9] S-NAPTR procedures are unmodified with an exception of the
following clarifications on the topological closeness and multi-protocol
support:
1) For topological closeness the \"topon\" label matching of subclause 4.3.2
of the present document takes precedence over NAPTR ordering but NAPTR
ordering is still used when matching label lengths are equal. Therefore, a
full list of \"candidate\" records is needed as sketched in Appendix A.2 of
IETF RFC 3958 [9], which in turn requires \"backtracking\" as described by
IETF RFC 3958 [9] section 2.2.4. When collocation is to be considered
applicable in a procedure it takes precedence in ordering over both \"topon\"
and NAPTR ordering regardless of the value of the value of the
\"topon\|topoff\" label.
2) IETF RFC 3958 [9] has an ambiguity for S-NAPTR with multiple protocols in
last paragraph of section 2.2.5\ \"It MAY choose to run simultaneous DDDS
resolutions for more than one protocol, in which case the requirements above
apply for each protocol independently. That is, do not switch protocols mid-
resolution.\"\ The term \" simultaneous DDDS resolutions\" and \"apply for
each protocol independently\" are not defined and can have different meanings.
To resolve that ambiguity in S-NAPTR, the present document formally defines
\"Service description meeting the client requirement\" from IETF RFC 3402 [14]
section 3.3 step 4 as a NAPTR record with one or more of the 3GPP desired
service and protocol field pair(s) and such that all ancestor NAPTR records in
the current path to this point also include the identified service and
protocol in the DDDS procedure. The present document uses that as the
definition of \"simultaneous DDDS resolutions\". See subclause C.1 for more
practical information on this point.
3) Strict ordering within S-NAPTR is obtained from the NAPTR order value as
required in IETF RFC 3402 [14] and IETF RFC 3958 [8]. The value of (65535-
NAPTR preference) shall be used as a statistical weight the same way the SRV
weight is used on page 4 of IETF RFC 2782 [8] for SRV records.
Items 1) , 2) and 3) impact the ordering of DNS records in which they are
returned by the S-NAPTR procedure. Items 1) and 2) also involve areas where
the IETF RFC 3958 [9] only provides a sketch of the procedures needed and
implicitly relies on IETF RFC 3402 [14] for details. To clarify these points
as well as to guide implementations informative pseudo-code is provided in
subclauses C.1, C.2 and C.3. Item 3) allows an operators to load balance
within one NAPTR record set without employing SRV records giving a simpler DNS
provisioning and potentially reducing the number of DNS queries.
# B.3 DNS procedures 3GPP clarifications for Dedicated Core Networks
When the app-protocol as input to the S-NAPTR procedure has the substring with
at least +ue included, then any app-protocol returned from DNS shall be
considered to match as follows. The characters following the + character
follows the ABNF grammar as follows.
\"ue-\" (USAGENUM)*( \".\" USAGENUM)
USAGENUM = 1*3(DIGIT)
DIGIT = %x30-39; 0-9
A record with any USAGENUM matching the input \ type value shall be
considered as matching. As an example, x-s10+ue-8 as S-NAPTR input shall match
a record with x-s10+ue-3.8.10.38, but shall not match a record with
x-s10+ue-3.10.38.
###### ## Annex C (Informative): DNS Pseudo-Code
# C.1 S-NAPTR procedure base pseudo-code
The primary purpose of sub-clause C.1 is to show practically any differences
that are normatively documented in subclause B.2. The changes to the IETF RFC
3958 [9] pseudo-code make this much clearer and self-contained than the
normative text from subclause B.2.
The pseudo-code immediately following is the pseudo-code from IETF RFC 3958
[9] Appendix A.1 modified to incorporate the clarifications from subclause
B.2.
target = [initial domain]
; Next line is changed from Appendix A.1 of RFC 3958
usable-service-protocol-set = [initial desired service and protocol pairs]
naptr-done = false
while (not naptr-done)
{
NAPTR-RRset = [DNSlookup of NAPTR RRs for target]
; Next two lines are changed from Appendix A.1 of RFC 3958
NAPTR weight := 65535 - NAPTR PREF for each RR
[sort NAPTR by ORDER, and by statistical NAPTR weight within each ORDER]
rr-done = false
cur-rr = [first NAPTR RR]
while (not rr-done)
; Next three lines are changed from Appendix A.1 of RFC 3958
compatable-service-protocol-set =[ [usable-service-protocol-set] set
intersection with
[SERVICE field of cur-rr] ]
if ([compatable-service-protocol-set] is not empty)
rr-done = true
target= [REPLACEMENT target of NAPTR RR]
; Next line is changed from Appendix A.1 of RFC 3958
usable-service-protocol-set = [compatable-service-protocol-set]
else
cur-rr = [next rr in list]
if (not empty [FLAG in cur-rr])
naptr-done = true
}
port = -1
if ([FLAG in cur-rr is \"S\"])
{
SRV-RRset = [DNSlookup of SRV RRs for target]
; Next line is changed from Appendix A.1
[Sort SRV RRset using the algorithm described on page 4 of IETF RFC 2782 [8]]
target = [target of first RR of SRV-RRset]
port = [port in first RR of SRV-RRset]
}
; now, whether it was an \"S\" or an \"A\" in the NAPTR, we
; have the target for an A record lookup
; Remaining lines are changed from Appendix A.1 of RFC 3958
; or AAAA record lookup
IPv4_hosts = [DNSlookup of A RRs for target]
IPv6_hosts = [DNSlookup of AAAA RRs for target]
randomized order of IPv4_hosts and IPv6_hosts
hostname = [target]
return (hostname, usable-service-protocol-set, IPv4_hosts, IPv6_hosts, port)
The significant differences in the above Pseudo-Code and the IETF RFC 3958 [9]
Pseudo-Code are :
A) [Sort SRV RRset using the algorithm described on page 4 of IETF RFC 2782
[8]]\ which was changed from\ [sort SRV-RRset based on PREF]\ The Pseudo-Code
in IETF RFC 3958 [9] simply has an error. There isn\'t even a PREF in a SRV
record. Again see page 4 of IETF RFC 2782 [8] for the proper procedure.\ The
NAPTR weight is defined to be 65535 - NAPTR preference and is handled
analogously to the SRV case.
B) IETF RFC 3958 [9] Appendix A.1 starts with \"Assuming the client supports 1
protocol for a particular application\" so the pseudo-code obviously was
designed for one protocol at a time. The lines with usable-service-protocol-
set and compatable-service-protocol-set above are the most important change to
support multiple service/protocol combinations and are really the primary
reason for providing the above Pseudo-Code.
There are two possible ways to interpret the last paragraph of section 2.2.5
of IETF RFC 3958 [9] when a list of multiple services/protocols is desired.
One is the above interpretation using \"set intersection\" which allows
multiple services/protocols. The other is to run the above procedure for one
service and protocol at a time from the \"desired service_and_protocol_set\"
and get a separate list for each service and protocol. In both approaches the
relative ordering within a particular service and protocol is identical. If
the proper interpretation of IETF RFC 3958 [9] is one service and protocol at
a time, then the IETF RFC 3958 [9] does not define order between different
service or protocols. Thus 3GPP is free to order between different 3GPP
service and protocol types so long as the order within a service and protocol
is respected. The above method does respect the order within a service and
protocol therefore it is valid in either interpretation of section 2.2.5 of
IETF RFC 3958 [9] and also valid in IETF RFC 3402 [14]).
The remaining changes in Pseudo-Code above are minor and mostly intended to
show that the S-NAPTR procedure logically outputs following:
> (hostname, usable-service-protocol-set, IPv4_hosts, IPv6_hosts, port)
where the returned hostname is the FQDN of the topologically aware node name
with topon/topoff and interface information.
NOTE: Lookup of the A and AAAA records to get the IPv4 and IPv6 addresses may
be deferred until they are needed to contact a selected server as an optional
optimization.
In the 3GPP scope, a full implementation of RFC 3958 SHALL implement
\"backtracking\" as described by IETF RFC 3958 [9] section 2.2.4 as required
in subclause B.2.
For simplicity of the presentation in this Annex we assume a full IETF RFC
3958 [9] implementation with a call back interface as described in Appendix
A.2 of the IETF RFC 3958 [9].
procedure S_NAPTR_to_callback(targetFQDN,
desired_service_and_protocol_set,
call_back_function)
where the call_back_function has interface
call_back_function (hostname, usable_service_and_protocol_set, port,
IPv4_list,IP6_list)
The call_back_function returns \"stop\" if it does not want more records
otherwise it returns \"looking\" and will be called with the next record.
# C.2 S-NAPTR procedure - no topon
If topological closeness is not stated as specifically applicable to a
procedure, or all node names are prefixed with \"topoff\", and if collocation
is stated as not applicable to a procedure, then the first interface that can
be successfully connected to would be sufficient to be returned from the
S-NAPTR procedure. The following pseudo-code shows how the procedure works.
/*
* The Callback function called from the S-NAPTR procedure
* for each FQDN the S-NAPTR procedure finds..
*/
procedure try_to_connect (hostname, service_and_protocol_set, port, IP4_list,
IP6_list)
Begin procedure
// Comment does procedure as outlined in C.1
Use 3GPP procedures to try to connect in turn to all combinations
of the service/protocols and IP addresses provided in the input.
Upon first success return(stop);
If all fail return(looking);
End procedure;
};
/*
* The S-NAPTR procedure follows
*
*/
procedure connect_first_match (targetFQDN, desired_protocol_set)
Begin procedure
status:=S_NAPTR_to_callback(targetFQDN,
desired_service_and_protocol_set ,
try_to_connect);
if status equals looking return(failure) else return(success);
End procedure;
# C.3 S-NAPTR procedure candidate list
The following procedure will get the complete candidate list. This is the
\"sorted list of matches\" described in Appendix A.2 of IETF RFC 3958 [9].
This is used for an exhaustive search of all matches.
If the \"topon\" feature is specifically applicable to find \"close\" nodes,
or collocation is applicable, then the simple approach of getting the first
match as described in subclause C.2 cannot be used. The S-NAPTR must be
performed by exhaustive searching for all matching records since the best
match by \"topon\" node name can be any record independent of S-NAPTR record
ordering.
/*
* The Callback function called by the S-NAPTR procedure for
* each found match..
*/
procedure private_store_candidate_list (hostname,service_and_protocol_set,
port,IP4_list,IP6_list)
Begin procedure
increment snaptr_output_order;
create structure with fields
(hostname,
service_and_protocol_set,port,IP4_list,IP6_list,snaptr_output_order,List_Name)
add structure to end of candidate_list;
return(looking);
End procedure;
/*
* The procedure to find all candidate nodes.
*
*/
procedure get_candidate_list (targetFQDN, desired_service_and_protocol_set,
List_Name)
Begin procedure
candidate_list:= empty;
snaptr_output_order:=0;
/*
* The S-NAPTR resolving starts here.
*/
status:=S_NAPTR_to_callback(targetFQDN,
desired_service_and_protocol_set ,
private_store_candidate_list);
return(candidate_list);
End procedure;
The procedure includes the NAPTR output ordering explicitly as a field with
each record which is important in the context of \"topon\" matches and checks
for collocated nodes.
# C.4 S-NAPTR procedure pseudo-code with topon
Collocation, when stated as specifically applicable in a procedure, takes
precedence over other criteria such as topological ordering or S-NAPTR
ordering. Topological ordering, when stated as specifically applicable in a
procedure, takes precedence over S-NAPTR ordering. However, S-NAPTR ordering
is used for ordering nodes with equivalent topological distances. Pseudo code
below is informative and shows how to implement the ordering of record
selection. See sub-clause 4.3.2 for normative text.
Assume two distinct types of nodes \"A\" and \"B\" are being checked for
closeness and the best record pair is needed. First step, which is documented
in each case in the main text of this document is to get two candidate lists
using a procedure such as that outlined in subclause C.3.
candidate_list_A:= get_candidates
(targetFQDN_A,desired_service_and_protocol_set_A, \"A\");
candidate_list_B:= get_candidates
(targetFQDN_B,desired_service_and_protocol_set_B, \"B\");
As an example take the selection of a PGW and SGW by an MME during a UE
initial attach procedure. Both a PGW and SGW need to be selected and if
\"topon\" is used in both lists the selected pair is to be as close as
possible (collocated being the closest).
Sometimes one list in the procedure is not found by DNS (or was found
previously) because the node was already selected. In that case, one of the
candidate lists can be just one node.
For example, an UE with an existing PDN connection adds a new PDN connection
to a different APN, which may result in a different PGW but needs to continue
using the current SGW. Here one of the two candidate lists would just be the
data for the current SGW node (i.e., its node name and whether it supports
GTPv2 and/or PMIPv6 for S5/S8).
The following pseudo-code illustrates topological matching with full ordering.
procedure topo_matching (candidate_list_A,candidate_list_B, topology_check,
colocation_check)// Comment: topology_check and colocation_check are booleans
indicating if those checks are done
Begin procedure
paired_sets_list:=empty;
if (colocation_check)
Begin if
total_list:= candidate_list_A appended with candidate_list B;
// Comment: Below canonical_node_name is the hostname with first two labels
removed
Foreach unique canonical_node_name from total_list do
Begin foreach
Foreach servce and protocol do
Begin foreach
full_match_list:= get all records from total_list with service and protocol
and canonical_node name
If there is at least one \"A\" record and one \"B\" record in full_match_list
then
Begin If
degree:=256;
suffix:=canonical_node_name;
create structure with fields
(degree, suffix,service_and_protocol,full_match_list)
add that structure to paired_sets_list
End If
End foreach
End foreach
End if;
if (topology_check) Begin if
max_labels:= (maximum number of DNS labels in total_list)- 2
else
max_labels =0;
End If;
from number_labels_to_match:= max_labels down to 0 do
Begin do
if number_labels_to_match equals 0 then
Begin if
total_list:= candidate_list_A appended with candidate_list B
else
total_list:= get all records from candidate_list_A and candidate_list_B\ with
\"topon\" as first label and hostname has at least
(number_labels_to_match+2) labels
// Comment: Add 2 since the first two labels are not part of the node name End
If;
// Comment: Below suffix is a hostname chopped off to include only the last
number_labels_to_match
Foreach unique suffix from total_list do
Begin foreach
Foreach servce and protocol do
Begin foreach
full_match_list:= get all records from total_list with service and protocol
and suffix contained in end of the hostname
If there is at least one \"A\" record and one \"B\" record in full_match_list
then
Begin If
degree:=number_labels
create structure with fields
(degree, suffix,service_and_protocol,full_match_list)
add that structure to paired_sets_list
End If
End foreach
End foreach
End do
sort paired_sets by degree
return (paired_sets_list)
End Procedure;
NOTE 1: Matching collocated nodes get a degree of 256, which is above any
normal match. Also the above procedure is specific to this document and is not
a part of S-NAPTR.
NOTE 2: Order from S-NAPTR is from one S-NAPTR procedure. There is no
meaningful order obtained from S-NAPTR between records from two different
S-NAPTR procedures. So one node type will be selected \"logically first\"
based on other criteria outside S-NAPTR information.
The above procedure simply creates a list of records which are sorted by
decreasing degree of matching in DNS labels. It also gives the list of paired
nodes with the same suffix and compatible service which is needed by the 3GPP
application.
Since highest degree is preferred over S-NAPTR ordering with \"topon\" labels
the selection is done by degree starting with the highest degree obtaining
only the possible \"A\" and \"B\" nodes at that degree. A sublist of the
paired_sets_list containing the highest degree is taken from paired_sets_list
denoted as degree_sublist. Assume the \"A\" node is to be selected \"logically
first\". Sort the \"A\" parts of degree_sublist in increasing
\"snaptr_output_order\". For the records in that order try to connect to the
node with the service and protocol in the record using 3GPP procedures. On
failure proceed with the next record. When that degree_sublist is exhausted
then degree-1 is tried and so on until an \"A\" node is selected. Once an
\"A\" node is chosen, the procedure has also a selected degree, suffix and
service.
NOTE 3: The remaining part of this procedure is not needed if the \"B\" node
was already pre-selected outside the present procedure.
Taking the degree_sublist used to select the \"A\" node create a new sublist
from only records with the same service, same protocol and suffix. Remove the
\"A\" node records from that sublist. Sort this new sublist by increasing
\"snaptr_output_order\" (see subclause C.3). Using the records in that order
try to connect to the \"B\" nodes with the service and protocol in the record.
On a failure proceed with the next record. When that list is exhausted the
procedure continues in next paragraph.
NOTE 4: The suffix of the \"A\" node that was selected influences which \"B\"
nodes are closest to it. We can\'t easily and simply reuse the above structure
for that reason and it is easier to \"reset\" the procedure..
A new candidate_list_A is created consisting only of the selected \"A\" node A
and service_and_protocol. The procedure \"topo_matching \" is run again giving
a new paired_sets_list. The \"A\" node records are removed from the new
paired_sets_list leaving only \"B\" nodes. Sort the records in
paired_sets_list in decreasing order of degree and within degree in increasing
\"snaptr_output_order\" (see subclause C.3). Using the records in that order
try to connect to the \"B\" nodes with the service in the record. On failure
go to next record.
NOTE 5: Failing to actually contact a node should result in the failing
node(s) to be removed from consideration for a period of time. Such removal is
not detailed above. Also a reasonable implementation would give up after some
maximum number of failed attempts.
###### ## Annex D (Informative): SGSN examples
## D.1 Introduction
This annex includes examples of the DNS provisioning needed for an SGSN
discovery and selection procedures. Examples are not exhaustive either in
scope or in content but are intended to be sufficient to illustrate the
general techniques and some of the more important use cases.
## D.2 Preconditions
Provisions of annex A.2 apply also here.
## D.3 SGSN file
A NAPTR record is required to be provisioned under the NRI-RAI FQDN (see
subclause 4.3.3.5 of this TS). The format of the NRI-RAI FQDN is nri-
sgsn\.rac\.lac\.rac as defined in subclause 19.4.2.6 of 3GPP TS
23.003 [4].
The nri-sgsn\.rac\.lac\.rac is also the natural place for the
SGSN canonical node record set. For this example we place the SGSN canonical
node records and the required record for the lookup at the same location both
for simplicity and better DNS caching.
For this example we have two SGSNs with NRI codes of 1 and 2 respectively and
both in the same SGSN pool (LAC = 1000 hexadecimal and RAC = 0003
hexadecimal).
;
; This is the P-TMSI and RAI related record and the SGSN node record
; The operator has decided to use the 3GPP name as the canononical node name
of the SGSN
; rather than having two records (the 3GPP one and an operator defined value)
;
nri-sgsn01.rac0003.lac1001.rac
; IN NAPTR order pref. flag service regexp replacement
IN NAPTR 200 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-sgsn:x-s4\" \"\" topoff.eth1.nri-
sgsn01.rac0003.lac1001.rac
IN NAPTR 200 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-sgsn:x-s3\" \"\" topoff.eth2.nri-
sgsn01.rac0003.lac1001.rac
IN NAPTR 300 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-sgsn:x-gn\" \"\" topoff.eth3.nri-
sgsn01.rac0003.lac1001.rac
;
; Reminder: Canonical node name records must be complete.
; In most cases the interface type (S3 etc) is functionally determined so the
NAPTR order is rarely
; used in this record set. The S3 is preferred over over Gn.
;
; Of course if the SGSN had multiple S3 interfaces
; the operator could provision more than one S3 record with different orders
; perhaps to select S3 IPv6 over S3 IPv4
; We have the same type of records for the other SGSN (same comments would
apply)
;
nri-sgsn02.rac0003.lac1001.rac
; IN NAPTR order pref. flag service regexp replacement
IN NAPTR 200 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-sgsn:x-s4\" \"\" topoff.eth1.nri-
sgsn02.rac0003.lac1001.rac
IN NAPTR 200 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-sgsn:x-s3\" \"\" topoff.eth2.nri-
sgsn02.rac0003.lac1001.rac
IN NAPTR 300 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-sgsn:x-gn\" \"\" topoff.eth3.nri-
sgsn02.rac0003.lac1001.rac
;
; All SGSN IP addresses for both SGSNs
;
topoff.eth1.nri-sgsn01.rac0003.lac1001.rac IN A 192.0.2.11
IN A 192.0.2.12
IN AAAA 2001:db8:0:0:0:0:0:0
IN AAAA 2001:db8:0:1:0:0:0:0
topoff.eth2.nri-sgsn01.rac0003.lac1001.rac IN A 192.0.2.13
IN A 192.0.2.14
IN AAAA 2001:db8:0:2:0:0:0:0
IN AAAA 2001:db8:0:3:0:0:0:0
topoff.eth3.nri-sgsn01.rac0003.lac1001.rac IN A 192.0.2.15
IN A 192.0.2.16
IN AAAA 2001:db8:0:4:0:0:0:0
IN AAAA 2001:db8:0:5:0:0:0:0
topoff.eth1.nri-sgsn02.rac0003.lac1001.rac IN A 192.0.2.17
IN A 192.0.2.18
IN AAAA 2001:db8:0:6:0:0:0:0
IN AAAA 2001:db8:0:7:0:0:0:0
topoff.eth2.nri-sgsn02.rac0003.lac1001.rac IN A 192.0.2.19
IN A 192.0.2.20
IN AAAA 2001:db8:0:8:0:0:0:0
IN AAAA 2001:db8:0:9:0:0:0:0
topoff.eth3.nri-sgsn02.rac0003.lac1001.rac IN A 192.0.2.21
IN A 192.0.2.22
IN AAAA 2001:db8:0:10:0:0:0:0
IN AAAA 2001:db8:0:11:0:0:0:0
; end of file
The partially qualified SGSN host names are topoff.eth1.nri-
sgsn01.rac0003.lac1001.rac and topoff.eth1.nri-sgsn02.rac0003.lac1001.rac, and
similar.
The fully qualified SGSN node names are the relatively long
nri-sgsn01.rac0003.lac1001.rac.epc.mnc990.mcc311.3gppnetwork.org.
and
nri-sgsn02.rac0003.lac1001.rac.epc.mnc990.mcc311.3gppnetwork.org.
which are obtained by appending the value of \$ORIGIN to the partially
qualified SGSN node names. As stated before we will use the partially
qualified names in this Annex to avoid this visual clutter and for
typographical reasons.
## D.4 Null-NRI/SGSN Group ID file for DCN
A NAPTR record is required to be provisioned under the RAI FQDN (see subclause
5.8.3). The format of the RAI FQDN is rac\.lac\.rac as defined in
subclause 19.4.2.5 of 3GPP TS 23.003 [4].
For this example we have two SGSN pools represented by SGSN Group ID
(sgsngi=0001) and Null-NRI (null-nri=0005). Each pool has two SGSNs with NRI
code of 1, 2 and 3, 4 respectively.
;
rac0003.lac1001.rac
; IN NAPTR order pref. flag service regexp replacement
IN NAPTR 100 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-sgsn:x-gn+ue-1.10.20\" \"\" topoff.eth1.nri-
sgsn0001.sgsngi0001.rac0003.lac1001.rac
IN NAPTR 200 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-sgsn:x-s16+ue-1.10.20\" \"\" topoff.eth3.nri-
sgsn0002.sgsngi0001.rac0003.lac1001.rac
IN NAPTR 100 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-sgsn:x-gn+ue-2.5\" \"\" topoff.eth1.nri-
sgsn0003.null-nri0005.rac0003.lac1001.rac
IN NAPTR 200 999 \"a\" \"x-3gpp-sgsn:x-s16+ue-2.5\" \"\" topoff.eth3.nri-
sgsn0004.null-nri0005.rac0003.lac1001.rac
;
;From above records, Null-NRI and SGSN Group ID information can be retrieved
when necessary.
###### ## Annex E (Informative): SGW/PGW selection examples using GTP-C load
control
## E.1 PGW selection using GTP-C load control at node level
This example illustrates the principles of the SGW or PGW selection specified
in subclause 4A.2, with GTP-C load control supported and enabled at node
level.
The example assumes that the procedures specified in this document have 3
candidate PGWs with the same relative order, (e.g. with the same topological
order) and assume that the following weights are received from the DNS and
\"Load Metric\" reported via GTP-C signalling:
PGW1: DNS-weight-factor = 20, Load-metric = 10%
PGW2: DNS-weight-factor = 20, Load-metric = 20%
PGW3: DNS-weight-factor = 60, Load-metric= 30%
Based on the above, the selecting node calculates the effective available load
for each candidate PGW:
PGW1-effective-available-load = (100 -- 10)% X 20 = 18
PGW2-effective-available-load = (100 -- 20)% X 20 = 16
PGW3-effective-available-load = (100 -- 30)% X 60 = 42
The selecting node then calculates the relative available load of each
candidate PGW (rounding-off to nearest integer value):
PGW1-relative-available-load = 18 / (18 + 16 + 42) =\~ 24%
PGW2-relative-available-load = 16 / (18 + 16 + 42) =\~ 21%
PGW3-relative-available-load = 42 / (18 + 16 + 42) =\~ 55%
Out of the total new session requests, the node selects the PGW1, PGW2 and
PGW3 for 24%, 21% and 55% respectively, e.g. per 100 new sessions requests,
the PGW1 is selected for 24 sessions, PGW2 for 21 sessions and PGW3 for the
remaining 55 new sessions.
## E.2 PGW selection using GTP-C load control at APN level
### E. 2.1 PGW selection when APN load control information is available for
each candidate PGW
This example illustrates the principles of the PGW selection specified in
subclause 4A.3, with GTP-C load control supported and enabled at node level
and APN level.
The example assumes that the procedures specified in this document have 3
candidate PGWs with the same relative order, (e.g. with the same topological
order) and assume that the following weights are received from the DNS and APN
load control information reported via GTP-C signalling:
PGW1: DNS-weight-factor = 20, APN1-Load-metric = 60%, APN1-relative-capacity =
50%
PGW2: DNS-weight-factor = 20, APN1-Load-metric = 50%, APN1-relative-capacity =
20%
PGW3: DNS-weight-factor = 60, APN1-Load-metric= 50%, APN1-relative-capacity =
10%
Based on the above, the APN1-effective-available-load is calculated as
follows:
PGW1-APN1-effective-available-load = (100 -- 60)% X 50% X 20 = 4
PGW2-APN1-effective-available-load = (100 -- 50)% X 20% X 20 = 2
PGW3-APN1-effective-available-load = (100 -- 50)% X 10% X 60 = 3
Then the APN1-relative-available-load is calculated as below (by rounding-off
to nearest integer value):
PGW1-APN1-relative-available-load = 4 / (4 + 2 + 3) =\~ 45%
PGW2-APN1-relative-available-load = 2 / (4 + 2 + 3) =\~ 22%
PGW3-APN1-relative-available-load = 3 / (4 + 2 + 3) =\~ 33%
Out of the total new session requests for APN1, the PGW1 is selected for 45%,
PGW2 for 22% and PGW3 for 33%, e.g. per 100 new sessions requests for APN1,
the PGW1 is selected for 45 sessions, PGW2 for 22 sessions and PGW3 for 33
sessions.
### E.2.2 PGW selection when APN load control information is not available for
each candidate PGW
This example illustrates the principles of the PGW selection specified in
subclause 4A.3, with GTP-C load control supported and enabled at node level
and APN level.
The example assumes that the procedures specified in this document have 3
candidate PGWs with the same relative order, (e.g. with the same topological
order) and assume that the following weights are received from the DNS and APN
load control information reported via GTP-C signalling; it is assumed in
particular that PGW3 did only report APN load control information for the
APN2.
PGW1: DNS-weight-factor = 20, APN1-Load-metric = 60%, APN1-relative-capacity =
50%
PGW2: DNS-weight-factor = 20, APN1-Load-metric = 50%, APN1-relative-capacity =
20%
PGW3: DNS-weight-factor = 60, APN2-Load-metric= 50%, APN2-relative-capacity =
30%, PGW3-Load-Metric 40%
Based on the above, the APN1-effective-available-load for the PGW3 is
calculated assuming the following:
PGW3-APN1-relative-capacity = 100% -- 30% = 70%
PGW3-APN1-load-metric = {40% - (50% X 30%)} / {(100% -- 30%)} = {40% - 15%} /
{70%} = \~36%
#