# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document provides the stage 3 specification of the Tsp reference
point for the present release. The functional requirements and the stage 2
specifications of the Tsp reference point are contained in TS 23.682 [2]. The
Tsp reference point lies between the Service Capability Server (SCS) and the
Machine Type Communication Inter Working Function (MTC-IWF).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.682: \"Architecture enhancements to facilitate communications
with packet data networks and applications\".
[3] 3GPP TS 29.329: \"Sh Interface based on the Diameter protocol\".
[4] IETF RFC 791: \"Transmission Control Protocol\".
[5] IETF RFC 2234: \"Augmented BNF for syntax specifications\".
[6] IETF RFC 3588: \"Diameter Base Protocol\".
[7] IETF RFC 4006: \"Diameter Credit Control Application\".
[8] IETF RFC 4960: \"Stream Control Transmission Protocol\".
[9] IETF RFC 5719: \"Updated IANA Considerations for Diameter Command Code
Allocations\".
[10] 3GPP TS 33.210: \"Network Domain Security (NDS); IP network layer
security\".
[11] 3GPP TS 33.310: \"Network Domain Security (NDS); Authentication Framework
(AF)\".
[12] 3GPP TS 29.336: \"Home Subscriber Server (HSS) diameter interfaces for
interworking with packet data networks and applications\".
[13] 3GPP TS 29.303: \"Domain Name System Procedures; Stage 3\".
[14] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification\".
[15] 3GPP TS 23.040: \"Technical realization of the Short Message Service
(SMS)\".
[16] 3GPP TS 29.229: \"Cx and Dx interfaces based on the Diameter protocol\".
[17] 3GPP TS 29.337: \"Diameter-based T4 interface for communications with
packet data networks and applications\".
[18] IETF RFC 6733: \"Diameter Base Protocol\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, no symbols are defined.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
AVP Attribute Value Pair
CEA Capabilities-Exchange-Answer
CER Capabilities-Exchange-Request
DAA Device-Action-Answer
DAR Device-Action-Request
DNA Device-Notification-Answer
DNR Device-Notification-Request
DNS Domain Name System
ESP Encapsulating Security Payload
IKE Internet Key Exchange
IWF Inter Working Function
MTC Machine Type Communication
PKI Public key infrastructure
SCS Service Capability Server
TLS Transport Layer Security
# 4 Tsp reference point
## 4.1 Tsp Reference model
The Tsp reference point is defined between the Service Capability Server (SCS)
and the Machine Type Communication Inter Working Function (MTC-IWF). The
relationships between the different functional entities involved are depicted
in figure 4.1.1.
Figure 4.1.1: Tsp reference point at 3GPP Architecture for Machine -Type
Communication
## 4.2 Functional elements
### 4.2.1 SCS
The SCS is the entity which connects MTC application servers to the 3GPP
network to enable them to communicate through specific 3GPP defined services
with UEs used for MTC and with the MTC-IWF in the HPLMN. The SCS offers
capabilities for use by one or multiple MTC application servers.
An SCS can be connected to one or more MTC-IWFs.
The SCS is controlled by the operator of the HPLMN or by a MTC Service
Provider.
### 4.2.2 MTC-IWF
The MTC-IWF resides in the HPLMN. An MTC-IWF could be a standalone entity or a
functional entity of another network element. The MTC-IWF hides the internal
PLMN topology and relays or translates information sent over Tsp to invoke
specific functionality in the PLMN.
An MTC-IWF can be connected to one or more SCSs.
The functionality of the MTC-IWF includes the following:
\- terminates the Tsp, S6m, T4 and Rf/Ga reference points;
\- supports ability to authorize the SCS before communication establishment
with the 3GPP network;
\- supports ability to authorize control plane requests from an SCS;
\- supports the following device trigger functionality:
\- reception of a device trigger request from SCS;
\- reception of a device trigger recall/replace request from SCS;
\- reporting to the SCS the acceptance or non-acceptance of the device trigger
request;
\- reporting to the SCS the acceptance or non-acceptance of the device trigger
recall/replace request;
\- reports to the SCS the success, failure or unconfirmed outcome of a device
trigger delivery;
\- reports to the SCS the success, failure or unconfirmed outcome of the
device trigger recall/replace request;
\- provides load control information to SCS as part of the response to trigger
requests;
\- supports ability for secure communication between the 3GPP network and the
SCS.
The architecture allows the use of multiple MTC-IWFs within a HPLMN.
# 5 Procedures over Tsp reference point
## 5.1 General
The following procedures apply over the Tsp reference point:
\- Request and confirmation of a device trigger
\- Notification of a device trigger
\- Recalling or replacing of an already submitted device trigger
## 5.2 Reference number handling
The reference number shall be assigned by the SCS. The reference number shall
be provided by the SCS to the MTC-IWF in the first procedure initiated for a
specific target of a specific action request (e.g. for a device trigger
request towards a specific MTC device). The MTC-IWF and SCS shall use this
reference number for all consecutive related procedures (e.g. for a
confirmation of device trigger and notification of device trigger).
The reference number shall be kept in MTC-IWF and in SCS until all related
procedures for a specific target of a specific action request initiated by the
SCS are completed (e.g. until the notification of device trigger is
completed).
For each new specific action request other than Device Trigger Recall Request,
the SCS shall assign a reference number, which is different from any other
reference number it has previously assigned to any other another action
request with not yet completed related procedures.
## 5.3 MTC-IWF selection
To discover the MTC-IWF with which to establish the Tsp session, the SCS may
use:
\- a pre-configured MTC-IWF identity
\- DNS
\- Diameter routing
For DNS, the Domain Name System procedures as specified in TS 29.303 [13] may
be used by the SCS for MTC-IWF selection. The External Identifier is defined
in TS 23.003 [14] and is composed of Domain Identifier and Local Identifier.
The DNS query can be performed deriving the domain name to be resolved from
the Domain Identifier part of the External Identifier.
For Diameter Routeing, the Destination Realm should be derived from the Domain
Identifier part of the External Identifier.
## 5.4 MTC-IWF load control
Upon receiving a device action request from the SCS:
\- if the MTC-IWF determines that the SCS has reached or exceeded the quota of
Tsp requests that it is allowed to send, the MTC-IWF may respond to the SCS
with a Device-Action-Answer command containing the Request-Status AVP with the
value set to QUOTAEXCEEDED.
\- if the MTC-IWF determines that the SCS has exceeded its rate of initiating
Tsp requests, the MTC-IWF may respond to the SCS with a Device-Action-Answer
command containing the Request-Status AVP with a value set to RATEEXCEEDED.
\- if the MTC-IWF is in an overload condition, the MTC-IWF may respond to the
SCS with a Device-Action-Answer command containing the Result-Code AVP with
the value set to DIAMETER_TOO_BUSY, see IETF RFC 3588 [6].
For the above cases, the SCS on receiving the response from MTC-IWF, may
provide an indication of the failed request to the application requesting
services to the SCS.
Alternatively, for RATEEXCEEDED and DIAMETER_TOO_BUSY, the SCS may implement a
backoff timer which when running the SCS does not initiate Tsp requests to the
MTC-IWF. Once the timer expires, the SCS may attempt to use the MTC-IWF which
was formerly in an overload condition or for which SCS had exceeded the rate
of Tsp requests. The algorithm the SCS uses for the backoff timer is out of
scope of the 3GPP specification.
## 5.5 Request and confirmation of a device trigger
In order to request the MTC-IWF to perform a device trigger, the SCS shall
send a Device-Action-Request command with the following AVP values within the
Device-Action AVP:
a) Action-Type AVP set to the value Device Trigger Request (1).
b) Either MSISDN AVP or External-Id AVP set to the identifier of the MTC
device to be triggered.
c) SCS-Identity AVP, containing the identity of the SCS that is requesting a
device trigger to the UE.
d) Reference-Number AVP, containing a newly assigned reference number the SCS
has assigned to the specific action request.
e) Trigger-Data AVP containing data to be sent to the MTC device with the
trigger by the MTC-IWF in the Payload AVP, priority of the trigger in the
Priority-Indication AVP and the triggering application addressed in the device
indicated in the Application-Port-Identifier AVP.
f) Validity-Time AVP, indicating the validity time of the device trigger
request since the time the device action request has been received by the MTC-
IWF.
After the MTC-IWF has received from the SCS a Device-Action-Request command
with device action set to Device Trigger Request (1), after receiving the
Device-Trigger-Answer from SMS-SC, the MTC-IWF shall confirm the status of a
device trigger request to the SCS by sending a Device-Action-Answer command
and shall include the following AVP values within the Device-Notification AVP:
a) Action-Type AVP set to the value Device Trigger Request (1).
b) Reference-Number AVP, containing the reference number received from the SCS
for the specific action request.
c) Request-Status AVP set to value indicating the status of the device trigger
request requested by the SCS.
The MTC-IWF may also include the following AVP within the Device-Notification
AVP:
a) Either MSISDN AVP or External-Id AVP set to the identifier of the MTC
device to be triggered.
b) SCS-Identity AVP, containing the identity of the SCS that requested a
device trigger to the UE.
If the MTC-IWF concludes that it needs to abort the device trigger, it shall
indicate the unsuccessful outcome with the Request-Status AVP and may release
the reference number received from the SCS for the specific action request.
## 5.6 Notification of Device trigger
The MTC-IWF shall notify the SCS of the outcome of a device trigger request by
sending a Device-Notification-Request command to the SCS with the following
AVP values set in the Device-Notification AVP:
a) Action-Type AVP set to the value Delivery Report (2).
b) Either MSISDN AVP or External-Id AVP set to the identifier of the MTC
device triggered.
c) SCS-Identity AVP, containing the identity of the SCS that requested a
device trigger to the UE.
d) Reference-Number AVP as received in the corresponding Device-Action-Request
command by the SCS.
e) Delivery-Outcome AVP set to the proper value, depending on success, failure
or unconfirmed outcome of the delivery of the trigger request by the MTC-IWF
to the MTC device.
The SCS shall acknowledge the receipt of the Device-Notification-Request
command by sending to the MTC-IWF a Device-Notification-Answer command.
When the procedure is completed in the MTC-IWF and the SCS the reference
number shall be released.
## 5.7 Request and confirmation of a device trigger recall request
In order to request the MTC-IWF to perform a device trigger recall, the SCS
shall send a Device-Action-Request command with the following AVP values
within the Device-Action AVP:
a) Action-Type AVP set to the value Device Trigger Recall (3).
b) Either MSISDN AVP or External-Id AVP set to the identifier of the MTC
device to be triggered.
c) SCS-Identity AVP, containing the identity of the SCS that is requesting a
device trigger to the UE.
d) Reference-Number AVP, containing the assigned reference number the SCS has
assigned to the trigger message to be recalled.
After the MTC-IWF has received from the SCS a Device-Action-Request command
with device action set to Device Trigger Recall (3), after receiving the
Device-Trigger-Answer from SMS-SC the MTC-IWF shall confirm the status of a
device trigger recall request to the SCS by sending a Device-Action-Answer
command and shall include the following AVP values within the Device-
Notification AVP:
a) Action-Type AVP set to the value Device Trigger Recall (3).
b) Reference-Number AVP, containing the reference number of the recalled
trigger message from the SCS.
c) Request-Status AVP set to value indicating the status of the device trigger
recall.
If the MTC-IWF concludes that it needs to abort the device trigger recall, it
shall indicate the unsuccessful outcome with the Request-Status AVP.
The MTC-IWF may release the reference number received from the SCS if the
trigger to be recalled is indicated as successfully recalled.
## 5.8 Request and confirmation of a device trigger replace request
In order to request the MTC-IWF to perform a device trigger replace, the SCS
shall send a Device-Action-Request command with the following AVP values
within the Device-Action AVP:
a) Action-Type AVP set to the value Device Trigger Replace (4).
b) Either MSISDN AVP or External-Id AVP set to the identifier of the MTC
device to be triggered.
c) SCS-Identity AVP, containing the identity of the SCS that is requesting a
device trigger to the UE
d) Reference-Number AVP, containing a newly assigned reference number the SCS
has assigned to the specific action request.
e) Old-Reference-Number AVP, containing the assigned reference number by the
SCS for the trigger to be replaced.
f) Trigger-Data AVP containing data to be sent to the MTC device with the
trigger by the MTC-IWF in the Payload AVP, priority of the trigger in the
Priority-Indication AVP and the triggering application addressed in the device
indicated in the Application-Port-Identifier AVP.
g) Validity-Time AVP, indicating the validity time of the device trigger
request since the time the device action request has been received by the MTC-
IWF.
After the MTC-IWF has received from the SCS a Device-Action-Request command
with device action set to Device Trigger Replace (4), after receiving the
Device-Trigger-Answer from SMS-SC the MTC-IWF shall confirm the status of a
Device Trigger Replace Request to the SCS by sending a Device-Action-Answer
command and shall include the following AVP values within the Device-
Notification AVP:
a) Action-Type AVP set to the value Device Trigger Replace (4).
b) Reference-Number AVP, containing the reference number received from the SCS
for the specific action request.
c) Old-Reference-Number AVP, containing the reference number previously
received from the SCS for the trigger to be replaced.
d) Request-Status AVP set to value indicating the status of the device trigger
replace requested by the SCS.
The MTC-IWF may also include the following AVP within the Device-Notification
AVP:
a) Either MSISDN AVP or External-Id AVP set to the identifier of the MTC
device to be triggered.
b) SCS-Identity AVP, containing the identity of the SCS that requested a
device trigger replace to the UE.
The MTC-IWF may then release the \"old\" reference number previously received
from the SCS if the trigger to be replaced is indicated as successfully
replaced.
If the MTC-IWF concludes that it needs to abort the device trigger replace, it
shall indicate the unsuccessful outcome with the Request-Status AVP and may
release the reference number received from the SCS for the requested trigger
replace action, except for the status codes: ORIGINALMESSAGESENT.
If the Request-Status indicates either \" REPLACEFAIL \" or \"
ORIGINALMESSAGESENT \" and MTC error diagnostic is provided by the SMS-SC to
the MTC-IWF, the MTC-IWF shall forward the MTC error diagnostic to the SCS.
# 6 Tsp protocol
## 6.1 Protocol support
### 6.1.1 Use of Diameter base protocol
The Diameter Base Protocol as specified in IETF RFC 3588 [6] shall apply
except as modified by the defined support of the methods and the defined
support of the commands and AVPs, result and error codes as specified in this
specification. Unless otherwise specified, the procedures specified in IETF
RFC 3588 [6] (including error handling and unrecognised information handling)
shall be used unmodified. Only commands related to peer-to-peer connection are
re-used from the Diameter Base Protocol, i.e. Capabilities-Exchange-Request
(CER), Capabilities-Exchange-Answer (CEA), Disconnect-Peer-Request (DPR),
Disconnect-Peer-Answer (DPA), Device-Watchdog-Request (DWR) and Device-
Watchdog-Answer (DWA).
With regards to the Diameter protocol defined over the Tsp interface, the MTC-
IWF acts as the Diameter server, in the sense that it is the network element
that handles action requests and sends notifications for a particular realm.
The SCS acts as the Diameter client, in the sense that it is the network
element requesting actions and handles notification from the MTC-IWF.
A Diameter routing table entry can have a different destination based on the
application identifier of the command. The application identifier stored in
the command header must match the value of any application identifier AVPs in
the command body. Diameter agents (relay, proxy, redirection, translation
agents) should use the application identifier in the command header to route
to a suitable destination.
### 6.1.2 Transport protocol
Diameter messages over the Tsp interface shall make use of SCTP IETF RFC 4960
[8] or TCP IETF RFC 791 [4].
### 6.1.3 Advertising Application Support
The Diameter application identifier assigned to the Tsp interface application
is 16777309.
The SCS and MTC-IWF shall advertise support of the Diameter Tsp application by
including the value of the Tsp application identifier in the Auth-Application-
Id AVP within the Vendor-Specific-Application-Id grouped AVP of the CER and
CEA commands.
The vendor identifier value of 3GPP (10415) shall be included in the
Supported-Vendor-Id AVP of the CER and CEA commands, and in the Vendor-Id AVP
within the Vendor-Specific-Application-Id grouped AVP of the CER and CEA
commands.
The Vendor-Id AVP included in CER and CEA commands that is not included in the
Vendor-Specific-Application-Id AVPs as described above shall indicate the
manufacturer of the Diameter node as per RFC 3588 [6].
## 6.2 Initialization and maintenance of connection and session
A Tsp peer-to-peer connection is a connection between SCS and MTC-IWF. It has
no associated meaning beyond this link - i.e. it has no meaning between
communication endpoints such as MTC applications and the UEs. A Tsp peer-to-
peer connection may carry commands associated with multiple MTC applications
and/or multiple UEs.
A Tsp Diameter session shall consist of a single request and answer pair. The
Tsp Diameter session is terminated after each request and answer pair
interaction, i.e. the Tsp Diameter session shall not keep the session state.\
In order to indicate that the session state is not to be maintained, the
Diameter client and server shall include the Auth-Session-State AVP with the
value set to NO_STATE_MAINTAINED (1), in the request and in the answer
messages (see IETF RFC 3588 [6]).
Communications between UE and MTC application may span multiple Tsp Diameter
sessions.
## 6.3 Security on the Tsp interface
### 6.3.1 General
The Diameter security mechanisms as specified in IETF RFC 3588 [6] shall apply
to the Tsp reference point unless explicitly stated otherwise.
NOTE: The use of Diameter in the present specification is based on IETF RFC
3588 [6]. Nevertheless, the security mechanism defined for the Tsp reference
point rather aligns with the security mechanism in IETF RFC 6733 [18]. The
only difference to the security in IETF RFC 6733 [18] is that the support for
DTLS is made conditional on the support of SCTP.
### 6.3.2 Mutual authentication
The present document covers only Tsp interface security procedures for
deployments where a DIAMETER message on the Tsp interface between MTC-IWF and
SCS shall pass through at most one DIAMETER agent in the security domain, in
which the MTC-IWF resides (called 'MTC-IWF-side agent' in the sequel), and one
DIAMETER agent in the security domain, in which the SCS resides (called 'SCS-
side agent' in the sequel).
NOTE 1: Other deployments are possible, but they are not recommended for the
purposes of the Tsp interface.
Mutual authentication between a node in the security domain, in which the MTC-
IWF resides, and a node in the security domain, in which the SCS resides,
shall be performed using TLS or IPsec as specified in IETF RFC 3588 [6], with
the exception that the security profiles specified in clause 6. 3.3 of the
present document shall apply.
The following rules shall apply:
\- There shall be no intermediate DIAMETER agent in a third security domain
between the security domain of the MTC-IWF and the security domain of the SCS.
\- In the security domain of the MTC-IWF, the node performing the Tsp-related
mutual authentication shall be the MTC-IWF-side agent, if present, and the
MTC-IWF otherwise.
\- In the security domain of the SCS, the node performing the Tsp-related
mutual authentication shall be the SCS -side agent, if present, and the SCS
otherwise.
\- The peers shall verify the peer identity received in CER/CEA messages
against the identity (e.g. name in the certificate) authenticated by means of
TLS or IPsec.
\- Domain authorization check: a suitable node in the security domain
receiving a Tsp-related DIAMETER message shall check that the originator of
this message, i.e the SCS (or MTC-IWF respectively), as identified at the
application layer, is indeed authorized to send this message via the peer
whose identity was verified in the previous step. This check may be performed
through suitable local tables associating SCSs (or MTC-IWFs respectively) with
nodes in the originating security domain whose identities can be verified by
the receiving domain. The node performing this domain authorization check
shall be either the MTC-IWF or the MTC-IWF-side agent for messages destined to
the MTC-IWF and either the SCS or the SCS-side agent for messages destined to
the SCS.
NOTE 2: The MTC-IWF can perform the domain authorization check even in the
presence of an MTC-IWF-side agent as the latter includes the verified peer
identity in the Route-Record AVP. (Analogously for the SCS -side) The concept
of domain authorization check is defined by the bullet above and not taken
from another normative document.
\- The MTC-IWF-side agent (the SCS-side agent respectively) shall perform
egress filtering in that it only forwards (Tsp-related) DIAMETER messages
originating from MTC-IWFs (SCSs respectively) in its own security domain.
### 6.3.3 Security profiles
The support of TLS on Tsp is mandatory. The support of IKE/IPsec is optional.
If SCTP is supported, then DTLS shall be supported.
Security profiles for IKE, IPsec, and TLS shall be according to the following
provisions:
\- The profile for TLS implementation and usage shall follow the provisions
given in TS 33.310 [11], Annex E. The mutual authentication shall be based on
certificates according to the profiles given in TS 33.310 [11], clauses 6.1.3a
and 6.1.4a. The structure of the PKI used for these certificates is out of
scope of the present document, thus the provisions in these clauses on issuers
of the certificates do not apply.
\- If IKE/IPsec is supported then the implementation of IKEv2 is mandatory
with mutual authentication based on certificates according to the profile
given in TS 33.310 [11]. The certificate profiles shall follow TS 33.310 [11],
clauses 6.1.3 and 6.1.4. The structure of the PKI used for these certificates
is out of scope of the present document, thus the provisions in these clauses
on issuers of the certificates do not apply.
\- If IKE/IPsec is supported then IPsec ESP shall be implemented according to
the profile in TS 33.210 [10]. Tunnel mode is mandatory to support. Transport
mode is optional to support.
The security profile for DTLS is defined in TS 33.310 [11], Annex E.
## 6.4 Tsp specific AVPs
### 6.4.1 General
Table 6.4.1.1 describes the Diameter AVPs defined for the Tsp reference point,
their AVP Code values, types and possible flag values. The Vendor-Id header of
all AVPs defined in the present document shall be set to 3GPP (10415). For all
AVPs which contain bit masks and are of the type Unsigned32, bit 0 shall be
the least significant bit. For example, to get the value of bit 0, a bit mask
of 0x0001 should be used.
Table 6.4.1.1: Tsp specific Diameter AVPs
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | AVP | App | | | | | | | | | Flag | licab | | | | | | | | | rules | ility | | | | | | | | | (Note | (Note | | | | | | | | | 1) | 2) | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Attr | AVP | C | Value | Must | May | S | Must | | | ibute | Code | lause | Type | | | hould | not | | | Name | | de | | | | not | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Dev | 3001 | 6. | Gr | M,V | P | | | | | ice-A | | 4.2 | ouped | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Devi | 3002 | 6.4.3 | Gr | M,V | P | | | | | ce-No | | | ouped | | | | | | | tific | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Tr | 3003 | 6.4.4 | Gr | M,V | P | | | | | igger | | | ouped | | | | | | | -Data | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Pa | 3004 | 6.4.5 | O | M,V | P | | | | | yload | | | ctetS | | | | | | | | | | tring | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | A | 3005 | 6.4.6 | Enume | M,V | P | | | | | ction | | | rated | | | | | | | -Type | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Prio | 3006 | 6.4.7 | Enume | M,V | P | | | | | rity- | | | rated | | | | | | | Indic | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | R | 3007 | 6.4.8 | Unsig | M,V | P | | | | | efere | | | ned32 | | | | | | | nce-N | | | | | | | | | | umber | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Requ | 3008 | 6.4.9 | Enume | M,V | P | | | | | est-S | | | rated | | | | | | | tatus | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | D | 3009 | 6 | Enume | M,V | P | | | | | elive | | .4.10 | rated | | | | | | | ry-Ou | | | | | | | | | | tcome | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Ap | 3010 | 6 | Unsig | M,V | P | | | | | plica | | .4.11 | ned32 | | | | | | | tion- | | | | | | | | | | Port- | | | | | | | | | | Ident | | | | | | | | | | ifier | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Old-R | 3011 | 6 | Unsig | V | P | | M | Devi | | efere | | .4.12 | ned32 | | | | | ce-Tr | | nce-N | | | | | | | | igger | | umber | | | | | | | | -Reca | | | | | | | | | | ll-Re | | | | | | | | | | place | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Fea | 3012 | 6 | Unsig | V | P | | M | Devi | | ture- | | .4.13 | ned32 | | | | | ce-Tr | | Suppo | | | | | | | | igger | | rted- | | | | | | | | -Reca | | In-Fi | | | | | | | | ll-Re | | nal-T | | | | | | | | place | | arget | | | | | | | | | | AVP | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | | AVP | | | | | | | | | | h | | | | | | | | | | eader | | | | | | | | | | bit | | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | | noted | | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | | | | 'M\', | | | | | | | | | | indi | | | | | | | | | | cates | | | | | | | | | | wh | | | | | | | | | | ether | | | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | | | pport | | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | AVP | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | requ | | | | | | | | | | ired. | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | | AVP | | | | | | | | | | h | | | | | | | | | | eader | | | | | | | | | | bit | | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | | noted | | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | | | | 'V\', | | | | | | | | | | indi | | | | | | | | | | cates | | | | | | | | | | wh | | | | | | | | | | ether | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | opt | | | | | | | | | | ional | | | | | | | | | | Vend | | | | | | | | | | or-ID | | | | | | | | | | field | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | pr | | | | | | | | | | esent | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | AVP | | | | | | | | | | he | | | | | | | | | | ader. | | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | | fu | | | | | | | | | | rther | | | | | | | | | | det | | | | | | | | | | ails, | | | | | | | | | | see | | | | | | | | | | RFC 3 | | | | | | | | | | 588 \ | | | | | | | | | | [6]. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | | AVPs | | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | | arked | | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | | supp | | | | | | | | | | orted | | | | | | | | | | fe | | | | | | | | | | ature | | | | | | | | | | (e.g. | | | | | | | | | | \"De | | | | | | | | | | vice- | | | | | | | | | | Trigg | | | | | | | | | | er-Re | | | | | | | | | | call- | | | | | | | | | | Repla | | | | | | | | | | ce\") | | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | | desc | | | | | | | | | | ribed | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | clau | | | | | | | | | | se 6. | | | | | | | | | | 4.12. | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
### 6.4.2 Device-Action AVP
The Device-Action AVP (AVP code 3001) is of type Grouped. It is used by the
SCS to request a specific action for a device.
AVP Format:
Device-Action ::= \
[ External-Id ]
[ MSISDN ]
[ SCS-Identity ]
{ Reference-Number }
[ Old-Reference-Number ]
{ Action-Type }
[ Trigger-Data ]
[ Validity-Time ]
*[ AVP ]
### 6.4.3 Device-Notification AVP
The Device-Notification AVP (AVP code 3002) is of type Grouped. It is used by
the MTC-IWF to report any action requested by the SCS.
AVP Format:
Device-Notification ::= \
[ External-Id ]
[ MSISDN ]
[ SCS-Identity ]
{ Reference-Number }
{ Action-Type }
[ Request-Status ]
[ MTC-Error-Diagnostic ]
[ Delivery-Outcome ]
*[ AVP ]
### 6.4.4 Trigger-Data AVP
The Trigger-Data AVP (AVP code 3003) is of type Grouped. It is used by the SCS
to supply all data required for a device trigger request.
AVP Format:
Trigger-Data ::= \
{ Payload }
[ Priority-Indication ]
[ Application-Port-Identifier ]
*[ AVP ]
### 6.4.5 Payload AVP
The Payload AVP (AVP code 3004) is of type OctetString, and contains the
payload to be transferred to the addressed device.
### 6.4.6 Action-Type AVP
The Action-Type AVP (AVP code 3005) is of type Enumerated, and informs the
MTC-IWF of what action type is required in the request and also informs the
SCS of what action type is reported.
The following values are defined:
Device Trigger Request (1)
This value indicates a device trigger request and is used:
\- in the Device-Action AVP of the Device-Action-Request command;
\- in the Device-Notification AVP of the Device-Action-Answer command.
Delivery Report (2)
This value indicates a delivery report sent from MTC-IWF to the SCS and is
used:
\- in the Device-Notification AVP of the Device-Notification-Request command.
Device Trigger Recall (3)
This value indicates a device trigger recall request and is used:
\- in the Device-Action AVP of the Device-Action-Request command;
\- in the Device-Notification AVP of the Device-Action-Answer command.
Device Trigger Replace (4)
This value indicates a device trigger replace request and is used:
\- in the Device-Action AVP of the Device-Action-Request command;
\- in the Device-Notification AVP of the Device-Action-Answer command.
### 6.4.7 Priority-Indication AVP
The Priority-Indication (AVP code 3006) is of type Enumerated, and identifies
priority of the device trigger.
The following values are defined:
Non-Priority (0)
This value indicates that the device trigger has non-priority.
Priority (1)
This value indicates that the device trigger has priority.
### 6.4.8 Reference-Number AVP
Reference-Number AVP (AVP code 3007) is of type Unsigned32, and is used to
uniquely identify a transaction. The reference number is allocated by the
initiator of a transaction and is used in all subsequent messages related to
that transaction.
### 6.4.9 Request-Status AVP
The Request-Status AVP (AVP code 3008) is of type Enumerated, and informs the
SCS of the status of a device action request. It can include the result of
MTC-IWF checks, the HSS/HLR interrogation and the SMS-SC submission trigger.
The Request-Status AVP can be included in the Device-Action-Answer command.
The following values are defined:
SUCCESS (0)
This value indicates that device action requested is confirmed.
TEMPORARYERROR (201)
This value indicates any unspecified temporary errors.
INVPAYLOAD (101)
This value indicates an error with the payload, where the payload is valid
according to Diameter AVP definition but an implementation limit such as
maximum accepted length is exceeded.
INVEXTID (102)
This value indicates an error with the External Identifier, where the
identifier is valid according to Diameter AVP definition but the value is
rejected by the 3GPP network for example because it is an unknown
subscription. The result code specified in TS 29.336 [12], clause 6.3.3.1
shall be mapped to this value.
INVSCSID (103)
This value indicates an error with the SCS identity, where the identity is
valid according to Diameter AVP definition but the value is rejected by the
3GPP network for example because it is an unexpected value for this SCS.
INVPERIOD (104)
This value indicates an error with the validity period, where the validity
period is valid according to Diameter AVP definition but the value is rejected
by the 3GPP network for example because a maximum allowed validity period is
exceeded.
NOTAUTHORIZED (105)
This value indicates that the SCS is not authorized to perform the action
requested for this UE. The result code specified in TS 29.336 [12], clause
6.3.3.2 shall be mapped to this value.
SERVICEUNAVAILABLE (106)
This value indicates that the trigger service is not available for this UE.
The result code specified in TS 29.336 [12], clause 6.3.3.3 shall be mapped to
this value.
PERMANENTERROR (107)
This value indicates a permanent error. Any result code specified in TS 29.337
[17], clause 7.3 shall be mapped to this value unless otherwise specified in
this specification.
QUOTAEXCEEDED (108)
This value indicates that the SCS has exceeded allocated quota.
RATEEXCEEDED (109)
This value indicates that the rate at which the SCS is initiating Tsp requests
has been exceeded.
REPLACEFAIL (110)
This value indicates that the device trigger replace request has failed to
replace the device trigger indicated by the Old-Reference-Number in the SMS-SC
for other reasons than ORIGINALMESSAGESENT i.e. message could not be replaced
and new message could not be stored as a new message. The result code
DIAMETER_ERROR_TRIGGER_REPLACE_FAILURE specified in TS 29.337 [17], clause
7.3.5 shall be mapped to this value.
RECALLFAIL (111)
This value indicates that the device trigger recall request has failed for
other reasons than ORIGINALMESSAGESENT. The result code
DIAMETER_TRIGGER_RECALL_FAILURE specified in TS 29.337 [17], clause 7.3.6
shall be mapped to this value.
ORIGINALMESSAGESENT (112)
This value indicates that the message which was intended to be recalled or
replaced has already been sent. The result code
DIAMETER_ERROR_ORIGINAL_MESSAGE_NOT_PENDING specified in TS 29.337 [17],
clause 7.3.7 shall be mapped to this value.
### 6.4.10 Delivery-Outcome AVP
The Delivery-Outcome AVP (AVP code 3009) is of type Enumerated, and informs
the SCS of the outcome of the device action request. The Delivery-Outcome AVP
can be included in Device-Notification-Request command.
The following values are defined:
SUCCESS (0)
This value indicates that the device action request was successfully
completed. The value SUCCESSFUL_TRANSFER specified in TS 29.337 [17], clause
6.3.1 shall be mapped to this value.
EXPIRED (1)
This value indicates that the validity period expired before the trigger could
be delivered. The value VALIDITY_TIME_EXPIRED specified in TS 29.337 [17],
clause 6.3.1 shall be mapped to this value. (Temporary error)
TEMPORARYERROR (2)
This value indicates that this trigger encountered a temporary network error.
UNDELIVERABLE (3)
This value indicates that this trigger encountered a delivery error and is
deemed permanently undeliverable. The values ABSENT_SUBSCRIBER and
UE_MEMORY_CAPACITY_EXCEEDED specified in TS 29.337 [17], clause 6.3.1 shall be
mapped to this value.
UNCONFIRMED (4)
This value indicates that the delivery of the device action request is not
confirmed.
NOTE: The Absent-Subscriber-Diagnostic-T4 AVP specified in TS 29.337 [17],
clause 6.3.2 is connected with the ABSENT_SUBSCRIBER value in the SM-Delivery-
Outcome-T4 AVP. The Absent-Subscriber-Diagnostic-T4 AVP values will not be
forwarded via the Tsp interface.
### 6.4.11 Application-Port-Identifier AVP
The Application-Port-Identifier AVP (AVP code 3010) is of type Unsigned32 and
is used to uniquely identify the triggering application addressed in the
device, see clause 9.2.3.24.4 in TS 23.040 [15] for further details.
### 6.4.12 Old-Reference-Number AVP
Old-Reference-Number AVP (AVP code 3011) is of type Unsigned32, and is used to
uniquely identify a transaction which is intended to be replaced.
### 6.4.13 Feature-Supported-In-Final-Target AVP
Feature-Supported-In-Final-Target AVP (AVP code 3012) is of type Unsigned32
and contains a bitmask, and is used to indicate the features supported in
target node. This AVP shall be present if any of the features are supported.
Table 6.4.13.1: Features supported by final target node
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Feature bit | Remote target | Description | Applicability | | | Feature | | | | (Note 1) | | (Note 3) | (Note 4) | | | (Note 2) | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 0 | D | This Feature | D | | | evice-Trigger- | indicates the | evice-Trigger- | | | Recall-Replace | support of the | Recall-Replace | | | supported in | applicability | | | | SMS-SC | to support the | | | | | functionalty | | | | | for device | | | | | trigger recall | | | | | and device | | | | | trigger | | | | | replace by the | | | | | SMS-SC | | | | | | | | | | This Feature | | | | | is applicable | | | | | for the DAA | | | | | command. | | | | | | | | | | If an SMS-SC | | | | | does not | | | | | indicate the | | | | | support of the | | | | | feature the | | | | | SCS shall not | | | | | send device | | | | | trigger recall | | | | | requests to an | | | | | MTC-IWF and | | | | | SCS shall | | | | | treat the | | | | | device trigger | | | | | replace as a | | | | | new device | | | | | trigger. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Note 1: | | | | | Feature bit: | | | | | The order | | | | | number of the | | | | | bit within the | | | | | Featu | | | | | re-Supported-I | | | | | n-Final-Target | | | | | **AVP, e.g.** | | | | | \"**1** \"**.** | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: | | | | | **Remote | | | | | target | | | | | feature: A | | | | | short name | | | | | that can be | | | | | used to refer | | | | | to the bit and | | | | | to the feature | | | | | in the target | | | | | node, e.g.** | | | | | \"Device-T | | | | | rigger-Recall- | | | | | Replace\"**.** | | | | | | | | | | Note 3: | | | | | Description: A | | | | | clear textual | | | | | description of | | | | | the feature. | | | | | | | | | | Note 4: | | | | | Applicability: | | | | | Bits marked | | | | | with a | | | | | supported | | | | | feature (e.g. | | | | | \"Devi | | | | | ce-Trigger-Rec | | | | | all-Replace\") | | | | | are applicable | | | | | as described | | | | | in | | | | | clau | | | | | se 6.4.12**.** | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
## 6.5 Tsp re-used AVPs
### 6.5.1 General
Table 6.5.1.1 lists the Diameter AVPs re-used by the Tsp reference point from
existing Diameter Applications, reference to their respective specifications
and a short description of their usage within the Tsp reference point. Other
AVPs from existing Diameter Applications, except for the AVPs from Diameter
base protocol, do not need to be supported. The AVPs from Diameter base
protocol are not included in table 6.5.1.1, but they are re-used for the Tsp
reference point. Unless otherwise stated, re-used AVPs shall maintain their
\'M\', \'P\' and \'V\' flag settings. For all AVPs which contain bit masks and
are of the type Unsigned32, bit 0 shall be the least significant bit. For
example, to get the value of bit 0, a bit mask of 0x0001 should be used.
Table 6.5.1.1: Tsp re-used Diameter AVPs
* * *
Attribute Name Reference Description Applicability (Note 1) MSISDN TS 29.329
[3] MSISDN of the device.  
External-Id TS 29.336 [12] External identifier has the form username\@realm.  
SCS-Identity TS 29.336 [12] This Information Element shall contain the
identity of the Service Capability Server that is requesting a device trigger
to the UE.  
Validity-Time IETF RFC 4006 [7] The validity time in seconds for the specific
action requested.  
Supported-Features TS 29.229 [16] If present, this AVP informs the destination
host about the features that the origin host requires to successfully complete
this command exchange.  
MTC-Error-Diagnostic TS 29.337 [17] If present, this AVP provides additional
information about the failure ocured in the SMS-SC.  
NOTE 1: AVPs marked with a supported feature are applicable as described in
clause 6.4.12.
* * *
### 6.5.2 Supported-Feature-List AVP
#### 6.5.2.1 Use of the Supported-Features AVP
When new functionality is introduced on the Tsp reference point, it should be
defined as optional. If backwards incompatible changes cannot be avoided, the
new functionality shall be introduced as a new feature and support advertised
with the Supported-Features AVP. Unless otherwise stated, the use of the
Supported-Features AVP on the Tsp reference point shall be compliant to the
usage of the Supported-Features AVP on the Cx reference point and consistent
with the procedures for the dynamic discovery of supported features as defined
in clause 7.2 of TS 29.229 [16].
When extending the application by adding new AVPs for a feature, the new AVPs
shall have the M bit cleared and the AVP shall not be defined mandatory in the
command ABNF.
As defined in TS 29.229 [16], the Supported-Features AVP is of type grouped
and contains the Vendor-Id, Feature-List-ID and Feature-List AVPs. On the all
reference points as specified in this specificaion, the Supported-Features AVP
is used to identify features that have been defined by 3GPP and hence, for
features defined in this document, the Vendor-Id AVP shall contain the vendor
ID of 3GPP (10415). If there are multiple feature lists defined for the
reference point, the Feature-List-ID AVP shall differentiate those lists from
one another.
The Supported-Features AVP shall be included in every DAR and DAA command if
supported by the SCS and MTC-IWF respectively.
If the SCS supports post-Rel-12 Tsp functionality, the DAR shall include the
features supported by the SCS within Supported-Features AVP(s) with the \'M\'
bit cleared.
The Table 6.5.2.2/1 defines the features applicable to the Tsp reference point
for the feature list with a Feature-List-ID of 1.
#### 6.5.2.2 Supported-Feature-List AVP for the Tsp application
The syntax of this AVP is defined in TS 29.229 [16].
For the Tsp application, the meaning of the bits shall be as defined in table
6.5.2.2/1 for the Supported-Feature-List-ID of 1.
Table 6.5.2.2/1: Features of Feature-List-ID 1 used in Tsp
+-------------------+-------------------+-----+-------------------+ | Feature bit | Feature | M/O | Description | +-------------------+-------------------+-----+-------------------+ | 0 | Device-Trigg | O | This Feature | | | er-Recall-Replace | | indicates the | | | | | support of the | | | | | applicability to | | | | | support the | | | | | functionality for | | | | | device trigger | | | | | recall and device | | | | | trigger replace. | | | | | | | | | | This Feature is | | | | | applicable for | | | | | the DAR/DAA | | | | | command pair. | | | | | | | | | | If an MTC-IWF or | | | | | SCS does not | | | | | indicate the | | | | | support of the | | | | | feature the SCS | | | | | shall not send | | | | | device trigger | | | | | recall requests | | | | | to an MTC-IWF and | | | | | SCS shall treat | | | | | the device | | | | | trigger replace | | | | | as a new device | | | | | trigger. | +-------------------+-------------------+-----+-------------------+ | Feature bit: The | | | | | order number of | | | | | the bit within | | | | | the | | | | | **S | | | | | upported-Features | | | | | AVP, e.g.** | | | | | \"**1** \"**.** | | | | | | | | | | **Feature: A | | | | | short name that | | | | | can be used to | | | | | refer to the** | | | | | bit and to the | | | | | feature, e.g. | | | | | \"Device-Trigger- | | | | | Recall-Replace\". | | | | | | | | | | **M/O: Defines if | | | | | the | | | | | implementation of | | | | | the feature is | | | | | mandatory | | | | | (** \"**M** \"**) | | | | | or optional | | | | | ( | | | | |** \"**O** \"**).** | | | | | | | | | | Description: A | | | | | clear textual | | | | | description of | | | | | the feature. | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+-----+-------------------+
## 6.6 Tsp Messages
### 6.6.1 Command-Code Values
This section defines the Command-Code values for the Tsp interface application
as allocated by IANA from the vendor-specific namespace defined in IETF RFC
5719 [9]. Every command is defined by means of the ABNF syntax IETF RFC 2234
[5], according to the rules in IETF RFC 3588 [6].
The following Command Codes are defined in this specification:
Table 6.6.1.1: Command-Code values for Tsp
* * *
Command-Name Abbreviation Code Section Device-Action-Request DAR 8388639 6.
6.2 Device-Action-Answer DAA 8388639 6. 6.3 Device-Notification-Request DNR
8388640 6. 6.4 Device-Notification-Answer DNA 8388640 6. 6.5
* * *
For the commands defined in this specification and reused commands, the
Application-ID field shall be set to 16777309.
### 6.6.2 Device-Action-Request (DAR) command
The DAR command, indicated by the Command-Code field set to 8388639 and the
\'R\' bit set in the Command Flags field, is sent by the SCS to the MTC-IWF as
part of the device action request procedure.
Message Format:
\ ::= \
\
{ Auth-Application-Id }
{ Auth-Session-State }
{ Origin-Host }
{ Origin-Realm }
{ Destination-Realm }
[ Destination-Host ]
[ Origin-State-Id ]
**[ Device-Action ]**
*[ Proxy-Info ]
*[ Route-Record ]
*[ Supported-Features ]
*[ AVP ]
### 6.6.3 Device-Action-Answer (DAA) command
The DAA command, indicated by the Command-Code field set to 8388639 and the
\'R\' bit cleared in the Command Flags field, is sent by the MTC-IWF to the
SCS as part of the device action request procedure.
Message Format:
\ ::= \
\
{ Auth-Application-Id }
**{ Auth-Session-State }**
{ Origin-Host }
{ Origin-Realm }
[ Result-Code ]
[ Experimental-Result ]
[ Error-Message ]
[ Error-Reporting-Host ]
*[ Failed-AVP ]
[ Origin-State-Id ]
**{ Device-Notification }**
*[ Redirect-Host ]
[ Redirect-Host-Usage ]
[ Redirect-Max-Cache-Time ]
*[ Proxy-Info ]
*[ **Supported-Features** ]
[ Features-Supported-In-Final-Target ]
*[ AVP ]
### 6.6.4 Device-Notification-Request (DNR) command
The DNR command, indicated by the Command-Code field set to 8388640 and the
\'R\' bit set in the Command Flags field, is sent by the MTC-IWF to the SCS as
part of the device notification report procedure.
Message Format:
\ ::= \
\
{ Auth-Application-Id }
{ Auth-Session-State }
{ Origin-Host }
{ Origin-Realm }
{ Destination-Realm }
{ Destination-Host }
[ Origin-State-Id ]
**[ Device-Notification ]**
*[ Proxy-Info ]
*[ Route-Record ]
*[ AVP ]
### 6.6.5 Device-Notification-Answer (DNA) command
The DNA command, indicated by the Command-Code field set to 8388640 and the
\'R\' bit cleared in the Command Flags field, is sent by the SCS to the MTC-
IWF as part of the device notification report procedure.
Message Format:
\ ::= \
\
{ Auth-Application-Id }
{ Auth-Session-State }
{ Origin-Host }
{ Origin-Realm }
[ Result-Code ]
[ Experimental-Result ]
[ Origin-State-Id ]
[ Error-Message ]
[ Error-Reporting-Host ]
*[ Redirect-Host ]
[ Redirect-Host-Usage ]
[ Redirect-Max-Cache-Time ]
*[ Failed-AVP ]
*[ Proxy-Info ]
*[ AVP ]
###### ## Annex A (informative): Tsp Message Flows
# A.1 General
This Annex illustrates Tsp Message Flows.
# A.2 Tsp Submission, T4 Delivery
This sub clause illustrates the Tsp Message Sequence Diagram for trigger
submissions over Tsp with subsequent trigger delivery over T4.
Figure A.2.1: Tsp Submission, T4 Delivery
The flow consists of the following operations:
1\. The SCS sends a Device-Action-Request command to the MTC-IWF with the
Action-Type AVP set to the Value Device Trigger Request (1) and other AVPs as
further specified in sub clause 5.5.
2\. The MTC-IWF selects T4 for delivery performs the T4 submission procedures
and is informed of the submission outcome.
3\. The MTC-IWF confirms the status of the device trigger request to the SCS
by sending a Device-Action-Answer command with the Action-Type AVP set to the
Value Device Trigger Request (1) and the Request-Status AVP set to value
indicating the status of the device trigger request. Other AVPs as further
specified in sub clause 5.5.
4\. - 5. The SMS-SC performs delivery procedures and reports the outcome to
the MTC-IWF.
6\. The MTC-IWF notifies the SCS of the outcome of the device trigger request
by sending a Device-Notification-Request command with Action-Type AVP set to
the value Delivery Report (2), the Delivery-Outcome AVP set to the proper
value.
7\. The SCS acknowledges to the MTC-IWF that is has successfully received the
out come of the device trigger request by sending a Device-Notification-Answer
command with Action-Type AVP set to the value Delivery Report (2).
8\. The MTC-IWF responds back to the SMS-SC that is has successfully
transferred the report.
NOTE: A SMS-SC will repeat the procedure from steps 5 to ensure the Deliver
Report is received if a negative confirmation is received.
# A.3 Tsp failed Submission
This sub clause illustrates the Tsp Message Sequence Diagram for trigger
submissions over Tsp with the trigger submission is rejected.
Figure A.3.1: Tsp Submission, T4 Delivery
The flow consists of the following operations:
1\. The SCS sends a Device-Action-Request command to the MTC-IWF with the
Action-Type AVP set to the Value Device Trigger Request (1) and other AVPs as
further specified in sub clause 5.5.
2\. The MTC-IWF rejects the trigger request or it is informed as part of the
T4 submission procedure that the trigger is rejected. Example reject reasons:
Unknown subscription, SCS not authorized, Service not authorized for UE,
Insufficient resources, QOS exceeded, Insufficient resources. Reject reasons
may be temporary or permanent nature.
3\. The MTC-IWF informs the SCS of the device trigger request outcome by
sending a Device-Action-Answer command with the Action-Type AVP set to the
Value Device Trigger Request (1) and the Request-Status AVP set to an
appropriate error value indicating the rejection of the device trigger
request. Other AVPs as further specified in sub clause 5.5. The device trigger
request has reached a final status at this point and the procedure ends here.
# A.4 Tsp Submission, Failed T4 Delivery
This sub clause illustrates the Tsp Message Sequence Diagram for trigger
submissions over Tsp with subsequent a failed trigger delivery over T4.
Figure A.4.1: Tsp Submission, T4 Delivery
The flow consists of the following operations:
1\. The SCS sends a Device-Action-Request command to the MTC-IWF with the
Action-Type AVP set to the Value Device Trigger Request (1) and other AVPs as
further specified in sub clause 5.5.
2\. The MTC-IWF selects T4 for delivery performs the T4 submission procedures
and is informed of a positive submission outcome.
3\. The MTC-IWF confirms the status of the device trigger request to the SCS
by sending a Device-Action-Answer command with the Action-Type AVP set to the
Value Device Trigger Request (1) and the Request-Status AVP set to value
indicating the SUCCESS status of the device trigger request. Other AVPs as
further specified in sub clause 5.5.
4 - 5. The SMS-SC concludes after one or more retries that the triger is not
deliverable to the UE (i.e trigger validity period exceeded, persistent error
received from HSS, UE or network) and reports the outcome to the MTC-IWF.
6\. The MTC-IWF notifies the SCS of the negative outcome of the device trigger
request by sending a Device-Notification-Request command with Action-Type AVP
set to the value Delivery Report (2), the Delivery-Outcome AVP set to the
appropriate error value. Delivery errors may be of temporary or permanent
nature.
7\. The SCS acknowledges to the MTC-IWF that is has received the out come of
the device trigger request by sending a Device-Notification-Answer command
with Action-Type AVP set to the value Delivery Report (2).
8\. The MTC-IWF responds back to the SMS-SC that is has successfully
transferred the report.
NOTE: A SMS-SC will repeat the procedure from steps 5 to ensure the Deliver
Report is received if a negative confirmation is received.
# A.5 Tsp Recall Submission, Recall Success
This clause illustrates the message signalling flow for trigger recall
submissions over Tsp with recall success over T4.
Figure A.5.1: Tsp Recall Submission, T4 Recall Success
The signalling flow consists of the following operations:
1\. The SCS sends a Device-Action-Request command to the MTC-IWF with the
Action-Type AVP set to the Value Device Trigger Recall Request (3) and
reference-number for the trigger to be recalled and other AVPs as further
specified in clause 5.7.
2\. The MTC-IWF selects T4 for trigger recall and performs the T4 recall
procedures and is informed of the trigger recall outcome.
3\. MTC-IWF sends Device-Action-Answer command to SCS with the Action-Type AVP
set to the Value Device Trigger Recall Request (3) and the Request-Status AVP
set to value indicating SUCCESS. Other AVPs as further specified in clause
5.7.
# A.6 Tsp Recall Submission, Recall Failure
This clause illustrates the message signalling flow for trigger recall
submissions over Tsp with recall failure over T4.
Figure A.6.1: Tsp Recall Submission, T4 Recall Failure
The signalling flow consists of the following operations:
1\. The SCS sends a Device-Action-Request command to the MTC-IWF with the
Action-Type AVP set to the Value Device Trigger Recall Request (3) and
reference-number for the trigger to be recalled and other AVPs as further
specified in clause 5.7.
2\. The MTC-IWF rejects the trigger recall request or it is informed as a part
of the T4 recall procedure that the trigger recall is rejected.
3\. MTC-IWF sends Device-Action-Answer command to SCS with the Action-Type AVP
set to the Value Device Trigger Recall Request (3) and the Request-Status AVP
set to value indicating applicable reason for the recall failure, see clause
6.4.9. Other AVPs as further specified in clause 5.7.
4\. The SMS-SC reports the delivery outcome for the original trigger message
to the MTC-IWF according to A.2, step 5 to 8 for successful case and A.4, step
5 to 8 for unsuccessful case.
# A.7 Tsp Replace Submission, Replace Success
This clause illustrates the message signalling flow for trigger replace
submissions over Tsp with replace success over T4.
Figure A.7.1: Tsp Replace Submission, T4 Replace Success
The signalling flow consists of the following operations:
1\. The SCS sends a Device-Action-Request command to the MTC-IWF with the
Action-Type AVP set to the Value Device Trigger Replace Request (4) and old-
reference-number for the trigger to be replaced. The new trigger reference
number is assigned by the SCS to the newly submitted trigger message. Other
AVPs as further specified in clause 5.8.
2\. The MTC-IWF selects T4 for trigger replace and performs the T4 replace
procedures and is informed of the trigger replace outcome.
3\. MTC-IWF sends Device-Action-Answer command to SCS with the Action-Type AVP
set to the Value Device Trigger Replace Request (4) and the Request-Status AVP
set to value indicating SUCCESS. Other AVPs as further specified in clause
5.8.
4\. The SMS-SC will attempt to deliver the new trigger. This step can happen
anytime after step 2.
5\. The SMS-SC reports the delivery outcome for the new trigger message to the
MTC-IWF according to A.2, step 5 to 8 for successful case and A.4, step 5 to 8
for unsuccessful case.
# A.8 Tsp Replace Submission, Replace Failure
This clause illustrates the message signalling flow for trigger replace
submissions over Tsp with replace failure over T4.
Figure A.8.1: Tsp Replace Submission, T4 Replace Failure
The signalling flow consists of the following operations:
1\. The SCS sends a Device-Action-Request command to the MTC-IWF with the
Action-Type AVP set to the Value Device Trigger Replace Request (4) and old-
reference-number for the trigger to be replaced. Other AVPs as further
specified in clause 5.8.
2\. The MTC-IWF rejects the trigger replace request or it is informed as a
part of the T4 replace procedure that the trigger replace is rejected.3. MTC-
IWF sends Device-Action-Answer command to SCS with the Action-Type AVP set to
the Value Device Trigger Replace Request (4) and the Request-Status AVP set to
value indicating applicable reason for the replace failure, see clause 6.4.9 .
Other AVPs as further specified in clause 5.8.
4\. The SMS-SC reports the delivery outcome for the original trigger message
to the MTC-IWF according to A.2, step 5 to 8 for successful case and A.4, step
5 to 8 for unsuccessful case. Procedures ends if the Request-Status AVP value
in step 3 was different from ORIGINALMESSAGESENT (112).
5\. If the Request-Status AVP value in step 3 was ORIGINALMESSAGESENT (112),
the SMS-SC will attempt to deliver the new trigger. This step can happen
anytime after step 2.
6\. The SMS-SC reports the delivery outcome for the new trigger message to the
MTC-IWF according to A.2, step 5 to 8 for successful case and A.4, step 5 to 8
for unsuccessful case.
#