# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The present document defines the interfaces and Terminal Adaptation Functions
(TAF) integral to a Mobile Termination (MT) which enables the attachment of
synchronous terminals to a MT within the 3GPP system.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document defines Terminal Adaptation Functions (TAF) which are
integrated in a Mobile Termination (MT) and which enable the use of
synchronous bearer services in the PLMN and the attachment of Synchronous
synchronous Terminals terminals to an MT (see 3GPP TS 24.002 [3]). For the
case where asynchronous terminals are attached to the TAF when using
synchronous bearer services in the PLMN, the reader is referred to 3GPP TS
27.002 [36] for the asynchronous MT-TAF interface specifics and to the present
document for synchronous bearer service specifics on the TAF-IWF interface.
The general aspects of Terminal Adaptation Functions are contained in
specification 3GPP TS 27.001 [9]. The present document covers support of
synchronous data services (see 3GPP TS 22.002 [6]) for the following
interfaces and procedures:
‑ V.22 [15] DTE/DCE Interface;
‑ V.22 bis [16] DTE/DCE Interface;
‑ V.26 ter [19] DTE/DCE Interface;
‑ X.21 bis [24] DTE/DCE Interface;
‑ X.32 [30] Procedure;
‑ V.25 bis [18] Procedure;
NOTE: From R99 onwards the support of the following services are no longer
required by a PLMN:
\- the dual Bearer Services \"alternate speech/data\" and \"speech followed by
data\";
\- the dedicated services for PAD and Packet access;
\- BS 21 ... 26 and BS 31 ... 34.
> From REL-4 onwards the support of the following service is no longer
> required by a PLMN:
\- the synchronous Bearer Service non-transparent (BS 30 NT).
the Teleservice Facsimile non-transparent (TS 61/62 NT) for A/Gb mode.
The support of these services is still optional. The specification of these
services is not within the scope of the present document. For that, the reader
is referred to GSM R98 or R99 respectively.
NOTE: Please note that the Gb interface does not play any role in the scope of
the present document although the term "A/Gb mode" is used. GERAN Iu mode is
for further study.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] Void
[2] 3GPP TS 43.010: \"GSM Public Land Mobile Network (PLMN) connection
types\".
[3] 3GPP TS 24.002: \"GSM - UMTS Public Land Mobile Natwork (PLMN) access
reference configuration \"
[4] 3GPP TS 44.021: \"Rate adaption on the Mobile Station ‑ Base Station
System (MS ‑ BSS) interface\".
[5] 3GPP TS 08.20: \"Rate adaption on the Base Station System ‑
Mobile‑services Switching Centre (BSS ‑ MSC) interface\".
[6] 3GPP TS 22.002: \"Circuit Bearer Services (BS) supported by Public Land
Mobile Network (PLMN)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile Radio Interface Layer 3 specification; Core
Network Protocols-Stage 3\".
[8] Void.
[9] 3GPP TS 27.001: \"General on Terminal Adaptation Functions (TAF) for
Mobile Stations (MS)\".
[10] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications \".
[11] ITU-T Recommendation I.420 (1998): \"Basic user‑network interface\".
[12] Void.
[13] Void.
[14] Void.
[15] ITU-T Recommendation V.22 (1988): \"1200 bits per second duplex modem
standardized for use in the general switched telephone network and on point-
to-point 2-wire leased telephone-type circuits\".
[16] ITU-T Recommendation V.22 bis (1988): \"2400 bits per second duplex modem
using the frequency division technique standardized for use on the general
switched telephone network and on point-to-point 2-wire leased telephone-type
circuits\".
[17] ITU-T Recommendation V.24 (1996):\"List of definitions for interchange
circuits between data terminal equipment (DTE) and data circuit‑terminating
equipment (DCE)\".
[18] ITU-T Recommendation V.25 bis (1996): \"Synchronous and asynchronous
automatic dialling procedures on switched networks\".
[19] ITU-T Recommendation V.26 ter (1988): \"2400 bits per second duplex modem
using the echo cancellation technique standardized for use on the general
switched telephone network and on point-to-point 2-wire leased telephone-type
circuits\".
[20] ITU‑T Recommendation V.28 (1993): \"Electrical characteristics for
unbalanced double‑current interchange circuits\".
[21] Void.
[22] ITU-T Recommendation V.110 (1996): \"Support of data terminal equipments
with V‑Series interfaces by an integrated services digital network\".
[23] Void.
[24] Void.
[25] Void.
[26] Void.
[27] Void.
[28] Void.
[29] Void.
[30] ITU-T Recommendation X.32 (1996): \"Interface between Data terminal
Equipment (DTE) and Data Circuit-terminating Equipment (DCE) for terminals
operating in packet mode and accessing a Packet-Switched Public Data Network
through a public switched telephone network or an Integrated Services Digital
Network or a Circuit-Switched Public Data Network\".
[31] Void.
[32] Void.
[33] Personal Computer Memory Card Association: \"PCMCIA 2.1 or PC‑Card 3.0
electrical specification or later revisions\".
[34] Infrared Data Association IrDA: \"IrPHY Physical layer signalling
standard\".
[35] Void.
[36] 3GPP TS 27.002: \"Terminal adaptation functions (TAF) for services using
asynchronous bearer capabilities\".
## 2.1 Abbreviations
In addition to the abbreviations listed below, the present document also uses
termslisted in 3GPP TR 21.905 [10].
IrDA Infrared Data Association
IrPHY InfraredPHYsical layer
ITU-T ITU-Telecommunication Standardization Sector
MUX Multiplexer
## 2.2 Definitions
The term \'mobile station\' (MS) in the present document is synonymous with
the term \'user equipment\' (UE ) as defined in 3GPP TR 21.905[10].
The term \'TE2\' in the present document is synonymous with the term \'TE\' as
defined in 3GPP TR 21.905[10].
The term \'MT2\' in the present document is synonymous with the term \'MT\' as
defined in 3GPP TR 21.905[10].
For the purposes of the present document the following internal definitions
apply in addition to those given in 3GPP TS 21.905[10].
**A/Gb mode:** indicates that the text applies only to a system or sub-system
which operate in A/Gb mode of operation, i.e. with a functional division that
is in accordance with the use of an A or a Gb interface between the radio
access network and the core network
**Iu mode:** indicates that the text applies only to a system or a sub-system
which operates in Iu mode of operation, i.e. with a functional division that
is in accordance with the use of an Iu-CS or Iu-PS interface between the radio
access network and the core network
# 3 General
## 3.1 Customer access configuration
The PLMN access reference configuration is described in figure 1 of 3GPP TS
24.002 [3] and 3GPP TS 27.001 [9]. The present document specifically refers to
the MTs which support terminal equipments (TE1 or TE2) that use synchronous
bearer capabilities.
## 3.2 Terminal Adaptation Function
The TAF is functionally part of an MT0, MT1 or MT2 (see 3GPP TS 24.002 [3]).
The terminal adaptation provides facilities to allow manual or automatic call
control functions associated with circuit switched data services, in case of
ITU-T V series interfaces. The following functions are included:
‑ conversion of electrical, mechanical, functional and procedural
characteristics of the ITU-T V‑series, type interfaces to those required by a
PLMN;
‑ bit rate adaptation of ITU-T V‑series and ITU-T X‑series data signalling
rates and the ISDN 64 kbit/s to that provided in an A/Gb mode PLMN;
‑ the mapping of ITU-T V.25 bis [18] AUTO CALL/AUTO ANSWER procedures to the
PLMN Layer 3 signalling;
‑ the mapping functions necessary to convert ITU-T S‑interface signalling to
PLMN Layer 3 signalling;
‑ synchronization procedure, which means the task of synchronizing the entry
to and the exit from the data transfer phase between two subscriber terminals.
This is described in the specification 3GPP TS 27.001 [9];
‑ filtering of channel control information. This is described in the
specification 3GPP TS 27.001 [9];
‑ compatibility checking (see 3GPP TS 27.001 [9]);
‑ flow control;
‑ in Call Modification function (see clause 4);
\- splitting and combining of the data flow in case of multi substream data
configurations.
## 3.3 TAF Interfacing to other MT functions
TAF interfacing is shown in figure 1.
Figure 1: TAF interfacing to other MT functions
# 4 Terminal Adaptation Functions for synchronous transparent services
Specification 3GPP TS 43.010 [2] refers to the models for connection types
supporting synchronous transparent services.
## 4.1 Rate Adaptation in A/Gb mode
Rate adaptation on the MS-BS interface is described in 3GPP TS 44.021[4]. The
synchronous data services make use of the following rate adaptation functions:
RA1, RA2, RA1/RA1\', RA1\' and in case of TCH/F28.8 usage, EDGE-MUX. See also
figures 6, 7 and 8 in 3GPP TS 43.010 [2]. The D-bits of the rate adaptation
frames are used to convey user data. The S- and X-bits are used to convey
channel status information associated with the data bits in the data transfer
state, or to carry substream numbering between the Split/Combine functions in
case of mult substream operation. For the S- and X‑bits, a ZERO corresponds to
the ON condition, a ONE to the OFF condition.
### 4.1.1 Rate adaptation - ITU-T V-series
This is provided as indicated in specification 3GPP TS 44.021 [4]. The
functions applied in this case are shown in figure 2 (see model 2b in figures
6, 7 and 8 of 3GPP TS 43.010 [2]).
Figure 2: Rate adaptation for V-series terminals
### 4.1.2 Rate adaptation - ITU-T X.21
Void.
### 4.1.3 Rate adaptation - ITU-T S-interface
Void.
## 4.2 Interchange Circuit Signalling Mapping
### 4.2.1 ITU-T V-series interchange circuit mapping
The interchange circuit signalling mapping at the interface between the TE2
and the MT shall conform to ITU-T recommendation V.24 [17]. The signal levels
at the interface shall conform either to ITU-T recommendation V.28 [20], or to
IrDA IrPHY Physical signalling standard specification [34], or to PCMCIA 2.1
[33], or to PC‑Card 3.0 [33] electrical specifications or to later revisions.
The signals required at this interface are shown in table 2.
\- Specification 3GPP TS 44.021 [4] refers to the frame structure and
identifies the use of status bits for the carriage of signalling information.
Status bits SA, SB and X are used to convey channel control information
associated with the data bits in the data transfer state. Table 1 shows the
mapping scheme between the ITU-T V.24 [17] circuit numbers and the status bits
for the transparent mode. It also shows how the unused status bits should be
handled. It is derived from the general mapping scheme described in annex C. A
binary 0 corresponds to the ON condition, a binary 1 to the OFF condition.
The transport of these status bits by the various channel codings is described
in subsequent sections.
Table 1: Mapping scheme at the MT for the transparent mode
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Signal at TE2/MT | Mapping\ | Mapping\ | | interface or | direction: MT to IWF | direction: IWF to MT | | condition within the | | | | MT | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | CT 105 | not mapped (note 1) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | CT 106 | | from status bit X | | | | (note 7) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | CT 107 | | not mapped (note 5) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | CT 108/2 | not mapped (note 6) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | CT 109 | | from status bit SB | | | | (note 7) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | CT 133 | not mapped (note 2) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | always ON | to status bit SA | | | | (note 3) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | always ON | to status bit SB | | | | (note 1) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | always ON | to status bit X | | | | (note 4) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | ignored by MT | | from status bit SA | | | | (note 3) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NOTE 1: The SB bit | | | | towards the IWF, | | | | according to the | | | | General Mapping | | | | (3GPP TS 27.002, | | | | annex C), could be | | | | used to carry CT | | | | 105. However, CT 105 | | | | should always be ON | | | | in the data transfer | | | | state since only | | | | duplex operation is | | | | supported. Also, | | | | many DTEs use the | | | | connector pin | | | | assigned to CT 105 | | | | for CT 133. No | | | | interchange circuit | | | | shall be mapped to | | | | the SB bit which | | | | shall always be set | | | | to ON in the data | | | | transfer state. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: CT 133 is | | | | not mapped since | | | | there is no flow | | | | control in | | | | transparent mode. | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: The SA bits | | | | in both directions | | | | are available only | | | | with certain channel | | | | codings. Therefore, | | | | for maximum | | | | compatibility, they | | | | should not be | | | | mapped. | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: The X bit | | | | towards the IWF is | | | | not mapped and shall | | | | always be set to ON | | | | in the data transfer | | | | state since there is | | | | no flow control in | | | | transparent mode. | | | | | | | | NOTE 5: CT 107 is | | | | controlled by the | | | | channel | | | | synchronization | | | | process (3GPP | | | | TS 27.001 [9]). | | | | | | | | NOTE 6: CT 108/2 may | | | | be used in the call | | | | setup and answering | | | | processes. | | | | | | | | NOTE 7: The status | | | | bits are filtered | | | | before being mapped | | | | to the ITU-T V.24 | | | | [17] circuits | | | | (3GPP TS 27.001 | | | | [9]). | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
Table 2: Minimum set of V-series interchange circuits
* * *
Circuit Number Circuit Name Ground Data Control  
to from to from TE2 TE2 TE2 TE2 CT102 Common Return X  
CT103 Transmitted  
data X  
CT104 Received data X  
CT105 Request to  
send X CT106 Ready for  
sending X  
CT107 Data set ready X  
CT108.2 Data terminal  
ready X CT109 Data channel  
received line X  
signal detector  
CT114 Transmitter  
signal element X  
timing  
CT115 Receiver  
signal element X  
timing  
CT125 Calling in‑  
dicator (note) X  
NOTE: CT125 is used with the AUTO ANSWER function of the TAF.
* * *
**Use of Network Independent Clocking (applicable to A/Gb mode PLMN only):**
Network Independent Clocking is only applicable to calls using ITC value \"3.1
kHz audio ex PLMN\".
Within the **A/Gb mode PLMN** the coding of the values for bits associated
with NIC is specified in 3GPP TS 44.021 [4] and 3GPP TS 08.20 [5]. In the
forward (transmitting) direction the multiframes shall be coded in exact
accordance with that specified in those specifications. Bit E6 is set to \"1\"
in alternate modified ITU-T V.110 [22] frames at the transmitter. However, the
use of this bit at the receiver for monitoring frame Synchronization, or any
other purpose, is not specified and is left to the discretion of the
implementor.
A \"perfect linear block Code\" is used in C1‑C5, whose error correction
properties may be utilized in the receiver, in order to ensure reliable
operation of NIC.
The NIC sending function has to recognize when the difference between the
applicable clock speed of the **A/Gb mode PLMN** and the interface speed
generates a positive or negative whole bit requirement. When this positive or
negative condition occurs, the NIC codewords specified in specification 3GPP
TS 44.021 [4] are used to transport this condition to the receiving NIC
function. Transmission of the codeword shall clear the positive or negative
condition related to that codeword at the sending function. The sending
function shall not send more than one positive or negative compensation within
a contiguous period of time corresponding to 10 000 user data bits minus the
number of user data bits necessary to make up an even number of ITU-T V.110
[22] frames. Between compensations (NIC compensation is coded in two ITU-T
V.110 [22] frames). This results from the requirements to compensate for
maximum clock differences of ±100 parts per million. If the receiving function
receives NIC compensations more often than a contiguous period of time
corresponding to 10 000 user data bits, there is no guarantee that data will
not be lost.
The NIC receiving function has to provide the capability to support the
compensation requirements of the sending function. This compensation is
managed by manipulating the clock speed of the interface, within the standard
constraints of that interface.
Overall, the compensation functions have to be capable of managing clock
tolerances of ±100 parts per million.
The NIC function has to recognize and manage the conversion of the NIC
information received incoming from an ISDN terminal Interface. The conversion
has to be made to the NIC format used within the **A/Gb mode PLMN** System as
defined in specifications 3GPP TS 44.021 [4] and 3GPP TS 08.20 [5]). The NIC
function has to manage the conversion of the PLMN NIC format into that used
within the ISDN in the traffic direction towards the ISDN terminal interface.
Due to the incompatibility between the ISDN and the **A/Gb mode PLMN**
requirements NIC interworking is nor provided between these two formats. as
such no NIC function is required in providing interworking to the ISDN for
unrestricted digital.
**Action on loss of synchronization:**
If five consecutive NIC multiframes have incorrect framing bit values in E7,
the receiver shall stop applying clocking compensation to the received data.
Resynchronization shall be attempted and compensation shall resume when
synchronization is achieved.
**Signal element timing:**
Receiver signal element timing (CT115) is generated by MT2. In the **A/Gb mode
PLMN** transparent case, this shall be synchronized to the output of RA1\'
function. In the UTRAN Iu mode transparent case, this shall be synchronized to
output of the RLC. A transition from ON to OFF condition shall nominally
indicate the centre of each signal element on CT104.
Transmitter signal element timing is generated by MT2 (CT114), this may be
synchronized to CT115.
In the case of alternate Speech/Group 3 Facsimile, there may be a Channel Mode
Modify during the course of the facsimile portion of the call. If this occurs,
the user data rate changes and this is reflected to the ITU‑T V.24 [17]
interface as a change in the clock speed on CT 114 and CT 115.
#### 4.2.1.1 Multislot configurations (Channel coding TCH/F9.6 or TCH/F4.8
kbit/s)
In transparent multislot configurations status bits S1, S3 and the X-bit
between the D12 and D13 in the ITU‑T V.110 [22] 80-bit intermediate rate frame
- are used for transferring substream numbering information. The S4‑bit is
used for frame synchronization between the parallel substreams (ref 3GPP TS
44.021[4]).
#### 4.2.1.2 Channel coding TCH/F14.4 and TCH/F28.8
For information on the mapping of the interchange circuit signalling bits in
the 14,5 multiframe structure, refer to 3GPP TS 44.021 [4].
### 4.2.2 ITU-T X.21 [23] Interchange circuit mapping
Void.
### 4.2.3 Case of ITU-T S‑interface
Void.
## 4.3 Call establishment signalling mapping at TE/MT interface
### 4.3.1 ITU-T V-series interfaces
#### 4.3.1.1 Call establishment manual operation - utilizing Alternate
Speech/Data or Speech followed by Data Capabilities
Void.
#### 4.3.1.2 Call establishment manual operation - utilizing the Unrestricted
Digital Capability
In this case the user shall not hear network supervisory tones or answer tone.
The data transfer phase shall be entered automatically.
#### 4.3.1.3 ITU-T V.25bis [18] auto call/auto answer
The mapping of the ITU-T V.25bis [18] procedures to the messages of the PLMN
Layer 3 signalling (3GPP TS 24.008 [7]) is defined in clause 4.
**Auto Call:**
This procedure is provided according to ITU-T V.25bis [18] using only circuit
108/2. A subset of ITU-T V.25bis [18] is shown in table 4. This subset gives
minimum level of control and indication.
During the call establishment phase, i.e. after signalling, call tone
according to ITU-T V.25 bis [18] shall be generated in the IWF, where
appropriate.
**Auto Answer:**
This procedure is provided according to ITU-T V.25bis [18].
Table 4: Minimum set of ITU-T V.25bis [18] Call Set-up Commands and
Indications
* * *
                   Description                                                          IA5Characters
Commands [C]{.underline}all [R]{.underline}equest with [N]{.underline}umber
CRN from TE2 provided 0,1..9,*,#,A,B,C,D  
[D]{.underline}isregard [I]{.underline}ncoming [C]{.underline}all DIC
[C]{.underline}onnect [I]{.underline}ncoming [C]{.underline}all CIC
Indications [C]{.underline}all [F]{.underline}ailure [I]{.underline}ndication
CFI XX to TE2 XX = CB,AB,NT,FC (Note)  
[IN]{.underline}coming [C]{.underline}all INC []{.underline}
[VAL]{.underline}id VAL [INV]{.underline}alid INV
* * *
NOTE to table 4: CB = Local MT busy\ AB = Abort call\ NT = No answer\ FC =
Forbidden call (*)
(*) Forbidden call indication results from contravention of rules for repeat
call attempts as defined by the appropriate national approval administration.
It is recommended that this is the responsibility of the MT, not the TE2.
### 4.3.2 ITU-T X-series interfaces
Void.
### 4.3.3 ITU-T S-interface (ITU-T I.420 [11]) signalling mapping
Void.
### 4.3.4 X.25 Procedures Mapping
Void.
# 5 Terminal Adaptation Functions for synchronous non‑transparent services.
Void.
# 6 V-series interface procedures to 3GPP TS 24.008 [7] mapping
Interface procedures not directly mappable to 3GPP TS 24.008 [7] (ie. ITU-T
V.25 bis [18] VAL/INV) are not considered. Mobile management procedures of
3GPP TS 24.008 [7] are not considered applicable.
Mapping of other call establishment or clearing messages to the S interface
e.g. \"Call proceeding\", etc. have not been included. It is assumed that
these may be mapped directly and thus are of no relevance to the ITU-T V.25
bis [18] or manual interface.
## 6.1 Mobile Originated calls
a) SET-UP.
+----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | Element | Derived from | | +----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | | MMI | ITU-T V.25 bis [18] | | | | message | +----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | Called Address | Keypad | CRN/CRI/CRS | +----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | Called | Keypad | CRI | | | | | | Sub Address | | | +----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | HLC | Derived from internal | | | | settings or MMI | | | | information. | | +----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | LLC | Same as HLC | | +----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | BC | Same as HSC | | | | | | | | 3GPP TS 27.001 [9] | | | | gives allowed values | | +----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
b) RELEASE COMPLETE.
* * *
Element Derived from  
MMI ITU-T V.25 bis [18] message Cause Display (optional) CFI
* * *
## 6.2 Mobile Terminated calls
Call establishment is initiated by receipt of Setup at the MS:
a) SET-UP.
+----------------+--------------------+-------------------------------+ | Element | Mapped on to | | +----------------+--------------------+-------------------------------+ | | MMI | ITU-T V.25 bis [18] message | +----------------+--------------------+-------------------------------+ | Called Address | Display (optional) | INC | +----------------+--------------------+-------------------------------+ | Called | Display (optional) | Not applicable | | | | | | Sub Address | | | +----------------+--------------------+-------------------------------+ | HLC | Display (optional) | Not applicable | +----------------+--------------------+-------------------------------+ | LLC | Display (optional) | Not applicable | +----------------+--------------------+-------------------------------+ | BC | Display (optional) | Not applicable | +----------------+--------------------+-------------------------------+
b) CALL CONFIRM.
Information for the BC element in the call confirm is derived from e.g. MMI or
by internal settings.
c) CONNECT.
Connect is sent in response, CIC from ITU-T V.25 bis [18] or in response from
MMI.
# 7 ITU-T X.21 [23] interface procedures to 3GPP TS 24.008 [7] mapping
Void.
# 8 Support for packet service
Void.
###### ## Annex A (normative): L2R Functionality
Void
#