# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document describes the technical characteristics and methods of
test for testing the USIM Application Toolkit implemented in 3^rd^ Generation
Mobile Equipments (ME) or Mobile Station (MS) for the LTE-Advanced, LTE, 3G
and 2G digital cellular communications systems within the 3GPP digital
cellular telecommunications system, in compliance with the relevant
requirements, and in accordance with the relevant guidance given in ISO/IEC
9646‑7 [19] and ETSI ETS 300 406 [20].
The present document is valid for ME implemented according to 3GPP Release 99,
or Release 4, or Release 5, or Release 6, or Release 7, or Release 8, or
Release 9 or Release 10.
The present document covers the minimum characteristics considered necessary
in order to provide sufficient performance for mobile equipment and to prevent
interference to other services or to other users, and to the PLMNs.
It does not necessarily include all the characteristics which may be required
by a user or subscriber, nor does it necessarily represent the optimum
performance achievable.
The present document is part of the 3GPP-series of technical specifications.
The present document neither replaces any of the other 3GPP technical
specifications or 3GPP related ETSs or ENs, nor is it created to provide full
understanding of (or parts of) the UMTS. The present document lists the
requirements, and provides the methods of test for testing the USIM
Application Toolkit implemented in a ME for conformance to the 3GPP standard.
For a full description of the system, reference should be made to all the 3GPP
technical specifications or 3GPP related ETSIs, ETSs or ENs. Clause 2 provides
a complete list of the 3GPP technical specifications, 3GPP related ETSI\'s
EtSs, ENs, and ETRs, on which this conformance test specifications is based.
If there is a difference between this present conformance document, and any
other 3GPP technical specification or 3GPP related ETSI, ETS, EN, or 3GPP TS,
then the other 3GPP technical specification or 3GPP related ETSI ETS, EN or
3GPP TS shall prevail.
Within the context of this document, the term \"terminal\" used in ETSI TS 102
384 [26] refers to the Mobile Equipment (ME).
Within the context of this document, the term \"UICC\" used in ETSI TS 102 384
[26] refers to the USIM card.
Within the context of this document, the term \"NAA\" used in ETSI TS 102 384
[26] refers to the USIM application.
For the avoidance of doubt, references to clauses of ETSI TS 102 384 [26] or
ETSI TS 102 221 [13] include all the subclauses of that clause, unless
specifically mentioned.
The target test specification ETSI TS 102 384 [26] contains material that is
outside of the scope of 3GPP requirements and the present document indicates
which parts are in the scope and which are not.
A 3GPP ME may support functionality that is not required by 3GPP, but the
requirements to do so are outside of the scope of 3GPP. Thus the present
document does not contain tests or references to ETSI TS 102 384 [26] tests
for features which are out of scope of 3GPP.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
```{=html}
``` \- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the
relevant Release_.
  * References to 3GPP Technical Specifications and Technical Reports > throughout the present document shall be interpreted according to > the Release shown in the formal reference in this clause, based > upon the Release of the implementation under test.
[1] - [12] Void
[13] ETSI TS 102 221 v10.0.0: \"UICC-Terminal interface; Physical and logical
characteristics\"
[14] - [18] Void
[19] ISO/IEC 9646‑7 (1995): \"Information technology - Open Systems
Interconnection - Conformance testing methodology and framework - Part 7:
Implementation Conformance Statements\".
[20] ETSI ETS 300 406 (1995): \"Methods for Testing and Specification (MTS);
Protocol and profile conformance testing specifications; Standardization
methodology\".
[21] - [25] Void
[26] ETSI TS 102 384: \"Smart cards; UICC-Terminal interface; Card Application
Toolkit (CAT) conformance specification\".
[27] - [38] Void
[39] 3GPP TS 31.124, Rel-11: \"Mobile Equipment (ME) conformance test
specification; Universal Subscriber Identity Module Application Toolkit (USAT)
conformance test specification\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
Void
# 4 Requirements
The requirements of the present document are provided in 3GPP TS 31.124 [39].
#