# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
**(Background)**
The use and general aspects of the A‑bis interface are given in specification
3GPP TS 48.051. The split of telecommunications functions and management
procedures between BSC and BTS are defined in specification 3GPP TS 48.052.
Specification 3GPP TS 48.056 defines Layer 2 of the signalling messages.
The general aspects of NM are defined in specification GSM 12.00. Qx interface
and protocol stack are defined in specification GSM 12.01. GSM 12.06 provides
the functional requirements supported by the present document. The NM
procedures and messages to support these operations over the A‑bis interface
are specified here. Specification GSM 12.20 provides the information model as
seen on the OMC-BSC interface. Interworking between this model and the NM
messages and procedures provided here is specified in GSM 12.22.
# 1 Scope
The present document addresses the network management messages and procedures
across the A-bis interface, which is defined as Qx in GSM. The information
model included here defines the objects and how they are addressed for
purposes of operations and maintenance activities.
There is a requirement for the A-bis interface to be open to allow
interoperation between BTSs of different manufacturers working to the same
BSC. The present document addresses this requirement from O&M point of view,
which allows this interworking to take place. It shows the split of NM
functions between BSC and BTS. The procedures and coding of the messages are
specified in detail. In practice, in addition to the present document it is
necessary that the content of manufacturer-dependent information fields be
specified to fulfill the functionality.
It is essential for operation that a BSC can handle the functions used by all
its BTSs. Therefore, all items in the present document are considered
mandatory unless otherwise indicated in the present document.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 44.006: \"Mobile Station - Base Stations System (MS - BSS)
Interface Data Link (DL) Layer Specification\".
[3] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile radio interface Layer 3 specification; Core
network protocols; Stage 3\".
[4] 3GPP TS 45.002: \"Multiplexing and Multiple Access on the Radio Path\".
[5] 3GPP TS 45.005: \"Radio transmission and reception\".
[6] 3GPP TS 45.008: \"Radio subsystem link control\".
[7] 3GPP TS 48.051: \"Base Station Controller - Base Tranceiver Station (BSC-
BTS) Interface General Aspects\".
[8] 3GPP TS 48.052: \"Base Station Controller - Base Tranceiver Station (BSC-
BTS) Interface - Interface Principles\".
[9] 3GPP TS 48.056: \"BSC-BTS Layer 2 Specification\".
[10] 3GPP TS 48.058: \"Base Station Controler - Base Transceiver Station (BCS-
BTS) Interface Layer 3 Specification\".
[11] GSM 12.00 (GSM Phase 2): \"Objectives and structure of Network Management
(NM)\".
[12] GSM 12.01 (GSM Phase 2): \"Common aspects of GSM Network Management
(NM)\".
[13] GSM 12.06 (GSM Phase 2): \"GSM Network Configuration Management and
Administration\".
[14] GSM 12.20 (GSM Phase 2): \"Base Station System (BSS) Management
Information\".
[15] GSM 12.22 (GSM Phase 2): \"Interworking of GSM Network Management (NM)
procedures and messages at the Base Station Controller (BSC)\".
[16] ITU-T Recommendation X.731: \"Information technology - Open Systems
Interconnection - Systems Management: State management function\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
Definitions of terms used within the present document may be found mostly in
clause5 in text context.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purpose of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
ASN.1 (CCITT) Abstract Syntax Notation One
BSC Base Station Controller
BSS Base Station System
BTS Base Transceiver Station
cont. continued
HW Hardware
LSB Least Significant Byte
man. dep. manufacturer dependent (with upper and lower case adjusted as
appropriate)
MMI Man‑machine Interface
MSB Most Significant Byte
MSC Mobile‑services Switching Centre
NE Network Element
NM Network Management
O&M Operations and Maintenance
OMC Operations and Maintenance Centre
RF Radio Frequency
SAPI Service Access Point Indicator
SW Software
TEI Terminal End-point Identifier
TMN Telecommunications Management Network
TSC Training Sequence Code
Further GSM related abbreviations may be found in 3GPP TS 21.905 [1].
# 4 Functional Split between BSC and BTS
Functional split of management functions between BSC and BTS is shown in table
1.
Table 1/GSM 12.2: Split of management functions between BSC and BTS
+----------------------------+-----------------+---------------------+ | | BSC | BTS | +----------------------------+-----------------+---------------------+ | Fault Management | | | +----------------------------+-----------------+---------------------+ | BTS | | | +----------------------------+-----------------+---------------------+ | test request | X | - | +----------------------------+-----------------+---------------------+ | test execution | - | X | +----------------------------+-----------------+---------------------+ | test analysis | NS | - | +----------------------------+-----------------+---------------------+ | fault detection | - | X | +----------------------------+-----------------+---------------------+ | fault localization | X (note) | X | +----------------------------+-----------------+---------------------+ | fault reporting | X | X | +----------------------------+-----------------+---------------------+ | Link | | | +----------------------------+-----------------+---------------------+ | testing (req,ex,rpt) | NS | - | +----------------------------+-----------------+---------------------+ | fault detection | X | X | +----------------------------+-----------------+---------------------+ | fault localization | X | X | +----------------------------+-----------------+---------------------+ | fault reporting | X | X | +----------------------------+-----------------+---------------------+ | | | | +----------------------------+-----------------+---------------------+ | Configuration Management | | | +----------------------------+-----------------+---------------------+ | Hardware | control/monitor | control | +----------------------------+-----------------+---------------------+ | Software | control/monitor | monitor | +----------------------------+-----------------+---------------------+ | State | control/monitor | control/monitor | +----------------------------+-----------------+---------------------+ | Parameters | control/monitor | monitor | +----------------------------+-----------------+---------------------+ | Performance Management | | | +----------------------------+-----------------+---------------------+ | Collection | X | X (radio path only) | +----------------------------+-----------------+---------------------+ | Reporting | X | X (radio path only) | +----------------------------+-----------------+---------------------+ | Administration | X | - | +----------------------------+-----------------+---------------------+ | | | | +----------------------------+-----------------+---------------------+ | Security Management | | | | (Access Control to BTS) | | | | | | | | BTS) | | | +----------------------------+-----------------+---------------------+ | Control | - | X | +----------------------------+-----------------+---------------------+ | Monitoring | - | X | +----------------------------+-----------------+---------------------+ | NOTE: When fault | | | | localisation is not | | | | possible at the BTS it | | | | must be deduced at the | | | | BSC. | | | | | | | | Legend: Abbreviations: | | | | | | | | NS = Not Specified; | | | | | | | | req = request; | | | | | | | | X = Function exists; | | | | | | | | ex = execution | | | | | | | | - = Function non-exists; | | | | | | | | rpt = report | | | +----------------------------+-----------------+---------------------+
# 5 Information Model
## 5.1 Managed Objects
The BCF mentioned in 3GPP TS 48.052 and 3GPP TS 48.056 is the agent at the BTS
end of the A-bis O&M interface. It has four different descriptions depending
on the object that is managed: Site Manager, BTS, Radio Carrier and Baseband
Transceiver.
This model describes how objects are managed across A-bis interface, but it
doesn\'t specify how information is transferred inside the site. That is, the
manner of communication between an object and objects under it is not
specified in the present document.
As shown in Figure 1, the Object Classes used on the A-bis interface are a
subset of those found under Site Manager on the OMC-BSC interface. The Object
Classes are listed below and the functionalities that describe them are found
in table 2.
**Site Manager:** manages common control functions of several BTSs and
transceivers on one site. These can include managing external alarms, front-
end switch, etc. This model describes logical sites. There can be multiple
logical sites in one physical site. Communication between entities within a
logical site is manufacturer dependent.
**BTS:** is associated with one cell. BTSs are typically created at
installation phase by connecting transceivers to antennas thus forming cells
from the air interface point of view. The BTS can also contain control
functions common to various transceivers. The way BTSs are formed from
transceivers and how corresponding BTS numbers are determined is configuration
dependent information, which is stored during installation.
**Radio Carrier:** represents manageable properties pertaining to radio
transmission and reception of one carrier.
**Baseband Transceiver:** represents functions common to eight radio time
slots.
**Channel:** is a physical channel in air interface, which can contain several
logical channels depending on channel combination. A Channel is described with
radio time slot and frequency hopping attributes (see 3GPP TS 45.002).
{width="5.075694444444444in" height="2.6708333333333334in"}
NOTE: Site Manager and BTS don\'t necessarily require separate equipment. For
example, the Site Manager and a Baseband Transceiver can be associated with
the same physical equipment.
Figure 1/GSM 12.21: Object model seen across A-bis interface
Table 2/GSM 12.21: Objects, attributes and procedures seen across A-bis
interface
+---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | Object class | Attributes | Procedures | +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | Site | Abis Channel | Equipment Management | | | | | | Manager | Availability Status | Establish TEI | | | | | | | HW Configuration | Get Attributes | | | | | | | Manufacturer Dependent | Measurement Management | | | State | | | | | Set Site Outputs | | | Manufacturer Id | | | | | State Management and | | | Operational State | Event Report | | | | | | | Site Inputs | SW Download Management | | | | | | | Site Outputs | Test Management | | | | | | | SW Configuration | | +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | BTS | Administrative State | Equipment Management | | | | | | | Availability Status | Get Attributes | | | | | | | BCCH ARFCN | Measurement Management | | | | | | | BSIC | Report Procedures | | | | | | | BTS Air Timer | Set BTS Attributes | | | | | | | CCCH Load Ind. Period | State Management and | | | | Event Report | | | CCCH Load Threshold | | | | | SW Download Management | | | Connection Failure | | | | Criterion | Test Management | | | | | | | GSM Time | | | | | | | | HW Configuration | | | | | | | | Intave Parameter | | | | | | | | Interterference Level | | | | Boundaries | | | | | | | | Manufacturer Dependent | | | | State | | | | | | | | Max Timing Advance | | | | | | | | Ny1 | | | | | | | | Operational State | | | | | | | | Overload Period | | | | | | | | RACH Busy Threshold | | | | | | | | RACH Load Averaging | | | | Slots | | | | | | | | SW Configuration | | | | | | | | T200 | | +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | Radio Carrier | Administrative State | Equipment Management | | | | | | | ARFCN List | Get Attributes | | | | | | | Availability Status | Measurement Management | | | | | | | HW Configuration | Set RadioCarrier | | | | Attributes | | | Manufacturer Dependent | | | | State | State Management and | | | | Event Report | | | Manufacturer Id | | | | | SW Download Management | | | Operational State | | | | | Test Management | | | Power Class | | | | | []{.underline} | | | RF Max Power Reduction | | | | | | | | SW Configuration | | +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | Baseband | Abis Channel* | Connect Terrestrial | | | | Signalling | | Transceiver | Administrative State | | | | | Disconnect Terrestrial | | | Availability Status | Signalling | | | | | | | HW Configuration | Equipment Management | | | | | | | Manufacturer Dependent | Get Attributes | | | State | | | | | Measurement Management | | | Manufacturer Id | | | | | State Management and | | | Operational State | Event Report | | | | | | | SW Configuration | SW Download Management | | | | | | | | Test Management | +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | Channel | Abis Channel* | Connect Terrestrial | | | | Traffic | | | Administrative State | | | | | Disconnect Terrestrial | | | ARFCN List* | Traffic | | | | | | | Availability Status | Equipment Management | | | | | | | Channel Combination | Get Attributes | | | | | | | HW Configuration | Measurement Management | | | | | | | HSN* | Set Channel Attributes | | | | | | | MAIO* | State Management and | | | | Event Report | | | Operational State | | | | | SW Download Management | | | SW Configuration | | | | | Test Management | | | TSC | | +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
NOTE: If more than one layer 2 link is defined to handle this information
model, the actual implementation may affect on which layer 2 link attributes
concerning frequency hopping and front-end switch are sent. Equipment used to
implement frequency hopping can be common to several radio carriers or located
inside one radio carrier. Front-end switch is handled by Site Manager,
therefore all \'Abis Channel\' attributes must be sent to it. Those attributes
that need a link identifier in BSC data structures are marked with an asterisk
(*).
## 5.2 Addressing of Objects
It is a GSM requirement that the BSC is capable of operating with BTSs from
different manufacturers. So, it is necessary that the differences between
BTSs, as seen by the BSC, are minimised as much as possible. This is achieved
by addressing NM messages by the Managed Object Class and Managed Object
Instance. There must be in the BSC an object model with a complete layer 2
link description for each object instance in the BTS (e.g., Baseband
Transceiver 1, Baseband Transceiver 2, Baseband Transceiver 3,...). When a
message has to be sent to an object instance this mapping is used to find the
correct link.
The first connection shall be established from the BTS site by using a (semi‑)
permanently programmed default TEI. Subsequent to the establishment of the
default connection to the site, further initial connections to other objects
shall be established using TEIs provided by procedures in subclause 6.3.1.
Possible additional TEIs to an object already having an initial TEI are
assigned with a GSM 12.21 message found in subclause 6.3.1 through an already
assigned signalling link.
Object instances also have a layer 3 address. The instance number is used to
address the object instance. Regardless of whether the layer 2 address
uniquely identifies the object instance or not, the layer 3 address must also
be provided so that it can be used by management agent to determine which
object instance is being addressed. This combination of layer 2 and layer 3
addressing accommodates BTS sites with either single or multiple physical
links.
Specific equipment configuration information is manufacturer dependent.
However, for interoperability, link configuration, default TEI assignment and
instance numbering must be known by both manager and agent. This, as well as
supported functions, is considered as Shared Management Knowledge.
## 5.3 State Management of Objects
State management in the present document is generally in line with ITU-T
Recommendation X.731. How state values are applied is explained below.
ITU-T Recommendation X.731 states that \"the management state of a managed
object represents the instantaneous condition of availability and operability
of the associated resources from the point of view of management\".
In the present document there are two different factors (ITU-T Recommendation
X.731 defines usage state in addition to these two) that are considered to
affect the management state of a managed object. They are:
\- administration: permission to use or prohibition against using the
resource, imposed through the management services;
\- operability: whether or not the resource is physically installed and
working.
The present document defines the following three state management attributes
to represent the management state of a managed object:
\- administrative state;
\- operational state;
\- availability status (this elaborates the operational state).
### 5.3.1 Administrative State
Administrative states of the managed objects can be controlled only by the
BSC. In fact, the control of resource usage comes from the MSC).
Setting the administrative state of a Channel to **locked** means that it has
to discontinue all transmission and reception of information on Air interface
and all telecommunication (traffic and signalling) information transmission on
A-bis interface.
Setting the administrative state of a Radio Carrier to **locked** means that
it has to discontinue all RF emission on Air interface for the frequencies it
is responsible.
Setting the administrative state of a Baseband Transceiver to **locked** means
that it has to discontinue all telecommunication tramissions and the Channels
which are affected should indicate that they are Disabled or Degraded.
Setting the administrative state of a BTS to locked means it has to
discontinue all RF emission on all Radio Carriers and all telecommunication
transmissions on all Channels of all Baseband Transceivers, i.e., Radio
Carriers, Channels and Baseband Transceivers are in Disabled, Dependency
state.
The administrative state at the BTS site is also used to provide information
e.g., for a local MMI user at a BTS site.
The **locked** state of a 12.21 managed object means that BSC has disconnected
all the calls that go through the resource that is represented by the managed
object. No new traffic is connected through this resource any more.
The **shutting down** state means that no new traffic is connected through
this resource any more. The on‑going calls remain.
The **unlocked** state means that new traffic is allowed through the resource
represented by the managed object.
### 5.3.2 Operational State and Availability Status
ITU-T Recommendation X.731 gives the following definitions for the values of
the operational state attribute:
\- **disabled** : the resource is totally inoperable and unable to provide
service to the user(s);
\- **enabled** : the resource is partially or fully operable and available for
use.
In the present document the value Disabled represents the following conditions
that the resources could have:
\- hardware or software is not installed;
\- power is turned off;
\- failure has occurred;
\- radio parameters has not yet been set by elementary procedures, therefore,
the resource is off line.
The availability status elaborates the operational state attribute. In the
present document the following values are used (availability status is a set
value):
**In test:** the resource is undergoing a test procedure.
**Failed:** the resource has an internal fault that prevents it from
operating. The operational state is _disabled_.
**Power off:** the resource requires power to be applied and is not powered
on. The operational state is _disabled_.
**Off line:** the resource requires some manual and/or automatic operation(s)
to be performed to make it available for the use.
**Dependency:** the resource cannot operate because some other resource on
which it depends is unavailable. The operational state is _disabled_.
**Degraded:** the service available from the resource is degraded in some
respect, such as in speed or operating capacity. The operational state is
_enabled_.
**Not installed:** the hardware or the software associated with the managed
object has not been installed at the site. Operational state is _disabled_.
Figure 2 illustrates the operational state and availability status behaviour
of GSM 12.21 objects (i.e., Site Manager, BTS, Radio Carrier, and Baseband
Transceiver) during initialization. The initial value of the administrative
state is _locked_.
{width="6.236805555555556in" height="6.14375in"}
Figure 2/GSM 12.21: GSM 12.21 Objects\' Operational state\ and availability
status behaviour during initialization
# 6 Elementary Procedures
The operational procedures applicable to the BTS consist of bringing BTS
equipment and software into (or taking them out of) service, initiation of
tests at the BTS, collection of test results made at the BTS, reporting and
clearing of any BTS faults, and reporting of any BTS external alarms. Bringing
into service of equipment at the BTS will include manual operations, including
turning the switch on, and performing local testing where relevant at the BTS,
followed by an indication of the availability of the equipment to the BTS via
some man-machine interface (MMI terminal, telephone). It is then a BSC
function to ensure that relevant data on the existence of the equipment is
resident at the BTS, and to activate (bring into service) the new equipment.
Manual procedures may also be employed for software loading, at least
initially.
As far as software is concerned, all operational software used at the BTS
shall also be kept at the BSC, and can be downloaded from the BSC. At the BTS
there may be either single instance of the software, or there may also be
back-up versions.
## 6.1 Definition of the Procedures
All the procedures covered in the present document are based on formatted O&M
messages. Most formatted O&M messages initiated by the BSC (or by a BTS) will
receive a response or acknowledgement at Layer 3. A pair of such messages, or
single message if a response is not required, is referred to as an elementary
procedure. All messages shall be sent using I frames at Layer 2.
A number of procedures, referred to as structured procedures (see GSM 12.22),
are based on a multiplicity of elementary procedures. Some structured
procedures may also involve MMI messages, but these are not defined in the
present document. For all elementary procedures described in Subclauses 6.2
through 6.10, the protocol scenarios are illustrated with no further explicit
reference made from their corresponding subclauses because of their self-
explanatory nature.
Descriptions of the messages and the direction of transmission are given in
the following subclauses.
No elementary procedure shall be initiated to an object instance which has not
yet replied to a previously initiated elementary procedure with a response, an
ACK or a NACK within a layer 3 time-out. The layer 3 timeout for ACK, NACK and
responses shall have a default value of 10 seconds.
An ACK message is returned to inform the application which initialized the
message that the command is performed or will be performed.
The whole message must be rejected if there is something not
understood/supported in the original message.
A NACK may not be relevant for some elementary procedures.
The most relevant Nack causes, not covered by the general causes (which are
used for understanding of header fields), are given for each elementary
procedure with reference to the coding of the Nack causes in subclause 9.4.36.
The general Nack causes are relevant for any Nack message and are also found
in subclause 9.4.36.
## 6.2 SW Download Management Procedures
### 6.2.1 Load Data Initiate
This message shall be sent from the BSC to the BTS to initiate the loading of
a file. It indicates the number of segments for which a Layer 3
acknowledgement is required (window size). When receiving data the BTS shall
send an ACK after this number of segments, except for the last batch.
BSC BTS
Load Data Initiate
\-------------------------------------------->
ACK/NACK
\ ¦
Load Data Segment ¦- Window Size
\--------------------------------------------> ¦
¦
¦ -+
ACK
\
etc.
etc.
An ACK shall be sent from the BTS to the BSC every time when _Window Size_
number of segments specified in the Load Data Initiate message are downloaded.
A reception of an ACK must not reset the value of the _sequence number_ of the
subsequent message segments (see subclause 8.1.1). When all the expected
blocks have been received, an ACK must be sent regardless of the window size.
If the timer for a time-out for the Layer 3 acknowledgement expires, the BSC
shall send a Load Data Abort message and the file transfer shall be aborted.
Meaning of Ack message: A window of Load data segment messages or a complete
file has been received.
### 6.2.3 Load Data Abort
This message shall be used by either end if the file transfer can no longer be
supported. This message shall also be used by the BTS if the received amount
of data exceeds the expected amount.
BSC BTS
Load Data Abort
\
### 6.2.4 Load Data End
This message shall be sent by the BSC to the BTS. The BTS sends an ACK when
the file has been received in the BTS.
BSC BTS
Load Data End
\-------------------------------------------->
ACK/NACK
\
Meaning of Ack message : The request is granted and software activation will
be commenced.
Message specific Nack causes (see subclause 9.4.36): None.
### 6.2.6 Activate SW
This message from the BSC to the BTS shall be used to activate the loaded
software, indicating which file (or files) is to be activated. The
acknowledgement of the Activate SW indicates that the software can be
activated. If the software cannot be activated, a NACK must be sent. The
activation may include BTS internal software distribution.
BSC BTS
Activate SW
\-------------------------------------------->
ACK/NACK
\
ACK/NACK
\
ACK/NACK
\
ACK/NACK
\
ACK/NACK
\
ACK/NACK
\
ACK/NACK
\
ACK/NACK
\
ACK/NACK
\
ACK/NACK
\
ACK/NACK
\
ACK/NACK
\
ACK/NACK
\
ACK/NACK
\
ACK/NACK
\
ACK/NACK
\
ACK/NACK
\
Meaning of Ack message: The request is granted and a change administrative
state message will be sent.
Message specific Nack causes (see subclause 9.4.36): 28, 29.
### 6.7.7 Report Outstanding Alarms
This message shall be used by the BSC to ask BTS to report all outstanding
alarms related to the object instance indicated in the message. The BTS shall
report alarms by sending a series of _Failure Event Report_ messages for all
outstanding alarms. Only those alarms previously reported and still
outstanding shall be re-reported through this procedure. Any new alarms not
yet reported but about to be reported shall be excluded and they shall be
reported through a separate _Failure Event Report_ procedure spontaneously
initiated by the BTS itself. If there is no outstanding alarm, the BTS shall
reply with a NACK with that cause indicated.
BSC BTS
Report Outstanding Alarms
\-------------------------------------------->
ACK/NACK
\
ACK/NACK
\
ACK/NACK
\
ACK/NACK
\
ACK/NACK
\
Response/NACK
\
ACK/NACK
\
ACK/NACK
\
Response/NACK
\
ACK/NACK
\=2 Window Size 9.4.59 M TV 2
* * *
### 8.3.2 Load Data Segment
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message Type 9.1 M V 1
Object Class 9.2 M V 1 Object Instance 9.3 M V 3 File Data 9.4.17 M (note) TLV
>=2
* * *
NOTE: _File Data_ is segments of the actual file to be transferred.
### 8.3.3 Load Data Abort
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message Type 9.1 M V 1
Object Class 9.2 M V 1 Object Instance 9.3 M V 3
* * *
### 8.3.4 Load Data End
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message Type 9.1 M V 1
Object Class 9.2 M V 1 Object Instance 9.3 M V 3 SW Description 9.4.62 M
(note) TV >=2
* * *
NOTE: The same SW Description as in the corresponding Load Data Initiate
message.
### 8.3.5 SW Activate Request
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message Type 9.1 M V 1
Object Class 9.2 M V 1 Object Instance 9.3 M V 3 HW Configuration 9.4.62 M TLV
>=2 SW Configuration 9.4.61 M TLV >=2
* * *
### 8.3.6 Activate SW
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message Type 9.1 M V 1
Object Class 9.2 M V 1 Object Instance 9.3 M V 3 SW Description 9.4.62 O
(note) TV >=2
* * *
NOTE: _SW Descriptions_ may be repeated for multiple software activation. No
SW Description entry implies all software for the object instance.
### 8.3.7 SW Activated Report
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message Type 9.1 M V 1
Object Class 9.2 M V 1 Object Instance 9.3 M V 3
* * *
## 8.4 A‑bis Interface Management Messages
### 8.4.1 Establish TEI
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message Type 9.1 M V 1
Object Class 9.2 M V 1 Object Instance 9.3 M V 3 TEI 9.4.54 M TV 2 Abis
Channel 9.4.1 M TV 4
* * *
### 8.4.2 Connect Terrestrial Signalling
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message Type 9.1 M V 1
Object Class 9.2 M V 1 Object Instance 9.3 M V 3 Abis Channel 9.4.1 M TV 4
* * *
### 8.4.3 Disconnect Terrestrial Signalling
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message Type 9.1 M V 1
Object Class 9.2 M V 1 Object Instance 9.3 M V 3 Abis Channel 9.4.1 M TV 4
* * *
### 8.4.4 Connect Terrestrial Traffic
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message Type 9.1 M V 1
Object Class 9.2 M V 1 Object Instance 9.3 M V 3 Abis Channel 9.4.1 M TV 4
Radio Sub Channel 9.4.46 O TV 2
* * *
### 8.4.5 Disconnect Terrestrial Traffic
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message Type 9.1 M V 1
Object Class 9.2 M V 1 Object Instance 9.3 M V 3 Abis Channel 9.4.1 M TV 4
Radio Sub Channel 9.4.46 O TV 2
* * *
## 8.5 Transmission Management Messages
### 8.5.1 Connect Multi-drop link
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message Type 9.1 M V 1
Object Class 9.2 M V 1 Object Instance 9.3 M V 3 Multi-drop BSC Link 9.4.34 M
(note 1) TV 3 Multi-drop next BTS Link 9.4.35 M (note 2) TV 3
* * *
NOTE 1: This attribute specifies the incoming (in BSC direction) 64 kbps
timeslot to be set up to another BTS in a multi-drop configuration.
NOTE 2: This attribute specifies the outgoing (to the next BTS direction) 64
kbps timeslot to be set up through the BTS in a multi-drop configuration.
### 8.5.2 Disconnect Multi-drop link
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message Type 9.1 M V 1
Object Class 9.2 M V 1 Object Instance 9.3 M V 3 Multi-drop BSC Link 9.4.34 M
(note 1) TV 3 Multi-drop next BTS Link 9.4.35 M (note 2) TV 3
* * *
NOTE 1: This attribute specifies the incoming (in BSC direction) 64 kbps
timeslot to be taken down from another BTS in a multi-drop configuration.
NOTE 2: This attribute specifies the outgoing (to the next BTS direction) 64
kbps timeslot to be taken down through the BTS in a multi-drop configuration.
## 8.6 Air Interface Management Messages
### 8.6.1 Set BTS Attributes
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message Type 9.1 M V 1
Object Class 9.2 M V 1 Object Instance 9.3 M V 3 Interference Level Boundaries
9.4.25 O (note 1) TV 7 Intave Parameter 9.4.24 O TV 2 Connection Failure
Criterion 9.4.14 O TLV >=4 T200 9.4.53 O (note 2) TV 8 Max Timing Advance
9.4.31 O (note 3) TV 2 Overload Period 9.4.39 O (note 5) TLV >=2 CCCH Load
Threshold 9.4.12 O (notes 4 and 5) TV 2 CCCH Load Indication Period 9.4.11 O
(note 5) TV 2 RACH Busy Threshold 9.4.44 O (note 5) TV 2 RACH Load Averaging
Slots 9.4.45 O (note 5) TV 3 BTS Air Timer 9.4.10 O TV 2 NY1 9.4.37 O TV 2
BCCH ARFCN 9.4.8 O TV 3 BSIC 9.4.9 O TV 2 Starting Time 9.4.52 O (note 6) TV 3
* * *
NOTE 1: Interference Level Boundaries Boundary 0
(see 3GPP TS 45.008) Boundary x1
¦
¦
Boundary x5
NOTE 2: For FACCH and SACCH.
NOTE 3: Optional in BTS design and administration use.
NOTE 4: Presentation of the load threshold in 1% steps.
NOTE 5: These attributes are special CCCH Parameters
NOTE 6: For synchronisation of when the specific action defined in the message
shall be performed. Needed only to change BCCH ARFCN or BSIC while in
operation.
### 8.6.2 Set Radio Carrier Attributes
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message Type 9.1 M V 1
Object Class 9.2 M V 1 Object Instance 9.3 M V 3 RF Max Power Reduction 9.4.47
O TV 2 ARFCN list 9.4.5 O (note) TLV >=2
* * *
NOTE: The structure of value will vary depending on the mode of frequency
hopping supported.
### 8.6.3 Set Channel Attributes
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message Type 9.1 M V 1
Object Class 9.2 M V 1 Object Instance 9.3 M V 3 Channel Combination 9.4.13 O
TV 2 HSN 9.4.21 O (note 1) TV 2 MAIO 9.4.27 O (note 1) TV 2 ARFCN list 9.4.5 O
(note 2) TLV >=2 Starting Time 9.4.52 O (note 3) TV 3 TSC 9.4.60 O (note 4) TV
2
* * *
NOTE 1: Used only in a hopping channel.
NOTE 2: If frequency hopping is not in use, the only frequency of the Radio
Carrier is set with the message Radio Carrier Attributes.
NOTE 3: For synchronisation of when the specific action defined in the message
shall be performed.
NOTE 4: A NULL value signifies that the BCC shall be used as the TSC value for
the channel.
## 8.7 Test Management Messages
### 8.7.1 Perform Test
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message Type 9.1 M V 1
Object Class 9.2 M V 1 Object Instance 9.3 M V 3 Test No 9.4.56 M TV 2
Autonomously Report 9.4.6 M TV 2 Test Duration 9.4.55 O TV 3 Physical
Configuration 9.4.40 O (note) TLV >=2
* * *
NOTE: Use of _Physical Configuration_ depends on the need on extra information
in setting up specific test configurations.
### 8.7.2 Test Report
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message Type 9.1 M V 1
Object Class 9.2 M V 1 Object Instance 9.3 M V 3 Test No 9.4.56 M TV 2 Test
Report Info 9.4.57 M (note) TLV >=2
* * *
NOTE: The test report information may give a numerical result or an indication
of the range into which the test report falls.
### 8.7.3 Send Test Report
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message Type 9.1 M V 1
Object Class 9.2 M V 1 Object Instance 9.3 M V 3 Test No 9.4.56 M TV 2
* * *
### 8.7.4 Stop Test
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message Type 9.1 M V 1
Object Class 9.2 M V 1 Object Instance 9.3 M V 3 Test No 9.4.56 M TV 2
* * *
## 8.8 State Management and Event Report Messages
### 8.8.1 State Changed Event Report
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message Type 9.1 M V 1
Object Class 9.2 M V 1 Object Instance 9.3 M V 3 Operational State 9.4.38 O TV
2 Availability Status 9.4.7 O TLV >=2 Man.dep. State 9.4.28 O TV 2 Site Inputs
9.4.48 O TLV >=2
* * *
### 8.8.2 Failure Event Report
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message Type 9.1 M V 1
Object Class 9.2 M V 1 Object Instance 9.3 M V 3 Event Type 9.4.16 M TV 2
Perceived Severity 9.4.63 M TV 2 Probable Cause 9.4.43 M TV 4 Specific
Problems 9.4.51 O (note 1) TV 2 HW Description 9.4.23 O (notes 1 and 2) TV >=2
SW Description 9.4.62 O (notes 1 and 2) TV >=2 Additional Text 9.4.3 O (note
1) TLV >=2 Additional Info 9.4.2 O (note 1) TLV >=2 Outstanding Alarm Sequence
9.4.65 O (note 3) TV 2
* * *
NOTE 1: Depending on the nature of the specific failure and the BTS
implementation, only the needed and supported attributes shall be sent.
NOTE 2: This field shall be included to identify the specific associated
equipment or software in case the addressed functional object alone is not
sufficient to localize the failure.
NOTE 3: This field shall be included if and only if this report is a response
to a _Report Outstanding Alarms_ message.
### 8.8.3 Stop Sending Event Reports
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message Type 9.1 M V 1
Object Class 9.2 M V 1 Object Instance 9.3 M V 3 Operational State 9.4.38 O
(note 1) TV 2 Availability Status 9.4.7 O (note 1) TLV >=2 Manufacturer
Dependant State 9.4.28 O (note 1) TV 2 Probable Cause 9.4.43 O (note 1) TV 4
Specific Problems 9.4.51 O (note 1) TV 2
* * *
NOTE 1: Stop sending event reports concerning events with any of the parameter
values in this attribute list. Depending on the type of event report that
shall be stopped, one or some of the attributes shall be sent. The effect of
multiple optional attributes in one message is that only those events that
satisfy all the attributes simultaneously shall stop. The effect of repeated
uses of this message with each different optional attribute is accumulative,
thus, is different from the effect of putting all the optional attributes
listed together at once in one message. If there occurs any inconsistency or
confusion between the conditions for stopping and starting (see subclause
8.8.4), the event shall be reported instead of being stopped.
NOTE 2: This message with no optional attributes means that all event reports
shall be stopped from now.
### 8.8.4 Restart Sending Event Reports
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message Type 9.1 M V 1
Object Class 9.2 M V 1 Object Instance 9.3 M V 3 Operational State 9.4.38 O
(note 1) TV 2 Availability Status 9.4.7 O (note 1) TLV >=2 Manufacturer
Dependent State 9.4.28 O (note 1) TV 2 Probable Cause 9.4.43 O (note 1) TV 4
Specific Problems 9.4.51 O (note 1) TV 2
* * *
NOTE 1: Restart sending event reports concerning events with any of the
parameter values in this attribute list. Depending on the type of event report
that needs to be restarted, one or some of the attributes shall be sent. The
effect of multiple optional attributes is just same as multiple messages
repeated with each attribute one by one and events that satisfy any one of the
attribute set shall be reported. Note the difference from the condition stated
in note 1 of subclause 8.8.3.
NOTE 2: This message with no optional attributes means that all event reports
shall be started from now.
### 8.8.5 Change Administrative State
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message Type 9.1 M V 1
Object Class 9.2 M V 1 Object Instance 9.3 M V 3 Administrative State 9.4.4 M
(note) TV 2
* * *
NOTE: Required new administrative state for the specified managed object.
### 8.8.6 Change Administrative State Request
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message Type 9.1 M V 1
Object Class 9.2 M V 1 Object Instance 9.3 M V 3 Administrative State 9.4.4 M
(note) TV 2
* * *
NOTE: The requested administrative state for the specified managed object.
### 8.8.7 Report Outstanding Alarms
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message Type 9.1 M V 1
Object Class 9.2 M V 1 Object Instance 9.3 M V 3
* * *
## 8.9 Equipment Management Messages
### 8.9.1 Changeover
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message Type 9.1 M V 1
Object Class 9.2 M V 1 Object Instance 9.3 M V 3 Source 9.4.50 M (note 1) TLV
>=2 Destination 9.4.15 M (note 2) TLV >=2
* * *
NOTE 1: _Source_ is the manufacturer dependent identity of piece of equipment
that shall be taken out of active servicing (changed-over from) and replaced
by the _Destination_.
NOTE 2: _Destination_ is the manufacturer dependent identity of piece of
equipment that shall be put into active servicing (changed-over to) in place
of the _Source_.
### 8.9.2 Opstart
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message Type 9.1 M V 1
Object Class 9.2 M V 1 Object Instance 9.3 M V 3
* * *
### 8.9.3 Reinitialize
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message Type 9.1 M V 1
Object Class 9.2 M V 1 Object Instance 9.3 M V 3 HW Description 9.4.23 O
(note) TV >=2
* * *
NOTE: _HW Descriptions_ may be repreated for multiple resources. If no _HW
Description_ is provided, all resource for the objectis is implied. For a
software reinitialization, _Activate SW_ message shall be used.
### 8.9.4 Set Site Outputs
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message Type 9.1 M V 1
Object Class 9.2 M V 1 Object Instance 9.3 M V 3 Site Outputs 9.4.49 M TLV >=2
* * *
### 8.9.5 Change HW Configuration
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message Type 9.1 M V 1
Object Class 9.2 M V 1 Object Instance 9.3 M V 3 Site Outputs 9.4.49 M TLV >=2
* * *
## 8.10 Measurement Management Messages
### 8.10.1 Measurement Result Request
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message Type 9.1 M V 1
Object Class 9.2 M V 1 Object Instance 9.3 M V 3 Measurement Identifier 9.4.33
M TV 2
* * *
### 8.10.2 Measurement Result Response
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message Type 9.1 M V 1
Object Class 9.2 M V 1 Object Instance 9.3 M V 3 Measurement Identifier 9.4.33
M TV 2 Measurement Result 9.4.32 M TLV >= 2
* * *
### 8.10.3 Start Measurement
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message Type 9.1 M V 1
Object Class 9.2 M V 1 Object Instance 9.3 M V 3 Measurement Identifier 9.4.33
M TV 2
* * *
### 8.10.4 Stop Measurement
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message Type 9.1 M V 1
Object Class 9.2 M V 1 Object Instance 9.3 M V 3 Measurement Identifier 9.4.33
M TV 2
* * *
## 8.11 Miscellaneous Messages
### 8.11.1 Get Attributes
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message Type 9.1 M V 1
Object Class 9.2 M V 1 Object Instance 9.3 M V 3 List of Required Attributes
9.4.26 M (note) TLV >=2
* * *
NOTE: Any of the attributes defined in subclause 9.4, including those **not**
marked with an X in the GET column, can be requested by _Get Attributes_
message.
### 8.11.2 Set Alarm Threshold
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message Type 9.1 M V 1
Object Class 9.2 M V 1 Object Instance 9.3 M V 3 Probable Cause 9.4.43 M TV 4
Power Output Thresholds 9.4.42 O TV 4 VSWR Thresholds 9.4.58 O TV 3
Manufacturer Dependent Thresholds 9.4.29 O TLV >=2
* * *
### 8.11.3 Get Attribute Response
* * *
INFORMATION ELEMENT REFERENCE PRESENCE FORMAT LENGTH Message Type 9.1 M V 1
Object Class 9.2 M V 1 Object Instance 9.3 M V 3 Get Attribute Response Info
9.4.64 M TLV >=4
* * *
# 9 Coding
This clause defines the coding of each field in the messages defined in
earlier clauses.
The following conventions are required:
\- the least significant bit shall be transmitted first, followed by bits 2,
3, 4, etc;
\- in an element where octets are identified by an octer number, Octet 1 shall
be transmitted first, then octet 2, etc;
\- when a field extends over more than one octet, the order of bit values
shall progressively decrease as the octet number increases. The least
significant bit of the field shall be represented by the lowest numbered bit
of the highest numbered octet of the field;
\- for unpredictable variable length elements, a length indication coding
method defined in subclause 8.2 shall be used. Always the length information
shall indicate the number of element units (which is octets) following the
length indicator excluding the space for the length findicator itself;
\- all defined values are indicated in the present document. Other values are
reserved.
## 9.1 Message Type
The Message Type is coded with 1 octet as illustrated below.
* * *
Message Type 1
* * *
The following message types are used (all other values reserved).
Message Type hexadecimal code
**SW Download Management Messages:**
Load Data Initiate 01
Load Data Initiate Ack 02
Load Data Initiate Nack 03
Load Data Segment 04
Load Data Segment Ack 05
Load Data Abort 06
Load Data End 07
Load Data End Ack 08
Load Data End Nack 09
SW Activate Request 0A
SW Activate Request Ack 0B
SW Activate Request Nack 0C
Activate SW 0D
Activate SW Ack 0E
Activate SW Nack 0F
SW Activated Report 10
**A-bis Interface Management Messages:**
Establish TEI 21
Establish TEI Ack 22
Establish TEI Nack 23
Connect Terrestrial Signalling 24
Connect Terrestrial Signalling Ack 25
Connect Terrestrial Signalling Nack 26
Disconnect Terrestrial Signalling 27
Disconnect Terrestrial Signalling Ack 28
Disconnect Terrestrial Signalling Nack 29
Connect Terrestrial Traffic 2A
Connect Terrestrial Traffic Ack 2B
Connect Terrestrial Traffic Nack 2C
Disconnect Terrestrial Traffic 2D
Disconnect Terrestrial Traffic Ack 2E
Disconnect Terrestrial Traffic Nack 2F
**Transmission Management Messages:**
Connect Multi-Drop Link 31
Connect Multi-Drop Link Ack 32
Connect Multi-Drop Link Nack 33
Disconnect Multi-Drop Link 34
Disconnect Multi-Drop Link Ack 35
Disconnect Multi-Drop Link Nack 36
**Air Interface Management Messages:**
Set BTS Attributes 41
Set BTS Attributes Ack 42
Set BTS Attributes Nack 43
Set Radio Carrier Attributes 44
Set Radio Carrier Attributes Ack 45
Set Radio Carrier Attributes Nack 46
Set Channel Attributes 47
Set Channel Attributes Ack 48
Set Channel Attributes Nack 49
**Test Management Messages:**
Perform Test 51
Perform Test Ack 52
Perform Test Nack 53
Test Report 54
Send Test Report 55
Send Test Report Ack 56
Send Test Report Nack 57
Stop Test 58
Stop Test Ack 59
Stop Test Nack 5A
**State Management and Event Report Messages:**
State Changed Event Report 61
Failure Event Report 62
Stop Sending Event Reports 63
Stop Sending Event Reports Ack 64
Stop Sending Event Reports Nack 65
Restart Sending Event Reports 66
Restart Sending Event Reports Ack 67
Restart Sending Event Reports Nack 68
Change Administrative State 69
Change Administrative State Ack 6A
Change Administrative State Nack 6B
Change Administrative State Request 6C
Change Administrative State Request Ack 6D
Change Administrative State Request Nack 6E
Report Outstanding Alarms 93
Report Outstanding Alarms Ack 94
Report Outstanding Alarms Nack 95
**Equipment Management Messages:**
Changeover 71
Changeover Ack 72
Changeover Nack 73
Opstart 74
Opstart Ack 75
Opstart Nack 76
Reinitialize 87
Reinitialize Ack 88
Reinitialize Nack 89
Set Site Outputs 77
Set Site Outputs Ack 78
Set Site Outputs Nack 79
Change HW Configuration 90
Change HW Configuration Ack 91
Change HW Configuration Nack 92
**Measurement Management Messages:**
Measurement Result Request 8A
Measurement Result Response 8B
Stop Measurement 8C
Start Measurement 8D
**Other Messages:**
Get Attributes 81
Get Attributes Response 82
Get Attributes Nack 83
Set Alarm Threshold 84
Set Alarm Threshold Ack 85
Set Alarm Threshold Nack 86
## 9.2 Object Class
An Object Class shall be coded with 1 octet. The values of the object class
code are as defined below.
* * *
Object Class 1
* * *
Object Class hexadecimal code
Site Manager 00
BTS 01
Radio Carrier 02
Baseband Transceiver 04
Channel 03
\ \
NULL FF
## 9.3 Object Instance
The Object Instance shall be coded with 3 octets, addressing the specific
object of the given object class as illustrated below.
* * *
BTS number 1 Baseband Transceiver _or_ Radio Carrier number 2 Radio Timeslot
number 3
* * *
All 3 octets are mandatory in the header of every message.
The BTS number distinguishes BTSs which are unique for each cells at a site
under the Site Manager.
The Baseband Transceiver _or_ Radio Carrier number distinguishes either
Baseband Transceivers or Radio Carriers under the BTS.
The Radio Timeslot number distinguishes channels under the Baseband
Transceiver.
When the object class is _Site Manager_ , all three octets shall be NULLs,
because there is only one Site Manager, which doesn\'t need an identifier.
When the object class is _BTS_ , octet 1 shall be a binary presentation of the
identifier of the addressed BTS. Octets 2 and 3 shall be coded NULLs. If the
BTS number is NULL, it shall be understood as referring to all BTSs under the
Site Manager.
When the object class is _Baseband Transceiver_ or _Radio Carrier_ , octet 2
shall be a binary presentation of the identifier of the addressed Baseband
Transceiver or Radio Carrier object, and octet 1 is the identiferrof the BTS
above it. Octet 3 is coded NULL. If the Baseband Transceiver or Radio Carrier
number is NULL, it shall be understood as referring to all instances of the
class under the BTS.
When the object class is _Channel_ , octet 3 shall be a binary presentation of
the identifier of the addressed radio timeslot, octet 2 shall be the
identifier of the Baseband Transceiver, and octet 1 shall be the identifer of
the BTS above the addressed Channel. If the radio timeslot number is NULL, it
shall be understood as referring to all Channels under the Baseband
Transceiver.
To avoid unnecessary complexity of BTS implementation, it shall not be allowed
to assign a NULL value to any object above the addressed object class. For
example, if the addressed object class is the Baseband Transceiver, it is not
allowed to assign a NULL value to both BTS and Baseband Transceiver instances
(without this constraint, this could be understood as referring to all the
Baseband Transceivers of all the BTSs).
The value for NULL shall be \ in all the cases mentioned above in this
subclause.
## 9.4 Attributes and Parameters
The Attribute Identifier is coded with 1 octet. The number of parameters
within an attribute is at least one. The length of the parameters within an
attribute will vary. The attributes used and the coding of their Attribute
Identifier fields are listed below. The values are in hexadecimal. The
attributes marked with an X in "Get" column are only _get_ able by the BSC,
and BSC is not permitted to alter their values.
Attribute Name Attribute Id. Get
Abis Channel 01 X
Additional Info 02
Additional Text 03
Administrative State 04 X
ARFCN List 05 X
Autonomously Report 06
Availability Status 07 X
BCCH ARFCN 08 X
BSIC 09 X
BTS Air Timer 0A X
CCCH Load Indication Period 0B X
CCCH Load Threshold 0C X
Channel Combination 0D X
Connection Failure Criterion 0E X
Destination 0F
Event Type 11
File Data 47
File Id 12 X
File Version 13 X
GSM Time 14 X
Get Attribute Response Info 44
HSN 15 X
HW Configuration 16 X
HW Conf Change Info 45
HW Description 17 X
Intave Parameter 18 X
Interference Level Boundaries 19 X
List of Required Attributes 1A
MAIO 1B X
Manufacturer Dependent State 1C X
Manufacturer Dependent Thresholds 1D X
Manufacturer Id 1E X
Max Timing Advance 1F X
Multi-drop BSC Link 20
Multi-drop next BTS Link 21
Nack Causes 22
Ny1 23 X
Operational State 24 X
Outstanding Alarm Sequence 46
Overload Period 25 X
Physical Config 26
Power Class 27 X
Power Output Thresholds 28 X
Probable Cause 29
RACH Busy Threshold 2A X
RACH Load Averaging Slots 2B X
Radio Sub Channel 2C
RF Max Power Reduction 2D X
Site Inputs 2E X
Site Outputs 2F X
Source 30
Specific Problems 31
Starting Time 32
T200 33 X
TEI 34 X
Test Duration 35
Test No 36
Test Report Info 37
VSWR Thresholds 38 X
Window Size 39
TSC 40 X
SW Configuration 41 X
SW Description 42 X
Perceived Severity 43
Measurement Result 48
Measurement Type 49
All other values are reserved for future use.
The data structures of the attributes and parameters are described in the
remaining part of this subclause in tablular forms with no formal text
description of the individual subclauses provided because of their self-
explanatory nature.
Henceforth \"Attribute Identifier\" in this subclause means the identifier for
an _attribute_ or a _parameter_.
### 9.4.1 Abis Channel
* * *
Attribute Identifier 1 BTS Port Number 2 Timeslot Number 3 Subslot Number 4
* * *
BTS Port Number \
Timeslot Number
Time slot in 2 Mbps link \
Subslot Number
a (bits 1,2) 00
b (bits 3,4) 01
c (bits 5,6) 02
d (bits 7,8) 03
64 kbps signalling FF
### 9.4.2 Additional Info
* * *
Attribute Identifier 1 Length 2-3 Additional Info \ 4 (cont.)  
(cont.) N
* * *
_Additional Info_ is a manufacturer dependent field.
### 9.4.3 Additional Text
* * *
Attribute Identifier 1 Length 2-3 Additional Text \ 4 (cont.)  
(cont.) N
* * *
_Additional Text_ is a manufacturer dependent field and shall be used to
include fault localization information.
### 9.4.4 Administrative State
* * *
Attribute Identifier 1 Administrative State 2
* * *
_Administrative State_ shall be coded as follows:
Locked 01
Unlocked 02
Shutting Down 03
NULL (Adm. state not supported) FF
### 9.4.5 ARFCN List
* * *
Attribute Identifier 1 Length 2-3 ARFCN1 (MSB) 4 ARFCN1 (LSB) 5
ARFCNn (MSB) N-1 ARFCNn (LSB) N
* * *
ARFCN (see 3GPP TS 45.005) \
### 9.4.6 Autonomously Report
* * *
Attribute Identifier 1 Autonomously Report 2
* * *
The toggle switch for autonomous report shall be coded as follows:
Autonomously Report 01;
Not Autonomously Report 00.
### 9.4.7 Availability Status
* * *
Attribute Identifier 1 Length 2-3 Availability Status 4 (cont.)  
(cont.) N
* * *
_Availability Status_ may contain one or more octets. Each octet shall have a
single status value, which shall be coded as follows:
In test 0
Failed 1
Power off 2
Off line 3
\ 4
Dependency 5
Degraded 6
Not installed 7
### 9.4.8 BCCH ARFCN
* * *
Attribute Identifier 1 BCCH ARFCN (MSB) 2 BCCH ARFCN (LSB) 3
* * *
BCCH ARFCN (see 3GPP TS 45.005) \
### 9.4.9 BSIC
* * *
Attribute Identifier 1 BSIC 2
* * *
BSIC (see GSM 03.03) \
(BS colour code: bit 0-2)
(PLMN colour code: bit 3-5)
### 9.4.10 BTS Air Timer
* * *
Attribute Identifier 1 T3105 2
* * *
_T3105_ shall be coded as a binary presentation of 10 ms in the range of
\.
### 9.4.11 CCCH Load Indication Period
* * *
Attribute Identifier 1 CCCH Load Indication Period 2
* * *
_CCCH Load Indication Period_ shall be coded as a binary presentation of
seconds in the range of \.
### 9.4.12 CCCH Load Threshold
* * *
Attribute Identifier 1 CCCH Load Threshold 2
* * *
_CCCH Load Threshold_ shall be coded as a binary presentation of maximum
(maximum is manufacturer dependent) percentage in the range of \.
### 9.4.13 Channel Combination
* * *
Attribute Identifier 1 Channel Combination 2
* * *
_Channel Combination_ shall be coded as follows:
tCHFull TCH/F + FACCH/F + SACCH/TF 00
tCHHalf TCH/H(0,1) + FACCH/H(0,1) + SACCH/TH(0,1) 01
tCHHalf2 TCH/H(0) + FACCH/H(0) + SACCH/TH(0) + TCH/H(1) 02
sDCCH SDCCH/8 + SACCH/C8 03
mainBCCH FCCH + SCH + BCCH + CCCH 04
bCCHCombined FCCH + SCH + BCCH + CCCH + SDCCH/4 + SACCH/C4 05
bCH BCCH + CCCH 06
bCCHwithCBCH combination of 05 with CBCH as 3GPP TS 45.002 07 1)
sDCCHwithCBCH combination of 03 with CBCH as 3GPP TS 45.002 08 1)
NOTE: These two channel combinations are created by replacing the SDCCH number
2 in channel combination 05 and channel combination 03 by the logical channel.
See 3GPP TS 45.002 for meaning and usage of channel combinations.
### 9.4.14 Connection Failure Criterion
* * *
Attribute Identifier 1 Length 2-3 Connection Failure Criterion 4 Criteria
Value 5 (cont.)  
(cont.) N
* * *
_Connection Failure Criterion_ shall be coded as follows:
Based upon uplink SACCH error rate (RADIO_LINK_TIMEOUT) 01
Based upon RXLEV/RXQUAL measurements 02
If connection failure criterion is based on SACCH error rate, the _Criteria
Value_ shall be one octet binary presentation of the number of SACCH
multiframes used in the procedure.
If connection failure criterion is based on RXLEV/RXQUAL measurements, coding
of the _Criteria Value_ field will be operator/manufacturer dependent.
See 3GPP TS 45.008 subclauses 5.2 and 5.3 and 3GPP TS 24.008 subclause
3.5.2.2.
### 9.4.15 Destination
* * *
Attribute Identifier 1 Length 2-3 Destination 4 (cont.)  
(cont.) N
* * *
_Destination_ identifies a unit of equipment that shall be the destination to
be \"changed to\" on a Change-over operation. How to identify a type of
equipment and how to identify a specific unit of this type is manufacturer
dependent.
### 9.4.16 Event Type
* * *
Attribute Identifier 1 Event Type 2
* * *
_Event Type_ shall be coded as follows:
communication failure 00
quality of service failure 01
processing failure 02
equipment failure 03
environment failure 04
\ \
\ \
### 9.4.17 File Data
* * *
Attribute Identifier 1 Length 2-3 File Data \ 4 (cont.)  
(cont.) N
* * *
_File Data_ is manufacturer dependent, but must be consistent with the
associated GSM 12.20 attribute.
### 9.4.18 File Id
* * *
Attribute Identifier 1 Length 2-3 File Id \ 4 (cont.)  
(cont.) N
* * *
_File Id_ is manufacturer dependent, but must be consistent with the
associated GSM 12.20 attribute.
### 9.4.19 File Version
* * *
Attribute Identifier 1 Length 2-3 File Version \ 4 (cont.)  
(cont.) N
* * *
_File Version_ is manufacturer dependent, but must be consistent with the
associated GSM 12.20 attribute.
### 9.4.20 GSM Time
* * *
Attribute Identifier 1 Current Frame No (MSB) 2 Current Frame No (LSB) 3
* * *
_Current Frame No_ shall be a binary presentation of FN in Modulus 42432.
### 9.4.21 HSN
* * *
Attribute Identifier 1 HSN 2
* * *
HSN (see 3GPP TS 45.002) \
### 9.4.22 HW Configuration
* * *
Attribute Identifier 1 Length 2-3 HW Description 1 4 ...  
HW Description n N
* * *
_HW Configuration_ shall consist of a list of _HW Descriptions_ related to a
managed object.
### 9.4.23 HW Description
* * *
Attribute Identifier 1 Equipment Id Length 2-3 Equipment Id  
(cont.)  
Equipment Type Length  
Equipment Type  
(cont.)  
Equipment Version Length  
Equipment Version  
(cont.)  
Location Length  
Location  
(cont.)  
Man. Dep. Info Length  
Man. Dep. Info  
(cont.) N
* * *
All fields are manufacturer dependent variable length character strings. They
must be consistent with associated GSM 12.20 attributes.
_Equipment Id_ distinguishes a piece of equipment out of others of same type.
_Equipment Type_ codes the type of piece of equipment (e.g., Baseband
Transceiver Unit).
_Equipment Version_ codes the version of the piece of equipment.
_Location_ codes the place where the piece of equipment is found (e.g., row
-rack - shelf - slot).
_Man. Dep. Info_ shall codes additional manufacturer dependent information.
### 9.4.24 Intave Parameter
* * *
Attribute Identifier 1 Intave Parameter 2
* * *
Intave Parameter (see 3GPP TS 45.008) \
### 9.4.25 Interference level Boundaries
* * *
Attribute Identifier 1 Interf Boundary 0 2 Interf Boundary 1 3 Interf Boundary
2 4 Interf Boundary 3 5 Interf Boundary 4 6 Interf Boundary 5 7
* * *
Interf Boundary 0 \
Interf Boundary X1 \
Interf Boundary X2 \
Interf Boundary X3 \
Interf Boundary X4 \
Interf Boundary X5 \
All boundaries shall be coded as a binary presentation of -[x]{.underline} dBm
(normal values are -115 to -85). For example, an interference boundary of -105
dBm will be represented as integer "105".
### 9.4.26 List of Required Attributes
* * *
Attribute Identifier 1 Length 2-3 Attribute Id 4 (cont.)  
(cont.) N
* * *
Each _Attribute Id_ is one octet.
### 9.4.27 MAIO
* * *
Attribute Identifier 1 MAIO 2
* * *
MAIO (see 3GPP TS 45.002) \
### 9.4.28 Manufacturer Dependent State
* * *
Attribute Identifier 1 Manufacturer Dependent State 2
* * *
Manufacturer Dependent State \
This is optional to be used in addition to Operational State in accordance
with GSM 12.20.
### 9.4.29 Manufacturer Dependent Thresholds
* * *
Attribute Identifier 1 Length 2-3 Manufacturer Dependent Thresholds 4 (cont.)  
(cont.) N
* * *
The content _of Manufacturer Dependent Thresholds_ is manufacturer dependent.
### 9.4.30 Manufacturer Id
* * *
Attribute Identifier 1 Length 2-3 Manufacturer Id 4 (cont.)  
(cont.) N
* * *
The content of _Manufacturer Id_ is manufacturer dependent.
### 9.4.31 Max Timing Advance
* * *
Attribute Identifier 1 Max Timing Advance 2
* * *
Max Timing Advance (see 3GPP TS 48.058) \
### 9.4.32 Measurement Result
* * *
Attribute Identifier 1 Length of measurement result (N) 2-3 Result (MSB) 4
(cont.)  
Result (LSB) N+3
* * *
### 9.4.33 Measurement Type
* * *
Attribute Identifier 1 Measurement Number 2
* * *
_Measurement Number_ shall be coded as follows:
\ \
\ \
### 9.4.34 Multi-drop BSC Link
* * *
Attribute Identifier 1 BTS Port Number 2 Timeslot Number 3
* * *
BTS Port Number \
Timeslot Number
Time slot in 2 Mbps link \
### 9.4.35 Multi-drop next BTS Link
* * *
Attribute Identifier 1 BTS Port Number 2 Timeslot Number 3
* * *
BTS Port Number \
Timeslot Number
Time slot in 2 Mbps link \
### 9.4.36 Nack Causes
* * *
Attribute Identifier 1 NACK Cause 2
* * *
_Nack Causes_ shall be coded as follows:
General Nack Causes:
Incorrect message structure 01
Invalid message type value 02
\ 03
\ 04
Invalid Object class value 05
Object class not supported 06
BTS no. unknown 07
Baseband Transceiver no. unknown 08
Object Instance unknown 09
\ \
Invalid attribute identifier value 0C
Attribute identifier not supported 0D
Parameter value outside permitted range 0E
Inconsistency in attribute list 0F 1)
Specified implementation not supported 10
Message cannot be performed 11 2)
\ \
Specific Nack Causes:
Resource not implemented 19
Resource not available 1A
Frequency not available 1B
Test not supported 1C
Capacity restrictions 1D
Physical configuration cannot be performed 1E
Test not initiated 1F
Physical configuration cannot be restored 20
No such test 21
Test cannot be stopped 22
Message inconsistent with physical config. 23 3)
Complete file not received 25
File not available at destination 26
File cannot be activated 27
Request not granted 28
Wait 29
Nothing reportable existing 2A
Measurement not supported 2B
Measurement not started 2C
\ \
\ \
NULL FF
NOTE 1: This Nack cause shall apply to conflicting or incomplete data in the
attribute list which prevents the BTS from performing the message.
NOTE 2: This Nack cause shall apply when the message is valid and is supported
by the BTS, but cannot be performed correctly for reasons not covered by other
general or special Nack causes.
NOTE 3: This Nack cause shall apply to the case where the data in attribute
list is valid, but is beyond the capabilities of the particular BTS
implementation.
### 9.4.37 Ny1
* * *
Attribute Identifier 1 Ny1 2
* * *
_Ny1_ shall be a binary presentation of maximum number of repetitions of
PHYSICAL INFORMATION (see 3GPP TS 24.008, subclause 3.4.4.2.2).
### 9.4.38 Operational State
* * *
Attribute Identifier 1 Operational State 2
* * *
_Operational States_ are in accordance with GSM 12.20 and shall be coded as
follows:
Disabled 01
Enabled 02
\ \
NULL(Operat. state not supported) FF
### 9.4.39 Overload Period
* * *
Attribute Identifier 1 Length 2-3 Overload Period 4 (cont.)  
(cont.) N
* * *
### 9.4.40 Physical Config
* * *
Attribute Identifier 1 Length 2-3 Required Test Config \ 4 (cont.)  
(cont.) N
* * *
_Required Test Config_ is manufacturer dependent.
### 9.4.41 Power Class
* * *
Attribute Identifier 1 Power Class 2
* * *
_Power Class_ is a binary presentation of transceiver power class as defined
in 3GPP TS 45.005.
### 9.4.42 Power Output Thresholds
* * *
Attribute Identifier 1 Output Power Fault Threshold 2 Reduced Output Power
Threshold 3 Excessive Output Power Threshold 4
* * *
When the carrier output power of the transmitter, including power amplifier
and transmitter combiner, is below or above a power level, a fault shall be
generated. There are two thresholds below the output power to indicate two
different levels of fault severity, and one for threshold above. The range of
_Output Power Fault Threshold_ and _Reduced Output Power Threshold_ is from
-10 to -1 dB . The values shall be coded in 1 dB steps such that -10 dB is
expressed with 0 and -1 dB with 9.
Output Power Threshold \
Reduced Output Power Threshold \
The range of _Excessive Output Power Threshold_ is from 2 dB to 5 dB. The
value shall be coded in 1 dB steps such that 2 dB is expressed with binary
value 0 and 5 dB with binary value 3.
Excessive Output Power Threshold \
### 9.4.43 Probable Cause
* * *
Attribute Identifier 1 Probable Cause Type 2 Probable Cause Value 3 Probable
Cause Value (cont.) 4
* * *
_Probable Cause Type_ shall be coded as follows:
ISO/CCITT values (X.721) 01
GSM specific values 02
Manufacturer specific values 03
\ \
For _Probable Cause Value_ coding, the last numeric value of the object
identifier value specified in ASN.1 syntax coding shall be used if _Probable
Cause Type_ is either 01 or 02.
### 9.4.44 RACH Busy Threshold
* * *
Attribute Identifier 1 RACH Busy Threshold 2
* * *
_RACH Busy Threshold_ shall be a binary presentation of -[x]{.underline} dBm
in the range \.
### 9.4.45 RACH Load Averaging Slots
* * *
Attribute Identifier 1 RACH Load Averaging Slots (MSB) 2 RACH Load Averaging
Slots (LSB) 3
* * *
_RACH Load Averaging Slots_ shall be a binary presentation of number of RACH
burst periods in the range \.
### 9.4.46 Radio Sub Channel
* * *
Attribute Identifier 1 Radio Sub Channel 2
* * *
_Radio Sub Channel_ shall be coded as follows:
Half rate channel 0 00
Half rate channel 1 01
### 9.4.47 RF Max Power Reduction
* * *
Attribute Identifier 1 RF Max Power Reduction 2
* * *
_RF Max Power Reduction_ shall be a binary presentation of the number of 2 dB
power reduction steps as defined in 3GPP TS 45.005.
This represents \"Pn\" as used in 3GPP TS 48.058.
### 9.4.48 Site Inputs
* * *
Attribute Identifier 1 Length 2-3 Site Input 4 (cont.)  
(cont.) N
* * *
If _Site Inputs_ are requested from Site Manager with message _Get Attributes_
, all inputs shall be listed. Each octet from 4 to N controls one Site input.
Each of these octets contain the input number and the state of the input and
they shall be coded as follows.
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 State Input number
* * *
_State_ shall be a binary presentation of the input state, 0 or 1. _Input
number_ shall be a binary presentation of input number. Note that maximally
128 binary inputs can be supported.
### 9.4.49 Site Outputs
* * *
Attribute Identifier 1 Length 2-3 Site Output 4 (cont.)  
(cont.) N
* * *
If _Site Outputs_ are sent to Site Manager with message _Set Site Outputs_ ,
the site outputs shall be generated as indicated by the message. Coding of
this information element shall be the same as for Site Inputs. Note that
maximally 128 binary site outputs can be supported.
### 9.4.50 Source
* * *
Attribute Identifier 1 Length 2-3 Source 4 (cont.)  
(cont.) N
* * *
_Source_ identifies a unit of equipment that shall be \"changed from\" on a
Change-over operation. How to identify a type of equipment and how to identify
a specific unit of this type is manufacturer dependent.
### 9.4.51 Specific Problems
* * *
Attribute Identifier 1 Specific Problems 2
* * *
Specific Problems
\ \
\ \
### 9.4.52 Starting Time
* * *
Attribute Identifier 1 Current Frame No (MSB) 2 Current Frame No (LSB) 3
* * *
_Current Frame No_ shall be a binary presentation FN Modulus 42432.
### 9.4.53 T200
* * *
Attribute Identifier 1 SDCCH ( 5 ms) 2 FACCH/Full rate ( 5 ms) 3 FACCH/Half
rate ( 5 ms) 4 SACCH with TCH SAPI0 (10 ms) 5 SACCH with SDCCH (10 ms) 6 SDCCH
SAPI3 ( 5 ms) 7 SACCH with TCH SAPI3 (10 ms) 8
* * *
Each field shall be a binary presentation of time units mentioned in brackets.
NULL (FF) means the value is not specified (see 3GPP TS 44.006).
### 9.4.54 TEI
* * *
Attribute Identifier 1 TEI 2
* * *
TEI (see 3GPP TS 48.056):
Initial TEI \
Additional TEI \
\ \
### 9.4.55 Test Duration
* * *
Attribute Identifier 1 Test Duration 2-3
* * *
_Test Duration_ shall be a binary presentation of seconds in range
\indicating the time the test should last.
### 9.4.56 Test No
* * *
Attribute Identifier 1 Test Number 2
* * *
_Test Number_ shall be coded as follows:
Radio loop test via antenna 00
Radio loop test via transceiver 01
BTS functional object self test 02
\ \
\ \
### 9.4.57 Test Report Info
* * *
Attribute Identifier 1 Length 2-3 Test Result Info 4 (cont.)  
(cont.) N
* * *
If the test was either radio loop test via antenna or radio loop test via
transceiver, octets 3 and 4 are defined. Octet 3 shall include a binary
presentation of RXLEV value in the range of 0-3F such that value 0 equals to
-110 dBm or less and 3F equals to -48 dBm or more. Octet 4 shall express bit
error rate (BER) of received bit stream in 0,1% steps in the range 0,0% -
12,8% such that 0 equals to 0,0% BER and 128(dec) equals to 12,8% BER or more.
If the test was BTS functional object self test, octet 3 shall indicate pass
or fail for the test of the functional object on the BTS by value 1 or 0 where
0 is the code for fail.
In the defined test cases _Test Result Info_ may also contain manufacturer
dependent information in subsequent octets. In other tests, _Test Result Info_
is manufacturer dependent.
### 9.4.58 VSWR Thresholds
* * *
Attribute Identifier 1 Faulty Antenna Threshold 2 Antenna Not Adjusted
Threshold 3
* * *
_VSWR Thresholds_ shall be used in association with the \"_faulty receiver
(transmitter) antenna_ \" _or \"receiver (transmitter) antenna not adjusted_
\" Probable Cause. The VSWR range for both thresholds is 1,2 - 3,0. The value
shall be coded in 0,1 steps such that 1,2 is expressed with 0 and 3,0 with
12(hex).
Faulty Antenna Threshold \
Antenna Not Adjusted Threshold \
### 9.4.59 Window Size
* * *
Attribute Identifier 1 Window Size 2
* * *
_Window Size_ shall be a binary presentation of the number of layer 3 _Load
Data Segment messages_ to be sent before a layer 3 acknowledgment needs to be
issued. Value 0 is not used.
### 9.4.60 TSC
* * *
Attribute Identifier 1 Training Sequence Code 2
* * *
For details of _Traing Sequence Codes_ , see 3GPP TS 45.002.
TSC values \
\ \
### 9.4.61 SW Configuration
* * *
Attribute Identifier 1 Length 2-3 SW Description 1 4 ...  
SW Description n N
* * *
_SW Configuration_ shall contain a list of _SW Descriptions_ related to the
managed object.
### 9.4.62 SW Description
* * *
Attribute Identifier 1 File Id 2 File Version N
* * *
### 9.4.63 Perceived Severity
* * *
Attribute Identifier 1 Severity Value 2
* * *
_Severity Value_ shall be coded as follows:
failure ceased 00
critical failure 01
major failure 02
minor failure 03
warning level failure 04
indeterminate failure 05
\ \
\ \
### 9.4.64 Get Attribute Response Info
* * *
Attribute Identifier 1 Length 2-3 Count of not-reported attributes 4 (Each
not-reported atttribute id)  
(cont.)  
(cont.)  
......  
(Each reported attribute id and its value)  
(cont.)  
(cont.) N
* * *
The BTS shall make a best effort to report on all the attributes requested by
the associated _Get Attributes_ message. The _Length_ indicates the length of
the entire _Get Attribute Response Info_ which may possibly go over a single
segment message and should not be confused with the length of the data put in
one single message frame (see subclause 8.1.1). The _Count of not reported
attributes_ entry shall indicate the binary integer coded value of the count
of the attributes requested but the BTS could not report on because the
attributes are either not supported or not yet defined. In case of a non-zero
value of the above counter, the _Each not- reported attribute id_ entry shall
list the Id of each attrute not reported and shall continue as many as
indicated by the above counter. The _Each reported attribute id and its value_
entry shall list each reported attribute id and its value pair coded and
formatted for every applicable attribute or parameter as specified in this
subclause (subclause 9.4) and shall continue until all reported attributes are
included in the response.
### 9.4.65 Outstanding Alarm Sequence
* * *
Attribute Identifier 1 Pending Reports 2
* * *
The integer coded _Pending Reports_ field indicates the number of pending
_Failure Event Report_ messages to follow the current message as a response to
the associated _Report Outstanding Alarms_ message. This value being 0 signals
that it is the last message for the outstanding alarms.
### 9.4.66 HW Conf Change Info
* * *
Attribute Identifier 1 Length 2-3 HW Description Position Index 1 4 Operation
Code 1 5 Modification Data 1 _(only if needed)_  
......  
HW Description Position Index K  
Operation Code K  
Modification Data K _(only if needed)_ N
* * *
_HW Description Position Index_ , _Operation Code_ , and _Modification Data_
constitute an associated tripplet for each HW Description change operation.
The triplet may be repeated as many as needed. All the changes indicated in
one _Change HW Configuration_ message must be successfully conducted or the
procedure must fail otherwise. The _HW Description Position Index_ , an octet
coded integer, indicates the HW Description's position in the HW Configuration
attribute to which the change operation indicated by the associated _Operation
Code_ must be applied. In case of multiple entries, all the position indices
shall be interpreted against the initial HW Configuration sequence. There are
three possible operations as listed below:
deletion 00
insertion 01
modification 02
By a deletion operation, the indexed HW Description is deleted from the HW
Configuration attribute. A deletion operation requires no associated
Modification Data. An insertion or modification operation requires an
associated _Modification Data_ which specifies the new data for the operation.
By a modification operation, the indexed HW Description in the HW
Configuration attribute is replaced with the provided Modification Data.
Deletion and modification operations are mutually exclusive at one position.
By an insertion operation, the provided Modification Data is inserted
immediately after the indexed HW Description in the HW Configuration
attribute. An insertion at a position indexed zero (0) is interpreted as
prepending to the very beginning. More than one insertion operation at one
identically indexed position shall produce a HW Configuration sequence in
which the inserted Descriptions are ordered the way as they appear in the _HW
Conf Change Info_ field.
#