# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
This Technical Report describes the interface requirements of a mechanism
which will deliver intercept from GSM mobile stations, including both speech
and data product.
The stage 1 description of Lawful Interception will be specified in 3GPP TS
42.033.
The stage 2 description of Lawful Interception will be specified in 3GPP TS
43.033.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] GSM 01.04: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Abbreviations and acronyms\".
[2] GSM MoU Association document SG09, June 1995
[3] The European Union Council Resolution reference: "International
Requirements for The Lawful Interception of Telecommunications" (January
1995), (JAI_24_Rev 2, 8197/2/95)
[4] ITU-T Recommendation G.711: \"Pulse Code Modulation (PCM) of voice
frequencies\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
**A-party:** The originating party number.
**B-Party:** The called party number.
**C-Party:** A diverted-to party number.
**Network related data:** Data associated with a call, excluding the actual
product such as speech or data.
**Product:** Data sent or received by a mobile user such as speech or fax or
data.
**RF:** Requesting Function; mechanism owned by an interception authority to
set-up and receive the interception product.
**Target:** An MSISDN (or sometimes IMSI) which is to be made the subject of
an interception.
**WAN:** Wide Area Network, or interconnected LANs providing a computer data
network between PLMN elements.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
In addition to those mentioned below, abbreviations used in this report are
listed in GSM 01.04.
CGI Cell Global Identity
FTAM File Transfer Access and Management
GSM Global System for Mobile communications
HLR Home Location Register
IMEI International Mobile station Equipment Identity
IMSI International Mobile Subscriber Identity
ISDN Integrated Services Digital Network
LEA Law Enforcement Agency
MoU Memorandum of Understanding
MoU-SG The MoU Security Group
MS Mobile Station
MSC Mobile-services Switching Centre
MSISDN Mobile Station International ISDN Number
PLMN Public Lands Mobile Network
PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network
RF Requesting Function
SMG Special Mobile Group
SMG-SG The ETSI TC SMG Security Group
SMS Short Message Service
SS Supplementary Service
SS7 Signalling System No. 7
UDI Unrestricted Digital Interface (64 kbit/s ISDN data)
WAN Wide Area Network
# 4 Telecom interception requirements
## 4.1 Background
Previous MoU-SG specification SG09 has defined the interception of GSM in
general terms. This report will define the X-interface to the Public Lands
Mobile Network (PLMN) to support interception.
## 4.2 Background technical requirements
This report describes the interface to the PLMN, defined as the X-interface.
The interface is illustrated in figure 1.
The X-interface is between the Requesting Function (RF) and the PLMN. It is
divided into three logical parts:
1) The X1-interface is used to present commands to the PLMN, from an
administration centre. This interface is part of the switch management
capability, usually over an X.25 interface or Wide Area Network (WAN).
2) The X2-interface receives \"Network related data\" from the Mobile-services
Switching Centre (MSC), in switch management or file output format, probably
over an X.25 network or WAN. Alternatively, it may be sent in combination with
the ISDN product in the X3-interface described below.
3) The X3-interface receives \"Product\" (mobile user\'s speech and data) from
the MSC. It is contained within one or more 64 kbit/s channels.
The objective of the X-interface is to allow a standard to be created so that
a PLMN consisting of MSCs from different manufacturers may be combined.
Although the X1-interface commands may be slightly different for each
manufacturer, it should be possible to create a single intelligent system to
manage the interface at a low cost, capable of managing all different
manufacturers implementations.
Similarly, the outputs defined in the X2 and X3 parts of the X-interface
should be capable of processing by the same \"Requesting Function\".
# 5 General technical requirements for legal interception in GSM/PCN networks
Figure 1 shows the general system for interception. Technical interception is
implemented within a PLMN by special functionality on network elements;
primarily the MSCs/VLRs and Home Location Registers (HLRs). Use of the
function and delivery of the \"Product\" from the target is defined by the
X-interface.
X-interface
NOTES: 1: Paper or direct request\ 2: Electronic request\ 3a and 3b: \"Network
related data\" } Items 3 & 4 may be combined into\ 4a and 4b: \"Product\",
such as speech and mobile data } a common transport mechanism
X1 = Interface 2\ X2 = Interface 3a\ X3 = Interface 4a
Figure 1: General specification for interception
## 5.1 General principles
The PLMN network should provide access to the \"Product\" and the \"Network
related data\" of the mobile targets by means of the X-interface. As a minimum
requirement the target should be identifiable by the Mobile Station
International ISDN Number(s) (MSISDN(s)). There should be provision for
unambiguous connection of the \"Product\" and the \"Network related data\" to
the remote Requesting Functions (RFs). A secure means of administration of the
service should be available to the PLMN operator and/or appropriate requesting
functions in accordance with national laws.
## 5.2 Capability
The following minimum capabilities are required:
\- it will be possible to support as \"Product\": speech, user data, fax and
SMS, from the interception function;
\- roamers from other PLMNs may also be targets;
\- mobile originating, mobile terminating, and diversion or multiparty calls
will be capable of interception;
\- location information.
## 5.3 Operation
The interception function shall not alter the operation of a target\'s service
or provide indication to any party involved in the call. Output product should
be in \"clear\" form - no GSM radio interface or PLMN generated radio
interface encoding or encryption is present (the PLMN cannot remove subscriber
encryption). The service should not alter the standard functions of GSM
network elements. The \"Product\" and the \"Network related data\" shall be
delivered as near as possible to the time the call is made.
# 6 Summary of information passed over the X-interface
## 6.1 Intercept request, set-up details for target (X1)
Data to be stored for target mobile station:
\- MSISDN, or optionally the International Mobile Subscriber Identity (IMSI);
\- Connection address for the Requesting Function (RF);
\- Type of output:
\- \"Product\" or \"Network related data\" or both.
## 6.2 Output (from PLMN to RF)
### 6.2.1 X2, \"Network related data\"
\- unique reference number for MSC call event;
\- MSISDN, (and optionally IMSI, International Mobile station Equipment
Identity (IMEI));
\- type of call (i.e. originating or terminating);
\- A-party number, B-party number;
\- C-party (diversion or multiparty numbers);
\- start time of call;
\- finish time of call (or call duration);
\- location information (Cell Global Identity (CGI));
\- teleservice or bearer service used, Supplementary Service (SS) used;
\- call completion message (giving call release reason).
NOTE 1: The above list is a guide to the information which may be provided by
the MSC, but not all the items will be available for every call type.
NOTE 2: Connected party numbers (A-, B- and C-party) may only be available for
calls completely contained within ISDN based networks.
NOTE 3: Appropriate \"Network related data\" should also be output from the
MSC for unsuccessful call attempts.
### 6.2.2 X3, \"Product\" (when requested)
\- \"Product\": speech, user data, fax, or Short Message Service (SMS);
NOTE: SMS text may be forwarded to the RF by means of the X2-interface
mechanism.
\- Unique reference number for MSC call event.
# 7 Interception mechanisms
## 7.1 Intercept Request Function (X1)
The following basic target administration functions are to be supported:
**ADD**
\- flag a target by MSISDN, or optionally IMSI;
\- X2 delivery address, e.g. X.25 or WAN address;
\- X3 \"Product\" delivery address, E.164 address;
\- select \"Network related data\" alone, or \"Network related data\" and
\"Product\".
**REMOVE**
\- de-flag a target.
**SHOW**
\- list one or more targeted MSISDNs.
## 7.2 Interception output, \"Product\" and \"Network related data\"
The \"Product\" of the target and connected parties will be additionally
connected to an output port of the MSC (for example by means of a three party
bridge) which routes the \"Product\" to an RF, possibly via an optional
mediation device. The mediation device provides interface conversion (if
necessary) between the PLMN X2- and X3-interfaces and the RF.
Different RFs may require the same information. The mediation device may
simultaneously provide multiple output of \"Product\" and \"Network related
data\" regarding one MSISDN to more than one RF. No information should be
passed to the RF about which other RFs are using the information.
Some types of call may require multiple links to the RF, for example
Unrestricted Digital Interface (UDI) data services, and optionally in-band
data (3.1 kHz) services.
## 7.3 Delivery mechanisms
### 7.3.1 Network related data (see subclause 6.2.1)
There are two mechanisms proposed for delivery of \"Network related data\";
these are:
\- ISDN user to user signalling; or
\- MSC/HLR file format output, (via an X.25 network using File Transfer Access
and Management (FTAM), or WAN).
### 7.3.2 Product
The \"Product\" should be passed in ISDN format: i.e. for voice according to
ITU-T Recommendation G.711, A-law encoding in one or more 64 kbit/s channels.
For UDI data the output is transparently transmitted in two 64 kbit/s
channels.
\"Product\" (speech and data) should be routed to the RF by E.164 address.
SMS product, exceptionally, will probably be transported according to the
mechanism selected for \"Network related data\".
## 7.4 Administration mechanism
A secure means of administrating the service by the PLMN operator and/or
requesting function is necessary. This mechanism should provide for the
addition and removal of subscribers from the marked list by authorised
personnel, and a show marked MSISDNs command. Access should be policed by
appropriate authentication and audit procedures.
### 7.4.1 Security
The intercept function must only be capable of being used by authorised
personnel. Security functions should provide the following capability (to
national requirements):
\- security administration to control nominated user access to the function;
\- secure data network arrangements between administration centre and MSC/HLR
for the intercept function commands;
\- security mechanisms to control access to the function should be provided at
both the administration centre and MSC/HLR elements;
\- secure network arrangements between MSC/HLR and the RF to ensure that
\"Network related data\" and \"Product\" only reach the appropriate
authorities;
\- it should not be possible for non authorised personnel to read the target
list of MSISDNs;
\- an audit log of use of the intercept function (successful or failed should
be maintained, accessible only to authorised users;
\- no indication whatsoever should be given to any PLMN operative (except
authorised personnel) or the target or customer that the intercept function
has been invoked on the target.
## 7.5 Merging and processing of \"Product\" and \"Network related data\"
This aspect of the service is not addressed by this report. It is a matter of
discussion between relevant authorities and the PLMN operator as to
responsibilities for the provision of the mediation device, and the means of
handling product at the RF.
###### ### Annex A: Diagram of an example interception technical
implementation
{width="5.750694444444444in" height="6.243055555555555in"}
###### ### Annex B: GPRS and Lawful Interception
# B.1 Introduction
## B.1.1 Overview
The general system for lawful interception in GSM PLMN is similar in both
circuit and packet switched services. Technical interception is implemented
within a PLMN by special functionality on network elements; primarily the
MSCs/VLRs, the GPRS Support Nodes (GSNs) and HLRs. The objective of the
X‑interface is to allow a standard to be created so that a PLMN consisting of
different network elements (GSN, MSC/VLR, HLR) from different manufacturers
may be combined.
The interception mechanisms are similar in both circuit and packet switched
services, but there are few things that require modifications: The GPRS
service brings packet data specific requirements to the information passed
over the X‑interface. Also the definition of target identity is different in
the GPRS service.
## B.1.2 Scope
The scope of this annex is to introduce GPRS specific X-interface and
identification requirements to this lawful interception report.
# B.2 Target Identity
A GPRS subscriber identified by an IMSI (or an MSISDN) shall have a network
layer address(es) temporarily and/or permanently associated with it that
conforms to the standard addressing scheme of the respective network layer
service used. GPRS shall provide a means to interwork with external data
networks. The GPRS operator provides an appropriate Packet Data Protocol (PDP)
address to the external data network for the subscriber as part of the GPRS
subscription. That address can be either dynamic (e.g. the user\'s IP address
is allocated from a pool of unused IP addresses every time the subscriber
activates the access to an IP network) or static (e.g. a certain IP address is
permanently allocated to a particular subscriber).
# B.3 Summary of Information Passed over the X-interface
## B.3.1 Intercept Request, Set-up Details for Target (X1)
Data to be stored for target GPRS mobile station:
\- IMSI, or MSISDN;
\- Connection address for the Requesting Function (RF);
\- Type of output:
\- \"Product\" or \"Network related data\" or both.
## B.3.2 Output (from PLMN to Requesting Function)
### B.3.2.1 X2, \"Network related data\"
\- unique reference number for PDP context activation;
\- IMSI, (and optionally MSISDN, International Mobile station Equipment
Identity (IMEI));
\- type of packet data transfer (i.e. originating or terminating);
\- A-party PDP address, B-party PDP address;
\- C-party (diversion or multiparty PDP addresses);
\- time of PDP context activation;
\- time of PDP context deactivation (or PDP context duration);
\- location information (Cell Global Identity (CGI));
\- teleservice or bearer service used, Supplementary Service (SS) used;
\- PDP used;
\- call completion message (giving call release reason);
\- timestamp (see subclause B.3.2.2).
The above list is a guide to the information which may be provided by the GPRS
service, but not all the items will be available for every call type.
Appropriate \"Network related data\" should also be output from the GPRS
service for unsuccessful packet data transfer attempts. For certain protocols
like IP, the sender and receiver addresses are always included in the IP
packet and do not need to be part of \"Network related data\".
### B.3.2.2 X3, \"Product\" (when requested)
\- \"Product\": user data or Short Message Service (SMS);
\- unique reference number for PDP context activation;
\- timestamp on each PDP packet.
At the law enforcement agency the data packets and the \"Network related
data\" can be accurately correlated by copying the timestamp in the data
product packet into the timestamp field of the \"Network related data\"
packet. In addition to the timestamp the unique reference number or user
identification may be required for correlation. All packet data transmissions
to or from the intercept target may be subject to interception regardless of
their outcome. For example, when an SMS packet to an MS is intercepted, it is
not known whether the packet was actually received by the MS.
#