# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document identifies the 3GPP system specifications for Release 14.
The specifications and reports of this Release have a major version number 14
(i.e. 14.x.y). The listed Specifications are required to build a system based
on GERAN radio technology.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \" Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 21.900: \"Technical Specification Group working methods\".
# 3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] apply.
# 4 General
The numbering scheme for specifications is described in 3GPP TR 21.900 [2].
# 5 Specifications and Reports
NOTE 1: The \"for publication?\" column of the table below indicates whether
or not the documents are intended for adoption by the partner Standards
Development Organizations as their own publications. Those marked \"no\" are
internal working documents of the 3GPP TSGs.
NOTE 2: Some of the algorithm specifications in the 35.‑series are available
only under licence.
NOTE 3: \"Type\" indicates Technical Specification (TS) or Technical Report
(TR).
NOTE 4: For definition of \"freezing\" of specifications (last two columns),
see 3GPP TS 21.900 [2].
The list of Technical Specifications and Technical Reports can be found at:\
www.3gpp.org/dynareport/SpecList.htm?release=Rel-14&tech=1.
#