# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document defines the interface tests for the Terminal / UICC
interface.
The aim of the present document is to ensure interoperability between an UICC
and a Terminal independently of the respective manufacturer, card issuer or
operator.
Application specific tests for applications residing on an UICC are specified
in document TS 31.121 [2].
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the interface test for the Terminal / UICC.
The present document specifies the tests of:
> \- physical characteristics of the UICC;
>
> \- the electrical interface between the UICC and the Terminal;
>
> \- the initial communication establishment and the transport protocols;
>
> \- the application independent procedures.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
• References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
• For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
• For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] ETSI TS 102 230 V7.0.0: \"Smart cards; UICC-Terminal interface; Physical,
electrical and logical test specification\".
[2] 3GPP TS 31.121: \"UICC-terminal interface; USIM Application Test
Specification\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols, abbreviations and coding
All definitions, symbols, abbreviations and coding conventions applicable to
the terminal are specified in ETSI TS 102 230 [1].
# 4 Physical Characteristic Tests
All tests within the scope of this clause are specified in ETSI TS 102 230
[1].
# 5 Electrical Characteristic Tests
All tests within the scope of this clause are specified in ETSI TS 102 230
[1].
# 6 Initial Communication Tests
All tests within the scope of this clause are specified in ETSI TS 102 230
[1].
# 7 Transmission Protocol Tests
All tests within the scope of this clause are specified in ETSI TS 102 230
[1].
# 8 Application independent procedures
All tests within the scope of this clause are specified in ETSI TS 102 230
[1].
###### ## Annex A (normative): UICC simulator functional requirement
All requirements within the scope of this clause are specified in ETSI TS 102
230 [1].
#