# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document defines the ISIM Application Programming Interface
extending the \"UICC API for Java Card™\" [2].
This API allows to develop an application running together with a ISIM
application.
The present document includes information applicable to network operators,
service providers, server -,--ISIM - and database manufacturs.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] ETSI TS 101 220 Release 7: \"Smart Cards; ETSI numbering system for
telecommunication application providers\".
[2] ETSI TS 102 241 V8.0.0: \"Smart Cards; UICC Application Programming
Interface (UICC API) for Java Card™\".
[3] 3GPP TS 31.103: \"Characteristics of the IP Multimedia Services Identity
Module (ISIM) application\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions defined in
ETSI TS 102 241 [2] apply.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations defined in ETSI TS
102 241 [2] apply.
# 4 Description
## 4.0 Overview
This API is an extension to the ETSI TS 102 241 [2] \"UICC API for Java
Card™\" and requires the implementation of this specification.
The classes and interfaces described in this specification inherit
functionality from the classes and interfaces specified in ETSI TS 102 141[2]
\"UICC API for Java Card™\".
## 4.1 ISIM Java Card™ architecture
The overall architecture of the ISIM API is based on the \"UICC API for Java
Card™\" defined in ETSI TS 102 2412].
# 5 File Access API
The ISIM file access API consists of the package _uicc.isim.access_. This
package defines additional constants to those defined in the _uicc.access_
package from ETSI TS 102 241 [2]. The access to the file system, defined in TS
31.103 [3] is the one specified in ETSI TS 102 241 [2] via the UICC _FileView_
Interface.
###### ## Annex A (normative): Java Card™ ISIM API
The attached files \"31133_Annex_A_Java.zip\", and \"31133_Annex_A_HTML.zip\"
contain source files and html documentation for the Java Card™ ISIM API.
###### ## Annex B (normative): Java Card™ ISIM API identifiers
The attached file \"31133_Annex_B_Export_files.zip\" contains the export files
for the uicc.isim.access package.
###### ## Annex C (normative): ISIM API package version management
The following table describes the relationship between each TS 31.133
specification version and its packages AID and Major, Minor versions defined
in the export files.
* * *
TS 31.133 uicc.isim.access package  
AID Major, Minor A0 00 00 00 87 10 05 FF FF FF FF 89 14 10 00 00 1.1
* * *
The package AID coding is defined in ETSI TS 101 220 [1]. The ISIM API
packages AID are not modified by changes to Major or Minor Version.
The Major Version shall be incremented if a change to the specification
introduces byte code incompatibility with the previous version.
The Minor Version shall be incremented if a change to the specification does
not introduce byte code incompatibility with the previous version.
The package _uicc.isim.access_ contains only constants, therefore it may not
be loaded on the UICC.
###### ## Annex D (normative): ISIM API jar files
The attached file \"31133_Annex_D.jar\" contains class files for the Java
Card™ ISIM API.
#