# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) was been produced by ETSI Technical
Committee Telecommunications and Internet converged Services and Protocols for
Advanced Networking (TISPAN) and originally published as ETSI TS 183 011 [19].
It was transferred to the 3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP) in in
January 2008.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the, stage three, Protocol Description of the
Anonymous Communication Rejection (ACR) and Communication Barring (CB)
simulation service, based on stage one and two of the ISDN supplementary
service Anonymous Call Rejection (ACR), Incoming Communication Barring (ICB)
and Outgoing Communication Barring (OCB). Within the Next Generation Network
(NGN) the stage 3 description is specified using the IP Multimedia Call
Control Protocol based on Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) and Session
Description Protocol (SDP).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
Referenced documents which are not found to be publicly available in the
expected location might be found at
[http://docbox.etsi.org/Reference]{.underline}.
For online referenced documents, information sufficient to identify and locate
the source shall be provided. Preferably, the primary source of the referenced
document should be cited, in order to ensure traceability. Furthermore, the
reference should, as far as possible, remain valid for the expected life of
the document. The reference shall include the method of access to the
referenced document and the full network address, with the same punctuation
and use of upper case and lower case letters.
NOTE: While any hyperlinks included in this clause were valid at the time of
publication ETSI cannot guarantee their long term validity.
## 2.1 Normative references
The following referenced documents are indispensable for the application of
the present document. For dated references, only the edition cited applies.
For non-specific references, the latest edition of the referenced document
(including any amendments) applies.
[1] ETSI TS 181 002: \"Telecommunications and Internet converged Services and
Protocols for Advanced Networking (TISPAN); Multimedia Telephony with
PSTN/ISDN simulation services\".
[2] ETSI ES 283 003: \"Telecommunications and Internet converged Services and
Protocols for Advanced Networking (TISPAN); IP Multimedia Call Control
Protocol based on Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) and Session Description
Protocol (SDP) Stage 3 [3GPP TS 24.229 (Release 7), modified]\".
[3] ETSI TS 183 007: \"Telecommunications and Internet converged Services and
Protocols for Advanced Networking (TISPAN); PSTN/ISDN simulation services;
Originating Identification Presentation (OIP) and Originating Identification
Restriction (OIR); Protocol specification\".
[4] ETSI TS 183 038: \"Telecommunications and Internet converged Services and
Protocols for Advanced Networking (TISPAN); PSTN/ISDN Simulation Services;
Extensible Markup Language (XML) Document Management; Protocol Specification
(Endorsement of\ OMA-TS-XDM-Core-V1-0-20051103-C and OMA-TS-XDM-
Shared-V1-0-20051006-C)\".
[5] IETF RFC 3266: \"Support for IPv6 in Session Description Protocol (SDP)\".
[6] ETSI TS 183 023: \"Telecommunications and Internet converged Services and
Protocols for Advanced Networking (TISPAN); PSTN/ISDN simulation services;
Extensible Markup Language (XML) Configuration Access Protocol (XCAP) over the
Ut interface for Manipulating NGN PSTN/ISDN Simulation Services\".
[7] Void.
[8] Void.
[9] ETSI TS 183 004: \"Telecommunications and Internet converged Services and
Protocols for Advanced Networking (TISPAN); PSTN/ISDN simulation services:
Communication Diversion (CDIV); Protocol specification\".
[10] ETSI TS 183 028: \"Telecommunications and Internet converged Services and
Protocols for Advanced Networking (TISPAN); Common Basic Communication
procedures Protocol specification\".
[11] Void.
[12] ETSI TS 183 033: \"Telecommunications and Internet converged Services and
Protocols for Advanced Networking (TISPAN); IP Multimedia; Diameter based
protocol for the interfaces between the Call Session Control Function and the
User Profile Server Function/Subscription Locator Function; Signalling flows
and protocol details [3GPP TS 29.228 V6.8.0 and\ 3GPP TS 29.229 V6.6.0,
modified]\".
[13] IETF RFC 3325: \"Private Extensions to the Session Initiation Protocol
(SIP) for Asserted Identity within Trusted Networks\".
[14] IETF RFC 3323: \"A privacy Mechanism for the Session Initiation Protocol
(SIP)\".
[15] IETF RFC 3455: \"Private Header (P-Header) Extensions to the Session
Initiation Protocol (SIP) for the 3rd-Generation Partnership Project (3GPP)\".
[16] IETF RFC 4745: \"Common Policy: A Document Format for Expressing Privacy
Preferences\".
[17] OMA-TS-XDM-Core-V1-0: \"XML Document Management (XDM) Specification\",\
Version 1.0. OMA-TS-XDM-Core-V1-0-1-20061128-A.pdf.
[18] IETF RFC 5079 (December 2007): \"Rejecting Anonymous Requests in the
Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)\".
## 2.2 Informative references
[19] ETSI TS 183 011 V1.3.0: \"Telecommunications and Internet converged
Services and Protocols for Advanced Networking (TISPAN); PSTN/ISDN simulation
services: Anonymous Communication Rejection (ACR) and Communication Barring
(CB); Protocol specification\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TS 181 002 [1] apply.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
ACR **Anonymous Communication Rejection**
AS Application Server
CB Communication Barring
CDIV Communication DIVersion services
CONF CONFerence calling
ECT Explicit Communication Transfer
HOLD communication session HOLD
ICB **Incoming Communication Barring**
IFC **Initial Filter Criteria**
I-MGCF Incoming - Media Gateway Control Function
IP Internet Protocol
ISUP REL ISDN Signalling User Part
MCID Malicious Call IDentification
MGCF Media Gateway Control Function
OCB **Outgoing Communication Barring**
OIP Originating Identification Presentation
OIR Originating Identification Restriction
O-MGCF Outgoing - Media Gateway Control Function
P-CSCF Proxy - Call Session Control Function
S-CSCF Server - Call Session Control Function
TIP Terminating Identification Presentation
TIR Terminating Identification Restriction
UE User Equipment
XCAP eXtended Camel Application Part
XML eXtensible Markup Language
# 4 Anonymous Communication Rejection (ACR) and Communication Barring (CB)
## 4.1 Introduction
The **Communication Barring (CB)** service offers the following services:
  * The Incoming Communications Barring (ICB) is a service that rejects incoming communications that fulfil certain provisioned or configured conditions on behalf of the terminating user.
  * The Anonymous Communication Rejection **(ACR)** is a particular case of the ICB service, that allows barring of incoming communications from an anonymous originator on behalf of the terminating user.
  * The **Outgoing Communication Barring (OCB)** is a service that rejects outgoing communications that fulfil certain provisioned or configured conditions on behalf of the originating user.
## 4.2 Description
### 4.2.1 General description
The Incoming Communications Barring (ICB**)** service makes it possible for a
user to have barring of certain categories of incoming communications
according to a provisioned or user configured barring program and is valid for
all incoming communications. A barring program is expressed as a set of rules
in which the rules have a conditional part and an action part. Examples of
conditions are whether the asserted originating public user identity matches a
specific public user identity or whether the originating public user identity
is restricted (anonymous). The action part could specify for a rule that
contains a matching condition that the specific incoming communication shall
be barred. The complete set of conditions and actions that apply to this
service and their semantics is described in clause 4.9.
The Inhibition of Incoming Forwarded Calls is a special case of the ICB and
allows the served user to reject incoming communications from users or
subscribers who have diverted the communication towards the served user. The
communication history information will be used to trigger the service as
described in clause 4.9.
The Anonymous Communication Rejection (ACR) service allows the served user to
reject incoming communications on which the asserted public user identity of
the originating user is restricted. In case the asserted public user identity
of the originating user is not provided then the communication shall be
allowed by the ACR service.
An example where the originating user restricts presentation of the asserted
public user identity is when he activated the OIR service TS 183 007 [3].
The originating user is given an appropriate indication that the communication
has been rejected due to the application of the ACR service.
The Anonymous Communication Rejection (ACR) simulation service is a special
case of the ICB service, which is highlighted here because it is a regulatory
service in many countries. The ACR service can be activated for a specific
subscriber by configuring an ICB service barring rule where the conditional
part contains the \"Condition=anonymous\" and the action part \"allow=false\".
The Outgoing Communications Barring (OCB) service makes it possible for a user
to have barring of certain categories of outgoing communications according to
a provisioned or user configured barring program and is valid for all outgoing
communications. A barring program is expressed as a set of rules in which the
rules have a conditional part and an action part. An example condition is
whether the request uri matches a specific public user identity. The action
part can specify for a rule that contains a matching condition that the
specific outgoing communication it to be barred. The complete set of
conditions and actions that apply to this service and their semantics is
described in clause 4.9.
## 4.3 Operational requirements
### 4.3.1 Provision/withdrawal
The ACR/CB service shall be provided after prior arrangement with the service
provider.
The ACR/CB service shall be withdrawn at the served user\'s request or for
administrative reasons.
### 4.3.2 Requirements on the originating network side
No specific requirements are needed in the network.
### 4.3.3 Requirements in the network
No specific requirements are needed in the network.
### 4.3.4 Requirements on the terminating network side
No specific requirements are needed in the network.
## 4.4 Coding requirements
### 4.4.1 ICB coding requirements
No specific requirements have been identified.
### 4.4.2 ACR coding requirements
The Privacy header field and the P-Asserted-Identity header fields as defined
within ES 283 003 [2], are used to trigger the service. The response code 433
(Anonymity Disallowed) defined by RFC 5079 [18] is used in support of ACR
service.
### 4.4.3 OCB coding requirements
No specific requirements have been identified.
## 4.5 Signalling requirements
### 4.5.0 General
For user configuration of the ACR/CB services the Ut interface should be used.
See clause 4.9 for further information about the structure of the XML
document.
NOTE: Other possibilities for user configuration, as web-based provisioning or
pre-provisioning by the operator are outside the scope of the present
document.
### 4.5.1 Activation/deactivation
The services ICB, OCB and ACR are individually activated at provisioning or at
the subscribers request by using e.g. the Ut interface.
The services ICB, OCB and ACR are individually deactivated at withdrawal or at
the subscribers request by using e.g. the Ut interface.
#### 4.5.1A Registration/erasure
For registration of information for the services ICB, OCB and ACR, the Ut
interface should be used. The detailed information for the services ICB, OCB
and ACR can individually be registered at the subscribers request by using the
Ut interface.
For erasure of information for the services ICB, OCB and ACR, the Ut interface
should be used. The detailed information for the services ICB, OCB and ACR can
individually be erased at the subscribers request by using the Ut interface.
#### 4.5.1B Interrogation
For interrogation of the services ICB, OCB and ACR, the Ut interface should be
used.
### 4.5.2 Invocation and operation
#### 4.5.2.1 Actions at the originating UE
Procedures according to ES 283 003 [2] shall apply.
#### 4.5.2.2 Actions at the originating P-CSCF
Procedures according to ES 283 003 [2] shall apply.
#### 4.5.2.3 Actions at the originating S-CSCF
Procedures according to ES 283 003 [2] shall apply.
NOTE: Annex B includes an example of an IFC that can be used to invoke the OCB
simulation service.
#### 4.5.2.4 Actions at the originating AS
##### 4.5.2.4.1 Actions for OCB at the originating AS
Procedures according to ES 283 003 [2] shall apply.
OCB shall reject outgoing communications when the evaluation of the served
users outgoing communication barring rules according to the algorithm as
specified in clause 4.9.1.2 evaluates to (allow=\"false\"), for the purpose of
OCB the \"cp:identity\" and \"ocp:external-list\" conditions shall be
evaluated against the called party identity which shall be taken from Request-
URI and additionally may be taken from the To header field.
When the OCB service rejects a communication, it shall send an indication to
the calling user by sending a 603 (Decline) response Additionally, before
terminating the communication an announcement can be provided to the
originating user. The procedure of invoking an announcement is described
within TS 183 028 [10].
#### 4.5.2.5 Actions at the terminating S-CSCF
Procedures according to ES 283 003 [2] shall apply.
NOTE: Annex B includes an example of an IFC that can be used to invoke the
ACR/ICB simulation service.
#### 4.5.2.6 Actions at the terminating AS
##### 4.5.2.6.1 Actions for ICB at the terminating AS
Procedures according to ES 283 003 [2] shall apply.
ICB shall reject incoming calls when the evaluation of the served users
incoming communication barring rules according to the algorithm as specified
in clause 4.9.1.2 evaluates to (allow=\"false\"), for the purpose of ICB the
\"cp:identity\" and \"ocp:external-list\" conditions shall be evaluated
against the calling party identity which shall be taken from the P-Asserted-
Identity header field and additionally may be taken from the From header field
or the Referred-By header field.
The ACR service is a special case of the ICB service and is expressed as the
following rule:
  * Condition: =anonymous, Action: allow=false.
Any rule set that evaluates to (allow=\"false\") and where one of the matching
rules contained the anonymous condition shall execute the procedures as
specified in clause 4.5.2.6.2.
When the ICB service rejects a communication, it shall send an indication to
the calling user by sending a 603 (Decline) response Additionally, before
terminating the communication an announcement can be provided to the
originating user. The procedure of invoking an announcement is described
within TS 183 028 [10].
##### 4.5.2.6.2 Action for ACR at the terminating AS
Procedures according to ES 283 003 [2] shall apply.
The ACR service shall reject all incoming communications where the incoming
SIP request:
1) includes the P-Asserted-Identity header field AND includes the Privacy
header field indicating \"id\" as specified in RFC 3325 [13]; or
2) includes the P-Asserted-Identity header field AND includes the Privacy
header field indicating \"header\" as specified in RFC 3323 [14]; or
3) includes the P-Asserted-Identity header field AND includes the Privacy
header field indicating \"user\" as specified in RFC 3323 [14].
NOTE: In all other cases the communication proceeds normally.
When the ACR service rejects a communication, the ACR service shall send an
indication to the calling user by sending a 433 (Anonymity Disallowed)
response. Additionally, before terminating the communication an announcement
can be provided to the originating user. The procedure of invoking an
announcement is described within TS 183 028 [10].
As a service option the ACR service may forward the communication to a voice
message service instead of rejecting the communication with a 433 (Anonymity
Disallowed) final response.
#### 4.5.2.7 Actions at the incoming I-CSCF
Procedures according to ES 283 003 [2] shall apply.
#### 4.5.2.8 Actions at the outgoing IBCF
Procedures according to ES 283 003 [2] shall apply.
NOTE: The interworking with other NGN is described in clauses 4.7.
#### 4.5.2.9 Actions at the incoming IBCF
Procedures according to ES 283 003 [2] shall apply.
#### 4.5.2.10 Actions at the BGCF
Procedures according to ES 283 003 [2] shall apply.
NOTE: The interworking with other NGN is described in clauses 4.7.3.
#### 4.5.2.11 Actions at the MGCF
Procedures according to ES 283 003 [2] shall apply.
NOTE: The interworking is described in clause 4.7.1.
#### 4.5.2.12 Actions at the destination P-CSCF
Procedures according to ES 283 003 [2] shall apply.
#### 4.5.2.13 Actions at the destination UE
Procedures according to ES 283 003 [2] shall apply.
## 4.6 Interaction with other services
### 4.6.1 Communication HOLD (HOLD)
No impact, i.e. neither simulation service shall affect the operation of the
other service.
### 4.6.2 Terminating Identification Presentation (TIP)
No impact, i.e. neither simulation service shall affect the operation of the
other service.
### 4.6.3 Terminating Identification Restriction (TIR)
No impact, i.e. neither simulation service shall affect the operation of the
other service.
### 4.6.4 Originating Identification Presentation (OIP)
If the called user has subscribed to the override category according to the
OIP service TS 183 007 [3], then the ACR service shall not apply.
Within the network execution of ICB and ACR services shall precede the OIP
service.
### 4.6.5 Originating Identification Restriction (OIR)
If the called user has activated the ACR service, then incoming communications
of originating user that have activated the OIR service -TS 183 007 [3] are
rejected as a consequence of the procedure in clause 4.5.2.6.2.
### 4.6.6 CONFerence Calling (CONF)
If the conference creator activated the OCB service then, REFER request with a
refer-to target that is barred by the conference creator\'s Outgoing
Communication Barring (OCB) rules shall not be accepted.
If the conference creator activated the OCB service then, the AS shall remove
the URI that is barred by the conference creator\'s Outgoing Communication
Barring (OCB) rules from the list of URIs in the \"recipient-list\" body of
INVITE request.
### 4.6.7 Communication DIVersion services (CDIV)
If the served user has activated the ACR or ICB service, then the ACR or ICB
service shall take precedence over the Communication Diversion service for the
served user.
If the served user activated the OCB service then, the OCB service shall take
precedence on the outgoing communication towards the targeted-to user.
### 4.6.8 Malicious Communication IDentification (MCID)
No impact, i.e. neither simulation service shall affect the operation of the
other service.
### 4.6.9 Explicit Communication Transfer (ECT)
No impact, i.e. neither simulation service shall affect the operation of the
other service.
## 4.7 Interworking with other networks
### 4.7.1 Interworking with PSTN/ISDN
#### 4.7.1.1 General
Clause 4.7.1 deals with the interworking of:
1) the ACR Supplementary Service executed within the PSTN/ISDN interworking
with the NGN; and
```{=html}
``` 4) the ACR service executed within the NGN interworking with the
PSTN/ISDN.
The 433 (Anonymity Disallowed) response shall be mapped to the Cause Value
Field. Procedures described within the following clauses shall apply.
NOTE: When interworking with existing implementations, the cause value 24
_\"call rejected due to ACR supplementary service\"_ indicating that the call
was rejected due to the ACR service, may be lost.
#### 4.7.1.2 SIP-ISUP protocol interworking at the I-MGCF
##### 4.7.1.2.1 Coding of the mapping of REL to 433 (anonymity disallowed)
response
If ISUP Cause Value field in the ISUP REL includes Cause Value 24 _\"call
rejected due to ACR supplementary service\"_ the I-MGCF maps this to a 433
(Anonymity Disallowed) response.
#### 4.7.1.3 SIP-ISUP protocol interworking at the O-MGCF
##### 4.7.1.3.1 Receipt of the 433 (Anonymity Disallowed) response
If the response is a 433 (Anonymity Disallowed) response, then this response
shall be mapped to the ISUP Cause Value field 24 _\"call rejected due to ACR
supplementary service\"_ in the ISUP REL.
### 4.7.2 Interworking with PSTN/ISDN Emulation
The interworking with PSTN/ISDN Emulation is for further study.
### 4.7.3 Interworking with external IP networks
The procedures of ES 283 003 [2] shall apply in addition 433 (Anonymity
Disallowed) responses are forwarded to other SIP-based networks.
The interworking with non SIP networks is for further study.
## 4.8 Parameter values (timers)
No Timers for ACR/CB defined.
## 4.9 Service configuration
### 4.9.1 Structure of the XML Document
Communication Barring documents are sub-trees of the _simservs_ XML document
specified in TS 183 023 [6]. As such, Communication Barring documents use the
XCAP application usage in TS 183 023 [6].
**Data semantics:** The semantics of the communication barring XML
configuration document is specified in clause 4.9.1. \"_Structure of the XML
Document_ \".
**XML schema:** Implementations in compliance with the present document shall
implement the XML schema that minimally includes the XML Schema defined in
clause 4.9.2 \"_Communication Barring Rules_ \" and the _simservs_ XML schema
specified in clause 6.3 of TS 183 023 [6].
#### 4.9.1.1 General
In addition to the considerations and constraints defined by the _simservs_
XML document TS 183 023 [6], the following additional constraints and
considerations for the Communication Barring sub-tree are defined.
An instance of the simulation services configuration containing a
communication barring configuration document.
\
\
\
_rule set_
\
\
_rule set_
\
\
The communication barring service contains a rule set, which specifies how the
communication barring service shall react to external stimuli.
#### 4.9.1.2 Communication Barring elements
The communication barring configuration is contains a rule set. The rule set
reuses the syntax as specified by the common policy draft (see RFC 4745 [16]).
\
\
_rule1_
_rule2_
\
\
For evaluating a rule set the algorithm as specified in common policy draft
(see RFC 4745 [16], clause 10.2) shall be used.
In clause 4.9.1.3 all allowed conditions are specified, communication barring
rules are always evaluated at communication setup time.
The shown \"active\" attribute is inherited from the simservType from TS 183
023 [6], its meaning is also specified in TS 183 023 [6].
#### 4.9.1.3 Communication Barring rules
The Communication Barring service is configured with an ordered set of
forwarding rules. The XML Schema reuses the rule syntax as specified by common
policy draft (see RFC 4745 [16]). The rules take the following form:
\
\
_condition1_
_condition2_
\
\
\false\
\
\
When the service processes a set of rules it shall startexecuting the first
rule. If:
\- the rule has no \ element;
\- the rule has an empty \ element; or
\- conditions are present and they all evaluate to true;
then the rule matches and the specified action is executed.
Applied to the fragment above which shows the case where conditions are
present this means that only if the expression (_condition1_ AND _condition2_)
evaluates to true that then the _rule66_ matches call is executed, if there
are more matching rules then the resulting actions shall be combined according
to the procedure specified in the common policy draft (see RFC 4745 [16]). If
one of the matching rules evaluates to allow=true then the resulting value
shall be allow=true and the call continues normally, otherwise the result
shall be allow=false and the call will be barred. If there are no matching
rules then the result shall be allow=true.
The \"id\" attribute value of a rule shall uniquely identify the rule within a
rule set. This can be used in XCAP usage to address one specific rule.
#### 4.9.1.4 Communication Barring rule conditions
The following conditions are allowed by the XML Schema for the communication
barring service.
**presence-status:** This condition evaluates to true when the called user\'s
current presence activity status is equal to the value set for this condition.
In all other cases the condition evaluates to false.
**cp:identity:** This condition evaluates to true when a provided user\'s
identity matches with the value of the identity element. The interpretation of
all the elements of this condition is described in the common policy draft\
(see RFC 4745 [16]). In all other cases the condition evaluates to false.
**anonymous:** To comply with the requirements as set for simulation of the
ACR service, the _anonymous_ element shall only evaluate to true when the
conditions as set out in clause 4.5.2.6.2 for asserted originating public user
identity apply.
**cp:sphere:** Not applicable in the context of the Communication Barring
service.
**cp:validity:** Specifies a period. The condition evaluates to true when the
current time is within the validity period expressed by the value of this
condition. In all other cases the condition evaluates to false.
**media:** This condition evaluates to true when the value of this condition
matches the media field in one of the \"m=\" lines in RFC 3266 [5] offered in
an INVITE request. It allows for barring of specific media.
**communication-diverted:** This condition evaluates to true when the incoming
communication has been previously diverted.
NOTE: Diverted communication can be recognized by the presence of the History
header field, as specified in TS 183 004 [9].
**roaming:** This condition evaluates to true when the served user is
registered from an access network other then the served users home network.
NOTE: Whether the served user is registered from another network then the
served users home network can be determined from the P-Visited-Network-ID
header field specified in RFC 3455 [15] and the\ P-Access-Network-Info header
field specified in RFC 3455 [15] both are provided during the registration
process, see ES 283 003 [2], clause 5.7.1.3.
**rule-deactivated:** This condition always evaluates to false. This can be
used to deactivate a rule, without loosing information. By removing this
condition the rule can be activated again.
**ocp:external-list:** This condition evaluates to true when a provided users
identity is contained in an external URI list stored in a OMA-TS-XDM_Shared
[17] to which the value of external-list refers. The exact interpretation of
this element is specified in OMA-TS-XDM_Core [17].
**ocp:other-identity:** If present in any rule, the \"other-identity\"
element, which is empty, matches all identities that are not referenced in any
rule. It allows for specifying a default policy. The exact interpretation of
this condition is specified in OMA-TS-XDM_Core [17].
The condition elements that are not taken from the common policy draft (see
RFC 4745 [16]) or OMA common policy schema TS 183 038 [4] are defined in the
simservs document schema specified in TS 183 023 [6].
#### 4.9.1.5 Communication Barring rule actions
The action supported by the communication barring service is (un)conditional
barring of calls. For this the allow action has been defined. The allow action
takes a Boolean argument when the value is true calls are allowed to continue,
when it is false the call shall be barred.
### 4.9.2 XML Schema
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\This is the incoming communication barring configuration
document.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\This is the outgoing communication barring configuration
document.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
###### ## Annex A (informative): Signalling flows
The following signalling flows shows examples showing the use of the ACR
service. These flows are not implying that other call scenarios are not valid.
# A.1 ACR termination towards UE-B
{width="4.871527777777778in" height="3.4451388888888888in"}
Figure A.1.1: ACR termination towards UE-B
**1 to 2. INVITE (UE to S-CSCF) - see example in figure A.1.1.**
The incoming INVITE request is sent to the S-CSCF serving UE-B. The INVITE
includes a Privacy header field set to one of the following values: \"id\" or
\"header\" or \"user\".
**3\. Evaluation of initial filter criteria.**
The initial Filter criteria indicates that the called user is subscribed to
the ACR service. Therefore the S-CSCF forwards the INVITE to the ACR AS.
**4 to 5. INVITE (S-CSCF to AS) - see example in figure A.1.1.**
INVITE is sent to the AS.
**6 to 8. 433 (Anonymity Disallowed) response. (AS to UE) - see example in
figure A.1.1.**
AS has identified that the call is anonymous and answers with a 433 (Anonymity
Disallowed) response.
**9 to 10. The originating party acknowledges the final response with ACK.**
###### ## Annex B (informative): Example of filter criteria
This annex provides an example of a filter criterion that triggers SIP
requests that are subject to initial filter criteria evaluation.
When the initial request matches the conditions of the next unexecuted IFC
rule for the served user which points to the ACR service and the P-Asserted-
Identity header is set to \"id\", \"header\" or \"user\" or \"critical\", the
communication is forwarded to the AS.
An example of an Initial Filter Criteria (IFC) Trigger Point configurations
under the assumption that the ACR service is a standalone service that can be
invoked by a very specific triggerpoint active at the destination S-CSCF:
  * (Method=\"INVITE\" AND [Header=\"P-Asserted-Identity\"] AND [Header=\"Privacy\", Content=\"id\"]); or
  * (Method=\"INVITE\" AND [Header=\"P-Asserted-Identity\"] AND [Header=\"Privacy\", Content=\"header\"]); or
  * (Method=\"INVITE\" AND [Header=\"P-Asserted-Identity\"] AND [Header=\"Privacy\", Content=\"user\"]); or
  * (Method=\"INVITE\" AND [Header=\"P-Asserted-Identity\"] AND [Header=\"Privacy\", Content=\"critical\"]).
NOTE 1: The coding of the Initial Filter Criteria is described in TS 183 033
[12].
NOTE 2: In this case there is a one to one relationship with the conditions
that express the rejection cases for the ACR service as specified in clause
4.5.2.6.1 \"Action for ACR at the terminating AS\".
NOTE 3: In practice it is more likely that all Invite\'s are forwarded to the
AS, because there is more services to execute then ACR alone. This is already
apparent when the combined service ACR/ICB is deployed.
#