# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) was been produced by ETSI Technical
Committee Telecommunications and Internet converged Services and Protocols for
Advanced Networking (TISPAN) and originally published as ETSI TS 183 010 [7].
It was transferred to the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership Project (3GPP) in
December 2007.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the, stage three, Protocol Description of the
Communication Hold (HOLD) services, based on stages one and two of the ISDN
Hold (HOLD) supplementary services. Within the Next Generation Network (NGN)
the stage 3 description is specified using the IP Multimedia Call Control
Protocol based on Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) and Session Description
Protocol (SDP).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
Referenced documents which are not found to be publicly available in the
expected location might be found at
[http://docbox.etsi.org/Reference]{.underline}.
NOTE: While any hyperlinks included in this clause were valid at the time of
publication ETSI cannot guarantee their long term validity.
[1] ETSI ES 283 003: \"Telecommunications and Internet converged Services and
Protocols for Advanced Networking (TISPAN); IP Multimedia Call Control
Protocol based on Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) and Session Description
Protocol (SDP) Stage 3 [3GPP TS 24.229 (Release 7), modified]\".
[2] ETSI ES 283 027: \" Telecommunications and Internet converged Services and
Protocols for Advanced Networking (TISPAN); Endorsement of the SIP-ISUP
Interworking between the IP Multimedia (IM) Core Network (CN) subsystem and
Circuit Switched (CS) networks [3GPP TS 29.163 (Release 7), modified]\".
[3] ETSI TS 129 163: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Universal Mobile Telecommunications System (UMTS); Interworking between the IP
Multimedia (IM) Core Network (CN) subsystem and Circuit Switched (CS) networks
(3GPP TS 29.163)\".
[4] IETF RFC 3264 (2002): \"An Offer/Answer Model with the Session Description
Protocol (SDP)\".
[5] ETSI TS 181 002: \"Telecommunications and Internet converged Services and
Protocols for Advanced Networking (TISPAN); Multimedia Telephony with
PSTN/ISDN simulation services\".
[6] ETSI TS 183 028: \"Telecommunications and Internet converged Services and
Protocols for Advanced Networking (TISPAN); Common Basic Communication
procedures; Protocol specification\".
[7] ETSI TS 183 010 V1.2.2: \"Telecommunications and Internet converged
Services and Protocols for Advanced Networking (TISPAN); NGN Signalling
Control Protocol; Communication HOLD (HOLD) PSTN/ISDN simulation services;
Protocol specification\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TS 181 002 [5] apply.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
ACR/CB Anonymous Communication Rejection and Communication Barring
AS SIP Application Server
CDIV Communication DIVersion
CSCF Call Session Control Function
ECT Explicit Communication Transfer
HOLD communication session HOLD
IBCF Interconnect Border Control Function
I-CSCF Interrogation-CSCF
IMS IP Multimedia Subsystem
IP Internet Protocol
ISDN Integrated Service Data Network
MCID Malicious Communication IDentification
NGN Next Generation Network
OIP Originating Identification Presentation
OIR Originating Identification Restriction
P-CSCF Proxy-CSCF
PSTN Public Switched **Telephone** Network
S-CSCF Serving-CSCF
SDP Session Description Protocol
SIP Session Initiation Protocol
TIP Terminating Identification Presentation
TIR Terminating Identification Restriction
UE User Equipment
# 4 Communication Hold (HOLD)
## 4.1 Introduction
Not applicable.
## 4.2 Description
### 4.2.1 General description
The Communication Hold supplementary service enables a user to suspend the
media stream(s) of an established IP multimedia session, and resume the media
stream(s) at a later time.
## 4.3 Operational requirements
### 4.3.1 Provision/withdrawal
The HOLD service that includes announcements shall be provided after prior
arrangement with the service provider.
### 4.3.2 Requirements on the originating network side
No specific requirements are needed in the network.
### 4.3.3 Requirements in the network
No specific requirements are needed in the network.
### 4.3.4 Requirements on the terminating network side
No specific requirements are needed in the network.
## 4.4 Coding requirements
No specific coding requirements are needed.
## 4.5 Signalling requirements
### 4.5.1 Activation/deactivation
The HOLD service is activated at provisioning and deactivated at withdrawal.
Not applicable.
4.5.1A Registration/erasure
The HOLD service requires no registration. Erasure is not applicable.
4.5.1B Interrogation
Interrogation of HOLD is not applicable.
### 4.5.2 Invocation and operation
#### 4.5.2.1 Actions at the invoking UE
In addition to the application of basic call procedures according to ES 283
003 [1] the following procedures shall be applied at the invoking UE in
accordance with RFC 3264 [4].
A UE shall not invoke the HOLD service on a dialog associated with an
emergency call the UE has intitiated.
If individual media streams are affected:
  * for each media stream that shall be held, the invoking UE shall generate a new SDP offer that contains:
```{=html}
``` \- an \"inactive\" SDP attribute if the stream was previously set to
\"recvonly\" media stream; or
  * a \"sendonly\" SDP attribute if the stream was previously set to \"sendrecv\" media stream; or
```{=html}
``` \- for each media stream that shall be resumed, the invoking UE shall
generate a new SDP offer that contains:
```{=html}
``` \- a \"recvonly\" SDP attribute if the stream was previously an inactive
media stream; or
> \- a \"sendrecv\" SDP attribute if the stream was previously a sendonly
> media stream, or the attribute may be omitted, since sendrecv is the
> default.
If all the media streams in the SDP are affected:
  * for the media streams that shall be held, the invoking UE shall generate a session level direction attribute in the SDP that is set to:
```{=html}
``` \- \"inactive\" if the streams were previously set to \"recvonly\" media
streams; or
  * \"sendonly\" if the streams were previously set to \"sendrecv\" media streams; or
```{=html}
``` \- for the media streams that shall be resumed, the invoking UE shall
generate a session level direction attribute in the SDP that is set to:
```{=html}
``` \- \"recvonly\" if the streams were previously inactive media streams; or
> \- \"sendrecv\" if the streams were previously sendonly media streams, or
> the attribute may be omitted, since sendrecv is the default.
Then the UE shall send the generated SDP offer in a re-INVITE (or UPDATE)
request to the held UE.
#### 4.5.2.2 Actions at the P-CSCF of the invoking UE
Basic communication procedures according to ES 283 003 [1] shall apply.
#### 4.5.2.3 Actions at the S-CSCF
Basic communication procedures according to ES 283 003 [1] shall apply.
#### 4.5.2.4 Actions at the AS of the invoking UE
As a network option the AS of the invoking UE shall initiate the procedures
for the provision of an announcement to the held user in accordance with TS
183 028 [6].
#### 4.5.2.5 Actions at the incoming I-CSCF
Basic communication procedures according to ES 283 003 [1] shall apply.
#### 4.5.2.6 Actions at the outgoing IBCF
Basic communication procedures according to ES 283 003 [1] shall apply.
#### 4.5.2.7 Actions at the incoming IBCF
Basic communication procedures according to ES 283 003 [1] shall apply.
#### 4.5.2.8 Actions at the P-CSCF of the held UE
Basic communication procedures according to ES 283 003 [1] shall apply.
#### 4.5.2.9 Actions at the held UE
Basic communication procedures according to ES 283 003 [1] shall apply.
## 4.6 Interaction with other services
### 4.6.1 Communication Hold (HOLD)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
### 4.6.2 Terminating Identification Presentation (TIP)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
### 4.6.3 Terminating Identification Restriction (TIR)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
### 4.6.4 Originating Identification Presentation (OIP)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
### 4.6.5 Originating identification restriction (OIR)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
### 4.6.6 Conference calling (CONF)
If a participant of a conference invokes the HOLD service, it is not desirable
to provide an announcement to the conference. Therefore if a communication to
a remote URI shall be held by sending a re-INVITE (or UPDATE) request which
includes the \"isfocus\" feature parameter in the Contact header, the AS of
the invoking UE shall not initiate the procedures for the provision of an
announcement to the held user.
### 4.6.7 Communication DIVersion services (CDIV)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
### 4.6.8 Malicious Communication IDentification (MCID)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
### 4.6.9 Anonymous Communication Rejection and Communication Barring (ACR/CB)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
### 4.6.10 Explicit Communication Transfer (ECT)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
## 4.7 Interactions with other networks
### 4.7.1 Interaction with PSTN/ISDN
The procedures of ETSI TS 129 163 [3], clause 7.4.10 shall apply with the
additions of ES 283 027 [2].
NOTE: If the Hold and Resume procedures are initiated from the PSTN/ISDN
network side, only the UPDATE request is used to signal the new SDP, in
accordance with **ES 283 003 [1]**.
### 4.7.2 Interaction with PSTN/ISDN Emulation
For Further Study.
### 4.7.3 Interaction with external IP networks
The procedures of **ES 283 003 [1]** shall apply.
## 4.8 Parameter values (timers)
Not applicable.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Signalling Flows
# A.1 HOLD communication
Assumption is that a session has been established between UE-A and UE-B using
basic communication procedures according to ES 283 003 [1], therefore the
following signalling flows do not apply to the initial INVITE.
## A.1.1 HOLD communication without announcement
The following diagram shows a communication session put on hold using a
reINVITE request, note that the same can be achieved by sending an UPDATE
request.
Figure A.1.1.1: HOLD communication without announcement to the held user
1\. UE-A sends an INVITE to UE-B to hold the session. Hold is done by changing
the SDP attribute:
  * \"a=sendonly\", if the stream was previously a sendrecv media stream;
  * \"a=inactive\", if the stream was previously a recvonly media stream.
## A.1.2 HOLD communication with announcement
The following diagram shows a communication session put on hold using a
reINVITE request, note that the same can be achieved by sending an UPDATE
request.
Figure A.1.2.1: HOLD communication with announcement to the held user
1\. UE-A sends an INVITE to UE-B to hold the session. Hold is done by changing
the SDP attribute:
  * \"a=sendonly\", if the stream was previously a sendrecv media stream;
  * \"a=inactive\", if the stream was previously a recvonly media stream.
# A.2 RESUME Communication
## A.2.1 RESUME communication without announcement
The following diagram shows how a communication session is resumed using a
reINVITE request, note that the same can be achieved by sending an UPDATE
request.
Figure A.2.1.1: RESUME communication without announcement to the held user
1\. UE-A sends an INVITE to UE-B to resume the session. Resume is done by
changing the SDP attribute:
  * \"a=sendrecv\", if the stream was previously a recvonly media stream, or the attribute may be omitted, since sendrecv is the default;
  * \"a=recvonly\", if the stream was previously an inactive media stream.
## A.2.2 RESUME communication with announcement
The following diagram shows how a communication session is resumed using a
reINVITE request, note that the same can be achieved by sending an UPDATE
request.
Figure A.2.2.1: RESUME communication with announcement to the held user
1\. UE-A sends an INVITE to UE-B to resume the session. Resume is done by
changing the SDP attribute:
  * \"a=sendrecv\", if the stream was previously a recvonly media stream, or the attribute may be omitted, since sendrecv is the default;
  * \"a=recvonly\", if the stream was previously an inactive media stream.
#