# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) was been produced by ETSI Technical
Committee Telecommunications and Internet converged Services and Protocols for
Advanced Networking (TISPAN) and originally published as ETSI TS 183 041 [2].
It was transferred to the 3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP) in
December 2007.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document provides the ETSI TISPAN endorsement of 3GPP TS 24.247
(V6.4.0) [1]: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical Specification
Group Core Network and Terminals; Messaging service using the IP Multimedia
(IM) Core Network (CN) subsystem; Stage 3 (Release 6)\" in line with the
requirements of TISPAN NGN.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
Referenced documents which are not found to be publicly available in the
expected location might be found at
[http://docbox.etsi.org/Reference]{.underline}.
[1] 3GPP TS 24.247 (V6.4.0): \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Core Network and Terminals; Messaging service using the IP
Multimedia (IM) Core Network (CN) subsystem; Stage 3 (Release 6)\".
[2] ETSI TS 183 041 V1.1.1: \"Telecommunications and Internet converged
Services and Protocols for Advanced Networking (TISPAN); Messaging service
using the IP Multimedia (IM) Core Network (CN) subsystem; Stage 3: Protocol
specifications [Endorsement of 3GPP TS 24.247 Release 6]\".
# Endorsement notice
The present document, in conjunction with 3GPP TS 24.247 [1], provides the
specifications for the stage 3 of the messaging service for NGNs.
The elements of 3GPP TS 24.247 [1] apply, with the following modifications.
##### Throughout the text of 3GPP TS 24.247 {#throughout-the-text-of-3gpp-
ts-24.247 .H6}
The references listed in table 1 are replaced by references applicable to NGN.
Table 1: List of references to be replaced
* * *
Reference in 3GPP TS 24.247 [1] Applicable reference in the present document
3GPP TS 24.229 ETSI ES 283 003: \'Telecommunications and Internet converged
Services and Protocols for Advanced Networking (TISPAN); Endorsement of \"IP
Multimedia Call Control Protocol based on Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)
and Session Description Protocol (SDP) Stage 3 (Release 6)\" for NGN Release
1\". 3GPP TS 23.228 ETSI TS 182 006: \"ITelecommunications and Internet
converged Services and Protocols for Advanced Networking (TISPAN); IP
Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); Stage 2 description (3GPP TS 23.228 v7.2.0,
modified)\".
* * *
The last paragraph in clause 4 of 3GPP TS 24.247 [1] does not apply.
#