# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) was been produced by ETSI Technical
Committee Telecommunications and Internet converged Services and Protocols for
Advanced Networking (TISPAN) and originally published as ETSI TS 183 047 [x].
It was transferred to the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership Project (3GPP) in
December 2007.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the stage three Protocol Description of the
Advice Of Charge (AOC) service, based on stage 1 and 2 of the ISDN
Supplementary Service Advice Of Charge for all calls (permanent mode). Within
the TISPAN NGN Release 2 Next Generation Network (NGN) the stage 3 description
is specified using the IP Multimedia Call Control Protocol based on Session
Initiation Protocol (SIP) and Session Description Protocol (SDP).
Three AOC services exist:
**a) Charging information at communication set-up time (AOC-S)**
The AOC-S service enables a user to receive information about the charging
rates at communication set-up time and also to receive further information
during the communication if there is a change of charging rates.
**b) Charging information during the communication (AOC-D)**
The AOC-D service enables a user to receive information on the recorded
charges for a communication during the active phase of the communication.
**c) Charging information at the end of the communication (AOC-E)**
The AOC-E service enables a user to receive information on the recorded
charges for a communication when the communication is terminated.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
Referenced documents which are not found to be publicly available in the
expected location might be found at
[http://docbox.etsi.org/Reference]{.underline}.
NOTE: While any hyperlinks included in this clause were valid at the time of
publication ETSI cannot guarantee their long term validity.
[1] ETSI TS 181 002: \"Telecommunications and Internet converged Services and
Protocols for Advanced Networking (TISPAN); Multimedia Telephony with
PSTN/ISDN simulation services\".
[2] ETSI ES 283 003: \"Telecommunications and Internet converged Services and
Protocols for Advanced Networking (TISPAN); IP Multimedia Call Control
Protocol based on Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) and Session Description
Protocol (SDP) Stage 3 [3GPP TS 24.229 (Release 7), modified]\".
[3] ISO 4217: \"International Organization for Standardization; Type Currency
Code List\".
[4] IETF RFC 2976 (2000): \"The SIP INFO method\".
[5] IETF RFC 3262 (2002): \"Reliability of Provisional Responses in the
Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)\".
[6] ETSI TS 183 047 V2.1.1: \"Telecommunications and Internet converged
Services and Protocols for Advanced Networking (TISPAN); NGN IMS Supplementary
Services; Advice Of Charge (AOC)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TS 181 002 [1] apply.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
AOC Advice Of Charge
AOC-D AOC During the call
AOC-E AOC at the End of the call
AOC-S AOC at call Set-up time
AS Application Server
AS-O Originating Application Server
AS-T Terminating Application server
CB Communication Barring
CCBS Completion of Communication to Busy Subscriber.
CD Communication Deflection
CDIV Call DIVersion
CFB Communication Forwarding Busy
CFNL Communication Forwarding on No Logged-in
CFNRd Communication Forwarding Not Registered
CFNRy Communication Forwarding No Reply
CFU Communication Forwarding Unconditional
CN Core Network
CNR Completion of communication on No Reply
CONF CONFerence calling
CS Circuit Switched
CUG Closed User Group
CW Communication Waiting
ECT Explicit Communication Transfer
HOLD Communication Hold
IFC Initial Filter Criteria
IM IP Multimedia
IMS IP Multimedia Subsystem
IP Internet Protocol
ISDN Integrated Service Data Network
MCID Malicious Communication IDentification
MIME Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions
MMS Multimedia Messaging Service
MPTY Multi Party service
NGN Next Generation Network
OIP Originating Identification Presentation
OIR Originating Identification Restriction
PLMN Public Land Mobile Network
PSTN Public Switch Telephone Network
QoS Quality of Service
S-CSCF Serving-Call Session Control Function
SIP Session Initiation Protocol
TIP Terminating Identification Presentation
TIR Terminating Identification Restriction
UE User Equipment
# 4 Advice Of Charge (AOC)
## 4.1 Introduction
Not applicable.
## 4.2 Description
### 4.2.1 General description
The Advice Of Charge (AOC) service allows the served user to be informed of IP
Multimedia session related charging information.
The AOC service is limited to INVITE-initiated sessions.
The AOC service is not meant to replace the charge metering inside the network
which is considered to be correct in all cases.
The charging information given shall relate to the charges incurred on a
TISPAN NGN.
### 4.2.2 Charging information at communication set-up time (AOC-S)
When the AOC-S service is activated, the network shall provide the user with
information about the charging rates at communication establishment. In
addition, the network shall inform the served user if a change in charging
rates takes place during the communication.
## 4.3 Charging information during the communication (AOC-D)
When the AOC-D service is activated, the network shall provide the user with
charging information for a communication during the active phase of this
communication. The supplied charging information shall be provided as a
cumulative charge incurred so far for the communication (i.e. charges recorded
from the start of the communication and until the moment the charging
information is sent to the served user), or as charging units.
When the call is released, the network shall send the recorded charges for the
communication to the served user.
## 4.4 Charging information at the end of the communication (AOC-E)
When the AOC-E service is activated, the network shall provide the served user
with charging information indicating the recorded charges for a communication
when this communication is released.
## 4.5 Operational requirements
### 4.5.1 Provision/withdrawal
The AOC services shall be provided to the served user after prior arrangement
with the service provider or, as a service provider option, be generally
available. Withdrawal of these services shall be made on the served user\'s
request or for service provider reasons.
When available the AOC services shall be provided for all communications
(permanent mode).
### 4.5.2 Requirements on the originating network side
No specific requirements are needed in the network.
### 4.5.3 Requirements on the terminating network side
No specific requirements are needed in the network.
## 4.6 Coding requirements
The INFO method according to RFC 2976 [4] is needed in support of AOC-D.
The AOC XML schema is defined in annex D. The AOC XML schema shall be
transported as a SIP MIME body. The MIME type for the AOC information is
\"application/vnd.etsi.aoc+xml\". Any SIP message that transports a body with
AOC information shall identify the payload as MIME type
\"application/vnd.etsi.aoc+xml\".
## 4.7 Signalling requirements
### 4.7.1 Activation/deactivation/registration
Not applicable.
### 4.7.2 Invocation and operation
Basic communication procedures according to ES 283 003 [2] shall apply, with
the following additions.
#### 4.7.2.1 Actions at the served UE
The served UE shall support the INFO method and the AOC XML schema defined in
annex D.
If methods or responses are received which contain AOC information, this
information may be rendered to the user.
#### 4.7.2.2 Actions at the AS of the served user
When sending AOC information, the AS shall encode this information according
to the XML-schema defined in annex D. In addition, for this MIME body the AS
shall set the Content-Type header to \"vnd.etsi.aoc+xml\" and set the Content-
Disposition to \"render\" with the \"handling\" parameter set to \"optional\".
In the case the AOC information is transported in a message that is forwarded
by the AS that contains already a content body, the AS shall generate a
multipart/mixed MIME body containing two sub-parts:
  * one with the AOC information; the Content-Type and Content-Disposition of this sub-part should be coded as specified for non-multipart bodies;
  * one with the received body; headers describing the content of the received SIP message (e.g. Content-type) should be moved into the headers of the this subpart.
In the case the AOC information is transported in a message that is forwarded
by the AS, that contains already a content body and the served user\'s UE has
not indicated support for multipart content, the AS shall forward the message
unchanged.
NOTE: The above clause ensures that a communication setup is not affected in
case a terminal does not support multipart content.
##### 4.7.2.2.1 Actions for AOC-S
###### 4.7.2.2.1.1 Served user is the originating user
When an INVITE request is received, and the served user is subscribed to AOC-S
service, the AS shall either (network operator option) operate as a SIP proxy
as specified in clause 5.7.4 of ES 283 003 [2] and in RFC 3262 [5] and include
the AOC information in the content body of a reliable 1xx provisional
responses, or operate as a routing B2BUA as specified in clause 5.7.5 of ES
283 003 [2] and include the AOC information in the content body a 200 OK
response forwarded by the AS.
If the charging rates change during the communication, the AS shall send the
AOC information to the UE of the served user in the content body of a mid-
dialog request forwarded by the AS or an INFO request generated by the AS.
If no charging information is available, then the AS may, as a network option,
stop the communication establishment before the session is confirmed.
###### 4.7.2.2.1.2 Served user is the terminating user
The AS shall operate as a routing B2BUA as specified in clause 5.7.5 of ES 283
003 [2].
When an INVITE request is received, and the served user is subscribed to the
AOC-S service, the AS shall include the AOC information in the content body in
the INVITE before sending the INVITE to the terminating UE.
If the charging rates change during the communication, the AS shall send the
AOC information to the UE of the served user in the content body of a mid-
dialog request forwarded by the AS or an INFO request generated by the AS.
If no charging information is available, then the AS may, as a network option,
not forward the communication invitation.
##### 4.7.2.2.2 Actions for AOC-D
The AS shall operate as a routing B2BUA as specified in clause 5.7.5 of ES 283
003 [2].
The procedures for AOC-D service at the AS are the same for the originating
and the terminating user.
If the user is subscribed to AOC-D service, the AS may provide charging
information to the user at any moment during the active phase of the
communication. When sending the charging information, the AS shall include the
AOC information in the content body of a mid-dialog request or mid-dialog
response forwarded by the AS to the served user or an INFO request to the
served user generated by the AS. The supplied charging information shall be
provided as a cumulative charge incurred so far for the communication (i.e.
charges recorded from the start of the communication until the moment the
charging information is sent to the served user).
When the communication is terminated, the AS shall include the recorded AOC
information for the communication in the content body of either the BYE
request or the final response to the BYE request sent to the served user. If
the communication is free of charge, then the AS shall indicate the charged
amount as zero in the AOC information.
##### 4.7.2.2.3 Actions for AOC-E
The AS shall operate as a SIP proxy as specified in clause 5.7.4 of ES 283 003
[2].
The procedures for AOC-E service at the AS are the same for the originating
and the terminating user.
If the user is subscribed to AOC-E service, when the communication is
terminated the AS shall include the recorded AOC information for the
communication in the content body of either the BYE request or the final
response to the BYE request sent to the served user. If the communication is
free of charge, then the AS shall indicate the charged amount as zero in the
AOC information.
## 4.8 Interaction with other services
### 4.8.1 Communication Waiting (CW)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other NGN
service.
### 4.8.2 Communication Hold (HOLD)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other NGN
service.
### 4.8.3 Terminating Identification Presentation (TIP)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other NGN
service.
### 4.8.4 Terminating Identification Restriction (TIR)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other NGN
service.
### 4.8.5 Originating Identification Presentation (OIP)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other NGN
service.
### 4.8.6 Originating Identification Restriction (OIR)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other NGN
service.
### 4.8.7 CONFerence calling (CONF)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other NGN
service.
NOTE: AOC information as result of a CONF invocation is out of scope the
present document.
### 4.8.8 Communication DIVersion services (CDIV)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other NGN
service.
### 4.8.9 Advice Of Charge (AOC)
If the AOC-D and AOC-E services are activated for the same communication, at
the end of the communication the network shall only send AOC-E type
information.
### 4.8.10 Completion of Communications to Busy Subscriber (CCBS) Completion
of Communications by No Reply (CCNR)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other NGN
service.
### 4.8.11 Malicious Communication IDentification (MCID)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other NGN
service.
### 4.8.12 Anonymous Communication Rejection and Communication Barring
(ACR/CB)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other NGN
service.
### 4.8.13 Explicit Communication Transfer (ECT)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other NGN
service.
NOTE: AOC information as result of a ECT invocation is out of scope of the
present document.
## 4.9 Interactions with other networks
Not applicable.
## 4.10 Parameter values (timers)
Not applicable.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Signalling flows
# A.1 Introduction
The service is divided into two aspects:
a) Application Server gathers information: this is out of scope of the present
document.
b) User is provided the AOC Information.
# A.2 User originating AOC service
## A.2.1 AOC-S
### A.2.1.1 AOC-S with information in reliable 1xx responses
{width="5.352777777777778in" height="4.36875in"}
Figure A.2.1.1: Charging info during session set-up (originating side)
Figure A.2.1.1 shows one ordering of the messages. Message 3 and message 9 can
be sent at the same moment.
**General**
The AOC information shall be provided for every communication. This is
provisioned in the AS. The AOC information is sent to UE-A in a 183 Session
Progress response.
**Call flows**
> 1 to 5 and 1 to 2 The communication is initiated by UE-A by sending an
> INVITE. The Request URI will include the URI of UE-B. After IFC evaluation
> in the S-CSCF the INVITE is routed to the Originating AS. The INVITE will
> indicate support for 100rel extension.
>
> 3 to 8 The Originating AS sends the AOC information to UE-A in a reliable
> 183 response.
>
> 9 to 11 The INVITE request is sent to UE-B.
12 to 16 The UE-B answers the communication. The 200 OK response is generated
by UE-B.
### A.2.1.2 AOC-S with AOC information in a 200 OK response
{width="5.144444444444445in" height="3.2527777777777778in"}
Figure A.2.1.2: Charging info in 200 OK during session set-up (originating
side)
Figure A.2.1.2 shows one ordering of the messages.
**General**
The AOC information shall be provided for every call. This is provisioned in
the AS. The AOC information is sent to UE-A in 200 OK (INVITE) after receiving
a 200 OK (INVITE) response from UE-B.
**Call flows**
> 1-5 The call is initiated by UE-A by sending an INVITE. The Request URI will
> include the URI of UE-B. The INVITE is routed via the Originating AS to
> UE-B.
>
> 6-10 UE-B answers the call. The 200 OK response is generated by UE-B. The
> Originating AS sends the AOC information to UE-A in this 200 OK response.
>
> 11-15 UE-A sends ACK to UE-B and the session is established.
## A.2.2 AOC-D
{width="4.966666666666667in" height="2.4034722222222222in"}
Figure A.2.2.1: Charging info during the communication
This may be a continuation of figures A.2.1.1 or A.2.1.2.
**Call flow**
> 1-4 When the charging rate is changes, an INFO request is send from the
> Originating AS to UE-A. The AOC information is included in the INFO request.
## A.2.3 AOC-E
**Calling party clears**
{width="4.641666666666667in" height="3.234722222222222in"}
Figure A.2.3.1: Calling party clears
The AOC information shall be provided for every communication after the
communication has finished. This is provisioned in the AS. The AOC information
is sent to the terminal in a 200 OK (BYE), which is originated from UE-B.
**Call Flow**
The communication has been set up as a normal communication.
1-5 UE-A generates a BYE to terminate the session, which is routed to UE-B.
> 6-10 UE-B sends a 200 OK (BYE) towards UE-A. When the Originating AS
> receives the 200 OK response, it adds the AOC information to the 200 OK
> (BYE) response.
**Called party clears**
{width="5.152083333333334in" height="3.384027777777778in"}
Figure A.2.3.2: Called party clears
The AOC information shall be provided for every communication after the
communication has finished. This is provisioned in the AS. The charging info
is sent to the terminal in a BYE request, which is originated from UE-B.
**Call Flow**
The communication has been set-up as a normal communication.
> 1-5 UE-B generates a BYE to terminate the session, which is routed to the
> UE-A. When the Originating AS receives the BYE request, it adds the AOC
> information to the BYE Request..
>
> 6-.10 UE-A sends a 200 OK (BYE) towards UE-B.
# A.3 User terminating AOC service
## A.3.1 AOC-S
{width="6.320138888888889in" height="7.821527777777778in"}
Figure A.3.1.1: Charging info during session set-up on the terminating side
**General**
The AOC information shall be provided for every call. This is provisioned in
the AS. The AOC information is sent to the terminal in an INVITE request.
Since this is a service that is charged an acknowledgement is required to
ensure that the charging info is transferred.
**Call flows**
> 1-5 The call is initiated by UE-A by sending an INVITE. The Request URI will
> include the URI of UE-B. The INVITE is routed to the Originating AS and the
> Terminating AS. The INVITE will indicate that 100rel extension is supported.
>
> 6-7 the Terminating AS will include the charging info in the INVITE sent to
> the UE-B.
>
> 8-28 UE-B sends a reliable provisional response to indicate that INVITE is
> being processed.
>
> 29-35 UE-B answers with a 200 OK (INVITE) response and sends it to UE-A.
>
> 36-42 UE-A sends a ACK to acknowledge the 200 OK (INVITE) and the session is
> established successfully.
## A.3.2 AOC-D
{width="5.350694444444445in" height="1.5979166666666667in"}
Figure A.3.2.1: Charging info during the call (terminating)
This may be a continuation of figures A.3.1.1 or A.3.1.2.1.
**Call flows**
> 1-4 When the charging rate is changes, an INFO request is send from the
> terminating AS to UE-B. The AOC information is included in the INFO request.
## A.3.3 AOC-E
**Calling party clears**
{width="5.152083333333334in" height="3.5868055555555554in"}
Figure A.3.3.1: Calling party clears
The AOC information shall be provided for every communication after the
communication has finished. This is provisioned in the AS. The AOC information
is sent to the terminating user in the BYE request which is originated from
UE-A.
**Call Flow**
The communication has been set up as a normal communication.
1-5 UE-A generates a BYE to terminate the session, which is routed to the
UE-B. When the Terminating AS receives the BYE request, it adds the AOC
information.
> 6-10 UE-B sends a 200 OK towards UE-A.
**Called party clears**
{width="5.152083333333334in" height="3.384027777777778in"}
Figure A.3.3.2: Called party clears
The AOC information shall be provided for every communication after the
communication has finished. This is provisioned in the AS. The charging info
is sent to the terminating user in the 200 OK response, which is originated
from UE-a.
**Call Flow**
The communication has been set-up as a normal communication.
> 1-5 UE-B generates a BYE to terminate the session, which is routed to UE-A.
>
> 6-.10 UE-A sends a 200 OK response towards UE-B. When the Terminating AS
> receives the 200 OK, it adds the AOC information.
###### ## Annex B (informative): Example of Filter Criteria
This annex provides an example of a filter criterion that triggers SIP
requests that are subject to initial filter criteria evaluation.
An example of an IFC when the AOC service is active at the originating S-CSCF
is:
  * Method: INVITE.
###### ## Annex C (normative): Charging Information Elements
# C.1 General
This annex describes the charging information to be provided to the served
user.
# C.2 AOC-S
The AOC-S service provides tariff information at the start of the call or when
tariff changes occur during the call.
## C.2.1 Charged Items
AOC-S can provide a _list of charged items_ or a _special charging
arrangement_.
Following charged items are thought applicable:
  * basic communication;
  * communication attempt;
  * communication setup;
  * operation of supplementary services.
The special charging arrangement excludes all other charged items and is
therefore mentioned separately.
### C.2.1.1 Charged Item: basic communication
This expresses the rate for the basic communication.
The rate shall be expressed as:
  * price per time unit and time unit (see clause C.2.2.1); or
  * f ree of charge (see clause C.2.2.2); or
  * flat rate (see clause C.2.2.3); or
  * special charging code (see clause C.2.2.4); or
  * not available (see clause C.2.2.6).
### C.2.1.2 Charged Item: communication attempt
This expresses the cost of a communication attempt.
The cost shall be expressed as:
  * free of charge (see clause C.2.2.2); or
  * flat rate (see clause C.2.2.3); or
  * special charging code (see clause C.2.2.4); or
  * not available (see clause C.2.2.6).
### C.2.1.3 Charged Item: communication setup
This expresses the cost of a communication setup.
The cost shall be expressed as:
  * free of charge (see clause C.2.2.2); or
  * flat rate (see clause C.2.2.3); or
  * special charging code (see clause C.2.2.4); or
  * not available (see clause C.2.2.6).
### C.2.1.4 Charged Item: operation of services
This expresses the cost induced by the execution of services.
The cost shall be expressed as:
  * price per time unit and time unit (see clause C.2.2.1); or
  * free of charge (see clause C.2.2.2); or
  * flat rate (see clause C.2.2.3); or
  * special charging code (see clause C.2.2.4); or
  * not available (see clause C.2.2.6).
### C.2.1.5 Special Charging Arrangement
This expresses that a special charging arrangement exists for calculating the
costs of the call.
The cost shall be expressed as:
  * special charging code (see clause C.2.2.4).
## C.2.2 Expressing Charging Rates
AOC-S can express charging rate as:
  * price per time unit and time unit (see clause C.2.2.1); or
  * free of charge (see clause C.2.2.2); or
  * flat rate (see clause C.2.2.3); or
  * special charging code (see clause C.2.2.4);
  * charging unit (see clause C.2.2.5); or
  * not available (see clause C.2.2.6).
### C.2.2.1 duration charge: Price per time unit, and unit time
Duration charge shall contain the following elements:
  * currency identifier (see clause C.5.4); and
  * currency amount (see clause C.5.5); and
  * length of time unit (see clause C.5.6); and
  * type of charging (see clause C.5.8).
and additionally it may contain the following element:
  * granularity (see clause C.5.7).
### C.2.2.2 specific: free of charge
This rate represents a free charge.
### C.2.2.3 specific: flat rate
It shall be expressed as:
  * currency identifier (see clause C.5.4);
  * currency amount (see clause C.5.5).
### C.2.2.4 specific: special charging code N.
It shall be expressed as an integer between 1..10.
### C.2.2.5 Charging unit
Charging unit shall contain the following elements:
  * currency identifier (see clause C.5.4); and
  * currency amount (see clause C.5.5).
### C.2.2.6 not available
Expresses that the charging information is not available.
# C.3 AOC-D
The AOC-D service provides information about the recorded charges during the
active phase of a call.
The information shall contain the following elements:
  * type of charging information (see clause C.3.1); and
  * recorded charges (see clause C.3.2).
and additionally it may contain the following element:
  * billing identification (see clause C.3.3).
## C.3.1 type of charging information
Type of charging information shall have one of the following values:
  * subtotal charges; or
  * total charges.
## C.3.2 recorded charges
Recorded charges shall be expressed as one of the following elements:
  * recorded number of currency units or charging units (see clause C.5.9); or
  * free of charge; or
  * not available.
## C.3.3 billing identification for AOC-D
It shall be expressed as one of the following values:
  * normal charging (default); or
  * reverse charging; or
  * credit card charging.
# C.4 AOC-E
The AOC-E service provides information about the recorded charges for a call
when it is terminated.
The information consists of:
  * recorded charges (see clause C.3.2)
  * billing identification (see clause C.4.1).
## C.4.1 billing identification for AOC-E
It shall be expressed as one of the following values:
  * normal charging (default); or
  * reverse charging; or
  * credit card charging;
  * call forwarding unconditional;
  * call forwarding busy;
  * call forwarding noreply;
  * call deflection;
  * call transfer.
# C.5 Common types/information elements
## C.5.1 time unit
Time unit shall be an integer value.
## C.5.2 decimal
Decimal shall be a decimal value.
## C.5.3 scale
The scale of time units shall have one of the following values:
  * 0,01 s;
  * 0,1 s;
  * 1 s;
  * 10 s;
  * 1 min;
  * 1 hour; or
  * 24 hours.
## C.5.4 currency identifier
It shall be a string specifying the used currency or a charging unit
identifier.
## C.5.5 currency amount
It shall be expressed as the value of decimal (see clause C.5.2).
## C.5.6 length of time unit
It shall be expressed as value of integer × scale:
  * time unit (see clause C.5.1); and
  * scale (see clause C.5.3).
## C.5.7 granularity
This specifies the time unit applied for calculation of charges by the
network.
It shall be expressed as value of integer × scale:
  * time unit (see clause C.5.1); and
  * scale (see clause C.5.3).
## C.5.8 type of charging
Type of charging shall have one of the values of \"step function\" or
\"continuous\".
## C.5.9 recorded number of currency units
It shall be expressed as:
  * currency identifier (see clause C.5.4);
  * currency amount (see clause C.5.5).
###### ## Annex D (normative): AOC XML Schema:
This annex defines the XML Schema to be used for providing the charging
information described in annex C in the SIP methods to the served user.
The application/vnd.etsi.aoc+xml MIME type used to provide the charging
information requested by the served user shall be coded as following
described:
\
\
\
\
\
XML Schema Definition to the charging information related to the Advice of
Charge simulation service.
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
#