# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) was been produced by ETSI Technical
Committee Telecommunications and Internet converged Services and Protocols for
Advanced Networking (TISPAN) and originally published as ETSI TS 183 051 [2].
It was transferred to the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership Project (3GPP) in
December 2007.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document provides the ETSI TISPAN endorsement of the 3GPP TS
24.341 [1] \"Support of SMS over IP networks; Stage 3 (Release 7)\".
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
Referenced documents which are not found to be publicly available in the
expected location might be found at
[http://docbox.etsi.org/Reference]{.underline}.
For online referenced documents, information sufficient to identify and locate
the source shall be provided. Preferably, the primary source of the referenced
document should be cited, in order to ensure traceability. Furthermore, the
reference should, as far as possible, remain valid for the expected life of
the document. The reference shall include the method of access to the
referenced document and the full network address, with the same punctuation
and use of upper case and lower case letters.
NOTE: While any hyperlinks included in this clause were valid at the time of
publication ETSI cannot guarantee their long term validity.
## 2.1 Normative references
The following referenced documents are indispensable for the application of
the present document. For dated references, only the edition cited applies.
For non-specific references, the latest edition of the referenced document
(including any amendments) applies.
[1] 3GPP TS 24.341 (V7.2.0): \"Support of SMS over IP networks; Stage 3\".
## 2.2 Informative references
[2] ETSI TS 183 051 V2.1.0: \"Telecommunications and Internet converged
Services and Protocols for Advanced Networking (TISPAN); Support of SMS and
MMS over NGN IMS subsystem; Stage 3 [Endorsement of 3GPP TS 24.341 Release
7]\".
# 3 Endorsement notice
The present document endorses 3GPP TS 24.341 (V7.2.0) \"Support of SMS over IP
networks; Stage 3\" [1], the contents of which apply together with the
addition of the modifications being covered herein.
The present document shows the modifications, additions and deletions through
the use of underlined and strikethrough text.
For the purpose of the present document clause 1 of 3GPP TS 24.341 [1]
applies.
For the purpose of the present document clause 3 of 3GPP TS 24.341 [1]
applies.
For the purpose of the present document clause 4 of 3GPP TS 24.341 [1]
applies,
For the purpose of the present document clause 5 of 3GPP TS 24.341 [1] applies
except for subclause 5.3.2.5, which is replaced by the appropriate subclause
in clause 4 of the present document.
For the purpose of the present document annex A of 3GPP TS 24.341 [1] applies.
For the purpose of the present document annex B of 3GPP TS 24.341 [1] applies.
# 4 Global modifications to 3GPP TS 24.341
NOTE: When making modifications to the endorsed document\'s original text,
strikethrough text means deleted text and underlined text means inserted text.
If there has been underlined text in the endorsed document\'s original text,
the underlining has been removed for the sake of clarity.
##### 2 References {#references-1 .H6}
The references should be replaced as shown below.
Table 1: List of references to be replaced
* * *
Reference in 3GPP TS 24.341 Applicable reference in this document
3GPP TS 24.229 ES 283 003 \'Endorsement of IP Multimedia Call Control Protocol
based on Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) and Session Description Protocol
(SDP) Stage 3 Protocol Specification 3GPP TS 24.229 (Release 7); TISPAN NGN
Release 1\"
3GPP TS 23.228 TS 182 006 \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); Stage 2; TISPAN NGN
Release 1\".
3GPP TS 29.328 TS 183 036 \'IP Multimedia (IM) Subsystem Sh Interface;
Signalling flows and message contents & Sh Interface based on Diameter
protocol; Protocol details\'.
3GPP TS 23.204 DTS/TISPAN 02038 \'Support of SMS over NGN IMS subsystem;\
Stage 2\'
* * *
##### 5.3.2.5 Sending a notification about SM-over-IP receiver having memory
available {#sending-a-notification-about-sm-over-ip-receiver-having-memory-
available .H6}
When an SM-over-IP receiver wants to send a notification about UE having
memory available, the SM-over-IP receiver shall send a SIP MESSAGE request
with the following information:
a) the Request-URI, which shall contain the IP-SM-GW [address, if available.
and shall contain PSI of the SC, otherwise]{.underline};
NOTE 1: The address of the IP-SM-GW is received in the P-Asserted-Identity in
the SIP MESSAGE request that included the short message the UE could not
store.
b) the From header, which shall contain a public user identity of the SM-over-
IP receiver;
c) the To header, which shall contain the IP-SM-GW [address, if available, and
shall contain PSI of the SC, otherwise]{.underline};
d) the Content-Type header shall contain \"application/vnd.3gpp.sms\"; and
e) the body of the request shall contain an RP-SMMA message, see 3GPP TS
24.011 [8], including the SMS headers and the SMS user information encoded as
specified in 3GPP TS 23.040 [3].
NOTE 2: The SM-over-IP receiver will use content transfer encoding of type
\"binary\" for the encoding of the SMS in the body of the SIP MESSAGE request.
[NOTE 3: According to 3GPP TS 23.204 [5], the IP-SM-GW routes SIP MESSAGE
requests containing a notification of UE having memory available (containing
RP-SMMA as the body) towards the HSS and routes other SIP MESSAGE requests
(containing RP-DATA, RP-ACK or RP-ERROR as the body) towards SMS-
IWMSC.]{.underline}
[]{.underline}
#