# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) was been produced by ETSI Technical
Committee Telecommunications and Internet converged Services and Protocols for
Advanced Networking (TISPAN) and originally published as ETSI TS 183 029 [11].
It was transferred to the 3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP) in in
January 2008.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the stage three (protocol description) of the
Explicit Communication transfer (ECT) simulation service, based on stage one
and two of the ISDN ECT supplementary service. Within the Next Generation
Network (NGN) the stage 3 description is specified using the IP Multimedia
Call Control Protocol based on Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) and Session
Description Protocol (SDP).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
Referenced documents which are not found to be publicly available in the
expected location might be found at
[http://docbox.etsi.org/Reference]{.underline}.
For online referenced documents, information sufficient to identify and locate
the source shall be provided. Preferably, the primary source of the referenced
document should be cited, in order to ensure traceability. Furthermore, the
reference should, as far as possible, remain valid for the expected life of
the document. The reference shall include the method of access to the
referenced document and the full network address, with the same punctuation
and use of upper case and lower case letters.
NOTE: While any hyperlinks included in this clause were valid at the time of
publication ETSI cannot guarantee their long term validity.
## 2.1 Normative references
The following referenced documents are indispensable for the application of
the present document. For dated references, only the edition cited applies.
For non-specific references, the latest edition of the referenced document
(including any amendments) applies.
[1] ETSI ES 283 003: \"Telecommunications and Internet converged Services and
Protocols for Advanced Networking (TISPAN); IP Multimedia Call Control
Protocol based on Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) and Session Description
Protocol (SDP) Stage 3\ [3GPP TS 24.229 [Release 7], modified]\".
[2] IETF RFC 3515: \"The Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) Refer Method\".
[3] IETF RFC 3892: \"The Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) Referred-By
Mechanism\".
[4] IETF RFC 3891: \"The Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) \"Replaces\"
Header\".
[5] ETSI ES 283 027: \"Telecommunications and Internet converged Services and
Protocols for Advanced Networking (TISPAN); Endorsement of the SIP-ISUP
Interworking between the\ IP Multimedia (IM) Core Network (CN) subsystem and
Circuit Switched (CS) networks\".
[6] IETF RFC 3261: \"SIP: Session Initiation Protocol\".
[7] ETSI TS 183 033: \"Telecommunications and Internet converged Services and
Protocols for Advanced Networking (TISPAN); IP Multimedia; Diameter based
protocol for the interfaces between the Call Session Control Function and the
User Profile Server Function/Subscription Locator Function; Signalling flows
and protocol details [3GPP TS 29.228 V6.8.0 and\ 3GPP TS 29.229 V6.6.0,
modified]\".
[8] ETSI TS 183 010: \"Telecommunications and Internet converged Services and
Protocols for Advanced Networking (TISPAN); NGN Signalling Control Protocol;
Communication HOLD (HOLD) PSTN/ISDN simulation services; Protocol
specification\".
[9] ETSI TS 183 005: \" Telecommunications and Internet converged Services and
Protocols for Advanced Networking (TISPAN); PSTN/ISDN simulation services:
Conference (CONF); Protocol specification\".
[10] ETSI TS 183 028: \"Telecommunications and Internet converged Services and
Protocols for Advanced Networking (TISPAN); Common Basic Communication
procedures; Protocol specification\".
## 2.2 Informative references
[11] ETSI TS 183 029 V2.5.0: \"Telecommunications and Internet converged
Services and Protocols for Advanced Networking (TISPAN); PSTN/ISDN simulation
services: Explicit Communication Transfer (ECT); Protocol specification\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply:
**ECT Session Identifier URI:** PSI created and inserted by a ECT AS that
resolves to the AS itself
NOTE: If this URI contains correlation information it has to be constructed in
such a way that it does not reveal identity information about any party
involved in the transfer.
**transferee:** party being transferred to the transfer target
**transferor:** party initiating the transfer
**transfer target:** party that the existing communication is transferred to
NOTE: After transfer the transferee and the transfer target are in
communication with each other.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
**3GPP** 3^rd^ Generation Partnership Project (www.3gpp.org)
ACR **Anonymous Communication Rejection**
**AS** SIP Application Server
**BGCF** Border Gateway Control Function
**CDIV** Communication DIVersion
**CONF** CONFerence
**CSCF** Call Session Control Function
ECT **Explicit Communication Transfer**
GRUU Globally Routable User agent URI
HOLD communication HOLD
**IBCF Interconnect Border Control Function**
**I-CSCF** Interrogating-CSCF
**IETF Internet Engineering Task Force**
IFC **Initial Filter Criteria**
**ISDN** Integrated Services Digital Network
MCID Malicious Call IDentification
**MGCF** Media Gateway Control Function
OCB **Outgoing Communication Barring**
OIP Originating Identification Presentation
OIR Originating Identification presentation Restriction
**P-CSCF** Proxy-CSCF
**PSTN** Public Switch Telephone Network
**S-CSCF** Serving-CSCF
**SIP** Session Initiation Protocol
TIP Terminating Identification Presentation
TIR Terminating Identification presentation Restriction
UE User Equipment
# 4 Explicit Communication transfer (ECT)
## 4.1 Introduction
The service provides a party involved in a communication to transfer that
communication to a third party.
## 4.2 Description
### 4.2.1 General description
The Explicit Communication transfer (ECT) service provides a party involved in
a communication to transfer that communication to a third party.
There are three actors active in a transfer, they are acting in the following
roles:
> **_transferor_ :** the party that initiates the transfer of the active
> communication that it has with the transferee;
>
> **_transferee_ :** the party which stays in the communication which is
> transferred;
>
> **_transfer target_ :** the party which the communication is transferred to
> and which replaces the transferor in the communication.
There are two initial situations possible in which transfer shall be possible:
  * The transferor has no ongoing consultation communication with the transfer Target (Blind/Assured transfer).
  * The transferor has a consultation communication with the transfer Target (Consultative transfer).
The transferor AS takes care that it remains in the signalling path even after
the communication is transferred, this allows:
  * Classical charging models.
  * Anonymization of the transfer Target.
## 4.3 Operational requirements
### 4.3.1 Provision/withdrawal
The ECT service may be provided after prior arrangement with the service
provider or be generally available.
### 4.3.2 Requirements on the transferor network side
No specific requirements are needed in the network.
### 4.3.3 Requirements on the transferee network side
No specific requirements are needed in the network.
### 4.3.4 Requirements on the transfer target network side
No specific requirements are needed in the network.
## 4.4 Coding requirements
A user agent that wishes to use the ECT service (to act as a transferor):
  * Shall support the REFER method as a client as specified in RFC 3515 [2].
  * Shall support the Referred-By header as specified in RFC 3892 [3].
A user agent that is the transferred party in a communication transfer (acts
as the transferee):
  * Shall support the REFER method as a server as specified in RFC 3515 [2].
  * Shall support the Referred-By header as specified in RFC 3892 [3].
  * Shall support Replaces header field as a client as specified in RFC 3891 [4].
A user agent that is the transfer target in a communication transfer:
  * May support the Referred-By header as a server as specified in RFC 3892 [3].
  * May support the Replaces header as a server as specified in RFC 3891 [4].
## 4.5 Signalling requirements
### 4.5.1 Activation/deactivation
The ECT service is activated at provisioning and deactivated at withdrawal.
### 4.5.1A Registration/erasure
The ECT service requires no registration. Erasure is not applicable.
### 4.5.1B Interrogation
Interrogation of ECT is not applicable.
### 4.5.2 Invocation and operation
#### 4.5.2.1 Actions at the transferor UE
A UE that has initiated an emergency call, shall not perform any transfer
operation involving the dialog associated with the emergency call.
A UE that initiates a transfer operation shall:
  * Issue a REFER request in the original communications dialog, where:
```{=html}
``` \- The request URI shall contain the SIP URI of the transferee as received
in the Contact header field.
  * The Refer-To header field shall indicate the public address of the transfer Target.
  * If the transferor UE has a consultation communication with the transfer Target, a Replaces header field parameter shall be added to the Refer-To URI together with a Require=replaces header field parameter.
  * The Referred-By header field may indicate the identity of the transferor.
After the REFER request is accepted by the other end with a 202 (Accepted)
response, the transferor UE should get notifications of how the transferee\'s
communication setup towards the transfer Target is progressing.
When a NOTIFY request is received on the REFER dialog that indicates that the
transferee and the transfer Target have successfully setup a communication,
the transferor UE may terminate the original communication with the transferee
UE, by sending a BYE message on the original dialog.
#### 4.5.2.2 Actions at the transferor P-CSCF
Basic communication procedures according to ES 283 003 [1] shall apply.
#### 4.5.2.3 Actions at the transferor S-CSCF
Basic communication procedures according to ES 283 003 [1] shall apply.
#### 4.5.2.4 Actions at the transferor AS
##### 4.5.2.4.1 Invocation of ECT service
##### 4.5.2.4.1.1 Prerequisite for invocation of the ECT service
{#prerequisite-for-invocation-of-the-ect-service .H6}
For ECT to be provided to end users acting as transferor, the end user\'s AS
providing ECT shall be in the signalling path for all communications.
##### 4.5.2.4.1.2 Determine whether the ECT applies {#determine-whether-the-
ect-applies .H6}
The transferor AS is the one executing the ECT service logic, which is invoked
by the transferor sending a special REFER request.
##### 4.5.2.4.1.2.1 REFER request received on a separate dialog {#refer-
request-received-on-a-separate-dialog .H6}
ECT does not apply in this case.
##### 4.5.2.4.1.2.2 REFER request received in the to be transferred dialog
{#refer-request-received-in-the-to-be-transferred-dialog .H6}
In order to know whether ECT service applies on a REFER request send by the
served user, the following criteria shall apply before the ECT logic is
executed:
  * The REFER request\'s request-URI (transferee) is targeted at the same UE instance that is involved in the dialog.
  * The REFER request\'s Refer-To header contains a URI so that the method constructed from the URI according to RFC 3261 [6] is equal to INVITE.
Any REFER request that does not comply with these criteria shall not invoke
the ECT service and is depending on operator policy:
  * Rejected.
  * Handled by another service.
  * Proxied on.
##### 4.5.2.4.1.2.3 Actions of ECT when invoked with a transfer request
{#actions-of-ect-when-invoked-with-a-transfer-request .H6}
When a REFER request is received that invokes the ECT service (see clause
4.5.2.4.1), ECT service shall perform the following actions:
1) Create a new ECT Session Identifier URI addressed to this AS. The URI shall
be created in such a way that a new dialog set up towards this URI can be
easily correlated with the current REFER dialog.
2) The AS stores the value of the Refer-To header field (transfer Target URI)
from the REFER request and links it to the ECT Session Identifier URI.
3) The AS replaces the Refer-To header field with the ECT Session Identifier
URI (this ensures that the transferor AS remains in the loop when the
transferee sets up the communication with the transfer Target).
NOTE: If a Replaces header field parameter and/or a Require=replaces header
field parameter are available in the URI contained in the Refer-To header
field, the above step implies that they are not forwarded to the transferee.
4) If a Referred-By header is available in the request, the AS verifies if the
provided Referred-By header contains a valid identity of the served user. If
not it will replace the Referred-By header with a valid value matching the
REFER request\'s P-Asserted-Identity. The AS then stores the Referred-by
header.
5) If no Referred-By header is available in the request a Referred-By header
is added that matches the REFER request\'s P-Asserted-Identity.
6) The AS sends the REFER request on to the transferee using basic
communication procedures ES 283 003 [1].
If the AS receives a 403 Forbidden or 501 Not implemented in response to a
REFER request, the AS of the initiator of the REFER request may initiate the
special REFER handling procedures, according to TS 183 028 [10].
As a network option, the AS of the initiator of the REFER request that has
prior knowledge that the remote party is not allowed to receive or does not
support the REFER method, may initiate the special REFER handling procedures
directly, according to TS 183 028 [10].
##### 4.5.2.4.2 Subsequent procedures
##### 4.5.2.4.2.1 Actions of ECT when invoked again by the transferred
communication {#actions-of-ect-when-invoked-again-by-the-transferred-
communication .H6}
When an INVITE is received targeted at the ECT Session Identifier URI created
earlier when the served user requested transfer of an ongoing communication,
ECT shall perform the following actions:
> 0) If the stored transfer target URI linked to the ECT Session Identifier
> contains a Replaces header field parameter, then the AS inserts the Replaces
> header field in the INVITE request and:
>
> a) If the INVITE request does not contain a Requires header field, then the
> AS inserts a Requires header field in the INVITE request including a
> \"replaces\" token.
>
> b) If the INVITE request does contain a Requires header field without a
> \"replaces\" token, then the AS inserts a Requires header field in the
> INVITE request including a \"replaces\" token.
1) Strip all header field parameters and method parameter from the stored
transfer Target URI and replace the request URI with the stripped version of
the stored transfer Target URI linked to the specific ECT Session Identifier
URI.
```{=html}
``` 7) If a Referred-By header is available in the request, the AS verifies if
the provided Referred-By header contains a valid identity of the served user.
If not it will replace the Referred-By header with a valid value matching the
REFER request\'s P-Asserted-Identity.
8) If no Referred-By header is available in the request a Referred-By header
is added that matches the REFER request\'s P-Asserted-Identity.
NOTE: If needed the AS may generate charging events to charge for the extra
leg.
9) The INVITE request is forwarded towards the transfer Target using basic
communication procedures ES 283 003 [1].
##### 4.5.2.4.2.2 Actions of ECT on failed REFER request {#actions-of-ect-on-
failed-refer-request .H6}
#### 4.5.2.5 Actions at the transferee UE
When a REFER request is received in the context of a call transfer scenario
(see clause 4.5.2.4.1), the transferee UE shall perform the following steps:
1) apply the procedure for holding the active communication with the
transferor as described in TS 183 010 [8] clause 4.5.2.1; and
2) apply normal REFER handling procedures according to ES 283 003 [1].
#### 4.5.2.6 Actions at the transferee S-CSCF
Basic communication procedures according to ES 283 003 [1] shall apply.
#### 4.5.2.7 Actions at the transferee AS
##### 4.5.2.7.0 Prerequisite for invocation of the ECT service
For ECT to be provided to end users acting as transferee, the end user\'s AS
providing ECT shall be in the signalling path for all communications of the
served user.
##### 4.5.2.7.1 Determine whether the ECT applies
See clause 4.5.2.4.1 on the criteria that determine that a REFER request is to
be treated as a request for transfer of an existing communication.
##### 4.5.2.7.2 Actions of ECT when invoked with a transfer request
When a REFER request is received in the context of a call transfer scenario
(see clause 4.5.2.4.1), it shall perform the following steps:
10) Store the value of the Refer-To header field (used later to correlate the
new communication with this REFER dialog).
    5a) Optionally it may store the value of the Referred-By header
    field, if it wants to ensure that the Referred-By is correct on the
    resulting INVITE request.
11) Forward the request to the transferee according to basic communication
procedures ES 283 003 [1].
##### 4.5.2.7.3 Actions of ECT when invoked again by the transferred
communication
When an INVITE is received targeted at the SIP URI stored earlier when a
transfer request was received targeted at the served user (transferee), ECT
shall perform the following actions:
> 0) Optionally the AS may check the following header fields in the received
> INVITE request:
>
> a) If a Referred-By header field is present in the INVITE, the AS may check
> if it matches the Referred-By header of the REFER stored earlier. If it does
> not match, depending on the policy of the service provider, the AS shall
> reject the INVITE request or replace the Referred-By header in the INVITE
> request with the value stored earlier.\ If a Referred-By header is absent in
> the INVITE, the AS shall insert a Referred-By header with the value stored
> earlier.
1) Optionally the AS may generate charging events:
a) To charge for the original communication between the transferee and the
transferor, in case the transferee was the originating party in the original
communication.
b) To switch of charging in case the transferee was the terminating party in
the original communication.
12) The INVITE is forwarded towards the transfer Target using basic
communication procedures ES 283 003 [1].
#### 4.5.2.8 Void
#### 4.5.2.9 Actions at the incoming I-CSCF
Basic communication procedures according to ES 283 003 [1] shall apply.
#### 4.5.2.10 Actions at the outgoing IBCF
Basic communication procedures according to ES 283 003 [1] shall apply.
#### 4.5.2.11 Actions at the incoming IBCF
Basic communication procedures according to ES 283 003 [1] shall apply.
#### 4.5.2.12 Actions at the BGCF
Basic communication procedures according to ES 283 003 [1] shall apply.
#### 4.5.2.13 Actions at the MGCF
Basic communication procedures according to ES 283 003 [1] and ES 283 027 [5]
shall apply.
Upon reception of a REFER request the MGCF generates a 403 Forbidden response.
See ES 283 027 [5].
#### 4.5.2.14 Actions at the transfer target\'s S-CSCF
Basic communication procedures according to ES 283 003 [1] shall apply.
#### 4.5.2.15 Actions at the transfer target\'s AS
Basic communication procedures according to ES 283 003 [1] shall apply.
#### 4.5.2.16 Actions at the transfer target\'s P-CSCF
Basic communication procedures according to ES 283 003 [1] shall apply.
#### 4.5.2.17 Actions at the transfer target\'s UE
Basic communication procedures according to ES 283 003 [1] shall apply.
## 4.6 Interaction with other services
### 4.6.1 Communication HOLD (HOLD)
No impact.
### 4.6.2 Terminating Identification Presentation (TIP)
No impact.
### 4.6.3 Terminating Identification Restriction (TIR)
No impact.
### 4.6.4 Originating Identification Presentation (OIP)
No impact.
### 4.6.5 Originating Identification Restriction (OIR)
For the transferor AS the following applies:
  * If a Referred-By header field is available in the INVITE request, and transferor request \"user\" privacy in the REFER request, the transferor AS shall remove the Referred-By header field.
  * If a Referred-By header field is absent in the INVITE request and transferor request \"id\" privacy in the REFER request, the transferor AS shall not insert the Referred-By header field that matches the REFER request\'s P‑Asserted-Identity.
  * For the other transferee AS and the transfer Target AS there is no impact.
### 4.6.6 CONFerence Calling (CONF)
ECT shall not apply when the following criteria apply:
  * REFER request is received in an INVITE dialog with a conference focus, or a REFER request is received in an INVITE dialog and the Refer-to header field of the REFER request indicates the public address of active dialog to conference focus which is known by the AS providing ECT; and
  * The REFER is originated by the conference controller, the conference controller is the user that created and owns the conference.
An AS can determine that an established INVITE dialog is terminated at a
conference focus because according to TS 183 005 [9] it either:
  * has received a 1xx or 2xx response to the INVITE request with an \"isfocus\" feature parameter in the Contact header field; or
  * has received an INVITE with an \"isfocus\" feature parameter in the Contact header field.
### 4.6.7 Communication DIVersion Services (CDIV)
No impact.
### 4.6.8 Malicious Communication IDentification (MCID)
No impact.
### 4.6.9 Anonymous Communication Rejection and Communication Barring (ACR/CB)
For the transferor AS the following applies:
  * Shall not accept transfer requests with a transfer Target that is barred by the served users Outgoing Communication Barring (OCB) rules.
  * For the transferee AS and the transfer Target AS there is no impact.
### 4.6.10 Explicit Communication Transfer (ECT)
#### 4.6.10.1 Determine whether a previously transferred communication is
transferred again
See clause 4.5.2.4.1 on the criteria that determine that a REFER request is to
be treated as a request for transfer of an existing communication.
Additionally the following criteria should apply for this interaction case to
apply:
  * The INVITE dialog on which the REFER is received is a previously transferred communication, for which the current ECT instance had the Transferor role.
#### 4.6.10.2 Handling of transfer requests
When a REFER request is received and the criteria of clause 4.6.10.1 apply,
then the AS shall perform the following steps:
1) Create a new ECT Session Identifier URI addressed to this AS. The URI shall
be created in such a way that a new dialog set up towards this URI can be
easily correlated with the current REFER dialog.
```{=html}
``` 13) The AS stores the value of the Refer-To header field (transfer target)
from the REFER request and links it to the ECT Session Identifier URI.
14) The AS replaces the Refer-To header field with the ECT Session Identifier
URI from step 1). (This ensures that this AS remains in the loop when the
transferee sets up the communication with the transfer target.).
15) The AS forwards the REFER request to the transferee using basic
communication procedures ES 283 003 [1].
#### 4.6.10.3 Actions when this ECT instance is invoked again by the
transferred communication
When an INVITE is received targeted at the ECT Session Identifier URI created
earlier in clause 4.6.10.2, the AS shall perform the following actions:
1) The AS replaces the request URI with the stored Refer-To header field value
linked to the specific\ ECT Session Identifier URI.
NOTE: If needed the AS may generate charging events to charge for the extra
leg.
16) The AS forwards the INVITE request towards the transfer target using basic
communication procedures ES 283 003 [1].
## 4.7 Interworking with other networks
### 4.7.1 Interworking with PSTN/ISDN
Interworking with PSTN/ISDN is defined in ES 283 027 [5].
### 4.7.2 Interaction with PSTN/ISDN Emulation
No impact.
### 4.7.3 Interworking with external IP Network
For SIP based networks the procedures used shall be compliant with **ES 283
003 [** 1**]**.
The interworking with non SIP networks is for further study.
## 4.8 Parameter values (timers)
No specific timers are required.
## 4.9 Service configuration
Not applicable.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Signalling flows
# A.1 Blind transfer
Figure A.1 signalling flow shows a blind transfer scenario, whereby the REFER
request is sent on the existing INVITE dialog between A and B.
{width="6.275in" height="7.117361111111111in"}
Figure A.1: Blind transfer
1\. A multimedia session exists between A-B. B initiates transfer A to C, by
sending REFER request To: UE-A with Referred-To: UE-C, Referred-By: UE-B. The
REFER request is send in the existing dialog that between A and B.
1.1 Upon reception of the REFER request, AS-B must check whether there is no
outgoing call barring active from B to C. Because B is charged for the call
from B-C when A is referred to C, when outgoing call barring is active from
B-C the REFER request is rejected.\ \ AS-B checks whether B is allowed to
transfer calls, if it is allowed to transfer the call then AS-B generates an
ECT Session Identifier URI, addressed to itself, with the new destination
information and billing information that will be needed for the new session.
It replaces the Refer-To value with the ECT Session Identifier URI. This
ensures that:\ \ AS-B will remain in the loop.
2\. The REFER request is sent on to AS-A.
2.1 AS-A checks whether it is allowed to transfer A.
3\. The REFER request is sent on to A by AS-A.
4\. The REFER request is accepted by A\'s UE.
4.1, 13.1, 31.1 AS-A can use result messages and notifications caused by the
REFER request to track success of refer and take appropriate actions. The AS-A
can ensure that header fields that where replaced with other content are
recreated with the original content on the way back.
5.1, 8.1, 32.1 AS-B can use this to track success of the REFER request and
take appropriate actions. The AS-B can ensure that header fields that where
replaced with other content are recreated with the original content on the way
back.
7\. Since the REFER request was accepted in 6. UE-B terminates the existing
INVITE dialog by sending a BYE to UE-A.
19\. The UE-A initiates a new session by sending an INVITE request to AS-B\'s
ECT Session Identifier URI (which represents UE-C).
19.1 AS-A routes the INVITE request to AS-B using the AS-B\'s ECT Session
Identifier URI using normal SIP routing procedures. Normal charging from A to
B applies.
20.1 Upon receiving the INVITE request to the ECT Session Identifier URI that
was inserted by the AS-B, the AS-B replaces it with the Request URI of C and
creates an INVITE targeted towards UE-C.\ \ In this scenario it can be assumed
that there is no active outgoing call barring towards UE-C, because the REFER
was accepted by AS-B. The ECT Session Identifier URI has a limited validity
time to ensure that no future barring is violated. For now it is assumed that
this is enough.\ \ Also the Referred-By: header field is verified or filled in
with the original uncodified values. Then the INVITE request is forwarded to
UE-C using normal routing procedures.
21.1, 23.1 Normal terminating services apply for UE-C. The call will be
treated as a call from A-C regarding call policies.
25.1 AS-A. Normal response handling applies.
27.1 AS-A. Normal ACK handling applies.
28.1 AS-B replaces all codified values and ECT Session Identifier URI \'s with
stored values.
# A.2 Consultative transfer
Figure A.2 signalling flow shows a consultative transfer scenario.
{width="6.270138888888889in" height="8.13263888888889in"}
Figure A.2: Consultative transfer
1\. A multimedia session exists between A-B and between B-C. B initiates
transfer A to C, by sending REFER method To: UE-A GRUU with the Refer-To:
UE-C?Replaces=dialog2&Require=replaces, Referred-By: UE-B. The REFER reuses
the dialog that exists from A-B.
1.1 Upon reception of the REFER operation AS-B must check whether there is no
outgoing call barring active from B to C. Because B is charged for the call
from B-C when A is referred to C, when outgoing call barring is active from
B-C the REFER is rejected.\ \ AS-B checks whether B is allowed to transfer
calls, if it is allowed to transfer the call then AS-B generates an ECT
Session Identifier URI, addressed to itself, with the new destination
information and billing information that will be needed for the new session.
It replaces the Refer-To value with the ECT Session Identifier URI. This
ensures that AS-B will remain in the loop.
2\. The REFER to method is sent on to AS-A.
2.1 AS-A checks whether it is allowed to transfer A.
3\. Refer is sent on to A by AS-A.
4.1, 7.1, 31.1 AS-A can use result messages and notifications caused by REFER
to track success of REFER and take appropriate actions. The AS-A can ensure
that header fields that where replaced with other content are recreated with
the original content on the way back.
5.1, 8.1, 32.1 AS-B can use this to track success of REFER and take
appropriate actions. The AS-B can ensure that header fields that where
replaced with other content are recreated with the original content on the way
back.
13\. UE-A initiates a new session by sending an INVITE to AS-B\'s ECT Session
Identifier URI (which represents UE-C).
13.1 AS-A checks whether A is allowed to use the Replace extension and routes
the INVITE to AS-B using the AS-B\'s ECT Session Identifier URI using normal
SIP routing procedures. Normal charging from A to B applies.
14.1 Upon receiving the INVITE to the ECT Session Identifier URI that was
inserted by the AS-B, the AS-B replaces the Request URI and creates an INVITE
targeted towards UE-C. Further AS-B inserts a Replaces header field with the
value of the Replaces parameter of the stored transfer Target URI if it is
available, which will allow the new session to take the place of the existing
session between B and C.\ In this scenario it can be assumed that there is no
active outgoing call barring towards UE-C, because UE-B was able to setup a
call to UE-C in the first place. However when there was no consultation call
to UE-C, there is an issue but this is solved at the initial reception of the
REFER from UE-C and not at this stage.\ The INVITE is forwarded to UE-C using
normal routing procedures.
15.1, 17.1 Normal terminating services apply for UE-C. The call will be
treated as a call from A-C regarding call policies. AS-C checks whether the
Replace mechanism is used.
19.1 AS-A. Normal response handling applies.
21.1 AS-A. Normal ACK handling applies.
22.1 AS-B replaces all codified values and the ECT Session Identifier URI with
stored values.
25\. UE-C terminates dialog 2 as consequence of normal Replace procedures
according to RFC 3891 [4].
###### ## Annex B (informative): Example of filter criteria
# B.1 Example of filter criteria for ECT
This annex provides an example of a filter criterion that triggers SIP
requests that are subject to initial filter criteria evaluation.
When the initial request matches the conditions of the next unexecuted IFC
rule for the served user which points to the ECT service, the communication is
forwarded to the AS.
An example of an Initial Filter Criteria (IFC) Trigger Point configurations
under the assumption that the ECT service is a standalone service that can be
invoked by a very specific trigger point active at the destination S-CSCF:
  * Method=\"INVITE\".
NOTE 1: The coding of the Initial Filter Criteria is described in TS 183 033
[7].
NOTE 2: When the REFER is sent on an existing dialog, no IFC processing will
be performed, because this is a subsequent request on an existing dialog. It
follows that when this scenario has to be supported, that then all signalling
has to traverse through the AS.
###### ## Annex C (informative): Example charging model
# C.1 Example of B REFER\'s A to C
This scenario is added to show that the solution presented in the present
document is able to support classical charging models. Assumption in this
scenario is that A originated the original call and is thus charged for the
initial A-B communication.
{width="6.235416666666667in" height="3.7555555555555555in"}
Figure C.1: Example of B REFER\'s A to C
Table C.1
* * *
Initial Session Initiated By Initial Session A-B Transferred Session\ Transfer
Target C
A=Transferee Transferee (A): A-B Transferee (A): A-B\ Transferor (B): B-C
A=Transferor Transferor (A): A-B Transferor (A): A-B\ Transferor (A): A-C
* * *
# C.2 Example of A REFER\'s B to C
This scenario is added to show that the solution presented in the present
document is able to support classical charging models. Assumption in this
scenario is that A originated the original call and is thus charged for
initial A-B communication.
{width="6.623611111111111in" height="4.308333333333334in"}
Figure C.2: Example of a REFER\'s B to C
Table C.2
+------------------------------+---------------------+---------------------+ | Initial Session Initiated By | Initial Session A-B | Transferred Session | | | | | | | | Transfer Target C | +------------------------------+---------------------+---------------------+ | A=Transferee | Transferee (A): A-B | Transferee (A): A-B | | | | | | | | Transferor (B): B-C | +------------------------------+---------------------+---------------------+ | A=Transferor | Transferor (A): A-B | Transferor (A): A-B | | | | | | | | Transferor (A): A-C | +------------------------------+---------------------+---------------------+
###### ## Annex D (informative): Bibliography
ETSI ETS 300 367: \"Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN); Explicit Call
transfer (ECT) supplementary service; Service description\".
ETSI TS 181 002: \"Telecommunications and Internet converged Services and
Protocols for Advanced Networking (TISPAN); Multimedia Telephony with
PSTN/ISDN simulation services\".
ETSI TS 181 006: \"Service and Capabilities Requirements for TISPAN NGN;
Release 1\".
#