# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the stage three Protocol Description of the
Message Waiting Indication (MWI) service, based on stage one and two of the
ISDN MWI supplementary services. It provides the protocol details in the IP
Multimedia (IM) Core Network (CN) subsystem based on the Session Initiation
Protocol (SIP) and the Session Description Protocol (SDP).
The present document is applicable to User Equipment (UE) and Application
Servers (AS) which are intended to support the MWI supplementary service.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 22.173: \"IP Multimedia Core Network Subsystem (IMS) Multimedia
Telephony Service and supplementary services; Stage 1\".
[2] 3GPP TS 24.229: \"Internet Protocol (IP) multimedia call control protocol
based on Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) and Session Description Protocol
(SDP); Stage 3\".
[3] IETF RFC 3842: \"A Message Summary and Message Waiting Indication Event
Package for the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)\".
[4] IETF RFC 3265: \"Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)-Specific Event
Notification\".
[5] IETF RFC 3458: \"Message Context for Internet Mail\".
[6] IETF RFC 3938: \"Video-Message Message-Context\".
[7] IETF RFC 2822: \"Internet Message Format\".
[8] IETF RFC 2156: \"MIXER (Mime Internet X.400 Enhanced Relay): Mapping
between X.400 and RFC 822/MIME\".
[9] IETF RFC 3263: \"Session Initiation Protocol (SIP): Locating SIP
Servers\".
[10] 3GPP TS 22.101: \"Service aspects; Service principles\".
[11] IETF RFC 3261: \"SIP: Session Initiation Protocol\".
[12] 3GPP TS 24.228 Release 5: \"Signalling flows for the IP multimedia call
control based on Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) and Session Description
Protocol (SDP); Stage 3\".
[13] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification\".
[14] Void
[15] 3GPP TS 22.228: \"Service requirements for the Internet Protocol (IP)
multimedia core network subsystem (IMS); Stage 1\".
[16] IETF RFC 3428: \"Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) Extension for Instant
Messaging\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 22.173 [1], 3GPP TS 22.101 [10], 3GPP TS 22.228 [15], 3GPP TS 23.003
[13] and the following apply:
**correspondent:** person or entity that deposits messages in the
subscriber\'s message account
NOTE: Correspondent and subscriber can be the same person or entity.
**Message Account (MA):** resource that retains multimedia messages (voice,
video, fax, etc.) deposited by correspondents for the subscriber
**subscriber:** person or entity that receives status information about
deposited messages
**supplementary service:** modifies or supplements a basic Telecommunication
service
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
AS Application Server
CD Communication Deflection
CDIV **Communication DIVersion**
CFB Communication Forwarding Busy
CFNL Communication Forwarding on Not Logged-in
CFNR Communication Forwarding No Reply
CFU Communication Forwarding Unconditional
CONF **CONFerence calling**
CSCF Call Session Control Function
ECT Explicit Communication Transfer
HOLD Communication Hold
I-CSCF Interrogating - CSCF
IMS IP Multimedia Subsystem
IP Internet Protocol
ISDN Integrated Service Data Network
MA Message Account
MCID Malicious Call IDentification
MIME Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions
MNUA **MWI Notifier User Agent**
MSUA **MWI Subscriber User Agent**
MWI Message Waiting Indication
OIP Originating Identification Presentation
OIR Originating Identification Restriction
P-CSCF Proxy - CSCF
PSI Public Service Identity
PSTN Public Switch Telephone Network
S-CSCF Serving - CSCF
SDP Session Description Protocol
SIP Session Initiation Protocol
TIP Terminating Identification Presentation
TIR Terminating Identification Restriction
UA **User Agent**
UE User Equipment
URI Universal Resource Identifier
# 4 Message Waiting Indication (MWI)
## 4.1 Introduction
The **Message Waiting Indication (MWI)** service enables the network, upon the
request of a controlling user to indicate to the receiving user, that there is
at least one message waiting.
## 4.2 Description
### 4.2.1 General description
The MWI service enables the AS to indicate to the subscriber, that there is at
least one message waiting.
The indication is delivered to the subscriber\'s UE after successful
subscription to the Message Waiting Indication service as described in the
present document.
Other modes of MWI service invocation are not applicable.
NOTE: Having received this indication, the subscriber user can subsequently
access the message account, to have the deposited message delivered. The means
by which the subscriber accesses and manages the message account are outside
the scope of the present document.
## 4.3 Functional entities
### 4.3.1 User Equipment (UE)
The UE shall implement the MWI Subscriber User Agent role as described in
subclause 4.4.1.
### 4.3.2 Application Server (AS)
An AS shall implement the role of a MWI Notifier User Agent as described in
subclause 4.4.2.
An AS implementing the role of MWI Notifier User Agent shall implement the
role of the AS acting as terminating UA as described in 3GPP TS 24.229 [2],
subclause 5.7.2.
Additionally an AS may implement other roles for the receipt and storage of
the messages for example Web Server, Mail Transfer and Delivery Agent, Short
Message Service centre, etc.
The definition of additional roles for an MWI AS is out of the scope for the
current specification.
## 4.4 Roles
### 4.4.1 MWI Subscriber User Agent (MSUA)
A MSUA is an entity that is subscribed or requests information about status
change of message account from an MWI AS.
Actions performed by a MSUA as a part of the UE are described in subclause
4.7.2.1.
### 4.4.2 MWI Notifier User Agent (MNUA)
The MNUA is an entity that provides information about changes in message
account status to the MSUA.
Actions performed by a MWI Notifier User Agent as a part of the AS are
described in subclause 4.7.2.5.
### 4.4.3 Message Account (MA)
#### 4.4.3.0 General
The definition of the message account from the RFC 3842 [3] applies with
following additions:
Message account retains multimedia messages (e.g. voice, video and fax)
intended to a particular subscriber.
#### 4.4.3.1 Identification of the message account for the message deposit
Since messages may be intended to the different public user identities that
belong to the same subscriber, the message account may be configured to retain
messages for any of the subscriber\'s public user identities.
Configuration of a message account to retain messages for each public user
identity, for a group of public user identities or for all of public user
identities that belong to the same subscriber is subject to the operator\'s
policy.
#### 4.4.3.2 Identification of the message account for the MWI subscription
For the identification of the message account by subscriptions to the MWI
service any of a subscriber\'s public user identities can be used (see
examples in subclause A.1.1.2).
## 4.5 Operational requirements
### 4.5.1 Provision/withdrawal
The MWI service is provided after prior arrangement with the service provider.
The MWI service shall be withdrawn at the subscriber\'s request or for
administrative reasons.
Any of the subscriber\'s public user identities can be used to access the MWI
service, see annex B.
### 4.5.2 Requirements on the originating network side
No specific requirements are needed on the originating network side.
NOTE: Annex B includes an example of an iFC that can be used to invoke the MWI
supplementary service.
### 4.5.3 Requirements in the network
No specific requirements are needed in the network.
### 4.5.4 Requirements on the terminating network side
No specific requirements are needed in the network.
## 4.6 Coding requirements
The application/simple-message-summary MIME type used to provide Message
Summary and Message Waiting Indication Information is defined in subclause 5
of RFC 3842 [3].
The coding of the message types in the message-context-class values is defined
in the specifications listed in the \"reference\" column of table 1.
Table 1: Coding requirements
* * *
Value Reference voice-message RFC 3458 [5] video-message RFC 3938 [6] fax-
message RFC 3458 [5] pager-message RFC 3458 [5] multimedia-message RFC 3458
[5] text-message RFC 3458 [5] none RFC 3458 [5]
* * *
The coding of the additional information about deposited messages in the
application/simple-message-summary MIME body is defined in subclause 25 of RFC
3261 [11] for SIP extension-header (subclause 3.5 of RFC 3842 [3]) and follow
the rules defined in the specifications listed in the \"reference\" column of
table 2.
Table 2: Additional information
* * *
Header Description Reference To: Indicates the subscriber\'s public user
identity used by correspondent to deposit a message. subclause 3.6.3 of RFC
2822 [7] From: Indicates the correspondent\'s public user identity, if
available. subclause 3.6.2 of RFC 2822 [7] Subject: Indicates the topic of the
deposited message as provided by correspondent. subclause 3.6.5 of RFC 2822
[7] Date: Indicates the time and date information about message deposit.
subclause 3.6.1 of RFC 2822 [7] Priority: Indicates the message priority as
provided by correspondent. RFC 2156 [8] Message-ID: Indicates a single unique
message identity. subclause 3.6.4 of RFC 2822 [7] Message-Context: Indicates a
type or context of message. RFC 3458 [5]
* * *
## 4.7 Signalling requirements
### 4.7.1 Activation/deactivation
The MWI service is immediately activated after the SUBSCRIBE request from the
MSUA is successfully processed, see subclause 4.7.2.
The MWI service is deactivated after subscription expiry or after unsuccessful
attempt to deliver a notification about message waiting.
### 4.7.1A Registration/erasure
The MWI service requires no registration. Erasure is not applicable.
### 4.7.1B Interrogation
Interrogation of MWI is not applicable.
### 4.7.2 Invocation and operation
#### 4.7.2.1 Actions at the MSUA
When the MSUA intends to subscribe for status information changes of a message
account, the MSUA shall generate a SUBSCRIBE request in accordance with RFC
3265 [4] and RFC 3842 [3] and in alignment with the procedures described in
3GPP TS 24.229 [2].
The MSUA will address the SUBSCRIBE request to one of the subscriber\'s public
user identities (see subclause 4.5.1).
The MSUA shall implement the \"application/simple-message-summary\" content
type as described in RFC 3842 [3].
#### 4.7.2.2 Void
#### 4.7.2.3 Void
#### 4.7.2.4 Void
#### 4.7.2.5 Actions at the MNUA
When the MNUA receives a SUBSCRIBE request for the \"message-summary\" event
package, the MNUA shall identify the message account which status information
is requested (see subclause 4.4.3.2), then the MNUA shall attempt to verify
the identity of the source of the SUBSCRIBE request as described in 3GPP TS
24.229 [2] subclause 5.7.1.4, then perform authorization according to 3GPP TS
24.229 [2] subclause 5.7.1.5.
In case of successful subscription, the MNUA shall generate a response to the
SUBSCRIBE request and notifications in accordance with RFC 3265 [4] and RFC
3842 [3], and as defined by subclause 4.6.
#### 4.7.2.6 Void
#### 4.7.2.7 Void
#### 4.7.2.8 Void
#### 4.7.2.9 Void
## 4.8 Interaction with other IMS capabilities
### 4.8.1 Void
### 4.8.2 Void
## 4.9 Interaction with other services
### 4.9.1 Communication Hold (HOLD)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
### 4.9.2 Terminating Identification Presentation (TIP)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
### 4.9.3 Terminating Identification Restriction (TIR)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
### 4.9.4 Originating Identification Presentation (OIP)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
### 4.9.5 Originating Identification Restriction (OIR)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
### 4.9.6 CONFerence calling (CONF)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
### 4.9.7 Communication DIVersion services (CDIV)
#### 4.9.7.0 General
The subscriber of the message waiting indication service receives the
notifications about the change in the status of message account only from .
Communication diversion services shall not impact the processing of message
waiting indication subscriptions, notifications and responses.
#### 4.9.7.1 Communication Forwarding Unconditional (CFU)
MWI notifications shall not be affected by the communication forwarding
unconditional service and always be forwarded to subscribers\' current
location (if known).
#### 4.9.7.2 Communication Forwarding Busy (CFB)
MWI notifications shall not be affected by the communication forwarding busy
service and always be forwarded to subscribers\' current location (if known).
The UE will inform the AS if it will not be able to process the notification
at the time.
#### 4.9.7.3 Communication Forwarding No Reply (CFNR)
MWI notifications shall not be affected by the communication forwarding busy
service and always be forwarded to subscribers\' current location (if known).
The S-CSCF will inform the AS if the UE can not be contacted at the time.
#### 4.9.7.4 Communication Forwarding on Not Logged-in (CFNL)
MWI notifications shall not be affected by the communication forwarding busy
service and always be forwarded to subscribers\' current location (if known).
The S-CSCF will inform the AS if the UE is not logged-in at the time.
#### 4.9.7.5 Communication Deflection (CD)
MWI notifications shall not be affected by the communication deflection
service. The AS shall ignore the redirection information received from the UE
and process a 3xx response as a 480 Temporarily Unavailable response.
### 4.9.8 Malicious Call IDentification (MCID)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
### 4.9.9 Explicit Communication Transfer (ECT)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
## 4.10 Interactions with other networks
Interaction with other networks is performed according to 3GPP TS 24.229 [2].
### 4.10.1 Void
### 4.10.2 Void
### 4.10.3 Void
## 4.11 Parameter values (timers)
Not applicable.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Example signalling flows of Message Waiting
Indication (MWI) service operation
# A.1 Scope of signalling flows
This annex gives examples of signalling flows for the Message Waiting
Indication service within the IM CN subsystem based on the Session Initiation
Protocol (SIP).
## A.1.1 Introduction
### A.1.1.1 General
The signalling flows provided in the following subclauses follow the
methodology developed in 3GPP TS 24.228 [12]. The following additional
considerations apply.
### A.1.1.2 Key required to interpret signalling flows
The key to interpret signalling flows specified in 3GPP TS 24.228 [12]
subclauses 4.1 and 4.2 applies with the additions specified below:
  * mwi.home1.net: an MWI AS in the home network of the service provider;
  * user1_public1\@home1.net: subscriber\'s first public user identity assigned to the message account;
  * user1_public2\@home1.net: subscriber\'s second public user identity assigned to the message account;
  * user2_public1\@home2.net: first correspondent of messages in the message account;
  * user3_public1\@home3.net: second correspondent of messages in the message account.
Each signalling flow table contains descriptions for headers where the content
of the header is new to that signalling flow, as is already performed in 3GPP
TS 24.228 [12].
However, 3GPP TS 24.228 [12] includes extensive descriptions for the contents
of various headers following each of the tables representing the contents of
the signalling flows. Where the operation of the header is identical to that
shown in 3GPP TS 24.228 [12], then such text is not reproduced in the present
document.
Headers following the tables that are represented in **_fat cursive_** style
describe the contents of the application/simple-message-summary MIME body.
Additional text is also found on the contents of headers within 3GPP TS 24.228
[12] in addition to the material shown in the present document.
## A.1.2 Signalling flows demonstrating how UE subscribes to message waiting
indication event notification
### A.1.2.1 Introduction
Subclause A.1.2 covers the signalling flows that show how UE can request
message waiting indication information from an application server.
### A.1.2.2 MWI Subscriber subscribing to the status of his message account,
MWI AS is in the subscriber\'s network
Successful subscription, UE in visited network. This example shows the case
when the originating S-CSCF, routes the SUBSCRIE request to an AS that
provides the MWI service, based on the resolution of the public service
identity of the message account.
For the purpose of the subscriber\'s identity verification, the AS is located
within the same trusted domain as the subscriber, see 3GPP TS 24.229 [2]
subclause 5.7.1.4.
{width="6.429166666666666in" height="5.788194444444445in"}
Figure A.1: UE subscription for the message-summary event package
Figure A.1 shows a user equipment subscribing to the message waiting
indication notification. The details of the signalling flows are as follows:
1\. **SUBSCRIBE request (UE to P-CSCF) - see example in table A.1**
A subscriber agent in a UE wishes to receive message waiting indication
information from an application server. To initiate a subscription, the UE
generates a SUBSCRIBE request containing the \"message‑summary\" event that it
wishes to be notified of, together with an indication of the length of time
this periodic subscription intends to last.
Table A.1: SUBSCRIBE request (UE to P-CSCF)
SUBSCRIBE sip:user1_ public1\@home1.net SIP/2.0
Via: SIP/2.0/UDP 1.2.3.4:1357;branch=z9hG4bKnashds7
Max-Forwards: 70
Route: \, \
P-Preferred-Identity: \
Privacy: none
From: \;tag=31415
To: \
Call-ID: b89rjhnedlrfjflslj40a222
CSeq: 61 SUBSCRIBE
Event: message-summary
Expires: 7200
Accept: application/simple-message-summary
Contact: \
Content-Length: 0
**Request URI:** Public service identity of the user of the message account
whose events the subscriber subscribes to. In this case the subscriber
subscribes to the message waiting indication events.
**Event:** This field is populated with the value \"message-summary\" to
specify the use of the Message Summary Package.
**Accept:** This field is populated with the value \"application/simple-
message-summary\" as described in RFC 3842 [3].
**To:** Same as the Request-Uri.
2\. **SUBSCRIBE request (P-CSCF to S-CSCF) - see example in table A.2**
The SUBSCRIBE request is forwarded to the I-CSCF.
The P-CSCF looks up the serving network information for the public user
identity that was stored during the registration procedure. The SUBSCRIBE
request is forwarded to S-CSCF#1. A Route header is inserted into SUBSCRIBE
request. The information for the Route header is taken from the service route
determined during registration.
Table A.2: SUBSCRIBE request (P-CSCF to S-CSCF)
SUBSCRIBE sip:user1_ public1\@home1.net SIP/2.0
Via: SIP/2.0/UDP pcscf1.visited1.net;branch=z9hG4bK120f34.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
1.2.3.4:1357;comp=sigcomp;branch=z9hG4bKehuefdam
P-Access-Network-Info:
Route: \
Max-Forwards: 69
P-Asserted-Identity: \
P-Charging-Vector: icid-value=\"AyretyU0dm+6O2IrT5tAFrbHLso=223551024\"
Privacy:
Record-Route: \
Route: \
From:
To:
Call-ID:
CSeq:
Event:
Supported:
Expires:
Accept:
Contact:
Content-Length:
3\. **Evaluation of initial filter criteria**
The S-CSCF validates the service profile of this subscriber and evaluates the
initial filter criteria. Assuming that sip:user1_mwiacc1\@home1.net is a
statically created PSI, sip:user1_mwiacc1\@home1.net is included in the
service profile of user1_public1\@home1.net as part of an originating initial
Filter Criteria with Service Trigger Point of Method = SUBSCRIBE AND Event =
\"message-summary\" AND Request-URI = sip:user1_mwiacc1\@home1.net, that
informs the S-CSCF to route the SUBSCRIBE request to the application server
sip:mwi.home1.net.
If there is no initial filter criteria for this PSI
(sip:user1_mwiacc1\@home1.net), the assumption is that the PSI is a sub
domain-based PSI. The procedure defined in RFC 3263 [9] with DNS NAPTR and SRV
queries aligned with the operator policy is then be used for the resolution of
the PSI.
4\. **SUBSCRIBE (S-CSCF to AS) - see example in table A.3**
The S-CSCF forwards the SUBSCRIBE request to AS.
Table A.3: SUBSCRIBE request (S-CSCF to AS)
SUBSCRIBE sip:user1_ public1\@home1.net SIP/2.0
Via: SIP/2.0/UDP scscf1.home1.net;branch=z9hG4bK344a65.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
pcscf1.visited1.net;branch=z9hG4bK120f34.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
1.2.3.4:1357;branch=z9hG4bKehuefdam
Max-Forwards: 68
P-Asserted-Identity: \, \
P-Charging-Vector:
P-Charging-Function-Addresses:
Privacy:
Record-Route: \, \
Route: \, \
From:
To:
Call-ID:
CSeq:
Event:
Supported:
Expires:
Accept:
Contact:
Content-Length:
5\. **Identification of the message account and subscriber authorization**
Based on the Request-URI the MWI AS identifies the requested message account.
P-Asserted-Identity header information authorizes the subscriber to subscribe
to status change of the message account, as one of the identities is
authorized for this account.
In this example the authorization is successful, so the AS sends a 200 (OK)
response to the S-CSCF. If the previous condition failed, then a 403
(Forbidden) response would be sent to the S-CSCF.
> 6\. **200 (OK) response (MWI AS to S-CSCF) -- see example in table A.4**
The MWI AS forwards the response to the S-CSCF.
Table A.4: 200 (OK) response (AS to S-CSCF)
SIP/2.0 200 OK
Via: SIP/2.0/UDP scscf1.home1.net;branch=z9hG4bK344a65.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
pcscf1.visited1.net;branch=z9hG4bK120f34.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
1.2.3.4:1357;branch=z9hG4bKehuefdam
P-Charging-Vector: icid-value=\"AyretyU0dm+6O2IrT5tAFrbHLso=223551024\"; orig-
ioi=home1.net; term-ioi=home1.net
Record-Route:
From: \;tag=31415
To: \;tag=151170
Call-ID: b89rjhnedlrfjflslj40a222
CSeq:
Expires:
Contact: \
Content-Length: 0
> 7\. **200 (OK) response (S-CSCF to P-CSCF )**
The S-CSCF forwards the 200 (OK) response to the P-CSCF.
8\. **200 (OK) response (P-CSCF to UE)**
P-CSCF forwards the 200 (OK) response to the UE.
9\. **NOTIFY request (MWI AS to S-CSCF) - see example in table A.5**
As required by the RFC 3265 [4] the MWI AS immediately after successful
subscription sends the NOTIFY request to the S-CSCF to synchronize the current
state of the message account at the subscriber\'s UE. This initial
notification contains no extended information about available message. Further
notifications sent by MWI AS is contain either extended or basic set of
message waiting information as described in\ RFC 3842 [3].
In this example it is assumed that the message account at the moment of
subscription has thee voice messages (two new and one old, with one new
message being urgent), one old video message and two fax messages (one new and
one old with the old message being urgent).
Table A.5: Initial NOTIFY request (MWI AS to S-CSCF)
NOTIFY sip:user1_public1\@1.2.3.4:1357 SIP/2.0
Via: SIP/2.0/UDP mwi.home1.net;branch=z9hG4bK332b23.1
Max-Forwards: 70
Route: \, \
From: \;tag=31415
To: \;tag=151170
Call-ID: b89rjhnedlrfjflslj40a222
CSeq: 42 NOTIFY
Subscription-State: active;expires=7200
Event: message-summary
Contact: \
Content-Type: application/simple-message-summary
Content-Length: (...)
Messages-Waiting: yes
Message-Account: sip:user1_public1\@home1.net
Voice-Message: 2/1 (0/0)
Video-Message: 0/1 (0/0)
Fax-Message: 1/1 (0/1)
> **Content-Type:** Set to \"application/simple-message-summary\" as described
> in RFC 3842 [3].
>
> The message body in the NOTIFY request that carries the message waiting
> indication is formed as described in subclause 4.6.
>
> **_Message-Account_ :** The MWI AS populates this filed with the public user
> identity used to access the message account that received the subscription.
>
> **_Voice-Message_ :** The MWI AS populates this filed with the information
> about voice messages that are waiting in the message account.
>
> **_Video-Message_ :** The MWI AS populates this filed with the information
> about video messages that are waiting in the message account.
>
> **_Fax-Message_ :** The MWI AS populates this filed with the information
> about fax messages that are waiting in the message account.
12\. **200 (OK) response (UE to P-CSCF)**
The UE acknowledges the NOTIFY request with a 200 (OK) response to the P-CSCF.
15\. **notifications on message-summary event package**
After the MWI AS generated a NOTIFY request to inform the subscriber\'s UE
about the subscription state, the MWI AS waits for the change of the message
account status. As soon as new messages(s) are deposited into the message
account the MWI AS generates a NOTIFY request to indicate the change in the
message account status to the subscriber\'s UE.
16\. **NOTIFY request (AS to S-CSCF) -- see example in table A.6**
The MWI AS uses available information from the interaction with correspondents
and message left in the message account to fill the headers in the simple-
message-summary MIME body of the NOTIFY request. This notification sent by the
MWI AS contains an extended set of message waiting information about newly
deposited messages since the last notification as described in RFC 3842 [3].
In this example it is assumed that the subscriber\'s message account has
received three new messages (two urgent voice and one non urgent video
message) since the successful immediate NOTIFY transaction from the
correspondents sip:user2_public1\@home1.net and sip:user3_public1\@home3.net.
The correspondents used different public user identities of the subscriber to
deposit messages.
Table A.6: NOTIFY request (MWI AS to S-CSCF)
NOTIFY sip:user1_public1\@1.2.3.4:1357 SIP/2.0
Via: SIP/2.0/UDP mwi.home1.net;branch=z9hG4bK332b23.1
Max-Forwards: 70
Route: \, \
From: \;tag=31415
To: \;tag=151170
Call-ID: b89rjhnedlrfjflslj40a222
CSeq: 43 NOTIFY
Subscription-State: active;expires=5000
Event: message-summary
Contact: \
Content-Type: application/simple-message-summary
Content-Length: (...)
Messages-Waiting: yes
Message-Account: sip:user1_public1\@home1.net
Voice-Message: 4/1 (2/0)
Video-Message: 1/1 (0/0)
Fax-Message: 1/1 (0/1)
To: \
From: \
Subject: call me back!
Date: 19 Apr 2005 21:45:31 -0700
Priority: urgent
Message-ID: 27775334485\@mwi.home1.net
Message-Context: voice-message
To: \
From: \
Subject: Where are you that late???
Date: 19 Apr 2005 23:45:31 -0700
Priority: urgent
Message-ID: 27775334485\@mwi.home1.net
Message-Context: voice-message
To: \
From: \
Subject: Did you see that penalty!!!
Date: Tue, 19 Apr 2005 22:12:31 -0700
Priority: normal
Message-ID: 26775334485\@mwi.home1.net
Message-Context: video-message
> **Content-Type:** Set to \"application/simple-message-summary\" as described
> in RFC 3842 [3].
>
> The message body in the NOTIFY request that carries the message waiting
> indication is formed as described in the subclause 4.6.
>
> **_Message-Account_ :** The MWI AS populates this filed with the public user
> identity used to access the message account that has new messages for the
> subscriber.
>
> **_Voice-Message_ :** Since two new urgent voice messages were received by
> the message account, the number of new voice messages is increased to four
> and the number of the new urgent messages is increased to two.
>
> **_Video-Message_ :** One new video message was received by the message
> account and accordingly the number of new video messages set to one.
>
> **_Fax-Message_ :** No new fax messages were received by the message
> account, so the number of fax messages is unchanged.
>
> **_To:_** This header in the MIME body populates the information about the
> public user identity of subscriber, that was used by correspondent to
> deposit a message.
>
> **_From:_** This header in the MIME body populates the information about the
> public user identity, of correspondent, that left a message to the
> subscriber.
>
> **_Subject:_** This header populates the information about the subject, that
> was assigned to the left message by correspondent.
>
> **_Date:_** This header populates the information about the date and time
> when a message was left.
>
> **_Priority:_** This header populates the information about the message
> urgency assigned by correspondent.
>
> **_Message-ID:_** This header populates the information about the message
> identity, that is assigned to the message by the MWI AS.
>
> **_Message-Context:_** This header populates the information about the type
> of the deposited message, that has the extended set of message waiting
> information.
### A.1.2.3 Void
## A.1.3 Void
## A.1.4 Signalling flows demonstrating how a message is deposited into the
subscribers message account
### A.1.4.1 Introduction
Subclause A.1.4 covers the signalling flows that show how a message is
deposited into the subscribers message account.
### A.1.4.2 Depositing a message into the subscriber\'s message account
#### A.1.4.2.1 Successful message deposit into the subscriber\'s message
account
This call-flow shows the deposit of the message in to the subscriber\'s
message account by a correspondent.
\"Integration of resource management and SIP\" not required by the MWI AS and
not used by correspondent\'s UE.
{width="6.429166666666666in" height="5.788194444444445in"}
Figure A.5: Correspondent depositing a message into the subscriber\'s MA
Figure A.5 shows a correspondent user equipment creating, interacting over RTP
and terminating a session with the MWI AS. The details of the signalling flows
are as follows:
1\. **INVITE request (Correspondent to P-CSCF) -- see example in table A.15**
A correspondent wishes to initiate a session with the MWI subscriber. To
initiate the session, the correspondent generates an INVITE request to MWI
subscriber.
Table A.15: INVITE request (UE to P-CSCF)
INVITE sip:user1_public1\@home1.net SIP/2.0
Via: SIP/2.0/UDP 2.3.4.5:2468;branch=0uetb
Max-Forwards: 70
Route: \, \
P-Preferred-Identity: \
Privacy: none
From: \;tag=31417
To: \
Call-ID: apb03a0s09dkjdfglk49111
CSeq: 22 INVITE
Contact: \
Content-Type: application/sdp
Content-Length: (...)
v=0
o=user3 2890844526 2890844526 IN IP4 2.3.4.5
s=-
c=IN IP4 2.3.4.5
t=0 0
m=audio 49172 RTF/AVP 0
a=rtpmap:0 PCMU/8000
> **Request URI:** Public user identity of the MWI subscriber.
>
> **From:** Public user identity of the Correspondent.
>
> **To:** Same as the Request-Uri.
>
> **Content-Type:** Set to \"application/sdp\".
The message body includes the SDP information.
2\. **INVITE request (P-CSCF to S-CSCF) -- see example in table A.16**
The INVITE request is forwarded to the S-CSCF in MWI subscriber\'s home
network.
Table A.16: INVITE request (S-CSCF to S-CSCF)
INVITE sip:user1_public1\@home1.net SIP/2.0
Via: SIP/2.0/UDP scscf1.home3.net;branch=z9bhksl3dlc23xm
Via: SIP/2.0/UDP pcscf1.visited2.net;branch=z9hG4bK120f34.1
Via: SIP/2.0/UDP 2.3.4.5:2468;comp=sigcomp;branch=z9hG4bKehuefdam
Record-Route: \
Record-Route: \
Max-Forwards: 68
Privacy: none
From: \;tag=31417
To: \
Call-ID: apb03a0s09dkjdfglk49111
CSeq: 22 INVITE
Contact: \
Content-Type: application/sdp
Content-Length: (...)
v=0
o=user3 2890844526 2890844526 IN IP4 2.3.4.5
s=-
c=IN IP4 2.3.4.5
t=0 0
m=audio 49172 RTF/AVP 0
a=rtpmap:0 PCMU/8000
3\. **Evaluation of initial filter criteria**
The S-CSCF validates the service profile of this subscriber and evaluates the
initial filter criteria. Assuming that MWI service is included in the service
profile of user1_public1\@home1.net as part of an terminating initial Filter
Criteria with Service Trigger Point of Method = INVITE AND Request-URI =
sip:user1_public1\@home1.net AND subscriber state = logout, that informs the
S-CSCF to route the INVITE request to the application server sip:mwi.home1.net
when the state of [user1_public1\@home1.net]{.underline} is logout.
4\. **INVITE (S-CSCF to AS) -- see example in table A.17**
The S-CSCF forwards the INVITE request to AS.
Table A.17: INVITE request (S-CSCF to AS)
INVITE sip:user1_public1\@home1.net SIP/2.0
Via: SIP/2.0/UDP scscf1.home1.net;branch=z9ack2k2bjbm0fu
Via: SIP/2.0/UDP scscf1.home3.net;branch=z9bhksl3dlc23xm
Via: SIP/2.0/UDP pcscf1.visited2.net;branch=z9hG4bK120f34.1
Via: SIP/2.0/UDP 2.3.4.5:2468;comp=sigcomp;branch=z9hG4bKehuefdam
Record-Route: \
Record-Route: \
Record-Route: \
Max-Forwards: 67
Privacy: none
From: \;tag=31417
To: \
Call-ID: apb03a0s09dkjdfglk49111
CSeq: 22 INVITE
Contact: \
Content-Type: application/sdp
Content-Length: (...)
v=0
o=user3 2890844526 2890844526 IN IP4 2.3.4.5
s=-
c=IN IP4 2.3.4.5
t=0 0
m=audio 49172 RTF/AVP 0
a=rtpmap:0 PCMU/8000
> 5\. **Identification of the message account and subscriber authorization**
Based on the Request-URI the MWI AS identifies the requested message account.
In the requested message account is valid, AS sends a 200 (OK) response to the
S-CSCF.
> 6\. **200 (OK) response (MWI AS to S-CSCF) -- see example in table A.18**
The MWI AS forwards the response to the S-CSCF.
Table A.18: 200 (OK) response (AS to S-CSCF)
SIP/2.0 200 OK
Via: SIP/2.0/UDP scscf1.home1.net;branch=z9ack2k2bjbm0fu
Via: SIP/2.0/UDP scscf1.home3.net;branch=z9bhksl3dlc23xm
Via: SIP/2.0/UDP pcscf1.visited2.net;branch=z9hG4bK120f34.1
Via: SIP/2.0/UDP 2.3.4.5:2468;comp=sigcomp;branch=z9hG4bKehuefdam
Record-Route: \
Record-Route: \
Record-Route: \
From: \;tag=31417
To: \
Call-ID: apb03a0s09dkjdfglk49111
CSeq: 22 INVITE
Contact: \
Content-Type: application/sdp
Content-Length: (...)
v=0
o=user3 2890844527 2890844527 IN IP4 12.13.14.15
s=-
c=IN IP4 12.13.14.15
t=0 0
m=audio 3456 RTF/AVP 0
a=rtpmap:0 PCMU/8000
The Content-Type is set to \"application/sdp\" and the SDP information in AS
is included in the message body.
9\. **ACK request (Correspondent to P-CSCF) -- see example in table A.19**
The correspondent sends an ACK request to P-CSCF.
Table A.19: ACK request (UE to P-CSCF)
ACK sip:user1_public1\@home1.net SIP/2.0
Via: SIP/2.0/UDP 2.3.4.5:2468;branch=0uetb
Max-Forwards: 70
Route: \, \
From: \;tag=31417
To: \
Call-ID: apb03a0s09dkjdfglk49111
CSeq: 22 ACK
Content-Length: 0
> 12\. **The Correspondent deposits a message to the message account**
The correspondent interacts with MWI AS and deposits a message via RTP into
the subscriber\'s message account.
13\. **BYE request (Correspondent to P-CSCF) - see example in table A.20**
After deposits a message to the subscriber\'s message account successfully,
the correspondent sends a BYE to release the session.
Table A.20: BYE request (UE to P-CSCF)
BYE sip:user1_public1\@home1.net SIP/2.0
Via: SIP/2.0/UDP 2.3.4.5:2468;branch=0uetb
Max-Forwards: 70
Route: \, \
From: \;tag=31417
To: \
Call-ID: apb03a0s09dkjdfglk49111
CSeq: 22 BYE
Content-Length: 0
> 16\. **200 (OK) response (MWI AS to S-CSCF) - see example in table A.21**
The MWI AS forwards the response to the S-CSCF.
Table A.21: 200 (OK) response (AS to S-CSCF)
SIP/2.0 200 OK
Via: SIP/2.0/UDP 2.3.4.5:2468;branch=0uetb
Max-Forwards: 70
Route: \, \
From: \;tag=31417
To: \
Call-ID: apb03a0s09dkjdfglk49111
CSeq: 22 BYE
Content-Length: 0
> 19\. **Status of subscriber\'s MA gets modified**
The MWI AS updates the status of the subscriber\'s message account.
If the MWI service is already invoked by the subscriber, MWI notifies the
subscriber about new message being deposited into the subscriber\'s message
account as described in subclause A.1.2.3.
###### ## Annex B (informative): Example of a filter criteria
This annex provides an example of a filter criterion that triggers SIP
requests that are subject to initial filter criteria evaluation.
Following example shows the Service Point Triggers in an Initial Filter
Criteria of the service profile for the subscriber with the public user
identity [user1_public1\@home1.net]{.underline}. This Initial Filter Criteria
informs the S-CSCF to route the SUBSCRIBE request to the application server
sip:mwi.home1.net that provides MWI service addressed with the public user
identity sip:user1_user1_public1\@home1.net.
Method: SUBSCRIBE
Event: message-summary
Request-URI: sip:user1_public1\@home1.net
Application Server: sip:mwi.home1.net
###### ## Annex C (informative): Void
#