# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the stage three Protocol Description of the
Completion of Communications to Busy Subscriber (CCBS) service and the
Completion of Communication on no Reply (CCNR) service, based on stage one and
two of the ISDN supplementary services. It provides the protocol details in
the IP Multimedia (IM) Core Network (CN) subsystem based on the Session
Initiation Protocol (SIP) and the Session Description Protocol (SDP).
The **Completion of Communications to Busy Subscriber CCBS** service enables
user A, encountering a busy destination B, to have the communication completed
without having to make a new communication attempt when the destination B
becomes not busy.
The **Completion of Communications on No Reply CCNR** supplementary service
enables user A, encountering a destination B which does not answer the
communication (No Reply), to have the communication completed without having
to make a new communication attempt when the destination becomes not busy
after having initiated an activity.
The present document is applicable to User Equipment (UE) and Application
Servers (AS) which are intended to support the CCBS and CCNR supplementary
services.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 22.173: \"IP Multimedia Core Network Subsystem (IMS) Multimedia
Telephony Service and supplementary services; Stage 1\".
[2] 3GPP TS 24.229: \"Internet Protocol (IP) multimedia call control protocol
based on Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) and Session Description Protocol
(SDP); Stage 3\".
[3] 3GPP TS 24.628: \"Common Basic Communication procedures using IP
Multimedia (IM) Core Network (CN) subsystem; Protocol specification\".
[4] 3GPP TS 24.623: \"Extensible Markup Language (XML) Configuration Access
Protocol (XCAP) over the Ut interface for Manipulating Supplementary
Services\".
[5] RFC 6910 (April 2013): \"Completion of Calls for the Session Initiation
Protocol (SIP)\".
[6] RFC 3265 (June 2002): \"Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)-Specific Event
Notification\".
[7] 3GPP TS 24.238: \"Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) based user
configuration\".
[8] ITU-T Recommendation I.221 (1993): \"Common specific characteristics of
services\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 22.173 [1] and the following terms and definitions apply.
**busy:** See ITU-T Recommendation I.221 [8], subclause 2.1.5.
**call information retention:** A procedure of network A to store the call
information of a specific call so that it can be used for that call.
**caller:** The user who originated the call and to whom the CCBS service is
provided.
**callee:** The user which is identified as destination B.
**CC:** Completion of Communication
**CC busy:** Any one of the following conditions will cause a CCBS busy
condition:
\- maximum number of calls reached at user A (see ITU-T Recommendation I.221
[8], subclause 2.1.3, item 2));
\- no resources (bandwidth) available at user A;
\- CC recall pending on user A.
**CCBS/CCNR call:** A call generated by the network connecting the caller to
the callee, resulting from the callers\' acceptance of a CCBS/CCNR recall.
**CCBS/CCNR recall:** An indication informing the caller that the network is
ready to initiate a CCBS/CCNR call to the callee and that the network is
awaiting a response to this indication.
**CCBS/CCNR request:** An instance of an activation of the CCBS/CCNR service
which is held in a queue pending the correct conditions for the CCBS/CCNR
service to be completed.
**Suspended CCBS/CCNR request:** A CCBS/CCNR request which cannot be served
even if the callee is in the appropriate state because the caller is busy.
**CCBS/CCNR request retention:** If an attempt to establish a CCBS/CCNR call
fails because the destination is busy again, then the network provider option
\"CC request retention\" defines whether the CCBS supplementary service is
continued or not, i.e. if the \"CC request retention\" is supported, the
original CCBS/CCNR request retains its position in the queue B, and monitoring
of user B shall continue. Otherwise the CCBS/CCNR request is revocated.
**CC service duration timer:** A maximum time the CC service will remain
activated for the caller within the network.
**destination B:** The entity addressed in the original call.
**long-term denial:** The network cannot accept user A\'s request to activate
the CC service and a later attempt to activate the CC service for the same
destination B will also be rejected.
**queue A:** A buffer at the originating side for the control of CCBS/CCNR
requests associated with the caller.
**queue B:** A buffer at the terminating side for the control of CCBS/CCNR
requests associated with destination B.
**retain option:** The retain option, if supported in both the originating and
destination network, will maintain the CCBS/CCNR request in the destination B
queue, if a CCBS/CCNR call has failed due to destination busy condition.
**short-term denial:** The network temporarily cannot accept user A\'s request
to activate the CC service. A later attempt to activate the CC service for the
same destination B may succeed.
**UE-A:** The caller's UE.
**UE-B:** The callee's UE.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
AOC Advice Of Charge
AS Application Server
CB Communication Barring
CC Completion of Communications
CCBS Completion of Communication to Busy Subscriber
CCNR Completion of Communications on No Reply
CD Communication Deflection
CDIV Call DIVersion
CFB Communication Forwarding Busy
CFNL Communication Forwarding on No Logged-in
CFU Communication Forwarding Unconditional
CN Core Network
CNR Completion of communication on No Reply
CONF CONFerence calling
CS Circuit Switched
CW Communication Waiting
ECT Explicit Communication Transfer
HOLD Communication Hold
IFC Initial Filter Criteria
IM IP Multimedia
IMS IP Multimedia Subsystem
IP Internet Protocol
ISDN Integrated Service Data Network
MCID Malicious Communication IDentification
MIME Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions
OIP Originating Identification Presentation
OIR Originating Identification Restriction
PLMN Public Land Mobile Network
PSTN Public Switch Telephone Network
SIP Session Initiation Protocol
TIP Terminating Identification Presentation
TIR Terminating Identification Restriction
UE User Equipment
# 4 Completion of Communications to Busy Subscriber (CCBS) / Completion of
Communication on No Reply (CCNR)
## 4.1 Introduction
The CCBS and CCNR services enables a user, encountering a destination that is
busy or does not answer, to have the communication completed at a later point
in time without the user having to manually initiate a new communication
attempt.
## 4.2 Description
### 4.2.1 General description
The CCBS service enables user A, encountering a busy destination B, to have
the communication completed without the user having to manually initiate a new
communication attempt when the destination B becomes not busy.
When user A requests the CCBS supplementary service, the network will monitor
for destination B becoming free again.
When destination B becomes free again, the network will wait a short time in
order to allow the resources to be re-used for originating a communication. If
the resources are not re-used by destination B within this time, the network
will automatically recall user A.
When user A accepts the CCBS recall, the network will automatically generate a
CCBS call to destination B.
The CCNR supplementary service enables user A, encountering a destination B
which does not answer the communication (No Reply), to have the communication
completed without the user having to manually initiate a new communication
attempt when the destination becomes not busy after having initiated and
completed a new communication.
When user A encounters a destination B which does not answer the communication
(No Reply), user A can request the CCNR supplementary service.
When user A requests the CCNR supplementary service, the network will monitor
for destination B becoming not busy after having initiated and completed a new
communication.
When destination B becomes not busy after having initiated and completed a new
communication, the network will wait a short time (as defined by the
destination B idle guard timer) in order to allow the resources to be reused
for originating a communication. If the resources are not reused by
destination B within this time, the network will automatically recall user A.
When user A accepts the CCNR recall, then the network will automatically
generate a CCNR call to destination B.
The CCBS / CCNR service control is done by the application servers. It is
possible to modify the queue by the users (add entry, delete entries, delete
whole queue) by usage of appropriate procedures.
On the originating side the originating AS A manages the queue of user A and
on terminating side the terminating AS B manages the queue of outstanding
communications towards UE B.
The originating AS keeps track of the CCBS/CCNR requests started by each user
for a given period of time, and rejects a new request in case the provisioned
limit has been overcome.
The terminating AS keeps track of the CCBS /CCNR requests directed to each
user for a given period of time, and rejects a new request in case the
provisioned limit has been overcome.
After successful CCBS/CCNR Call setup the respective entry is deleted in both
queues. Also a proper management of the queue in the suspend/resume scenario
upon reception of the corresponding message takes place.
## 4.3 Operational requirements
### 4.3.1 Provision/withdrawal
The CCBS/CCNR service is provided to the served user after prior arrangement
with the service provider, or as a service provider option. Withdrawal of
these services is made on the served user\'s request or for service provider
reasons.
## 4.4 Coding requirements
No specific requirements needed.
## 4.5 Signalling requirements
### 4.5.1 Activation/deactivation
The call completion services are individually activated at provisioning or at
the subscriber\'s request.
The call completion services are individually deactivated at withdrawal or at
the subscriber\'s request.
### 4.5.2 Registration/erasure
The CCBS/CCNR service requires no registration. Erasure is not applicable.
### 4.5.3 Interrogation
For the interrogation of the call-completion services the Ut interface using
XCAP as enabling protocol as described in 3GPP TS 24.623 [4] or SIP based user
configuration as described in 3GPP TS 24.238 [7] in combination with
announcement procedures according to 3GPP TS 24.628 [3] could be used.
### 4.5.4 Invocation and operation
#### 4.5.4.1 Actions at the originating UE
Basic call procedures and in case of a call-completion recall initiated by a
REFER request, normal REFER method handling procedures according to 3GPP TS
24.229 [2] shall apply.
For invoking and revoking of the call completion services, announcement
procedures according to 3GPP TS 24.628 [3] and inband-interaction procedures
should be used.
Editor\'s note: The usage of inband interaction procedures needs further
studies and specification. For invoking and revoking of the call-completion
services also out-of-band stimulus procedures according to ETSI TR 183 057 [4]
could be used.
#### 4.5.4.2 Actions at the originating AS
##### 4.5.4.2.0 General
The originating AS shall operate as a SIP proxy as specified in subclause
5.7.4 of 3GPP TS 24.229 [2] or operate as a routing B2BUA as specified in
subclause 5.7.5 of 3GPP TS 24.229 [2] for the incoming INVITE request and all
future requests and responses in the same dialog.
##### 4.5.4.2.1 CC Invocation
##### 4.5.4.2.1.1 Normal procedures
##### 4.5.4.2.1.1.1 Detecting if CC is possible
When in case of CCBS a 486 (Busy Here) response has been received from the
terminating network, and the following set of conditions apply:
\- the 486 (Busy Here) response contains an Call-Info header field with a
\"purpose\" header field parameter set to \"call-completion\"; and
\- the user A CCBS queue limit has not been exceeded; and
\- CCBS has not been activated for an identical communication (network
option), determined by the stored basic communication information defined in
subclause 4.5.4.2.1.1.2; and
\- there are no service interactions that preclude CCBS;
then the service retention procedure as specified in subclause 4.5.4.2.1.1.2
is executed.
When in case of CCNR a 180 (Ringing) response has been received from the
terminating network, and the following set of conditions apply:
\- the 180 (Ringing) response contains an Call-Info header with a purpose
parameter set to \'call-completion\'; and
\- the user A CCNR queue limit has not been exceeded; and
\- CCNR has not been invoked for an identical communication (network option),
determined by the stored basic communication information defined in subclause
4.5.4.2.1.1.2; and
\- there are no service interactions that preclude CCNR,
then the originating AS shall remove the Call-Info header from the 180
(Ringing) response, forward it to UE-A and start the CC no-reply timer
CCNR-T5. When this timer expires then the service retention procedure as
specified in subclause 4.5.4.2.1.1.2 is executed.
##### 4.5.4.2.1.1.2 Starting of the service retention procedure
The originating AS shall start the retention timer CC-T1. The originating AS
shall retain the following information from the original communication, if
available:
1) SDP offer, and
2) Request-URI, and
3) To header field, and
4) From header field, and
5) Privacy header field, and
6) P-Asserted-ID header field.
##### 4.5.4.2.1.1.3 CC service invocation by user A
For the invocation of the CC service, in case of CCBS immediately after
receipt of a 486 (Busy Here) response with a CCBS possible indication or in
case of CCNR after receipt of a 180 (Ringing) response with a CCNR possible
indication upon expiry of the No-Reply timer CCNR-T5, the originating AS shall
provide an announcement that CC is possible to user A, according to 3GPP TS
24.628 [3], followed by inband-interaction procedures for the activation
confirmation.
NOTE: User A can have a limited number of CC requests outstanding. This limit
is a network provider option (with a maximum value of 5).
If user A does not confirm the activation of CC, the AS shall restore the
communication condition from before the announcement and proceed with basic
communication procedures by forwarding the 486 (Busy here) response in case of
CCBS or sending a 199 (Early Dialog Terminated) on the announcement dialog in
case of CCNR.
##### 4.5.4.2.1.1.4 Stopping of the service retention procedure
On receiving a CC invocation confirmation from user A before the expiry of the
retention timer CC-T1, the originating AS shall:
a) stop the retention timer CC-T1; and
b) store the retained call information from the original basic communication.
As a network option, in case of receipt of a CCNR invocation confirmation, the
originating AS may terminate the original communication by sending a CANCEL
request to UE-B, in accordance with the procedures described in 3GPP TS 24.229
[2].
NOTE: The above procedure avoids a race condition between answering the call
at the terminating side and subscribing to CCNR at the originating side.
##### 4.5.4.2.1.1.5 Sending of the CC invocation request to the terminating AS
The originating AS shall send a SUBSCRIBE request to the terminating AS
according to RFC 3265 [6] and RFC 6910 [5]. The originating AS shall populate
the SUBSCRIBE request as follows:
\- a Request-URI set to the URI returned by the terminating AS in the Call-
Info header field of the response including the CC possible indication
\- in case of CCBS as received in the Call-Info header field in the 486 (Busy
Here) response, including an \"m\" SIP URI parameter with a value set to
\"BS\";
\- in case of CCNR as received in the Call-Info header in the 180 (Ringing)
response, including an \"m\"- SIP URI parameter with a value set to \"NR\";
\- a From header field set to the URI of UE-A from the original communication;
\- a To header field set to the URI of UE-B from the original communication;
\- a Contact header field set to the URI of the originating AS;
\- a Call-Info header field with the URI of UE-A from the P-Asserted-Identity,
a \"purpose\" header field parameter set to \"call-completion\", and an
m-parameter set to \"BS\" in case of CCBS or \"NR\" in case of CCNR;
\- a P-Asserted-Identity header field as received from the original INVITE
request; and
NOTE 1: If available and to avoid interworking problems (e.g. if the called
user is in the PSTN) a P-Asserted-Identity header field that contains an E.164
number is preferable.
\- an Expires header field set to at least the initial value of the service
duration timer CC-T3.
The originating AS shall start the CC request timer CC-T2.
NOTE 2: The To header field is used to identify a particular CC target.
##### 4.5.4.2.1.1.6 Procedures after CC invocation confirmation from the
terminating AS
If the originating AS receives a NOTIFY request as an answer to an outstanding
CC request which was described in subclause 4.5.4.2.1.1.5 with the cc-state
parameter set to \'queued\', the originating AS shall:
a) stop the CC request timer CC-T2;
b) start the CC service duration timer CC-T3;
c) store the information whether the cc-service-retention parameter has been
received or not; and
d) confirm to the caller that the invocation was successful, using
announcement procedures according to 3GPP TS 24.628 [3].
In case of CCBS the originating AS shall forward the 486 (Busy Here) response
to UE-A.
In case of CCNR, if the original communication with the UE-B has already been
cancelled by the originating AS, the originating AS shall send a 480
(Temporarily unavailable) response to UE-A.
##### 4.5.4.2.1.2 Exceptional procedures
If the originating AS receives a 480 (Temporarily Unavailable) response (short
term denial) or a 403 (Forbidden) response (long term denial), in accordance
with the procedures of subclause 4.5.4.3.2.2, to an outstanding CC request
which was described in subclause 4.5.2.2.1.1.5, then the originating AS shall:
a) stop the CC request timer CC-T2; and
b) confirm to the caller that the invocation was not successful, using
announcement procedures according to 3GPP TS 24.628 [3].
In case of CCBS the originating AS shall forward the 486 (Busy Here) response
to UE-A.
##### 4.5.4.2.2 CC Revocation
##### 4.5.4.2.2.1 Normal procedures
##### 4.5.4.2.2.1.1 Generating a revocation request
For revoking the CC service, the originating AS shall send a SUBSCRIBE request
to the terminating AS according to RFC 3265 [6] and RFC 6910 [5] in the
SUBSCRIBE dialog. The originating AS shall populate the SUBSCRIBE request
following normal procedures as specified in 3GPP TS 24.229 [2] with the
following additions:
\- a Call-Info header field with the URI of UE-A from the P-Asserted-Identity,
a \"purpose\" header field parameter set to \"call-completion\", and an
m-parameter set to \"BS\" in case of CCBS or \"NR\" in case of CCNR;
\- a P-Asserted-Identity header field as received from the original INVITE
request;
NOTE: If available and to avoid interworking problems (e.g. if the called user
is in the PSTN) a P-Asserted-Identity header field that contains an E.164
number is preferable.
and
\- an Expires header field set to zero.
##### 4.5.4.2.2.1.2 Revocation requested by the user
If the originating AS receives a revocation request by the user, the
originating AS shall
\- construct a SUBSCRIBE request according to subclause 4.5.4.2.2.1.1; and
\- send the SUBSCRIBE request to the terminating AS; and
\- inform user A of the result of the revocation by using announcement
procedures and inband-interaction procedures according to 3GPP TS 24.628 [3].
##### 4.5.4.2.2.1.3 Revocation caused by timer expiry
If the service-duration timer CC-T3 expires, the originating AS shall:
\- construct a SUBSCRIBE request according to subclause 4.5.4.2.2.1.1; and
\- send the SUBSCRIBE request to the terminating AS.
##### 4.5.4.2.2.2 Exceptional procedures
The originating AS shall be prepared to receive a NOTIFY request cause by a
service-duration timer expiry at the terminating AS, according to the
procedures of subclause 4.5.4.3.3.2, with:
\- the Subscription-State header field set to \"terminated\"; and
\- the \"reason\" Subscription-State header field parameter set to
\"noresource\".
In this case the originating AS shall stop the CC service-duration timer
CC-T3, if this timer is still running.
##### 4.5.4.2.3 CC Operation
##### 4.5.4.2.3.1 Normal procedures
On receipt of a CC recall notification as described in subclause
4.5.4.3.4.1.2, and if user A is neither busy nor CC busy, the originating AS
shall initiate the CC recall to user A by sending a REFER request to UE-A
according to 3GPP TS 24.229 [2], and shall start the recall timer CC-T4. The
originating AS shall populate the REFER request as follows:
\- a Request-URI set to the URI of UE-A from the original communication,
including an \"m\" SIP URI parameter with a value set to \"BS\" in case of
CCBS or \"NR\" in case of CCNR; and
\- a Refer-to header set to the URI of UE-B.
If there are multiple outstanding CC requests at the originating AS, then the
correct target for the CC recall is identified using standard SIP dialog
identification procedures.
In the case UE-A does not support the REFER method extension, the special
REFER request handling procedures according to 3GPP TS 24.628 [3] should be
used. As a network option, e.g. in the case the originating AS has knowledge
that UE-A does not support the REFER method extension, the originating AS may
start the 3rd party call control procedures according to 3GPP TS 24.628 [3]
without waiting for a 3xx -- 6xx response. In this case, the originating AS
shall send an INVITE request with a Request-URI set to the URI of UE-A from
the original communication, including a \"m\" SIP URI parameter with a value
set to \"BS\" in case of CCBS or \"NR\" in case of CCNR. The INVITE request
shall include identity information about user B in the From header field as
received in the To header field of the original request. Other identity
information may be included if allowed by the Privacy settings in the response
of the original communication.
If user A accepts the recall before the CC recall timer expires (a NOTIFY
request with a body containing SIP/2.0 100 Trying or a 200 OK to the 3pcc
INVITE request according to the special REFER request handling procedures
according to 3GPP TS 24.628 [3] is received), the originating AS shall stop
timer CC-T4 and initiate the CC call to destination B by sending an INVITE
request, in accordance with RFC 6910 [5]. The originating AS shall populate
the INVITE request as follows.
\- a Request-URI set to the URI of UE-B from the original communication,
including an \"m\" SIP URI parameter
\- set to \"BS\" in case of CCBS; or
\- set to \"NR\" in case of CCNR;
\- a From header field set to the URI of UE-A from the original communication;
\- a To header field set to the URI of UE-B from the original communication;
\- a Call-Info header field with the URI of UE-A from the P-Asserted-Identity
in the original communication, a \"purpose\" header field parameter set to
\"call-completion\", and an m-parameter set to \"BS\" in case of CCBS and
\"NR\" in case of CCNR.
##### 4.5.4.2.3.2 Exceptional procedures
##### 4.5.4.2.3.2.1 Non-acceptance of CC recall
See subclause 4.5.4.2.2.1.3.
##### 4.5.4.2.3.2.2 User A is found busy or CC busy
If the caller is found to be busy or CC busy, when a CC recall notification as
described in subclause 4.5.4.3.4.1.2 has been received, then the originating
AS shall suspend the CC request until the caller becomes not busy or not CC
busy again. The originating AS shall send a PUBLISH request to the terminating
AS according to RFC 6910 [5] in the existing SUBSCRIBE dialog. The originating
AS shall populate the PUBLISH request following normal procedures as specified
in 3GPP TS 24.229 [2] with the following additions:
\- a Request-URI set to the contact address of the terminating AS returned by
the terminating AS when the SUBSCRIBE dialog was created;
\- a Call-Info header field with the URI of UE-A from the P-Asserted-Identity
in the original communication, a \"purpose\" header field parameter set to
\"call-completion\", and an m-parameter set to \"BS\" in case of CCBS and
\"NR\" in case of CCNR;
\- a P-Asserted-Identity header field as received from the original INVITE
request;
NOTE 1: If available and to avoid interworking problems (e.g. if the called
user is in the PSTN) a P-Asserted-Identity header field that contains an E.164
number is preferable.
\- an Expires header field set to the current value of the remaining duration
of the subscription; and
\- a body set to a PIDF informing about the basic state \'closed\' for the
caller\'s identity as presentity.
When the caller is no longer busy or CC busy, then the originating AS shall
resume the CC request. The originating AS shall send a PUBLISH request to the
terminating AS according to RFC 6910 [5] in the existing SUBSCRIBE dialog. The
originating AS shall populate the PUBLISH request following normal procedures
as specified in 3GPP TS 24.229 [2] with the following additions:
\- a Request-URI set to the contact address of the terminating AS returned by
the terminating AS when the SUBSCRIBE dialog was created;
\- a Call-Info header field with the URI of UE-A from the P-Asserted-Identity
in the original communication, a \"purpose\" header field parameter set to
\"call-completion\", and an m-parameter set to \"BS\" in case of CCBS and
\"NR\" in case of CCNR;
\- a P-Asserted-Identity header field as received from the original INVITE
request;
NOTE 2: If available and to avoid interworking problems (e.g. if the called
user is in the PSTN) a P-Asserted-Identity header field that contains an E.164
number is preferable.
\- an Expires header field set to the current value of the remaining duration
of the subscription; and
\- a body set to a PIDF informing about the basic state \'open\' for the
caller's identity as presentity.
In case the originating AS has sent several suspension requests to different
terminating ASs and the caller becomes neither busy nor CC busy, the
originating AS shall resume each suspended request.
##### 4.5.4.2.3.2.3 The caller makes another call to the same destination B
If the caller initiates another communication to the same destination B and
activates the same CC service (CCBS or CCNR) again, then:
\- if the two communications are identical, then the following network
provider option exists:
1) the originating AS shall retain the original request with the current
request being discarded and inform the caller that the request has not been
accepted because a CC request had already been stored against the requested
destination B; or
2) the originating AS shall treat this as a new CC request; and
\- if the two calls are not identical, then the originating AS shall treat
this as a new CC request. In order to decide that the two calls are identical,
the originating AS shall only compare the basic communication information,
i.e. the SDP offer, the destination selection information, and calling user
identity (if any).
NOTE: It is a network provider option which information is used to identify
identical communications.
##### 4.5.4.2.3.2.4 CC call failure
If the CC call fails, the originating AS shall inform the caller as for the
basic communication procedures.
If CC is possible (a received 180 (Ringing) or 486 (Busy Here)) response
contains a Call-Info header field with a purpose parameter set to \"call-
completion\"), two possibilities exist:
\- if the retain option is supported across the networks (the originating AS
has received a cc-service-retention parameter in the NOTIFY request described
in subclause 4.5.4.3.2.1), the originating AS shall keep the transaction
resources and shall not restart the service duration timer CC-T3. If the
caller attempts to activate CC again, the originating AS shall treat this as
described in subclause 4.5.4.2.3.2.3.
\- if the retain option is not supported across the networks, the originating
AS shall release the transaction resources. The originating AS shall
deactivate the CC request and shall inform the caller accordingly.
If CC is not possible (a received 180 (Ringing) or 486 (Busy Here)) response
does not contain a Call-Info header field with a purpose parameter set to
\'call-completion\'), the originating AS shall deactivate the CC request
according to the procedures described in subclause 4.5.4.2.2 and shall inform
the caller accordingly.
#### 4.5.4.3 Actions at the terminating AS
##### 4.5.4.3.0 General
The terminating AS shall operate as a SIP proxy as specified in subclause
5.7.4 of 3GPP TS 24.229 [2] or operate as a routing B2BUA as specified in
subclause 5.7.5 of 3GPP TS 24.229 [2] for the incoming INVITE request and all
future requests and responses in the same dialog.
##### 4.5.4.3.1 CC possible indication
##### 4.5.4.3.1.1 Normal operation
When on a incoming communication the terminating AS supports the CCNR service,
then the terminating AS shall insert a Call-Info header field with either the
URI of the terminating AS or the URI received in the original INVITE request,
a purpose-parameter set to \'call-completion\', and a m-parameter set to
\'NR\' in the 180 (Ringing) response forwarded by the AS to indicate whether
CCNR is possible or not, in accordance with RFC 6910 [5].
When on a incoming communication the callee is found to be busy and the
terminating AS supports the CCBS service, then the terminating AS shall insert
a Call-Info header field with either the URI of the terminating AS or the URI
received in the original INVITE request, a \"purpose\" header field parameter
set to \"call-completion\", and a m-parameter set to \"BS\" in the 486 (Busy
Here) response generated by the terminating AS (in case of \'network
determined user busy\') or forwarded by the terminating AS (in case of \'user
determined user busy\') to indicate whether CCBS is possible or not, in
accordance with RFC 6910 [5].
If the terminating AS knows that the CC is not possible on destination B, the
terminating AS shall not include a Call-Info header field with a \"purpose\"
header field parameter set to \"call-completion\" in any response sent to the
originating side.
##### 4.5.4.3.1.2 Exceptional procedures
Not applicable
##### 4.5.4.3.2 CC Invocation
##### 4.5.4.3.2.1 Normal operation
Several CC requests can be queued against one destination B in the destination
B CC queue (queue B). The exact size of queue B (from 1 to 5 entries) is a
destination network operator option.
As a network option the destination network operator can reduce the sizes of
the CC queues associated with individual users. The reduced size can be zero.
The size of the CCBS queue can also be related to the size of the CCNR queue
if existing.
On receipt of a CC invocation request as described in subclause 4.5.4.2.1.1.5,
the terminating AS shall:
a) acknowledge the receipt of the SUBSCRIBE request with a 202 Accepted
response. The terminating AS shall set the Expires header field in the 202
Accepted response to a value less or equal of value of the Expires header
field in the received SUBSCRIBE request, in accordance with RFC 3265 [6].
b) check if the Request-URI of the SUBSCRIBE request is available for the
requested CC service; if there is no match, the terminating AS shall check if
the URI in the To header field of the SUBSCRIBE request is available for the
requested CC service; if it is available, the terminating AS shall store the
information received in the CC invocation request in the destination B queue
and send a NOTIFY request to the originating AS according to RFC 6910 [5]. The
terminating AS shall populate the NOTIFY request as follows:
\- a Request-URI set to the URI of the originating AS as received in the
Contact header field of the SUBSCRIBE request;
\- a To header field set to the URI of UE-A as received in the From header
field of the SUBSCRIBE request;
\- a From header field set to the URI of UE-B as received in the To header
field of the SUBSCRIBE request;
\- a Subscription-State header field set to \"active\";
\- the \"expires\" Subscription-State header field parameter set to the
current value of the subscription duration,
\- a body set to a cc-state parameter set to \'queued\'; and
\- if the retain option is supported at the terminating AS, a cc-service-
retention parameter in the same body;
c) start the service duration timer CC-T7; and
d) monitor destination B
\- in case of CCBS for becoming not busy; or
\- in case of CCNR for becoming not busy after having initiated an activity.
NOTE: Methods for monitoring the callee for becoming not busy are a network
provider implementation option.
##### 4.5.4.3.2.2 Exceptional procedures
When the invocation of the requested CC service is rejected by the terminating
AS, in accordance with RFC 6910 [5] the terminating AS shall send a 480
(Temporarily Unavailable) response (short term denial) or a 403 (Forbidden)
response (long term denial), in the following cases:
\- if there are already the maximum number of requests queued against
destination B;
\- if there is an interaction with other services which prevents the
invocation of the requested CC service;
\- if the URI in the To header field of the SUBSCRIBE request is not available
for the requested CC service at destination B.
If the callee is no longer busy when the CCBS invocation request arrives, the
terminating AS shall apply the normal CC invocation procedures as described in
subclause 4.5.4.3.2.1.
If the callee has answered the communication when the CCNR invocation request
arrives, the terminating AS shall apply the normal CC revocation procedures as
described in subclause 4.5.4.3.3.1.
NOTE: A general error, e. g. a syntax error, or a non-compliance to the call-
completion event-package, is answered according to the procedures described in
RFC 3265 [6].
##### 4.5.4.3.3 CC Revocation
##### 4.5.4.3.3.1 Normal operation
On receipt of a CC revocation request as described in subclause 4.5.4.2.2.1.1,
the terminating AS shall delete the CC request from the destination B
queue.and send a NOTIFY request to the originating AS according to RFC 3265
[6] and RFC 6910 [5]. The terminating AS shall populate the NOTIFY request as
follows:
\- a Request-URI set to the URI of the originating AS as received in the
Contact header field of the SUBSCRIBE request;
\- a To header field set to the URI of UE-A as received in the From header
field of the SUBSCRIBE request;
\- a From header field set to the URI of UE-B as received in the To header
field of the SUBSCRIBE request;
\- a Subscription-State header field set to \"terminated\"; and
\- the \"reason\" Subscription-State header field parameter set to
\'timeout\'.
##### 4.5.4.3.3.2 Exceptional procedures
The terminating AS shall automatically revoke a particular request for the CC
service if the CC service duration timer CC-T7 expires. If timer CC-T7
expires, the terminating AS shall send a NOTIFY request to the originating AS
as described in subclause 4.5.4.3.3.1 with the \"reason\" Subscription-State
header field parameter set to \'noresource\'.
##### 4.5.4.3.4 CC Operation
##### 4.5.4.3.4.1 Normal operation
##### 4.5.4.3.4.1.1 The callee becomes available
When the callee becomes not busy, then the terminating AS shall check queue B:
a) if there is an entry in the queue currently being processed, the
terminating AS shall take no further action;
b) otherwise, the terminating AS shall examine:
\- the CCBS entries in the queue; and
\- the CCNR entries in the queue, if the callee became not busy after having
initiated an activity;
c) if an entry is suspended, the terminating AS shall take another entry; and
d) if an entry is not suspended, the terminating AS shall select it for the CC
recall.
NOTE: The algorithm for the order addressing entries in the queue is outside
the scope of this document. It need not be order of creation of the queue
entry.
The terminating AS shall start the destination B idle guard timer CC-T8. When
the destination B idle guard timer CC-T8 expires, the terminating AS shall
process the selected CC request.
##### 4.5.4.3.4.1.2 The CC recall is started
When processing a CC request, provided that the callee is still available, the
terminating AS shall start the CC recall procedure.
The CC recall procedure is defined as follows:
\- the terminating AS shall send a NOTIFY request to the originating AS
according to RFC 6910 [5]. The terminating AS shall populate the NOTIFY
request as follows:
\- a Request-URI set to the URI of the originating AS as received in the
Contact header field of the SUBSCRIBE request
\- a To header field set to the URI of UE-A as received in the From header
field of the SUBSCRIBE request;
\- a From header field set to the URI of UE-B as received in the To header
field of the SUBSCRIBE request;
\- a Subscription-State header field set to \"active\";
\- the \"expires\" Subscription-State header field parameter set to the
remaining duration of the subscription;
\- a body set to a cc-state parameter set to \'ready\'; and
\- the terminating AS shall start the CC recall timer CC-T9.
##### 4.5.4.3.4.1.3 Incoming communication during the CC recall processing
If the terminating AS receives an INVITE request while a CC recall is
processed, the terminating AS shall check whether this new incoming
communication includes a CC call indicator (an \"m\" SIP URI parameter in the
Request-URI, or a Call-Info header field exists and includes an \"m\" header
parameter).
If the INVITE request includes a CC Call indicator, the terminating AS shall
offer the incoming communication to the callee.
If the INVITE request does not include a CC call indicator, the terminating AS
shall reject the incoming communication by generating a 486 (Busy Here)
response which includes a CC possible indication, according to the normal CC
possible indication procedures described in subclause 4.5.4.3.1.1.
##### 4.5.4.3.4.1.4 Procedures after the CC call was offered to the callee
When the terminating AS has sent a 183 (Session Progress) response, a 180
(Ringing) response or a 200 (OK) response, it shall:
\- stop the timers CC-T7 and CC-T9;
\- delete the CC request from the destination B queue
\- send a CC revocation notification as described in subclause 4.5.4.3.3.2 to
the originating AS; and
\- if there are further CC requests to be processed, then check whether the
callee is busy:
\- if the callee is busy, the terminating AS shall take no further action; or
\- if the callee is not busy, the terminating AS shall service the queue for
destination B as described above.
##### 4.5.4.3.4.1.5 Further procedures
If the originating AS resumes a CC request according to the procedures
describe in subclause 4.5.4.2.3.2.2 because user A has become free (i.e. not
busy and not CC busy), then, if the callee is available and there is no entry
in the CC queue which is currently being processed, the terminating AS shall
service the destination B queue as described above.
If the originating AS suspends a CC request according to the procedures
describe in subclause 4.5.4.2.3.2.2, the terminating AS shall:
\- stop timer CC-T9; and
\- send a NOTIFY request to the originating AS, including a body with a cc-
state parameter set to \'queued\'; and
\- attempt to process another CC request in the same queue.
If the originating AS revokes a CC request according to the procedures
described in subclause 4.5.4.2.2.1.1, the terminating AS shall stop timers
CC-T7 and CC-T9 and attempt to process another CC request in the same queue.
##### 4.5.4.3.4.2 Exceptional procedures
a) The callee is busy when destination B idle guard timer expires:
If, upon expiry of the destination B idle guard timer CC-T8, the callee is
busy (e.g. the callee has initiated an outgoing communication), then the
terminating AS shall defer servicing of the destination B CC queue until the
callee becomes not busy again.
b) The terminating AS receives a \"ready\" notification while processing the
destination B CC queue:
See subclause 4.6.10.
c) The callee is busy upon arrival of the CC call:
If the callee is busy when a CC call arrives, then the procedures depend on
whether the retain option is supported across the networks:
\- if the retain option is not supported at the terminating AS, the
terminating AS shall cancel the corresponding CC request; the terminating AS
shall send a 486 (Busy Here) response with an Call-Info header field with a
\"purpose\" header field parameter set to \"call-completion\" to the
originating AS; if a new CCBS invocation request is received from the
originating AS, normal procedures apply, according to subclause 4.5.4.3.2;
\- if the retain option is supported at the terminating AS, the terminating AS
shall retain the original CC request in the queue; in this case the
terminating AS shall continue to monitor destination B, shall not restart the
timer CC-T7, shall stop timer CC-T9 and shall send a 486 (Busy Here) response
with an Call-Info header field with a \"purpose\" header field parameter set
to \"call-completion\" to the originating AS.
d) No CC call as result:
If no CC call results from the CC recall mechanism, the recall timer CC-T9
expires. In this case the terminating AS shall send a NOTIFY request to the
originating AS according to RFC 3265 [6] and RFC 6910 [5]. The terminating AS
shall populate the NOTIFY request as follows:
\- a Request-URI set to the URI of the originating AS as received in the
Contact header field of the SUBSCRIBE request;
\- a To header field set to the URI of UE-A as received in the From header
field of the SUBSCRIBE request;
\- a From header field set to the URI of UE-B as received in the To header
field of the SUBSCRIBE request;
\- a Subscription-State header field set to \'terminated\' and
\- the \"reason\" Subscription-State header field parameter set to
\'rejected\',
#### 4.5.4.4 Actions at the terminating UE
Basic call procedures according to 3GPP TS 24.229 [2] shall apply.
### 4.5.5 SIP specific Event Notifications
SIP specific Event Notifications shall be used in accordance with RFC 3265 [6]
including as referenced in IETF RFC 6910 [5].
## 4.6 Interaction of Call-Completion with other services
### 4.6.1 Communication waiting (CW)
The CW AS shall not invoke the CW service on a CC recall.
NOTE 1: For a waiting communication, destination B is not considered as busy.\
If the communication waiting indication cannot be given at the destination B,
user A will receive busy indication and can invoke the CCBS service to
destination B.
NOTE 2: Procedures for the case the CC call encounters busy again are
described in subclause 4.5.4.3.4.2.
### 4.6.2 Communication Hold (HOLD)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
NOTE: When receiving a CC recall indication, user A can invoke the
communication hold service in order to make interface resources available for
the establishment of the CC call.
### 4.6.3 Terminating Identification Presentation (TIP)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
### 4.6.4 Terminating Identification Restriction (TIR)
The TIR AS shall enforce the privacy settings of the CC recall answer on the
CC call and if necessary on the subsequent communication, if the CC recall was
invoked via 3pcc procedures.
### 4.6.5 Originating identification presentation (OIP)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
### 4.6.6 Originating identification restriction (OIR)
The OIR AS shall enforce the privacy settings of the originating call on the
CC call.
The OIR AS shall enforce the privacy settings of the originating call for
SUBSCRIBE and NOTIFY requests when CC is invoked.
### 4.6.7 Conference calling (CONF)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
### 4.6.8 Communication diversion services (CDIV)
#### 4.6.8.1 General
The CDIV AS shall not divert a CC recall. The CDIV AS shall give a CC recall
to user A at user A\'s original location.
#### 4.6.8.2 Communication Forwarding Unconditional
For CFU activated by B before A requests CC on B:
\- If user B has activated CFU, and the forwarded communication results in a
call-completion condition at user C, the CC AS shall inform user A that CC is
possible at user C. If user A activates CC and subsequently activates CFU, the
CDIV AS shall give the CC recall to user A at his original location.\ As a
network option, in case of a diversion at user B, the CC AS shall not inform
user A that CC is possible.
For CFU activated by B after A requests CC on B:
\- If user B activates CFU after user A has activated CC on user B, then the
CC AS shall revoke the CC request by sending a NOTIFY request to the
originating AS as described in subclause 4.5.4.3.3.1 with the \"reason\"
Subscription-State header field parameter set to \'noresource\'. The CC AS
serving user A shall send a notification \"CC cancelled\" to the user A.\ As a
network option, the CC AS shall suspend the CC request until user B
deactivates CFU. If the service duration timer CC-T7 expires before user B
deactivates CFU, the CC AS shall revoke the CC request as decribed in
subclause 4.5.4.3.3.2.
NOTE: How the \"CC cancelled\" notification is send to user A is FFS.
#### 4.6.8.3 Communication forwarding busy
For CFB activated by B before A requests CC:
\- If user B has activated CFB and is busy, and the forwarded communication
results in a call-completion condition at user C, the CC AS shall inform user
A that CC is possible at user C.\ As a network option, the CC AS shall inform
user A that CCBS at user B is possible.
For CFB activated by B after A requests CC on B:
\- If user B activates CFB after user A has activated CC on user B, a CC call
from user A which encounters a busy condition at user B shall be treated as
follows:
\- user B shall be considered as being busy and the CC AS shall apply the
procedures of CCBS; or
\- the CDIV AS shall forward the communication as a normal communication.
#### 4.6.8.4 Communication forwarding no reply
For CFNR activated by B before A requests CC:
\- If user B has activated CFNR and does not answer the communication, and the
forwarded communication results in a call-completion condition at user C, the
CC AS shall inform user A that CC is possible at user C.\ As a network option,
the CC AS shall inform user A that CCNR at user B is possible.
For CFNR activated by B after A requests CC on B:
\- If user B activates CFNR after user A has activated CC on user B, a CC call
from user A which encounters a no reply condition at user B shall be treated
as follows:
\- the CC AS shall apply the procedures of CCNR; or
\- the CDIV AS shall forward the communication as a normal communication.
#### 4.6.8.5 Communication forwarding not registered
For CFNL activated by B before A requests CC on B:
\- If user B has activated CFNL and is not logged in, and the forwarded
communication results in a call-completion condition at user C, the CC AS
shall inform user A that CC is possible at user C.\ As a network option, the
CC AS shall inform user A that CCNR at user B is possible.
For CFNL activated by B after A requests CC on B:
  * If user B activates CFNL after user A has activated CC on user B, then the CC AS shall cancel the CC request and shall send a notification \"CCBS cancelled\" to the user A.\ As a network option, the CC AS shall suspend the CC request until user B deactivates CFNL. If the service duration timer CC-T3 expires before user B deactivates CFNL, the CC AS shall cancel the CC request.
NOTE: How the \"CC cancelled\" notification is send to user A is FFS.
#### 4.6.8.6 Communication deflection (CD)
**For the originating user A:**
\- If a communication to the called user B is deflected to user C by the CD
service and results in a call-completion condition at user C, the CC AS shall
inform user A that CC is possible at user C. The CDIV AS shall not deflect a
CC recall.
**For the called user B:**
\- The CDIV AS shall not deflect a CC call.
### 4.6.9 Advice of charge (AOC)
Charging information can be given for the original communication, and for the
resulting CCBS communication.
### 4.6.10 Completion of communications (CCBS/CCNR)
A user can be both a \"user A\" and a \"user B\" simultaneously, i.e. that
user can have activated the CC service and have CC requests outstanding whilst
at the same time that user can be the destination of CC requests from other
users.
The CC AS shall handle CC requests activated by this user (the user\'s queue
A) with priority over CC requests activated by other users on this user (the
user's queue B), see subclause 4.5.4.3.4.1.1.
### 4.6.11 Malicious communication identification (MCID)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
### 4.6.12 Anonymous Communication Rejection and Communication Barring
(ACR/CB)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
### 4.6.13 Message Waiting Indication (MWI)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
### 4.6.14 Explicit Communication Transfer (ECT)
Editor's note: For further studies. For ECT with REFER the transferee does not
know to who he sends the INVITE, and if the SUBSCRIBE is sent on another
dialog, the SUBSCRIBE may not reach the target AS.
### 4.6.15 Flexible Alerting (FA)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
### 4.6.16 Customized Alerting Tones (CAT)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
## 4.7 Void
## 4.8 Parameter values (timers)
### 4.8.1 Timers referring to the originating AS
CC-T1 Retention timer. This timer specifies the amount of time that the
network retains the communication information of the original communication
which was not established successfully. After being informed that CC is
possible the caller sends a CC invocation request before expiry of this timer.
The minimum value of this timer is 15 seconds.
CC-T2 CC request operation timer. Supervision of response to a CC activation
request sent from the originating AS to the terminating AS. CC-T2 will expire
if signalling is not possible, at signalling failures, or if the terminating
AS cannot respond. The minimum value of this timer is 10 seconds.
CC-T3 CC service duration timer. This timer specifies the maximum time the
service will remain activated for user A. The maximum value of this timer is
180 minutes.
NOTE: The value of the CC service duration timer can differ in the network
dependent on its usage for CCBS or CCNR.
CC-T4 CC recall timer. This timer specifies the maximum time the originating
AS will wait for a response from user A to a CC recall. The maximum value of
this timer is 20 seconds.
CCNR-T5 No-reply timer. This timer specifies the maximum time after which the
originating AS will provide the announcement that CCNR is possible, and inband
activation is possible. The maximum value of this timer is 20 seconds.
### 4.8.2 Timers referring to the terminating AS
CC-T7 CC service duration timer CC-T7 expiry will only be meaningful if the
expiry of CC-T3 has not been notified to the terminating AS. CC-T7 takes a
longer duration than CC-T3, i.e. CC-T7 expires at abnormal situations only.
The maximum value of this timer is 190 minutes. When CC-T7 expires, the CC
request will be cancelled at the terminating AS as well as at the originating
AS.
NOTE: The value of the CC service duration timer can differ in the network
dependent on its usage for CCBS or CCNR.
CC-T8 Destination B idle guard timer. This timer specifies the amount of time
the terminating AS will delay after destination B has become free, before
initiating a CC recall towards the originating AS. The maximum value of this
timer is 10 seconds.
CC-T9 Recall timer. CC-T9 should expire at emergency only, i.e. the recall
should be cancelled by CC-T4 at the originating AS if recall is not responded
to. Duration of CC-T9 = 20 seconds + some seconds for CC call set-up. The
maximum value is 30 seconds.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Signalling flows
# A.1 CCBS activation and CCBS call
Figure A.1.1: CCBS activation and CCBS call
Figure A.1.1 shows a basic signalling flow for a CCBS activation and a CCBS
call.
**Call flows**
1 to 5: The communication is initiated by UE-A by sending an INVITE request.
The Request-URI will include the URI of UE-B. After IFC evaluation in the
S-CSCF the INVITE request is routed to the originating AS and after that to
the terminating AS and further on to UE-B.
Table A.1-1: SIP INVITE request (UE to P-CSCF)
> INVITE sip:user2_public2\@home2.net SIP/2.0
>
> Via: SIP/2.0/UDP
> [5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd]:1357;comp=sigcomp;branch=z9hG4bKnashds7
>
> Max-Forwards: 70
>
> Route: sip:pcscf1.home1.net:7531;lr;comp=sigcomp>,
> \
>
> Accept-Contact: *;+g.3gpp.icsi-ref=\"urn%3Aurn-7%3gpp-
> service.ims.icsi.mmtel\"
>
> Privacy: none
>
> From: \; tag=171828
>
> To: \
>
> Call-ID: cb03a0s09a2sdfglkj490333
>
> Cseq: 127 INVITE
>
> Supported: 100rel; precondition, gruu, 199
>
> Require: sec-agree
>
> Contact:
> \;+g.3gpp.icsi-
> ref=\"urn%3Aurn-7%3gpp-service.ims.icsi.mmtel\"
>
> Allow: INVITE, ACK, CANCEL, BYE, PRACK, UPDATE, INFO, REFER
>
> Accept: application/sdp,application/3gpp-ims+xml
>
> Content-Type: application/sdp
>
> Content-Length: (...)
>
> v=0
>
> o=- 2987933615 2987933615 IN IP6 5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd
>
> s=-
>
> c=IN IP6 5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd
>
> t=0 0
>
> m=video 3400 RTP/AVP 98 99
>
> b=AS:75
>
> a=curr:qos local none
>
> a=curr:qos remote none
>
> a=des:qos mandatory local sendrecv
>
> a=des:qos none remote sendrecv
>
> a=inactive
>
> a=rtpmap:98 H263
>
> a=fmtp:98 profile-level-id=0
>
> a=rtpmap:99:MPVMP4V-ES
>
> m=audio 3456 RTP/AVP 97 96
>
> b=AS:25.4
>
> a=curr:qos local none
>
> a=curr:qos remote none
>
> a=des:qos mandatory local sendrecv
>
> a=des:qos none remote sendrecv
>
> a=inactive
>
> a=rtpmap:97 AMR
>
> a=fmtp:97 mode-set=0,2,5,7; maxframes=2
>
> a=rtpmap:96 telephone-event
6: UE-B answers with a 486 (Busy Here) response. The 486 (Busy Here) response
is routed back to the terminating AS.
7 to 8: The terminating AS inserts a Call-Info header field in the 486 (Busy
Here) response according to the procedures described in RFC 6910 [5]. The
Call-Info header field will contain the URI of the terminating AS with an
\"m\" header field parameter set to \"BS\" (busy subscriber). It further
includes a \"purpose\" header field parameters set to \"call-completion\". The
486 (Busy Here) response is routed back to the originating AS.
Table A.1-2: 486 (Busy Here) response (Terminating AS to S-CSCF))
> SIP/2.0 486 Busy Here
>
> Via: SIP/2.0/UDP tas.home2.net;branch= z9hG4bK332b23.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> scscf2.home2.net;branch=z9hG4bK344a65.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> icscf2_s.home2.net;branch=z9hG4bKj5hgrt2o, SIP/2.0/UDP
> scscf1.home1.net;branch=z9hG4bKehuehjgt, SIP/2.0/UDP
> oas.home1.net;branch=z9hG4bKnashds7, SIP/2.0/UDP
> pcscf1.visited1.net;branch=z9hG4bK240f34.1,
> [5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd]:1357;comp=sigcomp;branch=z9hG4bKnashds7
>
> From: \;tag=171828
>
> To: \;tag=314159
>
> Call-ID: cb03a0s09a2sdfglkj490333
>
> CSeq: 127 INVITE
>
> Retry-After: 3600
>
> Contact:
> \;+g.3gpp.icsi-
> ref=\"urn%3Aurn-7%3gpp-service.ims.icsi.mmtel\"
>
> Content-Length: 0
>
> Call-Info:\;purpose=call-completion;m=BS
9 to 10: The originating AS sends back a 183 (Session Progress) response to
UE-A and initiates IVR procedures. User A is informed that CCBS is possible.
User A activates CCBS.
11 to 12: The originating AS subscribes for the call-completion event package
according to the procedures described in RFC 6910 [5] at the terminating AS.
The originating AS generates a SUBSCRIBE request which Request-URI will
include the URI of the terminating AS. In order to mark the SUBSCRIBE request
as a request for CCBS, the originating AS adds the \"m\" SIP URI parameter
with the value \"BS\" to the Request-URI. The From header field will include
the caller URI. The To header field will include the callee URI.
Table A.1-3: SUBSCRIBE request (Originating AS to S-CSCF)
> SUBSCRIBE sip:tas.home2.net;m=BS SIP/2.0
>
> Via: SIP/2.0/UDP oas.home1.net;branch=z9hG4bKnashds7
>
> Max-Forwards: 70
>
> Route: \
>
> P-Asserted-Identity: \
>
> From: \;tag=31415
>
> To: \
>
> Call-ID: b89rjhnedlrfjflslj40a222
>
> Call-Info:\;purpose=call-completion;m=BS
>
> CSeq: 61 SUBSCRIBE
>
> Event: call-completion
>
> Expires: 2700
>
> Contact: \
>
> Content-Length: 0
13 to 14 The terminating AS accepts the subscription and starts busy state
supervision procedures on the callee.
Table A.1-4: 202 (Accepted) response (Terminating AS to S-CSCF)
> SIP/2.0 202 Accepted
>
> Via: SIP/2.0/UDP scscf2.home2.net;branch=z9hG4bK344a65.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> icscf2_s.home2.net;branch=z9hG4bKj5hgrt2o, SIP/2.0/UDP
> scscf1.home1.net;branch=z9hG4bKehuehjgt, SIP/2.0/UDP
> oas.home1.net;branch=z9hG4bKnashds7
>
> Record-Route:
>
> From:
>
> To: \;tag=151170
>
> Call-ID:
>
> CSeq:
>
> Event:
>
> Expires: 2700
>
> Contact: \
>
> Content-Length:
15 to 18: The terminating AS sends a notification to the originating AS,
according to the procedures described in RFC 6910 [5]. The Request-URI of the
NOTIFY request will include the URI of the originating AS. The body contains
parameters informing of the caller's call-completion state \'queued\' and the
availability of the call-completion service retention at the terminating AS.
After confirmation of the notification the originating AS starts announcements
procedures informing about the activation of CCBS.
Table A.1-5: NOTIFY request (Terminating AS to S-CSCF)
> NOTIFY sip:oas.home1.net SIP/2.0
>
> Via: SIP/2.0/UDP tas.home2.net;branch=z9hG4bK348923.1
>
> Max-Forwards: 70
>
> Route: \
>
> P-Asserted-Identity: \
>
> From: \;tag=151170
>
> To: \;tag=31415
>
> Call-ID: b89rjhnedlrfjflslj40a222
>
> CSeq: 42 NOTIFY
>
> Subscription-State: active ;expires=2699
>
> Event: call-completion
>
> Contact: \
>
> Content-Type: application/call-completion
>
> Content-Length: (...)
>
> cc-state: queued
>
> cc-service retention
19 to 20: The originating AS forwards the 486 (Busy Here) response to UE-A.
21 to 24: The terminating AS sends a NOTIFY request to the originating AS,
according to the procedures described in RFC 6910 [5]. The body contains a
parameter informing of the caller's call-completion state \'ready\' (for
recall). The originating AS confirms the notification.
Table A.1-6: NOTIFY request (Terminating AS to S-CSCF)
> NOTIFY sip:oas.home1.net SIP/2.0
>
> Via: SIP/2.0/UDP tas.home2.net;branch=z9hG4bK348923.1
>
> Max-Forwards: 70
>
> Route: \
>
> P-Asserted-Identity: \
>
> From: \;tag=151170
>
> To: \;tag=31415
>
> Call-ID: b89rjhnedlrfjflslj40a222
>
> CSeq: 47 NOTIFY
>
> Subscription-State: active ;expires=1800
>
> Event: call-completion
>
> Contact: \
>
> Content-Type: application/call-completion
>
> Content-Length: (...)
>
> cc-state: ready
>
> cc-service retention
25 to 28: The originating AS initiates the CCBS recall to UE A (by sending a
REFER request, the \"m\" SIP URI parameter set to \"BS\" will be included in
the Request-URI of the REFER request. UE-A confirms the REFER request.
Table A.1-7: REFER request (Originating AS to S-CSCF)
> REFER sip:user1_public1\@home1.net;m=BS SIP/2.0
>
> Via: SIP/2.0/UDP oas.home1.net;branch=z9hG4bK23273846
>
> Max-Forwards: 70
>
> Route: \
>
> P-Asserted-Identity: \
>
> From: \; tag=161828
>
> To: \
>
> Call-ID: cb03a0s09a2sdfglkj490333
>
> Cseq: 127 REFER
>
> Refer-To: \
>
> Referred-By: \
>
> Contact: \
>
> Content-Length: 0
29 to 30: UE-A starts the CCBS call by sending an INVITE request to UE-B.
31 to 33: In order to mark the INVITE request as a prioritized request for
call-completion, the originating AS adds the \"m\" SIP URI parameter with the
value \'BS\' to the Request-URI.
Table A.1-8: **SIP IN** VITE request (Originating AS to S-CSCF)
> INVITE sip:user2_public2\@home2.net;m=BS SIP/2.0
>
> Via: SIP/2.0/UDP
> [5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd]:1357;comp=sigcomp;branch=z9hG4bKnashds7
>
> Max-Forwards: 70
>
> Route: sip:pcscf1.home1.net:7531;lr;comp=sigcomp>,
> \
>
> Accept-Contact: *;+g.3gpp.icsi-ref=\"urn%3Aurn-7%3gpp-
> service.ims.icsi.mmtel\"
>
> Privacy: none
>
> From: \; tag=171829
>
> To: \
>
> Call-ID: cb03a0s09a2sdfglkj490444
>
> Call-Info:\;purpose=call-completion;m=BS
>
> Cseq: 154 INVITE
>
> Supported: 100rel; precondition, gruu, 199
>
> Require: sec-agree
>
> Contact:
> \;+g.3gpp.icsi-
> ref=\"urn%3Aurn-7%3gpp-service.ims.icsi.mmtel\"
>
> Allow: INVITE, ACK, CANCEL, BYE, PRACK, UPDATE
>
> Accept: application/sdp,application/3gpp-ims+xml
>
> Content-Type: application/sdp
>
> Content-Length: (...)
# A.2 CCBS suspend and resume procedures
Figure A.2.1: CCBS suspend and resume procedures
Figure A.2.1 shows a basic signalling flow for CCBS suspend and resume
procedures.
**Call flows**
1 to 4: UE-A is busy and the CCBS recall fails. The originating AS initiates
the suspension procedure. It generates a PUBLISH request according to the
procedures described in RFC 6910 [5]. The Request-URI of the PUBLISH request
includes the URI of the terminating AS. The From header field includes the URI
of UE-Aand the To header field includes the URI of UE-B. The body of the
PUBLISH request indicates the PIDF state \'closed\'.
Table A.2-1: PUBLISH request (Originating AS to S-CSCF)
> PUBLISH sip: sip:tas.home2.net \@home1.net;m=BS SIP/2.0
>
> Via: SIP/2.0/UDP oas.home1.net;branch=z9hG4bKnashds7
>
> Max-Forwards: 70
>
> Route: \
>
> P-Asserted-Identity: \
>
> From: \;tag=31415
>
> To: \; tag=151170
>
> Call-ID: b89rjhnedlrfjflslj40a222
>
> CSeq: 71 PUBLISH
>
> Event: presence
>
> Expires: 1800
>
> Content-Type: application/pidf+xml
>
> Content-Length: (...)
>
> \
>
> \
> xmlns:rpid=\"urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:pidf:rpid\"
>
> xmlns:dm=\"urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:pidf:data-model\"
>
> xmlns:pcp=\"urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:pidf:caps\"
>
> xmlns:c=\"urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:pidf:cipid\"
>
> entity=\"pres:user2_public1\@home2.net\">
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \closed\
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
5 to 8: The terminating AS suspends the queue entry and sends a NOTIFY request
to the originating AS, according to the procedures described in RFC 6910 [5].
The body contains a parameter informing of the caller's call-completion state
\'queued\'. The originating AS starts busy state supervision procedures on
UE-A.
Table A.2-2: NOTIFY request (Terminating AS to S-CSCF)
> NOTIFY sip:oas.home1.net SIP/2.0
>
> Via: SIP/2.0/UDP tas.home2.net;branch=z9hG4bK348923.1
>
> Max-Forwards: 70
>
> Route: \
>
> P-Asserted-Identity: \
>
> From: \;tag=151170
>
> To: \;tag=31415
>
> Call-ID: b89rjhnedlrfjflslj40a222
>
> CSeq: 72 NOTIFY
>
> Subscription-State: active ;expires=1795
>
> Event: call-completion
>
> Contact: \
>
> Content-Type: application/call-completion
>
> Content-Length: (...)
>
> cc-state: queued
>
> cc-service retention
9 to 12: UE-A becomes not busy. The originating AS initiates the resumption
procedure. It generates a PUBLISH request according to the procedures
described in RFC 6910 [5]. The Request-URI of the PUBLISH request includes the
URI of the terminating AS. The From header field includes the URI of UE-A and
the To header field includes the URI of UE-B. The body of the PUBLISH request
indicates the PIDF state \'open\'.
Table A.2-3: PUBLISH request (Originating AS to S-CSCF)
> PUBLISH sip: sip:tas.home2.net \@home1.net;m=BS SIP/2.0
>
> Via: SIP/2.0/UDP oas.home1.net;branch=z9hG4bKnashds7
>
> Max-Forwards: 70
>
> Route: \
>
> P-Asserted-Identity: \
>
> From: \;tag=31416
>
> To: \; tag=151170
>
> Call-ID: b89rjhnedlrfjflslj40a222
>
> CSeq: 85 PUBLISH
>
> Event: presence
>
> Expires: 1100
>
> Content-Type: application/pidf+xml
>
> Content-Length: (...)
>
> \
>
> \
> xmlns:rpid=\"urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:pidf:rpid\"
>
> xmlns:dm=\"urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:pidf:data-model\"
>
> xmlns:pcp=\"urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:pidf:caps\"
>
> xmlns:c=\"urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:pidf:cipid\"
>
> entity=\"pres:user2_public1\@home2.net\">
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \open\
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
13 to 16: The terminating AS resumes the queue entry and sends a NOTIFY
request to the originating AS, according to the procedures described in RFC
6910 [5]. The body contains a parameter informing of the caller's call-
completion state \'queued\'.
Table A.2-4: NOTIFY request (Terminating AS to S-CSCF)
> NOTIFY sip:oas.home1.net SIP/2.0
>
> Via: SIP/2.0/UDP tas.home2.net;branch=z9hG4bK348923.1
>
> Max-Forwards: 70
>
> Route: \
>
> P-Asserted-Identity: \
>
> From: \;tag=151170
>
> To: \;tag=31415
>
> Call-ID: b89rjhnedlrfjflslj40a222
>
> CSeq: 86 NOTIFY
>
> Subscription-State: active ;expires=1095
>
> Event: call-completion
>
> Contact: \
>
> Content-Type: application/call-completion
>
> Content-Length: (...)
>
> cc-state: queued
>
> cc-service retention
# A.3 CCNR activation
Figure A.3.1: CCNR activation
Figure A.3.1 shows a basic signalling flow for a CCNR activation.
**Call flows**
1 to 5: The communication is initiated by UE-A by sending an INVITE request.
The Request-URI will include the URI of UE-B. After IFC evaluation in the
S-CSCF the INVITE request is routed to the originating AS and after that to
the terminating AS and further on to UE-B.
Table A.3-1: **SIP IN** VITE request (UE to P-CSCF)
> INVITE sip:user2_public2\@home2.net SIP/2.0
>
> Via: SIP/2.0/UDP
> [5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd]:1357;comp=sigcomp;branch=z9hG4bKnashds7
>
> Max-Forwards: 70
>
> Route: sip:pcscf1.home1.net:7531;lr;comp=sigcomp>,
> \
>
> Accept-Contact: *;+g.3gpp.icsi-ref=\"urn%3Aurn-7%3gpp-
> service.ims.icsi.mmtel\"
>
> Privacy: none
>
> From: \; tag=171828
>
> To: \
>
> Call-ID: cb03a0s09a2sdfglkj490333
>
> Cseq: 127 INVITE
>
> Supported: 100rel; precondition, gruu, 199
>
> Require: sec-agree; replaces
>
> Contact:
> \;+g.3gpp.icsi-
> ref=\"urn%3Aurn-7%3gpp-service.ims.icsi.mmtel\"
>
> Allow: INVITE, ACK, CANCEL, BYE, PRACK, UPDATE
>
> Accept: application/sdp,application/3gpp-ims+xml
>
> Content-Type: application/sdp
>
> Content-Length: (...)
>
> v=0
>
> o=- 2987933615 2987933615 IN IP6 5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd
>
> s=-
>
> c=IN IP6 5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd
>
> t=0 0
>
> m=video 3400 RTP/AVP 98 99
>
> b=AS:75
>
> a=curr:qos local none
>
> a=curr:qos remote none
>
> a=des:qos mandatory local sendrecv
>
> a=des:qos none remote sendrecv
>
> a=inactive
>
> a=rtpmap:98 H263
>
> a=fmtp:98 profile-level-id=0
>
> a=rtpmap:99:MPVMP4V-ES
>
> m=audio 3456 RTP/AVP 97 96
>
> b=AS:25.4
>
> a=curr:qos local none
>
> a=curr:qos remote none
>
> a=des:qos mandatory local sendrecv
>
> a=des:qos none remote sendrecv
>
> a=inactive
>
> a=rtpmap:97 AMR
>
> a=fmtp:97 mode-set=0,2,5,7; maxframes=2
>
> a=rtpmap:96 telephone-event
6: UE-B answers with a 180 (Ringing) response. The 180 (Ringing) response is
routed back to the terminating AS.
7 to 8: The terminating AS inserts a Call-Info header field in the 180
(Ringing) response according to the procedures described in RFC 6910 [5]. The
Call-Info header field will contain the URI of the terminating AS with a \"m\"
header field parameter set to \"NR\" (no reply). It further includes a
\"purpose\" header field parameter set to \"call-completion\". The 180
(Ringing) response is routed back to the originating AS.
Table A.3-2: 180 Ringing (Terminating AS to S-CSCF))
> SIP/2.0 180 Ringing
>
> Via: SIP/2.0/UDP tas.home2.net;branch= z9hG4bK332b23.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> scscf2.home2.net;branch=z9hG4bK344a65.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> icscf2_s.home2.net;branch=z9hG4bKj5hgrt2o, SIP/2.0/UDP
> scscf1.home1.net;branch=z9hG4bKehuehjgt, SIP/2.0/UDP
> oas.home1.net;branch=z9hG4bKnashds7, SIP/2.0/UDP
> pcscf1.visited1.net;branch=z9hG4bK240f34.1,
> [5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd]:1357;comp=sigcomp;branch=z9hG4bKnashds7
>
> From: \;tag=171828
>
> To: \;tag=314159
>
> Call-ID: cb03a0s09a2sdfglkj490333
>
> CSeq: 127 INVITE
>
> Retry-After: 3600
>
> Contact:
> \;+g.3gpp.icsi-
> ref=\"urn%3Aurn-7%3gpp-service.ims.icsi.mmtel\"
>
> Content-Length: 0
>
> Call-Info:\;purpose=call-completion;m=NR
9 to 10: The originating AS removes the Call-Info header field, forwards the
180 (Ringing) response to UE-A and initiates IVR procedures. User A is
informed that CCNR is possible. User A activates CCNR.
11 to 12: The originating AS subscribes for the call-completion event package
according to the procedures described in RFC 6910 [5] at the terminating AS.
The originating AS generates a SUBSCRIBE request which Request-URI will
include the URI of the terminating AS. In order to mark the SUBSCRIBE request
as a request for CCNR, the originating AS adds the \"m\" SIP URI parameter
with the value \"NR\" to the Request-URI. The From header field will include
the caller URI. The To header field will include the URI of UE-B.
Table A.3-3: SUBSCRIBE request (Originating AS to S-CSCF)
> SUBSCRIBE sip:tas.home2.net;m=NR SIP/2.0
>
> Via: SIP/2.0/UDP oas.home1.net;branch=z9hG4bKnashds7
>
> Max-Forwards: 70
>
> Route: \
>
> P-Asserted-Identity: \
>
> From: \;tag=31415
>
> To: \
>
> Call-ID: b89rjhnedlrfjflslj40a222
>
> CSeq: 61 SUBSCRIBE
>
> Call-Info:\;purpose=call-completion;m=NR
>
> Event: call-completion
>
> Expires: 5400
>
> Contact: \
>
> Content-Length: 0
13 to 14 The terminating AS accepts the subscription and starts supervision
procedures on activity of the callee.
Table A.3-4: 202 (Accepted) response (Terminating AS to S-CSCF)
> SIP/2.0 202 Accepted
>
> Via: SIP/2.0/UDP scscf2.home2.net;branch=z9hG4bK344a65.1, SIP/2.0/UDP
> icscf2_s.home2.net;branch=z9hG4bKj5hgrt2o, SIP/2.0/UDP
> scscf1.home1.net;branch=z9hG4bKehuehjgt, SIP/2.0/UDP
> oas.home1.net;branch=z9hG4bKnashds7
>
> Record-Route:
>
> From:
>
> To: \;tag=151170
>
> Call-ID:
>
> CSeq:
>
> Event:
>
> Expires: 5400
>
> Contact: \
>
> Content-Length:
15 to 18: The terminating AS sends a notification to the originating AS,
according to the procedures described in RFC 6910 [5]. The Request-URI of the
NOTIFY request will include the URI of the originating AS. The body contains
parameters informing of the caller's call-completion state \'queued\' and the
availability of the call-completion service retention at the terminating AS.
After confirmation of the notification the originating AS starts announcements
procedures informing about the activation of CCNR.
Table A.3-5: NOTIFY request (Terminating AS to S-CSCF)
> NOTIFY sip:oas.home1.net SIP/2.0
>
> Via: SIP/2.0/UDP tas.home2.net;branch=z9hG4bK348923.1
>
> Max-Forwards: 70
>
> Route: \
>
> P-Asserted-Identity: \
>
> From: \;tag=151170
>
> To: \;tag=31415
>
> Call-ID: b89rjhnedlrfjflslj40a222
>
> CSeq: 42 NOTIFY
>
> Subscription-State: active ;expires=5399
>
> Event: call-completion
>
> Contact: \
>
> Content-Type: application/call-completion
>
> Content-Length: (...)
>
> cc-state: queued
>
> cc-service retention
19 to 28: UE-A initiates the termination of the session setup by sending a
CANCEL request to UE-B.
29 to 38: UE-B terminates the session setup by sending a 487 Request
terminated to UE-A.
# A.4 CCNR call
Figure A.4.1: CCNR call
Figure A.4.1 shows a basic signalling flow for a CCNR operation and a CCNR
call.
**Call flows**
1 to 4: The terminating AS sends a NOTIFY request to the originating AS,
according to the procedures described in RFC 6910 [5]. The body contains a
parameter informing of the caller's call-completion state 'ready' (for
recall). The originating AS confirms the notification.
Table A.4-1: NOTIFY request (Terminating AS to S-CSCF)
> NOTIFY sip:oas.home1.net SIP/2.0
>
> Via: SIP/2.0/UDP tas.home2.net;branch=z9hG4bK348923.1
>
> Max-Forwards: 70
>
> Route: \
>
> P-Asserted-Identity: \
>
> From: \;tag=151170
>
> To: \;tag=31415
>
> Call-ID: b89rjhnedlrfjflslj40a222
>
> CSeq: 47 NOTIFY
>
> Subscription-State: active ;expires=1800
>
> Event: call-completion
>
> Contact: \
>
> Content-Type: application/call-completion
>
> Content-Length: (...)
>
> cc-state: ready
>
> cc-service retention
5 to 8: The originating AS initiates the CCNR recall to UE A by sending a
REFER request, the \"m\" SIP URI parameter set to \"NR\" will be included in
the Request-URI of the REFER request. UE-A confirms the REFER request.
Table A.4-2: REFER request (Originating AS to S-CSCF)
> REFER sip:user1_public1\@home1.net;m=NR SIP/2.0
>
> Via: SIP/2.0/UDP oas.home1.net;branch=z9hG4bK23273846
>
> Max-Forwards: 70
>
> Route: \
>
> P-Asserted-Identity: \
>
> From: \; tag=161828
>
> To: \
>
> Call-ID: cb03a0s09a2sdfglkj490333
>
> Cseq: 127 REFER
>
> Refer-To: \
>
> Referred-By: \
>
> Contact: \
>
> Content-Length: 0
9 to 10: UE-A starts the CCNR call by sending an INVITE request to UE-B.
11 to 13: In order to mark the INVITE request as a prioritized request for
call-completion, the originating AS adds the \"m\" SIP URI parameter with the
value \"NR\" to the Request-URI, and forwards the INVITE request to UE-B.
Table A.4-3: **SIP IN** VITE request (Originating AS to S-CSCF)
> INVITE sip:user2_public2\@home2.net;m=NR SIP/2.0
>
> Via: SIP/2.0/UDP
> [5555::aaa:bbb:ccc:ddd]:1357;comp=sigcomp;branch=z9hG4bKnashds7
>
> Max-Forwards: 70
>
> Route: sip:pcscf1.home1.net:7531;lr;comp=sigcomp>,
> \
>
> Accept-Contact: *;+g.3gpp.icsi-ref=\"urn%3Aurn-7%3gpp-
> service.ims.icsi.mmtel\"
>
> Privacy: none
>
> From: \; tag=171829
>
> To: \
>
> Call-ID: cb03a0s09a2sdfglkj490444
>
> Cseq: 154 INVITE
>
> Supported: 100rel; precondition, gruu, 199
>
> Require: sec-agree
>
> Contact:
> \;+g.3gpp.icsi-
> ref=\"urn%3Aurn-7%3gpp-service.ims.icsi.mmtel\"
>
> Allow: INVITE, ACK, CANCEL, BYE, PRACK, UPDATE
>
> Accept: application/sdp,application/3gpp-ims+xml
>
> Call-Info:\;purpose=call-completion;m=BS
>
> Content-Type: application/sdp
>
> Content-Length: (...)
###### ## Annex B (informative): Example of filter criteria
# B.0 General
This annex provides an example of a filter criterion that triggers SIP
requests that are subject to initial filter criteria evaluation.
# B.1 Originating
An example of an IFC when the CCBS or CCNR services are active at the
originating S-CSCF is:
\- Method: INVITE.
# B.2 Terminating side
Examples of the IFC at the terminating S-CSCF when the user is registered and
CCBS or CCNR or both are supported are:
\- Method: INVITE.
\- Method: SUBSCRIBE.
#