# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
This specification has been prepared by the 3GPP Task Force, and gives a
detailed specification of the 3GPP integrity algorithm GIA4.
This document is the first of three, which between them form the entire
specification of the 3GPP Integrity Algorithm GIA4:
\- **3GPP TS 55.241: \"Specification of the GIA4 encryption algorithms for
GPRS; GIA4 specification\".**
\- 3GPP TS 55.242: \"Specification of the GIA4 encryption algorithms for GPRS;
Implementers\' test data\".
\- 3GPP TS 55.243: \"Specification of the GIA4 encryption algorithms for GPRS;
Design conformance test data\".
# 1 Scope
The present document defines the technical details of the 3GPP integrity
algorithm GIA4.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 35.202: \"3G Security; Specification of the 3GPP Confidentiality
and Integrity Algorithms; Document 2: KASUMI Specification\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
(none)
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
= The assignment operator.
⊕ The bitwise exclusive-OR operation.
\|\| The concatenation of the two operands.
KASUMI[x]~k~ The output of the KASUMI algorithm [2] applied to input value
**x\** using the key k.
X[i] The i^th^ bit of the variable X. (X = X[0] \|\| X[1] \|\| X[2] \|\| .....
).
Y~i~ The i^th^ block of the variable Y. (Y = Y~0~ \|\| Y~1~ \|\| Y~2~ \|\|
.... ).
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
CBC-MAC Cipher Block Chaining Message Authentication Code
MAC Message Authentication Code
# 4 Introductory information
## 4.1 Introduction
The integrity algorithm GIA4 computes a 32-bit MAC (Message Authentication
Code) of a given input message using integrity key KI128. The approach adopted
uses KASUMI [2] in a form of CBC-MAC mode.
## 4.2 Notation
### 4.2.1 Radix
The prefix \"0x\" indicates hexadecimal numbers.
### 4.2.2 Conventions
The assignment operator \"=\", as used in several programming languages.
\ = \
means that \ assumes the value that \ had before
the assignment took place. For instance,
_x_ = _x_ \+ _y_ \+ 3
means
(new value of _x_) becomes (old value of _x_) + (old value of _y_) + 3.
### 4.2.3 Bit/byte ordering
All data variables in this specification are presented with the most
significant bit (or byte) on the left hand side and the least significant bit
(or byte) on the right hand side. Where a variable is broken down into a
number of sub-strings, the left most (most significant) sub-string is numbered
0, the next most significant is numbered 1 and so on through to the least
significant.
For example an n-bit MESSAGE is subdivided into 64-bit substrings MB~0~,
MB~1~... MB~i~ so if the message is:
0x0123456789ABCDEFFEDCBA987654321086545381AB594FC28786404C50A37...
then:
MB~0~ = 0x0123456789ABCDEF\ MB~1~ **=** 0xFEDCBA9876543210\ MB~2~ =
0x86545381AB594FC2\ MB~3~ = 0x8786404C50A37...
In binary this would be:
000000010010001101000101011001111000100110101011110011011110111111111110...
with MB~0~ = 0000000100100011010001010110011110001001101010111100110111101111\
MB~1~ **=** 1111111011011100101110101001100001110110010101000011001000010000\
MB~2~ = 1000011001010100010100111000000110101011010110010100111111000010\
MB~3~ = 1000011110000110010000000100110001010000101000110111...
## 4.3 List of variables
A, B are 64-bit registers that are used within the function to hold
intermediate values.
BLOCKS an integer variable indicating the number of successive applications of
KASUMI that need to be performed.
CONSTANT-F a 32-bit parameter which is constant for any given FRAMETYPE input.
DIRECTION a 1-bit input indicating the direction of transmission (uplink or
downlink).
FRAMETYPE an 8-bit input to the function indicating the type of frame to be
protected.
INPUT-I a 32-bit time variant input to the function.
KI128 the 128-bit integrity key.
KM a 128-bit constant that is used to modify a key.
M an input to the function which specifies the number of octets of message to
be MAC'd (1-65536).
MAC the 32-bit message authentication code (MAC) produced by the function.
MESSAGE the input octet stream of length M octets that is to be processed by
the function.
PS is the input padded string processed by the function.
# 5 Integrity algorithm GIA4
## 5.1 Introduction
The integrity algorithm GIA4 computes a Message Authentication Code (MAC) on
an input message under an integrity key IK128. The input message may be
between 1 and 65536 octets long.
For ease of implementation the algorithm is based on the same block cipher
(KASUMI) as is used by the confidentiality algorithm GEA4.
## 5.2 Inputs and outputs
The inputs to the algorithm are given in table 5.2.1, the output in table
5.2.2:
Table 5.2.1: _GIA4_ inputs
* * *
Parameter Size (bits) Comment INPUT-I 32 Frame dependent input
INPUT-I[0]...INPUT-I[31] M The length of MESSAGE in octets (1-65536) MESSAGE
8M Input octet stream MESSAGE{0}....MESSAGE{M-1} DIRECTION 1 Direction of
transmission DIRECTION[0] FRAMETYPE 8 Input value signifying the type of frame
to be protected KI128 128 Integrity key KI128[0]...KI128[127]
* * *
Table 5.2.2: _GIA4_ output
* * *
Parameter Size (bits) Comment MAC 32 Message authentication code
MAC[0]...MAC[31]
* * *
## 5.3 Components and architecture
This clause only available under licence.\ See http://www.etsi.org/about/what-
we-do/security-algorithms-and-codes/cellular-algorithm-licences.
## 5.4 Initialisation
This clause only available under licence.\ See http://www.etsi.org/about/what-
we-do/security-algorithms-and-codes/cellular-algorithm-licences.
## 5.5 Calculation
This clause only available under licence.\ See http://www.etsi.org/about/what-
we-do/security-algorithms-and-codes/cellular-algorithm-licences.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Components and architecture of the GIA4
algorithm
This clause only available under licence.\ See http://www.etsi.org/about/what-
we-do/security-algorithms-and-codes/cellular-algorithm-licences.
###### ## Annex B (informative): Simulation program listing
This clause only available under licence.\ See http://www.etsi.org/about/what-
we-do/security-algorithms-and-codes/cellular-algorithm-licences.
#