# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
This Technical Report describes the requirements (at a stage 0 level) of the
Fraud Information Gathering System (FIGS). FIGS provides the means for the
HPLMN to monitor a defined set of subscriber activities.
The aim is to enable service providers/network operators to use FIGS, and
service limitation controls such as Operator Determined Barring (ODB) and
Immediate Service Termination (IST), to limit their financial exposure to
large unpaid bills produced on subscriber accounts whilst the subscriber is
roaming outside their HPLMN. HPLMNs may also choose to collect information on
subscriber activities whilst their subscribers are within the HPLMN.
# 2 Normative references
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] GSM 01.04: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Abbreviations and acronyms\".
[2] GSM 02.33: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Lawful
Interception - stage 1\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of this report the following definitions apply:
**monitored activities** : subscriber activities that must be reported to the
HPLMN. These can be call related events (e.g. call-set-up, call termination)
or the invocation of call related and call independent supplementary services
(e.g. Call Hold, Call Waiting, Call Transfer, Call Forwarding, Unstructured
Supplementary Service Data).
**Home Network** : The home PLMN including non-GSM elements such as the Fraud
Detection System (FDS), customer service systems and billing.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
Abbreviations used in this report are listed in GSM 01.04.
For the purposes of this report the following abbreviations apply:
FIGS Fraud Information Gathering System
FDS Fraud Detection System
> This is not necessarily an automatic system but may be one that requires
> human intervention.
IST Immediate Service Termination
# 4 Fraud Information Gathering System overview
A number of proposals have been suggested for a Subscriber Supervisory System
(SSS) for which specifications were produced from May 1995 through to December
1996. Following joint review between SMG1 and SMG10, it was agreed that the
system should be re-specified to take account of network operator and
manufacturer needs for a Fraud Information Gathering System (FIGS). This
report provides an outline of such a system.
This report describes a method by which the Home Network can be provided with
data on the activities of its subscribers in a VPLMN. The Home Network can
make inferences about what the subscriber is doing and then take decisions on
what the subscriber should be allowed to do. This report does not address any
Fraud Detection systems or the intelligence that is used to advise the HPLMN
on the controls to be applied to a subscriber.
Figure 1 shows the flow of messages between the HPLMN and the VPLMN and
between the HPLMN and the FDS.
Figure 1: Flow of messages between the HPLMN and the VPLMN and between the
HPLMN and the FDS
# 5 The need for fraud detection systems and controls
## 5.1 Outline of present situation
Modern telecommunications networks, particularly mobile networks provide the
potential for fraudsters to make use of telecommunication services (Voice,
Data, Fax etc.) without the intent to pay. A number of different scenarios are
exploited and it is up to the network operator or service provider to detect
misuse where it occurs and to stop it at the earliest possible opportunity.
The scale of frauds can be many thousand of ECU per day on a single account
when International or Premium rate numbers are called. The most common types
of fraud that effect networks like GSM are related to the ability to sell
calls at below market price using stolen air-time/equipment where the user of
the equipment does not intend to pay the network operator or service provider.
Fraudulent subscribers often avoid payment by obtaining a handset and a
subscription to a GSM network by fraudulently giving details and
justifications to the network operators/service provider. If there are not
good controls within the network the subscriber can make a large volume of
calls to expensive destinations and accumulate a large bill.
Roaming, in co-ordination with advanced services such as call transfer and
multi‑party calls, complicates the issue further, requiring control of the
customer within the VPLMN. Many simultaneous calls can be set up and large
bills accumulated in a short time. At present no system exists within the GSM
network architecture for speedily transferring information on subscriber
activity from the VPLMN to the HPLMN.
In the future, SIMs may roam to non-GSM networks, further broadening the area
over which control is required. It is recognised that if FIGS is implemented
in non‑GSM networks that suitable inter-working units will be required to
translate commands and information.
## 5.2 General Principles
The PLMN network should be able to supply relevant information to the HPLMN
network so it can make a decision on whether to terminate a call or to change
the Operator Determined Barring (ODB) configuration for the specific
subscriber. This decision will be carried out by the HPLMN or service
provider. It is recognised that there is a limit to the type and volume of
information that can be transferred between the VPLMN and the HPLMN. Therefore
the requirement for the system is that distilled and standardised information
must be supplied between the VPLMN and HPLMN.
## 5.3 Capabilities
The following minimum capabilities are required. See figure 1.
**Within the Home Network:**
\- to mark a subscriber, defined by the IMSI or MSISDN, as being under FIGS
control (\"FIG Set\");
\- to receive from the VPLMN the data described below;
\- to remove the monitoring of a subscriber's activities (\"FIGS Unset\").
**Within the VPLMN:**
\- to transmit to the HPLMN information (FIGS Data):
\- at the start of a call;
\- at the end of a call;
\- during a call` for long calls or at the mid-call invocation of
supplementary services.
## 5.4 Service conditions
The following service conditions shall apply:
\- FIGS shall not modify the VPLMN\'s service;
\- FIGS should not alter any standard GSM functionality seen by the customer
or effect the service quality;
\- If the VPLMN network does not have the resources to support a FIGS Set
command it shall respond accordingly to the HPLMN.
## 5.5 Information Delivery Time
The need for up to date information is a critical part of any fraud
information system. The sooner data is transferred to the HPLMN, the sooner
fraud can be stopped. Therefore the proscribed information shall be
transferred from the VPLMN to the HPLMN within two minutes of the occurrence
of a FIGS-monitored event
The information shall preferably be transferred from the VPLMN to the HPLMN
over existing communication links (e.g. SS7 signalling links).
## 5.6 Subscriber Data Volumes
If the support of FIGS is causing overload within the VPLMN the FIGS system
shall not permit the marking of new subscribers. The VPLMN should therefore
handle up to a realistic limit any requests for marking of subscribers and be
able to support the associated data transfer. The setting of this limit is
outside the scope of this report.
Each VPLMN should limit the number of subscribers that each HPLMN may request
to be monitored using FIGS. Otherwise an HPLMN may take more than its "fair
share" of the FIGS processing capability of a VPLMN.
A mechanism shall be required whereby a VPLMN can charge an HPLMN for the bulk
data transfer made to that HPLMN.
# 6 Interface between HPLMN and FDS
The interface between the home network and the network's fraud detection and
processing systems shall be through a specific interface. This will be used to
present information to the fraud detection systems. The contents of messages
sent on this interface shall be specified but not the transfer mechanism. This
is in line with the approach used for the X-interface as specified in GSM
02.33.
The FDS will indicate to the HPLMN subscribers that should be subject to FIGS
monitoring. This information will update the HPLMN HLR.
Information, as listed in subclause 5.3 gathered from the VPLMN will be
transferred to the FDS system. Following processing of this information, the
FDS system can take no action or can advise the home network to do one of the
following:
a) update ODB categories;
b) instigate an Immediate Service Termination (IST);
c) mark the subscriber as not being required to be monitored under FIGS.
# 7 Security of the system
It is expected that there will be a need for authentication, data integrity
and confidentiality of the commands and data transferred between PLMNs.
These issues are for study under other work items within the SMG10 work
programme.
#