# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3GPP.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of this TS, it will be re-released by the TSG with an identifying
change of release date and an increase in version number as follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the specification.
# Introduction
The present document specifies test methods to allow the minimum performance
requirements for the acoustic characteristics of GSM and 3G terminals when
used to provide narrow-band or wideband telephony to be assessed.
The objective for narrow-band services is to reach a quality as close as
possible to ITU-T standards for PSTN circuits. However, due to technical and
economic factors, there cannot be full compliance with the general
characteristics of international telephone connections and circuits
recommended by the ITU-T.
The performance requirements are specified in TS 26.131; the test methods and
considerations are specified in the main body of the text.
# 1 Scope
The present document is applicable to any terminal capable of supporting
narrow-band or wideband telephony, either as a stand-alone service or as the
telephony component of a multimedia service. The present document specifies
test methods to allow the minimum performance requirements for the acoustic
characteristics of GSM and 3G terminals when used to provide narrow-band or
wideband telephony to be assessed.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 26.131: \"Terminal Acoustic Characteristics for Telephony;
Requirements\".
[2] ITU-T Recommendation B.12 (1988): \"Use of the decibel and the neper in
telecommunications\".
[3] ITU-T Recommendation G.103 (1998): \"Hypothetical reference connections\".
[4] ITU-T Recommendation G.111 (1993): \"Loudness ratings (LRs) in an
international connection\".
[5] ITU-T Recommendation G.121 (1993): \"Loudness ratings (LRs) of national
systems\".
[6] ITU-T Recommendation G.122 (1993): \"Influence of national systems on
stability, talker echo, and listener echo in international connections\".
[7] ITU-T Recommendation G.711 1988): \"Pulse code modulation (PCM) of voice
frequencies\".
[8] ITU-T Recommendation P.11 (1993): \"Effect of transmission impairments\".
[9] ITU-T Recommendation P.38 (1993): \"Transmission characteristics of
operator telephone systems (OTS)\".
[10] ITU-T Recommendation P.50 (1993): \"Artificial voices\".
[11] 3GPP TS 03.58 (Release 1997): \"Digital Cellular Telecommunications
System (Phase 2+) Characterization test methods and quality assessment for
hands-free mobiles\".
[12] IEC Publication 60651: "Sound Level Meters".
[13] ITU-T Recommendation P.51 (1996): \"Artificial mouth\".
[14] ITU-T Recommendation P.57 (2005): \"Artificial ears\".
[15] ITU-T Recommendation P.58 (1996): \"Head and torso simulator for
telephonometry.\"
[16] ITU-T Recommendation P.79 (2007) with Annex A: \"Calculation of loudness
ratings for telephone sets.\"
[17] 3GPP TS 06.77 R99 Minimum Performance Requirements for Noise Suppresser
Application to the AMR Speech Encoder.
[18] ITU-T Recommendation P.64: \"Determination of sensitivity/frequency
characteristics of local telephone systems\".
[19] ITU-T Recommendation P.581: \"Use of head and torso simulator (HATS) for
hands-free terminal testing\".
[20] ITU-T Recommendation P.340: \"Transmission characteristics of hands-free
telepones\".
[21] ITU-T Recommendation G.712: \"Transmission performance characteristics of
pulse code modulation channels\".
[22] ITU-T Recommendation P.501: \"Test signals for use in telephonometry\".
[23] ITU-T Recommendation O.41: \"Psophometer for use on telephone-type
circuits\".
[24] ITU-T Recommendation O.131: \"Psophometer for use on telephone-type
circuits\".
[25] ISO 9614: \"Acoustics - Determination of sound power levels of noise
sources using sound intensity\".
[26] ISO 3745: \"Acoustics - Determination of sound power levels of noise
sources - Precision methods for anechoic and semi-anechoic rooms\".
[27] ITU-T Recommendation O.132: \"Quantizing distortion measuring equipment
using a sinusoidal test signal\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document the term _narrow-band_ refers to
signals sampled at 8 kHz; _wideband_ refers to signals sampled at 16 kHz.
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms: dB, dBr, dBm0,
dBm0p and dBA, shall be interpreted as defined in ITU-T Recommendation B.12;
the term dBPa shall be interpreted as the sound pressure level relative to 1
pascal expressed in dB (0 dBPa is equivalent to 94 dB SPL).
A 3GPP softphone is a telephony system running on a general purpose computer
or PDA complying with the 3GPP terminal acoustic requirements (TS 26.131 and
26.132).
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
ADC Analogue to Digital Converter
CSS Composite Source Signal
DAC Digital to Analogue Converter
DTX Discontinuous Transmission
EEC Electrical Echo Control
EL Echo Loss
ERP Ear Reference Point
HATS Head and Torso Simulator
LSTR Listener Sidetone Rating
MRP Mouth Reference Point
OLR Overall Loudness Rating
PCM Pulse Code Modulation
PDA Personal Digital Assistant
POI Point of Interconnection (with PSTN)
PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network
RLR Receive Loudness Rating
SLR Send Loudness Rating
STMR Sidetone Masking Rating
SS System Simulator
TX Transmission
UE User Equipment
# 4 Interfaces
Access to terminals for acoustic testing is always made via the acoustic or
air interfaces. The Air Interface is specified by the GSM 05 or 45 and the 3G
25 series specifications and is required to achieve user equipment (UE)
transportability. Measurements can be made at this point using a system
simulator (SS) comprising the appropriate radio terminal equipment and speech
transcoder. The losses and gains introduced by the test speech transcoder will
need to be specified.
The POI with the public switched telephone network (PSTN) is considered to
have a relative level of 0 dBr, where signals will be represented by 8-bit
A-law, according to ITU-T Recommendation G.711. Measurements may be made at
this point using a standard send and receive side, as defined in ITU-T
Recommendations.
Five classes of acoustic interface are considered in this specification:
\- Handset UE including softphone UE used as a handset;
\- Headset UE including softphone UE used with headset;
\- Vehicle Mounted Hands-free UE including softphone UE mounted in a vehicule;
\- Desktop-mounted hands-free UE including softphone UE with external
loudspeaker(s) used in handsfree mode;
\- Handheld hands-free UE including softphone UE with internal loudspeaker(s)
used in handsfree mode.
(See definition of softphone in Clause 3.1)
NOTE: The test setup for a softphone UE shall be derived according to the
following rules:
\- When using a softphone UE as a handset: the test setup shall correspond to
handset mode.
\- When using a softphone UE with headset: the test setup shall correspond to
headset mode.
\- When a softphone UE is mounted in a vehicle: the test setup shall
correspond to Vehicle-mounted handsfree mode.
\- When using a softphone UE in handsfree mode:
\- When using internal loudspeaker(s), the test setup shall correspond to
handheld hands-free.
\- When using external loudspeaker(s), the test setup shall correspond to
desktop-mounted hands-free.
# 5 Test configurations
This section describes the test setups for terminal acoustic testing.
NOTE: If the terminal has several mechanical configurations (e.g. sliding
design open or closed), all manufacturer-defined configurations shall be
tested.
## 5.1 Setup for terminals
The general access to terminals is described in Figure 1. The preferred
acoustic access to GSM and 3G terminals is the most realistic simulation of
the "average" subscriber. This can be made by using HATS (head and torso
simulator), with appropriate ear simulation and appropriate mountings for
handset terminals in a realistic but reproducible, way to the HATS. Hands-free
terminals shall use the HATS or free field microphone techniques in a
realistic but reproducible way. Headset measurement methods are for further
study, awaiting input from ETSI TC-STQ.
HATS is described in ITU-T Recommendation P.58, appropriate ears are described
in ITU-T Recommendation P.57 (type 3.3 and type 3.4 ear), a proper positioning
of handsets in realistic conditions is found in ITU-T Recommendation P.64 ,
the test setups for various types of hands-free terminals can be found in
ITU-T Recommendation P.581.
The preferred way of testing is the connection of a terminal to the system
simulator with exact defined settings and access points. The test sequences
are fed in either, electrically using a reference codec or using the direct
signal processing approach or acoustically using ITU-T specified devices.
### 5.1.1 Setup for handset terminals
HATS Method : When using a handset telephone the handset is placed in the HATS
position as described in ITU-T Recommendation P.64 . The artificial mouth
shall conform with P.58 when HATS is used. The artificial ear shall conform
with Rec. P.57, type 3.3 or type 3.4 ears shall be used.
### 5.1.2 Setup for headset terminals
For further study.
NOTE 1: Includes DTX functionality.
NOTE 2: Connection to PSTN should include electrical echo control (EEC).
Figure 1: GSM/3G Interfaces for specification and testing of terminal narrow-
band acoustic characteristics
### 5.1.3 Setup for hands-free terminals
#### 5.1.3.1 Vehicle mounted hands-free
Vehicle mounted hands-free may be measured either in a vehicle or in an
anechoic room. For both of these two types of test environments, the setup
will depend on whether HATS or a discrete artificial mouth and discrete
microphone are used as the acoustic test equipment.
For in-vehicle measurements, if HATS test equipment is used, it should be
positioned in the car as per ITU-T Recommendation P. 581. If in-vehicle
measurements are made with a discrete microphone and discrete artificial
mouth, they should be positioned in the car as per Figure 2 and Figure 3,
respectively. The artificial mouth should comply with ITU-T Recommendation P.
51. The microphone should be a pressure-field microphone complying with IEC
60651. The microphone should preferably be fitted with a random incidence
corrector. A vehicle simulator may be used instead of an actual car. A
standard vehicle simulator is described in ETSI 0358 601 (TR101110) Digital
Cellular Telecommunications System (Phase 2+) Charactersation test methods and
quality assessment for hands-free mobiles.
The hands-free equipment is mounted in the car as specified by the
manufacturer.
{width="5.65in" height="2.329861111111111in"}
Figure 2: Test Configuration for Vehicle mounted hands-free, receiving
characteristics, with discrete measurement microphone
{width="5.65in" height="2.329861111111111in"}
Figure 3: Test Configuration for Vehicle mounted hands-free, sending
characteristics, with discrete P. 51 artificial mouth
Specification testing of vehicle-mounted hands-free equipment in an anechoic
room is for further study.
#### 5.1.3.2 Desktop mounted hands-free
For HATS test equipment, definition of hands-free terminals and setup for
desktop hands-free terminals can be found in ITU-T Recommendation P.581.
Measurement setup using a free field microphone and a discrete P.51 artificial
mouth for desktop hands-free terminals can be found in ITU-T Recommendation
P.340.
#### 5.1.3.3 Handheld hands-free
Either HATS or a free-field microphone with a discrete P. 51 artificial mouth
may be used to measure Hand-Held Hands-free type UE.
If HATS measurement equipment is used, it should be configured to the Hand-
Held Hands-free UE according to Figure 4. The HATS should be positioned so
that the HATS Reference Point is at a distance _d_ ~HF~ from the centre point
of the visual display of the Mobile Station. The distance _d_ ~HF~ is
specified by the manufacturer. A vertical angle θ~HF~ may be speicfied by the
manufacturer. In case it is not specified the distance _d_ ~HF~ shall be 42 cm
and θ~HF~ shall be 0.
NOTE: The nominal distance of 42 cm corresponds to lip plane-HATS reference
point distance (12 cm) with an additional 30 cm giving a realistic figure as a
reference usage of handheld terminals.
{width="3.5701388888888888in" height="2.873611111111111in"}
Figure 4: Configuration of Hand-Held Hands-free UE relative to the HATS
If a free-field microphone with a discrete P. 51 mouth are used, they should
be configured to the Hand-Held Hands-free UE as per Figure 5 for receiving
measurements and Figure 6 for sending measurements. The measurement instrument
should be located at a distance _d_ ~HF~ from the centre of the visual display
of the Mobile Station. The distance _d_ ~HF~ is specified by the manufacturer.
{width="4.276388888888889in" height="1.8701388888888888in"}
Figure 5: Configuration of Hand-Held Hands-free UE, free-field microphone for
receiving measurements
{width="2.8465277777777778in" height="1.7965277777777777in"}
Figure 6: Configuration of Hand-Held Hands-free UE, discrete P. 51 artificial
mouth for sending measurements
### 5.1.4 Position and calibration of HATS
The horizontal positioning of the HATS reference plane shall be guaranteed
within ± 2° for testing hands-free equipment.
The HATS shall be equipped with either Type 3.3 or 3.4 Artificial Ear. For
hands-free measurements the HATS shall always be equipped with two artificial
ears. The pinnas are specified in Recommendation P.57 for Types 3.3 and 3.4
artificial ears. The pinna shall be positioned on HATS according to ITU-T
Recommendation P.58 .
The exact calibration and equalization procedures as well as the combination
of the two ear signals for the purpose of measurements can be found in ITU-T
Recommendation P.581. For Handheld hands-free UE, the set-up corresponding to
\'portable hands-free\' in P. 581 should be used.
## 5.2 Setup of the electrical interfaces
### 5.2.1 Codec approach and specification
**Codec approach:** In this approach, a codec is used to convert the companded
digital input/output bit-stream of the system simulator to the equivalent
analogue values. With this approach a system simulator, simulating the radio
link to the terminal under controlled and error free conditions is required.
The system simulator has to be equipped with a high-quality codec whose
characteristics are as close as possible to ideal.
Definition of 0 dBr point:
D/A converter - a Digital Test Sequence (DTS) representing the codec
equivalent of an analogue sinusoidal signal whose rms value is 3,14 dB below
the maximum full‑load capacity of the codec shall generate 0 dBm across a 600
ohm load;
A/D converter - a 0 dBm signal generated from a 600 ohm source shall give the
digital test sequence (DTS) representing the codec equivalent of an analogue
sinusoidal signal whose RMS value is 3,14 dB below the maximum full‑load
capacity of the codec.
**Narrow band telephony testing**
For testing a GSM or 3G terminal supporting narrow-band telephony, the system
simulator shall use the AMR speech codec as defined in 3GPP TS 26 series
specifications, at the source coding bit rate of 12,2kbit/s. The transcoding
from the output of the AMR speech coding in the system simulator to analogue
signals shall be carried out using an ITU-T G.711 codec performing to ITU-T
G.712 (4-wire analogue).
**Wide band telephony testing**
For testing a GSM or 3G terminal supporting wide-band telephony, the system
simulator shall use the AMR-WB speech codec as defined in 3GPP TS26 series
specifications, at the source coding bit rate of 12.65 kbit/s. The transcoding
from the output of the AMR-WB speech coding in the system simulator to
analogue signals shall be carried out using an ITU-T G.711 codec performing to
ITU-T G.712 (4-wire analogue).
### 5.2.2 Direct digital processing approach
In this approach, the companded digital input/output bit-stream of the
terminal connected through the radio link to the system simulator is operated
upon directly. For the purposes of GSM/3G acoustic testing, the direct digital
processing shall use the default speech codec, the AMR speech codec as defined
in 3GTS26 series specifications, at it's highest source coding bit rate of
12,2kbit/s.
**Narrow** **band telephony testing**
For testing a GSM or 3G terminal supporting narrow-band telephony, the system
simulator shall use the AMR speech codec as defined in 3GPP TS 26 series
specifications, at the source coding bit rate of 12,2kbit/s.
**Wide band telephony testing**
For testing a GSM or 3G terminal supporting wide-band telephony, the system
simulator shall use the AMR-WB speech codec as defined in 3GPP TS26 series
specifications, at the source coding bit rate of 12.65 kbit/s.
## 5.3 Accuracy of test equipment
Unless specified otherwise, the accuracy of measurements made by test
equipment shall be better than:
+-------------------------+-------------------------------+ | Item | Accuracy | +-------------------------+-------------------------------+ | Electrical Signal Power | ±0,2 dB for levels ≥ -50 dBm | | | | | Electrical Signal Power | ±0,4 dB for levels \ a) The test signal to be used for the measurements shall be the artificial
> voice according to ITU-Recommendation P. 50 or a speech like test signal as
> described in ITU-T Recommendation P.501. The type of test signal used shall
> be stated in the test report. The spectrum of acoustic signal produced by
> the artificial mouth is calibrated under free field conditions at the MRP.
> The test signal level shall be \--4,7 dBPa, measured at the MRP. The test
> signal level is averaged over the complete test signal sequence.
b) The handset terminal is setup as described in subclause 5. The handset is
mounted at the HATS position (see ITU-T Recommendation P.64). The application
force used to apply the handset against the artificial ear shall be within the
range specified in ITU-T Recommendation P.64.
> The sending sensitivity shall be calculated from each band of the 14
> frequencies given in table 1 of ITU‑T Recommendation P.79, bands 4 to 17\.
> For the calculation the averaged measured level at the electrical reference
> point for each frequency band is referred to the averaged test signal level
> measured in each frequency band at the MRP.
c) The sensitivity is expressed in terms of dBV/Pa and the SLR shall be
calculated according to ITU‑T Recommendation P.79, formula (A-23b), over bands
4 to 17, using m = 0,175 and the sending weighting factors from ITU‑T
Recommendation P.79, table 1.
#### 7.2.2.2 Receiving Loudness Rating (RLR)
a) The test signal to be used for the measurements shall be the artificial
voice according to ITU-Recommendation P. 50 or a speech like test signal as
described in ITU-T Recommendation P.501. The type of test signal used shall be
stated in the test report. The test signal level shall be --16 dBm0, measured
at the digital reference point or the equivalent analogue point. The test
signal level is averaged over the complete test signal sequence.
b) The handset terminal is setup as described in subclause 5. The handset is
mounted at the HATS position (see ITU-T Recommendation P.64). The application
force used to apply the handset against the artificial ear shall be within the
range specified in ITU-T Recommendation P.64. The receiving sensitivity shall
be calculated from each band of the 14 frequencies given in table 1 of ITU‑T
Recommendation P.79, bands 4 to 17\. For the calculation, the averaged
measured level at each frequency band is referred to the averaged test signal
level measured in each frequency band.
c) The sensitivity is expressed in terms of dBPa/V and the RLR shall be
calculated according to ITU‑T Recommendation P.79 [16], formula (A-23c), over
bands 4 to 17, using m = 0,175 and the receiving weighting factors from table
1 of ITU‑T Recommendation P.79 [16].
d) No leakage correction shall be applied.
### 7.2.3 Connections with Vehicle Mounted & Desk-Top hands-free UE
Vehicle mounted hands-free should be tested in the vehicle (for the totally
integrated vehicle hands-free systems) or in a vehicle simulator, ref ETSI
0358 601 (TR101110) Digital Cellular Telecommunications System (Phase 2+)
Characterization test methods and quality assessment for hands-free mobiles.
Free Field measurements for vehicle mounted hands-free are for further study.
#### 7.2.3.1 Sending Loudness Rating (SLR)
> a) The test signal to be used for the measurements shall be the artificial
> voice according to ITU-Recommendation P. 50 or a speech like test signal as
> described in ITU-T Recommendation P.501. The type of test signal used shall
> be stated in the test report. The spectrum of acoustic signal produced by
> the artificial mouth is calibrated under free field conditions at the MRP.
> The test signal level shall be \--4,7 dBPa, measured at the MRP. The test
> signal level is averaged over the complete test signal sequence. The
> broadband signal level then is adjusted to --28,7 dBPa at the HFRP or the
> HATSHFRP (as defined in P.581) and the spectrum is not altered.
>
> The spectrum at the MRP and the actual level at the MRP (measured in third
> octaves) is used as reference to determine the sending sensitivity SmJ.
b) The hands-free terminal is setup as described in subclause 5. The sending
sensitivity shall be calculated from each band of the 14 frequencies given in
table 1 of ITU‑T Recommendation P.79 , bands 4 to 17\. For the calculation the
averaged measured level at the electrical reference point for each frequency
band is referred to the averaged test signal level measured in each frequency
band at the MRP.
c) The sensitivity is expressed in terms of dBV/Pa and the SLR shall be
calculated according to ITU‑T Recommendation P.79, formula (A-23b), over bands
4 to 17, using m = 0,175 and the sending weighting factors from ITU‑T
Recommendation P.79, table 1.
#### 7.2.3.2 Receiving Loudness Rating (RLR)
a) The test signal to be used for the measurements shall be the artificial
voice according to ITU-Recommendation P. 50 or a speech like test signal as
described in ITU-T Recommendation P.501. The type of test signal used shall be
stated in the test report. The test signal level shall be --16 dBm0, measured
at the digital reference point or the equivalent analogue point. The test
signal level is averaged over the complete test signal sequence.
b) The hands-free terminal is setup as described in subclause 5. If HATS is
used then it is freefield equalized as described in ITU-T Recommendation
P.581. The equalized output signal of each artificial ear is power-averaged on
the total time of analysis; the "right " and "left" signals are voltage-summed
for each 1/3 octave band frequency band; these 1/3 octave band data are
considered as the input signal to be used for calculations or measurements.
The receiving sensitivity shall be calculated from each band of the 14
frequencies given in table 1 of ITU‑T Recommendation P.79 , bands 4 to 17.
> For the calculation the averaged measured level at each frequency band is
> referred to the averaged test signal level measured in each frequency band.
c) The sensitivity is expressed in terms of dBPa/V and the RLR shall be
calculated according to ITU‑T Recommendation P.79 [16], formula (A-23c), over
bands 4 to 17, using m = 0,175 and the receiving weighting factors from table
1 of ITU‑T Recommendation P.79.
d) No leakage correction shall be applied. The hands-free correction as
described in P.340 shall be applied. To compute Receiving loudness rating
(RLR) for hands-free terminal (see also ITU-T Recommendation P.340 ), when
using the combination of left and right ear signals from HATS the HFL~E~ has
to be 8 dB, instead of 14 dB. For further information see ITU-T Recommendation
P.581.
### 7.2.4 Connections with Handheld hands-free UE
#### 7.2.4.1 Sending Loudness Rating (SLR)
> a) The test signal to be used for the measurements shall be the artificial
> voice according to ITU-Recommendation P. 50 or a speech like test signal as
> described in ITU-T Recommendation P.501. The type of test signal used shall
> be stated in the test report. The spectrum of acoustic signal produced by
> the artificial mouth is calibrated under free field conditions at the MRP.
> The test signal level shall be \--4,7 dBPa, measured at the MRP. The test
> signal level is averaged over the complete test signal sequence. The
> broadband signal level then is adjusted to --28,7 dBPa at the HFRP or the
> HATSHFRP (as defined in P. 581) and the spectrum is not altered.
>
> The spectrum at the MRP and the actual level at the MRP (measured in third
> octaves) is used as reference to determine the sending sensitivity SmJ.
b) The hands-free terminal is setup as described in subclause 5.1.3.3. The
sending sensitivity shall be calculated from each band of the 14 frequencies
given in table 1 of ITU‑T Recommendation P.79, bands 4 to 17\. For the
calculation the averaged measured level at the electrical reference point
foreach frequency band is referred to the averaged test signal level measured
in each frequency band at the MRP.
c) The sensitivity is expressed in terms of dBV/Pa and the SLR shall be
calculated according to ITU‑T Recommendation P.79, formula (A-23b), over bands
4 to 17, using m = 0,175 and the sending weighting factors from ITU‑T
Recommendation P.79, table 1.
#### 7.2.4.2 Receiving Loudness Rating (RLR)
a) The test signal to be used for the measurements shall be the artificial
voice according to ITU-Recommendation P. 50 or a speech like test signal as
described in ITU-T Recommendation P.501. The type of test signal used shall be
stated in the test report. The test signal level shall be --16 dBm0, measured
at the digital reference point or the equivalent analogue point. The test
signal level is averaged over the complete test signal sequence.
b) The hands-free terminal is setup as described in subclause 5.1.3.3. If HATS
is used then it is freefield equalized as described in ITU-T Recommendation
P.581. The equalized output signal of each artificial ear is power-averaged on
the total time of analysis; the "right " and "left" signals are voltage-summed
for each 1/3 octave band frequency band; these 1/3 octave band data are
considered as the input signal to be used for calculations or measurements.
The receiving sensitivity shall be calculated from each band of the 14
frequencies given in table 1 of ITU‑T Recommendation P.79 , bands 4 to 17.
> For the calculation the averaged measured level at each frequency band is
> referred to the averaged test signal level measured in each frequency band.
c) The sensitivity is expressed in terms of dBPa/V and the RLR shall be
calculated according to ITU‑T Recommendation P.79 [16], formula (A-23c), over
bands 4 to 17, using m = 0,175 and the receiving weighting factors from table
1 of ITU‑T Recommendation P.79.
d) No leakage correction shall be applied. The hands-free correction as
described in P.340 shall be applied. To compute the Receiving loudness rating
(RLR) for hands-free terminals (see also ITU-T Recommendation P.340 ) when
using the combination of left and right ear signals from HATS the HFL~E~ has
to be 8 dB, instead of 14 dB. For further information see ITU-T Recommendation
P.581.
### 7.2.5 Connections with headset UE
For Further study
## 7.3 Idle channel noise (handset and headset UE)
### 7.3.1 Sending
The terminal should be configured to the test equipment as described in
subclause 5.1.
The environment shall comply with the conditions described in subclause 6.1
for idle channel noise measurement.
For testing narrow-band functionality, the Psophometric noise level at the
output of the SS is measured. The psophometric filter is described in ITU-T
Recommendation O.41.
For testing wideband functionality, the A-weighted noise level at the output
of the SS is measured. The A-weighting filter is described in IEC 60651.
A test signal may have to be intermittently applied to prevent 'silent mode'
operation of the MS. This is for further study.
### 7.3.2 Receiving
The terminal should be configured to the test equipment as described in
subclause 5.1.
The environment shall comply with the conditions described in subclause 6.1.
A test signal may have to be intermittently applied to prevent 'silent mode'
operation of the MS. This is for further study.
For testing narrow-band or wideband functionality, the A-weighted level of the
noise shall be measured at the ERP. The A-weighting filter is descried IEC
60651 [12].
## 7.4 Sensitivity/frequency characteristics
### 7.4.1 Handset UE sending
> a) The test signal to be used for the measurements shall be the artificial
> voice according to ITU-Recommendation P. 50 or a speech like test signal as
> described in ITU-T Recommendation P.501. The type of test signal used shall
> be stated in the test report. The spectrum of acoustic signal produced by
> the artificial mouth is calibrated under free field conditions at the MRP.
> The test signal level shall be \--4,7 dBPa, measured at the MRP. The test
> signal level is averaged over the complete test signal sequence.
b) The handset terminal is setup as described in subclause 5. The handset is
mounted at the HATS position (see ITU-T Recommendation P.64). The application
force used to apply the handset against the artificial ear shall be within the
range specified in ITU-T Recommendation P.64.
> Measurements shall be made at one twelfth-octave intervals as given by the
> R.40 series of preferred numbers in ISO 3 [17] for frequencies from 100 Hz
> to 4 kHz inclusive. For the calculation the averaged measured level at the
> electrical reference point for each frequency band is referred to the
> averaged test signal level measured in each frequency band at the MRP.
c) The sensitivity is expressed in terms of dBV/Pa.
### 7.4.2 Handset UE receiving
a) The test signal to be used for the measurements shall be the artificial
voice according to ITU-Recommendation P. 50 or a speech like test signal as
described in ITU-T Recommendation P.501. The type of test signal used shall be
stated in the test report. The test signal level shall be --16 dBm0, measured
at the digital reference point or the equivalent analogue point. The test
signal level is averaged over the complete test signal sequence.
b) The handset terminal is setup as described in subclause 5. The handset is
mounted at the HATS position (see ITU-T Recommendation P.64). The application
force used to apply the handset against the artificial ear shall be within the
range specified in ITU-T Recommendation P.64.
> Measurements shall be made at one twelfth-octave intervals as given by the
> R.40 series of preferred numbers in ISO 3 [17] for frequencies from 100 Hz
> to 4 kHz inclusive. For the calculation the averaged measured level at each
> frequency band is referred to the averaged test signal level measured in
> each frequency band.
c) The sensitivity is expressed in terms of dBPa/V, referred to the ERP.
Information about correction factors are available in ITU-T Recommendation
P.57.
### 7.4.3 Vehicle Mounted & Desk-Top hands-free UE sending
> a) The test signal to be used for the measurements shall be the artificial
> voice according to ITU-Recommendation P. 50 or a speech like test signal as
> described in ITU-T Recommendation P.501. The type of test signal used shall
> be stated in the test report. The spectrum of acoustic signal produced by
> the artificial mouth is calibrated under free field conditions at the MRP.
> The test signal level shall be \--4,7 dBPa, measured at the MRP. The test
> signal level is averaged over the complete test signal sequence. The
> broadband signal level then is adjusted to --28,7 dBPa at the HFRP or the
> HATSHFRP (as defined in P. 581) and the spectrum is not altered.
>
> The spectrum at the MRP and the actual level at the MRP (measured in third
> octaves) is used as reference to determine the sending sensitivity SmJ.
b) The hands-free terminal is setup as described in subclause 5. Measurements
shall be made at one third-octave intervals as given by the R.40 series of
preferred numbers in ISO 3 [17] for frequencies from 100 Hz to 4 kHz
inclusive. For the calculation the averaged measured level at each frequency
band is referred to the averaged test signal level measured in each frequency
band.
c) The sensitivity is expressed in terms of dBV/Pa.
### 7.4.4 Vehicle Mounted & Desk-Top hands-free UE receiving
a) The test signal to be used for the measurements shall be the artificial
voice according to ITU-Recommendation P. 50 or a speech like test signal as
described in ITU-T Recommendation P.501. The type of test signal used shall be
stated in the test report. The test signal level shall be --16 dBm0, measured
at the digital reference point or the equivalent analogue point. The test
signal level is averaged over the complete test signal sequence.
b) The hands-free terminal is setup as described in subclause 5. If the HATS
is used then it is freefield equalized as described in ITU-T Recommendation
P.581 . The equalized output signal of each artificial ear is power-averaged
on the total time of analysis; the "right " and "left" signals are voltage-
summed for each 1/3 octave band frequency band; these 1/3 octave band data are
considered as the input signal to be used for calculations or measurements.
Measurements shall be made at one third-octave intervals as given by the R.40
series of preferred numbers in ISO 3 [17] for frequencies from 100 Hz to 4 kHz
inclusive. For the calculation the averaged measured level at each frequency
band is referred to the averaged test signal level measured in each frequency
band.
c) The sensitivity is expressed in terms of dBPa/V.
### 7.4.5 Hand-Held hands-free UE sending
> a) The test signal to be used for the measurements shall be the artificial
> voice according to ITU-Recommendation P. 50 or a speech like test signal as
> described in ITU-T Recommendation P.501. The type of test signal used shall
> be stated in the test report. The spectrum of acoustic signal produced by
> the artificial mouth is calibrated under free field conditions at the MRP.
> The test signal level shall be \--4,7 dBPa, measured at the MRP. The test
> signal level is averaged over the complete test signal sequence. The
> broadband signal level then is adjusted to --28,7 dBPa at the HFRP or the
> HATSHFRP (as defined in P. 581) and the spectrum is not altered.
>
> The spectrum at the MRP and the actual level at the MRP (measured in third
> octaves) is used as reference to determine the sending sensitivity SmJ.
b) The hands-free terminal is setup as described in subclause 5.1.3.3.
Measurements shall be made at one third-octave intervals as given by the R.40
series of preferred numbers in ISO 3 [17] for frequencies from 100 Hz to 4 kHz
inclusive. For the calculation the averaged measured level at each frequency
band is referred to the averaged test signal level measured in each frequency
band.
c) The sensitivity is expressed in terms of dBV/Pa.
### 7.4.6 Hand-Held hands-free UE receiving
a) The test signal to be used for the measurements shall be the artificial
voice according to ITU-Recommendation P. 50 or a speech like test signal as
described in ITU-T Recommendation P.501. The type of test signal used shall be
stated in the test report. The test signal level shall be --16 dBm0, measured
at the digital reference point or the equivalent analogue point. The test
signal level is averaged over the complete test signal sequence.
b) The hands-free terminal is setup as described in subclause 5.1.3.3. If the
HATS is used then it is freefield equalized as described in ITU-T
Recommendation P.581 . The equalized output signal of each artificial ear is
power-averaged on the total time of analysis; the "right " and "left" signals
are voltage-summed for each 1/3 octave band frequency band; these 1/3 octave
band data are considered as the input signal to be used for calculations or
measurements. Measurements shall be made at one third-octave intervals as
given by the R.40 series of preferred numbers in ISO 3 [17] for frequencies
from 100 Hz to 4 kHz inclusive. For the calculation the averaged measured
level at each frequency band is referred to the averaged test signal level
measured in each frequency band.
c) The sensitivity is expressed in terms of dBPa/V.
## 7.5 Sidetone characteristics
### 7.5.1 Connections with Handset UE
The test signal to be used for the measurements shall be the artificial voice
according to ITU-Recommendation P. 50 or a speech like test signal as
described in ITU-T Recommendation P.501. The type of test signal used shall be
stated in the test report. The spectrum of the acoustic signal produced by the
artificial mouth is calibrated under free field conditions at the MRP. The
test signal level shall be --4,7 dBPa, measured at the MRP. The test signal
level is averaged over the complete test signal sequence.
#### 7.5.1.1 void
#### 7.5.1.2 Connections with Handset UE -- HATS method
The handset is mounted in the HATS position (see ITU-T Recommendation P.64)
and the application force shall be 13N on the artificial ear 3.3 or 3.4. The
handset terminal is setup as described in subclause 5.
Where a user operated volume control is provided, the measurements shall be
carried out at the nominal setting.of the volume control. In addition the
measurement is repeated at the maximum volume control setting.
Measurements shall be made at one twelfth-octave intervals as given by the
R.40 series of preferred numbers in ISO 3 for frequencies from 100 Hz to 8 kHz
inclusive. For the calculation the averaged measured level at each frequency
band (ITU-T Recommendation P.79, table 4, bands 4 to 17) is referred to the
averaged test signal level measured in each frequency band.
The Sidetone path loss (LmeST), as expressed in dB, and the SideTone Masking
Rate (STMR) (in dB) shall be calculated from the formula 5-1 of ITU-T
Recommendation P.79, using m = 0.225 and the weighting factors in table B.2,
unsealed condition, of ITU-T Recommendation P.79. No leakage correction (L~E~)
shall be applied.
In case the STMR is below the limit, the measurement shall be repeated with
the electrical sidetone path disabled and both sets of results shall be
reported. In case the STMR is below the limit also with the electrical
sidetone path disabled, the result shall not be regarded as a failure.
Disconnecting the call is normally disabling the electrical sidetone path;
otherwise the UE can be switched off to enter the wanted state.
### 7.5.2 Headset UE
The test signal to be used for the measurements shall be the artificial voice
according to ITU-Recommendation P. 50 or a speech like test signal as
described in ITU-T Recommendation P.501. The type of test signal used shall be
stated in the test report. The spectrum of the acoustic signal produced by the
artificial mouth is calibrated under free field conditions at the MRP. The
test signal level shall be --4,7 dBPa, measured at the MRP. The test signal
level is averaged over the complete test signal sequence.
The artificial ear type is for further study.
The sidetone path loss _LmeST_ as expressed in dB shall be calculated from
each band of the 14 frequencies given in table 1 of ITU-T Recommendation P.79,
bands 4 to 17. The STMR (in dB) shall be calculated from the formula B-4 of
ITU-T Recommendation P.79 [16], using m = 0.225 and the weighting factors in
Table B.2, unsealed condition, of ITU-T Recommendation P.79 [16]. No leakage
correction (L~E~) shall be applied.
In case the STMR is below the limit, the measurement shall be repeated with
the electrical sidetone path disabled and both sets of results shall be
reported. In case the STMR is below the limit also with the electrical
sidetone path disabled, the result shall not be regarded as a failure.
Disconnecting the call is normally disabling the electrical sidetone path;
otherwise the UE can be switched off to enter the wanted state.
### 7.5.3 Hands-free UE (all categories)
No requirement for other than echo control.
## 7.6 Stability loss
Where a user controlled volume control is provided it is set to
maximum.**Handset UE:** The handset is placed on a hard plane surface with the
transducers facing the surface.
**Headset UE:** for further study
**Hands-free UE (all categories):** no requirement other than echo loss.
A gain equivalent to the minimum stability margin is inserted in the loop
between the go and return paths of the reference speech coder in the SS and
any acoustic echo control is enabled.
A test signal according to ITU-T O.131 is injected into the loop at the
analogue or digital input of the reference speech codec of the SS and the
stability is measured. The test signal has a level of ‑10 dBm0 and a duration
of 1 s.
No continuous audible oscillation shall be detected after the test signal is
switched off.
## 7.7 Acoustic echo control
### 7.7.1 General
The echo loss (EL) presented by the GSM or 3G network at the POI should be at
least 46 dB during single talk. This value takes into account the fact that UE
is likely to be used in a wide range of noise environments.
### 7.7.2 Acoustic echo control in a Hands-free UE
TCLw:
The hands-free is setup in a room where it is intended to be used, eg. for an
office type hands-free UE a typical "office-type" room should be used; a
vehicle-mounted hands-free UE should be tested in a vehicle or vehicle
simulator, as specified by the UE manufacturer. [For reference on a suitable
vehicle simulator see ETSI 0358 601 (TR101110) Digital Cellular
Telecommunications System (Phase 2+) .] The ambient noise level shall be less
than -70 dBPa(A). The attenuation from reference point input to reference
point output shall be measured using a speech like test signal .
Before the actual test a training sequence consisting of 10 s artificial voice
male and 10 s artificial voice female according to ITU-T Recommendation P.50
is altered.
Either a logarithmically spaced multi-sine or PN-sequence test signal shall be
used.
When using a logarithmically spaced multi-sine test signal, it is defined as:
$s(t) = \sum_{i}^{}\left\lbrack \left\lbrack A +
\mu_{\text{AM}}\text{cos}\left( 2\text{πt} \ast f_{\text{AM}} \right)
\right\rbrack\text{*cos}\left( 2\text{πt} \ast f_{0i} \right) \right\rbrack$
with A = 0,5
f~AM~ = 4 Hz, μ~AM~ = 0,5
f~0\ i~= 250Hz * 2^(i/3)^ ;i=1..11
CF= 14dB ±1 dB (10 dB + 4,26 dB due to 100% AM modulation)
CF = Crest Factor = Peak to RMS ratio
The training sequence level shall be --16 dBm0 in order not to overload the
codec. The test signal level shall be ‑10 dBm0. The TCLw is calculated
according to ITU-T Recommendation G.122 [8], annex B, clause B.4 (trapezoidal
rule). For the calculation the averaged measured echo level at each frequency
band is referred to the averaged test signal level measured in each frequency
band. The length of the test signal shall be at least one second (1,0 s).
Note:
Full scale of coder input signal corresponds to +3,14 dBm0 with sinusoidal
signal, CF= 3dB. A test signal with a CF of maximum 15 dB can thus have a
level of up to --8,86 dBm0 without overloading the codec. In order to get best
dynamic range the signal amplitude should be as high as possible.
When using a PN-sequence, it should comply with ITU-T Recommendation P.501
with a length of 4096 points (for the 48 kHz sampling rate) and a crest factor
of 6 dB. The duration of the test signal is 250ms. The test signal level is
--3 dB~m0~. The low-crest factor is achieved by random-alternation of the
phase between -180° and 180°.
The training sequence level shall be --16 dBm0 in order not to overload the
codec. The TCLw is calculated according to ITU-T Recommendation G.122 [8],
annex B, clause B.4 (trapezoidal rule). For the calculation the averaged
measured echo level at each frequency band is referred to the averaged test
signal level measured in each frequency band.
Care should be taken that the terminal under test considers the test signal as
a speech-like signal.
### 7.7.3 Acoustic echo control in a handset UE
The handset is suspended in free air in such a way that the inherent
mechanical coupling of the handset is not effected. The testing shall be made
under real use environmental conditions; a typical "office-type" room should
be used. The ambient noise level shall be less than -64 dBPa(A). The
attenuation from reference point input to reference point output shall be
measured using the speech like test signal defined below.
Before the actual test a training sequence consisting of 10 s artificial voice
male and 10 s artificial voice female according to ITU-T Recommendation P.50
is altered.
Either a logarithmically spaced multi-sine or PN-sequency test signal shall be
used.
When using a logarithmically spaced multi-sine test signal, it is defined as:
$s(t) = \sum_{i}^{}\left\lbrack \left\lbrack A +
\mu_{\text{AM}}\text{cos}\left( 2\text{πt} \ast f_{\text{AM}} \right)
\right\rbrack\text{*cos}\left( 2\text{πt} \ast f_{0i} \right) \right\rbrack$
with A = 0,5
f~AM~ = 4 Hz, μ~AM~ = 0,5
f~0\ i~= 250Hz * 2^(i/3)^ ;i=1..11
CF= 14dB ±1 dB (10 dB + 4,26 dB due to 100% AM modulation)
CF = Crest Factor = Peak to RMS ratio
The training sequence level shall be --16 dBm0 in order not to overload the
codec. The test signal level shall be ‑10 dBm0. The TCLw is calculated
according to ITU-T Recommendation G.122 [8], annex B, clause B.4 (trapezoidal
rule). For the calculation the averaged measured echo level at each frequency
band is referred to the averaged test signal level measured in each frequency
band. The length of the test signal shall be at least one second (1,0 s).
Note:
Full scale of coder input signal corresponds to +3,14 dBm0 with sinusoidal
signal, CF= 3dB. A test signal with a CF of maximum 15 dB can thus have a
level of up to --8,86 dBm0 without overloading the codec. In order to get best
dynamic range the signal amplitude should be as high as possible.
When using a PN-sequence, it should comply with ITU-T Recommendation P.501
with a length of 4096 points (for the 48 kHz sampling rate) and a crest factor
of 6 dB. The duration of the test signal is 250ms. The test signal level is
--3 dB~m0~. The low-crest factor is achieved by random-alternation of the
phase between -180° and 180°.
The training sequence level shall be --16 dBm0 in order not to overload the
codec. The TCLw is calculated according to ITU-T Recommendation G.122 [8],
annex B, clause B.4 (trapezoidal rule). For the calculation the averaged
measured echo level at each frequency band is referred to the averaged test
signal level measured in each frequency band.
Care should be taken that the terminal under test considers the test signal as
a speech-like signal.
### 7.7.4 Acoustic echo control in a headset UE
The headset is suspended in free air in such a way that the inherent
mechanical coupling of the handset is not effected. The testing shall be made
under real use environmental conditions; a typical "office-type" room should
be used. The ambient noise level shall be less than -64 dBPa(A). The
attenuation from reference point input to reference point output shall be
measured using the speech like test signal defined below.
Before the actual test a training sequence consisting of 10 s artificial voice
male and 10 s artificial voice female according to ITU-T Recommendation P.50
is altered.
Either a logarithmically spaced multi-sine or PN-sequency test signal shall be
used.
When using a logarithmically spaced multi-sine test signal, it is defined as:
$s(t) = \sum_{i}^{}\left\lbrack \left\lbrack A +
\mu_{\text{AM}}\text{cos}\left( 2\text{πt} \ast f_{\text{AM}} \right)
\right\rbrack\text{*cos}\left( 2\text{πt} \ast f_{0i} \right) \right\rbrack$
with A = 0,5
f~AM~ = 4 Hz, μ~AM~ = 0,5
f~0\ i~= 250Hz * 2^(i/3)^ ;i=1..11
CF= 14dB ±1 dB (10 dB + 4,26 dB due to 100% AM modulation)
CF = Crest Factor = Peak to RMS ratio
The training sequence level shall be --16 dBm0 in order not to overload the
codec. The test signal level shall be ‑10 dBm0. The TCLw is calculated
according to ITU-T Recommendation G.122 [8], annex B, clause B.4 (trapezoidal
rule). For the calculation the averaged measured echo level at each frequency
band is referred to the averaged test signal level measured in each frequency
band. The length of the test signal shall be at least one second (1,0 s).
Note:
Full scale of coder input signal corresponds to +3,14 dBm0 with sinusoidal
signal, CF= 3dB. A test signal with a CF of maximum 15 dB can thus have a
level of up to --8,86 dBm0 without overloading the codec. In order to get best
dynamic range the signal amplitude should be as high as possible.
When using a PN-sequence, it should comply with ITU-T Recommendation P.501
with a length of 4096 points (for the 48 kHz sampling rate) and a crest factor
of 6 dB. The duration of the test signal is 250ms. The test signal level is
--3 dB~m0~. The low-crest factor is achieved by random-alternation of the
phase between -180° and 180°.
The training sequence level shall be --16 dBm0 in order not to overload the
codec. The TCLw is calculated according to ITU-T Recommendation G.122 [8],
annex B, clause B.4 (trapezoidal rule). For the calculation the averaged
measured echo level at each frequency band is referred to the averaged test
signal level measured in each frequency band.
Care should be taken that the terminal under test considers the test signal as
a speech-like signal.
## 7.8 Distortion
### 7.8.1 Sending Distortion
The handset, headset, or hands-free UE is setup as described in clause 5.
The signal used is a sine‑wave signal with a frequency of 1020 Hz. The sine-
wave signal level shall be calibrated to the following RMS levels at the MRP:
+5, 0, -4.7, -10, -15, -20 dBPa. The test signals have to be applied in this
sequence, i.e. from high levels down to low levels.
The duration of the sine-wave signal is recommended to be 360 ms. The
manufacturer shall be allowed to request tone lengths up to 1 second. The
measured part of the signal shall be 170.667 ms (equals 2*4096 samples in a 48
kHz sample rate test system). The times are selected to be relatively short in
order to reduce the risk that the test tone is treated as a stationary signal.
It is recommended that an optional activation signal be presented immediately
preceding each test signal to ensure that the UE is in a typical state during
measurement (see Note 1.). An appropriate speech or speech-like activation
signal shall be chosen from ITU-T Recommendations P.501 or P.50. A
recommendation for the use of an activation signal as part of the measurement
is defined in Figure 16. The RMS level of the active parts of this activation
signal is recommended to be equal to the subsequent test tone RMS level. In
practice, certain types of processing may be impacted due to the introduction
of the activation signal. The manufacturer shall be allowed to specify
disabling of the activation signal. It shall be reported whether an activation
signal was used or not, along with the characteristics of the activation
signal, as specified by the manufacturer.
The ratio of the signal to total distortion power of the signal output of the
SS shall be measured with the psophometric noise weighting (see ITU‑T
Recommendations G.712, O.41 and 0.132). The psophometric filter shall be
normalized (0 dB gain) at 800 Hz as specified in ITU-T O.41. The weighting
function shall be applied to the total distortion component only (not to the
signal component).
For measurement of the total distortion component an octave-wide band stop
filter shall be applied to the signal to suppress the sine-wave signal and
associated coding artefacts. The filter shall have a lower passband ending at
0.7071 * f~S~, and an upper passband starting at 1.4142 * f~S~ with f~S~ being
the frequency of the sine-wave signal. The passband ripple of the filter shall
be less than 0.2 dB. The attenuation of the band stop filter at the sine-wave
frequency shall be at least 60 dB. Alternatively the described characteristics
can be implemented by an appropriate weighting on the spectrum obtained from
an FFT ("Fast Fourier Transform"). The total distortion component is defined
as the measured signal within the frequency range 200-4000 Hz, after applying
psophometric and stop filters (hence no correction for the lost power due to
the stop filter, known as "bandwidth correction", shall be applied).
To increase the repeatability, considering the variability introduced by
speech coding and voice processing, the test sequence (activation + test
signal) may be repeated n times. The thus obtained single signal-to-total-
distortion power ratios shall be averaged. The total result shall be
10*log~10~ of this average in dB.
{width="3.738888888888889in" height="1.9743055555555555in"}
Figure 16: Recommended activation sequence and test signal.
The activation signal consists of a P.501 "Bandlimited composite source signal
with speech-like power density spectrum" signal with 48.62 ms voiced part (1),
200 ms unvoiced part (2) and 101.38 ms pause (3), followed by the same signal
but polarity inverted (4, 5, 6), followed by the voiced part only (7). The
pure test tone is applied and after 50 ms settling time (8), the analysis is
made over the following 170.667 ms (9).
NOTE 1: Void.
NOTE 2: In order to ensure that the correct part of the signal is analyzed,
the total delay of the terminal and SS may have to be determined prior to the
measurement.
NOTE 3: For handsfree terminals tested in environments defined in clause
6.1.2, care should be taken that the reverberation in the test room, caused by
the activation signal, does not affect the test results to an unacceptable
degree, refer to clause 5.3.
### 7.8.2 Receiving
The handset, headset, or hands-free UE is setup as described in clause 5.
The signal used is a sine‑wave signal with frequency of 1020 Hz..
The signal shall be applied at the signal input of the SS at the following
levels: 0, -3, -10, -16, -20, -30, -40, -45 dBm0. The test signals have to be
applied in this sequence, i.e. from high levels down to low levels.
The duration of the sine-wave signal is recommended to be 360 ms. The
manufacturer shall be allowed to request tone lengths up to 1 second. The
measured part of the signal shall be 170.667 ms (equals 2*4096 samples in a 48
kHz sample rate test system). The times are selected to be relatively short in
order to reduce the risk that the test tone is treated as a stationary signal.
It is recommended that an optional activation signal be presented immediately
preceding each test signal to ensure that the UE is in a typical state during
measurement (see Note 1.). An appropriate speech or speech-like activation
signal shall be chosen from ITU-T Recommendations P.501 or P.50. A
recommendation for the use of an activation signal as part of the measurement
is defined in Figure 17. The RMS level of the active parts of this activation
signal is for low and medium test levels recommended to be equal to the
subsequent test tone RMS level. To avoid saturation of the SS speech encoder,
it is for high test levels recommended that the activation signal level is
adjusted so that its peak level equals the peak level of the test tone. In
practice, certain types of processing may be impacted due to the introduction
of the activation signal. The manufacturer shall be allowed to specify
disabling of the activation signal. It shall be reported whether an activation
signal was used or not, along with the characteristics of the activation
signal, as specified by the manufacturer.
The ratio of the signal‑to‑total distortion power shall be measured at the
applicable acoustic measurement point (ERP for handset mode, freefield for
handsfree modes) with the psophometric noise weighting (see ITU‑T
Recommendations G.712, O.41 and 0.132). The psophometric filter shall be
normalized (0 dB gain) at 800 Hz as specified in ITU-T O.41. The weighting
function shall be applied to the total distortion component only (not to the
signal component).
For measurement of the total distortion component an octave-wide band stop
filter shall be applied to the signal to suppress the sine-wave signal and
associated coding artefacts. The filter shall have a lower passband ending at
0.7071 * f~S~, and an upper passband starting at 1.4142 * f~S~ with f~S~ being
the frequency of the sine-wave signal. The passband ripple of the filter shall
be less than 0.2 dB. The attenuation of the band stop filter at the sine-wave
frequency shall be at least 60 dB. Alternatively the described characteristics
can be implemented by an appropriate weighting on the spectrum obtained from
an FFT ("Fast Fourier Transform"). The total distortion component is defined
as the measured signal within the frequency range 200-4000 Hz, after applying
psophometric and stop filters (hence no correction for the lost power due to
the stop filter, known as "bandwidth correction", shall be applied).
To increase the repeatability, considering the variability introduced by
speech coding and voice processing, the test sequence (activation + test
signal) may be repeated n times. The thus obtained single signal-to-total-
distortion power ratios shall be averaged. The total result shall be
10*log~10~ of this average in dB.
{width="3.738888888888889in" height="1.9743055555555555in"}
Figure 17: Recommended activation sequence and test signal.
The activation signal consists of a P.501 "Bandlimited composite source signal
with speech-like power density spectrum" signal with 48.62 ms voiced part (1),
200 ms unvoiced part (2) and 101.38 ms pause (3), followed by the same signal
but polarity inverted (4, 5, 6), followed by the voiced part only (7). The
pure test tone is applied and after 50 ms settling time (8), the analysis is
made over the following 170.667 ms (9).
NOTE 1: Void.
NOTE 2: In order to ensure that the correct part of the signal is analyzed,
the total delay of the terminal and SS may have to be determined prior to the
measurement.
NOTE 3: For handsfree terminals tested in environments defined in clause
6.1.2, care should be taken that the reverberation in the test room, caused by
the activation signal, does not affect the test results to an unacceptable
degree, refer to clause 5.3.
## 7.9 Ambient Noise Rejection
**Handset and Headset UE** :
NOTE: This section applies to terminals providing narrow- and wide-band
telephony. However, the procedure for measuring ambient noise rejection is
defined only over narrow-band frequency range. Thus the test method for
ambient noise rejection is the same for either narrow- or wide-band telephony.
a) A 1/2 inch pressure microphone is calibrated using a known sound source and
mounted at the MRP, without the HATS present. A frequency analyser is
calibrated to enable the sound pressure levels at the microphone to be
determined in 1/3rd Octave bands.
b) Flood the room in which the measurement is to be made with a band limited
(100 Hz to 8 kHz) pink noise to within ±3 dB. The level at MRP shall be
adjusted to 70 dB(A) (-24 dBPa(A)). The tolerance on this level is +/-1 dB.
The resulting sound spectrum is Prn dBPa, measured in 1/3rd Octave bands.
To ensure that the sound field is diffuse enough, the following apply:
The diffuse sound field is calibrated in the absence of any local obstacles.
The averaged field shall be uniform to within +/‑ 3 dB within a radius of 0,15
m of the MRP, when measured in one‑third octave bands from 100 Hz to 3,15 kHz.
NOTE 1: The pressure intensity index, as defined in ISO 9614, may prove to be
a suitable method for assessing the diffuse field.
NOTE 2: Where more than one loudspeaker is used to produce the desired sound
field, the loudspeakers must be fed with non‑coherent electrical signals to
eliminate standing waves and other interference effects.
c) Position the HATS test head in the correct relative position to the MRP and
mount the MS under test, according to clause 5.1.1. Recalibrate the 1/3rd
Octave frequency analyser using a known voltage source to facilitate the
analysis of the voltage Vrn, where V~rn~ is the voltage at the audio output of
the SS due to the noise spectrum input.
d) Set up a speech path between the MS and the System Simulator (SS).
e) Determine, as a function of frequency, using the frequency analyser, in
1/3rd Octave bands (index j), the electrical output V~jrn~, (expressed as dB
rel . 1V) at the audio output of the SS for the applied acoustic pressure
P~jrn~ (expressed as dB rel 1Pa) at the MRP. Since, the MS sending sensitivity
is not defined above 3,4 kHz the measurement shall be cut off at 3,4 kHz. For
the bands below 315 Hz, the noise level shall be referenced to the speech
level at 315 Hz to yield the DELSM.
The room noise sensitivity is expressed as:‑ Sm jrn= Vjrn (dBV) ‑ Pjrn (dBPa).
The MS ambient noise send sensitivity has now been determined.
f) The MS speech send sensitivity is now required. The required sensitivity is
defined as the electrical output from the MS, measured at the audio output of
the SS, as a function of the free field sound pressure at the MRP of the
artificial mouth.
The test signal to be used for the measurements shall be the artificial voice
according to ITU-Recommendation P.50 or a speech like test signal as described
in ITU-T Recommendation P.501. The type of test signal used shall be stated in
the test report. The 1/2 inch pressure microphone is calibrated using a known
sound source. The frequency analyser is calibrated to measure in 1/3rd Octave
bands. The spectrum of acoustic signal produced by the artificial mouth is
calibrated under free field conditions at the MRP. The test signal level shall
be --4,7 dBPa, measured at the MRP. The resulting sound spectrum is Po dBPa,
measured in 1/3rd Octave bands. The 1/3^rd^ Octave frequency analyser should
be re‑calibrated, using a known voltage source, to facilitate the analysis of
the voltage Vj.Where Vj is the voltage in each 1/3^rd^ octave band at the
audio output of the SS due to the test signal input. Set up a speech path
between the MS and the SS. Determine the function of frequency, using the
frequency analyser, and in 1/3rd Octave bands, the electrical output, V~j~,
(expressed as dB rel. 1V), at the audio output of the SS for the applied
acoustic pressure, P~j0~, (expressed as dB rel. 1Pa/V), at the MRP.
The speech sending sensitivity is expressed as:
Smjs (dB) = Vj (dBV) ‑ Pjo (dBPa) dBrel. 1V/Pa.
g) The difference of the room noise sensitivity and the speech sending
sensitivity DELSM (∆jSM) in each 1/3rd Octave band for the MS is determined
as:
Sm~jrn~ - Sm~js~ (dB) ( for j = 1 to 2, Smjs = Sm3s).
h) The Ambient noise rejection ANR is calculated as the single figure value
according to the following formula, the ANR shall be ≥ 0dB.
$\text{ANR} = - \frac{4}{5}\sum_{i = 1}^{\text{13}}\Delta_{\text{jSM}} \cdot
\text{10}^{- 0\text{.}\text{0175}W_{\text{jsi}}}$
j = The index of third octave bands centered at frequencies from 200 Hz to 3
150 Hz inclusive.
Wjsi = The sending weighting factors from ITU-T Recommendation P.79 [16],
table 1 for the jth 1/3rd Octave band centre frequency.
**Hands-free UE (all categories):**
No test method for hands-free operations.
# 8 Wideband telephony transmission performance test methods
## 8.1 Applicability
The test methods in this sub-clause shall apply when testing a UE which is
used to provide narrow-band or wideband telephony, either as a stand-alone
service, or as part of a multimedia service.
The application force used to apply the handset against the artificial ear
shall be 8 ± 2 N. For the headset case the application of the headset shall
comply with P.57.
## 8.2 Overall loss/loudness ratings
### 8.2.1 General
The SLR and RLR values for the GSM or 3G network apply up to the POI. However,
the main determining factors are the characteristics of the UE, including the
analogue to digital conversion (ADC) and digital to analogue conversion (DAC).
In practice, it is convenient to specify loudness ratings to the Air
Interface. For the normal case, where the GSM or 3G network introduces no
additional loss between the Air Interface and the POI, the loudness ratings to
the PSTN boundary (POI) will be the same as the loudness ratings measured at
the Air Interface.
### 8.2.2 Connections with handset UE
#### 8.2.2.1 Sending Loudness Rating (SLR)
a) The test signal to be used for the measurements shall be the artificial
voice according to ITU-Recommendation P. 50 or a speech like test signal as
described in ITU-T Recommendation P.501. The type of test signal used shall be
stated in the test report. The spectrum of acoustic signal produced by the
artificial mouth is calibrated under free field conditions at the MRP. The
test signal level shall be --4,7 dBPa, measured at the MRP. The test signal
level is averaged over the complete test signal sequence.
b) The handset terminal is setup as described in subclause 5. The handset is
mounted at the HATS according to ITU-T Recommendation P.64 [18]. The
application force used to apply the handset against the artificial ear shall
be within the range specified in ITU-T Recommendation P.64.
> The sending sensitivity shall be calculated from each band of the 20
> frequencies given in table G.1 of ITU‑T Recommendation P.79 Annex A, bands 1
> to 20. For the calculation the averaged measured level at the electrical
> reference point for each frequency band is referred to the averaged test
> signal level measured in each frequency band at the MRP.
c) The sensitivity is expressed in terms of dBV/Pa and the SLR shall be
calculated according to ITU‑T Recommendation P.79, formula (A-23b), over bands
1 to 20, using m = 0,175 and the sending weighting factors from ITU‑T
Recommendation P.79 Annex A, table A2.
#### 8.2.2.2 Receiving Loudness Rating (RLR)
a) The test signal to be used for the measurements shall be the artificial
voice according to ITU-Recommendation P. 50 or a speech like test signal as
described in ITU-T Recommendation P.501. The type of test signal used shall be
stated in the test report. The test signal level shall be --16 dBm0, measured
at the digital reference point or the equivalent analogue point. The test
signal level is averaged over the complete test signal sequence.
b) The handset terminal is setup as described in subclause 5. The handset is
mounted at the HATS according to ITU-T Recommendation P.64 [18]. The
application force used to apply the handset against the artificial ear shall
be within the range specified in ITU-T Recommendation P.64. The receiving
sensitivity shall be calculated from each band of the 20 frequencies given in
table A.2 of ITU‑T Recommendation P.79 Annex A, bands 1 to 20. For the
calculation, the averaged measured level at each frequency band is referred to
the averaged test signal level measured in each frequency band.
c) The sensitivity is expressed in terms of dBPa/V and the RLR shall be
calculated according to ITU‑T Recommendation P.79 [16], formula (A-23c), over
bands 1 to 20, using m = 0,175 and the receiving weighting factors from table
A.2 of ITU‑T Recommendation P.79 Annex A [16].
d) No leakage correction shall be applied.
### 8.2.3 Connections with Vehicle Mounted & Desktop Mounted hands-free UE
Vehicle mounted hands-free should be tested in the vehicle (for the totally
integrated vehicle hands-free systems) or in a vehicle simulator, ref ETSI
0358 601 (TR101110) Digital Cellular Telecommunications System (Phase 2+)
Characterization test methods and quality assessment for hands-free mobiles.
Free Field measurements for vehicle mounted hands-free are for further study.
#### 8.2.3.1 Sending Loudness Rating (SLR)
a) The test signal to be used for the measurements shall be the artificial
voice according to ITU-Recommendation P. 50 or a speech like test signal as
described in ITU-T Recommendation P.501. The type of test signal used shall be
stated in the test report. The spectrum of acoustic signal produced by the
artificial mouth is calibrated under free field conditions at the MRP. The
test signal level shall be --4,7 dBPa, measured at the MRP. The test signal
level is averaged over the complete test signal sequence. The broadband signal
level then is adjusted to \--28,7 dBPa at the HFRP or the HATSHFRP (as defined
in P.581) and the spectrum is not altered. The spectrum at the MRP and the
actual level at the MRP (measured in third octaves) is used as reference to
determine the sending sensitivity SmJ.
b) The hands-free terminal is setup as described in subclause 5. The sending
sensitivity shall be calculated from each band of the 20 frequencies given in
table A.2 of ITU‑T Recommendation P.79 Annex A , bands 1 to 20. For the
calculation the averaged measured level at the electrical reference point for
each frequency band is referred to the averaged test signal level measured in
each frequency band at the MRP.
c) The sensitivity is expressed in terms of dBV/Pa and the SLR shall be
calculated according to ITU‑T Recommendation P.79, formula (A-23b), over bands
1 to 20, using m = 0,175 and the sending weighting factors from ITU‑T
Recommendation P.79 Annex A, table A.2.
#### 8.2.3.2 Receiving Loudness Rating (RLR)
a) The test signal to be used for the measurements shall be the artificial
voice according to ITU-Recommendation P. 50 or a speech like test signal as
described in ITU-T Recommendation P.501. The type of test signal used shall be
stated in the test report. The test signal level shall be --16 dBm0, measured
at the digital reference point or the equivalent analogue point. The test
signal level is averaged over the complete test signal sequence.
b) The hands-free terminal is setup as described in subclause 5. If HATS is
used then it is freefield equalized as described in ITU-T Recommendation
P.581. The equalized output signal of each artificial ear is power-averaged on
the total time of analysis; the "right " and "left" signals are voltage-summed
for each 1/3 octave band frequency band; these 1/3 octave band data are
considered as the input signal to be used for calculations or measurements.
The receiving sensitivity shall be calculated from each band of the 20
frequencies given in table A.2 of ITU‑T Recommendation P.79 Annex A, bands 1
to 20.
> For the calculation the averaged measured level at each frequency band is
> referred to the averaged test signal level measured in each frequency band.
c) The sensitivity is expressed in terms of dBPa/V and the RLR shall be
calculated according to ITU‑T Recommendation P.79 [16], formula (A-23c), over
bands 1 to 20, using m = 0,175 and the receiving weighting factors from table
A.2 of ITU‑T Recommendation P.79 Annex A.
d) No leakage correction shall be applied. The hands-free correction as
described in P.340 shall be applied. To compute Receiving loudness rating
(RLR) for hands-free terminal (see also ITU-T Recommendation P.340 ), when
using the combination of left and right ear signals from HATS the HFL~E~ has
to be 8 dB, instead of 14 dB. For further information see ITU-T Recommendation
P.581.
### 8.2.4 Connections with Handheld hands-free UE
#### 8.2.4.1 Sending Loudness Rating (SLR)
a) The test signal to be used for the measurements shall be the artificial
voice according to ITU-Recommendation P. 50 or a speech like test signal as
described in ITU-T Recommendation P.501. The type of test signal used shall be
stated in the test report. The spectrum of acoustic signal produced by the
artificial mouth is calibrated under free field conditions at the MRP. The
test signal level shall be --4,7 dBPa, measured at the MRP. The test signal
level is averaged over the complete test signal sequence. The broadband signal
level then is adjusted to \--28,7 dBPa at the HFRP or the HATSHFRP (as defined
in P. 581) and the spectrum is not altered. The spectrum at the MRP and the
actual level at the MRP (measured in third octaves) is used as reference to
determine the sending sensitivity SmJ.
b) The hands-free terminal is setup as described in subclause 5.1.3.3. The
sending sensitivity shall be calculated from each band of the 20 frequencies
given in table A.2 of ITU‑T Recommendation P.79 Annex A, bands 1 to 20. For
the calculation the averaged measured level at the electrical reference point
foreach frequency band is referred to the averaged test signal level measured
in each frequency band at the MRP.
c) The sensitivity is expressed in terms of dBV/Pa and the SLR shall be
calculated according to ITU‑T Recommendation P.79, formula (A-23b), over bands
1 to 20, using m = 0,175 and the sending weighting factors from ITU‑T
Recommendation P.79 Annex A, table A.2.
#### 8.2.4.2 Receiving Loudness Rating (RLR)
a) The test signal to be used for the measurements shall be the artificial
voice according to ITU-Recommendation P. 50 or a speech like test signal as
described in ITU-T Recommendation P.501. The type of test signal used shall be
stated in the test report. The test signal level shall be --16 dBm0, measured
at the digital reference point or the equivalent analogue point. The test
signal level is averaged over the complete test signal sequence.
b) The hands-free terminal is setup as described in subclause 5.1.3.3. If HATS
is used then it is freefield equalized as described in ITU-T Recommendation
P.581. The equalized output signal of each artificial ear is power-averaged on
the total time of analysis; the "right " and "left" signals are voltage-summed
for each 1/3 octave band frequency band; these 1/3 octave band data are
considered as the input signal to be used for calculations or measurements.
The receiving sensitivity shall be calculated from each band of the 20
frequencies given in table A.2 of ITU‑T Recommendation P.79 Annex A, bands 1
to 20.
> For the calculation the averaged measured level at each frequency band is
> referred to the averaged test signal level measured in each frequency band.
c) The sensitivity is expressed in terms of dBPa/V and the RLR shall be
calculated according to ITU‑T Recommendation P.79 [16], formula (A-23c), over
bands 1 to 20, using m = 0,175 and the receiving weighting factors from table
A.2 of ITU‑T Recommendation P.79 Annex A.
d) No leakage correction shall be applied. The hands-free correction as
described in P.340 shall be applied. To compute the Receiving loudness rating
(RLR) for hands-free terminals (see also ITU-T Recommendation P.340 ) when
using the combination of left and right ear signals from HATS the HFL~E~ has
to be 8 dB, instead of 14 dB. For further information see ITU-T Recommendation
P.581.
### 8.2.5 Connections with headset UE
Same as for handset.
## 8.3 Idle channel noise (handset and headset UE)
### 8.3.1 Sending
The terminal should be configured to the test equipment as described in
subclause 5.1.
The environment shall comply with the conditions described in subclause 6.1
for idle channel noise measurement.
For testing narrow-band functionality, the Psophometric noise level at the
output of the SS is measured. The psophometric filter is described in ITU-T
Recommendation O.41.
For testing wideband functionality, the A-weighted noise level at the output
of the SS is measured. The A-weighting filter is described in IEC 60651.
A test signal may have to be intermittently applied to prevent 'silent mode'
operation of the MS. This is for further study.
### 8.3.2 Receiving
The terminal should be configured to the test equipment as described in
subclause 5.1.
The environment shall comply with the conditions described in subclause 6.1.
A test signal may have to be intermittently applied to prevent 'silent mode'
operation of the MS. This is for further study.
For testing narrow-band or wideband functionality, the A-weighted level of the
noise shall be measured at the ERP. The A-weighting filter is descried IEC
60651 [12].
## 8.4 Sensitivity/frequency characteristics
### 8.4.1 Handset and headset UE sending
The headset case is similar to the handset one, except for the application
force.
a) The test signal to be used for the measurements shall be the artificial
voice according to ITU-Recommendation P. 50 or a speech like test signal as
described in ITU-T Recommendation P.501. The type of test signal used shall be
stated in the test report. The spectrum of acoustic signal produced by the
artificial mouth is calibrated under free field conditions at the MRP. The
test signal level shall be --4,7 dBPa, measured at the MRP. The test signal
level is averaged over the complete test signal sequence.
b) The handset terminal is setup as described in subclause 5. The handset is
mounted at the HATS according to ITU-T Recommendation P.64. The application
force used to apply the handset against the artificial ear shall be within the
range as specified in clause 8.1.
> Measurements shall be made at one twelfth-octave intervals as given by the
> R.40 series of preferred numbers in ISO 3 [17] for frequencies from 100 Hz
> to 8 kHz inclusive. For the calculation the averaged measured level at the
> electrical reference point for each frequency band is referred to the
> averaged test signal level measured in each frequency band at the MRP.
c) The sensitivity is expressed in terms of dBV/Pa.
### 8.4.2 Handset and headset UE receiving
The headset case is similar to the handset one, except for the application
force.
a) The test signal to be used for the measurements shall be the artificial
voice according to ITU-Recommendation P. 50 or a speech like test signal as
described in ITU-T Recommendation P.501. The type of test signal used shall be
stated in the test report. The test signal level shall be --16 dBm0, measured
at the digital reference point or the equivalent analogue point. The test
signal level is averaged over the complete test signal sequence.
b) The handset terminal is setup as described in subclause 5. The handset is
mounted at the HATS according to ITU-T Recommendation P.64. The application
force used to apply the handset against the artificial ear shall be within the
range as specified in clause 8.1.
> Measurements shall be made at one twelfth-octave intervals as given by the
> R.40 series of preferred numbers in ISO 3 [17] for frequencies from 100 Hz
> to 8 kHz inclusive. For the calculation the averaged measured level at each
> frequency band is referred to the averaged test signal level measured in
> each frequency band.
c) The sensitivity is expressed in terms of dBPa/V, referred to the ERP.
Information about correction factors are available in ITU-T Recommendation
P.57.
### 8.4.3 Vehicle Mounted & Desktop hands-free UE sending
a) The test signal to be used for the measurements shall be the artificial
voice according to ITU-Recommendation P. 50 or a speech like test signal as
described in ITU-T Recommendation P.501. The type of test signal used shall be
stated in the test report. The spectrum of acoustic signal produced by the
artificial mouth is calibrated under free field conditions at the MRP. The
test signal level shall be --4,7 dBPa, measured at the MRP. The test signal
level is averaged over the complete test signal sequence. The broadband signal
level then is adjusted to \--28,7 dBPa at the HFRP or the HATSHFRP (as defined
in P. 581) and the spectrum is not altered. The spectrum at the MRP and the
actual level at the MRP (measured in third octaves) is used as reference to
determine the sending sensitivity SmJ.
b) The hands-free terminal is setup as described in subclause 5. Measurements
shall be made at one third-octave intervals as given by the R.40 series of
preferred numbers in ISO 3 [17] for frequencies from 100 Hz to 8 kHz
inclusive. For the calculation the averaged measured level at each frequency
band is referred to the averaged test signal level measured in each frequency
band.
c) The sensitivity is expressed in terms of dBV/Pa.
### 8.4.4 Vehicle Mounted & Desktop hands-free UE receiving
a) The test signal to be used for the measurements shall be the artificial
voice according to ITU-Recommendation P. 50 or a speech like test signal as
described in ITU-T Recommendation P.501. The type of test signal used shall be
stated in the test report. The test signal level shall be --16 dBm0, measured
at the digital reference point or the equivalent analogue point. The test
signal level is averaged over the complete test signal sequence.
b) The hands-free terminal is setup as described in subclause 5. If the HATS
is used then it is freefield equalized as described in ITU-T Recommendation
P.581 . The equalized output signal of each artificial ear is power-averaged
on the total time of analysis; the "right " and "left" signals are voltage-
summed for each 1/3 octave band frequency band; these 1/3 octave band data are
considered as the input signal to be used for calculations or measurements.
Measurements shall be made at one third-octave intervals as given by the R.40
series of preferred numbers in ISO 3 [17] for frequencies from 100 Hz to 8 kHz
inclusive. For the calculation the averaged measured level at each frequency
band is referred to the averaged test signal level measured in each frequency
band.
c) The sensitivity is expressed in terms of dBPa/V.
### 8.4.5 Hand-Held hands-free UE sending
a) The test signal to be used for the measurements shall be the artificial
voice according to ITU-Recommendation P. 50 or a speech like test signal as
described in ITU-T Recommendation P.501. The type of test signal used shall be
stated in the test report. The spectrum of acoustic signal produced by the
artificial mouth is calibrated under free field conditions at the MRP. The
test signal level shall be --4,7 dBPa, measured at the MRP. The test signal
level is averaged over the complete test signal sequence. The broadband signal
level is then adjusted to \--28.7 dBPa at the HFRP or the HATS HFRP (as
defined in ITU-T Recommendation P.581) and the spectrum is not altered. The
spectrum at the MRP and the actual level at the MRP (measured in third
octaves) is used as reference to determine the sending sensitivity SmJ.
b) The hands-free terminal is setup as described in subclause 5.1.3.3.
Measurements shall be made at one third-octave intervals as given by the R.40
series of preferred numbers in ISO 3 [17] for frequencies from 100 Hz to 8 kHz
inclusive. For the calculation the averaged measured level at each frequency
band is referred to the averaged test signal level measured in each frequency
band.
c) The sensitivity is expressed in terms of dBV/Pa.
### 8.4.6 Hand-Held hands-free UE receiving
a) The test signal to be used for the measurements shall be the artificial
voice according to ITU-Recommendation P. 50 or a speech like test signal as
described in ITU-T Recommendation P.501. The type of test signal used shall be
stated in the test report. The test signal level shall be --16 dBm0, measured
at the digital reference point or the equivalent analogue point. The test
signal level is averaged over the complete test signal sequence.
b) The hands-free terminal is setup as described in subclause 5.1.3.3. If the
HATS is used then it is freefield equalized as described in ITU-T
Recommendation P.581 . The equalized output signal of each artificial ear is
power-averaged on the total time of analysis; the "right " and "left" signals
are voltage-summed for each 1/3 octave band frequency band; these 1/3 octave
band data are considered as the input signal to be used for calculations or
measurements. Measurements shall be made at one third-octave intervals as
given by the R.40 series of preferred numbers in ISO 3 [17] for frequencies
from 100 Hz to 8 kHz inclusive. For the calculation the averaged measured
level at each frequency band is referred to the averaged test signal level
measured in each frequency band.
c) The sensitivity is expressed in terms of dBPa/V.
## 8.5 Sidetone characteristics
### 8.5.1 Connections with Handset UE
The test signal to be used for the measurements shall be the artificial voice
according to ITU-Recommendation P. 50 or a speech like test signal as
described in ITU-T Recommendation P.501. The type of test signal used shall be
stated in the test report. The spectrum of the acoustic signal shall be
produced by the HATS. The test signal level shall be -4,7 dBPa, measured at
the MRP. The test signal level is averaged over the complete test signal
sequence.
The handset is mounted in the HATS position (see ITU-T Recommendation P.64)
and the application force shall be 13N on the artificial ear 3.3 or 3.4. The
handset terminal is setup as described in subclause 5.
Where a user operated volume control is provided, the measurements shall be
carried out at the nominal setting.of the volume control. In addition the
measurement is repeated at the maximum volume control setting.
Measurements shall be made at one twelfth-octave intervals as given by the
R.40 series of preferred numbers in ISO 3 for frequencies from 100 Hz to 8 kHz
inclusive. For the calculation the averaged measured level at each frequency
band (ITU-T Recommendation P.79, table 4, bands 1 to 20) is referred to the
averaged test signal level measured in each frequency band.
The sidetone path loss (LmeST), as expressed in dB, and the SideTone Masking
Rate (STMR) (in dB) shall be calculated from the formula 5-1 of ITU-T
Recommendation P.79, using m = 0.225 and the weighting factors in table B2,
unsealed condition, of ITU-T Recommendation P.79. No leakage correction (L~E~)
shall be applied.
In case the STMR is below the limit, the measurement shall be repeated with
the electrical sidetone path disabled and both sets of results shall be
reported. In case the STMR is below the limit also with the electrical
sidetone path disabled, the result shall not be regarded as a failure.
Disconnecting the call is normally disabling the electrical sidetone path;
otherwise the UE can be switched off to enter the wanted state.
### 8.5.2 Headset UE
The test signal to be used for the measurements shall be the artificial voice
according to ITU-Recommendation P. 50 or a speech like test signal as
described in ITU-T Recommendation P.501. The type of test signal used shall be
stated in the test report. The spectrum of the acoustic signal produced by the
artificial mouth is calibrated under free field conditions at the MRP. The
test signal level shall be --4,7 dBPa, measured at the MRP. The test signal
level is averaged over the complete test signal sequence.
The artificial ear type is for further study.
The sidetone path loss _LmeST_ as expressed in dB shall be calculated from
each band of the 20 frequencies given in table G.1 of ITU-T Recommendation
P.79 Annex A, bands 1 to 20. The STMR (in dB) shall be calculated from the
formula B-4 of ITU-T Recommendation P.79 [16], using m = 0.225 and the
weighting factors in Table B.2, unsealed condition, of ITU-T Recommendation
P.79 [16]. No leakage correction (L~E~) shall be applied.
In case the STMR is below the limit, the measurement shall be repeated with
the electrical sidetone path disabled and both sets of results shall be
reported. In case the STMR is below the limit also with the electrical
sidetone path disabled, the result shall not be regarded as a failure.
Disconnecting the call is normally disabling the electrical sidetone path;
otherwise the UE can be switched off to enter the wanted state.
### 8.5.3 Hands-free UE (all categories)
No requirement for other than echo control.
### 8.5.4 Sidetone delay for handset or headset
The handset or the headset terminal is setup as described in clause 5.5.1. The
handset is mounted in the HATS position (see ITU-T Recommendation P.64 [18]).
The test signal is a rectangular impulse which is digitally generated with an
impulse width of 1/48000 second. This impulse is converted to an analog
voltage with a bandwidth limitation to 22 kHz. The impulse may be repeated
with sufficient time distance. To avoid adaptation of potential noise
reduction algorithms, the repetition should not be periodic but with randomly
varied time distance.
The peak voltage of the impulse at the artificial mouth corresponds to
approximately 10 Pa when calculated with the mouth sensitivity at 1 kHz.
However, the rectangular voltage impulse is applied to the artificial mouth
without equalization of the mouth response.
The signal from the artificial mouth is acquired as absolute peak over time
with an aperture of 0.21 ms (10/48000 seconds). The origin of the time axis is
set to the start of the impulse at the electric input of the artificial mouth.
A high pass filter may be applied to suppress low frequency noise. However,
such a high pass filter must be applied to the signal from the artificial ear
and to the trigger signal from the electric input to the artificial mouth at
the same time.
Several curves acquired in the way described above may be averaged in order to
reduce the influence of noise.
The following algorithm shall be used to obtain a value for the sidetone
delay:
a) The first relative maximum is searched in the first 2 ms, and the level and
time of this peak is noted.
b) Starting from the maximum investigated delay time (e.g. 200 ms or 500 ms)
going downwards to 8 ms, the first local maximum in the curve is searched
which has a level difference of more than 20 dB to the last preceding minimum.
This is to define a kind of minimum S/N for the found delayed component. If
such a maximum is found, the sidetone delay is defined as the time difference
between the time of the maximum found in b and the time of the maximum found
in a.
c) If no maximum is found in step b, the first 8 ms are searched for the last
occurring maximum which is higher in level as the one found in step a. If such
a maximum is found, the sidetone delay is defined as the time difference
between the time of the maximum found in c and the time of the maximum found
in a.
d) If no maximum is found neither in step b nor in step c, the sidetone delay
is defined to be \< 8 ms.
NOTE: In step b), if the signal to noise is enhanced by averaging, a lower
value than 20 dB may be allowe for the minimum difference between the searched
maximum peak level and the closest minimum preceding it on the time scale.
## 8.6 Stability loss
Where a user controlled volume control is provided it is set to maximum.
**Handset UE:** The handset is placed on a hard plane surface with the
transducers facing the surface.
**Headset UE:** for further study
**Hands-free UE (all categories):** no requirement other than echo loss.
A gain equivalent to the minimum stability margin is inserted in the loop
between the go and return paths of the reference speech coder in the SS and
any acoustic echo control is enabled.
A test signal according to ITU-T O.131 is injected into the loop at the
analogue or digital input of the reference speech codec of the SS and the
stability is measured. The test signal has a level of ‑10 dBm0 and a duration
of 1 s.
No continuous audible oscillation shall be detected after the test signal is
switched off.
## 8.7 Acoustic echo control
### 8.7.1 General
The echo loss (EL) presented by the GSM or 3G network at the POI should be at
least 46 dB during single talk. This value takes into account the fact that UE
is likely to be used in a wide range of noise environments.
### 8.7.2 Acoustic echo control in a hands-free UE
TCLw:
The hands-free is setup in a room where it is intended to be used, eg. for an
office type hands-free UE a typical "office-type" room should be used; a
vehicle-mounted hands-free UE should be tested in a vehicle or vehicle
simulator, as specified by the UE manufacturer. [For reference on a suitable
vehicle simulator see ETSI 0358 601 (TR101110) Digital Cellular
Telecommunications System (Phase 2+) .] The ambient noise level shall be less
than -70 dBPa(A). The attenuation from reference point input to reference
point output shall be measured using a speech like test signal .
Before the actual test a training sequence consisting of 10 s artificial voice
male and 10 s artificial voice female according to ITU-T Recommendation P.50
is altered.
Either a logarithmically spaced multi-sine or PN-sequence test signal shall be
used.
When using a logarithmically spaced multi-sine test signal, it is defined as:
$s(t) = \sum_{i}^{}\left\lbrack \left\lbrack A +
\mu_{\text{AM}}\text{cos}\left( 2\text{πt} \ast f_{\text{AM}} \right)
\right\rbrack\text{*cos}\left( 2\text{πt} \ast f_{0i} \right) \right\rbrack$
with A = 0,5
f~AM~ = 4 Hz, μ~AM~ = 0,5
f~0\ i~= 250Hz * 2^(i/3)^ ;i=1..11
CF= 14dB ±1 dB (10 dB + 4,26 dB due to 100% AM modulation)
CF = Crest Factor = Peak to RMS ratio
The training sequence level shall be --16 dBm0 in order not to overload the
codec. The test signal level shall be ‑10 dBm0. The TCLw is calculated
according to ITU-T Recommendation G.122 [8], annex B, clause B.4 (trapezoidal
rule). For the calculation the averaged measured echo level at each frequency
band is referred to the averaged test signal level measured in each frequency
band. The length of the test signal shall be at least one second (1,0 s).
Note:
Full scale of coder input signal corresponds to +3,14 dBm0 with sinusoidal
signal, CF= 3dB. A test signal with a CF of maximum 15 dB can thus have a
level of up to --8,86 dBm0 without overloading the codec. In order to get best
dynamic range the signal amplitude should be as high as possible.
When using a PN-sequence, it should comply with ITU-T Recommendation P.501
with a length of 4096 points (for the 48 kHz sampling rate) and a crest factor
of 6 dB. The duration of the test signal is 250ms. The test signal level is
--3 dB~m0~. The low-crest factor is achieved by random-alternation of the
phase between -180° and 180°.
The training sequence level shall be --16 dBm0 in order not to overload the
codec. The TCLw is calculated according to ITU-T Recommendation G.122 [8],
annex B, clause B.4 (trapezoidal rule). For the calculation the averaged
measured echo level at each frequency band is referred to the averaged test
signal level measured in each frequency band.
Care should be taken that the terminal under test considers the test signal as
a speech-like signal.
### 8.7.3 Acoustic echo control in a handset UE
The handset is suspended in free air in such a way that the inherent
mechanical coupling of the handset is not effected. The testing shall be made
under real use environmental conditions; a typical "office-type" room should
be used. The ambient noise level shall be less than -64 dBPa(A). The
attenuation from reference point input to reference point output shall be
measured using the speech like test signal defined below.
Before the actual test a training sequence consisting of 10 s artificial voice
male and 10 s artificial voice female according to ITU-T Recommendation P.50
is altered.
Either a logarithmically spaced multi-sine or PN-sequency test signal shall be
used.
When using a logarithmically spaced multi-sine test signal, it is defined as:
$s(t) = \sum_{i}^{}\left\lbrack \left\lbrack A +
\mu_{\text{AM}}\text{cos}\left( 2\text{πt} \ast f_{\text{AM}} \right)
\right\rbrack\text{*cos}\left( 2\text{πt} \ast f_{0i} \right) \right\rbrack$
with A = 0,5
f~AM~ = 4 Hz, μ~AM~ = 0,5
f~0\ i~= 250Hz * 2^(i/3)^ ;i=1..11
CF= 14dB ±1 dB (10 dB + 4,26 dB due to 100% AM modulation)
CF = Crest Factor = Peak to RMS ratio
The training sequence level shall be --16 dBm0 in order not to overload the
codec. The test signal level shall be ‑10 dBm0. The TCLw is calculated
according to ITU-T Recommendation G.122 [8], annex B, clause B.4 (trapezoidal
rule). For the calculation the averaged measured echo level at each frequency
band is referred to the averaged test signal level measured in each frequency
band. The length of the test signal shall be at least one second (1,0 s).
Note:
Full scale of coder input signal corresponds to +3,14 dBm0 with sinusoidal
signal, CF= 3dB. A test signal with a CF of maximum 15 dB can thus have a
level of up to --8,86 dBm0 without overloading the codec. In order to get best
dynamic range the signal amplitude should be as high as possible.
When using a PN-sequence, it should comply with ITU-T Recommendation P.501
with a length of 4096 points (for the 48 kHz sampling rate) and a crest factor
of 6 dB. The duration of the test signal is 250ms. The test signal level is
--3 dB~m0~. The low-crest factor is achieved by random-alternation of the
phase between -180° and 180°.
The training sequence level shall be --16 dBm0 in order not to overload the
codec. The TCLw is calculated according to ITU-T Recommendation G.122 [8],
annex B, clause B.4 (trapezoidal rule). For the calculation the averaged
measured echo level at each frequency band is referred to the averaged test
signal level measured in each frequency band.
Care should be taken that the terminal under test considers the test signal as
a speech-like signal.
### 8.7.4 Acoustic echo control in a headset UE
The headset is suspended in free air in such a way that the inherent
mechanical coupling of the handset is not effected. The testing shall be made
under real use environmental conditions; a typical "office-type" room should
be used. The ambient noise level shall be less than -64 dBPa(A). The
attenuation from reference point input to reference point output shall be
measured using the speech like test signal defined below.
Before the actual test a training sequence consisting of 10 s artificial voice
male and 10 s artificial voice female according to ITU-T Recommendation P.50
is altered.
Either a logarithmically spaced multi-sine or PN-sequency test signal shall be
used.
When using a logarithmically spaced multi-sine test signal, it is defined as:
$s(t) = \sum_{i}^{}\left\lbrack \left\lbrack A +
\mu_{\text{AM}}\text{cos}\left( 2\text{πt} \ast f_{\text{AM}} \right)
\right\rbrack\text{*cos}\left( 2\text{πt} \ast f_{0i} \right) \right\rbrack$
with A = 0,5
f~AM~ = 4 Hz, μ~AM~ = 0,5
f~0\ i~= 250Hz * 2^(i/3)^ ;i=1..11
CF= 14dB ±1 dB (10 dB + 4,26 dB due to 100% AM modulation)
CF = Crest Factor = Peak to RMS ratio
The training sequence level shall be --16 dBm0 in order not to overload the
codec. The test signal level shall be ‑10 dBm0. The TCLw is calculated
according to ITU-T Recommendation G.122 [8], annex B, clause B.4 (trapezoidal
rule). For the calculation the averaged measured echo level at each frequency
band is referred to the averaged test signal level measured in each frequency
band. The length of the test signal shall be at least one second (1,0 s).
Note:
Full scale of coder input signal corresponds to +3,14 dBm0 with sinusoidal
signal, CF= 3dB. A test signal with a CF of maximum 15 dB can thus have a
level of up to --8,86 dBm0 without overloading the codec. In order to get best
dynamic range the signal amplitude should be as high as possible.
When using a PN-sequence, it should comply with ITU-T Recommendation P.501
with a length of 4096 points (for the 48 kHz sampling rate) and a crest factor
of 6 dB. The duration of the test signal is 250ms. The test signal level is
--3 dB~m0~. The low-crest factor is achieved by random-alternation of the
phase between -180° and 180°.
The training sequence level shall be --16 dBm0 in order not to overload the
codec. The TCLw is calculated according to ITU-T Recommendation G.122 [8],
annex B, clause B.4 (trapezoidal rule). For the calculation the averaged
measured echo level at each frequency band is referred to the averaged test
signal level measured in each frequency band.
Care should be taken that the terminal under test considers the test signal as
a speech-like signal.
## 8.8 Distortion
### 8.8.1 Sending Distortion
The handset, headset, or hands-free UE is setup as described in clause 5.
The signal used is a sine‑wave signal with frequencies specified in clause 6.8
of TS 26.131. The sine wave signal level shall be calibrated to -4,7 dBPa at
the MRP for all frequencies, except for the sine wave with frequency 1020 Hz
which shall be applied at the following levels at the MRP: +5, 0, -4.7, -10,
-15, -20 dBPa. The test signals have to be applied in this sequence, i.e. from
high levels down to low levels.
The duration of the sine-wave signal is recommended to be 360 ms. The
manufacturer shall be allowed to request tone lengths up to 1 second. The
measured part of the signal shall be 170.667 ms (equals 2*4096 samples in a 48
kHz sample rate test system). The times are selected to be relatively short in
order to reduce the risk that the test tone is treated as a stationary signal.
It is recommended that an optional activation signal be presented immediately
preceding each test signal to ensure that the UE is in a typical state during
measurement (see Note 1.). An appropriate speech or speech-like activation
signal shall be chosen from ITU-T Recommendations P.501 or P.50. A
recommendation for the use of an activation signal as part of the measurement
is defined in Figure 18. The RMS level of the active parts of this activation
signal is recommended to be equal to the subsequent test tone RMS level. In
practice, certain types of processing may be impacted due to the introduction
of the activation signal. The manufacturer shall be allowed to specify
disabling of the activation signal. It shall be reported whether an activation
signal was used or not, along with the characteristics of the activation
signal, as specified by the manufacturer.
The ratio of the signal to total distortion power of the signal output of the
SS shall be measured with the psophometric noise weighting (see ITU‑T
Recommendations G.712, O.41 and O.132). The psophometric filter shall be
normalized (0 dB gain) at 800 Hz as specified in ITU-T O.41. The weighting
function shall be applied to the total distortion component only (not to the
signal component).
For measurement of the total distortion component an octave-wide band stop
filter shall be applied to the signal to suppress the sine-wave signal and
associated coding artefacts. The filter shall have a lower passband ending at
0.7071 * f~S~, and an upper passband starting at 1.4142 * f~S~ with f~S~ being
the frequency of the sine-wave signal. The passband ripple of the filter shall
be less than 0.2 dB. The attenuation of the band stop filter at the sine-wave
frequency shall be at least 60 dB. Alternatively the described characteristics
can be implemented by an appropriate weighting on the spectrum obtained from
an FFT ("Fast Fourier Transform"). The total distortion component is defined
as the measured signal within the frequency range 100-6000 Hz, after applying
psophometric and stop filters (hence no correction for the lost power due to
the stop filter, known as "bandwidth correction", shall be applied).
To increase the repeatability, considering the variability introduced by
speech coding and voice processing, the test sequence (activation + test
signal) may be repeated n times. The thus obtained single signal-to-total-
distortion power ratios shall be averaged. The total result shall be
10*log~10~ of this average in dB.
{width="3.738888888888889in" height="1.9743055555555555in"}
Figure 18: Recommended activation sequence and test signal.
The activation signal consists of a P.501 "Bandlimited composite source signal
with speech-like power density spectrum" signal with 48.62 ms voiced part (1),
200 ms unvoiced part (2) and 101.38 ms pause (3), followed by the same signal
but polarity inverted (4, 5, 6), followed by the voiced part only (7). The
pure test tone is applied and after 50 ms settling time (8), the analysis is
made over the following 170.667 ms (9).
NOTE 1: Depending on the type of codec the test signal used may need to be
adapted. If a sine wave is not usable, an alternative test signal could be a
band limited noise signal centered on the above frequencies.
NOTE 2: Void.
NOTE 3: Void.
NOTE 4: In order to ensure that the correct part of the signal is analyzed,
the total delay of the terminal and SS may have to be determined prior to the
measurement.
NOTE 5: For handsfree terminals tested in environments defined in clause
6.1.2, care should be taken that the reverberation in the test room, caused by
the activation signal, does not affect the test results to an unacceptable
degree, refer to clause 5.3.
### 8.8.2 Receiving
The handset, headset, or hands-free UE is setup as described in clause 5.
The signal used is a sine‑wave signal with frequencies specified in clause 6.8
of TS 26.131. The signal level shall be -16 dBm0, except for the sine‑wave
signal with a frequency 1020 Hz that shall be applied at the signal input of
the SS at the following levels: 0, -3, -10, -16, -20, -30, -40, -45 dBm0. The
test signals have to be applied in this sequence, i.e. from high levels down
to low levels.
The duration of the sine-wave signal is recommended to be 360 ms. The
manufacturer shall be allowed to request tone lengths up to 1 second. The
measured part of the signal shall be 170.667 ms (equals 2*4096 samples in a 48
kHz sample rate test system). The times are selected to be relatively short in
order to reduce the risk that the test tone is treated as a stationary signal.
It is recommended that an optional activation signal be presented immediately
preceding each test signal to ensure that the UE is in a typical state during
measurement (see Note 1.). An appropriate speech or speech-like activation
signal shall be chosen from ITU-T Recommendations P.501 or P.50. A
recommendation for the use of an activation signal as part of the measurement
is defined in Figure 19. The RMS level of the active parts of this activation
signal is for low and medium test levels recommended to be equal to the
subsequent test tone RMS level. To avoid saturation of the SS speech encoder,
it is for high test levels recommended that the activation signal level is
adjusted so that its peak level equals the peak level of the test tone. In
practice, certain types of processing may be impacted due to the introduction
of the activation signal. The manufacturer shall be allowed to specify
disabling of the activation signal. It shall be reported whether an activation
signal was used or not, along with the characteristics of the activation
signal, as specified by the manufacturer.
The ratio of the signal‑to‑total distortion power shall be measured at the
applicable acoustic measurement point (ERP for handset mode, freefield for
handsfree modes) with the psophometric noise weighting (see ITU‑T
Recommendations G.712, O.41 and O.132). The psophometric filter shall be
normalized (0 dB gain) at 800 Hz as specified in ITU-T O.41. The weighting
function shall be applied to the total distortion component only (not to the
signal component).
For measurement of the total distortion component an octave-wide band stop
filter shall be applied to the signal to suppress the sine-wave signal and
associated coding artefacts. The filter shall have a lower passband ending at
0.7071 * f~S~, and an upper passband starting at 1.4142 * f~S~ with f~S~ being
the frequency of the sine-wave signal. The passband ripple of the filter shall
be less than 0.2 dB. The attenuation of the band stop filter at the sine-wave
frequency shall be at least 60 dB. Alternatively the described characteristics
can be implemented by an appropriate weighting on the spectrum obtained from
an FFT ("Fast Fourier Transform"). The total distortion component is defined
as the measured signal within the frequency range 100-6000 Hz, after applying
psophometric and stop filters (hence no correction for the lost power due to
the stop filter, known as "bandwidth correction", shall be applied).
To increase the repeatability, considering the variability introduced by
speech coding and voice processing, the test sequence (activation + test
signal) may be repeated n times. The thus obtained single signal-to-total-
distortion power ratios shall be averaged. The total result shall be
10*log~10~ of this average in dB.
{width="3.738888888888889in" height="1.9743055555555555in"}
Figure 19: Recommended activation sequence and test signal.
The activation signal consists of a P.501 "Bandlimited composite source signal
with speech-like power density spectrum" signal with 48.62 ms voiced part (1),
200 ms unvoiced part (2) and 101.38 ms pause (3), followed by the same signal
but polarity inverted (4, 5, 6), followed by the voiced part only (7). The
pure test tone is applied and after 50 ms settling time (8), the analysis is
made over the following 170.667 ms (9).
NOTE 1: Void.
NOTE 2: Void.
NOTE 3: In order to ensure that the correct part of the signal is analyzed,
the total delay of the terminal and SS may have to be determined prior to the
measurement.
NOTE 4: For handsfree terminals tested in environments defined in clause
6.1.2, care should be taken that the reverberation in the test room, caused by
the activation signal, does not affect the test results to an unacceptable
degree, refer to clause 5.3.
## 8.9 Ambient Noise Rejection
**Handset and Headset UE** :
NOTE: This clause applies to terminals providing narrow- and wide-band
telephony. However, the procedure for measuring ambient noise rejection is
defined only over narrow-band frequency range. Thus the test method for
ambient noise rejection is the same for either narrow- or wide-band telephony.
a) A 1/2 inch pressure microphone is calibrated using a known sound source and
mounted at the MRP, without the HATS present. A frequency analyser is
calibrated to enable the sound pressure levels at the microphone to be
determined in 1/3rd Octave bands.
b) Flood the room in which the measurement is to be made with a band limited
(100 Hz to 8 kHz) pink noise to within ±3 dB. The level at MRP shall be
adjusted to 70 dB(A) (-24 dBPa(A)). The tolerance on this level is +/-1 dB.
The resulting sound spectrum is Prn dBPa, measured in 1/3rd Octave bands. To
ensure that the sound field is diffuse enough, the following apply: the
diffuse sound field is calibrated in the absence of any local obstacles. The
averaged field shall be uniform to within +/‑ 3 dB within a radius of 0,15 m
of the MRP, when measured in one‑third octave bands from 100 Hz to 6,3 kHz.
NOTE 1: The pressure intensity index, as defined in ISO 9614, may prove to be
a suitable method for assessing the diffuse field.
NOTE 2: Where more than one loudspeaker is used to produce the desired sound
field, the loudspeakers must be fed with non‑coherent electrical signals to
eliminate standing waves and other interference effects.
c) Position the HATS test head in the correct relative position to the MRP and
mount the MS under test, according to clause 5.1.1. Recalibrate the 1/3rd
Octave frequency analyser using a known voltage source to facilitate the
analysis of the voltage Vrn, where V~rn~ is the voltage at the audio output of
the SS due to the noise spectrum input.
d) Set up a speech path between the MS and the System Simulator (SS).
e) Determine, as a function of frequency, using the frequency analyser, in
1/3rd Octave bands (index j), the electrical output V~jrn~, (expressed as dB
rel . 1V) at the audio output of the SS for the applied acoustic pressure
P~jrn~ (expressed as dB rel 1Pa) at the MRP. Since, the MS sending sensitivity
is not defined above 6,3 kHz the measurement shall be cut off at 6,3 kHz. For
the bands below 315 Hz, the noise level shall be referenced to the speech
level at 315 Hz to yield the DELSM. The room noise sensitivity is expressed
as: Sm jrn= Vjrn (dBV) ‑ Pjrn (dBPa). The MS ambient noise send sensitivity
has now been determined.
f) The MS speech send sensitivity is now required. The required sensitivity is
defined as the electrical output from the MS, measured at the audio output of
the SS, as a function of the free field sound pressure at the MRP of the
artificial mouth. The test signal to be used for the measurements shall be the
artificial voice according to ITU-Recommendation P.50 or a speech like test
signal as described in ITU-T Recommendation P.501. The type of test signal
used shall be stated in the test report. The 1/2 inch pressure microphone is
calibrated using a known sound source. The frequency analyser is calibrated to
measure in 1/3rd Octave bands. The spectrum of acoustic signal produced by the
artificial mouth is calibrated under free field conditions at the MRP. The
test signal level shall be --4,7 dBPa, measured at the MRP. The resulting
sound spectrum is Po dBPa, measured in 1/3rd Octave bands. The 1/3^rd^ Octave
frequency analyser should be re‑calibrated, using a known voltage source, to
facilitate the analysis of the voltage Vj.Where Vj is the voltage in each
1/3^rd^ octave band at the audio output of the SS due to the test signal
input. Set up a speech path between the MS and the SS. Determine the function
of frequency, using the frequency analyser, and in 1/3rd Octave bands, the
electrical output, V~j~, (expressed as dB rel. 1V), at the audio output of the
SS for the applied acoustic pressure, P~j0~, (expressed as dB rel. 1Pa/V), at
the MRP. The speech sending sensitivity is expressed as:
Smjs (dB) = Vj (dBV) ‑ Pjo (dBPa) dBrel. 1V/Pa.
g) The difference of the room noise sensitivity and the speech sending
sensitivity DELSM (∆jSM) in each 1/3rd Octave band for the MS is determined
as:
Sm~jrn~ - Sm~js~ (dB) ( for j = 1 to 2, Smjs = Sm3s).
h) The Ambient noise rejection ANR is calculated as the single figure value
according to the following formula, the ANR shall be ≥ 0dB.
$\text{ANR} = - \frac{4}{5}\sum_{i = 1}^{\text{16}}\Delta_{\text{jSM}} \cdot
\text{10}^{- 0\text{.}\text{0175}W_{\text{jsi}}}$
j = The index of third octave bands centered at frequencies from 200 Hz to 6
300 Hz inclusive.
Wjsi = The sending weighting factors from ITU-T Recommendation P.79 Annex G
[16], table G.1 for the jth 1/3rd Octave band centre frequency.
**Hands-free UE (all categories):**
No test method for hands-free operations.
#