# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
The present document is part 1 of a multi-part deliverable covering the
Digital cellular telecommunications system (GSM Phase2 and Phase 2+ Releases
1996, 1997, 1998, 1999, 3GPP Release 4, 3GPP Release 5, 3GPP Release 6, 3GPP
Release 7 and 3GPP Release 8); Mobile Station (MS) conformance specification,
as identified below:
**Part 1: Conformance specification**
**Reference: 3GPP TS 51.010‑1.**
Part 2: Protocol Implementation Conformance Statement (PICS) proforma
specification.
Reference: 3GPP TS 51.010‑2.
Part 3: Layer 3 (L3) Abstract Test Suite (ATS).
Reference: 3GPP TS 51.010‑3.
Part 4: SIM Application Toolkit conformance specification.
Reference: 3GPP TS 11.10-4.
Part 5: Inter-RAT (GERAN to UTRAN) Abstract Test Suite (ATS)\ Reference: 3GPP
TS 51.010‑5.
# 1 Scope
The present document describes the technical characteristics and methods of
test for Mobile Stations (MS), for the Pan European digital cellular
communications system and Personal Communication Systems (PCS) operating in
the 400 MHz, 700 MHz, 810 MHz, 850 MHz, 900 MHz, 1 800 MHz and 1 900 MHz band
(GSM 450, GSM 480, GSM 710, GSM 750, T-GSM 810, GSM 850, GSM 900, DCS 1 800
and PCS 1 900), standardized by ETSI Special Mobile Group (SMG).
The present document is valid for MS implemented according to GSM Phase2 or
Phase2+ R96, or R97, or R98, or R99 or 3GPP Release 4 or 3GPP Release 5 or
3GPP Release 6, 3GPP Release 7 or 3GPP Release 8.
A subset of the tests is referenced in the GSM Common Technical Regulations
(CTRs) and is used for regulatory conformance testing according to the EEC
procedures for Telecommunications Terminal Equipment (TTE) type approval (EC
Directive 91/263/EEC; also known as the \"Terminal Directive\" or \"Second
Phase Directive\"). The remaining tests can be used to verify conformance with
the GSM core technical specifications for those requirements that are not
considered \"essential\" in the sense of the EC Directive 91/263/EEC (Article
4).
The present document covers the minimum characteristics considered necessary
in order to provide sufficient performance for mobile equipment and to prevent
interference to other services or to other users, and to the PLMNs.
It does not necessarily include all the characteristics which may be required
by a user or subscriber, nor does it necessarily represent the optimum
performance achievable.
It applies to the public land mobile radio service in the GSM systems named
above, using constant envelope modulation and operating on radio frequencies
in the frequency bands listed above respectively with a channel separation of
200 kHz and carrying 8 full rate channels or 16 half rate channels per carrier
according to the TDMA principle.
The present document is part of the GSM-series of technical specifications.
The present document neither replaces any of the other GSM technical
specifications or GSM related ETSs or ENs, nor is it created to provide full
understanding of (or parts of) GSM systems. The present document lists the
requirements, and provides the methods of test for testing a MS for
conformance to the GSM standard.
For a full description of the system, reference should be made to all the GSM
technical specifications or GSM related ETSs or ENs. Clause 2 provides a
complete list of the GSM technical specifications, GSM related ETSs, ENs, and
ETRs, on which this conformance test specifications is based.
The present document applies to the unit which includes the hardware to
establish a connection across the radio interface.
If there is a difference between this conformance document, and any other GSM
technical specification or GSM related ETS or EN, or 3GPP TS, then the other
GSM technical specification or GSM related ETS or EN or 3GPP TS shall prevail.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication > and/or edition number or version number) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
```{=html}
``` \- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the
relevant Release_.
\- For a GSM Phase 2+ Release 7 MS, references to GSM documents are to version
7.x.y, when available.
\- For a GSM Phase 2+ Release 6 MS, references to GSM documents are to version
6.x.y, when available.
\- For a GSM Phase 2+ Release 5 MS, references to GSM documents are to version
5.x.y, when available.
\- For a GSM Phase 2+ Release 4 MS, references to GSM documents are to version
4.x.y, when available.
\- For a GSM Phase 2+ Release 1999 MS, references to GSM documents are to
version 8.x.y (for 01.-series to 12.-series) or (3.x.y for 21.-series to
35.-series), when available.
\- For a GSM Phase 2+ Release 1998 MS, references to GSM documents are to
version 7.x.y, when available.
\- For a GSM Phase 2+ Release 1997 MS, references to GSM documents are to
version 6.x.y, when available.
\- For a GSM Phase 2+ Release 1996 MS, references to GSM documents are to
version 5.x.y,. when available.
\- For a GSM Phase 2 MS, references to GSM documents are to version 4.x.y.
NOTE: References to 3GPP Technical Specifications and Technical Reports
throughout the presnt document shall be interpreted according to the Release
shown in the formal reference in this clause, based upon the Release of the
implementation under test.
EXAMPLE 1: References for a Ph2 MS shall be interpreted as:
[1] 3GPP TS 01.04 Ph2
[2] 3GPP TS 02.02 Ph2
etc.
EXAMPLE 2: References for a Rel-4 MS shall be interpreted as:
[1] 3GPP TS 21.905 Rel-4
[2] 3GPP TS 22.002 Rel-4
etc.
[1] 3GPP TS 01.04 (Ph2 to R99): \"Abbreviations and acronyms\".\ 3GPP TR
21.905 (R99 onwards): \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] to [142] (void)
[143] 3GPP TS 51.010-1: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase
2+); Mobile Station (MS) conformance specification; Part 1: Conformance
specification\".
# 3 Definitions, conventions and applicability
Void
# 4 Test Equipment
The requirements of the present document are provided in 3GPP TS 51.010-1
Release 9 [143].
# 5 to 90 Void
###### ## Annex A: Void
#