# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The present document describes the technical characteristics and methods of
test for Mobile Stations (MSs), operating in the different frequency bands
within the digital cellular telecommunications system.
The present document corresponds to technical specification 3GPP TS 51.010-5,
covering the Digital cellular telecommunications system (3GPP Release 99,
Release 4 , Release 5, Release 6, Release 7 and Release 8) version 8.x.x.
The present document, contains Tree and Tabular Combined Notation (TTCN) for
Mobile Station (MS) Inter-RAT (GERAN to UTRAN) service conformity
specifications, for which Mobile Stations, within the digital cellular
telecommunications system (3GPP Release 99, Release 4 , Release 5, Release 6,
Release 7 and Release 8), are tested for compliance.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document describes the technical characteristics and methods of
test for Mobile Stations (MSs) within the digital cellular telecommunications
system.
**The graphical form ATS**
The electronic form of the graphical representation (TTCN.GR format)
corresponding to the ATS for Layer 3, is contained in the Adobe Portable
Document Format™ file IR_XXX.pdf where XXX corresponds to the current version.
**The machine processable ATS**
The electronic form of the machine processable file (TTCN.MP format)
corresponding to the ATS for Layer 3, is contained in the file IR_XXX.mp where
XXX corresponds to the current version.
The present document is part 5 of a multi-part 3GPP TS covering the digital
cellular telecommunications system; Mobile Station (MS) conformance
specification, as identified below:
Part 1: Conformance specification
Reference: 3GPP TS 51.010‑1.
**Part 2: Protocol Implementation Conformance Statement (PICS) proforma
specification.**
**Reference: 3GPP TS 51.010‑2.**
**Part 3: Layer 3 (L3) Abstract Test Suite (ATS).**
**Reference: 3GPP TS 51.010‑3.**
Part 4: SIM Application Toolkit conformance specification
Reference: 3GPP TS 11.10‑4.
**Part 5: Inter-RAT (GERAN to UTRAN) Abstract Test Suite (ATS)\ Reference:
3GPP TS 51.010‑5.**
NOTE: At the present time, part 4 is 3GPP TS 11.10.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the Abstract Test Suites (ATS) and partial IXIT
proforma for the Network Layer (Layer 3) at the mobile radio interface of the
GSM/3GPP mobile stations (MS) conforming to the TSs for Layer 3, for the
digital cellular telecommunications systems.
The present document is valid for MS implemented according to R99, 3GPP
Release 4, Release 5, Release 6, Release 7 or Release 8.
The ISO standards for the methodology of conformance testing and the TTCN
language are used as the basis for the test specifications.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 51.010-1: \"Mobile Station (MS) conformance specification; Part 1:
Conformance Specification\".
[2] 3GPP TS 51.010-2: \"Mobile Station (MS) conformance specification; Part 2:
Protocol Implementation Conformance Statement (PICS) proforma specification\".
[3] ETSI TR 101 666 (V1.0.0): \"Information technology; Open Systems
Interconnection Conformance testing methodology and framework; The Tree and
Tabular Combined Notation (TTCN) (Ed. 2++)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 34.123-3: \"User Equipment (UE) conformance specification; Part 3:
Abstract Test Suites (ATSs)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 specification; Core
network protocols; Stage 3\".
[6] 3GPP TS 04.18: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 specification; Radio
Resource Control (RRC) protocol\".
[7] 3GPP TS 25.331: \"Radio Resource Control (RRC) protocol specification\"
[8] 3GPP TS 34.108: \"Common test environments for User Equipment (UE)
conformance testing\".
[9] ISO/IEC 9646 (all parts): \"Information technology - Open Systems
Interconnection - Conformance testing methodology and framework\".
[10] ISO/IEC 8824 (all parts): \"Information technology - Abstract Syntax
Notation One (ASN.1)\".
[11] ISO/IEC 8825 (all parts): \"Information technology - ASN.1 encoding
rules\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 34.123-3 [4] apply.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TS
51.010-1 [1], 3GPP TS 24.008 [5], 3GPP TS 04.18 [6], 3GPP TS 25.331[7] and TR
101 666 [3] apply.
# 4 ATS Structure
The modular TTCN approach is used for the development of the 3GPP ATS
specification work. Four modules, BasicM, RRC_M, M_RAT_HO_GERAN_M and L3M are
installed. Please refer to 3GPP TS 34.123-3 [4] for details of the modular
structure.
# 5 Abstract test method and test configurations
Please refer to 3GPP TS 34.123-3 [4].
# 6 Specific Test Suite Operations for InterRAT GERAN to UTRAN Handover
testing
Table 1: TSO definitions for InterRAT GERAN to UTRAN testing
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | TSO Name | Description | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | o_GSM_ToUTRANHO_PER_Encoding | **Type of the result:** | | | OCTETSTRING | | | | | | **Parameters:** | | | | | | p_Msg : HandoverToUTRANCommand | | | | | | p_Len : O1 | | | | | | **Description:** | | | | | | It returns the aligned PER | | | encoding of the input downlink | | | message p_Msg (with \"Encoder | | | added (1-7) bits padding\") of | | | p_Len octets. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | o_P_CheckClassmark3 | **Type of the result:** BOOLEAN | | | | | | **Parameters:** | | | | | | p_FromUE : MSCLSMK3; | | | | | | p_FDD, p_TDD, | | | p_P_GSM_900_BAND, | | | p_E_GSM_900_BAND: BOOLEAN | | | | | | p_R_GSM_900_BAND, | | | p_DCS_1800_BAND, | | | p_PCS_1900_BAND: BOOLEAN | | | | | | p_GSM_450_BAND, | | | p_GSM_480_BAND, | | | p_GSM_700_BAND: BOOLEAN | | | | | | p_GSM_850_BAND, | | | p_TypeGSMClass2, | | | p_TypeGSMClass3 : BOOLEAN | | | | | | p_TypeGSMClass4, | | | p_TypeGSMClass5, | | | p_TypeDCSClass1:BOOLEAN | | | | | | p_TypeDCSClass2, | | | p_TypeDCSClass3, | | | p_TypePCSClass1: BOOLEAN | | | | | | p_TypePCSClass2, | | | p_TypePCSClass3, | | | p_TypeGSM850Class2: BOOLEAN | | | | | | p_TypeGSM850Class3, | | | p_TypeGSM850Class4, | | | p_TypeGSM850Class5, BOOLEAN | | | | | | p_DTM_Multislotclass5, | | | p_DTM_Multislotclass9, | | | p_DTM_SingleSlotAllocation : | | | BOOLEAN | | | | | | p_EOTD_Assist, | | | p_A_GPS_Assist, | | | p_A_GPS_Based, p_Conv_GPS : | | | BOOLEAN | | | | | | p_EOTD_Based, | | | p_GERANFeatPackage1, | | | p_GERANFeatPackage2: BOOLEAN | | | | | | p_GERANIuMode, p_DTMEnhancCap, | | | p_TAOffset : BOOLEAN | | | | | | p_MultiSlotClass, | | | p_EGPRS_MultiSlotClass : B5; | | | p_SMS_Value, p_SM_Value : B4 | | | | | | p_GSM400_RadioCapability, | | | p_T400_RadioCapability, | | | p_710_RadioCapability, | | | p_T810_RadioCapability, | | | p_T900_RadioCapability : B4 | | | | | | p_RGSM_RadioCapability, | | | p_DTMGPRSHighMultiSlotClass : | | | B3 | | | p_DTMEGPRSHighMultiSlotClass: | | | B3 | | | | | | p | | | _DTM_EGPRS_MultiSlotSubClass, | | | p_EDGEPwrCap1, p_EDGEPwrCap2 : | | | B2 | | | | | | p_ExtDTM_MultiSlotClass, | | | p | | | _ExtDTM_EGPRS_MultiSlotClass, | | | p_HighMultiSlotCap : B2 | | | | | | p_GMSKPowerProfile, | | | p_8PSKPowerProfile, | | | p_TGSM400Support : B2 | | | p_DLAdvRxPerformance : B2 | | | | | | p_MS_ClsmkA5_4, | | | p_MS_ClsmkA5_5, | | | p_MS_ClsmkA5_6, | | | p_MS_ClsmkA5_7 : B1 | | | | | | p_CDMA2000, p_ExtMeasCap, | | | p_ModulationCapability, | | | p_UCS2Treatment : B1 | | | | | | p_RptACCHCap, | | | p_CipherModeSetDTM, | | | p_AddPositionCap, | | | p_EUTRA_FDD, p_EUTRA_TDD : | | | B1 | | | | | | **Description** | | | | | | This is used when UE sends the | | | MSCLSMK3 PDU in CLASSMARK CHANGE | | | | | | To check each bit of the | | | received octetstring from the UE | | | against the CSN.1 format | | | constraint. | | | | | | Please Note: Due to the shared | | | radio frequency channel numbers | | | between DCS 1800 and PCS 1900, | | | even if both p_DCS_1800_BAND | | | and p_PCS_1900_BAND are set | | | to TRUE, the UE can only ever | | | indicate support for one of | | | these bands. | | | | | | The format of the Classmark3 IE | | | is as follows: | | | | | | \ ::= | | | | | | \ | | | | | | { \ | | | | | | \ | | | | | | \| \ | | | | | | \ | | | | | | \ | | | | | | \ | | | | | | \| \ | | | | | | \ | | | | | | \(4) | | | | | | \ } | | | | | | { 0 \| 1 \ } | | | | | | { 0 \| 1 \ } | | | | | | \ | | | | | | \ | | | | | | { 0 \| 1 \ } | | | | | | { 0 \| 1 \ } | | | | | | { 0 \| 1 \ } | | | | | | { 0 \| 1 \ } | | | | | | { 0 \| 1 \ | | | | | | \ } | | | | | | { 0 \| 1 \ } | | | | | | { 0 \| 1 \ } | | | | | | \ | | | | | | \ | | | | | | \ | | | | | | { 0 \| 1 \ | | | | | | \ | | | | | | {0 \| 1\ } } | | | | | | { 0 \| 1 \ } -- Release 4 starts here: | | | | | | { 0 \| 1 \} | | | | | | \ | | | | | | \ | | | | | | { 0 \| 1 \ | | | | | | \ } | | | | | | { 0 \| 1 \ } | | | ---Release 5 starts here. | | | | | | { 0 \| 1 \ } -- \'1\' also | | | means support of GERAN Iu mode | | | | | | \ | | | | | | \ | | | | | | \ | | | | | | { 0 \| 1 \ \-- Release 6 starts here. | | | | | | \ } | | | | | | { 0 \| 1 \ } | | | | | | \ | | | | | | \ | | | | | | { 0 \| 1 \ | | | | | | \ | | | | | | { 0 \| 1 \ } } | | | | | | \ | | | | | | { 0 \| 1 \} -- | | | Release 7 starts here. | | | | | | { 0 \| 1 \} | | | | | | \ | | | | | | \ | | | | | | \ | | | _\-- Release 8 starts here_ | | | | | | \ | | | | | | \ ; | | | | | | \ ::= | | | | | | \ \ \ \ ; | | | | | | \::= | | | | | | \ ; | | | | | | \ ::= | | | | | | \ ; | | | | | | \ | | | ::= | | | | | | \ | | | | | | \ ; | | | | | | \ ::= | | | | | | \ ; | | | | | | \ | | | ::= | | | | | | \ ; | | | | | | \ : := | | | | | | \ | | | | | | { 0 \| 1 \ } | | | | | | { 0 \| 1 \ } | | | | | | \ ::= | | | | | | \ ; | | | | | | \ | | | ::= | | | | | | \ \-- | | | length in bits of Iu mode only | | | capabilities and spare bits | | | | | | -- Additions in release 6 | | | | | | \ | | | | | | \** ; -- expands | | | to the indicated length | | | | | | -- may be used for future | | | enhancements | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | o_LengthofHO_Cmd | **Type of the result:** INTEGER | | | | | | **Parameters:** | | | | | | p_Msg : HandoverToUTRANCommand | | | | | | **Description:** | | | | | | it returns the no. of octets of | | | the input downlink message | | | p_Msg | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
###### ## Annex A (normative): Abstract Test Suites (ATS)
This annex contains the approved ATS which has been produced using the Tree
and Tabular Combined Notation (TTCN) according to TR 101 666 [3].
The ATS was developed on a separate TTCN software tool and therefore the TTCN
tables are not completely referenced in the table of contents. The ATS
contains a test suite overview part which provides additional information and
references.
# A.1 Version of specification
Table A.1 shows the version of the test specifications which the delivered ATS
refers to:
Table A.1: Versions of the test and Core specifications
* * *
Core specifications 3GPP TS 44.018 [6] (V8.6.0) 3GPP TS 25.331 [7] (V8.6.0)
Test specifications 3GPP TS 51.010-1 [1] (V8.4.0) 3GPP TS 51.010-2 [2]
(V8.4.0) 3GPP TS 34.123-3 [4] (V8.3.0) 3GPP TS 34.108 [8] (V8.8.0)
* * *
# A.2 IR_G ATS
The approved test cases are listed below.
##### Number of TC Executions {#number-of-tc-executions .H6}
This column indicates the recommended number of TC executions. In case this
recommended number is less than the number of TC executions imposed by the
individual TC applicability, this column also indicates the preferred domain
for testing. The different entries shall be read as follows:
CS - TC is recommended to execute in CS domain
CS+PS - TC is recommended to execute CS+PS with pc_CS and pc_PS set to TRUE
PS - TC is recommended to execute in PS domain
Note: This definition is taken from 34.123-2, clause 4.
Table A.2: IR_G TTCN test cases
+--------------+--------------------------+-------------------------+ | Test case | Description | Number of TC Executions | | | | | | | | (informative) | +--------------+--------------------------+-------------------------+ | 20.22.29 | Packet Measurement order | 1 Execution: PS | | | procedure / Downlink | | | | transfer / Normalcase/ | | | | 3G cell reselection | | | | dedicated parameters | | +--------------+--------------------------+-------------------------+ | 20.22.29a | Packet Measurement order | 1 Execution: PS | | | procedure / Downlink | | | | transfer / Normal case/ | | | | 3G cell reselection | | | | dedicated parameters | | | | with GEA2 and UEA2 | | | | ciphering | | +--------------+--------------------------+-------------------------+ | 20.22.29b | Packet Measurement order | 1 Execution: PS | | | procedure / Downlink | | | | transfer / Normal case/ | | | | 3G cell reselection | | | | dedicated parameters | | | | with GEA3 and UEA2 | | | | ciphering | | +--------------+--------------------------+-------------------------+ | 20.25.2 | Intersystem Cell | 1 Execution: CS | | | Reselection/Idle | | | | Mode/FDD_Qmin | | +--------------+--------------------------+-------------------------+ | 20.25.3 | Intersystem Cell | 1 Execution: CS | | | Reselection/Idle | | | | Mode/FDD_Qoffset | | +--------------+--------------------------+-------------------------+ | 20.25.4 | Intersystem Cell | 1 Execution: CS | | | Reselection/Idle | | | | Mode/Qsearch_I | | +--------------+--------------------------+-------------------------+ | 26.6.11.3 | Classmark interrogation | 1 Execution: CS | | | / UTRAN Classmark Change | | +--------------+--------------------------+-------------------------+ | 26.6.11.4 | Early UTRAN Classmark | 1 Execution: CS | | | Sending | | +--------------+--------------------------+-------------------------+ | 41.5.1.1.1.4 | Uplink TBF establishment | 1 Execution: CS + PS | | | with no reallocation of | | | | CS resources / Abnormal | | | | cases / Inter System to | | | | UTRAN Handover Command | | +--------------+--------------------------+-------------------------+ | 47.3.4.1 | Handover to UTRAN while | 1 Execution: CS + PS | | | in DTM / Downlink TBF | | +--------------+--------------------------+-------------------------+ | 47.3.4.2 | Handover to UTRAN while | 1 Execution: CS + PS | | | in DTM / Uplink TBF | | +--------------+--------------------------+-------------------------+ | 60.1 | Inter system handover to | 1 Execution: CS | | | UTRAN/From | | | | GSM/Speech/Success | | +--------------+--------------------------+-------------------------+ | 60.1a | Inter system handover to | 1 Execution: CS | | | UTRAN/From | | | | GSM/Speech/Success with | | | | A5/3 and UEA2/UIA2 | | | | ciphering | | +--------------+--------------------------+-------------------------+ | 60.2a | Inter system handover to | 1 Execution: CS | | | UTRAN/From GSM/Data/Same | | | | data rate/Success | | +--------------+--------------------------+-------------------------+ | 60.3a | Inter system handover to | 1 Execution: CS | | | UTRAN/From GSM/Data/Data | | | | rate upgrading/Success | | +--------------+--------------------------+-------------------------+ | 60.4 | Inter system handover to | 1 Execution: CS | | | UTRAN/From GSM/SDCCH/CC | | | | Establishment/Success | | +--------------+--------------------------+-------------------------+ | 60.5 | Inter system handover to | 1 Execution: CS | | | UTRAN/From | | | | GSM/Speech/Blind | | | | HO/Success | | +--------------+--------------------------+-------------------------+ | 60.6 | Inter system handover to | 1 Execution: CS | | | UTRAN/From | | | | GSM/Speech/Failure | | +--------------+--------------------------+-------------------------+ | 60.10 | Inter system handover to | 1 Execution: CS | | | UTRAN/From GSM/Integrity | | | | Protection Activation | | +--------------+--------------------------+-------------------------+
## A.2.1 Void
## A.2.2 The TTCN Machine Processable form (TTCN.MP)
The TTCN.MP representation corresponding to this ATS is contained in an ASCII
file ( IR_Gv840.MP) which accompanies the present document.
###### ## Annex B (normative): Partial IXIT proforma
Notwithstanding the provisions of the copyright clause related to the text of
the present document, 3GPP Organizational Partners grant that users of the
present document may freely reproduce the partial IXIT proforma in this annex
so that it can be used for its intended purposes and may further publish the
completed partial IXIT.
# B.0 Introduction
This partial IXIT proforma contained in the present document is provided for
completion, when the related Abstract Test Suite is to be used against the
Implementation Under Test (IUT).
Text in _italics_ is comments for guidance for the production of a IXIT, and
is not to be included in the actual IXIT.
The completed partial IXIT will normally be used in conjunction with the
completed ICS, as it adds precision to the information provided by the ICS.
# B.1 Parameter values
These parameters are used in the IR_G ATS.
Table B.1: IR_G PIXIT
+-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+ | **Parameter |** De | **Type** | **Default |** Supported | | Name**| scription** | | Value**| Value** | +-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+ | px_Add | used in | B1 | | | | PositionCap | classmark3 | | | | +-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+ | p | UE support | B1 | \'0\'B | | | x_CDMA2000 | of | | | | | | CDMA2000, | | | | | | used in | | | | | | classmark3 | | | | +-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+ | px_Ciphe | used in | B3 | | | | rModeSetDTM | classmark3 | | | | +-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+ | px_DLAdvRx | used in | B2 | '00'B | | | Performance | classmark3 | | | | +-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+ | px_DTME | used in | B3 | | | | GPRSHighMul | classmark3 | | | | | tiSlotClass | | | | | +-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+ | px_DTM | used in | B3 | | | | GPRSHighMul | classmark3 | | | | | tiSlotClass | | | | | +-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+ | px_DTM_EG | indicates | B2 | | | | PRS_MultiS | DTM EGPRS | | | | | lotSubClass | c | | | | | | apabilities | | | | | | of the UE, | | | | | | used in | | | | | | classmark3 | | | | +-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+ | px_ | EDGE Power | B2 | | | | EDGEPwrCap1 | Class used | | | | | | in | | | | | | classmark3 | | | | +-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+ | px_ | EDGE Power | B2 | | | | EDGEPwrCap2 | Class used | | | | | | in | | | | | | classmark3 | | | | +-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+ | px\ | used in | B5 | | | | _EGPRS_Mul | classmark3 | | | | | tiSlotClass | to define | | | | | | the EGPRS | | | | | | mul | | | | | | tislotclass | | | | | | supported | | | | | | by the UE | | | | +-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+ | px_ | Support of | BOOLEAN | FALSE | | | EOTD_Based | MS based | | | | | | EOTD used | | | | | | in | | | | | | classmark3 | | | | +-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+ | px_ | Used in | B2 | | | | ExtDTM_Mul | Classmark 3 | | | | | tislotClass | | | | | +-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+ | px_ExtDTM\ | Used in | B2 | | | | _EGPRS_Mul | Classmark 3 | | | | | tislotClass | | | | | +-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+ | px\ | UE support | B1 | '0'B | | | _ExtMeasCap | of Extended | | | | | | M | | | | | | easurements | | | | | | used in | | | | | | classmark3 | | | | +-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+ | px_8PSKP | Used in | B2 | | | | owerProfile | classmark3 | | | | +-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+ | px_GMSKP | Used in | B2 | | | | owerProfile | classmark3 | | | | +-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+ | px_G | Used in | B4 | | | | SM400_Radi | classmark3 | | | | | oCapability | | | | | +-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+ | px_HighM | Used in | B2 | | | | ultiSlotCap | Classmark 3 | | | | +-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+ | px | Used in | B1 | | 0 = 8PSK | | _Modulatio | classmark3 | | | supported | | nCapability | to specify | | | for | | | supported | | | downlink | | | modulation | | | only, | | | schemes | | | | | | other than | | | 1 = 8PSK | | | GMSK | | | supported | | | | | | for uplink | | | | | | and | | | | | | downlink | +-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+ | px_Mul | Used in | B1 | | | | tislotCapDl | classmark3 | | | | | DualCarrier | | | | | +-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+ | px_Mul | used in | B5 | | | | tiSlotClass | classmark3 | | | | | | to define | | | | | | the HSCSD | | | | | | mul | | | | | | tislotclass | | | | | | supported | | | | | | by the UE | | | | +-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+ | px\ | Used in | B3 | | | | _RGSM_Radi | classmark3 | | | | | oCapability | | | | | +-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+ | px\ | used in | B1 | '0'B | 0 - UE does | | _RptACCHCap | classmark3 | | | not support | | | | | | repeated | | | | | | SACCH | | | | | | | | | | | | 1 - UE | | | | | | supports | | | | | | repeated | | | | | | SACCH and | | | | | | repeated dl | | | | | | FACCH | | | | | | | | | | | | note: a UE | | | | | | that | | | | | | supports | | | | | | only | | | | | | repeated dl | | | | | | FACCH | | | | | | should set | | | | | | this field | | | | | | to \'0\' | +-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+ | px | indicates | B4 | | Swi | | _SM_Value | the time | | | tch-Measure | | | needed for | | | Value | | | the UE to | | | | | | switch from | | | | | | one radio | | | | | | channel to | | | | | | another and | | | | | | perform a | | | | | | neighbour | | | | | | cell power | | | | | | m | | | | | | easurement, | | | | | | used in | | | | | | classmark3 | | | | +-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+ | px\ | indicates | B4 | | Switch-Mea | | _SMS_Value | the time | | | sure-Switch | | | needed for | | | Value | | | the UE to | | | | | | switch from | | | | | | one radio | | | | | | channel to | | | | | | another, | | | | | | perform a | | | | | | neighbour | | | | | | cell power | | | | | | measurement | | | | | | and then | | | | | | switch from | | | | | | that radio | | | | | | channel to | | | | | | another | | | | | | radio | | | | | | channel, | | | | | | used in | | | | | | classmark3 | | | | +-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+ | p | used in | B1 | '0'B | Support of | | x_SupportO | classmark3 | | | EUTRA FDD | | fEUTRA_FDD | | | | | +-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+ | p | used in | B1 | '0'B | Support of | | x_SupportO | classmark3 | | | EUTRA TDD | | fEUTRA_TDD | | | | | +-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+ | px\ | Used in | B4 | | | | _T400_Radi | classmark3 | | | | | oCapability | | | | | +-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+ | px | Used in | B4 | | | | _710_Radi | classmark3 | | | | | oCapability | | | | | +-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+ | px\ | Used in | B4 | | | | _T810_Radi | classmark3 | | | | | oCapability | | | | | +-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+ | px\ | Used in | B4 | | | | _T900_Radi | classmark3 | | | | | oCapability | | | | | +-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+ | px_TGS | used in | B2 | | Bit 1 - | | M400Support | classmark3 | | | TGSM 380 | | | | | | supported | | | | | | | | | | | | Bit 2 - | | | | | | TGSM 410 | | | | | | supported | +-------------+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+
###### ## Annex C (normative): Additional information to IXIT
Notwithstanding the provisions of the copyright clause related to the text of
the present document, 3GPP Organizational Partners grant that users of the
present document may freely reproduce the PIXIT proforma in this annex so that
it can be used for its intended purposes and may further publish the completed
PIXIT.
# C.1 Identification Summary
_Table C.1 is completed by the test laboratory. The item \"Contract
References\" is optional._
Table C.1: Identification Summary
* * *
IXIT Reference Number  
Test Laboratory Name  
Date of Issue  
Issued to (name of client)  
Contract References
* * *
# C.2 Abstract Test Suite Summary
_Table C.2 the test laboratory provides the version number of the protocol
specification and the version number of ATS which are used in the conformance
testing._
Table C.2: ATS Summary
* * *
Protocol Specification 3GPP TS 24.008 Version of Protocol Specification  
TSS & TP Specification 3GPP TS 51.010‑1 Version of TSS & TP Specification  
ATS Specification 3GPP TS 51.010‑5 Version of ATS Specification  
Abstract Test Method Distributed Test Method
* * *
# C.3 Test Laboratory
## C.3.1 Test Laboratory Identification
_The test laboratory provides the following information._
Table C.3: Test Laboratory Identification
* * *
Name of Test Laboratory  
Postal Address  
Office address  
e-mail address  
Telephone Number  
FAX Number
* * *
## C.3.2 Accreditation status of the test service
_The test laboratory provides the following information._
Table C.4: Accreditation status of the test service
* * *
Accreditation status  
Accreditation Reference
* * *
## C.3.3 Manager of Test Laboratory
_The test laboratory provides the information about the manager of test
laboratory in table C.5._
Table C.5: Manager of Test Laboratory
* * *
Name of Manager of Test Laboratory  
e-mail address  
Telephone Number  
FAX Number  
E-mail Address
* * *
## C.3.4 Contact person of Test Laboratory
_The test laboratory provides the information about the contact person of test
laboratory in table C.6._
Table C.6: Contact person of Test Laboratory
* * *
Name of Contact of Test Laboratory  
e-mail address  
Telephone Number  
FAX Number  
E-mail Address
* * *
## C.3.5 Means of Testing
_In table C.7, the test laboratory provides a statement of conformance of the
Means Of Testing (MOT) to the reference standardized ATS, and identifies all
restrictions for the test execution required by the MOT beyond those stated in
the reference standardized ATS._
Table C.7: Means of Testing
* * *
Means of Testing
* * *
## C.3.6 Instructions for Completion
_In table C.8, the test laboratory provides any specific instructions
necessary for completion and return of the proforma from the client._
Table C.8: Instruction for Completion
* * *
Instructions for Completion
* * *
# C.4 Client
## C.4.1 Client Identification
_The client provides the identification in table C.9._
Table C.9: Client Identification
* * *
Name of Client  
Postal Address  
Office Address  
Telephone Number  
FAX Number
* * *
## C.4.2 Client Test Manager
_In table C.10 the client provides information about the test manager._
Table C.10: Client Test Manager
* * *
Name of Client Test Manager  
Telephone Number  
FAX Number  
E-mail Address
* * *
## C.4.3 Client Contact person
_In table C.11 the client provides information about the test contact person._
Table C.11: Client Contact person
* * *
Name of Client contact person  
Telephone Number  
FAX Number  
E-mail Address
* * *
## C.4.4 Test Facilities Required
_In table C.12, the client records the particular facilities required for
testing, if a range of facilities is provided by the test laboratory._
Table C.12: Test Facilities Required
* * *
Test Facilities Required
* * *
# C.5 System Under Test
## C.5.1 SUT Information
_The client provides information about the SUT in table C.13._
Table C.13: SUT Information
* * *
System Name  
System Version  
SCS Reference  
Machine Configuration  
Operating System Identification  
IUT Identification  
ICS Reference for the IUT
* * *
## C.5.2 Limitations of the SUT
_In table C.14, the client provides information explaining if any of the
abstract tests cannot be executed._
Table C.14: Limitation of the SUT
* * *
Limitations of the SUT
* * *
## C.5.3 Environmental Conditions
_In table C.15 the client provides information about any tighter environmental
conditions for the correct operation of the SUT._
Table C.15: Environmental Conditions
* * *
Environmental Conditions
* * *
# C.6 Ancillary Protocols
_This clause is completed by the client in conjunction with the test
laboratory._
_In the following tables, the client identifies relevant information
concerning each ancillary protocol in the SUT other than the IUT itself. One
table for one ancillary protocol._
_Based on the MOT the test laboratory should create question proforma for each
ancillary protocol in the blank space following each table. The information
required is dependent on the MOT and the SUT, and covers all the addressing,
parameter values, timer values and facilities (relevant to ENs) as defined by
the ICS for the ancillary protocol._
## C.6.1 Ancillary Protocols 1
Table C.16: Ancillary Protocol 1
* * *
Protocol Name _EN_ 300 Version number  
ICS Reference (optional)  
IXIT Reference (optional)  
PCTR Reference (optional)
* * *
## C.6.2 Ancillary Protocols 2
Table C.17: Ancillary Protocol 2
* * *
Protocol Name _EN_ 300 Version number  
ICS Reference (optional)  
IXIT Reference (optional)  
PCTR Reference (optional)
* * *
# C.7 Protocol Layer Information for L3 of Mobile Station
## C.7.1 Information provided for test purposes by the MS supplier
* * *
Item Description Type/Allowed values Supported Value Release
* * *
## C.7.2 MMI information
This annex lists MMI command strings which are transmitted from specific GERAN
test steps in the TTCN to the SS.
  * Please trigger PDP Context Activation Type 2 in UE.
  * Please trigger UE to send three SNDCP PDUs of 500 bytes each on > SAPI 11.
## C.7.3 Test house specified parameters
* * *
Item Description Type/Allowed values Value chosen Release
* * *
###### ## Annex D (normative): PCTR Proforma
Please refer to 3GPP TS 34.123-3 [4].
###### ## Annex E (informative): Guidance on test execution
# E.1 InterRAT test execution
The test purpose and the test method of the test cases [60.1 and 60.1a] and
[20.22.29, 20.229a and 20.22.29b] are the same. The test cases differ from
each other in the ciphering algorithms applied in the UTRAN and GERAN cell.
The necessary test coverage is achieved by executing once according to the
following:
60.1a, 20.22.29a and 20.22.29b for MS in Rel-7 or later,
60.1, 20.22.29 for MS in R99, Rel-4, Rel-5 and Rel-6.
#