# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document describes the Radio Frequency (RF) tests for GSM
repeaters (frequency bands according to clause 4.1) which receive, amplify,
and retransmit a received Mobile Station (MS) signal in the GSM MS transmit
band and simultaneously receive, amplify and retransmit a received Base
Transceiver Station (BTS) RF signal in the GSM BTS transmit band.
The present document is applicable to repeaters meeting the requirements of
either GSM Phase 2 or GSM Phase 2+. Unless otherwise stated, all tests are
applicable to repeaters meeting Phase 2 and/or Phase 2+ GSM requirements,
because the requirements of the Phase 2 and Phase 2+ core GSM specifications
which are referenced in the test are consistent. Most differences between
Phase 2 and Phase 2+ requirements represent Phase 2+ features which are
optional for the BSS to support.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] ETS 300 019‑1-0: \"Equipment Engineering (EE): Environmental conditions
and environmental tests for telecommunications equipment Part 1-0;
Classification of environmental conditions; Introduction\".
[3] ETS 300 019‑1‑3: \"Equipment Engineering (EE): Environmental conditions
and environmental tests for telecommunications equipment Part 1‑3;
Classification of environmental conditions, Stationary use at weather-
protected locations\".
[4] ETS 300 019‑1‑4: \"Equipment Engineering (EE): Environmental conditions
and environmental tests for telecommunications equipment Part 1‑4;
Classification of environmental conditions, Stationary use at non-weather-
protected locations\".
[5] ITU-R Rec. SM.329: \"Spurious emissions\".
[6] void.
[7] IEC 60068‑2: \"Basic environmental testing procedures: Part 2 Tests\".
[8] IEC 721: \"Classification of environmental conditions\".
[9] 3GPP TS 51.010-1: "Mobile Station (MS) conformity specification".
[10] 3GPP TS 51.021: "Base Station System (BSS) equipment specification; Radio
aspects".
[11] ETSI ETR 027: \"Methods of measurement for private mobile radio
equipment\".
[12] ETSI ETR 028: \"Uncertainties in the measurement of mobile radio
equipment characteristics\".
[13] 3GPP TS 45.005: \"Radio transmission and reception\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply:
**broadband repeater:** repeater which is designed for operation on any
combination of ARFCNs (up to a specified maximum number) within the operating
band of the repeater.
**channelized repeater:** repeater which is designed for operation on a
specified subset of ARFCNs within the operating band of the repeater. The
subset of ARFCNs may be determined during the manufacture of the repeater, or
may be programmable.
**repeater system using frequency shift:** frequency shifting repeater
consists of two different elements, a master unit close to the BTS and at
least one remote unit close to the area to be covered. The master unit
amplifies the channels from the BTS and shifts them to different GSM channels.
In the remote unit the shifted channels from the master unit will be
transferred back to the original channels and amplified. This is valid for the
downlink signals as well as for the uplink signals.
**GSM:** Unless otherwise specified, references to GSM include all radio
frequency bands according to clause 4.1.
**repeater:** bi-directional Radio Frequency (RF) amplifier which can amplify
and transmit a received Mobile Station (MS) signal in the GSM MS transmit
band, simultaneously it can amplify and transmit a received Base Transceiver
Station (BTS) RF signal in the GSM BTS transmit band.
**spurious emissions:** emissions at frequencies other than those of the
carrier and sidebands associated with normal modulation and switching.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
BTS Base Transceiver Station
MS Mobile Station
RF Radio Frequency
Abbreviations used within the GSM specifications are given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
# 4 General
A repeater can be designed to amplify the whole transmit RF band or just a
part of the band. In the latter case the repeater can be either Broadband,
with frequency band selective filtering, or channelized, with channel
selective filtering.
## 4.1 Radio frequency bands
A repeater, as a bi-directional amplifier, can amplify and transmit a received
MS signal in the MS transmit band, simultaneously it can amplify and transmit
a received BTS signal in the BTS transmit band. The relevant MS and BTS
transmit bands for the present document are the MS and BTS transmit bands as
defined in 3GPP TS 45.005 [13], clause 2.
Table 1: void
NOTE: In some circumstances, for instance when an operator (or more than one
operator who co-ordinate the use of repeaters), is not allocated a complete
band, it may be necessary to restrict the frequency range of operations of
repeaters. In these circumstances, the test of \"Gain outside operating band\"
in annex A may be used to verify the performance of the repeater.
## 4.2 Test environments
For each test in the present document, the environmental conditions under
which the repeater is to be tested are defined.
### 4.2.1 Normal test environment
When a normal test environment is specified for a test, the test should be
performed under any combination of conditions between the minimum and maximum
limits stated in table 2.
Table 2: Limits of conditions for Normal Test Environment
* * *
Condition Minimum Maximum Barometric pressure 86 kPa 106 kPa Temperature 15ºC
30ºC Relative Humidity 20 % 85 % Power supply Nominal, as declared by the
manufacturer  
Vibration Negligible
* * *
The ranges of barometric pressure, temperature and humidity represent the
maximum variation expected in the uncontrolled environment of a test
laboratory. If it is not possible to maintain these parameters within the
specified limits, the actual values shall be recorded in the test report.
NOTE: This may, for instance, be the case for measurements of radiated
emissions performed on an open field test site.
### 4.2.2 Extreme test environment
The manufacturer shall declare one of the following:
a) the equipment class for the equipment under test, as defined in ETS 300
019‑1‑3 [3];
b) the equipment class for the equipment under test, as defined in ETS 300
019‑1‑4 [4];
c) for equipment that does not comply to an ETS 300 019‑1 [2] class, the
relevant classes from IEC 721 [8] documentation for temperature, humidity and
vibration shall be declared.
NOTE: Reduced functionality for conditions that fall out side of the standard
operational conditions are not tested in the present document. These may be
stated and tested separately.
### 4.2.3 Extreme temperature
When an extreme temperature test environment is specified for a test, the test
shall be performed at the standard minimum and maximum operating temperatures
defined by the manufacturer\'s declaration for the equipment under test.
Minimum temperature:
\- the test shall be performed with the environmental test equipment and
methods of inducing the required environmental phenomena into the equipment,
conforming to the test procedure of IEC 60068‑2‑1 [7]. The equipment shall be
maintained at the stabilized condition for the duration of the test sequence.
Maximum temperature:
\- the test shall be performed with the environmental test equipment and
methods of inducing the required environmental phenomena into the equipment,
conforming to the test procedure of IEC 60068‑2‑2 [7]. The equipment shall be
maintained at the stabilized condition for the duration of the test sequence.
NOTE: It is recommended that the equipment is made fully operational prior to
the equipment being taken to its lower operating temperature.
## 4.3 Manufacturers declarations
The manufacturer shall declare:
a) the operating band or bands of the repeater;
b) the maximum rated output power per channel;
c) the number of channels supported by the repeater;
d) the supported modulation methods.
## 4.4 Methods of measurement
The general methods of measurement and measurement uncertainty shall be
according to ETSI ETR 027 [11] and ETSI ETR 028 [12] except where they
conflict with the present document.
# 5 Spurious emissions
## 5.1 Test purpose
This test measures the conducted spurious emissions (see clause 3.1) at the
antenna ports and the effective power of spurious emissions radiated by the
cabinet and structure.
## 5.2 Test case
The repeater shall be set to maximum gain. All measurement steps, as described
in this clause, apply to all antenna ports of the repeater.
a) Spurious emissions from the antenna port:
\- one antenna port of the repeater shall be connected to a selective RF
measurement device presenting to the repeater a load with an impedance of 50
ohms. An average power measurement of spurious emissions shall be performed
for frequency offsets from the carrier frequency greater than 600 kHz under
the following two conditions:
i) without any RF input signal. The relevant input antenna port of the
repeater shall be terminated with 50 ohms;
ii) with an RF input signal. The relevant antenna input port of the repeater
shall be connected to an RF signal generator. A continuous sinusoidal RF
signal shall be input at a level which will result, when measured, in the
maximum rated RF output power per channel, as declared by the manufacturer.
The RF input signal shall be set to the centre frequency of the repeaters
operating band. In the case of a channelized repeater, the RF input signal
shall be set to the centre of the supported ARFCN closest to the centre of the
range of ARFCNs supported by the repeater.
b) Radiated spurious emissions:
\- a test site fulfilling the requirements of ITU-R SM.329 [5] shall be used,
except when it conflicts with the present document. The repeater shall be
placed on a non-conducting support and shall be operated from a power source
as recommended by the manufacturer via an RF filter, to prevent the power
source or cable from influencing the result of the measurement;
\- the relevant output antenna port of the repeater shall be terminated with
50 ohms. The relevant antenna input port of the repeater shall be connected to
a RF signal generator in such a way that the connection does not influence the
result of the measurement. The RF input signal shall be set to the centre
frequency of the repeaters operating band. A continuous sinusoidal RF signal
shall be input at a level which will result, when measured, in the maximum
rated output power per channel, as declared by the manufacturer.
\- an average RF power measurement shall be performed for frequency offsets
from the carrier frequency greater than 600 kHz over the frequency range 30
MHz to 4 GHz. The repeater shall be rotated through 360° in the horizontal
plane and the test antenna shall be raised or lowered until the maximum
spurious signal level is detected. The effective radiated power of each
spurious component shall be determined by a substitution measurement;
\- the measurements shall be repeated with orthogonal polarization of the test
antenna;
\- the measurements shall be repeated with no RF input signal, in this case
the relevant antenna input port of the repeater shall be terminated with 50
ohms.
Table 3: Measurement bandwidth for spurious emissions
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Band | Frequency offset | Measurement | | | | bandwidth | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | (offset from | | | | carrier) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | In the relevant BTS | ≥ 100 kHz | 3 kHz | | transmit | | | | | | | | Band or MS transmitt | | | | band | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 100 kHz to 50 MHz | ‑ | 10 kHz | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 50 MHz to 500 MHz | (offset from edge of | | | outside the | the | | | | | | | relevant transmit | relevant transmit | | | band | band) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | > 0 MHz | 10 kHz | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | ≥ 2 MHz | 30 kHz | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | ≥ 5 MHz | 100 kHz | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Above 500 MHz | (offset from edge of | | | outside the | the | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Relevant transmit | relevant transmit | | | band | band) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | > 0 MHz | 10 kHz | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | ≥ 2 MHz | 30 kHz | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | ≥ 5 MHz | 100 kHz | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | ≥ 10 MHz | 300 kHz | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | ≥ 20 MHz | 1 MHz | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | ≥ 30 MHz | 3 MHz | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
Test environment: Normal
## 5.3 Conformance requirement
The measured power in test case clause 5.2.a) as well as the effective
radiated power in test case clause 5.2.b) shall not exceed:
\- -36 dBm (250 nW) in the frequency band 9 kHz to 1 GHz;
\- -30 dBm (1µW) in the frequency band 1 GHz to 12,75 GHz.
## 5.4 Reference requirement
3GPP TS 45.005 [13], annex E.
# 6 Intermodulation attenuation
## 6.1 Test purpose
To verify that the level of intermodulation products, generated in non-linear
elements of the repeater, in the presence of two RF input signals, do not
exceed the specified limits.
## 6.2 Test case
The repeater shall be set to maximum gain. Two continuous sinusoidal RF
signals shall be fed to the input antenna port of the repeater using a
combining device. The frequencies of both RF signals shall be within the
repeater\'s operating band. The spacing between both RF signals shall be the
minimum possible spacing applied in a network, i.e. 600 kHz.
The level of both RF input signals shall be increased, until the maximum rated
output power per channel, as declared by the manufacturer, is reached.
In case of a repeater only supporting one channel, one RF input signal shall
be set to the operating frequency and the other RF input signal at an offset
of 400 kHz to either side successively. In this case the input signal at the
repeaters operating frequency shall be increased, until the maximum rated
output power per channel, as declared by the manufacturer, is reached. The
second signal shall be set to the same input level.
The level of the third order intermodulation products shall be measured by
means of a selective measurement device presenting to the repeater a load with
an impedance of 50 ohms.
The test shall be repeated with both RF input signals increased by 10 dB each.
NOTE: In this case, the automatic gain (level) control may reduce the gain to
a value less than maximum gain in order to keep the maximum rated output power
per channel, as declared by the manufacturer.
An average power measurement shall be performed using a bandwidth of 3 kHz.
The measurements shall apply to all antenna ports of the repeater.
Test environment: Normal
## 6.3 Conformance requirement
The maximum level of intermodulation product shall be not greater than:
\- -36 dBm (250 nW) in the frequency band 9 kHz to 1 GHz;
\- -30 dBm (1µW) in the frequency band 1 GHz to 12,75 GHz.
## 6.4 Reference requirement
3GPP TS 45.005 [13], annex E.
# 7 Out of band gain
## 7.1 Test purpose
To test the net gain of the repeater outside the relevant MS or BTS transmit
band. This test shall also check the net gain at harmonic frequencies.
## 7.2 Test case
The repeater shall be set to maximum gain. In case of a channel selective
repeater, two of the channel selective modules shall be set to the lowermost
and the uppermost ARFCN within the repeater\'s operating band.
A continuous sinusoidal RF signal shall be fed successively at frequency
offsets Y from the edges of the relevant MS or BTS transmit frequency band
into the relevant input port of the repeater. The frequency offsets Y shall
have the following values:
400 kHz, 600 kHz, 800 kHz, 1 MHz, 5 MHz, 10 MHz, 15 MHz, 20 MHz.
This shall be repeated with an RF input signal successively set to all
harmonic frequencies of the repeaters operating band up to 12.75 GHz (i.e.
multiples of the centre frequency of the repeaters operating band up to 12,75
GHz).
The power level of the RF input signal shall be at least 5 dB below the power
level which would produce, when applied within the operating band, maximum
rated output power, as declared by the manufacturer. This is to ensure that
the equipment is operating in the linear output range.
The average output power in each case shall be measured and the net gain shall
be recorded.
The measurements shall apply to all antenna ports of the repeater.
Test environment: Normal
Extreme temperature
## 7.3 Conformance requirement
The net gain in both directions through the repeater shall be less than:
\- 50 dB at 400 kHz offset and greater;
\- 40 dB at 600 kHz offset and greater;
\- 35 dB at 1 MHz offset and greater;
\- 25 dB at 5 MHz offset and greater;
from the edges of the relevant MS or BTS transmit bands.
## 7.4 Reference requirement
3GPP TS 45.005 [13], annex E.
# 8 Frequency error
## 8.1 Test purpose
This clause applies only to repeater systems using frequency shift and
describes the test of the frequency error.
## 8.2 Test case
The repeater system shall be levelled according to the recommendations of the
manufacturer. For the purpose of the frequency synchronisation of the repeater
system it might be necessary to connect the system to a BTS or an equivalent
test equipment like a mobile tester. In all cases an accurate frequency
synchronisation source has to be used to synchronise the measurement setup.
The test of the repeater system shall be performed at the lowest and the
highest ARFCN supported by the repeater system. For the measurement of the
frequency error a continuous, sinusoidal and synchronised RF signal shall be
fed successively at a frequency of the relevant MS or BTS transmit frequency
band into the relevant input port of the repeater. The power level of the RF
input signal shall be at least 5 dB below the power level which would produce,
when applied within the operating band, maximum rated output power, as
declared by the manufacturer. This is to ensure that the equipment is
operating in the linear output range.
The average output frequency shall be measured with a frequency counter.
The frequency error of single elements within the repeater system such as
master unit or remote unit may be measured as well.
Test environment: Normal
Extreme temperature
## 8.3 Conformance requirement
The average frequency error of the repeater system shall not exceed 0,1 ppm.
If tested, the average frequency error of a single repeater shall not exceed
0,05 ppm.
## 8.4 Reference requirement
3GPP TS 45.005 [13], annex E.
# 9 Modulation accuracy at GMSK modulation
## 9.1 Test purpose
This clause applies only to repeater systems using frequency shift and
describes the test of the phase error.
## 9.2 Test case
The repeater system shall be levelled according to the recommendations of the
manufacturer. For the purpose of the frequency synchronisation of the repeater
system it might be necessary to connect the system to a BTS or an equivalent
test equipment like a mobile tester. In all cases an accurate frequency
synchronisation source has to be used to synchronise the measurement setup.
For the measurement of the phase error a continuous and synchronised GMSK
signal modulated with a pseudo random bit sequence shall be fed successively
at one frequency of the relevant MS or BTS transmit frequency band into the
relevant input port of the repeater. The power level of the RF input signal
shall be at least 5 dB below the power level which would produce, when applied
within the operating band, maximum rated output power, as declared by the
manufacturer. This is to ensure that the equipment is operating in the linear
output range.
The phase trajectory shall be measured at the equivalent output of the
repeater system and the calculation of the phase error shall be performed
according to 3GPP TS 51.010-1 [9] or 3GPP TS 51.021 [10].
The phase error of single elements within the repeater system such as master
unit or remote unit may be measured as well.
The GMSK signal source shall have a phase error below the following values:
\- 5 degrees rms;
\- 20 degrees peak.
Test environment: Normal
Extreme temperature
## 9.3 Conformance requirement
The phase error of a complete repeater system shall not exceed:
\- 7 degrees rms;
\- 28 degrees peak.
If tested, the phase error of a single repeater unit shall not exceed:
\- 6.1 degrees rms;
\- 24.5 degrees peak.
## 9.4 Reference requirement
3GPP TS 45.005 [13], annex E.
# 10 Modulation accuracy at 8-PSK, **QPSK, 16‑QAM or 32‑QAM** modulation
## 10.1 Test purpose
This clause applies only to repeater systems supporting 8-PSK, **QPSK, 16-QAM
or 32-QAM** modulation and describes the test of the modulation accuracy.
## 10.2 Test case
The repeater system shall be levelled according to the recommendations of the
manufacturer. For the purpose of the frequency synchronisation of the repeater
system it might be necessary to connect the system to a BTS or an equivalent
test equipment like a mobile tester. In all cases an accurate frequency
synchronisation source has to be used to synchronise the measurement setup.
For the measurement of the modulation accuracy a continuous and synchronised
8-PSK, **QPSK, 16-QAM or 32-QAM** signal modulated with a pseudo random bit
sequence shall be fed successively at one frequency of the relevant MS or BTS
transmit frequency band into the relevant input port of the repeater. The
power level of the RF input signal shall be at least 5 dB below the power
level which would produce, when applied within the operating band, maximum
rated output power, as declared by the manufacturer. This is to ensure that
the equipment is operating in the linear output range.
The EVM shall be measured at the equivalent output of the repeater system and
the calculation of the EVM shall be performed according to 3GPP TS 51.021
[10].
Test environment: Normal
Extreme temperature
## 10.3 Conformance requirement
For a repeater as defined in the first column of the table belowthe RMS EVM
shall not exceed:
* * *
                                                                                                     Normal symbol rate   Higher symbol rate                                       
                                                                                                     8-PSK                16-QAM               32-QAM      QPSK        16-QAM      32-QAM
For a single repeater with no shift in frequency from input to output under
normal conditions 8,0 % [4,0 %] [4,0 %] [8,0 %] [4,0 %] [4,0 %] For a single
repeater with no shift in frequency from input to output under extreme
conditions 8,0 % [5,0 %] [5,0 %] [8,0 %] [5,0 %] [5,0 %] For a complete
repeater system using frequency shift under normal conditions [11 %] [6,0 %]
[6,0 %] [11 %] [6,0 %] [6,0 %] For a complete repeater system using frequency
shift under extreme conditions [11 %] [7,0 %] [7,0 %] [11 %] [7,0 %] [7,0 %]
* * *
## 10.4 Reference requirement
3GPP TS 45.005 [13], annex E.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Testing of gain for part band repeaters
# A.1 Rationale for this test
The normative provisions of the present document specify the out-of band gain
relative to the edge of one of the GSM bands specified in clause 4.1. The
purpose of this informative annex is to define a test method which may be used
to measure the out-of-band gain for a repeater which is designed to operate
only over part of one of these bands. This test may be used for acceptance
testing or for regulatory purposes.
Since 3GPP TS 45.005 [13] does not specify the out-of-band gain requirements
within a GSM band for a such a repeater, the performance requirements for the
repeater must be agreed prior to this test being performed. Normally, the
requirements for the uplink and downlink directions will be similar, but with
the frequencies offset by 45 MHz or 95 MHz.
# A.2 Gain outside operating band
## A.2.1 Test purpose
To determine the net gain of the repeater outside its specified operating band
(or bands), when this is less than a GSM band defined in clause 4.1 of the
present document. The requirements of clause 7 of the present document shall
always be met, whether or not this test is also performed.
This test is not a normative requirement of the present document.
## A.2.2 Test case
The repeater shall be set to maximum gain. In case of a channel selective
repeater, two of the channel selective modules shall be set to the lowermost
and the uppermost ARFCN within the repeaters operating band.
A continuous sinusoidal RF signal shall be fed successively at each specified
frequency into the relevant input port of the repeater. The power level of the
RF input signal shall be at least 5 dB below the power level which would
produce, when applied within the specified operating band, maximum rated
output power, as declared by the manufacturer. This is to ensure that the
equipment is operating in the linear output range.
The average output power in each case shall be measured and the net gain shall
be recorded.
The measurements shall apply to all antenna ports of the repeater.
Test environment: Normal
Extreme temperature
## A.2.3 Conformance requirement
At each frequency specified to be measured, the gain through the repeater
shall be less than the specified value.
#