# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
This Technical Report describes proposed extensions to ANDSF Inter-System
Routing Policies (ISRP) to provide to operators a better control of the
network resources used for each application or IP flow. Specifically the
Technical Report focuses on additional mechanism to identify classes of
traffic an ISRP applies to.
Any extension to the ANDSF framework which is not related to identification of
traffic is outside the scope of this Technical Report.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.402: \"Architecture enhancements for non-3GPP accesses\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.261: \"IP flow mobility and seamless WLAN offload\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] apply.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] apply.
# 4 Justification, Scenarios and Architectural Requirements
## 4.1 Justification
Editor\'s note: This clause describes the shortcomings of current ISRP design
and the justifications of DIDA work.
In Release 10 simultaneous network connections to multiple radio access
technologies have been enabled by MAPCON, IFOM and non seamless WLAN offload.
To take this into account, the ANDSF framework has been enhanced with the
introduction of Inter System Routing Policies (ISRP), allowing the operator to
provide policies based on the traffic exchanged by the UE.
Based on the current Release 10 specification the operator can indicate
different preferred or forbidden radio access technologies as a function of
the type of traffic the UE sends. As an example an ISRP can be based on:
\- the APN the UE uses for a given connection;
\- the destination IP address the UE sends traffic to;
\- the destination port number the UE connects to;
\- a combination of the three elements above.
The current specification has limitations on how the traffic is identified in
the UE, e.g. due to the growing aggregation of Internet traffic onto few
transport port numbers. This trend negatively impacts the ability of an ANDSF
policy to specify how traffic should be routed by the UE. For example the
operator with the current framework is not able to provide policies to the UE
that allow to discriminate between video streaming (e.g.
www.videostreaming.example.com) and web browsing (e.g. www.news.example.com)
based on the port number because both are carried over HTTP.
## 4.2 Architectural requirements
The following architectural requirements apply for the DIDA solution(s):
\- Support for DIDA should enable IP flows to be identified in the UE even
though encryption is enabled e.g. using SSL/TLS.
## 4.3 Scenarios
Editor\'s note: This clause describes the scenarios to be taken into account
for the definition of solutions.
Editor\'s note: Combinations of the following scenarios will also be analyzed.
### 4.3.1 Identification of traffic based on throughput
The operator may be interested in providing policies in order to influence the
radio technology used by the UE for high-throughput traffic. As an example,
the operator may indicate via ANDSF policies that IP flows which require a
data rate above a certain threshold are to be sent over a given access.
Editor\'s note: More detailed scenarios need to be provided.
Editor\'s note: It is desirable to avoid the UE measuring the data rate of all
IP flows to enable this scenario.
**Criteria of the identification** : IP flows are identified based on the
required data rate
### 4.3.2 Identification of traffic based on application
The operator may want to set the preferred or restricted access technology for
specific applications (e.g., a specific video streaming application). For
example this would be useful in the following scenarios:
\- The operator may want some applications to use non-seamless WLAN (NS-WLAN)
offload, and other applications to be routed through the 3GPP core network.
Given the high number of IP addresses used by some application servers, it is
difficult to support this scenario using Rel-10 policies.
\- Some applications will not work with NS-WLAN offload because service
requests (i.e. control traffic) need to go through the 3GPP core network,
although media traffic may be performed with NS-WLAN offload. As an example,
an RTSP session may need to go through the 3GPP core (e.g. to identify and
bill the subscriber) but RTP/RTCP traffic may be routed over NS-WLAN and
offload the 3GPP system. To accommodate such scenarios, it is required to
support ISRP policies for NS-WLAN offload of the form: \"Traffic of
application X and of protocol Y shall be restricted on the WLAN radio
access\".
Editor\'s note: FFS how separation of RTP and RTSP would work with NAT,
Firewalls and security.
\- Some applications will work with NS-WLAN offload but should preferably be
routed over 3GPP access for example to enjoy improved performance from
guaranteed QoS. Traffic from such applications should be identified in the UE
and routed to the 3GPP radio access. For this purpose, it is required to
support ISRP policies for NS-WLAN offload of the form: \"Traffic of
application X shall be restricted on the WLAN radio access\".
This is a way for the operator to provide control over the usage of resources
even for different applications which use the same port number and for
services which are hosted in the same servers.
**Criteria of the identification** : IP flows are identified based on an
application identifier or the name of the application which generated them.
### 4.3.3 Identification of traffic based on content type
The operator may want to set the preferred or restricted access technology for
IP flows which carry a specific content type (e.g. all IP flows associated
with a given MIME media type such as video, image, text). This may be needed
for those applications which cannot be easily identified. This would be useful
in the following scenarios:
\- The operator prefers that all IP flows associated with video streaming
content are routed through WLAN when [ ]{.underline} available. In this case
the group of applications is all applications which provide a video streaming
service.
**Criteria of the identification** : IP flows are identified based on the
content type.
### 4.3.4 Identification of traffic based on destination domain
With the advent of virtual hosts and Content Delivery Networks, a single IP
address can actually host different services. Moreover the same service can be
provided via different IP addresses depending on the location of the UE. This
implies that the destination IP address and destination port that currently
can be used in ISRP policies are not enough to describe a specific IP flow. To
overcome this limitation, the FQDN of the application peer could be used
instead. This would be useful in the following scenarios:
\- The operator prefers that all traffic destined to www.example.com is routed
through WLAN when available.
**Criteria of the identification** : IP flows are identified based on the
application peer\'s FQDN.
### 4.3.5 Identification of traffic based on content size
The operator may need to restrict large content from being transferred over
3GPP access in order to protect users with limited data plans and/or to
offload the 3GPP network from excess data traffic. To fulfil this need, it
would be beneficial to extend data identification in the ANDSF in order to
support policies, as an example, of the form:
\- \"Content larger than X bytes should not use 3GPP access between 10am and
5pm\".
Editor\'s Note: It is FFS how to ensure a consistent user experience with such
an operator policy.
It is expected that the content size determination will be carried out in the
UE with implementation specific means. The ANDSF policies that identify
traffic based on content size should be considered as operator preferences
applied by the UE only when the UE can determine the size of the content.
# 5 Solutions
## 5.1 Alternative 1: Extensions to ISRPs for DIDA
### 5.1.1 General
Enhancements to current ISRPs can be defined to accommodate the scenarios
described in section 4. The overall format of an ISRP is not expected to be
affected.
The ANDSF can provide a list of ISRP to the UE based on Release 10 procedures
described in TS 23.402 [2]. In order to enable enhanced IP flow identification
based on the scenarios in section 4, the ISRP provided to the UE will include
the following information:
\- Validity conditions as per current 23.402 (Release 10).
\- For IFOM: one or more Filter Rules, each one identifying a prioritised list
of access technologies / access networks which should be used by the UE when
available to route traffic that matches specific IP filters on a specific APN
or on any APN. This is the same as in Release 10 procedure.
\- For non-seamless WLAN offload: one or more Filter Rules, each one
identifying which flows corresponding to specific IP filters shall or shall
not be non-seamlessly offloaded to a WLAN when available. This is the same as
in Release 10 procedure.
\- The Filter Rules can include:
\- Previous Release 10 parameters (protocol type, source IP address,
destination IP address, source port number, destination port number, address
type, DSCP value);
\- Additional information as listed in the following subsections.
### 5.1.2 ISRPs based on destination domain
To enable ANDSF policies based on destination domain, the Filter Rules
include:
\- Fully Qualified Domain Name (e.g. www.example.com) that was resolved into
the destination IP address.
For example, when the UE receives an ISRP with www.example.com in IP filter
and WLAN as preferred access technology, it should route all traffic with
destination IP addresses resolved from www.example.com through WLAN.
A combination of different IP filters parameters is possible. For example, the
operator can indicate that all traffic with destination IP addresses resolved
from www.example.com and with a specific destination port number should be
routed through a preferred access.
### 5.1.3 ISRPs based on application
To enable ANDSF policies based on application, the Filter Rules include:
\- A globally unique identifier of the application.
NOTE 1: Detailed definition of these IDs and respective namespace is left to
stage 3.
NOTE 2: This solution assumes that the UE can bind the connection request with
the application which generated that request.
For example, when the UE receives an ISRP with an application identifier in
the filter and WLAN as preferred access technology, it should route all
traffic generated by that application(s) through WLAN.
### 5.1.4 ISRPs based on content type
To enable ANDSF policies based on content type, the Filter Rules include:
\- Content Type (e.g. video, image, text).
For example, when the UE receives an ISRP with content type in the filter and
WLAN as preferred access technology, it should route all traffic carrying
contents of which type is matched with the received content type through WLAN.
The content type may be one of Internet media types included in the MIME
Content-Type header.
### 5.1.5 ISRP based on content size
To enable ANDSF policies based on content size, the Filter Rules include:
\- Range of content size.
For example, when the UE receives an ISRP with a range of content size in the
filter and WLAN as preferred access technology, it should route all traffic of
which size is within the received range through the WLAN. The range of content
size in ISRP can be a pair of minimum and maximum of content size in bytes and
the UE applies this rule if it can determine content size.
Editor\'s note: It is FFS how the UE determines its content size before
retrieving a content.
Editor\'s note: Evaluation for the feasibility of this solution is also FFS.
# 6 Conclusions
## 6.1 Analysis of Scenarios
This clause provides some analysis and concluding remarks for the scenarios
documented in clause 4.3.
NOTE: All references to UE refer to a UE that is capable of routing IP traffic
simultaneously over multiple radio access interfaces, e.g. an IFOM capable UE
or a UE capable of non-seamless WLAN offload.
**Identification of traffic based on throughput**
\- This scenario requires the UE to identify IP flows with specific throughput
requirements and route these flows based on the provisioned ANDSF policies. It
is assumed that the throughput requirement of a specific IP flow is explicitly
provided by the application that generates this IP flow or it is derived by
the UE\'s operating system by other means, e.g. by pre-configuring the
throughput requirements of specific IP flows. This assumption makes it
unnecessary for the UE to measure the traffic rate of all IP flows in real-
time and can thus avoid excessive complexity and power consumption in the UE.
\- It is envisioned that in several situations the UE may not be able to
determine the required throughput of an IP flow. For example, a streaming
application may request a video content but does not know if the content will
be provided by the server in high-definition format or not, so it cannot pre-
determine how much throughput will be required to support the streaming
session. In another case, the application may be able to pre-determine the
required throughput of an IP flow but there is no API to provide this
information to the operating system (most mobile operating systems today do
not support such API). Even when the operating system is upgraded to support a
new API that will enable applications to provide the required throughput of an
IP flow, there is no guarantee that application developers will make use of
this API.
\- Based on the above considerations, it is concluded that the UE will not be
able to identify the throughput requirements of IP flows in many cases.
Therefore the ANDSF policies that rely on traffic identification based on
throughput can only be applied on a \"best-effort basis\", meaning that the UE
will not be able to guarantee the enforcement of these policies and the
behaviour will vary a lot based on UE implementations.
**Identification of traffic based on destination domain**
\- This scenario requires the UE to identify IP flows based on the destination
FQDN, i.e. identify all flows to www.example.com.
\- The UE could easily identify traffic based on the destination FQDN. For
example, the UE could store all IP addresses associated with a specific FQDN
(these addresses are discovered with DNS queries) and then detect which IP
flows have a destination address that matches one of these IP addresses.
\- It is expected that the UE could support ANDSF policies that identify
traffic based on the destination FQDN and would be able to contact specific
domain names over the desired radio access.
**Identification of traffic based on application**
\- This scenario requires the UE to identify IP flows based on the application
that generated them. It means to provide operators with a tool for steering
the traffic of some applications to a specific radio access, for example,
\"traffic of application X should use 3GPP access\".
\- In practice, it is expected that operators will require the UE to identify
the traffic of a limited number of applications; notably, of applications that
the operator prefers not to use 3GPP access in the presence of a more
preferred access or that are preferred to use exclusively 3GPP access.
Therefore, it is not expected that operators will need to determine the
identities of hundreds of applications and it is not expected that the UE will
need to be provisioned with hundreds of policies for traffic identification
based on application ids.
\- The traffic identification in the UE based on the application identity does
not intent to address all possible scenarios. For example, it may not be
possible to identify malicious applications that change their identities or
applications downloaded in the UE from various application repositories.
\- There is no need to create a 3GPP-specific \"application registry\" which
assigns unique identities to all possible mobile applications. Each
application contains its own identity which is known to the UE and can be
included in the applicable routing policies.
\- Current major mobile platforms today provide some means for assigning
application identities or names that are unique in the default application
repository. For example, Java applications use identities/names of the form
com.organization.app-name. Unique application identifiers are also used in
platforms with non-Java applications. In addition, current major mobile
platforms provide means to identify the traffic created by specific
applications. Thus, traffic identification based on application id is expected
to be feasible for UEs based on such platforms.
\- Based on the above considerations, it is concluded that (_i_) it is
possible to identify an application in most mobile platforms today (_ii_) the
ANDSF has the means to know the UE\'s platform so it can provide platform
specific policies to UE and (iii) traffic identification based on application
id is expected to be feasible for the UE.
NOTE: Whether platform-specific ANDSF policies are distributed to the UE is
left for stage 3 to decide.
**Identification of traffic based on content type**
\- This scenario requires the UE to identify IP flows which are used to
retrieve content of a specific type (e.g. audio, video, text, etc). An example
use case is when the operator wants to restrict video retrieval over a
specific radio access only.
\- When the content is retrieved with the HTTP protocol, the UE can determine
the content type before retrieving the content, e.g. by using the HEAD method.
Similarly, when RTSP is used, the UE can determine the content type before
retrieving the content, e.g. by sending a DESCRIBE request.
\- However, to enforce IP flow routing based on content type, it is expected
that the mobile platform should be capable to intercept content requests from
applications and determine the content type before retrieving the requested
content on the desired radio access. The use of HTTPS may also impose
additional restrictions.
**Identification of traffic based on content size**
\- This scenario requires the UE to identify IP flows which are used to
retrieve content with specific size attributes. A typical example is when the
operator wants to restrict very large content (e.g. more than 10Mbytes) from
being transferred over 3GPP access.
\- Most content retrieval on mobile devices is based on the HTTP, FTP and RTSP
protocols. All of these protocols provide means for determining the content
size before retrieving the content. For example, with the FTP protocol the
SIZE command could be used, with the HTTP protocol the HEAD method could be
used and with the RTSP protocol the DESCRIBE command could be used.
\- However, to enforce IP flow routing based on the content size, it is
expected that the mobile platform should be capable to intercept content
requests from applications and determine the content size before retrieving
the requested content on the desired radio access. The use of HTTPS may also
impose additional restrictions.
## 6.2 Recommendations
This Technical Report has proposed and analyzed several scenarios that extend
the data identification capabilities of ANDSF policies. As a result of the
analysis, the following scenarios are recommended for normative specification:
\- Identification of traffic based on domain name.
\- Identification of traffic based on application ID.
Editor\'s note: Is it FFS whether other scenarios should be recommended for
normative specification.
In addition, a solution based on the extension of ISRPs as the one documented
in clause 5.1 is recommended for inclusion in the normative specifications.
#