# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
MPS will enable National Security/Emergency Preparedness (NS/EP) users (herein
called Service Users) to make priority calls/sessions using the public
networks. This service needs to be ensured also under special conditions such
as network congestion. Service Users are the government-authorized personnel,
emergency management officials and/or other authorized users. Effective
disaster response and management rely on the Service User\'s ability to
communicate during congestion conditions. Service Users are expected to
receive priority treatment, in support of mission critical multimedia
communications.
The enhancements for MPS evaluated in this document are priority aspects of
EPS packet bearer services and priority related interworking between IMS and
EPS packet bearer services. These enhancements enable the network to support
end-to-end priority treatment for MPS call/session origination/termination,
including the Non Access Stratum (NAS) and Access Stratum (AS) signalling
establishment procedures at originating/terminating network side as well as
resource allocation in the core and radio networks for bearers. Priority
treatment will be applicable to IMS based multimedia services, priority EPS
bearer services and CS Fallback.
This document clarifies the architectural requirements for MPS, considers the
priority service scenarios, and evaluates solution alternatives. Solutions
will be proposed and evaluated based on the following three service
categories: IMS based multimedia service (voice, video etc), priority EPS
bearer services (PS data without IMS interaction) and CS Fallback. Common
issues for multiple service categories should be resolved by single solution
to limit the amount of overall functionality and to avoid complexity.
The basic eMPS, i.e. priority handling of IMS based multimedia service, EPS
bearer services and CS Fallback have completed in Rel‑10. In Rel‑11, Single
Radio Voice Call Continuity (SRVCC) from LTE to UTRAN/GERAN/1xCS will be
investigated based on Rel‑10 SRVCC specification.
The result of the analysis should be suitable as a basis for normative MPS
specification work.
The scope of the MPS part is to further investigate:
\- The signalling and procedures for identifying priority and authorizing the
usage of priority service.
\- The required priority attributes used in enabling end-to-end priority
marking and priority treatment during establishment, modification and release
of an IMS based priority voice/video/data session.
\- The scenarios and capabilities for supporting priority EPS bearer data
services.
\- The potential impacts on existing and relevant standard procedures in order
to provide preferential treatment for MPS requests in the event of congestion.
\- Inter-working with other IMS and CS networks to provide an end-to-end
priority service.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.153: \"Multimedia priority service\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.401: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS) enhancements for
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) access\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.002: \"Network architecture\".
> [5] 3GPP TS 25.413 [5]: \"UTRAN Iu interface Radio Access Network
> Application Part (RANAP) signalling\".
>
> [6] 3GPP TS 23.272: \"Circuit Switched (CS) fallback in Evolved Packet
> System (EPS); Stage 2\".
>
> [7] 3GPP TS 36.331: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
> Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol specification\".
>
> [8] 3GPP TS 22.011: \"Service accessibility\".
>
> [9] 3GPP2 A.S0008-C: \"Interoperability Specification (IOS) for High Rate
> Packet Data (HRPD) Radio Access Network Interfaces with Session Control in
> the Access Network\".
>
> [10] 3GPP2 A.S0009-C: \"Interoperability Specification (IOS) for High Rate
> Packet Data (HRPD) Radio Access Network Interfaces with Session Control in
> the Packet Control Function\".
>
> [11] 3GPP TS 24.301: \"Non-Access-Stratum (NAS) protocol for Evolved Packet
> System (EPS); Stage 3\".
>
> [12] 3GPP TS 23.228: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); Stage 2\".
>
> [13] 3GPP TS 24.229: \"IP multimedia call control protocol based on Session
> Initiation Protocol (SIP) and Session Description Protocol (SDP); Stage 3\".
>
> [14] 3GPP TS 29.228: \"IP Multimedia (IM) Subsystem Cx and Dx Interfaces;
> Signalling flows and message contents\".
>
> [15] 3GPP TS 23.203: \"Policy and charging control architecture\".
>
> [16] 3GPP TS 23.216: \"Single Radio Voice Call Continuity (SRVCC)\".
>
> [17] 3GPP TS 23.009: \"Handover procedures\".
>
> [18] 3GPP TS 48.008: \"Mobile Switching Centre - Base Station System(MSC-
> BSS) interface; Layer 3 specification \".
>
> [19] 3GPP TS 23.237: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) Service Continuity;
> Stage 2\".
>
> [20] 3GPP TS 23.221: \"Architectural requirements\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**MPS:** Based on TS 22.153 [2]. Multimedia Priority Service allows authorized
users to obtain and maintain radio and network resources with priority, also
during situations when PLMN congestion is blocking session establishment
attempts.
**MPS session:** A session (e.g., voice, video, data session) for which
priority treatment is applied for allocating and maintaining radio and network
resources.
**MPS subscription:** A subscription by which priority services are provided,
if the network supports MPS. MPS subscription entitles a USIM with special
Access Class(es). MPS subscription profile is stored in the operator\'s
network.
**MPS-subscribed UE:** A UE having a USIM with MPS subscription.
**Service User:** As per TS 22.153 [2].
**On-demand MPS:** Priority treatment is explicitly requested by a Service
User. Priority treatment is granted by the network and can be revoked by the
Service User or network. An example of the On-demand mechanism is the use of
specific access code provided by the Service User when activating a session to
request priority treatment.
**Always-on MPS subscription:** A type of MPS subscription where priority
treatment is provided for all PS sessions for the Service User.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] apply.
# 4 Priority service scenarios
Editor\'s Note: This clause will list the service scenarios for which priority
handling is applied.
## 4.1 IMS Multimedia Priority Service
An example of an IMS-based MPS session is a voice call established using IMS
procedures. The MPS voice session described by the following use cases shall
be handled in a prioritized way.
\- Mobile origination from an MPS-subscribed UE by including an MPS
code/identifier: A Service User originates an IMS-based MPS session by
including an MPS code/identifier followed by a destination address (e.g., SIP
URI, Tel URI) from an MPS-subscribed UE attached to E-UTRAN. In this scenario,
based on the EPS subscription information and operator\'s policy, priority
treatment for the default bearer and the EPS bearer carrying SIP/IMS
signalling may be given in the EPS prior to and during IMS-based MPS
invocation. Priority treatment in the EPS for signalling and media bearers may
be modified/established via PCC based on the session authorization information
received from the AF.
\- Mobile origination from any UE by including an MPS input string: A Service
User invokes an IMS-based MPS session by including an MPS input string from
any UE (MPS subscribed or not) attached to E-UTRAN. Following an IMS-based MPS
identification and authorization, priority indication and priority treatment
are provided to the session in the EPS via PCC. In this scenario, the UE may
also receive priority for signalling and media for collection of additional
credentials from the Service User.
**\- Mobile termination** : A Service User initiates an **MPS session** to a
terminating user (either a Service User or a normal user) in E-UTRAN. The
terminating network identifies the priority of the session and applies
priority treatment to ensure that the call is delivered with priority.
\- SRVCC of IMS based priority call: When the UE has on-going IMS based
priority call and the eNB initiates SRVCC procedure, network resources for
voice bearer in the PS, CS and IMS networks of the target system should be
reserved in prioritized manner.
NOTE 1: For Mobile Origination from any UE, the UE should be able to originate
a session (e.g., for prepaid UEs, there is available credit).
NOTE 2: For a Mobile Terminating IMS session from a normal user to a Service
User, no priority treatment for the media is required. However, based on
operator\'s policy and subscription information, EPS signalling may still be
treated with priority on the terminating side.
NOTE 3: No analysis has been done for IMS-based MPS session for video and
voice/video.
## 4.2 Priority EPS Bearer Service
Editor\'s Note: This clause will describes the MPS scenarios for setting up
priority EPS bearers when IMS is not used.
**On-demand MPS is activated/deactivated via an AF (e.g., HTTPS server)
interaction:** The connected Service User interacts with an AF to
activate/authorize invocation of priority bearer service. The AF communicates
the priority authorization to the PCC infrastructure. Priority is deactivated
when the Service User explicitly revokes the priority bearer service via the
AF, the AF revokes the priority bearer service or when the PDN connection is
released.
For a third-party AF, the invocation/revocation of the On-demand EPS priority
treatment may be performed, but outside of the scope of this work.
Always-on MPS receives priority bearer service (e.g. ARP and QCI) for all
bearers.
## 4.3 CS Fallback
### 4.3.1 CS Fallback to GERAN/UTRAN
In the following CS Fallback use case, the CS Fallback related procedures
shall be handled in the following way.
\- Mobile-terminating call to a user in E-UTRAN: A Service User initiates a
voice call to the terminating user (either a Service User or normal user) in
E-UTRAN access and terminating MSC forwards the paging request to the MME. The
MME initiates the CS Fallback procedure with priority so that the terminating
user can receive the mobile terminating call in the GERAN/UTRAN CS domain.
\- Mobile-originating call by a MPS-subscribed UE in E-UTRAN: A Service User
initiates a voice call in E‑UTRAN using procedure for CS fallback to
GERAN/UTRAN with priority indication.
NOTE 1: A mobile-originating call made by non-MPS-subscribed UE dialling MPS
input string (dialling number) is treated as normal CSFB call.
NOTE 2: For a Mobile Terminating Call from a normal user to a service user, no
special handling is required.
### 4.3.2 CS Fallback to 1xRTT
The following two MPS scenarios are supported:
\- **Mobile-terminating call to a user in E-UTRAN:** A Service User initiates
an 1xCS voice call to the terminating user (either a Service User or normal
user) in E-UTRAN access and the IWS forwards the paging request to the MME
with a priority indication. The MME initiates the CS Fallback procedure with a
priority indication in order to transfer the terminating user to the 1x RTT
network.
\- **Mobile-originating call by a Service User in E-UTRAN:** A Service User
initiates a voice call in E-UTRAN using procedure for CS fallback to 1xRTT
with a priority indication.
NOTE: For a Mobile Terminating Call from a normal user to a service user, no
special handling is required.
# 5 Architectural requirements
Editor\'s Note: This clause will identify the architectural requirement for
scenarios described in clause 4.
## 5.1 General Architecture principles for Multimedia Priority Services
### 5.1.1 MPS High Level Principles
The MPS Solution(s) shall be based on the following principles:
\- MPS shall be based on existing 3GPP architecture TS 23.002 [4].
\- MPS shall be based on the existing QoS mechanisms as specified in E-UTRAN
and EPC specifications, e.g. TS 23.401 [3].
\- MPS supports priority sessions on an \"end-to-end\" priority basis. Note
that if a session terminates on a server in the Internet (e.g. web-based
service), then the remote end and the Internet transport are out of scope.
\- MPS is based on the ability to invoke, modify, maintain and release
sessions with priority and deliver the priority media packets under network
congestion conditions.
\- A user shall be subscribed and authorized for MPS. Such user is referred to
as a Service User as per TS 22.153 [2].
\- The solution(s) shall support an on-demand MPS session that is based on
Service User invocation.
\- MPS is applicable to IMS session based services (voice, video and data) as
well as EPS bearer data services. Pre-emption of non-Service Users is subject
to national/regional regulations.
\- MPS shall be supported in a roaming environment when roaming agreements are
in place and where regulatory requirements apply.
\- An MPS-subscribed UE shall belong to one of the 5 special access-classes
(Access Classes 11 to 15) as defined in TS 22.011 [8]
\- Network uses existing Access Class Barring mechanism per TS 36.331 [7] and
TS 22.011 [8] to provide preferential access to MPS subscribers compared to
ordinary users, and to avoid overload situations.
### 5.1.2 MPS Bearer Management Principles
When an MPS session is requested by a Service User, the following bearer
management principles shall apply:
\- EPS bearers employed in an MPS session shall be assigned ARP value settings
corresponding to the priority level of the Service User.
\- ARP pre-emption capability and vulnerability settings for eMPS bearers are
subject to operator policies and depending on national/regional regulatory
requirements.
## 5.2 IMS Multimedia Priority Services
### 5.2.1 General
\- For IMS-based Multimedia Services, MPS shall support mechanisms to
establish AS and NAS connections with priority.
\- An MPS subscribed UE shall be assigned special Access Class(es), within the
range 11-15, to gain prioritized access to the E-UTRAN during congestion.
\- Based on regional regulatory requirements, an MPS subscribed UE may
optionally establish an EPS default bearer and a dedicated bearer that is used
to transport IMS/SIP signalling with priority. During the time of initial
attach/PDN connection, based on the priority indication received from the SPR
for the user, the PCRF determines whether to establish the default EPS bearer
and a dedicated bearer that handles IMS/SIP signalling with priority.
\- PCC shall be deployed in a network supporting MPS IMS priority services.
Subscription information in SPR for Service User shall reflect the user\'s
priority level as defined in TS 22.153 [2] and enable the PCRF to determine
the appropriate ARP setting for PCC rules when IMS priority service is
invoked.
## 5.3 Priority EPS Bearer Service
Editor\'s Note: This clause will describes the architecture requirement for
priority handling of EPS bearer when IMS is not used as service layer.
The Priority EPS bearer services solution(s) shall be based on the following
principles:
\- On-demand priority EPS Bearer Service invocation is performed via network
initiated resource allocation procedure and does not use UE initiated bearer
resource allocation procedure.
\- PCC shall be deployed in a network supporting MPS Priority Bearer service.
Subscription information in SPR for Service User shall reflect the user\'s
priority level as defined in TS 22.153 [2] and enable the PCRF to determine
the appropriate ARP setting for PCC rules when MPS bearer service is invoked.
## 5.4 CS Fallback
### 5.4.1 CS Fallback to GERAN/UTRAN
For CS Fallback to GERAN/UTRAN, MPS shall support a mechanism to properly
handle the priority voice call and enable the terminating user and/or call
originating Service User to establish the AS and NAS connection to fallback to
the GERAN/UTRAN
Followings are the architectural requirements to achieve priority handling of
GERAN/UTRAN CS Fallback MPS scenarios.
#### 5.4.1.1 Mobile-terminated GERAN/UTRAN CS Fallback call for a user in
E-UTRAN
\- If MME receives paging request with priority from MSC, the MME shall
preferentially handle paging request to initiate CS Fallback procedure
compared to other normal transactions.
\- If MME receives paging request with priority from MSC, MME and eNodeB shall
be able to page the normal terminating UE in prioritized way to establish the
radio and S1 connection for subsequent CS Fallback procedures.
#### 5.4.1.2 Mobile-originated GERAN/UTRAN CS Fallback call by a Service User
\- MME and eNodeB shall be able to provide prioritized treatment for mobile
originated GERAN/UTRAN CS Fallback originated by an authorized Service User.
### 5.4.2 CS Fallback to 1xRTT
For CS Fallback to 1x CS, MPS shall support a mechanism to properly handle
priority voice calls and enable the terminating user and/or the call-
originating Service User to establish the AS and NAS connection to fallback to
1x CS.
Priority MO or MT 1xCSFB with enhanced 1xRTT CS fallback procedure shall be
executed without the concurrent PS handover procedure.
The architectural requirements to achieve priority handling for 1x CS Fallback
MPS scenarios are the following:
#### 5.4.2.1 Mobile-terminated 1xCSFB call originated by service-user in 1xRTT
\- If the MME receives a message from 1xCS IWS which includes a prioritized 1x
CS Paging request, handling of the message should be in accordance with the
priority level indicated in the request (i.e. independent of the fact that
request originated in the 1xRTT network).
\- If the MME receives a message from 1xCS IWS which includes a prioritized 1x
CS Paging request, the MME and eNodeB shall be able to page the terminating UE
in prioritized way to establish the radio and S1 connection for subsequent CS
Fallback procedures.
#### 5.4.2.2 Mobile-originated 1xCSFB call by a service-user
\- The MME and eNodeB shall be able to provide prioritized treatment for a
1xCSFB request originated in E-UTRAN by a service-user.
## 5.5 SRVCC
When SRVCC is being applied and the call is a priority call, the network
entities shall assign priority level to voice that can be mapped to priority
level used in CS domain. In order to provide priority for SRVCC:
\- For SRVCC to GERAN/UTRAN:
\- The MME shall be able to detect that the session requires priority handling
in the target system, and notify the priority information to the MSC/MGW in
order for the target system to allocate CS and IMS network resources with
priority.
\- The MSC shall notify the priority indication to the IMS for priority
handling in IMS level, e.g. session transfer.
\- The source system notifies the priority information to the target system in
order for the RNC/BSS to allocate network resources with priority in case of
congestion situation.
\- The MSC Server shall be able to derive the IMS priority to be used for the
access transfer from the information priority information provided from MME.
The transfer request to IMS from MSC should have the same priority as the
original session over IMS.
# 6 Key Issues for MPS
Editor\'s Note: This clause will describe the proposed solutions to meet the
architecture requirements in clause 5.
## 6.1 IMS Multimedia Priority Services
Editor\'s Note: This clause will describes the key issues for IMS based
multimedia priority service including the aspect of interworking between IMS
and EPS bearer.
### 6.1.1 Key Issue 1 - Mobile Originated MPS Voice Session
#### 6.1.1.1 Description
Call-flow is required to capture mobile originated MPS Voice Session.
#### 6.1.1.2 Solution
Figure 6.1.1.2-1 shows the call flow for a mobile originating MPS session.
Figure 6.1.1.2-1: Mobile Originated MPS Voice Session
1\. RRC Establishment and Service Request: If the UE is in EMM-CONNECTED
state, this step is not required. Else the UE establishes RRC connection as
per TS 23.401 [3] clause 5.3.2.1. Since the Service User has an access class
in the range of 11-15, the Establishment Cause in RRC connection request is
set to highPriorityAccess. When the MME receives mobile initiated signalling
with establishment cause set to highPriorityAccess, the MME and eNodeB
prioritize RRC connection requests and establish the S1 bearer and radio
resources with priority.
2\. INVITE: The UE sends a SIP INVITE message to the P-CSCF on a pre-
established default or dedicated EPS bearer used to transport IMS/SIP
signalling. The MPS code/identifier and destination address or the MPS input
string supplied by the Service User is the SIP message. The P-CSCF detects
voice session origination invoked by MPS code identifier or MPS input string
and derives the session information.
3\. PCC Interaction: The P-CSCF invokes dynamic policy and forwards the
derived session information by communicating with the PCRF. The P-CSCF
provides information that the originating session is from a Service User. The
PCRF recognizes that this request is associated with an MPS session and should
be given priority treatment. The PCRF stores the received session information
and identifies the affected IP-CAN session.
4\. INVITE: The P-CSCF forwards the SIP INVITE message to the Serving CSCF
(S-CSCF).
5\. Modification of Default and dedicated EPS Bearer used to transport IMS/SIP
Signalling: The PCRF checks if the ARP of the EPS bearer (default or
dedicated) that is used to transport IMS/SIP signalling has a value
appropriate for the MPS session. If the ARP of the EPS bearer that is used to
transport IMS/SIP signalling is not appropriate for the MPS session, the PCRF
modifies the ARP of the EPS bearer that is used to transport IMS/SIP
signalling to a value appropriate for the MPS session. If the IMS/SIP
signalling traffic is transported over a dedicated EPS bearer, then the PCRF
modifies the ARP of the default EPS bearer of the same PDN connection to
ensure the IMS signalling transported over a dedicated EPS bearer and default
EPS bearer have an ARP value appropriate for MPS service, in order to avoid
being released due to congestion. This may also be done, based on the
operator\'s policy, to give priority for setting up signalling for early media
to collect additional credentials from a Service User in case of priority call
origination from any UE.
6\. 183 Progress: The IMS core receives a \"183 Progress\" message in response
to the SIP INVITE. The P-CSCF identifies that the session belongs to MPS and
the Service User\'s priority level. The P-CSCF maps the AF-Application
Identifier and the Reservation-Priority AVPs with appropriate settings for the
MPS session.
7\. PCC Interaction: The P-CSCF authorises the QoS resources and invokes
dynamic policy. The PCRF stores the received session information and
identifies the affected IP-CAN session.
8\. 183 Progress: The P-CSCF forwards the 183 Progress message to the UE.
9\. PRACK: After receiving 183 Progress message, the UE sends a SIP PRACK
message to the P-CSCF as a response to the 183 Progress message.
10\. Media Bearer(s) Establishment: The PCRF initiates the establishment of
dedicated EPS bearer(s) to transport the media traffic for the MPS session.
The dedicated EPS bearer media is handled with priority in EPS. In case the
MPS session is not authorized and is required to collect additional
credentials from the Service User, based on the operator\'s policy, priority
may be provided to the EPS bearers that are used for the authorisation of the
Service User.
NOTE 1: The mechanisms and protocols used to collect additional credentials
from the Service User for authorization of the MPS session are outside the
scope of the TR.
11\. IMS call establishment procedure continues.
NOTE 2: If the call fails or is rejected during the call establishment process
or when the call is released and if no other MPS calls are in progress the
PCRF downgrades the ARP of the Default and EPS bearer that were used to
transport IMS/SIP signalling back to its original value.
#### 6.1.1.3 Impacted entities in the System
P-CSCF needs to detect MPS code/identifier or the MPS input string in the SIP
INVITE message and provide service information to the PCRF. When the PCRF
receives service information from the IMS network, it needs to check if the
existing default bearer and dedicated EPS bearer that is used to transport
IMS/SIP signalling are appropriate for MPS and if they are not, the PCRF
initiates modifying these bearers. When the PCRF receives information that the
IMS session is authorized, and receives the authorized priority of the
session, the PCRF initiates the media bearer establishment with priority in
the EPS. When the PCRF receives an indication from the IMS network that the
session is MPS, but the authorization is not completed, if necessary as
determined by the operator\'s policy, the PCRF may provide priority to collect
additional credentials from the Service User. When the MME receives a request
to modify or establish a bearer with an ARP appropriate for an MPS session,
the MME and eNodeB establish the S1 bearer and radio resources with priority.
When the MME receives mobile initiated signalling with an establishment cause
set to highPriorityAccess, the MME and eNodeB prioritize the RRC connection
requests and establish the S1 bearer and radio resources with priority.
### 6.1.2 Key issue 2 - QoS handling for IMS multimedia priority Service
#### 6.1.2.1 Description
If the IMS Multimedia Priority service is invoked the related EPS bearer used
for IMS Multimedia Priority service media and IMS/SIP signalling will receive
priority treatment.
The QCI parameter is used to control bearer level packet forwarding treatment.
It is not needed to upgrade the QCI of MPS service related EPS bearer or add
some indicator to differentiate the MPS service related EPS bearer against the
non MPS service related EPS bearer with the same QCI.
To assure the MPS service related EPS bearers receive priority treatment
comparing to the non MPS service related EPS bearers when network need release
EPS bearer due to congestion. The ARP setting of the EPS bearers need to be
upgraded if these EPS bearers are changed from non MPS service related EPS
bearer to MPS service related EPS bearers.
#### 6.1.2.2 Solution
As the IMS media bearer will be established after the IMS session of the MPS
service has been established, it can be assigned with correct ARP value when
it is established. However IMS/SIP signalling related EPS bearer needs to be
upgraded if it has not been assigned with the appropriate ARP setting for the
MPS service when the IMS session of the MPS service has been initiated.
Also to avoid default bearer can not be allocated resource due to the low ARP
priority value in the handover case, for the MPS service related PDN
connection it is necessary to assure the ARP value of the default bearer
receives the appropriate ARP setting for MPS service.
#### 6.1.2.3 Impacted entities in the System
PCRF needs to assure that the ARP setting of the EPS bearer that is used to
transport the IMS/SIP signalling and the default bearer of that PDN connection
are assigned with the appropriate ARP setting for MPS service when it received
the MPS service activation indication from P-CSCF.
When IMS media bearer of MPS service is established, the PCRF needs to assure
that the ARP value of that bearer is assigned with the appropriate ARP setting
for MPS service.
### 6.1.3 Key issue 3 - **Mobile-terminating IMS multimedia service to a user
in E-UTRAN**
#### 6.1.3.1 Description
In Rel-9 for Mobile-terminating IMS multimedia service originated by the
Service User, following issues needs to be resolved.
1\. There is no mechanism for P-GW and S-GW to identify the priority
indication and further prioritize the handling internally.
2\. When the MME receives the downlink data notification, it may reject the
downlink data notification under congestion situation as MME cannot
distinguish whether it is the request for priority service.
3\. There is no mechanism for the system to page the terminating UE and allow
it to establish the AS and NAS signalling connection for subsequent resource
allocation/maintaining in prioritized way.
Due to lack of above capabilities, there is a case where the MT IMS multimedia
service triggered by the Service User cannot be completed successfully under
network congestion situation, e.g. MME and eNodeB congestions.
Figure 6.1.3.1-1: Capability required for mobile terminating **IMS multimedia
service** originated by a Service User
#### 6.1.3.2 Solution
##### 6.1.3.2.1 Terminating MPS session to users when the existing ARP of the
default bearer and IMS signalling bearer is not consistent with MPS use
The following procedure shows the terminating MPS session procedure to UE when
the existing ARP of the default bearer and IMS signalling bearer is not
consistent with MPS use.
Figure 6.1.3.2.1: PCRF initiated Bearer Modification Procedure with priority
handling
1\. The P-CSCF receives the SIP INVITE which includes MPS session indication
and the originating Service User\'s priority level and performs service
information provision in step 2. The bearer modification procedure (step 2)
and SIP INVITE message forwarding (step 6) are performed in parallel.
2\. P-CSCF provides service information to the PCRF including the MPS session
information and Service User priority level. The PCRF stores the service
information and sends the Ack back to the P-CSCF.
3\. The PCRF makes the policy decision. If the existing ARP of the default
bearer and IMS signalling bearer is not consistent with the desired ARP for
MPS session, the PCRF initiates Bearer Modification Procedure with Bearer QoS
Update as defined in clause 5.4.2.1 of TS 23.401 [3].
The PCRF sends the Policy and Charging Rules Provision to the PDN GW with
appropriate QoS parameters (including the desired ARP) for the PCC rules
pertaining to the default and IMS signalling bearers.
NOTE 1: In case of PMIP based S5, the PCRF sends the Gateway Control and QoS
Rules Provision to the Serving GW with the desired ARP.
4\. For GTP-based S5/S8, the PDN GW enforces the decision and sends the Update
Bearer Request message to the Serving GW to modify the ARP of the existing
default bearer and IMS signalling bearer.
5\. The Serving GW sends the Update Bearer Request message to the MME to
modify the ARP of the existing default bearer and IMS signalling bearer. The
MME updates the contexts to reflect the appropriate ARP for the default and
IMS signalling bearers. If ISR is activated, instead of sending Update Bearer
Request message to the MME, S-GW buffers the Update Bearer Request message and
sends a Downlink Data Notification message to the MME. The message includes
the priority indication, i.e. ARP, contained within the Update Bearer Request
that is intended to be applied to the default bearer and IMS signaling bearer.
If the Serving GW already sent the Downlink Data Notification without priority
to MME and is waiting for the user plane to be established, the SGW shall
immediately send the Downlink Data Notification message again with priority.
The MME sends a response to the S-GW.
NOTE 2: Priority indication format in Downlink Data Notification is to be
confirmed in Stage3.
6\. The P-CSCF sends the SIP INVITE message (i.e. as Downlink Application
Layer Data to the PDN GW and the PDN GW forwards it to the Serving GW).
7\. If the UE is in ECM-CONNECTED state, this step 7 and the following steps
8, 9, and 10 are not performed. If the Serving GW determines that there is no
downlink user plane established for the UE over the S1-U, the Serving GW sends
a Downlink Data Notification message to the MME.
8\. The MME sends Paging together with priority indication appropriate for an
MPS session to the eNodeB according to the indicated ARP.
If the MME already sent the paging message without priority and is waiting for
the paging response, the MME shall immediately send Paging together with
priority indication appropriate for an MPS session to the eNodeB again, e.g.
MME receives Downlink Data Notification without priority in step 7 and
afterwards receives Update Bearer Request with priority in step 5. Otherwise,
if the MME already sent the paging message with priority and is waiting for
the paging response, the MME shall not send Paging with priority again, i.e.
MME receives Update Bearer Request in step 5 and afterwards receives Downlink
Data Notification with priority in step 7.
9\. The eNodeB processes the Paging from MME according to the indicated
priority and sends RRC Paging message to the UE. The priority handling
mechanism at eNB is based on operator policy.
10\. The UE initiates the UE triggered Service Request procedure as specified
in clause 5.3.4.1 of TS 23.401 [3]. After the downlink S1-U bearer has been
established, S-GW forwards to the UE all IMS signalling bearer downlink data
(which includes the SIP INVITE message) that was buffered if the UE was in
ECM-IDLE state in step 6.
NOTE 3: In order to avoid a congestion situation at eNodeB, eNodeB may
initiate the access control which prevents normal users from making access
attempts in specified areas of a PLMN.
11\. The MME sends a Bearer Modify Request to the eNodeB.
12\. If ISR is activated, the MME builds a Session Management Request as
described in step 4 of the Bearer Modification Procedure in clause 5.4.2.1 of
TS 23.401 [3] and performs the corresponding Session Management procedure. If
ISR is not activated and only the QoS parameter ARP is modified, this step 12
is skipped.
NOTE 4: If the UE is in ECM-IDLE state, steps 11, 12 and 13 can be combined
with the Service Request procedure in step 10 or be performed standalone (see
clause 5.4.2.1 of TS 23.401 [3]).
13\. The eNodeB responds to the MME with a Bearer Modify Response to the
request received in step 11.
14\. The MME sends the Update Bearer Response to the S-GW.
15\. The S-GW sends the Update Bearer Response to the PDN-GW.
NOTE 5: In case of PMIP based S5, the Serving GW sends the Gateway Control and
QoS Rules Ack to the PCRF.
16\. If the PCRF requested an acknowledgement for Indication of IP-CAN Session
modification, then the PDN-GW sends the Acknowledge IP CAN Session
Modification Message to the PCRF.
17\. The IMS-based session termination procedure continues over the IMS
signalling bearer, and priority treatment applies in the event of congestion
when establishing the corresponding bearer(s) for the session.
NOTE 6: If the call fails or is rejected during the call establishment process
or when the call is released and if no other MPS calls are in progress, the
PCRF downgrades the ARP of the Default and EPS bearer that were used to
transport IMS/SIP signalling back to its original value.
##### 6.1.3.2.2 Terminating MPS session to users when the existing ARP of the
default bearer and IMS signalling bearer is already consistent with MPS use
The following procedure shows the terminating MPS session procedure to UE when
the existing ARP of the default bearer and IMS signalling bearer is already
consistent with MPS use.
Figure 6.1.3.2.2: Network initiated Paging Procedure with priority handling
1\. The P-CSCF receives the SIP INVITE which includes MPS session indication
and the originating Service User\'s priority level.
2\. P-CSCF provides service information to the PCRF including the MPS session
information and Service User priority level. The PCRF stores the service
information and sends the Ack back to the P-CSCF. The PCRF makes the policy
decision. If the existing ARP of the default bearer and IMS signalling bearer
is consistent with the desired ARP for MPS session, then Bearer Modification
Procedure with Bearer QoS Update is not performed.
3\. The P-CSCF sends the SIP INVITE message (i.e. as Downlink Application
Layer Data to the PDN GW). The PDN GW forwards the downlink data to the
Serving GW over the established EPS bearer for IMS signalling.
4\. If the Serving GW determines that there is no downlink user plane
established for the UE over the S1-U, the Serving GW sends a Downlink Data
Notification message to the MME with \"priority-indication\". The message
includes the ARP of the EPS bearer over which Downlink Data Packet (for SIP
INVITE) arrived that represents the priority applied to the IMS signaling
bearer. If the Serving GW already sent the Downlink Data Notification without
priority to MME and is waiting for the user plane to be established, the SGW
shall immediately send the Downlink Data Notification message again with
priority. The MME sends a response to the S-GW.
5\. The MME sends Paging together with priority indication appropriate for an
MPS session to the eNodeB according to the indicated ARP.
If the MME already sent the paging message without priority and is waiting for
the paging response, the MME shall immediately send Paging together with
priority indication appropriate for an MPS session to the eNodeB again, e.g.
MME receives Downlink Data Notification without priority for non MPS related
service and afterwards receives Downlink Data Notification with priority in
step 4.
The eNodeB processes the Paging from MME according to the indicated priority
and sends RRC Paging message to the UE. The priority handling mechanism at eNB
is based on operator policy.
6\. The UE initiates the UE triggered Service Request procedure as specified
in clause 5.3.4.1 of TS 23.401 [3].
NOTE: In order to avoid congestion situation at eNodeB, eNodeB may initiate
the access control which prevents normal users from making access attempts in
specified areas of a PLMN.
7\. The IMS-based session termination procedure continues over the IMS
signalling bearer, and priority treatment applies in the event of congestion
when establishing the corresponding bearer(s) for the session.
### 6.1.4 Key Issue 4 - Priority information download procedure
#### 6.1.4.1 Description
To recognize the MPS service on IMS application level, the P-CSCF needs
subscriber\'s profile of service priority level.
#### 6.1.4.2 Solution
The figure 6.1.4.2-1 shows the priority information download procedure.
Figure 6.1.4.2-1: IMS Registration Flow
1-6. These steps do not change from the corresponding IMS Registration
procedures specified in TS 23.228 [12].
7\. The S-CSCF receives the priority information, i.e. Service Priority Level,
for the MPS-subscribed UE from HSS, and maintains it as a part of user
profile. (See TS 24.229 [13] and TS 29.228 [14] for details).
8-14. The priority information is sent to P-CSCF. The P-CSCF stores this
information for the MPS-subscribed UE.
NOTE: CT WG1 is discussing various mechanisms on how to transfer the priority
status between S-CSCF and P‑CSCF.
The figure 6.1.4.2-2 shows the SIP message handling for IMS MO call initiated
by the MPS-subscribed UE.
Figure 6.1.4.2-2: IMS MO call procedure initiated by the MPS-subscribed UE
Step1 does not change from the corresponding IMS MO call procedures specified
in TS 23.228 [12] and TS 24.229 [13].
2\. P-CSCF judges whether the INVITE message requires the priority handling
based on user profile stored during the registration procedure and/or the
priority requested by the user and/or **MPS code/identifier** provided by
INVITE message. .If the session is determined to have priority handling, then
P-CSCF inserts/replaces the priority indication and forwards it to the S-CSCF.
Step 3 does not change from the corresponding IMS MO call procedures specified
in TS 23.228 [12] and TS 24.229 [13].
4\. S-CSCF will treat the INVITE request based on the priority indication
received from the P-CSCF. S-CSCF then forwards the INVITE to the next node
with this priority indication.
Following Steps do not change from the corresponding IMS MO call procedures
specified in TS 23.228 [12] and TS 24.229 [13].
### 6.1.5 Key Issue 5 -- Priority resource handling in SRVCC
#### 6.1.5.1 Description
As described in the following bullets, there is no capability for MME, MGW/MSC
server and MSC to inform priority indication to neighbour nodes e.g. MSC
Server or RNC/BSS during handover preparation.
There is no capability for MME to inform priority indication to MSC Server/MGW
and MSC server in the core network.
Figure 6.1.5.1-1 Capability required for PS to CS handover in SRVCC
Due to lack of above capabilities, there is a case where the SRVCC procedure
is triggered for the IMS based priority call may fail if target network, i.e.
UTRAN/GERAN and/or CS core network, is in congested situation. Therefore, it
shall be possible for MME, MGW/ MSC server and MSC to notify the target RAT of
the priority indication and target RAT and CS core network allocate its radio
and core network resources for the IMS based priority call.
#### 6.1.5.2 Solution
The solution for priority handling of radio resource in SRVCC procedure is
illustrated in Figure 6.1.5.2-1.
Figure 6.1.5.2-1: Priority handling of SRVCC from E-UTRAN to UTRAN/GERAN.
The key modifications to the basic flow for providing MPS service are as
follows:
0\. Based on IMS based priority call handling mechanism, eNodeB and MME
recognizes that the ongoing session is an IMS based MPS session. The SCC AS is
also aware the IMS MPS session(s) during the IMS based MPS session
establishment procedures as defined in TS 23.228 [12], i.e. during the session
establishment procedure.
From Step 1 to Step 2, the procedure does not change from the corresponding
SRVCC procedures specified in TS 23.216 [16].
3\. The eNodeB sends \"Handover required message\" to the MME.
Step 4 does not change from the corresponding SRVCC procedure specified in TS
23.216 [16].
  1. MME detects the session requires priority handling based on the priority indication (i.e. ARP) associated with IMS CN signalling (i.e. QCI-5) received during the IMS based MPS session establishment and sends the SRVCC PS to CS Request message to the MSC Server/MGW by sending a priority indication (i.e. ARP) for the ongoing IMS call in the PS to CS Handover message to MSC Server. The priority indication is used by the target RNC/BSS to determine whether the call needs priority during congestion for its resource allocation.
6\. Based on the priority indication (i.e. ARP) in the SRVCC PS to CS Request,
the MSC server/MGW sends Prepare Handover Request message to the Target MSC
with priority indication mapped from the ARP. The MSC Server maps the ARP to
the priority level, pre-emption capability/vulnerability for CS services based
on local regulation or operator settings. The priority indication indicates
the CS call priority during handover as specified in TS 25.413 [5] for UMTS
and TS 48.008 [18] for GSM/EDGE.
7\. The target MSC sends "Relocation Request/Handover Request" to the RNC/BSS.
The RNC/BSS allocates the radio resource based on the existing procedures with
priority indication, as specified in TS 25.413 [5] for UMTS and TS 48.008 [18]
for GSM/EDGE.
Both Step 8 and step 9 do not change the corresponding SRVCC procedure
specified in TS 23.216 [16].
10\. The target MSC sends a Prepare Handover Response message to the MSC
server with priority indication.
11\. When the MGW receives a Handover Response in step 10, the CS bearer is
established in prioritized way between the target MSC and the MGW associated
with the MSC Server.
12\. MSC Server sends the SIP Session Transfer message with the priority
indication to the IMS and the IMS entity handles the session transfer
procedure with priority. The priority indication in the SIP Session Transfer
message is mapped by the MSC Server from the priority indication (i.e. ARP) in
the SRVCC PS to CS Request received in step 5. The mapping of the priority
level is based on operator policy and/or local configuration, and the IMS
priority indicator should be the same as for the original IMS created over PS.
> From Step13 to Step18, the procedure does not change from the corresponding
> SRVCC procedures specified in TS 23.216 [16].
NOTE: The priority handling procedures for CS handover is defined in TS 23.009
[17], TS 48.008 [18], and TS 25.413 [5]. It is not expected to change due to
SRVCC HO.
## 6.2 Priority EPS Bearer Service
Editor\'s Note: This clause will describes the key issues for EPS bearer
priority when IMS is not used as service layer.
### 6.2.1 Key issue1 - QoS of Default Bearer Assignment for an Always-On MPS
Subscription
#### 6.2.1.1 Description
When attaching to the network, UE is given a default bearer, which it may use
for signalling any requests for services to the network. This clause discusses
QoS parameters assignment given to the default bearer when a Service User
having an Always-On MPS subscription attaches to the network to ensure UE\'s
PDN connection is admitted and not pre-empted during the congestion.
#### 6.2.1.2 Solution
This clause describes the signalling flow for IP‑CAN Session establishment for
a UE with an Always-On MPS subscription. The profile downloaded from the SPR
includes a priority indication. In this case the rules installed into the PDN
GW will include the appropriate QoS attributes (e.g. ARP, QCI). These
attributes will be assigned by the PDN GW to the EPS Bearer.
Figure 6.2.1.2.1: IP-CAN Session Establishment
1\. Steps 1-3 for an IP-CAN Session Establishment procedure with PCC as in TS
23.203 [15], Figure 7.2-1.
2\. If the PCRF does not have the subscriber\'s subscription related
information, it sends a request to the SPR in order to receive the information
related to the IP‑CAN session. The PCRF provides the subscriber ID and, if
applicable, the PDN identifier to the SPR. The PCRF may request notifications
from the SPR on changes in the subscription information.
3\. The user profile downloaded from the SPR includes a priority indication
for establishing an PS session with priority. The PCRF stores the subscription
related information containing the information about the allowed service(s)
and PCC Rules information.
4\. The PCRF makes the authorization and policy decision. The priority
indication is used to apply operator specific policy and configuration to
derive necessary QoS parameters (e.g. ARP, QCI) for establishing an MPS
session.
5\. Steps 5-12 for an IP-CAN Session Establishment procedure with PCC as in TS
23.203 [15], Figure 7.2-1.
### 6.2.2 Key issue2 - Priority Invocation/Revocation
#### 6.2.2.1 Description
Depending on the system design or operator choice, priority for EPS bearer
services can be given permanently to a Service User, or can be provided only
if specifically requested by the Service User (on-demand). If configured for
permanent priority, initial attach constitutes an invocation of priority for
EPS Bearer services. If however, on-demand priority is required, a mechanism
for invocation should be elaborated upon. Details for each case of priority
invocation should be investigated.
If priority is invoked at a time that user is already engaged in EPS bearer
services, the interaction with the existing bearers will be done having the
PCRF instruct the PDN-GW accordingly.
The indication of on-demand \"Priority Status\" can be communicated to the
PCRF by Application Function (AF) for a session which is requesting priority.
This can be done via the Rx interface. During the Priority invocation process,
the applicable bearer shall be upgraded with proper priority level according
to operator policy and configuration. After successful Priority Invocation,
priority level for that bearer shall be derived according to operator policy
and configuration.
During the Priority Revocation process, the existing bearers shall be modified
to a proper priority level according to operator policy and configuration.
#### 6.2.2.2 Solution
##### 6.2.2.2.1 Solution 1: Upgrading/Downgrading priority (MPS) for
Invoke/Revoke of On demand MPS
The solution relies on existing Rx procedures between the AF and the PCRF
whereby the AF requests modification of existing AF session, to
upgrade/downgrade priority of the UE\'s existing AF session(s).
The procedure used is the PCRF initiated IP‑CAN session modification procedure
in clause 7.4.2 of TS 23.203 [15]. The AF identifies the sessions to be
affected and using existing Rx procedure requests the PCRF to upgrade or
downgrade the priority of the existing AF sessions.
##### 6.2.2.2.2 Solution-2: Always On MPS Activation
The solution relies on existing procedures between the SPR and the PCRF
whereby the SPR notifies the PCRF when the subscriber\'s profile changes. Once
the PCRF receives a notification of a change in the subscriber\'s profile
(Priority EPS Bearer Service Invoked/Revoked) it triggers the PCRF initiated
IP CAN Session Modification per TS 23.203 [15], clause 7.5, to upgrade or
downgrade the QCI and/or ARP of existing GBR and non-GBR bearers (except for
the signalling bearer) when EPS Priority Bearer service is invoked/revoked,
respectively.
Figure 6.2.2.2-1: SPR Triggered IP CAN Session Modification procedure
1\. The SPR detects that the related subscription profile of an IP‑CAN session
has been changed. For instance, the Priority EPS Bearer Service of a Service
User has been invoked/revoked.
2\. If requested by the PCRF, the SPR notifies the PCRF on the changed
profile.
3\. The PCRF responds to the SPR.
4\. The PCRF stores the updated profile and makes resulting PCC decisions to
upgrade/downgrade the ARP of the appropriate service data flows.
5\. The PCRF provides all new PCC decisions to the PCEF, using the PCRF
initiated IP‑CAN session modification procedure in clause 7.4.2 of TS 23.203
[15]. The PCEF upgrades/downgrades the ARP of bearers.
#### 6.2.2.3 Impacted entities in the System
##### 6.2.2.3.1 Solution-1: Upgrading/Downgrading priority (MPS) for
Invoke/Revoke of On demand MPS
##### 6.2.2.3.2 Solution-2: Always On MPS Activation
The impacted entities are: SPR, PCRF
**SPR:**
New information elements/indicators are added to the user\'s profile to
reflect the Always-on MPS subscription status. The new IEs/indicators shall be
supported by the Sp interface.
**PCRF:**
PCRF updates all affected IP-CAN bearers.
## 6.3 CS Fallback
### 6.3.1 CS Fallback to GERAN/UTRAN
#### 6.3.1.1 Key Issue1 - Priority handling of mobile terminating call
##### 6.3.1.1.1 Description
In Rel‑9 GERAN/UTRAN CS Fallback procedure for mobile terminating call
originated by the Service User, following issues needs to be resolved.
1\. There is no mechanism for MME to prioritize the handling of Paging Request
with priority indication arrived from MSC.
2\. There is no mechanism for eNodeB to page the terminating UE and allow it
to establish the AS and NAS signalling connection for subsequent CS Fallback
procedure in prioritized way.
Due to lack of above capabilities, there is a case where the CS Fallback
procedure triggered by the call arrival from a Service User cannot be
completed successfully under network congestion situation, e.g. MME and eNodeB
congestions. Therefore, when MME detects the CS Fallback requires the priority
handling, it shall be possible for the MME and eNodeB to handle the CS
Fallback related procedure preferentially compared to other normal
transactions as well as to page the UE and enable the terminating UE to
establish the AS and NAS signalling connections.
Figure 6.3.1.1.1: Capability required for mobile terminating call originated
by a Service User
##### 6.3.1.1.2 Solution
##### 6.3.1.1.2.1 Priority handling of CS Fallback for Mobile Terminating Call
in idle mode {#priority-handling-of-cs-fallback-for-mobile-terminating-call-
in-idle-mode .H6}
The solution for priority handling of terminating call is illustrated in
Figure 6.3.1.2.1.
Figure 6.3.1.1.2.1: Priority handling of CS Fallback for Mobile Terminating
Call in idle mode
NOTE: In order to avoid congestion situation at eNodeB, it may initiate **the
access control which** prevents normal UE users from making access attempts in
specified areas of a PLMN.
1\. The MSC receives an IAM message with priority marking, e.g. eMLPP
priority. In order to handle the CS call establishment procedure after step
11b, the MSC/VLR memorises that the UE is paged with priority.
2\. The MME receives paging request message with priority indication, e.g.
eMLPP priority, from the MSC, then the MME processes this message and also the
subsequent CS fallback procedure preferentially compared to other normal
transactions. For this purpose, the MME memorises that the UE is paged with
priority.
3\. The MME sends Paging with priority marking to the eNodeB.
4\. With the priority indication in the received Paging, eNodeB sends Paging
to the UE preferentially compared to other normal Pagings.
5\. The UE and eNodeB establishes the RRC connection.
6\. When MME receives Extended Service Request in Step 6a, it detects this
message is the response to the priority CS Fallback procedure initiated in
step 3, and the MME processes this message with priority.
From Step 7 to 10, procedure described in clause 6.3.1.2.2 of this TR is
applied.
Step 11a does not change from the corresponding CS Fallback procedures
specified in TS 23.272 [6].
11b. The MSC receives the paging response or Location Area Update Request and
detects this message as the response to the priority CS Fallback procedure
initiated in Step2 as currently specified. Then, the MSC continues with
subsequent priority CS setup procedure.
12\. Existing priority CS voice call establishment procedure for mobile
terminating call is preformed, e.g. eMLPP.
##### 6.3.1.1.2.2 Priority handling of CS Fallback for Mobile Terminating Call
in Active mode {#priority-handling-of-cs-fallback-for-mobile-terminating-call-
in-active-mode .H6}
The solution for priority handling of terminating call is illustrated in
Figure 6.3.1.1.2.2.
Figure 6.3.1.1.2.2: Priority handling of CS Fallback for Mobile Terminating
Call in Active mode
  1. The MSC receives an IAM message with priority marking, e.g. eMLPP priority. In order to handle the CS call establishment procedure after step 9, the MSC/VLR memorises that the UE is paged with priority.
  2. The MME receives paging request message with priority indication, e.g. eMLPP priority, from the MSC, then the MME processes this message and also the subsequent CS fallback procedure preferentially compared to other normal transactions. For this purpose, the MME memorises that the UE is paged with priority.
From Step 3 to 5, does not change from the corresponding CS Fallback
procedures specified in TS 23.272 [6].
From Step 6 to 7, procedure described in clause 6.3.1.2.2 of this TR is
applied.
From Step 8 to 9, does not change from the corresponding CS Fallback
procedures specified in TS 23.272 [6].
10\. Existing priority CS voice call establishment procedure for mobile
terminating call is preformed, e.g. eMLPP.
##### 6.3.1.1.2.3 Priority handling of mobile terminating call when ISR active
and SGs is active between MSC/VLR and MME {#priority-handling-of-mobile-
terminating-call-when-isr-active-and-sgs-is-active-between-mscvlr-and-mme .H6}
The solution for priority handling of terminating call when ISR active and SGs
is active between MSC/VLR and MME is illustrated in Figure 6.3.1.1.2.3.
Figure 6.3.1.1.2.3: Priority handling of mobile Terminating Call when ISR
active and SGs is active between MSC/VLR and MME
From Step 1 to Step 3 the procedure does not change from the corresponding CS
Fallback procedures specified in TS 23.272 [6].
4\. The MSC/VLR sends a Paging message to the MME via SGs with priority
marking, e.g. eMLPP priority.
Steps 5a and 5b does not change from the corresponding CS Fallback procedures
for Mobile Terminating Call in figure 6.3.1.1.2.1.
6a. The MME sends CS Paging message to the SGSN with priority marking, e.g.
eMLPP priority. Then the SGSN treats this paging message preferentially
compared to other normal transactions.
6b. The SGSN receives the CS paging message from the MME, then the SGSN sends
paging messages to RNC/nodeB. SGSN may condier RNC overload conditsion as
specified in TS 25.413 [5].
NOTE: If ISR is not active or the UE is in ECM-CONNECTED state, the MME does
not send the CS paging message to the SGSN.
From Step 6c to Step 9 the procedure does not change from the corresponding CS
Fallback procedures specified in TS 23.272 [6].
##### 6.3.1.1.3 Impacted functions in the System
MSC maps priority indication of the IAM message to a priority indication of
the paging message sent on the SGs interface.
In a congestion situation the MME should use this priority indication to
process this message and also the subsequent CS fallback procedure
preferentially compared to other normal transactions. For this purpose and for
each paging attempt the MME memorizes that the UE is paged with priority. The
MME forwards the paging message with priority indication to the eNodeB.
In a congestion situation the eNodeB should handle received paging messages
with priority indication with preference over normal paging messages.
#### 6.3.1.2 Key Issue2 - Priority radio resource handling in CS fallback
##### 6.3.1.2.1 Description
If the CS Fallback is triggered when UE is in the Idle mode, MME requests the
eNodeB to allocate the E-RAB resource. If the call is originated in scenarios
described in clause 4.3.1, the following issue needs to be resolved.
1\. There is no capability for MME to inform priority indication to eNodeB.
Figure 6.3.1.2.1-1: Capability required for MME and eNode for priority radio
resource handling
Due to lack of above capability, there is a case where the CS Fallback
procedure triggered in scenarios described in clause 4.3.1 will fail if
E-UTRAN radio network is in congestion situation. Therefore, it shall be
possible that the MME notifies the priority indication to the eNodeB in E-RAB
resource request and the eNodeB allocates E-UTRAN radio bearer resources
preferentially compared to other normal MT calls and PS services.
Another case is that if the CS Fallback with PS handover support is triggered,
MME will initiate handover procedure to request the RNC to allocate the RAB
resource in GERAN/UTRAN. If the resource allocation at RNC fails, it is
considered that the PS handover fails and result in the failure of the CS
Fallback. Therefore, it shall be possible that eNodeB allocates the priority
indication to the RNC and the RNC allocates GERAN/UTRAN radio bearer resources
preferentially compared to other normal MT calls and PS services. With this
analysis, the following issue needs to be resolved.
2\. There is no capability for eNodeB to inform priority indication to RNC in
handover trigger.
Figure 6.3.1.2.1-2: Capability required for PS handover in CS fallback
Due to lack of above capability, there is a case where the CS Fallback
procedure triggered in scenarios described in clause 4.3.1 will fail if UTRAN
radio network congestion situation. Therefore, it shall be possible for eNodeB
to notify the RNC of priority indication and RNC to allocate UTRAN radio
resources for the priority MT call.
##### 6.3.1.2.2 Solution
The solution for priority handling of radio resource in CS fallback procedure
is illustrated in Figure 6.3.1.2.2.
Figure 6.3.1.2.2: Priority handling of PS HO in CS fallback procedure
NOTE 1: In case of no PS handover support, only the priority radio resource
allocation in E-UTRAN, i.e. from step 1 to step 3, applies.
1) The MME sends S1-AP request message to the eNodeB with priority indication.
This message also includes the CS fallback indicator.
NOTE 2: The priority indication shall be able to set a different priority
level from the one for the emergency call triggered CS fallback.
2) The eNodeB allocates radio bearer resources to the UE preferentially
compared to other normal calls when the UE is in idle mode.
Step 3 does not change from the corresponding CS Fallback procedures specified
in TS 23.272 [6].
NOTE 3: Based on operator policy, this indicator may be used by eNodeB to
decide whether to continue CS Fallback procedures with PS HO, i.e. step 4, or
to initiate radio release procedure to redirect the UE to 2G/3G Circuit Switch
as specified in TS 23.272 [6].
4) The eNodeB may send \"Hand over required message\" to the MME with priority
indication contained in Source to Target Transparent Container as specified in
TS 25.413 [5]. In this case, the priority indication is forwarded to the
target RNC transparently through the MME and SGSN. The indicator is used to
show whether the call needs consideration on the priority level.
NOTE 4: As UTRAN/GERAN does not have \"high-priority\" indicator for handover
in GPRS, normally, the priority indication in step 4 is considered as \"normal
call\" which have lower priority handling at target RAT.
5) The MME sends \"Forward relocation request message\" to the SGSN
6) The SGSN sends \"Relocation request\" to the RNC. When RNC receives
relocation request in Step 6 and if priority indication is sent in step 4, it
detects this message is the priority CS Fallback procedure initiated in step
4, and the RNC may use this information to handle allocates the radio resource
preferentially compared to other normal radio bearers, e.g. allocates the
radio resource in prioritized way, as specified in TS 25.413 [5].
From Step7 to Step12, the procedure does not change from the corresponding CS
Fallback handover procedures specified in TS 23.272 [6].
##### 6.3.1.2.3 Impacted functions in the System
The MME provides priority indication to the eNodeB in S1 AP Initial Context
Setup and UE Context Modification Request messages.
In a congestion situation the eNodeB should use priority indication to
allocate E-UTRAN radio bearer resources preferentially compared to normal
resource requests with no priority indication.
When CSFB based on PS handover is employed, the eNodeB provides priority
indication to the target GERAN/UTRAN which in congestion situation, should
allocate radio bearer resources with preference over normal resource requests
with no priority indication.
#### 6.3.1.3 Key Issue 3 - Priority handling of mobile originating call
##### 6.3.1.3.1 Description
In Rel‑9 GERAN/UTRAN CS Fallback procedure for mobile originating call, it is
not clear how the MME determines whether an originating call needs priority
handling. This is a necessary function for the MME as it needs to send the
request message to the eNodeB to request the radio resource allocation in
E-UTRAN if UE is in Idle mode and/or for the eNodeB to forward the priority
indication to the RNC for radio resource allocation if PS handover is
supported (see clause 6.3.1.2: Key Issue2 - Priority radio resource handling
in CS fallback).
In case of emergency call, TS 23.272 [6] specifies as follows, so that MME can
determine the call requires priority and informs E-UTRAN to allocate the radio
resource in prioritized way,
_In TS 23.272 [6], clause 4.6:_
_When UE is performing CS fallback procedure for Mobile Originating Call for
the purpose of emergency call, it shall indicate to the MME that this CS
fallback request is for emergency purpose. MME also indicates to the E-UTRAN
via the appropriate S1-AP message that this CS fallback procedure is for
emergency purpose._
In addition, PS handover priority handling for emergency call is also
specified in TS 25.413 [5] where priority indication is forwarded from source
RAT to the target RAT.
For MPS-subscribed UEs, the similar mechanisms for emergency call need to be
specified for priority call handling.
##### 6.3.1.3.2 Solution
##### 6.3.1.3.2.1 Mobile Originating call - PS HO supported {#mobile-
originating-call---ps-ho-supported .H6}
The solution for priority handling of originating call is illustrated in
Figure 6.3.1.3-1. The priority handling in this call flow applies to both
cases of UE in Idle mode and Active mode.
Figure 6.3.1.3-1: Priority handling of CS Fallback for Mobile Originating Call
in idle mode
0) During the E-UTRAN attach procedure the subscription information downloaded
from the HSS contains CS priority indication if the user has subscribed the
eMLPP priority service in the CS domain.
1) This step is performed if UE is in Idle mode, and UE sets the establishment
cause to HighPriorityAccess based on Access Class information, i.e. UE is
subscribed to one of 11 to15 in order to ensure that the RRC connection is
treated with adequate priority (see TS 36.331 [7]).
2) UE sends the Extended Service Request to MME. This message is transported
by S1-AP message which has establishment cause \"HighPriorityAccess\" from
eNodeB if Step1 is performed.
In this step, UE may get the lower layer failure due to radio congestion and
in this case, UE reselects the 2G/3G radio and establish the CS call as
specified in TS 24.301 [11]. Otherwise, if UE receives Extended Service Reject
from MME in response to step 2 due to, for instance, network congestion, UE
reselects the 2G/3G radio and establishes the CS call as well as specified in
TS 24.301 [11].
NOTE 1: Based on operator policy, MME may decide whether to initiate CS
Fallback taking other ongoing service(s), e.g. LCS over LTE, into account.
MME determines the CS Fallback procedure needs priority handling and sends
S1-AP Request message to the eNodeB with CS Fallback indicator and priority
indication. In case Step 1 was performed, the MME determines that the Extended
Service Request required priority handling based on either the
\"HighPriorityAccess\" establishment cause sent by eNB to the MME in the S1AP
message, i.e. in case Step 1 was performed or the CS priority Indication if
\"HighPriorityAccess\" establishment cause has not been received, i.e. in case
step 1 was not performed.
According to operator policy the MME may use CS priority Indication to verify
the priority handling of the CS Fallback procedure, in the case
\"HighPriorityAccess\" is received in the S1-AP message.
NOTE 2: The priority indication shall be able to set a different priority
level from the one for the emergency call triggered CS fallback.
From Step 3 to 6, procedure described in clause 6.3.1.2.2 of this TR is
applied.
From Step 7 to step 10, there is no change from the corresponding CS Fallback
procedures specified in TS 23.272 [6].
Related procedure for Attach is described in Figure 6.3.1.3-2.
Figure 6.3.1.3-2: Attach procedure for priority handling of CS Fallback
1)-6) Step 1-6 are performed as defined in TS 23.272 [6]. If the UE has
subscribed the eMLPP service in the CS domain, MME get the CS priority
indication in the subscription data from the HSS via the Update Location Ack
(IMSI, Subscription data) message. The CS priority indication is derived from
the eMLPP Service Subscription.
7) The VLR responds with Location Update Accept (VLR TMSI) to the MME.
##### 6.3.1.3.3 Impacted functions in the System
The HSS provides the CS priority indication to the MME during the subscription
data update procedure if the user subscribes the eMLPP service in the CS
domain. MME determines whether the CSFB MO procedure needs to be handled
preferentially based on that indication.
The MME provides priority indication in S1 AP Initial Context Setup and UE
Context Modification Request messages to the eNodeB.
In a congestion situation, the eNodeB should use priority indication to
allocate E-UTRAN radio bearer resources with preference over normal resource
requests with no priority indication.
### 6.3.2 CS Fallback to 1xRTT
#### 6.3.2.1 Key Issue1 - Procedure Flow for Priority handling of mobile
terminating call
##### 6.3.2.1.1 Description
In Rel‑9 1x CS Fallback procedure for mobile terminating call originated by
the Service User, following issues needs to be resolved.
1\. There is no mechanism for MME to prioritize the handling of Paging Request
with priority indication arrived from MSC.
2\. There is no mechanism for eNodeB to page the terminating UE and allow it
to establish the AS and NAS signalling connection for subsequent CS Fallback
procedure in prioritized way.
Due to lack of above capabilities, there is a case where the CS Fallback
procedure triggered by the call arrival from a Service User cannot be
completed successfully under network congestion situation, e.g. MME and eNodeB
congestions. Therefore, when MME detects the CS Fallback requires the priority
handling, it shall be possible for the MME and eNodeB to handle the CS
Fallback related procedure preferentially compared to other normal
transactions as well as to page the UE and enable the terminating UE to
establish the AS and NAS signalling connections.
Figure 6.3.2.1.1: Capability required for mobile terminating call originated
by a Service User
##### 6.3.2.1.2 Solution
The solution for priority handling of terminating call is illustrated in
Figure 6.3.2.1.2-1.
Figure 6.3.2.1.2-1: MT call to a 1x CS user in E-UTRAN
The key modifications to the basic flow for providing MPS service are:
1\. Same as in 1xCSFB.
2a. The paging request message from the 1xRTT MSC to the IWS will contain a
priority value or an emergency indicator as specified in 3GPP2 specification
A.S0008-C v3.0 [9] / A.S0009-C v3.0 [10].
2b. The S102 message containing the paging request message sent from the 1xCS
IWS to the MME contains a priority value.
3a. Based on the priority field or an emergency indicator in S102 message, if
the UE is idle, the MME indicates priority handling to the eNB for the page
message.
3b. The eNB handles the page message in a priority manner.
4a. The UE and the eNB setup RRC connection.
Steps 4b through 6 occur as specified in TS 23.272 [6].
6\. When MME receives Extended Service Request in Step 6, it detects this
message is the response to the priority CS Fallback procedure initiated in
step 3, and the MME processes this message with priority.
7\. The MME sends S1AP UE Context Modification with CSFB indication and a
priority indication.
Steps 8 through 15 occur as specified in TS 23.272 [6]. Either Step 9a occurs
in case basic 1xCSFB and Step 9b occur for enhanced 1xCSFB.
Steps 8 and 9 are handled with priority by the eNB.
##### 6.3.2.1.3 Impacted functions in the System
The MME receives a S102 message which includes 1xRTT CS Paging with priority
indication.
In a congestion situation the MME should use this priority indication to
process this message and also the subsequent CS fallback procedure
preferentially compared to other normal transactions. For this purpose and for
each paging attempt memorizes that the UE is paged with priority. The MME
forwards the paging message with priority indication to the eNodeB.
In a congestion situation the eNodeB should handle received paging messages
with priority indication with preference over normal paging messages.
#### 6.3.2.2 Key Issue 2 -- Procedure flow for Priority handling of mobile
originated call
##### 6.3.2.2.1 Description
Flows for priority handling of mobile originated call.
##### 6.3.2.2.2 Solution
The solution for priority handling of originating call is illustrated in
Figure 6.3.2.2.2-1.
Figure 6.3.2.2.2-1: CS MO call using fallback to CDMA 1x RTT network by a
Service user
The key modifications to the basic flow for providing MPS service are:
1\. During the E-UTRAN attach procedure the subscription information
downloaded from the HSS contains the CS priority indication if the user is a
service user.
2a. If the UE is in idle-mode, in order to ensure that the RRC connection is
treated with adequate priority the UE sets the establishment cause to
HighPriorityAccess.
3\. The UE sends extended service request which does not contain any priority
indication.
4\. The MME determines that the Extended Service Request requires priority
handling based on either (a) the \"HighPriorityAccess\" establishment cause
sent by eNB to the MME in the S1AP message if the MO 1xCSFB call occurred when
the UE is in idle-mode, or (b) the CS priority indication in subscription
information send by the HSS during the attach procedure if MO 1xCSFB call
occurred when the UE is in connected state. The MME sends an S1 UE Context
modification (for an active UE) or, UE Context setup (for an idle UE). This
message also includes a priority indication.
According to operator policy the MME may use the CS priority indication to
verify the priority handling of the CS Fallback procedure, in the case
\"HighPriorityAccess\" is received in the S1-AP message.
Steps 5 through 11 occur as specified in TS 23.272 [6]. Either Step 6a occurs
in case basic 1xCSFB and Step 6b occur for enhanced 1xCSFB.
Steps 5 and 6 are handled with priority by the eNB and does not execute
concurrent PS handover to CDMA eHRPD access.
#### 6.3.2.3 Impacted functions in the System
The HSS provides the CS priority indication to the MME during the subscription
data update procedure if the user subscribes the 1xCS priority service in the
CS domain. MME determines whether the CSFB MO procedure needs to be handled
preferentially based on that indication.
The MME provides priority indication in S1 AP Initial Context Setup and UE
Context Modification Request messages to the eNodeB.
In a congestion situation, the eNodeB uses priority indications to allocate
E-UTRAN radio bearer resources with preference over to normal resource
requests with no priority indication.
# 7 Overall Solution
Editor\'s Note: This clause will capture the overall solution (e.g.
information storage, call flows, impacts to NE, etc.).
## 7.1 IMS Multimedia Priority Services
## 7.2 Priority EPS Bearer Service
## 7.3 CS Fallback
# 8 Conclusions
This Technical Report has served its purpose in providing analysis and
solutions in order to support Multimedia Priority Services for E-UTRAN access
within Rel-10.
Based on the analysis provided in the main body of this TR, SA2 can undertake
the normative work towards the specifications under its responsibility.
The potential impacted stage 2 specifications under SA2 responsibility are as
follows (list is not exhaustive):
\- TS 23.401 [3]
\- TS 23.203 [15]
\- TS 23.228 [12]
\- TS 23.272 [6]
\- TS 23.002 [4]/TS 23.221 [20] (if needed)
And based on the analysis provided in clause 6.1.5 Priority resource handling
in SRVCC, SA WG2 can undertake the normative work towards the Rel-11
specifications under its responsibility.
The potential impacted stage 2 specifications under SA WG2 responsibility are
as follows (list is not exhaustive):
\- TS 23.216 [16]
\- TS 23.237 [19]
No special mechanisms and hence no standards impacts are required to support
priority resource handling for SRVCC to 1xCS.
#