# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
This Technical Report describes solutions for interworking between mobile
operators and data application providers. The solutions developed will
describe a framework for authentication, authorization, policy and charging
for various interworking scenarios.
**Solutions developed as part of this work item will cover the following
different relationships between mobile operators and data application
providers for both roaming and non-roaming cases when**
\- **mobile operator owns all the application layer entities** ;
\- **mobile operator does not own all the application layer entities.**
The technical report will investigate charging, policy and group addressing
capabilities for interworking between mobile operators and data application
providers. **Updates to 3GPP functions and interfaces will be specified for
solutions based on IMS and/or EPC.**
On-going work for authentication and other aspects in other 3GPP work items
will not be duplicated. It will be investigated whether changes to 3GPP
specifications are needed and if so which ones. The work item will focus on
impacts to IMS and EPC.
Editor\'s note: The investigation of solutions based on GSMA OneAPI and
Wholesale Applications Community (WAC) will be deprioritised and may be
postponed to Rel-12 depending on available time for completion of this report.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 41.001: \"GSM Release specifications\".
[3] 3GPP TS 33.220: "Generic Authentication Architecture (GAA); Generic
Bootstrapping Architecture"
[4] 3GPP TS 33.210: "3G Security; Network Domain Security (NDS); IP Network
Layer Security"
[5] 3GPP TR 33.924: "Identity Management and 3GPP Security Interworking;
Identity Management and Generic Authentication Architecture (GAA)
Interworking"
[6] 3GPP TS 23.335: "User Data Convergence (UDC); Technical Realization and
Information Flows; Stage 2"
[7] 3GPP TS 23.401: "General Packet Radio Service (GPRS) enhancements for
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) access"
[8] 3GPP TS 23.203: "Policy and charging control architecture"
[9] 3GPP TS 23.402: "Architecture enhancements for non-3GPP accesses"
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [x] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Bootstrapping Server Function (BSF):** Definition from TS 33.220 [3]
**Network Application Function (NAF):** Definition from TS 33.220 [3]
**OpenID Provider (OP):** Definition in TR 33.924 [5]
**Relying Party (RP):** Definition in TR 33.924 [5]
**User Data Repository (UDR):** Definition in TS 23.335 [6]
**Front End (FE):** Definition in TS 23.335 [6]
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[x] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
BSF Bootstrapping Server Function
IdP Identity Provider
GAA Generic Authentication Architecture
GBA Generic Bootstrapping Architecture
NAF Network Application Function
OP OpenID Provider
FE Front End
UDC User Data Convergence
UDR User Data Repository
# 4 Scenarios for interworking between mobile operators and data application
providers
Several scenarios are presented in this section. They can exist simultaneously
in a mobile operator's network. Figure 4-1 shows the non-roaming scenario
where the mobile operator owns the EPS as well as application layer entities.
Access and IP connectivity is provided by the mobile operator. Application
platforms, also provided by the mobile operator, shown in the figure connect
to the core network directly. Application platforms could be application
servers (e.g. Video on Demand Server, PSS Server, MTC Server, etc.).
{width="4.03125in" height="3.377083333333333in"}
Figure 4-1: Non-roaming scenario -- All entities owned by mobile operator
{width="4.565277777777778in" height="3.377083333333333in"}
Figure 4-2: Non-roaming scenario -- Application platform owned by 3^rd^
Parties/Internet
Figure 4-2 provides the non-roaming scenario where the mobile operator does
not own all the application layer entities. Access and IP connectivity is
provided by the mobile operator. The 3rd party Application Platforms in this
figure could be application servers (e.g. Video on Demand Server, PSS Server,
MTC Server, etc.) or could be 3rd party software development platforms. The
horizontal line represents the demarcation between the mobile operator domain
and the 3rd party application provider domain. The mobile operator and 3rd
party application providers may have agreements.
{width="5.565277777777778in" height="3.9243055555555557in"}
Figure 4-3: Home Routed Roaming scenario -- Home Mobile Operator
owned/collaborated Application Platform
Figure 4-3 provides the roaming scenario for both the above owned and
collaborative scenarios. This figure shows the home-routed scenario where all
traffic is routed to home mobile operator EPS and applications are delivered
via roaming agreements between mobile operators.
{width="5.764583333333333in" height="3.432638888888889in"}
Figure 4-4: Local Breakout roaming scenario - visited mobile operator
collaborative Application Platform
Figure 4-4 provides the roaming scenario between mobile operators and 3rd
party application provider domains. In this scenario the application provider
has agreements with visited mobile operator. This figure shows the local-
breakout scenario where all traffic is routed to application domain from the
visited operator network. The home network still performs authentication and
authorisation of the user, and also provides policy information to the visited
network using the existing mechanisms and roaming agreements.
NOTE: Application provider interaction with the visited mobile operator for
the policy happens directly because of the collaboration with visited mobile
operator.
Editor's Note: Other scenarios for (1) Home-routed roaming, with VPLMN
owned/collaborative; (2) LBO roaming, with HPLMN owned/collaborative, (3) LBO
roaming, with VPLMN owned/collaborative are for FFS.
Editor's Note: It is FFS whether it is required to have policy interactions
between the Application platform and HPLMN in order to fulfil this scenario or
it is possible to fulfil all the policy interactions directly with the VPLMN.
# 5 Architectural Requirements
This work-item shall use existing standards to achieve the objectives to the
extent possible.
# 6 Solutions for interworking between mobile operators and data application
providers
Editor's Note: This clause will describe the solution(s) for interworking
between mobile operators and data application providers.
## 6.1 Architecture #1
### 6.1.1 Architecture Principles
Non-roaming and roaming home-routed/local breakout scenarios are supported.
The UDC architecture is used as a basis for user data management. UDR can be
used by the non-IMS AS to store/retrieve application related data via Mh. The
data model used for storing and retrieval is transparent to the UDR.
GBA and interworking between GBA and OpenID is used as a basis for security
framework. Roaming scenarios are also addressed.
Network Domain Security (TS 33.210 [4]) can be used for security of reference
points exposed to 3^rd^ parties.
### 6.1.2 Architecture Description
Solution is based on existing EPC architecture along with UDC and GBA
architectures [3-6].
{width="5.525in" height="4.539583333333334in"}
Figure 6.1.2-1: Non-Roaming Architecture -- all entities owned by the Mobile
Operator
Figure 6.1.2-1 shows the architecture components and the interfaces.
EPC components (eNB, SGW, PGW, MME and PCRF) are specified in TS 23.401[7].
UDC components (UDR and HSS-FE) are specified in TS 23.335 [6].
GBA (BSF, NAF and SLF) are specified in TS 33.220 [3]. GBA and OpenID
interworking components (OP and RP) are identified in TR 33.924.
The non-IMS Application server can belong to the Mobile Network Operator or to
a 3^rd^ party application provider. In the latter case, appropriate security
mechanisms need to be provided to protect the interfaces to PCRF UDR and RP
such as TS 33.210 [4].
The following are the associated interfaces for the architecture:
S1-MME, S1-U, S5, S6a, Gx, S8, S9, S11, SGi are specified in TS 23.401[7].
Gxc is specified in TS 23.402 [9]
Rx is specified in TS 23.203[8].
Ud is specified in TS 23.335 [6].
Zh, Zn, Ua, Ub, Dz are specified in TS 33.220 [3].
> Mh is the interface between the non-IMS AS and HSS-FE and it can span beyond
> 3GPP (H)PLMN. It is similar to the Sh interface but it is not used by IMS
> application. Protocol used on Mh is assumed to be based on Sh as defined in
> 3GPP.
{width="5.422916666666667in" height="4.283333333333333in"}
Figure 6.1.2-2: Non-Roaming Architecture -- non-IMS AS owned by 3^rd^ party
Application Provider
Figure 6.1.2-2 shows the non-roaming architecture where the non-IMS AS is
owned by 3^rd^ party application provider.
{width="5.0993055555555555in" height="3.872916666666667in"}
Figure 6.1.2-3: Home-Routed Roaming Architecture -- non-IMS AS owned by HPLMN
Figure 6.1.2-3 shows the home routed roaming architecture where the HPLMN owns
the non-IMS AS.
{width="6.506944444444445in" height="4.824305555555555in"}
Figure 6.1.2-4: Local Breakout Roaming Architecture
### 6.1.3 Interface Enhancements
### 6.1.4 Impacts on existing nodes or functionality
### 6.1.5 Evaluation
## 6.2 Architecture #2
Editor's Note: This subclause will contain functional description and
interface enhancements for solution based on IMS
### 6.2.1 Functional Description
### 6.2.2 Interface Enhancements
### 6.2.3 Impacts on existing nodes or functionality
### 6.2.4 Evaluation
## 6.3 Other solutions and considerations
Editor's Note: This subclause will contain the functional description and
interface enhancements for other solutions not covered above.
###
# 7 Conclusion
Editor's Note: This clause will provide conclusions with respect to what
further specification work is required in order to provide interworking
between mobile operators and data application providers.
#