# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The present document defines a frame substitution and muting procedure which
shall be used by the Receive (RX) Discontinuous Transmission (DTX) handler for
the half rate speech traffic channels within the digital cellular
telecommunications system. The present document is part of a series covering
the half rate speech traffic channels as described below:
GSM 06.02 \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half rate
speech; Half rate speech processing functions\".
GSM 06.20 \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half rate
speech; Half rate speech transcoding\".
**GSM 06.21 \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half rate
speech; Substitution and muting of lost frames for half rate speech traffic
channels\".**
GSM 06.22 \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half rate
speech; Comfort noise aspects for half rate speech traffic channels\".
GSM 06.41 \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half rate
speech; Discontinuous Transmission (DTX) for half rate speech traffic
channels\".
GSM 06.42 \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half rate
speech; Voice Activity Detector (VAD) for half rate speech traffic channels\".
GSM 06.06 \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half rate
speech; ANSI‑C code for the GSM half rate speech codec\".
GSM 06.07 \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half rate
speech; Test sequences for the GSM half rate speech codec\".
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document defines a frame substitution and muting procedure which
shall be used by the Receive (RX) Discontinuous Transmission (DTX) handler
when one or more lost or unreliable speech or SIlence Descriptor (SID) frames
are received from the Radio Sub System (RSS).
The requirements of the present document are mandatory for implementation in
all GSM Base Station Systems (BSS)s and Mobile Stations (MS)s capable of
supporting the half rate speech traffic channel.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
```{=html}
``` \- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] GSM 01.04: \"Digital cellular telecommunication system (Phase 2+);
Abbreviations and acronyms\".
[2] GSM 05.03: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Channel coding\".
[3] GSM 06.20: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half
rate speech; Half rate speech transcoding\".
[4] GSM 06.41: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half
rate speech; Discontinuous Transmission (DTX) for half rate speech traffic
channels\".
[5] GSM 06.06: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half
rate speech; ANSI‑C code for the GSM half rate speech codec\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
The definitions of terms used in the present document can be found in GSM
06.20 [3], GSM 06.41 [4], GSM 05.03 [2].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
BFI Bad Frame Indication
BSS Base Station System
DTX Discontinuous Transmission
GSM Global System for Mobile communications
LPC Linear Predictive Coding
MS Mobile Station
RSS Radio Sub System
RX Receive
SID SIlence Descriptor
UFI Unreliable Frame Indication
For abbreviations not given in this clause, see GSM 01.04 [1].
# 4 General
The RSS indicates lost speech or SID frames by setting the Bad Frame
Indication (BFI) flag and unreliably decoded speech or SID frames by setting
the Unreliable Frame Indication (UFI) flag.
If the BFI flag is set, the speech decoder performs frame substitution and
muting of the speech output. The purpose of frame substitution is to conceal
the effect of lost frames. The purpose of muting the speech output in case of
several lost frames is to indicate the breakdown of the channel to the Mobile
Station (MS) user in a way that avoids excessively unpleasant sounds.
If the UFI flag is set, the speech decoder performs a plausibility analysis of
the received frame parameters and of the output signal aiming at the detection
and concealment of erroneous frames which are not marked with the BFI flag.
# 5 Requirements
## 5.1 Error detection and concealment in case of unreliable speech or SID
frames
A cleared BFI flag (BFI= \"0\") and a set UFI flag (UFI=\"1\") indicate a
probably erroneous speech or SID frame. To improve the subjective quality, the
probability of decoding erroneous frames shall be decreased by additional
error detection which is based on both the exploitation of the frame
parameters\' properties and the decoder output signal\'s properties.
### 5.1.1 Error detection
By investigating the frame parameter properties, it shall be decided whether
the frame is to be considered as usable or unusable. In the latter case, the
BFI flag is set and substitution and muting is performed (clause 5.2). Clause
6.1 gives an example solution for error detection in case of unreliable
frames.
### 5.1.2 Output signal concealment
If the frame is considered as usable, properties of the decoder output signal
shall be compared to the corresponding signal properties of the previous valid
frames. In case of large differences, the output signal shall be modified such
that these differences are limited. Clause 6.2 gives an example solution for
output signal concealment in case of unreliable frames.
## 5.2 Frame substitution and muting in case of lost speech or SID frames
A set BFI flag (BFI=\"1\") indicates a lost speech or SID frame. Normal
decoding of these frames would result in a degradation of the subjective
quality of the speech. To improve the subjective quality of the speech, the
frame parameters shall be appropriately modified prior to the execution of the
speech decoder functions.
### 5.2.1 First and second lost speech frame
The first and second lost speech frame shall be partly or completely
substituted with the last valid speech frame. For the first and second lost
speech frame, the output shall not be muted directly.
### 5.2.2 Subsequent lost speech frames
For subsequent lost speech frames, a muting technique shall be used that will
gradually decrease the output level, resulting in silencing of the output
after a maximum of 80 ms. For subsequent lost speech frames, the muting of the
output shall be maintained. Clause 6.3 gives an example of such a method.
### 5.2.3 First and second lost SID frame
The first and second lost SID frame shall be substituted with the last good
SID frame. For the first and second lost SID frame, the output shall not be
muted directly.
### 5.2.4 Subsequent lost SID frames
For subsequent lost SID frames, a muting technique shall be used that will
gradually decrease the output level, resulting in silencing of the output
after a maximum of 320 ms. For subsequent lost SID frames, the muting of the
output shall be maintained. Clause 6.4 gives an example of such a method.
# 6 Example solutions
The C code of the following example solutions are given in GSM 06.06 [5].
## 6.1 Example solution for error detection in case of unreliable frames
With the parameter R0, the average signal energy is transmitted. Except at the
beginning or the end of a talk spurt, this parameter shows a smooth behaviour
from frame to frame. For error detection purposes, the difference of the
R0‑value between the actual and the last good frame is computed. If this
difference exceeds a level dependent threshold and the frame is marked as
unreliable, it is declared unusable by setting the BFI flag equal to \"1\".
## 6.2 Example solution for output signal concealment in case of unreliable
frames
In the speech decoder, the output signal is created by processing an
excitation sequence through an LPC synthesis filter. The output signal energy
of each subframe is calculated and compared to the output signal energy of the
previous subframes. If the difference exceeds a level dependent threshold, the
excitation sequence is attenuated such that the output signal energy
corresponds to the output signal energy of the previous subframes.
## 6.3 Example solution for substitution and muting of lost speech frames
For the half rate speech decoder, a possible substitution and muting strategy
is based on an 8‑state machine.
The state, with the exception of states 6 and 7, indicates how many
consecutive frames were lost. For example, state 5 indicates that 5
consecutive frames (including the current frame) were lost. State 7 is the
initial state of the system, so that if the first decoded frame is lost, the
frame is muted. Usually, the system will operate in state 0. The state machine
remains in this state unless a frame is lost. On each successive lost speech
frame, the state machine moves to the next higher numbered state. As soon as a
frame is not declared lost, the machine returns to state 0 (unless it is in
state 6). The machine remains in state 6 in the case of additional lost speech
frames. If the machine is in state 6, a single frame without detected errors
moves the machine to state 7 (i.e., two successive frames with no detected
errors are needed to return to state 0 from state 6). This provides additional
protection during prolonged intervals of very poor channel conditions which
might cause false indications of valid speech data. If the machine is in state
7 and a lost speech frame is received, the machine returns to state 6.
In each state, the following occurs:
State 0: No error is detected. The received decoded speech data is output. The
current frame parameters are stored.
State 1: An error has been detected in the frame. If the last speech frame in
state 0 is in the unvoiced mode, then the parameters R0, INT_LPC and the LPC
coefficients in the current frame are replaced with the corresponding values
from the last good frame. All GSP0 parameters are replaced with the GSP0_4
parameter from the last good frame. If the MODE bits for the current frame
indicate unvoiced, the current frame of codevectors is used. If not, the
codevectors from the last good frame are used. The frame\'s remaining decoded
bits are passed to the speech decoder without modification.
Alternatively, if the last speech frame in state 0 was in the voiced mode, the
long term predictor lag from the last good frame is used for all subframes in
the current frame. The parameters MODE, R0, INT_LPC and the LPC coefficients
are replaced with those from the last good frame. All GSP0 parameters are
replaced with the GSP0_4 parameter from the last good frame. If the MODE bits
for the current frame indicate voiced (MODE = 1, 2 or 3), the current frame of
codevectors is used. If not, the codevectors from the last good frame are
used. The frame\'s remaining decoded bits are passed to the speech decoder
without modification.
State 2: Same action as in state 1.
State 3: As in state 1 and 2, a frame repetition is performed, but the frame
energy R0 (coded on the interval from 0 to 31) is decreased by a value of 2.
State 4: Same action as in state 3.
State 5: Same action as in state 3.
State 6: Again a frame repetition is performed. The output speech signal is
muted by setting R0 to zero.
State 7: The speech signal remains muted, R0 remains zero.
## 6.4 Example solution for substitution and muting of lost SID frames
The first and second lost SID frame is replaced by the last good SID frame.
For subsequent lost SID frames the last good SID frame is repeated, but the
frame energy R0 (coded on the interval from 0 to 31) is decreased with a
constant value of 2 in each frame down to R0 = 0. This value is maintained if
additional lost SID frames occur.
#