# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The SMG2-Speech experts Group (SEG) started its activity early in 1995 for the
standardization of an Enhanced Full Rate speech codec. The Group produced a
test plan for the first phase of testing (pre-selection phase) which is
described in permanent document SEG‑4 (ETSI SMG2 SEG: SEG‑4 (v 1.0) \"A
Subjective Pre-Selection Test Plan for the Enhanced Full Rate Speech Coding
Algorithm\") to assess the performance of the submitted candidates. This test
plan is based on the general knowledge coming from past ITU‑T and ETSI
activities on codec evaluation (GSM half rate and ITU‑T 8 kbit/s recent
exercises for instance). At the end of this Pre-selection Phase, SMG decided
to standardize the PCS 1 900 codec, known as the US‑1 codec and no formal
characterisation testing has been performed for the selected codec.
The present document therefore reports the results from the Pre-selection and
Verification Phase of testing only. Consequently, the results reported here
are less detailed, and the confidence intervals for them are wider, than those
obtained for the GSM half rate standardization (GSM 06.08, [3]) where specific
and detailed characterisation testing was performed. In addition, not all
laboratories followed the same pre-selection test plan, further complicating
the interpretation of the results.
The following experiments included in SEG‑4 were carried out by several
laboratories in the Pre-selection Phase:
\- Experiment 1: Quality under error and tandeming conditions (A-law, Modified
IRS);
\- Experiment 2: Quality under background noise conditions (Vehicular noise,
UPCM, NoIRS);
\- Experiment 3: Quality under background noise conditions (Background music,
UPCM, NoIRS);
\- Experiment 4: Talker Dependency (UPCM, NoIRS);
\- Experiment 5: Quality under high error conditions --EP3 (A-law, Modified
IRS).
A practical \'indirect\' method of performance comparison between different
results was adopted utilising the Modulated Noise Reference Unit (MNRU) (see
note) as a reference degradation. The MNRU provides the additional function of
allowing normalisation of results across different laboratories carrying out
the same experiment, through the conversion of MOS scores to Equivalent Q
(dB). The Q (dB) values introduced in a test normally range from 0 to 50 dB.
In SEG‑4, both Experiment#1 and Experiment#5 on error conditions covers this
range, the other experiments do not.
NOTE: The MNRU is a device designed for producing speech correlated noise that
sounds subjectively like the quantising noise produced by log-companded PCM
codecs. The device is subjectively calibrated for Mean Opinion Scores (MOS)
against Q dB (where Q is the ratio of the speech to speech-correlated noise
power). The \'Equivalent Q\' of the codecs under test can be found from the
corresponding MOS on the calibration curve of the MNRU (S-shaped curve).
Only four laboratories ran tests which followed the Pre-selection Test Plan
described in SEG‑4 (BT/lab1, CNET/lab2, Tele Denmark/lab3, NEC/lab4).
MOTOROLA/lab5 participated in the Pre-selection Phase but their experiments
did not comply with SEG‑4. TI/lab8 ran one experiment only from SEG‑4. Results
produced by COMSAT/lab6 following a NOKIA-designed test plan are part of
standardization of the codec in North America and NOKIA/lab7 performed
complementary experiments during the ETSI Pre-selection Phase.
As no further analysis have been undertaken to allow the averaging of scores
across the different laboratories, results are reported in the annex on a
laboratory-by-laboratory basis. For error and tandeming conditions, results
are reported in terms of Equivalent Q (dB) values. For background noise
conditions and talker dependency, results are reported in terms of DMOS values
with either Confidence Interval (CI) or Standard Deviation (SD) as there is
insufficient data available to normalise across laboratories via MNRU
conditions.
The quality performance of the EFR codec is compared to High and Low
references introduced in permanent documents SEG‑3 (ETSI SMG2 SEG: SEG‑3
\"Selection Criteria for the Enhanced Full Rate Speech Coding Algorithm \--
Speech Quality Requirements\") and SEG‑4 (ETSI SMG2 SEG: SEG‑4 (v 1.0) \"A
Subjective Pre-Selection Test Plan for the Enhanced Full Rate Speech Coding
Algorithm\", Section 7). These references were chosen as representative of the
\"minimum\" and \"objective\" performance targets respectively, and are
reported in table 1.
Table 1: References per condition: High Ref., Low Ref. And G.728
+-------------+----------------+--------------+---------------------+ | EXPERIMENTS | Conditions | High Ref | Low Ref | | | | | | | (SEG‑4) | | | | +-------------+----------------+--------------+---------------------+ | EXP#1 | EP0 | G.728 | G.728 | +-------------+----------------+--------------+---------------------+ | EXP#1 | EP1 | MNRU 24 dB | TCH-FS (EP1) | +-------------+----------------+--------------+---------------------+ | EXP#1 | EP2 | TCH-FS (EP1) | TCH-FS (EP2) | +-------------+----------------+--------------+---------------------+ | EXP#5 | EP3 | TCH-FS (EP2) | TCH-FS (EP3) | +-------------+----------------+--------------+---------------------+ | EXP#1 | EP0 (tandem) | G.728 | G.728 | +-------------+----------------+--------------+---------------------+ | EXP#1 | EP1 (tandem) | TCH-FS (EP1) | TCH-FS (EP1 tandem) | +-------------+----------------+--------------+---------------------+ | EXP#2 | Vehicle 10 | G.728 | G.728 | +-------------+----------------+--------------+---------------------+ | EXP#3 | Music 20 | G.728 | G.728 | +-------------+----------------+--------------+---------------------+ | EXP#4 | Male Talkers | G.728 | G.728 | +-------------+----------------+--------------+---------------------+ | EXP#4 | Female Talkers | G.728 | G.728 | +-------------+----------------+--------------+---------------------+ | EXP#4 | Children | G.728 | G.728 | +-------------+----------------+--------------+---------------------+
A figure showing the general trend of the EFR behaviour for error conditions
in noise-free environment, compared to the high (G.728) and low (TCH-FS)
references is added to individual laboratories\' quantitative results (figure
15). The general quality performance of the EFR codec is summarised in table
15.
In the Verification Phase, the behaviour of the EFR codec under the following
test conditions was tested:
\- behaviour of the DTX System;
\- performance with DTMF tones;
\- performance with network information tones;
\- performance with special input signals;
\- performance with music signals;
\- performance with noise signals;
\- performance with different languages;
\- delay of the TCH-EFR;
\- frequency response;
\- complexity.
The results of these tests are also included in this report under the
respective clauses.
Furthermore, the EFR codec was checked for correct functioning for the
following items:
\- test of overload point;
\- SID frame encoding;
\- muting behaviour;
\- idle channel behaviour.
No artefact or malfunctioning was detected for these items.
# 1 Scope
The present document gives background information on the performance of the
GSM enhanced full rate speech codec. Experimental results from the Pre-
selection and Verification tests carried out during the standardization
process by the SEG (Speech Expert Group) are reported to give a more detailed
picture of the behaviour of the GSM enhanced full rate speech codec under
different conditions of operation.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] GSM 03.05: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Technical performance objectives\".
[2] GSM 03.50: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Transmission planning aspects of the speech service in the GSM Public Land
Mobile Network (PLMN) system\".
[3] GSM 06.08: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half
rate speech; Performance of the GSM half rate speech codec\".
[4] GSM 06.10: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Full
rate speech transcoding\".
[5] GSM 06.20: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half
rate speech transcoding\".
# 3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
A/D Analogue to Digital
ADPCM Adaptive Differential Pulse Code Modulation
ACR Absolute Category Rating
BSC Base Station Controller
BTS Base Transceiver Station
C/I Carrier-to-Interferer ratio
CI Confidence Interval
CNI Comfort Noise Insertion
CRC Cyclic Redundancy Check
D/A Digital to Analogue
DAT Digital Audio Tape
DCR Degradation Category Rating
DSP Digital Signal Processor
DTMF Dual Tone Multi Frequency
DTX Discontinuous Transmission for power consumption and interference
reduction
EFR Enhanced Full Rate
ESP Product of E (Efficiency), S (Speed) and P (Percentage of Power) of the
DSP
FR Full Rate
GBER Average gross bit error rate
GSM Global System for Mobile communications
HR Half Rate
IRS Intermediate Reference System, No IRS= rather flat
ITU‑T International Telecommunication Union -- Telecommunications
Standardization Sector
MNRU Modulated Noise Reference Unit
Mod. IRS Modified IRS
MOPS Million of Operation per Seconds
MOS Mean Opinion Score
MS Mobile Station
MSC Mobile Switching Centre
PCM Pulse Code Modulation
PSTN Public Switched Telecommunications Network
Q Speech-to-speech correlated noise power ratio in dB
SD Standard Deviation
SEG Speech Expert Group
SID Silence Descriptor
SMG Special Mobile Group
TCH-EFS Traffic Channel Enhanced Full rate Speech
TCH-FS Traffic Channel Full rate Speech
TCH-HS Traffic Channel Half rate Speech
TDMA Time Division Multiple Access
TMOPS True Million of Operation per Seconds
UPCM Uniform or Linear PCM
VAD Voice Activity Detector
WMOPS Weighted Million of Operations per Seconds
Four different Error Patterns (EP0, EP1, EP2 and EP3) were used, where:
EP0 without channel errors
EP1 C/I=10 dB; 5% GBER (well inside a cell)
EP2 C/I= 7 dB; 8% GBER (at a cell boundary)
EP3 C/I= 4 dB; 13% GBER (outside a cell)
# 4 Quality under error (EP0 -- EP3) and tandeming conditions (Exp Number 1
and Exp Number 5)
A listening-only test was adopted using the Absolute Category Rating (ACR)
method. The results are reported in terms of Equivalent Q (dB) values and
Differential Q values (which compare the codec results to the High and Low
references). For error and tandeming conditions, results are available from
eight laboratories (lab1 to lab8). Tables of results on a lab-by-lab basis are
shown in the annex of the present document (table A.1.1 to table A.1.8),
negative values indicating worse performance than the reference.
In general, across all laboratories, the EFR codec performs better than the
reference TCH-FS for clear speech (EP0), for error conditions EP1 and EP2 and
for tandeming under error EP1 conditions. For severe error condition (EP3),
the performance is worse than TCH-FS in one laboratory. The EFR is equivalent
to the reference G.728 (high reference) for clear speech in all laboratories.
Under error conditions, the high reference threshold for severe error
condition (EP3) is not met in all laboratories while the threshold for EP1 and
EP2 is met for, roughly, half of the laboratories. Under tandeming, the clear
condition was tested in only one laboratory where it was compared to another
standard G.721; the results indicate that the performance of the EFR (EP0
tandem) is equivalent to that of G.721 (EP0). For tandeming under error
condition EP1, equivalence with TCH-FS (EP1) without tandeming is demonstrated
in all laboratories except one. Additional results coming from one lab only
can be found in table A.1.6 (effect of input levels, other error conditions,
tandeming with other standards).
The advantage of the EFR compared to the actual TCH-FS is not independent of
the quality of the network. As channel errors increase, this advantage is
reduced. The general trend of the EFR behaviour in error conditions is shown
in figure 15.
# 5 Quality under background noise conditions (Exp Number 2 and Exp Number 3)
This was assessed with a listening-only test, using the Degradation Category
Rating (DCR) method. The results are reported for the EFR codec, the Reference
G.728 and the TCH-FS codec in terms of DMOS values with Confidence Interval
(CI). Six laboratories (lab1 to lab4, lab6 and lab7) performed this
experiment, the first four complying with SEG‑4 (see table A.2.1 and table
A.2.2 _)._
For each laboratory, the differences in DMOS scores between the EFR codec and
the Reference G.728 are of the same order as the confidence intervals for the
EFR codec results, with the exception of one point (vehicle noise) in one
laboratory. From this, it can be concluded that the performance of the EFR
codec, under the background noise conditions tested is equivalent to that of
the quality reference G.728 for all laboratories and also to G.721 (tested in
one lab only). The degradation introduced by the EFR codec compared to the
DIRECT connection in background noise conditions is rated between
\"unnoticeable\" and \"noticeable but not annoying\". A substantial
improvement is achieved over the full rate with music in the background.
Additional results from one laboratory can be found in table A.2.2.
# 6 Talker dependency (Exp Number 4)
A listening-only test was used with the Degradation Category Rating (DCR)
methodology. Results, available from five laboratories (lab1 to lab4 and
lab7), are reported in terms of DMOS values with their associated Standard
Deviation (SD) to give a measure of the spread of the scores about the
averages for each gender for both the EFR codec and the Reference G.728. These
experiments clearly show that the standard deviation of the scores of EFR
codec for each gender is smaller than the standard deviation of the reference
G.728 in each laboratory. The talker dependency performance for the EFR codec
is therefore equivalent to that of G.728. Also, the gender dependency is
equivalent to that of the G.728 codec. Tables of results lab-by-lab are shown
in the annex (table A.3.1 to table A.3.2).
# 7 DTX system
## 7.1 Channel activity in DTX mode
### 7.1.1 Test procedure
A carefully selected subset of the speech material recorded for testing the
half rate DTX system was processed through the codec/DTX C-language
simulation. This material comprised 48 real conversations in the English,
German and Italian languages. The channel activity of the system was measured
for all 48 conversations, and the mean channel activity was then calculated.
### 7.1.2 Speech channel activity
The percentage of speech frames scheduled for transmission by the radio
subsystem (subsequently referred to as the speech channel activity) varied
significantly between conversations. Speech channel activities ranged from 29%
to 93% for individual sides of a conversation. For this reason, it was not
possible to identify any significant trends in the results with regard to
terminal type and environmental conditions. The mean speech channel activity,
measured over all 48 conversations, was 61 %.
### 7.1.3 Level compensation
After calculating the mean speech channel activity, it was found that the
speech material had been processed at a level 6,5 dB below the original
recorded level. However, the activity of the basic VAD algorithm rises
approximately 0,5 per cent per dB increase in input level. To compensate for
this, a factor of 3 % must be added to the speech channel activity estimate.
### 7.1.4 Interleaving compensation
The channel activity measurements were calculated on a signal frame basis.
However, the use of interleaving (depth 4) implies that the TDMA activity will
be approximately 2 % higher than the signal frame activity.
### 7.1.5 Estimated mean TDMA channel activity
The estimated mean TDMA channel activity is shown in table 7.1.5.1.
Table 7.1.5.1: Calculation of mean TDMA channel activity
* * *
speech channel activity 61 % level compensation 3 % interleaving compensation
2 % total TDMA channel activity 66 %
* * *
## 7.2 DTX/CNI Informal Expert Listening tests
### 7.2.1 Introduction
To check the performance of the DTX / CNI system of the ETSI GSM EFR codec,
informal expert listening tests were done in Italian and German language. Also
a very brief check of English speech samples was done. Special attention was
given to clipping effects and noise.
### 7.2.2 Test environment
Out of the speech samples from the HR codec DTX tests, 8 conversations were
selected by CSELT, Deutsche Telekom and British Telecom, respectively. These
samples were processed by Nokia and recorded on a DAT, one track without
VAD/DTX processing and one track with the DTX / CNI system. By comparing the
non-DTX and DTX speech, the listeners could judge the degradation to be not
noticeable, minor, moderate or severe. It was allowed to rewind the tape to
repeat listening to critical sections. The listening device was a high quality
head set in mono operation to have either track 0 or track 1 signal on both
speakers.
### 7.2.3 Results
In all the speech samples, only two clippings were judged to be noticeable. On
comfort noise insertion, conversations with almost no or low background noise
were found to have no noticeable degradation. With increasing background
noise, the noise related degradation was judged from minor to moderate (the
latter in two sections of two conversations). The overall performance of the
DTX / CNI system was seen to be fully satisfactory with mostly no or minor
degradation.
# 8 Performance with DTMF tones
## 8.1 Introduction
A desirable requirement for the GSM Enhanced Full Rate speech codec is a DTMF
transparency not worse than the GSM Full Rate codec. For the verification of
the ETSI Enhanced Full Rate codec, the DTMF transmission was tested.
## 8.2 Test environment
A DSP (NEC µPD77016) based PC board was used to measure the transmission of
the codec under test. The DTMF software is derived from the Goertzel algorithm
which allows to calculate the spectral powers of distinctive frequencies by
means of a recursive digital filter scheme. The DTMF signal detection is based
on \"quality factors\" calculated from the Distinctive Frequency Test results.
Within a wide dynamic range this technique is independent from an absolute
signal level. Based on the same hardware and software, PTT approvals are
available with equipment of European Telecom houses.
DTMF signals were tested only under ideal transmission conditions. Error
patterns like in the half rate case were not simulated. In the different
experiments the input signals were modified in tone and pause length,
amplitude (also introducing twist, i.e. different amplitude in the two
components of the tone) and frequency. In all experiments 10 tones were input
to the codec. The resulting files were processed by the DTMF detector. As the
minimum tone length specified for an input signal of a detector is 80 ms while
the minimum output length of a DTMF generator may be smaller, a test was also
done with a 60 ms tone to the codec.
## 8.3 Results
The test results shown in table 8.3.1 represent the detected tones from the 10
input signals. Table 8.3.2 summarises the test conditions. With input signals
fully in the specified range no detection problems were observed. The shortest
allowed input signal to a transmission line (80 ms) was detected 100 % in all
experiments with different input levels, twist and frequency deviations. A
strange effect known from the HR codec tests with long tones detected as two
tones was not observed. Only in case of tones shorter than 80 ms the detection
rate was down to 96 %, without a sharp decrease and without a distinct tone
showing problems.
As a conclusion, the codec is tested to be 100 % transparent to DTMF signals
under nominal conditions. Only tones shorter than minimum input specifications
of 80 ms are not fully detected. The results are better compared to the FR
codec. The requirement is fulfilled.
Table 8.3.1: Results of DTMF experiments
experiment tone | N18 | N22 | N18‑22 | N22‑26 | D18 | D18‑22 | L 120 | L 200 | S 60  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10  
2 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 9  
3 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10  
4 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 9  
5 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10  
6 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10  
7 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10  
8 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10  
9 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10  
0 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10  
* | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10  
# | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 9  
A | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10  
B | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 9  
C | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 9  
D | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10  
total_d | 160 | 160 | 160 | 160 | 160 | 160 | 160 | 160 | 155  
det_rate | 100 | 100 | 100 | 100 | 100 | 100 | 100 | 100 | 96  
In rows 1 -- D the number of detected tones from 10 inputs is shown
Table 8.3.2: Conditions of above listed experiments
* * *
experiment N18 N22 N18‑22 N22‑26 D18 D18‑22 L 120 L 200 S 60  
tone 80 80 80 80 80 80 120 200 60 ms pause 80 80 80 80 80 80 120 80 60 ms
r_amp ‑18 ‑22 ‑18 ‑22 ‑22 ‑18 ‑22 ‑28 ‑22 dB c_amp ‑18 ‑22 ‑22 ‑26 ‑22 ‑22 ‑22
‑28 ‑22 dB delta_f 0 0 0 0 2 2 0 0 0 \%
* * *
r_amp and c_amp are the row amplitude and column amplitude respectively, dB
values are relative to the overload point.
# 9 Network information tones
The signals shown in table 9 were first compressed by the encoder, then
decompressed by the decoder, and then listened to via quality headphones using
a high-quality PC audio card. The codec showed no perceivable degradation to
the transmission of these PSTN network information tones both with and without
the VAD/DTX system switched on. No clipping or other disturbing artefacts were
noticed when DTX was enabled. Checking tones in use around the world as listed
in ITU Recommendation E.180 Supplement 2 (Jan 94) indicated that this test
achieves almost 100 % global coverage by simply testing UK, German, and USA
tones.
Table 9: PSTN Information Tones Tested
* * *
_German (no DTX)_ _German (with DTX)_ 3 dial tones 2 dial 1 ringing tone 1
ringing 2 busy tones (subscriber engaged) 2 busy 1 special information tone
(number unobtainable) 1 special information tone 2 congestion tones (network
equipment engaged) 1 fax modem call setup tone sequence _United Kingdom (no
DTX)_ _United Kingdom (with DTX)_ 3 dial tones 1 dial 1 ringing tone 1 ring 1
busy tone (subscriber engaged) 1 busy 1 congestion tone (network equipment
engaged) 1 congest \- 1 sustained, low-level sinusoid (number unobtainable)
_USA (no DTX)_ _USA (with DTX ... not tested)_ 1 dial tone - 1 ringing tone -
1 busy tone (subscriber engaged) - 1 special information tone - 1 congestion
tone (network equipment engaged) -
* * *
Tones were computer generated for the tests in which DTX was switched off.
Authentic DAT recordings of PSTN information tones were used to check the
performance with DTX switched on, except the low-level sinusoid signal for
\"UK number unobtainable\" which was computer generated.
# 10 Performance with special input signals
Two kinds of special input signals have been chosen to be tested in the
verification phase of the Enhanced Full Rate: music signals and noise signals.
## 10.1 Music signals
This subclause reports on the informal listening tests conducted in CSELT to
evaluate the performance of the EFR codec with music signals.
The tests have been based on informal pair comparison tests (A versus B
without repetition) by considering the Full-rate codec, the Enhanced Full-Rate
as well as the ITU‑T ADPCM G.726 codec at 32 kbit/s. The tests involved 6
music items taken from those selected by ISO-MPEG to test audio codec
standards. The duration of the different music items lasts in the range
between 8 and 10 seconds. Music items have been downsampled to 8 kHz before
processing. Listening was performed by 12 naive listeners through headphones.
The results are reported in tables 10.1.1 and 10.1.2.
Table 10.1.1: Results of the informal test on performance\ with music signals:
Enhanced Full Rate versus Full Rate
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Music Items | Enhanced Full | Enhanced Full | Full Rate | | | Rate | Rate | preferred to | | | | | | | | preferred to | equal to Full | Enhanced Full | | | Full Rate | Rate | Rate | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Harpsichord | 100 % | 0 % | 0 % | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Carmen | 25 % | 41,7 % | 33,3 % | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Trumpet | 100 % | 0 % | 0 % | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Castanets | 33,3 % | 41,7 % | 25 % | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Mediterraneo | 41,7 % | 33.3 % | 25 % | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Vivaldi \"The | 100 % | 0 % | 0 % | | spring\" | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Total | 66,7 % | 19,4 % | 13,9 % | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
Table 10.1.2: Results of the informal test on performance\ with music signals:
Enhanced Full Rate versus ADPCM 32 kbit/s
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Music Items | Enhanced Full | Enhanced Full | ADPCM | | | Rate | Rate | preferred to | | | | | | | | preferred to | equal to ADPCM | Enhanced Full | | | ADPCM | | Rate | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Harpsichord | 50 % | 8,3 % | 41,7 % | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Carmen | 0 % | 25 % | 75 % | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Trumpet | 33,3 % | 33,3 % | 33,3 % | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Castanets | 8,3 % | 41,7 % | 50 % | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Mediterraneo | 16,7 % | 25 % | 58,3 % | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Vivaldi \"The | 16,7 % | 25 % | 58,3 % | | spring\" | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Total | 20,9 % | 26,4 % | 52,7 % | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
The analysis of results shows a certain dependency of performance on the music
item. There is at least one item in which the FR has been judged better than
the EFR. Nevertheless, on the average, the EFR provides better performance
than the FR, whilst it appears to perform worse than the ADPCM.
## 10.2 Noise signals
To check the scaling performance of the fixed point algorithm a noise signal
with levels ranging from -10 dB down to ‑70 dB have been processed by encoder
and decoder in error free conditions. The level of the decoder output signal
was examined. It was found that for all signals the reconstructed output level
followed the input level. Even for very low signal levels no problems were
detected.
# 11 Performance with different languages
This clause deals with the results of an informal listening test to evaluate
the performance of the EFR for some languages which were not tested formally.
The tests have been based on informal pair comparison (A versus B without
repetition) by considering the Full-rate codec, the Enhanced Full-Rate as well
as the ITU‑T ADPCM G.726 codec at 32 kbit/s. The tests involved 5 different
languages (Arab, Chinese, Japanese, Polish and Portuguese). Listening and
recording was performed by naive, mother tongue people. For most languages,
however, it was possible to use only one listener thus suggesting to take the
results with the due caution.
The test was performed by collecting people of different mother-tongue at
CSELT premises. Subjects were asked to record a list of sentences in their own
languages. The sentence length was in the range from 4 to 6 seconds. The list
of languages, number of listeners and samples is reported in table 11.1.
Table 11.1: List of languages and the number of listeners and sentences used
* * *
LANGUAGE NUMBER OF LISTENERS NUMBER OF SENTENCES Arab 2 8 Chinese 1 8 Japanese
1 8 Polish 2 8 Portuguese 1 8
* * *
The subject were asked to listen to an A-B sequence and allowed to express a
preference as well as to judge the perceived quality to be the same. The
results of the test are reported in tables 11.2 and 11.3.
Table 11.2: Results of the informal test on languages not covered\ in the
formal tests: Enhanced Full Rate versus Full Rate
+------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Languages | Enhanced Full | Enhanced Full | Full Rate | | | Rate | Rate equal to | preferred to | | | | Full Rate | | | | preferred to | | Enhanced Full | | | Full Rate | | Rate | +------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Arab | 37,5 % | 50 % | 12,5 % | +------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Chinese | 100 % | 0 % | 0 % | +------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Japanese | 100 % | 0 % | 0 % | +------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Polish | 68,7 % | 12,5 % | 18,8 % | +------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Portuguese | 75 % | 25 % | 0 % | +------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
Table 11.3: Results of the informal test on languages not covered\ in the
formal tests: Enhanced Full Rate versus ADPCM at 32 kbit/s
+------------+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | Languages | Enhanced Full Rate | Enhanced Full Rate | ADPCM preferred to | | | | | | | | preferred to ADPCM | equal to ADPCM | Enhanced Full Rate | +------------+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | Arab | 18,75 % | 75 % | 6,25 % | +------------+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | Chinese | 87,5 % | 12,5 % | 0 % | +------------+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | Japanese | 87,5 % | 12,5 % | 0 % | +------------+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | Polish | 25 % | 37,5 % | 37,5 % | +------------+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | Portuguese | 12,5 % | 50 % | 37,5 % | +------------+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+
The analysis of the results confirms the good performance of the Enhanced
full-rate also for languages not considered in the formal experiments.
This seems to be the case for all the languages tested, even though the test
size was very small. The EFR was always preferred in comparison to the Full-
rate. For Chinese and Japanese the preference is stronger and, for these
languages, the EFR is preferred also to the ADPCM at 32 kbit/s in most of the
cases.
# 12 Delay
The round-trip delay of a communication using a TCH-EFS has been estimated
taking into account all the system and processing delays.
The symbol definitions for the calculations in this section are:
Tabisd The time required to transmit the 260 speech frame data bits (bits D1
-- D260, C16 and the 17 synchronization bits -> 278 bits) over the 16 kbit/s
A‑bis‑interface in the downlink direction (system dependent).
Tabisu The time required to transmit the first 137 TRAU frame bits, the first
34 of which can be sent by anticicipation, leading to a delay of 103 TRAU
frame bits (D2 -- D98 speech frame data bits including the CRCs \+ 6
synchronization bits) over the 16 kbit/s A‑bis‑interface in the uplink
direction (system dependent).
Tad Delay in the analogue to digital converter in the uplink.
Tbsc Switching delay in the BSC (implementation dependent).
Tbuff Due to the time alignment procedure for inband control of the remote
transcoder in case of a 16 kbit/s A‑bis‑interface in the downlink direction,
it is required to have a buffer in the BTS of 1 ms + one 250 s regulation step
(system dependent).
Tda Delay in the digital to analogue converter in the downlink.
Techo Delay due to the echo canceller.
Tencode: The time required for the channel encoder to perform channel encoding
(implementation dependent).
Tmsc Switching delay in the MSC.
Tpcm The duration of a segment of PCM speech for the downlink processing
delay.
Tproc: The time required after reception of the last encoded speech parameter
of the first subframe (FCB‑Gain1) to process the speech encoded data for the
enhanced full rate speech decoder and to produce the first PCM output sample
(implementation dependent).
Trftx: The time required for transmission of a TCH radio interface frame over
the air interface due to the interleaving and de-interleaving (system
dependent).
Trxproc: The time required after reception over the radio interface to perform
equalization, channel decoding and SID-frame detection (implementation
dependent).
Tsample: The duration of the segment of PCM speech operated on by the speech
transcoder.
Tsps Delay of the speech encoder in the BSC after reception of the last PCM
sample until availability of the first encoded bit (implementation dependent).
Ttransc: The MS speech encoder processing time, from input of the last PCM
sample to output of the final encoded bit (implementation dependent).
The processing delays were estimated from the detailed complexity figure that
has been previously computed in the verification phase. The complexity
estimation is based on rules that are supposed to be relevant from an
implementation point of view and independent from specific DSPs at the same
time. Therefore it was tried to follow the same philosophy for the processing
delays. The DSP that runs the codec has been modelled through three parameters
E, S and P.
**E** stands for the Efficiency of the DSP. This corresponds to the ratio
TMOPS/WMOPS of the implementation of the codec on the DSP.
**S** stands for the Speed of the DSP: Maximum Number of Operations that the
DSP can run in 1 second. This number is expressed in MOPS.
**P** stands for the percentage of DSP processing power assigned to the codec.
The processing delay of a task whose complexity is X can then be computed
using the formula:
D = X*20/ESP,
the time unit being ms.
The following assumptions were made when computing the round-trip delay:
\- for the enhanced Full Rate MS delay, it is assumed that the DSP has the
same performance as the DSP used for GSM HR [5];
\- for the Enhanced Full Rate BSC delays, it is assumed that the DSP of the
TRAU will have the same performance as the DSP used for GSM HR;
\- for the Enhanced Full Rate BTS delay, it is assumed that the DSP will have
the same performance as the DSP used for GSM FR [4]. The reason is that it is
assumed that the GSM Full Rate BTS will be reused during first GSM EFR
deployments;
\- a 16 kbit/s submultiplexed A-bis is used between the BTS and the BSC-TRAU.
From these assumptions and following the complexity of GSM HR [3] and its
delay requirement for the MS [2], the ESP value has been computed for EFR:
**ESP = 25**
The following list of delays provided in [1] and [2] for the GSM Full Rate and
common to the GSM Enhanced Full rate are considered realistic and therefore
retain the same value:
\- _MSC_ Tmsc
margin
\- _BSC_ Tbsc
margin
\- _BTS_ Trxproc
margin
\- _MS_ Trftx
Tda
The results of the estimation are provided in table 12.1 for uplink and table
12.2 for downlink. The time unit for all delays is ms (10^-3^ s).
Table 12.1: Uplink delay
* * *
Equipment Speed Parameter Delay (ms) Data MSC Tmsc 0,5  
margin 0,5  
BSC Tbsc 0,5  
Tproc 1,27 1,59 WMOPS margin 0,5  
BTS Tabisu 6,4375 103 bits Trxproc 8,8 2,45 WMOPS (note) margin 3  
MS Trftx 37,5  
Tencode 0,32 0,20 WMOPS Ttransc 12,17 15,21 WMOPS Tsample 20  
Tmargin 2  
Tad 1  
SUM Uplink 94,4975  
NOTE: This theoretical complexity corresponds to the channel decoding only.
This leaves 6,84 ms for the equaliser in Trxproc.
* * *
Table 12.2: Downlink delay
* * *
Equipment Speed Parameter Delay (ms) Data MSC Techo 1  
Tmsc 0,5  
margin 0,5  
BSC Tbsc 0,5  
Tsample 20  
Tsps 2,3  
Tabisd 17,375 278 bits margin 0,5  
BTS Tbuff 1,25  
Tencode 1,60 0,20 WMOPS margin 0,45  
MS Trftx 37,5  
Trxproc 8,8 2,45 WMOPS (note) Tproc 1,27 1,59 WMOPS margin 2  
Tda 1  
SUM Downlink 96,547  
NOTE: This theoretical complexity corresponds to the channel decoding only.
This leaves 6,84 ms for the equaliser in Trxproc.
* * *
> **Round-trip delay = Uplink delay + Downlink delay = 191,04 ms**
This delay is very close to the delay indicated in [1], [2] and [3] for GSM
Full Rate: 188,5 ms. The difference should be unnoticeable.
# 13 Frequency response
## 13.1 Introduction
A characteristic test in the verification of GSM speech codecs is the
frequency response test. Sine tones in the telephony frequency band are input
to the codecs, and after decoding the gain is calculated. It has to be pointed
out that the frequency response measurement is given just as a piece of
additional information and does not add information on the actual behaviour of
the codec in terms of perceived quality or DTMF transparency.
## 13.2 Test environment
The tones were calculated to a nominal level of 22 dB below the overload
point. Tones ranging from 80 Hz to 3 600 Hz in steps of 21 Hz with a nominal
length of 2 s were input to the codec under test. After decoding the gain was
calculated with averaged results of 400 ms intervals and again averaged for
the total duration of one frequency to get the frequency response curve. This
was done to check the transition behaviour of the codec and eventually
disregard the first samples.
## 13.3 Results
Within the telephony band the frequency response is very flat. No abnormal
deviations were observed. Also additional experiments with different input
level (‑18 dB, ‑28 dB), or different tone length (500 ms, 4 s) resulted in
almost identical curves. The decreasing gain above 3 kHz is relative small and
far away from a 3 dB margin. The transition behaviour was very good.
Figure 13: GSM EFR codec frequency response at different input levels
# 14 Complexity
The complexity of the Enhanced Full Rate is characterised by the 3 following
items:
\- the number of cycles;
\- the data memory size;
\- the program memory size.
The values of these different figures depend on a specific DSP implementation.
Nevertheless, the results obtained by the C description analysis can be used
as references.
The speech transcoding functions are specified using a set of basic arithmetic
operations. The WMOPS figure quoted is a weighted sum of the operations
required to perform transcoding. The weight assigned to each operation is
representative of the number of instruction cycles required to perform that
operation on a typical DSP device.
The complexity range of the Enhanced Full Rate is equivalent to the Half Rate
codec complexity.
The number of cycles required by the Enhanced Full Rate algorithm is
relatively independent on the values of the input samples. The execution time
of an average and an extreme input case are equivalent.
Nevertheless the following table presents the theoretical worst case
evaluation, i.e. the maximum possible number of cycles, which is consistent
with the results indicated in [3].
The following figures are associated to the Speech and Channel part excluding
the DTX functions.
Table 14: Principal complexity figure
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | T | Data RAM\ | Data ROM | Program ROM | | | heoretical\ | (note) | (constants) | (assembly | | | worst case\ | | | in | | | WMOPS | (16 bits | (16 bits | structions) | | | | words) | words) | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Enhanced | 18,1 | 4 708 | 5 363 | 6 000 -- | | Full Rate | | | | 9 000 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Half Rate | 21,2 | 5 002 | 8 781 | 8 000 -- | | | | | | 12 000 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
NOTE: The Data RAM figure can be split in 2 parts: the static variables: 2 240
words; and the dynamic variables (i.e. local to a procedure ): 2 468 words.
# 15 Summary of the results from the subjective testing
The EFR codec is better than the actual FR codec for clear speech, for all
error conditions (EP1, EP2 and EP3) and for tandeming under error EP1; it is
equivalent to G.728 for its intrinsic quality, for background noise conditions
and talker dependency. The EFR codec does not reach the objective performance
target (TCH-FS EP2) for severe error condition EP3; for error conditions EP1
and EP2 it does not reach the objective performance target for half of the
results. The EFR quality under tandeming condition without error was not
tested against the target G.728 but is found equivalent to G.721. The
advantage of the EFR compared to the TCH-FS is dependant of the quality of the
network. As channel errors increase, this advantage is reduced.
Table 15: Summary of Results
+----------------+----------------------------+---------------------------------+ | Conditions | High Ref | Low Ref | +----------------+----------------------------+---------------------------------+ | EP0 | Equivalent to G.728 | Equivalent to G.728 | | | | | | | | Better than TCH-FS | +----------------+----------------------------+---------------------------------+ | EP1 | Worse than MNRU 24 dB | Better than TCH-FS (EP1) | | | | | | | **_for half of labs_** | | +----------------+----------------------------+---------------------------------+ | EP2 | Worse than TCH-FS (EP1) | Better than TCH-FS (EP2) | | | | | | | **_for half of labs_** | | +----------------+----------------------------+---------------------------------+ | EP3 | Worse than TCH-FS (EP2) | Better than TCH-FS (EP3) | | | | | | | | **_except for one lab_**. | +----------------+----------------------------+---------------------------------+ | EP0 (tandem) | G.728 (not tested) | G.728 (not tested) | | | | | | | Equivalent to G.721 | Equivalent to G.721 | +----------------+----------------------------+---------------------------------+ | EP1 (tandem) | Equivalent to TCH-FS (EP1) | Better than TCH-FS (EP1 tandem) | +----------------+----------------------------+---------------------------------+ | Vehicle 10 | Equivalent to G.728 | Equivalent to G.728 | +----------------+----------------------------+---------------------------------+ | Music 20 | Equivalent to G.728 | Equivalent to G.728 | | | | | | | | Better than TCH-FS | +----------------+----------------------------+---------------------------------+ | Male Talkers | Equivalent to G.728 | Equivalent to G.728 | +----------------+----------------------------+---------------------------------+ | Female Talkers | Equivalent to G.728 | Equivalent to G.728 | +----------------+----------------------------+---------------------------------+ | Children | Equivalent to G.728 | Equivalent to G.728 | +----------------+----------------------------+---------------------------------+
Figure 15: General trend of the EFR behaviour for error conditions in noise-
free environment
###### ### Annex A: Summary of results (lab by lab)
# A.1 Quality under Error and tandeming conditions
Table A.1.1: Q values and Differential Q (dB) values from References for error
and tandeming conditions (BT/lab1, Mod. IRS input characteristics \-- SEG‑4,
Exp#1 and Exp#5)
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Co | Diff | Diff | Q Values | Q Values | Q Values | | nditions | erential | erential | | | | | | Q Values | Q Values | EFR | High | Low Ref. | | | | | | Ref. | | | | (High | (Low | | | | | | Ref) | Ref) | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | EP0 | +3,71 | +3,71 | 29,86 | 26,15 | 26,15 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | EP1 | -2,42 | +2,96 | 21,58 | 24 | 18,62 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | EP2 | -2,97 | +0,96 | 15,65 | 18,62 | 14,69 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | EP3 | -11,30 | -0,55 | 0,41 | 11,71 | 0,96 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | EP0 | - | - | - | 22,94 | 22,94 | | (tandem) | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | EP1 | --2,72 | +1,26 | 15,90 | 18,62 | 14,64 | | (tandem) | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
Table A.1.2: Q values and Differential Q (dB) values from References for error
and tandeming conditions (CNET/lab2, Mod. IRS input characteristics -- SEG‑4,
Exp#1 and Exp#5)
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Co | Diff | Diff | Q Values | Q Values | Q Values | | nditions | erential | erential | | | | | | Q Values | Q Values | EFR | High | Low Ref. | | | | | | Ref. | | | | (High | (Low | | | | | | Ref) | Ref) | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | EP0 | +12,59 | +12,59 | 39,06 | 26,47 | 26,47 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | EP1 | 0 / | +6,14 | 22,67 | 22,67 / | 16,53 | | | -1,33 | | | 24 | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | EP2 | +0,15 | +2,32 | 16,68 | 16,53 | 14,36 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | EP3 | -11,95 | +1,21 | 2,41 | 14,36 | 1,20 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | EP0 | - | - | - | 25,71 | 25,71 | | (tandem) | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | EP1 | +2,22 | +5,29 | 18,75 | 16,53 | 13,46 | | (tandem) | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
Table A.1.3: Q values and Differential Q (dB) values from References for error
and tandeming conditions (TD/lab3, Mod. IRS input characteristics \-- SEG‑4,
Exp#1 and Exp#5)
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Co | Diff | Diff | Q Values | Q Values | Q Values | | nditions | erential | erential | | | | | | Q Values | Q Values | EFR | High | Low Ref. | | | | | | Ref. | | | | (High | (Low | | | | | | Ref) | Ref) | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | EP0 | +1,98 | +1,98 | 28,66 | 26,68 | 26,68 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | EP1 | +2,74 / | +7,06 | 26,60 | 23,86 / | 19,54 | | | +2,60 | | | 24 | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | EP2 | -1,53 | +2,50 | 18,01 | 19,54 | 15,51 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | EP3 | -15,33 | > +0,18 | 0,18 | 15,51 | \ +4,05 | 4,05 | 11,28 | \ +5,86 | > 25 | -(24) | 19,14 | | (Mod. | | | | | | | IRS) | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | EP2 | +1,03 | +4,15 | 20,17 | 19,14 | 14,99 | | (Mod. | | | | | | | IRS) | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | EP3 | - | - | | 14,99 | - | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | EP0 | (G.728) | (G.728) | 28,78 | (G.728) | (G.728) | | (tandem) | | | | | | | -- (flat | +2,35 | +2,35 | | 26,43 | 26,43 | | input) | (G.721) | (G.721) | | (G.721) | (G.721) | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | EP1 | - | - | - | 19.14 | - | | (tandem) | | | | | | | -- (flat | | | | | | | input) | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Extra | | | | G.721 | TCH-FS | | Co | | | | | | | nditions | | | | (same | (same | | | | | | co | co | | (not | | | | ndition) | ndition) | | included | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | SEG‑4, | | | | | | | High and | | | | | | | Low | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | ferences | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | formally | | | | | | | defined) | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | EP0 --16 | +2,31 | +7,80 | 34,40 | 32,09 | 27,32 | | dBmOL -- | (G.721) | | | (G.721) | | | (flat | | | | | | | input) | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | EP0 --36 | -0,61 | +2,41 | 25,08 | 25,69 | 22,67 | | dBmOL -- | (G.721) | | | (G.721) | | | (flat | | | | | | | input) | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | C/I 10 | | > +5,99 | > 25 | | 19,01 | | dB, 1.5 | | | | | | | mph | | | | | | | (Mod. | | | | | | | IRS) | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | C/I 13 | | > +4,04 | > 25 | | 20,96 | | dB (Mod. | | | | | | | IRS) | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | C/I 13 | | > +9,80 | > 25 | | 15,20 | | dB | | | | | | | tandem | | | | | | | (Mod. | | | | | | | IRS) | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | EP1 | | - | 24,46 | | - | | tandem | | | | | | | EF | | | | | | | R/TCH-FS | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | (flat) | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | EP1 | | +2,93 | 27,36 | | 24,43 | | tandem | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | FR/G.721 | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | (flat) | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
_Differences compared to the SEG‑4:_ Different input characteristics (flat,
except for error conditions), Additional input levels, tandemings and
standards, G.721 as extra High Reference, Different MNRU selection, Separate
experiment for error conditions (Non static, no frequency hopping 10 and 7 dB
C/I, 30 mph, typical urban multipath, Mod. IRS input characteristics, MNRUmax
= 25), No EP3 experiment.
Table A.1.7: Q values and Differential Q (dB) values from References\ for
error and tandeming conditions (NOKIA/lab7)
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Co | Diff | Diff | Q Values | Q Values | Q Values | | nditions | erential | erential | | | | | | Q Values | Q Values | EFR | High | Low Ref. | | | | | | Ref. | | | | (High | (Low | | | | | | Ref) | Ref) | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | EP0 | > +2,12 | > +2,12 | > 30 | 27,88 | 27,88 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | EP1 | \~ -3 | +14,79 | 27,88 | - | 13,09 | | | | | | | | | | | | | (MNRU25 | | | | | | | 31,97) | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | EP2 | +4,90 | +8,65 | 17,99 | 13,09 | 9,34 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | EP3 | -7,49 | > +1,85 | 1,85 | 9,34 | \ 14,91 | > 30 | - | 15,09 | | dB | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
Table A.1.8: Q values and Differential Q (dB) values from References for error
and tandeming conditions (TI/lab8, Mod. IRS input characteristics \--SEG‑4,
Exp#1 and Exp#5)
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Co | Diff | Diff | Q Values | Q Values | Q Values | | nditions | erential | erential | | | | | | Q Values | Q Values | EFR | High | Low Ref. | | | | | | Ref. | | | | (High | (Low | | | | | | Ref) | Ref) | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | EP0 | +2,36 | +2,36 | 20,41 | 18,05 | 18,05 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | EP1 | -5,21 | +5,15 | 18,79 | 24 | 13,64 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | EP2 | -0,48 | +2,60 | 13,16 | 13,64 | 10,56 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | EP3 | - | - | - | 10,56 | - | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | EP0 | - | - | - | 17,18 | 17,18 | | (tandem) | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | EP1 | +1,03 | +5,16 | 14,67 | 13,64 | 9,51 | | (tandem) | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
# A.2 Quality under Background noise conditions
Table A.2.1: DMOS (and CI) values for EFR codec, G.728 Reference and TCH-FS\
(for lab1 to lab4, flat input characteristics -- SEG‑4, Exp#2 and Exp#3)
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Conditions | Lab1 | Lab2 | Lab3 | Lab4 | | | | | | | | | BT | CNET | TD | NEC | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | EFR Vehicle | 4,36 | 4,49 | 4,26 | 4,44 | | 10 | **(0,17)** | **(0,12)** | **(0,16)** | **(0,18)** | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | EFR Music | 4,29 | 4,55 | 4,20 | 4,48 | | 20 | **(0,15)** | **(0,11)** | **(0,14)** | **(0,18)** | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | G.728 | 4,54 | 4,47 | 4,59 | 4,48 | | Vehicle 10 | **(0,15)** | **(0,14)** | **(0,13)** | **(0,14)** | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | G.728 Music | 4,46 | 4,52 | 4,24 | 4,52 | | 20 | **(0,13)** | **(0,17)** | **(0,11)** | **(0,16)** | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | TCH-FS | 4,20 | 4,50 | 4,16 | 4,06 | | Vehicle 10 | **(0,17)** | **(0,11)** | **(0,16)** | **(0,19)** | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | TCH-FS | 3,36 | 3,47 | 3,11 | 3,31 | | Music 20 | **(0,15)** | **(0,15)** | **(0,15)** | **(0,20)** | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Table A.2.2: DMOS (and CI) values for EFR codec, G.728 Reference and extra
Standards\ _(for lab5 to lab8, flat input characteristics_
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Conditions | Lab6/Comsat | Lab7/Nokia | Differences | | | | | compared to | | | (1) (2) | (1) | SEG‑4: | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | EFR Vehicle 10 | - | 4,47 | | | | | **(0,12)** | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | EFR Music 20 | - | 4,57 | 1) Different | | | | **(0,10)** | selection of | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | G.728 Vehicle | - | 4,45 | MNRUs with | | 10 | | **(0,12)** | noise added | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | G.728 Music 20 | - | 4,46 | for Lab6 and | | | | **(0,11)** | Lab7. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | TCH-FS Vehicle | - | 3,75 | 2) Different | | 10 | | **(0,15)** | noise types, | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | TCH-FS Music | - | 3,54 | G.721 as High | | 20 | | **(0,17)** | Reference, | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Extra | | | Additional | | Conditions | | | standards for | | | | | Lab6. | | (not included | | | | | in SEG‑4) | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | EFR Home 20 dB | 4,79 | - | | | | **(0,08)** | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | EFR Vehicle 15 | 4,61 | - | | | dB | **(0,10)** | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | EFR Vehicle 25 | 4,65 | - | | | dB | **(0,09)** | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | EFR Street 10 | 4,41 | - | | | dB | **(0,13**) | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | EFR Office 20 | 4,66 | - | | | dB | **(0,10)** | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | TCH-FS Home 20 | 4,35 | - | | | dB | **(0,12**) | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | TCH-FS Vehicle | 4,06 | - | | | 15 dB | **(0,13)** | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | TCH-FS Vehicle | 4,15 | - | | | 25 dB | **(0,14)** | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | TCH-FS Street | 3,54 | - | | | 10 dB | **(0,18)** | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | TCH-FS Office | 3,86 | - | | | 20 dB | **(0,15)** | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | G.721 Home 20 | 4,67 | - | | | dB | **(0,11)** | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | G.721 Vehicle | 4,56 | - | | | 15 dB | **(0,11)** | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | G.721 Vehicle | 4,65 | - | | | 25 dB | **(0,10)** | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | G.721 Street | 3,90 | - | | | 10 dB | **(0,17)** | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | G.721 Office | 4,49 | - | | | 20 dB | **(0,12)** | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
# A.3 Quality for Talker Dependency (DMOS and SD)
Table A.3.1: DMOS (and SD) for EFR codec and G.728 for talker dependency\
(lab1 to lab4, flat, - SEG‑4, Exp#4)
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Conditions | Lab1 | Lab2 | Lab3 | Lab4 | | | | | | | | | BT | CNET | TD | NEC | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | EFR Male | 4,89 | 4,70 | 4,77 | 4,41 | | Talkers | **(0,38)** | **(0,46)** | **(0,45)** | **(0,73)** | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | EFR Female | 4,91 | 4,65 | 4,81 | 4,49 | | Talkers | **(0,29)** | **(0,56)** | **(0,47)** | **(0,65)** | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | EFR | 4,82 | 4,65 | 4,83 | 4,48 | | Children | **(0,39)** | **(0,53)** | **(0,43)** | **(0,71)** | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | G.728 Male | 4,56 | 4,32 | 4,34 | 4,36 | | Talkers | **(0,59)** | **(0,57)** | **(0,61)** | **(0,74)** | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | G.728 | 4,61 | 4,41 | 4,36 | 4,35 | | Female | **(0,59)** | **(0,55)** | **(0,56)** | **(0,74)** | | Talkers | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | G.728 | 4,80 | 4,40 | 4,38 | 4,50 | | Children | **(0,46)** | **(0,52)** | **(0,57)** | **(0,71)** | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Table A.3.2: DMOS (and SD) for EFR codec and G.728 for talker dependency
(lab7, flat)
* * *
Conditions EFR G.728 Male Talkers 4,73 **(0,51)** 4,49 **(0,57)** Female
Talkers 4,64 **(0,50)** 4,43 **(0,56)** Children 4,62 **(0,59)** 4,37
**(0,58)**
* * *
_Differences compared to SEG‑4_ :
Different selection of MNRUs, extra condition (TCH-FS), 16 listeners instead
of 24
#