# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document establishes the minimum RF characteristics of NR, E-UTRA,
UTRA, GSM/EDGE and NB-IoT Multi-Standard Radio (MSR) Base Station (BS).
Requirements for multi-RAT and single-RAT operation of MSR BS are covered in
the present document. The requirements in the present document for E-UTRA,
UTRA and NB-IoT single-RAT operation of MSR BS are also applicable to E-UTRA,
UTRA and NB-IoT multi-carrier capable single-RAT BS. Requirements for GSM BS
that are only single-RAT capable in all supported operating bands are not
covered.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 25.104, Technical Specification, \"3rd Generation Partnership
Project; Technical Specification Group Radio Access Network; Base Station (BS)
radio transmission and reception (FDD)\"
[3] 3GPP TS 25.105. Technical Specification, \"3rd Generation Partnership
Project; Technical Specification Group Radio Access Network; Base Station (BS)
radio transmission and reception (TDD)\"
[4] 3GPP TS 36.104, Technical Specification, \"3rd Generation Partnership
Project; Technical Specification Group Radio Access Network; Evolved Universal
Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA); Base Station (BS) radio transmission and
reception\"
[5] 3GPP TS 45.005, Technical Specification, \"3rd Generation Partnership
Project; Technical Specification Group GSM/EDGE Radio Access Network; Radio
transmission and reception\"
[6] ITU-R Recommendation SM.329-10, \"Unwanted emissions in the spurious
domain\".
[7] 3GPP TR 25.942, \"Technical Report 3rd Generation Partnership Project;
Technical Specification Group Radio Access Networks; Radio Frequency (RF)
system scenarios\"
[8] \"Title 47 of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR)\", Federal
Communications Commission.
[9] ITU-R Recommendation M.1545: \"Measurement uncertainty as it applies to
test limits for the terrestrial component of International Mobile
Telecommunications-2000\".
[10] 3GPP TS 37.141, Technical Specification, \"3rd Generation Partnership
Project; Technical Specification Group Radio Access Network; NR, E-UTRA, UTRA
and GSM/EDGE; Multi-Standard Radio (MSR) Base Station (BS) conformance
testing\"
[11] IEC 60721-3-3: \"Classification of environmental conditions - Part 3-3:
Classification of groups of environmental parameters and their severities -
Stationary use at weather protected locations\".
[12] IEC 60721-3-4: \"Classification of environmental conditions - Part 3:
Classification of groups of environmental parameters and their severities -
Section 4: Stationary use at non-weather protected locations\".
[13] ETSI EN 300 019-1-3, _European Standard (Telecommunications series)_ ,
\"Environmental Engineering (EE); Environmental conditions and environmental
tests for telecommunications equipment; Part 1-3: Classification of
environmental conditions; Stationary use at weather protected locations\"
[14] ETSI EN 300 019-1-4, _European Standard (Telecommunications series)_ ,
\"Environmental Engineering (EE); Environmental conditions and environmental
tests for telecommunications equipment; Part 1-4: Classification of
environmental conditions; Stationary use at non-weather protected locations\".
> [15] CEPT ECC Decision (13)03, \"The harmonised use of the frequency band
> 1452-1492 MHz for Mobile/Fixed Communications Networks Supplemental Downlink
> (MFCN SDL)\".
>
> [16] CEPT ECC Decision (17)06, \"The harmonised use of the frequency bands
> 1427-1452 MHz and 1492-1518 MHz for Mobile/Fixed Communications Networks
> Supplemental Downlink (MFCN SDL)\".
[17] 3GPP TS 38.104: Technical Specification, \"3rd Generation Partnership
Project; Technical Specification Group Radio Access Network; NR; Base Station
(BS) radio transmission and reception\".
[18] 3GPP TS 36.101: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception\".
[19] 3GPP TS 38.101-1: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception; Part 1: Range 1 Standalone\"
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Band category:** group of operating bands for which the same MSR scenarios
apply
**Base Station RF Bandwidth:** bandwidth in which a base station transmits
and/or receives single or multiple carrier(s) and/or RATs simultaneously
within a supported operating band
NOTE: In single carrier operation, the Base Station RF Bandwidth is equal to
the channel bandwidth.
**Base Station RF Bandwidth edge:** frequency of one of the edges of the Base
Station RF Bandwidth
**Carrier: modulated waveform conveying the NR, E-UTRA, UTRA or GSM/EDGE
physical channels**
**Carrier aggregation: aggregation of two or more NR or E-UTRA component
carriers in order to support wider transmission bandwidths**
**Carrier aggregation band:** set of one or more operating bands across which
multiple E-UTRA carriers are aggregated with a specific set of technical
requirements.
**Channel bandwidth:** RF bandwidth supporting a single NR, E-UTRA, UTRA or
GSM/EDGE RF carrier with the transmission bandwidth configured in the uplink
or downlink of a cell.
NOTE: The channel bandwidth is measured in MHz and is used as a reference for
transmitter and receiver RF requirements.
NOTE: The term channel bandwidth is referred to as BS channel bandwidth in the
NR specifications, since for NR the BS and UE may operate with differing
bandwidths.
**Contiguous carriers:** set of two or more carriers configured in a spectrum
block where there are no RF requirements based on co-existence for un-
coordinated operation within the spectrum block.
**Carrier power:** power at the antenna connector in the channel bandwidth of
the carrier averaged over at least one subframe for NR or E-UTRA, at least one
slot for UTRA and the useful part of the burst for GSM/EDGE.
**Configured carrier power:** target maximum power for a specific carrier for
the operating mode set in the base station
**Contiguous spectrum:** spectrum consisting of a contiguous block of spectrum
with no sub-block gap(s).
**Downlink operating band:** part of the operating band designated for
downlink.
**Highest Carrier:** carrier with the highest carrier centre frequency
transmitted/received in the specified operating band(s).
**Inter RF Bandwidth gap** : frequency gap between two consecutive Base
Station RF Bandwidths that are placed within two supported operating bands.
**Inter-band carrier aggregation: carrier aggregation of NR or E-UTRA
component carriers in different operating bands.**
NOTE: Carriers aggregated in each band can be contiguous or non-contiguous.
**Inter-band gap:** The frequency gap between two supported consecutive
operating bands.
**Intra-band contiguous carrier aggregation:** contiguous NR or E-UTRA
carriers aggregated in the same operating band.
**Intra-band non-contiguous carrier aggregation:** non-contiguous NR or E-UTRA
carriers aggregated in the same operating band.
**Lowest Carrier:** carrier with the lowest carrier centre frequency
transmitted/received in the specified operating band(s).
**Lower Base Station RF Bandwidth edge:** frequency of the lower edge of the
Base Station RF bandwidth, used as a frequency reference point for transmitter
and receiver requirements**.**
**Lower sub-block edge:** frequency at the lower edge of one sub-block.
NOTE: It is used as a frequency reference point for both transmitter and
receiver requirements.
**Maximum Base Station RF Bandwidth:** maximum RF bandwidth supported by a BS
within each supported operating band.
NOTE: The maximum Base Station RF Bandwidth for BS configured for contiguous
and non-contiguous operation within each supported operating band is declared
separately.
**Maximum carrier output power:** carrier power **available at the antenna
connector for a specified reference condition.**
**Maximum RAT output power:** sum of the power of all carriers of the same RAT
**available at the antenna connector for a specified reference condition.**
**Maximum throughput: maximum achievable throughput for a reference
measurement channel.**
**Maximum total output power:** sum of the power of all carriers **available
at the antenna connector for a specified reference condition.**
**MB-MSR Base Station: MSR Base Station characterized by the ability of its
transmitter and/or receiver to process two or more carriers in common active
RF components simultaneously, where at least one carrier is configured at a
different operating band** (which is not a sub-band or superseding-band of
another supported operating band) **than the other carrier(s).**
**Measurement bandwidth** : RF bandwidth in which an emission level is
specified.
**MSR Base station:** base station characterized by the ability of its
receiver and transmitter to process two or more carriers in common active RF
components simultaneously in a declared Base Station RF Bandwidth, where at
least one carrier is of a different RAT than the other carrier(s).
**Multi-band transmitter** : transmitter characterized by the ability to
process two or more carriers in common active RF components simultaneously,
where at least one carrier is configured at a different operating band (which
is not a sub-band or superseding-band of another supported operating band)
than the other carrier(s).
**Multi-band receiver** : receiver characterized by the ability to process two
or more carriers in common active RF components simultaneously, where at least
one carrier is configured at a different operating band (which is not a sub-
band or superseding-band of another supported operating band) than the other
carrier(s).
**Non-contiguous spectrum:** spectrum consisting of two or more sub-blocks
separated by sub-block gap(s).
**NB-IoT In-band operation:** NB-IoT is operating in-band when it utilizes the
resource block(s) within a normal E-UTRA carrier.
**NB-IoT guard band operation:** NB-IoT is operating in guard band when it
utilizes the unused resource block(s) within a E-UTRA carrier\'s guard-band.
**NB-IoT standalone operation:** NB-IoT is operating standalone when it
utilizes its own spectrum, for example the spectrum currently being used by
GERAN systems as a replacement of one or more GSM carriers, as well as
scattered spectrum for potential IoT deployment.
**NB-IoT operation in NR in-band:** NB-IoT is operating in-band when it is
located within a NR transmission bandwidth configuration plus 15 kHz at each
edge but not within the NR minimum guard band GB~Channel~.
**NB-IoT operation in NR guard band:** NB-IoT is operating in guard band when
it is located within a NR BS channel bandwidth but is not NB-IoT operation in
NR in-band.
**Occupied bandwidth:** width of a frequency band such that, below the lower
and above the upper frequency limits, the mean powers emitted are each equal
to a specified percentage β/2 of the total mean power of a given emission.
**Operating band:** frequency range in which NR, E-UTRA, UTRA or GSM/EDGE
operates (paired or unpaired), that is defined with a specific set of
technical requirements**.**
NOTE: The operating band(s) for a BS is declared by the manufacturer.
**Radio Bandwidth:** **frequency difference between the upper edge of the
highest used carrier and the lower edge of the lowest used carrier.**
**Rated total output power:** The total power level that the manufacturer has
declared to be available at the antenna connector.
**RRC filtered mean power:** The mean power of a UTRA carrier as measured
through a root raised cosine filter with roll-off factor α and a bandwidth
equal to the chip rate of the radio access mode.
NOTE: The RRC filtered mean power of a perfectly modulated UTRA signal is
0.246 dB lower than the mean power of the same signal
**Single-RAT operation:** operation of a base station in an operating band
with only one RAT configured in that operating band.
**Sub-band:** A sub-band of an operating band contains a part of the uplink
and downlink frequency range of the operating band.
**Sub-block:** one contiguous allocated block of spectrum for use by the same
base station.
NOTE: There may be multiple instances of sub-blocks within a Base Station RF
Bandwidth.
**Sub-block bandwidth:** RF bandwidth of one sub-block.
**Sub-block gap:** frequency gap between two consecutive sub-blocks within a
Base Station RF Bandwidth, where the RF requirements in the gap are based on
co-existence for un-coordinated operation.
**Superseding-band:** A superseding-band of an operating band includes the
whole of the uplink and downlink frequency range of the operating band.
**Synchronized operation: operation of TDD in two different systems, where no
simultaneous uplink and downlink occur.**
**Throughput: number of payload bits successfully received per second for a
reference measurement channel in a specified reference condition.**
**Transmission bandwidth:** RF bandwidth of an instantaneous E-UTRA or NR
transmission from a UE or BS, measured in resource block units.
**Transmitter ON period: time period during which the BS transmitter is
transmitting data and/or reference symbols**
**Transmitter OFF period: time period during which the BS transmitter is not
allowed to transmit**
**Transmitter transient period: time period during which the transmitter is
changing from the OFF period to the ON period or vice versa**
**Unsynchronized operation:** operation of TDD in two different systems, where
the conditions for synchronized operation are not met.
**Uplink operating band:** part of the operating band designated for uplink.
**Upper Base Station RF Bandwidth edge:** frequency of the upper edge of the
Base Station RF Bandwidth, used as a frequency reference point for transmitter
and receiver requirements
**Upper sub-block edge:** frequency at the upper edge of one sub-block.
NOTE: It is used as a frequency reference point for both transmitter and
receiver requirements.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
β Percentage of the mean transmitted power emitted outside the occupied
bandwidth on the assigned channel
BW~Channel~ Channel bandwidth (for E-UTRA and NR)
BW~Config~ Transmission bandwidth configuration (for E-UTRA), where BW~Config~
= _N_ ~RB~ x 180 kHz in the uplink and BW~Config~ = 15 kHz + _N_ ~RB~ x 180
kHz in the downlink. Transmission bandwidth configuration (for NR), where
BW~Config~ = _N_ ~RB~ x SCS x 12.
BW~RF~ Base Station RF Bandwidth, where BW~RF~ = F~BW\ RF,high~ -- F~BW\
RF,low~
BW~RF,max~ Maximum Base Station RF Bandwidth
DwPTS Downlink part of the special subframe (for E-UTRA TDD operation)
f Frequency
∆f Separation between the Base Station RF Bandwidth edge frequency and the
nominal -3dB point of the measuring filter closest to the carrier frequency
∆f~max~ The largest value of ∆f used for defining the requirement
Δf~OBUE~ Maximum offset of the _operating band_ unwanted emissions mask from
the downlink _operating band_ edge
Δf~OOB~ Maximum offset of the out-of-band boundary from the uplink _operating
band_ edge
F~C~ Carrier centre frequency
F~filter~ Filter centre frequency
f_offset Separation between the Base Station RF Bandwidth edge frequency and
the centre of the measuring filter
f_offset~max~ The maximum value of f_offset used for defining the requirement
F~block,high~ Upper sub-block edge, where F~block,high~ = F~C,block,high~ +
F~offset,\ RAT~
F~block,low~ Lower sub-block edge, where F~block,low~ = F~C,block,low~ -
F~offset,\ RAT~
F~BW\ RF,high~ Upper Base Station RF Bandwidth edge, where F~BW\ RF,high~ =
F~C,high~ + F~offset,\ RAT~
F~BW\ RF,low~ Lower Base Station RF Bandwidth edge, where F~BW\ RF,low~ =
F~C,low~ - F~offset,\ RAT~
F~C\ band,\ high~ Center frequency of the highest transmitted/received carrier
in a band.
F~C\ band,\ low~ Center frequency of the lowest transmitted/received carrier
in a band.
F~C,block,\ high~ Centre frequency of the highest transmitted/received carrier
in a sub-block.
F~C,block,\ low~ Centre frequency of the lowest transmitted/received carrier
in a sub-block.
F~C,high~ Centre frequency of the highest transmitted/received carrier.
F~C,low~ Centre frequency of the lowest transmitted/received carrier.
F~offset,\ RAT~ Frequency offset from the centre frequency of the _highest_
transmitted/received carrier to the _upper_ Base Station RF Bandwidth edge,
sub-block edge or Inter-RF Bandwidth edge, or from the centre frequency of the
_lowest_ transmitted/received to the _lower_ Base Station RF Bandwidth edge,
sub-block edge or Inter-RF Bandwidth edge for a specific RAT.
F~DL_low~ The lowest frequency of the downlink operating band
F~DL_high~ The highest frequency of the downlink operating band
F~UL_low~ The lowest frequency of the uplink operating band
F~UL_high~ The highest frequency of the uplink operating band
GB~Channel~ Minimum guard band defined in subclause 5.3.3 of TS 38.104 [17]
P~EM,N~ Declared emission level for channel N
P~EM,B32,B75,B76,ind~ Declared emission level in Band 32, Band 75 and Band 76,
ind=a, b, c
P~EM,B32,ind~ Declared emission level in Band 32, ind= d, e
P~EM,B50,B74,B75,ind~ Declared emission level for Band 50, Band 74 and Band
75, ind=a,b
P~max~ Maximum total output power
P~max,RAT~ Maximum RAT output power
P~max,c~ Maximum carrier output power
P~Rated,c~ Rated carrier output power
P~REFSENS~ Reference Sensitivity power level
W~gap~ Sub-block gap or Inter RF Bandwidth gap size
Figure 3.2-1: Illustration of Base Station RF Bandwidth related symbols and
definitions for Multi-Standard Radio.
Figure 3.2-2: Illustration of Base Station RF Bandwidth related symbols and
definitions for non-contiguous Multi-Standard Radio.
Figure 3.2-3: Illustration of Radio Bandwidth related symbols and definitions
for Multi-band Multi-standard Radio **(Dual-band Base Station)**
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
ACLR Adjacent Channel Leakage Ratio
ACS Adjacent Channel Selectivity
ARFCN Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number
AWGN Additive White Gaussian Noise
BC Band Category
BER Bit Error Ratio
BS Base Station
BTS Base Transceiver Station
CA Carrier Aggregation
CACLR Cumulative Adjacent Channel Leakage Ratio
CP Cyclic prefix
CW Continuous Wave
DB-DC-HSDPA Dual Band Dual Cell HSDPA
DC-HSDPA Dual Cell HSDPA
DC-HSUPA Dual Cell HSUPA
DTT Digital Terrestrial Television
EARFCN E-UTRA Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number
EDGE Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution
EIRP Effective Isotropic Radiated Power
EVM Error Vector Magnitude
FCC Federal Communications Commission
FDD Frequency Division Duplex
FR Frequency Range
FRC Fixed Reference Channel
GP Guard Period (for E-UTRA TDD operation)
GSM Global System for Mobile Communications
HSDPA High Speed Downlink Packet Access
HSUPA High Speed Uplink Packet Access
ICS In-Channel Selectivity
ITU‑R Radiocommunication Sector of the ITU
LA Local Area
LNA Low Noise Amplifier
MB-MSR Multi-Band Multi-Standard Radio
MFCN Mobile/Fixed Communications Network
MIMO Multiple Input Multiple Output
MR Medium Range
MS Mobile Station
MSR Multi-Standard Radio
NB-IoT Narrowband - Internet of Things
NR New Radio
NR-ARFCN NR Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number
NRS Narrowband Reference Signal
OBUE Operating Band Unwanted Emissions
PA Power Amplifier
PHS Personal Handyphone System
QPSK Quadrature Phase-Shift Keying
RAT Radio Access Technology
RB Resource Block (for E-UTRA and NR)
RF Radio Frequency
RMS Root Mean Square (value)
RS Reference Symbol
RX Receiver
SCS Sub-Carrier Spacing
SNR Signal-to-Noise Ratio
TDD Time Division Duplex
TX Transmitter
UARFCN UTRA Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number
UE User Equipment
UEM operating band Unwanted Emissions Mask
WA Wide Area
# 4 General
## 4.1 Relation between the MSR specification and the single-RAT
specifications
The requirements for MSR are in most parts specified in the present document,
while many requirements are also specified through normative references to the
respective single-RAT specifications in [2], [3], [4], [5] and [17]. The
resulting set of requirements for an MSR BS can be divided into three types,
depending on their relation to the single-RAT specifications:
1\. **Generic MSR requirement:** A common generic requirement is specified in
the present document that applies for all RATs and for BS configured for both
multi-RAT and single-RAT operation. In some cases, there are additional
requirement(s) that apply only in some Band Category. There are no references
to the single-RAT specifications.
2\. **Generic MSR requirement, with additional single-RAT requirements:** A
common generic requirement is specified in the present document which applies
as in point 1. In addition, some single RAT requirement(s) apply, included by
normative reference(s) to the single-RAT specification(s).
3\. **Single-RAT only requirements:** In this case, no common generic
requirement is defined. The existing single-RAT requirement applies for each
RAT, included by normative reference(s) to the single-RAT specification(s).
The applicability of each requirement is described in clause 5.
## 4.2 Relationship between minimum requirements and test requirements
The Minimum Requirements given in this specification make no allowance for
measurement uncertainty. The test specification TS 37.141 [10] defines Test
Tolerances. These Test Tolerances are individually calculated for each test.
The Test Tolerances are used to relax the Minimum Requirements in this
specification to create Test Requirements. For some requirements, including
regulatory requirements, the test tolerance is set to zero.
For MSR single-RAT requirements, the principle used to define the test
requirement remains from the existing specifications.
For both MSR single-RAT and multi-RAT requirements, the measurement results
returned by the Test System are compared - without any modification - against
the Test Requirements as defined by the shared risk principle. The Shared Risk
principle is defined in ITU-R M.1545 [9].
## 4.3 Base station classes
The requirements in this specification apply to Wide Area Base Stations,
Medium Range Base Stations and Local Area Base Stations unless otherwise
stated.
Wide Area Base Stations are characterised by requirements derived from Macro
Cell scenarios with a BS to UE minimum coupling loss equal to 70 dB. The Wide
Area Base Station class has the same requirements as the base station for
General Purpose application in Release 9 and 10.
Medium Range Base Stations are characterised by requirements derived from
Micro Cell scenarios with a BS to UE minimum coupling loss equals to 53 dB.
Local Area Base Stations are characterised by requirements derived from Pico
Cell scenarios with a BS to UE minimum coupling loss equal to 45 dB.
For GSM/EDGE operation of an MSR BS, the requirements according to the
applicable multicarrier BTS class apply. The Wide Area BS, Medium Range BS and
Local Area BS in the present specification correspond to the Wide Area
multicarrier BTS, Medium Range multicarrier BTS and Local Area multicarrier
BTS respectively in the GSM/EDGE specifications. MSR requirements for multi-
RAT operation only apply for the highest GSM/EDGE static power step.
## 4.4 Regional requirements
Some requirements in the present document may only apply in certain regions
either as optional requirements, or set by local and regional regulation as
mandatory requirements. It is normally not stated in the 3GPP specifications
under what exact circumstances that the requirements apply, since this is
defined by local or regional regulation.
Table 4.4-1 lists all requirements in the present specification that may be
applied differently in different regions. There are additional single-RAT
regional requirements that may apply. These are referenced from the present
specification, but listed in the specification for the RATs concerned
[2][3][4][5][17].
Table 4.4-1: List of regional requirements
* * *
Clause number Requirement Comments 4.5 Operating bands and Band Categories
Some bands may be applied regionally. 6.2.2 Base station output power These
requirements apply in Japan for a BS operating in band 34 and Band 41. 6.6.1.1
Mandatory requirements (spurious emissions) Category A limits are mandatory
for regions where Category A limits for spurious emissions, as defined in
ITU-R Recommendation SM.329 [2] apply. Category B limits are mandatory for
regions where Category B limits for spurious emissions, as defined in ITU-R
Recommendation SM.329 [2] apply. 6.6.1.3 Additional spurious emissions
requirements These requirements may be applied for the protection of system
operating in frequency ranges other than the MSR BS operating band. 6.6.1.3
Additional spurious emissions requirements In addition to the requirements in
subclauses 6.6.1.1, 6.6.1.2 and 6.6.1.3, the BS may have to comply with the
applicable emission limits established by FCC Title 47 [8], when deployed in
regions where those limits are applied, and under the conditions declared by
the manufacturer. 6.6.1.4 Co-location (spurious emissions) These requirements
may be applied for the protection of other BS receivers when a BS operating in
another frequency band is co-located with an MSR BS. 6.6.2.1 Operating band
unwanted emissions For BS operating in Band 41 in Japan, the operating band
unwanted emissions limits shall be applied to the sum of the emission power
over all _antenna connectors._ 6.6.2.4.1 Additional requirement (Operating
band unwanted emissions) In addition to the requirements in subclauses 6.6.2.1
and 6.6.2.2, the BS may have to comply with the applicable emission limits
established by FCC Title 47 [8], when deployed in regions where those limits
are applied and under the conditions declared by the manufacturer. 6.6.2.4.2
Unsynchronized operation for BC3 (Operating band unwanted emissions) The
requirements for unsynchronized TDD co-existence may apply regionally.
6.6.2.4.3 Protection of DTT (Operating band unwanted emissions) The
requirements for protection of DTT may apply regionally. 6.6.2.4.4 Co-
existence with services in adjacent frequency bands (Operating band unwanted
emissions) This regional requirement may be applied for the protection of
systems operating in frequency bands adjacent to band 1 as defined in clause
4.5, in geographic areas in which both an adjacent band service and UTRA
and/or E‑UTRA are deployed. 6.6.2.4.7 Additional band 32 unwanted emissions
These requirements may apply in certain regions 6.6.3 Occupied bandwidth The
requirement may be applied regionally. There may also be regional requirements
to declare the Occupied bandwidth according to the definition. 6.6.5.3
Transmitter spurious emissions For BS operating in Band 41 in Japan, the
spurious emissions limits shall be applied to the sum of the emission power
over all _antenna connectors_ 6.7.3, 6.7.4 Additional requirements These
requirements may apply in certain regions. 7.4.5 Additional BC3 blocking
minimum requirement This requirement may be applied for the protection of the
BS receiver when an MSR BS is operating in the same geographical area as UTRA
TDD. 7.5.2 Co-location requirement (blocking) These requirements may be
applied for the protection of the BS receiver when a BS operating in another
frequency band is co-located with an MSR BS.
* * *
## 4.5 Operating bands and Band Categories
MSR requirements are applicable for band definitions and band numbering as
defined in the specifications TS 45.005 [5], TS25.104 [2], TS 25.105 [3], TS
36.104 [4] and TS 38.104 [17]. For the purpose of defining the BS
requirements, the operating bands are divided into three band categories as
follows:
\- Band Category 1 (BC1): Bands for NR FDD, E-UTRA FDD and/or UTRA FDD
operation. Bands in this category are also used for NB-IoT operation (all
modes)
\- Band Category 2 (BC2): Bands for NR FDD, E-UTRA FDD, UTRA FDD and/or
GSM/EDGE operation. Bands in this category are also used for NB-IoT operation
(all modes)
\- Band Category 3 (BC3): Bands for NR TDD, E-UTRA TDD and/or UTRA TDD
operation. Bands in this category are also used for NB-IoT operation (all
modes)
NOTE: For UTRA TDD, requirements in the present document cover the 1.28 Mcps
UTRA TDD option.
The paired and unpaired bands for the three Band Categories are shown in Table
4.5-1 and 4.5-2, together with the supported RATs and corresponding NR,
E-UTRA, UTRA and GSM/EDGE band designations.
Table 4.5-1: Paired bands in NR, E-UTRA, UTRA and GSM/EDGE.
MSR Band number | Supported RATs and Band Numbers | Uplink (UL)  
BS receive,  
UE transmit (MHz) | Downlink (DL)  
BS transmit,  
UE receive (MHz) | BC | Notes |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|
> NR
|
> E-UTRA
|
> NB-IoT
|
> UTRA
|
> GSM/EDGE
|  |  |  |   
1 | n1 | 1 | X | I | - | 1920 – 1980 | 2110 – 2170 | 1 |   
2 | n2 | 2 | X | II | PCS  
1900 | 1850 – 1910 | 1930 – 1990 | 2 |   
3 | n3 | 3 | X | III | DCS  
1800 | 1710 – 1785 | 1805 – 1880 | 2 |   
4 | - | 4 | X | IV | - | 1710 – 1755 | 2110 – 2155 | 1 |   
5 | n5 | 5 | X | V | GSM  
850 | 824 – 849 | 869 – 894 | 2 |   
6 | - | - | - | VI | - | 830 – 840 | 875 – 885 | 1 |   
7 | n7 | 7 | X | VII | - | 2500 – 2570 | 2620 – 2690 | 1 |   
8 | n8 | 8 | X | VIII | E-GSM | 880 – 915 | 925 – 960 | 2 |   
9 | - | 9 | - | IX | - | 1749.9 – 1784.9 | 1844.9 – 1879.9 | 1 |   
10 | - | 10 | - | X | - | 1710 – 1770 | 2110 – 2170 | 1 |   
11 | - | 11 | X | XI | - | 1427.9 – 1447.9 | 1475.9 – 1495.9 | 1 |   
12 | n12 | 12 | X | XII | - | 699 – 716 | 729 – 746 | 1 |   
13 | n13 | 13 | X | XIII | - | 777 – 787 | 746 – 756 | 1 |   
14 | n14 | 14 | X | XIV | - | 788 – 798 | 758 – 768 | 1 |   
15 | - | - | - | - | - | Reserved |  |  |   
16 | - | - | - | - | - | Reserved |  |  |   
17 | - | 17 | X | - | - | 704 – 716 | 734 – 746 | 1 |   
18 | n18 | 18 | X | - | - | 815 – 830 | 860 – 875 | 1 |   
19 | - | 19 | X | XIX | - | 830 – 845 | 875 – 890 | 1 |   
20 | n20 | 20 | X | XX | - | 832 – 862 | 791 – 821 | 1 |   
21 | - | 21 | X | XXI | - | 1447.9 – 1462.9 | 1495.9 – 1510.9 | 1 |   
22 | - | 22 | - | XXII | - | 3410 – 3490 | 3510 – 3590 | 1 |   
23 | - | 23 | - | - | - | 2000 – 2020 | 2180 – 2200 | 1 | Note 4  
24 | n24 | 24 | X | - | - | 1626.5 – 1660.5 | 1525 – 1559 | 1 | Note 6  
25 | n25 | 25 | X | XXV | - | 1850 – 1915 | 1930 – 1995 | 1 |   
26 | n26 | 26 | X | XXVI | - | 814 – 849 | 859 – 894 | 1 |   
27 | - | 27 | - | - | - | 807 – 824 | 852 – 869 | 1 |   
28 | n28 | 28 | X | - | - | 703 – 748 | 758 – 803 | 1 |   
29 | n29 | 29 | - | - | - | N/A | 717 – 728 | 1 | Note 1  
30 | n30 | 30 | - | - | - | 2305 – 2315 | 2350 – 2360 | 1 |   
31 | - | 31 | X | - | - | 452.5 – 457.5 | 462.5 – 467.5 | 1 |   
32 | - | 32 | - | XXXII | - | N/A | 1452 – 1496 | 1 | Note1, Note 2  
64 | - | - | - | - | - | Reserved |  |  |   
65 | n65 | 65 | X | - | - | 1920 – 2010 | 2110 – 2200 | 1 |   
66 | n66 | 66 | X | - | - | 1710 – 1780 | 2110 – 2200 | 1 | Note 7  
67 | n67 | 67 | - | - | - | N/A | 738 – 758 | 1 | Note 1  
68 | - | 68 | - | - | - | 698 – 728 | 753 – 783 | 1 |   
69 | - | 69 | - | - | - | N/A | 2570 – 2620 | 1 | Note 1  
70 | n70 | 70 | X | - | - | 1695 – 1710 | 1995 – 2020 | 1 | Note 5  
71 | n71 | 71 | X | - | - | 663 – 698 | 617 – 652 | 1 |   
72 | - | 72 | X | - | - | 451 – 456 | 461 – 466 | 1 |   
73 | - | 73 | X | - | - | 450 – 455 | 460 – 465 | 1 |   
74 | n74 | 74 | X | - | - | 1427 – 1470 | 1475 – 1518 | 1 |   
75 | n75 | 75 | - | - | - | N/A | 1432 – 1517 | 1 | Note 1  
76 | n76 | 76 | - | - | - | N/A | 1427 – 1432 | 1 | Note 1  
85 | n85 | 85 | X | - | - | 698 – 716 | 728 – 746 | 1 |   
87 | - | 87 | X | - | - | 410 – 415 | 420 – 425 | 1 |   
88 | - | 88 | X | - | - | 412 – 417 | 422 – 427 | 1 |   
NOTE 1: For NR and/or E-UTRA, the band is restricted to operation when carrier aggregation is configured. The downlink operating band is paired with the uplink operating band (external) of the carrier aggregation configuration that is supporting the configured Pcell. NOTE 2: For UTRA, the band is restricted to operation when dual band is configured (e.g., DB-DC-HSDPA or dual band 4C-HSDPA). The down link frequenc(ies) of this band are paired with the uplink frequenc(ies) of the other FDD band (external) of the dual band configuration. NOTE 3: For E-UTRA, the range 2180-2200 MHz of the DL operating band is restricted to operation when carrier aggregation is configured. NOTE 4: Band 23 is not applicable. NOTE 5: For E-UTRA, the range 2010-2020 MHz of the DL operating band is restricted to operation when carrier aggregation is configured, and TX-RX separation is 300 MHz. For E-UTRA, the range 2005-2020 MHz of the DL operating band is restricted to operation when carrier aggregation is configured, and TX-RX separation is 295 MHz. NOTE 6: DL operation is restricted to 1526-1536 MHz frequency range. UL operation is restricted to 1627.5 – 1637.5 MHz and 1646.5 – 1656.5 MHz per FCC Order DA 20-48. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
UTRA FDD can operate with DB-DC-HSDPA for the band configurations listed in
subclause 5.2 c) of TS 25.104 [2].
NOTE: For BS capable of multi-band operation, the supported operating bands
may belong to different Band Categories.
Table 4.5-2: Unpaired bands in NR, E-UTRA and UTRA.
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | MSR | Supp | U | Dow | BC | Notes | | | | | Band | orted | plink | nlink | | | | | | | n | RATs | (UL)\ | (DL)\ | | | | | | | umber | and | BS | BS | | | | | | | | Band | rece | trans | | | | | | | | Nu | ive,\ | mit,\ | | | | | | | | mbers | UE | UE | | | | | | | | | tra | re | | | | | | | | | nsmit | ceive | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (MHz) | (MHz) | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | | > NR | > E | > N | > | | | | | | | | -UTRA | B-IoT | UTRA | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | 33 | - | 33 | - | a) | 1900 | 1900 | 3 | | | | | | | | -- | -- | | | | | | | | | 1920 | 1920 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | 34 | n34 | 34 | - | a) | 2010 | 2010 | 3 | | | | | | | | -- | -- | | | | | | | | | 2025 | 2025 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | 35 | - | 35 | - | b) | 1850 | 1850 | 3 | | | | | | | | -- | -- | | | | | | | | | 1910 | 1910 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | 36 | - | 36 | - | b) | 1930 | 1930 | 3 | | | | | | | | -- | -- | | | | | | | | | 1990 | 1990 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | 37 | - | 37 | - | c) | 1910 | 1910 | 3 | | | | | | | | -- | -- | | | | | | | | | 1930 | 1930 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | 38 | n38 | 38 | - | d) | 2570 | 2570 | 3 | | | | | | | | -- | -- | | | | | | | | | 2620 | 2620 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | 39 | n39 | 39 | - | f) | 1880 | 1880 | 3 | | | | | | | | -- | -- | | | | | | | | | 1920 | 1920 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | 40 | n40 | 40 | - | e) | 2300 | 2300 | 3 | | | | | | | | -- | -- | | | | | | | | | 2400 | 2400 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | 41 | n41 | 41 | X | - | 2496 | 2496 | 3 | Note | | | | | | | -- | -- | | 1 | | | | | | | 2690 | 2690 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | 42 | - | 42 | X | - | 3400 | 3400 | 3 | | | | | | | | -- | -- | | | | | | | | | 3600 | 3600 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | 43 | - | 43 | X | - | 3600 | 3600 | 3 | | | | | | | | -- | -- | | | | | | | | | 3800 | 3800 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | 44 | - | 44 | - | - | 703 | 703 | 3 | | | | | | | | -- | -- | | | | | | | | | 803 | 803 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | 45 | - | 45 | - | - | 1447 | 1447 | 3 | | | | | | | | -- | -- | | | | | | | | | 1467 | 1467 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | 48 | n48 | 48 | X | - | 3550 | 3550 | 3 | | | | | | | | -- | -- | | | | | | | | | 3700 | 3700 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | 50 | n50 | 50 | - | - | 1432 | 1432 | 3 | | | | | | | | -- | -- | | | | | | | | | 1517 | 1517 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | 51 | n51 | 51 | - | - | 1427 | 1427 | 3 | | | | | | | | -- | -- | | | | | | | | | 1432 | 1432 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | 52 | - | 52 | - | - | 3300 | 3300 | 3 | | | | | | | | -- | -- | | | | | | | | | 3400 | 3400 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | 53 | n53 | 53 | - | - | 2 | 2 | 3 | | | | | | | | 483.5 | 483.5 | | | | | | | | | -- | -- | | | | | | | | | 2495 | 2495 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | 77 | n77 | - | - | - | 3300 | 3300 | 3 | | | | | | | | -- | -- | | | | | | | | | 4200 | 4200 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | 78 | n78 | - | - | - | 3300 | 3300 | 3 | | | | | | | | -- | -- | | | | | | | | | 3800 | 3800 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | | 41 | | | | | | | | | | sup | | | | | | | | | | ports | | | | | | | | | | N | | | | | | | | | | B-IoT | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | ce | | | | | | | | | | rtain | | | | | | | | | | reg | | | | | | | | | | ions. | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+
E-UTRA is designed to operate for the carrier aggregation bands defined in TS
36.101 [18]. The E-UTRA channel bandwidth BW~Channel~ for a single carrier and
the Aggregated Channel Bandwidth BW~Channel_CA~ for E-UTRA carrier aggregation
are specified in Clause 5.6 of TS 36.104 [4].
The NB-IoT channel bandwidth BW~Channel~ is specified in Clause 5.6 of TS
36.104 [4].
The NR BS channel bandwidth and PRB utilization is specified in Clause 5.3 of
TS 38.104 [17].
### 4.5.1 Band category 1 aspects (BC1)
For each BC1 band, BC1 requirements for receiver and transmitter shall apply
with a frequency offset **F~offset,\ RAT~** from the Lowest and Highest
Carriers to the Base Station RF Bandwidth edges and sub-block edges (if any)
as defined in Table 4.5.1-1.
Table 4.5.1-1: F~offset,\ RAT~ for Band Category 1
RAT F~offset,\ RAT~
* * *
1.4, 3 MHz E-UTRA BW~Channel~/2 + 200 kHz 5, 10, 15, 20 MHz E-UTRA and NR
BW~Channel~/2 UTRA FDD 2.5 MHz Standalone NB-IoT 200 kHz
### 4.5.2 Band category 2 aspects (BC2)
For each BC2 band, BC2 requirements for receiver and transmitter shall apply
with a frequency offset **F~offset,\ RAT\ ~** from the Lowest and Highest
Carriers to the Base Station RF Bandwidth edges and sub-block edges (if any)
as defined in Table 4.5.2-1.
Table 4.5.2-1: F~offset,\ RAT~ for Band Category 2
RAT F~offset,\ RAT~
* * *
E-UTRA and NR BW~Channel~/2 UTRA FDD 2.5 MHz GSM/EDGE 200 kHz Standalone NB-
IoT 200 kHz
### 4.5.3 Band category 3 aspects (BC3)
For each BC3 band, BC3 requirements for receiver and transmitter shall apply
with a frequency offset **F~offset,\ RAT~** from the Lowest and Highest
Carriers to the Base Station RF Bandwidth edges and sub-block edges (if any)
as defined in Table 4.5.3-1.
Table 4.5.3-1: F~offset,\ RAT~ for Band Category 3
RAT F~offset,\ RAT~
* * *
1.4, 3 MHz E-UTRA BW~Channel~ /2 + 200 kHz 5, 10, 15, 20 MHz E-UTRA and NR
BW~Channel~ /2 1.28 Mcps UTRA TDD 1 MHz Standalone NB-IoT 200 kHz
## 4.6 Channel arrangement
### 4.6.1 Channel spacing
The GSM/EDGE carrier spacing is 200 kHz [5].
The nominal UTRA FDD channel spacing is 5 MHz. The nominal channel spacing is
1.6MHz for the 1.28 Mcps UTRA TDD Option. These can be adjusted to optimise
performance in a particular deployment scenario [2,3].
In E-UTRA the spacing between carriers will depend on the deployment scenario,
the size of the frequency block available and the channel bandwidths. The
nominal channel spacing between two adjacent E-UTRA carriers is defined as
following:
Nominal Channel spacing = (BW~Channel(1)~ + BW~Channel(2)~)/2
where BW~Channel(1)~ and BW~Channel(2)~ are the channel bandwidths of the two
respective E-UTRA carriers. The channel spacing can be adjusted to optimize
performance in a particular deployment scenario [4].
The standalone NB-IoT carrier spacing is 200kHz.
In NR the spacing between carriers will depend on the deployment scenario, the
size of the frequency block available and the _BS channel bandwidths_. The
nominal channel spacing between two adjacent NR carriers is defined as
following:
\- For NR FR1 operating bands with 100 kHz channel raster,
Nominal Channel spacing = (BW~Channel(1)~ + BW~Channel(2)~)/2
\- For NR FR1 operating bands with 15 kHz channel raster,
\- Nominal Channel spacing = (BW~Channel(1)~ + BW~Channel(2)~)/2 + {-5 kHz, 0
kHz, 5 kHz} for ∆F~Raster~ equals to 15 kHz
\- Nominal Channel spacing = (BW~Channel(1)~ + BW~Channel(2)~)/2 + {-10 kHz, 0
kHz, 10 kHz} for ∆F~Raster~ equals to 30 kHz
where BW~Channel(1)~ and BW~Channel(2)~ are the _BS channel bandwidths_ of the
two respective NR carriers. The channel spacing can be adjusted depending on
the channel raster to optimize performance in a particular deployment scenario
[17].
The spacing between E-UTRA and NR carriers will depend on the deployment
scenario, the size of the frequency block available and the channel
bandwidths. The nominal channel spacing between and E-UTRA carrier and an
adjacent NR carrier is defined as following:
\- For NR operating bands with 100 kHz channel raster,
Nominal Channel spacing = (BW~E-UTRA_Channel~ + BW~NR_Channel~)/2
\- For NR operating bands with 15 kHz channel raster,
Nominal Channel spacing = (BW~E-UTRA_Channel~ + BW~NR_Channel~)/2+{-5kHz,
0kHz, 5kHz} for ∆F~Raster~ equals to 15 kHz
Nominal Channel spacing = (BW~E-UTRA_Channel~ + BW~NR_Channel~)/2+{-10 kHz, 0
kHz, 10 kHz} for ∆F~Raster~ equals to 30 kHz
where BW~E-UTRA_Channel~ and BW~NR_Channel~ are the channel bandwidths of the
E-UTRA and NR carriers, ∆F~Raster~ is the band dependent channel raster
granularity defined in TS38.101-1[19]. The channel spacing can be adjusted
depending on the channel raster to optimize performance in a particular
deployment scenario.
.
### 4.6.1A CA Channel spacing
In E-UTRA for contiguously aggregated carriers the channel spacing between
adjacent component carriers shall be multiple of 300 kHz.
The nominal channel spacing between two adjacent aggregated E-UTRA carriers is
defined as follows:
where BW~Channel(1)~ and BW~Channel(2)~ are the channel bandwidths of the two
respective E-UTRA component carriers according to Table 5.6-1 with values in
MHz. The channel spacing for intra-band contiguous carrier aggregation can be
adjusted to any multiple of 300 kHz less than the nominal channel spacing to
optimize performance in a particular deployment scenario.
In NR for intra-band contiguously aggregated carriers, the channel spacing
between adjacent component carriers shall be multiple of least common multiple
of channel raster and sub-carrier spacing.
The nominal channel spacing between two adjacent aggregated NR carriers is
defined as follows:
For NR operating bands with 100 kHz channel raster:
For NR operating bands with 15 kHz channel raster:
with
where BW~Channel(1)~ and BW~Channel(2)~ are the _BS channel bandwidths_ of the
two respective NR component carriers according to Table 5.3.3-1 and 5.3.3-2 in
TS 38.104 [17] with values in MHz, μ~0~ the largest μ value among the
subcarrier spacing configurations supported in the operating band for both of
the channel bandwidths according to Table 5.3.5-1 and Table 5.3.5-2 in TS
38.104 [17] and _GB~Channel(i)~_ the minimum guard band for channel bandwidth
_i_ according to Table 5.3.3-1 and Table 5.3.3-2 in TS 38.104 [17] for the
said μ value, with μ as defined in TS 38.211. In case there is no common μ
value for both of the channel bandwidths, μ~0~=1 is selected for NR _operating
bands_ with 15 kHz channel raster and _GB~Channel(i)~_ is the minimum guard
band for channel bandwidth i according to Table 5.3.3-1 in TS38.104 [17] for
_μ=1_ with _μ_ as defined in TS 38.211.
In NR the channel spacing for intra-band contiguous carrier aggregation can be
adjusted to any multiple of least common multiple of channel raster and sub-
carrier spacing less than the nominal channel spacing to optimize performance
in a particular deployment scenario.
### 4.6.2 Channel raster
The GSM/EDGE channel raster is 200 kHz for all bands [5].
The UTRA FDD and TDD channel raster is 200 kHz for all bands, which means that
the centre frequency must be an integer multiple of 200 kHz. In addition, a
number of additional centre frequencies are specified for UTRA FDD according
to [2], which means that the centre frequencies for UTRA FDD channels are
shifted 100 kHz relative to the general raster.
The E-UTRA channel raster is 100 kHz for all bands, which means that the
carrier centre frequency must be an integer multiple of 100 kHz [4].
NB-IoT channel raster is 100 kHz for all bands [4].
NR channel raster is specified in Clause 5.4.2 of TS 38.104 [17].
### 4.6.3 Carrier frequencies and numbering
The carrier frequencies and corresponding numbering is defined for each RAT in
the respective specifications TS 38.104 [17], 36.104 [4] TS25.104 [2], TS
25.105 [3] and TS 45.005 [5]. In the context of MSR, the frequency numbering
scheme for each RAT will remain.
\- The E-UTRA carrier frequency numbering (EARFCN) is defined in subclause 5.7
of TS 36.104 [4].
\- The UTRA FDD carrier frequency numbering (UARFCN) is defined in subclause
5.4 of TS 25.104 [2].
\- The UTRA TDD carrier frequency numbering (UARFCN) is defined in subclause
5.4 of TS 25.105 [3].
\- The GSM/EDGE carrier frequency numbering (ARFCN) is defined subclause 2 of
TS 45.005 [5].
\- The NB-IoT carrier frequency numbering (EARFCN) is defined in subclause 5.7
of TS 36.104 [4].
\- The NR carrier frequency numbering (NR-ARFCN) is defined in subclause
5.4.2.3 of TS 38.104 [17].
NOTE: The numbering schemes for UTRA FDD and TDD are not coordinated, while
both are called UARFCN.
## 4.7 Requirements for contiguous and non-contiguous spectrum
A spectrum allocation where an MSR BS operates can either be contiguous or
non-contiguous. Unless otherwise stated, the requirements in the present
specification apply for BS configured for both contiguous spectrum operation
and non-contiguous spectrum operation.
For MSR BS operation in non-contiguous spectrum, some requirements apply both
at the Base Station RF Bandwidth edges and inside the sub-block gaps. For each
such requirement, it is stated how the limits apply relative to the Base
Station RF Bandwidth edges and the sub-block edges respectively.
## 4.8 Requirements for BS capable of multi-band operation
For BS capable of multi-band operation (for NR this refers to BS type 1-C with
a multi-band antenna connector), the RF requirements in clause 6 and 7 apply
for each supported operating band unless otherwise stated. For some
requirements it is explicitly stated that specific additions or exclusions to
the requirement apply for BS capable of multi-band operation. In the case of
multiband operation of a BS, single-RAT operation and the corresponding
applicability of the requirements for each operating band is determined based
on the RAT configuration within only that operating band, unless otherwise
stated. A BS may operate multi-RAT where the individual RATs are operated in
different RAT specific bands that partially or fully overlap; Δf~OBUE~ and
Δf~OOB~ are according to the combined frequency range occupied by the
overlapping bands.
For BS capable of multi-band operation, various structures in terms of
combinations of different transmitter and receiver implementations (multi-band
or single band) with mapping of transceivers to one or more antenna port(s) in
different ways are possible. In the case where multiple bands are mapped on an
antenna connector, the exclusions or provisions for multi-band capable BS are
applicable to this antenna connector. In the case where a single band is
mapped on an antenna connector, the following applies:
\- Single-band transmitter spurious emissions, operating band unwanted
emissions, ACLR, transmitter intermodulation and receiver spurious emissions
requirements apply to this antenna connector that is mapped to single-band.
\- If the BS is configured for single-band operation, single-band requirements
shall apply to this antenna connector configured for single-band operation and
no exclusions or provisions for multi-band capable BS are applicable. Single-
band requirements are tested separately at the antenna connector configured
for single-band operation, with all other antenna connectors terminated.
For a band supported by a Base Station where the transmitted carriers are not
processed in active RF components together with carriers in any other band,
single-band transmitter requirements shall apply. For a band supported by a
Base Station where the received carriers are not processed in active RF
components together with carriers in any other band, single-band receiver
requirements shall apply.
For a BS capable of multi-band operation supporting BC3 bands for TDD, the RF
requirements in the present specification assume synchronized operation, where
no simultaneous uplink and downlink occur between the bands.
The RF requirements for multi-band operation supporting bands for both FDD and
TDD are not covered by the present release of this specification.
# 5 Applicability of requirements
## 5.1 Band category 1
For all BS operating in bands belonging to Band Category 1, the RF
requirements listed in Table 5.1-1 apply for each supported operating band.
Requirements apply according to the RAT configuration of the Base Station, as
listed in the heading of the table. Some requirements listed in the table may
not be mandatory or they may apply only regionally. This is further specified
in the clause of each requirement and in Table 4.4-1. For multiband operation,
the applicability of the requirements for each operating band is determined
based on the RAT configuration within only that operating band, unless
otherwise stated.
Table 5.1-1: Applicability of requirements for MSR BS operation in Band
Category 1
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | RF | BS | BS | BS | BS | BS | | req | co | co | co | co | co | | uirement | nfigured | nfigured | nfigured | nfigured | nfigured | | | for | for | for | for | for | | | m | si | si | si | si | | | ulti-RAT | ngle-RAT | ngle-RAT | ngle-RAT | ngle-RAT | | | o | E‑UTRA | UTRA FDD | NB-IoT | NR | | | peration | FDD | o | FDD | o | | | in the | o | peration | st | peration | | | band | peration | in the | andalone | in the | | | | in the | band | o | band | | | | band | | peration | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | band | | +==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+ | Base | 6.2.1 | 6.2.1 | 6.2.1 | 6.2.1 | 6.2.1 | | station | | | | | | | output | 6.2.3 | 6.2.3 | 6.2.4 | 6.2.6 | | | power | | | | | | | | 6.2.4 | | 6.2.4A | | | | | | | | | | | | 6.2.4A | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 6.2.6 | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Output | 6.3.1 | 6.3.1 | 6.3.2 | 6.3.5 | 6.3.6 | | power | | | | | | | dynamics | 6.3.2 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 6.3.5 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 6.3.6 | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Tra | | | | | | | nsmitted | | | | | | | signal | | | | | | | quality | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Mo | 6.5.1.1 | 6.5.1.1 | 6.5.1.2 | 6.5.1.5 | 6.5.1.6 | | dulation | | | | | | | quality | 6.5.1.2 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 6.5.1.5 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 6.5.1.6 | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | F | 6.5.2.1 | 6.5.2.1 | 6.5.2.2 | 6.5.2.5 | 6.5.2.6 | | requency | | | | | | | error | 6.5.2.2 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 6.5.2.5 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 6.5.2.6 | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Time | 6.5.3.1 | 6.5.3.1 | 6.5.3.2 | 6.5.3.4 | 6.5.3.5 | | a | | | | | | | lignment | 6.5.3.2 | | | | | | error | | | | | | | | 6.5.3.4 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 6.5.3.5 | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Unwanted | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | missions | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Tra | 6.6.1 | 6.6.1 | 6.6.1 | 6.6.1 | 6.6.1 | | nsmitter | (except | (except | (except | (except | (except | | spurious | for | for | for | for | for | | e | 6. | 6. | 6. | 6. | 6. | | missions | 6.1.1.3) | 6.1.1.3) | 6.1.1.3) | 6.1.1.3) | 6.1.1.3) | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | O | 6.6.2.1\ | 6.6.2.1\ | 6.6.2.1\ | 6.6.2.1\ | 6.6.2.1 | | perating | 6.6.2.4 | 6.6.2.4 | 6.6.2.4 | 6.6.2.4 | | | band | | | | | 6.6.2.4 | | unwanted | | | | | | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | missions | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Occupied | 6.6.3 | 6.6.3 | 6.6.3 | 6.6.3 | 6.6.3 | | b | | | | | | | andwidth | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | ACLR | 6.6.4.1 | 6.6.4.1 | 6.6.4.2 | 6.6.4.5 | 6.6.4.6 | | | | | | | | | | 6.6.4.2 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 6.6.4.5 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 6.6.4.6 | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Cu | 6.6.4.4 | 6.6.4.4 | 6.6.4.4 | 6.6.4.4 | 6.6.4.4 | | mulative | (NOTE 3) | (NOTE 3) | (NOTE 3) | (NOTE 3) | (NOTE 3) | | ACLR | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Tra | 6.7.1 | 6.7.1 | 6.7.1 | 6.7.1 | 6.7.1 | | nsmitter | | | | | | | intermo | 6.7.2 | 6.7.2 | 6.7.2 | 6.7.2 | 6.7.2 | | dulation | (NOTE 2) | (NOTE 2) | (NOTE 2) | (NOTE 2) | (NOTE 2) | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | R | 7.2.1 | 7.2.1 | 7.2.2 | 7.2.5 | 7.2.6 | | eference | | | | | | | sen | 7.2.2 | | | | | | sitivity | | | | | | | level | 7.2.5 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 7.2.6 | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Dynamic | 7.3.1 | 7.3.1 | 7.3.2 | 7.3.5 | 7.3.6 | | range | | | | | | | | 7.3.2 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 7.3.5 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 7.3.6 | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | In-band | | | | | | | sel | | | | | | | ectivity | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | blocking | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Blocking | 7.4.1 | 7.4.1 | 7.4.1 | 7.4.1 | 7.4.1 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Na | 7.4.2 | 7.4.2 | 7.4.2 | 7.4.2 | 7.4.2 | | rrowband | | | | | | | blocking | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Out | 7.5 | 7.5 | 7.5 | 7.5 | 7.5 | | -of-band | | | | | | | blocking | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Receiver | 7.6.1 | 7.6.1 | 7.6.1 | 7.6.1 | 7.6.1 | | spurious | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | missions | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Receiver | | | | | | | intermo | | | | | | | dulation | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Intermo | 7.7.1 | 7.7.1 | 7.7.1 | 7.7.1 | 7.7.1 | | dulation | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Na | 7.7.2 | 7.7.2 | 7.7.2 | 7.7.2 | 7.7.2 | | rrowband | | | | | | | intermo | | | | | | | dulation | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | In | 7.8 | 7.8 | - | 7.8 | 7.8.2 | | -channel | | | | | | | sel | | | | | | | ectivity | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Per | 8.1 | 8.1 | 8.2 | 8.6 | 8.5 | | formance | | | | | | | requ | 8.2 | | | | | | irements | | | | | | | | 8.5 | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | For some | | | | | | | requ | | | | | | | irements | | | | | | | in BS | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | nfigured | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | ulti-RAT | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | eration, | | | | | | | there is | | | | | | | no | | | | | | | general | | | | | | | MSR | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | ulti-RAT | | | | | | | requ | | | | | | | irement. | | | | | | | Instead, | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | defined | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | spective | | | | | | | si | | | | | | | ngle-RAT | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | for each | | | | | | | RAT | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | upported | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | BS as | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | ferenced | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | table. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 6.7.2 is | | | | | | | only | | | | | | | applied | | | | | | | for BS | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | non-co | | | | | | | ntiguous | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | pectrum. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 6.6.4.4 | | | | | | | is only | | | | | | | applied | | | | | | | for BS | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | non-co | | | | | | | ntiguous | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | pectrum. | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
## 5.2 Band category 2
For all BS operating in bands belonging to Band Category 2, the RF
requirements listed in Table 5.2-1 apply for each supported operating band.
Requirements apply according to the RAT configuration of the Base Station, as
listed in the heading of the table. Some requirements listed in the table may
not be mandatory or they may apply only regionally. This is further specified
in the clause of each requirement and in Table 4.4-1. For multiband operation,
the applicability of the requirements for each operating band is determined
based on the RAT configuration within only that operating band, unless
otherwise stated.
Table 5.2-1: Applicability of requirements for MSR BS operation in Band
Category 2
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | RF | BS | BS | BS | BS | BS\ | BS | BS\ | | r | confi | confi | confi | confi | confi | confi | confi | | equir | gured | gured | gured | gured | gured | gured | gured | | ement | for | for | for | for | for | for | for | | | mult | mult | singl | singl | singl | singl | singl | | | i-RAT | i-RAT | e-RAT | e-RAT | e-RAT | e-RAT | e-RAT | | | oper | oper | E | UTRA | GSM | N | NR | | | ation | ation | ‑UTRA | FDD | /EDGE | B-IoT | oper | | | not | incl | FDD | oper | oper | FDD | ation | | | incl | uding | oper | ation | ation | stand | in | | | uding | GSM | ation | in | in | alone | the | | | GSM | /EDGE | in | the | the | oper | band | | | /EDGE | in | the | band | band | ation | | | | in | the | band | | | in | | | | the | band | | | | the | | | | band | | | | | band | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+ | Base | 6.2.1 | 6.2.1 | 6.2.1 | 6.2.1 | 6.2.1 | 6.2.1 | 6.2.1 | | st | | | | | | | | | ation | 6.2.3 | 6.2.3 | 6.2.3 | 6.2.4 | | 6.2.6 | | | o | | | | | | | | | utput | 6.2.4 | 6.2.4 | | 6 | | | | | power | | | | .2.4A | | | | | | 6 | 6 | | | | | | | | .2.4A | .2.4A | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 6.2.6 | 6.2.6 | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | O | 6.3.1 | 6.3.1 | 6.3.1 | 6.3.2 | 6.3.4 | 6.3.5 | 6.3.6 | | utput | | | | | | | | | power | 6.3.2 | 6.3.2 | | | | | | | dyn | | | | | | | | | amics | 6.3.5 | 6.3.4 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 6.3.6 | 6.3.5 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 6.3.6 | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Tra | - | - | - | - | - | - | - | | nsmit | | | | | | | | | O | | | | | | | | | N/OFF | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | T | | | | | | | | | ransm | | | | | | | | | itted | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ignal | | | | | | | | | qu | | | | | | | | | ality | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Modul | 6. | 6. | 6. | 6. | 6. | 6. | 6. | | ation | 5.1.1 | 5.1.1 | 5.1.1 | 5.1.2 | 5.1.4 | 5.1.5 | 5.1.6 | | qu | | | | | | | | | ality | 6. | 6. | | | | | | | | 5.1.2 | 5.1.2 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 6. | 6. | | | | | | | | 5.1.5 | 5.1.4 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 6. | 6. | | | | | | | | 5.1.6 | 5.1.5 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 6. | | | | | | | | | 5.1.6 | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Freq | 6. | 6. | 6. | 6. | 6. | 6. | 6. | | uency | 5.2.1 | 5.2.1 | 5.2.1 | 5.2.2 | 5.2.4 | 5.2.5 | 5.2.6 | | error | | | | | | | | | | 6. | 6. | | | | | | | | 5.2.2 | 5.2.2 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 6. | 6. | | | | | | | | 5.2.5 | 5.2.4 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 6. | 6. | | | | | | | | 5.2.6 | 5.2.5 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 6. | | | | | | | | | 5.2.6 | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Time | 6. | 6. | 6. | 6. | - | 6. | 6. | | alig | 5.3.1 | 5.3.1 | 5.3.1 | 5.3.2 | | 5.3.4 | 5.3.5 | | nment | | | | | | | | | error | 6. | 6. | | | | | | | | 5.3.2 | 5.3.2 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 6. | 6. | | | | | | | | 5.3.4 | 5.3.4 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 6. | 6. | | | | | | | | 5.3.5 | 5.3.5 | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Unw | | | | | | | | | anted | | | | | | | | | emis | | | | | | | | | sions | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | T | 6.6.1 | 6.6.1 | 6.6.1 | 6.6.1 | 6.6.1 | 6.6.1 | 6.6.1 | | ransm | (e | | (e | (e | | (e | (e | | itter | xcept | (NOTE | xcept | xcept | (NOTE | xcept | xcept | | spu | for | 3) | for | for | 3) | for | for | | rious | 6.6.1 | | 6.6.1 | 6.6.1 | | 6.6.1 | 6.6.1 | | emis | .1.3) | | .1.3) | .1.3) | | .1.3) | .1.3) | | sions | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Oper | 6.6 | 6.6 | 6.6 | 6.6 | 6. | 6.6 | 6.6 | | ating | .2.2\ | .2.2\ | .2.2\ | .2.2\ | 6.2.3 | .2.2\ | .2.2, | | band | 6. | 6. | 6. | 6. | | 6. | 6. | | unw | 6.2.4 | 6.2.4 | 6.2.4 | 6.2.4 | 6. | 6.2.4 | 6.2.4 | | anted | | | | | 6.2.4 | | | | | | | | | | | | | emis | | | | | | | | | sions | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Occ | 6.6.3 | 6.6.3 | 6.6.3 | 6.6.3 | - | 6.6.3 | 6.6.3 | | upied | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ACLR | 6. | 6. | 6. | 6. | - | 6. | 6. | | | 6.4.1 | 6.4.1 | 6.4.1 | 6.4.2 | | 6.4.5 | 6.4.6 | | | | | | | | | | | | 6. | 6. | | | | | | | | 6.4.2 | 6.4.2 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 6. | 6. | | | | | | | | 6.4.5 | 6.4.5 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 6. | 6. | | | | | | | | 6.4.6 | 6.4.6 | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Cumul | 6. | 6. | 6. | 6. | - | 6. | 6. | | ative | 6.4.4 | 6.4.4 | 6.4.4 | 6.4.4 | | 6.4.4 | 6.4.4 | | ACLR | (NOTE | (NOTE | (NOTE | (NOTE | | (NOTE | (NOTE | | | 2) | 2) | 2) | 2) | | 2) | 2) | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | T | 6.7.1 | 6.7.1 | 6.7.1 | 6.7.1 | 6.7.2 | 6.7.1 | 6.7.1 | | ransm | | | | | | | | | itter | 6.7.2 | 6.7.2 | 6.7.2 | 6.7.2 | | 6.7.2 | 6.7.2 | | inter | | | | | | | | | modul | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Refe | 7.2.1 | 7.2.1 | 7.2.1 | 7.2.2 | 7.2.4 | 7.2.5 | 7.2.6 | | rence | | | | | | | | | s | 7.2.2 | 7.2.2 | | | | | | | ensit | | | | | | | | | ivity | 7.2.5 | 7.2.4 | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | | | | 7.2.6 | 7.2.5 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 7.2.6 | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Dy | 7.3.1 | 7.3.1 | 7.3.1 | 7.3.2 | 7.3.4 | 7.3.5 | 7.3.6 | | namic | | | | | | | | | range | 7.3.2 | 7.3.2 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 7.3.5 | 7.3.4 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 7.3.6 | 7.3.5 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 7.3.6 | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | In | | | | | | | | | -band | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | elect | | | | | | | | | ivity | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | blo | | | | | | | | | cking | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Blo | 7.4.1 | 7.4.1 | 7.4.1 | 7.4.1 | 7.4.1 | 7.4.1 | 7.4.1 | | cking | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Narro | 7.4.2 | 7.4.2 | 7.4.2 | 7.4.2 | 7.4.2 | 7.4.2 | 7.4.2 | | wband | | | | | | | | | blo | | 7.4.3 | | | 7.4.3 | | | | cking | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 7.4.4 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | O | 7.5 | 7.5 | 7.5 | 7.5 | 7.5 | 7.5 | 7.5 | | ut-of | | | | | | | | | -band | | | | | | | | | blo | | | | | | | | | cking | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Rec | 7.6.1 | 7.6.1 | 7.6.1 | 7.6.1 | 7.6.1 | 7.6.1 | 7.6.1 | | eiver | | | | | | | | | spu | | 7.6.2 | | | 7.6.2 | | | | rious | | | | | | | | | emis | | (NOTE | | | (NOTE | | | | sions | | 3) | | | 3) | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Rec | | | | | | | | | eiver | | | | | | | | | inter | | | | | | | | | modul | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Inter | 7.7.1 | 7.7.1 | 7.7.1 | 7.7.1 | 7.7.1 | 7.7.1 | 7.7.1 | | modul | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Narro | 7.7.2 | 7.7.2 | 7.7.2 | 7.7.2 | 7.7.2 | 7.7.2 | 7.7.2 | | wband | | | | | | | | | inter | | 7.7.3 | | | 7.7.3 | | | | modul | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | In-ch | 7.8 | 7.8 | 7.8 | - | - | 7.8 | 7.8.2 | | annel | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | elect | | | | | | | | | ivity | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | P | 8.1 | 8.1 | 8.1 | 8.2 | 8.4 | 8.6 | 8.5 | | erfor | | | | | | | | | mance | 8.2 | 8.2 | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quire | 8.5 | 8.4 | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | | | 8.5 | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | some | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | in BS | | | | | | | | | confi | | | | | | | | | gured | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | mult | | | | | | | | | i-RAT | | | | | | | | | opera | | | | | | | | | tion, | | | | | | | | | there | | | | | | | | | is no | | | | | | | | | ge | | | | | | | | | neral | | | | | | | | | MSR | | | | | | | | | mult | | | | | | | | | i-RAT | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ment. | | | | | | | | | Ins | | | | | | | | | tead, | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | respe | | | | | | | | | ctive | | | | | | | | | singl | | | | | | | | | e-RAT | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | each | | | | | | | | | RAT | | | | | | | | | supp | | | | | | | | | orted | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | BS as | | | | | | | | | refer | | | | | | | | | enced | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | | able. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | sub-c | | | | | | | | | lause | | | | | | | | | 6. | | | | | | | | | 6.4.4 | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | only | | | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | | | plied | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | BS | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | non- | | | | | | | | | conti | | | | | | | | | guous | | | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | | | trum. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 3: | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | BS | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | pable | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | multi | | | | | | | | | -band | | | | | | | | | opera | | | | | | | | | tion, | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | l | | | | | | | | | imits | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | subc | | | | | | | | | lause | | | | | | | | | 6.6. | | | | | | | | | 1.1.3 | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | 7.6.2 | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | only | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | all | | | | | | | | | supp | | | | | | | | | orted | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | bands | | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | | elong | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | BC2 | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | GSM | | | | | | | | | /EDGE | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | confi | | | | | | | | | gured | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | all | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | | ands. | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
## 5.3 Band category 3
For all BS operating in bands belonging to Band Category 3, the RF
requirements listed in Table 5.3-1 apply for each supported operating band.
Requirements apply according to the RAT configuration of the Base Station, as
listed in the heading of the table. Some requirements listed in the table may
not be mandatory or they may apply only regionally. This is further specified
in the clause of each requirement and in Table 4.4-1.
Table 5.3-1: Applicability of requirements for MSR BS operation in Band
Category 3
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | RF | BS | BS | BS | BS | BS | | req | co | co | co | co | co | | uirement | nfigured | nfigured | nfigured | nfigured | nfigured | | | for | for | for | for | for | | | m | si | si | si | si | | | ulti-RAT | ngle-RAT | ngle-RAT | ngle-RAT | ngle-RAT | | | o | E‑UTRA | UTRA TDD | NR TDD | NB-IoT | | | peration | TDD | o | o | st | | | | o | peration | peration | andalone | | | | peration | | | o | | | | | | | peration | +==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+ | Base | 6.2.1 | 6.2.1 | 6.2.1 | 6.2.1 | 6.2.1 | | station | | | | | | | output | 6.2.2 | 6.2.2 | 6.2.5 | | 6.2.6 | | power | | | | | | | | 6.2.3 | 6.2.3 | | | | | | | | | | | | | 6.2.5 | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Output | 6.3.1 | 6.3.1 | 6.3.3 | 6.3.6 | 6.3.5 | | power | | | | | | | dynamics | 6.3.3 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 6.3.6 | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Transmit | 6.4 | 6.4 | 6.4 | 6.4 | 6.4 | | ON/OFF | | | | | | | power | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Tra | | | | | | | nsmitted | | | | | | | signal | | | | | | | quality | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Mo | 6.5.1.1 | 6.5.1.1 | 6.5.1.3 | 6.5.1.6 | 6.5.1.5 | | dulation | | | | | | | quality | 6.5.1.3 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 6.5.1.6 | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | F | 6.5.2.1 | 6.5.2.1 | 6.5.2.3 | 6.5.2.6 | 6.5.2.5 | | requency | | | | | | | error | 6.5.2.3 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 6.5.2.6 | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Time | 6.5.3.1 | 6.5.3.1 | 6.5.3.3 | 6.5.3.5 | 6.5.3.4 | | a | | | | | | | lignment | 6.5.3.3 | | | | | | error | | | | | | | | 6.5.3.5 | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Unwanted | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | missions | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Tra | 6.6.1 | 6.6.1 | 6.6.1 | 6.6.1 | 6.6.1 | | nsmitter | (except | (except | (except | (except | (except | | spurious | for | for | for | for | for | | e | 6 | 6 | 6 | 6 | 6. | | missions | .6.1.1.3 | .6.1.1.3 | .6.1.1.3 | .6.1.1.3 | 6.1.1.3) | | | and | and | and | and | | | | 6.6.1.2) | 6.6.1.2) | 6.6.1.2) | 6.6.1.2) | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | O | 6.6.2.1\ | 6.6.2.1\ | 6.6.2.1\ | 6.6.2.1 | 6.6.2.1 | | perating | 6.6.2.4 | 6.6.2.4 | 6.6.2.4 | | | | band | | | | 6.6.2.4 | 6.6.2.4 | | unwanted | | | | | | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | missions | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Occupied | 6.6.3 | 6.6.3 | 6.6.3 | 6.6.3 | 6.6.3 | | b | | | | | | | andwidth | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | ACLR | 6.6.4.1 | 6.6.4.1 | 6.6.4.3 | 6.6.4.6 | 6.6.4.5 | | | | | | | | | | 6.6.4.3 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 6.6.4.6 | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Cu | 6.6.4.4 | 6.6.4.4 | 6.6.4.4 | 6.6.4.4 | 6.6.4.4 | | mulative | (NOTE 2) | (NOTE 2) | (NOTE 2) | (NOTE 2) | (NOTE 2) | | ACLR | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Tra | 6.7.1 | 6.7.1 | 6.7.1 | 6.7.1 | 6.7.1 | | nsmitter | | | | | | | intermo | 6.7.3 | 6.7.3 | 6.7.3 | 6.7.3 | 6.7.3 | | dulation | | | | | | | | | 6.7.4 | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | R | 7.2.1 | 7.2.1 | 7.2.3 | 7.2.6 | 7.2.5 | | eference | | | | | | | sen | 7.2.3 | | | | | | sitivity | | | | | | | level | 7.2.6 | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Dynamic | 7.3.1 | 7.3.1 | 7.3.3 | 7.3.6 | 7.3.5 | | range | | | | | | | | 7.3.3 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 7.3.6 | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | In-band | | | | | | | sel | | | | | | | ectivity | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | blocking | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Blocking | 7.4.1 | 7.4.1 | 7.4.1 | 7.4.1 | 7.4.1 | | | | | | | | | | 7.4.5 | 7.4.5 | 7.4.5 | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Na | 7.4.2 | 7.4.2 | 7.4.2 | 7.4.2 | 7.4.2 | | rrowband | | | | | | | blocking | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Out | 7.5 | 7.5 | 7.5 | 7.5 | 7.5 | | -of-band | | | | | | | blocking | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Receiver | 7.6.1 | 7.6.1 | 7.6.1 | 7.6.1 | 7.6.1 | | spurious | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | missions | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Receiver | | | | | | | intermo | | | | | | | dulation | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Intermo | 7.7.1 | 7.7.1 | 7.7.1 | 7.7.1 | 7.7.1 | | dulation | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Na | 7.7.2 | 7.7.2 | 7.7.2 | 7.7.2 | 7.7.2 | | rrowband | | | | | | | intermo | | | | | | | dulation | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | In | 7.8 | 7.8 | - | 7.8.2 | 7.8 | | -channel | | | | | | | sel | | | | | | | ectivity | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Per | 8.1 | 8.1 | 8.3 | 8.5 | 8.6 | | formance | | | | | | | requ | 8.3 | | | | | | irements | | | | | | | | 8.5 | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Note 1: | | | | | | | For some | | | | | | | requ | | | | | | | irements | | | | | | | in BS | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | nfigured | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | ulti-RAT | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | eration, | | | | | | | there is | | | | | | | no | | | | | | | general | | | | | | | MSR | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | ulti-RAT | | | | | | | requ | | | | | | | irement. | | | | | | | Instead, | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | defined | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | spective | | | | | | | si | | | | | | | ngle-RAT | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | for each | | | | | | | RAT | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | upported | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | BS as | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | ferenced | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | table. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 6.6.4.4 | | | | | | | is only | | | | | | | applied | | | | | | | for BS | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | non-co | | | | | | | ntiguous | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | pectrum. | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
## 5.4 Inclusion of requirements by reference
Many requirements in the present specification are not explicitly stated in
the clauses listed in Tables 5.1-1, 5.2-1 and 5.3-1, but are instead included
by reference to the respective single-RAT specifications. Each reference is
normative and identifies the clause where the requirement is specified.
In some cases, the referenced clause may contain requirements that for
different reasons do not apply for an MSR base station. It is in those cases
stated that \"applicable parts of\" the referenced clause applies. What parts
are applicable is determined by the scope of the MSR specification. For
example:
\- In a referenced clause including requirements for multiple operating bands,
only requirements for bands listed in the present document apply.
\- In a referenced clause that includes requirements for different types of
base stations, only requirements for the BS classes specified for each RAT
apply, see subclause 4.3.
# 6 Transmitter characteristics
## 6.1 General
Unless otherwise stated, the requirements in clause 6 are expressed for a
single transmitter antenna connector. In case of multi-carrier transmission
with multiple transmitter antenna connectors, transmit diversity, DB-DC-HSDPA
or MIMO transmission, the requirements apply for each transmitter antenna
connector.
A BS supporting DC-HSDPA and DB-DC-HSDPA transmits two UTRA FDD cells
simultaneously. A BS supporting DC-HSDPA transmits two UTRA FDD cells
simultaneously on adjacent carrier frequencies.
Unless otherwise stated, the transmitter characteristics are specified at the
BS antenna connector (test port A) with a full complement of transceivers for
the configuration in normal operating conditions. If any external apparatus
such as a TX amplifier, a filter or the combination of such devices is used,
requirements apply at the far end antenna connector (test port B).
Unless otherwise stated the requirements in subclause 6 applies at all times,
i.e. during the Transmitter ON period, the Transmitter OFF period and the
Transmitter transient period.
{width="6.104166666666667in" height="1.8020833333333333in"}
Figure 6.1-1: Transmitter test ports
Values for **F~offset,\ RAT~** to meet transmitter requirements are specific
for each RAT in each Band Category as specified in subclause 4.5.1 for Band
Category 1, subclause 4.5.2 for Band Category 2 and subclause 4.5.3 for Band
Category 3.
Unless otherwise stated the requirements for NB-IoT in subclause 6 applies for
all operation modes (In-band operation, Guard-band operation and Stand-alone
operation).
## 6.2 Base station output power
Output power of the base station is the mean power delivered to a load with
resistance equal to the nominal load impedance of the transmitter.
The configured carrier power is the target maximum power for a specific
carrier for the operating mode set in the BS within the limits given by the
manufacturer\'s declaration.
The maximum total output power, P~max~, of the base station is the mean power
level measured at the antenna connector during the transmitter ON period in a
specified reference condition.
The maximum RAT output power, P~max,RAT~, of the base station is the mean
power level measured at the antenna connector during the transmitter ON period
for a specific RAT in a specified reference condition.
The maximum carrier output power, P~max,c~ of the base station is the mean
power level measured at the antenna connector during the transmitter ON period
for a specific carrier in a specified reference condition.
The rated carrier output power, P~Rated,c~, of the base station is the mean
power level for a specific carrier that the manufacturer has declared to be
available at the antenna connector during the transmitter ON period.
NOTE: For NB-IoT in-band and guard band operation, the LTE carrier and NB-IoT
carrier shall be seen as a single carrier occupied LTE channel bandwidth, the
output power over this carrier is shared between LTE and NB-IoT. For _NB-IoT
operation in NR in-band_ , the NR carrier and NB-IoT carrier shall be seen as
a single carrier occupied NR channel bandwidth, the output power over this
carrier is shared between NR and NB-IoT. This note is applied for Pout, Rated
total output power, Pmax,c and Prated,c.
The rated carrier output power of the BS shall be as specified in Table 6.2-1.
Table 6.2-1 Base Station rated carrier output power
BS class P~Rated,c~
* * *
Wide Area BS (note) Medium Range BS ≤+ 38 dBm Local Area BS ≤+ 24 dBm NOTE:
There is no upper limit for the rated carrier output power of the Wide Area
Base Station.
In addition, for Band 85 NB-IoT standalone operation, the BS rated output
power limit of 43 dBm applies over the NB-IoT carriers in the range 728-729
MHz of the DL operating band. The BS output power limit of 43 dBm shall be
considered as shared among all NB-IoT carriers in the 728-729 MHz frequency
range or as the maximum value per NB-IoT carrier in the case where only one
NB-IoT carrier is deployed in 728-729 MHz frequency range.
### 6.2.1 Minimum requirement
In normal conditions, the maximum carrier output power shall remain within +2
dB and -2 dB of the configured carrier power declared by the manufacturer.
In extreme conditions, maximum carrier output power shall remain within +2.5
dB and -2.5 dB of the configured carrier power declared by the manufacturer.
The definition of the output power parameters declared by the manufacturer can
be found in TS 37.141 [10].
In certain regions, the minimum requirement for normal conditions may apply
also for some conditions outside the range of conditions defined as normal.
### 6.2.2 Additional requirement (regional)
For Band 34 operation in Japan, the rated E-UTRA output power declared by the
manufacturer shall be less than or equal to the values specified in Table
6.2.2-1.
Table 6.2.2-1: Regional requirements for Band 34 for rated output power
declared by the manufacturer.
Channel bandwidth BW~Channel~ [MHz] 1.4 3 5 10 15 20
* * *
Maximum output power [W] N/A N/A 20 40 60 N/A
For Band 41 E-UTRA operation in Japan, the rated output power per BS declared
by the manufacturer shall be less than or equal to the values specified in
Table 6.2.2-2.
Table 6.2.2-2: Regional requirements for Band 41 for rated output power
declared by the manufacturer.
Channel bandwidth BW~Channel~ [MHz] 1.4 3 5 10 15 20
* * *
Maximum output power [W] N/A N/A N/A 20 N/A 40
For Band 41 NR operation in Japan, the sum of P~rated,c,AC~ over all _antenna
connectors_ declared by the manufacturer shall be equal to or less than 20 W
per 10 MHz bandwidth.
### 6.2.3 E-UTRA minimum requirement for DL RS power
For E-UTRA, the minimum requirement for DL RS power is specified in TS 36.104
[4], subclause 6.5.4.
### 6.2.4 UTRA FDD minimum requirement for primary CPICH power
For UTRA FDD, the minimum requirements for primary CPICH power is specified in
TS 25.104 [2], subclause 6.4.4.
### 6.2.4A UTRA FDD minimum requirement for secondary CPICH power
For UTRA FDD, the minimum requirements for secondary CPICH power is specified
in TS 25.104 [2], subclause 6.4.4A.
### 6.2.5 UTRA TDD minimum requirement for primary CCPCH power
For UTRA TDD, the minimum requirements for Primary CCPCH power and
Differential accuracy of primary CCPCH power specified in TS 25.105 [3],
subclause 6.4.5 and 6.4.6 respectively.
### 6.2.6 NB-IoT minimum requirement for DL NRS power
For NB-IoT, the minimum requirement for DL NRS power is specified in TS 36.104
[4], subclause 6.5.4.
## 6.3 Output power dynamics
Output power dynamics is defined by the BS transmitter\'s ability to operate
at varying output power levels.
### 6.3.1 E-UTRA minimum requirement
For E-UTRA, the minimum requirement for output power dynamics is specified in
TS 36.104 [4], subclause 6.3.
### 6.3.2 UTRA FDD minimum requirement
For UTRA FDD, the minimum requirement for output power dynamics is specified
in TS 25.104 [2], subclause 6.4.
### 6.3.3 UTRA TDD minimum requirement
For UTRA TDD, the minimum requirement for output power dynamics is specified
in TS 25.105 [3], subclause 6.4.
### 6.3.4 GSM/EDGE minimum requirement
For GSM/EDGE, the minimum requirement for output power dynamics is specified
in TS 45.005[5], subclause 4.1.2-c. The minimum requirement for output level
dynamic operation is specified in TS 45.005[5], subclause 4.5.1.
### 6.3.5 NB-IoT minimum requirement
For NB-IoT E-UTRA in-band or guard band operation, the minimum requirement for
output power dynamics is specified in TS 36.104 [4], subclause 6.3.
For _NB-IoT operation in NR in-band,_ the minimum requirement for output power
dynamics is specified in TS 38.104 [17], subclause 6.3.
### 6.3.6 NR minimum requirement
For NR, the minimum requirement for output power dynamics (BS type 1-C) is
specified in TS 38.104 [17], subclause 6.3.
## 6.4 Transmit ON/OFF power
The requirements in subclause 6.4 are only applied for BC3 BS.
### 6.4.1 Transmitter OFF power
For UTRA and E-UTRA, transmitter OFF power is defined as the mean power
measured over 70 μs filtered with a square filter of bandwidth equal to the
Base Station RF Bandwidth(s) of the BS centred on the central frequency of the
Base Station RF Bandwidth(s) during the transmitter OFF period.
In NR transmitter OFF power is defined as the mean power measured over 70/N us
filtered with a square filter of bandwidth equal to the transmission bandwidth
configuration of the BS (BW~Config~) centred on the central frequency of the
Base Station RF Bandwidth(s) during the transmitter OFF period. N = SCS/15,
where SCS is Sub Carrier Spacing in kHz.
For BS supporting intra-band contiguous CA, the transmitter OFF power is
defined as the mean power measured over 70/N us filtered with a square filter
of bandwidth equal to the _Aggregated BS Channel Bandwidth_ **BW~Channel_CA~
centred on (F~edge,high~+F~edge,low~)/2 during the _transmitter OFF period_.**
N is equal to 1 if there are any UTRA or E-UTRA carriers, or for NR N =
SCS/15, where SCS is the smallest supported Sub Carrier Spacing in kHz in the
_Aggregated BS Channel Bandwidth_.
#### 6.4.1.1 Minimum Requirement
The transmitter OFF power spectral density shall be less than -85 dBm/MHz.
For BS capable of multi-band operation, the requirement is only applicable
during the transmitter OFF period in all supported operating bands.
### 6.4.2 Transmitter transient period
The transmitter transient period is the time period during which the
transmitter is changing from the OFF period to the ON period or vice versa.
The transmitter transient period is illustrated in Figure 6.4.2-1 and Figure
6.4.2-2.
Figure 6.4.2-1: Illustration of the relations of transmitter ON period,
transmitter OFF period and transmitter transient period (for E-UTRA/UTRA)
Figure 6.4.2-2: Illustration of the relations of transmitter ON period,
transmitter OFF period and transmitter transient period (for NR)
#### 6.4.2.1 Minimum requirements
The transmitter transient period shall be shorter than the values listed in
Table 6.4.2.1-1, Table 6.4.2.1-1a and Table 6.4.2.1-2.
Table 6.4.2.1-1: Minimum requirements for the transmitter transient period for
a BS supporting UTRA
Transition Transient period length [μs]
* * *
OFF to ON 6.25 ON to OFF 17
Table 6.4.2.1-1a: Minimum requirements for the transmitter transient period
for a BS supporting E-UTRA and not supporting NR nor UTRA
Transition Transient period length [μs]
* * *
OFF to ON 17 ON to OFF 17
Table 6.4.2.1-2: Minimum requirements for the transmitter transient period for
a BS supporting NR and not supporting UTRA
Transition Transient period length [μs]
* * *
OFF to ON 10 ON to OFF 10
## 6.5 Transmitted signal quality
### 6.5.1 Modulation quality
Modulation quality is defined by the difference between the measured carrier
signal and a reference signal. Modulation quality can e.g. be expressed as
Error Vector Magnitude (EVM), Peak Code Domain Error (PCDE) or Relative Code
domain Error (RCDE).
#### 6.5.1.1 E-UTRA minimum requirement
For E-UTRA, the minimum requirement for modulation quality, EVM, is specified
in TS 36.104 [4], subclause 6.5.2.
#### 6.5.1.2 UTRA FDD minimum requirement
For UTRA FDD, the minimum requirements for modulation quality, EVM, PCDE and
RCDE, are specified in TS 25.104 [2], subclause 6.8.2, 6.8.3 and 6.8.5
respectively. The UTRA transmit pulse shape filter is defined in subclause
6.8.1.
#### 6.5.1.3 UTRA TDD minimum requirement
For UTRA TDD, the minimum requirements for modulation quality, EVM, PCDE and
RCDE, are specified in TS 25.105 [3], subclause 6.8.2, 6.8.3 and 6.8.4
respectively.
#### 6.5.1.4 GSM/EDGE minimum requirement
For GSM/EDGE, the minimum requirements for modulation accuracy are specified
in TS 45.005 [5], subclause 4.6.
#### 6.5.1.5 NB-IoT minimum requirement
For NB-IoT, the minimum requirement for modulation quality, EVM, is specified
in TS 36.104 [4], subclause 6.5.2.
#### 6.5.1.6 NR minimum requirement
For NR, the minimum requirement for modulation quality, EVM (BS type 1-C) is
specified in TS 38.104 [17], subclause 6.5.2.
### 6.5.2 Frequency error
Frequency error is a measure of the difference between the actual BS transmit
frequency and the assigned frequency. The same source shall be used for RF
frequency and data clock generation.
#### 6.5.2.1 E-UTRA minimum requirement
For E-UTRA, the minimum requirement for frequency error is specified in TS
36.104 [4], subclause 6.5.1.
#### 6.5.2.2 UTRA FDD minimum requirement
For UTRA FDD, the minimum requirement for frequency error is specified in TS
25.104 [2], subclause 6.3.1.
#### 6.5.2.3 UTRA TDD minimum requirement
For UTRA TDD, the minimum requirement for frequency error is specified in TS
25.105 [3], subclause 6.3.1.
#### 6.5.2.4 GSM/EDGE minimum requirement
For GSM/EDGE, the minimum requirement for frequency error is specified in TS
45.005 [5], subclause 4.4.
#### 6.5.2.5 NB-IoT minimum requirement
For NB-IoT, the minimum requirement for frequency error is specified in TS
36.104 [4], subclause 6.5.1.
#### 6.5.2.6 NR minimum requirement
For NR, the minimum requirement for frequency error (BS type 1-C) is specified
in TS 38.104 [17], subclause 6.5.1.
### 6.5.3 Time alignment error
This requirement applies to frame timing in:
\- UTRA single/multi-carrier transmissions, and their combinations with MIMO
or TX diversity.
\- E-UTRA single/multi-carrier transmissions, and their combinations with MIMO
or TX diversity.
\- NR single/multi-carrier transmissions, and their combinations with MIMO.
\- E-UTRA Carrier Aggregation, with or without MIMO or TX diversity.
\- NR Carrier Aggregation, with or without MIMO.
\- NB-IoT transmissions with TX diversity.
Frames of the WCDMA/LTE/NR/NB-IoT signals present at the BS transmitter
antenna connector(s) are not perfectly aligned in time. In relation to each
other, the RF signals present at the BS transmitter antenna connector (s)
experience certain timing differences.
For a specific set of signals/transmitter configuration/transmission mode, the
Time Alignment Error (TAE) is defined as the largest timing difference between
any two signals.
#### 6.5.3.1 E-UTRA minimum Requirement
For E-UTRA, the minimum requirement for time alignment is specified in TS
36.104 [4], subclause 6.5.3.
#### 6.5.3.2 UTRA FDD minimum requirement
For UTRA FDD, the minimum requirement for time alignment is specified in TS
25.104 [2], subclause 6.8.4.
#### 6.5.3.3 UTRA TDD minimum requirement
For UTRA TDD, the minimum requirement for time alignment is specified in TS
25.105 [3], subclause 6.8.5.
#### 6.5.3.4 NB-IoT minimum Requirement
For NB-IoT, the minimum requirement for time alignment is specified in TS
36.104 [4], subclause 6.5.3.
#### 6.5.3.5 NR minimum Requirement
For NR, the minimum requirement for time alignment (BS type 1-C) is specified
in TS 38.104 [17], subclause 6.5.3.
## 6.6 Unwanted emissions
Unwanted emissions consist of out-of-band emissions and spurious emissions
[6]. Out of band emissions are unwanted emissions immediately outside the
channel bandwidth resulting from the modulation process and non-linearity in
the transmitter but excluding spurious emissions. Spurious emissions are
emissions which are caused by unwanted transmitter effects such as harmonics
emission, parasitic emission, intermodulation products and frequency
conversion products, but exclude out of band emissions.
The out-of-band emissions requirement for the BS transmitter is specified in
terms of an Operating band unwanted emissions requirement that defines limits
for emissions in each supported downlink operating band plus the frequency
ranges Δf~OBUE~ above and Δf~OBUE~ below each band. Emissions outside of this
frequency range are limited by a spurious emissions requirement. The values of
Δf~OBUE~ are defined in table 6.6-1.
Table 6.6-1: Maximum offset of OBUE outside the downlink operating band
Operating band characteristics Δf~OBUE~ [MHz]
* * *
F~DL_high~ -- F~DL_low~ ≤ 200 MHz 10 200 MHz \ 1 GHz - option 1
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Frequency | Frequency | Minimum | Measurement | | offset of | offset of | requirement | bandwidth | | measurement | measurement | (Note 1, 2) | (Note 7) | | filter ‑3dB | filter centre | | | | point, ∆f | frequency, | | | | | f_offset | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 0 MHz ≤ ∆f \ 1 GHz - option 1
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Frequency | Frequency | Minimum | Measurement | | offset of | offset of | requirement | bandwidth | | measurement | measurement | (Note 1, 2) | (Note 7) | | filter ‑3dB | filter centre | | | | point, ∆f | frequency, | | | | | f_offset | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 0 MHz ≤ ∆f \ abs(800)
kHz for CW interferer NOTE: Interfering signal positions that are partially or
completely outside of any downlink operating band of the base station are
excluded from the requirement.
### 6.7.3 Additional minimum requirement (BC3)
This additional requirement shall only apply for BS co-located with an UTRA
TDD BS.
The transmitter intermodulation level shall not exceed the unwanted emission
limits in subclause 6.6.1, 6.6.2, 6.6.4 in the presence of a wanted signal and
an interfering signal according to Table 6.7.3-1 for BS operation in BC3.
For BS capable of multi-band operation, the requirement applies relative to
the Base Station RF Bandwidth edges of each operating band. In case the Inter
RF Bandwidth gap is less than 3.2 MHz, the requirement in the gap applies only
for interfering signal offsets where the interfering signal falls completely
within the Inter RF Bandwidth gap.
Table 6.7.3-1: Interfering signals for the Transmitter intermodulation
requirement (BC3)
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameter | Value | +==================================+==================================+ | Interfering signal type | 1.28Mcps UTRA TDD signal of | | | channel bandwidth 1.6MHz | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Interfering signal level | Rated total output power in the | | | operating band -- 30dB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Interfering signal centre | ±0.8 MHz | | frequency offset from Base | | | Station RF Bandwidth edge or | ±1.6 MHz | | sub-block edge inside a gap | | | | ±2.4 MHz | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | NOTE: Interfering signal | | | positions that are partially or | | | completely outside of any | | | downlink operating band of the | | | base station are excluded from | | | the requirement. | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
### 6.7.4 Additional requirements
In certain regions the following requirement may apply. For BS E-UTR single-
RAT operating in Band 41, the transmitter intermodulation level shall not
exceed the maximum levels specified in Table 6.6.1.3.1-3 and Table 6.6.4.1-2
with a square filter in the first adjacent channel, in the presence of an
interfering signal according to Table 6.7.4‑1.
Table 6.7.4-1 Interfering and wanted signals for the additional transmitter
intermodulation requirement for Band 41
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameter | Value | +==================================+==================================+ | Wanted signal | E-UTRA single carrier (NOTE) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Interfering signal type | E-UTRA signal of the same | | | channel bandwidth as the wanted | | | signal | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Interfering signal level | Rated total output power in the | | | operating band -- 30dB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Interfering signal centre | ± BW~Channel~ | | frequency offset from the | | | lower/upper centre frequency of | ± 2 x BW~Channel~ | | the wanted signal | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | NOTE: This requirement applies | | | for 10 or 20 MHz E-UTRA carriers | | | allocated within 2545-2645 MHz. | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
# 7 Receiver characteristics
## 7.1 General
The requirements in clause 7 are expressed for a single receiver antenna
connector. For receivers with antenna diversity or in case of multi-carrier
reception with multiple receiver antenna connectors, the requirements apply
for each receiver antenna connector.
For blocking and intermodulation characteristics, the negative offsets of the
interfering signal apply relative to the assigned channel frequency of the
lowest carrier frequency received and positive offsets of the interfering
signal apply relative to the assigned channel frequency of the highest carrier
frequency received.
A BS supporting DC-HSUPA receives two UTRA FDD cells simultaneously on
adjacent carrier frequencies.
Unless otherwise stated, the receiver characteristics are specified at the BS
antenna connector (test port A) with a full complement of transceivers for the
configuration in normal operating conditions. For FDD operation the
requirements in clause 7 shall be met with the transmitter(s) on. If any
external apparatus such as a RX amplifier, a filter or the combination of such
devices is used, requirements apply at the far end antenna connector (test
port B).
NOTE: In normal operating conditions the BS in FDD operation is configured to
transmit and receive at the same time. The transmitter may be off for some of
the tests as specified in 37.141 [10].
Unless otherwise stated the requirements in clause 7 apply during the base
station receive period.
Unless otherwise stated the requirements for NB-IoT in subclause 7 applies for
all operation modes (In-band operation, Guard-band operation and Stand-alone
operation).
{width="6.15625in" height="1.7604166666666667in"}
Figure 7.1-1: Receiver test ports
E-UTRA and NR throughput requirements defined for the receiver characteristics
in this clause do not assume HARQ retransmissions.
Values for **F~offset,\ RAT~** to meet receiver requirements are specific for
each RAT in each Band Category as specified in subclause 4.5.1 for Band
Category 1, subclause 4.5.2 for Band Category 2 and subclause 4.5.3 for Band
Category 3.
## 7.2 Reference sensitivity level
The reference sensitivity power level P~REFSENS~ is the minimum mean power
received at the antenna connector at which a reference performance requirement
shall be met for a specified reference measurement channel.
### 7.2.1 E-UTRA minimum requirement
For E-UTRA, the minimum requirement for reference sensitivity is specified in
TS 36.104 [4], subclause 7.2.
### 7.2.2 UTRA FDD minimum requirement
For UTRA FDD, the minimum requirement for reference sensitivity is specified
in TS 25.104 [2], subclause 7.2.
### 7.2.3 UTRA TDD minimum requirement
For UTRA TDD, the minimum requirement for reference sensitivity is specified
in TS 25.105 [3], subclause 7.2.
### 7.2.4 GSM/EDGE minimum requirement
For GSM/EDGE, the minimum requirement for reference sensitivity is specified
in TS 45.005 [5], applicable parts of subclause 6.2.
The conditions specified in TS 45.005 [5], Annex P.1 apply for GSM/EDGE
reference sensitivity.
### 7.2.5 NB-IoT minimum requirement
For NB-IoT, the minimum requirement for reference sensitivity is specified in
TS 36.104 [4], subclause 7.2.
### 7.2.6 NR minimum requirement
For NR, the minimum requirement for reference sensitivity (BS type 1-C) is
specified in TS 38.104 [17], subclause 7.2.
### 7.2.7 Void
## 7.3 Dynamic range
The dynamic range is a measure of the capability of the receiver to receive a
wanted signal in the presence of an interfering signal inside the received
channel bandwidth or the capability of receiving high level of wanted signal.
### 7.3.1 E-UTRA minimum requirement
For E-UTRA, the minimum requirement for dynamic range is specified in TS
36.104 [4], subclause 7.3.
### 7.3.2 UTRA FDD minimum requirement
For UTRA FDD, the minimum requirement for dynamic range is specified in TS
25.104 [2], subclause 7.3.
### 7.3.3 UTRA TDD minimum requirement
For UTRA TDD, the minimum requirement for dynamic range is specified in TS
25.105 [3], subclause 7.3.
### 7.3.4 GSM/EDGE minimum requirement
For GSM/EDGE, the minimum requirement for dynamic range is expressed as
Nominal Error Rate and is specified in TS 45.005 [5], applicable parts of
subclause 6.1.1.1, 6.1.1.3, 6.1.2.2 and 6.1.3.2.
### 7.3.5 NB-IoT minimum requirement
For NB-IoT standalone operation, E-UTRA in-band or guard band operation, the
minimum requirement for dynamic range is specified in TS 36.104 [4], subclause
7.3.
For _NB-IoT operation in NR in-band,_ the minimum requirement for dynamic
range is specified in TS 38.104 [17], subclause 7.3.2.
### 7.3.6 NR minimum requirement
For NR, the minimum requirement for dynamic range (BS type 1-C) is specified
in TS 38.104 [17], subclause 7.3.
## 7.4 In-band selectivity and blocking
The in-band selectivity and blocking characteristics are measures of the
receiver ability to receive a wanted signal at its assigned channel in the
presence of an unwanted interferer inside the operating band and are defined
by a (wideband) and a narrowband blocking requirement.
The in-band blocking requirement applies from F~UL_low~ - Δf~OOB~ to
F~UL_high~ + Δf~OOB~, excluding the downlink frequency range of the FDD
_operating band_. The values of Δf~OOB~ are defined in table 7.4-1.
Table 7.4-1: Maximum Δf~OOB~ offset outside the uplink operating band
_Operating band_ characteristics Δf~OOB~ [MHz]
* * *
200 MHz ≥ F~UL_high~ -- F~UL_low~ 20 200 MHz \< F~UL_high~ -- F~UL_low~ ≤ 900
MHz 60
### 7.4.1 General blocking minimum requirement
For the general blocking requirement, the interfering signal shall be a UTRA
FDD signal as specified in annex A for a UTRA, E-UTRA, NB-IOT, GSM/EDGE or NR
(≤ 20 MHz) wanted signal. The interfering signal shall be a 20 MHz E-UTRA
signal for NR wanted signal channel bandwidth greater than 20MHz.
The requirement is applicable outside the Base Station RF Bandwidth or Radio
Bandwidth. The interfering signal offset is defined relative to the Base
Station RF Bandwidth edges or Radio Bandwidth edges.
For BS operating in non-contiguous spectrum, the requirement applies in
addition inside any sub-block gap, in case the sub-block gap size is at least
15 MHz. The interfering signal offset is defined relative to the sub-block
edges inside the sub-block gap.
For BS capable of multi-band operation, the requirement applies in addition
inside any Inter RF Bandwidth gap, in case the gap size is at least 15 MHz.
The interfering signal offset is defined relative to the Base Station RF
Bandwidth edges inside the Inter RF Bandwidth gap.
For the wanted and interfering signal coupled to the base station antenna
input, using the parameters in Table 7.4.1‑1, the following requirements shall
be met:
\- For any E-UTRA carrier, the throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum
throughput of the reference measurement channel defined in TS 36.104 [4],
subclause 7.2.
\- For any UTRA FDD carrier, the BER shall not exceed 0.001 for the reference
measurement channel defined in TS 25.104 [2], subclause 7.2.
\- For any UTRA TDD carrier, the BER shall not exceed 0.001 for the reference
measurement channel defined in TS 25.105 [3], subclause 7.2.
\- For any GSM/EDGE carrier, the conditions are specified in TS 45.005 [5],
Annex P.2.1.
\- For any NB-IoT carrier, the throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum
throughput of the reference measurement channel defined in TS 36.104 [4],
subclause 7.2.
\- For any NR carrier, the throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum throughput
of the reference measurement channel defined in TS 38.104 [17], subclause 7.2.
For BS capable of multi-band operation, the requirement applies according to
Table 7.4.1-1 for the in-band blocking frequency ranges of each supported
operating band.
Table 7.4.1-1: General blocking requirement
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Base | Mean power | Wanted | Centre | Interfering | | Station | of | Signal mean | Frequency | signal | | Type | interfering | power | of | centre | | | signal | [dBm] | Interfering | frequency | | | [dBm] | | Signal | minimum | | | | (Note 1) | | frequency | | | | | | offset from | | | | | | the Base | | | | | | Station RF | | | | | | Bandwidth | | | | | | edge or | | | | | | sub-block | | | | | | edge inside | | | | | | a gap | | | | | | [MHz] | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | Wide Area | -40+y (Note | P~REFSENS~ | F~UL_low~ | ± (7.5 + z) | | BS | 7) | + x dB\ | - Δf~OOB~ | (Note 9) | | | | (Note 2) | to | | | | | | F~UL_high~ | | | | | | + Δf~OOB~ | | | | | | (Note 8) | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Medium | -35+y (Note | P~REFSENS~ | | | | Range BS | 7) | + x dB\ | | | | | | (Note 3, 5) | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Local Area | -30+y (Note | P~REFSENS~ | | | | BS | 7) | + x dB\ | | | | | | (Note 4, 5) | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | P~REFSENS~ | | | | | | depends on | | | | | | the RAT, | | | | | | the BS | | | | | | class and | | | | | | on the | | | | | | channel | | | | | | bandwidth, | | | | | | see | | | | | | subclause | | | | | | 7.2. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: For | | | | | | WA BS | | | | | | supporting | | | | | | GSM and/or | | | | | | UTRA, \"x\" | | | | | | is equal to | | | | | | 6 in case | | | | | | of NR or | | | | | | E-UTRA or | | | | | | UTRA or | | | | | | NB-IoT | | | | | | wanted | | | | | | signals and | | | | | | equal to 3 | | | | | | in case of | | | | | | GSM/EDGE | | | | | | wanted | | | | | | signal. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: For | | | | | | MR BS | | | | | | supporting | | | | | | GSM and/or | | | | | | UTRA, \"x\" | | | | | | is equal to | | | | | | 6 in case | | | | | | of UTRA | | | | | | wanted | | | | | | signals, 9 | | | | | | in case of | | | | | | NR or | | | | | | E-UTRA or | | | | | | NB-IoT | | | | | | wanted | | | | | | signal and | | | | | | 3 in case | | | | | | of GSM/EDGE | | | | | | wanted | | | | | | signal. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: For | | | | | | LA BS | | | | | | supporting | | | | | | GSM and/or | | | | | | UTRA, \"x\" | | | | | | is equal to | | | | | | 11 in case | | | | | | of NR or | | | | | | E-UTRA or | | | | | | NB-IoT | | | | | | wanted | | | | | | signal, 6 | | | | | | in case of | | | | | | UTRA wanted | | | | | | signal and | | | | | | equal to 3 | | | | | | in case of | | | | | | GSM/EDGE | | | | | | wanted | | | | | | signal. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 5: For | | | | | | a BS | | | | | | neither | | | | | | supporting | | | | | | UTRA nor | | | | | | GSM, x is | | | | | | equal to 6 | | | | | | for all BS | | | | | | classes if | | | | | | NR is | | | | | | supported, | | | | | | otherwise | | | | | | \"x\" is | | | | | | equal to 6 | | | | | | for WA BS, | | | | | | 9 for MR BS | | | | | | or 11 for | | | | | | LA BS if NR | | | | | | is not | | | | | | supported. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 6: For | | | | | | a BS | | | | | | capable of | | | | | | multi-band | | | | | | operation, | | | | | | \"x\" in | | | | | | Note 2, 3, | | | | | | 4, 5 | | | | | | applies in | | | | | | case of | | | | | | interfering | | | | | | signals | | | | | | that are in | | | | | | the in-band | | | | | | blocking | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | range of | | | | | | the | | | | | | operating | | | | | | band where | | | | | | the wanted | | | | | | signal is | | | | | | present or | | | | | | in the | | | | | | in-band | | | | | | blocking | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | range of an | | | | | | adjacent or | | | | | | overlapping | | | | | | operating | | | | | | band. For | | | | | | other | | | | | | in-band | | | | | | blocking | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | ranges of | | | | | | the | | | | | | interfering | | | | | | signal for | | | | | | the | | | | | | supported | | | | | | operating | | | | | | bands, | | | | | | \"x\" is | | | | | | equal to | | | | | | 1.4 dB. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 7: For | | | | | | a BS | | | | | | supporting | | | | | | NR but | | | | | | neither | | | | | | supporting | | | | | | UTRA nor | | | | | | GSM, \"y\" | | | | | | is equal to | | | | | | -3 for the | | | | | | WA and MR | | | | | | BS class | | | | | | and -5 for | | | | | | the LA BS | | | | | | class. For | | | | | | all other | | | | | | cases, | | | | | | \"y\" is | | | | | | equal to | | | | | | zero for | | | | | | all BS | | | | | | classes | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 8: The | | | | | | downlink | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | range of an | | | | | | FDD | | | | | | operating | | | | | | band is | | | | | | excluded | | | | | | from the | | | | | | general | | | | | | blocking | | | | | | r | | | | | | equirement. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 9: For | | | | | | NR wanted | | | | | | signal | | | | | | channel | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | greater | | | | | | than 20 | | | | | | MHz, z = | | | | | | 22.5. For | | | | | | all other | | | | | | cases, z = | | | | | | 0. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Table 7.4.1-2: Void
NOTE: The requirement in Table 7.4.1-1 assumes that two operating bands, where
the downlink operating band (see Table 4.5-1 and Table 4.5-2) of one band
would be within the in-band blocking region of the other band, are not
deployed in the same geographical area.
### 7.4.2 General narrowband blocking minimum requirement
For the general narrowband blocking requirement, the interfering signal shall
be an E-UTRA 1RB signal as specified in Annex A.
The requirement is applicable outside the Base Station RF Bandwidth or Radio
Bandwidth. The interfering signal offset is defined relative to the Base
Station RF Bandwidth edges or Radio Bandwidth edges.
For BS operating in non-contiguous spectrum, the requirement applies in
addition inside any sub-block gap, in case the sub-block gap size is at least
3 MHz. The interfering signal offset is defined relative to the sub-block
edges inside the sub-block gap.
For BS capable of multi-band operation, the requirement applies in addition
inside any Inter RF Bandwidth gap in case the gap size is at least 3 MHz. The
interfering signal offset is defined relative to the Base Station RF Bandwidth
edges inside the Inter RF Bandwidth gap.
For the wanted and interfering signal coupled to the base station antenna
input, using the parameters in Table 7.4.2‑1, the following requirements shall
be met:
\- For any E-UTRA carrier, the throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum
throughput of the reference measurement channel defined in TS 36.104 [4],
subclause 7.2.
\- For any UTRA FDD carrier, the BER shall not exceed 0.001 for the reference
measurement channel defined in TS 25.104 [2], subclause 7.2.
\- For any UTRA TDD carrier, the BER shall not exceed 0.001 for the reference
measurement channel defined in TS 25.105 [3], subclause 7.2.
\- For any GSM/EDGE carrier, the conditions are specified in TS 45.005 [5],
Annex P.2.1.
\- For any NB-IoT carrier, the throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum
throughput of the reference measurement channel defined in TS 36.104 [4],
subclause 7.2.
\- For any NR carrier, the throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum throughput
of the reference measurement channel defined in TS 38.104 [17], subclause 7.2.
Table 7.4.2-1: Narrowband blocking requirement
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Base | RAT of the | Wanted | Interfering | Interfering | | Station | carrier | signal mean | signal mean | RB (Note 3) | | Type | | power | power | centre | | | | [dBm] | [dBm] | frequency | | | | | | offset from | | | | (Note 1, 2, | | the Base | | | | 7) | | Station RF | | | | | | Bandwidth | | | | | | edge or | | | | | | sub-block | | | | | | edge inside | | | | | | a gap | | | | | | [kHz] | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | Wide Area | NR, E-UTRA, | P~REFSENS~ | -49 | ±(240 | | BS | NB-IoT | + x dB | | +m*180), | | | (Note 4)\ | | | | | | UTRA and | | | m=0, 1, 2, | | | GSM/EDGE | | | 3, 4, 9, 14 | | | | | | | | | | | | (Note 5) | | | | | | | | | | | | ±(550 | | | | | | +m*180), | | | | | | | | | | | | m=0, 1, 2, | | | | | | 3, 4 (Note | | | | | | 6) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Medium | | | -44 | | | Range BS | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Local Area | | | -41 | | | BS | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | P~REFSENS~ | | | | | | depends on | | | | | | the RAT, | | | | | | the BS | | | | | | class and | | | | | | on the | | | | | | channel | | | | | | bandwidth, | | | | | | see | | | | | | subclause | | | | | | 7.2. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | \"x\" is | | | | | | equal to 6 | | | | | | in case of | | | | | | NR, E-UTRA | | | | | | or UTRA | | | | | | wanted | | | | | | signals and | | | | | | equal to 3 | | | | | | in case of | | | | | | GSM/EDGE | | | | | | wanted | | | | | | signal. | | | | | | \"x\" is | | | | | | specified | | | | | | in Table | | | | | | 7.4.2-2 for | | | | | | NB-IoT | | | | | | operation | | | | | | in E-UTRA | | | | | | in | | | | | | -band/guard | | | | | | band and | | | | | | NB-IoT | | | | | | standalone, | | | | | | and in | | | | | | Table | | | | | | 7.4.2-2A | | | | | | for NB-IoT | | | | | | operation | | | | | | in NR | | | | | | in-band. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | Interfering | | | | | | signal | | | | | | (E-UTRA | | | | | | 3MHz) | | | | | | consisting | | | | | | of one | | | | | | resource | | | | | | block | | | | | | positioned | | | | | | at the | | | | | | stated | | | | | | offset, the | | | | | | channel | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | of the | | | | | | interfering | | | | | | signal is | | | | | | located | | | | | | adjacently | | | | | | to the Base | | | | | | Station RF | | | | | | Bandwidth | | | | | | edge. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: For | | | | | | NB-IoT, the | | | | | | mentioned | | | | | | d | | | | | | esensitized | | | | | | values | | | | | | consider | | | | | | only one | | | | | | NB-IoT PRB | | | | | | in the | | | | | | guard band, | | | | | | which is | | | | | | placed | | | | | | adjacent to | | | | | | the E-UTRA | | | | | | PRB edge as | | | | | | close as | | | | | | possible | | | | | | (i.e., away | | | | | | from edge | | | | | | of channel | | | | | | bandwidth). | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 5: | | | | | | Applicable | | | | | | for | | | | | | _channel | | | | | | bandwidths_ | | | | | | equal to or | | | | | | below 20 | | | | | | MHz. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 6: | | | | | | Applicable | | | | | | for | | | | | | _channel | | | | | | bandwidths_ | | | | | | above 20 | | | | | | MHz. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 7: 7.5 | | | | | | kHz shift | | | | | | is not | | | | | | applied to | | | | | | the wanted | | | | | | signal of | | | | | | NR. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 8: | | | | | | Void | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Table 7.4.2-2: \"x\" for NB-IoT wanted signals operation in E-UTRA in-
band/guard band and NB-IoT standalone
Operation mode LTE channel bandwidth for in-band/guard band operation x
* * *
Standalone - 12 In Band  
3 MHz 11 5 MHz 9 10 MHz 6 15 MHz 6 20 MHz 6 Guard band 5 MHz 13 10 MHz 6 15
MHz 6 20 MHz 6
Table 7.4.2-2A: \"x\" for NB-IoT wanted signals operation in NR in-band
Operation mode NR BS channel bandwidth x
* * *
NR in-band 5 MHz 9 10 MHz 6 15 MHz 6 ≥ 20 MHz 6
### 7.4.3 Additional Narrowband blocking minimum requirement for GSM/EDGE
The GSM/EDGE in-band blocking requirement as stated in TS 45.005 [5],
applicable parts of subclauses 5.1.3 and 5.1.4, shall apply for any GSM/EDGE
carrier.
The conditions specified in TS 45.005 [5], Annex P.2.1 apply for GSM/EDGE in-
band narrowband blocking.
### 7.4.4 GSM/EDGE requirements for AM suppression
The GSM/EDGE AM suppression requirement as stated in TS 45.005 [5], applicable
parts of subclauses 5.2.2, shall apply for any GSM/EDGE carrier.
The conditions specified in TS 45.005 [5], Annex P.2.3 apply for GSM/EDGE AM
suppression.
### 7.4.5 Additional BC3 blocking minimum requirement
This additional requirement only applies for BS operating in the same
geographical area as UTRA TDD.
The interfering signal is a 1.28 Mcps UTRA TDD modulated signal as specified
in Annex A.
The requirement is always applicable outside the Base Station RF Bandwidth or
Radio Bandwidth. The interfering signal offset is defined relative to the Base
Station RF Bandwidth edges or Radio Bandwidth edges.
For BS capable of multi-band operation, the requirement applies in addition
inside any Inter RF Bandwidth gap, in case the gap size is at least 4.8 MHz.
The interfering signal offset is defined relative to the Base Station RF
Bandwidth edges inside the Inter RF Bandwidth gap.
For the wanted and interfering signal coupled to the base station antenna
input, using the parameters in Table 7.4.5‑1, the following requirements shall
be met:
\- For any E-UTRA, E-UTRA with NB-IoT and/or NB-IoT TDD carrier, the
throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum throughput of the reference
measurement channel defined in TS 36.104 [4], subclause 7.2.
\- For any UTRA TDD carrier, the BER shall not exceed 0.001 for the reference
measurement channel defined in TS 25.105 [3], subclause 7.2.
Table 7.4.5-1: Additional blocking requirement for Band Category 3
* * *
Operating Band Centre Frequency of Interfering Signal [MHz] Interfering Signal
mean power [dBm] Wanted Signal mean power [dBm] Interfering signal centre
frequency minimum frequency offset from the Base Station RF Bandwidth edge
[MHz]  
33 - 40 (F~UL_low~ - 20) to (F~UL_high~ + 20) -40, P~REFSENS~ + 6 dB* ±2.4
NOTE *: P~REFSENS~ depends on the RAT and on the channel bandwidth, see clause
7.2.
* * *
## 7.5 Out-of-band blocking
The Out-of-band blocking characteristic is a measure of the receiver ability
to receive a wanted signal at its assigned channel in the presence of an
unwanted interferer outside the uplink operating band.
### 7.5.1 General minimum requirement
For a wanted and an interfering signal coupled to BS antenna input using the
parameters in Table 7.5.1-1, the following requirements shall be met:
\- For any E-UTRA carrier, the throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum
throughput of the reference measurement channel defined in TS 36.104 [4],
subclause 7.2.
\- For any UTRA FDD carrier, the BER shall not exceed 0.001 for the reference
measurement channel defined in TS 25.104 [2], subclause 7.2.
\- For any UTRA TDD carrier, the BER shall not exceed 0.001 for the reference
measurement channel defined in TS 25.105 [3], subclause 7.2.
\- For any GSM/EDGE carrier, the conditions are specified in TS 45.005 [5],
Annex P.2.1.
\- For any NB-IoT carrier, the throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum
throughput of the reference measurement channel defined in TS 36.104 [4],
subclause 7.2.
\- For any NR carrier, the throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum throughput
of the reference measurement channel defined in TS 38.104 [17], subclause 7.2.
For BS capable of multi-band operation, the requirement applies for each
supported operating band. The in-band blocking frequency ranges of all
supported operating bands according to Table 7.4.1-1 shall be excluded from
the requirement.
The out-of-band blocking requirement applies from 1 MHz to F~UL_low~ - Δf~OOB~
and from F~UL_high~ + Δf~OOB~ up to 12750MHz, including the downlink frequency
range of the FDD _operating band for BS supporting FDD_. Δf~OOB~ is defined in
table 7.4-1
Table 7.5.1-1: Out-of-band blocking performance requirement
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Interfering Signal | Wanted Signal mean | Type of Interfering | | mean power [dBm] | power [dBm] | Signal | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | -15 (NOTE2) | P~REFSENS~ +xdB\ | CW carrier | | | (NOTE1) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NOTE1: P~REFSENS~ | | | | depends on the RAT, | | | | the BS class and the | | | | channel bandwidth, | | | | see subclause 7.2.\ | | | | \"x\" is equal to 6 | | | | in case of NR, | | | | E-UTRA, UTRA or | | | | NB-IoT wanted | | | | signals and equal to | | | | 3 in case of | | | | GSM/EDGE wanted | | | | signal. | | | | | | | | NOTE2: For NB-IoT, | | | | up to 24 exceptions | | | | are allowed for | | | | spurious response | | | | frequencies in each | | | | wanted signal | | | | frequency when | | | | measured using a | | | | 1MHz step size. For | | | | these exceptions the | | | | above throughput | | | | requirement shall be | | | | met when the | | | | blocking signal is | | | | set to a level of | | | | -40 dBm for 15 kHz | | | | subcarrier spacing | | | | and -46 dBm for 3.75 | | | | kHz subcarrier | | | | spacing. In | | | | addition, each group | | | | of exceptions shall | | | | not exceed three | | | | contiguous | | | | measurements using a | | | | 1MHz step size. | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### 7.5.2 Co-location minimum requirement
This additional blocking requirement may be applied for the protection of BS
receivers when NR, E-UTRA, NB-IoT, UTRA, CDMA or GSM/EDGE BS operating in a
different frequency band are co-located with a BS.
The requirements in this subclause assume a 30 dB coupling loss between the
interfering transmitter and the BS receiver and are based on co-location with
base stations of the same class.
For a wanted and an interfering signal coupled to BS antenna input using the
parameters in Table 7.5.2-1, the following requirements shall be met:
\- For any E-UTRA carrier, the throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum
throughput of the reference measurement channel defined in TS 36.104 [4],
subclause 7.2.
\- For any UTRA FDD carrier, the BER shall not exceed 0.001 for the reference
measurement channel defined in TS 25.104 [2], subclause 7.2.
\- For any UTRA TDD carrier, the BER shall not exceed 0.001 for the reference
measurement channel defined in TS 25.105 [3], subclause 7.2.
\- For any GSM/EDGE carrier, the conditions are specified in TS 45.005 [5],
Annex P.2.1.
\- For any NB-IoT carrier, the throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum
throughput of the reference measurement channel defined in TS 36.104 [4],
subclause 7.2.
\- For any NR carrier, the throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum throughput
of the reference measurement channel defined in TS 38.104 [17], subclause 7.2.
Table 7.5.2-1: Blocking requirement for co-location with BS in other frequency
bands.
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Type of | Centre | Inte | Inte | Inte | Wanted | Type of | | co- | Fr | rfering | rfering | rfering | Signal | Inte | | located | equency | Signal | Signal | Signal | mean | rfering | | BS | of | mean | mean | mean | power | Signal | | | Inte | power | power | power | (dBm) | | | | rfering | for WA | for MR | for LA | | | | | Signal | BS | BS | BS | | | | | (MHz) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | GSM850 | 869 -- | +16** | +8** | -6** | P~R | CW | | or | 894 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | CDMA850 | | | | | + x | | | | | | | | dB* | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | GSM900 | 921 -- | +16** | +8** | -6** | P~R | CW | | | 960 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | | | | | | + x | | | | | | | | dB* | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | DCS1800 | 1805 -- | +16** | +8** | -6** | P~R | CW | | | 1880 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | | | | | | + x | | | | (Note | | | | dB* | | | | 4) | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | PCS1900 | 1930 -- | +16** | +8** | -6** | P~R | CW | | | 1990 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | | | | | | + x | | | | | | | | dB* | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 2110 -- | +16** | +8** | -6** | P~R | CW | | FDD | 2170 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | Band I | | | | | + x | | | or | | | | | dB* | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 1 | | | | | | | | or NR | | | | | | | | Band n1 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 1930 -- | +16** | +8** | -6** | P~R | CW | | FDD | 1990 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | Band II | | | | | + x | | | or | | | | | dB* | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 2 | | | | | | | | or NR | | | | | | | | Band n2 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 1805 -- | +16** | +8** | -6** | P~R | CW | | FDD | 1880 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | Band | | | | | + x | | | III or | (Note | | | | dB* | | | E-UTRA | 4) | | | | | | | Band 3 | | | | | | | | or NR | | | | | | | | Band n3 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 2110 -- | +16** | +8** | -6** | P~R | CW | | FDD | 2155 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | Band IV | | | | | + x | | | or | | | | | dB* | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 4 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 869 -- | +16** | +8** | -6** | P~R | CW | | FDD | 894 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | Band V | | | | | + x | | | or | | | | | dB* | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 5 | | | | | | | | or NR | | | | | | | | Band n5 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 875 -- | +16** | +8** | -6** | P~R | CW | | FDD | 885 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | Band VI | | | | | + x | | | or | | | | | dB* | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 6 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 2620 -- | +16** | +8** | -6** | P~R | CW | | FDD | 2690 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | Band | | | | | + x | | | VII or | | | | | dB* | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 7 | | | | | | | | or NR | | | | | | | | Band n7 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 925 -- | +16** | +8** | -6** | P~R | CW | | FDD | 960 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | Band | | | | | + x | | | VIII or | | | | | dB* | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 8 | | | | | | | | or NR | | | | | | | | Band n8 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 1844.9 | +16** | +8** | -6** | P~R | CW | | FDD | -- | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | Band IX | 1879.9 | | | | + x | | | or | | | | | dB* | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 9 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 2110 -- | +16** | +8** | -6** | P~R | CW | | FDD | 2170 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | Band X | | | | | + x | | | or | | | | | dB* | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 10 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 1475.9 | +16** | +8** | -6** | P~R | CW | | FDD | - | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | Band XI | 1495.9 | | | | + x | | | or | | | | | dB* | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 11 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 729 - | +16** | +8** | -6** | P~R | CW | | FDD | 746 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | Band | | | | | + x | | | XII or | | | | | dB* | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 12 | | | | | | | | or NR | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | n12 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 746 - | +16** | +8** | -6** | P~R | CW | | FDD | 756 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | Band | | | | | + x | | | XIIII | | | | | dB* | | | or | | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 13 | | | | | | | | or NR | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | n13 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 758 - | +16** | +8** | -6** | P~R | CW | | FDD | 768 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | Band | | | | | + x | | | XIV or | | | | | dB* | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 14 | | | | | | | | or NR | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | n14 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 734 - | +16** | +8** | -6** | P~R | CW | | Band 17 | 746 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | | | | | | + x | | | | | | | | dB* | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 860 - | +16** | +8** | -6** | P~R | CW | | Band 18 | 875 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | or NR | | | | | + x | | | Band | | | | | dB* | | | n18 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 875 - | +16** | +8** | -6** | P~R | CW | | FDD | 890 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | Band | | | | | + x | | | XIX or | | | | | dB* | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 19 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 791 - | +16** | +8** | -6** | P~R | CW | | FDD | 821 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | Band XX | | | | | + x | | | or | | | | | dB* | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 20 | | | | | | | | or NR | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | n20 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 1495.9 | +16** | +8** | -6** | P~R | CW | | FDD | -- | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | Band | 1510.9 | | | | + x | | | XXI or | | | | | dB* | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 21 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 3510 -- | +16** | +8** | -6** | P~R | CW | | FDD | 3590 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | Band | | | | | + x | | | XXII or | | | | | dB* | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 22 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 1525 -- | +16** | +8** | -6** | P~R | CW | | Band 24 | 1559 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | or NR | | | | | + x | | | Band | | | | | dB* | | | n24 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 1930 -- | +16** | +8** | -6** | P~R | CW | | FDD | 1995 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | Band | | | | | + x | | | XXV or | | | | | dB* | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 25 | | | | | | | | or NR | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | n25 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 859 -- | +16** | +8** | -6** | P~R | CW | | FDD | 894 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | Band | | | | | + x | | | XXVI or | | | | | dB* | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 26 | | | | | | | | or NR | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | n26 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 852 - | +16** | +8** | -6** | P~R | CW | | Band 27 | 869 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | | | | | | + x | | | | | | | | dB* | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 758 -- | +16** | +8** | -6** | P~R | CW | | Band 28 | 803 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | or NR | | | | | + x | | | Band | | | | | dB* | | | n28 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 717 -- | +16** | +8** | -6** | P~R | CW | | Band 29 | 728 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | or NR | | | | | + 6dB* | | | Band | | | | | | | | n29 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 23 | +16** | +8** | -6** | P~R | CW | | Band 30 | 50-2360 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | or NR | | | | | + x | | | Band | | | | | dB* | | | n30 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 462.5 | +16** | +8** | -6** | P~R | CW | | Band 31 | -- | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | | 467.5 | | | | + 6dB* | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 1452 -- | +16** | +8** | -6** | P~R | CW | | FDD | 1496 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | Band | | | | | + 6dB* | | | XXXII | (NOTE | | | | | | | or | 5) | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 32 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 19 | +16** | +8** | -6** | P~R | CW | | TDD | 00-1920 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | Band a) | | | | | + x | | | or | | | | | dB* | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | TDD | | | | | | | | Band 33 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 20 | +16** | +8** | -6** | P~R | CW | | TDD | 10-2025 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | Band a) | | | | | + x | | | or | | | | | dB* | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | TDD | | | | | | | | Band 34 | | | | | | | | or NR | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | n34 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 18 | +16** | +8** | -6** | P~R | CW | | TDD | 50-1910 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | Band b) | | | | | + x | | | or | | | | | dB* | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | TDD | | | | | | | | Band 35 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 19 | +16** | +8** | -6** | P~R | CW | | TDD | 30-1990 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | Band b) | | | | | + x | | | or | | | | | dB* | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | TDD | | | | | | | | Band 36 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 19 | +16** | +8** | -6** | P~R | CW | | TDD | 10-1930 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | Band c) | | | | | + x | | | or | | | | | dB* | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | TDD | | | | | | | | Band 37 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 25 | +16** | +8** | -6** | P~R | CW | | TDD | 70-2620 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | Band d) | | | | | + x | | | or | | | | | dB* | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 38 | | | | | | | | or NR | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | n38 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 18 | +16** | +8** | -6** | P~R | CW | | TDD | 80-1920 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | Band f) | | | | | + x | | | or | | | | | dB* | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 39 | | | | | | | | or NR | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | n39 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | 23 | +16** | +8** | -6** | P~R | CW | | TDD | 00-2400 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | Band e) | | | | | + x | | | or | | | | | dB* | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | Band 40 | | | | | | | | or NR | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | n40 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 2496 - | +16** | +8** | -6** | P~R | CW | | Band 41 | 2690 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | or NR | | | | | + x | | | Band | | | | | dB* | | | n41 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 3400 -- | +16** | +8** | -6** | P~R | CW | | Band 42 | 3600 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | | | | | | + x | | | | | | | | dB* | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 3600 -- | +16** | +8** | -6** | P~R | CW | | Band 43 | 3800 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | | | | | | + x | | | | | | | | dB* | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 703 -- | +16** | +8** | -6** | P~R | CW | | Band 44 | 803 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | | | | | | + x | | | | | | | | dB* | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 1447 -- | +16** | +8** | -6** | P~R | CW | | Band 45 | 1467 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | | | | | | + x | | | | | | | | dB* | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 5150 -- | N/A | +8 | -6 | P~R | CW | | Band 46 | 5925 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | or NR | | | | | + x | | | Band | | | | | dB* | | | n46 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 3550 -- | +16** | +8** | -6** | P~R | CW | | Band 48 | 3700 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | or NR | | | | | + x | | | Band | | | | | dB* | | | n48 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 3550 -- | N/A | N/A | -6** | P~R | CW | | Band 49 | 3700 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | | | | | | + x | | | | | | | | dB* | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 1432 -- | +16 | +8** | -6** | P~R | CW | | Band 50 | 1517 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | or NR | | | | | + x | | | Band | | | | | dB* | | | n50 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 1427-- | N/A | N/A | -6** | P~R | CW | | Band 51 | 1432 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | or NR | | | | | + x | | | Band | | | | | dB* | | | n51 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 3300 -- | +16** | +8 | -6 | P~R | CW | | Band 52 | 3400 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | | | | | | + x | | | | | | | | dB* | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 2483.5 | N/A | +8 | -6 | P~R | CW | | Band 53 | -- 2495 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | or NR | | | | | + x | | | Band | | | | | dB* | | | n53 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 2110 -- | +16** | +8** | -6** | P~R | CW | | Band 65 | 2200 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | or NR | | | | | + x | | | Band | | | | | dB* | | | n65 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 2110 -- | +16** | +8** | -6** | P~R | CW | | Band 66 | 2200 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | or NR | | | | | + x | | | Band | | | | | dB* | | | n66 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 738 - | +16** | +8** | -6** | P~R | CW | | Band 67 | 758 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | or NR | | | | | + x | | | band | | | | | dB* | | | n67 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 753 - | +16** | +8** | -6** | P~R | CW | | Band 68 | 783 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | | | | | | + x | | | | | | | | dB* | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 25 | +16** | +8** | -6** | P~R | CW | | Band 69 | 70-2620 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | | | | | | + x | | | | | | | | dB* | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 1995 - | +16** | +8** | -6** | P~R | CW | | Band 70 | 2020 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | or NR | | | | | + x | | | Band | | | | | dB* | | | n70 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 617 - | +16** | +8** | -6** | P~R | CW | | Band 71 | 652 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | or NR | | | | | + x | | | Band | | | | | dB* | | | n71 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 461 - | +16** | +8** | -6** | P~R | CW | | Band 72 | 466 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | | | | | | + 6dB* | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 460 - | +16** | +8** | -6** | P~R | CW | | Band 73 | 465 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | | | | | | + 6dB* | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 1475 - | +16** | +8** | -6** | P~R | CW | | Band 74 | 1518 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | or NR | | | | | + x | | | band | | | | | dB* | | | n74 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 1432 - | +16** | +8** | -6** | P~R | CW | | Band 75 | 1517 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | or NR | | | | | + x | | | Band | | | | | dB* | | | n75 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 1427 - | N/A | N/A | -6** | P~R | CW | | Band 76 | 1432 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | or NR | | | | | + x | | | Band | | | | | dB* | | | n76 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | NR Band | 3300 - | +16** | +8 | -6 | P~R | CW | | n77 | 4200 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | | | | | | + x | | | | | | | | dB* | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | NR Band | 3300 - | +16** | +8 | -6 | P~R | CW | | n78 | 3800 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | | | | | | + x | | | | | | | | dB* | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 728 - | +16** | +8 | -6 | P~R | CW | | Band 85 | 746 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | or NR | | | | | + x | | | band | | | | | dB* | | | n85 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 420 -- | +16** | +8 | -6 | P~R | CW | | Band 87 | 425 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | | | | | | + x | | | | | | | | dB* | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 422 -- | +16** | +8 | -6 | P~R | CW | | Band 88 | 427 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | | | | | | + x | | | | | | | | dB* | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | NR Band | 1427 -- | N/A | N/A | -6** | P~R | CW | | n91 | 1432 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | | | | | | + x | | | | | | | | dB* | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | NR Band | 1432 -- | +16** | +8** | -6** | P~R | CW | | n92 | 1517 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | | | | | | + x | | | | | | | | dB* | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | NR Band | 1427 -- | N/A | N/A | -6** | P~R | CW | | n93 | 1432 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | | | | | | + x | | | | | | | | dB* | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | NR Band | 1432 -- | +16** | +8** | -6** | P~R | CW | | n94 | 1517 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | | | | | | + x | | | | | | | | dB* | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | NR Band | 5925 -- | N/A | +8 | -6 | P~R | CW | | n96 | 7125 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | | | | | | + x | | | | | | | | dB* | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | NR Band | 919.4 | +16 | N/A | N/A | P~R | CW | | n100 | -- 925 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | | | | | | + x | | | | | | | | dB* | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | NR Band | 1900 -- | +16 | N/A | N/A | P~R | CW | | n101 | 1910 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | | | | | | + x | | | | | | | | dB* | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | NR Band | 5925 -- | N/A | +8 | -6 | P~R | CW | | n102 | 6425 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | | | | | | + x | | | | | | | | dB* | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | 757 -- | +16** | +8 | -6 | P~R | CW | | Band | 758 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | 103 | | | | | + x | | | | | | | | dB* | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | NR Band | 6425 -- | +16 | +8 | -6 | P~R | CW | | n104 | 7125 | | | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | | | | | | + x | | | | | | | | dB* | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | NOTE 1 | | | | | | | | (*): | | | | | | | | P~R | | | | | | | | EFSENS~ | | | | | | | | depends | | | | | | | | on the | | | | | | | | RAT, | | | | | | | | the BS | | | | | | | | class | | | | | | | | and the | | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | | ban | | | | | | | | dwidth, | | | | | | | | see | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | bclause | | | | | | | | 7.2.\ | | | | | | | | \"x\" | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | equal | | | | | | | | to 3 in | | | | | | | | case of | | | | | | | | G | | | | | | | | SM/EDGE | | | | | | | | wanted | | | | | | | | signal | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | equal | | | | | | | | to 6 in | | | | | | | | case of | | | | | | | | NR or | | | | | | | | UTRA or | | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | NB-IoT | | | | | | | | wanted | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | ignals. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | | Except | | | | | | | | for a | | | | | | | | BS | | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | in Band | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | these | | | | | | | | requi | | | | | | | | rements | | | | | | | | do not | | | | | | | | apply | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | inte | | | | | | | | rfering | | | | | | | | signal | | | | | | | | falls | | | | | | | | within | | | | | | | | any of | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | pported | | | | | | | | uplink | | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | band or | | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | | Δf~OOB~ | | | | | | | | imme | | | | | | | | diately | | | | | | | | outside | | | | | | | | any of | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | pported | | | | | | | | uplink | | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | band.\ | | | | | | | | For a | | | | | | | | BS | | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | | 13 the | | | | | | | | requi | | | | | | | | rements | | | | | | | | do not | | | | | | | | apply | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | inte | | | | | | | | rfering | | | | | | | | signal | | | | | | | | falls | | | | | | | | within | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | fr | | | | | | | | equency | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | 768-797 | | | | | | | | MHz. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | | | Some | | | | | | | | combi | | | | | | | | nations | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | bands | | | | | | | | may not | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | ossible | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | co-site | | | | | | | | based | | | | | | | | on the | | | | | | | | requi | | | | | | | | rements | | | | | | | | above. | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | current | | | | | | | | st | | | | | | | | ate-of- | | | | | | | | the-art | | | | | | | | tec | | | | | | | | hnology | | | | | | | | does | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | allow a | | | | | | | | single | | | | | | | | generic | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | olution | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | co-l | | | | | | | | ocation | | | | | | | | of UTRA | | | | | | | | TDD or | | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | TDD or | | | | | | | | NR TDD | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | FDD or | | | | | | | | NR FDD | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | djacent | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | uencies | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | 30dB | | | | | | | | BS-BS | | | | | | | | minimum | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | oupling | | | | | | | | loss. | | | | | | | | H | | | | | | | | owever, | | | | | | | | there | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | certain | | | | | | | | si | | | | | | | | te-engi | | | | | | | | neering | | | | | | | | so | | | | | | | | lutions | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | can be | | | | | | | | used. | | | | | | | | These | | | | | | | | tec | | | | | | | | hniques | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | ad | | | | | | | | dressed | | | | | | | | in TR | | | | | | | | 25.942 | | | | | | | | [7]. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: | | | | | | | | In | | | | | | | | China, | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | locking | | | | | | | | requ | | | | | | | | irement | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | co-l | | | | | | | | ocation | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | DCS1800 | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | III BS | | | | | | | | is only | | | | | | | | app | | | | | | | | licable | | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | | fr | | | | | | | | equency | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | 1805-1 | | | | | | | | 850MHz. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 5: | | | | | | | | For a | | | | | | | | BS | | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | | 11, 21, | | | | | | | | 74, the | | | | | | | | requ | | | | | | | | irement | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | co-l | | | | | | | | ocation | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | Band 32 | | | | | | | | applies | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | inte | | | | | | | | rfering | | | | | | | | signal | | | | | | | | within | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | fr | | | | | | | | equency | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | 1475.9 | | | | | | | | -1495.9 | | | | | | | | MHz. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 6: | | | | | | | | Co- | | | | | | | | located | | | | | | | | TDD | | | | | | | | base | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | tations | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | synch | | | | | | | | ronized | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | using | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | same or | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | djacent | | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | can | | | | | | | | receive | | | | | | | | without | | | | | | | | special | | | | | | | | co-l | | | | | | | | ocation | | | | | | | | requir | | | | | | | | ements. | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | unsynch | | | | | | | | ronized | | | | | | | | base | | | | | | | | st | | | | | | | | ations, | | | | | | | | special | | | | | | | | co-l | | | | | | | | ocation | | | | | | | | requi | | | | | | | | rements | | | | | | | | may | | | | | | | | apply | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | are not | | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | | 3GPP | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | pecific | | | | | | | | ations. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 7 | | | | | | | | (**): | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | NB-IoT, | | | | | | | | up to | | | | | | | | 24 | | | | | | | | exc | | | | | | | | eptions | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | allowed | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | purious | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | esponse | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | uencies | | | | | | | | in each | | | | | | | | wanted | | | | | | | | signal | | | | | | | | fr | | | | | | | | equency | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | easured | | | | | | | | using a | | | | | | | | 1MHz | | | | | | | | step | | | | | | | | size. | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | these | | | | | | | | exc | | | | | | | | eptions | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | above | | | | | | | | thr | | | | | | | | oughput | | | | | | | | requ | | | | | | | | irement | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | be met | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | locking | | | | | | | | signal | | | | | | | | is set | | | | | | | | to a | | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | | of -40 | | | | | | | | dBm for | | | | | | | | 15 kHz | | | | | | | | sub | | | | | | | | carrier | | | | | | | | spacing | | | | | | | | and -46 | | | | | | | | dBm for | | | | | | | | 3.75 | | | | | | | | kHz | | | | | | | | sub | | | | | | | | carrier | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | pacing. | | | | | | | | In | | | | | | | | ad | | | | | | | | dition, | | | | | | | | each | | | | | | | | group | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | exc | | | | | | | | eptions | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | exceed | | | | | | | | three | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | tiguous | | | | | | | | measu | | | | | | | | rements | | | | | | | | using a | | | | | | | | 1MHz | | | | | | | | step | | | | | | | | size. | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
## 7.6 Receiver spurious emissions
The receiver spurious emissions power is the power of emissions generated or
amplified in a receiver that appear at the BS receiver antenna connector. The
requirements apply to all BS with separate RX and TX antenna ports. In this
case for FDD BS the test shall be performed when both TX and RX are on, with
the TX port terminated.
For TDD BS with common RX and TX antenna port the requirement applies during
the Transmitter OFF period. For FDD BS with common RX and TX antenna port the
transmitter spurious emission limits as specified in subclause 6.6.1 are
valid.
For BS capable of multi-band operation where multiple bands are mapped on
separate antenna connectors, the single-band requirements apply and the
excluded frequency range is only applicable for the operating band supported
on each antenna connector.
### 7.6.1 General minimum requirement
The power of any spurious emission shall not exceed the levels in Table
7.6.1-1:
Table 7.6.1-1: General spurious emissions requirement
Frequency range Maximum level Measurement Bandwidth Note
* * *
30MHz ‑ 1 GHz -57 dBm 100 kHz  
1 GHz -- 12.75 GHz -47 dBm 1 MHz  
12.75 GHz - 5^th^ harmonic of the upper frequency edge of the UL operating
band in GHz -47 dBm 1 MHz This spurious frequency range applies only for
_operating bands_ for which the 5^th^ harmonic of the upper frequency edge of
the UL _operating band_ is reaching beyond 12.75 GHz. NOTE: The frequency
range from F~BW\ RF,DL,low~ - Δf~OBUE~ to F~BW\ RF,,DLhigh~ + Δf~OBUE~ may be
excluded from the requirement. For BS capable of multi-band operation, the
exclusion applies for all supported operating bands. For BS capable of multi-
band operation where multiple bands are mapped on separate antenna connectors,
the single-band requirements apply and the excluded frequency range is only
applicable for the operating band supported on each antenna connector.
In addition to the requirements in Table 7.6.1-1, the power of any spurious
emission shall not exceed the Additional spurious emissions requirements in
subclause 6.6.1.3 and in case of FDD BS (for BC1 and BC2) emission shall not
exceed the levels specified for Protection of the BS receivers of own or
different BS in subclause 6.6.1.2. In addition, the requirements for co-
location with other base stations specified in subclause 6.6.1.4 may also be
applied.
### 7.6.2 Additional minimum requirement for BC2 (Category B)
For a BS operating in Band Category 2 when GSM/EDGE is configured and where
Category B spurious emissions apply, the power of any spurious emissions shall
not exceed the limits in Table 7.6.2-1.
For BS capable of multi-band operation, the limits in Table 7.6.2-1 are only
applicable when all supported operating bands belong to BC2 and GSM/EDGE is
configured in all bands.
Table 7.6.2-1: Additional BS spurious emissions limits for BC2, Category B
Frequency range Frequency offset from downlink operating band edge (Note 1)
Maximum level Measurement Bandwidth
* * *
500 MHz -- 1 GHz 10 -- 20 MHz -57 dBm 300 kHz 20 -- 30 MHz -57 dBm 1 MHz ≥ 30
MHz -57 dBm 3 MHz 1 GHz -- 12.75 GHz ≥ 30 MHz -47 dBm 3 MHz NOTE 1: For BS
capable of multi-band operation, the frequency offset is relative to the
closest supported operating band.
## 7.7 Receiver intermodulation
Third and higher order mixing of the two interfering RF signals can produce an
interfering signal in the band of the desired channel. Intermodulation
response rejection is a measure of the capability of the receiver to receive a
wanted signal on its assigned channel frequency in the presence of two
interfering signals which have a specific frequency relationship to the wanted
signal.
### 7.7.1 General intermodulation minimum requirement
Interfering signals shall be a CW signal and an E-UTRA or UTRA signal as
specified in Annex A.
The requirement is applicable outside the Base Station RF Bandwidth or Radio
Bandwidth. The interfering signal offset is defined relative to the Base
Station RF Bandwidth edges or Radio Bandwidth edges.
For BS capable of multi-band operation, the requirement applies in addition
inside any Inter RF Bandwidth gap, in case the gap size is at least twice as
wide as the UTRA/E-UTRA interfering signal centre frequency offset from the
Base Station RF Bandwidth edge. The interfering signal offset is defined
relative to the Base Station RF Bandwidth edges inside the inter Base Station
RF Bandwidth gap.
For the wanted signal at the assigned channel frequency and two interfering
signals coupled to the base station antenna input, using the parameters in
Table 7.7.1-1 and 7.7.1-2, the following requirements shall be met:
\- For any E-UTRA carrier, the throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum
throughput of the reference measurement channel defined in TS 36.104 [4],
subclause 7.2.
\- For any UTRA FDD carrier, the BER shall not exceed 0.001 for the reference
measurement channel defined in TS 25.104 [2], subclause 7.2.
\- For any UTRA TDD carrier, the BER shall not exceed 0.001 for the reference
measurement channel defined in TS 25.105 [3], subclause 7.2.
\- For any GSM/EDGE carrier, the conditions are specified in TS 45.005 [5],
Annex P.2.2.
\- For any NB-IoT carrier, the throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum
throughput of the reference measurement channel defined in TS 36.104 [4],
subclause 7.2.
\- For any NR carrier, the throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum throughput
of the reference measurement channel defined in TS 38.104 [17], subclause 7.2.
Table 7.7.1-1: General intermodulation requirement
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Base Station | Mean power of | Wanted Signal | Type of | | Type | interfering | mean power | interfering | | | signals | [dBm] | signal | | | [dBm] | | | +================+================+================+================+ | Wide Area BS | -48+y (Note 6) | P~REFSENS~ +x | See Table | | | | dB (Note 2) | 7.7.1-2 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Medium Range | -44+y (Note 6) | P~REFSENS~ +x | | | BS | | dB (Note 3, 5) | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Local Area BS | -38+y (Note 6) | P~REFSENS~ +x | | | | | dB (Note 4, 5) | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | P~REFSENS~ | | | | | depends on the | | | | | RAT, the BS | | | | | class and on | | | | | the channel | | | | | bandwidth, see | | | | | subclause 7.2. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: For WA | | | | | BS supporting | | | | | GSM and/or | | | | | UTRA, \"x\" is | | | | | equal to 6 in | | | | | case of NR or | | | | | E-UTRA or UTRA | | | | | or NB-IoT | | | | | wanted signals | | | | | and equal to 3 | | | | | in case of | | | | | GSM/EDGE | | | | | wanted signal. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: For MR | | | | | BS supporting | | | | | GSM and/or | | | | | UTRA, \"x\" is | | | | | equal to 6 in | | | | | case of UTRA | | | | | wanted | | | | | signals, 9 in | | | | | case of NR or | | | | | E-UTRA or | | | | | NB-IoT wanted | | | | | signal and | | | | | equal to 3 in | | | | | case of | | | | | GSM/EDGE | | | | | wanted signal. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: For LA | | | | | BS supporting | | | | | GSM and/or | | | | | UTRA, \"x\" is | | | | | equal to 12 in | | | | | case of NR or | | | | | E-UTRA or | | | | | NB-IoT wanted | | | | | signals, 6 in | | | | | case of UTRA | | | | | wanted signal | | | | | and equal to 3 | | | | | in case of | | | | | GSM/EDGE | | | | | wanted signal. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 5: For a | | | | | BS neither | | | | | supporting GSM | | | | | nor UTRA, x is | | | | | equal to 6 for | | | | | all BS classes | | | | | if NR is | | | | | supported, | | | | | otherwise x is | | | | | equal to 6 for | | | | | WA BS or, 9 | | | | | for MR BS and | | | | | 12 for LA BS | | | | | if NR is not | | | | | supported. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 6: For a | | | | | BS supporting | | | | | NR but neither | | | | | UTRA nor GSM; | | | | | \"y\" is equal | | | | | to -4 for the | | | | | WA BS class, | | | | | -3 for the MR | | | | | BS class and | | | | | -6 for the LA | | | | | BS class. For | | | | | all other | | | | | cases, \"y\" | | | | | is equal to | | | | | zero for all | | | | | BS classes | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
Table 7.7.1-2: Interfering signals for intermodulation requirement
* * *
RAT of the carrier adjacent to the upper/lower Base Station RF Bandwidth edge
Interfering signal centre frequency offset from the Base Station RF Bandwidth
edge [MHz] Type of interfering signal
* * *
E-UTRA 1.4 MHz ±2.0 (BC1 and BC3) /\ CW ±2.1 (BC2)
                                                                                  ±4.9                                                                                         1.4MHz E-UTRA signal
E-UTRA or E-UTRA with NB-IoT in-band 3 MHz ±4.4 (BC1 and BC3) /\ CW ±4.5 (BC2)
                                                                                  ±10.5                                                                                        3MHz E-UTRA signal
UTRA FDD and\ ±7.5 CW E-UTRA or E-UTRA with NB-IoT in-band/guard band 5 MHz
                                                                                  ±17.5                                                                                        5MHz E-UTRA signal
E-UTRA or E-UTRA with NB-IoT in-band/guard band 10 MHz ±7.375 CW
                                                                                  ±17.5                                                                                        5MHz E-UTRA signal
E-UTRA or E-UTRA with NB-IoT in-band/guard band 15 MHz ±7.25 CW
                                                                                  ±17.5                                                                                        5MHz E-UTRA signal
E-UTRA or E-UTRA with NB-IoT in-band/guard band 20 MHz ±7.125 CW
                                                                                  ±17.5                                                                                        5MHz E-UTRA signal
GSM/EDGE/NB-IoT standalone ±7.575 CW
                                                                                  ±17.5                                                                                        5MHz E-UTRA signal
1.28 Mcps UTRA TDD ±2.3 (BC3) CW
                                                                                  ±5.6 (BC3)                                                                                   1.28Mcps UTRA TDD signal
NR 5 MHz or NR with _NB-IoT operation in NR in-band_ ±7.5 CW
                                                                                  ±17.5                                                                                        5MHz E-UTRA signal
NR 10 MHz or NR with _NB-IoT operation in NR in-band_ ±7.465 CW
                                                                                  ±17.5                                                                                        5MHz E-UTRA signal
NR 15 MHz or NR with _NB-IoT operation in NR in-band_ ±7.43 CW
                                                                                  ±17.5                                                                                        5MHz E-UTRA signal
NR 20 MHz or NR with _NB-IoT operation in NR in-band_ ±7.395 CW
                                                                                  ±17.5                                                                                        5MHz E-UTRA signal
NR 25 MHz or NR with _NB-IoT operation in NR in-band_ ±7.465 CW
                                                                                  ±25                                                                                          20MHz E-UTRA signal
NR 30 MHz or NR with _NB-IoT operation in NR in-band_ ±7.43 CW
                                                                                  ±25                                                                                          20MHz E-UTRA signal
NR 35 MHz or NR with _NB-IoT operation in NR in-band_ ±7.44 CW
                                                                                  ±25                                                                                          20MHz E-UTRA signal
NR 40 MHz or NR with _NB-IoT operation in NR in-band_ ±7.45 CW
                                                                                  ±25                                                                                          20MHz E-UTRA signal
NR 45 MHz or NR with _NB-IoT operation in NR in-band_ ±7.37 CW
                                                                                  ±25                                                                                          20MHz E-UTRA signal
NR 50 MHz or NR with _NB-IoT operation in NR in-band_ ±7.35 CW
                                                                                  ±25                                                                                          20MHz E-UTRA signal
NR 60 MHz ±7.49 CW
                                                                                  ±25                                                                                          20MHz E-UTRA signal
NR 70 MHz ±7.42 CW
                                                                                  ±25                                                                                          20MHz E-UTRA signal
NR 80 MHz ±7.44 CW
                                                                                  ±25                                                                                          20MHz E-UTRA signal
NR 90 MHz ±7.46 CW
                                                                                  ±25                                                                                          20MHz E-UTRA signal
NR 100 MHz ±7.48 CW
                                                                                  ±25                                                                                          20MHz E-UTRA signal
* * *
### 7.7.2 General narrowband intermodulation minimum requirement
Interfering signals shall be a CW signal and an E-UTRA 1RB signal as specified
in Annex A.
The requirement is applicable outside the Base Station RF Bandwidth or Radio
Bandwidth. The interfering signal offset is defined relative to the Base
Station RF Bandwidth edges or Radio Bandwidth edges.
For BS operating in non-contiguous spectrum within each supported operating
band, the requirement applies in addition inside any sub-block gap in case the
sub-block gap is at least as wide as the channel bandwidth of the E-UTRA
interfering signal in Table 7.7.2-2. The interfering signal offset is defined
relative to the sub-block edges inside the gap.
For BS capable of multi-band operation, the requirement applies in addition
inside any Inter RF Bandwidth gap in case the gap size is at least as wide as
the E-UTRA interfering signal in Table 7.7.2-2. The interfering signal offset
is defined relative to the Base Station RF Bandwidth edges inside the Inter RF
Bandwidth gap.
For the wanted signal at the assigned channel frequency and two interfering
signals coupled to the base station antenna input, using the parameters in
Table 7.7.2-1 and 7.7.2-2, the following requirements shall be met:
\- For any E-UTRA carrier, the throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum
throughput of the reference measurement channel defined in TS 36.104 [4],
subclause 7.2.
\- For any UTRA FDD carrier, the BER shall not exceed 0.001 for the reference
measurement channel defined in TS 25.104 [2], subclause 7.2.
\- For any UTRA TDD carrier, the BER shall not exceed 0.001 for the reference
measurement channel defined in TS 25.105 [3], subclause 7.2.
\- For any GSM/EDGE carrier, the conditions are specified in TS 45.005 [5],
Annex P.2.2.
\- For any NB-IoT carrier, the throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum
throughput of the reference measurement channel defined in TS 36.104 [4],
subclause 7.2.
\- For any NR carrier, the throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum throughput
of the reference measurement channel defined in TS 38.104 [17], subclause 7.2.
Table 7.7.2-1: General narrowband intermodulation requirement
* * *
Base Station Type Mean power of interfering signals [dBm] Wanted Signal mean
power [dBm] Type of interfering signal
* * *
Wide Area BS -52 P~REFSENS~ +x dB (NOTE 1) See Table 7.7.2-2
Medium Range BS -47
Local Area BS -44
NOTE 1: P~REFSENS~ depends on the RAT, the BS class and on the channel
bandwidth, see subclause 7.2.\  
\"x\" is equal to 6 in case of NR, NB-IoT, E-UTRA or UTRA wanted signals and
equal to 3 in case of GSM/EDGE wanted signal.
* * *
Table 7.7.2-1a: Void
Table 7.7.2-2: Interfering signals for narrowband intermodulation requirement
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | RAT of the carrier | CW or 1RB | Type of interfering | | adjacent to the | interfering signal | signal | | upper/lower Base | centre frequency | | | Station RF Bandwidth | offset from the Base | | | edge or sub-block | Station RF Bandwidth | | | edge | edge or sub-block | | | | edge inside a gap | | | | [kHz] | | +======================+======================+======================+ | E-UTRA 1.4 MHz | ±260 (BC1 and BC3) | CW | | | /\ | | | | ±270 (BC2) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | ±970 (BC1 and BC3) | 1.4 MHz E-UTRA | | | /\ | signal, 1 RB (NOTE | | | ±790 (BC2) | 1) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | E-UTRA or E-UTRA | ±260 (BC1 and BC3) | CW | | with NB-IoT in-band | /\ | | | 3 MHz | ±270 (BC2) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | ±960 (BC1 and BC3) | 3.0 MHz E-UTRA | | | /\ | signal, 1 RB (NOTE | | | ±780 (BC2) | 1) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | E-UTRA or E-UTRA | ±360 (NOTE 3) | CW | | with NB-IoT | | | | in-band/guard band | | | | 5 MHz | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | ±1060 | 5 MHz E-UTRA signal, | | | | 1 RB (NOTE 1) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | E-UTRA or E-UTRA | ±325 (NOTE 3) | CW | | with NB-IoT | | | | in-band/guard band | | | | 10 MHz | | | | | | | | (NOTE 2) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | ±1240 | 5 MHz E-UTRA signal, | | | | 1 RB (NOTE 1) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | E-UTRA or E-UTRA | ±380 (NOTE 3) | CW | | with NB-IoT | | | | in-band/guard band | | | | 15 MHz | | | | | | | | (NOTE 2) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | ±1600 | 5MHz E-UTRA signal, | | | | 1 RB (NOTE 1) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | E-UTRA or E-UTRA | ±345 (NOTE 3) | CW | | with NB-IoT | | | | in-band/guard band | | | | 20 MHz | | | | | | | | (NOTE 2) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | ±1780 | 5MHz E-UTRA signal, | | | | 1 RB (NOTE 1) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UTRA FDD | ±345 (BC1 and BC2) | CW | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | ±1780 (BC1 and BC2) | 5MHz E-UTRA signal, | | | | 1 RB (NOTE 1) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | GSM/EDGE | ±340 | CW | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | ±880 | 5MHz E-UTRA signal, | | | | 1 RB (NOTE 1) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NB-IoT standalone | ±340 | CW | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | ±880 | 5MHz E-UTRA signal, | | | | 1 RB (NOTE 1) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 1.28Mcps UTRA TDD | ±190 (BC3) | CW | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | ±970 (BC3) | 1.4 MHz E-UTRA | | | | signal, 1 RB (NOTE | | | | 1) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NR 5 MHz or NR with | ±360 | CW | | _NB-IoT operation in | | | | NR in-band_ | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | ±1420 | E-UTRA signal, 1 RB | | | | (NOTE 1) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NR 10 MHz or NR with | ±370 | CW | | _NB-IoT operation in | | | | NR in-band_ | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | ±1960 | E-UTRA signal, 1 RB | | | | (NOTE 1) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NR 15 MHz or NR with | ±380 | CW | | _NB-IoT operation in | | | | NR in-band_ (Note 2) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | ±1960 | E-UTRA signal, 1 RB | | | | (NOTE 1) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NR 20 MHz or NR with | ±390 | CW | | _NB-IoT operation in | | | | NR in-band_ (Note 2) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | ±2320 | E-UTRA signal, 1 RB | | | | (NOTE 1) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NR 25 MHz or NR with | ±325 | CW | | _NB-IoT operation in | | | | NR in-band_ (Note 2) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | ±2350 | E-UTRA signal, 1 RB | | | | (NOTE 1) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NR 30 MHz or NR with | ±335 | CW | | _NB-IoT operation in | | | | NR in-band_ (Note 2) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | ±2350 | E-UTRA signal, 1 RB | | | | (NOTE 1) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NR 35 MHz or NR with | ±345 | CW | | _NB-IoT operation in | | | | NR in-band_ (Note 2) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | ±2710 | E-UTRA signal, 1 RB | | | | (NOTE 1) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NR 40 MHz or NR with | ±355 | CW | | _NB-IoT operation in | | | | NR in-band_ (Note 2) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | ±2710 | E-UTRA signal, 1 RB | | | | (NOTE 1) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NR 45 MHz or NR with | ±365 | CW | | _NB-IoT operation in | | | | NR in-band_ (Note 2) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | ±2710 | E-UTRA signal, 1 RB | | | | (NOTE 1) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NR 50 MHz or NR with | ±375 | CW | | _NB-IoT operation in | | | | NR in-band_ (Note 2) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | ±2710 | E-UTRA signal, 1 RB | | | | (NOTE 1) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NR 60 MHz (Note 2) | ±395 | CW | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | ±2710 | E-UTRA signal, 1 RB | | | | (NOTE 1) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NR 70 MHz (Note 2) | ±415 | CW | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | ±2710 | E-UTRA signal, 1 RB | | | | (NOTE 1) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NR 80 MHz (Note 2) | ±435 | CW | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | ±2710 | E-UTRA signal, 1 RB | | | | (NOTE 1) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NR 90 MHz (Note 2) | ±365 | CW | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | ±2530 | E-UTRA signal, 1 RB | | | | (NOTE 1) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NR 100 MHz (Note 2) | ±385 | CW | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | ±2530 | E-UTRA signal, 1 RB | | | | (NOTE 1) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NOTE 1: Interfering | | | | signal consisting of | | | | one resource block | | | | positioned at the | | | | stated offset, the | | | | channel bandwidth of | | | | the interfering | | | | signal is located | | | | adjacently to the | | | | Base Station RF | | | | Bandwidth edge. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: This | | | | requirement shall | | | | apply only for an | | | | E-UTRA FRC A1-3 or | | | | NR G-FRC mapped to | | | | the frequency range | | | | at the channel edge | | | | adjacent to the | | | | interfering signals. | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: The | | | | frequency offset | | | | shall be adjusted to | | | | accommodate the IMD | | | | product to fall in | | | | the NB-IoT RB for | | | | NB-IoT in-band/guard | | | | band operation. | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: If a BS RF | | | | receiver fails the | | | | test of the | | | | requirement, the | | | | test shall be | | | | performed with the | | | | CW interfering | | | | signal frequency | | | | shifted away from | | | | the wanted signal by | | | | 180 kHz and the | | | | E-UTRA interfering | | | | signal frequency | | | | shifted away from | | | | the wanted signal by | | | | 360 kHz. If the BS | | | | RF receiver still | | | | fails the test after | | | | the frequency shift, | | | | then the BS RF | | | | receiver shall be | | | | deemed to fail the | | | | requirement. | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### 7.7.3 Additional narrowband intermodulation minimum requirement for
GSM/EDGE
The GSM/EDGE MC-BTS receiver intermodulation requirement as stated in TS
45.005 [5], applicable parts of subclause 5.3.2 shall apply for any GSM/EDGE
carrier.
The conditions specified in TS 45.005 [5], Annex P.2.2 apply for the GSM/EDGE
intermodulation requirement.
## 7.8 In-channel selectivity
In-channel selectivity (ICS) is a measure of the receiver ability to receive a
wanted signal at its assigned resource block locations in the presence of an
interfering signal received at a larger power spectral density. In this
condition a throughput requirement shall be met for a specified reference
measurement channel.
### 7.8.1 E-UTRA minimum requirement
For E-UTRA, the minimum requirement for in-channel selectivity is specified in
TS 36.104 [4], subclause 7.4.
For NB-IoT, the minimum requirement for in-channel selectivity is specified in
TS 36.104 [4], subclause 7.4.
### 7.8.2 NR minimum requirement
For NR, the minimum requirement for in-channel selectivity (BS type 1-C) is
specified in TS 38.104 [17], subclause 7.8.
For _NB-IoT operation in NR in-band_ , the minimum requirement for in-channel
selectivity (BS type 1-C) is specified in TS 38.104 [17], subclause 7.8.
# 8 Performance requirements
Performance requirements specify the ability of the BS to correctly demodulate
signals in various conditions and configurations. For NR, UTRA and E-UTRA the
requirements specify a minimum throughput or maximum BLER or BER that shall be
achieved at a specific SNR. For GSM/EDGE the requirements specify a maximum
FER, BLER or BER that shall be achieved at specific sensitivity levels (C) and
specific carrier-to-interference ratios (C/I).
## 8.1 E-UTRA minimum requirement
For E-UTRA, the minimum requirements for performance are specified in TS
36.104 [4], clause 8.
## 8.2 UTRA FDD minimum requirement
For UTRA FDD, the minimum requirements for performance are specified in TS
25.104 [2], clause 8.
## 8.3 UTRA TDD minimum requirement
For UTRA TDD, the minimum requirements for performance are specified in TS
25.105 [3], clause 8.
## 8.4 GSM/EDGE minimum requirement
For GSM/EDGE, the minimum requirements for reference sensitivity level and
reference interference level are specified in TS 45.005 [5], applicable parts
of clauses 6.2, 6.3, 6.4, 6.5 and 6.6. The conditions specified in TS 45.005
[5], Annex P.1 are valid for GSM sensitivity and interference performance.
## 8.5 NR minimum requirement
For NR, the minimum requirements for performance (BS type 1-C) are specified
in TS 38.104 [17], clause 8.
## 8.6 NB-IoT minimum requirement
For NB-IoT, the minimum requirements for performance are specified in TS
36.104 [4], clause 8.5.
###### ## Annex A (normative): Characteristics of interfering signals
# A.1 UTRA FDD interfering signal
The UTRA FDD interfering signal shall be a DPCH containing the DPCCH and one
DPDCH. The data content for each channelization code shall be uncorrelated
with each other and to the wanted signal and spread and modulated according to
clause 4 of TS 25.213. Further characteristics of DPDCH and DPCCH are
specified in Table A.1-1.
Table A.1-1: Characteristics of UTRA FDD interfering signal
Channel Bit Rate Spreading Factor Channelization Code Relative Power
* * *
DPDCH 240 kbps 16 4 0 dB DPCCH 15 kbps 256 0 -5.46 dB NOTE: The DPDCH and
DPCCH settings are chosen to simulate a signal with realistic Peak to Average
Ratio.
# A.2 UTRA TDD interfering signal
The UTRA TDD interfering signal shall be 1.28 Mcps UTRA TDD signal with one
code. The data content shall be uncorrelated to the wanted signal. They are
specified in Table A.2-1.
Table A.2-1: Characteristics of UTRA TDD interfering signal
UTRA TDD option Type of Interfering Signal
* * *
1.28 Mcps UTRA TDD 1,28 Mcps UTRA TDD signal with one code*
NOTE *: The channelization code ID and Midamble shift shall be different with
the wanted signal\'s.
# A.3 E-UTRA interfering signal
The E-UTRA interfering signal shall be a PUSCH containing data and reference
symbols. Normal CP is used. The data content shall be uncorrelated to the
wanted signal and modulated according to clause 5 of TS 36.211. Mapping of
PUSCH modulation to receiver requirement are specified in Table A.3-1.
Table A.3-1: Modulation of the E-UTRA interfering signal
Receiver requirement Modulation
* * *
Narrowband blocking QPSK Receiver intermodulation QPSK
###### ## Annex B (normative): Environmental requirements for the BS equipment
The BS equipment shall fulfil all the requirements in the full range of
environmental conditions for the relevant environmental class. The
environmental conditions and class shall be from the relevant IEC
specifications or the corresponding ETSI specifications listed below.
IEC specifications for environmental requirements:
IEC 60 721-3-3 \"Stationary use at weather protected locations\" [11]
IEC 60 721-3-4 \"Stationary use at non weather protected locations\" [12]
ETSI specifications for environmental requirements:
ETSI EN 300 019-1-3 \"Stationary use at weather protected locations\" [13]
ETSI EN 300 019-1-4 \"Stationary use at non weather protected locations\" [14]
Normally it should be sufficient for all tests to be conducted using normal
test conditions except where otherwise stated. For guidance on the use of test
conditions to be used in order to show compliance refer to TS 37.141 [10].
#