# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document is an introduction to the 3GPP TS 37.4xx series of
technical specifications that define the W1 interface. The W1 interface
provides means for interconnecting an ng-eNB-CU and an ng-eNB-DU of an ng-eNB
within an NG-RAN.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 38.425: \"NR user plane protocol\".
[3] 3GPP TS 38.300: \"NR; Overall description; Stage-2\"
[4] 3GPP TS 37.471: \"E-UTRAN and NG-RAN; W1 interface: layer 1\".
[5] 3GPP TS 37.472: \"E-UTRAN and NG-RAN; W1 signalling transport\".
[6] 3GPP TS 37.473: \"E-UTRAN and NG-RAN; W1 application protocol (W1AP)\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**W1:** interface between an ng-eNB-CU and an ng- eNB-DU, providing an
interconnection point between the ng-eNB-CU and the ng-eNB-DU.
**W1-C** : Reference point for the control plane protocol between ng-eNB-CU
and ng-eNB-DU.
ng-**eNB-CU** : a logical node hosting RRC, SDAP and PDCP protocols of the ng-
eNB that controls the operation of one or more ng-eNB-DUs. The ng-eNB-CU
terminates the W1 interface connected with the ng-eNB-DU.
ng-**eNB-DU** : a logical node hosting RLC, MAC and PHY layers of the ng-eNB,
and its operation is partly controlled by ng-eNB-CU. One ng-eNB-DU supports
one or multiple cells. One cell is supported by only one ng-eNB-DU. The ng-
eNB-DU terminates the W1 interface connected with the ng-eNB-CU.
ng-**eNB** : as defined in TS 38.300 [3].
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
DRB Data Radio Bearers
W1-U W1 User plane interface
W1-C W1 Control plane interface
W1AP W1 Application Protocol
GTP-U GPRS Tunnelling Protocol
IP Internet Protocol
NR-MIB NR-Master Information Block
O&M Operation and Maintenance
PA Paging Area
PF Paging Frame
PO Paging Occasion
QoS Quality of Service
RRC Radio Resource Control
SCTP Stream Control Transmission Protocol
SRB Signalling Radio Bearers
SIB1 System Information Block 1
TNL Transport Network Layer
# 4 General aspects
## 4.0 General
This clause captures the W1 interface principles and characteristics.
## 4.1 W1 interface general principles
The general principles for the specification of the W1 interface are as
follows:
\- An ng-eNB may consist of an ng-eNB-CU and ng-eNB-DUs. An ng-eNB-CU and an
ng-eNB-DU is connected via W1 logical interface.
\- One ng-eNB-CU controls one or more ng-eNB-DUs.
\- One ng-eNB-DU supports one or multiple cells. One cell is supported by only
one ng-eNB-DU.
\- ng-eNB-DU ID is used to identify ng-eNB-DU only over W1AP procedures, ng-
eNB-DU ID is not connected to cell identifier.
\- The ng-eNB-CU terminates W1 interface connected with the ng-eNB-DU.
\- The ng-eNB-DU terminates W1 interface connected with the ng-eNB-CU.
\- The W1 interface shall separate Radio Network Layer and Transport Network
Layer.
\- The W1 interface shall enable exchange of UE associated information and
non-UE associated information.
\- The W1 interface is open;
\- From a logical standpoint, the W1 is a point-to-point interface between an
ng-eNB-CU and an ng-eNB-DU.
NOTE: A point-to-point logical interface should be feasible even in the
absence of a physical direct connection between the endpoints.
\- The W1 interface supports control plane and user plane separation;
\- The W1 interface enables exchange of UE associated information and non-UE
associated information;
\- The standard should not prevent to separated CP and UP.
## 4.2 W1 interface specification objectives
The W1 interface specifications facilitate the following:
\- inter-connection of an ng-eNB-CU and an ng-eNB-DU supplied by different
manufacturers.
## 4.3 W1 interface capabilities
The W1 interface supports:
\- procedures to establish, maintain and release radio bearers for the NG-RAN
part of PDU sessions and for E-UTRAN Radio Access Bearers;
\- the separation of each UE on the protocol level for user specific
signalling management;
\- the transfer of RRC signalling messages between the UE and the ng-eNB-CU.
## 4.4 W1 interface characteristics
# 5 Functions of the W1 interface
## 5.1 General
The following clauses describe the functions supported over W1-C and W1-U.
## 5.2 W1-C functions
### 5.2.1 Interface management function
The W1 setup function allows to exchange application level data needed for the
ng-eNB-DU and ng-eNB-CU to interoperate correctly on the W1 interface. The W1
setup is initiated by the ng-eNB-DU.
The ng-eNB-CU Configuration Update and ng-eNB-DU Configuration Update
functions allow to update application level configuration data needed between
ng-eNB-CU and ng-eNB-DU to interoperate correctly over the W1 interface, and
may activate or deactivate cells.
For NG-RAN, the W1 setup and ng-eNB-DU Configuration Update functions allow to
inform the S-NSSAI(s) supported by the ng-eNB-DU.
The error indication function is used by the ng-eNB-DU or ng-eNB-CU to
indicate to the ng-eNB-CU or ng-eNB-DU that an error has occurred.
The reset function is used to initialize the peer entity after node setup and
after a failure event occurred. This procedure can be used by both the ng-eNB-
DU and the ng-eNB-CU.
The W1 resource coordination function is used to transfer information about
frequency resource sharing between ng-eNB-CU and ng-eNB-DU.
The ng-eNB-DU status indication function allows the ng-eNB-DU to indicate
overload status to ng-eNB-CU.
### 5.2.2 System Information management function
Scheduling of system broadcast information is carried out in the ng-eNB-DU.
The ng-eNB-DU is responsible for transmitting the system information according
to the scheduling parameters available.
The ng-eNB-DU is responsible for the encoding of ng-eNB-MIB. In case broadcast
of SIB1 and other SI messages is needed, the ng-eNB-DU is responsible for
assembling SIB1, SIB2, SIB3, SIB8 and SIB16 and the ng-eNB-CU is responsible
for assembling other SIBs.
### 5.2.3 Paging function
The ng-eNB-DU is responsible for transmitting the paging information.
The ng-eNB-CU provides paging information to enable the ng-eNB-DU to calculate
the exact PO and PF. The ng-eNB-CU determines the PA. The ng-eNB-DU
consolidates all the paging records for a particular PO, PF and PA, and
encodes the final RRC message and broadcasts the paging message on the
respective PO, PF in the PA.
### 5.2.4 UE context management function
The W1 UE context management function supports the establishment and
modification of the necessary overall UE context.
The establishment of the W1 UE context is initiated by the ng-eNB-CU and
accepted or rejected by the ng-eNB-DU based on admission control criteria
(e.g., resource not available).
The modification of the W1 UE context can be initiated by either ng-eNB-CU or
ng-eNB-DU. The receiving node can accept or reject the modification. The W1 UE
context management function also supports the release of the context
previously established in the ng-eNB-DU. The release of the context is
triggered by the ng-eNB-CU either directly or following a request received
from the ng-eNB-DU. The ng-eNB-CU requests the ng-eNB-DU to remove the UE
Context when the UE enters RRC_IDLE or RRC_INACTIVE.
This function can be also used to manage DRBs and SRBs, i.e., establishing,
modifying and releasing DRB and SRB resources. The establishment and
modification of DRB resources are triggered by the ng-eNB-CU and
accepted/rejected by the ng-eNB-DU based on resource reservation information
and QoS information to be provided to the ng-eNB-DU. For each DRB to be setup
or modified, the S-NSSAI may be provided by ng-eNB-CU to the ng-eNB-DU in the
UE Context Setup procedure and the UE Context Modification procedure.
For NG-RAN, the mapping between QoS flows and radio bearers is performed by
ng-eNB-CU and the granularity of bearer related management over W1 is radio
bearer level, and the ng-eNB-CU decides an aggregated DRB QoS profile for each
radio bearer based on received QoS flow profile, and provides both aggregated
DRB QoS profile and QoS flow profile to the ng-eNB-DU, and the ng-eNB-DU
either accepts the request or rejects it with appropriate cause value.
With this function, ng-eNB-DU could also notify ng-eNB-CU whether the QoS for
already established DRBs is not fulfilled any longer or it is fulfilled again.
The UE Inactivity Notification function is initiated by the ng-eNB-DU to
indicate the UE activity event.
The Notify function is to enable the ng-eNB-DU to inform the ng-eNB-CU that
the QoS of an already established GBR DRB cannot by fulfilled any longer or
that it can be fulfilled again.
With this function, the ng-eNB-CU indicates the UL UE AMBR limit to the ng-
eNB-DU, and the ng-eNB-DU enforces the indicated limit.
With this function, the ng-eNB-CU indicates the UL UE AMBR limit to the ng-
eNB-DU, and the ng-eNB-DU enforces the indicated limit.
With this function, ng-eNB-CU requests the ng-eNB-DU to setup or change of the
SpCell for the UE, and the ng-eNB-DU either accepts or rejects the request
with appropriate cause value.
With this function, the ng-eNB-CU requests the setup of the SCell(s) at the
ng-eNB-DU side, and the ng-eNB-DU accepts all, some or none of the SCell(s)
and replies to the ng-eNB-CU. The ng-eNB-CU requests the removal of the
SCell(s) for the UE.
With this function, the ng-eNB-DU indicates that a bearer, or a UE is inactive
or active. The ng-eNB-CU consolidates all the serving ng-eNB-DUs for the UE
and takes further action.
### 5.2.5 RRC message transfer function
This function allows to transfer RRC messages between ng-eNB-CU and ng-eNB-DU.
RRC messages are transferred over W1-C. The ng-eNB-CU is responsible for the
encoding of the dedicated RRC message with assistance information provided by
ng-eNB-DU. This function also allows ng-eNB-DU to report to ng-eNB-CU if the
downlink RRC message has been successfully delivered to UE or not.
### 5.2.6 Warning messages information transfer function
This function allows to cooperate with the warning message transmission
procedures over NG interface. The ng-eNB-CU is responsible for encoding the
warning related SI message and sending it together with other warning related
information for the ng-eNB-DU to broadcast over the radio interface.
## 5.3 W1-U functions
### 5.3.1 Transfer of user data
This function allows to transfer of user data between ng-eNB-CU and ng-eNB-DU.
### 5.3.2 Flow control function
This function allows to control the downlink user data flow to the ng-eNB-DU.
The detailed protocol is specified in TS 38.425 [2]
# 6 Procedures of the W1 interface
## 6.1 Control plane procedures
### 6.1.1 Interface Management procedures
The W1 Interface management procedures are listed below:
\- Reset procedure
\- Error Indication procedure
\- W1 Setup procedure
\- ng-eNB-DU Configuration Update procedure
\- ng-eNB-CU Configuration Update procedure
\- ng-eNB-DU Resource Coordination procedure
\- ng-eNB-DU Status Indication procedure
### 6.1.2 Context Management procedures
The W1 Context management procedures are listed below:
\- UE Context Setup procedure
\- UE context Release Request (ng-eNB-DU initiated) procedure
\- UE context Release (ng-eNB-CU initiated) procedure
\- UE Context Modification (ng-eNB-CU initiated) procedure
\- UE Context Modification Required (ng-eNB-DU initiated) procedure
\- UE Inactivity Notification procedure
\- Notify procedure
### 6.1.3 RRC Message Transfer procedures
The W1 RRC message transfer procedures are listed below:
\- Initial UL RRC Message Transfer procedure
\- UL RRC Message Transfer procedure
\- DL RRC Message Transfer procedure
\- RRC Delivery Report procedure
### 6.1.3A Void
### 6.1.4 Warning Message Transmission procedures
The W1 Warning message transmission procedures are listed below:
\- Write-Replace Warning procedure
\- PWS Cancel procedure
\- PWS Restart Indication procedure
\- PWS Failure Indication procedure
### 6.1.5 Paging procedures
The W1 Paging procedures are listed below:
\- Paging
## 6.2 User plane procedures
### 6.2.1 User Data Transfer
Void
### 6.2.2 Flow Control
Void
# 7 W1 interface protocol structure
## 7.1 W1 Control Plane Protocol (W1-C)
Figure 7.1-1 shows the protocol structure for W1-C. The TNL is based on IP
transport, comprising the SCTP on top of IP. The application layer signalling
protocol is referred to as W1AP (W1 Application Protocol).
Figure 7.1-1: Interface protocol structure for W1-C
## 7.2 W1 User Plane Protocol (W1-U)
Figure 7.2-1 shows the protocol structure for W1-U. The TNL is based on IP
transport, comprising the UDP and GTP-U on top of IP.
{width="2.6659722222222224in" height="2.65625in"}
Figure 7.2-1: Interface protocol structure for W1-U
# 8 Other W1 interface specifications
## 8.0 General
This clause contains the description of the other related 3GPP specifications.
## 8.1 E-UTRAN and NG-RAN; W1 interface: layer 1 (3GPP TS 37.471)
3GPP TS 37.471 [4] specifies the physical layer technologies that may be used
to support the W1 interface.
## 8.2 E-UTRAN and NG-RAN; W1 signalling transport (3GPP TS 37.472)
3GPP TS 37.472 [5] specifies the signalling bearers for the W1AP for the W1-C
interface.
## 8.3 E-UTRAN and NG-RAN; W1 application protocol (W1AP) (3GPP TS 37.473)
3GPP TS 37.473 [6] specifies the F1AP protocol for radio network control plane
signalling over the W1 interface.
## 8.4 NG-RAN; NR user plane protocol (3GPP TS 38.425)
3GPP TS 38.425 [2] specifies the user plane protocol being used over the W1-U
interface.
#