# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical report for DC of x bands (x=1,2) LTE
inter-band CA (xDL/1UL) and 4 bands NR inter-band CA (4DL/1UL) under Rel-17
time frame, including EN-DC and NE-DC. The purpose is to gather the relevant
background information and studies in order to address DC of x bands (x=1,2)
LTE inter-band CA (xDL/1UL) and 4 bands NR inter-band CA (4DL/1UL) in Rel-17
as .
This TR contains a general part and band specific combination part. The actual
requirements are added to the corresponding technical specifications.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 30.007: "Guideline on WI/SI for new Operating Bands"
[3] 3GPP TS 38.101-1: "NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception; Part 1: Range 1 Standalone"
[4] 3GPP TS 38.101-2: "NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception; Part 2: Range 2 Standalone"
[5] 3GPP TS 38.101-3: "NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception; Part 3: Range 1 and Range 2 Interworking operation with other
radios"
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
ΔR~IB,c~ Allowed reference sensitivity relaxation due to support for CA or DC
operation, for serving cell _c_.
ΔT~IB,c~ Allowed maximum configured output power relaxation due to support for
CA or DC operation, for serving cell _c_.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
# 4 Background
The present document is a technical report for DC of x bands (x=1,2) LTE
inter-band CA (xDL/1UL) and 4 bands NR inter-band CA (4DL/1UL) under Rel-17
time frame, including EN-DC and NE-DC.
## 4.1 TR Maintenance
A single company is responsible for introducing all approved TPs in the
current TR, i.e. TR editor. However, it is the responsibility of the contact
person of each band combination to ensure that the TPs related to the band
combination have been implemented.
# 5 DC band combinations of LTE x bands DL/1UL(x=1,2) + NR 4 bands DL/1UL:
General Part
## 5.1 General
In order to support DC of LTE CA for up to 2 different bands DL with 1 band UL
+ NR CA for 4 different bands DL with 1 band UL in rel-17, the corresponding
fallback modes shall be shall be completed and specified in advance.
Unless otherwise stated, the requirements for EN-DC and NE-DC for the same
band combination are the same.
## 5.2 General treatment of ∆TIB and ∆RIB values
For DC of x bands (x=1,2) LTE inter-band CA (xDL/1UL) and 4 bands NR inter-
band CA (4DL/1UL) band combination, RAN4 should consider to reuse agreed
additional insertion losses for all EN-DC band combinations when new RF
components are not introduced to support this basket WI. If the new RF
components are introduced, then more detail description will be captured in
some specific EN-DC band combinations.
# 6 DC band combinations of LTE 1 band DL/1UL + NR 4 bands DL/1UL: Specific
Band Combination Part
## 6.1 DC_1_n3-n28-n77-n79
### 6.1.1 Operating bands for DC
Table 6.1.1-1: EN-DC band combination (five bands)
EN-DC Band E-UTRA Band NR CA Band
* * *
DC_1_n3-n28-n77-n79 1 CA_ n3-n28-n77-n79
### 6.1.2 Inter-band DC Configurations
Table 6.1.2-1: Inter-band EN-DC configurations (five bands)
+----------------------------+---------------+ | EN-DC configuration | Uplink EN-DC | | | | | | configuration | +============================+===============+ | DC_1A_n3A-n28A-n77A-n79A | DC_1A_n3A | | | | | | DC_1A_n28A | | | | | | DC_1A_n77A | | | | | | DC_1A_n79A | +----------------------------+---------------+
### 6.1.3 Co-existence studies
Co-existence study for DC_1_n3-n28-n77-n79 was covered by the studies for the
fallback modes of DC_1_n3-n28-n77, DC_1_n3-n28-n79, DC_1_n3-n77-n79 and
DC_1_n28-n77-n79.
No additional MSD requirement needs to be defined for this dual connectivity
configuration.
### 6.1.4 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
DC_1_n3-n28-n77-n79, the ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ values are given in the tables
below.
Table 6.1.4-1: ΔT~IB,c~
Inter-band DC Configuration E-UTRA and NR Band ΔT~IB,c~ [dB]
* * *
DC_1_n3-n28-n77-n79 1 0.6 n3 0.6 n28 0.8 n77 0.8 n79 0.8
Table 6.1.4-2: ΔR~IB~
Inter-band DC Configuration E-UTRA and NR Band ΔR~IB~ [dB]
* * *
DC_1_n3-n28-n77-n79 1 0.3 n3 0.2 n28 0.5 n77 0.5 n79 0.5
### 6.1.5 MSD
As mentioned in 6.1.3, there is no need to specify additional MSD requirement
for this UL DC configuration.
## 6.2 DC_8_n3-n28-n77-n79
### 6.2.1 Operating bands for DC
Table 6.2.1-1: EN-DC band combination (five bands)
EN-DC Band E-UTRA Band NR CA Band
* * *
DC_8_n3-n28-n77-n79 8 CA_n3-n28-n77-n79
### 6.2.2 Inter-band DC Configurations
Table 6.2.2-1: Inter-band EN-DC configurations (five bands)
+----------------------------+---------------+ | EN-DC configuration | Uplink EN-DC | | | | | | configuration | +============================+===============+ | DC_8A_n3A-n28A-n77A-n79A | DC_8A_n3A | | | | | | DC_8A_n28A | | | | | | DC_8A_n77A | | | | | | DC_8A_n79A | +----------------------------+---------------+
### 6.2.3 Co-existence studies
Co-existence study for DC_8_n3-n28-n77-n79 was covered by the studies for the
fallback modes of DC_8_n3-n28-n77, DC_8_n3-n28-n79, DC_8_n3-n77-n79 and
DC_8_n28-n77-n79.
No additional MSD requirement needs to be defined for this dual connectivity
configuration.
### 6.2.4 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
DC_8_n3-n28-n77-n79, the ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ values are given in the tables
below.
Table 6.2.4-1: ΔT~IB,c~
Inter-band DC Configuration E-UTRA and NR Band ΔT~IB,c~ [dB]
* * *
DC_8_n3-n28-n77-n79 8 0.6 n3 0.6 n28 0.5 n77 0.8 n79 0.8
Table 6.2.4-2: ΔR~IB~
Inter-band DC Configuration E-UTRA and NR Band ΔR~IB~ [dB]
* * *
DC_8_n3-n28-n77-n79 8 0.2 n3 0.2 n28 0.2 n77 0.5 n79 0.5
### 6.2.5 MSD
As mentioned in 6.2.3, there is no need to specify additional MSD requirement
for this UL DC configuration.
## 6.3 DC_vA_nwA-nxA-nyA-nzA or DC_nwA-nxA-nyA-nzA_vA
### 6.3.1 Operating bands for DC
_\ _
Table 6.3.1-1: EN-DC band combination (five bands)
EN-DC Band E-UTRA Band NR CA Band
* * *
Table 6.3.1-2: NE-DC band combination (five bands)
NE-DC Band NR CA Band E-UTRA Band
* * *
### 6.3.2 Inter-band DC Configurations
_\ _
Table 6.3.2-1: Inter-band EN-DC configurations (five bands)
+---------------------+---------------+ | EN-DC configuration | Uplink EN-DC | | | | | | configuration | +=====================+===============+ | | | +---------------------+---------------+
Table 6.3.2-2: Inter-band NE-DC configurations (five bands)
+---------------------+---------------+ | NE-DC configuration | Uplink NE-DC | | | | | | configuration | +=====================+===============+ | | | +---------------------+---------------+
### 6.3.3 Co-existence studies
\
### 6.3.4 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
_\ _
### 6.3.5 MSD
_\ _
# 7 DC band combinations of LTE 2 bands DL/1UL + NR 4 bands DL/1UL: Specific
Band Combination Part
## 7.1 DC_1-8_n3-n28-n77-n79
### 7.1.1 Operating bands for DC
Table 7.1.1-1: EN-DC band combination (six bands)
EN-DC Band E-UTRA Band NR CA Band
* * *
DC_1-8_n3-n28-n77-n79 CA_1-8 CA_n3-n28-n77-n79
### 7.1.2 Inter-band DC Configurations
Table 7.1.2-1: Inter-band EN-DC configurations (six bands)
+-------------------------------+---------------+ | EN-DC configuration | Uplink EN-DC | | | | | | configuration | +===============================+===============+ | DC_1A-8A_n3A-n28A-n77A-n79A | DC_1A_n3A | | | | | | DC_1A_n28A | | | | | | DC_1A_n77A | | | | | | DC_1A_n79A | | | | | | DC_8A_n3A | | | | | | DC_8A_n28A | | | | | | DC_8A_n77A | | | | | | DC_8A_n79A | +-------------------------------+---------------+
### 7.1.3 Co-existence studies
Co-existence study for DC_1-8_n3-n28-n77-n79 was covered by the studies for
the fallback modes of DC_1-8_n3-n28-n77, DC_1-8_n3-n28-n79, DC_1-8_n3-n77-n79,
DC_1-8_n28-n77-n79, DC_1_n3-n28-n77-n79 and DC_8_n3-n28-n77-n79.
No additional MSD requirement needs to be defined for this dual connectivity
configuration.
### 7.1.4 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
DC_1-8_n3-n28-n77-n79, the ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ values are given in the
tables below.
Table 7.1.4-1: ΔT~IB,c~
Inter-band DC Configuration E-UTRA and NR Band ΔT~IB,c~ [dB]
* * *
DC_1-8_n3-n28-n77-n79 1 0.6 8 0.6 n3 0.8 n28 0.6 n77 0.8 n79 0.8
Table 7.1.4-2: ΔR~IB~
Inter-band DC Configuration E-UTRA and NR Band ΔR~IB~ [dB]
* * *
DC_1-8_n3-n28-n77-n79 1 0.3 8 0.3 n3 0.2 n28 0.5 n77 0.5 n79 0.5
### 7.1.5 MSD
As mentioned in 7.1.3, there is no need to specify additional MSD requirement
for this UL DC configuration.
## 7.2 DC_uA-vA_nwA-nxA-nyA-nzA or DC_nwA-nxA-nyA-nzA _uA-vA
### 7.2.1 Operating bands for DC
_\ _
Table 7.2.1-1: EN-DC band combination (six bands)
EN-DC Band E-UTRA CA Band NR CA Band
* * *
Table 7.2.1-2: NE-DC band combination (six bands)
NE-DC Band NR CA Band E-UTRA CA Band
* * *
### 7.2.2 Inter-band DC Configurations
_\ _
Table 7.2.2-1: Inter-band EN-DC configurations (six bands)
+---------------------+---------------+ | EN-DC configuration | Uplink EN-DC | | | | | | configuration | +=====================+===============+ | | | +---------------------+---------------+
Table 7.2.2-1: Inter-band NE-DC configurations (six bands)
+---------------------+---------------+ | NE-DC configuration | Uplink NE-DC | | | | | | configuration | +=====================+===============+ | | | +---------------------+---------------+
### 7.2.3 Co-existence studies
\
### 7.2.4 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
_\ _
### 7.2.5 MSD
_\ _
#