# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In drafting the TS/TR, pay particular attention to the use of modal auxiliary
verbs! TRs shall not contain any normative provisions.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical report for Dual Connectivity (DC) of x
bands (x=1,2) LTE inter-band CA (xDL/xUL) and y bands (y=3-x) NR inter-band CA
(yDL/yUL) under Rel-17 time frame, including EN-DC and NE-DC. The purpose is
to gather the relevant background information and studies in order to address
Dual Connectivity (DC) of x bands (x=1,2) LTE inter-band CA (xDL/xUL) and y
bands (y=3-x) NR inter-band CA (yDL/yUL) for the Rel-17 band combinations,
where:
\- For only 1 NR band included (i.e. x=2 and y=1), only NR FR2 band is applied
\- For only 2 NR bands included (i.e. x=1 and y=2), 1 NR FR1 band and 1 NR FR2
band are included and operated as inter-band CA
This TR contains a general part and band specific combination part. The actual
requirements are added to the corresponding technical specifications.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 38.101-1: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception; Part 1: Range 1 Standalone\".
[3] 3GPP TS 38.101-2: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception; Part 2: Range 2 Standalone\".
[4] 3GPP TS 38.101-3: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception; Part 3: Range 1 and Range 2 Interworking operation with other
radios\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
ΔR~IB,c~ Allowed reference sensitivity relaxation due to support for CA or DC
operation, for serving cell _c_.
ΔT~IB,c~ Allowed maximum configured output power relaxation due to support for
CA or DC operation, for serving cell _c_.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
# 4 Background
The present document is a technical report for Dual Connectivity (DC) of x
bands (x=1,2) LTE inter-band CA (xDL/xUL) and y bands (y=3-x) NR inter-band CA
(yDL/yUL) under Rel-17 time frame, including EN-DC and NE-DC.
## 4.1 TR Maintenance
A single company is responsible for introducing all approved TPs in the
current TR, i.e. TR editor. However, it is the responsibility of the contact
person of each band combination to ensure that the TPs related to the band
combination have been implemented.
# 5 DC with 3 bands DL and 3 bands UL: General Part
## 5.1 General
In order to support 3 bands DL and 3 bands UL EN-DC/NE-DC band combination in
rel-17, the corresponding fallback modes shall be shall be completed and
specified in advance.
Unless otherwise stated, the requirements for EN-DC and NE-DC configuration
for the same band combination are the same.
## 5.2 Treatment of ∆TIB and ∆RIB values
For the 3 bands DL and 3 bands UL EN-DC band combination, RAN4 should consider
to reuse agreed additional insertion losses for all EN-DC band combinations
when new RF components are not introduced to support this basket WI. If the
new RF components are introduced, then more detail decription will be captured
in some specific EN-DC band combinations.
In the 3 bands DL and 3 bands UL EN-DC combination, at least one NR FR2 band
is included, which means the other two bands can be LTE 2 bands or LTE 1 band
+ NR 1 FR1 band. It shall be noted that the inter-band EN-DC combination with
all the 3UL FR1 bands is excluded since the corresponding RF requirements have
not been finished yet.
Unless otherwise stated, for inter-band 3 bands DL and 3 bands UL EN-DC
configurations including FR2,there are no additional requirements of and
∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values for NR FR2 band, which means ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ for
constituent FR2 NR bands is set to zero.
For Inter-band EN-DC with LTE 2 band+NR 1 band (i.e. NR 1 FR2 band):
ΔT~IB,c~ and ΔR~IB,c~ for constituent E-UTRA bands is the same as those for
the corresponding E-UTRA inter-band CA configuration specified in TS 36.101.
For Inter-band EN-DC with LTE 1 band+NR 2 bands (i.e. NR 1 FR1 band + NR 1 FR2
band):
ΔT~IB,c~ and ΔR~IB,c~ for E-UTRA and FR1 NR band is the same as those for the
corresponding inter-band EN-DC combinations specified in TS 38.101-3.
## 5.3 Maximum Sensitivity Degradation (MSD) analysis
[]{#_Toc21472 .anchor}5.3.1 MSD caused by Harmonic product
The harmonic product analysis for the inter-band EN-DC combination within FR1
and including FR2 have been captured in the TRs, such as TR 37.716-11-11 and
37.716-21-11. Considering:
\- the frequency between E-UTRA band and NR FR2 band are very large, and the
NR FR2 band frequency is larger than 3^rd^ harmonic frequencies (even 7^th^
harmonic frequencies) of all E-UTRA band, which means the NR FR2 band will not
be impacted by the harmonic products of the E-UTRA band.
\- the NR FR2 band frequency is larger than 3^rd^ harmonic frequencies of all
NR FR1 band, which means the NR FR2 band will not be impacted by the 3^rd^
harmonic products of the NR FR1 band.
Therefore, unless otherwise stated, for inter-band 3 bands DL and 3 bands UL
EN-DC configurations including FR2, there are no MSD requirements caused by
harmonic products for constituent FR2 NR band, and MSD caused by harmonic
products for constituent E-UTRA and NR FR1 bands are the same as those for the
corresponding E-UTRA inter-band CA in TS36.101 or inter band EN-DC
configuration without the FR2 bands in TS38.101-3, respectively.
[]{#_Toc47701752 .anchor}5.3.2 MSD caused by intermodulation products
There are two types intermodulation frequencies for 3 bands UL configuration,
the first one is choosing desirable UL band configurations for each use
scenarios (i.e. 2UL intermodulation frequencies), and the second one is all
the possible intermodulation frequencies occur while all three UL's are active
concurrently (i.e. 3UL intermodulation frequencies).
For the first type intermodulation frequencies, the study for 2UL
intermodulation frequencies have been captured in TR 37.716-21-11 and TR
37.716-21-21, especially for the 2UL band configuration of E-UTRA band and NR
FR1 band. It is no need to recalculate the 2UL frequencies intermudulation
products forinter-band 3 bands DL and 3 bands EN-DC combinations.
For the second type intermodulation frequencies, on top of 2UL intermodulation
frequencies, some additional intermodulation frequencies shall be studied for
all three UL frequencies are active concurrently for inter-band 3UL EN-DC
conbination, which is shown in Table 5.2.2-1.
Table 5.3.2-1.Intermodulation frequencies all three UL frequencies are active
concurrently
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | I | IMD3 | IMD4 | IMD5 | | ntermodulation | | | | | # | | | | +================+================+================+================+ | I | \|F~ | \|2F~1~+F~2 | \|3F~ | | ntermodulation | 1~+F~2~+F~3~\| | ~+F~3~\|,\|2F~ | 1~+F~2~+F~3~\| | | frequencies | | 1~+F~2~-F~3~\| | , | | | \|F~ | | \|3F~1 | | | 1~+F~2~-F~3~\| | \|2F~1~-F~2 | ~+F~2~-F~3~\|, | | | | ~+F~3~\|,\|2F~ | \|3F~1 | | | \|F~ | 1~-F~2~-F~3~\| | ~-F~2~+F~3~\|, | | | 1~-F~2~+F~3~\| | | \|3F~ | | | | \|F~1~+2F~2 | 1~-F~2~-F~3~\| | | | \|F~ | ~+F~3~\|,\|F~1 | | | | 1~-F~2~-F~3~\| | ~+2F~2~-F~3~\| | \|F~1~ | | | | | +3F~2~+F~3~\|, | | | | \|F~1~-2F~2 | \|F~1~ | | | | ~+F~3~\|,\|F~1 | +3F~2~-F~3~\|, | | | | ~-2F~2~-F~3~\| | \|F~1~-3F~2 | | | | | ~+F~3~\|,\|F~1 | | | | \|F~1~+F~2~ | ~-3F~2~-F~3~\| | | | | +2F~3~\|,\|F~1 | | | | | ~+F~2~-2F~3~\| | \|F~1~ | | | | | +F~2~+3F~3~\|, | | | | \|F~1~-F~2~ | \|F~1~ | | | | +2F~3~\|,\|F~1 | +F~2~-3F~3~\|, | | | | ~-F~2~-2F~3~\| | \|F~1~ | | | | | -F~2~+3F~3~\|, | | | | | \|F~1 | | | | | ~-F~2~-3F~3~\| | | | | | | | | | | \|2F~1~ | | | | | +2F~2~+F~3~\|, | | | | | \|2F~1 | | | | | ~+2F~2~-F~3~\| | | | | | ,\|2F~1~-2F~2~ | | | | | +F~3~\|,\|2F~1 | | | | | ~-2F~2~-F~3~\| | | | | | | | | | | \|F~1~+ | | | | | 2F~2~+2F~3~\|, | | | | | \|F~1~ | | | | | +2F~2~-2F~3~\| | | | | | ,\|F~1~-2F~2~+ | | | | | 2F~3~\|,\|F~1~ | | | | | -2F~2~-2F~3~\| | | | | | | | | | | \|2F~1~+F~2~+ | | | | | 2F~3~\|,\|2F~1 | | | | | ~+F~2~-2F~3~\| | | | | | ,\|2F~1~-F~2~+ | | | | | 2F~3~\|,\|2F~1 | | | | | ~-F~2~-2F~3~\| | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
Considering the larger frequency difference between FR1 band and FR2 band, it
can be foreseen that the IMDs product caused by FR1 band and FR2 band will not
fall into its own Rx band. Hence, it is no need to calculate the IMDs product
in table 5.2.2-1 for inter-band EN-DC combinations including FR2 band.
Therefore, unless otherwise stated, for inter-band 3 bands DL and 3 bands UL
EN-DC configurations including FR2, there are no MSD requirements caused by
intermodulation products for constituent FR2 NR band, and MSD caused by
intermodulation products caused by harmonic products for constituent E-UTRA
and NR FR1 bands are the same as those for the corresponding E-UTRA inter-band
CA in TS36.101 or inter band EN-DC configuration without the FR2 bands in
TS38.101-3.
[]{#_Toc20056 .anchor}5.4 Spurious emission band UE co-existence
Unless otherwise stated, for inter-band 3 bands DL and 3 bands UL EN-DC
configurations including FR2, there are no additional requirements of spurious
emission band UE co-existence.
For Inter-band EN-DC with LTE 2 band+NR 1 band (i.e. NR 1 FR2 band):
For spurious emission band UE co-existence, no requirements for FR2 NR bands
to protect E-UTRAbands are applied to the constituent FR2 NR bands. Spurious
emission band UE co-existence requirements specified in TS 36.101 are applied
to the constituent E-UTRA bands..
For Inter-band EN-DC with LTE 1 band+NR 2 bands (i.e. NR 1 FR1 band + NR 1 FR2
band):
Spurious emission band UE co-existence requirements for constituent E-UTRA and
FR1 NR bands for the inter-band EN-DC are the same as those for the
corresponding EN-DC configuration without the FR2 bands specified in
TS38.101-3.
# 6 DC with 3 bands DL and 3 bands UL:Specific Band Combination Part
## 6.1 Inter-band DC with LTE 1 band+NR 2 bands(including FR2)
[]{#_Toc17669 .anchor}6.1.1 DC_41_n79-n258
[]{#_Toc2656 .anchor}6.1.1.1 Operating bands for DC_41_n79-n258
**Table 6.1.1.1-1: Band combinations EN-DC (three bands)**
**EN-DC Band** **E-UTRA Band** **NR Band**
* * *
DC_41_n79-n258 41 n79, n258
[]{#_Toc24725 .anchor}6.1.1.2 Configurations for DC_41_n79-n258
**Table 6.1.1.2-1: Inter-band EN-DC configurations (three bands)**
+---------------------+---------------------+ | **EN-DC** | **Uplink EN-DC** | | | | | **configuration** | **configuration** | +=====================+=====================+ | DC_41A_n79A-n258A | DC_41A_n79A-n258A | +---------------------+---------------------+
[]{#_Toc5873 .anchor}6.1.1.4 REFSENS requirements
There are no additional MSD issue need to be specified.
[]{#_Toc9545 .anchor}6.1.2 DC_40_n41-n258
[]{#_Toc24489 .anchor}6.1.2.1 Operating bands for DC_40_n41-n258
**Table 6.1.2.1-1: Band combinations EN-DC (three bands)**
**EN-DC Band** **E-UTRA Band** **NR Band**
* * *
DC_40A_n41A-n258A 40 n41, n258
[]{#_Toc32062 .anchor}6.1.2.2 Configurations for DC_40_n41-n258
**Table 6.1.2.2-1: Inter-band EN-DC configurations (three bands)**
+---------------------+---------------------+ | **EN-DC** | **Uplink EN-DC** | | | | | **configuration** | **configuration** | +=====================+=====================+ | DC_40A_n41A-n258A | DC_40A_n41A-n258A | +---------------------+---------------------+
[]{#_Toc10796 .anchor}6.1.2.3 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
For DC_40_n41-n258, the ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ for band n258 equals to 0, and
∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ for the band 40 and band n41 are the same with the
values of the constiture DC_40_n41 defined in TS38.101-3.
[]{#_Toc2322 .anchor}6.1.2.4 REFSENS requirements
There are no additional MSD issue need to be specified.
[]{#_Toc29093 .anchor}6.1.3 DC_39_n41-n258
[]{#_Toc6408 .anchor}6.1.3.1 Operating bands for DC_39_n41-n258
**Table 6.1.3.1-1: Band combinations EN-DC (three bands)**
**EN-DC Band** **E-UTRA Band** **NR Band**
* * *
DC_39A_n41A-n258A 39 n41, n258
[]{#_Toc2848 .anchor}6.1.3.2 Configurations for DC_39_n41-n258
**Table 6.1.3.2-1: Inter-band EN-DC configurations (three bands)**
+---------------------+---------------------+ | **EN-DC** | **Uplink EN-DC** | | | | | **configuration** | **configuration** | +=====================+=====================+ | DC_39A_n41A-n258A | DC_39A_n41A-n258A | +---------------------+---------------------+
[]{#_Toc32736 .anchor}6.1.1.3 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
For DC_41_n79-n258, the ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB~ values are given in the tables
below.
**Table 6.1.1.4-2: ΔT~IB,c~**
Inter-band DC Configuration E-UTRA and NR Band ΔT~IB,c~ [dB]
* * *
DC_41_n79-n258 41 0.3 n79 0.8 n258 0
**Table 6.1.1.4-2: ΔR~IB,c~**
Inter-band DC Configuration E-UTRA and NR Band ΔR~IB~ [dB]
* * *
DC_41_n79-n258 41 0 n79 0.5 n258 0
[]{#_Toc10543 .anchor}6.1.3.3 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
For DC_39_n41-n258, the ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ for band n258 equals to 0, and
∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ for the band 39 and band n41 are the same with the
values of the constiture DC_39_n41 defined in TS38.101-3.
[]{#_Toc3612 .anchor}6.1.3.4 REFSENS requirements
There are no additional MSD issue need to be specified.
[]{#_Toc21492 .anchor}6.1.4 DC_39_n79-n258
[]{#_Toc15744 .anchor}6.1.4.1 Operating bands for DC_39_n79-n258
**Table 6.1.4.1-1: Band combinations EN-DC (three bands)**
**EN-DC Band** **E-UTRA Band** **NR Band**
* * *
DC_39A_n79A-n258A 39 n79, n258
[]{#_Toc20865 .anchor}6.1.4.2 Configurations for DC_39_n79-n258
**Table 6.1.4.2-1: Inter-band EN-DC configurations (three bands)**
+---------------------+---------------------+ | **EN-DC** | **Uplink EN-DC** | | | | | **configuration** | **configuration** | +=====================+=====================+ | DC_39A_n79A-n258A | DC_39A_n79A-n258A | +---------------------+---------------------+
[]{#_Toc9625 .anchor}6.1.4.3 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
For DC_39_n79-n258, the ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ for band n258 equals to 0, and
∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ for the band 39 and band n79 are the same with the
values of the constiture DC_39_n79 defined in TS38.101-3.
[]{#_Toc7800 .anchor}6.1.4.4 REFSENS requirements
There are no additional MSD issue need to be specified.
[]{#_Toc25159 .anchor}6.1.5 DC_8_n40-n258
[]{#_Toc30099 .anchor}6.1.5.1 Operating bands for DC_8_n40-n258
**Table 6.1.5.1-1: Band combinations EN-DC (three bands)**
**EN-DC Band** **E-UTRA Band** **NR Band**
* * *
DC_8A_n40A-n258A 8 n40, n258
[]{#_Toc4781 .anchor}6.1.5.2 Configurations for DC_8_n40-n258
**Table 6.1.5.2-1: Inter-band EN-DC configurations (three bands)**
+--------------------+--------------------+ | **EN-DC** | **Uplink EN-DC** | | | | | **configuration** | **configuration** | +====================+====================+ | DC_8A_n40A-n258A | DC_8A_n40A-n258A | +--------------------+--------------------+
[]{#_Toc10843 .anchor}6.1.5.3 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
For DC_8_n40-n258, the ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ for band n258 equals to 0, and
∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ for the band 8 and band n40 are the same with the values
of the constiture DC_8_n40 defined in TS38.101-3.
[]{#_Toc7352 .anchor}6.1.5.4 REFSENS requirements
There are no additional MSD issue need to be specified.
[]{#_Toc3096 .anchor}6.1.6 DC_39_n40-n258
[]{#_Toc28514 .anchor}6.1.6.1 Operating bands for DC_39_n40-n258
**Table 6.1.6.1-1: Band combinations EN-DC (three bands)**
**EN-DC Band** **E-UTRA Band** **NR Band**
* * *
DC_39A_n40A-n258A 39 n40, n258
[]{#_Toc30579 .anchor}6.1.6.2 Configurations for DC_39_n40-n258
**Table 6.1.6.2-1: Inter-band EN-DC configurations (three bands)**
+---------------------+---------------------+ | **EN-DC** | **Uplink EN-DC** | | | | | **configuration** | **configuration** | +=====================+=====================+ | DC_39A_n40A-n258A | DC_39A_n40A-n258A | +---------------------+---------------------+
[]{#_Toc29017 .anchor}6.1.6.3 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
For DC_39_n40-n258, the ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ for band n258 equals to 0, and
∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ for the band 39 and band n40 are the same with the
values of the constiture DC_39_n40 defined in TS38.101-3.
[]{#_Toc19715 .anchor}6.1.6.4 REFSENS requirements
There are no additional MSD issue need to be specified.
[]{#_Toc14352 .anchor}6.1.7 DC_3_n40-n258
[]{#_Toc8289 .anchor}6.1.7.1 Operating bands for DC_3_n40-n258
**Table 6.1.7.1-1: Band combinations EN-DC (three bands)**
**EN-DC Band** **E-UTRA Band** **NR Band**
* * *
DC_3A_n40A-n258A 3 n40, n258
[]{#_Toc29921 .anchor}6.1.7.2 Configurations for DC_3_n40-n258
**Table 6.1.7.2-1: Inter-band EN-DC configurations (three bands)**
+--------------------+--------------------+ | **EN-DC** | **Uplink EN-DC** | | | | | **configuration** | **configuration** | +====================+====================+ | DC_3A_n40A-n258A | DC_3A_n40A-n258A | +--------------------+--------------------+
[]{#_Toc20944 .anchor}6.1.7.3 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
For DC_3_n40-n258, the ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ for band n258 equals to 0, and
∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ for the band 3 and band n40 are the same with the values
of the constiture DC_3_n40 defined in TS38.101-3.
[]{#_Toc15901 .anchor}6.1.7.4 REFSENS requirements
There are no additional MSD issue need to be specified.
[]{#_Toc10654 .anchor}6.1.8 DC_8_n79-n258
[]{#_Toc22113 .anchor}6.1.8.1 Operating bands for DC_8_n79-n258
**Table 6.1.8.1-1: Band combinations EN-DC (three bands)**
**EN-DC Band** **E-UTRA Band** **NR Band**
* * *
DC_8A_n79A-n258A 8 n79, n258
[]{#_Toc16578 .anchor}6.1.8.2 Configurations for DC_8_n79-n258
**Table 6.1.8.2-1: Inter-band EN-DC configurations (three bands)**
+--------------------+--------------------+ | **EN-DC** | **Uplink EN-DC** | | | | | **configuration** | **configuration** | +====================+====================+ | DC_8A_n79A-n258A | DC_8A_n79A-n258A | +--------------------+--------------------+
[]{#_Toc24461 .anchor}6.1.8.3 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
For DC_8_n79-n258, the ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ for band n258 equals to 0, and
∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ for the band 8 and band n79 are the same with the values
of the constiture DC_8_n79 defined in TS38.101-3.
[]{#_Toc6546 .anchor}6.1.8.4 REFSENS requirements
There are no additional MSD issue need to be specified.
## 6.2 Inter-band DC with LTE 2 bands+NR 1 band(including FR2)
### 6.2.1 DC_X-Y-nZ or DC_nZ_X-Y
#### 6.2.1.1 Operating bands for DC configuration
_\ _
Table 6.2.1.1-1: Band combinations EN-DC (three bands)
EN-DC Band E-UTRA CA Band NR Band
* * *
Table 6.2.1.1-2: Band combinations NE-DC (three bands)
NE-DC Band NR Band E-UTRA CA Band
* * *
#### 6.2.1.2 Inter-band DC Configurations
_\ _
Table 6.2.1.2-1: Inter-band EN-DC configurations (three bands)
+---------------------+---------------+ | EN-DC configuration | Uplink EN-DC | | | | | | configuration | +=====================+===============+ | | | +---------------------+---------------+
Table 6.2.1.2-2: Inter-band NE-DC configurations (three bands)
+---------------------+---------------+ | NE-DC configuration | Uplink NE-DC | | | | | | configuration | +=====================+===============+ | | | +---------------------+---------------+
\
#### 6.2.1.3 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
\
#### 6.2.1.4 REFSENS requirements
\
## Annex A: Change history
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **C | | | | | | | | | hange | | | | | | | | | hist | | | | | | | | | ory** | | | | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+ | **D | * |** T | * | ** | ** | **Su |** New | | ate**| *Meet | Doc** | _CR_ _| Rev_ _| Cat_ _| bject | vers | | | ing_ _| | | | | /Comm | ion_ _| | | | | | | | ent_ * | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RAN4\ | R4-20 | | | | TR | 0.0.1 | | 20-08 | #96-e | 10658 | | | | ske | | | | | | | | | leton | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RAN4\ | R4-20 | | | | I | v | | 20-08 | #96-e | 10659 | | | | mplem | 0.1.0 | | | | | | | | ented | | | | | | | | | TP´s | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | RAN4 | | | | | | | | | # | | | | | | | | | 95-e: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | 4-201 | | | | | | | | | 0646, | | | | | | | | | TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | 7.717 | | | | | | | | | -33_ | | | | | | | | | DC_4 | | | | | | | | | 1A_n | | | | | | | | | 79A-n | | | | | | | | | 258A, | | | | | | | | | ,ZTE | | | | | | | | | C | | | | | | | | | orpor | | | | | | | | | ation | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RAN4\ | R4-21 | | | | I | v | | 21-02 | #98-e | 02230 | | | | mplem | 0.2.0 | | | | | | | | ented | | | | | | | | | TP´s | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | RAN4 | | | | | | | | | # | | | | | | | | | 98-e: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-21 | | | | | | | | | 02218 | | | | | | | | | TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 37.71 | | | | | | | | | 7-33\ | | | | | | | | | _DC_ | | | | | | | | | 40A_ | | | | | | | | | n41A- | | | | | | | | | n258A | | | | | | | | | ,ZTE | | | | | | | | | C | | | | | | | | | orpor | | | | | | | | | ation | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RAN | R4-21 | | | | I | v | | 21-03 | 4#98 | 06384 | | | | mplem | 0.3.0 | | | bis-e | | | | | ented | | | | | | | | | TP´s | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | RAN4 | | | | | | | | | # | | | | | | | | | 98-e: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-21 | | | | | | | | | 06381 | | | | | | | | | TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 37.71 | | | | | | | | | 7-33\ | | | | | | | | | _DC_ | | | | | | | | | 39A_ | | | | | | | | | n41A- | | | | | | | | | n258A | | | | | | | | | ,ZTE | | | | | | | | | C | | | | | | | | | orpor | | | | | | | | | ation | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RAN4\ | R4-21 | | | | I | v | | 21-05 | #99-e | 10470 | | | | mplem | 0.4.0 | | | | | | | | ented | | | | | | | | | TP´s | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | RAN4 | | | | | | | | | # | | | | | | | | | 99-e: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-21 | | | | | | | | | 10457 | | | | | | | | | TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 37.71 | | | | | | | | | 7-33\ | | | | | | | | | _DC_ | | | | | | | | | 39A_ | | | | | | | | | n79A- | | | | | | | | | n258A | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | R | R4-21 | | | | I | 0.5.0 | | 21-10 | AN4# | 12949 | | | | mplem | | | | 100-e | | | | | ented | | | | | | | | | TP´s | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | RAN4 | | | | | | | | | #1 | | | | | | | | | 00-e: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-21 | | | | | | | | | 10457 | | | | | | | | | TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 37.71 | | | | | | | | | 7-33\ | | | | | | | | | _DC_ | | | | | | | | | 39A_ | | | | | | | | | n79A- | | | | | | | | | n258A | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | R | R4-21 | | | | I | 0.6.0 | | 21-11 | AN4# | 18214 | | | | mplem | | | | 101-e | | | | | ented | | | | | | | | | TP´s | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | RAN4 | | | | | | | | | #1 | | | | | | | | | 01-e: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-21 | | | | | | | | | 18202 | | | | | | | | | TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 37.71 | | | | | | | | | 7-33\ | | | | | | | | | _DC_ | | | | | | | | | 39A_ | | | | | | | | | n40A- | | | | | | | | | n258A | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | R | R4-22 | | | | I | 0.7.0 | | 22-02 | AN4# | 04774 | | | | mplem | | | | 102-e | | | | | ented | | | | | | | | | TP´s | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | RAN4 | | | | | | | | | #1 | | | | | | | | | 02-e: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-22 | | | | | | | | | 04749 | | | | | | | | | TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 37.7 | | | | | | | | | 17-33 | | | | | | | | | _DC\ | | | | | | | | | _3A_ | | | | | | | | | n40A- | | | | | | | | | n258A | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | R | R4-22 | | | | I | 0.8.0 | | 22-05 | AN4# | 08714 | | | | mplem | | | | 103-e | | | | | ented | | | | | | | | | TP´s | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | RAN4 | | | | | | | | | #1 | | | | | | | | | 03-e: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-22 | | | | | | | | | 08698 | | | | | | | | | TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 37.7 | | | | | | | | | 17-33 | | | | | | | | | _DC\ | | | | | | | | | _8A_ | | | | | | | | | n79A- | | | | | | | | | n258A | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RA | RP-2 | | | | V | 1.0.0 | | 22-06 | N#96 | 21234 | | | | 1.0.0 | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | RA | | | | | | | | | N#96 | | | | | | | | | me | | | | | | | | | eting | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | app | | | | | | | | | roval | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+