# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.,
technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document provides descriptions of **principles for RAN
intelligence enabled by AI, the functional framework (e.g., the AI
functionality and the input/output of the component for AI enabled
optimization) and** use cases and solutions **of** AI enabled RAN.
The study is based on the current architecture and interfaces.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: "Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
\- Data collection: Data collected from the network nodes, management entity
or UE, as a basis for AI/ML model training, data analytics and inference.
\- AI/ML Model: A data driven algorithm by applying machine learning
techniques that generates a set of outputs consisting of predicted information
and/or decision parameters, based on a set of inputs
\- AI/ML Training: An online or offline process to train an AI/ML model by
learning features and patterns that best present data and get the trained
AI/ML model for inference.
\- AI/ML Inference: A process of using a trained AI/ML model to make a
prediction or guide the decision based on collected data and AI/ML model.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
\ \
# 4 General Framework
## 4.1 High-level Principles
The following high-level principles should be applied for AI-enabled RAN
intelligence:
\- The detailed AI/ML algorithms and models for use cases are implementation
specific and out of RAN3 scope.
\- The study focuses on AI/ML functionality and corresponding types of
inputs/outputs.
\- The input/output and the location of the Model Training and Model Inference
function should be studied case by case.
\- The study focuses on the analysis of data needed at the Model Training
function from Data Collection, while the aspects of how the Model Training
function uses inputs to train a model are out of RAN3 scope.
\- The study focuses on the analysis of data needed at the Model Inference
function from Data Collection, while the aspects of how the Model Inference
function uses inputs to derive outputs are out of RAN3 scope.
\- Where AI/ML functionality resides within the current RAN architecture,
depends on deployment and on the specific use cases.
\- The Model Training and Model Inference functions should be able to request,
if needed, specific information to be used to train or execute the AI/ML
algorithm and to avoid reception of unnecessary information. The nature of
such information depends on the use case and on the AI/ML algorithm.
\- The Model Inference function should signal the outputs of the model only to
nodes that have explicitly requested them (e.g., via subscription), or nodes
that take actions based on the output from Model Inference.
\- An AI/ML model used in a Model Inference function has to be initially
trained, validated and tested by the Model Training function before
deployment.
\- NG-RAN SA is prioritized; EN-DC and MR-DC are down-prioritized, but not
precluded from Rel.18.
\- Functional framework and high-level procedures defined in this TR should
not prevent from "thinking beyond" them during normative phase if a use case
requires so.
\- User data privacy and anonymisation should be respected during AI/ML
operation.
## 4.2 Functional Framework
Figure 4.2-1. Functional Framework for RAN Intelligence
This section introduces the common terminologies related to the functional
framework for RAN intelligence illustrated in Figure 4.2-1. For the functions
and data/information flows shown in the Figure 4.2-1, whether there is any
standardization impact and what is the standardization impact are discussed in
clause 5.
\- Data Collection is a function that provides input data to Model training
and Model inference functions. AI/ML algorithm specific data preparation
(e.g., data pre-processing and cleaning, formatting, and transformation) is
not carried out in the Data Collection function.\ Examples of input data may
include measurements from Ues or different network entities, feedback from
Actor, output from an AI/ML model.
\- Training Data: Data needed as input for the AI/ML Model Training function.
\- Inference Data: Data needed as input for the AI/ML Model Inference
function.
\- Model Training is a function that performs the AI/ML model training,
validation, and testing which may generate model performance metrics as part
of the model testing procedure. The Model Training function is also
responsible for data preparation (e.g., data pre-processing and cleaning,
formatting, and transformation) based on Training Data delivered by a Data
Collection function, if required.
\- Model Deployment/Update: Used to initially deploy a trained, validated, and
tested AI/ML model to the Model Inference function or to deliver an updated
model to the Model Inference function.
\- Note: Details of the Model Deployment/Update process as well as the use
case specific AI/ML models transferred via this process are out of RAN3 Rel-17
study scope. The feasibility to single-vendor or multi-vendor environment has
not been studied in RAN3 Rel-17 study.
\- Model Inference is a function that provides AI/ML model inference output
(e.g., predictions or decisions). Model Inference function may provide Model
Performance Feedback to Model Training function when applicable. The Model
Inference function is also responsible for data preparation (e.g., data pre-
processing and cleaning, formatting, and transformation) based on Inference
Data delivered by a Data Collection function, if required.
\- Output: The inference output of the AI/ML model produced by a Model
Inference function.
Note: Details of inference output are use case specific.
\- Model Performance Feedback: It may be used for monitoring the performance
of the AI/ML model, when available.
Note: Details of the Model Performance Feedback process are out of RAN3 scope.
\- Actor is a function that receives the output from the Model Inference
function and triggers or performs corresponding actions. The Actor may trigger
actions directed to other entities or to itself.
\- Feedback: Information that may be needed to derive training data, inference
data or to monitor the performance of the AI/ML Model and its impact to the
network through updating of KPIs and performance counters.
# 5 Use Cases and Solutions for Artificial Intelligence in RAN
## 5.1 Network Energy Saving
### 5.1.1 Use case description
To meet the 5G network requirements of key performance and the demands of the
unprecedented growth of the mobile subscribers, millions of base stations
(BSs) are being deployed. Such rapid growth brings the issues of high energy
consumption, CO~2~ emissions and operation expenditures (OPEX). Therefore,
energy saving is an important use case which may involve different layers of
the network, with mechanisms operating at different time scales.
Cell activation/deactivation is an energy saving scheme in the spatial domain
that exploits traffic offloading in a layered structure to reduce the energy
consumption of the whole radio access network (RAN). When the expected traffic
volume is lower than a fixed threshold, the cells may be switched off, and the
served Ues may be offloaded to a new target cell.
Efficient energy consumption can also be achieved by other means such as
reduction of load, coverage modification, or other RAN configuration
adjustments. The optimal energy saving decision depends on many factors
including the load situation at different RAN nodes, RAN nodes capabilities,
KPI/QoS requirements, number of active Ues and UE mobility, cell utilization,
etc.
However, the identification of actions aimed at energy efficiency improvements
is not a trivial task. Wrong switch-off of the cells may seriously deteriorate
the network performance since the remaining active cells need to serve the
additional traffic. Wrong traffic offload actions may lead to a deterioration
of energy efficiency instead of an improvement. The current energy-saving
schemes are vulnerable to potential issues listed as follows:
\- Inaccurate cell load prediction. Currently, energy-saving decisions rely on
current traffic load without considering future traffic load.
\- Conflicting targets between system performance and energy efficiency.
Maximizing the system's key performance indicator (KPI) is usually done at the
expense of energy efficiency. Similarly, the most energy efficient solution
may impact system performance. Thus, there is a need to balance and manage the
trade-off between the two.
\- Conventional energy-saving related parameters adjustment. Energy-saving
related parameters configuration is set by traditional operation, e.g., based
on different thresholds of cell load for cell switch on/off which is somewhat
a rigid mechanism since it is difficult to set a reasonable threshold.
\- Actions that may produce a local (e.g., limited to a single RAN node)
improvement of Energy Efficiency, while producing an overall (e.g., involving
multiple RAN nodes) deterioration of Energy Efficiency.
To deal with issues listed above, ML techniques could be utilized to optimize
the energy saving decisions by leveraging on the data collected in the RAN
network. ML algorithms may predict the energy efficiency and load state of the
next period, which can be used to make better decisions on cell
activation/deactivation for energy saving. Based on the predicted load, the
system may dynamically configure the energy-saving strategy (e.g., the switch-
off timing and granularity, offloading actions) to keep a balance between
system performance and energy efficiency and to reduce the energy consumption.
### 5.1.2 Solutions and standard impacts
#### 5.1.2.1 Locations for AI/ML Model Training and AI/ML Model Inference
_The following solutions can be considered for supporting AI/ML-based network
energy saving:_
\- AI/ML Model Training is located in the OAM and AI/ML Model Inference is
located in the gNB.
\- AI/ML Model Training and AI/ML Model Inference are both located in the gNB.
Note: gNB is also allowed to continue model training based on AI/ML model
trained in the OAM
_In case of CU-DU split architecture, the following solutions are possible:_
\- AI/ML Model Training is located in the OAM and AI/ML Model Inference is
located in the gNB-CU.
\- AI/ML Model Training and Model Inference are both located in the gNB-CU.
#### 5.1.2.2 AI/ML Model Training at OAM and AI/ML Model Inference at NG-RAN
In this solution, NG-RAN makes energy decisions using AI/ML model trained from
OAM.
Figure 5.1.2.1-1. Model Training at OAM, Model Inference at NG-RAN
Step 0: NG-RAN node 2 is assumed to have an AI/ML model optionally, which can
provide NG-RAN node 1 with input information.
Step 1: NG-RAN node 1 configures the measurement information on the UE side
and sends configuration message to UE to perform measurement procedure and
reporting.
Step 2: The UE collects the indicated measurement(s), e.g., UE measurements
related to RSRP, RSRQ, SINR of serving cell and neighbouring cells.
Step 3: The UE sends the measurement report message(s) to NG-RAN node 1.
Step 4: NG-RAN node 1 further sends UE measurement reports together with other
input data for Model Training to OAM.
Step 5: NG-RAN node 2 (assumed to have an AI/ML model optionally) also sends
input data for Model Training to OAM.
Step 6: Model Training at OAM. Required measurements and input data from other
NG-RAN nodes are leveraged to train AI/ML models for network energy saving.
Step 7: OAM deploys/updates AI/ML model into the NG-RAN node(s). The NG-RAN
node can also continue model training based on the received AI/ML model from
OAM.
Note: This step is out of RAN3 Rel-17 scope.
Step 8: NG-RAN node 2 sends the required input data to NG-RAN node 1 for model
inference of AI/ML-based network energy saving.
Step 9: UE sends the UE measurement report(s) to NG-RAN node 1.
Step 10: Based on local inputs of NG-RAN node 1 and received inputs from NG-
RAN node 2, NG-RAN node 1 generates model inference output(s) (e.g., energy
saving strategy, handover strategy, etc).
Step 11: NG-RAN node 1 sends Model Performance Feedback to OAM if applicable.
Note: This step is out of RAN3 scope.
Step 12: NG-RAN node 1 executes Network energy saving actions according to the
model inference output. NG-RAN node 1 may select the most appropriate target
cell for each UE before it performs handover, if the output is handover
strategy.
Step 13: NG-RAN node 2 provides feedback to OAM.
Step 14: NG-RAN node 1 provides feedback to OAM.
#### 5.1.2.3 AI/ML Model Training and AI/ML Model Inference at NG-RAN
In this solution, NG-RAN is responsible for model training and generates
energy saving decisions.
Figure 5.1.2.2-1. Model Training and Model Inference at NG-RAN
Step 0: NG-RAN node 2 is assumed to have an AI/ML model optionally, which can
provide NG-RAN node 1 with input information.
Step 1: NG-RAN node 1 configures the measurement information on the UE side
and sends configuration message to UE to perform measurement procedure and
reporting.
Step 2: The UE collects the indicated measurement(s), e.g., UE measurements
related to RSRP, RSRQ, SINR of serving cell and neighbouring cells.
Step 3: The UE sends the measurement report(s) to NG-RAN node 1 including the
required measurement result.
Step 4: NG-RAN node 2 sends the required input data to NG-RAN node 1 for model
training of AI/ML-based network energy saving.
Step 5: NG-RAN node 1 trains AI/ML model for AI/ML-based energy saving based
on collected data. NG-RAN node 2 is assumed to have AI/ML model for AI/ML-
based energy saving optionally, which can also generate predicted
results/actions.
Step 6: NG-RAN node 2 sends the required input data to NG-RAN node 1 for model
inference of AI/ML-based network energy saving.
Step 7: UE sends the UE measurement report(s) to NG-RAN node 1.
Step 8: Based on local inputs of NG-RAN node 1 and received inputs from NG-RAN
node 2, NG-RAN node 1 generates model inference output (e.g., energy saving
strategy, handover strategy, etc).
Step 9: NG-RAN node 1 executes Network energy saving actions according to the
model inference output. NG-RAN node 1 may select the most appropriate target
cell for each UE before it performs handover, if the output is handover
strategy.
Step 10: NG-RAN node 2 provides feedback to NG-RAN node 1.
#### 5.1.2.4 Input of AI/ML-based Network Energy Saving
To predict the optimized network energy saving decisions, NG-RAN may need
following information as input data for AI/ML-based network energy saving:
[From local node:]{.underline}
\- UE mobility/trajectory prediction
\- Current/Predicted Energy efficiency
\- Current/Predicted resource status
[From the UE:]{.underline}
\- UE location information (e.g., coordinates, serving cell ID, moving
velocity) interpreted by gNB implementation when available
\- UE measurement report (e.g., UE RSRP, RSRQ, SINR measurement, etc),
including cell level and beam level UE measurements
[From neighbouring NG-RAN nodes:]{.underline}
\- Current/Predicted energy efficiency
\- Current/Predicted resource status
\- Current energy state (e.g., active, high, low, inactive)
If existing UE measurements are needed by a gNB for AI/ML-based network energy
saving, RAN3 shall reuse the existing framework (including MDT and RRM
measurements).
#### 5.1.2.5 Output of AI/ML-based Network Energy Saving
AI/ML-based network energy saving model can generate following information as
output:
\- Energy saving strategy, such as recommended cell activation/deactivation.
\- Handover strategy, including recommended candidate cells for taking over
the traffic
\- Predicted energy efficiency
\- Predicted energy state (e.g., active, high, low, inactive)
\- Model output validity time will be discussed during R18 normative work per
inference output.
#### 5.1.2.6 Feedback of AI/ML-based Network Energy Saving
To optimize the performance of AI/ML-based network energy saving model,
following feedback can be considered to be collected from NG-RAN nodes:
\- Resource status of neighbouring NG-RAN nodes
\- Energy efficiency
\- UE performance affected by the energy saving action (e.g., handed-over
Ues), including bitrate, packet loss, latency.
\- System KPIs (e.g., throughput, delay, RLF of current and neighbouring NG-
RAN node)
#### 5.1.2.7 Standard Impact
MDT procedure enhancements should be discussed during the normative phase.
Potential Xn interface impact:
\- New signalling procedure or enhanced existing procedure to collect the
input data information
\- Predicted energy efficiency between neighbouring NG-RAN nodes and source
NG-RAN node
\- Predicted resource status between neighbouring NG-RAN nodes and source NG-
RAN node
\- New signalling procedure or enhanced existing procedure to retrieve
feedback information
## 5.2 Load Balancing
### 5.2.1 Use case description
The rapid traffic growth and multiple frequency bands utilized in a commercial
network make it challenging to steer the traffic in a balanced distribution.
To address the problem, load balancing had been proposed. The objective of
load balancing is to distribute load evenly among cells and among areas of
cells, or to transfer part of the traffic from congested cells or from
congested areas of cells, or to offload users from one cell, cell area,
carrier or RAT to improve network performance. This can be done by means of
optimization of handover parameters and handover actions. The automation of
such optimisation can provide high quality user experience, while
simultaneously improving the system capacity and also to minimize human
intervention in the network management and optimization tasks.
However, the optimization of the load balancing is not an easy task as
follows:
\- Currently the load balancing decisions relying on the current/past-state
cell load status are insufficient. The traffic load and resource status of the
network changes rapidly, especially in the scenarios with high-mobility and
large number of connections, which may lead to ping-pong handover between
different cells, cell overload and degradation of user service quality.
\- It is difficult to guarantee the overall network and service performance
when performing load balancing. For the load balancing, the Ues in the
congested cell may be offloaded to the target cell, by means of handover
procedure or adapting handover configuration. For example, if the Ues with
time-varying traffic load are offloaded to the target cell, the target cell
may be overloaded with new-arrival heavy traffic. It is difficult to determine
whether the service performance after the offloading action meets the desired
targets.
To deal with the above issues, solutions based on AI/ML model could be
introduced to improve the load balancing performance. Based on collection of
various measurements and feedbacks from Ues and network nodes, historical
data, etc. AI/ML model-based solutions and predicted load could improve load
balancing performance, in order to provide higher quality user experience and
to improve the system capacity.
### 5.2.2 Solutions and standard impacts
#### 5.2.2.1 Locations for AI/ML Model Training and AI/ML Model Inference
_The following solutions can be considered for supporting AI/ML-based load
balancing:_
\- AI/ML Model Training is located in the OAM and AI/ML Model Inference is
located in the gNB.
\- AI/ML Model Training and AI/ML Model Inference are both located in the gNB.
_In case of CU-DU split architecture, the following solutions are possible:_
\- AI/ML _Model_ Training is located in the OAM and AI/ML _Model_ Inference is
located in the gNB-CU.
\- AI/ML _Model_ Training and _Model_ Inference are both located in the gNB-
CU.
Note: gNB is also allowed to continue model training based on AI/ML model
trained in the OAM.
#### 5.2.2.2 AI/ML Model Training in OAM and AI/ML Model Inference in a NG-RAN
node
A high-level signalling flow for the AI/ML use case related to Load Balancing
with Model Training in OAM and Model Inference in NG-RAN is shown in Figure
5.2.2-1 below.
Figure 5.2.2-1. Model Training at OAM, Model Inference at NG-RAN
Step 0: NG-RAN node 2 is assumed to have an AI/ML model optionally, which can
provide NG-RAN node 1 with useful input information, such as predicted
resource status, etc.
Step 1: The NG-RAN node 1 configures the UE to provide measurements and/or
location information (e.g., RRM measurements, MDT measurements, velocity,
position).
Step 2: The UE collects the indicated measurement(s), e.g., UE measurements
related to RSRP, RSRQ, SINR of serving cell and neighbouring cells.
Step 3: The UE reports to NG-RAN node 1 requested measurements and/or location
information (e.g., UE measurements related to RSRP, RSRQ, SINR of serving cell
and neighbouring cells, velocity, position).
Step 4: NG-RAN node 1 further sends UE measurement reports together with other
input data for Model Training to OAM. NG-RAN node 2 also sends input data for
Model Training to OAM.
Step 5: AI/ML Model Training is located at OAM. The required measurements and
input data from other NG-RAN nodes are leveraged to train the AI/ML model.
Step 6: OAM deploys/updates AI/ML model into the NG-RAN node(s). The NG-RAN
node is allowed to continue model training based on the received AI/ML model
from OAM.
Note: This step is out of RAN3 Rel-17 scope.
Step 7: The UE collects and reports to NG-RAN node 1 requested measurements or
location information.
Step 8: The NG-RAN node 1 receives from the neighbouring NG-RAN node 2 the
input information for load balancing model inference.
Step 9: NG-RAN node 1 performs model inference and generate Load Balancing
predictions or decisions.
Step 10. The NG-RAN 1 sends the model performance feedback to OAM if
applicable.
Note: This step is out of RAN3 scope.
Step 11: NG-RAN node 1 may take Load Balancing actions and the UE is moved
from NG-RAN node 1 to NG-RAN node 2.
Step12: NG-RAN node 1 and NG-RAN node 2 send feedback information to OAM.
#### 5.2.2.3 AI/ML Model Training and AI/ML Model Inference in a NG-RAN node
A high-level signalling flow for the AI/ML use case related to Load Balancing
with Model Training and Model Inference in a NG-RAN node is shown in Figure
5.2.2-2 below.
Figure 5.2.2-2. Model Training and Model Inference in a NG-RAN node
Step 0: NG-RAN node 2 is assumed to have an AI/ML model optionally, which can
provide NG-RAN node 1 with useful input information, such as predicted
resource status, etc.
Step 1: The NG-RAN node 1 configures UE to provide measurements and/or
location information(e.g., RRM measurements, MDT measurements, velocity,
position).
Step 2: The UE collects the indicated measurement(s), e.g., UE measurements
related to RSRP, RSRQ, SINR of the serving cell and neighbouring cells.
Step 3: The UE reports to NG-RAN node 1 the requested measurements and/or
location information (e.g., UE measurements related to RSRP, RSRQ, SINR of
serving cell and neighbouring cells, velocity, position).
Step 4: The NG-RAN node 1 receives from the neighbouring NG-RAN node 2 the
input information for load balancing model training.
Step 5: An AI/ML Model Training is located at NG-RAN node 1. The required
measurements and input data from other NG-RAN nodes are leveraged to train the
AI/ML model.
Step6: NG-RAN node 1 receives UE measurements and/or location information.
Step7: NG-RAN node 1 can receive from the neighbouring NG-RAN node 2 the input
information for load balancing model inference.
Step 8: NG-RAN node 1 performs model inference and generate Load Balancing
predictions or decisions.
Step 9: NG-RAN node 1 may take Load Balancing actions and the UE is moved from
NG-RAN node 1 to NG-RAN node 2.
Step 10: NG-RAN node 2 sends feedback information to NG-RAN node 1 (e.g.,
resource status updates after load balancing, etc).
#### 5.2.2.4 Input of AI/ML-based Load Balancing
To predict the optimized load balancing decisions, NG-RAN may need following
information as input data for AI/ML-based load balancing:
> [From the local node:]{.underline}
\- Current and predicted own resource status
\- UE trajectory prediction
\- Current and predicted UE traffic
\- Predicted resource status information of neighbouring NG-RAN node(s)
> [From the UE:]{.underline}
\- UE location information (e.g., coordinates, serving cell ID, moving
velocity) interpreted by gNB implementation when available
\- UE Mobility History Information
\- UE measurement report (e.g., UE RSRP, RSRQ, SINR measurement, etc),
including cell level and beam level UE measurements
> [From neighbouring NG-RAN Nodes:]{.underline}
\- Current and predicted resource status
\- UE performance measurement at traffic offloaded neighbouring cell
#### 5.2.2.5 Output of AI/ML-based Load Balancing
AI/ML-based load balancing model can generate following information as output:
\- Selection of target cell for load balancing
\- Predicted own resource status information
\- Predicted resource status information of neighbouring NG-RAN node(s)
\- Model output validity time will be discussed during R18 normative work per
inference output.
\- The predicted UE(s) selected to be handed over to target NG-RAN node (will
be used by RAN node internally)
#### 5.2.2.6 Feedback of AI/ML-based Load Balancing
To optimize the performance of AI/ML-based load balancing model, following
feedback can be considered to be collected from NG-RAN nodes:
\- UE performance information from target NG-RAN (for those Ues handed over
from the source NG-RAN node)
\- Resource status information updates from target NG-RAN
\- System KPIs (e.g., throughput, delay, RLF of current and neighbours)
#### 5.2.2.7 Standard impact
_To improve the load balancing decisions at a gNB, a gNB can request load
predictions from a neighbouring node. Details of the procedure_ will be
determined during the normative phase _._
_If existing UE measurements are needed by a gNB for AI/ML-based load
balancing, RAN3 shall reuse the existing framework (including MDT and RRM
measurements). Whether new UE measurements are needed is left to normative
phase based on the use case description._
_MDT procedure enhancements should be discussed during the normative phase._
To increase the awareness of the traffic dynamics and enable more improved
traffic steering decisions it is possible to complement load measurements
currently exposed over RAN interfaces with information related to predicted
load from neighbouring RAN nodes as well as UE measurements and information.
\- An NG-RAN node can also predict its own load. This can be achieved by
considering the own load and load information received from neighbour RAN
nodes. Load predictions can be signalled between RAN nodes.
\- An NG-RAN node can also derive load prediction using UE measurements and
information, for example MDT and RRM measurements, or UE location information
(e.g., velocity, position). For the aspects concerning the configuration and
the reporting of UE measurements and information the impacted protocol is RRC.
RAN2 needs to be consulted for details during the normative phase.
Signalling of information used to derive Model Inference outputs may be
achieved over the Xn interface by reusing existing or new procedures. The
details are to be discussed during normative work.
**Potential Xn interface impact:**
\- New or enhanced existing signaling procedure to request/retrieve predicted
resource status information from neighbouring nodes via Xn interface.
\- New or enhanced existing signaling procedure to request/retrieve predicted
load balancing strategy information from neighbouring nodes via Xn interface.
\- New or enhanced existing procedure to request/retrieve feedback information
via Xn interface.
## 5.3 Mobility Optimization
### 5.3.1 Use case description
Mobility management is the scheme to guarantee the service-continuity during
the mobility by minimizing the call drops, RLFs, unnecessary handovers, and
ping-pong. For the future high-frequency network, as the coverage of a single
node decreases, the frequency for UE to handover between nodes becomes high,
especially for high-mobility UE. In addition, for the applications
characterized with the stringent QoS requirements such as reliability, latency
etc., the QoE is sensitive to the handover performance, so that mobility
management should avoid unsuccessful handover and reduce the latency during
handover procedure. However, for the conventional method, it is challengeable
for trial-and-error-based scheme to achieve nearly zero-failure handover. The
unsuccessful handover cases are the main reason for packet dropping or extra
delay during the mobility period, which is unexpected for the packet-drop-
intolerant and low-latency applications. In addition, the effectiveness of
adjustment based on feedback may be weak due to randomness and inconstancy of
transmission environment. Besides the baseline case of mobility, areas of
optimization for mobility include dual connectivity, CHO, and DAPS, which each
has additional aspects to handle in the optimization of mobility.
Mobility aspects of SON that can be enhanced by the use of AI/ML include
\- Reduction of the probability of unintended events
\- UE Location/Mobility/Performance prediction
\- Traffic Steering
**Reduction of the probability of unintended events associated with
mobility.**
Examples of such unintended events are:
\- Intra-system Too Late Handover: A radio link failure (RLF) occurs after the
UE has stayed for a long period of time in the cell; the UE attempts to re-
establish the radio link connection in a different cell.
\- Intra-system Too Early Handover: An RLF occurs shortly after a successful
handover from a source cell to a target cell or a handover failure occurs
during the handover procedure; the UE attempts to re-establish the radio link
connection in the source cell.
\- Intra-system Handover to Wrong Cell: An RLF occurs shortly after a
successful handover from a source cell to a target cell or a handover failure
occurs during the handover procedure; the UE attempts to re-establish the
radio link connection in a cell other than the source cell and the target
cell.
\- Successful Handover: During a successful handover, there is underlying
issue.
RAN Intelligence could observe multiple HO events with associated parameters,
use this information to train its ML model and try to identify sets of
parameters that lead to successful Hos and sets of parameters that lead to
unintended events.
**UE Location/Mobility/Performance Prediction**
Predicting UE's location is a key part for mobility optimisation, as many RRM
actions related to mobility (e.g., selecting handover target cells) can
benefit from the predicted UE location/trajectory. UE mobility prediction is
also one key factor in the optimization of early data forwarding particularly
for CHO. UE Performance prediction when the UE is served by certain cells is a
key factor in determining which is the best mobility target for maximisation
of efficiency and performance.
**Traffic Steering**
Efficient resource handling can be achieved adjusting handover trigger points
and selecting optimal combination of Pcell/PSCell/Scells to serve a user.
Existing traffic steering can also be improved by providing a RAN node with
information related to mobility or dual connectivity.
For example, before initiating a handover, the source gNB could use feedbacks
on UE performance collected for successful handovers occurred in the past and
received from neighbouring gNBs.
Similarly, for the case of dual connectivity, before triggering the addition
of a secondary gNB or triggering SN change, an eNB could use information
(feedbacks) received in the past from the gNB for successfully completed SN
Addition or SN Change procedures.
In the two reported examples, the source RAN node of a mobility event, or the
RAN node acting as Master Node (a eNB for EN-DC, a gNB for NR-DC) can use
feedbacks received from the other RAN node, as input to an AI/ML function
supporting traffic related decisions (e.g., selection of target cell in case
of mobility, selection of a PSCell / Scell(s) in the other case), so that
future decisions can be optimized.
### 5.3.2 Solutions and standard impacts
#### 5.3.2.1 Locations for AI/ML Model Training and AI/ML Model Inference
**Considering the locations of AI/ML Model Training and AI/ML Model Inference
for mobility solution, the following two options are considered:**
\- The AI/ML Model Training function is deployed in OAM, while the Model
Inference function resides within the RAN node
\- Both the AI/ML Model Training function and the AI/ML Model Inference
function reside within the RAN node
**Furthermore, for CU-DU split scenario, following option is possible:**
\- AI/ML Model Training is located in CU-CP or OAM, and AI/ML Model Inference
function is located in CU-CP
Note: gNB is also allowed to continue model training based on AI/ML model
trained in the OAM.
#### 5.3.2.2 AI/ML Model Training in OAM and AI/ML Model Inference in NG-RAN
node
Figure 5.3.2.2-1. AI/ML Model Training in OAM and AI/ML Model Inference in NG-
RAN node
Step 0. NG-RAN node 2 is assumed to optionally have an AI/ML model, which can
generate required input such as resource status and utilization
prediction/estimation etc.
Step 1. The NG-RAN node configures the measurement information on the UE side
and sends configuration message to UE including configuration information.
Step 2. The UE collects the indicated measurement, e.g., UE measurements
related to RSRP, RSRQ, SINR of serving cell and neighbouring cells.
Step 3. The UE sends measurement report message to NG-RAN node 1 including the
required measurement.
Step 4. The NG-RAN node 1 sends the input data for training to OAM, where the
input data for training includes the required input information from the NG-
RAN node 1 and the measurement from UE.
Step 5. The NG-RAN node 2 sends the input data for training to OAM, where the
input data for training includes the required input information from the NG-
RAN node 2. If the NG-RAN node 2 executes the AI/ML model, the input data for
training can include the corresponding inference result from the NG-RAN node
2.
Step 6. Model Training. Required measurements are leveraged to training AI/ML
model for UE mobility optimization.
Step 7. OAM sends AI/ML Model Deployment Message to deploy the trained/updated
AI/ML model into the NG-RAN node(s). The NG-RAN node can also continue model
training based on the received AI/ML model from OAM.
Note: This step is out of RAN3 Rel-17 scope.
Step 8. The NG-RAN node 1 obtains the measurement report as inference data for
UE mobility optimization.
Step 9. The NG-RAN node 1 obtains the input data for inference from the NG-RAN
node 2 for UE mobility optimization, where the input data for inference
includes the required input information from the NG-RAN node 2\. If the NG-RAN
node 2 executes the AI/ML model, the input data for inference can include the
corresponding inference result from the NG-RAN node 2.
Step 10. Model Inference. Required measurements are leveraged into Model
Inference to output the prediction, e.g., UE trajectory prediction, target
cell prediction, target NG-RAN node prediction, etc.
Step 11. The NG-RAN 1 sends the model performance feedback to OAM if
applicable.
Note: This step is out of RAN3 scope.
Step 12: According to the prediction, recommended actions or configuration,
the NG-RAN node 1, the target NG-RAN node (represented by NG-RAN node 2 of
this step in the flowchart), and UE perform the Mobility Optimization /
handover procedure to hand over UE from NG-RAN node 1 to the target NG-RAN
node.
Step 13. The NG-RAN node 1 sends the feedback information to OAM.
Step 14. The NG-RAN node 2 sends the feedback information to OAM.
#### 5.3.2.3 AI/ML Model Training and AI/ML Model Inference in a NG-RAN node
{width="5.53125in" height="4.976388888888889in"}
Figure 5.3.2.3-1. Model Training and Model Inference both located in RAN node
Step 0. NG-RAN node 2 is assumed to optionally have an AI/ML model, which can
generate required input such as resource status and utilization
prediction/estimation etc.
Step 1. NG-RAN node1 configures the measurement information on the UE side and
sends configuration message to UE including configuration information.
Step 2. UE collects the indicated measurement, e.g., UE measurements related
to RSRP, RSRQ, SINR of serving cell and neighbouring cells.
Step 3. UE sends measurement report message to NG-RAN node1 including the
required measurement.
Step 4. The NG-RAN node 1 obtains the input data for training from the NG-RAN
node2, where the input data for training includes the required input
information from the NG-RAN node 2. If the NG-RAN node 2 executes the AI/ML
model, the input data for training can include the corresponding inference
result from the NG-RAN node 2.
Step 5. Model training. Required measurements are leveraged to training AI/ML
model for mobility optimization.
Step 6. NG-RAN node1 obtains the measurement report as inference data for
real-time UE mobility optimization.
Step 7. The NG-RAN node 1 obtains the input data for inference from the NG-RAN
node 2 for UE mobility optimization, where the input data for inference
includes the required input information from the NG-RAN node 2\. If the NG-RAN
node 2 executes the AI/ML model, the input data for inference can include the
corresponding inference result from the NG-RAN node 2.
Step 8. Model Inference. Required measurements are leveraged into Model
Inference to output the prediction, including e.g., UE trajectory prediction,
target cell prediction, target NG-RAN node prediction, etc.
Step 9: According to the prediction, recommended actions or configuration, the
NG-RAN node 1, the target NG-RAN node (represented by NG-RAN node 2 of this
step in the flowchart), and UE perform the Mobility Optimization / handover
procedure to hand over UE from NG-RAN node 1 to the target NG-RAN node.
Step 10. The NG-RAN node 2 sends feedback information after mobility
optimization action to the NG-RAN node 1.
Note: UE mobility information for training purposes is only sent to gNBs that
requested such information or when triggered.
#### 5.3.2.4 Input of AI/ML-based Mobility Optimization
The following data is required as input data for mobility optimization.
> [From the UE:]{.underline}
\- UE location information (e.g., coordinates, serving cell ID, moving
velocity) interpreted by gNB implementation when available.
\- Radio measurements related to serving cell and neighbouring cells
associated with UE location information, e.g., RSRP, RSRQ, SINR.
\- UE Mobility History Information.
> [From the neighbouring RAN nodes:]{.underline}
\- UE's history information from neighbour
\- Position, QoS parameters and the performance information of historical HO-
ed UE (e.g., loss rate, delay, etc.)
\- Current/predicted resource status
\- UE handovers in the past that were successful and unsuccessful, including
too-early, too-late, or handover to wrong (sub-optimal) cell, based on
existing SON/RLF report mechanism.
> [From the local node:]{.underline}
\- UE trajectory prediction
\- Current/predicted resource status
\- Current/predicted UE traffic
#### 5.3.2.5 Output of AI/ML-based Mobility Optimization
AI/ML-based mobility optimization can generate following information as
output:
\- UE trajectory prediction (Latitude, longitude, altitude, cell ID of UE over
a future period of time)
Note: Whether the UE trajectory prediction is an external output to the node
hosting the Model Inference function should be discussed during the normative
work phase.
\- Estimated arrival probability in CHO and relevant confidence interval
\- Predicted handover target node, candidate cells in CHO, may together with
the confidence of the predication
\- Priority, handover execution timing, predicted resource reservation time
window for CHO.
\- UE traffic prediction (will be used by the RAN node internally and the
details are left to normative work phase)
\- Model output validity time will be discussed during R18 normative work per
inference output.
#### 5.3.2.6 Feedback of AI/ML-based Mobility Optimization
The following data is required as feedback data for mobility optimization.
\- QoS parameters such as throughput, packet delay of the handed-over UE, etc.
\- Resource status information updates from target NG-RAN.
\- Performance information from target NG-RAN. The details of performance
information are to be discussed during normative work phase.
#### 5.3.2.7 Standard impact
To improve the mobility decisions at a gNB (gNB-CU), a gNB can request
mobility feedback from a neighbouring node. Details of the procedure will be
determined during the normative phase.
If existing UE measurements are needed by a gNB for AI/ML-based mobility
optimization, RAN3 shall reuse the existing framework (including MDT and RRM
measurements). Whether new UE measurements are needed is left to normative
phase based on the use case description.
MDT procedure enhancements should be discussed during the normative phase.
\- **Potential Xn interface impact:**
\- Predicted resource status info and performance info from candidate target
NG-RAN node to source NG-RAN node
\- New signaling procedure or existing procedure to retrieve input information
via Xn interface.
\- New signaling procedure or existing procedure to retrieve feedback
information via Xn interface.
# 6 Conclusion
The AI/ML functionality and the following use cases are recommended by RAN3 to
be specified in Rel-18 normative phase:
\- AI/ML-based Network Energy Saving
\- AI/ML-based Load Balancing
\- AI/ML-based Mobility Optimization
Recommendations for each use case take the section of "Solutions and standard
impacts" for each use case as basis. The high-level principles captured in
section 4.1 of TR37.817 shall remain valid during normative phase, while the
functional framework captured in section 4.2 of TR37.817 should be used as a
guideline in normative phase.
#