# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical report for release 17 basket WI High-power
UE operation for fixed-wireless/vehicle-mounted use cases in LTE bands and NR
bands.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 36.101: "Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA); User
Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception"
[3] 3GPP TS 38.101-1: "User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception;Part 1: Range 1 Standalone"
> [4] RP-201261, "New SID on high-power UE operation for fixed-
> wireless/vehicle-mounted use cases in Band 12, Band 5, and Band n71\", U.S.
> Cellular.
>
> [5] 3GPP TR 37.880: "High-power UE operation for fixed-wireless/vehicle-
> mounted use cases in Band 12, Band 5, and Band n71\".
>
> [6] 3GPP TR 36.837: \"Public safety broadband high power User Equipment
> (UE)\".
>
> [7] 3GPP R4-2008924: \"LS on Parameters of terrestrial component of IMT for
> sharing and compatibility studies in preparation for WRC-23 (below 5 GHz)\",
> Ericsson.
>
> [8] 3GPP TR 37.806: \"Extending 850 MHz study Technical Report\".
>
> [9] 3GPP R4-2008924: \"LS on Parameters of terrestrial component of IMT for
> sharing and compatibility studies in preparation for WRC-23 (below 5 GHz)\",
> Ericsson.
>
> [10] TIA-102.CAAB: \"Project 25 Land Mobile Radio Transceiver Performance
> Recommendations, Digital Radio Technology, C4FM/CQPSK Modulation\".
>
> [11] TIA-102.CCAB: \"Project 25 Two - Slot Time Division Multiple Access
> Transceiver Performance Recommendations\".
>
> [12] 3GPP TS 36.307: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
> Requirements on User Equipments (UEs) Supporting a release-independent
> frequency band\"
>
> [13] 3GPP TS 38.307: \"NR; Requirements on User Equipments (UEs) supporting
> a release-independent frequency band\"
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
3GPP 3rd Generation Partnership Project
# 4 Background
## 4.1 Justification
Support for fixed wireless and vehicle mounted user equipment usage scenarios,
with broader rural coverage and higher data rates is envisioned as part of
deployment configurations in LTE band 12 and band 5 and band 13, and in NR
band n5 and band n13 and band n71. Improvements in coverage, availability, and
throughput performance to meet the market demands associated with fixed
wireless and vehicle mounted usage would be enabled with user equipment
specified with a power class 1 (31dBm) up-link transmission capability.
The fixed wireless access scenario provides a variety of benefits consisting
of rapid deployment, and a reduction of costs associated with the transport to
a customer premise, relative to wireline types of transport. The enablement of
fixed wireless user equipment provides backhauling services to an appropriate
base station in a serving network, for any other equipment at the customer
premise. Similarly, vehicle mounted access scenario provides both direct
access to other devices and indirect access to other devices, via the network.
The SI on High-power UE operation for fixed-wireless/vehicle-mounted use cases
in Band 12, Band 5, and Band n71 is completed with the approval of TR 37.880.
Therefore, a WI can be started to further discuss and agree on the
corresponding HPUE requirements in the RAN4 specifications.
## 4.2 Objective
**This is a basket WI including following E-UTRA and NR bands.**
Band contact company (email address) other supporters (min. 3) Status Release
independent from
* * *
5 sebastian.thalanany\@uscellular.com Nokia, Ericsson and Samsung Ongoing
Rel-10...16 (tbd) 12 sebastian.thalanany\@uscellular.com Nokia, Ericsson and
Samsung Ongoing Rel-10...16 (tbd) 13 zheng.zhao\@VERIZONWIRELESS.COM Nokia,
Ericsson, Qualcomm and Samsung Ongoing Rel-10...16 (tbd) n5
sebastian.thalanany\@uscellular.com Nokia, Ericsson and Samsung Ongoing
Rel-15...16 (tbd) n13 zheng.zhao\@VERIZONWIRELESS.COM Nokia,,Ericsson,
Qualcomm and Samsung Ongoing Rel-15...16 (tbd) n26 bill.shvodian\@t-mobile.com
Nokia, Ericsson, Deutsche Telekom Ongoing Rel-15...16 (tbd) n71
bill.shvodian\@t-mobile.com Nokia, Ericsson, Deutsche Telekom Ongoing
Rel-15...16 (tbd) n85 bill.shvodian\@t-mobile.com Nokia, Ericsson, Deutsche
Telekom Ongoing Rel-15...16 (tbd)
**As stated in the conclusion of TR 37.880, the following topics should be
further discussed and agreed during the WI phase:**
**[Common Objectives:]{.underline}**
\- UE MOP, MPR, and ACLR, considering the interactions between them (e.g. MRP
and ACLR) and other related parameters
**[Band Specific objectives:]{.underline}**
\- Coexistence studies between HPUE in Band 5 and adjacent channel public
safety operation in the same geographical area.
\- UE REFSENS exception due to self-desens.
\- UE A-MPR, and impact of other related parameters (e.g. larger NR spectrum
utilization for band n71).
\- Investigate the feasibility of filter with small duplex for B13, n13 and
n71.
\- Coexistence study for B13 and n13.
The corresponding HPUE requirements for fixed wireless/vehicular-mounted use
cases for each can be included in the RAN4 specifications independently when
the work on this band is complete, i.e. no need to wait for the completion of
other bands.
# 5 Co-existence studies
## 5.1 Simulation assumptions
5.1.1 Band 13 High-power UE Vs NB-IoT operation
The coexistence study for High-power UE Vs NB-IoT operation for fixed-
wireless/vehicle-mounted use cases in Band 12, Band 5, and Band n71 have been
performed under the completed study item on high-power UE operation for fixed-
wireless/vehicle-mounted use cases in LTE bands 5 and 12 and NR band n71 [4],
and corresponding simulation results and conclusion have been recorded in the
approved TR 37.880 [5].
The band plan within the 600 -- 900 MHz frequency range in the USA and the
corresponding 3GPP operating bands are shown in figure 5.1.1-1 below.
{width="6.3125in" height="2.4296325459317587in"}
Figure 5.1.1-1: Band plan within the 600 -- 900 MHz frequency range in the USA
It can be seen from figure 1 that the coexistence scenarios between a high-
power UE aggressor in LTE band 12 and band 5, and in NR band n71 to the
adjacent victim bands are much alike to the scenarios between a high-power UE
aggressor in band 14 to the adjacent victim bands. Therefore, the simulation
assumptions in TR 36.837 [6] for coexistence study of public safety broadband
high power UE in band 14 were agreed to be reused for the coexistence study
for High-power UE Vs NB-IoT operation for fixed-wireless/vehicle-mounted use
cases in Band 12, Band 5, and Band n71, and the corresponding simulation
results and conclusion were applied to High-power UE Vs NB-IoT operation for
fixed-wireless/vehicle-mounted use cases in Band 12, Band 5, and Band n71.
Similarly, it can be seen from figure 1 that the coexistence scenarios between
a high-power UE aggressor in LTE band 13, and in NR band n13 to the adjacent
victim bands are much alike to the scenarios between a high-power UE aggressor
in band 14 to the adjacent victim bands. Therefore, the simulation assumptions
in TR 36.837 [6] for coexistence study of public safety broadband high power
UE in band 14 can also be reused for the coexistence study for High-power UE
Vs NB-IoT operation for fixed-wireless/vehicle-mounted use cases in Band 13
and Band n13.
Consequently, the simulation results and conclusion that have been recorded in
the approved TR 37.880 for High-power UE Vs NB-IoT operation for fixed-
wireless/vehicle-mounted use cases in Band 12, Band 5, and Band n71 can also
be applied to High-power UE Vs NB-IoT operation for fixed-wireless/vehicle-
mounted use cases in Band 13 and Band n13. Therefore, no new coexistence
simulation is required for High-power UE Vs NB-IoT operation for fixed-
wireless/vehicle-mounted use cases in Band 13 and Band n13.
5.1.2 Band 13 High-power UE Vs LTE/NR operation
It can be seen from figure 5.1.1-1 that the coexistence scenarios between a
high-power UE aggressor in LTE band 12 and band 5, and in NR band n71 to the
adjacent victim bands are much alike to the scenarios between a high-power UE
aggressor in band 14 to the adjacent victim bands. Therefore, the simulation
results in TR 36.837 [6] for coexistence study of public safety broadband high
power UE in band 14 were agreed to be used for reference directly for the
coexistence study for High-power UE Vs LTE operation for fixed-
wireless/vehicle-mounted use cases in Band 12, Band 5, and Band n71.
For NR operation, it can be found in TS 38.101-1 [3] that neither Band 12,
Band 5, nor Band n71 has larger than 20 MHz UE channel bandwidth. Furthermore,
it has been agreed in the reply LS to ITU-R WP5D [7] that there is no
beamforming assumed for BS and UE below 1.7 GHz. Considering these two
factors, the differences between the LTE and NR simulation results were agreed
to be minor and no new coexistence simulation were performed for High-power UE
Vs NR operation for fixed-wireless/vehicle-mounted use cases in Band 12, Band
5, and Band n71.
Similarly, it can be seen from figure 1 that the coexistence scenarios between
a high-power UE aggressor in LTE band 13 and in NR band n13 to the adjacent
victim bands are much alike to the scenarios between a high-power UE aggressor
in band 14 to the adjacent victim bands. Therefore, the simulation results in
TR 36.837 [6] for coexistence study of public safety broadband high power UE
in band 14 can also be used for reference directly for the coexistence study
for High-power UE Vs LTE/NR operation for fixed-wireless/vehicle-mounted use
cases in Band 13 and Band n13, and no new coexistence simulation is required
for High-power UE Vs LTE/NR operation for fixed-wireless/vehicle-mounted use
cases in Band 13 and Band n13.
5.1.3 Band 13 High-power UE Vs Band 14 Public Safety operation
Uplink throughput loss of the victim UE was used as the performance metric of
the simulation results in TR 36.837 [6] for coexistence study of public safety
broadband high power UE in band 14. For public safety operation in band 14,
system coverage is another important performance metric to be considered.
Satisfactory coexistence between two communication systems in the same
geographical area normally depends on two main criteria:
1) The interfering transmitter out of band emission (OOBE) received by the
affected receiver is sufficiently below this affected receiver noise floor.
2) The total interfering carrier power attenuated by the affected receiver
radio frequency (RF), intermediate frequency (IF), and base band (BB) filters
is sufficiently below the affected receiver noise floor.
For coexistence between 23dBm UE in band 13 and public safety broadband high
power UE in band 14, criterion 1 above is handled in TS 36.101 [2] and TS
38.101-1 [3] with the band 13 UE 30dB ACLR and NS_07 network signaling (with
-25dBm/MHz emission limit at 10-15MHz frequency offset from the band 13 UE
uplink channel bandwidth) in the geographical area where it is required, to
ensure the band 13 UE OOBE received by the affected band 14 receiver is
sufficiently below this affected receiver noise floor.
On the other hand, criterion 2 above is handled in TS 36.101 [2] and TS
38.101-1 [3] with the band 14 UE 33dB ACS, in-band blocking requirements (6dB
receiver sensitivity degradation with -56dBm and -44dBm 5MHz interferers at
7.5MHz and 12.5MHz offsets, respectively, from the band 14 UE downlink channel
bandwidth) and out-of-band blocking requirements (6dB receiver sensitivity
degradation with -44dBm CW interferers at 15-60MHz offset from the band 14 UE
downlink channel bandwidth) to ensure the total interfering carrier power
attenuated by the affected receiver filters is sufficiently below the affected
receiver noise floor.
If 37dB ACLR (the same as specified for high-power UE in other bands) and
NS_07 network signaling are specified in TS 36.101 [2] and TS 38.101-1 [3] for
high-power UE in Band 13 and Band n13, then the high-power band 13 UE OOBE
received by the affected band 14 receiver will be the same as that from 23dBm
UE in band 13, and thus criterion 1 above is handled.
On the other hand, higher UE carrier power in band 13 (compared to 23dBm)
would require larger minimum coupling loss (dB per dB compared to 23dBm)
between the high-power UE transmitter in band 13 and the public safety
broadband UE receiver in band 14 for criterion 2 above. However, it can be
seen from figure 5.1.1-1 that the band 13 uplink frequency range is adjacent
to the band 14 uplink frequency range, while the band 13 uplink frequency
range is 10MHz closer to the band 14 downlink frequency range than the band 14
uplink frequency range. The public safety broadband UE receiver in band 14
must also protect itself against the high-power UE transmission from other
high power band 14 UE in the same geographical area. Considering the active
band 14 public safety UE would be clustered around the area where the public
safety situation occurs (and thus closer to other active band 14 public safety
UE), while the active band 13 UE would be randomly distributed in the
geographical area, the required minimum coupling loss between the high-power
UE transmitter in band 13 and the public safety broadband UE receiver in band
14 for criterion 2 above may not be much larger than that required between the
high-power UE transmitter in band 14 and the public safety broadband UE
receiver in band 14.
5.1.4 Band 5 High-power UE Vs Public Safety operation
It can be seen from figure 5.1.1-1 that Band 26 is an extended band of Band 5,
and the coexistence scenarios between an UE aggressor in Band 5 to the
adjacent channel public safety operation are much alike to the scenarios
between an UE aggressor in Band 26 to the adjacent channel public safety
operation (except Band 5 uplink frequency band is 5 MHz narrower than Band 26
and thus 5 MHz further away from the adjacent channel public safety uplink
frequency band). Therefore, the simulation results and conclusion in TR 37.806
[8] for coexistence studies between 23 dBm UE in LTE Band 26 and adjacent
channel public safety operation can be used as references for the coexistence
studies between HPUE in LTE Band 5 and adjacent channel public safety
operation.
For NR operation, it can be found in TS 38.101-1 [5] that Band n5 has no
larger than 20 MHz UE uplink channel bandwidth. Furthermore, it has been
agreed in the reply LS to ITU-R WP5D [9] that there is no beamforming assumed
for BS and UE below 1.7 GHz. Considering these two factors, the differences
between the LTE and NR simulation results were agreed to be minor and no new
coexistence simulation were performed for High-power UE Vs NR operation for
fixed-wireless/vehicle-mounted use cases in Band n5. Therefore, the simulation
results and conclusion in TR 37.806 [8] for coexistence studies between 23 dBm
UE in LTE Band 26 and adjacent channel public safety operation can also be
used as references for the coexistence studies between HPUE in NR Band n5 and
adjacent channel public safety operation.
For public safety operation, system coverage (in turn of system outage or
receiver desensitization) is an important performance metric to be considered
and was used as the performance metric of the simulation results in TR 37.806
[8] for coexistence studies between 23 dBm UE in LTE Band 26 and adjacent
channel public safety operation. Satisfactory coexistence between two
communication systems in the same geographical area normally depends on two
main criteria:
1) The interfering transmitter out of band emission (OOBE) received by the
affected receiver is sufficiently below this affected receiver noise floor.
2) The total interfering carrier power attenuated by the affected receiver
radio frequency (RF), intermediate frequency (IF), and base band (BB) filters
is sufficiently below the affected receiver noise floor.
For coexistence between 23dBm UE in Band 26 and adjacent channel public safety
operation, criterion 1 above is handled in TS 36.101 [7] and TS 38.101-1 [5]
with the Band 26 UE 30dB ACLR and NS_12/13/14/15 network signaling (NS_12 with
-42 dBm/6.25 kHz emission limit at 806-813.5 MHz, NS_13/14 with -42 dBm/6.25
kHz emission limit at 806-816 MHz, NS_15 with -53 dBm/6.25 kHz emission limit
at 851-859 MHz) in the geographical area where it is required, to ensure the
Band 26 UE OOBE received by the affected adjacent channel public safety
receiver is sufficiently below this affected receiver noise floor.
On the other hand, criterion 2 above was not the focus of the simulation
results and conclusion in TR 37.806 [8] for coexistence studies between 23 dBm
UE in LTE Band 26 and adjacent channel public safety operation, as it was
considered less decisive compared to criterion 1 for satisfactory coexistence.
For example, a 76 dB selectivity for PSNB portable device receiver (at 851-859
MHz) against the interfering Band 26 UE carrier power (at 814-849 MHz) would
mean (23-76=) -53 dBm attenuated Band 26 UE carrier power, which is equal to
the Band 26 UE OOBE received by the PSNB portable device receiver. Given that
72 dB ACS is agreed as system parameter for PSNB portable device [3], it is
reasonable to assume higher selectivity for PSNB portable device against the
interfering Band 26 UE carrier power which is at least 2 MHz away from the
PSNB portable device receive frequency band. The adjacent channel rejection
limits for P25 Class A and B portable devices are specified as 60 dB and 50
dB, respectively, in TIA-102.CAAB [10] and TIA-102.CCAB [11], where the
spurious response rejection limits for P25 Class A and B portable devices are
also specified as 70 dB and 60 dB, respectively. Hence it is reasonable to
assume at least 10 dB higher selectivity than the ACS for PSNB portable device
against the interfering Band 26 UE carrier power which is at least 2 MHz away
from the PSNB portable device receive frequency band. Therefore, it was
reasonable to assume criterion 2 is less decisive compared to criterion 1 for
satisfactory coexistence between 23 dBm UE in LTE Band 26 and adjacent channel
public safety operation.
If 37dB ACLR (the same as specified for HPUE in other bands) and the emission
requirements with NS_12/13/14/15 network signaling are specified in TS 36.101
[7] and TS 38.101-1 [5] for HPUE in Band 5 and Band n5, respectively, then the
Band 5/n5 HPUE OOBE received by the affected adjacent channel public safety
receiver will be similar to that from 23dBm UE in Band 26, and thus criterion
1 above is handled.
On the other hand, higher UE carrier power in Band 5/n5 (compared to 23dBm)
would require higher selectivity for affected adjacent channel public safety
receiver against the interfering UE carrier power (dB per dB compared to 23
dBm) for criterion 2 above. For example, a (31+53=) 84 dB selectivity is
required to make the attenuated HPUE carrier power equal to the Band 5/n5 HPUE
-53 dBm/6.25 kHz OOBE (if specified in TS 36.101 [7] and TS 38.101-1 [5])
received by the PSNB portable device receiver. Given that 72 dB ACS is agreed
as system parameter for PSNB portable device [3], 12 dB higher selectivity is
required for PSNB portable device against the interfering Band 5/n5 HPUE
carrier power which is at least 2 MHz away from the PSNB portable device
receive frequency band. Therefore, implementation of the public safety
receiver (especially for the portable device) will determine whether criterion
2 is less decisive compared to criterion 1 and thus satisfactory coexistence
between HPUE in Band 5/n5 and adjacent channel public safety operation can be
ensured. RAN4 should investigate whether public safety receiver (especially
for the portable device) can meet the selectivity requirement against the
interfering Band 5/n5 HPUE carrier power before proceeding with defining Band
5/n5 HPUE to ensure satisfactory coexistence between HPUE in Band 5/n5 and
adjacent channel public safety operation.
## 5.2 Simulation results
# 6 Common requirements for a UE
_Editor note: This section relates to the common objectives of the WI._
## 6.1 Maximum output power
### 6.1.1 E-UTRA
For E-UTRA defining PC1 operation for a band has been done already for bands
3, 14, 20, 28, 31 72, 87 and 88. Concerning the actual power class definition
relevant bands need to be added into [2] Table 6.2.2-1: UE Power Class.
In addition to above also section 6.2.2A in [2] needs attention as there is
following sentence
> _For inter-band carrier aggregation with one uplink component carrier
> assigned to one E-UTRA band in Band 3, 20, 28, or 31, the requirements for
> power class 1 are not applicable and the corresponding requirements for a
> power class 3 UE shall apply._
Reason for this sentence is that if the UL band in CA configuration is PC1
then the already specified CA configuration may not work properly as CA work
was done for PC3 UL. Therefore, the relevant bands need to be added into this
list.
### 6.1.2 NR
So far PC1 for NR has been defined for n14 only. Relevant NR PC1 bands will be
added into Table 6.2.1-1 in [3].
However n14 has only 5 and 10 MHz channel bandwidths therefore we know that
current MPR is applicable only for PC1 operation with 5 and 10 MHz channel
bandwidths therefore before new NR bands can be added to specification MPR
analysis is needed for channel bandwidths > 10 MHz.
Table 6.2.1-1: UE Power Class
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NR | Class | Tole | Class | Tole | Class | Tole | Class | Tole | | | 1 | rance | 1.5 | rance | 2 | rance | 3 | rance | | band | (dBm) | (dB) | (dBm) | (dB) | (dBm) | (dB) | (dBm) | (dB) | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+ | n1 | | | | | | | 23 | ±2 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | n14 | 31^6^ | +2/-3 | | | | | 23 | ±2 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 6: | | | | | | | | | | Gener | | | | | | | | | | ally, | | | | | | | | | | PC1 | | | | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | | n14 | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | | tar | | | | | | | | | | geted | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | smart | | | | | | | | | | phone | | | | | | | | | | form | | | | | | | | | | fa | | | | | | | | | | ctor. | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | | class | | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | | n14 | | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | | ublic | | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | | afety | | | | | | | | | | sce | | | | | | | | | | nario | | | | | | | | | | only. | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
## 6.2 MPR
### 6.2.1 E-UTRA
E-UTRA MPR defined in [2] Table 6.2.3-1 is defined to be power class agnostic
hence no changes are required.
Table 6.2.3-1: Maximum Power Reduction (MPR) for Power Class 1, 2 and 3
+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | Modul | Ch | MPR | | | | | | | ation | annel | (dB) | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | Tr | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | (N | | | | | | | | | ~RB~) | | | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+======+=======+=======+=======+=====+ | | 1.4 | 3.0 | 5 | 10 | 15 | 20 | | | | | | | | | | | | | MHz | MHz | MHz | MHz | MHz | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | QPSK | > 5 | > 4 | > 8 | > 12 | > 16 | > 18 | ≤ 1 | +-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | 16 | ≤ 5 | ≤ 4 | ≤ 8 | ≤ 12 | ≤ 16 | ≤ 18 | ≤ 1 | | QAM | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | 16 | > 5 | > 4 | > 8 | > 12 | > 16 | > 18 | ≤ 2 | | QAM | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | 64 | ≤ 5 | ≤ 4 | ≤ 8 | ≤ 12 | ≤ 16 | ≤ 18 | ≤ 2 | | QAM | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | 64 | > 5 | > 4 | > 8 | > 12 | > 16 | > 18 | ≤ 3 | | QAM | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | 256 | ≥ 1 | ≤ 5 | | | | | | | QAM | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
### 6.2.2 NR
NR MPR for PC 1 is defined for n14 only in Table 6.2.2-5 in [3].
Table 6.2.2-5 Maximum power reduction (MPR) for power class 1 for Band n14
Modulation MPR (dB)
* * *
               Edge RB allocations          Outer RB allocations   Inner RB allocations
DFT-s-OFDM Pi/2 BPSK ≤ 0.5 ≤ 0.5 0 Pi/2 BPSK w Pi/2 BPSK DMRS ≤ 0.5 ≤ 0 0 QPSK
≤ 1 0  
16 QAM ≤ 2 ≤ 1  
64 QAM ≤ 2.5  
256 QAM ≤ 4.5  
CP-OFDM QPSK ≤ 3 ≤ 1.5  
16 QAM ≤ 3 ≤ 2  
64 QAM ≤ 3.5  
256 QAM ≤ 6.5
MPR values in Table 6.2.2-5 in [3] are same as MPR for PC3. Because PC1 MPR is
valid only for n14 operation it currently applies only for 5 and 10 MHz
channel bandwidths. In E-UTRA PC3 MPR applies to all channel bandwidths but
because NR has higher spectrum utilization and larger channel bandwidths a
study is needed.
From Table below we can see the NR SU for different channel bandwidths.
+-----------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | SCS (kHz) | 5 | 10 | 15 | 20 | 25 | 30 | 35 | | | | | | | | | | | | MHz | MHz | MHz | MHz | MHz | MHz | MHz | +-----------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | N~RB~ | N~RB~ | N~RB~ | N~RB~ | N~RB~ | N~RB~ | N~RB~ | +-----------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 15 | 25 | 52 | 79 | 106 | 133 | 160 | 188 | +-----------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 30 | 11 | 24 | 38 | 51 | 65 | 78 | 92 | +-----------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 60 | N/A | 11 | 18 | 24 | 31 | 38 | 44 | +-----------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | SCS (kHz) | 40 | 45 | 50 | 60 | 70 | 80 | 90 | | | | | | | | | | | | **MHz** | **MHz** | **MHz** | **MHz** | **MHz** | **MHz** | **MHz** | +-----------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | N~RB~ | N~RB~ | N~RB~ | N~RB~ | N~RB~ | N~RB~ | N~RB~ | +-----------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 15 | 216 | 242 | 270 | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | +-----------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 30 | 106 | 119 | 133 | 162 | 189 | 217 | 245 | +-----------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 60 | 51 | 58 | 65 | 79 | 93 | 107 | 121 | +-----------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
#### 6.2.2.1 MPR studies general
Currently NR PC1 MPR is valid only for n14, reason for this is that when these
agreements were done there was urgency to have requirements at least for n14
and due to limited time as a compromise all other bands were out scoped.
What this means for MPR is that PC3 MPR has been seen adequate for PC1 UE for
5 and 10 MHz channel bandwidths. As MPR is to meet general emission
requirements such as SEM and ACLR if it works for n14 it works for all bands
for 5 and 10 MHz. Actually, n14 has more stringent SEM compared to general SEM
for first 5 MHz thus from SEM point of view MPR must be ok for all bands.
Table 6.2.2.1-1: n14 SEM
* * *
Δf~OOB\ Channel bandwidth (MHz) / Spectrum emission limit (dBm) Measurement\  
~(MHz) bandwidth
* * *
               5                                                         10             15
± 0 -- 0.1 -15 -18 -20 30 kHz
± 0.1 -- 1 -13 -13 -13 100 kHz
± 1 -- 6 -13 -13 -13 1 MHz
± 6 -- 10 -25
± 10 -- 15 -25
± 15 -- 20 -25
* * *
Table 6.2.2.1-2: General SEM
* * *
**Δf~OOB~ \** Channel bandwidth (MHz) / Spectrum emission limit (dBm)****
Measurement bandwidth**  
(MHz)**
* * *
                                  **5**                                                         **10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45**   **50, 60, 70, 80, 90, 100**
± 0-1 -13 -13 1 % of channel BW
± 0-1 -24 30 kHz
± 1-5 -10 -10 1 MHz
± 5-6 -13
± 6-10 -25
± 5-BW~Channel~ -13
± BW~Channel~-(BW~Channel~+5) -25
* * *
##### 6.2.2.1.1 Simulations
MPR simulation campaign for PC1 PA against PC1 general emission requirements
SEM in Table 6.2.2.1-2 and ACLR in Table 6.2.2.1-3 and spurious emissions
Table 6.2.2.1-4 were done.
Table 6.2.2.1-3: NR ACLR
                                                                   Power class 1^1^   Power class 1.5   Power class 2   Power class 3
* * *
NR ACLR 37 dB^1^ 31 dB 31 dB 30 dB NOTE 1: Applicable for power class 1 UE
operating in Band n14.
Table 6.2.2.1-4: Spurious emission requirements
Frequency Range Maximum Level Measurement bandwidth NOTE
* * *
9 kHz ≤ f \ 5 | > 4 | > 8 | > 12 | > 16 | > 18 | ≤ 1 | +-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | 16 | ≤ 5 | ≤ 4 | ≤ 8 | ≤ 12 | ≤ 16 | ≤ 18 | ≤ 1 | | QAM | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | 16 | > 5 | > 4 | > 8 | > 12 | > 16 | > 18 | ≤ 2 | | QAM | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | 64 | ≤ 5 | ≤ 4 | ≤ 8 | ≤ 12 | ≤ 16 | ≤ 18 | ≤ 2 | | QAM | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | 64 | > 5 | > 4 | > 8 | > 12 | > 16 | > 18 | ≤ 3 | | QAM | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | 256 | ≥ 1 | ≤ 5 | | | | | | | QAM | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
**Proposal: NR PC3 MPR is valid also for NR PC1 operation for all NR bands**
## 6.3 ACLR
### 6.3.1 E-UTRA
E-UTRA~ACLR~ is already defined for PC1 in Table 6.6.2.3.1-2 hence no changes
are required.
Table 6.6.2.3.1-2: Additional E-UTRA~ACLR~ requirements for Power Class 1
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | Channel | | | | | | | | ba | | | | | | | | ndwidth | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | ~ACLR1~ | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | Meas | | | | | | | | urement | | | | | | | | ba | | | | | | | | ndwidth | | | | | | +=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+========+ | | 1.4 | 3.0 | 5 | 10 | 15 | 20 | | | | | | | | | | | MHz | MHz | MHz | MHz | MHz | MHz | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | E-UTRA | 37 dB | 37 dB | 37 dB | 37 dB | 37 dB | 37 dB | | ~ACLR1~ | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | E-UTRA | 1.08 | 2.7 MHz | 4.5 MHz | 9.0 MHz | 13.5 | 18 MHz | | channel | MHz | | | | MHz | | | Meas | | | | | | | | urement | | | | | | | | ba | | | | | | | | ndwidth | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | A | +1.4 | +3.0 | +5 | +10 | +15 | +20 | | djacent | | | | | | | | channel | / | / | / | / | / | / | | centre | | | | | | | | fr | -1.4 | -3.0 | -5 | -10 | -15 | -20 | | equency | | | | | | | | offset | | | | | | | | [MHz] | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | ~ACLR1~ | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | app | | | | | | | | licable | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | >23dBm | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+
In [2] clause 6.6.2.3.2 it is stated that _UTRA~ACLR~ is not applicable to the
power class 1 UE operating in Band 3, 20, 28, 31 or 72._ This sentence needs
case by case treatment when relevant E-UTRA PC1 band is introduced and if UTRA
operation does not anymore exist in that band then that band is added to the
list, otherwise UTRA ACLR applies.
### 6.3.2 NR
NR ACLR for band n14 is defined to be 37 dB in Table 6.5.2.4.1-2 in [3] which
is same as for E-UTRA PC1.
Table 6.5.2.4.1-2: NR ACLR requirement
                                                                   Power class 1^1^   Power class 1.5   Power class 2   Power class 3
* * *
NR ACLR 37 dB^1^ 31 dB 31 dB 30 dB NOTE 1: Applicable for power class 1 UE
operating in Band n14.
## 6.4 Other
# 7 Band specific requirements for a UE
_Editor note: This section relates to the Band Specific objectives of the WI._
## 7.1 Band n71
_Editor note: All sub-clauses are not necessary for all bands._
### 7.1.1 REFSENS exception
### 7.1.2 A-MPR
### 7.1.3 Feasibility of the filter
Since the PC1 FWA market does not yet exist, it is unlikely that there are off
the shelf components optimized for such a device. This data is being provided
for information and is not intended to demonstrate that off the shelf hardware
exists for the FWA devices.
A filter example is presented below with input power capabilities of 43 dBm
which obviously is more than needed for PC1 operation even considering the
post PA-losses, but this demonstrates that capable technology is available.
Band 71/n71 duplex-filter UMD071A (ctscorp.com)
In addition to the above filter with 43 dBm capability, there are also filters
with input power capabilities of 38 dBm, which is also more power than is
needed for PC1 FWA. Nonetheless, the filters are still very large and may not
be suitable even for large form factor FWA. Further size reduction will likely
be required even for filters for larger FWA devices.
Band 71/n71 and Band 85 UL duplex-filter USD7185A (ctscorp.com)
{width="6.695138888888889in" height="4.722222222222222in"}
{width="6.69375in" height="2.120138888888889in"}
### 7.1.4 Feasibility of the PA
Here are some commercial data sheets for Pas that appear to be compatible with
n71 PC1 FWA devices, although the voltage levels are too high for FWA devices.
The table was split into two rows to fit on the page.
* * *
Device Fmin\ Fmax\ Avg. power OBO Peak power Voltage Technology Device type
Gain  
(MHz) (MHz)
* * *
A3G26D055N 100 2690 8 W 39.0 dBm 8.2 dB 53 W 47.2 dBm 48 V GaN Discrete 18 dB
A2I09VD030N 575 960 4 W 36.0 dBm 10.1 dB 41 W 46.1 dBm 48 V LDMOS IC 34 dB
MW7IC915N 600 900 2 W 32.0 dBm 9.9 dB 16 W 41.9 dBm 28 V LDMOS IC 38 dB
A2T27S020N 400 2700 3 W 34.0 dBm 9.0 dB 20 W 43.0 dBm 28 V LDMOS Discrete 21
dB
AFT09MS031N 1.8 941 4 W 36.4 dBm 8.5 dB 31 W 44.9 dBm 12.5 V LDMOS Discrete 17
dB
* * *
* * *
Device Key parameter Parameter description Package Package type Matching
Configuration Recommended\ driver
* * *
A3G26D055N 54% drain efficiency (Doherty) at 8.2 dB OBO DFN 7 x 6.5 over-
molded plastic Input pre-matched, output unmatched Dual path A3V26S004N
A2I09VD030N 20% PAE (Class AB) at 10.1 dB OBO TO-270WB-15 over-molded plastic
50-ohm input, output pre-matched Dual path MMG38151B
MW7IC915N 17% PAE (Class AB) at 9.9 dB OBO PQFN 8 x 8 over-molded plastic
Input pre-matched, output unmatched Single path MMG3014N
A2T27S020N 21% drain efficiency (Class AB) at 9.0 dB OBO TO-270-2 over-molded
plastic Unmatched Single path A3M40PD012
AFT09MS031N 71% drain efficiency (CW) TO-270-2 over-molded plastic Unmatched
Single path AFT05MS004N
* * *
### 7.1.4 Other
## 7.2 Band n26
### 7.2.1 REFSENS exception
### 7.2.2 A-MPR
### 7.2.3 Feasibility of the filter
Since the PC1 FWA market does not yet exist, it is unlikely that there are off
the shelf components optimized for such a device. This data is being provided
for information and is not intended to demonstrate that off the shelf hardware
exists for the FWA devices.
A filter example is presented below with input power capabilities of 43 dBm
which obviously is more than needed for PC1 operation even considering the
post PA-losses, but this demonstrates that capable technology is available.
Band 26/n26 duplex-filter (subset of n26 for the US market) [UMD026B
(ctscorp.com)]{.underline}
In addition to the above filter with 43 dBm capability, there are also filters
with input power capabilities of 38 dBm which is also more power than is
needed for PC1 FWA.. Nonetheless, the filters are still very large and may not
be suitable even for large form factor FWA. Further size reduction will likely
be required even for filters for larger FWA devices.
Band 26/n26 duplex-filter [USD005A (ctscorp.com)]{.underline}
{width="7.052083333333333in" height="4.1875in"}
{width="7.260416666666667in" height="2.2708333333333335in"}
### 7.2.4 Feasibility of the PA
Here are some commercial data sheets for PAs that appear to be compatible with
n26 PC1 FWA devices, although the voltage levels are too high for FWA devices.
The table was split into two rows to fit on the page.
* * *
Device Fmin\ Fmax\ Avg. power OBO Peak power Voltage Technology Device type
Gain  
(MHz) (MHz)
* * *
A3G26D055N 100 2690 8 W 39.0 dBm 8.2 dB 53 W 47.2 dBm 48 V GaN Discrete 18 dB
A2I09VD030N 575 960 4 W 36.0 dBm 10.1 dB 41 W 46.1 dBm 48 V LDMOS IC 34 dB
MW7IC915N 600 900 2 W 32.0 dBm 9.9 dB 16 W 41.9 dBm 28 V LDMOS IC 38 dB
A2T27S020N 400 2700 3 W 34.0 dBm 9.0 dB 20 W 43.0 dBm 28 V LDMOS Discrete 21
dB
AFT09MS031N 1.8 941 4 W 36.4 dBm 8.5 dB 31 W 44.9 dBm 12.5 V LDMOS Discrete 17
dB
* * *
* * *
Device Key parameter Parameter description Package Package type Matching
Configuration Recommended\ driver
* * *
A3G26D055N 54% drain efficiency (Doherty) at 8.2 dB OBO DFN 7 x 6.5 over-
molded plastic Input pre-matched, output unmatched Dual path A3V26S004N
A2I09VD030N 20% PAE (Class AB) at 10.1 dB OBO TO-270WB-15 over-molded plastic
50-ohm input, output pre-matched Dual path MMG38151B
MW7IC915N 17% PAE (Class AB) at 9.9 dB OBO PQFN 8 x 8 over-molded plastic
Input pre-matched, output unmatched Single path MMG3014N
A2T27S020N 21% drain efficiency (Class AB) at 9.0 dB OBO TO-270-2 over-molded
plastic Unmatched Single path A3M40PD012
AFT09MS031N 71% drain efficiency (CW) TO-270-2 over-molded plastic Unmatched
Single path AFT05MS004N
* * *
### 7.2.5 Other
## 7.3 Band n12
### 7.3.1 REFSENS exception
### 7.3.2 A-MPR
### 7.3.3 Feasibility of the filter
Since the PC1 FWA market does not yet exist, it is unlikely that there are off
the shelf components optimized for such a device. This data is being provided
for information and is not intended to demonstrate that off the shelf hardware
exists for the FWA devices.
A filter example is presented below with input power capabilities of 43 dBm
which obviously is more than needed for PC1 operation even considering the
post PA-losses, but this demonstrates that capable technology is available.
Band 12 duplex-filter UMD012A (ctscorp.com)
In addition to the above filter with 43 dBm capability, there are also filters
with input power capabilities of 38 dBm, which is also more power than is
needed for PC1 FWA Nonetheless, the filters are still very large and may not
be suitable even for large form factor FWA. Further size reduction will likely
be required even for filters for larger FWA devices.
Band 12 duplex-filter USD012A (ctscorp.com)
{width="6.695138888888889in" height="4.144444444444445in"}
### 7.3.4 Feasibility of the PA
Here are some commercial data sheets for PAs that appear to be compatible with
n12 PC1 FWA devices, although the voltage levels are too high for FWA devices.
The table was split into two rows to fit on the page.
* * *
Device Fmin\ Fmax\ Avg. power OBO Peak power Voltage Technology Device type
Gain  
(MHz) (MHz)
* * *
A3G26D055N 100 2690 8 W 39.0 dBm 8.2 dB 53 W 47.2 dBm 48 V GaN Discrete 18 dB
A2I09VD030N 575 960 4 W 36.0 dBm 10.1 dB 41 W 46.1 dBm 48 V LDMOS IC 34 dB
MW7IC915N 600 900 2 W 32.0 dBm 9.9 dB 16 W 41.9 dBm 28 V LDMOS IC 38 dB
A2T27S020N 400 2700 3 W 34.0 dBm 9.0 dB 20 W 43.0 dBm 28 V LDMOS Discrete 21
dB
AFT09MS031N 1.8 941 4 W 36.4 dBm 8.5 dB 31 W 44.9 dBm 12.5 V LDMOS Discrete 17
dB
* * *
* * *
Device Key parameter Parameter description Package Package type Matching
Configuration Recommended\ driver
* * *
A3G26D055N 54% drain efficiency (Doherty) at 8.2 dB OBO DFN 7 x 6.5 over-
molded plastic Input pre-matched, output unmatched Dual path A3V26S004N
A2I09VD030N 20% PAE (Class AB) at 10.1 dB OBO TO-270WB-15 over-molded plastic
50-ohm input, output pre-matched Dual path MMG38151B
MW7IC915N 17% PAE (Class AB) at 9.9 dB OBO PQFN 8 x 8 over-molded plastic
Input pre-matched, output unmatched Single path MMG3014N
A2T27S020N 21% drain efficiency (Class AB) at 9.0 dB OBO TO-270-2 over-molded
plastic Unmatched Single path A3M40PD012
AFT09MS031N 71% drain efficiency (CW) TO-270-2 over-molded plastic Unmatched
Single path AFT05MS004N
* * *
### 7.3.5 Other
# 8 Release independence aspects
## 8.1 E-UTRA
For LTE release independence aspect, relevant table from TS 36.307 [12] is
presented in table 8.1-1. It can be seen in table 8.1-1 that LTE power class 3
situation is not as straight forward as it is for NR. Reason is that release 8
signaling did not support band numbers greater than 64 and numbering was
extended in release 9 power class 3 together with band number greater than 64
is release independent from release 9 but this was due to band number issue
not power class.
Power class 1 is release independent from release 10 for bands which have band
number up to 64. Therefore, it is agreed that power class 1 operation for
fixed-wireless/vehicle-mounted use cases should be release independent from
release 10 for LTE bands 5, 12 and 13.
Table 8.1-1: E-UTRA operating bands and UE power class
+-----------------+-------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Feature | Duplex-mode | Release | Requirements to | | | | | be fulfilled | | | | independent | | | | | from | (see TS 36.307 | | | | | of the release | | | | | in which the | | | | | band was | | | | | introduced) | +=================+=============+=================+=================+ | Operating | FDD, TDD | Rel-8 | Table B.2.1-1, | | bands, band | | | Table B.4.1-1 | | number \ 64, | | | | | Power Class 3 | | | | +-----------------+-------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Operating | FDD, TDD | Rel-10 | Table B.2.1-1, | | bands, NS-value | | | Table B.4.1-1 | | > 32 | | | | +-----------------+-------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Asymmetric | FDD | Rel-10 | Table B.2.1-1, | | operating | | | Table B.4.1-1 | | bands, Power | | | | | Class 3 | | | | +-----------------+-------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Operating | FDD | Rel-10 | Table B.2.1-1, | | bands, band | | | Table B.4.1-1 | | number \<= 64, | | | | | Power Class 1 | | | | +-----------------+-------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Operating | TDD | Rel-10 | Table B.2.1-1, | | bands, Power | | | Table B.4.1-1 | | Class 2 | | | | +-----------------+-------------+-----------------+-----------------+
## 8.2 NR
For NR release independence aspect, relevant table from TS 38.307 [13] is
presented in table 8.2-1.
Table 8.2-1: NR UE power class
+----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | Feature | Duplex-mode | Release | Requirements | | | | | to be | | | | independent | fulfilled | | | | from | | | | | | (see TS 38.307 | | | | | of the release | | | | | in which the | | | | | power class | | | | | was | | | | | introduced) | +================+===============+================+================+ | Power Class 1 | FDD | Rel-15 | Table B.4.1-1, | | | | | Table B.4.3-1 | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | Power Class | TDD | Rel-15 | Table B.4.1-1, | | 1.5 | | | Table B.4.3-1 | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | Power Class 2 | FDD, TDD | Rel-15 | Table B.4.1-1, | | | | | Table B.4.3-1 | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | Power Class 3 | FDD, TDD, SUL | Rel-15 | Table B.4.1-1, | | | | | Table B.4.3-1 | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+
Two observations can be made in table 8.2-1. Firstly, power class 1 is already
specified due to the fact that band n14 already supports power class 1, and
applicable release is release 15 which is same for all power classes.
Secondly, there is no band dependence to any of the power classes. Therefore,
it is agreed that power class 1 operation for fixed-wireless/vehicle-mounted
use cases shall be release independent from release 15 for all NR bands.
#