# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical report for High power UE (power class 2)
for EN-DC with 1 LTE band + 1 NR TDD band within FR1 under Rel-17 timeframe,
including both FDD+TDD and TDD+TDD EN-DC band combinations. FDD+TDD band
combinations could support LTE 23dBm + NR 23dBm and LTE 23dBm + NR 26dBm,
while TDD+TDD band combinations support only LTE 23dBm + NR 23dBm. Completion
of PC3 for particular EN-DC combination is the prerequisite for introducing
PC2 for that combination. All the PC2 EN-DC combinations are release-
independent from Rel-15.
The purpose is to gather the relevant background information and studies in
order to address Power Class 2 EN-DC of 1 LTE band and 1 NR TDD band for the
Rel-17 band combinations in Table 1-1. The actual requirements are added to
the corresponding technical specifications.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 38.101-3: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception; Part 3: Range 1 and Range 2 Interworking operation with other
radios\".
...
[x] \ \[ ([up to and
including]{yyyy[-mm]\|V\}[onwards])]: \"\\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
**example:** text used to clarify abstract rules by applying them literally.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
\ \
# 4 Background
The present document is a technical report for High power UE (power class 2)
for EN-DC with 1 LTE band + 1 NR TDD band within FR1 under Rel-17 timeframe.
The document covers each band combination specific issues (i.e. one sub-clause
defined per band combination)
## 4.1 TR Maintenance
A single company is responsible for introducing all approved TPs in the
current TR, i.e. TR editor. However, it is the responsibility of the contact
person of each band combination to ensure that the TPs related to the band
combination have been implemented.
*\ *
# 5 High power UE (power class 2) for EN-DC with 1 LTE band + 1 NR TDD band:
General Part
For the EN-DC of LTE TDD band + NR TDD band, The UE is not required to support
PC2 within E-UTRA or NR cell group. For the EN-DC of LTE FDD band + NR TDD
band, The UE supports PC3 within E-UTRA cell group, and supports either PC3 or
PC2 within NR cell group.
# 6 High power UE (power class 2) for EN-DC with 1 LTE band + 1 NR TDD band:
Specific Band Combination Part
## 6.1 DC_1A_n78A
### 6.1.1 Transmitter Characteristics
#### 6.1.1.1 Maximum Output Power
Table 6.1.1.1-1: Maximum output power for inter-band EN-DC (two bands)
**EN-DC combination** Power class 2 (dBm) Tolerance (dB)
* * *
DC_1A_n78A 26^6^ +2/-3 NOTE 6: The UE supports PC3 within E-UTRA cell group,
and supports either PC3 or PC2 within NR cell group. Power class support
within each individual cell group is signaled separately by the UE.
#### 6.1.1.2 Co-existence study
The co-existence study for PC2 DC_1A_n78A can be reused from the PC3
DC_1A_n78A captured in TR37.863-11-11, where:
\- 4^th^ intermodulation product may fall into band n1 Rx.
Therefore, additional MSD for IMD4 needs to be defined for PC2 DC_1A_n78A.
### 6.1.2 Receiver Characteristics
#### 6.1.2.1 MSD test points for intermodulation interference due to dual
uplink operation for PC2 EN-DC in NR FR1 involving two bands
Table 6.1.2.1-1: MSD test points for PCell due to dual uplink operation for
PC2 EN-DC in NR FR1 (two bands)
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+ | NR or | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | Ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | N~RB~ | | | | | | | | | / MSD | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+ | EN-DC | EUTRA | UL | UL/DL | UL\ | DL | MSD\ | IMD | | | or NR | F~c~\ | BW\ | L | F~c~ | (dB) | order | | Con | band | (MHz) | (MHz) | ~CRB~ | (MHz) | | | | figur | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+ | DC | 1 | 1950 | 5 | 25 | 2140 | 17.8 | IMD4 | | _1A\ | | | | | | | | | _n78A | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+ | | n78 | 3710 | 10 | 50 | 3710 | N/A | N/A | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+
## 6.2 DC_8A_n78A
### 6.2.1 Transmitter Characteristics
#### 6.2.1.1 Maximum Output Power
Table 6.2.1.1-1: Maximum output power for inter-band EN-DC (two bands)
**EN-DC combination** Power class 2 (dBm) Tolerance (dB)
* * *
DC_8A_n78A 26^6^ +2/-3 NOTE 6: The UE supports PC3 within E-UTRA cell group,
and supports either PC3 or PC2 within NR cell group. Power class support
within each individual cell group is signaled separately by the UE.
#### 6.2.1.2 Co-existence study
The co-existence study for PC2 DC_8A_n78A can be reused from the PC3
DC_8A_n78A captured in TR37.863-11-11, where:
\- 4^th^ intermodulation product may fall into band n8 Rx.
\- 4^th^ harmonic product of band n8 may fall into band n78 Rx.
For the harmonic product, due to the maximum output power of band n8 is kept
unchanged, so the MSD values due to 4^th^ harmonic product of the
corresponding PC3 ENDC can be applied. Therefore, only additional MSD for IMD4
needs to be defined for PC2 DC_8A_n78A.
### 6.2.2 Receiver Characteristics
#### 6.2.2.1 MSD test points for intermodulation interference due to dual
uplink operation for PC2 EN-DC in NR FR1 involving two bands
Table 6.2.2.1-1: MSD test points for PCell due to dual uplink operation for
PC2 EN-DC in NR FR1 (two bands)
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+ | NR or | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | Ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | N~RB~ | | | | | | | | | / MSD | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+ | EN-DC | EUTRA | UL | UL/DL | UL\ | DL | MSD\ | IMD | | | or NR | F~c~\ | BW\ | L | F~c~ | (dB) | order | | Con | band | (MHz) | (MHz) | ~CRB~ | (MHz) | | | | figur | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+ | DC | 8 | 897.5 | 5 | 25 | 942.5 | 15.5 | IMD4 | | _8A\ | | | | | | | | | _n78A | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+ | | n78 | 3635 | 10 | 50 | 3635 | N/A | N/A | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+
## 6.3 DC_2_n77
### 6.3.1 Transmitter Characteristics
#### 6.3.1.1 Maximum Output Power
Table 6.3.1.1-1: Maximum output power for inter-band EN-DC (two bands)
**EN-DC combination** Power class 2 (dBm) Tolerance (dB)
* * *
DC_2A_n77A 26^6^ +2/-3 NOTE 6: The UE supports PC3 within E-UTRA cell group,
and supports either PC3 or PC2 within NR cell group. Power class support
within each individual cell group is signalled separately by the UE.
####
#### 6.3.1.2 Configurations for EN-DC
Table 6.3.1.2-1: Inter-band EN-DC configurations within FR1 (two bands)
+-----------------+---------------+ | EN-DC | Uplink EN-DC | | | | | configuration | configuration | | | | | | (NOTE 1) | +=================+===============+ | DC_2A_n77A | DC_2A_n77A | | | | | DC_2A-2A_n77A | | | | | | DC_2A_n77C | | | | | | DC_2A-2A_n77C | | +-----------------+---------------+
#### 6.3.1.3 Co-existence study
According to the PC3 DC_2A_n77A study, the 2^nd^ harmonic mixing products from
band 2 may fall into band n77 UL frequency range. And, the 2^nd^, 4^th^ and
5^th^ order IMD products generated by dual uplink from both band 2 and band
n77 may fall into the band 2 Rx frequency range. Thus, additional MSD for IMD
2, 4 and 5 should be considered to mitigate the impact of the interference
**for** PC2 DC_2A_n77A combination.
### 6.3.2 Receiver Characteristics
#### 6.3.2.1 MSD test points for intermodulation interference due to dual
uplink operation for PC2 EN-DC in NR FR1 involving two bands
#### 6.3.2.1.1 Power class 2 Case A
#### The MSD due to receiver harmonic mixing for Case A are same as PC3
_DC_2A_n77A._
_The additional MSD due to intermodulation for PC2 Case A DC_2_n77 are defined
in table 6.3.2.1.1-1._
Table 6.3.2.1.1-1: MSD test points for PCell due to dual uplink operation for
PC2 EN-DC in NR FR1 (two bands)
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | * | | | | | | | | | | _Band | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | Ch | | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | N~RB~ | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | D | | | | | | | | | | uplex | | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | | ode_ _| | | | | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+ |__EN |__NR |__UL | ** | * |__DL |__MSD |__D |__S | | -DC_ _| b | F | UL/DL |_ UL**| F~c~ | for | uplex | ource | | | and** | ~c~**| BW** | | (M | PC2**| m | of | | | | | | | Hz)** | | ode**| IMD** | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ** | | **(M |**(M | **C~L | |**( | | | | Confi | | Hz)**| Hz)** | RB~**| | dB)** | | | | gurat | | | | | | | | | | ion** | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | DC | 2 | 1855 | 5 | 25 | 1935 | 32.10 | FDD | IMD2 | | _2A\ | | | | | | | | | | _n77A | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | DC_2 | | | | | | | | | | A-2A\ | | | | | | | | | | _n77A | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | DC | | | | | | | | | | _2A\ | | | | | | | | | | _n77C | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | DC_2 | | | | | | | | | | A-2A\ | | | | | | | | | | _n77C | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | | | 34. | | | | | | | | | | 85^2^ | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | n77 | 3790 | 10 | 50 | 3790 | N/A | TDD | N/A | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 2 | 1900 | 5 | 25 | 1980 | 19.10 | FDD | IM | | | | | | | | | | D4^1^ | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | | | 21. | | | | | | | | | | 85^2^ | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | n77 | 3720 | 10 | 50 | 3720 | N/A | TDD | N/A | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | | | bject | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | IMD5 | | | | | | | | | | also | | | | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | | | | MSD | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | | speci | | | | | | | | | | fied. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | | Appli | | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | | only | | | | | | | | | | if | | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | | 4 | | | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | | tenna | | | | | | | | | | ports | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | supp | | | | | | | | | | orted | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | | ggreg | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | | onfig | | | | | | | | | | ured. | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
#### 6.3.2.1.2 Power class 2 Case B
#### The additional MSD due to receiver harmonic mixing for Case B are defined
in table 6.3.2.1.2-1
Table 6.3.2.1.2-1: MSD exceptions due to receiver harmonic mixing for EN-DC in
NR FR1
NR Band / Channel bandwidth of the affected DL band / MSD |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
UL band | DL band | 5 MHz (dB) | 10 MHz (dB) | 15 MHz (dB) | 20 MHz (dB) | 25 MHz (dB) | 40 MHz (dB) | 50 MHz (dB) | 60 MHz (dB) | 70 MHz (dB) | 80 MHz (dB) | 90 MHz (dB) | 100 MHz (dB)  
n77 | 2 | 9.1 | 8.0 | 7.0 | 6.7 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
_The additional MSD due to intermodulation for PC2 Case B DC_2_n77 are same as
the Case A defined in table 6.3.2.1.1-1._
## 6.4 DC_5_n77
### 6.4.1 Transmitter Characteristics
#### 6.4.1.1 Maximum Output Power
Table 6.4.1.1-1: Maximum output power for inter-band EN-DC (two bands)
**EN-DC combination** Power class 2 (dBm) Tolerance (dB)
* * *
DC_5A_n77A 26^6^ +2/-3 NOTE 6: The UE supports PC3 within E-UTRA cell group,
and supports either PC3 or PC2 within NR cell group. Power class support
within each individual cell group is signalled separately by the UE.
####
#### 6.4.1.2 Configurations for EN-DC
Table 6.4.1.2-1: Inter-band EN-DC configurations within FR1 (two bands)
+---------------+---------------+ | EN-DC | Uplink EN-DC | | | | | configuration | configuration | | | | | | (NOTE 1) | +===============+===============+ | DC_5A_n77A | DC_5A_n77A | | | | | DC_5A_n77C | | +---------------+---------------+
#### 6.4.1.3 Co-existence study
According to the PC3 DC_5A_n77A study, the 4^th^ and 5^th^ IMD products from
dual uplink of band 5 and n77 may fall into the band 5 Rx frequency range.
Thus, additional MSD for IMD 4 and 5 should be considered to mitigate the
impact of the interference **for** PC2 DC_5A_n77A combination.
### 6.4.2 Receiver Characteristics
#### 6.4.2.1 MSD test points for intermodulation interference due to dual
uplink operation for PC2 EN-DC in NR FR1 involving two bands
#### 6.4.2.1.1 Power class 2 Case A
_The additional MSD due to intermodulation for PC2 Case A DC_5_n77 are defined
in table 6.4.2.1-1._
Table 6.4.2.1-1: MSD test points for PCell due to dual uplink operation for
PC2 EN-DC in NR FR1 (two bands)
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | * | | | | | | | | | | _Band | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | Ch | | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | N~RB~ | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | D | | | | | | | | | | uplex | | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | | ode_ _| | | | | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+ |__NR |__NR |__UL | ** | * |__DL |__MSD |__D |__S | | EN | b | F | UL/DL |_ UL**| F~c~ | for | uplex | ource | | -DC** | and**| ~c~** | BW**| | (M | PC2** | m | of | | | | | | **C~L | Hz)** | | ode**| IMD** | | ** | | **(M |**(M | RB~**| |**( | | | | Confi | | Hz)**| Hz)** | | | dB)**| | | | gurat | | | | | | | | | | ion** | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | DC_5 | 5 | 844 | 5 | 25 | 889 | 18.60 | FDD | IM | | A_n7 | | | | | | | | D4^1^ | | 7A^3^ | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | DC_5 | | | | | | | | | | A_n7 | | | | | | | | | | 7C^3^ | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | n77 | 3421 | 10 | 50 | 3421 | N/A | TDD | N/A | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | | | bject | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | IMD5 | | | | | | | | | | also | | | | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | | | | MSD | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | | speci | | | | | | | | | | fied. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 3: | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | | MSD | | | | | | | | | | test | | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | | oints | | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | | annot | | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | | ver | | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | | ombin | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | in US | | | | | | | | | | due | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | | n77 | | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | | estri | | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
#### 6.4.2.1.2 Power class 2 Case B
_The additional MSD due to intermodulation for PC2 Case B DC_5_n77 are same as
the Case A defined in table 6.4.2.1-1._
#### 6.4.2.2 OOB blocking exception requirements
Since band 5 is a low band and n77 is a wide band, the OOBB exception is
needed.
Table 6.4.2.4-1: EN-DC band combination with exceptions allowed
EN-DC band combination
* * *
DC_5_n77
## 6.5 DC_13_n77
### 6.5.1 Transmitter Characteristics
#### 6.5.1.1 Maximum Output Power
Table 6.5.1.1-1: Maximum output power for inter-band EN-DC (two bands)
**EN-DC combination** Power class 2 (dBm) Tolerance (dB)
* * *
DC_13A_n77A 26^6^ +2/-3 NOTE 6: The UE supports PC3 within E-UTRA cell group,
and supports either PC3 or PC2 within NR cell group. Power class support
within each individual cell group is signalled separately by the UE.
####
#### 6.5.1.2 Configurations for EN-DC
Table 6.5.1.2-1: Inter-band EN-DC configurations within FR1 (two bands)
+---------------+---------------+ | EN-DC | Uplink EN-DC | | | | | configuration | configuration | | | | | | (NOTE 1) | +===============+===============+ | DC_13A_n77A | DC_13A_n77A | | | | | DC_13A_n77C | | +---------------+---------------+
#### 6.5.1.3 Co-existence study
According to the PC3 DC_13A_n77A study, the 5^th^ harmonic mixing products
from band 13 may fall into band n77 UL frequency range. And, the 5^th^ IMD
products generated from dual uplinks of band 13 and n77 UL may fall into the
band 13 Rx frequency range. Thus, addition MSD for IMD 5 should be considered
to mitigate the impact of the interference **for** PC2 DC_13A_n77A
combination.
### 6.5.2 Receiver Characteristics
#### 6.5.2.1 MSD test points for intermodulation interference due to dual
uplink operation for PC2 EN-DC in NR FR1 involving two bands
#### 6.5.2.1.1 Power class 2 Case A
_The MSD due to receiver harmonic mixing for the PC2 Case A are same as PC3
DC_ _13A_n77A.
_The additional MSD due to intermodulation for PC2 DC_13_n77 are defined in
table 6.5.2.1.1-1._
Table 6.5.2.1.1-1: MSD test points for PCell due to dual uplink operation for
PC2 EN-DC in NR FR1 (two bands)
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NR or | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | Ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | N~RB~ | | | | | | | | | / MSD | | | | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+ | EN-DC | EUTRA | UL | UL/DL | UL\ | DL | **MSD | IMD | | Con | or NR | F~c~\ | BW\ | L | F~c~ | for | order | | figur | band | (MHz) | (MHz) | ~CRB~ | (MHz) | PC2** | | | ation | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | DC\ | 13 | 782 | 5 | 20 | 751 | 15.37 | IMD5 | | _13A\ | | | | | | | | | _n77A | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | DC\ | | | | | | | | | _13A\ | | | | | | | | | _n77C | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | n77 | 3879 | 10 | 50 | 3879 | N/A | N/A | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
#### 6.5.2.1.2 Power class 2 Case B
_The additional MSD due to receiver harmonic mixing for the PC2 Case B
DC_13_n77 are defined in table 6.5.2.1.2-1._
Table 6.5.2.1.2-1: MSD exceptions (MSD) due to receiver harmonic mixing for
EN-DC in NR FR1
**E-UTRA or NR Band / Channel bandwidth of the affected DL band / MSD** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
**UL band** | **DL band** | **5** **MHz** | **10** **MHz** | **15** **MHz** | **20** **MHz** | **25** **MHz** | **40** **MHz** | **50** **MHz** | **60** **MHz** | **70** **MHz** | **80** **MHz** | **100** **MHz**  
|  | **dB** | **dB** | **dB** | **dB** | **dB** | **dB** | **dB** | **dB** | **dB** | **dB** | **dB**  
n77 | 132 | 34 | 31 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
NOTE 2: The requirements should be verified for UL NR-ARFCN of the aggressor (high) band (superscript HB) such that in MHz and with carrier frequency in the victim (lower) band in MHz and the channel bandwidth configured in the higher band. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
_The additional MSD due to intermodulation for PC2 Case B DC_13_n77 are same
as the Case A defined in table 6.5.2.1.1-1._
#### 6.5.2.2 OOB blocking exception requirements
Since band 13 is a low band and n77 is a wide band, the OOBB exception is
needed.
Table 6.5.2.2-1: EN-DC band combination with exceptions allowed
EN-DC band combination
* * *
DC_13_n77
## 6.6 DC_66_n77
### 6.6.1 Transmitter Characteristics
#### 6.6.1.1 Maximum Output Power
Table 6.6.1.1-1: Maximum output power for inter-band EN-DC (two bands)
**EN-DC combination** Power class 2 (dBm) Tolerance (dB)
* * *
DC_66A_n77A 26^6^ +2/-3 NOTE 6: The UE supports PC3 within E-UTRA cell group,
and supports either PC3 or PC2 within NR cell group. Power class support
within each individual cell group is signalled separately by the UE.
####
#### 6.6.1.2 Configurations for EN-DC
Table 6.6.1.2-1: Inter-band EN-DC configurations within FR1 (two bands)
+-----------------------+---------------+ | EN-DC | Uplink EN-DC | | | | | configuration | configuration | | | | | | (NOTE 1) | +=======================+===============+ | DC_66A_n77A | DC_66A_n77A | | | | | DC_66A-66A_n77A | | | | | | DC_66A-66A-66A_n77A | | | | | | DC_66A_n77C | | | | | | DC_66A-66A_n77C | | | | | | DC_66A-66A-66A_n77C | | +-----------------------+---------------+
#### 6.6.1.3 Co-existence study
According to the PC3 DC_66A_n77A study, the 2^nd^ and 5^th^ order IMD products
generated from dual uplinks of band 66 and n77 may fall into the band 66 Rx
frequency range. Thus additional MSD should be considered to mitigate the
impact of the interference **for the** PC2 DC_66A_n77A combination.
### 6.6.2 Receiver Characteristics
#### 6.6.2.1 MSD test points for intermodulation interference due to dual
uplink operation for PC2 EN-DC in NR FR1 involving two bands
#### 6.6.2.1.1 Power class 2 Case A
_The additional MSD due to intermodulation for PC2 Case A DC_66_n77 are
defined in table 6.6.2.1.1-1._
Table 6.6.2.1.1-1: MSD test points for PCell due to dual uplink operation for
PC2 EN-DC in NR FR1 (two bands)
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | * | | | | | | | | | | _Band | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | Ch | | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | N~RB~ | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | D | | | | | | | | | | uplex | | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | | ode_ _| | | | | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+ |__EN |__NR |__UL | ** | * |__DL |__MSD |__D |__S | | -DC_ _| b | F | UL/DL |_ UL**| F~c~ | for | uplex | ource | | | and** | ~c~**| BW** | | (M | PC2**| m | of | | | | | | | Hz)** | | ode**| IMD** | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ** | | **(M |**(M | **C~L | |**( | | | | Confi | | Hz)**| Hz)** | RB~**| | dB)** | | | | gurat | | | | | | | | | | ion** | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | DC\ | 66 | 1775 | 5 | 25 | 2175 | 34.33 | FDD | IMD2 | | _66A\ | | | | | | | | | | _n77A | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | DC | | | | | | | | | | _66A | | | | | | | | | | -66A\ | | | | | | | | | | _n77A | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | D | | | | | | | | | | C_66 | | | | | | | | | | A-66A | | | | | | | | | | -66A\ | | | | | | | | | | _n77A | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | DC\ | | | | | | | | | | _66A\ | | | | | | | | | | _n77C | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | DC | | | | | | | | | | _66A | | | | | | | | | | -66A\ | | | | | | | | | | _n77C | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | D | | | | | | | | | | C_66 | | | | | | | | | | A-66A | | | | | | | | | | -66A\ | | | | | | | | | | _n77C | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | n77 | 3950 | 10 | 50 | 3950 | N/A | TDD | N/A | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 66 | 1760 | 5 | 25 | 2160 | 11.27 | FDD | IMD5 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | n77 | 3720 | 10 | 50 | 3720 | N/A | TDD | N/A | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
#### 6.6.2.1.2 Power class 2 Case B
_The additional MSD due to intermodulation for PC2 Case B DC_66_n77 are same
as the Case A defined in table 6.6.2.1.1-1._
## 6.7 DC_5A_n78A
### 6.7.1 Transmitter Characteristics
#### 6.7.1.1 Maximum Output Power
Table 6.7.1.1-1: Maximum output power for inter-band EN-DC (two bands)
**EN-DC combination** Power class 2 (dBm) Tolerance (dB)
* * *
DC_5A_n78A 26^6^ +2/-3 NOTE 6: The UE supports PC3 within E-UTRA cell group,
and supports either PC3 or PC2 within NR cell group. Power class support
within each individual cell group is signalled separately by the UE.
#### 6.7.1.2 Co-existence study
According to the PC3 DC_5A_n78A study, the 4^th^ IMD products from dual uplink
of band 5 and n78 may fall into the band 5 Rx frequency range. Thus,
additional MSD for IMD 4 should be considered to mitigate the impact of the
interference **for** PC2 DC_5A_n78A combination.
### 6.7.2 Receiver Characteristics
#### 6.7.2.1 MSD test points for intermodulation interference due to dual
uplink operation for PC2 EN-DC in NR FR1 involving two bands
MSD values are provided from a previous contribution [yy] and a new test
result (33dBm for PA forward and 65 dB for PCB isolation), the proposed MSD
levels are merged in Table 6.7.2.1-1.
Table 6.7.2.1-1: Proposed MSD levels from interested companies for PC2
DC_5_n78
**DC bands** **UL DC** **IMD** **LGE** **SKT, Murata** **Qualcomm** **MSD
(dB)**
* * *
DC_5A_n78A 5 IMD4 \|3*fB5 -fn78\| 17.7 [yy] 17.9 17 17.5 n78
Based on the merged MSD Table, the test points and required MSD levels are
proposed in Table 6.7.2.1-2.
Table 6.7.2.1-2: MSD test points for PCell due to dual uplink operation for
PC2 EN-DC in NR FR1 (two bands)
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+ | NR or | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | Ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | N~RB~ | | | | | | | | | / MSD | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+ | EN-DC | EUTRA | UL | UL/DL | UL\ | DL | MSD\ | IMD | | | or NR | F~c~\ | BW\ | L | F~c~ | (dB) | order | | Con | band | (MHz) | (MHz) | ~CRB~ | (MHz) | | | | figur | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+ | DC | 5 | 844 | 5 | 25 | 889 | 17.5 | IMD4 | | _5A\ | | | | | | | | | _n78A | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+ | | n78 | 3421 | 10 | 52 | 3421 | N/A | N/A | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+
## 6.8 DC_7A_n78A
### 6.8.1 Transmitter Characteristics
#### 6.8.1.1 Maximum Output Power
Table 6.8.1.1-1: Maximum output power for inter-band EN-DC (two bands)
**EN-DC combination** Power class 2 (dBm) Tolerance (dB)
* * *
DC_7A_n78A 26^6^ +2/-3 NOTE 6: The UE supports PC3 within E-UTRA cell group,
and supports either PC3 or PC2 within NR cell group. Power class support
within each individual cell group is signalled separately by the UE.
#### 6.8.1.2 Co-existence study
According to the PC3 DC_7A_n78A study, there was no IMD impacts by dual uplink
transmission into the own RX frequency bands for DC_7A-n78A UE. However, there
exists a cross band issue for DC_7A_n78A, which requires the reference
sensitivity exceptions as seen in Table 6.8.2.1-1 (23dBm + 26dBm) [yy].
### 6.8.2 Receiver Characteristics
#### 6.8.2.1 Reference sensitivity exceptions due to cross band isolation for
EN-DC in NR FR1
Table 6.8.2.1-1: Proposed MSD levels from interested companies for PC2
DC_7_n78
**DC bands** **UL** **DL** **LGE** **Qualcomm** **MSD (dB)**
* * *
DC_7A_n78A n78 7 6.5 [yy] 6.2 6.4
Table 6.8.2.1-2: Reference sensitivity exceptions (MSD) due to cross band
isolation for PC2 EN-DC in NR FR1
            E-UTRA or NR Band / Channel bandwidth of the affected DL band / MSD
* * *
UL band DL band 5 MHz(dB) 10 MHz(dB) 15 MHz(dB) 20 MHz(dB) n78 7 6.4 6.4 6.4
6.4
## 6.9 DC_2A_n41A
### 6.9.1 Transmitter Characteristics
#### 6.9.1.1 Maximum Output Power
Table 6.9.1.1-1: Maximum output power for inter-band EN-DC (two bands)
**EN-DC combination** Power class 2 (dBm) Tolerance (dB)
* * *
DC_2A_n41A 26^6^ +2/-3 NOTE 6: The UE supports PC3 within E-UTRA cell group,
and supports either PC3 or PC2 within NR cell group. Power class support
within each individual cell group is signaled separately by the UE.
#### 6.9.1.2 Co-existence study
The co-existence study for PC2 DC_2A_n41A can be reused from the PC3
DC_2A_n41A captured in TR37.716-11-11, where:
\- MSD due to cross band isolation into B2 Rx.
Therefore, additional MSD for cross band isolation needs to be defined for PC2
DC_2A_n41A.
### 6.9.2 Receiver Characteristics
#### 6.9.2.1 MSD for cross band isolation
The MSD due to cross band isolation for DC_2A_n41A in PC3 was 0.6 dB. 1.1 dB
MSD was calculated for PC2 by calculating the interferer power for PC3, and
adding 3 dB, then calculating the new MSD.
**Table 6.9.2.1 Reference sensitivity exceptions (MSD) due to cross band
isolation for PC2 EN-DC in NR FR1**
| **E-UTRA or NR Band / Channel bandwidth of the affected DL band / MSD** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
**UL band** | **DL band** | **5 MHz** **(dB)** | **10 MHz** **(dB)** | **15 MHz** **(dB)** | **20 MHz** **(dB)** | **25 MHz** **(dB)** | **30 MHz** **(dB)** | **40 MHz** **(dB)** | **50 MHz** **(dB)** | **60 MHz** **(dB)** | **80 MHz** **(dB)** | **90 MHz** **(dB)** | **100 MHz** **(dB)**  
n41 | 2 | 1.6 | 1.6 | 1.6 | 1.6 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
## 6.10 DC_66A_n41A
### 6.10.1 Transmitter Characteristics
#### 6.10.1.1 Maximum Output Power
Table 6.10.1.1-1: Maximum output power for inter-band EN-DC (two bands)
**EN-DC combination** Power class 2 (dBm) Tolerance (dB)
* * *
DC_66A_n41A 26^6^ +2/-3 NOTE 6: The UE supports PC3 within E-UTRA cell group,
and supports either PC3 or PC2 within NR cell group. Power class support
within each individual cell group is signaled separately by the UE.
#### 6.10.1.2 Co-existence study
The co-existence study for PC2 DC_66A_n41A can be reused from the PC3
DC_66A_n41A captured in TR37.716-11-11, where:
\- MSD due to cross band isolation into B66 Rx.
Therefore, additional MSD for cross band isolation needs to be defined for PC2
DC_66A_n41A.
### 6.10.2 Receiver Characteristics
#### 6.10.2.1 MSD for cross band isolation
The MSD due to cross band isolation for DC_66A_n41A in PC3 was 3.5 dB. 5.4 dB
was calculated for PC2 by calculating the interferer power for PC3, and adding
3 dB, then calculating the new MSD.
**Table 6.10.2.1 Reference sensitivity exceptions (MSD) due to cross band
isolation for PC2 EN-DC in NR FR1**
| **E-UTRA or NR Band / Channel bandwidth of the affected DL band / MSD** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
**UL band** | **DL band** | **5 MHz** **(dB)** | **10 MHz** **(dB)** | **15 MHz** **(dB)** | **20 MHz** **(dB)** | **25 MHz** **(dB)** | **30 MHz** **(dB)** | **40 MHz** **(dB)** | **50 MHz** **(dB)** | **60 MHz** **(dB)** | **80 MHz** **(dB)** | **90 MHz** **(dB)** | **100 MHz** **(dB)**  
n41 | 66 | 5.4 | 5.4 | 5.4 | 5.4 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
## 6.11 DC_14A_n77A
### 6.11.1 Transmitter Characteristics
#### 6.11.1.1 Maximum Output Power
Table 6.11.1.1-1: Maximum output power for inter-band EN-DC (two bands)
EN-DC combination Power class 2 (dBm) Tolerance (dB)
* * *
DC_14A_n77A 26^6^ +2/-3 NOTE 6: The UE supports PC3 within E-UTRA cell group,
and supports either PC3 or PC2 within NR cell group. Power class support
within each individual cell group is signaled separately by the UE.
#### 6.11.1.2 Co-existence study
The co-existence study for PC2 DC_14A_n77A can be reused from the PC3
DC_14A_n77A captured in TR 37.717-11-11, where:
\- 5^th^ order harmonic of band 14 UL may fall into own Rx frequencies of band
n77.
\- band n77 UL might affect band 14 DL via 5^th^ order harmonic mixing
\- 5^th^ order IMD products may fall into own Rx frequencies of band 14.
For the 5th order harmonic of band 14 UL, the MSD values due to 5th order
harmonic product of the corresponding PC3 ENDC can be applied since the
maximum output power of band 14 is unchanged.
Therefore, additional MSD values for IMD5 and for 5th order harmonic mixing
need to be defined for PC2 DC_14A_n77A.
### 6.11.2 Receiver Characteristics
#### 6.11.2.1 MSD test points for intermodulation interference due to dual
uplink operation for PC2 EN-DC in NR FR1 involving two bands
Table 6.11.2.1-1: MSD test points for PCell due to dual uplink operation for
PC2 EN-DC in NR FR1 (two bands)
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+ | NR or | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | Ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | N~RB~ | | | | | | | | | / MSD | | | | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+======+=======+ | EN-DC | EUTRA | UL | UL/DL | UL\ | DL | MSD\ | IMD | | | or NR | F~c~\ | BW\ | L | F~c~ | (dB) | order | | Con | band | (MHz) | (MHz) | ~CRB~ | (MHz) | | | | figur | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+ | DC\ | 14 | 795.5 | 5 | 15 | 765.5 | 11.7 | IMD5 | | _14A\ | | | | | | | | | _n77A | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+ | | n77 | 3 | 10 | 50 | 3 | N/A | N/A | | | | 947.5 | | | 947.5 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+
#### 6.11.2.2 Reference sensitivity exceptions due to receiver harmonic mixing
for PC2 EN-DC in NR FR1
Table 6.11.2.2-1: Reference sensitivity exceptions (MSD) due to receiver
harmonic mixing for PC2 EN-DC in NR FR1
E-UTRA or NR Band / Channel bandwidth of the affected DL band / MSD |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
UL band | DL band | 5 MHz (dB) | 10 MHz (dB) | 15 MHz (dB) | 20 MHz (dB) | 25 MHz (dB) | 40 MHz (dB) | 50 MHz (dB) | 60 MHz (dB) | 80 MHz (dB) | 90 MHz (dB) | 100 MHz (dB)  
n77 | 14zz | 34 | 31 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
NOTE ZZ: The requirements should be verified for DL EARFCN of the victim (lower) band (superscript LB) such that with the DL carrier frequency in the lower band and _f_ ULHB the UL carrier frequency in the higher band, both in MHz. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
## 6.12 DC_30A_n77A
### 6.12.1 Transmitter Characteristics
#### 6.12.1.1 Maximum Output Power
Table 6.12.1.1-1: Maximum output power for inter-band EN-DC (two bands)
EN-DC combination Power class 2 (dBm) Tolerance (dB)
* * *
DC_30A_n77A 26^6^ +2/-3 NOTE 6: The UE supports PC3 within E-UTRA cell group,
and supports either PC3 or PC2 within NR cell group. Power class support
within each individual cell group is signaled separately by the UE.
#### 6.12.1.2 Co-existence study
The co-existence study for PC2 DC_30A_n77A can be reused from the PC3
DC_30A_n77A captured in TR 37.717-11-11, where:
\- 4th order IMD products may fall into own Rx frequencies of band 30.
Therefore, additional MSD for IMD4 needs to be defined for PC2 DC_30A_n77A.
### 6.12.2 Receiver Characteristics
#### 6.12.2.1 MSD test points for intermodulation interference due to dual
uplink operation for PC2 EN-DC in NR FR1 involving two bands
Table 6.12.2.1-1: MSD test points for PCell due to dual uplink operation for
PC2 EN-DC in NR FR1 (two bands)
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+ | NR or | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | Ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | N~RB~ | | | | | | | | | / MSD | | | | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+======+=======+ | EN-DC | EUTRA | UL | UL/DL | UL\ | DL | MSD\ | IMD | | | or NR | F~c~\ | BW\ | L | F~c~ | (dB) | order | | Con | band | (MHz) | (MHz) | ~CRB~ | (MHz) | | | | figur | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+ | DC\ | 30 | 2310 | 5 | 25 | 2355 | 17.6 | IMD4 | | _30A\ | | | | | | | | | _n77A | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+ | | n77 | 3 | 10 | 50 | 3 | N/A | N/A | | | | 487.5 | | | 487.5 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+
## 6.13 DC_12A_n77A
### 6.13.1 Transmitter Characteristics
#### 6.13.1.1 Maximum Output Power
Table 6.13.1.1-1: Maximum output power for inter-band EN-DC (two bands)
EN-DC combination Power class 2 (dBm) Tolerance (dB)
* * *
DC_12A_n77A 26^6^ +2/-3 NOTE 6: The UE supports PC3 within E-UTRA cell group,
and supports either PC3 or PC2 within NR cell group. Power class support
within each individual cell group is signaled separately by the UE.
#### 6.13.1.2 Co-existence study
The co-existence study for PC2 DC_12A_n77A can be reused from the PC3
DC_12A_n77A captured in TR 37.717-11-11, where:
\- 5^th^ order harmonic of band 12 UL may fall into own Rx frequencies of band
n77.
\- band n77 UL might affect band 12 DL via 5^th^ order harmonic mixing
\- 5^th^ order IMD products may fall into own Rx frequencies of band 12.
For the 5th order harmonic of band 12 UL, the MSD values due to 5th order
harmonic product of the corresponding PC3 ENDC can be applied since the
maximum output power of band 12 is unchanged.
Therefore, additional MSD values for IMD5 and for 5th order harmonic mixing
need to be defined for PC2 DC_12A_n77A.
### 6.13.2 Receiver Characteristics
#### 6.13.2.1 MSD test points for intermodulation interference due to dual
uplink operation for PC2 EN-DC in NR FR1 involving two bands
Table 6.13.2.1-1: MSD test points for PCell due to dual uplink operation for
PC2 EN-DC in NR FR1 (two bands)
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+ | NR or | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | Ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | N~RB~ | | | | | | | | | / MSD | | | | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+======+=======+ | EN-DC | EUTRA | UL | UL/DL | UL\ | DL | MSD\ | IMD | | | or NR | F~c~\ | BW\ | L | F~c~ | (dB) | order | | Con | band | (MHz) | (MHz) | ~CRB~ | (MHz) | | | | figur | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+ | DC\ | 12 | 701.5 | 5 | 20 | 737 | 11.7 | IMD5 | | _12A\ | | | | | | | | | _n77A | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+ | | n77 | 3543 | 10 | 50 | 3543 | N/A | N/A | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+
#### 6.13.2.2 Reference sensitivity exceptions due to receiver harmonic mixing
for PC2 EN-DC in NR FR1
Table 6.13.2.2-1: Reference sensitivity exceptions (MSD) due to receiver
harmonic mixing for PC2 EN-DC in NR FR1
E-UTRA or NR Band / Channel bandwidth of the affected DL band / MSD |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
UL band | DL band | 5 MHz (dB) | 10 MHz (dB) | 15 MHz (dB) | 20 MHz (dB) | 25 MHz (dB) | 40 MHz (dB) | 50 MHz (dB) | 60 MHz (dB) | 80 MHz (dB) | 90 MHz (dB) | 100 MHz (dB)  
n77 | 12zz | 34 | 31 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
NOTE ZZ: The requirements should be verified for DL EARFCN of the victim (lower) band (superscript LB) such that with the DL carrier frequency in the lower band and _f_ ULHB the UL carrier frequency in the higher band, both in MHz. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
## 6.14 DC_48_n77
### 6.14.1 Transmitter Characteristics
#### 6.14.1.1 Maximum Output Power
Table 6.14.1.1-1: Maximum output power for inter-band EN-DC (two bands)
**EN-DC combination** Power class 2 (dBm) Tolerance (dB)
* * *
N/A 26^6^ +2/-3 NOTE 6: The UE supports PC3 within E-UTRA cell group, and
supports either PC3 or PC2 within NR cell group. Power class support within
each individual cell group is signalled separately by the UE.
#### 6.14.1.2 Configurations for EN-DC
This combination is not used alone, and no uplink inter-band EN-DC is
specified for the configuration
Table 6.14.1.2-1: Inter-band EN-DC configurations within FR1 (two bands)
+-----------------------------------------------------+---------------+ | EN-DC | Uplink EN-DC | | | | | configuration | configuration | | | | | | (NOTE 1) | +=====================================================+===============+ | DC_48A_n77A^3,4,\ 9,\ 11^ | N/A | | | | | DC_48A_n77C^3,4,\ 9,\ 11^ | | | | | | DC_48C_n77A^3,4,\ 9,\ 11^ | | | | | | DC_48C_n77C^3,4,\ 9,\ 11^ | | | | | | DC_48D_n77A^3,4,\ 9,\ 11^ | | | | | | DC_48D_n77C^3,4,\ 9,\ 11^ | | | | | | DC_48E_n77A^3,4,\ 9,\ 11^ | | +-----------------------------------------------------+---------------+ | NOTE 3: The minimum requirements apply only when | | | there is non-simultaneous Tx/Rx operation between | | | E-UTRA and NR carriers. This restriction applies | | | also for these carriers when applicable EN-DC | | | configuration is part of a higher order EN-DC | | | configuration. | | | | | | NOTE 4: The minimum requirements for intra-band | | | non-contiguous EN-DC apply. When UE capability | | | _interBandContiguousMRDC_ is indicated, the minimum | | | requirements for intra-band-contiguous EN-DC also | | | should be met in addtion to intra-band | | | non-contiguous EN-DC _._ The intra-band requirements | | | also apply for these carriers when applicable EN-DC | | | configuration is a subset of a higher order EN-DC | | | configuration. | | | | | | NOTE 9: The combination is not used alone as fall | | | back mode of other band combinations in which UL in | | | Band 42 or Band 48 is not used. | | | | | | NOTE 11: The minimum requirements for inter-band | | | EN-DC apply when the maximum power spectral density | | | imbalance between downlink carriers is within 6 dB. | | | The power spectral density imbalance condition also | | | applies for these carriers when applicable EN-DC | | | configuration is a subset of a higher order EN-DC | | | configuration. | | +-----------------------------------------------------+---------------+
#### 6.14.1.3 Co-existence study
There is no uplink inter-band EN-DC is specified for the configuration above,
thus no coexistence issue is identified.
### 6.14.2 Receiver Characteristics
#### 6.14.2.1 MSD test points for intermodulation interference due to dual
uplink operation for PC2 EN-DC in NR FR1 involving two bands
There is no MSD identified for both Case A and B.
## 6.15 DC_28A_n78A
### 6.15.1 Transmitter Characteristics
#### 6.15.1.1 Maximum Output Power
Table 6.15.1.1-1: Maximum output power for inter-band EN-DC (two bands)
EN-DC combination Power class 2 (dBm) Tolerance (dB)
* * *
DC_28A_n78A 26^6^ +2/-3 NOTE 6: The UE supports PC3 within E-UTRA cell group,
and supports either PC3 or PC2 within NR cell group. Power class support
within each individual cell group is signaled separately by the UE.
#### 6.15.1.2 Co-existence study
The co-existence study for PC2 DC_28A_n78A can be reused from the PC2
DC_14A_n77A captured in TR 37.826, where:
\- 5^th^ order harmonic of band 28 UL may fall into own Rx frequencies of band
n78.
\- band n78 UL might affect band 28 DL via 5^th^ order harmonic mixing
\- 5^th^ order IMD products may fall into own Rx frequencies of band 28.
For the 5th order harmonic of band 28 UL, the MSD values due to 5th order
harmonic product of the corresponding PC3 ENDC can be applied since the
maximum output power of band 28 is unchanged.
Therefore, additional MSD values for IMD5 and for 5th order harmonic mixing
need to be defined for PC2 DC_28A_n78A.
### 6.15.2 Receiver Characteristics
#### 6.15.2.1 MSD test points for intermodulation interference due to dual
uplink operation for PC2 EN-DC in NR FR1 involving two bands
MSD value for band 28 is reused from DC_14_n77 PC2.
Table 6.15.2.1-1: MSD test points for PCell due to dual uplink operation for
PC2 EN-DC in NR FR1 (two bands)
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+ | NR or | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | Ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | N~RB~ | | | | | | | | | / MSD | | | | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+======+=======+ | EN-DC | EUTRA | UL | UL/DL | UL\ | DL | MSD\ | IMD | | | or NR | F~c~\ | BW\ | L | F~c~ | (dB) | order | | Con | band | (MHz) | (MHz) | ~CRB~ | (MHz) | | | | figur | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+ | DC\ | 28 | 705.5 | 5 | 25 | 760.5 | 11.7 | IMD5 | | _28A\ | | | | | | | | | _n78A | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+ | | n78 | 3 | 10 | 50 | 3 | N/A | N/A | | | | 582.5 | | | 582.5 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+
#### 6.15.2.2 Reference sensitivity exceptions due to receiver harmonic mixing
for PC2 EN-DC in NR FR1
Table 6.15.2.2-1: MSD exceptions (MSD) due to receiver harmonic mixing for PC2
EN-DC in NR FR1
E-UTRA or NR Band / Channel bandwidth of the affected DL band / MSD |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
UL band | DL band | 5 MHz (dB) | 10 MHz (dB) | 15 MHz (dB) | 20 MHz (dB) | 25 MHz (dB) | 40 MHz (dB) | 50 MHz (dB) | 60 MHz (dB) | 80 MHz (dB) | 90 MHz (dB) | 100 MHz (dB)  
n78 | 282 | 31 | 28 | 26.2 | 25 |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
NOTE 2: The requirements should be verified for DL EARFCN of the victim (lower) band (superscript LB) such that with the DL carrier frequency in the lower band and the UL carrier frequency in the higher band, both in MHz. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
**Table 6.15.2.2-2: Uplink configuration for reference sensitivity exceptions
due to receiver harmonic mixing for EN-DC in NR FR1**
**E-UTRA or NR Band / SCS / Channel bandwidth of the affected DL band / UL RB allocation of the agressor band** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
**UL band** | **DL band** | **SCS of UL band** **(kHz)** | **5 MHz** **(L CRB)** | **10 MHz** **(L CRB)** | **15 MHz** **(L CRB)** | **20 MHz** **(L CRB)** | **25 MHz** **(L CRB)** | **40 MHz** **(L CRB)** | **50 MHz** **(L CRB)** | **60 MHz** **(L CRB)** | **80 MHz** **(L CRB)** | **90 MHz** **(L CRB)** | **100 MHz** **(L CRB)**  
n78 | 28 | 15 | 25 | 50 | 75 | 100 |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
## 6.16 DC_3-3_n78
### 6.16.1 Transmitter Characteristics
#### 6.16.1.1 Maximum Output Power
Table 6.16.1.1-1: Maximum output power for inter-band EN-DC (two bands)
**EN-DC combination** Power class 2 (dBm) Tolerance (dB)
* * *
DC_3A_n78A 26^6^ +2/-3 NOTE 6: The UE supports PC3 within E-UTRA cell group,
and supports either PC3 or PC2 within NR cell group. Power class support
within each individual cell group is signalled separately by the UE.
#### 6.16.1.2 Configurations for EN-DC
Table 6.16.1.2-1: Inter-band EN-DC configurations within FR1 (two bands)
+---------------------------------------------------+-----------------+ | EN-DC | Uplink EN-DC | | | | | Configuration | configuration | +===================================================+=================+ | DC_3A-3A_n78A^x^ | DC_3A_n78A^x^ | +---------------------------------------------------+-----------------+ | NOTE X: PC3 or PC2 Uplink EN-DC configuration is | | | applicable to EN-DC configurations. | | +---------------------------------------------------+-----------------+
#### 6.16.1.3 Co-existence study
Co-existence study shows that:
\- 2^th^ and 4^th^ order IMD products may fall into own Rx frequencies of band
3.
### 6.16.2 Receiver Characteristics
#### 6.16.2.1 MSD test points for intermodulation interference due to dual
uplink operation for PC2 EN-DC in NR FR1 involving two bands
The MSD for PC2 DC_3A_n78A in the Table 7.3B.2.3.5.1-1a of 38.101-3 can be
applied to DC_3A-3A_n78A.
Table 7.3B.2.3.5.1-1a: MSD test points for PCell due to dual uplink operation
for PC2 EN-DC in NR FR1 (two bands)
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+ | NR or | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | Ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | N~RB~ | | | | | | | | | / MSD | | | | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+======+=======+ | EN-DC | EUTRA | UL | UL/DL | UL\ | DL | MSD\ | IMD | | | or NR | F~c~\ | BW\ | L | F~c~ | (dB) | order | | Con | band | (MHz) | (MHz) | ~CRB~ | (MHz) | | | | figur | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+ | DC | 3 | 1740 | 5 | 25 | 1835 | 31.9 | IMD2 | | _3A\ | | | | | | | | | _n78A | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+ | **DC | n78 | 3575 | 10 | 50 | 3575 | N/A | N/A | | _3A- | | | | | | | | | 3A_n | | | | | | | | | 78A** | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+ | DC | 3 | 1765 | 5 | 25 | 1860 | 18.5 | IMD4 | | _3A\ | | | | | | | | | _n78A | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+ | **DC | n78 | 3435 | 10 | 50 | 3435 | N/A | N/A | | _3A- | | | | | | | | | 3A_n | | | | | | | | | 78A** | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+
## 6.17 DC_7-7_n78
### 6.17.1 Transmitter Characteristics
#### 6.17.1.1 Maximum Output Power
Table 6.17.1.1-1: Maximum output power for inter-band EN-DC (two bands)
**EN-DC combination** Power class 2 (dBm) Tolerance (dB)
* * *
DC_7A_n78A 26^6^ +2/-3 NOTE 6: The UE supports PC3 within E-UTRA cell group,
and supports either PC3 or PC2 within NR cell group. Power class support
within each individual cell group is signalled separately by the UE.
#### 6.17.1.2 Configurations for EN-DC
Table 6.17.1.2-1: Inter-band EN-DC configurations within FR1 (two bands)
+---------------------------------------------------+-----------------+ | EN-DC | Uplink EN-DC | | | | | Configuration | configuration | +===================================================+=================+ | DC_7A-7A_n78A^x^ | DC_7A_n78A^x^ | +---------------------------------------------------+-----------------+ | NOTE X: PC3 or PC2 Uplink EN-DC configuration is | | | applicable to EN-DC configurations. | | +---------------------------------------------------+-----------------+
#### 6.17.1.3 Co-existence study
According to the PC3 DC_7A_n78A study, there was no IMD impacts by dual uplink
transmission into the own RX frequency bands for DC_7A-n78A UE. The cross-band
isolation issue can already be covered in PC2 DC_7A_n78A in section 6.8.
### 6.17.2 Receiver Characteristics
#### 6.17.2.1 MSD test points for intermodulation interference due to dual
uplink operation for PC2 EN-DC in NR FR1 involving two bands
No additional MSD requirement is needed based on the co-existence study.
# * *Annex A (informative): Change history
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **C | | | | | | | | | hange | | | | | | | | | hist | | | | | | | | | ory** | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **D | * |** T | * | ** | ** | **Su |** New | | ate**| *Meet | Doc** | _CR_ _| Rev_ _| Cat_ _| bject | vers | | | ing_ _| | | | | /Comm | ion_ _| | | | | | | | ent_ * | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RAN | R4-20 | | | | In | 0.0.1 | | 20-11 | 4-97e | 14649 | | | | itial | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | ske | | | | | | | | | leton | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RAN | R4-20 | | | | Inc | 0.1.0 | | 20-11 | 4-97e | 17840 | | | | luded | | | | | | | | | TPs/ | | | | | | | | | pCRs: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-20 | | | | | | | | | 16856 | | | | | | | | | PC2 | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | DC | | | | | | | | | _1A\ | | | | | | | | | _n78A | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-20 | | | | | | | | | 16857 | | | | | | | | | PC2 | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | DC | | | | | | | | | _8A\ | | | | | | | | | _n78A | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RAN | R4-21 | | | | Inc | 0.2.0 | | 21-02 | 4-98e | 00084 | | | | luded | | | | | | | | | TPs/ | | | | | | | | | pCRs: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-21 | | | | | | | | | 03175 | | | | | | | | | PC2 | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | DC | | | | | | | | | _2A\ | | | | | | | | | _n77A | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-21 | | | | | | | | | 03176 | | | | | | | | | PC2 | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | DC | | | | | | | | | _5A\ | | | | | | | | | _n77A | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-21 | | | | | | | | | 03177 | | | | | | | | | PC2 | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | DC\ | | | | | | | | | _13A\ | | | | | | | | | _n77A | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-21 | | | | | | | | | 03178 | | | | | | | | | PC2 | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | DC\ | | | | | | | | | _66A\ | | | | | | | | | _n77A | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RAN | R4-21 | | | | Inc | 0.3.0 | | 21-04 | 4-98- | 06288 | | | | luded | | | | bis-e | | | | | TPs/ | | | | | | | | | pCRs: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-21 | | | | | | | | | 05347 | | | | | | | | | PC2 | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | DC | | | | | | | | | _5A\ | | | | | | | | | _n78A | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-21 | | | | | | | | | 05348 | | | | | | | | | PC2 | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | DC | | | | | | | | | _7A\ | | | | | | | | | _n78A | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-21 | | | | | | | | | 05349 | | | | | | | | | PC2 | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | DC | | | | | | | | | _2A\ | | | | | | | | | _n41A | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-21 | | | | | | | | | 07332 | | | | | | | | | PC2 | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | DC\ | | | | | | | | | _66A\ | | | | | | | | | _n41A | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RAN4- | R4-21 | | | | Inc | 0.4.0 | | 21-08 | 100-e | 12472 | | | | luded | | | | | | | | | TPs/ | | | | | | | | | pCRs: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-21 | | | | | | | | | 11818 | | | | | | | | | PC2 | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | DC\ | | | | | | | | | _14A\ | | | | | | | | | _n77A | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-21 | | | | | | | | | 11819 | | | | | | | | | PC2 | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | DC\ | | | | | | | | | _30A\ | | | | | | | | | _n77A | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-21 | | | | | | | | | 14939 | | | | | | | | | PC2 | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | DC\ | | | | | | | | | _12A\ | | | | | | | | | _n77A | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RAN4 | R4-21 | | | | Inc | 0.5.0 | | 21-11 | -101e | 18152 | | | | luded | | | | | | | | | TPs/ | | | | | | | | | pCRs: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-21 | | | | | | | | | 19900 | | | | | | | | | PC2 | | | | | | | | | TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | DC_2 | | | | | | | | | _n77 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-21 | | | | | | | | | 17111 | | | | | | | | | PC2 | | | | | | | | | TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | DC_5 | | | | | | | | | _n77 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-21 | | | | | | | | | 17112 | | | | | | | | | PC2 | | | | | | | | | TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | D | | | | | | | | | C_13 | | | | | | | | | _n77 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-21 | | | | | | | | | 19942 | | | | | | | | | PC2 | | | | | | | | | TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | D | | | | | | | | | C_66 | | | | | | | | | _n77 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RAN | RP-2 | | | | pro | 0.6.0 | | 21-12 | #94e | 12894 | | | | vided | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | nform | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | RAN | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | wtith | | | | | | | | | wrong | | | | | | | | | ver | | | | | | | | | sion) | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RAN | RP-2 | | | | pro | 1.0.0 | | 21-12 | #94e | 13193 | | | | vided | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | nform | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | RAN | | | | | | | | | (mi | | | | | | | | | ssing | | | | | | | | | pr | | | | | | | | | esent | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | cover | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | mi | | | | | | | | | ssing | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | pdate | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | hi | | | | | | | | | story | | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | | able) | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RAN | RP-2 | | | | pro | 1.0.1 | | 21-12 | #94e | 13468 | | | | vided | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | nform | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | RAN | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RAN4 | R4-22 | | | | Inc | 1.1.0 | | 22-03 | -102e | 04168 | | | | luded | | | | | | | | | TPs/ | | | | | | | | | pCRs: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-22 | | | | | | | | | 00305 | | | | | | | | | TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | 7.826 | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | DL | | | | | | | | | D | | | | | | | | | C_48 | | | | | | | | | _n77 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-22 | | | | | | | | | 06272 | | | | | | | | | TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | 7.826 | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | add | | | | | | | | | D | | | | | | | | | C_28 | | | | | | | | | _n78 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RAN4 | R4-22 | | | | Inc | 1.2.0 | | 22-05 | -103e | 07700 | | | | luded | | | | | | | | | TPs/ | | | | | | | | | pCRs: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R4-22 | | | | | | | | | 08427 | | | | | | | | | TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | 7.826 | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | pdate | | | | | | | | | PC2 | | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | | pport | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | DC\ | | | | | | | | | _3-3\ | | | | | | | | | _n78, | | | | | | | | | DC | | | | | | | | | _7-7 | | | | | | | | | _n78 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RAN | RP-2 | | | | pro | 2.0.0 | | 22-06 | #96 | 21230 | | | | vided | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | app | | | | | | | | | roval | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | RAN | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+