# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.\
# 1 Scope {#scope-1}
The present document is a technical report for WI "downlink interruption for
band combinations to conduct dynamic Tx Switching" under Rel-17 time frame.
The purpose is to gather the relevant background information and studies in
order to address **the band** combinations requested for mandating no DL
interruption to conduct dynamic Tx switching listed in Table 1-1.
Table 1-1: Band combinations requested for mandating no DL interruption
**Configuration** **Uplink configuration** **Company**
* * *
CA_n5-n78, DC_5_n78 CA_n5-n78, DC_5_n78 China Telecom CA_n1-n3-n78 CA_n1-n78,
CA_n3-n78 China Telecom, China Unicom CA_n3-n40-n41 CA n3-n40, CA n3-n41 CMCC
CA_n3-n41-n79 CA n3-n41, CA n3-n79, CA n41-n49 CMCC CA_n39-n41-n79 CA n39-n79,
CA n41-n79, CA n39-n41 CMCC CA_n40-n41-n79 CA n40-n79, CA n41-n79 CMCC
CA_n8-n39-n41 CA n8-n39, CA n8-n41, CA n39-n41 CMCC CA_n8-n41-n79 CA n8-n41,
CA n8-n79, CA n41-n79 CMCC
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] TS38.101-1, NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception; Part
1: Range 1 Standalone
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
**example:** text used to clarify abstract rules by applying them literally.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
\ \
# 4 Background
At 3GPP RAN#90-e meeting, a new Rel-17 Work Item "Down link interruption for
band combinations to conduct dynamic Tx Switching" was approved. The
objectives are as follows,
1) Discuss and specify inter-band uplink CA and EN-DC combinations for which
DL interruption is not allowed when 1Tx-2Tx dynamic switching between two
uplink carriers is conducted.
a) Based on the requested band combinations from operators, identify if it is
feasible to specify no DL interruption in RAN4 specification.
b) Discuss and find out an appropriate way to indicate no DL interruption for
higher order CA and EN-DC combinations in RAN4 specification.
2) For 1Tx-2Tx switching between two uplink carriers, the mandating of no DL
interruption for new band combinations is release independent from Rel-16.
The present document is the technical report for this basket Work Item.
## 4.1 TR Maintenance
A single company is responsible for introducing all approved TPs in the
current TR, i.e. TR editor. However, it is the responsibility of the contact
person of each band/band combination to ensure that the TPs related to the
band/band combination have been implemented.
# 5 General
_\ _
# 6 Specific Band Combinations
## 6.1 Inter-band uplink CA
### 6.1.1 CA _n3-n40-n41
#### 6.1.1.1 Configurations
Configuration Uplink configuration
* * *
CA_n3-n40-n41 CA n3-n40, CA n3-n41
#### 6.1.1.2 Technical analysis
RAN4 already agreed that no DL interruption allowed for CA_n3-n41.
For CA_n3-n40, there was no discussion on the applicability of DL
interruption. Since the frequency gap between n3 and n40 is larger than
1.4GHz, the separation is large enough. So no DL interruption for uplink
configuration CA_n3-n40 should be allowed.
So for the uplink configurations CA n3-n40 and CA n3-n41 of CA_n3-n40-n41, no
DL interruption for dynamic switching between two uplink carriers should also
be mandated.
#### 6.1.1.3 Conclusion
Table 6.1.1.3-1: Inter-band CA operating bands involving FR1 (three bands)
+-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | **NR CA Band** | **NR Band** | **DL interruption | | | | allowed** | | | **(Table 5.2-1)** | | | | | **(Note 3)** | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | CA_n3-n40-n41 | n3, n40, n41 | No for CA n3-n40, CA | | | | n3-n41 | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | NOTE 1: The frequency | | | | range below 2506 MHz | | | | for Band n41 is not | | | | used in this band | | | | combination. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Applicable | | | | for frequency range | | | | above 4800 MHz for | | | | Band n79 in this band | | | | combination. | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: Applicable | | | | when dynamic Tx | | | | switching between two | | | | uplink carriers or | | | | two uplink bands is | | | | conducted. The DL | | | | interruption | | | | requirement is | | | | specified in clause | | | | 8.2.2.2.10 of 38.133 | | | | [13]. | | | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+
### 6.1.2 CA_n3-n41-n79
#### 6.1.2.1 Configurations
Configuration Uplink configuration
* * *
CA_n3-n41-n79 CA n3-n41, CA n3-n79, CA n41-n49
#### 6.1.2.2 Technical analysis
RAN4 already agreed that no DL interruption allowed for CA_n3-n41, CA_n3-n79
and CA n41-n79. And for TDD band combination CA_n41-n79, simultaneous Rx/Tx
capability is mandatory supported.
So for the uplink configurations CA n3-n41, CA n3-n79, CA n41-n49 of
CA_n3-n41-n79, no DL interruption for dynamic switching between two uplink
carriers should also be mandated.
#### 6.1.2.3 Conclusion
Table 6.1.2.3-1: Inter-band CA operating bands involving FR1 (three bands)
+-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | **NR CA Band** | **NR Band** | **DL interruption | | | | allowed** | | | **(Table 5.2-1)** | | | | | **(Note 3)** | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | CA_n3-n41-n79 | n3, n41, n79 | No | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | NOTE 1: The frequency | | | | range below 2506 MHz | | | | for Band n41 is not | | | | used in this band | | | | combination. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Applicable | | | | for frequency range | | | | above 4800 MHz for | | | | Band n79 in this band | | | | combination. | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: Applicable | | | | when dynamic Tx | | | | switching between two | | | | uplink carriers or | | | | two uplink bands is | | | | conducted. The DL | | | | interruption | | | | requirement is | | | | specified in clause | | | | 8.2.2.2.10 of 38.133 | | | | [13]. | | | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+
### 6.1.3 CA_n8-n39-n41
#### 6.1.3.1 Configurations
Configuration Uplink configuration
* * *
CA_n8-n39-n41 CA n8-n39, CA n8-n41, CA n39-n41
#### 6.1.3.2 Technical analysis
RAN4 already agreed that no DL interruption allowed for CA_n8-n41 and
CA_n39-n41.
For CA_n8-n39, there was no discussion on the applicability of DL
interruption. Since the frequency gap between n8 and n39 is 1GHz, the
separation is large enough. So no DL interruption for uplink configuration
CA_n8-n39 should be allowed.
So for the uplink configurations CA n8-n39, CA n8-n41 and CA n39-n41 of
CA_n8-n39-n41, no DL interruption for dynamic switching between two uplink
carriers should also be mandated.
#### 6.1.3.3 Conclusion
Table 6.1.3.3-1: Inter-band CA operating bands involving FR1 (three bands)
+-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | **NR CA Band** | **NR Band** | **DL interruption | | | | allowed** | | | **(Table 5.2-1)** | | | | | **(Note 3)** | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | CA_n8-n39-n41 | n8, n39, n41 | No | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | NOTE 1: The frequency | | | | range below 2506 MHz | | | | for Band n41 is not | | | | used in this band | | | | combination. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Applicable | | | | for frequency range | | | | above 4800 MHz for | | | | Band n79 in this band | | | | combination. | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: Applicable | | | | when dynamic Tx | | | | switching between two | | | | uplink carriers or | | | | two uplink bands is | | | | conducted. The DL | | | | interruption | | | | requirement is | | | | specified in clause | | | | 8.2.2.2.10 of 38.133 | | | | [13]. | | | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+
### 6.1.4 CA_n8-n41-n79
#### 6.1.4.1 Configurations
Configuration Uplink configuration
* * *
CA_n8-n41-n79 CA n8-n41, CA n8-n79, CA n41-n79
#### 6.1.4.2 Technical analysis
RAN4 already agreed that no DL interruption allowed for CA n8-n41, CA n8-n79
and CA n41-n79.
So for the uplink configurations CA n8-n41, CA n8-n79 and CA n41-n79 of
CA_n8-n41-n79, no DL interruption for dynamic switching between two uplink
carriers should also be mandated.
#### 6.1.4.3 Conclusion
Table 6.1.4.3-1: Inter-band CA operating bands involving FR1 (three bands)
+-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | **NR CA Band** | **NR Band** | **DL interruption | | | | allowed** | | | **(Table 5.2-1)** | | | | | **(Note 3)** | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | CA_n8-n41-n79 | n8, n41, n79 | No | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | NOTE 1: The frequency | | | | range below 2506 MHz | | | | for Band n41 is not | | | | used in this band | | | | combination. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Applicable | | | | for frequency range | | | | above 4800 MHz for | | | | Band n79 in this band | | | | combination. | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: Applicable | | | | when dynamic Tx | | | | switching between two | | | | uplink carriers or | | | | two uplink bands is | | | | conducted. The DL | | | | interruption | | | | requirement is | | | | specified in clause | | | | 8.2.2.2.10 of 38.133 | | | | [13]. | | | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+
### 6.1.5 CA_n39-n41-n79
#### 6.1.5.1 Configurations
Configuration Uplink configuration
* * *
CA_n39-n41-n79 CA n39-n79, CA n41-n79, CA n39-n41
#### 6.1.5.2 Technical analysis
RAN4 already agreed that no DL interruption allowed for CA_n39-n79, CA n41-n79
and CA_n39-n41 [1].
So for the uplink configurations CA_n39-n79, CA n41-n79 and CA_n39-n41 of
CA_n39-n41-n79, no DL interruption for dynamic switching between two uplink
carriers should also be mandated.
#### 6.1.5.3 Conclusion
Table 6.1.5.3-1: Inter-band CA operating bands involving FR1 (three bands)
+-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | **NR CA Band** | **NR Band** | **DL interruption | | | | allowed** | | | **(Table 5.2-1)** | | | | | **(Note 3)** | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | CA_n39-n41-n79 | n39, n41, n79 | No | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | NOTE 1: The frequency | | | | range below 2506 MHz | | | | for Band n41 is not | | | | used in this band | | | | combination. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Applicable | | | | for frequency range | | | | above 4800 MHz for | | | | Band n79 in this band | | | | combination. | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: Applicable | | | | when dynamic Tx | | | | switching between two | | | | uplink carriers or | | | | two uplink bands is | | | | conducted. The DL | | | | interruption | | | | requirement is | | | | specified in clause | | | | 8.2.2.2.10 of 38.133 | | | | [13]. | | | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+
### 6.1.6 CA_n40-n41-n79
#### 6.1.6.1 Configurations
Configuration Uplink configuration
* * *
CA_n40-n41-n79 CA n40-n79, CA n41-n79
#### 6.1.6.2 Technical analysis
RAN4 already agreed that no DL interruption allowed for CA_n40-n79 and CA
n41-n79.
So for the uplink configurations CA_n40-n79 and CA n41-n79 of CA_n40-n41-n79,
no DL interruption for dynamic switching between two uplink carriers should
also be mandated.
#### 6.1.6.3 Conclusion
Table 6.1.6.3-1: Inter-band CA operating bands involving FR1 (three bands)
+-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | **NR CA Band** | **NR Band** | **DL interruption | | | | allowed** | | | **(Table 5.2-1)** | | | | | **(Note 3)** | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | CA_n40-n41-n79^1,2^ | n40, n41, n79 | No for CA n40-n79, CA | | | | n41-n79 | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | NOTE 1: The frequency | | | | range below 2506 MHz | | | | for Band n41 is not | | | | used in this band | | | | combination. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Applicable | | | | for frequency range | | | | above 4800 MHz for | | | | Band n79 in this band | | | | combination. | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: Applicable | | | | when dynamic Tx | | | | switching between two | | | | uplink carriers or | | | | two uplink bands is | | | | conducted. The DL | | | | interruption | | | | requirement is | | | | specified in clause | | | | 8.2.2.2.10 of 38.133 | | | | [13]. | | | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+
### 6.1.7 CA_n3-n40
#### 6.1.7.1 Configurations
Configuration Uplink configuration
* * *
CA_n3-n40 CA n3-n40
#### 6.1.7.2 Technical analysis
The frequency gap between n3 and n40 is larger than 400MHz, the separation is
large enough. So no DL interruption for uplink configuration CA_n3-n40 should
be allowed.
So for the uplink configurations CA n3-n40, no DL interruption for dynamic
switching between two uplink carriers should also be mandated.
#### 6.1.7.3 Conclusion
Table 6.1.7.3-1: Inter-band CA operating bands involving FR1 (three bands)
+-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | **NR CA Band** | **NR Band** | **DL interruption | | | | allowed** | | | **(Table 5.2-1)** | | | | | **(Note 8)** | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | CA_n3-n40 | n3, n40 | No | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | NOTE 1: Applicable | | | | for UE supporting | | | | inter-band carrier | | | | aggregation with | | | | mandatory | | | | simultaneous Rx/Tx | | | | capability. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The frequency | | | | range in band n28 is | | | | restricted for this | | | | band combination to | | | | 703-733 MHz for the | | | | UL and 758-788 MHz | | | | for the DL. | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: The frequency | | | | range below 2506 MHz | | | | for Band n41 is not | | | | used in this | | | | combination. | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: Applicable | | | | for frequency range | | | | above 4800 MHz for | | | | Band n79 in this | | | | combination. | | | | | | | | NOTE 5: For UEs | | | | supporting band n77, | | | | the minimum | | | | requirements apply | | | | only when there is | | | | non-simultaneous | | | | Rx/Tx operation | | | | between n78-n79 NR | | | | carriers. This | | | | restriction applies | | | | also for these | | | | carriers when | | | | applicable NR CA | | | | configuration is part | | | | of a higher order | | | | configuration. | | | | | | | | NOTE 6: The PCell is | | | | allocated in the | | | | licensed band in this | | | | combination. | | | | | | | | NOTE 7: The minimum | | | | requirements apply | | | | only when there is | | | | non-simultaneous | | | | Rx/Tx operation | | | | between n77-n79 NR | | | | carriers. This | | | | restriction applies | | | | also for these | | | | carriers when | | | | applicable NR CA | | | | configuration is part | | | | of a higher order | | | | configuration. | | | | | | | | NOTE 8: Applicable | | | | when dynamic Tx | | | | switching between two | | | | uplink carriers or | | | | two uplink bands is | | | | conducted. The DL | | | | interruption | | | | requirement is | | | | specified in clause | | | | 8.2.2.2.10 of 38.133 | | | | [13]. | | | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+
### 6.1.8 CA_n1-n3-n78
#### 6.1.8.1 Configurations
**Configuration** **Uplink configuration**
* * *
CA_n1-n3-n78 CA_n1-n78, CA_n3-n78
#### 6.1.8.2 Technical analysis
For CA_n1-n78 and CA_n3-n78, no DL interruption allowed has been specified as
mandated in 38.101-1, which means switching from n1/n3 to n78 has no impact to
n1/n3 downlink. Thus there is no DL interruption for CA_n1-n3-n78 with
CA_n1-n78 or CA_n3-n78 uplink configuration when conducting dynamic Tx
switching.
#### 6.1.8.3 Conclusion
No DL interruption for CA_n1-n3-n78 with CA_n1-n78 or CA_n3-n78 uplink
configuration is mandated.
**Table 6.1.8.3-1: Inter-band CA operating bands involving FR1 (three bands)**
+-------------------------+---------------+-------------------------+ | NR CA Band | NR Band | DL interruption allowed | | | | (Note 3) | | | (Table 5.2-1) | | +=========================+===============+=========================+ | CA_n1-n3-n78 | n1, n3, n78 | No for CA_n1-n78, | | | | CA_n3-n78 | +-------------------------+---------------+-------------------------+ | NOTE 1: The frequency | | | | range below 2506 MHz | | | | for Band n41 is not | | | | used in this band | | | | combination. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Applicable for | | | | frequency range above | | | | 4800 MHz for Band n79 | | | | in this band | | | | combination. | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: Applicable when | | | | dynamic switching | | | | between two uplink | | | | carriers or two uplink | | | | bands is conducted. The | | | | DL interruption | | | | requirement is | | | | specified in clause | | | | 8.2.2.2.10 of 38.133 | | | | [13]. | | | +-------------------------+---------------+-------------------------+
# Annex A (informative): Change history
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **C | | | | | | | | | hange | | | | | | | | | hist | | | | | | | | | ory** | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **D | * |** T | * | ** | ** | **Su |** New | | ate**| *Meet | Doc** | _CR_ _| Rev_ _| Cat_ _| bject | vers | | | ing_ _| | | | | /Comm | ion_ _| | | | | | | | ent_ * | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RAN4 | R4-21 | | | | TR | 0.0.1 | | 21-01 | \ | 00373 | | | | ske | | | | #98-e | | | | | leton | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RAN4 | R4-21 | | | | The | 0.1.0 | | 21-02 | \ | 00374 | | | | foll | | | | #98-e | | | | | owing | | | | | | | | | app | | | | | | | | | roved | | | | | | | | | TPs | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | RAN4\ | | | | | | | | | #98-e | | | | | | | | | were | | | | | | | | | im | | | | | | | | | pleme | | | | | | | | | nted, | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | 4-210 | | | | | | | | | 3221, | | | | | | | | | "TP | | | | | | | | | on DL | | | | | | | | | app | | | | | | | | | licab | | | | | | | | | ility | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | CA_ | | | | | | | | | n3-n4 | | | | | | | | | 0-n41 | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | 37. | | | | | | | | | xxx", | | | | | | | | | CMCC | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | 4-210 | | | | | | | | | 3222, | | | | | | | | | "TP | | | | | | | | | on DL | | | | | | | | | app | | | | | | | | | licab | | | | | | | | | ility | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | CA_ | | | | | | | | | n3-n4 | | | | | | | | | 1-n79 | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | 37. | | | | | | | | | xxx", | | | | | | | | | CMCC | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | 4-210 | | | | | | | | | 3223, | | | | | | | | | "TP | | | | | | | | | on DL | | | | | | | | | app | | | | | | | | | licab | | | | | | | | | ility | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | CA | | | | | | | | | _n8- | | | | | | | | | n39-n | | | | | | | | | 41for | | | | | | | | | 37. | | | | | | | | | xxx", | | | | | | | | | CMCC | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | 4-210 | | | | | | | | | 3224, | | | | | | | | | "TP | | | | | | | | | on DL | | | | | | | | | app | | | | | | | | | licab | | | | | | | | | ility | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | CA_ | | | | | | | | | n8-n4 | | | | | | | | | 1-n79 | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | 37. | | | | | | | | | xxx", | | | | | | | | | CMCC | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | 4-210 | | | | | | | | | 3225, | | | | | | | | | "TP | | | | | | | | | on DL | | | | | | | | | app | | | | | | | | | licab | | | | | | | | | ility | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | CA_n | | | | | | | | | 39-n4 | | | | | | | | | 1-n79 | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | 37. | | | | | | | | | xxx", | | | | | | | | | CMCC | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | 4-210 | | | | | | | | | 3226, | | | | | | | | | "TP | | | | | | | | | on DL | | | | | | | | | app | | | | | | | | | licab | | | | | | | | | ility | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | CA_n | | | | | | | | | 40-n4 | | | | | | | | | 1-n79 | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | 37. | | | | | | | | | xxx", | | | | | | | | | CMCC | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RAN4 | R4-21 | | | | The | 0.2.0 | | 21-04 | # | 04801 | | | | foll | | | | 98b-e | | | | | owing | | | | | | | | | app | | | | | | | | | roved | | | | | | | | | TPs | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | AN4# | | | | | | | | | 98b-e | | | | | | | | | were | | | | | | | | | im | | | | | | | | | pleme | | | | | | | | | nted, | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | 4-210 | | | | | | | | | 5375, | | | | | | | | | TP on | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | pdate | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | note | | | | | | | | | of DL | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | terru | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | app | | | | | | | | | licab | | | | | | | | | ility | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | 37 | | | | | | | | | .867, | | | | | | | | | CMCC | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | 4-210 | | | | | | | | | 5376, | | | | | | | | | TP on | | | | | | | | | DL | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | terru | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | app | | | | | | | | | licab | | | | | | | | | ility | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | CA_n | | | | | | | | | 3-n40 | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | 37 | | | | | | | | | .867, | | | | | | | | | CMCC | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RAN4 | R4-21 | | | | The | 0.3.0 | | 21-05 | \ | 09031 | | | | foll | | | | #99-e | | | | | owing | | | | | | | | | app | | | | | | | | | roved | | | | | | | | | TP in | | | | | | | | | RAN4\ | | | | | | | | | #99-e | | | | | | | | | was | | | | | | | | | im | | | | | | | | | pleme | | | | | | | | | nted, | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | 4-211 | | | | | | | | | 0072, | | | | | | | | | TP to | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | 7.867 | | | | | | | | | DL | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | terru | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | cla | | | | | | | | | rific | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | CA\ | | | | | | | | | _n1-n | | | | | | | | | 3-n78 | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | | | nduct | | | | | | | | | Tx | | | | | | | | | switc | | | | | | | | | hing, | | | | | | | | | China | | | | | | | | | Te | | | | | | | | | lecom | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RAN\ | RP-2 | | | | Edit | 1.0.0 | | 22-03 | #95-e | 20789 | | | | orial | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | pdate | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+