# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document captures the findings from the study item \"Study on
High-power UE operation for fixed-wireless/vehicle-mounted use cases in Band
12, Band 5, and Band n71\".
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP RP-201261: \"New SID on high-power UE operation for fixed-
wireless/vehicle-mounted use cases in Band 12, Band 5, and Band n71\", U.S.
Cellular.
> [3] 3GPP TR 36.837: \"Public safety broadband high power User Equipment
> (UE)\".
>
> [4] 3GPP TS 38.101-1: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
> reception; Part 1: Range 1 Standalone\".
>
> [5] 3GPP R4-2008924: \" LS on Parameters of terrestrial component of IMT for
> sharing and compatibility studies in preparation for WRC-23 (below 5 GHz)\",
> Ericsson.
>
> [6] 3GPP TR 36.802: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
> NB-IOT; Technical Report for BS and UE radio transmission and reception\".
>
> [7] 3GPP TR 36.942: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
> Radio Frequency (RF) system scenarios\".
>
> [8] 3GPP TS 36.101: \" Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
> User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception\".
>
> [9] 3GPP R4-78AH-0150, "Summary of in-band/guard-band interference modeling
> from various companies", Intel, Huawei, Ericsson, ZTE, Nokia Networks.
>
> [10] 3GPP R4-163556, "Simulation results of coexistence studies between NB-
> IoT and LTE, guard-band case", Intel Corporation.
>
> [11] R4-124522, Architecture of Power Class 1 UE in Band 14, RAN4#64, EADS /
> Cassidian
>
> [12] R4-1702437, MPR/A-MPR requirement for PC1 HPUE
>
> [13] 3GPP R4-163555, "Simulation results of coexistence studies between NB-
> IoT and LTE, in-band case", Intel Corporation.
>
> [14] 3GPP TR 37.806: "Extending 850 MHz study Technical Report".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
_CL~x-~_ ~ile~ _x_ -percentile _CL_ value
_P_ ~max~ UE maximum transmit power
_P_ ~t~ UE transmit power
_R_ ~min~ Minimum power reduction ratio
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
3GPP 3rd Generation Partnership Project
ACLR Adjacent Channel Leakage Ratio
A-MPR Additional Maximum Power Reduction
ACS Adjacent Channel Selectivity
BB Base Band
BS Base Station
BW Bandwidth
CL Coupling Loss
DL Downlink
FWA Fixed Wireless Access
HPUE High Power User Equipment
IF Intermediate Frequency
ITU International Telecommunication Union
LTE Long Term Evolution
MOP Maximum Output Power
MPR Allowed Maximum Power Reduction
MTC Machine-Type Communications
NB-IoT Narrowband -- Internet of Things
NB Narrowband
NR New Radio
OOBE Out Of Band Emissions
PA Power Amplifier
PC Power Class
PRB Physical Resource Block
PSNB Public Safety Narrowband
RAN4 Radio Access Network Working Group 4
REFSENS Reference Sensitivity
RF Radio Frequency
Rx Receiver
SW Software
TR Technical Report
Tx Transmitter
UE User Equipment
# 4 Background
## 4.1 Justification
Support for fixed wireless and vehicle mounted user equipment usage scenarios,
with broader rural coverage and higher data rates is envisioned as part of
deployment configurations in LTE band 12 and band 5, and in NR band n71.
Improvements in coverage, availability, and throughput performance to meet the
market demands associated with fixed wireless and vehicle mounted usage would
be enabled with user equipment specified with a power class 1 (31dBm) up-link
transmission capability.
The fixed wireless access scenario provides a variety of benefits consisting
of rapid deployment, and a reduction of costs associated with the transport to
a customer premise, relative to wireline types of transport. The enablement of
fixed wireless user equipment provides backhauling services to an appropriate
base station in a serving network, for any other equipment at the customer
premise. Similarly, vehicle mounted access scenario provides both direct
access to other devices and indirect access to other devices, via the network.
## 4.2 Objective
The objective is to study RF requirements that are applicable for high power
UE operation in LTE band 12 and band 5, and in NR band n71 for fixed wireless
and vehicle-mounted use cases, in ITU Region 2.
> a) Since the OOBE (Out Of Band Emissions) from the Band 12, Band 5, and Band
> n71 for high power user equipment (Power Class 1) into a neighbouring band
> is higher than Power class 3, co-existence studies are anticipated to
> evaluate the throughput OOBE impact on a victim band, from a high power
> aggressor in Band 12, Band 5, and Band n71.
>
> 1) Coexistence studies for B5 to include at a minimum the impact on the B26
> DL and the public safety downlink in 851-861 MHz.
>
> 2) Coexistence studies for B5 include at a minimum the impact to the
> B5/n5/B26/n26 uplink including LTE, NR and MTC1 and 2, NB1 and 2 including
> the A* and B* blocks of the US cellular band configuration as well as the
> public safety uplink in 806-816 MHz.
>
> 3) Coexistence studies for B12 to include at a minimum the impact to the B29
> DL.
>
> 4) Coexistence studies for B12 to include at a minimum the impact to the
> B12/n12/B71/n71/B85 uplink including LTE, NR and MTC1 and 2, NB1 and 2.
>
> 5) Coexistence studies for n71 to include at a minimum the impact to the
> B12/n12/B71/n71/B85 uplink including LTE, NR and MTC1 and 2, NB1 and 2.
>
> 6) Coexistence with B66.
>
> b) Considerations for high power UE operation in Band 12, Band 5, and n71:
>
> 1) B12 UE Tx 3^rd^ harmonic falls into B4 UE Rx band -- will require more
> filters on Tx path if Carrier Aggregation is used:
>
> \- Harmonic exceptions are usually granted, but harmonics from PC1 could be
> much higher.
>
> 2) B5 UE Tx 3^rd^ harmonic falls into 2.4GHz band -- may need more filters
> on Tx path:
>
> \- Harmonic exceptions are usually granted, but harmonics from PC1 could be
> much higher.
>
> 3) n71 UE Tx 3^rd^ harmonic falls into 3GPP victim bands -- may need more
> filters on Tx path:
>
> \- Harmonic exceptions are usually granted, but harmonics from PC1 could be
> much higher.
>
> 4) B5/n5/B26/n26/B27 eNB Rx blocking from UE Tx power in B5.
>
> 5) B85/B12/n12/B17/B66/n66/B71/n71 eNB Rx blocking from UE Tx power in B12.
>
> 6) B85/B12/n12/B17/B2/n2/B25/n25/B71/n71 eNB Rx blocking from UE Tx power in
> n71.
>
> 7) Self-desense of B5, B12, and n71 Rx due to PC1 UL Tx power.
>
> c) Considerations in terms of high power user equipment hardware in Band 12,
> Band 5, and n71:
>
> 1) Identify all new RF components needed for B12, B5, and n71, including
> Power Amplifier, large ceramic duplex filter, switches, possibly antenna
> tuner.
>
> 2) New components will be much larger and produce more heat.
>
> 3) Battery power most likely not an option -- will need power supply due to
> high PA current.
>
> 4) Modem SW changes needed to support broader power control range, headroom
> reporting, and higher output power.
>
> d) UE requirements.
>
> The scope of these considered requirements in table 4.2-1 is limited to
> fixed wireless and vehicle-mounted broadband applications.
Table 4.2-1: Considered UE requirements
* * *
Requirement LTE Band 12 LTE Band 5 NR Band n71 UE Output Power (dBm) +31dBm
+2/-3dB +31dBm +2/-3dB +31dBm +2/-3dB 3GPP 36.101 [8] clause 6 Transmitter
requirements Existing Power Class 1 specification Existing Power Class 1
specification Existing Power Class 1 specification 3GPP 36.101 clause 7
Receiver requirements Existing Power Class 1 specification Existing Power
Class 1 specification Existing Power Class 1 specification
* * *
> High power user equipment (power class 1) would require a different RF
> specification relative to the typical handheld (power class 3) user
> equipment. The proposal is to study relevant requirements for high power
> user equipment operation in Band 12, Band 5, and n71, using a framework
> similar to that specified for high power user equipment operation in Band 14
> (700MHz spectrum) in ITU Region 2. These requirements will be captured in
> the present document.
# 5 Co-existence studies
Editor note: This clause the first objective of the study item.
## 5.1 Simulation assumptions
### 5.1.1 General
The band plan within the 600 -- 900 MHz frequency range in the USA and the
corresponding 3GPP operating bands are shown in figure 5.1.1-1 below.
{width="6.3125in" height="2.4296325459317587in"}
Figure 5.1.1-1: Band plan within the 600 -- 900 MHz frequency range in the USA
It can be seen from figure 5.1-1 that the coexistence scenarios between a
high-power UE aggressor in LTE band 12 and band 5, and in NR band n71 to the
adjacent victim bands are much alike to the scenarios between a high-power UE
aggressor in band 14 to the adjacent victim bands. Therefore, the simulation
assumptions in TR 36.837 [3] for coexistence study of public safety broadband
high power UE can be reused in this study.
Moreover, the frequency range of band 14 is approximately in the middle of LTE
band 12 and band 5, and in NR band n71, hence the 790 MHz carrier frequency in
TR 36.837 can be used for this study and the LTE simulation results in TR
36.837 can be used for reference directly, as the slight change in the carrier
frequency should have minor impacts on the simulation results.
For NR operation, it can be seen in TS 38.101-1 [4] that neither band n71 nor
its adjacent bands have larger than 20 MHz UE channel bandwidth. Furthermore,
it has been agreed in the reply LS to ITU-R WP5D [5] that there is no
beamforming assumed for BS and UE below 1.7 GHz. Considering these two
factors, the differences between the LTE and NR simulation results will be
minor.
For MTC operation, since it is a narrowband LTE operation, the simulation
results will be very similar to the LTE results, considering the narrower
interference bandwidth (which means less of the adjacent interference will
fall into the BS receiver) and noise bandwidth (which means the BS receiver
noise floor will be lower). Therefore, the LTE simulation results in TR 36.837
can be used for reference directly for MTC operation.
For NB-IoT operation, the performance metric is SINR degradation instead of
throughput loss as recorded in TR 36.802 [6], and the NB-IoT ACIR model in TR
36.802 should be used for simulation of NB-IoT standalone operation. The UE
ACLR is the dominant factor here, and it will be scaled down by a factor of 50
(=10/0.2) due to the channel bandwidth difference between the HPUE aggressor
and the NB-IoT victim. Here, the standalone NB-IoT operation will be a worse
case compared to in-band or guard-band NB-IoT operation considering the
internal gap within the 10 MHz LTE channel bandwidth.
Considering the target completion date of this study item, the simulation
results are prioritized according to table 5.1.1-1 according to the discussion
above.
Table 5.1.1-1: Priorities of simulation results
* * *
Scenario Aggressor Victim Priority UL HPUE Vs NB-IoT standalone operation HPUE
NB-IoT High UL HPUE Vs NR / NB-IoT guard band operation (note) HPUE NR Medium
UL HPUE Vs LTE / MTC / NB-IoT in-band operation HPUE LTE / MTC Low Note: NB-
IoT guard band impact should be checked with the HPUE ACLR agreed from
simulation results.
* * *
### 5.1.2 Macro cell Propagation model - Rural Area
The HPUE will be mainly used for extending the coverage in rural areas. The
following Hata rural model [7] is used,
L (R)= 69.55 +26.16log~10~(f)--13.82log~10~(Hb)+[44.9-6.55log~10~(Hb)]log(R)
-- 4.78(log~10~ (f))^2^+18.33 log~10~ (f) -40.94
where:
> R is the base station-UE separation in kilometres
>
> f is the carrier frequency in MHz
>
> Hb is the base station antenna height above ground in metres
For carrier frequency of 790MHz and base station antenna height of 45m above
the ground, the propagation model becomes:
$L = 94.5 + \text{34lo}\text{g}_{\text{10}}(R)$ (1)
Also, per [7], in rural area, Macro cell MCL is 80dB as show in the table
5.1.2-1.
Table 5.1.2-1: Minimal Coupling Loss
* * *
Environment Scenario MCL Macro cell Urban Area BS ↔ UE 70 dB Macro cell Rural
Area BS ↔ UE 80 dB
* * *
### 5.1.3 Power control modelling
In [7], the following power control equation is used for the uplink
coexistence simulations:
$P_{t} = {P_{\max} \times \min}\left{ 1,\max\left\lbrack R_{\min},\left(
\frac{\text{CL}}{CL_{x - \text{ile}}} \right)^{\gamma} \right\rbrack \right}$
(2)
where _P_ ~max~ is the maximum transmit power, _R_ ~min~ is the minimum power
reduction ratio to prevent UEs with good channels to transmit at very low
power level, _CL_ is the coupling loss defined as max{path loss-G_Tx-G_Rx,
MCL}, where path loss is propagation loss plus shadow fading, G_TX is the
transmitter antenna gain in the direction of the receiver, G_RX is the
receiver antenna gain in the direction of the transmitter and _CL~x-~_ ~ile~
is the _x_ -percentile _CL_ value. With this power control equation, the _x_
percent of UEs that have the highest coupling loss will transmit at _P_ ~max~.
Finally, 0\ R is the base station-UE separation in kilometres
Based on equations (1), and (3), the power control parameters can be modified
to account for different propagation model, carrier frequency, BS antenna
height and cell range. For example, in Table 5.1.3-2, CLx-ile = 112 dB for set
1, which corresponds to R = 0.373 km according to equation (3) assuming total
antenna gain of 0 dBi. For 4 km cell range at 700 MHz band, using equation (1)
will get CLx-ile = 94.5 + 34×log10(4/0.5×0.373) = 111 dB. Similarly, the
modified power control parameters for other cases can be obtained as showed in
Table 5.1.3-2.
Table 5.1.3-2: Power control algorithm parameters for 23 dBm UE at 700 MHz
band
Parameter set Gamma CLx-ile (10 MHz bandwidth, 45 m antenna height)
* * *
                          4 km cell range
Set 1 1 111 Set 2 0.8 126
For NB-IoT operation, the power control parameters can be modified to account
for different bandwidth with bandwidth scale of 17=10×log10(9000/180), as
described in TR 36.802 [6]. The modified power control parameters for NB-IoT
operation are shown in Table 5.1.3-3.
Table 5.1.3-3: Power control algorithm parameters for NB-IoT UE at 700 MHz
band
Parameter set Gamma CLx-ile (10 MHz bandwidth, 45 m antenna height)
* * *
                          4 km cell range
Set 1 1 128
### 5.1.4 Practical considerations for HPUE deployment
The fractional power control formula (2) can be simplified into the following
$P_{t} = P_{\max} + \gamma\text{CL} - \text{γCL}_{x - ile}\ $ for $CL  $P_{\max 2} = 31\ dBm$ and $P_{\max 1} = 23\ dBm$
Based on equation (5) and table 5.1.3-2, the new power control parameters for
HPUE is obtained in table 5.1.4-1.
Table 5.1.4-1: Power control algorithm parameters for HPUE at 700 MHz band
Parameter set Gamma CLx-ile (10 MHz bandwidth, 45 m antenna height)
* * *
                          8 km cell range
Set 1 1 119 Set 2 0.8 136
The power control parameters for both aggressor system and victim system are
summarized in table 5.1.4-2.
Table 5.1.4-2: Power control algorithm parameters for UE at 700 MHz band
Parameter set Gamma CLx-ile (10 MHz bandwidth, 45 m antenna height)
* * *
                          4 km cell range 23 dBm UE                         4 km cell range NB-IoT UE   8km cell range HPUE (31 dBm)
Set 1A 1 111 128 119 Set 2A 0.8 126 N/A 136
### 5.1.5 Cell layout
For aggressor system with HPUE, the cell size should be bigger than a victim
system with 23 dBm UEs. Figure 5.1.5-1 shows overlay of two systems with
different cell ranges. In particular, the cell range of aggressor system (in
green) is double the cell range of victim (in blue). Figure 5.1.5-1 shows the
worst case in the sense that some of the aggressor sites are located at the
cell edge of victim system.
{width="4.395833333333333in" height="3.1875in"}
Figure 5.1.5-1 Multi system cell layout with different cell radius
### 5.1.6 Other simulation assumptions
Other simulation assumptions are summarized in the following tables:
Table 5.1.6-1: Simulation parameters for aggressor or victim system with 23dBm
UE
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Parameter | Base Station | UE | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Carrier frequency | 790 MHz | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Channel bandwidth | 10 MHz | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Cell range | 4km | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Cell layout | Wrap-around 19 | | | | tri-sector cells, | | | | uncoordinated | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Frequency reuse | 1x3x1 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Pathloss model | 94.5+34 log(R), R in | | | | km | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Lognormal fading | 10 dB | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Antenna gain and | $$A | Omni-directional | | horizontal antenna | (\theta) = - \min\le | antenna with -6 dBi. | | pattern | ft\lbrack 12\left( \ | | | | frac{\theta}{\theta_ | | | | {3dB}} \right)^{2},A | | | | _{m} \right\rbrack$$ | | | | | | | | 15 dBi, = 65 | | | | degrees, | | | | | | | | _Am_ = 20 dB | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Noise figure | 5 dB | 9 dB | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Transmit power | 46 dBm | 23 dBm | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Antenna height | 45 m | 1.5 m | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | ACLR | 45 dB | ACLR1: 30+X, ACLR2: | | | | 43+X | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | ACS | 45 dB | 33 dB | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
Table 5.1.6-2: Simulation parameters for victim system with NB-IoT UE
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Parameter | Base Station | UE | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Carrier frequency | 790 MHz | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Channel bandwidth | 10 MHz | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Cell range | 4km | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Cell layout | Wrap-around 19 | | | | tri-sector cells, | | | | uncoordinated | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Frequency reuse | 1x3x1 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Pathloss model | 94.5+34 log(R), R in | | | | km | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Lognormal fading | 10 dB | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Antenna gain and | $$A | Omni-directional | | horizontal antenna | (\theta) = - \min\le | antenna with -6 dBi. | | pattern | ft\lbrack 12\left( \ | | | | frac{\theta}{\theta_ | | | | {3dB}} \right)^{2},A | | | | _{m} \right\rbrack$$ | | | | | | | | 15 dBi, = 65 | | | | degrees, | | | | | | | | _Am_ = 20 dB | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Noise figure | 5 dB | 9 dB | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Transmit power | 46 dBm | 23 dBm | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Antenna height | 45 m | 1.5 m | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | ACLR | 45 dB | ACLR1: 37+X, ACLR2: | | | | 50+X | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | ACS | 45 dB | 35 dB | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
Table 5.1.6-3: Simulation parameters for aggressor system with HPUE
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Parameter | Base Station | HPUE | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Carrier frequency | 790 MHz | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Channel bandwidth | 10 MHz | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Cell range | 8km | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Cell layout | Wrap-around 7 | | | | tri-sector cells, | | | | uncoordinated (see | | | | Figure 5.1.5-1) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Frequency reuse | 1x3x1 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Pathloss model | 94.5+34log(R), R in | | | | km | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Lognormal fading | 10 dB | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Antenna gain and | $$A | Omni-directional | | horizontal antenna | (\theta) = - \min\le | antenna | | pattern | ft\lbrack 12\left( \ | | | | frac{\theta}{\theta_ | -1dBi for vehicle | | | {3dB}} \right)^{2},A | mounted mobile. | | | _{m} \right\rbrack$$ | | | | | | | | 15 dBi, = 65 | | | | degrees, _Am_ = 20 | | | | dB | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Noise figure | 5 dB | 9 dB | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Transmit power | 46 dBm | 33 dBm/31 dBm | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Antenna height | 45 m | 1.5 m | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | ACLR | 45 dB | ACLR1: 30+X, ACLR2: | | | | 43+X | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | ACS | 45 dB | 33 dB | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### 5.1.7 Simulation procedure
For the co-existence study, the following should be performed:
> 1) Run the aggressor UL to victim UL coexistence study assuming parameters
> of both systems are according to Table 5.1.6-1 and with victim UL for NB-IoT
> UE operation using parameters in Table 5.1.6-2. Power control parameters in
> Table 5.1.4-2 are used. This corresponds to the coexistence of two
> commercial 23dBm UEs networks operating in adjacent bands and with similar
> deployment parameters. This is used as the reference. Victim system
> performance degradation results in this scenario are used as the baseline.
>
> 2) Run the aggressor UL to victim UL coexistence study assuming +31dBm power
> class UE is deployed in the aggressor system using parameters in Table
> 5.1.6-3, obtain the victim system performance degradation results. The power
> control parameters in Table 5.1.4-2 are used.
>
> 3) Compare the victim system performance degradation in 2) and 1), choose
> ACLR value for the HPUE so that the victim performance degradation due to
> HPUE in 2) is comparable to 1).
## 5.2 Simulation results
### 5.2.1 UL HPUE Vs NB-IoT standalone operation
The simulation results of the victim NB-IoT UE (with 2km cell radius) and
interfering UE transmit power with 23dBm LTE UE (with 2km cell radius) and
31dBm HPUE (with 4km cell radius) are provided in Figures 5.2.1-1 and 5.2.1-2
below. Here the uplink ACIR is obtained using 30dB LTE UE and 37dB HPUE ACLR
and 45dB BS ACS. It can be seen from the figures that around 8% and 5% of the
UE are transmitting at maximum power, respectively, with 23dBm LTE UE and
31dBm HPUE.
{width="5.46875in" height="4.099116360454943in"}
> Figure 5.2.1-1: NB-IoT and 23dBm LTE UE transmit power
>
> {width="5.21875in" height="3.911729002624672in"}
>
> Figure 5.2.1-2: NB-IoT and 31dBm HPUE transmit power
The simulation results of the victim NB-IoT UE UL SINR with 23dBm interfering
LTE UE (with 2km cell radius) and 31dBm interfering HPUE (with 4km cell
radius) are provided in Figures 5.2.1-3 and 5.2.1-4 below. Here again the
uplink ACIR is obtained using 30dB LTE UE and 37dB HPUE ACLR and 45dB BS ACS.
It can be seen from the figures that the victim NB-IoT UE UL SINR degradation
caused by the 23dBm interfering LTE UE and 31dBm interfering HPUE are similar
(within 0.5dB difference). It can also be seen from the figures that the
victim NB-IoT UE UL SINR degradation caused by the 31dBm interfering HPUE is
less than 1dB at 5%, 50%, 95% and 99% CDF points.
{width="5.46875in" height="4.099116360454943in"}
Figure 5.2.1-3: NB-IoT UE UL SINR with 23dBm interfering LTE UE
> {width="5.21875in" height="3.911729002624672in"}
Figure 5.2.1-4: NB-IoT UE UL SINR with 31dBm interfering HPUE
The simulation results of the victim NB-IoT BS received blocking signal power
at the antenna connector with 23dBm interfering LTE UE (with 2km cell radius)
and 31dBm interfering HPUE (with 4km cell radius) are provided in Figures
5.2.1-5 and 5.2.1-6 below. The 99.99%-tile received blocking signal power
levels are around -56dBm and -48dBm, respectively, with 23dBm interfering LTE
UE and 31dBm interfering HPUE. Therefore, the currently specified -43dBm BS
receiver blocking requirement can provide enough protection for the NB-IoT BS
receiver against the HPUE transmission.
{width="5.479166666666667in" height="4.106924759405074in"}
Figure 5.2.1-5: NB-IoT BS received blocking signal power with 23dBm
interfering LTE UE
> {width="5.21875in" height="3.911729002624672in"}
>
> Figure 5.2.1-6: NB-IoT BS received blocking signal power with 31dBm
> interfering HPUE
To summarize, the simulation results have shown that:
1) The victim NB-IoT UE UL SINR degradation caused by the 23dBm interfering
LTE UE and 31dBm interfering HPUE are similar (within 0.5dB difference).
2) The victim NB-IoT UE UL SINR degradation caused by the 31dBm interfering
HPUE is less than 1dB at 5%, 50%, 95% and 99% CDF points.
3) The currently specified -43dBm BS receiver blocking requirement can provide
enough protection for the NB-IoT BS receiver against the HPUE transmission.
### 5.2.2 UL HPUE Vs NB-IoT guard band operation
The interference leaked from LTE UL to NB-IoT UL (on 3.75kHz subcarrier level)
are the average leakage values based on the inputs from several interested
companies [9] and provided in Table 5.2.2-1 below [10].
Table 5.2.2-1: LTE leakage to NB-IoT
LTE to NB-IoT, leakage in dB
* * *
NB-IoT subcarrier 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Leakage -5.38 -14.87 -14.69 -10.43 -11.99
-19.59 -16.56 -13.54 NB-IoT subcarrier 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 Leakage -15.59
-20.50 -18.97 -15.84 -17.58 -22.04 -20.38 -17.60 NB-IoT subcarrier 16 17 18 19
20 21 22 23 Leakage -18.75 -22.70 -20.76 -18.67 -19.62 -23.43 -21.75 -19.67
NB-IoT subcarrier 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 Leakage -19.98 -23.72 -22.52 -20.82
-20.65 -24.57 -23.82 -21.37 NB-IoT subcarrier 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 Leakage
-21.02 -25.10 -24.10 -22.03 -21.71 -25.57 -25.2.12 -21.84 NB-IoT subcarrier 40
41 42 43 44 45 46 47 Leakage -21.76 -25.83 -26.69 -22.05 -22.07 -26.49 -27.00
-22.33
The simulation results of the victim NB-IoT UE (with 2km cell radius) and
interfering UE transmit power with 23dBm LTE UE (with 2km cell radius) and
31dBm HPUE (with 4km cell radius) are provided in Figures 5.2.2-1 and 5.2.2-2
below. It can be seen from the figures that around 8% and 5% of the
interfering UE are transmitting at maximum power, respectively, with 23dBm LTE
UE and 31dBm HPUE.
{width="5.46875in" height="4.099116360454943in"}
Figure 5.2.2-1: NB-IoT and 23dBm LTE UE transmit power
{width="5.208333333333333in" height="3.903920603674541in"}
Figure 5.2.2-2: NB-IoT and 31dBm HPUE transmit power
The simulation results of the victim NB-IoT UE UL SINR with 23dBm interfering
LTE UE (with 2km cell radius) and 31dBm interfering HPUE (with 4km cell
radius) are provided in Figures 5.2.2-3 and 5.2.2-4 below. It can be seen from
the figures that the victim NB-IoT UE UL SINR degradation caused by the 23dBm
interfering LTE UE and 31dBm interfering HPUE are similar (within 1.5dB
difference).
{width="5.489385389326334in" height="4.114583333333333in"}
Figure 5.2.2-3: NB-IoT UE UL SINR with 23dBm interfering LTE UE
{width="5.229166666666667in" height="3.9195352143482065in"}
Figure 5.2.2-4: NB-IoT UE UL SINR with 31dBm interfering HPUE
The victim NB-IoT UE UL SINR degradation caused by the 23dBm interfering LTE
UE and 31dBm interfering HPUE at 5%, 50%, 95% and 99% CDF points are
summarized in Table 5.2.2-2 below. It can be seen from the table that the
victim NB-IoT UE UL SINR degradation caused by the 23dBm interfering LTE UE
and 31dBm interfering HPUE have 1.5dB, 0.6dB, 0.3dB and 0.3dB differences,
respectively, at 5%, 50%, 95% and 99% CDF points.
Table 5.2.2-2: NB-IoT UE UL SINR loss at different CDF points
Interfering UE maximum output power (dBm) NB-IoT UE UL SINR loss at 5% (dB)
NB-IoT UE UL SINR loss at 50% (dB) NB-IoT UE UL SINR loss at 95% (dB) NB-IoT
UE UL SINR loss at 99% (dB)
* * *
23 1.5 0.9 1.1 1.1 31 3 1.5 1.4 1.4
To summarize, the simulation results have shown that:
1) The victim NB-IoT UE UL SINR degradation caused by the 23dBm interfering
LTE UE and 31dBm interfering HPUE are similar (within 1.5dB difference).
2) The 31dBm interfering HPUE generate 1.5dB, 0.6dB, 0.3dB and 0.3dB
(respectively, at 5%, 50%, 95% and 99% CDF points) additional UL SINR
degradation to NB-IoT UE UL SINR comparing to the 23dBm interfering LTE UE.
It should be noted that this evaluation is done considering a worst case
deployment, where the NB-IoT PRB is adjacent to LTE PRBs, which might not
always be the case depending on the considered LTE channel BW and if NB-IoT
carrier is an anchor carrier or not. Moreover, as the NB-IoT subcarriers are
located within the operator's own spectrum, it is expected that the operator
will handle the UL SINR degradation using mitigation techniques like improved
filtering or internal gap between the NB-IoT and LTE subcarriers.
### 5.2.3 UL HPUE Vs NB-IoT in-band operation
The interference leaked from LTE UL to NB-IoT UL (on 3.75kHz subcarrier level)
are the average leakage values based on the inputs from several interested
companies [9] and provided in Table 5.2.2-1 below [13].
Table 5.2.3-1: LTE leakage to NB-IoT
LTE to NB-IoT, leakage in dB
* * *
NB-IoT subcarrier 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Leakage -5.40 -14.18 -13.68 -10.39 -12.00
-18.40 -16.10 -13.07 NB-IoT subcarrier 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 Leakage -14.44
-19.94 -17.20 -14.65 -15.85 -19.60 -18.21 -15.54 NB-IoT subcarrier 16 17 18 19
20 21 22 23 Leakage -16.56 -21.01 -18.62 -15.93 -16.62 -21.05 -18.67 -16.19
NB-IoT subcarrier 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 Leakage -16.54 -20.67 -18.62 -16.41
-16.28 -19.69 -19.48 -16.30 NB-IoT subcarrier 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 Leakage
-15.87 -20.28 -19.12 -15.52 -15.05 -19.06 -19.02 -14.22 NB-IoT subcarrier 40
41 42 43 44 45 46 47 Leakage -13.12 -18.05 -18.14 -11.61 -10.29 -15.63 -13.26
-5.14
The simulation results of the victim NB-IoT UE (with 2km cell radius) and
interfering UE transmit power with 23dBm LTE UE (with 2km cell radius) and
31dBm HPUE (with 4km cell radius) are provided in Figures 5.2.3-1 and 5.2.3-2
below. It can be seen from the figures that around 8% and 5% of the
interfering UE are transmitting at maximum power, respectively, with 23dBm LTE
UE and 31dBm HPUE.
{width="5.479166666666667in" height="4.106924759405074in"}
Figure 5.2.3-1: NB-IoT and 23dBm LTE UE transmit power
{width="5.208333333333333in" height="3.903920603674541in"}
Figure 5.2.3-2: NB-IoT and 31dBm HPUE transmit power
The simulation results of the victim NB-IoT UE UL SINR with 23dBm interfering
LTE UE (with 2km cell radius) and 31dBm interfering HPUE (with 4km cell
radius) are provided in Figures 5.2.3-3 and 5.2.3-4 below. It can be seen from
the figures that the victim NB-IoT UE UL SINR degradation caused by the 23dBm
interfering LTE UE and 31dBm interfering HPUE are within 1.7dB difference.
{width="5.458333333333333in" height="4.09130905511811in"}
Figure 5.2.3-3: NB-IoT UE UL SINR with 23dBm interfering LTE UE
{width="5.208333333333333in" height="3.903920603674541in"}
Figure 5.2.3-4: NB-IoT UE UL SINR with 31dBm interfering HPUE
The victim NB-IoT UE UL SINR degradation caused by the 23dBm interfering LTE
UE and 31dBm interfering HPUE at 5%, 50%, 95% and 99% CDF points are
summarized in Table 5.2.3-2 below. It can be seen from the table that the
victim NB-IoT UE UL SINR degradation caused by the 23dBm interfering LTE UE
and 31dBm interfering HPUE have 1.7dB, 0.6dB, 0.4dB and 0.4dB differences,
respectively, at 5%, 50%, 95% and 99% CDF points.
Table 5.2.3-2: NB-IoT UE UL SINR loss at different CDF points
Interfering UE maximum output power (dBm) NB-IoT UE UL SINR loss at 5% (dB)
NB-IoT UE UL SINR loss at 50% (dB) NB-IoT UE UL SINR loss at 95% (dB) NB-IoT
UE UL SINR loss at 99% (dB)
* * *
23 2.8 1.5 1.5 1.5 31 4.5 2.1 1.9 1.9
To summarize, the simulation results have shown that:
1) The victim NB-IoT UE UL SINR degradation caused by the 23dBm interfering
LTE UE and 31dBm interfering HPUE are within 1.7dB difference.
2) The 31dBm interfering HPUE generate 1.7dB, 0.6dB, 0.4dB and 0.4dB
(respectively, at 5%, 50%, 95% and 99% CDF points) additional UL SINR
degradation to NB-IoT UE UL SINR comparing to the 23dBm interfering LTE UE.
It should be noted that this evaluation is done considering a worst case
deployment, where all NB-IoT subcarriers are scheduled, even those adjacent to
LTE PRBs. By not scheduling the 1 or 2 NB-IoT subcarriers adjacent to LTE
PRBs, the overall leakage would be reduced and the impact would be minimized.
Moreover, as the victim NB-IoT subcarriers are within the aggressor LTE
channel bandwidth, i.e. within the same operator spectrum, it is expected that
the operator will handle the UL SINR degradation using mitigation techniques
like improved filtering or internal gap between the NB-IoT and LTE
subcarriers.
5.3 Coexistence with Public Safety
Satisfactory coexistence between two communication systems in the same
geographical area normally depends on two main criteria:
1) The interfering transmitter out of band emission (OOBE) received by the
affected receiver is sufficiently below this affected receiver noise floor.
2) The total interfering carrier power attenuated by the affected receiver
radio frequency (RF), intermediate frequency (IF), and base band (BB) filters
is sufficiently below the affected receiver noise floor.
System simulation is required for coexistence studies on the interference
cases involving UE. This is because the UE positions are not fixed, and they
are not expected to transmit with full power most of the time due to power
control. Hence using deterministic analysis could result in findings that are
too conservative, which in turn lead to unnecessary tight coexistence
requirements. System simulation need to be performed based on agreed
methodology and parameters, so that results from different companies can be
compared directly to draw the conclusions from the studies.
The public safety narrowband (PSNB) system parameters used for Band 26 and
PSNB coexistence studies in TR 37.806 [14] are shown in table 5.3-1, and some
simulation results can be found in clause 7.2 of TR 37.806. These parameters
can be considered together with the assumptions provided in clause 5.1 of this
TR for the system simulation between HPUE and public safety operation.
**Table 5.3-1: PSNB system parameters**
* * *
Base Station Portable
* * *
Carrier frequency 850 MHz
Channel bandwidth 6.25 kHz
Cell radius 12 km
Antenna height 100 m from ground 1.5m
Lognormal fading 10 dB
Antenna gain and antenna pattern 11 dBi omni-directional Antenna gain + body
loss =-6 dBi
Noise figure 5.7 dB 9.75 dB
Transmit power 45 dBm\ 36 dBm (after combiner loss)
SNR Threshold 16.5 dB 16.5 dB
Effective Noise Bandwidth (ENBW) 6.25 kHz 6.25 kHz
Noise Floor -130.3dBm / 6.25 kHz -126.3dBm / 6.25 kHz
Sensitivity -113.8dBm / 6.25 kHz -109.8dBm / 6.25 kHz
ACS 72 dB
* * *
Based on datasheet of "APX™ 8000 ALL-BAND P25 PORTABLE RADIO" the ACS of PSNB
handset can be considered as 72dB.
{width="6.695138888888889in" height="5.076388888888889in"}
Note that the target OOBE from a Band 5 HPUE to the public safety downlink and
uplink frequency ranges (for criterion 1), as well as the achievable
attenuation on the Band 5 HPUE carrier power at the public safety downlink and
uplink receiver filters (for criterion 2), need to be agreed on to evaluate
the impact from a Band 5 HPUE on the public safety downlink in 851-861 MHz and
the public safety uplink in 806-816 MHz. The simulation methodology and
parameters for the system simulation should be further discussed and agreed
during the work item (WI) phase.
# 6 UE operation
Editor note: This clause the second objective of the study item.
## 6.1 UE transmitter third harmonic
Table 1 presents UL harmonic analysis based on UE to UE co-existence tables in
36.101 and 38.101-1. Table is not exhaustive presentation. It can be seen that
newly proposed band 2 has 2^nd^ harmonic landing on bands 50 and 51 and 3^rd^
and 5^th^ order harmonics interfering some bands. Band 5 has 3^rd^ and 4^th^
order harmonics interfering some bands and n71 has 3^rd^, 4^th^ and 5^th^
harmonic relation with some bands. However as can been also seen from Table 1
already existing PC1 bands 3, 14, 20 and 28 have also 2^nd^, 3^rd^, 4^th^ and
5^th^ order harmonics interfering other bands and no additional requirement or
relaxations is specified due to that. Therefore, it is justified that for
bands 5, 12 and n71 the introduction of PC1 does not create any additional
requirements or relaxations due to uplink harmonics.
Table 1: UL harmonic analysis
2nd harmonic 3rd harmonic 4th harmonic 5th harmonic
* * *
Band 3 n77 Band 5 41, 52, n90 n77 n77 Band 12 75, 76 1, 4, 65, 66 48, n77 Band
14 n77 Band 20 38, 69 42, n77 Band 28 32, 74 1, 4, 66 n77 Band n71 2, 25, 70
7, 41 n77, n90
## 6.2 BS receiver blocking
The simulation results in clause 5.2.1 have shown that the currently specified
-43dBm BS receiver blocking requirement for Wide Area BS can provide enough
protection for the NB-IoT BS receiver against the HPUE transmission, hence no
change is required.
## 6.3 UE self-dense
Only receiver requirement that has been defined for PC1 UE is the exception
due to the high-power leakage or blocking issue for band 20, see Table
7.3.1-1b below. From [12] we can learn that REFSENS exception due to PC1
operation relates IQ-image and carrier leakage components distorting on the PA
and 5th order IM products hit on own Rx band. In PC3 operation this is handled
with NS-10 and with special UL allocation during REFSENS test which avoids
MSD.
Table 7.3.1-1b: Reference sensitivity for power class 1 QPSK P~REFSENS~
(Exception due to high power issue)
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | E | 1.4 | 3 | 5 | 10 | 15 | 20 | D | | -UTRA | MHz\ | MHz\ | MHz\ | MHz\ | MHz\ | MHz\ | uplex | | Band | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | Mode | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | | | -92.8 | -90.9 | -89.5 | -88.5 | FDD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | | ransm | | | | | | | | | itter | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | set | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | P~ | | | | | | | | | UMAX~ | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | lause | | | | | | | | | 6.2.5 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | Refe | | | | | | | | | rence | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | A.3.2 | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | one | | | | | | | | | sided | | | | | | | | | dy | | | | | | | | | namic | | | | | | | | | OCNG | | | | | | | | | Pa | | | | | | | | | ttern | | | | | | | | | OP.1 | | | | | | | | | FD | | | | | | | | | D/TDD | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | desc | | | | | | | | | ribed | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | Annex | | | | | | | | | A.5.1 | | | | | | | | | .1/A. | | | | | | | | | 5.2.1 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 3: | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ignal | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | per | | | | | | | | | port. | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
This relaxation has not been defined for other PC1 bands such as 3, 14, 28,
31, 72, 87 and 88.
In Figure1 existing PC1 bands 14, 20 and 28 are compared to new PC1 bands 5,
12 and n71. Uplink channel edge separation to downlink channel edge is
presented pictorially and a figure of merit (FOM) is calculated as CH BW /
(UL~edge~ to DL~edge~ separation) then bands are ranked based on this FOM to
determine if current PC3 REFSENS can be met in PC1 operation.
As can be seen from Fig 6.3-1 band 20 ranks the most difficult and as
mentioned earlier there is REFSENS exception specified due to this. Easiest is
the band 5 in this context and given that band 14 does not have specified
exception it is clear that band 5 does not need it either.
From Fig 6.3-1 ranking and FOM perspective there is a need to study if band
n71 needs REFSENS exception due to PC1 operation. Bands 28 and n71 are both
based on dual duplexer architecture and band 28 does not have exception but
FOM is on the other hand lower 0.6 compared to 0.8 for n71.
Then when studying the band 12 it can be seen that the FOM is 0.5 which is
same as band 14 which does not have REFSENS exception specified however band
14 has seven MHz wider duplex-gap which helps filters to reach adequate
attenuation. Current PC1 band 28 does not have exception and it has higher FOM
of 0.6 compared to band 12. One thing that helps band 28 is that specification
assumes 2x30 MHz filtering which gives extra 15 MHz compared to duplex gap to
settle. Given the difficulty ranking and keeping in mind the band 28 dual-
duplexer arrangement it may be considered that no REFSENS exception is needed
for band 12 in PC 1 operation.
{width="5.138888888888889in" height="1.5208333333333333in"}
Figure 6.3-1: PC1
## 6.4 Modem SW changes
Comparing to 23dBm UE, modem software (SW) changes are needed to support
broader power control range, headroom reporting, and higher output power of
HPUE. However, these broader ranges of operation are not critical issues for a
fixed-wireless/vehicle-mounted modem, and hence no implementation issue is
foreseen.
# 7 UE hardware
Editor note: This clause the third objective of the study item.
## 7.1 New RF components
During Rel-11 when band 14 PC1 requirements were developed Technical report
Public safety broadband high power User Equipment (UE) for band 14 [3] and a
contribution [11] discussed necessary hardware changes to realize PC1
vehicular mobile form factor compared to PC3 normal handheld formfactor. These
studies in [3][11] are considered to be relevant also to this WI targeting
high-power UE operation for fixed-wireless/vehicle-mounted use cases in LTE
bands 5 and 12 and NR band n71.
Main take away from [3][11] is that in order to minimize implementation
complexity and utilize the Power Class 3 eco-system it was considered that
changes to the baseband IC and RF IC should be avoided and only changes to the
discrete RF combining front end elements are considered. This manifests mainly
to need of frontend filters with better power handling capabilities. Suitable
technologies mentioned were ceramic-filters and cavity-filters. Furthermore
power amplifiers that are capable for PC1 operation are obviously necessity. A
few filter examples are presented below with input power capabilities of 43
dBm which obviously in more than needed for PC1 operation even considering the
post PA-losses but this demonstrates that capable technology is available.
Band 5 duplex-filter UMD005A (ctscorp.com)
Band 5/partial Band 26 duplex-filter UMD026B (ctscorp.com)
Band 12 duplex-filter UMD012A (ctscorp.com)
Band 71/n71 duplex-filter UMD071A (ctscorp.com)
In addition to the above filters with 43 dBm capability, there are also
filters with input power capabilities of 38 dBm, that are smaller and may be
more appropriate for FWA devices. Nonetheless, the filters are still very
large and may only be suitable for large form factor FWA. Not all FWA devices
may be able to accommodate these filters.
Band 5 duplex-filter USD005A (ctscorp.com)
{width="6.695138888888889in" height="4.227777777777778in"}
{width="6.695138888888889in" height="2.142361111111111in"}
Band 5/full Band 26 duplex-filter USD026A (ctscorp.com)
{width="6.695138888888889in" height="3.8118055555555554in"}
{width="6.695138888888889in" height="2.1430555555555557in"}
Band 12 duplex-filter USD012A (ctscorp.com)
{width="6.695138888888889in" height="4.144444444444445in"}
{width="6.695138888888889in" height="2.1006944444444446in"}
Band 71/n71 and Band 85 UL duplex-filter USD7185A (ctscorp.com)
{width="6.695138888888889in" height="4.722222222222222in"}
{width="6.695138888888889in" height="2.1166666666666667in"}
## 7.2 Components size and heat
Components for PC1 are larger especially the ceramic filters and produce more
heat especially the power amplifier. But as the formfactors in question are
not handheld devices, instead target is FWA (for example customer premise
equipment) or a vehicular use then these issues are manageable.
## 7.3 Power supply
Given the target form factors the end products are not intended to run on
battery power.
# 8 UE requirements
Editor note: This clause the fourth objective of the study item.
## 8.1 UE Output Power
In order a band to have PC1 operation possible power class needs to be
captured into Table 6.2.2-1 or Table 6.2.1-1 in specifications 36.101 and
38.101-1 respectively. LTE specification has also _NOTE 8: Generally, PC1 UE
is not targeted for smartphone form factor_ associated for PC1 operation but
NR specification does not have this note. Tolerance is band agnostic +2/-3
therefore necessary changes are highlighted in yellow. (Note to keep table
shorter many bands are not listed)
Table 6.2.2-1: UE Power Class
EUTRA band Class 1 (dBm) Tolerance (dB) Class 2 (dBm) Tolerance (dB) Class 3
(dBm) Tolerance (dB) Class 4 (dBm) Tolerance (dB)
* * *
1 23 ±2  
2 23 ±2^2^  
3 31 +2/-3 23 ±2^2^  
4 23 ±2  
5 31 +2/-3 23 ±2  
6 23 ±2  
11 23 ±2  
12 31 +2/-3 23 ±2^2^  
13 23 ±2  
14 31 +2/-3 23 ±2
19 23 ±2  
20 31 +2/-3 23 ±2^2^  
21 23 ±2  
27 23 ±2  
28 31 +2/-3 23 +2/-2.5  
30 23 ±2  
31 31 +2/-3 23 ±2  
...  
72 31 +2/-3 23 ±2  
73 23 ±2  
85 23 ±2^2^  
87 31 +2/-3 23 ±2  
88 31 +2/-3 23 ±2  
NOTE 8: Generally, PC1 UE is not targeted for smartphone form factor.
Table 6.2.1-1: UE Power Class
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NR | Class | Tole | Class | Tole | Class | Tole | Class | Tole | | | 1 | rance | 1.5 | rance | 2 | rance | 3 | rance | | band | (dBm) | (dB) | (dBm) | (dB) | (dBm) | (dB) | (dBm) | (dB) | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+ | n8 | | | | | | | 23 | ±2^3^ | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | n12 | | | | | | | 23 | ±2^3^ | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | n14 | 31 | +2/-3 | | | | | 23 | ±2^3^ | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | n18 | | | | | | | 23 | ±2 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | n71 | 31 | +2/-3 | | | | | 23 | +2 | | | | | | | | | | /-2.5 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | | P~P | | | | | | | | | | owerC | | | | | | | | | | lass~ | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | | ximum | | | | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | | wi | | | | | | | | | | thout | | | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | | | aking | | | | | | | | | | into | | | | | | | | | | ac | | | | | | | | | | count | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | tole | | | | | | | | | | rance | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | | Power | | | | | | | | | | class | | | | | | | | | | 3 is | | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | | fault | | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | | class | | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | | nless | | | | | | | | | | othe | | | | | | | | | | rwise | | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | | tated | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 3: | | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | | efers | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | | bandw | | | | | | | | | | idths | | | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | | F~UL\ | | | | | | | | | | _low~ | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | F~UL\ | | | | | | | | | | _low~ | | | | | | | | | | + 4 | | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | | F | | | | | | | | | | ~UL_ | | | | | | | | | | high~ | | | | | | | | | | -- 4 | | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | F~ | | | | | | | | | | UL_h | | | | | | | | | | igh~, | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | | ximum | | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | | utput | | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | | laxed | | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | | red | | | | | | | | | | ucing | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | lower | | | | | | | | | | tole | | | | | | | | | | rance | | | | | | | | | | limit | | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | | 1.5 | | | | | | | | | | dB. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 4: | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | | ximum | | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | | utput | | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | | laxed | | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | | red | | | | | | | | | | ucing | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | lower | | | | | | | | | | tole | | | | | | | | | | rance | | | | | | | | | | limit | | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | | 0.3 | | | | | | | | | | dB | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 5: | | | | | | | | | | Ach | | | | | | | | | | ieved | | | | | | | | | | via | | | | | | | | | | dual | | | | | | | | | | Tx | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
## 8.2 Transmitter requirements
### 8.2.1 UE maximum output power for CA
In 6.2.2A of 36.101 there is a sentence
> For inter-band carrier aggregation with one uplink component carrier
> assigned to one E-UTRA band in Band 3, 20, 28, or 31, the requirements for
> power class 1 are not applicable and the corresponding requirements for a
> power class 3 UE shall apply.
Therefore, there may be a need to add bands 5 and 12 into the list, as an
observation not all PC 1 bands are listed currently. NR specification does not
have such a list but currently only n14 is valid for NR PC1 and it is not
mentioned in E-UTRA list either.
### 8.2.2 UE maximum output power for modulation / channel bandwidth
LTE MPR is defined to be power class agnostic hence no changes are required.
NR MPR clause does not mention PC1 applicability even though n14 PC 1 is
already specified. Following E-UTRA approach NR MPR could be also valid for
PC1.
### 8.2.3 UE maximum output power with additional requirements
LTE A-MPR is defined to be valid also for PC1
NR A-MPR clause does not mention if A-MPR is valid for PC1 but currently only
valid NR PC1 band is n14 and it does not have A-MPR defined. Neither has n71
but it would be necessary to discuss if PC1 needs A-MPR for band n71.
### 8.2.4 ACLR
E-UTRA~ACLR~ is already defined for PC1 in Table 6.6.2.3.1-2 hence no changes
are required.
In 36.101 it is stated that UTRA~ACLR~ is not applicable to the power class 1
UE operating in Band 3, 20, 28, 31 or 72.
NR ACLR requirement does not mention PC1. E-UTRA PC1 ALCR of 37 dB could be
re-used in NR specification.
N71 does not have UTRA operation hence no UTRA~ACLR~ requirement is needed.
## 8.3 Receiver requirements
Apart from possible REFSENS exception which is discussed in clause 6.3 no
receiver requirements are needed for PC1.
# 9 Conclusion
Various studies have been performed within this study item on coexistence
between HPUE and adjacent channel services in the same geographical area, HPUE
operation impacts on BS and UE performance, HPUE hardware requirements and
implementation feasibility, as well as the required changes in the RAN4
specifications for HPUE requirements.
Coexistence studies between HPUE in Band 12, Band 5, and Band n71 and adjacent
channel services in the same geographical area have been performed by analysis
and simulation. No fundamental coexistence issue has been found between HPUE
in Band 12, Band 5, and Band n71 and adjacent channel LTE, NR, MTC, and NB-IoT
standalone operation in the same geographical area, and the impacts on NB-IoT
in-band or guard band operation within the operator's own spectrum can be
handled using mitigation techniques like improved filtering or internal gap
between the NB-IoT and LTE subcarriers. On the other hand, the simulation
methodology and parameters for the system simulation for coexistence studies
between HPUE in Band 5 and adjacent channel public safety operation in the
same geographical area should be further discussed and agreed during the WI
phase.
HPUE operation impacts on Band 12, Band 5, and Band n71 BS and UE performance
have been studied in terms of UE transmitter harmonics and UE self-dense, as
well as BS receiver blocking. No need has been identified for any additional
UE requirements or relaxations due to uplink harmonics, nor any change in the
BS receiver blocking requirements. On the other hand, UE REFSENS exception due
to self-dense may be needed, and this should be further discussed and agreed
during the WI phase.
HPUE hardware and software requirements in Band 12, Band 5, and Band n71 as
well as implementation feasibility have been studied, and no major
implementation issue has been found, given the target form factors for fixed-
wireless/vehicle-mounted use cases.
The required changes in the RAN4 specifications for HPUE requirements in Band
12, Band 5, and Band n71 have been identified, including MOP, MPR, A-MPR, and
ACLR. These requirements should be further discussed and agreed during the WI
phase, considering the interactions between them (e.g. MRP and ACLR) and other
related parameters (e.g. larger NR spectrum utilization for band n71).
#