# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
Network sharing is emerging as a mechanism for operators to substantially and
sustainably improve network costs and to efficiently utilize network capacity.
The traditional model of single ownership of all network layers and elements
is being challenged and more and more operators are adopting network sharing
as a means of cutting the heavy costs involved in initial roll-out, capital
expenditure (**CAPEX)** and operational expenditure (OPEX).
In general, an increasing number of operators are sharing their mobile
networks. Main arguments presented are:
\- Increased rollout speed.
\- Quickly expanding coverage to meet customer demand for wider coverage.
\- Sharing low traffic areas.
\- Sharing high license burdens.
\- Lower CAPEX and OPEX.
Network sharing has some major implications on the operations of the network.
Alignment on operational priorities, common network planning/evolution
strategy, sharing end user data/subscriber data, sharing performance data,
alarms etc. in the shared network need to be considered carefully. Privacy,
security and competitive information are also important for the operations of
a shared network.
# 1 Scope
The present document describes concepts and high-level requirements for the
Operations, Administration, Maintenance and Provisioning (OAM&P) of network
sharing.
Network sharing scenarios considered in the present document are Multiple
Operator Core Network (MOCN) and Gateway Core Network (GWCN) for GERAN, UTRAN
and E-UTRAN, as defined in TS 23.251 [7] , and Multiple Operator Core Network
(MOCN) for NG-RAN as defined in TS 23.501[7].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[4] 3GPP TS 36.300: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN); Overall
description; Stage 2\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.251: \"Network sharing; Architecture and functional
description\".
[6] 3GPP TS 36.314: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Layer 2 -- Measurements\"
[7] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System architecture for the 5G System (5GS); Stage2\".
[8] 3GPP TS 28.541: \"Management and orchestration; 5G Network Resource Model
(NRM); Stage 2 and stage 3\".
[9] 3GPP TS 28.552: \"Management and orchestration; 5G performance
measurements\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TS 32.101 [2], TS 32.102 [3] and TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term
defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the
same term, if any, in TS 32.101 [2], TS 32.102 [3] and TR 21.905 [1], in that
order.
Organizational roles:
**Master Operator (MOP):** In Radio Access Network (RAN) and/or Core Network
(CN) sharing scenarios, deployment and daily operation of shared network
elements are entrusted to a single Actor, called the Master Operator. The
Master Operator provides network and OAM&P services to other Operators, called
Participating Operators (POPs). The Master Operator is the only one to have a
direct OAM&P connection from its Domain Manager (DM) to the shared network
elements.
**Participating Operator (POP):** Participating Operators are service
providers who share, alongside other Participating Operators, the network (RAN
and/or CN) facilities provided by the Master Operator. According to TS 36.300
[4] up to 6 operators can share a RAN.
Note: In a RAN/CN sharing scenario where Company A and Company B are POPs, MOP
represents a role which can be played by either:
\- Company A or Company B: in that case, Company A or Company B plays both
roles, i.e. is the MOP and one of the POPs simultaneously, or
\- A joint-venture between Company A and Company B, or
\- A third-party entity: in this context, third party is referring to a
wholesale mobile connectivity provider.
In the two latter cases, companies A and B rely on another company to play the
role of MOP. This company cannot play the role of POP.
Management systems:
**Master Operator Network Manager (MOP-NM):** Network Manager enabling the
Master Operator to manage the shared RAN and/or shared CN.
**Master Operator Shared CN dm (MOP--SC-DM):** Domain Manager enabling the
Master Operator to manage the Shared CN.
**Master Operator Shared RAN dm (MOP--SR-DM):** Domain Manager enabling the
MOP to manage the Shared RAN.
**Participating Operator CN DM (POP-CORE-DM):** Domain Manager enabling a
Participating Operator to manage its own (not shared) Core Network.
**Participating Operator Network Manager (POP-NM):** Network Manager enabling
a Participating Operator to manage its own (not shared) network and its
portion of the shared network.
**Participating Operator RAN DM (POP-RAN-DM):** Domain Manager enabling a
Participating Operator to manage its own (not shared) RAN.
Managed resources in a shared Radio Access Network (RAN) environment:
**Shared RAN (S-RAN):** A set of Radio Access Network elements shared among
Participating Operators.
Managed resources in a shared Core Network (CN) environment:
**Shared CN (S-CORE):** A set of Core Network elements shared among
Participating Operators. It may or may not include all core network elements.
For example, the Participating Operators may share only the MMEs while having
independent S/P GWs.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
ARP Allocation and Retention Priority
DL Downlink
DM Domain Manager
GBR Guaranteed Bit Rate
GWCN Gateway Core Network
MDT Minimization of Drive Tests
MOCN Multiple Operator Core Network
MOP Master Operator
MOP-NM Master Operator Network Manager
MOP--SC-DM Master Operator Shared CN DM
MOP--SR-DM Master Operator Shared RAN DM
NGCOR Next Generation Converged Operations Requirements
OAM&P Operations, Administration, Maintenance and Provisioning
POP Participating Operator
POP-CORE-DM Participating Operator CN DM
POP-NM Participating Operator Network Manager
POP-RAN-DM Participating Operator RAN DM
QCI Quality of Service Class Indicator
QoS Quality of Service
SON Self-Organizing Networks
S-CORE Shared CN
S-RAN Shared RAN
UL Uplink
# 4 Concepts and background
## 4.1 RAN sharing scenarios
Various network sharing scenarios exist, amongst which one category is RAN
sharing which can be divided into the following (non exhaustive) list of sub-
categories:
\- Passive RAN sharing, also known as infrastructure sharing (including site
sharing).
\- Active RAN sharing, where active network elements of the RAN are shared:
\- RAN-only sharing (MOCN; see TS 23.251 [5] and TS 23.501 [7]), i.e. BTSs /
BSCs (respectively NodeBs / RNCs and eNodeBs) in a 2G Radio Access Network
(respectively a 3G Radio Access Network and an E-UTRA network) , and gNBs in a
5G NR network;
\- Gateway Core Network (GWCN; see TS 23.251 [5]), in which not only the Radio
Access Network elements are shared but also part or all of the Core Network
elements (there is no passive core network sharing).
The following figures depict the MOCN scenarios:
Figure 4.1-1: E-UTRAN MOCN network sharing scenario
Figure 4.1-2: NG-RAN MOCN Network Sharing with same cell identity broadcast
scenario
Figure 4.1-3 NG-RAN MOCN Network Sharing with multiple cell identity broadcast
scenario
In GWCN, besides sharing Radio Access Network nodes, the POPs also share Core
Network nodes (see TS 23.251 [5] -- clause 4.1).
{width="3.9368055555555554in" height="3.025in"}
Figure 4.1-4: GateWay Core Network (GWCN)
## 4.2 Management architecture
The management architecture for MOCN is depicted in figure 4.2-1. It is
compliant with 3GPP management reference model (TS 32.101 [2]).
{width="3.9368055555555554in" height="2.714583333333333in"}
Figure 4.2-1: Management architecture for MOCN
In the MOCN scenario, all cells of the S-RAN are shared between POPs.
The management architecture for GWCN is depicted in figure 4.2-2. It is
compliant with 3GPP management reference model (TS 32.101 [2]).
{width="4.330555555555556in" height="2.857638888888889in"}
Figure 4.2-2: Management architecture for GWCN
# 5 Business level requirements
## 5.1 Requirements
### 5.1.1 Requirements for the OAM&P of shared RAN
**REQ-NS_GEN-CON-1 The 3GPP management system of the MOP shall support a
capability allowing its authorized consumer to manage** S-RAN **of any of the
following** radio access technologies**:**
i/ GERAN;
ii/ UTRAN;
iii/ E-UTRAN;
iV/ NG-RAN.
**REQ-NS_GEN-CON-2 The 3GPP management system of the MOP shall support a
capability allowing its authorized consumer to manage** S-RAN **according to
any of the following scenarios** :
i/ Multi-Operator Core Network
ii/ Gateway Core Network.
**REQ-NS_GEN-CON-3** The 3GPP management system of the MOP shall support a
capability allowing its authorized consumer to know which POPs the shared
resources belong to.
**REQ-NS_GEN-CON-4** The 3GPP management system of the MOP shall support a
capability allowing its authorized consumer to configure which POPs share each
cell.
**REQ-NS_GEN-CON-5** Any POP shall be able to activate a signaling-based trace
/ MDT session on its subscribers, whether they are attached to the POP own RAN
or to the **S-RAN** , provided:
a/ this is compliant with the RAN sharing contract; and
b/ user consent for participation in MDT is respected.
**REQ-NS_GEN-CON-6** The MOP shall be able, on behalf of any POP, to activate
an area-based trace / MDT session, on the portion of the **S-RAN** that the
POP shares and on the POP subscribers only, from the 3GPP management system of
MOP, provided
a/ only the POP related subscriber data are collected;
b/ this is compliant with the RAN sharing contract; and
c/ user consent for participation in MDT is respected.
**REQ-NS_GEN-CON-7** The MOP shall be able, on behalf of multiple POPs, to
activate an area-based trace / MDT session, on the portion of the **S-RAN**
that each POP shares and on each POP subscribers only, from the 3GPP
management system of MOP, provided:
a/ each POP has access only to its subscriber data (i.e. not to other POPs\'
subscriber data);
b/ this is compliant with the RAN sharing contract; and
c/ user consent for participation in MDT is respected.
### 5.1.2 Requirements for the OA&M of shared core network elements
**REQ-NS_GEN-CON-8** In the GWCN scenario, t**he MOP shall be able to manage
S-CORE**.
**REQ-NS_GEN-CON-9** The MOP shall be able to know which POPs the shared core
network elements belong to.
**REQ-NS_GEN-CON-10** The MOP shall be able to configure which POPs share each
core network element.
### 5.1.3 Requirements for the management of measurements for cross-operator
accounting based on data volume and QoS
**REQ-NS_PM-CON-1** The MOP shall be able to charge the POPs for the data
volume used by POP's users per selected QoS profile criteria via measurements
defined for shared networks.
\- The QoS profile criteria may include QCI Indicator, GBR Indicator, ARP
Indicator.
\- It shall be possible to differentiate between DL and UL.
**REQ-NS_PM-CON-2** The MOP shall be able to set the reliability for the
selected measurements defined for cross operator accounting purpose in shared
networks.
**REQ-NS_PM-CON-3** A maximum number of 200 counter instances (for
measurements defined for cross operator accounting purpose in shared networks)
can be recorded per granularity period.
### 5.1.4 Requirements for management support for NG-RAN MOCN network sharing
scenario with same Cell Identity broadcast
**Req-MOCN_SameCellId_Cfg-CON-1**. The 3GPP management system of the MOP shall
have the capability to configure NgC and NgU individually for each POP.
**Req- MOCN_SameCellId_Cfg-CON-2**. The 3GPP management system of the MOP
shall have the capability to configure PLMNId individually for each POP.
**Req- MOCN_SameCellId_Per-CON-3**. The 3GPP management system of the MOP
shall have the capability to collect and report some measurements (e.g. active
UEs measurements, packet delay measurements) in PLMN granularity for each POP.
### 5.1.5 Requirements for management support for NG-RAN MOCN network sharing
scenario with multiple Cell Identity broadcast
**Req-MOCN-MultiCellId-Cfg-CON-1** The 3GPP management system of the MOP shall
have the capability to configure NgC and NgU individually for each POP.
**Req-MOCN-MultiCellId-Cfg-CON-2** The 3GPP management system of the MOP shall
have the capability to configure PLMN-IdentityInfo (including PLMNId, NR Cell
Identity, TAC) individually for each POP.
**Req-MOCN-MultiCellId-Perf-CON-3** The 3GPP management system shall have the
capability to collect and report some measurements (e.g. active UEs
measurements, packet delay measurements) in PLMN granularity for each POP.
**Req-MOCN-MultiCellId-Cfg-CON-4** The 3GPP management system of the MOP shall
have the capability to configure the common F1 interface for all POPs.
**Req-MOCN-MultiCellId-Cfg-CON-5** The 3GPP management system of the MOP shall
have the capability to configure the individual F1 interface for each POP.
**Req-MOCN-MultiCellId-Cfg-CON-6** The 3GPP management system of the MOP shall
have the capability to configure the individual NR cell relation individually
for each POP.
### 5.1.6 Requirements for the OAM&P of shared NG-RAN
**REQ-NS_NG-CON-1 The 3GPP management system of the MOP shall support a
capability to manage** both the non-shared network elements and shared network
elements in a NG-RAN network at the same time.
**REQ-NS_NG-CON-2 The 3GPP management system of the MOP shall support a
capability to** configure the NG-RAN network element to start the sharing of
one currently non-shared NG-RAN network element or stop the sharing of one
currently shared NG-RAN network element.
**REQ-NS_NG-CON-3 The 3GPP management system of the MOP shall support a
capability to configure the POP-specific attributes of the shared NG-RAN
individually based on the POPs' requirements.**
**REQ-NS_NG-CON-4 The 3GPP management system of the MOP shall have the
capability to configure the** radio resources partitioning policies for the
POPs based on the agreement between POPs.
**Req-MOCN-MultiCellId-Cfg-CON-5** The 3GPP management system of the MOP shall
have the capability to configure the administrative state of the operator
specific NR Cell DU.
## 5.2 Actor roles
For GERAN, UTRAN, and E-UTRAN:
MOP-SR-DM: An entity performing an IRPAgent role in MOCN and in GWCN.
MOP-SC-DM: An entity performing an IRPAgent role in GWCN.
MOP-NM: An entity performing the IRPManager role in MOCN and in GWCN.
For NG-RAN:
MOP-SR-DM: An entity performing the Management Service Producer role for the
management of shared NG-RAN MOCN.
MOP-NM: An entity performing the Management Service Consumer role for the
management of shared NG-RAN in MOCN.
## 5.3 Telecommunications resources
For MOCN and GWCN, the managed GERAN, UTRAN, E-UTRAN, NG-RAN network elements
are viewed as relevant telecommunications resources in the present document.
For GWCN, MSC, SGSN and MME are viewed as relevant telecommunications
resources in the present document.
## 5.4 High-level use cases
### 5.4.1 Fully pooled radio resources between two POPs
In this use case, cells are shared between POP A and POP B. As agreed by MOP
and POPs in their RAN sharing agreement:
\- Radio resources of the **S-RAN** are fully pooled between POP A and POP B;
UEs from POP A and POP B are served in the **S-RAN** in a first come first
served mode;
\- MOP is responsible for configuring the **S-RAN** accordingly.
{width="3.9368055555555554in" height="3.790277777777778in"}
Figure 5.4.1-1: Fully pooled radio resources between two POPs
### 5.4.2 Alarm raised on a shared cell (MOCN scenario)
In this use case, an alarm is raised on cell #1 of a shared (e)NodeB.
According to the RAN sharing agreement, the two POPs A and B are informed by
the MOP of the occurrence of this new alarm, as well as of the alarm clearance
by the MOP.
{width="4.330555555555556in" height="3.223611111111111in"}
Figure 5.4.2-1. Handling of an alarm raised on a shared cell (MOCN)
### 5.4.3 Single DM for managing S-RAN and POP own RAN
In this use case, Operator A is a POP and manages its own (non-shared) NEs
from its POP-RAN-DM while Operator B is both MOP and POP and manages **S-RAN**
and its own (non-shared) NEs from a single DM.
Operator B has several possibilities:
Example #1: configure, NE per NE, which POPs share the cells that it manages;
or
Example #2: define two separate groups of BTSs / (e)NodeBs:
\- one for the **S-RAN** NEs -- it shall then configure which POPs share the
cells of this group of BTSs / (e)NodeBs; and
\- one for its own (non-shared) RAN NEs.
{width="4.7243055555555555in" height="3.6284722222222223in"}
Figure 5.4.3-1: Single DM for managing both S-RAN and own RAN
### 5.4.4 Management of measurements for cross-operator accounting based on
data volume and QoS
The operator has made an agreement to act as a Master Operator, MOP, for
another operator (Participating Operator, POP) for RAN sharing. The agreement
is regulated in an SLA, which states the following: The QoS profile criteria
ARP-1 -- 10 and GBR-5 for QCI-4 and QCI-8 is supported. The DL QCI-4, GBR-5,
and ARP-1 -- 10 is charged by x Euro per Mbit, while UL QCI-4, GBR-5, and
ARP-1 -- 10 is charged by y Euro per Mbit. QCI-8 is charged z Euro per Mbit
regardless of QoS. For cross operator accounting purpose, the network needs to
provide data volume measurements with high reliability for the used QoS
profile criteria to the MOP.
### 5.4.5 Management support for the mixed deployment scenario of shared NG-
RAN network elements and non-shared NG-RAN network elements
In this use case, Operator A owns and manages a NG-RAN network. Operator A and
Operator B get a NG-RAN sharing agreement that Operator A will share some of
the NG-RAN network elements in its NG-RAN network with Operator B. Operator A
may need to configure the NG-RAN network to start the sharing of one currently
non-shared NG-RAN network element or stop the sharing of one currently shared
NG-RAN network element according to the requests from Operator B in the
future.
### 5.4.6 Radio resources partitioning between two POPs for the shared NG-RAN
In this use case, radio access network (i.e. one of multiple shared NG-RAN
network elements) are shared between two POPs (POP A identified by PLMN A, POP
B identified by PLMN B).
As agreed by POP A and POP B in their RAN sharing agreement:
\- Radio resources (e.g. PRB, RRC connection, DRB) of the shared radio access
network are partitioned for POP A and POP B, which means the radio resource
partitioning policies (e.g. RRMPolicyRatio) of the radio access network is
agreed for POP A and POP B. The detailed RRMPolicy definition for NG-RAN see
the clause 4.3.36 of TS 28.541 [8]. Following is one example of RRMPolicy for
corresponding POP A and POP B. In this example,
\- POP A has 20% dedicated radio resources, 30% prioritized resources and 50%
shared resources. In this case, there are 20% radio resources are dedicated
for the POP A, 30% radio resources are guaranteed for POPA when it needs to
use them, and 50% resources are shared with POP B.
\- POP B has 30% prioritized resources and 20% shared resources. In this case,
there are 30% radio resources are guaranteed for POP B when it needs to use
them, and 20% resources are shared with POP A.
{width="3.0083333333333333in" height="1.7375in"}
Figure 5.4.6-1 Example of structure RRMPolicy for radio access network
resource partitioning for POP A and POP B
Note: If the network slicing feature is supported, the RRMPolicy is defined
for each RRMPolicyMemberList which contains both PLMNId and S-NSSAI. In this
case, the RRMPolicy is defined in RRMPolicyMember (combination of PLMNId and
S-NSSAI) granularity.
MOP-NM (play the role of MnS consumer) obtains the radio resource partitioning
policies the shared radio access network based on above agreement, and sends
the radio resource partitioning policies to MOP-SR-DM (play the role of MnS
prodcuer) to configure the shared NG-RAN NEs. MOP-SR-DM derives the radio
resource partitioning policies for corresponding cells of each shared NG-RAN
NE and configures the corresponding shared NG-RAN NE with corresponding radio
resource partitioning policies for corresponding cells (see RRMPolicy defined
in TS 28.541[8] which is contained by RRMPolicyManagedEntity).
MOP-SR-DM monitors the radio usage resources measurement (e.g. UL/DL PRB used
for data traffic, RRC connections) for POP A and POP B, and send such radio
usage resources measurements to MnS consumer. Based on the radio resources
usage measurements and other information (e.g. service traffic requirements
changes) for POP A and POP B, the radio resources partitioning policies may be
updated based on the agreement between POP A and POP B. The MOP-NM requests
the MOP-SR-DM to reconfigure the updated radio resources partitioning policies
of the shared radio access network for corresponding POP A and POP B.
# 6 Specification level requirements
## 6.1 Requirements
**REQ-NS_GEN-FUN-1 The IRPAgent** shall support a capability allowing the
**IRPManager to configure which POPs share each cell.**
**REQ-NS_GEN-FUN-2 The IRPAgent** shall support a capability allowing the
IRPManager to know **which POPs share each cell.**
**REQ-NS_GEN-FUN-3** In GWCN, t**he IRPAgent** shall support a capability
allowing the **IRPManager to configure which POPs share each core network
element.**
**REQ-NS_GEN-FUN-4** In GWCN, t**he IRPAgent** shall support a capability
allowing the IRPManager to know **which POPs share each core network
element.**
**REQ-NS_PM-FUN-1** The IRPAgent shall have the capability to support
subscription of UL and DL data volume measurements per QoS profile criteria
for cross operator accounting purpose from the IRPManager.\ The QoS profile
criteria may include one or more of the following criteria: one QCI indicator,
one GBR Indicator, one ARP Indicator, where:
\- a QCI Indicator identifies one specific QCI value. If the indicator is not
set then all QCI values should be taken into account.
\- a GBR Indicator identifies one GBR range value defined by the management
system. If the indicator is not set then all GBR ranges should be taken into
account.
\- an ARP Indicator identifies one ARP priority value. If the indicator is not
set then all ARP priority values should be taken into account.
**REQ-NS_PM-FUN-2** The IRPAgent shall support the IRPManager setting the
reliability for the counter instances in a measurement job. The detailed
definition of reliability is vendor specific.
**REQ-NS_PM-FUN-3** The IRPAgent shall support up to a maximum number of 200
recorded counter instances per granularity period of data volume measurements
for cross operator accounting purpose.
**REQ-NS_PM-FUN-4** The IRPAgent shall support the IRPManager to access a file
containing data volume measurements for cross operator accounting purposes
every granularity period.
## 6.2 Actor roles
See clause 5.2.
## 6.3 Telecommunications resources
See clause 5.3.
## 6.4 Use cases
### 6.4.1 Management of measurements for cross-operator accounting based on
data volume and QoS
The network manager requests a measurement job for data volume measurements
for shared network for charging purposes with high reliability, for a subset
of data volume counters per shared PLMN, per UL/DL traffic direction and per
QoS profile criteria. The QoS profile criteria may include one or more of the
following criteria: one QCI Indicator, one GBR Indicator, one ARP Indicator,
where:
\- a QCI Indicator identifies one specific QCI value. QCI values range from 0
to 255. If the indicator is not set then all QCI values should be taken into
account.
\- a GBR Indicator identifies one GBR range value defined by the management
system. GBR range values can range from 1 to N, where N is bigger than 1 (e.g.
N=5). If the indicator is not set then all GBR ranges should be taken into
account.
\- an ARP Indicator identifies one ARP priority value. ARP priority values
range from 1 to 15. If the indicator is not set then all ARP priority values
should be taken into account.
An overall maximum number of 200 counter instances (measurement instances) can
be recorded per granularity period.
The measurement type is specified by sub-clause 4.1.9 in TS 36.314 [6].\ All
the counters instances in the measurement job should be subject to high
reliability as it is for cross operator accounting purpose. The detailed
definition of reliability is vendor specific.
The network provides the counters each granularity period.
# 7 Management workflows for requirements for the management of the shared NG-
RAN NE(s) in MOCN network sharing scenario
## 7.1 Management of the shared NG-RAN NE(s) in MOCN network sharing scenario
with the same cell Identity broadcast
The NG-RAN MOCN Network Sharing with same cell identity broadcast scenario is
illustrated in Figure 4.1-2 and corresponding requirements is defined in
clause 5.1.4. This clause describes the workflows for the management of the
shared NG-RAN NE(s) in MOCN network sharing scenario with the same cell
identity broadcast.
In this workflow, the radio access network (i.e. one or multiple shared NG-RAN
NE(s)) is shared between two POPs (POP A identified by PLMN#1and POP B
identified by PLMN#2). Both MnS consumer and MnS producer for the management
of shared NG-RAN NE(s) belong to MOP.For the **Req-MOCN_SameCellId_Cfg-
CON-1:**
MnS consumer determines the individual EP_NgC MOI and EP_NgU MOI (see the
attributes of NgC and NgU in TS 28.541[X]) for each POP (POP A and POP B), and
requests MnS producer to create and configure EP_NgC MOI and EP_NgU MOI for
each POP.
MnS producer creates and configures the EP_NgC MOI and EP_NgU MOI for each POP
based on the requests from MnS consumer. The EP_NgC MOI and EP_NgU MOI are
name containe by same GNBCUCPFunction MOI and GNBCUUPFunction MOI which is
shared for different POPs.
For the **Req- MOCN_SameCellId_Cfg-CON-2** :
MnS consumer determines the attribute \"PLMNInfoList\" in NRCellDU MOI and
NRCellCU MOI (see the attribute definition in TS 28.541[X]), which includes
the PLMN#1 and PLMN#2, and requests MnS producer to configure NRCellDU MOI and
NRCellCU MOI with attribute \"PLMNInfoList\".
MnS producer configures the NG-RAN NE(s) (i.e. subtree of ManagedElement MOI)
based on the requests from MnS consumer, including configuring the NRCellDU
MOI and NRCellCU MOIwith attribute \"PLMNInfoList\" to include PLMN#1 and
PLMN#2.
For the **Req- MOCN_SameCellId_Per-CON-3:**
MnS producer collects the individual measurements for POP A and POP B in PLMN
granularity by utilizing PLMN granularity subcounter. For the concrete PLMN
granularity measurements, see TS 28.552[9].
MnS producer sends the individual measurements for POP A and POP B in PLMN
granularity to MnS consumer.
## 7.2 Management of the shared NG-RAN NE(s) in MOCN network sharing scenario
with the multiple cell Identity broadcast
The NG-RAN MOCN Network Sharing with multiple cell identity broadcast scenario
is illustrated in Figure 4.1-3 and corresponding requirements is defined in
clause 5.1.5. This clause describes the workflows for the management of the
shared NG-RAN NE(s) in MOCN network sharing scenario with the muliple cell
identity broadcast.
In this workflow, the radio access network (i.e. one or multiple shared NG-RAN
NE(s)) is shared between two POPs (POP A identified by PLMN#1and POP B
identified by PLMN#2). Both MnS consumer and MnS producer for the management
of shared NG-RAN NE(s) belong to MOP.
For the **Req-MOCN-MultiCellId-Cfg-CON-1:**
MnS consumer determines the individual EP_NgC MOI and EP_NgU MOI (see the
attributes of NgC and NgU in TS 28.541[8]) for each POP (POP A and POP B), and
requests MnS producer to create and configure EP_NgC MOI and EP_NgU MOI for
each POP.
MnS producer creates and configures the EP_NgC MOI and EP_NgU MOI for each POP
based on the requests from MnS consumer. The EP_NgC MOI and EP_NgU MOI are
name containe by corresponding POP\'s GNBCUCPFunction MOI and GNBCUUPFunction
MOI.
For the **Req-MOCN-MultiCellId-Cfg-CON-2**
MnS consumer determines the individual OperatorDU MOI and NROperatorCellDU MOI
(see the attributes of OperatorDU and NROperatorCellDU in TS 28.541[8]) for
each POP (POP A and POP B), and requests MnS producer to create and configure
OperatorDU MOI and NROperatorCellDU MOI for each POP.
MnS producer configures the NG-RAN NE(s) (i.e. subtree of ManagedElement)
based on the requests from MnS consumer, including creates and configures
OperatorDU and NROperatorCellDU MOI for each POP.
MnS consumer determines the individual NRCellCU MOI (see the attributes of
NRCellCU in TS 28.541[8]) for each POP (POP A and POP B), and requests MnS
producer to create and configure NRCellCU MOI for each POP.
MnS producer configures the NG-RAN NE(s) (i.e. subtree of ManagedElement)
based on the requests from MnS consumer, including creates and configures
NRCellCU MOI for each POP.
For the **Req-MOCN-MultiCellId-Cfg-CON-3**
MnS producer collects the individual measurements for POP A and POP B in PLMN
granularity by utilizing PLMN granularity subcounter or associated with
OperatorDU and NROperatorCellDU. For the concrete PLMN granularity
measurements, see TS 28.552[9].
MnS producer sends the individual measurements for POP A and POP B in PLMN
granularity to MnS consumer.
For the **Req-MOCN-MultiCellId-Cfg-CON-4** and **Req-MOCN-MultiCellId-Cfg-
CON-5**
MnS consumer determines the individual EP_F1C MOI and EP_F1U MOI (see
corresponding attributes in TS 28.541[8]) for each POP (POP A and POP B), and
requests MnS producer to create and configure these MOIs for each POP. In case
of common F1 intertface configuration, the values of the EP_F1C MOI and EP_F1U
MOI attributes (including localAddress and remoteAddress) contained by
different POP\'s OperatorDU MOI of the same GNBDUFunction MOI should be same.
MnS producer creates and configures the individual EP_F1C MOI and EP_F1U MOI
for each POP based on the requests from MnS consumer. The EP_F1C MOI and
EP_F1U MOI are name contained by corresponding POP\'s OperatorDU and
associated to it\'s own GNBCUCPFunction MOI and GNBCUUPFunction MOI.
For the **Req-MOCN-MultiCellId-Cfg-CON-6**
MnS consumer determines the NRCellRelation MOI(s) (see corresponding
attributes in TS 28.541[8]) for each POP (POP A and POP B), and requests MnS
producer to create and configure NRCellRelation MOI(s) for each POP.
MnS producer configures the NG-RAN NE(s) (i.e. subtree of ManagedElement)
based on the requests from MnS consumer, including creates and configures the
individual NRCellRelation MOI for each POP.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Network sharing agreement
Prior to any network sharing deployment, the MOP and the POPs have to agree on
legal, financial, technical and operational aspects. Among operational
aspects, the network sharing agreement captures the following (non-exhaustive
list):
\- Organizations involved (i.e. Operators) and their roles in the network
sharing deployment.
\- Exhaustive list of shared and unshared resources in the shared network.
\- Rights attached to each role (e.g. rights to configure network resources,
rights to receive alarms, etc.).
\- Duties attached to each role (e.g. obligation for the MOP to provide POPs
with monthly KPIs, etc.).
\- Delegations (if any) given by any organization to another organization.
\- Service Level Agreements (SLAs).
#