# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management, as identified below:
32.341: \"File Transfer (FT) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements\"
**32.342: \"File Transfer (FT) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information
Service (IS)\"**
32.346: \"File Transfer (FT) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Solution Set
(SS) definitions\"
The present document is part of a TS-family which describe the requirements
and information model necessary for the Telecommunication Management (TM) of
3G systems. The TM principles and TM architecture are specified in 3GPP TS
32.101 [1] and 3GPP TS 32.102 [2].
Network Elements (NEs) under management, element managers as well as network
managers generate various management information stored in file format. This
IRP is addressing how these files are exchanged through Itf-N as well as
certain aspects of file management and maintenance. It is anticipated that all
management functions (e.g. PM, Call Trace, CM) as well as associated IRPs
making reuse of capabilities provided by this File Transfer IRP.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the Information Service for the File Transfer
Integration Reference Point (FileTransferIRP) as it applies to the Itf-N.
The present document defines the semantics of operations (and their
parameters) visible across the Itf-N in a protocol and technology neutral way.
It does not define the syntax or encoding of the operations and their
parameters.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions, which through reference in this
text constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document in the same
Release as the present document.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.111-2: \"Telecommunication management; Fault management; Part
2: Alarm Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.302: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service
(IS)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.312: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Integration
Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.321: \"Telecommunication management; Test management
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements\".
3GPP TS 32.322: \"Telecommunication management; Test management Integration
Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
3GPP TS 32.323: \"Telecommunication management; Test management Integration
Reference Point (IRP): Common Object Request Broker Architecture (CORBA)
Solution Set (SS)\".
3GPP TS 32.325: \"Telecommunication management; Test management Integration
Reference Point (IRP); eXtensible Markup Language (XML) definitions\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.341 \"Telecommunication management; File Transfer (FT)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements\".
[8] 3GPP TS 32.411: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements\".
3GPP TS 32.412: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management (PM)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
3GPP TS 32.413: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management (PM)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Common Object Request Broker Architecture
(CORBA) Solution Set (SS)\".
3GPP TS 32.415 Telecommunication management; Performance Management (PM)
Integration Reference Point (IRP); eXtensible Markup Language (XML)
definitions\".
[9] 3GPP TS 32.421: \"Telecommunication Management; Subscriber and Equipment
Trace: Trace Concepts and Requirements\".
[10] 3GPP TS 32.611: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Bulk CM Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements\".
3GPP TS 32.612: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management (CM);
Bulk CM Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS) \".
3GPP TS 32.613: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management (CM);
Bulk CM Integration Reference Point (IRP): Common Object Request Broker
Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set (SS)\".
3GPP TS 32.615: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management (CM);
Bulk CM Integration Reference Point (IRP): eXtensible Markup Language (XML)
file format definition\".
[11] 3GPP TS 32.331: \"Telecommunication management; Notification Log (NL)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements\".
3GPP TS 32.332: \"Telecommunication management; Notification Log (NL)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
3GPP TS 32.333: \"Telecommunication management; Notification Log (NL)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Common Object Request Broker Architecture
(CORBA) Solution Set (SS)\".
3GPP TS 32.335: \"Telecommunication management; Notification Log (NL)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): eXtensible Markup Language (XML) solution
definitions\".
[12] 3GPP TS 32.622: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Generic network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP): Network
Resource Model (NRM)\".
[13] 3GPP TS 32.240: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Charging architecture and principles\".
[14] 3GPP TS 32.150: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Concept and definitions\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions defined in
3GPP TS 32.101 [1], TS 32.102 [2] and TS 32.341 [7] apply.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
CM Configuration Management
EM Element Manager
IOC Information Object Class
IRP Integration Reference Point
NE Network Element
PM Performance Management
UML Unified Modelling Language
# 4 System Overview
## 4.1 System context
The general definition of the System Context for the present IRP is found in
3GPP TS 32.150 [14] subclause 4.7.
In addition, the set of related IRP(s) relevant to the present IRP is shown in
the two diagrams below.
Figure 4.1: System Context A
**Figure 4.2: System Context B**
## 4.2 Compliance rules
For general definitions of compliance rules related to qualifiers
(Mandatory/Optional/Conditional) for _operations_ , _notifications_ _and_
_parameters_ (of operations and notifications) please refer to 3GPP TS 32.150
[14].
# 5 Information Object Classes (IOC)
## 5.1 Information entities imported and local labels
* * *
Label reference Local label 3GPP TS 32.622 [12], information object class, Top
Top 3GPP TS 32.622 [12], information object class, IRPAgent IRPAgent 3GPP TS
32.622 [12], information object class, GenericIRP GenericIRP 3GPP TS 32.312
[5], information object class, ManagedGenericIRP ManagedGenericIRP 3GPP TS
32.302 [4], information object class, NotificationIRP NotificationIRP
* * *
## 5.2 Class Diagram
### 5.2.1 Attributes and relationships
This clause introduces the set of information object classes (IOCs) that
encapsulate information within the IRPAgent. The intent is to identify the
information required for the FileTransferIRP Agent implementation of its
operations and notification emission. This clause provides the overview of all
support object classes in UML. Subsequent clauses provide more detailed
specification of various aspects of these support object classes.
{width="6.691666666666666in" height="4.884722222222222in"}
Figure 5.1: Information Object Class (IOC) UML Diagram
### 5.2.2 Inheritance
{width="6.686805555555556in" height="4.653472222222222in"}
Figure 5.2: Information Object Class (IOC) Inheritance UML Diagram
## 5.3 Information Object Class (IOC) definitions
### 5.3.1 FileTransferIRP
#### 5.3.1.1 Definition
FileTransferIRP is the representation of the file transfer management
capabilities specified by the present document. This IOC inherits from
ManagedGenericIRP IOC specified in 3GPP TS 32.312 [5].
### 5.3.2 AvailableFileDescriptor
#### 5.3.2.1 Definition
AvailableFileDescriptor represents the information about an existing closed
file containing management data (performance measurement data, etc.). The file
is ready for retrieval by IRPManagers.
#### 5.3.2.2 Attributes
* * *
**Attribute name** **Visibility** **Support Qualifier** **Read Qualifier**
**Write Qualifier** managementDataType + M M - fileSize + M M -
fileCompression + M M - fileReadyTime + M M - fileExpirationTime + M M -
fileFormat + M M - fileLocation + M M -
* * *
### 5.3.3 AvailableFileList
#### 5.3.3.1 Definition
AvailableFileList is the representation of a list of files represented by
individual AvailableFileDescriptor(s).
### 5.3.4 File
#### 5.3.4.1 Definition
The Proxy Object File represents the file stored in the managed system.
## 5.4 Information relationship definitions
### 5.4.1 relation-ftIRP-availableFileList (M)
#### 5.4.1.1 Definition
This represents the relationship between FileTransferIRP and
AvailableFileList.
#### 5.4.1.2 Role
* * *
Name Definition theAvailableFileList It represents the AvailableFileList.
theFileTransferIRP It represents the FileTransferIRP.
* * *
### 5.4.2 relation-availableFileList-availableFiles (M)
#### 5.4.2.1 Definition
This represents the relationship between AvailableFileDescriptor and
AvailableFileList.
#### 5.4.2.2 Role
* * *
Name Definition theAvailableFileDescriptor It represents the
AvailableFileDescriptor. theAvailableFileList It represents the
AvailableFileList.
* * *
#### 5.4.2.3 Constraint
* * *
Name Definition uniqueFileLocation The fileLocation, playing the role of the
file within the same FileTransferIRP, must be unique among all
AvailableFileDescriptors.
* * *
### 5.4.3 relation-availableFileDescriptor-file (M)
#### 5.4.3.1 Definition
This represents the relationship between AvailableFileDescriptor and
PhysicalFile.
#### 5.4.3.2 Role
* * *
Name Definition theAvailableFileDescriptor It represents the
AvailableFileDescriptor. theAvailableFile It represents the PhysicalFile.
* * *
## 5.5 Information attribute definition
### 5.5.1 Definition and legal values
+--------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Attribute Name | Definition | Legal Values | +--------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | fileSize | It identifies the | Its value is positive | | | size of the file. | Integer (the unit is | | | | byte). | +--------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | fileCompression | It identifies the | An empty | | | name of the | fileCompression means | | | compression algorithm | that there is no | | | used for the file. | compression on the | | | | file. | | | | | | | | Choice of compression | | | | algorithm is | | | | vendor-specific but | | | | is encouraged to use | | | | industrial standard | | | | algorithm such as | | | | GZIP. | +--------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | fileReadyTime | It identifies the | All values that | | | date and time when | indicate valid time. | | | the file was last | | | | closed and made | | | | available for upload | | | | and the file content | | | | will not be changed | | +--------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | fileExpirationTime | It identifies the | All values that | | | date and time beyond | indicate valid time. | | | which the file may be | | | | deleted. | It should be later | | | | than fileReadyTime. | | | | | | | | It shall not be | | | | empty. | +--------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | fileFormat | It identifies the | Its value should | | | encoding technique | indicate the | | | used by the file. | IRPVersion of the | | | | file format | | | | specification plus to | | | | indicate if \"ASN1\" | | | | or \"XML-schema\" is | | | | used. | +--------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | fileLocation | It identifies the | - Any valid file | | | location of the file | > directory path. | | | described by | | | | Av | - Any valid URL. | | | ailableFileDescriptor | | | | in the IRPAgent. The | > E.g.: | | | location may be a | > | | | directory path or a | > "\\\202.112.1 | | | URL. | 01.1\D:\user\perfo | | | | rmanceFiles\\\" | | | | > or | | | | > | | | | > "ftp:/ | | | | /nms.telecom_org.com | | | | /datastore/\" | | | | | | | | where \ is the | | | | filename and the file | | | | naming convention is | | | | defined in Annex A | | | | File Naming | | | | Convention. | +--------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | managementDataType | It identifies the | \"CG\" for charging | | | type of the | files (TS 32.240 | | | management data in | [13]), | | | the file. | | | | | \"CM\" for | | | | configuration files | | | | (except inventory) | | | | (Bulk CM IRP | | | | TS 32.61x [10]), | | | | | | | | \"CT\" for call trace | | | | files (Subscriber and | | | | Equipment Trace | | | | TS 32.421 [9]), | | | | | | | | "IM" for inventory | | | | files, | | | | | | | | \"NL\" for | | | | notification log | | | | files (Notification | | | | Log IRP TS 32.33x | | | | [11]), | | | | | | | | \"OT\" for other | | | | files, | | | | | | | | \"PM\" for | | | | performance data | | | | files (Performance | | | | Management IRP | | | | TS 32.41x [8]), | | | | | | | | \"TE\" for test files | | | | (Test Management IRP | | | | TS 32.32x [6]). | +--------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
# 6 Interface Definition
## 6.1 Class diagram
{width="5.642361111111111in" height="3.845138888888889in"}
Figure 6.1: Class Diagram
## 6.2 Generic rules
\- **Rule 1:** each operation with at least one input parameter supports a
pre-condition valid_input_parameter which indicates that all input parameters
shall be valid with regards to their information type. Additionally, each such
operation supports an exception operation_failed_invalid_input_parameter which
is raised when pre-condition valid_input_parameter is false. The exception has
the same entry and exit state.
\- **Rule 2:** each operation with at least one optional input parameter
supports a set of pre-conditions supported_optional_input_parameter_xxx where
\"xxx\" is the name of the optional input parameter and the pre‑condition
indicates that the operation supports the named optional input parameter.
Additionally, each such operation supports an exception
operation_failed_unsupported_optional_input_parameter_xxx which is raised when
(a) the pre-condition supported_optional_input_parameter_xxx is false and (b)
the named optional input parameter is carrying information. The exception has
the same entry and exit state.
\- **Rule 3:** each operation shall support a generic exception
operation_failed_internal_problem which is raised when an internal problem
occurs and that the operation cannot be completed. The exception has the same
entry and exit state.
## 6.3 FileTransferIRPOperations_1 Interface
### 6.3.1 Operation listAvailableFiles (M)
#### 6.3.1.1 Definition
This operation allows IRPManager to list all or specified available management
data files stored in the IRPAgent.
A Solution Set may choose to split this operation in several operations (e.g.
operations to get \"iterator\" which fulfil the criteria and other operations
to retrieve the detailed information of the files from the \"iterator\").
#### 6.3.1.2 Input parameters
+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Information | Comment | | | | type | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | man | M | Available | It specifies | | agementDataType | | FileDescriptor. | the type of the | | | | man | management data | | | | agementDataType | stored in the | | | | | file. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | beginTime | M | The IRPManager | This parameter | | | | wants a list of | indicates date | | | | the available | and time. | | | | file(s) whose | | | | | ready time(s) | If this | | | | are later or | parameter is | | | | equal to this | empty, no | | | | time. | beginT | | | | | ime‑restriction | | | | This parameter | should be | | | | is expressed in | applied on the | | | | UTC time. | ready time. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | endTime | M | The IRPManager | This parameter | | | | wants to list | indicates date | | | | information | and time. | | | | about the | | | | | available | If this | | | | file(s) whose | parameter is | | | | ready time(s) | empty, no | | | | are earlier | endT | | | | than this time. | ime‑restriction | | | | | should be | | | | This parameter | applied on the | | | | is expressed in | ready time. | | | | UTC time. | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 6.3.1.3 Output parameters
+----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Matching | Comment | | | | Information | | +----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | fileInfoList | M | LIST of STRUCT | The output | | | | \ | | +----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | status | M | ENUM (Success, | | | | | Failure) | | +----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 6.3.1.4 Pre-condition
validTimes
* * *
Assertion Name Definition validTimes The beginTime is before the invocation
time of the operation and the endTime is after beginTime.
* * *
#### 6.3.1.5 Post-condition
requiredFileInfoIsReturned
* * *
Assertion Name Definition requiredFileInfoIsReturned The required file
information is returned.
* * *
#### 6.3.1.6 Exceptions
+----------------+----------------------------------------------------+ | Exception Name | Definition | +----------------+----------------------------------------------------+ | invalidTimes | **Condition:** (validTimes) not verified. | | | | | | **Returned information:** output parameter status | | | is set to Failure. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry State. | +----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
## 6.4 FileTransferIRPOperations_2 Interface
### 6.4.1 Operation fileDownloadIndication (O)
#### 6.4.1.1 Definition
This operation allows IRPManager to indicate IRPAgent about completion of the
file exchange procedure and related file descriptive information when
IRPManager finish downloading one or more files to IRPAgent.
#### 6.4.1.2 Input parameters
+----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Information | Comment | | | | type | | +----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | fileInfoList | M | LIST of STRUCT | It carries the | | | | \ | | +----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 6.4.1.3 Output parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment status M ENUM (Success,
Failure)
* * *
#### 6.4.1.4 Pre-condition
validFileInfoList
* * *
Assertion Name Definition validFileInfoList The fileInfoList is valid.
* * *
#### 6.4.1.5 Post-condition
validFileSize
* * *
Assertion Name Definition validFileSize The downloaded file exist and the size
of it is greater than zero.
* * *
#### 6.4.1.6 Exceptions
+---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | Exception Name | Definition | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | InvalidFileInfoList | **Condition:** (validfileInfoList) not | | | verified. | | | | | | **Returned information:** output parameter | | | status is set to Failure. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry State. | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
## 6.5 FileTransferIRPNotifications_1 Interface
### 6.5.1 Notification notifyFileReady (M)
#### 6.5.1.1 Definition
After the management data files have been prepared ready in the IRPAgent,
IRPAgent will emit notification to subscribed IRPManager(s) to notify the
availability of the file(s).
#### 6.5.1.2 Input Parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment objectClass M, Y
FTIRP.objectClass Notification header - see [4]. It shall carry the FTIRP
class name. objectInstance M, Y FTIRP.objectInstance Notification header - see
[4]. It shall carry the DN of the FTIRP. notificationId M, N -- Notification
header - see [4]. eventTime M, Y -- Notification header - see [4]. systemDN C,
Y -- Notification header - see [4]. notificationType M, Y \"notifyFileReady \"
Notification header - see [4]. fileInfoList M, N See clause 6.3.1.3 (output
parameters of listAvailableFiles operation). It specifies the information of
the available file. additionalText O, N String It carries vendor-specific
semantics not defined in the present document.
* * *
#### 6.5.1.3 Triggering Event
##### 6.5.1.3.1 From-state
_filesAreReadyAndClosed_
* * *
Assertion Name Definition filesAreReadyAndClosed IRPAgent has stored the
result data into one or more files which corresponds to management operations.
* * *
##### 6.5.1.3.2 To-state
_newNotificationReported_
* * *
Assertion Name Definition newNotificationReported The \'notifyFileReady \'
notification is emitted to the subscribed IRPManager(s). Based on the
information contained in the notification, the IRPManager can get the file(s)
through file transfer mechanism.
* * *
### 6.5.2 Notification notifyFilePreparationError (M)
#### 6.5.2.1 Definition
The subscribed IRPManagers are notified regarding the occurrence of an error
during the preparation of the file. This notification is an event and will not
be treated as alarms defined in Alarm IRP IS (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [3]).
#### 6.5.2.2 Input Parameters
+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Matching | Comment | | | | Information | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | objectClass | M, Y | FT | See Table | | | | IRP.objectClass | 6.5.1.2. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | objectInstance | M, Y | FTIRP | See Table | | | | .objectInstance | 6.5.1.2. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | notificationId | M, N | -- | See Table | | | | | 6.5.1.2. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | eventTime | M, Y | -- | See Table | | | | | 6.5.1.2. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | systemDN | C, Y | -- | See Table | | | | | 6.5.1.2. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | n | M, Y | \"notifyFilePre | See Table | | otificationType | | parationError\" | 6.5.1.2. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | fileInfoList | M, N | See clause | If file is | | | | 6.3.1.3 (output | kept, this | | | | parameters of | parameter | | | | lis | Identifies the | | | | tAvailableFiles | file whose | | | | operation). | preparation | | | | | provoked an | | | | | error. If file | | | | | is not | | | | | generated, this | | | | | parameter is | | | | | empty. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | reason | M, N | -- | The detailed | | | | | reason is | | | | | given, | | | | | including | | | | | | | | | | - err | | | | | orInPreparation | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | hardDiskFull | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | hardDiskFailure | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | tooManyFiles | | | | | | | | | | - co | | | | | llectionTimeOut | | | | | | | | | | - incomple | | | | | teTruncatedFile | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | corruptedFile | | | | | | | | | | - lowMemory | | | | | | | | | | - d | | | | | ataNotAvailable | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | additionalText | O, N | -- | See Table | | | | | 6.5.1.2. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 6.5.2.3 Triggering Event
##### 6.5.2.3.1 From-state
> _errorInPreparation OR hardDiskFull OR hardDiskFailure OR tooManyFiles OR
> collectionTimeOut OR incompleteTruncatedFile OR corruptedFile OR lowMemory
> OR dataNotAvailable_
* * *
Assertion Name Definition errorInPreparation There is unspecified error when
IRPAgent prepares the files. hardDiskFull The file system is full and no more
files can be opened. hardDiskFailure The hard disk has failed and normal
input/output cannot be performed. tooManyFiles The file system lacks resource
to open a new file to capture management data. collectionTimeOut The
collection time of management data into files takes too long.
incompleteTruncatedFile The file is truncated for unspecified reason. The
suspect flag should be set in the files. corruptedFile The file is corrupted
for unspecified reason. The suspect flag should be set in the files. lowMemory
The system lacks sufficient memory to open a new file to capture management
data. dataNotAvailable Management data is not available when the collected
management object(s) is being read.
* * *
##### 6.5.2.3.2 To-state
_fileIsKept OR fileNotGenerated_
* * *
Assertion Name Definition fileIsKept The file, whose preparation provokes an
error, is kept.And the file naming convention, expiration date, available to
be listed, etc. should be treated the same as and be consistent with case when
file is prepared successful. fileNotGenerated No file was generated and
fileInfoList indicates "no file".
* * *
###### ## Annex A (normative): File Naming Convention
The following convention shall be applied for file naming:
\\\\\
[\][\\]
1) The managementData_type field is the type of the management data contained
in the file, the value of managementData_type field including
> \"PM\" for performance data files,
>
> \"CM\" for configuration files (except inventory),
>
> "IM" for inventory files,
>
> \"TE\" for test files,
>
> \"CT\" for call trace files,
>
> \"NL\" for notification log files,
>
> \"CG\" for charging files,
>
> \"OT\" for other files.
2) The file_ready_date field is of the form YYYYMMDD, where:
\- YYYY is the year in four-digit notation;
\- MM is the month in two digit notation (01 - 12);
\- DD is the day in two digit notation (01 - 31).
> The file_ready_date is the date when the file was last closed and made
> available for upload and the file content will not be changed.
3) The file_ready_time field is of the form HHMMshhmm, where:
\- HH is the two digit hour of the day (local time), based on 24 hour clock
(00 - 23);
\- MM is the two digit minute of the hour (local time, 00 - 59);
\- s is the sign of the local time differential from UTC (+ or -), in case the
time differential to UTC is 0 then the sign may be arbitrarily set to \"+\" or
\"-\";
\- hh is the two digit number of hours of the local time differential from UTC
(00 - 23);
\- mm is the two digit number of minutes of the local time differential from
UTC (00 - 59).
> The file_ready_time is the time when the file was last closed and made
> available for upload and the file content will not be changed.
4) To reduce length of the file name, the file_expiration_delta_time field
could be a delta time interval from file ready time. The unit is hour.
5) The specificIRP_extension field is used for other IRPs to extend the extra
file naming convention which is not covered by the basic file naming
convention defined in FileTransferIRP.
6) The RC parameter is a running count, starting with the value of \"1\", and
shall be appended only if the filename is not unique, i.e. more than one file
is generated and all other parameters of the file name are identical.
7) The separator field is \"_-_\", which is an underscore character (_),
followed by a minus character (-), followed by an underscore character (_).
#