# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project: Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management, as identified below:
**TS 32.351: \"Communication Surveillance (CS) Integration Reference Point
(IRP); Requirements\";**
TS 32.352: \"Communication Surveillance (CS) Integration Reference Point
(IRP); Information Service (IS)\";
TS 32.356: \"Communication Surveillance (CS) Integration Reference Point
(IRP); Solution Set (SS) defintions\".
The present document is part of a set of technical specifications defining the
Telecommunication Management (TM) of 3G systems. The TM principles are
described in 3GPP TS 32.101 [1]. The TM architecture is described in 3GPP TS
32.102 [2]. The other specifications define the interface (Itf-N) between the
managing system (manager), which is in general the Network Manager (NM) and
the managed system (agent), which is either an Element Manager (EM) or the
managed NE itself. The Itf-N is composed of a number of Integration Reference
Points (IRPs) defining the information in the agent that is visible for the
manager, the operations that the manager may perform on this information and
the notifications that are sent from the agent to the manager.
To ensure the availability and reliability of the management, an automatic
surveillance of the communication between NM and the managed system are
required. Communication Surveillance IRP (CSIRP) is defined as a capability to
achieve this goal.
# 1 Scope
The present document describes the requirements of the Communication
Surveillance IRP (CSIRP).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] ITU-T Recommendation X.734: \"Information technology - Open Systems
Interconnection - Systems Management: Event report management function\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.302: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service
(IS)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102 [2] and the following apply:
**Communication Surveillance (CS):** capability to monitor the communication
between NM and managed system and to discover their breaks as early as
possible
**Communication Link:** facility, which supports the communication between NM
and IRPAgent(s) in managed system, including all the resources required for
this communication
**Notification Distribution Service:** in managed system, provides
notification controlling and forwarding functions ITU‑T Recommendation X.734
[3]
**Element Manager (EM):** See 3GPP TS 32.101 [1].
**IRPAgent:** See 3GPP TS 32.102 [2].
**IRPManager:** See 3GPP TS 32.102 [2].
**Network Manager (NM):** See 3GPP TS 32.101 [1].
**managed system:** provides a package of IRPs, these IRPs include
Notification IRP (notification distribution service) and other IRPs
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
CS Communication Surveillance
CSIRP Communication Surveillance Integration Reference Point
EM Element Manager
IRP Integration Reference Point
NE Network Element
NM Network Manager
# 4 Communication Surveillance (CS) requirements
## 4.1 General
The communication between NM and Managed System (NE or EM) shall be monitored,
and link breaks between NM and Managed System (NE or EM) shall be discovered
by NM as early as possible.
In the CS context, the NM contains one or more IRPManagers.
Figure 1 illustrates the major components in the CS context.
Figure 1: Communication surveillance context
Referring to figure 1, the scope of CS involves the monitoring of the
communication between NM entity and EM (or NE) entity at application level. At
this application level, there are three parts involved, which are NM, Managed
System and the Communication Link(s) between them. From NM side, to monitor
the communication, is to know whether the other entity and/or the
Communication Link(s) between them are functioning correctly. The behaviour of
the IRPManager, after detection of communication failure, is outside the scope
of this standardization.
NM can detect whether link-a-1 or link-a-2 is functioning correctly by
observing the operation responses. (e.g. invoking getIRPVersions operation
against one xxxIRP.) The link‑a‑1 and link‑a‑2 are links used by the
IRPManager and the various xxxIRPs to execute 3GPP Interface IRP defined
operations (i.e., operation request and direct response to that request). The
receipt of a response corresponding to a manager\'s operations via link-a-1 or
link-a-2 implies that the particular link has correctly conveyed the request
and delivered the response at the exact point in time the response was
received.
The Managed System shall provide a service allowing NM to detect promptly
whether link-b (including Notification Distribution Service) and
NotificationIRP defined in 3GPP TS 32.302 [4] are functioning correctly
regarding notification sending. The detection of a heartbeat via link-b
implies that the notification distribution service is able to send
notifications, and that the link-b is able to deliver notifications at exactly
that point in time.
For detection of link-a-1 and link-a-2 failure, no solution is required as
existing capability are sufficient.
The features to detect the correct functioning of link-b and notification
distribution service are described in subclause 4.2.
## 4.2 CS Management features
The Itf-N between IRPManagers (of the NM) and managed system can include the
following CS Management features.
### 4.2.1 CS features from NM perspective
#### 4.2.1.1 Query CS information
This feature allows the NM to query the CS information from the managed
system. NM can query information of CS, including:
\- Frequency of emission of CS notifications.
#### 4.2.1.2 Modify CS information
This feature allows the NM to modify the CS information from the managed
system, including:
\- Frequency of emission of CS notifications.
\- Starting and stopping of Communication Surveillance notifications.
#### 4.2.1.3 Emission of CS notifications
This feature allows the managed system to send CS notifications to the NM.
Managed system will emit CS notifications to NM according to the specified
frequency.
#### 4.2.1.4 Trigger CS notification
The frequency of emission of CS notifications may not be short for payload
consideration. In case NM suspects the link breaks before receiving next CS
notifications and needs to make decision at once, this complementary feature
allows NM to ask managed system to send CS notifications to the triggering NM
immediately.
The triggered CS notification should be emitted only to the triggering NM. In
this CS notification, additional description will be given to help NM
distinguish it from spontaneous (or scheduled) CS notifications described in
subclause 4.2.1.3. This feature has no impact on the spontaneous (or
scheduled) CS heartbeat notification feature.
#