# Foreword {#foreword .TT}
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction {#introduction .TT}
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
28.552 Management and orchestration of networks and network slicing; NR and
NG-RAN performance measurements and assurance data
28.553 Management and orchestration of networks and network slicing; 5G Core
Network (5GC) performance measurements and assurance data
32.401 Performance Management (PM); Concept and requirements
52.402 Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements -- GSM
**32.404 Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements - Definitions
and template**
32.405 Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements Universal
Terrestrial Radio Access Network (UTRAN)
32.406 Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements Core Network (CN)
Packet Switched (PS) domain
32.407 Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements Core Network (CN)
Circuit Switched (CS) domain; UMTS and combined UMTS/GSM
32.408 Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements Teleservice
32.409 Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements IP Multimedia
Subsystem (IMS)
32.425 Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements Evolved Universal
Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN)
32.426 Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements Evolved Packet
Core (EPC) network
32.452 Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements Home Node B (HNB)
Subsystem HNS
32.453 Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements Home enhanced
Node B (HeNB) Subsystem (HeNS)
The present document is part of a set of specifications, which describe the
requirements and information model necessary for the standardised Operation,
Administration and Maintenance (OA&M) of a multi-vendor PLMN system.
During the lifetime of a PLMN, its logical and physical configuration will
undergo changes of varying degrees and frequencies in order to optimise the
utilisation of the network resources. These changes will be executed through
network configuration management activities and/or network engineering, see TS
32.600 [3].
Many of the activities involved in the daily operation and future network
planning of a PLMN require data on which to base decisions. This data refers
to the load carried by the network and the grade of service offered. In order
to produce this data performance measurements are executed in the NEs, which
comprise the network. The data can then be transferred to an external system,
e.g. an Operations System (OS) in TMN terminology, for further evaluation. The
purpose of the present document is to describe the mechanisms involved in the
collection of the data and the definition of the data itself.
Annex B has been added to help in the definition of new performance
measurements that can be submitted to 3GPP for potential adoption and
inclusion in the present document. Annex B discusses a top-down performance
measurement definition methodology that focuses on how the end-user of
performance measurements can use the measurements.
# 1 Scope
The present document describes definitions and template related to the
measurements for UMTS, GSM, LTE and 5G networks (and combined such networks).\
TS 32.401 [1] describes Performance Management concepts and requirements.\ The
present document is valid for all measurement types provided by an
implementation of a UMTS, GSM, LTE or 5G network (and combined such
networks).\ Vendor specific measurements types are not covered. Instead, these
could be applied according to manufacturer\'s documentation.
Measurements related to \"external\" technologies (such as ATM or IP) as
described by \"external\" standards bodies\ (e.g. ITU-T or IETF) shall only be
referenced within this specification, wherever there is a need identified for
the existence of such a reference.
The definition of the standard measurements is intended to result in
comparability of measurement data produced in a multi-vendor network, for
those measurement types that can be standardised across all vendors\'
implementations.
The structure of the present document is as follows:
\- Header 1: Network Element (e.g. RNC related measurements);
\- Header 2: Measurement function (e.g. soft handover measurements);
\- Header 3: Measurements.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication and/or
edition number or version number) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.401: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM); Concept and requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 52.402: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM); Performance measurements - GSM\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.600: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Concept and high-level requirements\".
[4] Void.
[5] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, Addressing and Identification\".
[6] Void.
[7] 3GPP TS 32.632: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Core Network Resources Integration Reference Point (IRP): Network
Resource Model (NRM)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 32.642: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); UTRAN network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP): Network
Resource Model (NRM)\".
[9] 3GPP TS 32.622: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Generic network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP): Network
Resource Model (NRM)\".
[10] ITU-T Recommendation E.410: \" International network management \--
General information\".
[11] 3GPP TS 32.405: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM); Performance measurements - Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
(UTRAN)\".
[12] 3GPP TS 32.406: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM); Performance measurements - Core Network (CN) Packet Switched (PS)
domain\".
[13] 3GPP TS 32.407: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM); Performance measurements - Core Network (CN) Circuit Switched (CS)
domain;\ UMTS and combined UMTS/GSM
[14] 3GPP TS 32.408: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM); Performance measurements - Teleservice\".
[15] 3GPP TS 32.409: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM); Performance measurements - IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS)\".
[16] 3GPP TS 32.425: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM); Performance measurements Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
Network (E-UTRAN)".
[17] 3GPP TS 32.426: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM); Performance measurements Evolved Packet Core (EPC) network".
[18] 3GPP TS 32.452: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM); Performance measurements Home Node B (HNB) Subsystem (HNS)".
[19] 3GPP TS 32.453: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM); Performance measurements Home enhanced Node B (HeNB) Subsystem (HeNS)".
[20] 3GPP TS 28.552: \"Management and orchestration of networks and network
slicing; NR and NG-RAN performance measurements and assurance data\".
[21] 3GPP TS 28.553: \"Management and orchestration of networks and network
slicing; 5G Core Network (5GC) performance measurements and assurance data\".
[22] 3GPP TS 28.541: \" Management and orchestration of networks and network
slicing; NR and NG-RAN Network Resource Model (NRM); Stage 2 and stage 3\".
[23] 3GPP TS 28.543: \" Management and orchestration of networks and network
slicing; 5G Core Network (5GC) Network Resource Model (NRM); Stage 2 and stage
3\".
# 3 Definitions and template
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply:
**\"_(n-1)_ out of _n_ \" approach:**
\- The measurements result values generated by a NE can be obtained in a
number of different ways. Therefore, the \"_(n-1)_ out of _n_ approach\" has
been defined in order to avoid redundancy in the measurements.
\- The \"_(n-1)_ out of _n_ approach\" allows a vendor to choose any (n-1) out
of the n defined counters for implementation but some choices can offer more
detailed information than others. The missing n^th^ value can be calculated in
post‑processing.
\- If multiple measurements are included in one template, then the
applicability of the \"(n-1) out of n\" scenario are mentioned in template
item A with the following sentence \"The _n_ measurement types defined in item
E are subject to the \"_(n-1)_ out of _n_ approach\"_\"._ The item D will
specify the measurement result per measurement type specified in template item
E.
  * If the measurements that are applicable to the \"_(n-1)_ out of _n_ \" scenario are defined in separate templates, then they will be grouped together into a common clause of the TS, and the applicability of the approach will be mentioned in the clause that groups the measurements.
  * Examples of measurements which are subject to the \"_(n-1)_ out of _n_ \" approach are provided in the annex A.
**Measurement community**
Several measurement communities are defined in the present document to
identify the end users of system measurements. Each measurement should be
defined to address the needs of at least one of these user communities.
Six communities have been identified so far:
\- Network Operator\'s Business Community
\- Network Operator\'s Maintenance Community
\- Network Operator\'s Traffic Engineering Community
\- Network Operator\'s Customer Care Community
\- Equipment Vendor\'s Performance Modelling Community
\- Equipment Vendor\'s Development Engineering Community
**A comprehensive description of measurement communities is provided in Annex
B. The user communities names are a composite of the various terms used in the
industry and might be subject to modification or refinement in future
releases.**
**Measurement family**
The measurement names are all beginning with a prefix containing the
measurement family name (e.g. RAB.AttEstabCS.Conv, MM.AttGprsAttach). This
family name identifies all measurements which relate to a given functionality
and it may be used for measurement administration (see TS 32.401 [1]).
The measurement families for UMTS and combined GSM/UMTS networks are specified
in TS 32.405 [11], TS 32.406 [12], TS 32.407 [13], TS 32.408 [14] and for IMS
in TS 32.409 [15].\ Measurement families for E-UTRAN are specified in TS
32.425 [16] and for EPC in TS 32.426 [17]. Measurement families for 5G-AN (NR
and NG-RAN) are specified in TS 28.552 [22] and for 5GC in TS 28.553 [23].
Measurement families for Home Node B (HNB) Subsystem (HNS) are defined in TS
32.452 [18] and for Home enhanced Node B (HeNB) Subsystem (HeNS) in TS.32.453
[19].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
3GPP Third Generation Partnership Project
5G-AN 5G Access Network
5GC 5G Core Network
5GS 5G System
ASN.1 Abstract Syntax Notation 1
ATM Asynchronous Transfer Mode
BER Basic Encoding Rules
CN Core Network
DTD Document Type Definition
EGQM Enhanced Goal, Question, Metric
EM (Network) Element Manager
EPC Evolved Packet Core
EPS Evolved Packet System
GSM Global System for Mobile Communications
GQM Goal, Question, Metric
IEEE Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc.
Itf Interface
ITU-T International Telecommunication Union - Telecommunications
Standardisation Sector
LTE Long Term Evolution
NE Network Element
NG-RAN NG Radio Access Network
NM Network Manager
NR New Radio
OA&M Operation, Administration and Maintenance
OS Operations System (EM, NM)
OSI Open Systems Interconnection
PLMN Public Land Mobile Network
PM Performance Management
QoS Quality of Service
RNC Radio Network Controller
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System
UTRAN Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
You can find below a list of abbreviations used within the measurement types
for field E of the measurement template (see subclause 3.3).
Att Attempt(s,ed)
Conn Connection
CS Circuit switched
Conv Conversational
Estab Establish (ed,ment)
FDD Frequency Division Duplex
HHO Hard Handover
HO Handover
Inter Inter
Intra Intra
Max Maximum
MM Mobility Management
Out Outgoing
PS Packet switched
RAB Radio Access Bearer
RNC RNC
RRC Radio Resource Control
SGSN SGSN
Sub Subscriber
Succ Success(es,ful)
UTRAN UTRAN
Further measurement type abbreviations used for UMTS and combined GSM/UMTS
networks are specified in TS 32.405 [11], TS 32.406 [12], TS 32.407 [13], TS
32.408 [14] and for IMS in TS 32.409 [15].\ Measurement type abbreviations for
E-UTRAN are specified in TS 32.425 [16] and for EPC in TS 32.426 [17].
Measurement type abbreviations for 5G-AN are specified in TS 28.552 [22] and
for 5GC in TS 28.553 [23]. Measurement type abbreviations for Home Node B
(HNB) Subsystem (HNS) are defined in TS 32.452 [18] and for Home enhanced Node
B (HeNB) Subsystem (HeNS) in TS.32.453 [19].
## 3.3 Measurement definition template
Following is the template used to describe the measurements contained in this
subclause.
**C.x.y. Measurement Name (clause header)**
This is a descriptive name of the measurement type that is specified as clause
C.x.y of the present document.
The measurement name shall be written in lower-case characters except
abbreviations (e.g. RNC).
A measurement name can apply to one or more measurements. If the measurement
name applies to several measurements then all fields of the template will take
this into account.
Measurement names shall not exceed 64 characters in length and should be
constrained to 32 characters maximum. Exceptions greater than 32 characters
are allowed but should be kept to a minimum and only made where necessary.
**a) Description**
This subclause contains an explanation of the measurement operation.
**b) Collection Method**
This n contains the form in which this measurement data is obtained:
\- **CC** (Cumulative Counter);
\- **GAUGE** (dynamic variable), used when data being measured can vary up or
down during the period of measurement;
\- **DER** (Discrete Event Registration), when data related to a particular
event are captured every n^th^ event is registered, where n can be 1 or
larger;
\- **SI** (Status Inspection);
\- **TF** (Transparent Forwarding) ;
\- **OM** (Object Mapping).
**c) Condition**
This subclause contains the condition which causes the measurement result data
to be updated;\ This will be defined by identifying protocol related trigger
events for starting and stopping measurement processes, or updating the
current measurement result value. Where it is not possible to give a precise
condition, then the conditional circumstances leading to the update are
stated.
If a measurement is not available for FDD or TDD, then the measurement
description shall contain a statement.
> If a measurement is related to "external" technologies, this subclause shall
> give a brief reference to other standard bodies.
**d) Measurement Result (measured value(s), Units)**
This subclause contains a description of expected result value(s) (e.g. a
single integer value). If a measurement is related to "external" technologies,
this subclause shall also give a brief reference to other standard bodies.
The definition applies for each measurement result.
**e) Measurement Type**
This subclause contains a short form of the measurement name specified in the
header, which is used to identify the measurement type in the result files.
The measurement names are dotted sequences of items. The sequence of elements
identifying a measurement is organised from the general to the particular.
\- The first item identifies the measurement family (e.g. HHO, RAB, SMS). Note
that this family may also be used for measurement administration purpose.
\- The second item identifies the name of the measurement itself, for which
the following rules shall apply:
  * The second item of the measurement name can be divided into \, \ and \ (and in that order)
  * Examples of Operation can be Establishment, Release, and Modification
  * Examples of Reason/Result can be Attempt, Failure, Success, Throughput and Volume
  * Examples of Direction can be Incoming, Outgoing, Uplink and Downlink
\- Depending on the measurement type, additional items may be present to
specify subcounters (failure causes, traffic classes, min, max, avg, G, U
...). In case of multiple additional items, they are also represented as a
dotted sequence of items. When available, the template will describe to which
standard it is referring to for these additional items (e.g. cause, traffic
class). Otherwise, the additional item semantics must be described in details
in the present document.
Standardised causes will be a number. This number shall be derived according
to which of the following rules applies:
  * For the standardised causes with numeric values explicitly specified in the reference spefication, the subcounter name will be the number assigned to this cause in this reference specification.
  * For the standardised causes without numeric values explicitly specified in the reference spefication, but where the causes are identified, the subcounter name shall be an number from 1 to n mapped in an incremental sequence to each of the specified causes following top down sequence in the order they are identified in the reference specification (e.g. RRC.ConnEstab.1, 1 idenfies the establishment cause "Originating Conversational Call", see TS 25.331);
  * For the standardised causes without numeric values explicitly specified in the reference spefication and the causes identified and the causes have been divided into different cause groups, the subcounter should be defined as the form of _'Cause group'.Cause_ , where:
    * the subcounter name of _'Cause group'_ shall be an incremental number from 1 to n to identify each cause group specified in a top down sequence following the order they are identified in the reference specification,
    * the subcounter name of _cause_ within this cause group shall be an incremental number from 1 to n to identify each cause within the group specified in a top down sequence following the order they are identified within the cause group in the reference specification (e.g. RLM.FailRLSetupIub.2.1, 2.1 indenfies the cause "Transport resource unavailable" in the cause group "Transport Layer Cause", see TS 25.433). Subcounter _'Cause group'.sum_ is permitted to indentify the aggregate of measurement values of all the causes within the cause group (e.g. RLM.FailRLSetupIub.1.sum, 1.sum identifies the aggregate of all the causes within the cause group "Radio Network Layer Cause", see TS 25.433).
> The non standardised causes should be a string (e.g. RRC.ConnEstab.NoReply).
The set of values issued for a measurement does not depend on the associated
collection method (CC, SI, Gauge, DER, TF). For instance, a gauge collected
counter does not necessarily provide min, max, average values.
> The vendor-specific UMTS and combined GSM/UMTS measurement names will all
> begin with the VS prefix.
In addition, it is recommended that a prefix is added for non-UMTS
measurements:
\- Q3 for Q3 measurements;
\- MIB for IETF measurements (ATM, IP);
\- OS for other standards measurements.
> The 3GPP standardised measurements name must not commence with the above
> prefixes.
>
> Examples of valid measurement names are:
\- HO.PrepAtt
\- SAEB.EstabSucc
> \- RRC.ConnEstabAtt._Cause_ \ where _Cause_ identifies the failure cause.
Examples of valid measurement names for measurements defined before version
8.3.0 of the present document are:
\- VS.HO.InterSGSNReject.NoResource;
\- ATM. ATML.IngressCells;
\- HHO.SuccOutIntraCell;
\- MM.AttachedSubs.Max;
\- RAB.EstabAttCS.Conversational;
\- RRC.ConnEstab._Cause_ \ where _Cause_ identifies the failure cause.
Abbreviations to be used within measurement types can be found in subclause
3.2 of the present document.
**f) Measurement Object Class**
This subclause describes the measured object class (e.g. UtranCell,
RncFunction, SgsnFunction). The object class used for this purpose shall be in
accordance with NRMs defined in any NRM IRPs, such as those defined in 3GPP TS
32.622 [9], TS 32.632 [7] ,TS 32.642 [8] , TS 28.541 [24] and TS 28.543 [25].
For object classes currently not defined according to the above, the present
document defines its own nomenclature (e.g. RA, LAC).
> It is possible to use the same measurement name for a standardized
> measurement type implemented at a different object class level than the one
> defined in the Standard. The same measurement type can apply to one or more
> measurements for which all fields of the measurement template are the same
> except the clause f) \"Measurement Object Class\". For instance, a
> measurement which uses the same template as a given measurement type but
> relates to another or different object classes (e.g. UtranCell instead of
> UtranRelation, or RncFunction and UtranCell) shall have the same name.
>
> **g) Switching Technology**
This subclause contains the Switching domain(s) this measurement is applicable
to i.e. Circuit Switched and/or Packet Switched.
**h) Generation**
The generation determines if it concerns a GSM, UMTS, EPS, 5GS, combined
(GSM+UMTS+EPS+5GS) or IMS measurement.
\- **GSM:** pure GSM measurement; it only counts GSM events. In a combined
(GSM+UMTS+EPS) NE the count would be exactly the same as in a pure GSM NE. In
a pure UMTS, pure EPS or combined UMTS and EPS NE this counter does not exist;
\- **UMTS:** pure UMTS measurement; it only counts UMTS events. In a combined
(GSM+UMTS+EPS) NE the count would be exactly the same as in a pure UMTS NE. In
a pure GSM, pure EPS or combined GSM and EPS NE this counter does not exist;
> \- **EPS:** pure EPS measurement; it only counts EPS events. In a combined
> (GSM+UMTS+EPS) NE the count would be exactly the same as in a pure EPS NE.
> In a pure GSM, pure UTMS or combined GSM and UTMS NE this counter does not
> exist;
\- 5GS: pure 5GS measurement; it only counts 5GS events. In a combined
(GSM+UMTS+EPS+5GS) NE the count would be exactly the same as in a pure 5GS NE.
In a pure GSM, pure UTMS, pure EPS or combined GSM, UTMS and EPS NE this
counter does not exist;
\- **GSM/UMTS:** measurement applicable to both GSM and UMTS systems; in a
combined (GSM+UMTS) NE separate subcounts for GSM and/or UMTS events can be
obtained;
> \- **GSM/UMTS/EPS:** measurement applicable to GSM, UMTS and EPS systems; in
> a combined (GSM+UMTS+EPS) NE separate subcounts for GSM, and/or UMTS, and/or
> EPS events can be obtained;
\- EPS/5GS: measurement applicable to EPS and 5GS systems; in a combined
(EPS+5GS) NE separate subcounts for EPS, and/or 5GS events can be obtained;
\- **Combined:** measurement applicable to combined GSM, UMTS, EPS and 5GS
systems, but regardless of whether the measured event occurred on the GSM,
UMTS, EPS or 5GS part of the system. This means that in a combined NE only one
total (i.e. GSM+UMTS+EPS+5GS) count is obtained for the measured event.
The above aspects are also reflected in the measurement type name in template
item E by adding a \"G\" to the GSM measurements, \"U\" to the UMTS
measurements, \"E\" to the EPS measurements, \"5G\" for 5GS measurements.
\- **IMS** : measurement applicable to IMS.
NOTE: The GSM component of combined GSM/UMTS equipment may actually choose to
implement GSM measurements according to the present document or TS 52.402 [2],
based on GSM specifications.
**i) Purpose**
> This optional clause aims at describing who will be using the measurement.
> It is proposed to indicate in this clause the targeted categories of users
> based on the measurement user communities described in Annex B.
>
> When available, this clause provides additional information on the interest
> of the measurement but is however purely indicative.
## 3.4 Definition of private Object Classes
Private Object Classes are Object Classes which are needed for PM purposes,
but that are not yet defined by CM.
### 3.4.1 RA
The Object Class RA (Routing Area) is needed to conduct measurements on RA
level. For the purpose of the present document, the Routing Area should be
encoded in the file format as the concatenation of the MCC, MNC, LAC and the
RAC, in decimal notation. See further definition of Routing Area
Identification in TS 23.003 [21]. Since LAC is a 2 byte number (00000-65535),
5 characters are needed in the moid PrintableString. Since RAC is a 1 byte
number (000‑255) 3 characters are needed in the moid PrintableString. MCC is 3
digits and MNC 2 or 3 digits. The concatenated moid PrintableString will
always contain 14 characters. In the case where MNC has the length 2, a
leading underscore character will be added.
a) EXAMPLE 1: LAC = Hexadecimal 4E20 = Decimal 20000;\ > RAC = Hexadecimal BE
= Decimal 190; MCC = Decimal 046; MNC = > Decimal 01\ > moid =
\"046_0120000190\".
The Object Class RA (Routing Area) is needed to conduct measurements on RA
level. For the purpose of the present document the Routing Area should be
encoded in the file format as the concatenation of the LAC and the RAC, in
decimal notation. Since LAC is a 2 byte number (00000-65535) 5 characters are
needed in the moid PrintableString. Since RAC is a 1 byte number (000-255) 3
characters are needed in the moid PrintableString. Hence concatenated moid
PrintableString will always contain 8 characters.
EXAMPLE 2: LAC = Hexadecimal 4E20 = Decimal 20000;\ RAC = Hexadecimal BE =
Decimal 190;\ moid = \"20000190\".
### 3.4.2 MMS Relay/Server
The Object Class MMS Relay/Server is needed to conduct measurements on MMS
Relay/Server level. No specific moid structure is defined for the MMS
Relay/Server. The moid is a PrintableString which contains a maximum of 20
characters.
### 3.4.3 ObservedDestination
The Object Class ObservedDestination is needed to conduct measurements on
ObservedDestination level.\ For the purpose of the present document, the
ObservedDestination could be country code, or/and an area code, or/and an
exchange, or/and other location number, or/and a special service number) in
decimal notation (ITU-T E.410 [10].\ The moid is a PrintableString which
contains a maximum of 20 characters.
## 3.5 Management of per cause measurements
Per cause measurements may lead in certain cases to a lot of subcounters which
will increase substantially the size of the measurement report file. Since all
per cause measurements are not necessarily useful to the end‑user, two options
are possible for the management of the corresponding subcounters:
\- support all the subcounters corresponding to the cause codes as defined in
the 3GPP standards. In that case, the sum of all supported per cause
measurements is equal to the total sum across all subcounters;
\- support only a subset of the subcounters (allowed only if the cause codes
are specified in 3GPP standards). In that case, the first value of the result
sequence must be the total sum across all the cause codes as defined in 3GPP
standards. This implies that all subcounters of a given measurement type
appear as uninterrupted sequence in the result file. The keyword ._sum_ placed
behind the measurement type is used to identify the sum subcounter. The choice
of the supported cause codes is manufacturer dependent.
## 3.6 Rule for generic measurements definition
The measurement definitions shall not be duplicated. Reference should be used
instead.\ If one measurement is needed in several places, there should be only
one single definition with complete structure.\ All other occurrences should
make reference to the original one, whether they are in the same specification
or not.
The measurements having the same definition of the following items are
regarded as duplicated:
> a) Description\ b) Collection Method\ c) Condition\ d) Measurement Result
> (measured value(s), Units)\ f) Measurement Object Class
The duplicated occurrence shall make reference to the original occurrence in
two ways.
  1. \"Refer to \ for concrete definition\"\ in the case where both occurrences are within the same specification.
  2. \"Refer to \\\ for definition\"\ in the case the occurrences are in different specifications.
For the differing measurement template items e), g), h), i) the difference
shall be pointed out after the reference notice. The presentation of the
differing items should follow the same format as in the measurement template.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Examples for \"(n-1) out of n\" approach
The measurements result values generated by a NE are often redundant, or the
info contained in the measurement results can be obtained in a number of
different ways.
The \"(n-1) out of n\" approach allows a vendor to implement a subset of 3GPP
defined measurements, for example if there exists a relation (A+B=C) then any
2 out of 3 defined measurements A, B, C are sufficient information to
calculate the third (n=3). In case there exists a relation (A+B+C=D), then any
3 out of the 4 would suffice, and the same kind of approach would be
applicable.
# A.1 Attempt/success/failure procedure measurements
Consider the number of attempts to start a specific procedure (e.g. RRC
connection establishment). Some of these attempts will fail, some will be
successful. Three different counters can be defined to measure these
procedures: an attempt counter, a success counter, and a failure counter, but
in fact only 2 may be provided, since we have the fixed relation (#success +
#failure) = #attempt.
It is to be noted that all combinations do not provide the same level of
details. For example, in the case only #attempt and #success are provided, it
will not be possible to retrieve the detailed failure causes.
The three measurement types defined in clause 4.4 of TS 32.405 are subject to
the \"(n-1) out of n\" approach with n=3:
\- Attempted RRC connection establishments.
\- Failed RRC connection establishments.
\- Successful RRC connection establishments.
The \"(n-1) out of n\" approach is also applicable for more complex
measurements split according to a specific criterion, e.g. Queuing. For
example, the CS measurements described in clause 4.1 of TS 32.405 are subject
to a 4 out of 5 approach:
\- Attempted RAB establishments for CS domain.
\- Successful RAB establishments without queuing for CS domain.
\- Failed RAB establishments without queuing for CS domain.
\- Successful RAB establishments with queuing for CS domain.
\- Failed RAB establishments with queuing for CS domain.
Any of the five measurements can be calculated from the four others but all
combinations will not provide the same level of details (e.g. failure causes).
# A.2 GSM/UMTS combined measurements
With relation to the field H of the measurement template, a measurement
indicated with GSM/UMTS is an example of the \"(n-1) out of n\" approach with
n=3 since (GSM + UMTS) = Combined.
In that case, all concerned measurements are included in the same template but
the vendor may provide only 2 subcounters out of 3.
The measurement described in subclause 4.6.1 of TS 32.406 is subject to the
\"(n-1) out of n\" approach with n=3:
\- SM.AttActPdpContext (attempted context activation procedures with no
distinction between GSM and UMTS).
\- SM.AttActPdpContext.G (attempted context activation procedures for GSM
only).
\- SM.AttActPdpContext.U (attempted context activation procedures for UMTS
only).
# A.3 Embedded \"(n-1) out of n\" approaches
It is also possible to combine the approaches described above. For example,
the measurements described in subclause 4.5 of TS 32.406 are subject to the
\"(n-1) out of n\" approach at two levels.
Firstly, measurements are split according to the CS/PS domain, for example:
\- attempted CS SMS mobile originating;
\- attempted PS SMS mobile originating;
\- attempted SMS mobile originating;
where any of the three measurements can be calculated from the two others.
Secondly, each measurement provides 3 subcounters, for example for Attempted
CS SMS mobile originating:
\- SMS.AttMoCS;
\- SMS.AttMoCS.G;
\- SMS.AttMoCS.U;
where any of the three subcounters can be calculated from the two others.
###### ## Annex B (informative): Top-Down Performance Measurement Definition
Process
# B.1 Scope of this annex
Performance measurements within wireless telecommunications networks are
required in order to meet the needs of the diverse community of end-users of
those measurements. New features develop, networks evolve and operating
conditions change without sufficient consideration given to the measurements
needed to keep the network running efficiently. While Equipment Vendors define
measurements to satisfy their particular needs, other perspectives, especially
the voice of the Network Operator, are sometimes lost during Equipment Vendor
development processes. Similarly, Network Operators sometimes request
measurements without fully understanding who will be using the data or what
actions those people will take based on the collected data. A coherent,
simple, top-down methodology for defining performance measurements is lacking
in the telecommunications industry.
This annex proposes a methodology to handle the above problems. In particular,
multiple user communities have been defined representing the end-users of
system measurements. Performance goals and measurements are defined
considering these same user communities. The definition includes
identification of specific problem scenarios and corrective actions to be
taken by the appropriate user community.
Measurements defined using this methodology can be contributed to 3GPP SA5 for
potential adoption and inclusion in the present document. It is believed that
this methodology will help reduce development costs for the Equipment Vendors
and reduce operational costs for the Network Operators.
# B.2 Overview
Performance measurements are important to the proper and efficient functioning
of wireless telecommunications networks. They have numerous uses related to
resource utilization, expansion planning, network optimisation, operating
problem diagnosis and network availability monitoring. For the wireless
telecommunications world, product performance measurements are necessary to
support multiple communities of users.
In addition, once performance measurements are defined for a wireless
telecommunication network they must be maintained. The evolution of a wireless
telecommunication network for capacity increases and feature extensions leads
to the evolution of the collected measurements. Performance measurements need
to be added, modified and made obsolete from the overall measurement
repository. These changes must be defined completely and accurately to meet
the requirements of each community of users.
The development of a performance measurement life cycle process to oversee
this need is proposed in this annex. The life cycle process addresses the
multiple user communities whose perspectives are needed to supply the
requirements for the performance measurements.
The proposed performance measurement life cycle process is a usage-based
process. The basic Goal, Question, Metric (GQM) method is enhanced to define
problem scenarios and corrective actions. These descriptions are not only used
to filter out proposals for performance measurements that provide no defined
benefit, but also support user community training in the use of the
performance measurements.
The remainder of this annex is organised as follows.
\- Clause B.3 defines Measurement User Communities for wireless
telecommunications.
\- Clause B.4 discusses the GQM and the Enhanced GQM methods.
\- Clause B.5 discusses the measurement life cycle process.
\- Clause B.6 provides conclusions.
# B.3 Measurement User Communities
One objective of Performance Management as a functional subset of operations
and maintenance processes is to define sets of measurements. Typical
definition criteria revolve around measuring activity within the network in
terms of volume, speed and accuracy. While this approach produces measurement
data it does not completely address the needs and uses of the multiple
consumers of network performance measurement information. The Enhanced GQM
methodology extends the measurement definition criteria to better satisfy
multiple groups with diverse needs for these measurements.
A qualitative judgement as to the efficacy of a Performance Management
subsystem is how well served these different groups are by the measurements
provided. To better understand these needs, five generic categories of users,
outlined definitions and examples of their needs and requirements for
measurements taken from their wireless telecommunications network are defined.
These groups are referred to as measurement user communities. These six
communities are:
Network Operator\'s Business Community
Network Operator\'s Maintenance Community
Network Operator\'s Traffic Engineering Community
Network Operator\'s Customer Care Community
Equipment Vendor\'s Performance Modelling Community
Equipment Vendor\'s Development Engineering Community
## B.3.1 Network Operator Business Community
The first measurement user community is the Network Operator\'s Business
Community. This community is defined under the assumption that the wireless
telecommunications network is fully operational, adequately engineered for
traffic load per quality of service definitions and in commercial service. The
primary objective of this community is to guarantee the financial health and
welfare of the Operating Company. They expect a properly configured wireless
telecommunications network to supply the revenue per subscriber unit necessary
to meet their financial goals.
An understanding of the elasticity of demand can help the Business Community
maximize profits within their product pricing strategy as they alter prices
according to various mixes of services. Typical measurements of interest to
this community are those based on the actual volumes of calls completed by
service type. This call volume information can lead to trends of usage over
time. Correlation between price mix and call volumes can help to identify
pricing strategies geared towards increasing revenue per subscriber unit.
## B.3.2 Network Operator Maintenance Community
The second measurement user community is the Network Operator\'s Maintenance
Community. This community is defined under the assumption that the wireless
telecommunications network is less than fully operational, adequately
engineered for traffic load per quality of service definitions and in
commercial service. The primary objective of this community is to reduce Mean
Time to Repair faults that occur within the network equipment of the Operating
Company.
The baseline metric for this community is the availability of the network
equipment, where availability is composed of the sum of scheduled and
unscheduled outages to the network equipment. Unscheduled outages are
influenced by the inherent hardware and software quality of the products
provided to the operating company. While the Maintenance Community has no
direct control over that quality, they do have control over the second
component of scheduled outage, Mean Time to Repair.
Mean Time to Repair is influenced by the Mean Time to Detect a fault. This
community of user\'s defines measurements that support detecting or predicting
faults within the network equipment.
Measurements that support this community can come from places other than the
network equipment, itself. Several Operating Companies have been observed
building information systems based on the data provided by Call Detail Records
and Billing Records. Correlation is sought within these data between call
faults and location within the Network. Detection of these faults serves a
dual purpose: it allows the Operating Company a view of performance at the
level of their Network Operator (the subscriber) and it allows the Maintenance
Community to target specific network equipment for repair.
## B.3.3 Network Operator Traffic Engineering Community
The third measurement user community is the Network Operator\'s Traffic
Engineering Community. This community is defined under the assumption that the
wireless telecommunications network is fully operational, inadequately
engineered for current or future traffic load per quality of service
definitions and in commercial service. The primary objective of this community
is to keep the capacity of the network equipment within 1) the Operating
Company\'s design criteria for the quality of service based on growth of the
subscriber base, 2) changes in usage patterns based on pricing strategies and
3) introduction of new services.
The baseline metric for this community is the trend in utilization of the
network equipment. A fully instrumented network would allow the Operating
Company to understand the trend in performance of their principle capital
investment and any leased services. As these trends pass thresholds of
performance, purchasing decisions or volume pricing discounts could be
triggered.
## B.3.4 Network Operator Customer Care Community
The fourth measurement user community is the Network Operator\'s Customer Care
Community. This community is defined under the assumption that the wireless
telecommunications network is fully operational, functioning at a less than
optimal level resulting in end-user dissatisfaction and in commercial service.
The primary objective of this community is interfacing with the end-user
customers of offered services for the purpose of establishing and maintaining
end-user customer satisfaction. This may include customer care
responsibilities such as Customer Relationship Management (CRM), Service Level
Agreement (SLA) management, quality of service (or QoS) management, etc.
This community is interested in defining measurements related to the end-user
customer experience with the network Operator\'s offered services in the areas
of CRM, SLA, QoS, problem reports, etc. Decisions on how to best handle
customer dissatisfaction or how to keep customers from becoming dissatisfied
are based on these types of measurements.
## B.3.5 Equipment Vendor Performance Modelling Community
The fifth measurement user community is Equipment Vendor\'s Performance
Modelling Community. This community is defined under the assumption that the
wireless telecommunications network is fully operational, adequately
engineered for traffic load per quality of service definitions and in some
level of call capable service. The primary objective of this community is to
guarantee that the models used during analysis and design phases conform to
real-world observations of the network equipment of the Operating Company.
While this community is not within the Operating Company it still provides
beneficial service to the Operating Company by managing the development of
subsequent features that are in line with the actual performance
characteristics of the network. Many decisions within the development life
cycle depend on models developed prior to shipping the product. These models
need to be calibrated to network performance once the product is released.
Definition of measurements in concert with calibrating these models requires
the direct involvement of the people developing the models.
The network that transports Network Management data often is the same network
that carries call control traffic. Clearly, the knowledge of volume levels of
this traffic during anomalous operating conditions is important in order to
understand the total impact to call processing. This community would define
measurements to allow the monitoring of this type of phenomena.
## B.3.6 Equipment Vendor Development Engineering Community
The sixth measurement user community is Equipment Vendor\'s Development
Engineering Community. This community is also defined under the assumption
that the wireless telecommunications network is fully operational, adequately
engineered for traffic load per Quality of Service or Service Level Agreement
definitions and in commercial service. The primary objective of this community
is to guarantee that the implementations of the designs conform to real-world
observations of the network equipment of the Operating Company.
While this community also is not within the Operating Company, it still
provides beneficial service to the Operating Company. The implementation of
new algorithms carries some finite risk of performance in the Network Operator
environment versus the lab environment. Many times simulators of network
activity are developed to support the verification of these algorithms. These
simulations need to be calibrated to network performance once the product is
released. Definition of measurements in concert with calibrating these
simulations requires the direct involvement of the people developing the
simulations.
## B.3.7 User Community Conclusion
The six measurement communities are broken into four Network Operator based
groups and two Equipment Vendor groups. However, experience shows that the
measurements defined for these groups are not mutually exclusive. Other groups
may also use measurements needed by a particular group for the same or
different purposes. Thus, the accurate definition of the measurements and how
to use them is necessary to allow the Network Operator to properly combine
these measurements into more complex analyses.
# B.4 Enhanced GQM
The Goal, Question, Metric (GQM) method requires measurement user communities
to help define goals and metrics. This clause first presents the standard GQM
method and then presents an enhanced GQM method, which provides the
measurement user communities a broader understanding of how metrics are used.
The term \'Metric\' in GQM means the same as \'measurement\'.
## B.4.1 GQM Methodology
Basili and Weiss [23] and others originally proposed the GQM method. This
methodology provides a systematic approach for defining metrics that can be
collected and analysed to determine whether or not a goal has been reached.
This methodology was originally created for quality assurance of software
development processes, but has been applied to other areas. GQM is comprised
of the following three steps.
1\. Identify and define **Goals** for a particular group;
2\. Refine goals into quantifiable **Questions** ;
3\. Define **Metrics** that will answer the questions.
Goals are defined in terms of a **purpose** and a **perspective**. The purpose
specifies the object to be analysed and why it will be analysed. The
perspective specifies the relevant aspects of the object and which measurement
user community is interested in the aspects.
Execution of the GQM methodology results in the formation of a GQM model. A
GQM model contains the set of defined Goals, Questions and Metrics. A GQM
model provides trace-ability from the goals to the associated metrics. Figure
B.4.1.1 shows an example of a GQM model.
Figure B.4.1.1: GQM Model
GQM definition templates are often used to help produce consistent goal,
question and/or metric definitions. An example of a Goal template is shown
below:
**_Purpose:_** To (characterize evaluate, predict, motivate, etc.) the
(process product model, metric, etc.) in order to (understand, assess, manage,
engineer, learn, improve, etc.) it.\ Example: To evaluate the system testing
methodology in order to improve it.
**_Perspective:_** Examine the (cost, effectiveness, correctness, defects,
changes, product metrics, reliability, etc.) from the point of view of the
(developer, manager, Network Operator, corporate perspective, etc.).\ Example:
Examine the effectiveness from the developer\'s point of view.
## B.4.2 Enhanced GQM (EGQM) Methodology
As it stands, the GQM methodology works well for defining metrics, but falls
short in several areas. The original GQM methodology was enhanced to better
fit within the wireless telecommunications industry for the following reasons:
a) Allow wireless measurement user communities to specify their needs at the
beginning of the performance measurement life cycle rather than waiting for
product to be delivered.
b) Allow wireless measurement user communities to understand what performance
measurements are being designed for them in time to modify the associated
collection, analysis and reporting processes.
c) Allow wireless measurement user communities to understand how they should
analyse collected measurement data and what actions they should take when
analysis has been completed.
d) Provide criteria for rejecting unnecessary goals, useless measurements, or
measurements that can not be properly collected, analysed or understood.
e) Provide criteria for architecting metrics into the appropriate wireless
network device (based on network traffic capacity, device CPU and memory
capacity, data collection capabilities, etc.).
f) Allow for consistent measurement definition by providing Enhanced GQM model
definition and measurement definition templates.
g) Help reduce development costs for Equipment Providers and reduce
operational costs for the Network Operator.
The Enhanced GQM, or EGQM, methodology is comprised of the following four
steps.
1\. Identify and define measurement goals for a particular measurement user
community;
2\. Refine measurement goals into quantifiable problem scenarios;
3\. Define measurements that will determine if the goal is being accomplished;
4\. Define corrective actions.
EGQM\'s first and third steps are similar to GQM\'s first and third steps.
EGQM\'s second step is different than GQM\'s second step in that it focuses on
problem scenarios associated with the goal rather than on questions associated
with the goal. Problem scenarios are descriptions of real world problems the
measurement user community has or will experience. Each problem scenario
represents a particular aspect of the associated goal. Problem scenarios
include definitions of any formulas that will allow the measurement user
community to analyse the problem scenario after metric data has been collected
from the field. EGQM\'s fourth step is new. Corrective actions are
descriptions of what the measurement user community should do based on
analysis of metric data collected from the resulting wireless network.
Execution of the EGQM methodology results in the formation of an EGQM model.
An EGQM model contains the set of defined goal, problem scenarios, metrics and
corrective actions. An EGQM model also provides trace-ability from the goals
to the associated corrective actions. Figure B.4.2.1 shows an example of an
EGQM model.
Figure B.4.2.1: EGQM Model
EGQM has definition templates for producing an EGQM model and for defining
metrics. The EGQM model definition template is shown in Table B1. The EGQM
metric definition template that is useful for 3GPP SA5 activities is defined
in subclause 3.3 of the present document.
Table B.4.2.1: EGQM Model Definition Template
* * *
Goal Provides the name of goal and non-ambiguous definition of what needs to
be accomplished. Also provides the measurement user communities the goal is
associated with. Problem Scenario(s) Provides a description of the problem
scenario associated with the goal. Contains a description of how performance
measurements will be used by the user in order to meet the goal. Required
Metric(s) Provides a list of metrics required to assess the problem scenario
to see if the goal is being accomplished. Corrective Action(s) Provides
descriptions of actions the user can execute based on data collected from the
wireless network. Contains descriptions of expected metric data values and how
those values work with the Problem Scenarios definitions.
* * *
As described in clause B.3, six measurement user communities have been defined
for the wireless telecommunications industries. EGQM supports all six
communities. Representatives from each community participate in all four steps
of the EGQM methodology. This allows user communities to specify exactly what
they need and/or want and to know exactly how they will use the metrics before
any software is developed. Participation in the EGQM process increases Network
Operator satisfaction through early definition of operational practices
(including corrective actions) and increases product knowledge within the
Network Operator organization.
The EGQM model definition and metric definition templates provide the
mechanism to reject unnecessary goals, useless metrics, or metrics that can\'t
be properly collected or computed. Reasons for the rejection of a goal include
the following:
a) Non-ambiguous goal definition could not be determined;
b) Problem scenarios could not be determined;
c) Definition of how performance measurement will be used within a problem
scenario could not be determined;
d) Corrective actions could not be determined;
e) Metrics could not be defined to support problem scenario definitions;
f) Required metrics could not be architected into network devices for any of
the following reasons:
1) Network device could not collect metric due to CPU utilization issues;
2) Network device could not collect and/or store metric due to memory issues;
3) Network could not support the uploading of measurement data from network
devices to network manager;
4) Network manager could not collect and/or store measurement data due to
memory issues.
# B.5 Measurements Life Cycle Process
If the uses of performance measurements were confined to feature releases and
occasional changes to those features, then EGQM would suffice. However, user
community needs evolve, operating conditions change, performance models are
validated, new services are introduced, etc. As these conditions change,
performance measurements may need to change. Such considerations point to the
need for a complete measurements life cycle model.
A simple life cycle model to handle performance measurement changes is
depicted in Figure B.5.1. New performance measurement goal and metric
definitions are provided through new features. These are made available with
major releases.
Figure B.5.1: Measurement Life Cycle
Performance measurements may need to be periodically reviewed. Goal and metric
definition updates made during this process are generally instantiated at
major releases. When metrics are no longer useful they can be made obsolete
and eventually deleted. A waiting period between obsolescence and deletion
allows user communities time to implement and test out new metrics and
analyses that are meant to replace existing metrics and analyses.
# B.6 Conclusion
In the past, definition of performance measurements of wireless
telecommunications networks was focused mainly on satisfying the needs of the
Equipment Vendor Performance Modelling and Development Engineering measurement
user communities. The needs of the wireless telecommunications Network
Operator were not always addressed. The Performance Measurement Definition
process described in this annex addresses the needs of all measurements user
communities. The process also provides additional benefits, including the
following:
\- Allow measurement communities to specify their needs up front.
\- Allow measurement communities to prepare for and modify their measurement
monitoring and reporting processes before product is released to them.
\- Allow measurement communities to know what actions they need to perform
when assessing collected measurements.
\- Provides method for rejecting unrealistic goals and measurements.
\- Provides method for best architecting measurements into network devices.
\- Provides method for producing consistent measurement definitions.
\- Provides method for managing measurements life cycle including measurement
creation, modification and obsoletion.
The EGQM methodology may be used for:
\- analyse and assess performance areas that are not well understood or are
highly complex;
\- non-straightforward cases where it is difficult to create useful
measurement proposals;
\- an understanding of real value is required before useful measurement
proposals can be created;
\- mine for missing measurements;
\- mine for conflicting, overlapping, or existing measurements that are no
longer useful.
In summary, the EGQM methodology may be used by any company to generate
measurement definitions that can then be contributed to 3GPP SA5 for potential
inclusion in the present document.
#