# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project: Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management, as identified below:
**TS 32.432: \"Performance measurement; File format definition\";**
TS 32.435: \"Performance measurement; eXtensible Markup Language (XML) file
format definition\";
TS 32.436: \"Performance measurement; Abstract Syntax Notation 1 (ASN.1) file
format definition\".
The present document is part of a set of specifications, which describe the
requirements and information model necessary for the standardised Operation,
Administration and Maintenance (OA&M) of a multi-vendor PLMN.
During the lifetime of a PLMN, its logical and physical configuration will
undergo changes of varying degrees and frequencies in order to optimise the
utilisation of the network resources. These changes will be executed through
network configuration management activities and/or network engineering, see
3GPP TS 32.600 [4].
Many of the activities involved in the daily operation and future network
planning of a PLMN network require data on which to base decisions. This data
refers to the load carried by the network and the grade of service offered. In
order to produce this data performance measurements are executed in the NEs,
which comprise the network. The data can then be transferred to an external
system, e.g. an Operations System (OS) in TMN terminology, for further
evaluation. The purpose of the present document and the other related 3GPP TSs
listed above is to describe the mechanisms involved in the collection of the
data.
# 1 Scope
The present document describes the general semantics of performance
measurement result and collection. It defines the report file format, report
file conventions and the file transfer procedure. Clause 4 specifies the file
format for the bulk transfer of performance measurement results to the NM,
while clause 5 discusses the file transfer procedure utilised on that
interface.
The present document does not give the definition of any specific file format
-- such as XML and ASN.1, which will be given in Performance Measurement
eXtensible Markup Language (XML) File Format Definition 3GPP TS 32.435 and
Performance Measurement Abstract Syntax Notation 1 (ASN.1) File Format
Definition 3GPP TS 32.436.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.401: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM); Concept and requirements\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.600: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Concept and high-level requirements\".
[5] 3GPP TS 25.442: \"UTRAN Implementation Specific O&M Transport\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.300: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Name convention for Managed Objects\".
[7] 3GPP TS 52.402: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM); Performance measurements - GSM\".
[8] Void.
[9] Void.
[10] ITU-T Recommendation X.680: \"Information technology - Abstract Syntax
Notation One (ASN.1): Specification of basic notation\".
[11] ISO8601:2000(E) Data elements and interchange formats -- Information
interchange -- Representation of dates and times\".
[12] 3GPP TS 32.405: \"Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements;
Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (UTRAN)\".
[13] 3GPP TS 32.406 : \"Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements;
Core Network (CN) Packet Switched (PS) domain\".
[14] 3GPP TS 32.407: \"Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements;
Core Network (CN) Circuit Switched (CS) domain; UMTS and combined UMTS/GSM\".
[15] 3GPP TS 32.408 : \"Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements;
Teleservice\".
[16] 3GPP TS 32.409: \"Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements;
IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS)\".
[17] 3GPP 32.425: \"Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements;
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN)\".
[18] 3GPP TS 32.426: \"Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements;
Evolved Packet Core (EPC) network\".
[19] 3GPP TS 32.452 : \"Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements;
Home Node B (HNB) Subsystem HNS\".
[20] 3GPP TS 32.453 : \"Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements
Home enhanced Node B (HeNB) Subsystem (HeNS)\".
[21] 3GPP 28.552: \"Management and orchestration; 5G performance
measurements".
[22] 3GPP 32.404: \"Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements;
Definitions and template\".
[23] 3GPP TS 28.622: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Network Resource
Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply:
**network Element Manager (EM):** provides a package of end-user functions for
management of a set of closely related types of Network Elements. These
functions can be divided into two main categories:
\- Element Management Functions for management of Network Elements on an
individual basis. These are basically the same functions as supported by the
corresponding local terminals.
\- Sub-Network Management Functions that are related to a network model for a
set of Network Elements constituting a clearly defined sub-network, which may
include relations between the Network Elements. This model enables additional
functions on the sub-network level (typically in the areas of network topology
presentation, alarm correlation, service impact analysis and circuit
provisioning).
**Network Manager (NM):** provides a package of end-user functions with the
responsibility for the management of a network, mainly as supported by the
EM(s) but it may also involve direct access to the Network Elements. All
communication with the network is based on open and well-standardised
interfaces supporting management of multi-vendor and multi-technology Network
Elements.
**Operations System (OS):** generic management system, independent of its
location level within the management hierarchy.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
3G 3^rd^ Generation
5GC 5G Core network
EM Element Manager
GSM Global System for Mobile communications
NE Network Element
NM Network Manager
PLMN Public Land Mobile Network
PM Performance Management
# 4 Measurement Report File Format
This clause describes the format of measurement result files that can be
transferred from the network (NEs or EM) to the NM.
The following conditions have been considered in defining this file format:
\- Since the files are transferred via a machine-machine interface, the files
applying the format definitions should be machine-readable using standard
tools.
\- The file format should be independent of the data transfer protocol used to
carry the file from one system to another.
\- The file format should be generic across PLMN systems.
\- The file format should be flexible enough to include all possible
measurement types, i.e. those specified within clause 6 as well as
measurements defined within other standards bodies, or vendor specific
measurement types.
\- The file format should not impose any dependency between granularity
periods for the generation of measurement results and file upload cycles for
the file transfer from the network to the NM.
\- The file format should be flexible enough to support both the NE-based and
the EM-based approaches, as discussed in Chapter 5, clause 5.1.1 of the
present document.
\- The file format should be usable for other interfaces than Itf-N if
required. The measurement file header could be augmented to indicate this
other usage, however this would be a non-standard extension. In the ASN.1 (see
ITU-T Recommendation X.680 [10]) file format definition this is accommodated
by the use of the ellipsis notation. XML schema allows such additions through
insertion of extra schema elements through the provider of the non-standard
extension.
## 4.1 File Content description
Table 4.1 lists all the file content items. It also provides an explanation of
the individual items.
Table 4.1 File Content Description
+---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | File Content Item | Description | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | measDataCollection | This is the top-level tag, which identifies | | | the file as a collection of measurement data. | | | The file content is made up of a header | | | (\"measFileHeader\"), the collection of | | | measurement result items (\"measData\"), and | | | a measurement file footer | | | (\"measFileFooter\"). | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | measFileHeader | This is the measurement result file header to | | | be inserted in each file. It includes a | | | version indicator, the name, type and vendor | | | name of the sending network node, and a time | | | stamp (\"collectionBeginTime\"). | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | measData | The \"measData\" construct represents the | | | sequence of zero or more measurement result | | | items contained in the file. It can be empty | | | in case no measurement data can be provided. | | | The individual \"measData\" elements can | | | appear in any order. | | | | | | Each \"measData\" element contains the name | | | of the NE (\"nEId\") and the list of | | | measurement results pertaining to that NE | | | (\"measInfo\"). | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | measFileFooter | The measurement result file footer to be | | | inserted in each file. It includes a time | | | stamp, which refers to the end of the overall | | | measurement collection interval that is | | | covered by the collected measurement results | | | being stored in this file. | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | fileFormatVersion | This parameter identifies the file format | | | version applied by the sender. The format | | | version defined in the present document shall | | | be the abridged number and version of this | | | 3GPP document (see below). | | | | | | The abridged number and version of a 3GPP | | | document is constructed from its version | | | specific full reference \"3GPP [...] | | | (yyyy-mm)\" by: | | | | | | - removing the leading \"3GPP TS\" | | | | | | - removing everything including and after | | | the version third digit, representing | | | editorial only changes, together with its | | | preceding dot character | | | | | | - from the resulting string, removing | | | leading and trailing white space, replacing | | | every multi character white space by a single | | | space character and changing the case of all | | | characters to uppercase. | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | senderName | The senderName uniquely identifies the NE or | | | EM that assembled this measurement file by | | | its Distinguished Name (DN), according to the | | | definitions in 3GPP TS 32.300 [6]. In the | | | case of the NE-based approach, it is | | | identical to the sender\'s | | | \"nEDistinguishedName\". | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | senderType | This is a user configurable identifier of the | | | type of network node that generated the file, | | | e.g. NodeB, EM, SGSN. The string may be empty | | | (i.e. string size =0) in case the | | | \"senderType\" is not configured in the | | | sender. | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | vendorName | The \"vendorName\" identifies the vendor of | | | the equipment that provided the measurement | | | file. The string may be empty (i.e. string | | | size =0) if the \"vendorName\" is not | | | configured in the sender. | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | collectionBeginTime | The \"collectionBeginTime\" is a time stamp | | | that refers to the start of the first | | | measurement collection interval (granularity | | | period) that is covered by the collected | | | measurement results that are stored in this | | | file. | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | neId | The unique identification of the NE in the | | | system. It includes the user name | | | (\"nEUserName\"), the distinguished name | | | (\"nEDistinguishedName\") and the software | | | version (\"nESoftwareVersion\") of the NE. | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | neUserName | This is the user definable name | | | (\"userLabel\") defined for the NE in | | | 3GPP TS 28.622 [23]. The string may be | | | empty (i.e. string size =0) if the | | | \"nEUserName\" is not configured in the CM | | | applications. | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | neDistinguishedName | This is the Distinguished Name (DN) defined | | | for the NE in 3GPP TS 32.300 [6]. It is | | | unique across an operator\'s network. The | | | string may be empty (i.e. string size =0) if | | | the \"nEDistinguishedName\" is not configured | | | in the CM applications. | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | neSoftwareVersion | This is the software version (\"swVersion\") | | | defined for the NE in 3GPP TS 28.622 [23]. | | | | | | This is an optional parameter which allows | | | post-processing systems to take care of | | | vendor specific measurements modified between | | | software versions. | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | measInfo | The sequence of measurements, values and | | | related information. It includes a list of | | | measurement types (\"measTypes\") and the | | | corresponding results (\"measValues\"), | | | together with the time stamp | | | (\"measTimeStamp\") and granularity period | | | (\"granularityPeriod\") pertaining to these | | | measurements. | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | measInfoId | This attribute associates a tag name with the | | | set of measurements defined by a _measInfo_ | | | property. This is an optional parameter that | | | may be used to assign unique names to | | | categories of measurements grouped together | | | by measInfo elements. It allows parsing tools | | | to easily isolate measurement sets by name. | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | measTimeStamp | Time stamp referring to the end of the | | | granularity period. | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | jobId | The \"jobId\" represents the job with which | | | measurement result contained in the file is | | | associated. | | | | | | The \"jobId\" is mandatory when PMIRP is | | | supported. | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | granularityPeriod | Granularity period of the measurement(s) in | | | seconds. | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | reportingPeriod | Reporting period of the measurement(s) in | | | seconds. | | | | | | The \"reportingPeriod\" is mandatory when | | | PMIRP is supported. | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | measTypes | This is the list of measurement types for | | | which the following, analogous list of | | | measurement values (\"measValues\") pertains. | | | | | | The measurement types for UMTS and combined | | | GSM/UMTS networks are specified in TS 32.405 | | | [12], TS 32.406 [13], TS 32.407 [14], | | | TS 32.408 [15] and for IMS in TS 32.409 | | | [16].\ | | | Measurement types for E-UTRAN are specified | | | in TS 32.425 [17] and for EPC in TS 32.426 | | | [18]. Measurement types for Home Node B | | | (HNB) Subsystem (HNS) are defined in TS | | | 32.452 [19] and for Home enhanced Node B | | | (HeNB) Subsystem (HeNS) in TS.32.453 | | | [20].The GSM only measurement types are | | | defined in TS 52.402 [7]. | | | | | | The measurement types for NR and 5GC are | | | specified in TS 28.552 [21] and TS 32.404 | | | [22] | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | measValues | This parameter contains the list of | | | measurement results for the resource being | | | measured, e.g. trunk, cell. It includes an | | | identifier of the resource | | | (\"measObjInstId\"), the list of measurement | | | result values (\"measResults\") and a flag | | | that indicates whether the data is reliable | | | (\"suspectFlag\"). | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | measObjInstId | The \"measObjInstId\" field contains the | | | local distinguished name (LDN) of the | | | measured object within the scope defined by | | | the \"nEDistinguishedName\" (see | | | 3GPP TS 32.300 [6]). The concatenation of | | | the \"nEDistinguishedName\" and the | | | \"measObjInstId\" yields the DN of the | | | measured object. The \"measObjInstId\" is | | | therefore empty if the | | | \"nEDistinguishedName\" already specifies | | | completely the DN of the measured object, | | | which is the case for all measurements | | | specified on NE level. For example, if the | | | measured object is a \"ManagedElement\" | | | representing RNC \"RNC-Gbg-1\", then the | | | \"nEDistinguishedName\" will be for instance | | | \"DC=a1.companyNN.com,Su | | | bNetwork=1,IRPAgent=1,SubNetwork=CountryNN,Me | | | Context=MEC-Gbg-1,ManagedElement=RNC-Gbg-1\", | | | and the \"measObjInstId\" will be empty. On | | | the other hand, if the measured object is a | | | \"UtranCell\" representing cell \"Gbg-997\" | | | managed by that RNC, then the | | | \"nEDistinguishedName\" will be for instance | | | the same as above, i.e. | | | \"DC=a1.companyNN.com,Su | | | bNetwork=1,IRPAgent=1,SubNetwork=CountryNN,Me | | | Context=MEC-Gbg-1,ManagedElement=RNC-Gbg-1\", | | | and the \"measObjInstId\" will be for | | | instance | | | \"RncFunction=RF-1,UtranCell=Gbg-997\". The | | | class of the \"measObjInstId\" is defined in | | | item F of each measurement definition | | | template. | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | measResults | This parameter contains the sequence of | | | result values for the observed measurement | | | types. The \"measResults\" sequence shall | | | have the same number of elements, which | | | follow the same order as the measTypes | | | sequence. Normal values are INTEGERs and | | | REALs. The NULL value is reserved to indicate | | | that the measurement item is not applicable | | | or could not be retrieved for the object | | | instance. | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | suspectFlag | Used as an indication of quality of the | | | scanned data. FALSE in the case of reliable | | | data, TRUE if not reliable. The default value | | | is \"FALSE\", in case the suspect flag has | | | its default value it may be omitted. | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | timestamp | This tag carries the time stamp that refers | | | to the end of the measurement collection | | | interval (granularity period) that is covered | | | by the collected measurement results that are | | | stored in this file. The minimum required | | | information within timestamp is year, month, | | | day, hour, minute, and second. | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
The measInfo contains the sequence of measurements, values and related
information, in a table-oriented structure. A graphical representation of this
structure can be found in clause 6.1.
The representation of all timestamps in PM files shall follow the
representations allowed by the ISO 8601 [11].\ The precise format for
timestamp representation shall be determined by the technology used for
encoding the PM file (e.g. ASN.1, XML DTD, XML Schema). The choice of
technology should ensure that this representation is derived from ISO 8601
[11]. Based on the representation used, the timestamp shall refer to either
UTC time or local time or local time with offset from UTC.
At least for those measurement types that are re-used from non-3GPP standards
(e.g. IP, ATM), it is required that the measType be operator definable. This
is necessary to allow the operator to harmonise the numbering between
different vendors\' systems where appropriate. Through this harmonisation, it
can be assured that identical measurements always carry the same measType
value, which is required by the post-processing system.
# 5 Measurement Report File Conventions and Transfer Procedure
This clause describes the conventions how files containing performance
measurement results are generated in the network (EM or NEs) and the procedure
to transfer these files from the network to the NM.
## 5.1 Conventions
The following clauses define conventions for the generation and the naming of
measurement-result files.
### 5.1.1 File generation
Since vendors may choose to implement the NM interface either in the NEs or
the EM, the measurement result files for collection by the NM (push or pull
transfer mechanism) may be provided by the NEs or the EM. Note that within one
PLMN network both possibilities may occur, since NEs of different types may
use either one of the two possible approaches (NE based or EM based). This is
particularly true in a multi-vendor network.
The procedures for the transfer of the files to the NM from either the NE or
the EM are described in clause 5.2.
#### 5.1.1.1 NE based approach
The NE shall generate one measurement report(measurement record) immediately
at the end of each granularity period. This measurement report shall contain
all measurement results produced by the NE within that granularity period. For
example, if a NodeB runs 10 measurements with a granularity period of 15
minutes and 5 measurements with a granularity period of 5 minutes, then it
shall generate one measurement report containing 10 results every 15 minutes,
and one measurement reportcontaining 5 measurement results every 5 minutes.
In the event of two or more granularity periods coming to an end at the same
time, the NE shall generate one measurement report per granularity period.
Hence in the above example, the NodeB shall generate 2 measurement reports --
one containing 10 results (15min granularity period) and the other containing
5 measurement results (5 min granularity period), when the end time of the
granularity periods coincide.
Measurement reports (measurement record) of a particular granularity period
are assembled into measurement result file for transfer, e.g. from the NE or
EM. The number of measurement reports assembled is based on reporting period.
The different types of measurement result file that can be supported are in
section 5.1.2.
The NE shall be identified both in the file name and in the file contents. NE
identifiers (names) used for the files shall be in accordance with the NE
naming conventions defined in 3GPP TS 32.300 [6]. The file shall be available
for transfer as soon as all applicable results have been assembled.
Each NE is responsible for the generation and maintenance of the measurement
reports (measurement record) pertaining to its own measurements (i.e. the
measurements it executes). In particular, this implies that the RNC is not
involved in the generation, provision or transfer of measurement result files
of its controlled NodeBs, i.e. for the measurements defined for the NodeB in
the present document, no results will be sent via the Iub interface. (Note
that NodeB measurement results may be routed across the same physical
interface as Iub, see 3GPP TS 25.442 [5] for details).
#### 5.1.1.2 EM based approach
This approach requires that measurement results be forwarded to the EM
according to the mechanisms described in clause 4.2.4 of the 3GPP TS
32.401[3]. The EM may choose to provide measurement result files as described
above for the NEs, however, additional flexibility may be offered. For
example, measurement results from several granularity periods and/ or several
NEs could be written into one single file. These NEs may be determined based
on network hierarchy (e.g. all NodeBs controlled by the same RNC, all NEs
controlled by the same EM), or management domains configured by the system
operator (e.g. NodeBs belonging to a certain (management or geographical)
area). In case such rules are applied by the EM for the routing of measurement
results to specific files then they shall be operator configurable. If results
from more than one NE are contained in a file, the NE identifier used for the
file shall be the EM name as defined in 3GPP TS 32.300 [6], or a domain name
configured by the system operator. If results from more than one granularity
period are contained in the file then the beginning of the first and the end
of the last granularity period shall be indicated in the file name.
The file shall be made available for transfer to or collection by the NM as
soon as all applicable results have been assembled.
### 5.1.2 File naming
The following convention shall be applied for measurement result file naming:
\\.\-[\.]\[_-\][_\][_-_\]
1) The Type field indicates if the file contains measurement results for
single or multiple NEs and/or granularity periods where:
\- \"A\" means single NE, single granularity period; ( this is used when
granularity period is equal to reporting period )
\- \"B\" indicates multiple NEs, single granularity period; ( this is used
when granularity period is equal to reporting period)
\- \"C\" signifies single NE, multiple granularity periods; (this is used when
reporting period is multiples of the granularity period and will contain
multiple measurement reports )
\- \"D\" stands for multiple NEs, multiple granularity periods. (this is used
when reporting period is multiples of the granularity period and will contain
multiple measurement reports).
2) The Startdate field indicates the date when the granularity period began if
the Type field is set to A or B. If the Type field is either \"C\" or \"D\"
then Startdate contains the date when the first granularity period of the
measurement results contained in the file started. The Startdate field is of
the form YYYYMMDD, where:
\- YYYY is the year in four-digit notation;
\- MM is the month in two digit notation (01 - 12);
\- DD is the day in two-digit notation (01 - 31).
3) The Starttime field indicates the time when the granularity period began if
the Type field is set to A or B. If the Type field is either \"C\" or \"D\"
then Starttime contains the time when the first granularity period of the
measurement results contained in the file began. The Starttime field is of the
form HHMMshhmm, where:
\- HH is the two-digit hour of the day (local time), based on 24-hour clock
(00 - 23);
\- MM is the two digit minute of the hour (local time), possible values are
00, 05, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, and 55;
\- s is the sign of the local time differential from UTC (+ or -), in case the
time differential to UTC is 0 then the sign may be arbitrarily set to \"+\" or
\"-\";
\- hh is the two-digit number of hours of the local time differential from UTC
(00-23);
\- mm is the two digit number of minutes of the local time differential from
UTC (00-59).
4) The Enddate field shall only be included if the Type field is set to \"C\"
or \"D\", i.e. measurement results for multiple granularity periods are
contained in the file. It identifies the date when the last granularity period
of these measurements ended, and its structure corresponds to the Startdate
field.
5) The Endtime field indicates the time when the granularity period ended if
the Type field is set to A or B. If the Type field is either \"C\" or \"D\"
then Endtime contains the time when the last granularity period of the
measurement results contained in the file ended. Its structure corresponds to
the Starttime field, however, the allowed values for the minute of the hour
are 05, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 55, and 00.
6) UniqueId. This is the name of the NE, EM or domain, as defined in clauses
5.1.1.1 and 5.1.1.2 (e.g. a distinguishedName). The field may be omitted only
if the distinguishedName is not available from the CM applications.
7) The RC parameter is a running count, starting with the value of \"1\", and
shall be appended only if the filename is otherwise not unique, i.e. more than
one file is generated and all other parameters of the file name are identical.
Therefore it may only be used by the EM, since the described situation cannot
occur with NE generated files. Note that the delimiter for this field, _-_, is
an underscore character (_), followed by a minus character (-), followed by an
underscore character (_).
8) jobId. When PMIRP is supported, the jobId shall be indicated in the
performance measurement file name.
Some examples describing file-naming convention:
1) file name: A20000626.2315+0200-2330+0200_NodeBId,\ meaning: file produced
by NodeB \ on June 26, 2000, granularity period 15 minutes from 23:15
local to 23:30 local, with a time differential of +2 hours against UTC.
2) file name: B20021224.1700-1130-1705-1130_-job10_EMId,\ meaning: file
containing results for multiple NEs, generated for measurement job job10,
produced by EM \ on December 24, 2002, granularity period 5 minutes from
17:00 local to 17:05 local, with a time differential of --11:30 hours against
UTC.
3) file name: D20050907.1030+0000-20050909.1500+0000_DomainId_-_2,\ meaning:
file containing results for NEs belonging to domain \, start of
first granularity period 07 September 2005, 10:30 local, end of last
granularity period 09 September 2005, 15:00 local, with a time differential of
0 against UTC. This file is produced by the EM managing the domain, and it is
the second file for this domain/granularity period combination.
4) file name: C20050907.1030+0000-20050909.1500+0000_NodeId,\ meaning: file
produced by the Node \ , start of first granularity period 07
September 2005, 10:30 local, end of last granularity period 09 September 2005,
15:00 local, with a time differential of 0 against UTC.
## 5.2 File transfer procedure
Both push (i.e. triggered by the NE) and pull (triggered by the OS) transfer
modes shall be supported on the NM interface. Implementation specific means
may be employed for the administration and control of the file transfer,
concerning:
\- the time of the transfer (in push mode);
\- the routing of the transfer to one or more OS(s) (in push mode);
\- the storage/deletion of the files in the NE, particularly when the EM based
approach is chosen (cf. clause 5.1.1.2).
Measurement result files shall be retained by the file generator (i.e. NE or
EM) at least until they have been successfully transferred to or collected by
the NM. The storage capacity and the duration for which the data can be
retained at the NE or the EM will be Operator and implementation dependent.
The file transfer procedure implemented in the system (NE or EM) shall ensure
that no data can get lost under normal operating conditions. The procedure
shall also ensure that the files will be deleted after successful transfer to
the NM. Depending on the exact implementation of the procedure, the NM may be
responsible for deleting those files, or older files will be eventually
overwritten by new ones by the file generator in a round robin fashion.
Each implementation shall support all primitives of the selected protocol
(e.g. put file, get file, inspect directory contents, delete file) which are
needed by the NM. These primitives depend on the details of the procedure, as
defined by the manufacturer.
###### ## Annex A (informative): The table oriented file format structure
Measurement Items (counters) are typically grouped according functionality
(cf. 3GPP TS 52.402 [7] Measurement Function). The term \"measured object
class\" is used to identify such a group. The file format is based on the fact
that the measurements are always collected in sets of one functional group.
The measInfo contains the sequence of measurements, values and related
information, in a table-oriented structure.\ It includes a list of measurement
types (\"measTypes\") and the corresponding values (\"measValues\"), together
with the time stamp (\"measTimeStamp\"), granularity period
(\"granularityPeriod\") and reporting period (\"reportingPeriod\") pertaining
to these measurements. Whenever one of these 4 elements changes, then a new
measInfo sequence is started. If the \"measTypes\" change, then also the
\"measValues\" change, because these elements are connected in the following
way: the \"measTypes\" correspond to a specific measurement object (NE, trunk,
cell, ...), of which one or more instances can exist inside the NE.
Hence for one set of \"measTypes\", there can be one or more sets of
\"measValues\", according to the \"measObjInstId\".
The above is best explained with an example: consider the CELL measurement
function (3GPP TS 52.402 [7]). Then the measured object class is Cell. The
measInfo contains a \"header\" line defining which measurements related to
Cell are collected (measTypes), and in which order. The subsequent \"data\"
lines will then contain the values of the measurements for each specific cell,
which is measured, one data line per cell (measValues).
This format will generate a kind of table with as column headings the
measurement names, and in the rows the corresponding measurement values per
measured instance.
# A.1 Graphical representation of the table structure
For clarity, the table in the example below only contains the measTypes and
measValues (and suspectFlag), not the granularityPeriod, reportingPeriod and
the measTimeStamp.
* * *
             attTCHSeizures   succTCHSeizures   attImmediateAssignProcs   succImmediateAssignProcs
cell=997 234 345 567 789 false cell=998 890 901 123 234 false cell=999 456 567
678 789 false
* * *
#