# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a mulit-part deliverable covering the 3^rd^
Generation Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and
System Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
32.451: Key Performance Indicators (KPI) for E-UTRAN; Requirements;
**32.450:** Key Performance Indicators (KPI) for E-UTRAN; Definitions.Key
Performance Indicators (KPI).
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies definitions of Key Performance Indicators
(KPIs) for E-UTRAN.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] ITU-T Recommendation E.800: \"Terms and Definitions related to Quality of
Service and Network Performance including Dependability\".
[2] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.404: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM); Performance measurements - Definitions and template\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.405: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM); Performance measurements Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
(UTRAN) \".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.406: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM); Performance measurements Core Network (CN) Packet Switched (PS)
domain\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.407: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM); Performance measurements Core Network (CN) Circuit Switched (CS)
domain\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.408: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM); Performance measurements Teleservice\".
[8] 3GPP TS 32.409: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM); Performance measurements IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS)\".
[9] 3GPP TS 52.402: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM); Performance measurements - GSM\".
[10] 3GPP TS 32.425: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM); Performance measurements Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
Network (E-UTRAN)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [2] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[2].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[2] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [2].
eNB E-UTRAN Node B
EE Energy Efficiency
EPS Evolved Packet System
E-RAB E-UTRAN Radio Access Bearer
E-UTRAN Evolved UTRAN
kbit kilobit (1000 bits)
KPI Key Performance Indicator
KQI Key Quality Indicator
LTE Long Term Evolution
QoS Quality of Service
RAT Radio Access Technology
TTI Transmission Time Interval
UE User Equipment
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System
UTRAN UMTS Radio Access Network
# 4 KPI Overview
The following KPI categories are covered by the present document:
\- Accessibility (see the definition in [1]).
\- Retainability (see the definition in [1]).
\- Integrity (see the definition in [1]).
\- Availability
\- Mobility
\- Energy Efficiency
# 5 KPI Definitions Template
a) Long name (Mandatory): This field shall contain the long and descriptive
name of the KPI.
b) Description (Mandatory): This field shall contain the description of the
KPI.\ Within this field it should be given if the KPI is focusing on network
or user view.
c) Logical formula definition (Mandatory):\ The logical formula should
describe what the KPI formula is in logical way. The description of the
formula is given in a written textual format without any measurement or
counter names. E.g. a success rate KPI\'s logical formula is the successful
event divided by all event.
d) Physical formula definition (Optional):\ This field should contain the KPI
formula description using the 3GPP defined counter names.\ This field can be
used only if the counters needed for the KPI formula is defined in any of the
TS for performance measurements (TS 32.404 [3], TS 32.405 [4], TS 32.406 [5],
TS 32.407 [6], TS 32.408 [7], TS 32.409 [8], TS 52.402 [9], TS 32.425 [10])
e) Measurement names used for the KPI (Optional):\ This clause should list the
measurement names used for the KPI.\ This clause can be filled out only when
the underlying measurements for the KPI formula can be defined,\ i.e. physical
formula definition is available.
f) KPI Object (mandatory)\ This clause shall describe the object of the KPI.
The object of the KPI is one or some of the following:
\- UTRAN;
\- GERAN;
\- CS core;
\- PS core;
\- IMS;
\- E-UTRAN.
> The field can have multiple selection, e.g. for a network level end to end
> KPI the selection can be UTRAN+PS core network.
g) KPI category (mandatory)\ This clause contains the classification of the
KPI into one of the KPI categories listed in clause 4
h) Unit of the KPI (mandatory)\ This clause describes the unit of the KPI. The
unit can be one of the following:
\- percentage;
\- time interval (second or millisecond);
\- Erlang;
\- bit/J;
\- kbit/s.
i) Type of the KPI (Mandatory)\ This clause describes the type of the KPI. The
KPI type can be one of the following:
\- MEAN: This KPI is produced to reflect a mean measurement value based on a
number of sample results.
\- RATIO: KPI is produced to reflect the percentage of a specific case
occurrence to all the cases.
\- CUM: This KPI is produced to reflect a cumulative measurement which is
always increasing.
j) Remark: (Optional)\ This field is for any further information that is
needed for the KPI definition.\ Here it is proposed to define any additional
information that would be needed for the KPI definition; e.g. the definition
of a call in UTRAN.
# 6 E-UTRAN KPI Definitions
## 6.1 KPI Category \"Accessibility\"
### 6.1.1 E-RAB Accessibility
#### 6.1.1.1 Definition
a) E-RAB Accessibility.
b) A KPI that shows probability for an end-user to be provided with an E-RAB
at request.
c) Probability success rate for E-RABs establishment. Successful attempts
compared with total number of attempts for the different parts of the E-RAB
establishment.
d) $A1 = \text{InitialEPSBEstabSR} =
\frac{\sum_{\text{cause}}^{}{\text{RRC}\text{.}\text{ConnEstabSucc}\text{.}\left\lbrack
\text{Cause}
\right\rbrack}}{\sum_{\text{cause}}^{}{\text{RRC}\text{.}\text{ConnEstabAtt}\text{.}\left\lbrack
\text{Cause} \right\rbrack}} \times
\frac{\sum_{}^{}{\text{S1SIG}\text{.}\text{ConnEstabSucc}}}{\sum_{}^{}{\text{S1SIG}\text{.}\text{ConnEstabAtt}}}
\times
\frac{\sum_{\text{QCI}}^{}{\text{ERAB}\text{.}\text{EstabInitSuccNbr}\text{.}\left\lbrack
\text{QCI}
\right\rbrack}}{\sum_{\text{QCI}}^{}{\text{ERAB}\text{.}\text{EstabInitAttNbr}\text{.}\left\lbrack
\text{QCI} \right\rbrack}} \times \text{100}$$A2 = \text{AddedEPSBEstabSR} =
\frac{\sum_{\text{QCI}}^{}{\text{ERAB}\text{.}\text{EstabAddSuccNbr}\text{.}\left\lbrack
\text{QCI}
\right\rbrack}}{\sum_{\text{QCI}}^{}{\text{ERAB}\text{.}\text{EstabAddAttNbr}\text{.}\left\lbrack
\text{QCI} \right\rbrack}} \times \text{100}$
e) RRC.ConnEstabAtt.Cause\ RRC.ConnEstabSucc.Cause\ S1SIG.ConnEstabAtt\
S1SIG.ConnEstabSucc\ ERAB.EstabInitAttNbr.QCI\ ERAB.EstabInitSuccNbr.QCI\
ERAB.EstabAddAttNbr.QCI\ ERAB.EstabAddSuccNbr.QCI
f) E-UTRAN
g) Accessibility
h) Percentage
i) RATIO
j) The definition of the service provided by E-UTRAN is E-RABs.
#### 6.1.1.2 Extended definition
Mapping of end-user applications towards E-RABs can be different depending on
operator strategy; hence the measurement shall be adjustable depending on
operator E-RAB mapping strategy.
Table 1 Example of service mapping towards E-RABs
* * *
**_Operator_** **_Service_** **_E-RAB mapping_** A X Initial E-RAB A Y Initial
E-RAB B X Initial E-RAB B Y Added E-RAB
* * *
To provide Accessibility measurement from E-UTRAN that can be mapped to a
service for the operator the following measurements are defined:
A1: Initial E-RAB establishment success rate
A2: Added E-RAB establishment success rate
The establishment success rate is defined as:
Services can be mapped towards either Initial or Added E-RABs depending on
operator strategy. If a different QoS characteristic is required compared with
the QoS characteristic provided by an existing Initial E-RAB, an Added E-RAB
can be requested. QoS characteristics can be defined on an E-RAB basis; hence
both Initial E-RAB establishment success rate (A1) and Added E-RAB
establishment success rate (A2) shall be available per QoS group.
With these two measures the operator can calculate the service accessibility
depending on E-RAB mapping as follows:
Service mapped on Initial E-RAB = A1*100 [%]
Service mapped on Added E-RAB = A1*A2*100 [%]
## 6.2 KPI Category \"Retainability\"
### 6.2.1 E-RAB Retainability
#### 6.2.1.1 Definition
a) E-RAB Retainability.
b) A measurement that shows how often an end-user abnormally looses an > E-RAB
during the time the E-RAB is used.
c) Number of E-RABs with data in a buffer that was abnormally released, >
normalized with number of data session time units.
d) To measure E-RAB Retainability for a single QCI (R1) is fairly > straight
forward.\ > \ > \ > \ > However to measure the E-RAB Retainability for UEs is
not as > straight forward. The measurement R1 is defined to look at the >
activity level of just one QCI at the time, so to use this formula > and
measurements in an aggregated way to get E-RAB Retainability > on UE level
will not be accurate (e.g. for an UE with multiple > E-RABs, there might be
E-RABs that are active at the same time, > hence aggregating the QCI
measurements for session time will give > a larger session time than the total
UE session time. See picture > below).\ > \ > \ > Hence a measurement E-RAB
Retainability on UE level is defined > (R2) to provide a measurement for the
overall E-RAB Retainability.
e) ERAB.RelActNbr.QCI\ > \ > ERAB.SessionTimeUE\ > \ >
ERAB.SessionTimeQCI._QCI_
f) E-UTRAN.
g) Retainability.
h) Active release/second.
i) MEAN.
j) The definition of the service provided by E-UTRAN is E-RABs.
#### 6.2.1.2 Extended definition
The retainability rate is defined as:
As for defining an abnormal E-RAB release with end-user impact, it shall only
be considered an abnormal release of the E-RABs if the eNodeB considers there
to be data waiting for transfer in any of the buffers.
As for defining an E-RAB as active, an E-RAB shall be considered active if
there recently has been any data transmission in any direction.
## 6.3 KPI Category \"Integrity\"
### 6.3.1 E-UTRAN IP Throughput
#### 6.3.1.1 Definition
a) E-UTRAN IP Throughput.
b) A KPI that shows how E-UTRAN impacts the service quality provided to an
end-user.
c) Payload data volume on IP level per elapsed time unit on the Uu interface.
d) IP Throughput for a single QCI:
e) DRB.IPThpDl._QCI_
DRB.IPThpUl._QCI_
f) E-UTRAN
g) Integrity
h) kbit/s
i) MEAN
j) To make sure that only impacts from the RAN is included in this
measurement, time units to be included in \"elapsed time unit on the Uu
interface \"shall only be the ones where there is data in the buffer to be
transmitted E.g.in application data flows such as a web session, there are
times when there is no data to transmit by the eNodeB due to bursty traffic
pattern, then this \"eNodeB idle time\" shall not be included in \"elapsed
time unit on the Uu interface \".
#### 6.3.1.2 Extended definition
To achieve a Throughput measurement (below examples are given for DL) that is
independent of file size it is important to remove the samples where one TTI
on the radio interface is not utilized. (Successful transmission, buffer empty
in figure below).
Figure 1
To achieve a throughput measurement that is independent of bursty traffic
pattern, it is important to make sure that idle gaps between incoming data is
not included in the measurements. That shall be done as considering each burst
of data as one sample.
ThpVolDl is the volume on IP level and the ThpTimeDl is the time elapsed on Uu
for transmission of the volume included in ThpVolDl.
Figure 2
$\text{IP}\ \text{Throughput}\ \text{DL} =
\sum_{\text{Samples}}^{}\text{ThpVolDl}\sum_{\text{Samples}}^{}\text{ThpTimeDl}$
Since services can be mapped towards different kind of E-RABs, the IP
Throughput measurement shall be available per QoS group.
### 6.3.2 E-UTRAN IP Latency
#### 6.3.2.1 Definition
a) E-UTRAN IP Latency.
b) A measurement that shows how E-UTRAN impacts on the delay experienced by an
end-user.
c) Time from reception of IP packet to transmission of first packet over the
Uu.
d) $\text{Downlink}\ \text{Lat}_{\text{QCI} = x} =
\text{DRB}\text{.}\text{IPLatDl}_{\text{QCI} = x}$
e) DRB.IPLatDl._QCI_
f) E-UTRAN.
g) Integrity.
h) Milliseconds.
i) MEAN.
j) To make sure only contribution from the RAN is included in this
measurement, only delay of the first block to the Uu is counted.
#### 6.3.2.2 Extended definition
To achieve a delay measurement that is independent of IP data block size only
the first packet sent to Uu is measured.
To find the delay for a certain packet size the IP Throughput measure can be
used together with IP Latency (after the first block on the Uu, the remaining
time of the packet can be calculated with the IP Throughput measure).
Figure 3
T_Lat is defined as the time between receiption of IP packet and the time when
the eNodeB transmits the first block to Uu.
Since services can be mapped towards different kind of E-RABs, the Latency
measure shall be available per QoS group.
## 6.4 KPI Category \"Availability\"
### 6.4.1 E-UTRAN Cell Availability
#### 6.4.1.1 Definition
a) E-UTRAN Cell Availability.
b) A KPI that shows Availability of E-UTRAN Cell.
c) Percentage of time that the cell is considered available.
d) $\text{CellAvailability} =
\frac{\text{measurement_period-}\sum_{\text{cause}}^{}{\text{RRU}\text{.}\text{CellUnavailableTime}\text{.}\lbrack\text{cause}\rbrack}}{\text{measurement}_{\text{period}}}
\times \text{100}$
e) RRU.CellUnavailableTime.cause
f) E-UTRAN
g) Availability
h) Percentage
i) RATIO
j) -
#### 6.4.1.2 Extended Definition
As for defining the cell as available, it shall be considered available when
the eNodeB can provide E-RAB service in the cell.
## 6.5 KPI Category \"Mobility\"
### 6.5.1 E-UTRAN Mobility
#### 6.5.1.1 Definition
a) E-UTRAN Mobility.
b) A KPI that shows how E-UTRAN Mobility functionality is working.
c) Success rate of E-UTRAN Mobility.
d) $\text{Mobility}\ \text{Success}\ \text{Rate}_{\text{QCI} = x} =
\frac{\text{HO}\text{.}\text{ExeSucc}}{\text{HO}\text{.}\text{ExeAtt}} \times
\frac{\text{HO}\text{.}\text{PrepSucc}\text{.}\text{QCI}_{\text{QCI} =
x}}{\text{HO}\text{.}\text{PrepAtt}\text{.}\text{QCI}_{\text{QCI} = x}} \times
\text{100}\left\lbrack \text{\%} \right\rbrack$
e) HO.ExeAtt
HO.ExeSucc
HO.PrepAtt._QCI_
HO.PrepSucc._QCI_
f) E-UTRAN
g) Mobility
h) Percentage
i) RATIO
j) -
#### 6.5.1.2 Extended Definition
The measurement shall include both Intra E-UTRAN and Inter RAT handovers.
The measurement shall include both the preparation and execution phase of the
handover.
\"Entering preparation phase\" is defined as the point of time when the source
eNB attempts to prepare resources for an UE in a neighboring cell.
\"Success of execution phase\" is defined as the point of time when the source
eNB receives information that the UE successfully is connected to the target
cell.
## 6.6 KPI Category \"Energy Efficiency\"
### 6.6.1 E-UTRAN data Energy Efficiency
#### 6.6.1.1 Definition
a) E-UTRAN data Energy Efficiency.
b) A KPI that shows data energy efficiency in operational E-UTRAN.
c) Data Volume (DV) divided by Energy Consumption (EC) of the considered
network elements.
d) EE~MN,DV~{width="4.520138888888889in" height="0.2916666666666667in"}
e) DRB. PdcpSduBitrateUl._QCI_
DRB.PdcpSduBitrateDl._QCI_
PEE.Energy
f) E-UTRAN
g) Energy Efficiency
h) bit/J
i) MEAN
j) The Data Volume (in kbit) is obtained by multiplying average DL/UL cell
PDCP SDU bit-rate values (in kbit/s) of the considered network elements by the
measurement period value (in sec). The Energy Consumption (kWh) is obtained by
measuring the PEE.Energy of the considered network elements over the same
period of time. The samples are aggregated at the eNodeB/RN level.
#