# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects,
Telecommunication management; as identified below:
**32.571 "Telecommunication management; Home Node B (HNB) and Home eNode B
(HeNB) management; Type 2 interface concepts and requirements";**
32.572: **"** Telecommunication management; Home Node B (HNB) and Home eNode B
(HeNB) management; Type 2 interface models and mapping functions".
# 1 Scope
The present document describes requirements and concepts including
architecture supporting Home Node B and Home eNode B OAM&P for interface Type
2.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.581: "Telecommunications management; Home Node B (HNB)
Operations, Administration, Maintenance and Provisioning (OAM&P); Concepts and
requirements for Type 1 interface HNB to HNB Management System (HMS)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.591: "Telecommunications management; Home eNode B (HeNB)
Operations, Administration, Maintenance and Provisioning (OAM&P); Concepts and
requirements for Type 1 interface HeNB to HeNB Management System (HMS)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 22.220: Service Requirements for Home NodeBs and Home eNodeBs
[7] 3GPP TS 32.111-2: "Telecommunications management; Fault Management; Part
2: Alarm Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)
[8] 3GPP TS 32.583: **Telecommunications management; Home Node B (HNB)
Operations, Administration, Maintenance and Provisioning (OAM &P); Procedure
flows for Type 1 interface HNB to HNB Management System (HMS)**
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
For the purposes of this document, the terms and definitions given in TS
21.905 [1], TS 32.101 [2] and TS 32.102 [3] and in the following sub-clause
3.1 apply. Same term may be defined in different documents. The precedence
rule, applicable to this document, is in the order of: this document, TS
32.101 [2], TS 32.102 [3], TS 21.905 [1].
## 3.1 Definitions
There is no additional definition defined in this subclause.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
DM Domain Manager
EM Element Manager
HeNB Home eNode B
HMS HNB Management System
HeMS HeNB Management System
HNB Home Node B
NM Network Manager
OAM Operations, Administrator and Maintenance
# 4 Concepts and background
## **4.1 Overview**
This clause lays out the logical system architecture for the support of HNB
and HeNB management via Type 2 interface.
The architecture here takes into consideration of the Type 1 interface for HNB
and Type 1 interface for HeNB.
## 4.2 Architecture
This clause describes the logical system architecture.
Figure 1: System context of HNB and HeNB management
The 'A' denotes the network management protocols (and associated network
management data) whose characteristics are to be defined by this TS series.
The 'B' denotes the network management protocols (and associated network
management data) whose characteristics are defined in TS series of [4].
The 'C' denotes the network management protocols (and associated network
management data) whose characteristics are defined in TS series of [5].
The YyyIRPs of the IRPAgent:YyyIRP(s) box denotes the various IRPs such as
AlarmIRP, BasicCMIRP, PMIRP, etc.
The triangle boxes represent managed devices such as HeNB and HNB.
IRPManager uses 'A' to manage all managed devices.
In this configuration, IRPAgent:YyyIRP(s) plays the role of network management
service provider for IRPManager and the role of consumer for HMS and HeMS.
Similarly, HMS and HeMS play the role of service provider for
IRPAgent:YyyIRP(s) and the role of device management service consumer for
HNB(s) and HeNB(s).
The boxes are logical functional entities. Their physical locations and their
realization inphysical processors cannot be deduced or implied. For example,
an implementation can have IRPAgent:YyyIRP(s) and "HMS and/or HeMS"
implemented in one physical processor.
The interaction between IRPAgent:YyyIRP(s) and "HMS and/or HeMS" is not
visible from the perspective of this specification.
### 4.2.1 Mapping Function
IRPManager manages HNB(s) and HNB(s) using 'A'. This management activities
would trigger (result in) interactions between "HMS and/or HeMS" and HNB(s)
and HeNB(s), using 'B' and 'C'. The trigger(s) that relates interactions of
'A' and interactions of 'B'/'C' is denoted by 'F1' and 'F2', the Mediation
function.
Because the interaction between IRPAgent:YyyIRP(s) and "HMS and/or HeMS" is
not visible, it is of no relevance if 'F' should be placed inside one box or
another. This document chooses to place 'F1' and 'F2' arbitrary but embedded
within IRPAgent:YyyIRP(s) and "HMS and/or HeMS" boundaries.
Figure 2: Mapping (or Mediation) functions
The F1 is the mapping (or mediation) function for network management data
exchanged via Type 2 interface and NM data exchanged via Type 1 interface with
HNB.
The F2 is the mapping (or mediation) function for network management data
exchanged via Type 2 interface and NM data exchanged via Type 1 interface with
HeNB.
# 5 Business Level Requirements
## 5.1 Requirements
> [REQ-HBT2-FUN-1] The IRPAgent shall have the capability allowing IRPManager
> to manage HNB and HeNB using existing Interface IRPs.
>
> [REQ-HBT2-FUN-2] The IRPAgent should have the capability to provide a single
> point of access allowing IRPManager to manage HNBs, HeNBs and other types of
> managed entity such as macro eNBs. For example, the IRPAgent could have a
> single AlarmIRP that holds active alarms from HNBs and HeNBs as well as
> active alarms from other managed entities such as macro eNBs, etc.
>
> [REQ-HBT2-FUN-3] Operator shall be able to manage the following deployment
> scenarios in the most efficient manner:
  1. Deployment of HNBs only;
  2. Deployment of HeNBs only;
  3. Mixed deployment of the two scenarios above.
> [REQ-HBT2-FUN-4] In order to provide efficient management of mixed HNB/HeNB
> device deployment scenarios, management over Type-2 interface should be as
> integrated as possible.
>
> [REQ-HBT2-FUN-5] For mixed deployment scenarios with a single IRPAgent, the
> IRPAgent shall provide a capability allowing IRPManager to issue a single
> network management request to manage HNB(s) and HeNB(s).
## 5.2 Actor roles
IRPManager plays the Actor role.
## 5.3 Telecommunications resources
OAM network.
## 5.4 High-level use cases
There is no high-level use case defined.
# 6 Specification level requirements
## 6.1 Requirements
### 6.1.1 Configuration management
> [REQ- HBT2-FUN-100] The IRPAgent shall support a capability allowing
> IRPManager to create and manage profiles of HNB and HeNB configuration
> parameters; in order to allow HNB and HeNB to complete the registration
> procedure when turned on (see Registration procedure in TS 32.583 [8]).
>
> [REQ- HBT2-FUN-101] The IRPAgent shall support a capability allowing
> IRPManager to install software on a large number of HNB and HeNB.
### 6.1.2 Fault management
> [REQ- HBT2-FUN-200] The IRPAgent shall support a capability allowing
> IRPManager to use existing network management services provided by AlarmIRP
> to manage alarms categorized as "Expedited handling" (see REQ-OAMP_FM-
> FUN-005 of [4]) or categorized as "Queued handling" (see REQ-OAMP_FM-FUN-005
> of [4]).‬
#