# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects,
Telecommunication Management; as identified below:
32.591: "Concepts and requirements for Type 1 interface HeNB to HeNB
Management System (HeMS)"
32.592: "Information model for Type 1 interface HeNB to HeNB Management System
(HeMS)"
32.593: "Procedure flows for Type 1 interface HeNB to HeNB Management System
(HeMS)"
**32.594: "Data definitions for Type 1 interface HeNB to HeNB Management
System (HeMS)"**
# 1 Scope
The present document describes the data format for Configuration Management,
Fault Management, and Performance Management for Home eNodeB (HeNB). The Stage
3 definitions captured in this document shall be met via type 1 interface
between HeNB and Home eNodeB Management System (HeMS).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] Void.
[3] Void.
[4] 3GPP TS 32.300: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Name convention for Managed Objects\".
[5] -- [7] Void.
[8] 3GPP TS 32.435: \"Telecommunication management; Performance measurement:
eXtensible Markup Language (XML) file format definition\"
[9] 3GPP TS 32.592: \" Information model for Type 1 interface HeNB to HeNB
Management System (HeMS) \"
[10]-[12] Void.
[13] W3C REC-xmlschema-2-20010502: \"XML Schema Part 2: Datatypes\".
[14] Void.
[15] WT-157, Component Objects for CWMP, Broadband Forum
[16] TR-098 Amendment 2, "Internet Gateway Device Data Model for TR-069\",
Broadband Forum
[17] Void.
[18] TR-196i2, \"_Femto Access Point Device Data Model_ \". Broadband Forum,
Issue 2 November 2011 http://www.broadband-
forum.org/technical/download/TR-196_Issue-2.pdf .
[19] ISO 8601:2004(E) \"Data elements and interchange formats --- Information
interchange --- Representation of dates and times\", ISO.
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Home eNodeB, 3G Home eNodeB:** These terms, their derivations and
abbreviations are used synonymously throughout this document.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
CM Configuration Management
DM Domain Manager
DTD Document Type Definition
EM Element Manager
HMS Home NodeB Management System
HeMS Home eNodeB Management System
HNB Home NodeB
HeNB Home eNodeB
IP Internet Protocol
LTE Long Term Evolution
MME Mobility Management Entity
NGMN Next Generation Mobile Networks
OAM Operations, Administration and Maintenance
PM Performance Management
PnP Plug and Play
SAE System Architecture Evolution
SON Self-Organising Networks
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System
UTC Universal Time Coordinated
UTRAN UMTS Radio Access Network
XML eXtensible Markup Language
# 4 CM data format definition
This clause describes the format of Configuration Management data.
## 4.1 File content description
Table 4.1 lists all the file content items, provides and explanation of the
individual items, and maps the file content items to those used in the XML
schema based file format definitions. XML tag attributes are useful where data
values bind tightly to its parent element. They have been used where
appropriate.
Table 4.1 File Content Description and Mapping of File Content Items to XML
tags
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | File Content Item | XML schema based XML | Description | | | tag | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | configDataCollection | configDataFile | This is the | | | | top-level tag, which | | | | identifies the file | | | | as a collection of | | | | config data. The | | | | file content is made | | | | up of a header | | | | (\" | | | | configFileHeader\"), | | | | the collection of | | | | configuration items | | | | (\"configData\"), | | | | and a configfile | | | | footer | | | | (\" | | | | configFileFooter\"). | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | configFileHeader | fileHeader | This is the | | | | configuration data | | | | file header to be | | | | inserted in each | | | | file. It includes a | | | | version indicator, | | | | the sender name, and | | | | vendor name of the | | | | sending network | | | | node. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | configData | configData | The \"configData\" | | | | construct represents | | | | the sequence of zero | | | | or more | | | | configuration | | | | parameter items | | | | contained in the | | | | file. | | | | | | | | Each \"configData\" | | | | element contains the | | | | name of the NE | | | | (\"nEId\") and the | | | | list of parameters | | | | to be | | | | created,modified or | | | | deleted which | | | | pertaining to that | | | | NE | | | | | | | | The \"configData\" | | | | consists of | | | | DeviceData, | | | | DiagnosticsData, and | | | | FAPServiceData | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | configFileFooter | fileFooter | The configuration | | | | data file footer to | | | | be inserted in each | | | | file. It includes a | | | | time stamp, which | | | | refers to the time | | | | when the file is | | | | closed for sending | | | | to the NE. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | fileFormatVersion | fileHeader | This parameter | | | fileFormatVersion | identifies the file | | | | format version | | | | applied by the | | | | sender. The format | | | | version defined in | | | | the present document | | | | shall be the | | | | abridged number and | | | | version of this 3GPP | | | | document (see | | | | below). | | | | | | | | The abridged number | | | | and version of a | | | | 3GPP document is | | | | constructed from its | | | | version specific | | | | full reference | | | | \"3GPP [...] | | | | (yyyy-mm)\" by: | | | | | | | | - removing the | | | | leading \"3GPP TS\" | | | | | | | | - removing | | | | everything including | | | | and after the | | | | version third digit, | | | | representing | | | | editorial only | | | | changes, together | | | | with its preceding | | | | dot character | | | | | | | | - from the | | | | resulting string, | | | | removing leading and | | | | trailing white | | | | space, replacing | | | | every multi | | | | character white | | | | space by a single | | | | space character and | | | | changing the case of | | | | all characters to | | | | uppercase. | | | | | | | | e.g. \"32.594 V9.0\" | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | senderName | fileHeader | The senderName | | | senderName | uniquely identifies | | | | the NE or EM that | | | | assembled this alarm | | | | reporting file by | | | | its Distinguished | | | | Name (DN), according | | | | to the definitions | | | | in 3GPP TS 32.300 | | | | [4]. In the case | | | | of the NE-based | | | | approach, it is | | | | identical to the | | | | sender\'s | | | | \"nE | | | | DistinguishedName\". | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | vendorName | fileHeader | The \"vendorName\" | | | vendorName | identifies the | | | | vendor of the | | | | equipment that | | | | provided the | | | | measurement file. | | | | The string may be | | | | empty (i.e. string | | | | size =0) if the | | | | \"vendorName\" is | | | | not configured in | | | | the sender. | | | | | | | | For the XML schema | | | | based XML format, | | | | XML attribute | | | | specification | | | | \"vendorName\" may | | | | be absent in case | | | | the \"vendorName\" | | | | is not configured in | | | | the sender. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | neId | managedElement | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | neUserName | managedElement | \"userLabel\" may be | | | userLabel | absent in case the | | | | \"nEUserName\" is | | | | not configured in | | | | the CM applications. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | neDistinguishedName | managedElement | The DN is split into | | | localDn | the DN prefix and | | | | the Identifier of | | | | the Managed Object | | | | (see 3GPP TS 32.592 | | | | [9]). \"localDn\" | | | | may be absent in | | | | case the Identifier | | | | of the Managed | | | | Object is not | | | | configured in the CM | | | | applications | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | neSoftwareVersion | managedElement | \"swVersion\" may be | | | swVersion | absent in case the | | | | \ | | | | "nESoftwareVersion\" | | | | is not configured in | | | | the CM applications. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Modifier | configData modifier | This element is | | | | present if the HMS | | | | is required to | | | | inform the NE | | | | whether the | | | | parameter | | | | information should | | | | be used to create, | | | | update or delete an | | | | specific object | | | | instance on the | | | | HNB.. | | | | | | | | If not present the | | | | NE will assume the | | | | modification action | | | | is update | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | HNBDataParameters | configData | These elements are | | | DeviceInfo | present if the HMS | | | | requires to modify | | | configData | the specific | | | ManagementServer | configuration | | | | parameters | | | configData Time | | | | | The XML file format | | | FAPService DNPrefix | definitions | | | | implement the | | | FAPService | configuration | | | FAPControl | structure and | | | | parameter | | | FAPService | definitions defined | | | Access | in 3GPP TS 32.592 | | | ManagementParameters | [9] and broadband | | | | forum TR-098 | | | FAPService | Amendment 2 [16]. | | | CellConfig | | | | | | | | FAPService | | | | TransportParameters | | | | | | | | FAPService | | | | LTEREMParameters | | | | | | | | FAPService GPS | | | | | | | | FAPService | | | | SecurityParameters | | | | | | | | FAPService | | | | Location | | | | ManagementParameters | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | timestamp | fileFooter dataTime | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
A vendor MAY extend the standardized parameter list with vendor-specific
parameters and objects. Vendor-specific parameters and objects MAY be defined
either in a separate naming hierarchy or within the standardized naming
hierarchy of the XML File Format.
The name of a vendor-specific parameter or object not contained within another
vendor-specific object MUST have the following form to align with the Vendor
Specific Parameter Definition of TR-098 Amendment 2 [16].
  * X_\_VendorSpecificName
## 4.2 XML schema based CM data file format definition
### 4.2.1 CM data file XML diagram
For the purposes of the present document XML diagram in TR-196 Amendment 1
[18] applies.
### 4.2.2 CM data file XML schema
For the purposes of the present document XML schema in TR-196 Amendment 1 [18]
applies.
### 4.2.3 CM data file XML header
For the purposes of the present document XML header in TR-196 Amendment 1 [18]
applies.
# 5 PM data format definition
## 5.1 Mapping table
Table 5.1 maps the PM file content items in the 3GPP TS 32.592 [9] document to
those used in the XML schema based file format definitions. XML tag attributes
are useful where data values bind tightly to its parent element. They have
been used where appropriate.
Table 5.1 Mapping of File Content Items to XML tags
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | File Content Item | XML schema based XML | Description | | | tag | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | measDataCollection | measCollecFile | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | measFileHeader | fileHeader | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | measData | measData | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | measFileFooter | fileFooter | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | fileFormatVersion | fileHeader | | | | fileFormatVersion | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | senderName | fileHeader dnPrefix\ | For the XML schema | | | and\ | based XML format, | | | fileSender localDn | the DN is split into | | | | the DN prefix and | | | | the Identifier of | | | | the Managed Object | | | | (see 3GPP TS 32.592 | | | | [9]). XML | | | | attribute | | | | specification | | | | \"dnPrefix\" may be | | | | absent in case the | | | | DN prefix is not | | | | configured in the | | | | sender. XML | | | | attribute | | | | specification | | | | \"localDn\" may be | | | | absent in case the | | | | Identifier of the | | | | Managed Object is | | | | not configured in | | | | the sender. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | senderType | fileSender | For the XML schema | | | elementType | based XML format, | | | | XML attribute | | | | specification | | | | \"elementType\" may | | | | be absent in case | | | | the \"senderType\" | | | | is not configured in | | | | the sender. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | vendorName | fileHeader | For the XML schema | | | vendorName | based XML format, | | | | XML attribute | | | | specification | | | | \"vendorName\" may | | | | be absent in case | | | | the \"vendorName\" | | | | is not configured in | | | | the sender. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | collectionBeginTime | measCollec beginTime | 3GPP TS 32.592 [9] | | | | clause 6.3.2.1 | | | | Periodic Statistics | | | | "ReportStartTime" | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | neId | managedElement | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | neUserName | managedElement | For the XML schema | | | userLabel | based XML format, | | | | XML attribute | | | | specification | | | | \"userLabel\" may be | | | | absent in case the | | | | \"nEUserName\" is | | | | not configured in | | | | the CM applications. | | | | | | | | Not used in HeNB PM | | | | file | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | neDistinguishedName | fileHeader dnPrefix\ | For the XML schema | | | and\ | based XML format, | | | managedElement | the DN is split into | | | localDn | the DN prefix and | | | | the Identifier of | | | | the Managed Object | | | | (see 3GPP TS 32.592 | | | | [9]). XML | | | | attribute | | | | specification | | | | \"localDn\" may be | | | | absent in case the | | | | Identifier of the | | | | Managed Object is | | | | not configured in | | | | the CM applications. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | neSoftwareVersion | managedElement | For the XML schema | | | swVersion | based XML format, | | | | XML attribute | | | | specification | | | | \"swVersion\" may be | | | | absent in case the | | | | \ | | | | "nESoftwareVersion\" | | | | is not configured in | | | | the CM applications. | | | | | | | | Not used in HeNB PM | | | | file | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | measInfo | measInfo | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | measInfoId | measInfoId | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | measTimeStamp | granPeriod endTime | Calculated from the | | | | 3GPP TS 32.592 [9] | | | | clause 6.3.2.1 | | | | Periodic Statistics | | | | "ReportStartTime" + | | | | accumulation of the | | | | 3GPP TS 32.592 [9] | | | | clause 6.3.2.1 | | | | Periodic Statistics | | | | "SampleSeconds" | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | jobId | Job jobId | Not used in HeNB PM | | | | file | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | granularityPeriod | granPeriod duration | For the XML schema | | | | based XML format, | | | | the value of XML | | | | attribute | | | | specification | | | | \"duration\" shall | | | | use the truncated | | | | representation | | | | \"PT _n_ S\" (see | | | | [13]). | | | | | | | | 3GPP TS 32.592 [9] | | | | clause 6.3.2.1 | | | | Periodic Statistics | | | | "SampleInterval" | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | reportingPeriod | repPeriod duration | For the XML schema | | | | based XML format, | | | | the value of XML | | | | attribute | | | | specification | | | | \"duration\" shall | | | | use the truncated | | | | representation | | | | \"PT _n_ S\" (see | | | | [13]). | | | | | | | | 3GPP TS 32.592 [9] | | | | clause 6.3.1 | | | | Periodic Statistics | | | | "Per | | | | iodicUploadInterval" | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | measTypes | measTypes\ | For the XML schema | | | or\ | based XML format, | | | measType | depending on | | | | sender\'s choice for | | | | optional positioning | | | | presence, either XML | | | | element | | | | \"measTypes\" or XML | | | | elements | | | | \"measType\" will be | | | | used. | | | | | | | | 3GPP TS 32.592 [9] | | | | clause 6.3.2.2 | | | | Periodic Statistics | | | | "Reference" | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | measValues | measValue | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | measObjInstId | measValue measObjLdn | Identifier of the | | | | Managed Object (see | | | | 3GPP TS 32.592 | | | | [9]) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | measResults | measResults\ | For the XML schema | | | or | based XML format, | | | | depending on | | | r | sender\'s choice for | | | | optional positioning | | | | presence, either XML | | | | element | | | | \"measResults\" or | | | | XML elements \"r\" | | | | will be used. | | | | | | | | Broadband Forum data | | | | Model WT-157 [15] | | | | PeriodicStati | | | | stics.SampleSet.{i}. | | | | | | | | Parameter.{i}.Values | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | suspectFlag | Suspect | Not used in HeNB PM | | | | file | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | timeStamp | measCollec endTime | 3GPP TS 32.592 [9] | | | | clause 6.3.2.1 | | | | Periodic Statistics | | | | "ReportEndTime" | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | There is no | measType p | An optional | | corresponding File | | positioning XML | | Content Item. | | attribute | | | | specification of XML | | | | element \"measType\" | | | | (XML schema based), | | | | used to identify a | | | | measurement type for | | | | the purpose of | | | | correlation to a | | | | result. The value of | | | | this XML attribute | | | | specification is | | | | expected to be a | | | | non-zero, | | | | non-negative integer | | | | value that is unique | | | | for each instance of | | | | XML element | | | | \"measType\" that is | | | | contained within the | | | | measurement data | | | | collection file. | | | | | | | | Not used in HeNB PM | | | | file | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | There is no | r p | An optional | | corresponding File | | positioning XML | | Content Item. | | attribute | | | | specification of XML | | | | element \"r\", used | | | | to correlate a | | | | result to a | | | | measurement type. | | | | The value of this | | | | XML attribute | | | | specification should | | | | match the value of | | | | XML attribute | | | | specification \"p\" | | | | of the corresponding | | | | XML element | | | | \"measType\" (XML | | | | schema based). | | | | | | | | Not used in HeNB PM | | | | file | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
The representation of all timestamps in PM files shall follow the
representations allowed by the ISO 8601 [19].
The precise format for timestamp representation shall be determined by the
technology used for encoding the PM file (e.g. XML DTD, XML Schema). The
choice of technology should ensure that this representation is derived from
ISO 8601 [19]. Based on the representation used, the timestamp shall refer to
either UTC time or local time or local time with offset from UTC.
## 5.2 XML schema based PM data file format definition
### 5.2.1 PM data file XML diagram
For the purposes of the present document XML diagram in TS 32.435 [8] section
4.2.1 applies.
### 5.2.2 PM data file XML schema
For the purposes of the present document XML schema in TS 32.435 [8] section
4.2.2 applies.
### 5.2.3 PM data file XML header
For the purposes of the present document XML header in TS 32.435 [8] section
4.2.3 applies.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Examples
# A.1 XML schema based CM data file
For the purposes of the present document the examples in TR-196 Amendment 1
[18] apply.
# A.2 XML schema based PM data file
For the purposes of the present document the examples in TS 32.435 [8] Annex A
apply.
#