# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
Y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document establishes the minimum RF characteristics of E-UTRA,
UTRA and GSM/EDGE Multi-Standard Radio (MSR) Base Station (BS). Requirements
for multi-RAT and single-RAT operation of MSR BS are covered in the present
document. The requirements in the present document for E-UTRA and UTRA single-
RAT operation of MSR BS are also applicable to E-UTRA and UTRA multi-carrier
capable single-RAT BS. Requirements for GSM BS that are only single-RAT
capable are not covered.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 25.104, \"Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception
(FDD)\"
[3] 3GPP TS 25.105, \"Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception
(TDD)\"
[4] 3GPP TS 36.104, \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception\"
[5] 3GPP TS 45.005, \"Radio transmission and reception\"
[6] ITU-R Recommendation SM.329-10, \"Unwanted emissions in the spurious
domain\".
[7] 3GPP TR 25.942, \"Radio Frequency (RF) system scenarios\"
[8] \"Title 47 of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) \", Federal
Communications Commission.
[9] ITU-R Recommendation M.1545: \"Measurement uncertainty as it applies to
test limits for the terrestrial component of International Mobile
Telecommunications-2000\".
[10] 3GPP TS 37.141, \"E-UTRA, UTRA and GSM/EDGE; Multi-Standard Radio (MSR)
Base Station (BS) conformance testing\"
[11] IEC 60721-3-3: \"Classification of environmental conditions -- Part 3-3:
Classification of groups of environmental parameters and their severities --
Stationary use at weather protected locations\".
[12] IEC 60721-3-4: \"Classification of environmental conditions -- Part 3:
Classification of groups of environmental parameters and their severities --
Section 4: Stationary use at non-weather protected locations\".
[13] ETSI EN 300 019-1-3, _European Standard (Telecommunications series)_ ,
\"Environmental Engineering (EE); Environmental conditions and environmental
tests for telecommunications equipment; Part 1-3: Classification of
environmental conditions; Stationary use at weather protected locations\"
[14] ETSI EN 300 019-1-4, _European Standard (Telecommunications series)_ ,
\"Environmental Engineering (EE); Environmental conditions and environmental
tests for telecommunications equipment; Part 1-4: Classification of
environmental conditions; Stationary use at non-weather protected locations\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Band category:** A group of operating bands for which the same MSR scenarios
apply
**Base Station RF bandwidth:** The bandwidth in which a Base Station transmits
and receives multiple carriers and/or RATs simultaneously
**Base Station RF bandwidth edge:** The frequency of one of the edges of the
Base Station RF bandwidth
**Carrier: The modulated waveform conveying the E-UTRA, UTRA or GSM/EDGE
physical channels**
**Channel bandwidth:** The bandwidth supporting a single E-UTRA, UTRA or
GSM/EDGE RF carrier with the transmission bandwidth configured in the uplink
or downlink of a cell. The channel bandwidth is measured in MHz and is used as
a reference for transmitter and receiver RF requirements.
**Carrier power:** The power at the antenna connector in the channel bandwidth
of the carrier averaged over at least one subframe for E-UTRA, at least one
slot for UTRA and the useful part of the burst for GSM/EDGE.
**Configured carrier power:** Target maximum power for a specific carrier for
the operating mode set in the BS
**Downlink operating band:** The part of the operating band designated for
downlink.
**Lower RF bandwidth edge:** The frequency of the lower edge of the Base
Station RF bandwidth, used as a frequency reference point for transmitter and
receiver requirements
**Maximum Base Station RF bandwidth:** The maximum RF bandwidth supported by a
BS within an operating band.
**Maximum carrier output power:** Carrier power **available at the antenna
connector for a specified reference condition.**
**Maximum RAT output power:** The sum of the power of all carriers of the same
RAT **available at the antenna connector for a specified reference
condition.**
**Maximum throughput: The maximum achievable throughput for a reference
measurement channel.**
**Maximum total output power:** The sum of the power of all carriers
**available at the antenna connector for a specified reference condition.**
**Measurement bandwidth** : The bandwidth in which an emission level is
specified.
**MSR Base station:** Base Station characterized by the ability of its
receiver and transmitter to process two or more carriers in common active RF
components simultaneously in a declared RF bandwidth, where at least one
carrier is of a different RAT than the other carrier(s).
**Multi-carrier transmission configuration:** A set of one or more contiguous
carriers that a BS is able to transmit simultaneously according to the
manufacturer's specification.
**Occupied bandwidth:** The width of a frequency band such that, below the
lower and above the upper frequency limits, the mean powers emitted are each
equal to a specified percentage β/2 of the total mean power of a given
emission.
**Operating band:** A frequency range in which E-UTRA, UTRA or GSM/EDGE
operates (paired or unpaired), that is defined with a specific set of
technical requirements**.**
NOTE: The operating band(s) for a BS is declared by the manufacturer.
**Throughput: The number of payload bits successfully received per second for
a reference measurement channel in a specified reference condition.**
**Transmission bandwidth:** Bandwidth of an instantaneous E-UTRA transmission
from a UE or BS, measured in Resource Block units.
**Transmitter ON period: The time period during which the BS transmitter is
transmitting data and/or reference symbols**
**Transmitter OFF period: The time period during which the BS transmitter is
not allowed to transmit**
**Transmitter transient period: The time period during which the transmitter
is changing from the OFF period to the ON period or vice versa**
**Uplink operating band:** The part of the operating band designated for
uplink.
**Upper RF bandwidth edge:** The frequency of the upper edge of the Base
Station RF bandwidth, used as a frequency reference point for transmitter and
receiver requirements
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
  1. Percentage of the mean transmitted power emitted outside the occupied bandwidth on the assigned channel
BW~Channel~ Channel bandwidth (for E-UTRA)
BW~RF~ Base Station RF bandwidth, where BW~RF~ = F~BW\ RF,high~ -- F~BW\
RF,low~
BW~RF,max~ Maximum Base Station RF bandwidth
DwPTS Downlink part of the special subframe (for E-UTRA TDD operation)
f Frequency
∆f Separation between the Base Station RF bandwidth edge frequency and the
nominal -3dB point of the measuring filter closest to the carrier frequency
∆f~max~ The largest value of ∆f used for defining the requirement
F~C~ Carrier centre frequency
F~filter~ Filter centre frequency
f_offset Separation between the Base Station RF bandwidth edge frequency and
the centre of the measuring filter
f_offset~max~ The maximum value of f_offset used for defining the requirement
F~BW\ RF,high~ Upper RF bandwidth edge, where F~BW\ RF,high~ = F~C,high~ \+
F~offset,\ RAT~
F~BW\ RF,low~ Lower RF bandwidth edge, where F~BW\ RF,low~ = F~C,low~ --
F~offset,\ RAT~
F~C,high~ Center frequency of the highest transmitted/received carrier.
F~C,low~ Center frequency of the lowest transmitted/received carrier.
F~offset,\ RAT~ Frequency offset from F~C,high~ to the _upper RF bandwidth
edge_ or F~C,low~ to the _lower RF bandwidth edge_ for a specific _RAT_.
F~DL_low~ The lowest frequency of the downlink operating band
F~DL_high~ The highest frequency of the downlink operating band
F~UL_low~ The lowest frequency of the uplink operating band
F~UL_high~ The highest frequency of the uplink operating band
P~EM,N~ Declared emission level for channel N
P~max~ Maximum total output power
P~max,RAT~ Maximum RAT output power
P~max,c~ Maximum carrier output power
P~REFSENS~ Reference Sensitivity power level
Figure 3.2-1: Illustration of RF bandwidth related symbols and definitions for
Multi-standard Radio.
### 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
ACLR Adjacent Channel Leakage Ratio
ACS Adjacent Channel Selectivity
ARFCN Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number
AWGN Additive White Gaussian Noise
BC Band Category
BER Bit Error Ratio
BS Base Station
BTS Base Transceiver Station
CP Cyclic prefix
CW Continuous Wave
DB-DC-HSDPA Dual Band Dual Cell HSDPA
DC-HSDPA Dual Cell HSDPA
DC-HSUPA Dual Cell HSUPA
DTT Digital Terrestrial Television
EARFCN E-UTRA Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number
EDGE Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution
EIRP Effective Isotropic Radiated Power
EVM Error Vector Magnitude
FCC Federal Communications Commission
FDD Frequency Division Duplex
FRC Fixed Reference Channel
GP Guard Period (for E-UTRA TDD operation)
GSM Global System for Mobile Communications
HSDPA High Speed Downlink Packet Access
HSUPA High Speed Uplink Packet Access
ICS In-Channel Selectivity
ITU‑R Radiocommunication Sector of the ITU
LNA Low Noise Amplifier
MIMO Multiple Input Multiple Output
MS Mobile Station
MSR Multi-Standard Radio
PA Power Amplifier
PHS Personal Handyphone System
QPSK Quadrature Phase-Shift Keying
RAT Radio Access Technology
RB Resource Block (for E-UTRA)
RF Radio Frequency
RMS Root Mean Square (value)
RS Reference Symbol
RX Receiver
SNR Signal-to-Noise Ratio
TDD Time Division Duplex
TX Transmitter
UARFCN UTRA Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number
UE User Equipment
UEM operating band Unwanted Emissions Mask
# 4 General
## 4.1 Relation between the MSR specification and the single-RAT
specifications
The requirements for MSR are in most parts specified in the present document,
while many requirements are also specified through normative references to the
respective single-RAT specifications in [2], [3], [4] and [5]. The resulting
set of requirements for an MSR BS can be divided into three types, depending
on their relation to the single-RAT specifications:
1\. **Generic MSR requirement:** A common generic requirement is specified in
the present document that applies for all RATs and for BS configured for both
multi-RAT and single-RAT operation. In some cases, there are additional
requirement(s) that apply only in some Band Category. There are no references
to the single-RAT specifications.
2\. **Generic MSR requirement, with additional single-RAT requirements:** A
common generic requirement is specified in the present document which applies
as in point 1. In addition some single RAT requirement(s) apply, included by
normative reference(s) to the single-RAT specification(s).
3\. **Single-RAT only requirements:** In this case, no common generic
requirement is defined. The existing single-RAT requirement applies for each
RAT, included by normative reference(s) to the single-RAT specification(s).
The applicability of each requirement is described in clause 5.
## 4.2 Relationship between minimum requirements and test requirements
The Minimum Requirements given in this specification make no allowance for
measurement uncertainty. The test specification TS 37.141 [10] defines Test
Tolerances. These Test Tolerances are individually calculated for each test.
The Test Tolerances are used to relax the Minimum Requirements in this
specification to create Test Requirements. For some requirements, including
regulatory requirements, the test tolerance is set to zero.
For MSR single-RAT requirements, the principle used to define the test
requirement remains from the existing specifications.
For both MSR single-RAT and multi-RAT requirements, the measurement results
returned by the Test System are compared -- without any modification --
against the Test Requirements as defined by the shared risk principle. The
Shared Risk principle is defined in ITU-R M.1545 [9].
## 4.3 Base station classes
The requirements presented in the present specification apply to MSR Base
Stations intended for general purpose applications. MSR BS requirements for
general purpose applications are based on Wide Area scenarios.
For GSM/EDGE operation of an MSR BS, a BS intended for general purpose
applications corresponds to a normal BTS, including Multicarrier BTS classes.
MSR requirements for multi-RAT operation only apply for the highest GSM/EDGE
static power step.
Other base station classes are for further study. The requirements for these
may be different than those for general purpose applications, or not
applicable at all.
## 4.4 Regional requirements
Some requirements in the present document may only apply in certain regions
either as optional requirements, or set by local and regional regulation as
mandatory requirements. It is normally not stated in the 3GPP specifications
under what exact circumstances that the requirements apply, since this is
defined by local or regional regulation.
Table 4.4-1 lists all requirements in the present specification that may be
applied differently in different regions. There are additional regional
requirements that may apply for single-RAT operation of an MSR BS. These are
referenced from the present specification, but listed in the specification for
the RATs concerned [2][3][4][5].
Table 4.4-1: List of regional requirements
* * *
Clause number Requirement Comments 4.5 Operating bands and Band Categories
Some bands may be applied regionally. 6.2.2 Base station output power These
requirements apply in Japan for an E-UTRA BS operating in band 34. 6.6.1.1
Mandatory requirements (spurious emissions) Category A limits are mandatory
for regions where Category A limits for spurious emissions, as defined in
ITU-R Recommendation SM.329 [2] apply. Category B limits are mandatory for
regions where Category B limits for spurious emissions, as defined in ITU-R
Recommendation SM.329 [2] apply. 6.6.1.3 Additional spurious emissions
requirements These requirements may be applied for the protection of system
operating in frequency ranges other than the MSR BS operating band. 6.6.1.3
Additional spurious emissions requirements In addition to the requirements in
subclauses 6.6.1.1, 6.6.1.2 and 6.6.1.3, the BS may have to comply with the
applicable emission limits established by FCC Title 47 [8], when deployed in
regions where those limits are applied, and under the conditions declared by
the manufacturer. 6.6.1.4 Co-location (spurious emissions) These requirements
may be applied for the protection of other BS receivers when a BS operating in
another frequency band is co-located with an MSR BS. 6.6.2.4.1 Additional
requirement (Operating band unwanted emissions) In addition to the
requirements in subclauses 6.6.2.1 and 6.6.2.2, the BS may have to comply with
the applicable emission limits established by FCC Title 47 [8], when deployed
in regions where those limits are applied and under the conditions declared by
the manufacturer. 6.6.2.4.2 Unsynchronized operation for BC3 (Operating band
unwanted emissions) The requirements for unsynchronized TDD co-existence may
apply regionally. 6.6.2.4.3 Protection of DTT (Operating band unwanted
emissions) The requirements for protection of DTT may apply regionally.
6.6.2.4.4 Co-existence with services in adjacent frequency bands (Operating
band unwanted emissions) This regional requirement may be applied for the
protection of systems operating in frequency bands adjacent to band 1 as
defined in clause 4.5, in geographic areas in which both an adjacent band
service and UTRA and/or E‑UTRA are deployed. 6.6.3 Occupied bandwidth The
requirement may be applied regionally. There may also be regional requirements
to declare the Occupied bandwidth according to the definition. 7.5.2 Co-
location requirement (blocking) These requirements may be applied for the
protection of the BS receiver when a BS operating in another frequency band is
co-located with an MSR BS.
* * *
## 4.5 Operating bands and Band Categories
MSR requirements are applicable for band definitions and band numbering as
defined in the specifications TS 45.005 [2], TS25.104 [3], TS 25.105 [4] and
TS 36.104 [5]. For the purpose of defining the MSR BS requirements, the
operating bands are divided into three band categories as follows:
\- Band Category 1 (BC1): Bands for E-UTRA FDD and UTRA FDD operation
\- Band Category 2 (BC2): Bands for E-UTRA FDD, UTRA FDD and GSM/EDGE
operation
\- Band Category 3 (BC3): Bands for E-UTRA TDD and UTRA TDD operation
NOTE: For UTRA TDD, requirements in the present document cover the 1.28 Mcps
UTRA TDD option.
The paired and unpaired bands for the three Band Categories are shown in Table
4.5-1 and 4.5-2, together with the corresponding E-UTRA, UTRA and GSM/EDGE
band designations. In the present specification, the operating band of an MSR
Base Stations is designated using the E-UTRA band number according to the
tables.
Table 4.5-1: Paired bands in E-UTRA, UTRA and GSM/EDGE.
MSR and E‑UTRA Band number | UTRA  
Band number | GSM/EDGE Band designation | Uplink (UL) BS receive  
UE transmit | Downlink (DL) BS transmit  
UE receive | Band category |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
1 | I | - | 1920 MHz | – | 1980 MHz | 2110 MHz | – | 2170 MHz | 1  
2 | II | PCS 1900 | 1850 MHz | – | 1910 MHz | 1930 MHz | – | 1990 MHz | 2  
3 | III | DCS 1800 | 1710 MHz | – | 1785 MHz | 1805 MHz | – | 1880 MHz | 2  
4 | IV | - | 1710 MHz | – | 1755 MHz | 2110 MHz | – | 2155 MHz | 1  
5 | V | GSM 850 | 824 MHz | – | 849 MHz | 869 MHz | – | 894MHz | 2  
6(1) | VI | - | 830 MHz | – | 840 MHz | 875 MHz | – | 885 MHz | 1 (1)  
7 | VII | - | 2500 MHz | – | 2570 MHz | 2620 MHz | – | 2690 MHz | 1  
8 | VIII | E-GSM | 880 MHz | – | 915 MHz | 925 MHz | – | 960 MHz | 2  
9 | IX | - | 1749.9 MHz | – | 1784.9 MHz | 1844.9 MHz | – | 1879.9 MHz | 1  
10 | X | - | 1710 MHz | – | 1770 MHz | 2110 MHz | – | 2170 MHz | 1  
11 | XI | - | 1427.9 MHz | – | 1447.9 MHz | 1475.9 MHz | – | 1495.9 MHz | 1  
12 | XII | - | 699 MHz | – | 716 MHz | 729 MHz | – | 746 MHz | 1  
13 | XIII | - | 777 MHz | – | 787 MHz | 746 MHz | – | 756 MHz | 1  
14 | XIV | - | 788 MHz | – | 798 MHz | 758 MHz | – | 768 MHz | 1  
15 | XV | - | Reserved |  |  | Reserved |  |  |   
16 | XVI | - | Reserved |  |  | Reserved |  |  |   
17 | - | - | 704 MHz | – | 716 MHz | 734 MHz | – | 746 MHz | 1 (2)  
18 | - | - | 815 MHz | – | 830 MHz | 860 MHz | – | 875 MHz | 1 (2)  
19 | XIX | - | 830 MHz | – | 845 MHz | 875 MHz | – | 890 MHz | 1  
20 | XX | - | 832 MHz | – | 862 MHz | 791 MHz | – | 821 MHz | 1  
21 | XXI | - | 1447.9 MHz | – | 1462.9 MHz | 1495.9 MHz | – | 1510.9 MHz | 1  
NOTE 1: The band is for UTRA only. NOTE 2: The band is for E-UTRA only. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
UTRA FDD can operate with DB-DC-HSDPA for the band configurations listed in
subclause 5.2 c) of TS 25.104 [2].
Table 4.5-2: Unpaired bands in E-UTRA and UTRA.
* * *
MSR and E‑UTRA Band number UTRA Band number Uplink (UL) BS receive\ Downlink
(DL) BS transmit\ Band category  
UE transmit UE receive
33 a) 1900 MHz -- 1920 MHz 1900 MHz -- 1920 MHz 3
34 a) 2010 MHz -- 2025 MHz 2010 MHz -- 2025 MHz 3
35 b) 1850 MHz -- 1910 MHz 1850 MHz -- 1910 MHz 3
36 b) 1930 MHz -- 1990 MHz 1930 MHz -- 1990 MHz 3
37 c) 1910 MHz -- 1930 MHz 1910 MHz -- 1930 MHz 3
38 d) 2570 MHz -- 2620 MHz 2570 MHz -- 2620 MHz 3
39 f) 1880 MHz -- 1920 MHz 1880 MHz -- 1920 MHz 3
40 e) 2300 MHz -- 2400 MHz 2300 MHz -- 2400 MHz 3
* * *
### 4.5.1 Band category 1 aspects (BC1)
BC1 requirements for receiver and transmitter shall apply with a frequency
offset from the lowest and highest carriers to the RF bandwidth edges
(**F~offset,\ RAT~**) as defined in Table 4.5.1-1.
Table 4.5.1-1: F~offset,\ RAT~ for Band Category 1
* * *
RAT F~offset,\ RAT~ 1.4, 3 MHz E-UTRA BW~Channel~/2 + 200 kHz 5, 10, 15, 20
MHz E-UTRA BW~Channel~/2 UTRA 2.5 MHz
* * *
### 4.5.2 Band category 2 aspects (BC2)
BC2 requirements for receiver and transmitter shall apply with a frequency
offset from the lowest and highest carriers to the RF bandwidth edges
(**F~offset,\ RAT~**) as defined in Table 4.5.2-1.
Table 4.5.2-1: F~offset,\ RAT~ for Band Category 2
* * *
RAT F~offset,\ RAT~ E-UTRA BW~Channel~/2 UTRA FDD 2.5 MHz GSM/EDGE 200 kHz
* * *
### 4.5.3 Band category 3 aspects (BC3)
BC3 requirements for receiver and transmitter shall apply with a frequency
offset from the lowest and highest carriers to the RF bandwidth edges
(F~offset,\ RAT~) as defined in Table 4.5.3-1.
Table 4.5.3-1: F~offset,\ RAT~ for Band Category 3
* * *
RAT F~offset,\ RAT~ 1.4, 3 MHz E-UTRA BW~Channel~ /2 + 200 kHz 5, 10, 15, 20
MHz E-UTRA BW~Channel~ /2 1.28 Mcps UTRA TDD 1 MHz
* * *
## 4.6 Channel arrangement
### 4.6.1 Channel spacing
The GSM/EDGE carrier spacing is 200 kHz [5].
The nominal UTRA FDD channel spacing is 5 MHz. The nominal channel spacing is
1.6MHz for the 1.28 Mcps UTRA TDD Option. These can be adjusted to optimise
performance in a particular deployment scenario [2,3].
In E-UTRA the spacing between carriers will depend on the deployment scenario,
the size of the frequency block available and the channel bandwidths. The
nominal channel spacing between two adjacent E-UTRA carriers is defined as
following:
Nominal Channel spacing = (BW~Channel(1)~ + BW~Channel(2)~)/2
where BW~Channel(1)~ and BW~Channel(2)~ are the channel bandwidths of the two
respective E-UTRA carriers. The channel spacing can be adjusted to optimize
performance in a particular deployment scenario [4].
### 4.6.2 Channel raster
The GSM/EDGE channel raster is 200 kHz for all bands [5].
The UTRA FDD and TDD channel raster is 200 kHz for all bands, which means that
the centre frequency must be an integer multiple of 200 kHz. In addition a
number of additional centre frequencies are specified for UTRA FDD according
to [2], which means that the centre frequencies for UTRA FDD channels are
shifted 100 kHz relative to the general raster.
The E-UTRA channel raster is 100 kHz for all bands, which means that the
carrier centre frequency must be an integer multiple of 100 kHz [4].
### 4.6.3 Carrier frequencies and numbering
The carrier frequencies and corresponding numbering is defined for each RAT in
the respective specifications TS 36.104 [4] TS25.104 [2], TS 25.105 [3] and TS
45.005 [5]. In the context of MSR, the frequency numbering scheme for each RAT
will remain.
\- The E-UTRA carrier frequency numbering (EARFCN) is defined in subclause 5.7
of TS 36.104 [4].
\- The UTRA FDD carrier frequency numbering (UARFCN) is defined in subclause
5.4 of TS 25.104 [2].
\- The UTRA TDD carrier frequency numbering (UARFCN) is defined in subclause
5.4 of TS 25.105 [3].
\- The GSM/EDGE carrier frequency numbering (ARFCN) is defined subclause 2 of
TS 45.005 [5].
NOTE: The numbering schemes for UTRA FDD and TDD are not coordinated, while
both are called UARFCN.
# 5 Applicability of requirements
## 5.1 Band category 1
For all MSR BS operating in Band Category 1, the RF requirements listed in
Table 5.1-1 apply. Requirements apply according to the RAT configuration of
the Base Station, as listed in the heading of the table. Some requirements
listed in the table may not be mandatory or they may apply only regionally.
This is further specified in the clause of each requirement and in Table
4.4-1.
Table 5.1-1: Applicability of requirements for MSR BS operation in Band
Category 1
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | RF requirement | BS configured | BS configured | BS configured | | | for multi-RAT | for single-RAT | for single-RAT | | | operation | E‑UTRA FDD | UTRA FDD | | | | operation | operation | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Base station | 6.2.1 | 6.2.1 | 6.2.1 | | output power | | | | | | 6.2.3 | 6.2.3 | 6.2.4 | | | | | | | | 6.2.4 | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Output power | 6.3.1 | 6.3.1 | 6.3.2 | | dynamics | | | | | | 6.3.2 | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Transmitted | | | | | signal quality | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Modulation | 6.5.1.1 | 6.5.1.1 | 6.5.1.2 | | quality | | | | | | 6.5.1.2 | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Frequency | 6.5.2.1 | 6.5.2.1 | 6.5.2.2 | | error | | | | | | 6.5.2.2 | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Time alignment | 6.5.3.1 | 6.5.3.1 | 6.5.3.2 | | error | | | | | | 6.5.3.2 | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Unwanted | | | | | emissions | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Transmitter | 6.6.1 (except | 6.6.1 (except | 6.6.1 (except | | spurious | for 6.6.1.1.3) | for 6.6.1.1.3) | for 6.6.1.1.3) | | emissions | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Operating band | 6.6.2.1\ | 6.6.2.1\ | 6.6.2.1\ | | unwanted | 6.6.2.4 | 6.6.2.4 | 6.6.2.4 | | | | | | | emissions | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Occupied | 6.6.3 | 6.6.3 | 6.6.3 | | bandwidth | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | ACLR | 6.6.4.1 | 6.6.4.1 | 6.6.4.2 | | | | | | | | 6.6.4.2 | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Transmitter | 6.7.1 | 6.7.1 | 6.7.1 | | i | | | | | ntermodulation | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Reference | 7.2.1 | 7.2.1 | 7.2.2 | | sensitivity | | | | | level | 7.2.2 | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Dynamic range | 7.3.1 | 7.3.1 | 7.3.2 | | | | | | | | 7.3.2 | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | In-band | | | | | selectivity | | | | | and blocking | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Blocking | 7.4.1 | 7.4.1 | 7.4.1 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Narrowband | 7.4.2 | 7.4.2 | 7.4.2 | | blocking | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Out-of-band | 7.5 | 7.5 | 7.5 | | blocking | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Receiver | 7.6.1 | 7.6.1 | 7.6.1 | | spurious | | | | | emissions | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Receiver | | | | | i | | | | | ntermodulation | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | I | 7.7.1 | 7.7.1 | 7.7.1 | | ntermodulation | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Narrowband | 7.7.2 | 7.7.2 | 7.7.2 | | i | | | | | ntermodulation | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | In-channel | 7.8 | 7.8 | - | | selectivity | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Performance | 8.1 | 8.1 | 8.2 | | requirements | | | | | | 8.2 | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | NOTE 1: For | | | | | some | | | | | requirements | | | | | in BS | | | | | configured for | | | | | multi-RAT | | | | | operation, | | | | | there is no | | | | | general MSR | | | | | multi-RAT | | | | | requirement. | | | | | Instead, the | | | | | requirement is | | | | | defined by the | | | | | respective | | | | | single-RAT | | | | | requirement | | | | | for each RAT | | | | | supported by | | | | | the BS as | | | | | referenced in | | | | | the table. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
## 5.2 Band category 2
For all MSR BS operating in Band Category 2, the RF requirements listed in
Table 5.2-1 apply. Requirements apply according to the RAT configuration of
the Base Station, as listed in the heading of the table. Some requirements
listed in the table may not be mandatory or they may apply only regionally.
This is further specified in the clause of each requirement and in Table
4.4-1.
Table 5.2-1: Applicability of requirements for MSR BS operation in Band
Category 2
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | RF | BS | BS | BS | BS | BS\ | | req | co | co | co | co | co | | uirement | nfigured | nfigured | nfigured | nfigured | nfigured | | | for | for | for | for | for | | | m | m | si | si | si | | | ulti-RAT | ulti-RAT | ngle-RAT | ngle-RAT | ngle-RAT | | | o | o | E‑UTRA | UTRA FDD | GSM/EDGE | | | peration | peration | FDD | o | o | | | not | i | o | peration | peration | | | i | ncluding | peration | | | | | ncluding | GSM/EDGE | | | | | | GSM/EDGE | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Base | 6.2.1 | 6.2.1 | 6.2.1 | 6.2.1 | 6.2.1 | | station | | | | | | | output | 6.2.3 | 6.2.3 | 6.2.3 | 6.2.4 | | | power | | | | | | | | 6.2.4 | 6.2.4 | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Output | 6.3.1 | 6.3.1 | 6.3.1 | 6.3.2 | 6.3.4 | | power | | | | | | | dynamics | 6.3.2 | 6.3.2 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 6.3.4 | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Transmit | - | - | - | - | - | | ON/OFF | | | | | | | power | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Tra | | | | | | | nsmitted | | | | | | | signal | | | | | | | quality | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Mo | 6.5.1.1 | 6.5.1.1 | 6.5.1.1 | 6.5.1.2 | 6.5.1.4 | | dulation | | | | | | | quality | 6.5.1.2 | 6.5.1.2 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 6.5.1.4 | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | F | 6.5.2.1 | 6.5.2.1 | 6.5.2.1 | 6.5.2.2 | 6.5.2.4 | | requency | | | | | | | error | 6.5.2.2 | 6.5.2.2 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 6.5.2.4 | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Time | 6.5.3.1 | 6.5.3.1 | 6.5.3.1 | 6.5.3.2 | - | | a | | | | | | | lignment | 6.5.3.2 | 6.5.3.2 | | | | | error | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Unwanted | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | missions | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Tra | 6.6.1 | 6.6.1 | 6.6.1 | 6.6.1 | 6.6.1 | | nsmitter | (except | | (except | (except | | | spurious | for | | for | for | | | e | 6. | | 6. | 6. | | | missions | 6.1.1.3) | | 6.1.1.3) | 6.1.1.3) | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | O | 6.6.2.2\ | 6.6.2.2\ | 6.6.2.2\ | 6.6.2.2\ | 6.6.2.3 | | perating | 6.6.2.4 | 6.6.2.4 | 6.6.2.4 | 6.6.2.4 | | | band | | | | | 6.6.2.4 | | unwanted | | | | | | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | missions | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Occupied | 6.6.3 | 6.6.3 | 6.6.3 | 6.6.3 | - | | b | | | | | | | andwidth | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | ACLR | 6.6.4.1 | 6.6.4.1 | 6.6.4.1 | 6.6.4.2 | - | | | | | | | | | | 6.6.4.2 | 6.6.4.2 | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Tra | 6.7.1 | 6.7.1 | 6.7.1 | 6.7.1 | 6.7.2 | | nsmitter | | | | | | | intermo | 6.7.2 | 6.7.2 | 6.7.2 | 6.7.2 | | | dulation | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | R | 7.2.1 | 7.2.1 | 7.2.1 | 7.2.2 | 7.2.4 | | eference | | | | | | | sen | 7.2.2 | 7.2.2 | | | | | sitivity | | | | | | | level | | 7.2.4 | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Dynamic | 7.3.1 | 7.3.1 | 7.3.1 | 7.3.2 | 7.3.4 | | range | | | | | | | | 7.3.2 | 7.3.2 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 7.3.4 | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | In-band | | | | | | | sel | | | | | | | ectivity | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | blocking | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Blocking | 7.4.1 | 7.4.1 | 7.4.1 | 7.4.1 | 7.4.1 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Na | 7.4.2 | 7.4.2 | 7.4.2 | 7.4.2 | 7.4.2 | | rrowband | | | | | | | blocking | | 7.4.3 | | | 7.4.3 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 7.4.4 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Out | 7.5 | 7.5 | 7.5 | 7.5 | 7.5 | | -of-band | | | | | | | blocking | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Receiver | 7.6.1 | 7.6.1 | 7.6.1 | 7.6.1 | 7.6.1 | | spurious | | | | | | | e | | 7.6.2 | | | 7.6.2 | | missions | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Receiver | | | | | | | intermo | | | | | | | dulation | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Intermo | 7.7.1 | 7.7.1 | 7.7.1 | 7.7.1 | 7.7.1 | | dulation | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Na | 7.7.2 | 7.7.2 | 7.7.2 | 7.7.2 | 7.7.2 | | rrowband | | | | | | | intermo | | 7.7.3 | | | 7.7.3 | | dulation | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | In | 7.8 | 7.8 | 7.8 | - | - | | -channel | | | | | | | sel | | | | | | | ectivity | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Per | 8.1 | 8.1 | 8.1 | 8.2 | 8.4 | | formance | | | | | | | requ | 8.2 | 8.2 | | | | | irements | | | | | | | | | 8.4 | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | For some | | | | | | | requ | | | | | | | irements | | | | | | | in BS | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | nfigured | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | ulti-RAT | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | eration, | | | | | | | there is | | | | | | | no | | | | | | | general | | | | | | | MSR | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | ulti-RAT | | | | | | | requ | | | | | | | irement. | | | | | | | Instead, | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | defined | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | spective | | | | | | | si | | | | | | | ngle-RAT | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | for each | | | | | | | RAT | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | upported | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | BS as | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | ferenced | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | table. | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
## 5.3 Band category 3
For all MSR BS operating in Band Category 3, the RF requirements listed in
Table 5.3-1 apply. Requirements apply according to the RAT configuration of
the Base Station, as listed in the heading of the table. Some requirements
listed in the table may not be mandatory or they may apply only regionally.
This is further specified in the clause of each requirement and in Table
4.4-1.
Table 5.3-1: Applicability of requirements for MSR BS operation in Band
Category 3
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | RF requirement | BS configured | BS configured | BS configured | | | for multi-RAT | for single-RAT | for single-RAT | | | operation | E‑UTRA TDD | UTRA TDD | | | | operation | operation | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Base station | 6.2.1 | 6.2.1 | 6.2.1 | | output power | | | | | | 6.2.2 | 6.2.2 | 6.2.5 | | | | | | | | 6.2.3 | 6.2.3 | | | | | | | | | 6.2.5 | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Output power | 6.3.1 | 6.3.1 | 6.3.3 | | dynamics | | | | | | 6.3.3 | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Transmit | 6.4 | 6.4 | 6.4 | | ON/OFF power | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Transmitted | | | | | signal quality | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Modulation | 6.5.1.1 | 6.5.1.1 | 6.5.1.3 | | quality | | | | | | 6.5.1.3 | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Frequency | 6.5.2.1 | 6.5.2.1 | 6.5.2.3 | | error | | | | | | 6.5.2.3 | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Time alignment | 6.5.3.1 | 6.5.3.1 | 6.5.3.3 | | error | | | | | | 6.5.3.3 | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Unwanted | | | | | emissions | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Transmitter | 6.6.1 (except | 6.6.1 (except | 6.6.1 (except | | spurious | for 6.6.1.1.3 | for 6.6.1.1.3 | for 6.6.1.1.3 | | emissions | and 6.6.1.2) | and 6.6.1.2) | and 6.6.1.2) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Operating band | 6.6.2.1\ | 6.6.2.1\ | 6.6.2.1\ | | unwanted | 6.6.2.4 | 6.6.2.4 | 6.6.2.4 | | | | | | | emissions | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Occupied | 6.6.3 | 6.6.3 | 6.6.3 | | bandwidth | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | ACLR | 6.6.4.1 | 6.6.4.1 | 6.6.4.3 | | | | | | | | 6.6.4.3 | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Transmitter | 6.7.1 | 6.7.1 | 6.7.1 | | i | | | | | ntermodulation | 6.7.3 | 6.7.3 | 6.7.3 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Reference | 7.2.1 | 7.2.1 | 7.2.3 | | sensitivity | | | | | level | 7.2.3 | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Dynamic range | 7.3.1 | 7.3.1 | 7.3.3 | | | | | | | | 7.3.3 | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | In-band | | | | | selectivity | | | | | and blocking | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Blocking | 7.4.1 | 7.4.1 | 7.4.1 | | | | | | | | 7.4.5 | 7.4.5 | 7.4.5 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Narrowband | 7.4.2 | 7.4.2 | 7.4.2 | | blocking | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Out-of-band | 7.5 | 7.5 | 7.5 | | blocking | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Receiver | 7.6.1 | 7.6.1 | 7.6.1 | | spurious | | | | | emissions | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Receiver | | | | | i | | | | | ntermodulation | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | I | 7.7.1 | 7.7.1 | 7.7.1 | | ntermodulation | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Narrowband | 7.7.2 | 7.7.2 | 7.7.2 | | i | | | | | ntermodulation | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | In-channel | 7.8 | 7.8 | - | | selectivity | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Performance | 8.1 | 8.1 | 8.3 | | requirements | | | | | | 8.3 | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Note 1: For | | | | | some | | | | | requirements | | | | | in BS | | | | | configured for | | | | | multi-RAT | | | | | operation, | | | | | there is no | | | | | general MSR | | | | | multi-RAT | | | | | requirement. | | | | | Instead, the | | | | | requirement is | | | | | defined by the | | | | | respective | | | | | single-RAT | | | | | requirement | | | | | for each RAT | | | | | supported by | | | | | the BS as | | | | | referenced in | | | | | the table. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
## 5.4 Inclusion of requirements by reference
Many requirements in the present specification are not explicitly stated in
the clauses listed in Tables 5.3-1, 5.3-2 and 5.3-3, but are instead included
by reference to the respective single-RAT specifications. Each reference is
normative and identifies the clause where the requirement is specified.
In some cases, the referenced clause may contain requirements that for
different reasons do not apply for an MSR base station. It is in those cases
stated that \"applicable parts of\" the referenced clause apply. What parts
are applicable is determined by the scope of the MSR specification. For
example:
\- In a referenced clause including requirements for multiple operating bands,
only requirements for bands listed in the present document apply.
\- In a referenced clause that includes requirements for different types of
base stations, only requirements for Wide Area BS apply in case of UTRA. For
GSM/EDGE, only requirements for Multicarrier BTS and/or Normal BTS apply.
# 6 Transmitter characteristics
## 6.1 General
Unless otherwise stated, the requirements in clause 6 are expressed for a
single transmitter antenna connector. In case of multi-carrier transmission
with multiple transmitter antenna connectors, transmit diversity, DB-DC-HSDPA
or MIMO transmission, the requirements apply for each transmitter antenna
connector.
A BS supporting DC-HSDPA and DB-DC-HSDPA transmits two UTRA FDD cells
simultaneously. A BS supporting DC-HSDPA transmits two UTRA FDD cells
simultaneously on adjacent carrier frequencies.
Unless otherwise stated, the transmitter characteristics are specified at the
BS antenna connector (test port A) with a full complement of transceivers for
the configuration in normal operating conditions. If any external apparatus
such as a TX amplifier, a filter or the combination of such devices is used,
requirements apply at the far end antenna connector (test port B).
Unless otherwise stated the requirements in subclause 6 applies at all times,
i.e. during the Transmitter ON period, the Transmitter OFF period and the
Transmitter transient period.
{width="6.114583333333333in" height="1.75in"}
Figure 6.1-1: Transmitter test ports
Values for **F~offset,\ RAT~** to meet transmitter requirements are specific
for each RAT in each Band Category as specified in subclause 4.5.1 for Band
Category 1, subclause 4.5.2 for Band Category 2 and subclause 4.5.3 for Band
Category 3.
## 6.2 Base station output power
Output power of the base station is the mean power delivered to a load with
resistance equal to the nominal load impedance of the transmitter.
The configured carrier power is the target maximum power for a specific
carrier for the operating mode set in the BS within the limits given by the
manufacturer's declaration.
The maximum total output power, P~max~, of the base station is the mean power
level measured at the antenna connector during the transmitter ON period in a
specified reference condition.
The maximum RAT output power, P~max,RAT~, of the base station is the mean
power level measured at the antenna connector during the transmitter ON period
for a specific RAT in a specified reference condition.
The maximum carrier output power, P~max,c~ of the base station is the mean
power level measured at the antenna connector during the transmitter ON period
for a specific carrier in a specified reference condition.
### 6.2.1 Minimum requirement
In normal conditions, the maximum carrier output power shall remain within +2
dB and -2 dB of the configured carrier power declared by the manufacturer.
In extreme conditions, maximum carrier output power shall remain within +2.5
dB and -2.5 dB of the configured carrier power declared by the manufacturer.
The definition of the output power parameters declared by the manufacturer can
be found in TS 37.141 [10].
In certain regions, the minimum requirement for normal conditions may apply
also for some conditions outside the range of conditions defined as normal.
### 6.2.2 Additional requirement (regional)
For Band 34 operation in Japan, the rated E-UTRA output power declared by the
manufacturer shall be less than or equal to the values specified in Table
6.2.2-1.
Table 6.2.2-1: Regional requirements for Band 34 for rated output power
declared by the manufacturer.
* * *
Channel bandwidth BW~Channel~ [MHz] 1.4 3 5 10 15 20 Maximum output power [W]
N/A N/A 20 40 60 N/A
* * *
### 6.2.3 E-UTRA minimum requirement for DL RS power
For E-UTRA, the minimum requirement for DL RS power is specified in TS 36.104
[4], subclause 6.5.4.
### 6.2.4 UTRA FDD minimum requirement for primary CPICH power
For UTRA FDD, the minimum requirements for primary CPICH power is specified in
TS 25.104 [2], subclause 6.4.4,
### 6.2.5 UTRA TDD minimum requirement for primary CCPCH power
For UTRA TDD, the minimum requirements for Primary CCPCH power and
Differential accuracy of primary CCPCH power specified in TS 25.105 [3],
subclause 6.4.5 and 6.4.6 respectively.
## 6.3 Output power dynamics
Output power dynamics is defined by the BS transmitter's ability to operate at
varying output power levels.
### 6.3.1 E-UTRA minimum requirement
For E-UTRA, the minimum requirement for output power dynamics is specified in
TS 36.104 [4], subclause 6.3.
### 6.3.2 UTRA FDD minimum requirement
For UTRA FDD, the minimum requirement for output power dynamics is specified
in TS 25.104 [2], subclause 6.4.
### 6.3.3 UTRA TDD minimum requirement
For UTRA TDD, the minimum requirement for output power dynamics is specified
in TS 25.105 [3], subclause 6.4.
### 6.3.4 GSM/EDGE minimum requirement
For GSM/EDGE, the minimum requirement for output power dynamics is specified
in TS 45.005[5], subclause 4.1.2-c. The minimum requirement for output level
dynamic operation is specified in TS 45.005[5], subclause 4.5.1.
## 6.4 Transmit ON/OFF power
The requirements in subclause 6.4 are only applied for BC3 BS.
### 6.4.1 Transmitter OFF power
Transmitter OFF power is defined as the mean power measured over 70 μs
filtered with a square filter of bandwidth equal to the RF bandwidth of the BS
centred on the central frequency of the RF bandwidth during the transmitter
OFF period.
#### 6.4.1.1 Minimum Requirement
The transmitter OFF power spectral density shall be less than -85 dBm/MHz.
### 6.4.2 Transmitter transient period
The transmitter transient period is the time period during which the
transmitter is changing from the OFF period to the ON period or vice versa.
The transmitter transient period is illustrated in Figure 6.4.2-1.
Figure 6.4.2-1: Illustration of the relations of transmitter ON period,
transmitter OFF period and transmitter transient period.
#### 6.4.2.1 Minimum requirements
The transmitter transient period shall be shorter than the values listed in
Table 6.4.2.1-1.
Table 6.4.2.1-1: Minimum requirements for the transmitter transient period
* * *
Transition Transient period length [μs] OFF to ON 6.25 ON to OFF 17
* * *
## 6.5 Transmitted signal quality
### 6.5.1 Modulation quality
Modulation quality is defined by the difference between the measured carrier
signal and a reference signal. Modulation quality can e.g. be expressed as
Error Vector Magnitude (EVM), Peak Code domain Error (PCDE) or Relative Code
domain Error (RCDE).
#### 6.5.1.1 E-UTRA minimum requirement
For E-UTRA, the minimum requirement for modulation quality, EVM, is specified
in TS 36.104 [4], subclause 6.5.2.
#### 6.5.1.2 UTRA FDD minimum requirement
For UTRA FDD, the minimum requirements for modulation quality, EVM, PCDE and
RCDE, are specified in TS 25.104 [2], subclause 6.8.2, 6.8.3 and 6.8.5
respectively. The UTRA transmit pulse shape filter is defined in subclause
6.8.1.
#### 6.5.1.3 UTRA TDD minimum requirement
For UTRA TDD, the minimum requirements for modulation quality, EVM, PCDE and
RCDE, are specified in TS 25.105 [3], subclause 6.8.2, 6.8.3 and 6.8.4
respectively.
#### 6.5.1.4 GSM/EDGE minimum requirement
For GSM/EDGE, the minimum requirements for modulation accuracy are specified
in TS 45.005, subclause 4.6 .
### 6.5.2 Frequency error
Frequency error is a measure of the difference between the actual BS transmit
frequency and the assigned frequency. The same source shall be used for RF
frequency and data clock generation.
#### 6.5.2.1 E-UTRA minimum requirement
For E-UTRA, the minimum requirement for frequency error is specified in TS
36.104 [4], subclause 6.5.1.
#### 6.5.2.2 UTRA FDD minimum requirement
For UTRA FDD, the minimum requirement for frequency error is specified in TS
25.104 [2], subclause 6.3.1.
#### 6.5.2.3 UTRA TDD minimum requirement
For UTRA TDD, the minimum requirement for frequency error is specified in TS
25.105 [3], subclause 6.3.1.
#### 6.5.2.4 GSM/EDGE minimum requirement
For GSM/EDGE, the minimum requirement for frequency error is specified in TS
45.005 [5], subclause 4.4 .
### 6.5.3 Time alignment error
This requirement applies to frame timing in:
\- UTRA single/multi-carrier transmissions, and their combinations with MIMO
or TX diversity.
\- E-UTRA single/multi-carrier transmissions, and their combinations with MIMO
or TX diversity.
\- E-UTRA Carrier Aggregation, with or without MIMO or TX diversity.
Frames of the WCDMA/LTE signals present at the BS transmitter antenna
connector(s) are not perfectly aligned in time. In relation to each other, the
RF signals present at the BS transmitter antenna connector (s) experience
certain timing differences.
For a specific set of signals/transmitter configuration/transmission mode, the
Time Alignment Error (TAE) is defined as the largest timing difference between
any two signals.
#### 6.5.3.1 E-UTRA minimum Requirement
For E-UTRA, the minimum requirement for time alignment is specified in TS
36.104 [4], subclause 6.5.3.
#### 6.5.3.2 UTRA FDD minimum requirement
For UTRA FDD, the minimum requirement for time alignment is specified in TS
25.104 [2], subclause 6.8.4.
#### 6.5.3.3 UTRA TDD minimum requirement
For UTRA TDD, the minimum requirement for time alignment is specified in TS
25.105 [3], subclause 6.8.5.
## 6.6 Unwanted emissions
Unwanted emissions consist of out-of-band emissions and spurious emissions
[6]. Out of band emissions are unwanted emissions immediately outside the
channel bandwidth resulting from the modulation process and non-linearity in
the transmitter but excluding spurious emissions. Spurious emissions are
emissions which are caused by unwanted transmitter effects such as harmonics
emission, parasitic emission, intermodulation products and frequency
conversion products, but exclude out of band emissions.
The out-of-band emissions requirement for the BS transmitter is specified in
terms of an Operating band unwanted emissions requirement that defines limits
for emissions in the downlink operating band plus the frequency ranges 10 MHz
above and 10 MHz below the band. Emissions outside of this frequency range are
limited by a spurious emissions requirement.
There is in addition a requirement for occupied bandwidth and an ACLR
requirement applicable for some RATs.
### 6.6.1 Transmitter spurious emissions
The transmitter spurious emission limits apply from 9 kHz to 12.75 GHz,
excluding the frequency range from 10 MHz below the lowest frequency of the
downlink operating band up to 10 MHz above the highest frequency of the
downlink operating band. Exceptions are the requirement in Table 6.6.1.3.1-2
that apply also closer than 10 MHz from the downlink operating band.
The requirements shall apply whatever the type of transmitter considered. It
applies for all transmission modes foreseen by the manufacturer's
specification. Unless otherwise stated, all requirements are measured as mean
power (RMS).
#### 6.6.1.1 Mandatory Requirements
The requirements of either subclause 6.6.1.1.1 (Category A limits) or
subclause 6.6.1.1.2 (Category B limits) shall apply. In addition for a BS
operating in Band Category 2, the requirements of 6.6.1.1.3 shall apply in
case of Category B limits when GSM/EDGE is configured.
##### 6.6.1.1.1 Minimum requirement (Category A)
The power of any spurious emission shall not exceed the limits in Table
6.6.1.1.1-1
Table 6.6.1.1.1-1: BS Spurious emission limits, Category A
+--------------------+---------------+--------------------+--------+ | Frequency range | Maximum level | Measurement | Note | | | | Bandwidth | | +--------------------+---------------+--------------------+--------+ | 9kHz -- 150kHz | -13 dBm | 1 kHz | Note 1 | +--------------------+---------------+--------------------+--------+ | 150kHz -- 30MHz | | 10 kHz | Note 1 | +--------------------+---------------+--------------------+--------+ | 30MHz -- 1GHz | | 100 kHz | Note 1 | +--------------------+---------------+--------------------+--------+ | 1GHz -- 12.75 GHz | | 1 MHz | Note 2 | +--------------------+---------------+--------------------+--------+ | NOTE 1: Bandwidth | | | | | as in ITU-R SM.329 | | | | | [2] , s4.1 | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Bandwidth | | | | | as in ITU-R SM.329 | | | | | [2] , s4.1. | | | | | Upper frequency as | | | | | in ITU-R SM.329 | | | | | [2] , s2.5 | | | | | table 1 | | | | +--------------------+---------------+--------------------+--------+
##### 6.6.1.1.2 Minimum requirement (Category B)
The power of any spurious emission shall not exceed the limits in Table
6.6.1.1.2-1
Table 6.6.1.1.2-1: BS Spurious emissions limits, Category B
+--------------------+---------------+--------------------+--------+ | Frequency range | Maximum Level | Measurement | Note | | | | Bandwidth | | +--------------------+---------------+--------------------+--------+ | 9 kHz ↔ 150 kHz | -36 dBm | 1 kHz | Note 1 | +--------------------+---------------+--------------------+--------+ | 150 kHz ↔ 30 MHz | -36 dBm | 10 kHz | Note 1 | +--------------------+---------------+--------------------+--------+ | 30 MHz ↔ 1 GHz | -36 dBm | 100 kHz | Note 1 | +--------------------+---------------+--------------------+--------+ | 1 GHz ↔ 12.75 GHz | -30 dBm | 1 MHz | Note 2 | +--------------------+---------------+--------------------+--------+ | NOTE 1: Bandwidth | | | | | as in ITU-R SM.329 | | | | | [2] , s4.1 | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Bandwidth | | | | | as in ITU-R SM.329 | | | | | [2] , s4.1. | | | | | Upper frequency as | | | | | in ITU-R SM.329 | | | | | [2] , s2.5 table | | | | | 1 | | | | +--------------------+---------------+--------------------+--------+
##### 6.6.1.1.3 Additional minimum requirement for BC2 (Category B)
For a BS operating in Band Category 2 when GSM/EDGE is configured, the power
of any spurious emission shall not exceed the limits in Table 6.6.1.1.3-1.
Table 6.6.1.1.3-1: Additional BS Spurious emissions limits for BC2, Category B
* * *
Frequency range Frequency offset from downlink operating band edge Maximum
Level Measurement Bandwidth 500 MHz ↔ 1 GHz 10 -- 20 MHz -36 dBm 300 kHz 20 --
30 MHz -36 dBm 1 MHz ≥ 30 MHz -36 dBm 3 MHz 1 GHz ↔ 12.75 GHz ≥ 30 MHz -30 dBm
3 MHz
* * *
#### 6.6.1.2 Protection of the BS receiver of own or different BS
This requirement shall be applied for FDD operation in order to prevent the
receivers of Base Stations being desensitised by emissions from the BS
transmitter. It is measured at the transmit antenna port for any type of BS
which has common or separate Tx/Rx antenna ports.
##### 6.6.1.2.1 Minimum Requirement
The power of any spurious emission shall not exceed the limits in Table
6.6.1.2.1-1.
Table 6.6.1.2.1-1: BS Spurious emissions limits for protection of the BS
receiver
* * *
Band category Frequency range Maximum Level Measurement Bandwidth Note BC1
F~UL_low~ -- F~UL_high~ -96 dBm 100 kHz  
BC2 F~UL_low~ -- F~UL_high~ -98 dBm 100 kHz
* * *
#### 6.6.1.3 Additional spurious emissions requirements
These requirements may be applied for the protection of system operating in
frequency ranges other than the BS downlink operating band. The limits may
apply as an optional protection of such systems that are deployed in the same
geographical area as the BS, or they may be set by local or regional
regulation as a mandatory requirement for an operating band. It is in some
cases not stated in the present document whether a requirement is mandatory or
under what exact circumstances that a limit applies, since this is set by
local or regional regulation. An overview of regional requirements in the
present document is given in subclause 4.4.
Some requirements may apply for the protection of specific equipment (UE, MS
and/or BS) or equipment operating in specific systems (GSM/EDGE, CDMA, UTRA,
E-UTRA, etc.) as listed below.
##### 6.6.1.3.1 Minimum Requirement
The power of any spurious emission shall not exceed the limits of Table
6.6.1.3.1-1 for a BS where requirements for co-existence with the system
listed in the first column apply.
Table 6.6.1.3.1-1: BS Spurious emissions limits for co-existence with systems
operating in other frequency bands
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | System type | Frequency | Maximum | Measurement | Note | | to co-exist | range for | Level | Bandwidth | | | with | c | | | | | | o-existence | | | | | | requirement | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | GSM900 | 921 -- 960 | -57 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 8 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 876 -- 915 | -61 dBm | 100 kHz | For the | | | MHz | | | frequency | | | | | | range | | | | | | 880-915 | | | | | | MHz, this | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 8, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.2. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | DCS1800\ | 1805 -- | -47 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | (Note 3) | 1880 MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 3. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 1710 -- | -61 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | | 1785 MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 3, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.2. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | PCS1900 | 1930 -- | -47 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | | 1990 MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 2 | | | | | | or band 36. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 1850 -- | -61 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | | 1910 MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 2, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.2. | | | | | | This | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 35. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | GSM850 or | 869 -- 894 | -57 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | CDMA850 | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 5 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 824 -- 849 | -61 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 5, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.2. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 2110 -- | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band I or | 2170 MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | E-UTRA Band | | | | apply to BS | | 1 | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 1, | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 1920 -- | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | 1980 MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 1, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.2. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 1930 -- | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band II or | 1990 MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | E-UTRA Band | | | | apply to BS | | 2 | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 2. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 1850 -- | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | 1910 MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 2, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.2 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 1805 -- | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band III or | 1880 MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | E-UTRA Band | | | | apply to BS | | 3\ | | | | operating | | (Note 3) | | | | in band 3 | | | | | | or 9. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 1710 -- | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | 1785 MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 3, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.2. | | | | | | | | | | | | For BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 9, | | | | | | it applies | | | | | | for | | | | | | 1710 MHz to | | | | | | 1749.9 MHz | | | | | | and 1784.9 | | | | | | MHz to 1785 | | | | | | MHz, while | | | | | | the rest is | | | | | | covered in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.2. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 2110 -- | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band IV or | 2155 MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | E-UTRA Band | | | | apply to BS | | 4 | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 4 | | | | | | or 10 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 1710 -- | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | 1755 MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 4 | | | | | | or 10, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.2. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 869 -- 894 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band V or | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | E-UTRA Band | | | | apply to BS | | 5 | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 5 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 824 -- 849 | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 5, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.2. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 860 -- 895 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band VI, | MHz | | | requirement | | XIX or | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | E-UTRA Band | | | | operating | | 6, 18, 19 | | | | in band 6, | | | | | | 18, 19 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 815 -- 830 | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 18 | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.2. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 830 -- 850 | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | E-UTRA BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 6, | | | | | | 19, since | | | | | | it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.2. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 2620 -- | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band VII or | 2690 MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | E-UTRA Band | | | | apply to BS | | 7 | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 7. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 2500 -- | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | 2570 MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 7, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.2. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 925 -- 960 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band VIII | MHz | | | requirement | | or | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | E-UTRA Band | | | | operating | | 8 | | | | in band 8. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 880 -- 915 | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 8, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.2. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 1844.9 -- | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band IX or | 1879.9 MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | E-UTRA Band | | | | apply to BS | | 9 | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 3 | | | | | | or 9. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 1749.9 -- | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | 1784.9 MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 3 | | | | | | or 9, since | | | | | | it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.2. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 2110 -- | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band X or | 2170 MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | E-UTRA Band | | | | apply to BS | | 10 | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 4 | | | | | | or 10 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 1710 -- | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | 1770 MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 10, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.2. | | | | | | For BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 4, | | | | | | it applies | | | | | | for | | | | | | 1755 MHz to | | | | | | 1770 MHz, | | | | | | while the | | | | | | rest is | | | | | | covered in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.2. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 1475.9 -- | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band XI or | 1510.9 MHz | | | requirement | | XXI or | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | E-UTRA Band | | | | operating | | 11 or 21 | | | | in band 11 | | | | | | or 21 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 1427.9 -- | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | 1447.9 MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 11, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.2. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 1447.9 -- | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | 1462.9 MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | E-UTRA BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 21, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.2. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 729 -- 746 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band XII or | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | E-UTRA Band | | | | apply to BS | | 12 | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 12. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 699 -- 716 | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 12, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.2. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 746 -- 756 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band XIII | MHz | | | requirement | | or | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | E-UTRA Band | | | | operating | | 13 | | | | in band 13. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 777 -- 787 | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 13, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.2. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 758 -- 768 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band XIV or | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | E-UTRA Band | | | | apply to BS | | 14 | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 14. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 788 -- 798 | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 14, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.2. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA Band | 734 -- 746 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | 17 | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 17. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 704 -- 716 | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 17, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | subclause | | | | | | 6.6.1.2. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 791 -- 821 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band XX or | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | E-UTRA Band | | | | apply to BS | | 20 | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 20. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 832 -- 862 | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 20, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | subclause | | | | | | 6.6.1.2. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA TDD in | 1900 -- | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band a) or | 1920 MHz | | | requirement | | E-UTRA Band | | | | does not | | 33 | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 33 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA TDD in | 2010 -- | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band a) or | 2025 MHz | | | requirement | | E-UTRA Band | | | | does not | | 34 | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 34 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA TDD in | 1850 -- | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band b) or | 1910 MHz | | | requirement | | E-UTRA Band | | | | does not | | 35 | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 35 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA TDD in | 1930 -- | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band b) or | 1990 MHz | | | requirement | | E-UTRA Band | | | | does not | | 36 | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 2 | | | | | | and 36 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA TDD in | 1910 -- | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This is not | | Band c) or | 1930 MHz | | | applicable | | E-UTRA Band | | | | to BS | | 37 | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 37. | | | | | | This | | | | | | unpaired | | | | | | band is | | | | | | defined in | | | | | | ITU-R | | | | | | M.1036, but | | | | | | is pending | | | | | | any future | | | | | | deployment. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA TDD in | 2570 -- | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band d) or | 2620 MHz | | | requirement | | E-UTRA Band | | | | does not | | 38 | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 38. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA Band | 1880 -- | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This is not | | 39 | 1920MHz | | | applicable | | | | | | to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 39 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA Band | 2300 -- | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This is not | | 40 | 2400MHz | | | applicable | | | | | | to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 40 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
NOTE 1: As defined in the scope for spurious emissions in this subclause, the
co-existence requirements in Table 6.6.1.3.1-1 do not apply for the 10 MHz
frequency range immediately outside the downlink operating band (see Tables
4.5-1 and 4.5-2). Emission limits for this excluded frequency range may be
covered by local or regional requirements.
NOTE 2: The table above assumes that two operating bands, where the frequency
ranges in Table 4.5-1 or Table 4.5-2 would be overlapping, are not deployed in
the same geographical area. For such a case of operation with overlapping
frequency arrangements in the same geographical area, special co-existence
requirements may apply that are not covered by the 3GPP specifications.
NOTE 3: For the protection of DCS1800, UTRA Band III or E-UTRA Band 3 in
China, the frequency ranges of the downlink and uplink protection requirements
are 1805 -- 1850 MHz and 1710 -- 1755 MHz respectively.
The following requirement may be applied for the protection of PHS. This
requirement is also applicable at specified frequencies falling between 10 MHz
below the lowest BS transmitter frequency of the downlink operating band and
10 MHz above the highest BS transmitter frequency of the downlink operating
band.
The power of any spurious emission shall not exceed:
Table 6.6.1.3.1-2: BS Spurious emissions limits for BS for co-existence with
PHS
* * *
Frequency range Maximum Level Measurement Bandwidth Note 1884.5 -- 1915.7 MHz
-41 dBm 300 kHz Applicable for co-existence with PHS system operating in
1884.5-1915.7MHz NOTE: The requirement is not applicable in China.
* * *
In addition to the requirements in subclauses 6.6.1.1, 6.6.1.2 and above in
the present subclause, the BS may have to comply with the applicable emission
limits established by FCC Title 47 [8], when deployed in regions where those
limits are applied, and under the conditions declared by the manufacturer.
#### 6.6.1.4 Co-location with other base stations
These requirements may be applied for the protection of other BS receivers
when GSM900, DCS1800, PCS1900, GSM850, CDMA850, UTRA FDD, UTRA TDD and/or
E-UTRA BS are co-located with a BS.
The requirements assume a 30 dB coupling loss between transmitter and
receiver.
NOTE: For co-location with UTRA, the requirements are based on co-location
with Wide Area UTRA FDD or TDD base stations.
##### 6.6.1.4.1 Minimum Requirement
The power of any spurious emission shall not exceed the limits of Table
6.6.1.4.1-1 for a BS where requirements for co-location with a BS type listed
in the first column apply.
Table 6.6.1.4.1-1: BS Spurious emissions limits for BS co-located with another
BS
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Type of | Frequency | Maximum | Measurement | Note | | co-located | range for | Level | Bandwidth | | | BS | co-location | | | | | | requirement | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Macro | 876-915 MHz | -98 dBm | 100 kHz | | | GSM900 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Macro | 1710 -- | -98 dBm | 100 kHz | | | DCS1800 | 1785 MHz | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Macro | 1850 -- | -98 dBm | 100 kHz | | | PCS1900 | 1910 MHz | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Macro | 824 -- 849 | -98 dBm | 100 kHz | | | GSM850 or | MHz | | | | | CDMA850 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 1920 -- | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | | | Band I or | 1980 MHz | | | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 1 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 1850 -- | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | | | Band II or | 1910 MHz | | | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 2 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 1710 -- | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | | | Band III or | 1785 MHz | | | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 3 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 1710 -- | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | | | Band IV or | 1755 MHz | | | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 4 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 824 -- 849 | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | | | Band V or | MHz | | | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 5 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 830 -- 850 | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | | | Band VI, | MHz | | | | | XIX or | | | | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 6, 19 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 2500 -- | -96 dBm | 100 KHz | | | Band VII or | 2570 MHz | | | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 7 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 880 -- 915 | -96 dBm | 100 KHz | | | Band VIII | MHz | | | | | or E-UTRA | | | | | | Band 8 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 1749.9 -- | -96 dBm | 100 KHz | | | Band IX or | 1784.9 MHz | | | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 9 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 1710 -- | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | | | Band X or | 1770 MHz | | | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 10 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 1427.9 -- | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | | | Band XI or | 1447.9 MHz | | | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 11 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 699 -- 716 | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | | | Band XII or | MHz | | | | | | | | | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 12 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 777 -- 787 | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | | | Band XIII | MHz | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 13 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 788 -- 798 | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | | | Band XIV or | MHz | | | | | | | | | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 14 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA Band | 704 -- 716 | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | | | 17 | MHz | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA Band | 815 -- 830 | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | | | 18 | MHz | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 832 -- 862 | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | | | Band XX or | MHz | | | | | | | | | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 20 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 1447.9 -- | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | | | Band XXI or | 1462.9 MHz | | | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 21 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA TDD in | 1900 -- | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | This is not | | Band a) or | 1920 MHz | | | applicable | | E-UTRA Band | | | | to BS | | 33 | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 33 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA TDD in | 2010 -- | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | This is not | | Band a) or | 2025 MHz | | | applicable | | E-UTRA Band | | | | to BS | | 34 | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 34 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA TDD in | 1850 -- | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | This is not | | Band b) or | 1910 MHz | | | applicable | | E-UTRA Band | | | | to BS | | 35 | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 35 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA TDD in | 1930 -- | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | This is not | | Band b) or | 1990 MHz | | | applicable | | E-UTRA Band | | | | to BS | | 36 | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 2 | | | | | | and 36 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA TDD in | 1910 -- | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | This is not | | Band c) or | 1930 MHz | | | applicable | | E-UTRA Band | | | | to BS | | 37 | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 37. | | | | | | This | | | | | | unpaired | | | | | | band is | | | | | | defined in | | | | | | ITU-R | | | | | | M.1036, but | | | | | | is pending | | | | | | any future | | | | | | deployment. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA TDD in | 2570 -- | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | This is not | | Band d) or | 2620 MHz | | | applicable | | E-UTRA Band | | | | to BS | | 38 | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 38. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA Band | 1880 -- | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | This is not | | 39 | 1920MHz | | | applicable | | | | | | to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 33 | | | | | | and 39 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA Band | 2300 -- | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | This is not | | 40 | 2400MHz | | | applicable | | | | | | to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 40 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
NOTE 1: As defined in the scope for spurious emissions in this subclause, the
co-location requirements in Table 6.6.1.4.1-1 do not apply for the 10 MHz
frequency range immediately outside the BS transmit frequency range of a
downlink operating band (see Tables 4.5-1 and 4.5-2). The current state-of-
the-art technology does not allow a single generic solution for co-location
with other system on adjacent frequencies for 30 dB BS-BS minimum coupling
loss. However, there are certain site-engineering solutions that can be used.
These techniques are addressed in TR 25.942 [7].
NOTE 2: The table above assumes that two operating bands, where the
corresponding BS transmit and receive frequency ranges in Table 4.5-1 or Table
4.5-2 would be overlapping, are not deployed in the same geographical area.
For such a case of operation with overlapping frequency arrangements in the
same geographical area, special co-location requirements may apply that are
not covered by the 3GPP specifications.
NOTE 3: Co-located TDD base stations that are synchronized and using the same
operating band can transmit without special co-locations requirements. For
unsynchronized base stations, special co-location requirements may apply that
are not covered by the 3GPP specifications.
### 6.6.2 Operating band unwanted emissions
Unless otherwise stated, the Operating band unwanted emission limits are
defined from 10 MHz below the lowest frequency of the downlink operating band
to the lower RF bandwidth edge located at F~BW\ RF,low~ and from the upper RF
bandwidth edge located at F~BW\ RF,high~ up to 10 MHz above the highest
frequency of the downlink operating band.
The requirements shall apply whatever the type of transmitter considered and
for all transmission modes foreseen by the manufacturer's specification,
except for GSM/EDGE single RAT operation. The requirements in TS 45.005 [5] as
defined in subclause 6.6.2.3 apply to an MSR Base Station for GSM/EDGE single
RAT operation in Band Category 2.
#### 6.6.2.1 General minimum requirement for Band Categories 1 and 3
For a BS operating in Band Category 1 or Band Category 3, emissions shall not
exceed the maximum levels specified in Table 6.6.2.1-1 below, where:
\- ∆f is the separation between the RF bandwidth edge frequency and the
nominal -3 dB point of the measuring filter closest to the carrier frequency.
\- f_offset is the separation between the RF bandwidth edge frequency and the
centre of the measuring filter.
\- f_offset~max~ is the offset to the frequency 10 MHz outside the downlink
operating band.
\- ∆f~max~ is equal to f_offset~max~ minus half of the bandwidth of the
measuring filter.
Table 6.6.2.1-1: Operating band unwanted emission mask (UEM) for BC1 and BC3
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Frequency | Frequency | Minimum | Measurement | | offset of | offset of | requirement | bandwidth | | measurement | measurement | | (Note 2) | | filter ‑3dB | filter centre | | | | point, ∆f | frequency, | | | | | f_offset | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 0 MHz ≤ ∆f \ 800 kHz for CW
interferer NOTE: Interfering signal positions that are partially or completely
outside of the downlink operating band of the base station are excluded from
the requirement.
* * *
### 6.7.3 Additional minimum requirement (BC3)
The transmitter intermodulation level shall not exceed the unwanted emission
limits in subclause 6.6 in the presence of a wanted signal and an interfering
signal according to Table 6.7.3-1 for BS operation in BC3. The measurement may
be limited to frequencies on which third and fifth order intermodulation
products appear, considering the width of these products.
Table 6.7.3-1: Interfering signals for the Transmitter intermodulation
requirement (BC3)
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameter | Value | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Interfering signal type | 1.28Mcps UTRA TDD signal of | | | channel bandwidth 1.6MHz | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Interfering signal level | Mean power level 30 dB below the | | | mean power of the wanted signal | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Interfering signal centre | 0.8 MHz for modulated 1.28Mcps | | frequency offset from edge of | TDD interferer | | the RF bandwidth | | | | 1.6 MHz for modulated 1.28Mcps | | | TDD interferer | | | | | | 2.4 MHz for modulated 1.28Mcps | | | TDD interferer | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | NOTE: Interfering signal | | | positions that are partially or | | | completely outside of the | | | downlink operating band of the | | | base station are excluded from | | | the requirement. | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
# 7 Receiver characteristics
## 7.1 General
The requirements in clause 7 are expressed for a single receiver antenna
connector. For receivers with antenna diversity or in case of multi-carrier
reception with multiple receiver antenna connectors, the requirements apply
for each receiver antenna connector.
For blocking and intermodulation characteristics, the negative offsets of the
interfering signal apply relative to the assigned channel frequency of the
lowest carrier frequency received and positive offsets of the interfering
signal apply relative to the assigned channel frequency of the highest carrier
frequency received .
A BS supporting DC-HSUPA receives two UTRA FDD cells simultaneously on
adjacent carrier frequencies.
Unless otherwise stated, the receiver characteristics are specified at the BS
antenna connector (test port A) with a full complement of transceivers for the
configuration in normal operating conditions. If any external apparatus such
as a RX amplifier, a filter or the combination of such devices is used,
requirements apply at the far end antenna connector (test port B).
Unless otherwise stated the requirements in clause 7 apply during the base
station receive period.
{width="6.166666666666667in" height="1.75in"}
Figure 7.1-1: Receiver test ports
E-UTRA throughput requirements defined for the receiver characteristics in
this clause do not assume HARQ retransmissions.
Values for **F~offset,\ RAT~** to meet receiver requirements are specific for
each RAT in each Band Category as specified in subclause 4.5.1 for Band
Category 1, subclause 4.5.2 for Band Category 2 and subclause 4.5.3 for Band
Category 3.
## 7.2 Reference sensitivity level
The reference sensitivity power level P~REFSENS~ is the minimum mean power
received at the antenna connector at which a reference performance requirement
shall be met for a specified reference measurement channel.
### 7.2.1 E-UTRA minimum requirement
For E-UTRA, the minimum requirement for reference sensitivity is specified in
TS 36.104 [4], subclause 7.2.
### 7.2.2 UTRA FDD minimum requirement
For UTRA FDD, the minimum requirement for reference sensitivity is specified
in TS 25.104 [2], subclause 7.2.
### 7.2.3 UTRA TDD minimum requirement
For UTRA TDD, the minimum requirement for reference sensitivity is specified
in TS 25.105 [3], subclause 7.2.
### 7.2.4 GSM/EDGE minimum requirement
For GSM/EDGE, the minimum requirement for reference sensitivity is specified
in TS 45.005 [5], applicable parts of subclause 6.2.
The conditions specified in TS 45.005 [5], Annex P.1 apply for GSM/EDGE
reference sensitivity.
## 7.3 Dynamic range
The dynamic range is a measure of the capability of the receiver to receive a
wanted signal in the presence of an interfering signal inside the received
channel bandwidth or the capability of receiving high level of wanted signal.
### 7.3.1 E-UTRA minimum requirement
For E-UTRA, the minimum requirement for dynamic range is specified in TS
36.104 [4], subclause 7.3.
### 7.3.2 UTRA FDD minimum requirement
For UTRA FDD, the minimum requirement for dynamic range is specified in TS
25.104 [2], subclause 7.3.
### 7.3.3 UTRA TDD minimum requirement
For UTRA TDD, the minimum requirement for dynamic range is specified in TS
25.105 [3], subclause 7.3.
### 7.3.4 GSM/EDGE minimum requirement
For GSM/EDGE, the minimum requirement for dynamic range is expressed as
Nominal Error Rate and is specified in TS 45.005 [5], applicable parts of
subclause 6.1.1.1, 6.1.1.3, 6.1.2.2 and 6.1.3.2.
## 7.4 In-band selectivity and blocking
The in-band selectivity and blocking characteristics are measures of the
receiver ability to receive a wanted signal at its assigned channel in the
presence of an unwanted interferer inside the operating band and are defined
by a (wideband) and a narrowband blocking requirement.
### 7.4.1 General blocking minimum requirement
For the general blocking requirement, the interfering signal shall be a UTRA
FDD signal as specified in Annex A.
For the wanted and interfering signal coupled to the base station antenna
input, using the parameters in Table 7.4.1‑1, the following requirements shall
be met:
\- For any E-UTRA carrier, the throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum
throughput of the reference measurement channel defined in TS 36.104 [4],
subclause 7.2.
\- For any UTRA FDD carrier, the BER shall not exceed 0.001 for the reference
measurement channel defined in TS 25.104 [2], subclause 7.2.
\- For any UTRA TDD carrier, the BER shall not exceed 0.001 for the reference
measurement channel defined in TS 25.105 [3], subclause 7.2.
\- For any GSM/EDGE carrier, the conditions are specified in TS 45.005 [5],
Annex P.2.1.
Table 7.4.1-1: General blocking requirement
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+------+ | Op | Centre | Inte | Wanted | Inte | | | | erating | Fr | rfering | Signal | rfering | | | | Band | equency | Signal | mean | signal | | | | Number | of | mean | power | centre | | | | | Inte | power | [dBm] | fr | | | | | rfering | [dBm] | | equency | | | | | Signal | | | minimum | | | | | [MHz] | | | fr | | | | | | | | equency | | | | | | | | offset | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | the RF | | | | | | | | ba | | | | | | | | ndwidth | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | [MHz] | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+------+ | 1-7, | (F~U | to | (F~UL | -40 | P~R | ±7.5 | | 9-11, | L_low~ | | _high~ | | EFSENS~ | | | 13, 14, | -20) | | +20) | | + | | | 18, 19, | | | | | x dB* | | | 21, | | | | | | | | 33-40 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+------+ | 8 | (F~U | to | (F~UL | | | | | | L_low~ | | _high~ | | | | | | -20) | | +10) | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+------+ | 12 | (F~U | to | (F~UL | | | | | | L_low~ | | _high~ | | | | | | -20) | | +13) | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+------+ | 17 | (F~U | to | (F~UL | | | | | | L_low~ | | _high~ | | | | | | -20) | | +18) | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+------+ | 20 | (F~U | to | (F~UL | | | | | | L_low~ | | _high~ | | | | | | -11) | | +20) | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+------+ | NOTE*: | | | | | | | | P~R | | | | | | | | EFSENS~ | | | | | | | | depends | | | | | | | | on the | | | | | | | | RAT and | | | | | | | | on the | | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | | ban | | | | | | | | dwidth, | | | | | | | | see | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | bclause | | | | | | | | 7.2. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NO | | | | | | | | TE**: | | | | | | | | \"x\" | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | equal | | | | | | | | to 6 in | | | | | | | | case of | | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | or UTRA | | | | | | | | wanted | | | | | | | | signals | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | equal | | | | | | | | to 3 in | | | | | | | | case of | | | | | | | | G | | | | | | | | SM/EDGE | | | | | | | | wanted | | | | | | | | signal. | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+------+
### 7.4.2 General narrowband blocking minimum requirement
For the general narrowband blocking requirement, the interfering signal shall
be an E-UTRA 1RB signal as specified in Annex A.
For the wanted and interfering signal coupled to the base station antenna
input, using the parameters in Table 7.4.2‑1, the following requirements shall
be met:
\- For any E-UTRA carrier, the throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum
throughput of the reference measurement channel defined in TS 36.104 [4],
subclause 7.2.
\- For any UTRA FDD carrier, the BER shall not exceed 0.001 for the reference
measurement channel defined in TS 25.104 [2], subclause 7.2.
\- For any UTRA TDD carrier, the BER shall not exceed 0.001 for the reference
measurement channel defined in TS 25.105 [3], subclause 7.2.
\- For any GSM/EDGE carrier, the conditions are specified in TS 45.005 [5],
Annex P.2.1.
Table 7.4.2-1: Narrowband blocking requirement
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | RAT of the | Wanted signal | Interfering | Interfering | | carrier | mean power | signal mean | RB*** | | | [dBm] | power [dBm] | centre | | | | | frequency | | | | | offset from | | | | | the RF | | | | | bandwidth edge | | | | | [kHz] | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | E-UTRA, UTRA | PREFSENS + | -49 | ±(240 | | and GSM/EDGE | x dB* | | +m*180), | | | | | | | | | | m=0, 1, 2, 3, | | | | | 4, 9, 14, 19, | | | | | 24 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | NOTE*: | | | | | P~REFSENS~ | | | | | depends on the | | | | | RAT and on the | | | | | channel | | | | | bandwidth, see | | | | | subclause 7.2. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE**: | | | | | \"x\" is equal | | | | | to 6 in case | | | | | of E-UTRA or | | | | | UTRA wanted | | | | | signals and | | | | | equal to 3 in | | | | | case of | | | | | GSM/EDGE | | | | | wanted signal. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE***: | | | | | Interfering | | | | | signal (E-UTRA | | | | | 3MHz) | | | | | consisting of | | | | | one resource | | | | | block | | | | | positioned at | | | | | the stated | | | | | offset, the | | | | | channel | | | | | bandwidth of | | | | | the | | | | | interfering | | | | | signal is | | | | | located | | | | | adjacently to | | | | | the RF | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | edge. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
### 7.4.3 Additional Narrowband blocking minimum requirement for GSM/EDGE
The GSM/EDGE in-band blocking requirement as stated in TS 45.005 [5],
applicable parts of subclauses 5.1.3 and 5.1.4, shall apply for any GSM/EDGE
carrier.
The conditions specified in TS 45.005 [5], Annex P.2.1 apply for GSM/EDGE in-
band narrowband blocking.
### 7.4.4 GSM/EDGE requirements for AM suppression
The GSM/EDGE AM suppression requirement as stated in TS 45.005 [5], applicable
parts of subclauses 5.2.2, shall apply for any GSM/EDGE carrier.
The conditions specified in TS 45.005 [5], Annex P.2.3 apply for GSM/EDGE AM
suppression.
### 7.4.5 Additional BC3 blocking minimum requirement
The interfering signal is a 1.28 Mcps UTRA TDD modulated signal as specified
in Annex A.
For the wanted and interfering signal coupled to the base station antenna
input, using the parameters in Table 7.4.5‑1, the following requirements shall
be met:
\- For any E-UTRA TDD carrier, the throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum
throughput of the reference measurement channel defined in TS 36.104 [4],
subclause 7.2.
\- For any UTRA TDD carrier, the BER shall not exceed 0.001 for the reference
measurement channel defined in TS 25.105 [3], subclause 7.2.
Table 7.4.5-1: Additional blocking requirement for Band Category 3
* * *
Operating Band Centre Frequency of Interfering Signal [MHz] Interfering Signal
mean power [dBm] Wanted Signal mean power [dBm] Interfering signal centre
frequency minimum frequency offset from the RF bandwidth edge [MHz]  
33 -- 40 (F~UL_low~ -- 20) to (F~UL_high~ + 20) -40, P~REFSENS~ + 6 dB* ±2.4
NOTE*: P~REFSENS~ depends on the RAT and on the channel bandwidth, see section
7.2.
* * *
## 7.5 Out-of-band blocking
The Out-of-band blocking characteristic is a measure of the receiver ability
to receive a wanted signal at its assigned channel in the presence of an
unwanted interferer outside the uplink operating band.
### 7.5.1 General minimum requirement
For a wanted and an interfering signal coupled to BS antenna input using the
parameters in Table 7.5.1-1, the following requirements shall be met:
\- For any E-UTRA carrier, the throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum
throughput of the reference measurement channel defined in TS 36.104 [4],
subclause 7.2.
\- For any UTRA FDD carrier, the BER shall not exceed 0.001 for the reference
measurement channel defined in TS 25.104 [2], subclause 7.2.
\- For any UTRA TDD carrier, the BER shall not exceed 0.001 for the reference
measurement channel defined in TS 25.105 [3], subclause 7.2.
\- For any GSM/EDGE carrier, the conditions are specified in TS 45.005 [5],
Annex P.2.1.
Table 7.5.1-1: Blocking performance requirement
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Op | Centre | Inte | Wanted | Type of | | | | erating | Fr | rfering | Signal | Inte | | | | Band | equency | Signal | mean | rfering | | | | Number | of | mean | power | Signal | | | | | Inte | power | [dBm] | | | | | | rfering | [dBm] | | | | | | | Signal | | | | | | | | [MHz] | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 1-7, | 1 | to | (F~U | -15 | P~R | CW | | 9-11, | | | L_low~ | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | 13, 14, | (F~UL | to | -20) | | + x | | | 18, 19, | _high~ | | | | dB* | | | 21, | +20) | | 12750 | | | | | 33-40 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 8 | 1 | to | (F~U | -15 | P~R | CW | | | | | L_low~ | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | | (F~UL | to | -20) | | + x | | | | _high~ | | | | dB* | | | | +10) | | 12750 | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 12 | 1 | to | (F~U | -15 | P~R | CW | | | | | L_low~ | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | | (F~UL | to | -20) | | + x | | | | _high~ | | | | dB* | | | | +13) | | 12750 | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 17 | 1 | to | (F~U | -15 | P~R | CW | | | | | L_low~ | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | | (F~UL | to | -20) | | + x | | | | _high~ | | | | dB* | | | | +18) | | 12750 | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 20 | 1 | to | (F~U | -15 | P~R | CW | | | | | L_low~ | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | | (F~UL | to | -11) | | + x | | | | _high~ | | | | dB* | | | | +20) | | 12750 | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | NOTE*: | | | | | | | | P~R | | | | | | | | EFSENS~ | | | | | | | | depends | | | | | | | | on the | | | | | | | | RAT and | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | | ban | | | | | | | | dwidth, | | | | | | | | see | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | bclause | | | | | | | | 7.2.\ | | | | | | | | \"x\" | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | equal | | | | | | | | to 6 in | | | | | | | | case of | | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | or UTRA | | | | | | | | wanted | | | | | | | | signals | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | equal | | | | | | | | to 3 in | | | | | | | | case of | | | | | | | | G | | | | | | | | SM/EDGE | | | | | | | | wanted | | | | | | | | signal. | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
### 7.5.2 Co-location minimum requirement
This additional blocking requirement may be applied for the protection of BS
receivers when E-UTRA BS, UTRA, CDMA or GSM/EDGE operating in a different
frequency band are co-located with a BS.
The requirements in this subclause assume a 30 dB coupling loss between the
interfering transmitter and the BS receiver.
NOTE: For co-location with UTRA, the requirements are based on co-location
with Wide Area UTRA FDD or TDD base stations.
For a wanted and an interfering signal coupled to BS antenna input using the
parameters in Table 7.5.2-1, the following requirements shall be met:
\- For any E-UTRA carrier, the throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum
throughput of the reference measurement channel defined in TS 36.104 [4],
subclause 7.2.
\- For any UTRA FDD carrier, the BER shall not exceed 0.001 for the reference
measurement channel defined in TS 25.104 [2], subclause 7.2.
\- For any UTRA TDD carrier, the BER shall not exceed 0.001 for the reference
measurement channel defined in TS 25.105 [3], subclause 7.2.
\- For any GSM/EDGE carrier, the conditions are specified in TS 45.005 [5],
Annex P.2.1.
Table 7.5.2-1: Blocking requirement for when co-located with BS in other
frequency bands.
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Type of | Centre | Interfering | Wanted | Type of | | co-located | Frequency | Signal mean | Signal mean | Interfering | | BS | of | power (dBm) | power (dBm) | Signal | | | Interfering | | | | | | Signal | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Macro | 869 -- 894 | +16 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | GSM850 or | | | + x dB* | | | CDMA850 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Macro | 921 -- 960 | +16 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | GSM900 | | | + x dB* | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Macro | 1805 -- | +16 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | DCS1800 | 1880 | | + x dB* | | | | | | | | | | (Note 4) | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Macro | 1930 -- | +16 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | PCS1900 | 1990 | | + x dB* | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 2110 -- | +16 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | Band I or | 2170 | | + x dB* | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 1 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 1930 -- | +16 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | Band II or | 1990 | | + x dB* | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 2 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 1805 -- | +16 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | Band III or | 1880 | | + x dB* | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 3 | (Note 4) | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 2110 -- | +16 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | Band IV or | 2155 | | + x dB* | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 4 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 869 -- 894 | +16 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | Band V or | | | + x dB* | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 5 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 875 -- 885 | +16 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | Band VI or | | | + x dB* | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 6 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 2620 -- | +16 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | Band VII or | 2690 | | + x dB* | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 7 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 925 -- 960 | +16 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | Band VIII | | | + x dB* | | | or E-UTRA | | | | | | Band 8 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 1844.9 -- | +16 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | Band IX or | 1879.9 | | + x dB* | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 9 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 2110 -- | +16 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | Band X or | 2170 | | + x dB* | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 10 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 1475.9 -- | +16 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | Band XI or | 1495.9 | | + x dB* | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 11 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 729 -- 746 | +16 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | Band XII or | | | + x dB* | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 12 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 746 -- 756 | +16 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | Band XIIII | | | + x dB* | | | or E-UTRA | | | | | | Band 13 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 758 -- 768 | +16 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | Band XIV or | | | + x dB* | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 14 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA Band | 734 -- 746 | +16 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | 17 | | | + x dB* | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA Band | 860 -- 875 | +16 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | 18 | | | + x dB* | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 875 -- 890 | +16 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | Band XIX or | | | + x dB* | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 19 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 791 -- 821 | +16 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | Band XX or | | | + x dB* | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 20 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 1495.9 -- | +16 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | Band XXI or | 1510.9 | | + x dB* | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 21 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA TDD in | 1900-1920 | +16 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | Band a) | | | + x dB* | | | | 2010-2025 | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA TDD | 1900-1920 | +16 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | in Band 33 | | | + x dB* | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA TDD | 2010-2025 | +16 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | in Band 34 | | | + x dB* | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA TDD in | 1850-1910 | +16 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | Band b) | | | + x dB* | | | | 1930-1990 | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA TDD | 1850-1910 | +16 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | in Band 35 | | | + x dB* | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA TDD | 1930-1990 | +16 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | in Band 36 | | | + x dB* | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA TDD in | 1910-1930 | +16 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | Band c) or | | | + x dB* | | | E-UTRA TDD | | | | | | in Band 37 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA TDD in | 2570-2620 | +16 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | Band d) or | | | + x dB* | | | E-UTRA in | | | | | | Band 38 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA in | 1880-1920 | +16 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | Band 39 | | | + x dB* | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA in | 2300-2400 | +16 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | Band 40 | | | + x dB* | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 1 | | | | | | (*): | | | | | | P~REFSENS~ | | | | | | depends on | | | | | | the RAT and | | | | | | the channel | | | | | | bandwidth, | | | | | | see | | | | | | subclause | | | | | | 7.2.\ | | | | | | \"x\" is | | | | | | equal to 3 | | | | | | in case of | | | | | | GSM/EDGE | | | | | | wanted | | | | | | signal and | | | | | | equal to 6 | | | | | | in case of | | | | | | UTRA or | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | wanted | | | | | | signals. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | Except for | | | | | | a BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 13, | | | | | | these | | | | | | r | | | | | | equirements | | | | | | do not | | | | | | apply when | | | | | | the | | | | | | interfering | | | | | | signal | | | | | | falls | | | | | | within the | | | | | | uplink | | | | | | operating | | | | | | band or in | | | | | | the 10 MHz | | | | | | immediately | | | | | | outside the | | | | | | uplink | | | | | | operating | | | | | | band.\ | | | | | | For a BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 13 | | | | | | the | | | | | | r | | | | | | equirements | | | | | | do not | | | | | | apply when | | | | | | the | | | | | | interfering | | | | | | signal | | | | | | falls | | | | | | within the | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | range | | | | | | 768-797 | | | | | | MHz. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | Some | | | | | | c | | | | | | ombinations | | | | | | of bands | | | | | | may not be | | | | | | possible to | | | | | | co-site | | | | | | based on | | | | | | the | | | | | | r | | | | | | equirements | | | | | | above. The | | | | | | current | | | | | | state | | | | | | -of-the-art | | | | | | technology | | | | | | does not | | | | | | allow a | | | | | | single | | | | | | generic | | | | | | solution | | | | | | for | | | | | | co-location | | | | | | of UTRA TDD | | | | | | or E-UTRA | | | | | | TDD with | | | | | | E-UTRA FDD | | | | | | on adjacent | | | | | | frequencies | | | | | | for 30dB | | | | | | BS-BS | | | | | | minimum | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | loss. | | | | | | However, | | | | | | there are | | | | | | certain | | | | | | site- | | | | | | engineering | | | | | | solutions | | | | | | that can be | | | | | | used. These | | | | | | techniques | | | | | | are | | | | | | addressed | | | | | | in TR | | | | | | 25.942 | | | | | | [7]. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: In | | | | | | China, the | | | | | | blocking | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | for | | | | | | co-location | | | | | | with | | | | | | DCS1800 and | | | | | | Band III BS | | | | | | is only | | | | | | applicable | | | | | | in the | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | range | | | | | | 18 | | | | | | 05-1850MHz. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
## 7.6 Receiver spurious emissions
The receiver spurious emissions power is the power of emissions generated or
amplified in a receiver that appear at the BS receiver antenna connector. The
requirements apply to all BS with separate RX and TX antenna ports. In this
case for FDD BS the test shall be performed when both TX and RX are on, with
the TX port terminated.
For TDD BS with common RX and TX antenna port the requirement applies during
the Transmitter OFF period. For FDD BS with common RX and TX antenna port the
transmitter spurious emission limits as specified in subclause 6.6.1 are
valid.
### 7.6.3 General minimum requirement
The power of any spurious emission shall not exceed the levels in Table
7.6.1-1:
Table 7.6.1-1: General spurious emissions requirement
* * *
Frequency range Maximum level Measurement Bandwidth Note 30MHz -- 1 GHz -57
dBm 100 kHz  
1 GHz -- 12.75 GHz -47 dBm 1 MHz  
NOTE: The frequency range from F~BW\ RF,DL,low~ -10 MHz to F~BW\ RF,,Dlhigh~ +
10 MHz may be excluded from the requirement.
* * *
In addition to the requirements in Table 7.6.1-1, the power of any spurious
emission shall not exceed the Additional spurious emissions requirements in
subclause 6.6.1.3 and in case of FDD BS (for BC1 and BC2) emission shall not
exceed the levels specified for Protection of the BS receivers of own or
different BS in subclause 6.6.1.2. In addition, the requirements for co-
location with other base stations specified in subclause 6.6.1.4 may also be
applied.
### 7.6.2 Additional minimum requirement for BC2 (Category B)
For a BS operating in Band Category 2 when GSM/EDGE is configured and where
Category B spurious emissions apply, the power of any spurious emissions shall
not exceed the limits in Table 7.6.2-1.
Table 7.6.2-1: Additional BS spurious emissions limits for BC2, Category B
* * *
Frequency range Frequency offset from downlink operating band edge Maximum
level Measurement Bandwidth 500 MHz -- 1 GHz 10 -- 20 MHz -57 dBm 300 kHz 20
-- 30 MHz -57 dBm 1 MHz ≥ 30 MHz -57 dBm 3 MHz 1 GHz -- 12.75 GHz ≥ 30 MHz -47
dBm 3 MHz
* * *
## 7.7 Receiver intermodulation
Third and higher order mixing of the two interfering RF signals can produce an
interfering signal in the band of the desired channel. Intermodulation
response rejection is a measure of the capability of the receiver to receive a
wanted signal on its assigned channel frequency in the presence of two
interfering signals which have a specific frequency relationship to the wanted
signal.
### 7.7.1 General intermodulation minimum requirement
Interfering signals shall be a CW signal and an E-UTRA or UTRA signal as
specified in Annex A.
For the wanted signal at the assigned channel frequency and two interfering
signals coupled to the base station antenna input, using the parameters in
Table 7.7.1-1 and 7.7.1-2, the following requirements shall be met:
\- For any E-UTRA carrier, the throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum
throughput of the reference measurement channel defined in TS 36.104 [4],
subclause 7.2.
\- For any UTRA FDD carrier, the BER shall not exceed 0.001 for the reference
measurement channel defined in TS 25.104 [2], subclause 7.2.
\- For any UTRA TDD carrier, the BER shall not exceed 0.001 for the reference
measurement channel defined in TS 25.105 [3], subclause 7.2.
\- For any GSM/EDGE carrier, the conditions are specified in TS 45.005 [5],
Annex P.2.2.
Table 7.7.1-1: General intermodulation requirement
* * *
Mean power of interfering signals [dBm] Wanted Signal mean power [dBm] Type of
interfering signal
-48 P~REFSENS~ +x dB* See Table 7.7.1-2
NOTE*: P~REFSENS~ depends on the RAT and on the channel bandwidth, see
subclause 7.2.\  
\"x\" is equal to 6 in case of E-UTRA or UTRA wanted signals and equal to 3 in
case of GSM/EDGE wanted signal.
* * *
Table 7.7.1-2: Interfering signals for intermodulation requirement
* * *
RAT of the carrier adjacent to the high (low) edge of the RF bandwidth
Interfering signal centre frequency offset from the RF bandwidth edge [MHz]
Type of interfering signal
E-UTRA 1.4 MHz ±2.0 (BC1 and BC3) /\ CW ±2.1 (BC2)
                                                                           ±4.9                                                                            1.4MHz E-UTRA signal
E-UTRA 3 MHz ±4.4 (BC1 and BC3) /\ CW ±4.5 (BC2)
                                                                           ±10.5                                                                           3MHz E-UTRA signal
UTRA FDD and\ ±7.5 CW E-UTRA 5 MHz
                                                                           ±17.5                                                                           5MHz E-UTRA signal
E-UTRA 10 MHz ±7.375 CW
                                                                           ±17.5                                                                           5MHz E-UTRA signal
E-UTRA 15 MHz ±7.25 CW
                                                                           ±17.5                                                                           5MHz E-UTRA signal
E-UTRA 20 MHz ±7.125 CW
                                                                           ±17.5                                                                           5MHz E-UTRA signal
GSM/EDGE ±7.575 CW
                                                                           ±17.5                                                                           5MHz E-UTRA signal
1.28 Mcps UTRA TDD ±2.3 (BC3) CW
                                                                           ±5.6 (BC3)                                                                      1.28Mcps UTRA TDD signal
* * *
### 7.7.2 General narrowband intermodulation minimum requirement
Interfering signals shall be a CW signal and an E-UTRA 1RB signal as specified
in Annex A.
For the wanted signal at the assigned channel frequency and two interfering
signals coupled to the base station antenna input, using the parameters in
Table 7.7.2-1 and 7.7.2-2, the following requirements shall be met:
\- For any E-UTRA carrier, the throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum
throughput of the reference measurement channel defined in TS 36.104 [4],
subclause 7.2.
\- For any UTRA FDD carrier, the BER shall not exceed 0.001 for the reference
measurement channel defined in TS 25.104 [2], subclause 7.2.
\- For any UTRA TDD carrier, the BER shall not exceed 0.001 for the reference
measurement channel defined in TS 25.105 [3], subclause 7.2.
\- For any GSM/EDGE carrier, the conditions are specified in TS 45.005 [5],
Annex P.2.2.
Table 7.7.2-1: General narrowband intermodulation requirement
* * *
Mean power of interfering signals [dBm] Wanted Signal mean power [dBm] Type of
interfering signal
-52 P~REFSENS~ +x dB* See Table 7.7.2-2
NOTE*: P~REFSENS~ depends on the RAT and on the channel bandwidth, see
subclause 7.2.\  
\"x\" is equal to 6 in case of E-UTRA or UTRA wanted signals and equal to 3 in
case of GSM/EDGE wanted signal.
* * *
Table 7.7.2-2: Interfering signals for narrowband intermodulation requirement
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | RAT of the carrier | CW or 1RB | Type of interfering | | adjacent to the high | interfering signal | signal | | (low) edge of the RF | centre frequency | | | bandwidth | offset from the RF | | | | bandwidth edge | | | | [kHz] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | E-UTRA 1.4 MHz | ±260 (BC1 and BC3) | CW | | | /\ | | | | ±270 (BC2) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | ±970 (BC1 and BC3) | 1.4 MHz E-UTRA | | | /\ | signal, 1 RB* | | | ±790 (BC2) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | E-UTRA 3 MHz | ±260 (BC1 and BC3) | CW | | | /\ | | | | ±270 (BC2) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | ±960 (BC1 and BC3) | 3.0 MHz E-UTRA | | | /\ | signal, 1 RB* | | | ±780 (BC2) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | E-UTRA 5 MHz | ±360 | CW | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | ±1060 | 5 MHz E-UTRA signal, | | | | 1 RB* | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | E-UTRA 10 MHz | ±325 | CW | | | | | | (**) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | ±1240 | 5 MHz E-UTRA signal, | | | | 1 RB* | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | E-UTRA 15 MHz | ±380 | CW | | | | | | (**) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | ±1600 | 5MHz E-UTRA signal, | | | | 1 RB* | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | E-UTRA 20 MHz | ±345 | CW | | | | | | (**) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | ±1780 | 5MHz E-UTRA signal, | | | | 1 RB* | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UTRA FDD | ±345 (BC1 and BC2) | CW | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | ±1780 (BC1 and BC2) | 5MHz E-UTRA signal, | | | | 1 RB* | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | GSM/EDGE | ±340 | CW | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | ±880 | 5MHz E-UTRA signal, | | | | 1 RB* | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 1.28Mcps UTRA TDD | ±190 (BC3) | CW | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | ±970 (BC3) | 1.4 MHz E-UTRA | | | | signal, 1 RB* | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NOTE*: Interfering | | | | signal consisting of | | | | one resource block | | | | positioned at the | | | | stated offset, the | | | | channel bandwidth of | | | | the interfering | | | | signal is located | | | | adjacently to the RF | | | | bandwidth edge. | | | | | | | | NOTE**: This | | | | requirement shall | | | | apply only for an | | | | E-UTRA FRC A1-3 | | | | mapped to the | | | | frequency range at | | | | the channel edge | | | | adjacent to the | | | | interfering signals. | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### 7.7.3 Additional narrowband intermodulation minimum requirement for
GSM/EDGE
The GSM/EDGE MC-BTS receiver intermodulation requirement as stated in TS
45.005 [5], applicable parts of subclause 5.3.2 shall apply for any GSM/EDGE
carrier.
The conditions specified in TS 45.005 [5], Annex P.2.2 apply for the GSM/EDGE
intermodulation requirement.
## 7.8 In-channel selectivity
In-channel selectivity (ICS) is a measure of the receiver ability to receive a
wanted signal at its assigned resource block locations in the presence of an
interfering signal received at a larger power spectral density. In this
condition a throughput requirement shall be met for a specified reference
measurement channel.
### 7.8.1 E-UTRA minimum requirement
For E-UTRA, the minimum requirement for in-channel selectivity is specified in
TS 36.104 [4], subclause 7.4.
# 8 Performance requirements
Performance requirements specify the ability of the BS to correctly demodulate
signals in various conditions and configurations. For UTRA and E-UTRA the
requirements specify a minimum throughput or maximum BLER or BER that shall be
achieved at a specific SNR. For GSM/EDGE the requirements specify a maximum
FER, BLER or BER that shall be achieved at specific sensitivity levels I and
specific carrier-to-interference ratios (C/I).
## 8.1 E-UTRA minimum requirement
For E-UTRA, the minimum requirements for performance are specified in TS
36.104 [4], clause 8.
## 8.2 UTRA FDD minimum requirement
For UTRA FDD, the minimum requirements for performance are specified in TS
25.104 [2], clause 8.
## 8.3 UTRA TDD minimum requirement
For UTRA TDD, the minimum requirements for performance are specified in TS
25.105 [3], clause 8.
## 8.4 GSM/EDGE minimum requirement
For GSM/EDGE, the minimum requirements for reference sensitivity level and
reference interference level are specified in TS 45.005 [5], applicable parts
of clauses 6.2, 6.3, 6.4, 6.5 and 6.6. The conditions specified in TS 45.005
[5], Annex P.1 are valid for GSM sensitivity and interference performance.
###### ## Annex A (normative): Characteristics of interfering signals
# A.1 UTRA FDD interfering signal
The UTRA FDD interfering signal shall be a DPCH containing the DPCCH and one
DPDCH. The data content for each channelization code shall be uncorrelated
with each other and to the wanted signal and spread and modulated according to
clause 4 of TS 25.213. Further characteristics of DPDCH and DPCCH are
specified in Table A.1-1.
Table A.1-1: Characteristics of UTRA FDD interfering signal
* * *
Channel Bit Rate Spreading Factor Channelization Code Relative Power DPDCH 240
kbps 16 4 0 dB DPCCH 15 kbps 256 0 -5.46 dB NOTE: The DPDCH and DPCCH settings
are chosen to simulate a signal with realistic Peak to Average Ratio.
* * *
# A.2 UTRA TDD interfering signal
The UTRA TDD interfering signal shall be 1.28 Mcps UTRA TDD signal with one
code. The data content shall be uncorrelated to the wanted signal. They are
specified in Table A.2-1.
Table A.2-1: Characteristics of UTRA TDD interfering signal
* * *
UTRA TDD option Type of Interfering Signal 1.28 Mcps UTRA TDD 1,28 Mcps UTRA
TDD signal with one code*
* NOTE: The 50hannelization code ID and Midamble shift shall be different with the wanted signal's. 
* * *
# A.3 E-UTRA interfering signal
The E-UTRA interfering signal shall be a PUSCH containing data and reference
symbols. Normal CP is used. The data content shall be uncorrelated to the
wanted signal and modulated according to clause 5 of TS 36.211. Mapping of
PUSCH modulation to receiver requirement are specified in Table A.3-1.
Table A.3-1: Modulation of the E-UTRA interfering signal
* * *
Receiver requirement Modulation Narrowband blocking QPSK Receiver
intermodulation QPSK
* * *
###### ## Annex B (normative): Environmental requirements for the BS equipment
The BS equipment shall fulfil all the requirements in the full range of
environmental conditions for the relevant environmental class. The
environmental conditions and class shall be from the relevant IEC
specifications or the corresponding ETSI specifications listed below.
IEC specifications for environmental requirements:
IEC 60 721-3-3 \"Stationary use at weather protected locations\" [11]
IEC 60 721-3-4 \"Stationary use at non weather protected locations\" [12]
ETSI specifications for environmental requirements:
ETSI EN 300 019-1-3 \"Stationary use at weather protected locations\" [13]
ETSI EN 300 019-1-4 \"Stationary use at non weather protected locations\" [14]
Normally it should be sufficient for all tests to be conducted using normal
test conditions except where otherwise stated. For guidance on the use of test
conditions to be used in order to show compliance refer to TS 37.141 [10].
#