# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the signalling transport related to RETAP and
TMAAP signalling to be used across the Iuant interface for UTRA and E-UTRA.
The logical Iuant interface is a Node B/eNB internal interface between the
implementation specific O&M function and the RET antennas and TMAs control
unit function of the Node B/eNB.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
● References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
● For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
● For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] Void
[2] ISO/IEC 13239 (2nd Edition, March 2000): \"Information Technology \--
Telecommunications and information exchange between systems -- High-level data
link control (HDLC) procedures\".
[3] 3GPP TS 37.461: \"Iuant Interface: Layer 1\".
[4] Antenna Interface Standards Group: \"Control Interface for Antenna Line
Devices\", Standard No. AISG v2.0
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply.
**ASCII character:** A character forming part of the International Reference
Version of the 7-bit character set defined in ISO/IEC 646:1991 _represented as
one octet_
**Octet:** 8 bits as used in ISO/IEC 13239 [2]
**Device type:** One octet identifying the type of a device
_**Unique ID:** A concatenation of the vendor code (2 octets) and a 1 to 17
octets long unit specific code (e.g. serial number) exclusive for each
secondary_ device _from the vendor to whom the vendor code is assigned. The
vendor code is placed in the left-most (most significant) position of the
unique ID. The vendor to whom the vendor code is assigned is responsible for
ensuring the uniqueness of the unique ID for each_ device _._
**Vendor code:** A unique ASCII 2-character code assigned to each vendor in
[4]
**Reset:** A process by which the device is put in the state it reaches after
a completed power-up
**SecondaryPayloadTransmitLength:** The maximum length of the _INFO_ field of
an HDLC I-frame in the direction secondary device to primary device.
**SecondaryPayloadReceiveLength:** The maximum length of the _INFO_ field of
an HDLC I-frame in the direction primary device to secondary device.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
ADDR Address
ACK Acknowledgment
CRC Cyclic Redundancy Check
DISC Disconnect (frame type)
DM Disconnected Mode (frame type)
FCS Frame Checking Sequence
FI Format Identifier
FRMR Frame Reject (frame type)
GI Group Identifier
GL Group Length
HDLC High-Level Data Link Control
I Information (frame type)
ID Identifier
INFO Information (field name)
NAK Non Acknowledgment
NRM Normal Response Mode
P/F Poll/Final
PI Parameter Identifier
PL Parameter Length
PV Parameter Value
RET Remote Electrical Tilting
RETAP Remote Electrical Tilting Application Part
RNR Receive Not Ready (frame type)
RR Receive Ready (frame type)
SNRM Set Normal Response Mode (frame type)
TMA Tower Mounted Amplifier
TMAAP Tower Mounted Amplifier Application Part
TWA Two Way Alternate
UA Unnumbered Acknowledgement (frame type)
UNC Unbalanced Operation Normal Response Mode Class
XID Exchange ID (frame type)
# 4 Iuant data link layer
The Data Link Layer uses HDLC Class UNC1,15.1 TWA (see 6.10 in ISO/IEC 13239
[2]) according to ISO/IEC 13239 [2].
## 4.1 Invalid receptions
Frames shall be discarded if a framing error or data overrun occurs.
## 4.2 Frame lengths
HDLC frame lengths may vary between 4 and N octets.
All secondary devices shall support an N of 78 octets. A secondary device may,
after XID negotiation, support a larger N.
## 4.3 Default address
After reset, a secondary device shall use the no-device address (0x00). While
it has the no-device address, it may only respond to device scan and address
assignment messages, but any broadcast messages shall be evaluated without
response.
## 4.4 Window size
All devices shall support a window size of 1. A device may, after XID
negotiation, support any window size up to 7.
## 4.5 Message timing
A minimum of 3 ms shall elapse between receiving and transmitting messages.
A secondary device shall, after reception of a command with the P/F bit set,
start transmitting a response within 10 ms from the time the final flag octet
of that command frame was received.
The transmission of the response shall be finalised within the time t=
n*10*4/datarate where n is the number of octets in the response frame
including all HDLC framing overhead. The maximum gap time between two
consecutive octets shall not exceed the time t= 3*10/datarate. This
corresponds to a 25% utilisation of the Data Link Layer.
The data rate is specified in TS 37.461 [3].
## 4.6 State model
The connection state model for the layer 2 of the secondary device is shown in
figure 4.1. The events written in _italic_ are procedures from higher levels
e.g. link establishment. The HDLC frames that correspond to the events are
written in bold as **command / response** messages.
Figure 4.6.1: Connection state model
## 4.7 Device types
Three device types are defined and identified by the assigned 1-octet unsigned
integer code.
Table 4.7.1: Device types and codes
* * *
Device Type 1-octet unsigned integer code Single-Antenna RET Device 0x01
Multi-Antenna RET Device 0x11 Tower mounted amplifier (TMA) 0x02
* * *
## 4.8 XID negotiation
XID negotiation shall use the standard format (see 5.5.3.1-5.5.3.2.3.2 in
ISO/IEC 13239 [2]). See Annex B for a brief description of XID negotiation and
Annex C to E for examples of XID negotiations. All GL fields have a size of 1
octet.
Any parameter combination of 4.8.1 (HDLC parameter), 4.8.2 (Protocol Version)
and 4.8.3 (Address assignment) in an XID command shall be supported by all
secondary devices.
### 4.8.1 HDLC parameters
Format Identifier (FI) shall be 0x81 and Group Identifier (GI) shall be 0x80.
All secondary devices shall support the following parameters:
Table 4.8.1.1: HDLC parameters for secondary devices
* * *
PI PL Description of PV 5 4 Maximum information field length -- transmit
(bits) 6 4 Maximum information field length -- receive (bits) 7 1 Window size
-- transmit (frames) 8 1 Window size -- receive (frames)
* * *
The SecondaryPayloadTransmitLength shall be 74 octets by default. It can be
increased via XID negotiation, but shall always be 74 octets or larger.
The SecondaryPayloadReceiveLength shall be 74 octets by default. It can be
increased via XID negotiation, but shall always be 74 octets or larger.
### 4.8.2 Protocol version
Format Identifier (FI) shall be 0x81 and Group Identifier (GI) shall be 0xF0.
All secondary devices shall support the following parameter:
Table 4.8.2.1: HDLC parameter for protocol version
* * *
PI PL Description of PV 5 1 3GPP Release ID
* * *
### 4.8.3 Address assignment
The primary device broadcasts the XID commands. The secondary device(s) which
match shall respond. The primary shall ensure that only one secondary matches
the supplied parameter(s). See below for details.
Format Identifier (FI) shall be 0x81 and Group Identifier (GI) shall be 0xF0.
All secondary devices shall support the following parameters:
Table 4.8.3.1: HDLC parameters for address assignment and device scan
* * *
PI PL Description of PV 1 0 to 19 Unique ID 2 1 HDLC Address 3 0 to 19 Bit
Mask (for Unique ID), indicates a device scan 4 1 Device Type (see table
4.7.1) 6 2 Vendor Code as given in [4]
* * *
The XID message can be used to assign HDLC addresses or to scan for devices.
An address assignment XID command shall contain at least PI=2 (HDLC Address)
and shall not contain PI=3 (Bit Mask). During an address assignment all
secondary devices first assume a match and then carry out the following steps:
\- If PI=1 (Unique ID) is supplied, the right-most PL octets of the secondary
devices Unique ID are compared to the Unique ID in the XID command. If they
are different, the secondary device does not match, and the message is
ignored. If the Unique ID in the XID command is longer than the secondary
devices Unique ID, the secondary device does not match, and the message is
ignored.
\- If PI=4 (Device Type) is supplied, the device type of the secondary device
is compared to the device type in the XID command. If they are different, the
secondary device does not match, and the message is ignored.
\- If PI=6 (Vendor Code) is supplied, the vendor code of the secondary device
is compared to the vendor code in the XID command. If they are different, the
secondary device does not match, and the message is ignored.
If the secondary device still matches after these steps, the secondary device
sets its HDLC address to the address specified in PI=2 and responds with an
XID response which contains PI=1 and PI=4.
NOTE: Unlike the normal XID negotiation, in this XID negotiation, the XID
response message returns a different set of parameters than the XID command
message.
### 4.8.4 Device scan
The device scan messages may be utilised by the primary to identify all
secondary stations in the NoAddress state on an interface .
A device scan XID command shall only contain PI=1 (Unique ID) and PI=3 (Bit
Mask), see table 4.8.3.1. PI=1 and PI=3 shall be of equal length PL octets.
If in the NoAddress state, the secondary device masks the min(PL,2) left-most
octets of its own unique ID with the min(PL,2) left-most octets of the bit
mask in the XID command and compares the result with the min(PL,2) left-most
octets the unique ID supplied in the XID command. If they match, the secondary
device masks the max(0,PL-2) right-most octets of its own unique ID with the
max(0,PL-2) right-most octets of the bit mask in the XID command and compares
the result with the max(0,PL-2) right-most octets of the unique ID supplied in
the XID command. If they also match, the secondary device transmits an XID
response message with its own identification data in the fields PI=1 (complete
unique ID), PI=4 (device type) and PI=6 (vendor code).
For the device scan comparison, the unique ID of the secondary device shall be
padded with NUL characters (character code 0x00) between the second and third
left-most positions to a length of 19 octets.
The scan command with zero length (PL=0) of the Unique ID (PI=1) and the Bit
Mask (PI=3) shall match all secondary devices in the NoAddress state.
Only matching secondary devices in the NoAddress state shall respond to the
device scan messages.
### 4.8.5 Reset device
Format identifier (FI) shall be 0x81 and group identifier (GI) shall be 0xF0.
All secondary devices shall support the following parameter:
Table 4.8.5.1: HDLC parameters for reset of secondary devices
* * *
PI PL Description of PV 7 0 Reset device
* * *
If the XID command reset device is received as a broadcast (0xFF) by the
secondary device, the secondary device shall reset without responding,
otherwise the addressed secondary device shall reset after responding.
The reset device parameter shall not be combined with other parameters in an
XID command.
NOTE: There is no PV in the XID command Reset device.
## 4.9 Link establishment
Once the secondary device has been assigned an HDLC address, the primary
device initiates the link establishment by sending the SNRM command frame. The
secondary device responds with an UA frame and enters the state _Connected_.
## 4.10 Link timeout
Whenever a secondary device receives an HDLC frame addressed to itself, i.e.
not an all-device address (0xFF), it shall restart a 3 minute timer. If this 3
minute timer expires, the secondary device shall be reset.
###### ## Annex A (informative): HDLC description
HDLC is defined in ISO/IEC 13239 [2]. This description only covers the aspects
of HDLC which are used by this TS.
The HDLC definition "UNC1,15.1, TWA" can be broken down to:
\- UNC;
\- The "U" means Unbalanced operation (master slave operation);
\- The "N" means Normal response mode (sequence numbers used in data frames);
\- The "C" means Class.
> \- Options supported;
\- "1" means use of XID negotiation;
\- "15.1" means use of start/stop transmission with basic transparency;
\- Two Way Alternate (TWA) is the HDLC term for half duplex.
## A.1 Basic structure
In unbalanced operation, there is one primary station (master) which controls
the bus and a number of secondary stations (slaves) which only are allowed to
transmit when the primary station gives them permission to do so.
All messages are transmitted as frames with the layout shown in table A.1.1:
Table A.1.1: Format of an HDLC frame
* * *
Flag\ ADDR\ Control\ INFO\ FCS\ Flag\ 1 octet 1 octet 1 octet N octets 2
octets 1 octet
0x7E Secondary Station Address Control bits Variable length CRC 0x7E
* * *
HDLC frames begin and end with a Flag (0x7E) (see A.5 for details).
The transmitting station calculates a Frame Check Sequence (CRC16) on all
octets which follow the starting flag but not including the FCS octets. The
checksum is transmitted as FCS in little endian order and is followed by the
closing flag.
The receiving station calculates the checksum on all octets between the flags.
When it finds the closing flag, it compares the checksum to 0xF0B8. If it is a
match, the HDLC frame is processed.
The address field contains the HDLC address of the secondary station. If the
primary station sends the message, it is called a command and the address
field contains the address of the secondary station as destination. If the
secondary station sends the message, it is called a response and the address
field contains the address of the secondary station as source. Secondary
stations cannot communicate directly to each other.
The control field defines one of three frame types:
\- I frames contain data as well as a send and receive counter;
\- S frames contain a receive counter;
\- U frames contain unnumbered commands.
The INFO field is only present in I frames and XID frames. The INFO field in
an I frame contains the layer 7 payload.
## A.2 UNC commands
According to 6.6.2.1 in ISO/IEC 13239 [2] the following commands in shall be
supported in UNC mode:
Table A.2.1: Commands supported in UNC mode
+-------------------+---+---------------------+ | Commands\ | | Responses | | (Primary Station) | | | | | | (Secondary Station) | +-------------------+---+---------------------+ | Frame type I | | Frame type I | +-------------------+---+---------------------+ | Frame type RR | | Frame type RR | +-------------------+---+---------------------+ | Frame type RNR | | Frame type RNR | +-------------------+---+---------------------+ | Frame type SNRM | | Frame type UA | +-------------------+---+---------------------+ | Frame type DISC | | Frame type DM | +-------------------+---+---------------------+ | | | Frame type FRMR | +-------------------+---+---------------------+
### A.2.1 Set Normal Response Mode (SNRM)
This command is used to set the secondary station in connected mode and reset
its sequence number variables.
### A.2.2 Disconnect (DISC)
This command is used to terminate the connection.
### A.2.3 Unnumbered Acknowledge (UA)
This response is used to confirm that the secondary station received and acted
on an SNRM or DISC command.
### A.2.4 Disconnected Mode (DM)
This response is used to inform the primary station that the secondary station
is disconnected.
### A.2.5 Receiver Ready (RR)
This command and response is used to inform the opposite station (primary or
secondary) that the transmitting station has empty buffers, i.e. is ready to
receive an I frame. This aspect is used for flow control.
It also contains the sequence number of the next frame the transmitting
station expects to see. This works both as an ACK and a NAK depending on the
value.
### A.2.6 Receiver Not Ready (RNR)
Just like RR, except it informs the opposite station that the transmitting
station does not have empty buffers, i.e. that it is not ready to receive an I
frame. This aspect is used for flow control.
### A.2.7 Information (I)
This command and response is used to transfer a block of data together with
its sequence number. The command also includes the sequence number of the next
frame the transmitting station expects to see. This way, it works as an RR.
Like RR, it enables transmission of I frames from the opposite side.
### A.2.8 Frame Reject (FRMR)
This response is used to indicate an error condition. The two most likely
error conditions are:
\- Invalid command;
\- Sequence number problem.
The latter is used when the primary station has requested retransmission of a
sequence number which it has already acknowledged.
## A.3 Option 1
Option 1 means the addition of the XID command/response, which is used for
parameter negotiation.
## A.4 Option 4
Option 4 means the addition of the UI command/response, which is used to
transfer information without changing the sequence numbers used by I frames.
## A.5 Option 15.1
Option 15.1 means that the serial link is not synchronous and start/stop flags
are used (asynchronous serial link). The flags are coded as 0x7E and basic
transparency is used.
This means that all octets between the flags are part of the frame and shall
not be transmitted as 0x7E. Since the frame may contain 0x7E, basic
transparency is used, which means that 0x7E is transmitted as 0x7D 0x5E and
0x7D is transmitted as 0x7D 0x5D. The receiving station converts back on
reception.
All checksum calculations are done on unconverted data.
## A.6 Link safety
HDLC provides the upper layer with a safe link between two stations.
Unless excessive frame lengths are used, the CRC16 checksum provides excellent
protection against transmission errors. At worst, 10^−5^ of the bit errors
will not be detected. The likelihood of an undetected error in a frame can be
calculated by multiplying 10^−5^ with the Bit Error Rate (at least 10^−9^ for
a reasonable link) and the frame length.
The sequence numbers provide protection against:
\- Message duplication;
\- Message deletion;
\- Message re-ordering.
Without sequence numbers, the protection is only given by a checksum and some
sort of ACK.
If the original message is lost, there will be no ACK and a timeout will cause
retransmission which solves the problem.
If the original message is not lost, but the ACK is lost, the same timeout
will cause a retransmission.
With sequence numbers, the message is retransmitted, but the receiving station
sees that the sequence number is the same, i.e. that the message is a
retransmission, and throws it away without processing it further. It does send
an ACK which informs the transmitting station that the message got through.
## A.7 Full duplex link
The upper layer sees the HDLC link as a full duplex link, although the actual
transmissions on layer 1 are half duplex. The reason for this is that the
upper layer is not aware of any restrictions on transmissions or receptions
between layer 2 and layer 1 or between the stations.
Whenever the upper layer wants to transmit, it places a message on the queue
to layer 2. The message will not be transmitted until the primary station does
a poll.
NOTE: This applies to both the primary and the secondary station.
The same applies to reception. The upper layer will either be told by layer 2
when a message has arrived, or it will periodically check to see if a message
has arrived at layer 2. Neither of these two methods will in any way influence
the reception of a message. That only depends on when the primary does a poll.
NOTE This still applies to both the primary and the secondary station.
A poll is a command frame from the primary station where the P/F (Poll/Final)
bit in the control field is set to 1. This informs the secondary that it is
allowed to transmit response frames.
U frames set the P/F bit, which means that they are polls. However, since the
U frames used in UNC 1,4 require a specific U frame response, they are not
used for I frame transmission, which is what the upper layer messages depend
upon.
An I, RR or RNR frame type with the P/F bit set constitutes a poll as used
above. An RNR frame prevents transmission of I frames, so it does not really
apply.
NOTE: Whenever an I or RR poll occurs, the secondary station may transmit
whatever I frame it wishes (as long as the window size is not exceeded, i.e.
previous messages have been acknowledged). This means that the secondary
station does not have to transmit a reply to a layer 7 instruction. It is free
to transmit an alarm instruction, if an alarm has occurred. It is also free to
transmit any valid reply to an earlier layer 7 instruction, if it has received
(acknowledged) more than one.
###### ## Annex B (informative): HDLC parameter negotiation
See also sections 5.5.3.1 -- 5.5.3.2.3.2 in ISO/IEC 13239 [2].
Table B.1: Format of XID parameters
* * *
FI GI GL PI PL PV PI PL PV
* * *
XID parameter negotiation uses a specific format (see table C.1) to transfer
parameters.
The parameters are identified by a one octet Format Identifier (FI) code and a
one octet Group Identifier (GI) code. The Group Length (GL) is a one octet
unsigned integer giving the length in octets of the parameters following it.
The parameters are a sequence of PI/PL/PV values. The Parameter Identifier
(PI) is a one octet code identifying the parameter. Parameter Length (PL) is a
one octet unsigned integer giving the length in octets of the Parameter Value.
The parameter order is not defined.
The HDLC parameter negotiation is initiated by the primary station. The
primary station transmits an XID frame with the values it suggests. The
secondary station can either accept these or lower them. Regardless, it
responds with an XID frame with the appropriate values.
Generally this means that the primary station initially uses whatever its
maximum limit is for each parameter. If the secondary can accept this, it
responds with the same values. If it cannot support that, it lowers the
values.
Maximum information field length is a good example. If the primary station
suggests using an information field length of 28000 bits (3500 octets), the
secondary station can respond with 28000 bits, if it can use that much or even
more, or respond with a lower number of e.g. 592 bits (74 octets) if that is
its maximum supported information field length.
The same applies to the Release ID. If a release 7 primary station attempts to
communicate with a release 6 secondary station, the initial message will
suggest release 7 and the response will be release 6.
On the other hand, if a release 6 primary station attempts to communicate with
a release 7 secondary station, the initial message will suggest release 6 and
the response will release 6.
Regardless, the primary station will have the final decision, since it can
refuse to communicate with a station that does not support whatever parameter
values it suggests. It can always repeat the XID negotiation with a new value.
###### ## Annex C (informative): HDLC parameter negotiation example
**XID Frame from primary station:**
Table C.1: XID frame from primary station
* * *
Field Content Description ADDR 12 Station address CTRL XID Command FI 0x81
Format identifier GI 0x80 HDLC Parameter set GL 18 Length of the parameter
field (PI) in octets PI 5 Maximum I Field length Transmit PL 4 Length of the
PV field in octets PV 341040 Maximum I Field length Transmit in bits PI 6
Maximum I Field length Receive PL 4 Length of the PV field in octets PV 224000
Maximum I Field length Receive in bits PI 7 Maximum window size Transmit PL 1
Length of the PV field in octets PV 7 Maximum window size Transmit PI 8
Maximum window size Receive PL 1 Length of the PV field in octets PV 3 Maximum
window size Receive
* * *
**Response from secondary station:**
Table C.2: XID frame from secondary station
* * *
Field Content Description ADDR 12 Station address CTRL XID Command FI 0x81
Format identifier GI 0x80 HDLC Parameters set GL 16 Length of the parameter
field in octets PI 5 Maximum I field length Transmit PL 2 Length of the PV
field (octets) PV 3200 Maximum I field length Transmit in bits PI 6 Maximum I
field length Receive PL 4 Length of the PV field (octets) PV 341040 Maximum I
field length Receive in bits PI 7 Maximum window size Transmit PL 1 Length of
the PV field (octets) PV 3 Maximum window size Transmit PI 8 Maximum window
size Receive PL 1 Length of the PV field (octets) PV 1 Maximum window size
Receive
* * *
###### ## Annex D (informative): Address assignment example
### D.1 Address assignment command
Table D.1: Format of the XID frame originated by the primary station
* * *
Field Content Description ADDR 0xFF All-station address (Broadcast) CTRL 0xBF
XID command FI 0x81 Format identifier GI 0xF0 User defined parameter set GL
0x10 Length of the parameter field (rest of the message) in octets PI 0x01
Unique ID PL 0x07 Length of PV field in octets PV 0x58 0x59 0x7B 0x20 0x41
0x42 0x43 Unique ID of the secondary station PI 0x02 HDLC address PL 0x01
Length of PV field in octets PV 0x17 Assigned HDLC address PI 0x06 Vendor code
as given in [4] PL 0x02 Length of PV field in octets PV 0x58 0x59 Unique
assigned vendor code as given in [4] (virtual vendor code "XY" used in this
example)
* * *
### D.2 Address assignment response
Table D.2: Format of Address Assignment Response by the secondary station
* * *
Field Content Description ADDR 0x17 HDLC address of the station CTRL 0xBF XID
command FI 0x81 Format identifier GI 0xF0 User defined parameter set GL 0x0C
Length of parameter field (rest of the message) in octets. PI 0x01 Unique ID
PL 0x07 Length of PV field in octets PV 0x58 0x59 0x7B 0x20 0x41 0x42 0x43
Unique ID of the secondary station PI 0x04 Device type PL 0x01 Length of PV
field in octets PV 0x01 Device type as defined in table 4.7.1
* * *
NOTE: In this address assignment example messages the virtual vendor code
\"XY\", the unique ID 0x58 0x59 0x7B 0x20 0x41 0x42 0x43, the HDLC address
0x17 and the device type 0x01 for a single-antenna device are used.
###### ## Annex E (informative): Device scan example
In some situations it may be found that the Unique ID of a bus device is
unknown or has been inaccurately recorded. This HDLC command exchange is used
by the primary station to perform a binary tree scan of the bus, in order to
identify all connected and disconnected devices.
Table E.1: Primary device scan command (XID Frame)
* * *
Field Content Description
ADDR 0xFF All-station address\ (Broadcast)
CTRL 0xBF XID command
FI 0x81 Format identifier
GI 0xF0 User defined parameter set
GL 0x0A Length in octets for the rest of the message
PI 0x01 Unique ID
PL 0x03 Length of PV field in octets
PV 0x58 0x11 0x15 Unique ID supplied by the primary station for masked
comparison with the unique ID of the secondary station
PI 0x03 Bit mask
PL 0x03 Length of PV field in octets (same as for PI=1)
PV 0xFF 0x17 0xFF Bit mask to be applied
* * *
NOTE: The parameters may occur in any order in the XID command.
**Device Scan Response**
When each secondary station in the NoAddress state receives the command it
masks its Unique ID with the bit mask and compares the result with the Unique
ID supplied as described in clause 4.8.4. If they match, the secondary station
responds using XID format frame according to table 8 of section 5.5 of ISO/IEC
13239 [2].
Table E.2: Secondary device scan response (XID Frame) in case of a match
* * *
Field Content Description ADDR 0x00 No station address CTRL 0xBF XID command
FI 0x81 Format identifier GI 0xF0 User defined parameter set GL 0x0F Length in
octets for the rest of the message PI 0x01 Unique ID PL 0x06 Length of PV
field in octets PV 0x58 0x59 0x07 0x5B 0xCD 0x15 Unique ID of the secondary
station PI 0x06 Vendor code PL 0x02 Length of PV field in octets PV 0x58 0x59
Unique assigned vendor code as given in [4] (virtual vendor code "XY" is used
in this example) PI 0x04 Device type PL 0x01 Length of PV field in octets PV
0x01 Single-antenna RET device type as defined in table 4.7.1
* * *
NOTE1: In this device scan example, the virtual vendor code \"XY\", the unique
ID "0x58 0x59 0x07 0x5B 0xCD 0x15", and the device type 0x01 for a single-
antenna RET device are used.
NOTE2: The parameters may occur in any order in the response.
It is recommended that the response of individual devices is subject to a
random delay (within the permitted response time) to aid collision detection
at the primary station.
If there is no response, the primary station knows that no secondary station
had those bits in its Unique ID or that the secondary stations having those
bits in their unique ID already have assigned addresses, so the tree scan can
be truncated at that branch.
If multiple secondary stations respond, the responses might garble each other,
unless one secondary station is close enough to overpower the signal from the
other(s).
If any response arrives, a single frame, multiple frames or frames with
incorrect checksums or framing errors, the branch of the tree is inhabited.
#