# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document describes the test procedure for the radiated
performances measurements of the 3G/2G user equipment/mobile stations (UE/MS)
in active mode in both the up- and the downlink. The FDD UE test procedure is
based on the test method developed as a result of COST 273 Sub-Working Group
(SWG) 2.2 members' contributions. Background work has also been made in the
former COST259 project. The TDD UE test procedure is based on the test method
developed as a result of CCSA TC9 WG1 members' contributions. Background work
has been made in the former CCSA TC9 project.
The measurement procedure explained in this document applies to UE/MS used
under the "speech mode" conditions that correspond to predefined positions for
voice application when the handset is held close to the user's head. This
method is also applicable to free space measurements and for testing data
applications.
The testing methodology applies to any single or multi-mode (GSM / UMTS / TD-
SCDMA) terminals.
The radio tests considered here are:
1\. The measurement of the Total Radiated Power (TRP)
2\. The measurement of the Total Radiated Sensitivity (TRS)
The test procedure described in this document measures the performance of the
transmitter and the receiver, including the antenna and also the effects of
the user.
The major parts of this test procedure are based on the 3-D pattern
measurement method. It has been considered necessary to define some items and
components in the test procedure in detail, such as test channels and phantom
set-ups, in order to make the testing in different laboratories harmonized.
The procedure is, however, not limited to some specific antenna chambers or
positioners.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
• References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
• For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
• For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] to [13] (void)
[14] 3GPP TS 34.114 Release 10: \"User Equipment (UE) / Mobile Station (MS)
Over The Air (OTA) antenna performance; Conformance testing\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols, abbreviations and equations
Void
# 4 General
The requirements of the present document are provided in 3GPP TS 34.114
Release 10 [14].
# 5 to 6 Void
###### ## Annex A to H: Void
###### ## Annex I (informative): Bibliography
  * P. Boutou, J. Krogerus, J. Ø. Nielsen, T. Bolin, I. Egorov, K. Sulonen, "Measurement of Radio Performances for UMTS Mobile in Speech Mode: the First Draft of the Prestandard", COST 273 TD(03) 140, Paris, France, May 2003, 6 p.
  * "Feasibility Study of UE antenna efficiency test methods and performance requirement-final report", 3GPP TSG-RAN4 document TSGR#19(01)1086, September 2001.
  * L. M. Correia (editor), "Wireless Flexible Personalised Communications -- Final Report of COST 259", ISBN: 0-471-49836-X, Wiley Europe, March 2001, 482 p.
  * "Development of Standard Test Procedure for 3G User Equipment Antenna Performance", 3GPP TSG-RAN Working Group 4 (Radio) meeting #23, R4-020724, Gyeongju, Korea, 13th -17th May, 2002.
  * IEEE standard 1528; \"Recommended Practice for Determining the Peak Spatial-Average Specific Absorption Rate (SAR) in the Human Head from Wireless Communications Devices: Experimental Techniques\", December, 2003.
  * M.Y. Kanda, M. Ballen, C.K, Chou. "Formulation and characterization of tissue simulating liquids used for SAR measurement (500-2000 MHz)" Asia-Pacific Radio Science Conference, Tokyo, Japan, August 1-4, 2001, p. 274.
  * V. Vigneras, "Elaboration and characterization of biological tissues equivalent liquids in the frequency range 0.9-3 GHz", Final report, PIOM Laboratory, University of Bordeaux, France, November 2001.
  * E. Van Lil, D. Trappeniers, J. Verhaevert, A. Van de Capelle, "On the influence of the size of objects on the number of power pattern samples and harmonics", COST273 TD(04)051.
  * J. Krogerus, T. Jääskö, C. Icheln, "Comparison Measurements of the COST 273 SWG 2.2 Reference Monopole Antennas", COST273 TD(03)131.
  * L. Foged, A. Gandois et. al. "Reference antennas", Draft report for COST273 SWG2.2 (unpublished), 12.10.2004.
  * H. Shapter, J. Krogerus, "Uncertainty in Total Radiated Power measurements", Presentation in COST273 SWG2.2 Meeting, Helsinki, May 2002, 9 p. + Appendix 9 p., (unpublished).
  * J. Krogerus, A. Kruy, H. Shapter, S. Pannetrat, B. Derat, "Estimation of Measurement Uncertainty in Total Radiated Power Measurements", COST 273 TD(04) 128, Gothenburg, June 2004, 23 p.
  * "Guide to the Expression of Uncertainty in Measurement", International Organization for Standardization (ISO), Geneva, Switzerland 1995.
  * NIST Technical Note 1297: "Guidelines for Evaluating and Expressing the Uncertainty of NIST measurement Results"
  * IEC: \"Guide to the expression of uncertainty in measurement\", Ed 1:1995.
```{=html}
``` \- "American National Standard for Expressing Uncertainty - U.S. Guide to
the Expression of Uncertainty in Measurement,\" ANSI/NCSL Z540-2-1997,
American National Standards Institute, New York. NY, 1997.
```{=html}
``` \- J. Krogerus, \"On the phantom and tissue simulating liquid to be used
in handset antenna performance testing\", COST 273 TD(02) 024, Guildford, UK,
January 2002.
```{=html}
``` \- J. Krogerus, \"Phantoms for Terminal Antenna Performance Testing\",
COST 273 TD(02) 154, Lisbon, Portugal, September 2002, 14 p.
```{=html}
``` \- H. Knoess, M. Christensen, S. Svendsen, T. Hiegler, A. Friederich,
"Investigation of Different Phantom Head Models Including Holder", COST 273
TD(04) 068, Gothenburg, June 2004, 6 p.
```{=html}
``` \- Alayon Glazunov, "Impact of Head Phantom Models on Handset Antenna
Efficiency Measurement Accuracy in Terms of Body Loss in Passive Mode",
COST273 TD(02)144.
```{=html}
``` \- K. Sulonen, K. Kalliola, P. Vainikainen, \"The effect of angular power
distribution in different environments and the angular resolution of radiation
pattern measurement on antenna performance\", COST 273 TD(02) 028, Guildford,
UK, January 2002, 7 p.
#