# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document establishes the essential EMC requirements for \"3^rd^
generation\" digital cellular mobile terminal equipment and ancillary
accessories in combination with a 3GPP user equipment (UE).
The equipment conforming to the requirements laid out in the present document
and used in its intended electromagnetic environment in accordance with the
manufacturers instructions
\- shall not generate electromagnetic disturbances at a level .which may
interfere with the intended operation of other equipment;
\- has an adequate level of intrinsic immunity to electromagnetic disturbances
to operate as intended;
The present document specifies the applicable EMC tests, the methods of
measurement, the frequency range, the limits and the minimum performance
criteria for all types of UTRA UE´s operating in FDD or TDD modes and their
accessories. The TDD has two options. The two options are the 3,84Mcps and
1,28Mcps options respectively. The requirements are listed in different
subsections only if the parameters deviate.Base station equipment operating
within network infrastructure is outside the scope of the present document.
However, the present document does cover mobile and portable equipment that is
intended to be operated in a fixed location while connected to the AC mains.
Base stations in the radio access network are covered by the technical
specification TS25.113 [1].
Requirements for the radiated emission from the enclosure port of integral
antenna equipment and ancillaries have been included. Technical specifications
for conducted emissions from the antenna connector are found in the 3GPP
specifications for the radio interface, e.g. TS34.121 [2] and TS34.122 [3],
for the effective use of the radio spectrum.
The immunity requirements have been selected to ensure an adequate level of
compatibility for apparatus in residential, commercial, light industrial and
vehicular environments. The levels however, do not cover extreme cases, which
may occur in any location but with low probability of occurrence.
The environment classification used in the present document refers to the
environment classification used in the Generic Standards IEC 61000-6-1 [4],
IEC 61000-6-3 [5], except the vehicular environment class which refers to ISO
7637 Part 1 [6] and Part 2 [7].
Compliance of radio equipment to the requirements of the present document does
not signify compliance to any requirement related to the use of the equipment
(i.e. licensing requirements).
Compliance to the requirements of the present document does not signify
compliance to any safety requirement. However, any temporary or permanent
unsafe condition caused by EMC is considered as non-compliance.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions, which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
> • References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
> number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific;
>
> • for a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply;
>
> • for a non-specific reference, subsequent revisions do apply. In the case
> of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
> reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
> same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 25.113: \"Base station and repeater electromagnetic compatibility
(EMC)\".
[2] 3GPP TS 34.121: \"Terminal conformance specification, Radio transmission
and reception (FDD)\".
[3] 3GPP TS 34.122: \"Terminal conformance specification, Radio transmission
and reception (TDD)\".
[4] IEC 61000-6-1 (1997): \"Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part 6:
Generic standards - Section 1: Immunity standard for residential, commercial
and light-industrial environments\".
[5] IEC 61000-6-3 (1996): \"Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part 6:
Generic standards - Section 3: Emission standard for residential, commercial
and light-industrial environments.
[6] ISO 7637‑1 (1990): \"Road vehicles - Electrical disturbance by conduction
and coupling - Part 1: Passenger cars and light commercial vehicles with
nominal 12 V supply voltage - Electrical transient conduction along supply
lines only\".
[7] ISO 7637‑2 (1990): \"Road vehicles - Electrical disturbance by conduction
and coupling - Part 2: Commercial vehicles with nominal 24 V supply voltage -
Electrical transient conduction along supply lines only\".
[8] 3GPP TR 25.990: \"Vocabulary for UTRAN\".\ 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary
for 3GPP Specifications\".
[9] IEC 60050(161): \"International Electrotechnical Vocabulary - Chapter 161:
Electromagnetic compatibility\".
[10] 3GPP TS 34.108: \"Common test environments for User Equipment (UE);
Conformance testing\".
[11] ITU-R Recommendation SM.329: \"Unwanted emissions in the spurious domain
\".
[12] 3GPP TS 25.101: \"User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception
(FDD)\".
[13] 3GPP TS 25.102: \"User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception
(TDD)\".
[14] IEC CISPR publication 22: \"Information technology equipment; Radio
disturbance characteristics - Limits and methods of measurement\".
[15] 3GPP TS 34.109: \"Terminal logical test interface; Special conformance
testing functions\".
[16] IEC CISPR publication 16-1: \"Specification for radio disturbance and
immunity measuring apparatus and methods\".
[17] IEC 61000-3-2; (2000): \"Electromagnetic compatibility; Part 3 - Limits;
section 2 - Limits for harmonic current emissions (equipment input current ≤
16 A per phase)\"; Am.1 (1997-09)\".
[18] IEC 61000-3-3; (19952): \"Electromagnetic compatibility; Part 3 - Limits;
section 2 - Limitation of voltage fluctuations and flicker in low-voltage
supply systems for equipment with rated current ≤ 16 A\"
[19] IEC 61000-4-2: \"Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part 4: Testing
and measurement techniques - section 2: Electrostatic discharge immunity test
- Basic EMC publication\".
[20] IEC 61000-4-3: \"Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part 4: Testing
and measurement techniques - section 3: Radiated, radio-frequency
electromagnetic field immunity test\".
[21] IEC 61000-4-4: \"Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part 4: Testing
and measurement techniques - section 4: Electrical fast transient/burst
immunity test - Basic EMC publication\".
[22] IEC 61000-4-5: \"Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part 4: Testing
and measurement techniques - section 5: Surge immunity test\".
[23] IEC 61000-4-6: \"Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part 4: Testing
and measurement techniques - section 6: immunity to conducted disturbances
induced by radio frequency fields\".
[24] IEC 61000-4-11: \"Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part 4: Testing
and measurement techniques - section 11:Voltage dips, short interruptions, and
voltage variations immunity test\".
[25] ETSI ETR 027 (1991): \"Radio Equipment and Systems (RES); Methods of
measurement for private mobile radio equipment\".
[26] ITU‑T Recommendation P.64: \"Telephone transmission quality, Telephone
installations, Local line networks, Objective electro-acoustical measurements.
Determination of sensitivity/frequency characteristics of local telephone
systems\".
[27] ITU‑T Recommendation P.76: \"Telephone transmission quality, Measurements
related to speech loudness, Determination of loudness ratings; Fundamental
principles, Annex A\".
[28] ITU-R Recommendation SM.1539 (2001): \"Variation of the boundary between
the out-of-band and spurious domains required for the application of
Recommendations ITU-R SM.1541 and ITU-R SM.329\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply.
**Ancillary equipment** : Equipment (apparatus), used in connection with a
user equipment (UE) is considered as an ancillary equipment (apparatus) if:
\- the equipment is intended for use in conjunction with a UE to provide
additional operational and/or control features to the UE, (e.g. to extend
control to another position or location); and
> \- the equipment cannot be used on a stand alone basis to provide user
> functions independently of a UE; and
>
> \- the UE to which it is connected, is capable of providing some intended
> operation such as transmitting and/or receiving without the ancillary
> equipment (i.e. it is not a sub‑unit of the main equipment essential to the
> main equipment basic functions).
**BLER (BLock Error Ratio):** BLER is block error ratio. The BLER calculation
shall be based on evaluating the CRC on each transport block .
**Camped on a cell:** The UE is in idle mode and has completed the cell
selection/reselection process and has chosen a cell. The UE monitors system
information and (in most cases) paging information. Note that the services may
be limited, and that the PLMN may not be aware of the existence of the UE
within the chosen cell.
**Continuous phenomena (continuous disturbance):** Electromagnetic
disturbance, the effects of which on a particular device or equipment cannot
be resolved into a succession of distinct effects (IEC 60050-161 [9]).
**Data application ancillary:** ancillary which provides send and/or receive
data access to UMTS services via UE
**Enclosure port:** physical boundary of the apparatus through which
electromagnetic fields may radiate or impinge. In the case of integral antenna
equipment, this port is inseparable from the antenna port.
**End- User data:** Manufacturer defined data patterns for data transfer
testing. Represents EUT´s typical user application (eg. photo, video,
textfile, message) in its characteristics.
**Idle mode:** Idle mode is the state of User Equipment (UE) when switched on
but with no Radio Resource Control (RRC) connection.
**Integral antenna:** antenna designed to be connected directly to the
equipment with or without the use of an external connector and considered to
be part of the equipment. An integral antenna may be fitted internally or
externally to the equipment.
**Average power:** The average transmitter output power obtained over any
specified time interval, including periods with no transmission, when the
transmit time slots are at the maximum power setting.
**Necessary bandwidth:** For a given class of emission, the width of the
frequency band which is just sufficient to ensure the transmission of
information at the rate and with the quality required under specified
conditions.
**Out of band emissions:** Emission on a frequency or frequencies immediately
outside the necessary bandwidth, which results from, the modulation process,
but excluding spurious emissions.
NOTE: Any unwanted emission which falls at frequencies separated from the
centre frequency of the emission by less than 250% of the necessary bandwidth
of the emission will generally be considered out-of-band emission.
**Port:** particular interface, of the specified equipment (apparatus), with
the electromagnetic environment. For example, any connection point on an
equipment intended for connection of cables to or from that equipment is
considered as a port (see figure 1).
{width="4.772916666666666in" height="1.5805555555555555in"}
**Spurious emission from ITU-R SM 329 [11]:** Emission on a frequency, or
frequencies, which are outside the necessary bandwidth and the level of which
may be reduced without affecting the corresponding transmission of
information. Spurious emissions include harmonic emissions, parasitic
emissions, intermodulation products and frequency conversion products but
exclude out‑of‑band emissions.
**Telecommunication port:** ports which are intended to be connected to
telecommunication networks (e.g. public switched telecommunication networks,
integrated services digital networks), local area networks (e.g. Ethernet,
Token Ring) and similar networks (see CISPR 22 [14]).
**Transient phenomena** : Pertaining to or designating a phenomena or a
quantity which varies between two consecutive steady states during a time
interval short compared with the time-scale of interest (IEC 60050-161 [9])
**Traffic mode:** is the state of User Equipment (UE) when switched on and
with Radio Resource Control (RRC) connection established.
**Universal mobile telecommunications system (UMTS):** The telecommunications
system, incorporating mobile cellular and other functionality, that is the
subject of specifications produced by 3GPP
**User equipment (UE)** : is a \"Mobile Station\" (MS) which is an entity
capable of accessing a set of UMTS services via one or more radio interfaces.
This entity may be stationary or in motion within the UMTS service area while
accessing the UMTS services, and may simultaneously serve one or more users.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
AC Alternating Current
BCCH Broadcast Control Channel *)
BS Base Station
BSS Base Station System
BTS Base Transceiver Station
CCCH Common Control Channel *)
CW Continuous Wave (unmodulated carrier wave)
DC Direct Current
DL Down Link (From BTS to UE)
DTX Discontinuous Transmission *)
EMC Electromagnetic Compatibility
ESD ElectroStatic Discharge
EUT Equipment Under Test (UE or UE with ancillaries)
FDD Frequency Division Duplex
LISN Line Impedance Stabilizing Network
MRP Mouth Reference Point (artificial head)
PCCPCH Primary Common Control Physical Channel
RF Radio Frequency
rms root mean square
RRC Radio Resource Control
SPL Sound Pressure Level
TCH Traffic channel
TDD Time Division Duplex
UARFCN UTRA Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number *)
UE User Equipment
UL Up Link (From UE to BTS)
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunication System
UTRA Universal Terrestrial Radio Access network
*) refer to Terminology specifications TS 21.905 and TS 25.990 [8] for further details.
# 4 Test conditions
## 4.1 General
The equipment shall be tested under normal test conditions according to the
relevant product and basic standards (See Annex D of TS 25.101 and Annex C of
TS 25.102 for environmental conditions). If these conditions are not specified
then the manufacturers declared range of humidity, temperature and supply
voltage shall be used. The test conditions shall be recorded in the test
report.
Whenever the Equipment under test (EUT) is provided with a detachable antenna,
the EUT shall be tested with the antenna fitted in a manner typical of normal
intended use, unless specified otherwise.
Where the equipment incorporates an external 50 Ω RF antenna connector that is
normally connected via a coaxial cable, then the wanted signal to establish a
communication link also uses a coaxial cable;
Where the equipment has an external 50 Ω RF antenna connector that is not
normally connected via a coaxial cable or where the equipment has no external
50 Ω RF connector (i.e., integral antenna equipment), then the wanted signal,
to establish a communication link, shall be delivered from the equipment to an
antenna located within the test environment;
## 4.2 Arrangements for establishing a communication link
The wanted RF input signal nominal frequency shall be selected by setting the
UTRA Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number (UARFCN) to an appropriate
number.
A communication link shall be set up with a suitable base station simulator
(hereafter called \"the test system\"). The test system shall be located
outside of the test environment
When the EUT is required to be in the traffic mode, a call is set up according
to the Generic call set-up procedure and the following conditions shall be
met:
See TS 34.108 [10] and TS 34.109 [15] Logical Test Interface for details
regarding generic call set-up procedure and BER, BLER test loop scenarios.
\- set and send continuously Up power control commands to the UE;
\- the DTX shall be disabled;
\- For FDD and 3.84 Mcps TDD option Inner Loop Power Control shall be enabled,
and for 1,28 Mcps TDD option closed loop power control shall be enabled;
\- transmitting and/or receiving (UL/DL) bit rate for reference test channel
shall be 12.2 kbps;
\- adequate measures shall be taken to avoid the effect of the unwanted signal
on the measuring equipment;
\- For immunity testing , the wanted input signal level shall be set to 40 dB
above the reference sensitivity level to provide a stable communication link.
The reference sensitivity level is defined in TS 25.101 [12] and in TS 25.102
respectively.
\- For emission testing, the wanted input signal level shall be no more than
15 dB above the reference sensitivity level, such that the performance of the
measuring receiver is not limited by strong signal effects.
When the EUT is required to be in the idle mode, the following conditions
shall be met:
> \- UE shall be camped on a cell
>
> \- UE shall perform Location Registration (LR) before the test, but not
> during the test;
>
> \- UE´s neighbour cell list shall be empty;
>
> \- Paging repetition period and DRX cycle shall be set to minimum (shortest
> possible time interval);
For immunity tests subclause 4.3, shall apply and the conditions shall be as
follows:
## 4.3 Narrow band responses on receivers
### 4.3.1 FDD and 3.84Mcps TDD option
Responses on receivers or duplex transceivers occurring during the test at
discrete frequencies, which are narrow band responses (spurious responses),
are identified by the following method:
\- If during an immunity test the quantity being monitored goes outside the
specified tolerances, it is necessary to establish whether the deviation is
due to an unwanted effect on the receiver of the UE or on the test system
(narrow band response) or to a wide band (EMC) phenomenon. Therefore, the test
shall be repeated with the UARFCN increased or decreased by 25 (DL / UL).
\- if the deviation does not disappear, the procedure is repeated with the
UARFCN increased or decreased by 50 from the original value (DL / UL);
\- if the deviation does not disappear with the increased and/or decreased
UARFCN, the phenomenon is considered wide band and therefore an EMC problem
and the equipment fails the test.
Narrow band responses are disregarded.
The procedure above does not apply to conducted immunity tests in the
frequency range 150 kHz to 80 MHz.
### 4.3.2 1,28Mcps TDD option
Responses on receivers or duplex transceivers occurring during the test at
discrete frequencies, which are narrow band responses (spurious responses),
are identified by the following method:
\- If during an immunity test the quantity being monitored goes outside the
specified tolerances, it is necessary to establish whether the deviation is
due to an unwanted effect on the receiver of the UE or on the test system
(narrow band response) or to a wide band (EMC) phenomenon. Therefore, the test
shall be repeated with the UARFCN increased or decreased by 8 (DL / UL).
\- if the deviation does not disappear, the procedure is repeated with the
UARFCN increased or decreased by 16 from the original value (DL / UL);
\- if the deviation does not disappear with the increased and/or decreased
UARFCN, the phenomenon is considered wide band and therefore an EMC problem
and the equipment fails the test.
Narrow band responses are disregarded.
The procedure above does not apply to conducted immunity tests in the
frequency range 150 kHz to 80 MHz.
### 4.3.3 7,68Mcps TDD option
Responses on receivers or duplex transceivers occurring during the test at
discrete frequencies, which are narrow band responses (spurious responses),
are identified by the following method:
\- If during an immunity test the quantity being monitored goes outside the
specified tolerances, it is necessary to establish whether the deviation is
due to an unwanted effect on the receiver of the UE or on the test system
(narrow band response) or to a wide band (EMC) phenomenon. Therefore, the test
shall be repeated with the UARFCN increased or decreased by 50 (DL / UL).
\- if the deviation does not disappear, the procedure is repeated with the
UARFCN increased or decreased by 100 from the original value (DL / UL);
\- if the deviation does not disappear with the increased and/or decreased
UARFCN, the phenomenon is considered wide band and therefore an EMC problem
and the equipment fails the test.
Narrow band responses are disregarded.
The procedure above does not apply to conducted immunity tests in the
frequency range 150 kHz to 80 MHz.
## 4.4 Receiver exclusion band
The receiver exclusion band for terminals extends from the lower frequency of
the allocated receiver band minus 85 MHz to the upper frequency of the
allocated receiver band plus 85 MHz. The exclusions bands are as set out
below:
UTRA/FDD
a) 2025 MHz to 2255 MHz (Band I)
b) 1845 MHz to 2075 MHz (Band II)
c) 1720 MHz to 1965 MHz (Band III)
d) 2025 MHz to 2240 MHz (Band IV)
e) 784 MHz to 979 MHz (Band V)
f) 790 MHz to 970 MHz (Band VI)
g) 2535 MHz to 2775 MHz (Band VII)
h) 840 MHz to 1045 MHz (Band VIII)
i) 1759.9 MHz to 1964.9 MHz (Band IX)
j) 2025 MHz to 2255 MHz (Band X)
k) **1390.9 MHz to 1580.9 MHz (** Band XI)
l) 643 MHz to 831 MHz (Band XII)
m) 661 MHz to 841 MHz (Band XIII)
n) 673 MHz to 853 MHz (Band XIV)
o) 790 MHz to 975 MHz (Band XIX)
p) 706 MHz to 906 MHz (Band XX)
q) 1410.9 MHz to 1595.9 MHz (Band XXI)
UTRA/TDD
a) 1815 MHz to 2005 MHz
1925 MHz to 2110 MHz
b) 1765 MHz to 2075 MHz
c) 1825 MHz to 2015 MHz
d) 2485 MHz to 2705MHz
e) 2215MHz to 2485MHz
f) 1795 MHz to 2005 MHz
# 5 Performance assessment
## 5.1 General
The manufacturer shall at the time of submission of the equipment for test,
supply the following information to be recorded in the test report:
\- the primary functions of the radio equipment to be tested during and after
the EMC testing;
\- if applicable, the method to be used to verify that a communications link
is established and maintained;
\- the intended functions of the radio equipment which shall be in accordance
with the documentation accompanying the equipment;
\- the user-control functions and stored data that are required for normal
operation and the method to be used to assess whether these have been lost
after EMC stress;
\- the ancillary equipment to be combined with the radio equipment for testing
(where applicable);
\- information about ancillary equipment intended to be used with the radio
equipment;
\- an exhaustive list of ports, classified as either power or signal/control.
Power ports shall further be classified as AC or DC power;
\- the humidity range, temperature, and supply voltage for all equipment
submitted for testing.
## 5.2 Equipment which can provide a continuous communication link
The test arrangement and signals, given in clause 4, apply to radio equipment
or a combination of radio equipment and ancillary equipment that permits the
establishment of a communication link. The assessment of equipment performance
shall be based on speech call and data transfer according to the criteria in
clause 6.
## 5.3 Equipment which can only provide a discontinuous communication link
(packet data/transmission)
If the equipment does not permit or allow for a communications link to be
established and maintained during the EMC tests (as in subclause 5.2), the
manufacturer shall define the performance assessment. The manufacturer shall
provide the method of observing the degradation of performance of the
equipment.
## 5.4 Equipment which does not provide a communication link
If the equipment is of a specialised nature which does not permit a
communication link to be established, the manufacturer shall define the method
of test to determine the acceptable level of performance or degradation of
performance during and/or after the test. The manufacturer shall provide the
method of observing the degradation of performance of the equipment.
The performance assessment carried out shall be simple, but at the same time
give adequate proof that the primary functions of the equipment are
operational.
## 5.5 Conformance of ancillary equipment
Ancillary equipment shall be tested with it connected to a UE in which case
compliance shall be demonstrated to the appropriate clauses of the present
document.
## 5.6 Equipment classification
Equipment is classified according to the source of power.
\- if power is derived from a fixed AC or DC supply network installation the
equipment is classified \"for fixed use\";
\- if power is derived from a vehicular power supply (car battery +
alternator) the equipment is classified \"for vehicular use\";
\- if power is derived from an integral battery the equipment is classified
\"for portable use\";
# 6 Performance criteria
The maintenance of a communications link shall be assessed by using an
indicator, which may be part of the test system or the equipment under test.
Specifically the equipment shall meet the minimum performance criteria as
specified in the following subclauses as appropriate.
Portable equipment intended for use whilst powered by the main battery of a
vehicle shall additionally fulfil the applicable requirements set out by the
present document for mobile equipment for vehicular use.
Portable equipment intended for use whilst powered by AC mains shall
additionally fulfil the applicable requirements set out by the present
document for equipment for fixed use.
If an equipment is of such nature, that the performance criteria described in
the following subclauses are not appropriate, then the manufacturer shall
declare, for inclusion in the test report, his own specification for an
acceptable level of performance or degradation of performance during and/or
after testing, as required by the present document.
The performance criteria specified by the manufacturer shall give the same
degree of immunity protection as called for in the following subclauses.
In addition, the test shall also be performed in idle mode to ensure the
transmitter does not unintentionally operate.
The requirements apply to all types of UTRA (FDD or TDD) for the UE.
## 6.1 Performance criteria for continuous phenomena
A communication link shall be established at the start of the test, and
maintained during the test, subclauses 4.1 and 4.2.
In the data transfer mode, the performance criteria can be one of the
following error ratios:
\- if the BER (as referred in TS34.109) is used, it shall not exceed 0.001
during the test sequence;
\- if the BLER (as referred in TS34.109) is used, it shall not exceed 0.01
during the test sequence;
In the speech mode, the performance criteria shall be that the up link and
downlink speech output levels shall be at least 35 dB less than the recorded
reference levels, when measured through an audio band pass filter of width 200
Hz, centred on 1 kHz (Annex A).
NOTE: When there is a high level noise background noise present the filter
bandwidth can be reduced down to a minimum of 40 Hz.
At the conclusion of the test, the EUT shall operate as intended with no loss
of user control functions or stored data, and the communication link shall
have been maintained.
In addition to confirming the above performance in traffic mode, the test
shall be performed in idle mode, and the transmitter shall not unintentionally
operate.
## 6.2 Performance criteria for Transient phenomena
A communications link shall be established at the start of the test,
subclauses 4.1 and 4.2.
At the conclusion of each exposure the EUT shall operate with no user
noticeable loss of the communication link.
At the conclusion of the total test comprising the series of individual
exposures, the EUT shall operate as intended with no loss of user control
functions or stored data, as declared by the manufacturer, and the
communication link shall have been maintained.
In addition to confirming the above performance in traffic mode, the test
shall also be performed in idle mode, and the transmitter shall not
unintentionally operate.
# 7 Applicability overview tables
## 7.1 Emission
Table 1: Emission applicability
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | Eq | | | | | | | | uipment | | | | | | | | test | | | | | | | | requ | | | | | | | | irement | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Phe | Appl | Eq | Eq | Eq | Re | Re | | nomenon | ication | uipment | uipment | uipment | ference | ference | | | | co | co | powered | su | S | | | | nnected | nnected | by | bclause | tandard | | | | to | to | i | in the | | | | | fixed | ve | ntegral | present | | | | | AC or | hicular | battery | d | | | | | DC | DC | | ocument | | | | | power | s | | | | | | | instal | upplies | | | | | | | lations | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | R | En | app | app | app | 8.2 | ITU-R | | adiated | closure | licable | licable | licable | | SM.329 | | e | | | | | | [11] | | mission | | | | | | | | | | | | | | T | | | | | | | | S25.101 | | | | | | | | [12] | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Co | DC | app | app | not | 8.3 | CIS | | nducted | power | licable | licable | app | | PR 22 \ | | e | input | | | licable | | [14],\ | | mission | /output | | | | | CIS | | | port | | | | | PR 16‑1 | | | | | | | | [16] | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Co | AC | app | not | not | 8.4 | CI | | nducted | mains | licable | app | app | | SPR 22 | | e | input | | licable | licable | | [14], | | mission | /output | | | | | | | | port | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | H | AC | app | not | not | 8.5 | IEC 61 | | armonic | mains | licable | app | app | | 000-3-2 | | current | input | | licable | licable | | [17] | | em | port | | | | | | | issions | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Voltage | AC | app | not | not | 8.6 | IEC 61 | | fluct | mains | licable | app | app | | 000-3-3 | | uations | input | | licable | licable | | [18] | | and | port | | | | | | | flicker | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
## 7.2 Immunity
Table 2: Immunity applicability
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | Eq | | | | | | | | uipment | | | | | | | | test | | | | | | | | requ | | | | | | | | irement | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Phe | Appl | Eq | Eq | Eq | Re | Re | | nomenon | ication | uipment | uipment | uipment | ference | ference | | | | co | co | powered | su | s | | | | nnected | nnected | by | bclause | tandard | | | | to | to | i | in the | | | | | fixed | ve | ntegral | present | | | | | AC or | hicular | battery | d | | | | | DC | DC | | ocument | | | | | power | s | | | | | | | instal | upplies | | | | | | | lations | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | RF | En | app | app | app | 9.2 | IEC 61 | | el | closure | licable | licable | licable | | 000‑4‑3 | | ectro­m | | | | | | [20] | | agnetic | | | | | | | | field | | | | | | | | (80 MHz | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | 27 | | | | | | | | 00 MHz) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Electr | En | app | app | app | 9.3 | IEC 61 | | ostatic | closure | licable | licable | licable | | 000‑4‑2 | | di | | | | | | [19] | | scharge | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Fast | Signal | app | not | not | 9.4 | IEC 61 | | tra | and | licable | app | app | | 000‑4‑4 | | nsients | control | | licable | licable | | [21] | | common | ports, | | | | | | | mode | DC and | | | | | | | | AC | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | input | | | | | | | | ports | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | RF | Signal | app | app | app | 9.5 | IEC 61 | | common | and | licable | licable | licable | | 000‑4‑6 | | mode | control | | | | | [23] | | | ports, | | | | | | | 0 | DC and | | | | | | | ,15 MHz | AC | | | | | | | to | power | | | | | | | 80 MHz | input | | | | | | | | ports | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Tra | DC | not | app | not | 9.6 | I | | nsients | power | app | licable | app | | SO 7637 | | and | input | licable | | licable | | Part | | surges, | ports | | | | | 1 [6] | | ve | | | | | | | | hicular | | | | | | And | | envi | | | | | | | | ronment | | | | | | I | | | | | | | | SO 7637 | | | | | | | | Part | | | | | | | | 2 [7] | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Voltage | AC | app | not | not | 9.7 | IEC 610 | | dips | mains | licable | app | app | | 00‑4‑11 | | and | power | | licable | licable | | [24] | | interr | input | | | | | | | uptions | ports | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Surges, | DC and | app | not | not | 9.8 | IEC 61 | | common | AC | licable | app | app | | 000‑4‑5 | | and | power | | licable | licable | | [22] | | diffe | input | | | | | | | rential | ports | | | | | | | mode | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
# 8 Methods of measurement and limits for EMC emissions
## 8.1 Test configurations
This subclause defines the configurations for emission tests as follows:
\- the equipment shall be tested under normal test conditions;
\- the test configuration shall be as close to normal intended use as
possible;
\- if the equipment is part of a system, or can be connected to ancillary
equipment, then it shall be acceptable to test the equipment while connected
to the minimum configuration of ancillary equipment necessary to exercise the
ports;
\- if the equipment has a large number of ports, then a sufficient number
shall be selected to simulate actual operation conditions and to ensure that
all the different types of termination are tested;
\- the test conditions, test configuration and mode of operation shall be
recorded in the test report;
\- ports which in normal operation are connected shall be connected to an
ancillary equipment or to a representative piece of cable correctly terminated
to simulate the input/output characteristics of the ancillary equipment, Radio
Frequency (RF) input/output ports shall be correctly terminated;
\- ports that are not connected to cables during normal operation, e.g.
service connectors, programming connectors; temporary connectors etc. shall
not be connected to any cables for the purpose of EMC testing. Where cables
have to be connected to these ports, or interconnecting cables have to be
extended in length in order to exercise the EUT, precautions shall be taken to
ensure that the evaluation of the EUT is not affected by the addition or
extension of these cables;
> \- emission tests shall be performed in two modes of operation:
\- with a communication link established (traffic mode); and
\- in the idle mode.
## 8.2 Radiated Emission
This test is applicable to radio communications equipment and ancillary
equipment.
This test shall be performed on the radio equipment and/or a representative
configuration of the ancillary equipment.
### 8.2.1 Definition
This test assesses the ability of radio equipment and ancillary equipment to
limit unwanted emissions from the enclosure port.
### 8.2.2 Test method
Whenever possible the site shall be a fully anechoic chamber (FAC) simulating
the free-space conditions. EUT shall be placed on a non-conducting support.
Mean power of any spurious components shall be detected by the test antenna
and measuring receiver (e.g. a spectrum analyser).
At each frequency at which a component is detected, the EUT shall be rotated
to obtain maximum response, and the effective radiated power (e.r.p.) of that
component determined by a substitution measurement, which shall be the
reference method. The measurement shall be repeated with the test antenna in
the orthogonal polarization plane.
NOTE: Effective radiated power e.r.p. refers to the radiation of a half wave
tuned dipole instead of an isotropic antenna. There is a constant difference
of 2.15 dB between e.i.r.p. and e.r.p.
e.r.p. (dBm) = e.i.r.p. (dBm) − 2.15 Ref. ITU-R SM. 329 ANNEX 1 [11]
Measurements are made with a tuned dipole antenna or a reference antenna with
a known gain referenced to an isotropic antenna. Unless otherwise stated, all
measurements are done as mean power (RMS).
If a different test site or method is used, this shall be stated in the test
report. The results shall be converted to the reference method values and the
validity of the conversion shall be demonstrated.
### 8.2.3 Limits
The references for these requirements are ITU-R SM 329 [11], SM.1539 [28] and
TS 25.101 subclauses 6.6.3.1. and 7.9.1 [12] and TS 25.102 subclauses 6.6.3
and 7.9 [13] respectively.
#### 8.2.3.1 FDD and 3.84 Mcps TDD option
The frequency boundary and reference bandwidths for the detailed transitions
of the limits between the requirements for out of band emissions and spurious
emissions are based on ITU-R SM 329 [11].
These requirements are only applicable for frequencies in the spurious domain.
Table 3: Radiated spurious emissions requirements
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Frequency | Minimum requirement | Minimum requirement | | | (e.r.p.)/ Reference | (e.r.p.) / Reference | | | Bandwidth | Bandwidth | | | | | | | Idle mode | Traffic mode | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 30 MHz ≤ f \ NOTE: If the Test System for a test is known to have a measurement
> uncertainty greater than that specified in table 3B, this equipment can
> still be used, provided that an adjustment is made follows:
>
> Any additional uncertainty in the Test System over and above that specified
> in table 3B is used to tighten the Test Requirements - making the test
> harder to pass. This procedure will ensure that a Test System not compliant
> with table 3B does not increase the probability of passing an EUT that would
> otherwise have failed a test if a Test System compliant with table 3B had
> been used.
## 8.3 Conducted emission DC power input/output port
This test is applicable to all equipment, which may have DC cables longer than
3 m.
If the DC power cable of the UE and/or the ancillary equipment is intended to
be less than 3 m in length, and intended only for direct connection to a
dedicated AC to DC power supply, then the measurement shall be performed only
on the AC power input of that power supply as specified in subclause 8.4.
This test shall be performed on a representative configuration of the radio
equipment or a representative configuration of the combination of radio and
ancillary equipment.
### 8.3.1 Definition
This test assesses the ability of radio equipment and ancillary equipment to
limit internal noise from the DC power input/output ports.
### 8.3.2 Test method
The test method shall be in accordance with CISPR 22 [14], and the Line
Impedance Stabilising Networks (LISN) shall be connected to a DC power source.
In the case of DC output ports, the ports shall be connected via a LISN to a
load drawing the rated current of the source.
A measuring receiver shall be connected to each LISN measurement port in turn
and the conducted emission recorded. The LISN measurement ports not being used
for measurement shall be terminated with a 50 Ω load.
The equipment shall be installed with a ground plane as defined in CISPR 22
[14], The reference earth point of the LISNs shall be connected to the
reference ground plane with a conductor as short as possible.
The measurement receiver shall be in accordance with the requirements of
section one of CISPR 16‑1 [16]
### 8.3.3 Limits
The equipment shall meet the limits defined in table 4 (including the average
limit and the quasi‑peak limit) when using, respectively, an average detector
receiver and a quasi‑peak detector receiver and measured in accordance with
the method described in subclause 8.2.2 above. If the average limit is met
when using a quasi‑peak detector, the equipment shall be deemed to meet both
limits and measurement with the average detector receiver is not necessary.
Table 4: Limits
* * *
Frequency range Quasi-peak Average > 0,15‑0,5 MHz 66 - 56 dBµV 56 - 46 dBµV >
0,5- 5 MHz 56 dBµV 46 dBµV > 5‑30 MHz 60 dBµV 50 dBµV NOTE: The limit
decreases linearly with the logarithm of the frequency in the range 0,15 MHz
to 0,50 MHz.
* * *
## 8.4 Conducted emissions, AC mains power input/output port
This test is applicable to equipment powered by the AC mains.
This test is not applicable to AC output ports, which are connected directly
(or via a switch or circuit breaker) to the AC input port.
This test shall be performed on a representative configuration of the radio
equipment or a representative configuration of the combination of radio and
ancillary equipment.
### 8.4.1 Definition
This test assesses the ability of radio equipment and ancillary equipment to
limit internal noise from the AC mains power input/output ports.
### 8.4.2 Test method
The test method shall be in accordance with CISPR 22 [14],
Mains connected ancillary equipment which is not part of the EUT shall be
connected to the mains via a separate LISN. According to subclause 11.9 of
CISPR 16‑1 [16], the Protective Earth (PE) wire shall also be terminated by a
50 Ω//50 μH common mode RF impedance.
### 8.4.3 Limits
The equipment shall meet the limits defined in table 5 (including the average
limit and the quasi‑peak limit) when using, respectively, an average detector
receiver and a quasi‑peak detector receiver and measured in accordance with
the method described in subclause 8.3.2 above. If the average limit is met
when using a quasi‑peak detector, the equipment shall be deemed to meet both
limits and measurement with the average detector receiver is not necessary.
Table 5: Limits for conducted emissions
* * *
Frequency range Quasi-peak Average > 0,15‑0,5 MHz 66 - 56 dBµV 56 - 46 dBµV >
0.5- 5 MHz 56 dBµV 46 dBµV > 5‑30 MHz 60 dBµV 50 dBµV NOTE: The limit
decreases linearly with the logarithm of the frequency in the range 0,15 MHz
to 0,50 MHz.
* * *
## 8.5 Harmonic current emissions (AC mains input port)
The requirements of IEC 61000-3-2 [17] for harmonic current emission apply for
equipment covered by the scope of the present document.
## 8.6 Voltage fluctuations and flicker (AC mains input port)
The requirements of IEC 61000-3-3 [18] for voltage fluctuations and flicker
apply for equipment covered by the scope of the present document.
# 9 Test methods and levels for immunity tests
## 9.1 Test configurations
This subclause defines the configurations for immunity tests as follows:
\- the equipment shall be tested under normal test conditions as specified in
the core specification ,e.g., TS 34.109 [15];
\- the test configuration shall be as close to normal intended use as
possible;
\- if the equipment is part of a system, or can be connected to ancillary
equipment, then it shall be acceptable to test the equipment while connected
to the minimum configuration of ancillary equipment necessary to exercise the
ports;
\- if the equipment has a large number of ports, then a sufficient number
shall be selected to simulate actual operation conditions and to ensure that
all the different types of termination are tested;
\- the test conditions, test configuration and mode of operation shall be
recorded in the test report;
\- ports which in normal operation are connected shall be connected to an
ancillary equipment or to a representative piece of cable correctly terminated
to simulate the input/output characteristics of the ancillary equipment, Radio
Frequency (RF) input/output ports shall be correctly terminated;
\- ports, which are not, connected to cables during normal operation, e.g.
service connectors, programming connectors, temporary connectors etc. shall
not be connected to any cables for the purpose of EMC testing. Where cables
have to be connected to these ports, or interconnecting cables have to be
extended in length in order to exercise the EUT, precautions shall be taken to
ensure that the evaluation of the EUT is not affected by the addition or
extension of these cables;
\- the test arrangements for transmitter and receiver sections of the
transceiver are described separately for the sake of clarity. However, where
possible the test of the transmitter section and receiver section of the EUT
may be carried out simultaneously to reduce test time;
\- immunity tests shall be performed in two modes of operation:
\- with a communication link established (traffic mode); and
\- in the idle mode.
See subclauses 6.1 and 6.2.
## 9.2 RF electromagnetic field (80 MHz - 1000 MHz and 1400 MHZ to 2700 MHz)
The test shall be performed on a representative configuration of the equipment
or a representative configuration of the combination of UE and ancillary
equipment.
### 9.2.1 Definition
This test assesses the ability of UE and ancillary equipment to operate as
intended in the presence of a radio frequency electromagnetic field
disturbance at the enclosure.
### 9.2.2 Test method and level
The test method shall be in accordance with IEC 61000‑4‑3 [20]
\- for UE and ancillary equipment the following requirements shall apply;
\- the test level shall be 3 V/m amplitude modulated to a depth of 80 % by a
sinusoidal audio signal of 1 kHz;
\- the stepped frequency increments shall be 1 % of the momentary frequency;
\- when using the max hold detector method (see ANNEX A) at each test
frequency step initially an unmodulated test signal shall be applied. Then the
test modulation shall be applied;
\- the test shall be performed over the frequency range 80 MHz to 1 000 MHz
and 1400 MHz to 2700 MHz;
\- responses in stand alone receivers or receivers which are part of
transceivers occurring at discrete frequencies which are narrow band
responses, shall be disregarded, see subclause 4.3;
\- the frequencies selected during the test shall be recorded in the test
report.
### 9.2.3 Performance criteria
The performance criteria of subclause 6.1 shall apply.
## 9.3 Electrostatic discharge
The test shall be performed on a representative configuration of the equipment
or a representative configuration of the combination of UE and ancillary
equipment.
### 9.3.1 Definition
This test assesses the ability of UE and ancillary equipment to operate as
intended in the event of an electrostatic discharge.
### 9.3.2 Test method and level
The test method shall be in accordance with IEC 61000‑4‑2 [19]:
\- for contact discharge, the equipment shall pass at ±2 kV and ±4 kV;
\- for air discharge the equipment shall pass at ±2 kV, ±4 kV and ±8 kV (only
for non-conducting surfaces, see IEC 61000‑4‑2 [19]).
NOTE: The EUT shall be fully discharged between each ESD exposure by
connecting its ground point (where applicable) to the HCP by a resistive wire
with a 470 kΩ. resistor in either end.
### 9.3.3 Performance criteria
The performance criteria of subclause 6.2 shall apply.
## 9.4 Fast transients common mode
The test shall be performed on AC mains power input ports.
This test shall be performed on signal ports, control ports and DC power
input/output ports if the cables may be longer than 3 m.
Where this test is not carried out on a port or any other ports because the
manufacturer declares that it is not intended to be used with cables longer
than 3 m, a list of ports which were not tested for this reason shall be
included in the test report.
This test shall be performed on a representative configuration of the
equipment or a representative configuration of the combination of UE and
ancillary equipment.
### 9.4.1 Definition
This test assesses the ability of UE and ancillary equipment to operate as
intended in the event of fast transients present on one of the input/output
ports.
### 9.4.2 Test method and level
The test method shall be in accordance with IEC 61000‑4‑4 [21]
\- the test level for signal and control ports shall be 0,5 kV open circuit
voltage as given in IEC 61000‑4‑4 [21];
\- the test level for DC power input/output ports shall be 0,5 kV open circuit
voltage as given in IEC 61000‑4‑4 [21];
\- the test level for AC mains power input ports shall be 1 kV open circuit
voltage as given in IEC 61000‑4‑4 [21].
### 9.4.3 Performance criteria
The performance criteria of subclause 6.2 shall apply.
## 9.5 RF common mode (0.15 MHz to 80 MHz)
This test is applicable for UE for fixed, mobile, and portable use and for
ancillary equipment.
This test shall be performed on signal, control and DC power input/output
ports, which may have cables longer than 3 m.
This test shall be performed on AC mains power input/output ports of UE for
fixed use and for fixed ancillary equipment. Where this test is not carried
out on a port or any other ports because the manufacturer declares that it is
not intended to be used with cables longer than stated above, a list of ports
which were not tested shall be included in the test report.
This test shall be performed on a representative configuration of the UE or a
representative configuration of the combination of UE and ancillary equipment.
### 9.5.1 Definition
This test assesses the ability of equipment and ancillary equipment to operate
as intended in the presence of a radio frequency electromagnetic disturbance.
### 9.5.2 Test method and level
The test method shall be in accordance with IEC 61000‑4‑6 [23].
\- the test signal shall be amplitude modulated to a depth of 80 % by a
sinusoidal audio signal of 1 kHz;
\- the stepped frequency increments shall be either 50 kHz or 1 % frequency
increment of the momentary frequency in the frequency range 150 kHz - 5 MHz
and 1 % frequency increment of the momentary frequency in the frequency range
5 MHz - 80 MHz;
\- when using the max hold detector method (see ANNEX A) at each test
frequency step initially an unmodulated test signal shall be applied. Then the
test modulation shall be applied;
\- the test level shall be severity level 2 as given in IEC 61000‑4‑6 [23]
corresponding to 3 V rms, at a transfer impedance of 150 Ω;
\- the test shall be performed over the frequency range 150 kHz - 80 MHz;
\- responses of stand alone receivers or receivers which are part of
transceivers occurring at discrete frequencies which are narrow band
responses, shall be disregarded, see subclause 4.3;
\- the frequencies selected during the test and the test method used shall be
recorded in the test report.
### 9.5.3 Performance criteria
The performance criteria of subclause 6.1 shall apply.
## 9.6 Transients and surges, vehicular environment
The tests are applicable to UE intended for use in a vehicular environment.
These tests shall be performed on 12 V and 24 V DC power input.
These tests shall be performed on a representative configuration of the
equipment or a representative configuration of the combination of UE and
ancillary equipment.
### 9.6.1 Definition
These tests assess the ability of UE and ancillary equipment to operate as
intended in the event of transients and surges present on the DC power input
ports in a vehicular environment.
### 9.6.2 Test method and level
The test method shall be in accordance with ISO 7637‑1 [6] for nominal 12 V DC
powered equipment and ISO 7637‑2 [7] for nominal 24 V DC powered equipment.
The requirements are detailed as follows:
#### 9.6.2.1 12 V DC powered equipment
Where the manufacturer in his installation documentation requires the EUT to
have a direct connection to the 12 V main vehicle battery the following
requirements in accordance with ISO 7637‑1 [6] shall apply:
\- pulse 3a and 3b, level II (±50 V), with the test time reduced to 5 minutes
for each;\ Supply voltage V~A~ = 13,5 ± 0,5 V DC
\- pulse 4, level II, 5 pulses, with the characteristics as follows:\ Vs = -5
V, Va = -2,5 V, t6 = 25 ms, t8 = 5 s, tf = 5 ms.\ Supply voltage V~B~ = 12,0 ±
0,2 V DC
Where the manufacturer does not require the EUT to have a direct connection to
the 12 V main vehicle battery, the following pulses apply in addition:
\- pulse 1, level II (-50 V), t~1~ = 2,5 s, 10 pulses; Supply voltage V~A~ =
13,5 ± 0,5 V DC;
\- pulse 2, level II (+50 V), t~1~ = 2,5 s, 10 pulses. Supply voltage V~A~ =
13,5 ± 0,5 V DC.
Where the manufacturer declares that the EUT requires a direct connection to
the vehicle battery, and the corresponding tests are not carried out, this
shall be stated in the test report.
#### 9.6.2.2 24 V DC powered equipment
Where the manufacturer in his installation documentation requires the EUT to
have a direct connection to the 24 V main vehicle battery the following
requirements in accordance with ISO 7637‑2 [7] shall apply:
\- pulse 3a and 3b, level II (±70 V), with the test time reduced to 5 minutes
for each;\ Supply voltage V~A~ = 27 ± 1 V DC
\- pulse 4, level II, 5 pulses, with the characteristics as follows:\ Vs = -10
V, Va = -5 V, t6 = 25 ms, t8 = 5 s, tf = 5 ms.\ Supply voltage V~B~ = 24 ± 0,4
V DC
Where the manufacturer does not require the EUT to have a direct connection to
the 24 V main vehicle battery, the following pulses apply in addition:
\- pulse 1, level II (-100 V), t~1~ = 2,5 s, 10 pulses; Supply voltage V~A~ =
27 ± 1 V DC;
\- pulse 1b, level II (-550 V), t1 = 2,5 s, 10 pulses Ri = 100 Ω;\ Supply
voltage V~A~ = 27 ± 1 V DC;
\- pulse 2, level II (+50 V), t~1~ = 2,5 s, 10 pulses. Supply voltage V~A~ =
27 ± 1 V DC.
Where the manufacturer declares that the EUT requires a direct connection to
the vehicle battery, and the corresponding tests are not carried out, this
shall be stated in the test report.
For UE and ancillary equipment designed to operate at both DC voltages and
where no manual adjustments are required, the requirement 9.6.2.2 and pulse 4
from 9.6.2.1 shall apply.
For UE designed to operate at 12 V DC power supply, but operating from a 24 V
DC power adapter ancillary, then the UE shall comply with the requirements in
9.6.2.1 and the configuration of the UE and the power adapter shall comply
with the requirements of 9.6.2.2.
### 9.6.3 Performance criteria
The performance criteria of subclause 6.2 shall apply. However, where the
equipment is powered without the use of a parallel battery back-up, for pulses
1, 1a, 1b, 2 and 4 the communications link need not be maintained and may have
to be re-established and volatile user data may have been lost.
## 9.7 Voltage dips and interruptions
The tests shall be performed on AC mains power input ports.
These tests shall be performed on a representative configuration of the UE or
a representative configuration of the combination of UE and ancillary
equipment.
### 9.7.1 Definition
These tests assess the ability of UE and ancillary equipment to operate as
intended in the event of voltage dips and interruptions present on the AC
mains power input ports.
### 9.7.2 Test method and level
The following requirements shall apply.
The test method shall be in accordance with IEC 61000‑4‑11 [24].
The test levels shall be:
\- a voltage dip corresponding to a reduction of the supply voltage of 60 %
for 5 periods;
\- a voltage interruption corresponding to a reduction of the supply voltage
of > 95 % for 250 periods.
### 9.7.3 Performance criteria
The performance criteria of subclause 6.2 shall apply. However, in the case
where the equipment is powered solely from the AC mains supply (without the
use of a parallel battery back-up the communications link need not be
maintained and may have to be re-established and volatile user data may have
been lost. In the event of loss of the communications link or in the event of
loss of user data, this fact shall be recorded in the test report, the product
description and the user documentation.
## 9.8 Surges, common and differential mode
The tests shall be performed on AC mains power input ports.
These tests shall be performed on a representative configuration of the UE or
a representative configuration of the combination of UE and ancillary
equipment.
### 9.8.1 Definition
These tests assess the ability of UE and ancillary equipment to operate as
intended in the event of surges being present at the AC mains power input
ports.
### 9.8.2 Test method and level
The test method shall be in accordance with IEC 61000‑4‑5 [22].
The following requirements and evaluation of test results shall apply:
\- the test level for ac mains power input ports shall be 1 kV line to ground
and 0,5 kV line to line with the output impedance of the surge generator as
given in the IEC 61000‑4‑5 [22];
\- the test generator shall provide the 1,2/50 µsec pulse as defined in IEC
61000‑4‑5 [22].
### 9.8.3 Performance criteria
The performance criteria of sub-clause 6.2 shall apply.
###### ## Annex A (normative): Performance assessment voice call. Audio break
through
# A.1 Calibration of audio levels
For the portable the audio calibration is performed as follows:
Set the EUT volume to provide the nominal audio level if specified by the
manufacturer. If no such level is specified, the centre volume step shall be
used.
Prior to the test sequence, the reference level of the speech output signal on
both the downlink and uplink shall be recorded on the test instrumentation, as
shown in figure A.1. The reference level shall be equivalent to the SPL of 0
dBPa at 1 kHz at the input of the acoustical coupler described in ETR 027
[25], for the downlink, and -5dBPs at 1 kHz at the mouth reference point (MRP)
defined in ITU_T recommendation P.64 [26] for the uplink.
NOTE 1: The MRP is defined with respect to an artificial head defined in ITU‑T
P 76 [27] The handset shall be mounted on the artificial head such that the
ear piece is centred at the artificial ear.
NOTE 2: If the equipment does not include acoustical transducers (e.g. a
microphone or loudspeaker) the manufacturer shall specify the equivalent
electrical reference levels.
The voice processor may often apply noise and echo cancellation algorithms,
which attempt to eliminate or reduce steady state audio signals as e.g., the 1
kHz calibration signals. These algorithms may be disabled during the
calibration procedure. Specialised test software may be required. If the
algorithms can not be disabled then the reference level shall be measured
using a max-hold detection on the audio level meter in order to determine the
level before the noise and echo cancellation algorithms become effective.
In handsfree applications an external loudspeaker is used. The SPL from the
external loudspeaker is normally much higher than from the earpiece of the
portable in order overcome a high ambient noise level. The downlink reference
level shall be increased in order to compensate for the difference.
Alternatively, the distance between the loudspeaker and the measuring
microphone shall be adjusted during the measurement procedure in accordance
with the manufacturers specification. It is important that the dynamic range
of the test instrumentation is not exceeded.
Normally no corrections are made to the uplink reference level. In case it is
not possible to perform the above calibration (e.g., a PC card with headset)
the manufacturer shall specify the distance between the MRP and the
microphone.
{width="5.4215277777777775in" height="2.46875in"}
Figure A.1: Audio breakthrough measurement, calibration set-up for portable
equipment
NOTE: The EUT is in position during calibration of the uplink, but not during
calibration of the downlink where the EUT is replaced by the 1 kHz test audio
source. During calibration of the uplink the mouthpiece shall be placed with
respect to the MRP in a way representing intended use.
# A.2 Measurement of audio levels
When the audio levels are measured during testing the EUT software shall be
configured for voice applications. If the algorithms for noise and echo
cancellation are not disabled, then the level shall be measured using a max-
hold detection on the audio level meter in order to determine the level before
the noise and echo cancellation algorithms become effective.
The level of the output signal from the downlink speech channel of the EUT at
the mobile or portable\'s ear piece shall be assessed by measuring the Sound
Pressure Level (SPL) as shown in figure A.2. When an external loudspeaker is
used the acoustical coupler shall be fixed to the loudspeaker in the position
used during the calibration. The level of the decoded output signal from the
uplink speech channel of the EUT at the analogue output of the test system
shall be measured. Pick up of extraneous background noise by the microphone of
the EUT shall be minimised.
NOTE: If the equipment is designed for use with external transducers, they
shall be included in the test configuration. If the equipment does not include
acoustical transducers the line voltage developed across specified termination
impedance may be measured
{width="5.465972222222222in" height="2.6305555555555555in"}
Figure A.2: Audio breakthrough measurement, test set-up for portable equipment
###### ## Annex B (normative): Performance assessment of data transfer call.
Error Ratios
# B.1 Calibration of data transfer
For the EUT, calibration of the data transfer may be performed by assessing
the Bit Error Ratio (BER), Block Error Ratio (BLER) or End- User data error
ratio before applying the RF immunity test signal (defined in clauses 9.2 and
9.5).
# B.2 Derivation of Error Ratios
The manufacturer shall provide the method for calculating the Error Ratio.
Known data patterns shall be transferred bi-directionally from end-to-end (the
whole of the UL and DL will be exercised). Performance assessment shall be
made at each frequency step. Comparison between transmitted known data and
received data shall result in the Error Ratio.
The data patterns used should be of sufficient length to give valid results
and should be equivalent to the used channel bit rate.
Possible data patterns for assessing the Error Ratio are BER, BLER and User
Data. Detailed description of BER and BLER can be found from TS 34.109 [15]
End- User Data may be used where BER and BLER measurements are not
appropriate, and is a manufacturers decision (see below):
Note: For example, in the cases when the EUT consists of UE with data
application ancillary and the data application ancillary itself does not
support a loopback function that can be applied for the assessement of BER or
BLER, as specified in TS 34.109 [15]. This would lead into a situation where
the data application ancillary is not exercised, i.e the data transfer loop is
not end-to-end.
The characteristics of the End- User Data used for testing (format, size,
typical data throughput rate, additional error corrections etc.) and the
necessary test equipment shall be delivered to enable the assessment of the
EUT.
Following formula may apply to End- User Data:
{width="5.263194444444444in" height="0.5979166666666667in"}
(In case that high Error Ratios exist, ensure that errors are a consequence of
EMC stress).
# B.3 EUT without data application ancillary
Data monitoring Devices are here considered as part of the Test System.
Arrangements should be made by the manufacturer, if needed, to couple the Data
monitoring Device by a method which does not affect the radiated
electromagnetic field (e.g. ultra sonic or optical).
{width="5.465972222222222in" height="3.0125in"}
Figure B.1: Error Ratio assessment, test set-up for EUT without data
application ancillary.
# B.4 EUT with data application ancillary
The Data monitoring Device is here considered as a part of the Test System.
The Data application ancillary should be part of the data transfer (UL and DL)
loop and is included in the EUT configuration.
{width="5.465972222222222in" height="3.0125in"}
Figure B.2: Error ratio assessment, test set-up for EUT with data application
ancillary.
#