# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
This present document specifies the measurement procedure for the conformance
test of the mobile station that contain transmitting characteristics,
receiving characteristics and performance requirements in addition to
requirements for support of RRM (Radio Resource Management) in both UTRATDD
modes. The two options are the 3,84 Mcps TDD Option and 1,28 Mcps TDD Option,
respectively.
The requirements are listed in different clauses only if the corresponding
parameters deviate. More generally, tests are only applicable to those mobiles
that are intended to support the appropriate functionality. To indicate the
circumstances in which tests apply, this is noted in the "definition and
applicability" part of the test.
For example only release 5 and later UE declared to support HSDPA shall be
tested for this functionality. In the event that for some tests different
conditions apply for different releases, this is indicated within the text of
the test itself.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] to [34] (void)
[35] 3GPP TS 34.122 Release 10: \"Terminal conformance specification; Radio
transmission and reception (TDD)\".
# 3 Definitions, abbreviations and equations
Void
# 4 Frequency bands and channel arrangement
The requirements of the present document are provided in 3GPP TS 34.122
Release 10 [35].
# 5 to 11: Void
###### ## Annex A to I: Void
#