# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is the first part of a multi-part conformance
specification valid for 3GPP Release 1999, 3GPP Release 4 and 3GPP Release 5.
3GPP TS 34.123-2 [11] contains a pro-forma for the Implementation Conformance
Statement (ICS) and an applicability table, indicating the release from which
each test case is applicable. 3GPP TS 34.123-3 [12] contains a detailed and
executable description of the test cases written in a standard testing
language, TTCN, as defined in ISO/IEC 9646.
For at least a minimum set of services, the prose descriptions of test cases
will have a matching detailed test case implemented in TTCN [12].
For Release 1999, the minimum set of services is defined as:
\- voice calls;
\- emergency calls;
\- SMS (both Point-to-point and Cell broadcast);
\- Circuit Switched data at up to 64 k bits/second;
\- fax;
including the underlying layers to support these services.
Release 1999 will also include the areas:
\- auto-calling restrictions.
The present document may contain descriptions of tests for additional
services, but these tests may not have matching TTCN test cases.
The present document will not contain any tests on the USIM, or the interface
between the UE and the USIM. These tests are documented elsewhere.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the protocol conformance testing for the 3^rd^
Generation User Equipment (UE).
This is the first part of a multi-part test specification. The following
information can be found in this part:
\- the overall test structure;
\- the test configurations;
\- the conformance requirement and reference to the core specifications;
\- the test purposes; and
\- a brief description of the test procedure, the specific test requirements
and short message exchange table.
The following information relevant to testing can be found in accompanying
specifications:
\- the default setting of the test parameters [9];
\- the applicability of each test case [11].
A detailed description of the expected sequence of messages can be found in
the 3^rd^ part of this test specification.
The Implementation Conformance Statement (ICS) pro-forma can be found in the
2^nd^ part of the present document.
The present document is valid for UE implemented according to 3GPP Release
1999, 3GPP Release 4 or 3GPP Release 5.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document in the same Release as the present document.
\- For a Release 1999 UE, references to 3GPP documents are to version 3.x.y,
when available.
\- For a Release 4 UE, references to 3GPP documents are to version 4.x.y, when
available.
\- For a Release 5 UE, references to 3GPP documents are to version 5.x.y, when
available.
\- For a Release 6 UE, references to 3GPP documents are to version 6.x.y, when
available.
\- For a Release 7 UE, references to 3GPP documents are to version 7.x.y, when
available.
\- For a Release 8 UE, references to 3GPP documents are to version 8.x.y, when
available.
\- For a Release 9 UE, references to 3GPP documents are to version 9.x.y, when
available.
[1] to [49] (void)
[50] 3GPP TS 34.123-1 Release 10: \"User Equipment (UE) conformance
specification; Part 1: Protocol conformance specification\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
Void
# 4 Overview
The requirements of the present document are provided in 3GPP TS 34.123-1
Release 10 [50].
# 5 to 18 Void
###### ## Annex A to D: Void
#