# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is the first part of a multi-part conformance
specification valid for 3GPP Release 5 and later releases.
**3GPP TS 34.229-1 (the present document): Internet Protocol (IP) multimedia
call control protocol based on Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) and Session
Description Protocol (SDP); User Equipment (UE) conformance specification;
Part 1: Protocol conformance specification- current document.**
3GPP TS 34.229-2 [5]: \"Internet Protocol (IP) multimedia call control
protocol based on Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) and Session Description
Protocol (SDP); User Equipment (UE) conformance specification; Part 2:
Implementation Conformance Statement (ICS) proforma specification\".
3GPP TS 34.229-3 [6]: \"Internet Protocol (IP) multimedia call control
protocol based on Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) and Session Description
Protocol (SDP); User Equipment (UE) conformance specification; Part 3:
Abstract Test Suites (ATS)\".
NOTE 1: The ATS is written in a standard testing language, TTCN-3, as defined
in ETSI ES 201 873 Parts 1 to 3 [36] [37] [38].
NOTE 2: For conformance testing of the UTRAN requirements refer to 3GPP TS
34.123 Parts 1 to 3 [2] [3] [4].
NOTE 3: Further information on testing can be found in ETSI ETS 300 406[9] and
ISO/IEC 9646-1 [7].
For at least a minimum set of services, the prose descriptions of test cases
will have a matching detailed test case implemented in TTCN-3 (and provided in
3GPP TS 34.229-3 [6]).
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the protocol conformance testing for the User
Equipment (UE) supporting the Internet Protocol (IP) multimedia call control
protocol based on Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) and Session Description
Protocol (SDP).
This is the first part of a multi-part test specification. The following
information can be found in this part:
\- the overall test structure;
\- the test configurations;
\- the conformance requirement and reference to the core specifications;
\- the test purposes; and
\- a brief description of the test procedure, the specific test requirements
and short message exchange table.
The following information relevant to testing can be found in accompanying
specifications:
\- the applicability of each test case [5].
A detailed description of the expected sequence of messages can be found in
the 3^rd^ part of present test specification [6].
The Implementation Conformance Statement (ICS) pro-forma can be found in the
2^nd^ part of the present test specification [5].
The present document is valid for UE implemented according to 3GPP Releases
starting from Release 5 up to the Release indicated on the cover page of the
present document.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document in the same Release as the present document.
\- For a Release 5 UE, references to 3GPP documents are to version 5.x.y, when
available.
\- For a Release 6 UE, references to 3GPP documents are to version 6.x.y, when
available.
\- For a Release 7 UE, references to 3GPP documents are to version 7.x.y, when
available.
\- For a Release 8 UE, references to 3GPP documents are to version 8.x.y, when
available.
\- For a Release 9 UE, references to 3GPP documents are to version 9.x.y, when
available.
[1] to [118] (void)
[119] 3GPP TS 34.229-1 Release 10: \"Internet Protocol (IP) multimedia call
control protocol based on Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) and Session
Description Protocol (SDP); User Equipment (UE) conformance specification;
Part 1: Protocol conformance specification\"
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
Void
# 4 Overview
## 4.1 Test Methodology
The requirements of the present document are provided in 3GPP TS 34.229-1
Release 10 [119].
# 5 to 19 Void
###### ## Annex A to F : Void
#