# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies recommended minimum performance requirements
for noise suppression algorithms intended for application in conjunction with
the AMR speech encoder. This specification is for guidance purposes. Noise
Suppression is intended to enhance the speech signal corrupted by acoustic
noise at the input to the AMR speech encoder.
The use of this recommended minimum performance requirements specification is
not mandatory except for those solutions intended to be endorsed by SMG11.
It is the intention of SMG11 to perform analysis and validation of any AMR
noise suppression solution which is voluntarily brought to the attention of
SMG11 in the future, using the requirements set out in this specification to
facilitate such an analysis. In order for SMG11 to endorse such a solution,
SMG11 must confirm that all the recommended minimum performance requirements
are met.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] ITU-T Recommendation I.130 (1988): \"General modelling methods - Method
for the characterisation of telecommunications services supported by an ISDN
and network capabilities of an ISDN\".
[2] 3GPP TR 01.04 (ETR 350): \"Abbreviations and acronyms\".
[3] 3GPP TS 06.71: \"Adaptive Multi-Rate (AMR); Speech processing functions;
General description\".
[4] 3GPP TS 06.77: \"Minimum Performance Requirements for Noise Suppresser
Application to the AMR Speech Encoder\".
[5] 3GPP TS 06.73: \"Adaptive Multi Rate (AMR) speech; ANSI-C code for the AMR
speech codec\".
[6] 3GPP TS 03.50: \"Transmission planning aspects of the speech service in
the GSM Public Land Mobile Network (PLMN) system\".
[7] ITU-T Recommendation P.56: \"Objective measurement of active speech
level\".
[8] ITU-T Recommendation P.800: \"Methods for subjective determination of
transmission quality\".
[9] 3GPP TR 06.75: \"Performance Characterization of the GSM Adaptive Multi-
Rate (AMR) speech codec\".
[10] 3GPP TS 06.90: \"Adaptive Multi-Rate (AMR) speech transcoding\".
[11] 3GPP TS 06.91: \"Substitution and muting of lost frames for Adaptive
Multi Rate (AMR) speech traffic channels\".
[12] 3GPP TS 06.92: \"Comfort noise aspects for Adaptive Multi-Rate (AMR)
speech traffic channels\".
[13] 3GPP TS 06.94: \"Voice Activity Detection (VAD) for Adaptive Multi-Rate
(AMR) speech traffic channels; General description\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
3GPP TR 01.04 [2] provides a list of abbreviations and acronyms used in GSM
specifications. For the purposes of the present document, the following
definitions and abbreviations also apply:
## 3.1 Definitions
None
## 3.2 Abbreviations
AMR Adaptive Multi-Rate
AMR/NS Combination of the AMR speech codec and the Noise Suppression function
NS Noise Suppression
# 4 Description of Noise Suppression applied to AMR
Noise Suppression for the AMR codec is a feature designed to enhance speech
quality in a range of environments where there is significant (acoustic)
background noise. The noise suppression function is a pre-processing module
that is used to improve the signal to noise ratio of a speech signal prior to
voice coding. In so doing it may use functions and/or data from the AMR speech
encoding function. This specification defines recommended minimum performance
requirements for such a function when it is implemented in the mobile station
(operating on the uplink speech signal).
The AMR Speech decoder should not be altered by the Noise Suppression
function.
It shall be possible to disable the operation of the noise suppression
algorithm using signalling when commanded by the network.
## 4.1 Applicability of Noise Suppression to Basic Services.
This feature shall be applicable (as an option) to all speech calls where the
narrowband AMR codec is utilised. Provision of the feature in AMR-capable
mobile stations is a manufacturer dependent option. The network shall be able
to enable or disable this noise suppression function both at call set-up and
in call. Signalling between network and mobile to allow this control has been
provided.
# 5 Requirements to be assessed by Objective Means
## 5.1 Bit Exactness of the Speech Encoder
The Noise Suppression shall be implemented as a separate pre-processing module
prior to the speech encoding. The functionality and all internal states,
tables and variables of the speech encoder shall remain unaltered by the Noise
Suppression function.
The Noise Suppression should be implemented as a stand-alone pre-processing
module operating on the 160 samples input speech buffer to the speech encoder
according to Figure 1.
{width="5.561805555555556in" height="2.0in"}
Figure 1: Noise Suppression implementation
Alternatively, for implementation in conjunction with the bit-exact fixed
point C reference code [3GPP TS 06.73 [5]] the NS module may operate on the
pre-processed input speech buffer \"old_speech[L_TOTAL]\" in the structure
\"cod_amrState\" in the AMR C code [3GPP TS 06.73] after the pre-processing
module (sample down-scaling and input high pass filtering) of the speech
encoder. The bit-integrity of the speech encoder for this implementation shall
be verified according to Figure 2 where the signals at Test Points 1 and 2
shall be identical for any input signal and the Reference Encoder is the part
of [3GPP TS 06.73] after the pre-processing module. Note: implementation in
conjunction with the AMR floating point C code is for further study.
{width="6.375in" height="2.875in"}
Figure 2: Verification of AMR speech encoder bit-exactness for embedded NS
implementations
# 5.2 Bit Exactness of the Speech Decoder
The AMR speech decoder shall remain unaltered by the Noise Suppression
function.
## 5.3 Impact on Speech Path Delay
The one way algorithmic delay due to the activation of AMR noise suppression
shall be no more than 5ms in excess of the delay inserted by the AMR speech
codec. In the handsfree case, this delay is part of the 39ms delay specified
in 3GPP TS 03.50 [6].
The total additional delay (comprising of algorithmic and processing delays)
shall not exceed 10ms. The processing delay is calculated using the following
formula with E*S*P set to 50.
delay(proc) = WMOPS∗20/(E∗S∗P)
where WMOPS = complexity in weighted operations per second evaluated through
the theoretical worst case. (Direct means of measurement of total delay is for
further study.).
## 5.4 Impact on Channel Activity
The AMR speech codec with noise suppression activated should not significantly
increase channel activity when used in conjunction with DTX.
Channel activity increase will be measured thanks to the Voice Activity factor
(VAF), defined as follows.
Let x be the VAF measured by the AMR VAD as an averaged value on all clean
speech signals
Let y be the VAF measured by the AMR VAD without AMR NS active as an averaged
value on all clean speech + noise signals (where the applicable clean speech
signal is the speech signal used in the measure of x).
Let w be the VAF measured by the AMR VAD with AMR NS active as an averaged
value on all clean speech +noise signals (where the applicable clean speech
signal is the speech signal used in the measure of x). w is required to be not
significantly more than the maximum of y and x. Any case where w is greater
than y should be further investigated.
These requirements shall apply to both standardized AMR VADs. (w,x,y) are
determined using one or both VADs, and, if both are used, the requirements are
checked relatively to each AMR VAD independently.
The definition of upper limits on VAF increase and attendant confidence
intervals are for further study.
# 6 Requirements to be assessed by subjective tests
## 6.1 Impact on Speech Quality
The following performance requirements are stated under the assumption that
the noise suppresser is tested as an integral part of the AMR speech codec
with the speech codec operating at the rates defined within the test plan
(Annex C) .The performance requirements must be met for all these stated
speech codec rates.
### 6.1.1 Initial Convergence Time
The initial convergence time shall be a maximum of T seconds with T equal to
2s. The definition of this time interval shall be understood strictly in
accordance with its means of use in subjective listening experiments. Its use
shall be defined by a process whereby the first T seconds of each sample
processed through the AMR speech codec with and without noise suppression
active, is deleted before presentation to listeners. It is assumed that this
process does not reduce intelligibility, or introduce clipping or similar
effects into the resultant speech plus noise material.
### 6.1.2 No Degradation in Clean Speech
The noise suppression function must not have a statistically significant
distorting effect on clean speech, in comparison with the performance of the
AMR codec without noise suppression applied. This requirement also applies
when VAD/DTX is active.
The requirement is checked with the use of a paired comparison test where the
requirement is met if AMR/NS is preferred or equal to AMR within the 95 %
confidence interval.
### 6.1.3 No degradation of Speech and no Undesirable Effects in Residual
Noise in Conditions with Background Noise (_residual noise = background noise
after AMR/NS)_
The noise suppression function must not introduce any degradation of speech
and no undesirable effects in the residual noise, when there is (acoustic)
background noise in the speech signal. This requirement also applies when
VAD/DTX is active.
The requirement is checked with the use of a modified ACR test with specific
instructions where the requirement is met if AMR/NS is better than or equal to
AMR within the 95 % confidence interval in all conditions.
### 6.1.4 Quality Impact compared to AMR
The AMR speech codec with noise suppression activated must produce an output
in noisy speech which is preferred amongst test listeners with statistical
significance, compared to the case where noise suppression is not used. This
requirement also applies when VAD/DTX is active.
The requirement is checked with the use of a CCR test where the requirement is
met if AMR/NS is preferred to AMR within the 95 % confidence interval in at
least 4 of the 6 conditions tested. Preference or equality within the 95 %
confidence interval is required for the remaining conditions.
Additionally, it is required that the subjective SNR improvement as measured
by the methodology [Annex B] (where the measure is conducted on the associated
CCR tests [Annex C] meets the following requirements:
(a) In at least 2 of the 6 conditions tested the SNR improvement shall not be
less than 6dB within the 95% confidence interval.
(b) In at least 2 of the remaining 4 conditions the SNR improvement shall not
be less than 4dB within the 95% confidence interval.
# 7 Performance Objectives assessed by Objective Measures
## 7.1 Impact on Active Speech Level
The AMR speech codec with noise suppression activated must not significantly
alter the active speech level.
The requirement is checked with the use of a ITU-T Recommendation P.56 [7]
speech level meter (the use of which remains for further study). Let x be the
averaged level of the clean speech material for one experiment and let y be
the averaged level of the processed material with AMR NS activated for the
same experiment. The requirement is met if the absolute difference between x
and y is less than 2 dB for all experiments. _The processed material should
not be normalised to the nominal speech level before the listening tests._
_Note that this requirement does not preclude the use of active level
control._
## 7.2 Objective Speech Quality Measures
The objective measures of noise power level reduction (NPLR) and signal-to-
noise ratio improvement (SNRI) defined in Annex 1 are to be used to
characterise the performance of the AMR/NS solution. Objectives are defined
for these measures in the following table. These measures will be used to
provide additional information only and are not to be considered to be
requirements.
C source code is attached to this specification which shall be used to
undertake these measurements.
+---------------------------------------------+-----------------------+ | Objective quality measure/test condition | Performance objective | +---------------------------------------------+-----------------------+ | NPLR | --7 dB or lower | | | | | _Assessment_ : To be evaluated using a | | | predefined set of material (as used in the | | | AMR/NS Selection Phase) comprising speech | | | mixed with stationary car noise in the SNR | | | conditions of 6 dB and 15 dB, following | | | otherwise the guidelines set forth in | | | [Annex 1]. | | +---------------------------------------------+-----------------------+ | SNRI | 6 dB or higher | | | | | _Assessment:_ To be evaluated using a | | | predefined set of material (as used in the | | | AMR/NS Selection Phase) comprising speech | | | mixed with stationary car noise in the SNR | | | conditions of 6 dB and 15 dB, following | | | otherwise the guidelines set forth in | | | [Annex 1]. | | +---------------------------------------------+-----------------------+
# 8 Interaction with supplementary services
## 8.1 General
This clause defines requirements regarding the interactions between GSM
supplementary services and the Noise Suppression Feature.
The application of Noise Suppression shall not interfere with the provision or
invocation of any supplementary services.
## 8.2 Explicit Call Transfer (ECT)
No adverse interaction. If the new party is a mobile station with support for
the Noise Suppression feature, the noise suppression feature shall be invoked.
## 8.3 Call wait/Call hold.
No interaction.
## 8.4 Multiparty
No interaction.
## 8.5 Service Announcements
No interaction.
# 9 Interaction with Alternate and Followed by services
There shall be no impact on data transmission due the Noise Suppression
Feature
# 10 Interaction with other speech services
There is no requirement for Noise Suppression in ASCI services.
# 11 Interaction with DTMF and other signalling tones
DTMF and other signalling tones transmission performance during the
application of Noise Suppression shall be no worse than the case where Noise
Suppression is turned off.
# 12 Interaction with Lawful Intercept
In the case where lawful intercept is required in a call where Noise
Suppression is activated, the Noise Suppression shall not cause any
degradation in the speech quality received by the A and B parties.
# 13 Interaction with TFO
No interaction.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Method for generating Objective Performance
Measures
This annex presents an objective methodology for characterising the
performance of noise suppression (NS) methods. Two objective measures are
specified to be used for characterising NS solutions complying with the AMR/NS
specification.
## A.1 Notations
The following notations are used in this document:
\- The operator AMR(⋅) corresponds to applying the AMR speech encoder and
decoder on the input.
\- The operator NR(⋅) corresponds to applying the NS algorithm, and the AMR
speech encoder and decoder on the input.
\- The clean speech signals are referred to as s~i~ , i = 1 to I.
\- The noise signals are referred to as n~j~ , j = 1 to J.
\- The noisy speech test signals are referred to as d~ij~ = β~ij~(SNR) n~j~+
s~i~, i = 1 to I, j = 1 to J, where d~ij~ is built by adding s~i~ and n~j~
with a pre-specified SNR as presented below.
\- The processed signal are referred to as y~ij~ = NR (d~ij~).
\- The reference signal in the calculations shall be either the noisy speech
test signal d~ij~ itself or d~ij~ processed by the AMR speech codec without NS
processing. The latter signal will be referred to as c~ij~ = AMR (d~ij~), i =
1 to I, j = 1 to J. The relevant reference signal will be indicated in the
formulation of each objective measure below.
\- The notation Log(⋅) indicates the decimal logarithm.
\- β~ij~(SNR) is the scaling factor to be applied to the background noise
signal n~i~ in order to have a ratio SNR (in dB) between the clean speech
signal s~i~ and n~j~. The scaling of the input speech and noise signals is to
be carried according to the following procedure:
1) The clean speech material is scaled to a desired dBov level with the ITU-T
Recommendation P.56 [7] speech voltmeter, one file at a time, each file
including a sequence of one to four utterances from one speaker.
2) A silence period of 2 s is inserted in the beginning of each of the
resulting files to make up augmented clean speech files.
3) Within each noise type and level, a noise sequence is selected for every
speech utterance file, each with the same length as the corresponding speech
files, and each noise sequence is stored in a separate file.
4) Each of the noise sequences is scaled to a dBov level leading to the SNR
condition corresponding to the _β_ ~ij~(SNR) value in each of the test cases
by applying the RMS level based scaling according to the P.56 [7]
recommendation.
\- The determination of which frames contain active speech is to be carried
out with reference to the ITU-T Recommendation P.56 [7] active speech level
measurement and is related to the classification of the frames into the
presented speech power classes which is explained below.
## A.2 Test material
The test material should manifest at least the following extent:
\- Clean speech utterance sequences: 6 utterances from 4 speakers - 2 male and
2 female - totalling 24 utterances
\- Noise sequences:
\- car interior noise, 120 km/h, fairly constant power level
\- street noise, slowly varying power level
Special care should be taken to ensure that the original samples fulfil the
following requirements:
\- the clean speech signals are of a relatively constant average (within
sample, where \'sample\' refers to a file containing one or more utterances)
power level
\- the noise signals are of a short-time stationary nature with no rapid
changes in the power level and no speech-like components
The test signals should cover the following background noise and SNR
conditions:
\- car noise at 3 dB, 6 dB, 9 dB, 12 dB and 15 dB
\- street noise at 6 dB, 9 dB, 12 dB, 15 dB and 18 dB
A feasible subset of these conditions giving a practically useful indication
of the achieved performance would be:
\- car noise at 6 dB and 15 dB
\- street noise at 9 dB and 18 dB
The samples should be digitally filtered before NS and speech coding
processing by the MSIN filter to become representative of a real cellular
system frequency response.
## A.3 Objective measures for characterization of NS algorithm effect
**Assessment of SNR improvement level:** The SNR improvement measure,
**_SNRI_** , measures the SNR improvement achieved by the NS algorithm. SNR
improvement is calculated separately in three groups of frames that represent
power gated constituents of active speech signal. Hence, the _SNRI_ measure is
calculated separately in frames of high, medium and low power. These
categories are used to characterise the effect of the NS processing on speech,
allowing to distinguish the effect on strong, medium and weak speech. In
addition to calculating the SNR improvement separately on the three
categories, they are used to form an aggregate measure. A frame length of 80
samples is used since it has been found the most efficient to describe changes
in the signal caused by NS processing.
The calculation is here presented for the high power speech class:
For each background noise condition j
For each speaker i
Construct a noisy input signal d~ij~ as follows:
d~ij~(n) =  _β_ ~ij ~ n~j~(n) + s~i~(n)
where _β_ ~ij~ depends on the SNR condition according to the procedure
described above
c~ij~ = AMR (d~ij~)
y~ij~ = NR (d~ij~)
$\text{SNRout_h}_{\text{ij}} = \frac{\xi + \frac{1}{K_{\text{sph}}}\sum_{l =
1}^{K_{\text{sph}}}{\sum_{n = k_{{}_{\text{sph},l}} \cdot
\text{80}}^{k_{{}_{\text{sph},l}} \cdot \text{80} +
\text{79}}{y_{\text{ij}}^{2}(n)}}}{\xi + \frac{1}{K_{\text{nse}}}\sum_{m =
1}^{K_{\text{nse}}}{\sum_{p = k_{\text{nse},m} \cdot
\text{80}}^{k_{\text{nse},m} \cdot \text{80} +
\text{79}}{y_{\text{ij}}^{2}(p)}}} - 1$
{width="3.3194444444444446in" height="1.3055555555555556in"}
{width="6.236111111111111in" height="0.5555555555555556in"} (1)
where _k~sph~_ and _K~sph~_ are the index and the total number of frames
containing speech of a high power
_k~nse~_ and _K~nse~_ are the corresponding index and total number of noise
only frames
{width="0.375in" height="0.20833333333333334in"} is a constant that should be
set at 10^‑5^
SNRI_m~ij~ correspondingly for medium power frames
SNRI_l~ij~ correspondingly for low power frames
{width="5.236111111111111in" height="0.4861111111111111in"} (2)
{width="1.4166666666666667in" height="0.4722222222222222in"} (3)
{width="1.3611111111111112in" height="0.4861111111111111in"} (4)
In addition, measures for the SNR improvement in the high, medium and low
power speech classes (SNRI_h, SNRI_m, SNRI_l, respectively) shall be recorded
based on the following formulae:
{width="3.236111111111111in" height="0.4861111111111111in"} (5)
{width="3.361111111111111in" height="0.4861111111111111in"} (6)
{width="3.0965277777777778in" height="0.4861111111111111in"} (7)
It is, in addition, informative to record separately the noise type specific
SNR improvement measures, namely, SNRI_hj, SNRI_lj, SNRI_mj and SNRIj for each
j.
To determine which frames belong to high, medium and low power classes of
active speech and which present pauses in the speech activity (noise only),
the active speech level (in dB) sp_lvl of the noise free speech s~i~(n) is
first determined according to the ITU‑T Recommendation P.56. [7] Thereafter,
the frames are classified into the four classes as follows . Let us first
define four number sequences: {width="0.3888888888888889in" height="0.25in"},
{width="0.4166666666666667in" height="0.25in"}, {width="0.375in"
height="0.25in"}, {width="0.4027777777777778in"
height="0.2222222222222222in"}. All four sequences are initialized to an empty
sequence:
{width="0.75in" height="0.9305555555555556in"} (8)
Then, the frame power is calculated in each signal frame _k_ :
{width="2.861111111111111in" height="0.9722222222222222in"} (9)
We shall then classify each frame according to the frame power as follows:
if {width="1.7916666666666667in" height="0.2361111111111111in"}
{width="2.375in" height="0.4166666666666667in"}
else if {width="1.8333333333333333in" height="0.2361111111111111in"}
{width="2.4583333333333335in" height="0.4166666666666667in"} (10)
else if {width="1.75in" height="0.2361111111111111in"}
{width="2.3055555555555554in" height="0.4166666666666667in"}
else if {width="2.9305555555555554in" height="0.2361111111111111in"}
{width="2.3194444444444446in" height="0.2638888888888889in"}
where {width="0.3888888888888889in" height="0.19375in"} is a constant whose
value shall be such that in the dB scale, it shall be below sp_lvl + th_nl; a
value of 10^‑7^ should be used if sp_lvl = ‑26 dBov and th_nl = ‑34 dB, as
proposed below
th_h, th_m, th_l are pre-determined lower threshold power levels for
classifying the speech frames to the high, medium, and low power classes,
correspondingly. In the following, these threshold values are called _power
class threshold values_
{width="0.6111111111111112in" height="0.2222222222222222in"} is a function
returning the length of the number sequence {width="0.2222222222222222in"
height="0.2222222222222222in"}
The following notes on the formulation of the frame classification are made:
\- The lower bound for the power of the noise-only class of frames is
motivated by a desire to restrict the analysis to noise frames that are among
or close the speech activity, hence excluding long pauses from the analysis.
This makes the analysis concentrate increasingly on the effects encountered
during speech activity.
\- In poor SNR conditions, the noise power level may occur to be higher than
the lower bound of some of the speech power classes. However, even in this
case, the information of the effect on the low power portions of speech may be
informative. Another way of formulating the measure might be to make the power
thresholds dependent on the noise level. This would, however, restrict the
comparability of the SNR improvement figures of the different classes over
experiments with different background noise content.
The scaling for the clean speech material should be determined optimally so
that the dynamics of the 16 bit arithmetic system is efficiently used but no
waveform clipping is produced. Typically, a normalisation to the active speech
level of --26 dBov is preferable. In such a case, the following values should
be used for the power class thresholds:
> th_h = ‑1 dB
>
> th_m = ‑10 dB
>
> th_l = ‑16 dB (8)
>
> th_nh = ‑19 dB
>
> th_nl = ‑34 dB
**Assessment of noise power level reduction.** The noise power level reduction
**_NPLR_** measure relates to the capability of the NS method to attenuate the
background noise level.
The **_NPLR_** measure is calculated as follows:
> For each background noise condition j
>
> For each speaker i
>
> Construct a noisy input signal d~ij~ as follows:
>
> d~ij~(n) =  _β_ ~ij ~ n~j~(n) + s~i~(n)
>
> where _β_ ~ij~ depends on the SNR condition according to the procedure
> described above
>
> c~ij~ = AMR (d~ij~)
>
> y~ij~ = NR (d~ij~)
{width="3.611111111111111in" height="0.69375in"}
{width="2.736111111111111in" height="0.69375in"}, (12)
> where {width="0.4027777777777778in" height="0.2222222222222222in"} is a
> constant that should be set at 10^-5^;
>
> _k~nse~_ and _K~nse~_ are the corresponding index and total number of noise
> only frames
{width="1.5138888888888888in" height="0.4722222222222222in"} (13)
{width="1.4583333333333333in" height="0.4861111111111111in"} (14)
Furthermore, it is informative to record separately the noise type specific
NPLR measures, or NPLR~j~, for each j.
**Comparison of _SNRI _and_ NPLR _._ * A comparison of the _**SNRI** _and_**
NPLR** _measures can be used to acquire an indication of possible speech
distortion produced by the tested NS method. If the_** NPLR** _parameter
assumes clearly higher absolute values than_** SNRI***, it can be expected
that the NS candidate causes distortion to speech. This relation, however,
should always be verified through a comparison with subjective test results.
###### ## Annex B (normative): Methodology for Measuring Subjective SNR
Improvement for CCR Experiments
The purpose of experiment 3 is to evaluate the performances of the NS
algorithm in background noise conditions with two different bit-rates (5.9
kbps and 12.2 kbps). For these experiments three types of noise have been
selected: car noise, street noise and babble noise. For each type of noise two
different nominal SNR levels have been set:
* * *
Noise type SNR [dB] Car 6, 15 Street 9, 18 Babble 9,18
* * *
For each sub-experiment and for each type of noise three ideal NS reference
conditions will be processed. The exception is that for the higher SNRs (15dB
for car noise and 18 dB for street, babble noise) only 2 ideal noise reference
conditions will be tested (+3, +6dB):
* * *
Ideal SNR improvement SNR sub-exp. +3 dB SNR sub-exp. +6 dB SNR sub-exp. +9dB
* * *
Each ideal NS will be compared during the sub-experiment with the speech+noise
signals mixed at the nominal SNR levels. This leads to a total number of CCR
reference results of 5 per sub-experiment corresponding to 3 (2 for the higher
SNRs) SNR improvement levels. By connecting adjacent point by straight lines
we will obtain a graph giving a correspondence between CCR scores and
perceived SNR improvement (cf. figure B.1).
Finally the perceived SNR improvement for an AMR-NS candidate is obtained
using the CCR vs SNR graph as illustrated in figure B.1.
{width="5.995833333333334in" height="2.8854166666666665in"}
Figure B.1. Example of CCR versus SNR improvement graph\ O: ideal NS score,
*:AMR-NS candidate score
###### ## Annex C (normative): Test Plan for Checking Conformance to
Requirements
# C.1 Introduction
The present document contains the complete set of subjective test experiments
for the testing of the speech performance of Noise Suppression solutions for
application to AMR. The purpose of the tests is to check for compliance to the
recommended minimum performance requirements [1].
The AMR-NS Selection Tests are split into 4 main Experiments and 7 Sub-
Experiments listed in the following table.
* * *
Exp. No. Title No. of\ Sub-Exp.
1 Degradation in Clean Speech (PC) 1
2 No degradation of Speech and no Undesirable Effects in Residual Noise in
Conditions with Background Noise (ACR) 3
3 Performances in Background Noise Conditions (Mod-CCR) 2
4 Influence of Input Level, Voice Activity Detection and Discontinuous
Transmission (Mod-CCR) 1
             Total Number of Sub-Experiments:                                                                                  7
* * *
# C.2 Document Structure
The main body of the document starts at clause 4, and is arranged as follows:
* * *
Clause 4: References, Conventions, and Contacts References to specification
documents, lists of abbreviations, and contact names for the different areas
of the document Clause 5: Roles and Responsibilities Identification of roles
and allocation of Responsibilities. Clause 6: Information Relevant to all
Experiments Information relevant to all experiments. Clauses 7-10: Test Plans
Individual test plans. Information already covered in clause 6 is not repeated
in the individual plans. Note that the processing tables for the experiments
are collated in Annex B, and the randomizations (where required) in Annex C
Annex A: Instructions to Subjects and Data Collection For the Modified CCR,
Pair Comparison, Modified ACR. Annex B: Processing Tables Processing Tables
for all experiments. These map which speech samples are to be processed
through which conditions. Annex C: Presentation Orders Randomized presentation
orders for experiments.
* * *
# C.3 References, Conventions, and Contacts
* * *
[1] 3GPP TS 06.77 Minimum Performance Requirements for Noise Suppresser
Application to the AMR Speech Encoder (latest version) [2] TBD Processing
Function for the GSM AMR Noise Suppresser Selection Tests (Proposal - re-use
selection phase document) [3] ITU-T Com 12 Handbook on Telephonometry [4]
ITU-T Rec. P.800 Methods for subjective determination of transmission quality
[4] 3GPP TS 06.71 Adaptive Multi-Rate Speech Codec; General Description [5]
3GPP TS 06.73 Adaptive Multi-Rate Speech Codec; ANSI C-Code [6] 3GPP TR 06.75
[9] Performance Characterization of the GSM Adaptive Multi-Rate Speech Codec
[7] 3GPP TS 06.90 [10] Adaptive Multi-Rate Speech Codec; Transcoding Functions
[8] 3GPP TS 06.91 [11] Adaptive Multi-Rate Speech Codec; Error Concealment of
Lost Frames [9] 3GPP TS 06.92 [12] Adaptive Multi-Rate Speech Codec; Source
Controlled Rate Adaptation [10] 3GPP TS 06.94 [13] Adaptive Multi-Rate Speech
Codec; Voice Activity Detector
* * *
# C.4 Key Acronyms
* * *
ACR Absolute Category Rating AMR Adaptive Multi-Rate Speech Codec for the GSM
System AMR-NS Noise Suppresser for the AMR Speech Codec BER Bit Error Rate C/I
Carrier to Interference Ratio DCR Degradation Category Rating DECi Dynamic
Error Condition #i for Dynamic C/I conditions ECx Error Condition for static
C/I conditions with C/I = x dB EFR GSM Enhanced Full Rate speech codec EP
Error Pattern FR GSM Full Rate channel or existing GSM Full Rate speech codec
HR GSM Half Rate channel or existing GSM Half Rate speech codec MNRU Modulated
Noise Reference Unit MOS Mean Opinion Score S/N Signal to Noise Ratio
* * *
## C.4.1 Contact Names
The following persons should be contacted for questions related to the test
plan.
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Clause | Contact | O | Address | Te | | | P | rganization | | lephone/Fax | | | erson/Email | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Overall | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Experiments | Dominique | France | 2 Av. | Tel : + 33 | | 1 | Pascal/ | Télécom R&D | Pierre | 2 96 05 15 | | | | | Marzin | 78 | | | domi | | | | | | nique.pasca | | Technopole | Fax : + 33 | | | l\@rd.franc | | Anticipa | 2 96 05 13 | | | etelecom.fr | | | 16 | | | | | 22307 | | | | | | Lannion | | | | | | Cedex | | | | | | | | | | | | France | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Experiments | Anders | Ericsson | | | | 2 | Eriksson/\ | | | | | | a | | | | | | nders.eriks | | | | | | son\@era-t. | | | | | | ericsson.se | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Experiments | Steve | Motorola | | | | 3 | Aftelak/ | | | | | | Stephen | | | | | | .Aftelak\@m | | | | | | otorola.com | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Experiment | Steve | Motorola | | | | 4 | Aftelak/ | | | | | | Stephen | | | | | | .Aftelak\@m | | | | | | otorola.com | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
# C.5 Roles and Responsibilities
It is the sole responsibility of the proponent of a noise suppression solution
to ensure that the testing is conducted properly according to this test plan.
It is strongly recommended that third party subjective testing laboratories be
instructed to perform the tests according to this plan.
It is additionally required that the test material is processed in accordance
with the processing functions document [2].
Each experiment should be conducted in at least 2 languages. The proponent of
the noise suppression proponent is at liberty to choose the languages to be
used, but it is recommended that a reasonable range of languages be
incorporated, across the full set of experiments.
# C.6 Information relevant to all Experiments
## C.6.1 General Technical Notes
Any and all deviations from the specifications contained in this document and
the Processing Functions document [2] must be documented and submitted to
SMG11/S4 along with the experimental results.
## C.6.2 Codec Adaptation and Error Conditions
The philosophy of the AMR system is that it is capable of dynamically altering
the ratio of speech and channel coding to maximize speech performance as
channel conditions change. Each of the combinations of speech and channel
coding rates is known as a mode.
However, for the purpose of the AMR Noise Suppresser tests, only fixed mode
operation will be considered.
## C.6.3 Speech Material
All AMR-NS Experiments are subjective listening experiments using pre-recorded
speech passed through the candidate algorithms and simulated impairment
conditions prior to use in the experiments. Three types of speech sample are
used in these experiments:
Single sentence samples, 4 seconds in length
Short samples; sentence pairs, 8 seconds in length.
Long samples; sentence quadruplets, 16 seconds in length.
The experiment investigating the equivalence of the candidate Noise Suppresser
algorithms to the AMR algorithm without noise suppression in a quiet
environment (PC experiment 1) will use the single sentence stimuli. The
experiments investigating the possible introduction of artefacts and clipping
by the candidate Noise Suppresser algorithms (ACR experiments 2a, 2b & 2c)
will use the long 16-second samples. Experiment 2 includes conditions
investigating level dependency, VAD and DTX. All other experiments will use
the short 8-second samples.
For all original speech samples a 2s header will be added to accommodate the
Initial Convergence Time of the Noise Suppresser algorithms. For all
experiments this header should be removed at the end of the processing prior
to being used in subjective listening tests.
Information for constructing these sentences is provided in the remainder of
this clause.
Unless stated otherwise in the individual plans, each source speech file will
contain unique speech material (i.e. none of the sentences used in any given
sample should be used in any other sample for the same, or any other talker
within any sub experiment).
Pre-recorded source speech material may possibly be purchased as described in
Clause 6.3.1. Preferably, the test house should provide its own source speech
material. The guidelines contained in Clause 6.3.2 should be followed.
To avoid noise contrast effects, any silence gaps and/or pauses added to the
speech files to pad them out into the specified formats for the source speech
samples described in clauses 6.3.3, 6.3.4 and 6.3.5, should not be pure
digital silence. Padding out should be done by adding the ambient noise
present during the recording of the speech material between the sentences.
The information in clauses 6.3.3, 6.3.4 and 6.3.5 should be used in the
preparation of the material that the talkers will utter, as well as how the
recorded material should be constructed.
### C.6.3.1 Availability of Pre-recorded Speech Material
A \"Multi-lingual Speech Database for telephonometry 1994\", on 4 CD-ROM
disks, was available from NTT-AT, No.7 Hakuei Building, 2-4-15 Naka-machi,
Musashino-shi, 180 Japan (phone: +81 422 37 0823, fax: +81 422 60 4806).
In this database, the speech samples consist of pairs of short sentences with
a total length of 8-10 seconds. Each sentence lasts approximately 2 to 3
seconds. Four male and four female native speakers are assigned to each of the
21 languages and 96 speech samples are available for each language. The
sampling rate is 16 kHz. Active speech level (as defined in ITU-T Rec. P.56)
of every speech sample is adjusted to -26dBovl.
Each CD consists of two different areas: audio and data. Speech samples in the
audio area are digitized by 44.1 kHz and 16 bits word length linear PCM and
can be played back by a commercial CD player. All speech samples in the data
area are recorded in standardized format in 16-bit, 2\'s complement, low-byte
first (little endian) format and can be retrieved by an ordinary PC-DOS system
and CD-ROM reader.
### C.6.3.2 Recording Your Own Speech Databases
All speech recordings should be made in acoustical and electrical environments
complying with the requirements given in Annex B.1.1 of ITU-T Rec. P.800.
The recommended method is to record the speech with a linear microphone and a
low-noise amplifier with flat frequency response, digitize the speech, and
then flat filter and level equalize. To achieve optimum SNR, the microphone
should be positioned 15 to 20 cm from the talker\'s lips. A windscreen should
be used if breath puffs from the talker are noticed.
The recordings should be made directly into a computer (A/D) or via a high
quality recording system such as a DAT.
### C.6.3.3 Format for Single Sentence Speech Samples
Each source speech file will contain one sentence and will last nominally 4s.
All source speech files within an experiment will be exactly the same length.
This enhances the ability to recognize processing problems. An approximate 0.5
seconds period of silence precedes the sentence, and a similar period of
silence follows the sentence. The speech files are organized as in the example
shown in Figure 6.3.1. The sentences will be simple meaningful sentences as
described in Annex B1.4 of ITU-T Rec. P.800.
Figure 6.3.1: Example of Speech file structure for single sentences
It must be noted that the trailing silence of 0,5s after the end of the
sentence in the file is of extreme importance, since there are (for some
conditions) a series of FIR filters with large number of coefficients. If the
prescribed trailing silence is not present, there is a considerable risk that
speech will be clipped at the end of the file.
### C.6.3.4 Format for Short Speech Samples
Each source speech file will contain one pair of sentences and will last
nominally 8 seconds, with a flexible time interval between the two sentences.
All source speech files within an experiment will be exactly the same length.
This enhances the ability to recognize processing problems. An approximate 0.5
seconds period of silence precedes the first sentence in the file, and a
similar period of silence follows the second sentence in the file. The speech
files are organized as in the example shown in Figure 6.3.2. The sentences
will be simple meaningful sentences as described in Annex B1.4 of ITU-T Rec.
P.800.
Figure 6.3.2: Example of speech file structure for short speech samples
It must be noted that the trailing silence of 0.5s after the end of the second
sentence in the file is of extreme importance, since there are (for some
conditions) a series of FIR filters with large number of coefficients. If the
prescribed trailing silence is not present, there is a considerable risk that
speech will be clipped at the end of the file.
### C.6.3.5 Format for Long Speech Samples
Each sample will contain 4 different sentences and will last nominally 16
seconds, with a time interval between sentences as described in Annex B1.4 of
ITU-T Rec. P.800. All source speech files within an experiment will be exactly
the same length. An approximate 0.3-0.5 seconds period of silence precedes the
first sentence in the file, and a similar period of silence follows the last
sentence in the file. The speech files are organized as in the example shown
in Figure 6.3.3. The sentences will be simple meaningful sentences as
described in Annex B1.4 of ITU-T Rec. P.800. Active speech in each source
speech file should be present for not less than 9 seconds and not more than
12s. _{note -- this last requirement may be hard to meet for some speech data
bases. The typical English Harvard Sentence is less that 2 seconds long. Four
of these would be less than the required 9 seconds of active speech. Therefore
a reasonable relaxation of this last requirement should be tolerated}._
Figure 6.3.3: Example of speech file structure for long speech samples
These samples could be built by the addition of two of the 8-sec sentences
described in clause 6.3.3, providing that the constraint for the active speech
described above is (reasonably) fulfilled.
### C.6.3.6 Processing of the Speech Files
All speech files will need to be pre-processed prior to being processed
through the experimental conditions. This pre-processing ensures that the
speech is at the correct level and has the correct input characteristic. Full
details on the processing required are given in [2]. Speech levels will be
measured with the P.56 [7] algorithm and level adjusted with the gain/loss
algorithm to the level required for each test condition as defined in the test
plans for the individual experiments. Where the nominal level is specified,
this level should be set to 26dB (±1dB) below digital overload (-26dBovl).
Some of the experiments require that the source speech material has background
noise added. Details of the process to be followed are given in [2]. Noise
levels will be measured with the rms. computation algorithm and level adjusted
with the gain/loss algorithm to the required level. The following procedure
will be followed:
The environmental noise will be Delta SM filtered to incorporate a near field
microphone response.
The environmental noises will be passed through the GSM send characteristic
(see [2]).
The noise levels will be adjusted using the r.m.s. measure to the mean level
dictated by following test plans. For each type of noise, six segments will be
taken from the noise file. The segments will be numbered from N1 to N6.
The source speech material will be passed through the GSM send characteristic
[2] and normalized (level equalized to -26dB) using the speech level meter
complying with ITU-T Recommendation P.56 [7]. This is the responsibility of
the Host Laboratories.
Finally, the noise will be digitally mixed with the normalized speech
material. If the resulting signal amplitude exceeds the overload point of the
A/D converter, it should be limited to the peak value and the clipping effect
should be controlled by expert observation. The following mixing scheme
details the combining of speech and noise samples for each speaker.
Table 6.3.4: Speech vs. Noise samples mixing scheme
* * *
                               M1   M2   F1   F2
Speech sample 1 N1 N2 N3 N4 Speech sample 2 N2 N3 N4 N5 Speech sample 3 N3 N4
N5 N6 Speech sample 4 N4 N5 N6 N1 Speech sample 5 N5 N6 N1 N2 Speech sample 6
N6 N1 N2 N3 Speech sample 7 (practice) N1 N3 N5 N2
* * *
## C.6.4 Listening Environment
For all experiments, subjects should be seated in a quiet environment; 30dBA
Hoth Spectrum (as defined by ITU-T Recommendation P.800 [8] , Annex A, clause
A.1.1.2.2.1 Room Noise, with table A.1 and Figure A.1) measured at the head
position of the subject. This will help ensure consistency between the
different subjects in the same laboratory as well as across the different
laboratories in which these experiments will be performed.
The following points should be adhered to:
Where the experiment design and the listening environment allows for multiple
subjects in each listening session, the requirements stated above apply to
each of the positions the subjects will occupy.
Where there are multiple simultaneous subjects, they should not be able to see
the responses made by other subjects.
All test stimuli will be presented to the subjects over a telephone handset
with Modified IRS receiving response (exclusive of the SRAEN filter). Any
deviation shall be reported, e.g. use of one ear-piece in a headphone.
Subjects should be told not to discuss the experiment with subjects who are
yet to participate.
Any test house performing multiple experiments must use different listening
subjects for each experiment or sub-experiment.
## C.6.5 Experimental Procedure
Initially the experimenter should present and explain the experiment
instructions to the subjects. When the subject has understood the
instructions, they will first listen and give score to the preliminary
conditions. After the preliminaries have been completed, there should be
sufficient time allowed for answering possible questions from the subjects.
Any questions about the procedure or the meaning of the instructions should be
answered, but any technical questions on matters such as the experimental
methodology or details of the types of distortions they are listening to must
not be answered until they have completed the experiment.
## C.6.6 Preliminary Conditions
Preliminary conditions are included in the experiment to help acclimatize the
subjects with the experimental procedure and to help reduce learning effects
of the subjects, by ensuring that the subjects hear a full range of the
potential qualities at the start of the experiment. No suggestions should be
made to the subjects that the preliminary samples include the best or worst in
the range to be covered, or exhaust the range of conditions they can expect to
hear.
## C.6.7 Reference Conditions
Four types of reference conditions are used in these experiments:
AMR without NS References: These are to be used to determine how the AMR Noise
Suppresser performs in relation to these.
Direct unprocessed speech plus noise source material.
MNRU references: These are included as standard references of known and well
understood performance and will allow the results to be expressed in terms of
Equivalent Q as well as MOS for the ACR tests. MNRUs are also included in the
CCR tests as references to estimate the test sensitivity and explore most of
the CMOS range. For the CCR experiments, relative MNRU comparisons are used to
estimate the test sensitivity. For example an MNRU of 12 may be compared to an
MNRU of 16. If this difference is just above the significance level, it
represents the test sensitivity.
Ideal noise suppression levels: These are represented by varying the SNR level
between the speech and noise. These conditions are AMR processed. This is an
attempt to define equivalent noise suppression levels.
For the Tests involving background noise conditions, the MNRU references will
use noisy speech (i.e. background noise will be used with the MNRU). The exact
number of each of these types of reference in each experiment can be found in
the experiment plans in the clauses 7-10.
## C.6.8 Noise Material
Most of the Noise Suppresser Selection Test Experiments require the addition
of noise to the speech material. The following types of noise are identified
in this test plan:
**Car Noise** : This represents stationary (static) background noise and will
be typical of the noise experienced when inside a moving vehicle (car) at a
constant speed.
**Street Noise** : This represents non-stationary (dynamic) noise and will be
typical of noise which might be experienced by someone using a mobile on a
city street.
**Babble Noise** : This represents non-stationary (dynamic) noise and will be
typical of the background noise encountered in public places: restaurant,
cafeteria, open offices.
Noise files available free of charge from ARCON solely for the purposes of
SMG11/S4 work shall be used. Contact ETSI (Paolo Usai) for further information
(Paolo.Usai\@ETSI.FR).
# C.7 Experiment 1: Degradation in Clean Speech (Pair Comparison Test)
## C.7.1 Introduction
This PC (Paired-Comparison) experiment was prepared to test the \'**No
degradation in clean speech\'** requirement in the Recommended Minimum
Performance Requirements specification ([1],\ TS 3GPP TS 06.77 [4]), i.e..
This PC experiment will be run for the whole set of bit rates of the base
vocoder, in single and tandem connection.
The test methodology is direct, paired, forced choice comparison (i.e. A
versus B test method with forced choice) . The question that we are trying to
answer with this test is not \"What is the rank order of several coders?\" but
rather \"Does the quality of coder with noise suppression (+NS) meet or exceed
the quality of the coder without NS for a given condition?\" The direct
comparison A/B test methodology can answer this question by considering the
proportion (or percent) of the measures where the candidate was preferred over
the standard. Each individual judgement is a binary decision. A rank order
approach could be taken as noted in the Handbook of Telephonometry [3]
regarding Paired Comparisons but notes: \"In the scaling modulus is included
the common standard deviation, which is, however, unknown and so does not
permit calculating confidence limits for the scale positions obtained.\"
For the A/B experiment proposed here, with 24 subjects each making two
independent measures (A/B and B/A) of the preference of the candidate coder
over the standard coder for four talkers (two male and two female) each
condition and with one repeat , the effective N is 384. In order to
accommodate the repeat measure, single sentence samples will be used. This
provides the additional benefit of directly adjacent A/B comparisons during
presentation. The repeat measure will be made using a unique second sentence.
## C.7.2 Test Factors and Conditions
The PC test will be run for the following basic vocoder conditions:
\- Bit Rates of 4.75 kbit/s, 5.15 kbit/s, 5.9 kbit/s, 6.7 kbit/s, 7.4 kbit/s,
7.95 kbit/s, 10.2 kbit/s and 12.2 bit/s.
\- Single codec.
This results in a single PC experiment with clean source speech and no channel
impairments. The speech material used in these experiments are 4s samples
(single sentence).
The following table (Table 7.1) shows the testing factors to be used in this
experiment. Due to the limited number of conditions tested within this
experiment, it is possible to design a more balanced test structure and
introduce some dummy conditions where the perceived difference in quality
within the pairs of stimuli should be obvious for the subjects. A list of test
conditions is given in Table 7.3.
Table 7.1: Factors and conditions for Experiment 1
+----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Main Codec Conditions | # | Notes | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Noise Suppresser Candidate | 1 | | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Codec | 1 | AMR | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Codec Modes (FR/HR) | HR | All 8 AMR modes | | | | | | | FR | | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | BERs | 0 | Clear channel, no | | | | transmission errors | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Input level | 1 | nominal: -26dB relative to | | | | OVL | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Acoustic Background Noise | 0 | None | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Tandeming | 0 | No tandeming condition | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Input Characteristic | 1 | GSM Filtered | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | **_Codec references_** | **_#_** | **_Notes_** | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Test vocoders | 1 | AMR with NS | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Reference vocoder | 8 | AMR at 12.2, 10.2, 7.95, | | | | 7.4, 6.7, 5.9, 5.15 & 4.75 | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Other references | # | Notes | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Direct | | Nominal level, GSM | | | | Filtered | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | MNRU | 2 | Q = 5 dB & 20 dB, other Q | | | | values in preliminaries | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Ideal Noise Suppression | 0 | None | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | **_Common Conditions_** | **_#_** | **_Notes_** | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | GSM Channel | 0 | NO channel model | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Number of talkers | 4 | 2 male + 2 female | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Number of speech samples | 52 | 12/talker + 1 | | | | practice/talker | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Sentences/sample | 1 | Single sentence stimuli | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Listening Level | 1 | -15dBPa (79dB SPL) at ERP | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Listeners | 24 | Naive Listeners | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Randomizations | 6 | 6 groups of 4 listeners | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Rating Scale | 1 | PC Instructions | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Replications | 2 | Original Presentation + | | | | repeat w/ 2^nd^ sentence | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+
## C.7.3 Preliminary Conditions
The following 16 preliminary test conditions are recommended.
Table 7.2: List of preliminary conditions for Experiment 1
* * *
Cond. Presentation order Reference Codec Trans-codings Processed Codec Trans-
codings Talker and Sample Number P1 5 Direct - MNRU-20 - F1S13 P2 1 MNRU-18 -
MNRU-22 - M1S13 P3 3 MNRU-19 - MNRU-21 - F2S13 P4 7 AMR-12.2 1 AMR-12.2 1
M2S13 P5 6 AMR-12.2 1 AMR-5.9 1 F1S13 P6 2 AMR-5.9 1 AMR-5.9 1 M1S13 P7 4
AMR-4.75 1 AMR-7.95 1 F2S13 P8 8 MNRU-5 - MNRU-20 - M2S13 P9 14 MNRU-20 -
Direct - F1S13 P10 10 MNRU-22 - MNRU-18 - M1S13 P11 12 MNRU-21 - MNRU-19 -
F2S13 P12 16 AMR-12.2 1 AMR-12.2 1 M2S13 P13 13 AMR-5.9 1 AMR-12.2 1 F1S13 P14
9 AMR-5.9 1 AMR-5.9 1 M1S13 P15 11 AMR-7.95 1 AMR-4.75 1 F2S13 P16 15 MNRU-20
- MNRU-5 - M2S13
* * *
## C.7.4 Speech Material
Single sentences. For the 4 talkers, 2 male and 2 female there are:
\- 13 stimuli / talker, each stimuli 4sec long w/ 1 sentence
\- 12 unique sentences / talker for test plus one for practice
To reduce the speech material effect, each talkers\' samples must be unique.
For this experiment, the unique samples are not balanced across all condition,
candidates and subject groups. The same sample numbers for each talker are
used for common conditions within a subject group and changed across subject
groups.
## C.7.5 Experimental Design
The design is based on a restricted randomization philosophy using 6 different
randomizations, each one covered by a group of 4 of the 24 subjects. This
means that up to 4 subjects can perform the experiment simultaneously.
Each subject will hear all of the conditions 16 times, four times with speech
from each of the four talkers. Each of two stimuli for a talker will be
presented in both the A/B and B/A order. Over the experiment as a whole, each
of the conditions will be paired with twelve different samples from each of
the four talkers. Each of the six groups of subjects will hear different
combinations of source material and condition.
## C.7.6 Processing
Every condition has to be processed for each of the twelve stimuli of each of
the four talkers. The actual samples used for each condition by each subject
group are presented in Clause 7.12 Test Conditions.
## C.7.7 Randomizations
Separate randomizations for each of the six subject groups shall be provided
to reduce order effects and to minimize differences between the laboratories.
There shall be six randomizations for the experiment, one for each subject
group. Each one will therefore be used by four of the 24 subjects.
## C.7.8 Duration of the PC Experiment
Each stimuli is 4 sec reference + 4 sec speech sample + 4 s voting time or 12
seconds. For this experiment there are 16 preliminary conditions x 12 seconds
or 3.2 minutes for an introductory block. The presentation set for the
experiment consists of 40 conditions (A/B+B/A) x 2 repeats x 4 talkers x 12
seconds or 64 minutes. The experiment is presented as the 16 preliminary
conditions followed by the test itself divided in several sessions, i.e. 67,2
minutes testing time / subject group. The 6 groups of 4 subjects require 7
hours and 30 minutes total testing time for the experiment (6 x 1h 15 env.)
To reduce the effects of subject fatigue, sessions should be separated by
short comfort breaks.
Note that the above calculations do not include the time needed to give the
subjects their instructions, or for comfort breaks.
## C.7.9 Votes Per Condition
Every condition will have 24 subjects vote on four stimulus from each of four
talkers, giving:
(24 subjects x 4 talkers x 4 Presentations) = 384 votes per condition
From past experience of PC tests, this is the minimum number of votes per
condition needed to give enough statistical certainty to differentiate the
performance of one candidate process from another candidate process over the
conditions and against the references.
## C.7.10 Test Procedure
Factors important for the experimental environment are specified in clauses
6.4, 6.5, and 6.6. As specified in clause 7.8, comfort breaks should be
provided to reduce the effects of subject fatigue.
## C.7.11 Opinion Scale
The question asked of the subject is according to the Paired-Comparison binary
scale. The specific wording is designed to evaluate the relative quality of
the test sample in relation to the reference sample. In order to minimise
presentation bias, the samples will be presented in both the A/B and B/A
directions within the experiment. The subjects will listen to each pair of
samples, and after presentation is completed, they will be asked to give their
opinion. Annex A.1 contains an example of the instructions for the subjects in
English.
## C.7.12 Statistical Analysis
The statistics to be reported for this pair-comparison experiment [4] are the
proportion _P_ of subjects preferring the test stimulus over the reference
stimulus (as defined in Table 2) for a total of _N_ votes per condition, the
standard deviation _s_ :
{width="0.9027777777777778in" height="0.4305555555555556in"} **(Eq.1)**
and the upper and lower confidence limits, as calculated by:
{width="3.375in" height="0.5138888888888888in"} **(Eq.2)**
where {width="0.3333333333333333in" height="0.2638888888888889in"} is the
standardized score for a normal distribution cutting off the lower
{width="0.2361111111111111in" height="0.16666666666666666in"} proportion of
cases.
Additionally, a hypothesis to test was whether the preference for the noise
reduction-enabled AMR codec was statistically different from the ideal
proportion π=0.5, i.e. that the AMR with noise suppression is equally
preferred to AMR without noise suppression (for quiet background). In other
words,
{width="0.8194444444444444in" height="0.4305555555555556in"}
The null hypothesis Ho is tested using a _z_ test where:
{width="3.736111111111111in" height="0.5965277777777778in"} **(Eq.3)**
Hence, the null hypothesis is rejected if
> > {width="0.5965277777777778in" height="0.2361111111111111in"}
Or accepted if:
{width="1.7083333333333333in" height="0.3611111111111111in"} **(Eq.4)**
For a 95% confidence level, Equations 2 and 4 are reduced to
({width="0.69375in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}, _N_ =384):
{width="4.861111111111111in" height="0.4861111111111111in"} **(Eq.5)**
{width="0.9027777777777778in" height="0.16666666666666666in"} **(Eq.6)**
## C.7.13 Test Conditions for Experiment 1
Table 7.3: Test conditions for Experiment 1
+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Cond. | Reference | Processed | Tr | Speech | | | Codec | Codec | ans-codings | sample | | | | | | number | | | | | | | | | | | | (6 | | | | | | sequences) | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1 | AMR\@12.2 | AMR\@12.2 | 1 | 2 3 4 5 6 1 | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 2 | AMR\@10.2 | AMR\@10.2 | 1 | 3 4 5 6 1 2 | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 3 | AMR\@7.95 | AMR\@7.95 | 1 | 1 2 3 4 5 6 | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 4 | AMR\@7.4 | AMR\@7.4 | 1 | 4 5 6 1 2 3 | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 5 | AMR\@6.7 | AMR\@6.7 | 1 | 5 6 1 2 3 4 | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 6 | AMR\@5.9 | AMR\@5.9 | 1 | 6 1 2 3 4 5 | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 7 | AMR\@5.15 | AMR\@5.15 | 1 | 2 3 4 5 6 1 | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 8 | AMR\@4.75 | AMR\@4.75 | 1 | 3 4 5 6 1 2 | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 9 | AMR\@12.2 | AMR\@5.9 | 1 | 1 2 3 4 5 6 | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 10 | AMR\@4.75 | AMR\@7.95 | 1 | 4 5 6 1 2 3 | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 11 | DIRECT | MNRU Q= 20 | 1 | 5 6 1 2 3 4 | | | | dB | | | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 12 | MNRU Q= 5 | MNRU Q= 20 | 1 | 6 1 2 3 4 5 | | | dB | dB | | | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 13 | AMR\@12.2 | A | 1 | 2 3 4 5 6 1 | | | | MR/NS\@12.2 | | | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 14 | AMR\@10.2 | A | 1 | 3 4 5 6 1 2 | | | | MR/NS\@10.2 | | | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 15 | AMR\@7.95 | A | 1 | 1 2 3 4 5 6 | | | | MR/NS\@7.95 | | | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 16 | AMR\@7.4 | AMR/NS\@7.4 | 1 | 4 5 6 1 2 3 | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 17 | AMR\@6.7 | AMR/NS\@6.7 | 1 | 5 6 1 2 3 4 | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 18 | AMR\@5.9 | AMR/NS\@5.9 | 1 | 6 1 2 3 4 5 | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 19 | AMR\@5.15 | A | 1 | 1 2 3 4 5 6 | | | | MR/NS\@5.15 | | | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 20 | AMR\@4.75 | A | 1 | 3 4 5 6 1 2 | | | | MR/NS\@4.75 | | | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 21 -- 40 | Reversed | | | | | | order of | | | | | | the | | | | | | reference | | | | | | and | | | | | | processed | | | | | | speech | | | | | | samples in | | | | | | cond. 1-20 | | | | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 41 -- 60 | Repeat of | | | | | | conditions | | | | | | 1 -- 20 | | | | | | with Speech | | | | | | Sample | | | | | | Number +6 | | | | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 61 - 80 | Reversed | | | | | | order of | | | | | | the | | | | | | reference | | | | | | and | | | | | | processed | | | | | | speech | | | | | | samples in | | | | | | cond. 41 - | | | | | | 60 | | | | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTES: | 4 talkers | | | | | | are used | | | | | | for all | | | | | | conditions: | | | | | | 2 male and | | | | | | 2 female | | | | | | | | | | | | 12 speech | | | | | | samples (4 | | | | | | s) are used | | | | | | for each | | | | | | talker | | | | | | | | | | | | AMR\@12.2 | | | | | | means AMR | | | | | | at 12.2 | | | | | | kbit/s | | | | | | | | | | | | A | | | | | | MR/NS\@12.2 | | | | | | means NS | | | | | | candidate x | | | | | | with AMR at | | | | | | 12.2 kbit/s | | | | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
# C.8 Experiments 2a, 2b & 2c: No degradation of Speech and no Undesirable
Effects in Residual Noise in Conditions with Background Noise (ACR)
## C.8.1 Introduction
These ACR experiments are designed to test the requirement \"No degradation of
Speech and no Undesirable Effects in Residual Noise\" in the Minimum
Performance Requirements for Noise Suppresser Application to the AMR Speech
Encoder, [1],. These ACR experiments will be run for three types of acoustic
background noise.
## C.8.2 Test Factors and Conditions
The ACR test will be run for the following three types of acoustic background
noise:
\- A car noise that is stationary both in level and in spectrum.
\- A street noise that is non-stationary in level but fairly stationary in
spectrum.
\- A babble noise that is fairly stationary in level but non-stationary in
spectrum.
This results in a total of three ACR experiments with the different noise
types in separate experiments. Within each experiment, a low, a medium and a
high SNR level will be tested. The values for the low SNR are SNR_C = 6 dB for
the car noise, SNR_S = 9 dB for the street noise, and SNR_B = 9 dB for the
babble noise. The higher SNR will be equal to SNR + 6 dB and SNR + 12 dB for
all three noise types. The noise samples will have been recorded in scenarios
representative of the respective low SNR value for each noise type (i.e. SNR =
6 or 9 dB).
All three experiments are run at AMR bit rate 12.2 kbit/s and 5.9 kbit/s.
The following table shows the testing factors to be used in these experiments.
A full list of test conditions is given in Clause 8.12.
Table 8.2.1: Factors and conditions for Experiments 2a, 2b, 2c
+-----------------------------+----+-------------------------------+ | Main Codec Conditions | # | Notes | +-----------------------------+----+-------------------------------+ | Noise Suppresser Algorithms | 1 | | +-----------------------------+----+-------------------------------+ | Codec | 1 | AMR | +-----------------------------+----+-------------------------------+ | Codec Modes | 2 | 12.2 kbps rate, 5.9 kbps rate | +-----------------------------+----+-------------------------------+ | BERs | 0 | Clear channel, no | | | | transmission errors | +-----------------------------+----+-------------------------------+ | Input level | 3 | nominal (high, low): -26dB | | | | (-16 dB, -36 dB) relative to | | | | OVL | +-----------------------------+----+-------------------------------+ | Acoustic Background Noise | 3 | Static Car @ 6dB, 12dB, 18dB | | | | | | | | Street @ 9dB, 15dB, 21dB | | | | | | | | Babble @ 9dB, 15dB, 21dB | +-----------------------------+----+-------------------------------+ | Input Characteristic | 1 | GSM Filtered | +-----------------------------+----+-------------------------------+ | VAD/CNG/DTX | 2 | ON only at the nominal level, | | | | medium SNR values, zero value | | | | of Ideal NS\ | | | | OFF for other conditions | | | | | | | | One VAD/CNG/DTX will be used | | | | ; either VAD Option 1 or 2, | | | | depending on the implementers | | | | choice | +-----------------------------+----+-------------------------------+ | Codec references | # | Notes | +-----------------------------+----+-------------------------------+ | All Experiments | 1 | AMR wo/ NS | +-----------------------------+----+-------------------------------+ | | | | +-----------------------------+----+-------------------------------+ | Other references | # | Notes | +-----------------------------+----+-------------------------------+ | Direct | | Nominal level, GSM Filtered | +-----------------------------+----+-------------------------------+ | MNRU, Exp 2a, 2b, 2c | 5 | Nominal level, with | | | | background noise, GSM | | | | Filtered, Q= 6, 12, 18, 24, | | | | 30dB | +-----------------------------+----+-------------------------------+ | Ideal Noise Suppression | 6 | 3 levels for each SNR | +-----------------------------+----+-------------------------------+ | Common Conditions | # | Notes | +-----------------------------+----+-------------------------------+ | GSM Channel | 0 | NO channel model | +-----------------------------+----+-------------------------------+ | Number of talkers | 4 | 2 male + 2 female | +-----------------------------+----+-------------------------------+ | Number of speech samples | 28 | 6/ talker for the main test + | | | | 1/ talker for the Practice | | | | session | +-----------------------------+----+-------------------------------+ | Listening Level | 1 | -15dBPa (79dB SPL) at ERP | +-----------------------------+----+-------------------------------+ | Listeners | 24 | Naive Listeners | +-----------------------------+----+-------------------------------+ | Randomizations | 6 | 6 groups of 4 listeners | +-----------------------------+----+-------------------------------+ | Rating Scale | 1 | Modified ACR Instructions | +-----------------------------+----+-------------------------------+ | Replications | 1 | Original Presentation Only | +-----------------------------+----+-------------------------------+
## C.8.3 Preliminary Conditions
The following 16 preliminary test conditions are recommended.
Table 8.3.1: List of preliminary conditions
* * *
Cond. Presentation order SNR value Ideal NS (dB) Codec Talker and Sample
Number P1 5 SNR - Direct M1S07 P2 1 SNR - MNRU-12 M2S07 P3 3 SNR - AMR\@12.2
M1S07 P4 7 SNR 7 AMR\@12.2 M2S07 P5 6 SNR+6 7 AMR\@12.2 F1S07 P6 2 SNR+12 7
AMR\@12.2 F2S07 P7 4 SNR - AMR\@5.9 F1S07 P8 8 SNR+12 - AMR\@5.9 F2S07 P9 14
SNR - Direct F1S07 P10 10 SNR - MNRU-12 F2S07 P11 12 SNR - AMR\@12.2 F1S07 P12
16 SNR 7 AMR\@12.2 F2S07 P13 13 SNR+6 7 AMR\@12.2 M1S07 P14 9 SNR+12 7
AMR\@12.2 M2S07 P15 11 SNR - AMR\@5.9 M1S07 P16 15 SNR+12 - AMR\@5.9 M2S07
* * *
## C.8.4 Speech Material
The speech material should be as defined in Clause 6.4 - Long Sentence Quads,
with each sample containing 4 sentences. For each test condition there are:
\- 6 samples / talker, each sample 16sec long w/ 4 sentences
\- 24 unique sentences / talker
For the practice conditions there are:
\- 1 sample / talker
\- 4 unique sentences / talker
To reduce any speech material effect, each talker sample must be unique. For
these experiments, the unique samples are not balanced across all condition,
candidates and subject groups. The same sample numbers for each talker are
used for common conditions within a subject group and changed across subject
groups. For a given language, the same speech material must be used for the
three experiments 2a, 2b and 2c.
Speech samples numbered from 01 to 06 should be used for the test conditions;
speech samples numbered as 07 should be used for the Practice session.
The noise material and its mix with the speech material should be as defined
in Clause 6.10 and Clause 8.2.
## C.8.5 Experimental Design
The design is based on a restricted randomization philosophy using 6 different
randomizations, each one covered by a group of 4 of the 24 subjects. This
means that up to 4 subjects can perform the experiment simultaneously.
Each subject will hear all of the conditions four times, once with speech from
each of the four talkers. Over the experiment as a whole, each of the
conditions will be paired with six different samples from each of the four
talkers. Each of the six groups of subjects will hear different combinations
of source material and condition.
## C.8.6 Processing
Every condition has to be processed for each of the six stimuli of each of the
four primary talkers. The actual samples used for each condition by each
subject group are presented in Clause 8.12 Test Conditions.
## C.8.7 Randomizations
Separate randomizations for each of the six subject groups shall be provided
to reduce order effects and to minimize differences between the laboratories.
There shall be six randomizations for the sub-experiments, one for each
subject group. The same randomizations will be used for the three experiments
(2a, 2b and 2c). Each one will therefore be used by four of the 24 subjects.
Each randomization shall be balanced across 4 blocks of 36 stimuli to
eliminate long sequences of similar conditions or identical talkers. The
sequences shall provide for alternating male-female talkers.
## C.8.8 Duration of the ACR Experiments 2a, 2b, and 2c
Each stimuli is 16 s speech sample + 5 s voting time or 21 seconds. For each
of the three experiments there are 16 preliminary conditions x 21 seconds or
5.6 minutes for an introductory block. The test consists of 36 conditions x 4
talkers x 21 seconds or 50.4 minutes, presented as three 16.8 minute blocks of
36 stimuli for 56 minutes testing time / subject group. The 6 groups of 4
subjects require 4 hours and 24 minutes total testing time
To reduce the effects of subject fatigue, the three blocks should be separated
by short comfort breaks.
Note that the above calculations do not include the time needed to give the
subjects their instructions, or for comfort breaks.
## C.8.9 Votes Per Condition
In each of the three experiments, every condition will have 24 subjects vote
on one stimulus from each of four talkers, giving:
(24 subjects x 4 talkers) = 96 votes per condition
From past experience of ACR tests, this is the minimum number of votes per
condition needed to give enough statistical certainty to differentiate the
performance of one candidate process from another candidate process over the
conditions and against the references.
## C.8.10 Test Procedure
Factors important for the experimental environment are specified in clause 6.5
and 6.6. As specified in clause 9.8, comfort breaks should be provided to
reduce the effects of subject fatigue.
## C.8.11 Opinion Scale
The question asked of the subject is a modification of the ACR Listening
Quality Scale. The specific wording is designed to evaluate both the level of
distortion of the speech and the presence of artefacts in the residual
background noise signal. The subjects will listen to each sample and after it
has completed they will be asked to give their opinion.
Annex A contains an example of the instructions for the subjects in English.
The instructions in Annex A contain a modified version of the ACR
instructions. They are aimed at focusing the subjects to rate artefacts
introduced by the NS device. The test administrator should have the freedom to
provide guidance to the subjects to reinforce this point, provided that such
instructions are consistent across all 24 subjects. This is particularly
important for tests not performed in English. Any additional instructions
given to the subjects should be reported as an integral part of test reports.
## C.8.12 Test Conditions for Experiments 2a, 2b and 2c
+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Cond. | Input | SNR | Ideal | VAD/DTX | Codec | Speech | | | level | value | NS (dB) | | | sample | | | | | | | | number | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (6 | | | | | | | | seq | | | | | | | | uences) | +-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 1 | nominal | SNR | - | N/A | Direct | 4 5 6 1 | | | | | | | | 2 3 | +-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 2 | nominal | SNR | - | N/A | MNRU-30 | 4 5 6 1 | | | | | | | | 2 3 | +-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 3 | nominal | SNR | - | N/A | MNRU-24 | 4 5 6 1 | | | | | | | | 2 3 | +-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 4 | nominal | SNR | - | N/A | MNRU-18 | 4 5 6 1 | | | | | | | | 2 3 | +-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 5 | nominal | SNR | - | N/A | MNRU-12 | 4 5 6 1 | | | | | | | | 2 3 | +-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 6 | nominal | SNR | - | N/A | MNRU-6 | 4 5 6 1 | | | | | | | | 2 3 | +-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 7 | nominal | SNR | - | off | AM | 1 2 3 4 | | | | | | | R\@12.2 | 5 6 | +-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 8 | nominal | SNR | 4 | off | AM | 1 2 3 4 | | | | | | | R\@12.2 | 5 6 | +-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 9 | nominal | SNR | 7 | off | AM | 1 2 3 4 | | | | | | | R\@12.2 | 5 6 | +-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 10 | nominal | SNR | - | off | A | 1 2 3 4 | | | | | | | MR\@5.9 | 5 6 | +-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 11 | high | SNR | - | off | AM | 1 2 3 4 | | | | | | | R\@12.2 | 5 6 | +-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 12 | high | SNR | - | off | A | 1 2 3 4 | | | | | | | MR\@5.9 | 5 6 | +-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 13 | nominal | SNR+6 | - | off | AM | 2 3 4 5 | | | | | | | R\@12.2 | 6 1 | +-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 14 | nominal | SNR+6 | 4 | off | AM | 2 3 4 5 | | | | | | | R\@12.2 | 6 1 | +-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 15 | nominal | SNR+6 | 7 | off | AM | 2 3 4 5 | | | | | | | R\@12.2 | 6 1 | +-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 16 | nominal | SNR+6 | - | off | A | 2 3 4 5 | | | | | | | MR\@5.9 | 6 1 | +-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 17 | nominal | SNR+6 | - | on | AM | 2 3 4 5 | | | | | | | R\@12.2 | 6 1 | +-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 18 | nominal | SNR+6 | - | on | A | 2 3 4 5 | | | | | | | MR\@5.9 | 6 1 | +-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 19 | low | SNR+6 | - | off | AM | 2 3 4 5 | | | | | | | R\@12.2 | 6 1 | +-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 20 | low | SNR+6 | - | off | A | 2 3 4 5 | | | | | | | MR\@5.9 | 6 1 | +-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 21 | nominal | SNR+12 | - | off | AM | 3 4 5 6 | | | | | | | R\@12.2 | 1 2 | +-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 22 | nominal | SNR+12 | 4 | off | AM | 3 4 5 6 | | | | | | | R\@12.2 | 1 2 | +-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 23 | nominal | SNR+12 | 7 | off | AM | 3 4 5 6 | | | | | | | R\@12.2 | 1 2 | +-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 24 | nominal | SNR+12 | - | off | A | 3 4 5 6 | | | | | | | MR\@5.9 | 1 2 | +-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 25 | nominal | SNR | - | off | AMR/N | 1 2 3 4 | | | | | | | S\@12.2 | 5 6 | +-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 26 | nominal | SNR | - | off | AMR/ | 1 2 3 4 | | | | | | | NS\@5.9 | 5 6 | +-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 27 | nominal | SNR+6 | - | off | AMR/N | 2 3 4 5 | | | | | | | S\@12.2 | 6 1 | +-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 28 | nominal | SNR+6 | - | off | AMR/ | 2 3 4 5 | | | | | | | NS\@5.9 | 6 1 | +-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 29 | nominal | SNR+12 | - | off | AMR/N | 3 4 5 6 | | | | | | | S\@12.2 | 1 2 | +-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 30 | nominal | SNR+12 | - | off | AMR/ | 3 4 5 6 | | | | | | | NS\@5.9 | 1 2 | +-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 31 | nominal | SNR+6 | - | on | AMR/N | 2 3 4 5 | | | | | | | S\@12.2 | 6 1 | +-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 32 | nominal | SNR+6 | - | on | AMR/ | 2 3 4 5 | | | | | | | NS\@5.9 | 6 1 | +-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 33 | low | SNR+6 | - | off | AMR/N | 2 3 4 5 | | | | | | | S\@12.2 | 6 1 | +-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 34 | low | SNR+6 | - | off | AMR/ | 2 3 4 5 | | | | | | | NS\@5.9 | 6 1 | +-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 35 | high | SNR | - | off | AMR/N | 1 2 3 4 | | | | | | | S\@12.2 | 5 6 | +-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 36 | high | SNR | - | off | AMR/ | 1 2 3 4 | | | | | | | NS\@5.9 | 5 6 | +-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | NOTE: | Exp | | | | | | | | eriment | | | | | | | | 2a: Car | | | | | | | | noise | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | SNR = | | | | | | | | SNR_C | | | | | | | | = 6 dB, | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Exp | | | | | | | | eriment | | | | | | | | 2b: | | | | | | | | Street | | | | | | | | noise | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | SNR = | | | | | | | | SNR_S | | | | | | | | = 9 dB | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Exp | | | | | | | | eriment | | | | | | | | 2c: | | | | | | | | Babble | | | | | | | | noise | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | SNR = | | | | | | | | SNR_B | | | | | | | | = 9 dB | | | | | | +-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
## C.8.13 Statistical Analysis
The statistics to be reported from this ACR test are the averaged MOS
({width="0.4166666666666667in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}) scores and the
standard deviations ({width="0.19375in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}) for
all the conditions.
Additionally, the requirement in [1, Clause 6.1.3] should be checked using a
hypothesis test for the conditions 25-36 if the mean MOS score is greater or
equal to the MOS score for the corresponding equivalent (all being equal
except NS activated) reference condition for AMR without NS within a 95 %
confidence.
The hypothesis test should be performed using a 2-tailed T-test. The NS
algorithm has failed the requirement if, for any of test condition,
{width="0.6805555555555556in" height="0.2222222222222222in"}
where
{width="1.3333333333333333in" height="0.7083333333333334in"}
and the subscripts {width="0.20833333333333334in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"}and {width="0.20833333333333334in"
height="0.2361111111111111in"}denotes the test condition and corresponding
reference condition, respectively, {width="0.16666666666666666in"
height="0.16666666666666666in"} is the number of votes, and
{width="0.4166666666666667in" height="0.2222222222222222in"} is the inverse of
the Student\'s t-distribution with {width="0.16666666666666666in"
height="0.16666666666666666in"} degrees of freedom and probability 0.05.
# C.9 Experiments 3a & 3b: Performances in Background Noise Conditions (Mod-
CCR)
## C.9.1 Introduction
These experiments are designed to test Requirements in the associated Clause
in the Recommended Minimum Performance Requirements Specification ([1], TS
3GPP TS 06.77 [4]). Specifically, the AMR with noise suppression should, in a
certain number of conditions, be preferred to the AMR without noise
suppression in a background noise environment and should provide a reasonable
level of SNR improvement. Experiment 3a examines the performance of the noise
suppression with the half-rate codec, while Experiment 3b examines the noise
suppression with the full rate codec. Both experiments will use the Modified
Comparison Category Rating (Mod-CCR, Note 1) method with a seven-point rating
scale. Listeners will judge the relative quality of samples processed through
the codec with noise suppression, compared to those without the noise
suppression applied (example instructions for listeners are given in Annex
A.3). The samples will have background noise of various types and levels mixed
into the source speech before processing through the codec.
The factors for each of the four sub-experiments are presented in Table 9.1.
Table 9.1: Factors for Experiments 3a and 3b
* * *
Factor Expt 3a Expt 3b
codec AMR 5.9 kb/s AMR 12.2 kb/s
noise types car (6 and 15 dB)\ car (6 and 15 dB)\ street (9 and 18 dB)\ street
(9 and 18 dB)\ babble (9 and 18 dB) babble (9 and 18 dB)
* * *
NOTE: The standard Comparison Category Rating method (CCR) which is described
in Annex E of Rec. P.800 [8] is similar to the Degradation Category Rating
method (DCR, Annex D). In Annex E, it is explicitly said : \"Listeners are
presented with a pair of speech samples on each trial. In the DCR procedure, a
reference (unprocessed) sample is presented **first** , followed by the same
speech sample, which has been processed by some technique. In the CCR
procedure, the order of the processed and unprocessed samples is chosen at
random for each trial. Listeners use the seven-point CCR scale to judge the
quality of the second sample relative to that of the first. **The DCR and the
CCR methods are particularly useful for assessing the performance of
telecommunications systems when the input has been corrupted by background
noise. However, an advantage of the CCR method over the DCR procedure is the
possibility to assess speech processing that either degrades or improves the
quality of the speech.**
Here we are using a different application of the standard CCR method. The
modified CCR method uses processed reference samples (but without noise
suppression applied) whereas the standard CCR method uses unprocessed
reference samples.
## C.9.2 Test Factors and Conditions
Three types of background noise will be used, at two different SNRs:
A car noise that is stationary both in level and in spectrum.
\- A street noise that is non-stationary in level, but fairly stationary in
spectrum.
\- A babble noise that is fairly stationary in level, but non-stationary in
spectrum.
The noise samples will be those utilised during the AMR Noise Suppression
Selection Phase.
The codec is held constant for each experiment, with two SNR classes (\'SNR\'
and \'SNR+9dB\') per experiment. All of the noise types are used in each
experiment. The noise samples will have been recorded in scenarios
representative of the respective SNR value for each noise.
The factors and conditions to be used in Experiments 3a and 3b are presented
in Table 9.2. The expanded set of test conditions is given in Clause 9.12.
Table 9.2: Factors and conditions for Experiments 3a and 3b
+-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Main Codec Conditions | # | Notes | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Noise Suppresser Candidates | 1 | | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Codec | 1 | AMR | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Codec Modes (HR/FR) | HR | 5.9 kbit/s rate for | | | | Experiment 3a | | | FR | | | | | 12.2 kbps rate for | | | | Experiment 3b | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | BERs | 0 | Clear channel, no | | | | transmission errors | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Input level | 1 | nominal: -26dB relative to | | | | OVL | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Acoustic Background Noise | 3 | car, street, and babble | | | | noise | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Background noise SNRs | 2 | low, high for each (see | | | | Table 9.1) | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Input Characteristic | 1 | GSM transmit filtered | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | **Codec references** | **#** | **Notes** | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | All Experiments | 1 | the same AMR rate w/o NS | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | | | | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | **Other references** | **#** | **Notes** | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Direct | | nominal level, GSM transmit | | | | filtered | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | MNRU, Exp 3a and 3b | | nominal level, GSM transmit | | | | filtered, Q= 12, ∆Q= 4 | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Ideal noise suppression | | | | simulation | | | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | **Common Conditions** | **#** | **Notes** | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | GSM Channel | 0 | NO channel model | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Number of talkers | 4 | 2 male + 2 female primary | | | | talkers | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Number of speech samples | 28 | 7 Sentence-pairs/primary | | | | talker (6 for Test, 1 for | | | | Practice) | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Listening Level | 1 | -15dBPa (79dB SPL) at ERP | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Listeners | 24 | Naive Listeners | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Randomizations | 6 | 6 groups of 4 listeners | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Rating Scale | 1 | CCR Instructions | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Replications | 1 | Original Presentation Only | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+
## C.9.3 Preliminary Conditions
The following 16 preliminary test conditions are recommended, for
presentation, before proceeding to the test samples. The samples shall be
presented in the random order given in Table 9.3.
Table 9.3: List of preliminary conditions
* * *
Cond. Presentation Noise SNR Reference Processed **Speech Sample**  
order (dB) Ideal NS Codec Number P1 9 Car 6 Direct - Direct M1S07 P2 5 Car 15
AMR\@x - AMR\@x F1S07 P3 12 Car 6 MNRU-12 - MNRU-16 M2S07 P4 13 Car 15 MNRU-12
- Direct F2S07 P5 2 Street 9 AMR\@x - AMR\@x M1S07 P6 4 Street 18 MNRU-12 -
MNRU-16 F1S07 P7 8 Street 18 MNRU-12 - Direct M2S07 P8 16 Babble 9 AMR\@x -
AMR\@x F2S07 P9 7 Babble 9 MNRU-12 - MNRU-16 M1S07 P10 1 Babble 18 MNRU-12 -
Direct F1S07 P11 11 Car 6 AMR\@x 4 AMR\@x M2S07 P12 3 Car 15 AMR\@x 10 AMR\@x
F2S07 P13 15 Street 18 AMR\@x 4 AMR\@x M1S07 P14 6 Street 9 AMR\@x 10 AMR\@x
F1S07 P15 10 Babble 9 AMR\@x 4 AMR\@x M2S07 P16 14 Babble 18 AMR\@x 10 AMR\@x
F2S07 NOTE: The bit rate for the AMR processing for the preliminary samples
shall be the same as that used for the test samples, 5.9 kbit/s for Experiment
3a, 12.2 kbit/s for Experiment 3b.
* * *
## C.9.4 Speech Material
The source speech material shall be as defined in Clause 6.3 and will consist
of the material used during the AMR Noise Suppression Selection phase: Each
sample consists of two sentences. Only primary talkers are needed. For the
four talkers, the following source material should be prepared:
Seven samples for each talker, six for the test samples and one for the
preliminaries,
Each sample to be eight seconds long,
Unique sentences-pairs in each sample (i.e., no repeated across the talkers).
To reduce any speech material effect, the samples for each talker must be
unique. For these experiments, these unique stimuli are not balanced across
all conditions, candidates and subject groups. The same sample numbers for
each talker are used for common conditions within a subject group and changed
across subject groups (these sample numbers are arbitrarily assigned to
samples). For a given language, the same speech material must be used for the
two experiments 3a and 3b. The noise material and its mix with the speech
material should be as defined in Clause 6.8 and Clause 6.3.7 respectively.
## C.9.5 Experimental Design
The design is based on a restricted randomization philosophy using six
different randomizations, each of which is used with a group of four of the 24
listeners. This means that up to four subjects can perform the experiment
simultaneously.
Each listener will hear all of the conditions four times, once with speech
from each of the four talkers. Over the experiment as a whole, each of the
conditions will be paired with six different samples from each of the four
talkers. Each of the six groups of subjects will hear different combinations
of source material and condition.
## C.9.6 Processing
Every condition is processed with each of the six samples of each of the four
primary talkers. The actual samples to be used for each condition, within with
each subject group, are presented in Clause 9.12, _Test Conditions_.
## C.9.7 Randomizations
The test shall be completed using the randomizations provided by the
experimenter. There shall be six randomizations for the sub-experiments, one
for each subject group. The same randomizations shall be used for the two
experiments (3a and 3b). Each one will therefore be used by four of the 24
subjects. Each randomization is balanced across four blocks of 48 stimuli to
eliminate long sequences of similar conditions or identical talkers. The
sequences shall provide for alternating male-female talkers. Use of these
randomizations will allow presentation order to be used as a factor in a
global analysis, should that be necessary. The randomization shall be
constrained to a randomized block design, which controls practice and fatigue
effects that may occur over the course of a test session.
## C.9.8 Duration of the CCR Experiments 3a and 3b
Each trial consists of an eight-second reference sample + an eight-second test
sample + five second voting time, totalling 21 seconds. For each of the four
experiments there are 16 preliminary conditions x 21 seconds or 5.6 minutes
for an introductory block. Each presentation set within an experiment consists
of 52 conditions (A/B+B/A) x 4 talkers x 21 seconds or 70 minutes, presented
as eight 8.75 minute blocks of 25 stimuli for 75.6 minutes testing time /
subject group / experiment. The total testing time for each experiment will be
7 hours and 34 minutes, if four listeners are tested at one time.
To reduce the effects of subject fatigue, each 8.75 minute block should be
separated by short comfort breaks.
Note that the above calculations do not include the time needed to give the
subjects their instructions, or time taken for comfort breaks.
## C.9.9 Votes Per Condition
In each of the three experiments, 24 listeners rate every condition with four
talkers in each of two presentation orders (A/B and B/A), giving:
(24 subjects x 4 talkers x 2 presentations) = 192 votes per condition
From past experience with CCR tests, this is the minimum number of votes per
condition needed to give enough statistical certainty to differentiate the
performance of one candidate process from another candidate process over the
conditions and against the references.
## C.9.10 Test Procedure
Factors important for the experimental environment are specified in Clauses
6.4, 6.5, and 6.6. As specified in Clause 9.8, comfort breaks should be
provided to reduce the effects of subject fatigue.
## C.9.11 Opinion Scale
The question asked of the subject is a based on of the CCR Listening Quality
Comparison Scale. The listening subjects will judge the quality of the second
sample with regard to quality of the first sample. The subjects will listen to
each pair of samples and after these have been played, they will be asked to
give their comparative opinion. Annex A contains an example of the
instructions for the subjects in English. Changes to the instructions may be
needed to specify the method of data collection being used (button-press,
paper & pencil, etc.).
## C.9.12 Test Conditions for Experiments 3a and 3b
+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Cond. | Noise | SNR | Re | Pr | Speech | | | | | (dB) | ference | ocessed | sample | | +--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | | | Ideal | Codec | number | | | | | | NS | | | +--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 1 | Car | 6 | AMR\@x | - | AMR\@x | 4 5 6 1 | | | | | | | | 2 3 | +--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 2 | Street | 9 | AMR\@x | - | AMR\@x | 4 5 6 1 | | | | | | | | 2 3 | +--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 3 | Babble | 9 | AMR\@x | - | AMR\@x | 4 5 6 1 | | | | | | | | 2 3 | +--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 4 | Car | 6 | MNRU-16 | - | MNRU-12 | 4 - - 1 | | | | | | | | - - | +--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 5 | Car | 6 | Direct | - | MNRU-12 | 4 - - 1 | | | | | | | | - - | +--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 4\' | Street | 9 | MNRU-16 | - | MNRU-12 | - 5 - | | | | | | | | - 2 - | +--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 5\' | Street | 9 | Direct | - | MNRU-12 | - 5 - | | | | | | | | - 2 - | +--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 4\'\' | Babble | 9 | MNRU-16 | - | MNRU-12 | - - 6 | | | | | | | | - - 3 | +--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 5\'\' | Babble | 9 | Direct | - | MNRU-12 | - - 6 | | | | | | | | - - 3 | +--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 6 | Car | 6 | AMR\@x | 3 | AMR\@x | 1 2 3 4 | | | | | | | | 5 6 | +--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 7 | Car | 6 | AMR\@x | 6 | AMR\@x | 1 2 3 4 | | | | | | | | 5 6 | +--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 8 | Car | 6 | AMR\@x | 9 | AMR\@x | 1 2 3 4 | | | | | | | | 5 6 | +--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 9 | Street | 9 | AMR\@x | 3 | AMR\@x | 2 3 4 5 | | | | | | | | 6 1 | +--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 10 | Street | 9 | AMR\@x | 6 | AMR\@x | 2 3 4 5 | | | | | | | | 6 1 | +--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 11 | Street | 9 | AMR\@x | 9 | AMR\@x | 2 3 4 5 | | | | | | | | 6 1 | +--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 12 | Babble | 9 | AMR\@x | 3 | AMR\@x | 3 4 5 6 | | | | | | | | 1 2 | +--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 13 | Babble | 9 | AMR\@x | 6 | AMR\@x | 3 4 5 6 | | | | | | | | 1 2 | +--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 14 | Babble | 9 | AMR\@x | 9 | AMR\@x | 3 4 5 6 | | | | | | | | 1 2 | +--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 15 | Car | 6 | AMR\@x | - | AMR | 1 2 3 4 | | | | | | | /NS1\@x | 5 6 | +--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 16 | Street | 9 | AMR\@x | - | AMR | 2 3 4 5 | | | | | | | /NS1\@x | 6 1 | +--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 17 | Babble | 9 | AMR\@x | - | AMR | 3 4 5 6 | | | | | | | /NS1\@x | 1 2 | +--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 18 | Car | 15 | AMR\@x | 3 | AMR\@x | 1 2 3 4 | | | | | | | | 5 6 | +--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 19 | Car | 15 | AMR\@x | 6 | AMR\@x | 1 2 3 4 | | | | | | | | 5 6 | +--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 20 | Street | 18 | AMR\@x | 3 | AMR\@x | 2 3 4 5 | | | | | | | | 6 1 | +--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 21 | Street | 18 | AMR\@x | 6 | AMR\@x | 2 3 4 5 | | | | | | | | 6 1 | +--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 22 | Babble | 18 | AMR\@x | 3 | AMR\@x | 3 4 5 6 | | | | | | | | 1 2 | +--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 23 | Babble | 18 | AMR\@x | 6 | AMR\@x | 3 4 5 6 | | | | | | | | 1 2 | +--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 24 | Car | 15 | AMR\@x | - | AMR | 1 2 3 4 | | | | | | | /NS1\@x | 5 6 | +--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 25 | Street | 18 | AMR\@x | - | AMR | 2 3 4 5 | | | | | | | /NS1\@x | 6 1 | +--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 26 | Babble | 18 | AMR\@x | - | AMR | 3 4 5 6 | | | | | | | /NS1\@x | 1 2 | +--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 27-52 | R | | | | | | | | eversed | | | | | | | | order | | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | ference | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | pr | | | | | | | | ocessed | | | | | | | | speech | | | | | | | | samples | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | cond. | | | | | | | | 1-26 | | | | | | +--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | NOTES: | AMR\@x | | | | | | | | denotes | | | | | | | | AMR at | | | | | | | | bit | | | | | | | | rate x, | | | | | | | | AMR | | | | | | | | /Ns1\@x | | | | | | | | denotes | | | | | | | | the NS | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | ndidate | | | | | | | | at bit | | | | | | | | rate x; | | | | | | | | 5.9 | | | | | | | | kbit/s | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | Exp | | | | | | | | eriment | | | | | | | | 3a, | | | | | | | | 12.2 | | | | | | | | kbit/s | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | Exp | | | | | | | | eriment | | | | | | | | 3b | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | SNR(dB) | | | | | | | | denotes | | | | | | | | SNR for | | | | | | | | noise | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 4 | | | | | | | | talkers | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | | for all | | | | | | | | cond | | | | | | | | itions: | | | | | | | | 2 male | | | | | | | | and 2 | | | | | | | | female | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 6 | | | | | | | | speech | | | | | | | | samples | | | | | | | | (8 s) | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | each | | | | | | | | talker | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | \'mul | | | | | | | | tiple\' | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | ditions | | | | | | | | \"4s\" | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | \"5s\" | | | | | | | | (e.g. 4 | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | 4\') | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | only | | | | | | | | pr | | | | | | | | esented | | | | | | | | to a | | | | | | | | subset | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | li | | | | | | | | steners | | | | | | | | (e.g. | | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | | first | | | | | | | | and the | | | | | | | | fourth | | | | | | | | groups | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | randomi | | | | | | | | sation) | | | | | | | | , | | | | | | +--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
## C.9.13 Statistical Analysis
The statistics to be reported from this CCR test are the averaged CMOS
($\text{CMOS}_{k}$) scores and the standard deviations ($S_{k}$) for all the
conditions.
Additionally, the requirement in [1, Clause 6.1.4] should be checked using
hypothesis tests for the conditions 15-17 and 24-26 if the mean CMOS score is
greater than zero (the NS performance is preferred) and greater or equal to
zero (the NS performance is equivalent) within a 95 % confidence.
The hypothesis test should be performed using a 1-tailed T-test. The NS
algorithm has failed the requirement at level \"preferred\" for any of test
condition if:
{width="0.5965277777777778in" height="0.2222222222222222in"}
where
{width="0.8333333333333334in" height="0.5555555555555556in"}
and the subscripts {width="0.20833333333333334in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"}denotes the test
condition,{width="0.16666666666666666in" height="0.16666666666666666in"} is
the number of votes, and {width="0.4166666666666667in"
height="0.2222222222222222in"} is the inverse of the Student\'s t-distribution
with {width="0.16666666666666666in" height="0.16666666666666666in"} degrees of
freedom and probability 0.05.
Similarly, the NS algorithm has failed the requirement at level \"equal\" if
{width="0.6805555555555556in" height="0.2222222222222222in"}
# C.10 Experiments 4: Influence of Input Level, Voice Activity Detection and
Discontinuous Transmission (CCR)
## C.10.1 Introduction
This experiment is designed to test Requirements in the associated Clause in
the Recommended Minimum Performance Requirements Specification ([1], TS 3GPP
TS 06.77[4]). Specifically, the AMR with noise suppression should, in a
certain number of conditions, be preferred to the AMR without noise
suppression in a background noise environment and should provide a reasonable
level of SNR improvement.
## C.10.2 Test Factors and Conditions
Three types of background noise will be used, at two different SNRs:
A car noise that is stationary both in level and in spectrum.
\- A street noise that is non-stationary in level, but fairly stationary in
spectrum.
\- A babble noise that is fairly stationary in level, but non-stationary in
spectrum.
The factors and conditions to be used in Experiment 4 are presented in Table
10.2. The expanded set of test conditions is given in Clause 10.12.
Table 10.2: Factors and conditions for Experiment 4
+-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Main Codec Conditions | # | Notes | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Noise Suppressor Candidates | 1 | NS algorithm under test | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Codec | 1 | AMR | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Codec Modes | 1 | 12.2 kbit/s rate | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | BERs | 0 | Clear channel, no | | | | transmission errors | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Input level | 3 | Nominal: -26dBov; | | | | High-level (-16 dBov); | | | | Low-level (‑36 dBov) | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Acoustic Background Noise | 3 | Car noise at 6 dB SNR; | | | | Street and Babble noise at | | | | 9 dB SNR | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Input Characteristic | 1 | GSM transmit filtered | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | VAD/CNG/DTX | 2 | ON for all noise/level | | | | combinations\ | | | | OFF for all noise types but | | | | only at the nominal level | | | | | | | | One VAD/CNG/DTX will be | | | | used ; either VAD Option 1 | | | | or 2, depending on the | | | | implementers choice | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | | | | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | **Codec references** | **#** | **Notes** | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | | 1 | AMR 12.2 kbit/s rate | | | | without NS | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | | | | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | **Other references** | **#** | **Notes** | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Direct | 3 | Nominal level, GSM transmit | | | | filtered | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | MNRU | 6 | Nominal level, GSM transmit | | | | filtered, Q=30, 24, 21, 18, | | | | 12, 6 dB, compared against | | | | Q=18 dB | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | | | | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | **Common Conditions** | **#** | **Notes** | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | GSM Channel | 0 | NO channel model | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Number of talkers | 4 | 2 male + 2 female primary | | | | talkers | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Number of speech samples | 28 | 7 Sentence-pairs/primary | | | | talker (6 for Test, 1 for | | | | Practice) | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Listening Level | 1 | -15dBPa (79dB SPL) at ERP | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Listeners | 24 | Naive Listeners | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Randomizations | 6 | 6 groups of 4 listeners | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Rating Scale | 1 | CCR Instructions | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Replications | 1 | | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+
## C.10.3 Preliminary Conditions
The following 16 preliminary test conditions are recommended, for
presentation, before proceeding to the test samples. The samples shall be
presented in the random order given in Table 10.3.
Table 10.3: List of preliminary conditions [TO BE REVISED]
* * *
Cond. Presentation order Noise Input level SNR (dB) VAD/DTX Reference
Processed Speech Sample Number P1 9 Car nominal M1S07 P2 5 Car nominal 6
Direct MNRU-12 F1S07 P3 12 Car nominal 6 MNRU-16 MNRU-12 M2S07 P4 13 Car
nominal 15 F2S07 P5 2 Street nominal 9 Direct MNRU-12 M1S07 P6 4 Street
nominal 9 MNRU-16 MNRU-12 F1S07 P7 8 Street nominal M2S07 P8 16 Babble nominal
9 Direct MNRU-12 F2S07 P9 7 Babble nominal 9 MNRU-16 MNRU-12 M1S07 P10 1
Babble nominal F1S07 P11 11 Car nominal 6 off AMR\@12.2 AMR\@12.2 M2S07 P12 3
Car nominal 6 on AMR\@12.2 AMR\@12.2 F2S07 P13 15 Street nominal 9 off
AMR\@12.2 AMR\@12.2 M1S07 P14 6 Street nominal 9 on AMR\@12.2 AMR\@12.2 F1S07
P15 10 Babble nominal 9 off AMR\@12.2 AMR\@12.2 M2S07 P16 14 Babble nominal 9
on AMR\@12.2 AMR\@12.2 F2S07
* * *
## C.10.4 Speech Material
The source speech material shall be as defined in Clause 6.3 and will consist
of the material used during the AMR Noise Suppression Selection phase: Each
sample consists of two sentences. Only primary talkers are needed. For the
four talkers, the following source material should be prepared:
  * Seven samples for each talker, six for the test samples and one for > the preliminaries,
  * Each sample to be eight seconds long,
  * Unique sentences-pairs in each sample (i.e., no repeated across the > talkers)
To reduce any speech material effect, the samples for each talker must be
unique. For these experiments, these unique stimuli are balanced across all
conditions, candidates and subject groups. The noise material and its mix with
the speech material should be as defined in Clause 6.8 and Clause 6.3.7
respectively.
## C.10.5 Experimental Design
The design is based on a restricted randomization philosophy using six
different randomizations, each of which is used with a group of four of the 24
listeners. This means that up to four subjects can perform the experiment
simultaneously.
Each listener will hear all of the conditions four times, once with speech
from each of the four talkers. Over the experiment as a whole, each of the
conditions will be paired with six different samples from each of the four
talkers. Each of the six groups of subjects will hear different combinations
of source material and condition.
## C.10.6 Processing
Every condition is processed with each of the six samples of each of the four
primary talkers. Every speech file will be processed through all test
conditions.
## C.10.7 Randomizations
The test shall be completed using the randomizations provided by the
experimenter. There shall be six randomizations for the sub-experiments, one
for each group of four subjects. Each randomization shall be balanced across
four blocks of 30 stimuli to eliminate long sequences of similar conditions or
identical talkers. The sequences shall provide for alternating male-female
talkers. Use of these randomizations will allow presentation order to be used
as a factor in a global analysis, should that be necessary. The randomization
shall be constrained to a randomized block design, which controls practice and
fatigue effects that may occur over the course of a test session.
## C.10.8 Duration of the Experiment
Each trial consists of an eight-second reference sample + an eight-second test
sample + five second voting time, totalling 21 seconds. For each of the four
experiments there are 16 preliminary conditions x 21 seconds or 5.6 minutes
for an introductory block. Each presentation set within an experiment consists
of 60 conditions (A/B+B/A) x 4 talkers x 21 seconds or approximately 1h30min.
The total testing time for each experiment will be 9 hours and 34 minutes, if
four listeners are tested at one time.
Note that the above calculations do not include the time needed to give the
subjects their instructions, or time taken for comfort breaks.
## C.10.9 Votes Per Condition
In each of the three experiments, 24 listeners rate every condition with four
talkers in each of two presentation orders (A/B and B/A), giving:
(24 subjects x 4 talkers x 2 presentations) = 192 votes per condition
From past experience with CCR tests, this is the minimum number of votes per
condition needed to give enough statistical certainty to differentiate the
performance of one candidate process from another candidate process over the
conditions and against the references.
## C.10.10 Test Procedure
Factors important for the experimental environment are specified in Clauses
6.4, 6.5, and 6.6. Comfort breaks should be provided to reduce the effects of
subject fatigue.
## C.10.11 Opinion Scale
The question asked of the subject is a based on of the CCR Listening Quality
Comparison Scale. The listening subjects will judge the quality of the second
sample with regard to quality of the first sample. The subjects will listen to
each pair of samples and after these have been played, they will be asked to
give their comparative opinion. Annex A contains an example of the
instructions for the subjects in English. Changes to the instructions may be
needed to specify the method of data collection being used (button-press,
paper & pencil, etc.).
## C.10.12 Test Conditions for Experiment 4
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Cond. | Noise | Input | SNR | VA | Refe | Proc | S | | | | level | (dB) | D/DTX | rence | essed | peech | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ample | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | | | Codec | n | | | | | | | | | umber | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1 | Car | no | 6 | off | AMR\ | AMR\ | 4 5 6 | | | | minal | | | @12.2 | @12.2 | 1 2 3 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 2 | S | no | 9 | off | AMR\ | AMR\ | 4 5 6 | | | treet | minal | | | @12.2 | @12.2 | 1 2 3 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 3 | B | no | 9 | off | AMR\ | AMR\ | 4 5 6 | | | abble | minal | | | @12.2 | @12.2 | 1 2 3 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 4 | Car | no | 6 | on | AMR\ | AMR\ | 4 - - | | | | minal | | | @12.2 | @12.2 | 1 - - | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 5 | Car | no | 6 | N/A | D | MN | 4 - - | | | | minal | | | irect | RU-12 | 1 - - | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 6 | Car | no | 6 | N/A | MN | MN | 4 - - | | | | minal | | | RU-16 | RU-12 | 1 - - | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 4\' | S | no | 9 | on | AMR\ | AMR\ | - 5 | | | treet | minal | | | @12.2 | @12.2 | - - 2 | | | | | | | | | - | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 5\' | S | no | 9 | N/A | D | MN | - 5 | | | treet | minal | | | irect | RU-12 | - - 2 | | | | | | | | | - | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 6\' | S | no | 9 | N/A | MN | MN | - 5 | | | treet | minal | | | RU-16 | RU-12 | - - 2 | | | | | | | | | - | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 4\'\' | B | no | 9 | on | AMR\ | AMR\ | - - | | | abble | minal | | | @12.2 | @12.2 | 6 - - | | | | | | | | | 3 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 5\'\' | B | no | 9 | N/A | D | MN | - - | | | abble | minal | | | irect | RU-12 | 6 - - | | | | | | | | | 3 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 6\'\' | B | no | 9 | N/A | MN | MN | - - | | | abble | minal | | | RU-16 | RU-12 | 6 - - | | | | | | | | | 3 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 7 | Car | no | 6 | on | AMR\ | AM | 1 2 3 | | | | minal | | | @12.2 | R/NS\ | 4 5 6 | | | | | | | | @12.2 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 8 | S | no | 9 | on | AMR\ | AM | 2 3 4 | | | treet | minal | | | @12.2 | R/NS\ | 5 6 1 | | | | | | | | @12.2 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 9 | B | no | 9 | on | AMR\ | AM | 3 4 5 | | | abble | minal | | | @12.2 | R/NS\ | 6 1 2 | | | | | | | | @12.2 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 10 | Car | low | 6 | off | AMR\ | AM | 5 6 1 | | | | | | | @12.2 | R/NS\ | 2 3 4 | | | | | | | | @12.2 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 11 | S | low | 9 | off | AMR\ | AM | 6 1 2 | | | treet | | | | @12.2 | R/NS\ | 3 4 5 | | | | | | | | @12.2 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 12 | B | low | 9 | off | AMR\ | AM | 1 2 3 | | | abble | | | | @12.2 | R/NS\ | 4 5 6 | | | | | | | | @12.2 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 13 | Car | high | 6 | off | AMR\ | AM | 2 3 4 | | | | | | | @12.2 | R/NS\ | 5 6 1 | | | | | | | | @12.2 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 14 | S | high | 9 | off | AMR\ | AM | 3 4 5 | | | treet | | | | @12.2 | R/NS\ | 6 1 2 | | | | | | | | @12.2 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 15 | B | high | 9 | off | AMR\ | AM | 5 6 1 | | | abble | | | | @12.2 | R/NS\ | 2 3 4 | | | | | | | | @12.2 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 16 | Car | no | 15 | on | AMR\ | AM | 6 1 2 | | | | minal | | | @12.2 | R/NS\ | 3 4 5 | | | | | | | | @12.2 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 17 | S | no | 18 | on | AMR\ | AM | 1 2 3 | | | treet | minal | | | @12.2 | R/NS\ | 4 5 6 | | | | | | | | @12.2 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 18 | B | no | 18 | on | AMR\ | AM | 2 3 4 | | | abble | minal | | | @12.2 | R/NS\ | 5 6 1 | | | | | | | | @12.2 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 19 | Car | low | 15 | off | AMR\ | AM | 3 4 5 | | | | | | | @12.2 | R/NS\ | 6 1 2 | | | | | | | | @12.2 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | S | low | 18 | off | AMR\ | AM | 5 6 1 | | | treet | | | | @12.2 | R/NS\ | 2 3 4 | | | | | | | | @12.2 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 21 | B | low | 18 | off | AMR\ | AM | 6 1 2 | | | abble | | | | @12.2 | R/NS\ | 3 4 5 | | | | | | | | @12.2 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 22 | Car | high | 15 | off | AMR\ | AM | 1 2 3 | | | | | | | @12.2 | R/NS\ | 4 5 6 | | | | | | | | @12.2 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 23 | S | high | 18 | off | AMR\ | AM | 2 3 4 | | | treet | | | | @12.2 | R/NS\ | 5 6 1 | | | | | | | | @12.2 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 24 | B | high | 18 | off | AMR\ | AM | 3 4 5 | | | abble | | | | @12.2 | R/NS\ | 6 1 2 | | | | | | | | @12.2 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 25-48 | Rev | | | | | | | | | ersed | | | | | | | | | order | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | refe | | | | | | | | | rence | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | proc | | | | | | | | | essed | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | peech | | | | | | | | | sa | | | | | | | | | mples | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | cond. | | | | | | | | | 1-24 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTES | 4 | | | | | | | | | ta | | | | | | | | | lkers | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | all | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | ondit | | | | | | | | | ions: | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | male | | | | | | | | | and 2 | | | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | | | emale | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 6 | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | peech | | | | | | | | | sa | | | | | | | | | mples | | | | | | | | | (8 s) | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | each | | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | | alker | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | \' | | | | | | | | | multi | | | | | | | | | ple\' | | | | | | | | | condi | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | \" | | | | | | | | | 4s\", | | | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | | | "5s\" | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | | | "6s\" | | | | | | | | | (e.g. | | | | | | | | | 4, | | | | | | | | | 4\' | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | 4\") | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | only | | | | | | | | | pres | | | | | | | | | ented | | | | | | | | | to a | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ubset | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | list | | | | | | | | | eners | | | | | | | | | (e.g. | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | first | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | | | ourth | | | | | | | | | g | | | | | | | | | roups | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | rand | | | | | | | | | omisa | | | | | | | | | tion) | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
## C.10.13 Statistical Analysis
The statistics to be reported from this CCR test are the averaged CMOS
({width="0.5138888888888888in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}) scores and the
standard deviations ({width="0.19375in" height="0.20833333333333334in"}) for
all the conditions.
Additionally, the requirement in [1, Clause 6.1.4] should be checked using
hypothesis tests for the conditions 7-24 if the mean CMOS score is greater
than zero (the NS performance is preferred) and greater or equal to zero (the
NS performance is equivalent) within a 95 % confidence.
The hypothesis test should be performed using a 1-tailed T-test. The NS
algorithm has failed the requirement at level \"preferred\" for any of test
condition if
{width="0.5965277777777778in" height="0.2222222222222222in"}
where
{width="0.8333333333333334in" height="0.5555555555555556in"}
and the subscripts {width="0.20833333333333334in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"}denotes the test
condition,{width="0.16666666666666666in" height="0.16666666666666666in"} is
the number of votes, and {width="0.4166666666666667in"
height="0.2222222222222222in"} is the inverse of the Student\'s t-distribution
with {width="0.16666666666666666in" height="0.16666666666666666in"} degrees of
freedom and probability 0.05.
Similarly, the NS algorithm has failed the requirement at level \"equal\" if
{width="0.6805555555555556in" height="0.2222222222222222in"}
# C.11 Instructions to subjects and data collection
The instructions given to the subjects will to some extent depend on the
method used to collect opinion data. In this clause, example instructions are
given for Pair Comparison, Modified ACR and CCR experiments. To ensure
consistency, the actual instructions given to the subjects should be as close
as possible to these examples, adapted for the number of speech files and
length of the actual experiment, data collection method, and translated into
the native language.
The instructions must be given prior to the commencement of the experiment,
and the experimenter should ensure that the subject has understood them before
starting the experiment. Questions asked by the subjects on procedural aspects
of the experiment can, and should, be answered. However questions about the
experiment design or what the experiment is investigating should not be
answered until the subjects have completed the experiment. Subjects must be
told not to give such information to subjects who are yet to participate in
the experiment.
Subjects\' responses may be collected by any convenient method: e.g. pencil
and paper, press buttons controlling lamps recorded by the operator, or
automatic data-logging equipment. Whichever method is used, care must be taken
that subjects should not be able to observe other subjects\' responses, nor
should they be able to see the record of their own responses made in a
previous session. Apart from the inevitable memory effects, each response
should be independent of every other.
## C.11.1 Example Instructions for Experiment 1
In this test we are evaluating systems that might be used for a type of
communications between separate places under a variety of conditions. You are
going to hear a number of samples of speech reproduced in the earpieces of the
handset. Each sample will consist of a sentence that was produced with two
different communication systems. The first is identified as A and the second
is identified as B.
Please listen to both A and B and then decide which of the two you prefer.
Preference is strictly your decision and the decision should be based on your
opinion of the quality of the speech samples. Some of the A/B pairs will seem
clearly different and your decisions will be effortless. Others may be more
difficult. ALWAYS MAKE A DECISION BETWEEN THE TWO. \"I DON\'T KNOW\" and \"I
don\'t like either one\" ARE NOT OPTIONS. Make your decisions independently.
You should always compare the two current sentences, and not use any other
presentation. Nor, should you be rating whether you like one talker better
than another. This is not a test of you in any way; it is an evaluation of the
systems. There is no right or wrong. Do not discuss how you are making your
ratings during breaks or stretching periods.
For indicating your opinion you are requested to use the button box at your
test station. \.
After listening to the two sentences, all lights on the box will flash. At
that time, please press the appropriate single button that represents your
opinion of the communication quality of the sample just heard. Use the
leftmost button if you preferred the first sample (or A). Use the button on
the far right if you preferred the second speech sample (or B). The
corresponding light will be activated when a choice has been indicated. Once
the button has been pushed, you will not be allowed to change your mind, so
please respond carefully.
After you have given your opinion there will be a short pause before the next
sample begins.
For practice, you will hear a series and provide an opinion on each; then
there will be a break to make sure that everything is clear. An administrator
will be in the room to answer questions. From then on you will have a break
after each test block (approximately xx minutes). After the test block there
will be a three -minute break during which you may leave the room. This series
will continue for the duration of the test.
It is imperative that you do a good job with each rating by giving a true
opinion of the communication system samples. The ratings you make later in the
day are as important as those made earlier in the day. Please stay alert and
do you best each time you make a decision.
Thank you for participating in this research. Feel free to ask any procedural
questions at this time.
## C.11.2 Example Modified ACR Instructions for Experiment 2
**Instructions to the listeners**
In this experiment we evaluate systems that might be used for
telecommunication service between separate places.
You will hear speech samples reproduced in a telephone handset. Every sample
consists of four short unconnected sentences in an environment with varying
amounts of background noise. Your task is to indicate your opinion of the
overall sound quality with respect to any unnatural sounds leading to
unpleasant effects in the sample. Please make your judgement of the sample
considering unnatural sound during the complete sample.
Use the following 5-point scale:
* * *
Excellent: no unpleasant effects Good: slightly unpleasant effects Fair:
somewhat unpleasant effects Poor: very unpleasant effects Bad: severely
unpleasant effects
* * *
After each stimuli there will be a short pause for you to give your opinion.
As a practice, you will first hear several samples and give an opinion on
each. Then we will check that everything is clear before we start the test.
Don\'t hesitate to ask questions if you have any. The experiment is divided in
four parts with breaks in between. The parts last approximately 15 minutes
each. Please do not discuss your opinions with the other participants in the
experiment.
Thank you for your participation.
## C.11.3 Example Instructions for Experiment 3 and 4
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | INSTRUCTIONS TO SUBJECTS | | | | In this experiment we are evaluating systems that might be used for | | telecommunication services. | | | | You are going to hear through the handset pairs of speech samples, | | most of which have been recorded in different noisy environments | | (for example inside a car, in an office, or on the street). The | | first sample you will hear will be the reference sample. You will | | then hear the same sample again, but this time it will have passed | | through a telecommunications system. These samples will each consist | | of two short unconnected sentences. | | | | You should listen carefully to each pair of samples. When they have | | finished, please record your opinion of the second sample with | | regard to the first one using the following scale: | | | | Much better | | | | Better | | | | Slightly better | | | | About the same | | | | Slightly worse | | | | Worse | | | | Much worse | | | | For practice, you will first hear [n] sample pairs and give an | | opinion on each. There will then be a short break to make sure that | | everything is clear. | | | | From then on you will have a break approximately every [p] | | minutes. The test will last a total of approximately [q] minutes. | | | | Please do not discuss your opinions with other listeners | | participating in the experiment. | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
# C.12 Processing Tables
To be provided by the listening laboratory This shall be reported along with
the results of the experiments.
# C.13 Presentation Orders
To be provided by the listening laboratory This shall be reported along with
the results of the experiments.
#