# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3GPP.
The present document introduces the set of specifications which apply to
3G-324M multimedia terminals within the 3GPP system.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of this TS, it will be re-released by the TSG with an identifying
change of release date and an increase in version number as follows:
Version 3.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 Indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the specification;
# Introduction
This document contains a specification for H.324 based multimedia codecs for
circuit switched 3GPP networks. The term codec is usually associated with a
single media type. However, many multimedia services require a close
integration of disparate media types. In this sense, the representations of
these media types (in the form of media streams) are at least logically bound
into a single multimedia stream. As such, a H.324 based multimedia codec must
handle multiplexing/de-multiplexing and skew. It will also have to provide
codecs for each of the derived media streams. End-to-end, in-band control is
also required for the purposes of configuration and establishing individual
media streams. Finally, since 3GPP networks are inherently error prone, error
detection and/or correction must also be provided by the multimedia codec
since it has a comprehensive view of the bit stream it produces and therefore
can apply the most efficient form of error detection and/or correction.
# 1 Scope
This specification introduces the set of specifications which apply to 3G-324M
multimedia terminals.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
```{=html}
``` \- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] ITU-T Recommendation H.223: \"Multiplexing protocol for low bitrate
multimedia communication\"
[2] ITU-T Recommendation H.223 --- Annex A: \"Multiplexing protocol for low
bitrate multimedia communication over low error-prone channels\"
[3] ITU-T Recommendation H.223 --- Annex B: \"Multiplexing protocol for low
bitrate multimedia communication over moderate error-prone channels\"
[4] ITU-T Recommendation H.223 --- Annex C: \"Multiplexing protocol for low
bitrate multimedia communication over highly error-prone channels\"
[5] ITU-T Recommendation H.223 --- Annex D: \"Optional multiplexing protocol
for low bitrate multimedia communication over highly error-prone channels\"
[6] ITU-T Recommendation H.245: \"Control protocol for multimedia
communication\"
[7] ITU-T Recommendation G.723.1: \"Dual rate speech coder for multimedia
communication transmitting at 5.3 & 6.3 kbit/s\"
[8] ITU-T Recommendation H.263: \"Video coding for low bitrate communication\"
[9] ITU-T Recommendation H.261: \"Video CODEC for audiovisual services at p X
64 kbit/s\"
[10] ITU-T Recommendation H.324: \"Terminal for low bitrate multimedia
communication\"
[11] 3GPP TS 26.111: "Modifications to H.324"
[12] 3GPP TR 26.911: "Terminal Implementor's Guide"
[13] ITU-T Recommendation X.691: \"Information Technology - ASN.1 Encoding
Rules - Specification of Packed Encoding Rules (PER)\"
[14] International Standard ISO/IEC 14494-2: "Information technology \---
Generic coding of audio-visual object --- Part 2: Visual, 1999"
[15] 3GPP TS 26.071: "Mandatory Speech Codec; General Description"
[16] 3GPP TS 26.090: "Mandatory Speech Codec; Speech Transcoding Functions"
[17] 3GPP TS 26.073: "Mandatory Speech Codec; ANSI C-Code"
[18] ITU-T T.140 (1998) Presentation protocol for text conversation
application.
[19] 3GPP TS 22.226: "Global Text Telephony; Stage 1"
[20] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile Radio Interface - Layer 3 MM/CC Specification\".
[21] 3GPP TS 27.001: \"General on Terminal Adaptation Functions (TAF) for
Mobile Stations (MS)\".
[22] 3GPP TS 29.007: \"General requirements on interworking between the Public
Land Mobile Network (PLMN) and the Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN)
or Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN)\".
[23] 3GPP TS 23.108: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 specification; Core
Network protocols; stage 2\".
[24] ITU-T Recommendation G.712: \"Transmission performance characteristics of
pulse code modulation channels\".
[25] ITU-T Recommendation T.120: \"Data protocols for multimedia
conferencing\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply.
**H.324 terminal:** ITU-T H.324 recommendation, including Annex C
**3G-324M terminal:** Based on ITU-T H.324 recommendation modified by 3GPP for
purposes of 3GPP circuit switched network based video telephony
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
ACELP Algebraic-Code-Excited Linear-Prediction
ADC Analogue Digital Converter
AEC Acoustic Echo Cancellation
AL Adaptation Layer
CCSRL Control Channel Segmentation and Reassembly Layer
CELP Code-Excited Linear-Prediction
CT Correlation Threshold
DAC Digital Analogue Converter
DCT Discrete Cosine Transformation
EI Error Indication
EOB End Of Block
FEC Forward Error Correction
GOB Group Of Blocks
GQUANT Group Quantizer information
GTT Global Text Telephony
HDLC High-Level Data Link Control
HEC Header Error Control
ISDN Integrated Services Digital Network
LAPM Link Access Procedure for Modems
LC Logical Channel
MC Multiplex Code
MCU Multipoint Communication Unit
MP-MLQ Multipulse Maximum Likelihood Quantization
MPL Multiplex Payload Length
MR-ACELP Multi-rate ACELP
PC Personal Computer
MCU Multipoint Conference Unit
MUX H.223 Multiplex layer
PDU Protocol Data Unit
SN Sequence Number
VLC Variable Length Code
# 4 General
3G-324M terminals provide real-time video, audio, or data, in any combination,
including none, over 3GPP circuit-switched, radio networks. They are based on
ITU-T H.324 with Annex C, and Annex H when mobile multilink operation is
supported. Communication may be either 1-way or 2-way. Such terminals may be
part of a portable device or integrated into an automobile or other non fixed
location device. They may also be fixed, stand-alone devices; for example, a
video telephone or kiosk. 3G-324M terminals may also be integrated into PCs
and workstations.
In addition to 3G-324M to 3G-324M communication, interoperation with other
types of multimedia telephone terminals is possible, however a gateway may be
required.
Multipoint communication between more than two 3G-324M terminals is possible
using a Multipoint Communication Unit (MCU). MCU functionality is for further
study.
3G-324M terminals are based on ITU-T H.324 with Annex C, and Annex H when
mobile multilink operation is supported. For performance reasons and to
reference the call set-up procedures, some modifications to H.324 were made.
These are described in 3GPP TS 26.111, except call set-up procedures are
described in 3GPP TS 24.008, 27.001, 29.007 and 23.108. 3G-324M terminals
shall conform to these specifications. Because of the many options in H.324,
an implementor's guide, 3GPP TR 26.911, provides preferred options for 3G-324M
implementations.
Figure 1 below shows the functional components of a generic 3GPP multimedia
terminal. The video, speech, data and multilink components are optional. If a
media type is supported, the standards indicated are mandatory except those
enclosed in square brackets are optional.
{width="6.002777777777778in" height="4.290972222222222in"}
Figure 1 Scope of circuit switched multimedia 3GPP specification. Items in
[brackets] are optional.
Short descriptions of ITU-T H.324, 3GPP TS 26.111, and 3GPP TR 26.911 are
given below.
# 5 ITU-T H.324
ITU-T H.324 describes terminals for low bitrate multimedia communication. That
ITU-T recommendation contains "ANNEX C, Multimedia Telephone Terminals Over
Error Prone Channels" (sometimes referred to as H.324/M) and "ANNEX H, Mobile
Multilink Operation". These annexes are considered an integral part of the
recommendation. Therefore, herewith H.324 shall mean ITU-T H.324 with Annex C.
When multilink operation is utilized, H.324 shall also mean to include H.324
Annex H.
Originally designed for V.34 modems, H.324 now supports ISDN and wireless
networks. Therefore, it is well suited as a basis for 3GPP multimedia codecs.
Relevant to wireless networks, H.324 describes the overall system architecture
and introduces control (H.245), mux (H.223), video (H.261 and H.263), text
(T.140), and audio (G.723.1).
Annex A provides a short overview of H.324 and multimedia codecs.
# 6 Modifications to H.324 (3GPP TS 26.111)
To enable cost-effective, high-quality H.324 terminals for 3GPP networks, some
modifications were made to H.324. These modifications are described in 3GPP TS
26.111. Terminals adhering to this specification are herewith known as 3G-324M
terminals. 3G-324M terminals shall conform to 3GPP TS 26.111.
# 7 Call set-up requirements
H.324 does not describe call set-up procedures for 3GPP networks. These are
described in 3GPP TS 24.008, 27.001, 29.007, 23.108 and shall be used for
3G-324M terminals.
# 8 Terminal implementor's guide (3GPP TR 26.911)
A successful 3G-324M terminal will have to function well at bandwidths as low
as 32 KBPS and in potentially high error rate environments. 3G-324M contains
many options that may be employed by an implementor. To help choose which
options and combinations of options are useful, an implementor's guide is
provided in 3GPP TR 26.911.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Background information
The section is intended for informational purposes only. This is not an
integral part of this specification. Each section below relates to the
functional components in figure 1.
# A.1 Video I/O Equipment
For a video telephone this would most likely consist of a video camera and
display monitor. Other possible input sources could be a VCR or disk drive.
While most applicable I/O equipment relies on a standard format for the video
signal or bit stream, this format is likely to differ from that mandated by
the video codec. In such cases, circuitry or software is used to transcode
between the two formats.
# A.2 Video Codec
ITU-R 601 (NTSC or PAL) is a typical video input signal and represents a bit
stream of 20.7 Mbyte/s for the actual image (excluding blanking intervals).
The first order of compression occurs by reducing the resolution of the input
signal.[^1] For example, CIF resolution at 30 fps produces a bit stream 4.6
Mbyte/s. Additional savings occur by dropping frames. In a videoconference,
where motion is relatively slow, 10 fps is considered adequate. Thus, the
original signal of 20.7 Mbytes/s could be reduced to 1.5 Mbyte/s with just
these techniques. However, this is still 188 times greater than can be
transmitted on, for example, a 64 KBPS channel. Substantial compression is
still required, especially considering that framing, control, and audio would
as well require a portion of the available bandwidth.
To achieve the degree of compression required for video telephony, all of the
video codecs that can currently be employed in a 3GPP multimedia codec use a
combination of spatial and temporal redundancy reduction to reduce the
bandwidth required by the video media stream. Spatial redundancy can be
reduced by converting the input signal from the time domain to the frequency
domain using a DCT. This produces a DC value and other coefficients, where
most of the scene energy is concentrated in the coefficients corresponding to
the lower frequencies. Next, a coarse quantizer is applied (which, in this
domain, has little effect on image quality). This results in many of the
coefficients being encoded to 0. The significant coefficients are encoded to a
much smaller range of values. The coefficients are then reordered so that,
typically, the larger magnitude values will occur first followed by 0 value
coefficients. Finally, the coefficients are replaced with a count of the
number of zero value coefficients followed by the value of a nonzero
coefficient. This combination is translated into a VLC. Applying this type of
compression to the entire video frame produces an intra frame.
Despite the efficiency of intra coding, significantly more compression is
required. In addition to removing spatial redundancy, all video codecs apply
temporal reduction as well. This is achieved by comparing the current frame to
the previous and estimating the set of vectors which when applied to their
respective areas of the scene would create the new, current frame based on the
old, previous frame. The match is usually not perfect, so an error component
is transmitted as well. The error component is also transformed to the
frequency domain, so the same compression efficiency achieved in the intra
frame is achieved here as well --- enhanced by the fact the range of error
coefficients is less than intra coefficients. Since generally only a few areas
of a scene change from frame to frame, high compression can be achieved by
sending a series of inter frames. If the error component for a particular
block is too large, it can be encoded as an intra block.
Since, by their nature, VLCs are not fixed length, a single bit error can make
it impossible to decode an entire frame. Unfortunately, each inter coded frame
relies on its previous frame to be decoded. Thus, a single bit error can
destroy the entire remaining bit stream. Video codecs have various ways of
handling errors. The simplest is to use error detection to determine if a
frame contains an error. The transmitter is then signalled that an error
occurred. It then sends an intra coded frame, which does not depend on any
previous frames. This approach consumes considerable bandwidth and is only
practical for very low error networks. Other, more sophisticated schemes are
available using the video codecs available to 3G-324M terminals.
## A.2.1 H.261
H.261 supports CIF and QCIF images as input. It provides good video quality at
64 kbit/s or higher. It uses BCH codes for Forward Error Correction (FEC).
However, this is not recommended for H.324.
## A.2.2 H.263
H.263 is an extension of H.261. It allows sub-QCIF, 4CIF and 16CIF as
additional input formats. H.263, in its original version, provides four
annexes that describe optional modes for enhanced coding.
  * Advanced prediction mode (Annex F) provides half-pel motion estimation, median-based motion vector prediction, 4 motion vectors per macroblock (one per block), and overlapped block motion compensation
  * Unrestricted motion vectors (Annex D) work in conjunction with advanced prediction mode and allow motion vectors to point outside the picture area
  * Arithmetic coding (Annex E) can be used instead of variable length coding
  * PB-frames (Annex G) allow bi-directional prediction similar to MPEG
Other significant differences exist, but require a level of detail to explain
that renders them outside the scope of this document.
A second version of H.263 (known as H.263+) adds annexes I through T, some of
which address error prone environments and are therefore of special interest
to 3GPP multimedia codecs.
## A.2.3 MPEG-4
MPEG-4 Visual (ISO/IEC 14496-2) is a generic video codec. One of its target
areas is mobile communications. Error resiliency and high efficiency make this
codec particularly well suited for 3G-324M.
MPEG-4 Visual is organised into Profiles. Within a Profile, various Levels are
defined. Profiles define subsets of tool sets. Levels are related to
computational complexity. Among these Profiles, Simple Visual Profile provides
error resilience (through data partitioning, RVLC, resynchronization marker
and header extension code) and low complexity.
MPEG-4 allows various input formats, including general formats such as QCIF
and CIF. It is also baseline compatible with H.263.
# A.3 Audio I/O Codec
Generally, a video telephone would require a handset, headset, or microphone
and speaker. Often, integrated circuits are employed that convert the
typically analogue input signal to a PCM format bit stream (ADC) and convert
PCM to an analogue signal for acoustic output (DAC). This is helpful since
many speech codecs use PCM for input and output. Video telephones often use a
separate microphone and speaker. This allows the user to be seen without a
handset or headset. However, if this is so, AEC will be required.
# A.4 Speech Codec
## A.4.1 3GPP AMR
The AMR codec uses eight source codecs with bit-rates of 12.2, 10.2, 7.95,
7.40, 6.70, 5.90, 5.15 and 4.75 kbit/s. The coder operates on speech frames of
20 ms corresponding to 160 samples at the sampling frequency of 8000 sample/s.
It performs the mapping from input blocks of 160 speech samples in 13‑bit
uniform PCM format to encoded blocks of 95, 103, 118, 134, 148, 159, 204, and
244 bits and from encoded blocks of 95, 103, 118, 134, 148, 159, 204, and 244
bits to output blocks of 160 reconstructed speech samples. The coding scheme
for the multi-rate coding modes is the so‑called Algebraic Code Excited Linear
Prediction Coder (ACELP). The multi-rate ACELP coder is referred to as MR-
ACELP. At each 160 speech samples, the speech signal is analysed to extract
the parameters of the CELP model (LP filter coefficients, adaptive and fixed
codebooks\' indices and gains). These parameters are encoded and transmitted.
At the decoder, these parameters are decoded and speech is synthesised by
filtering the reconstructed excitation signal through the LP synthesis filter.
The adaptive multi-rate speech codec is described in a bit‑exact arithmetic in
form of a fixed-point ANSI-C code to allow for easy type approval as well as
general testing purposes of the adaptive multi-rate speech codec.
The DTX mechanism includes a Voice Activity Detector (VAD) on the TX side;
evaluation of the background acoustic noise on the TX side, in order to
transmit characteristic parameters to the RX side; and generation of comfort
noise on the RX side during periods where the radio transmission is turned
off.
The AMR specification contains error concealment. The purpose of frame
substitution is to conceal the effect of lost AMR speech frames. The purpose
of muting the output in the case of several lost frames is to indicate the
breakdown of the channel to the user and to avoid generating possible annoying
sounds as a result from the frame substitution procedure.
## A.4.2 G.723.1
G.723.1 can be used for compressing the speech or other audio signal component
of multimedia services at a very low bitrate as part of H.324. This coder has
two bit-rates associated with it, 5.3 and 6.3 kbit/s. The higher bitrate has
greater quality. The lower bit-rate gives good quality and provides system
designers with additional flexibility. Both rates are a mandatory part of the
encoder and decoder. It is possible to switch between the two rates at any
frame boundary. An option for variable rate operation using discontinuous
transmission and noise fill during non-speech intervals is also possible using
a series of silence frames or a single silence frame followed by no frames
until speech is detected.
G.723.1 encodes speech or other audio signals in frames using linear
predictive analysis-by-synthesis coding. The excitation signal for the high
rate coder is Multipulse Maximum Likelihood Quantization (MP-MLQ) and for the
low rate coder is Algebraic-Code-Excited Linear-Prediction (ACELP). The frame
size is 30 ms and there is an additional look ahead of 7.5 msec,. This coder
is designed to operate with a digital signal obtained by first performing
telephone bandwidth filtering (ITU-T Recommendation G.712) of the analogue
input, then sampling at 8000 Hz and then converting to 16-bit linear PCM for
the input to the encoder. The output of the decoder is converted back to
analogue by similar means.
G.723.1 has been designed to be robust for indicated frame erasures. An error
concealment strategy for frame erasures has been included in the decoder.
However, this strategy must be triggered by an external indication that the
bit stream for the current frame has been erased. This can be achieved in
H.324 using the AL2 Error Indication (EI) flag and the optional AL2 Sequence
Number (SN). Because the coder was designed for burst errors, there is no
error correction mechanism provided for random bit errors. If a frame erasure
has occurred, the decoder switches from regular decoding to frame erasure
concealment mode.
G.723.1 contains three annexes. Annex A describes the silence compression
system designed for the G.723.1 speech coder (mentioned above). Annex B
describes an alternative implementation of G.723.1 contained in floating point
C source code. Annex C specifies a channel coding scheme which can be used
with the triple rate speech codec G.723.1. The channel codec is scalable in
bit-rate and is designed for mobile multimedia applications as a part of the
overall H.324 family of standards.
# A.5 User Data Applications
## A.5.1 Data conferencing -- T.120
An example of a User Data Application is T.120. This protocol allows
multipoint data conferencing that includes data and image transferral. Other
functions, such as shared whiteboards and applications, are possible.
## A.5.2 Text conversation -- T.140
The real time text conversation application, is supported by the presentation
protocol ITU-T T.140 [19]. The Global Text Telephony feature is implemented in
the CS Multimedia environment by applying T.140, as specified in H.324. The
text stream may be opened simultaneously with voice, video and other data
applications. Text-only sessions are also possible. Further requirements
applicable to the Global Text Telephony feature are specified in TS 22.226
[20].
The data protocol for T.140 is specified in H.324 to be AL1.
# A.6 Data Protocols
Various data protocols can be supported. These always support data
applications (see A.5 User Data Applications). A specific protocol or set of
protocols is often stipulated by the data application. Each protocol provides
varying degrees of error detection and/or correction.
# A.7 System Control
In general, system control constitutes the overall state machine for the
terminal. It usually has to be aware of when a connection has been
established. At that point it can begin H.245 procedures such as master/slave
determination, capabilities exchange, and opening logical channels. Upon call
termination, either initiated at the near or far ends, system control
generally initiates H.245 end session procedures.
# A.8 Call Set-up
All out-of-band network signalling for the purpose of call control is handled
by call set-up, which is usually implemented as a state machine. This includes
initiating, answering, and tearing down calls.
# A.9 H.245
H.245 specifies the syntax and semantics for in-band, terminal-to-terminal
control messages and the procedures for their use. Most importantly, H.245 is
used for master/slave determination, capabilities exchange, H.223 mux table
transmission, and opening and closing logical channels. There is also a large
array of general control and indication messages. H.245 addresses a wide range
of terminals and applications. Therefore, only a subset of the messages listed
in H.245 pertain to 3G-324M terminals. Messages fall into one of four
categories: Request (requires a Response), Response (in response to a
Request), Command (requires an action), and Indication (informative only).
H.245 messages are carried on a single logical channel within the H.223 mux.
This channel is labelled LC 0 and is considered to be open upon establishing
digital communications end-to-end and survives until digital communication is
terminated. Due to the characteristics of the H.223 mux, bandwidth for H.245
messages is allocated on an as-needed basis. Since most H.245 traffic occurs
and the beginning and end of the session, this conserves much needed bandwidth
for video and audio. Error control is not provided for within H.245 and is
specified elsewhere.
# A.10 H.223
H.223 describes the multiplexing protocol used between H.324 terminals. It is
packet oriented and each packet can contain a subset of a maximum of 65536
LCs. Each LC represents a single media, information, or control channel. The
H.223 protocol is split into two layers, the lowest being the Multiplex Layer.
The Multiplex Layer exchanges data with the end terminal via MUX-PDUs.
Multiplex table entries, of which there are 16 (and can be changed during a
session), describe which octets from within the PDU are allocated to which
logical channels. The multiplex table entry employed for a particular PDU is
indicated by the 4 bit MC field in the MUX-PDU header. MUX-PDUs contain an
integer number of octets. Errors within the MUX-PDU header are controlled
using the HEC field in the MUX-PDU header. H.324 terminals utilising the V.34
transmission protocol frame MUX-PDUs with HDLC. Bit stuffing is used for data
transparency in this case.
Above the Multiplex Layer is the Adaptation Layer, of which there are three
different types.
1) AL1 is designed primarily for control information and data > protocols. It
can be either framed or unframed and does not > provide any error control.
2) AL2 is designed primarily for the transfer of digital audio. AL2 > PDUs
contain 1 octet for an 8-bit CRC and an optional octet for a > sequence
number.
3) AL3 is designed primarily for the transfer of digital video. AL3 > PDUs
contain 2 octets for a 16-bit CRC. There is also optionally 1 > or 2 octets
for control. AL3 also allows limited retransmission.
For purposes of video telecommunications over wireless networks, four annexes
to H.223 have been created. These create four levels of error detection and
error correction.
## A.10.1 Level 0
Level 0 applies to H.223 as described above.
## A.10.2 Level 1
Level 1, described in Annex A, replaces HDLC framing with 1 or 2 16 bit flags.
Unlike HDLC, Level 1 does not guarantee data transparency. However, if the
MUX-PDU header is constructed in such a way as to make emulating the Level 1
framing flags impossible, data transparency can be achieved by correctly
decoding the MUX-PDU. Should there be and error in the MUX-PDU header,
resynchronization techniques will have to be applied.
## A.10.3 Level 2
Level 2, described in Annex B, uses the same framing as Level 1, but utilises
a 3 octet header. This header starts with a 4 bit MC, which is the same as in
Level 0. This is followed by an 8-bit MPL-field, with a range of values 0 --
254. Lastly, a 12 bit extended Golay code is used for parity bits. The PM in
Level 2 is signalled through the polarity of the MUX-PDU flag. If the output
of the correlator is greater than or equal to CT, the PM is 0. If it is less
than or equal to -CT, the PM equals 1. After the parity bits, there can be an
optional MUX-PDU header for the previous (corrupted) MUX-PDU. This 1 octet
field uses the format described in Level 0. Level 2 also offers enhanced
packet resynchronization.
## A.10.4 Level 3
Level 3, described in Annexes C and D, provides error correction capabilities
at the mux level.
###### ## Annex B (informative): Bibliography
(void)
#