# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
Syndicated feeds, using technologies such as Atom and Really Simple
Syndication (RSS), are widely used on today\'s Internet for various scheduled
pull applications such as podcast. There are a number of non-compatible
proprietary extensions and a number of different RSS variants that may need to
be installed and updated.
OMA DCD has defined Channel and Content Metadata and related mechanisms for
content delivery (including RSS and ATOM feeds) using Content Metadata XML
extensions independently of any bearers. As a consequence there are no
specific optimizations for 3GPP services/bearers. OMA DCD specification allows
embedding of OMA DCD XML namespace elements into RSS and Atom document (RSS
and Atom feed \"content packaging formats\"). The OMA DCD Channel and Content
Metadata are intended to offer different content delivery alternatives to
receivers.
The Syndicated Feed Reception (SFR) specification intents to define the
optimized reception for any existing syndicated feeds using 3GPP specific
bearers. SFR re-uses OMA DCD procedures and metadata for client server
transactions.
# 1 Scope
The present document defines a set of media codecs, formats and
transport/application protocols to enable syndicated feed reception within the
3GPP system.
The present document includes information applicable to network operators,
service providers and manufacturers.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 41.001: \"GSM Specification set\".
[3] RSS Advisory Board: \"Really Simple Syndication 2.0\".
[4] IETF RFC 4287: \"The Atom Syndication Format\".
[5] Open Mobile Alliance:: \"OMA Dynamic Content Delivery V1.0\", June 2009.
[6] 3GPP TS 26.234: \"Transparent end-to-end Packet-switched Streaming Service
(PSS); Protocols and codecs\".
[7] 3GPP TS 26.244: \"Transparent end-to-end packet switched streaming service
(PSS); 3GPP file format (3GP)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 26.346: \"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service (MBMS); Protocols
and codecs\".
[9] Open Mobile Alliance: \"OMA Push V2.2\", June 2009.
[10] IETF RFC 4281: \"The Codecs Parameter for Bucket Media Types\", Gellens
R., Singer D. and Frojdh P., November 2005.
[11] Open Mobile Alliance: \"User Agent Profile Version 2.0\", February 2006.
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Syndicated Feed:** A document, formatted according to RSS, ATOM, DCD or
other syndicated feed formats, which is frequently updated with new content
updates.
**Syndicated Feed Reader:** The client, which receives and processes one or
more syndicated feed formats.
**Syndicated feed URI:** A Uniform Resource Identifier, pointing to the
document, which is formatted according to RSS, ATOM or other syndicated feed
formats.
**Syndicated Feed Provider: A content provider, which uses HTTP servers to
provide syndicated feeds for download.**
**SFR enabled Feed Reader:** A feed reader, which is able to use optimized
receptions and/or optimized enclosure handling as defined in the
specification.
**SFR Server:** Server, which offers methods for optimized reception of
syndicated feeds for SFR enabled Feed Readers.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
GPRS General Packet Radio Service
IP Internet Protocol
DCD Dynamic Content Delivery
MBMS Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service
PSS Packet Switch Streaming
RSS Really Simple Syndication
SFR Syndicated Feed Reception
UE User Equipment
URI Uniform Resource Identifier
URL Uniform Resource Locator
XML eXtensible Markup Language
# 4 System description
## 4.1 Functional overview
The following diagram (see Figure 1) illustrates the overall system for
syndicated feed reception (SFR). The system is subdivided into an SFR enabled
Feed Reader, a SFR server and Syndicated Feed Provider.
SFR enabled Feed Readers are clients, which provide all the functionality to
parse, process and (opt.) present syndicated feeds. The SFR enabled Feed
Reader can interact with any legacy syndicated feed server (e.g. RSS or Atom)
using HTTP. Additionally, those clients are also able to optimize the
syndicated feed reception and/or optimize the handling of enclosures as
defined in this specification. SFR enabled Feed Readers may support one or
more syndicated feed formats such as RSS or Atom. From an
implementation/deployment perspective, the SFR enabled Feed Reader can be
shared by multiple ATOM/RSS-based applications or could be incorporated as a
part of such an application.
SFR enabled Feed Readers, which include \"optimized reception\" of feed
updates and/or enclosures support interactions with SFR servers.
SFR servers offer the SFR enabled Feed Reader with functions to optimize the
reception of feed updates, attached media and enclosures. SFR servers interact
with one or more syndicated feed servers. The interaction protocols and
procedures of SFR server with Syndicated feed servers are out of scope of this
specification. The SFR server is a profiled OMA DCD server dedicated to
optimize syndicated feed delivery.
Syndicated feed providers are legacy functions, which use HTTP to offer their
syndicated feeds.
Figure 1: Overall SFR System
The SFR enabled Feed Reader interacts with the SFR server in order to get an
optimized reception of syndicated feeds using the \"Admin\" reference point.
The SFR server provides the SFR enabled Feed Reader with feed content using
OMA Push or MBMS download delivery using the \"Push\" reference point. The
\"Pull\" reference point is used, when the SFR enabled Feed Reader pull
content from the SFR server. The \"Admin\", \"Push\" and \"Pull\" reference
points are realized using a subset of the OMA DCD-3, DCD-2 and DCD-1 reference
points [5].
The \"Admin\" transactions between SFR enabled Feed Reader and SFR server re-
use a subset of the OMA DCD-3 transactions. The \"Push\" procedures between
SFR server and SFR enabled Feed Reader re-use the OMA DCD-2 transactions (see
section 5.6) and extend them to cover MBMS delivery via direct binding. The
\"Pull\" Interface to the SFR Server corresponds to \"DCD-1\". The \"Pull\"
procedures between SFR server and SFR enabled Feed Reader re-use a subset of
OMA DCD-1 transactions (See section 5.6). The SFR enabled Feed Reader
implements a profile of the DCD client and supports some of the DCD Enabled
Client Application (DECA) functionalities.
The \"Poll\" interface to the syndicated feed provider (dashed line)
corresponds to the stateless pull of legacy syndicated feed readers using
HTTP. The \"Poll\" interface is not in scope of this specification.
The profiling of DCD [5] is defined in section 5.7.
## 4.2 Operations overview
Syndicated Feed Reader, which want to use \"optimized reception\" as defined
in this specification must first activate and register with the SFR server to
establish a session and then initiate the optimized reception of desired
Syndicated Feeds (i.e. also called channels).
The SFR server provides the SFR enabled Feed Reader with a session-id as value
of the Session-ID field in the activation response message that corresponds
toa successful activation. This session-id is used during all later
transactions. One or more syndicated feed reception channels may be added to
or removed from the session at any point in time.
The SFR enabled Feed Reader use the Syndicated Feed URI (content address) of
the syndicated feed to initiate the optimized reception. The SFR Server shall
use the content address of the syndicated feed as value for the Channel-ID
field. The Channel-ID value is used to identify specific syndicated feeds
during later transactions. The Channel-ID value is present at any syndicated
feed related transaction.
The session is persistent, even if the UE is switched-off. However, all or
some channels can be suspended. The UE may suspend some or all syndicated
feeds when roaming in foreign networks by sending a channel suspend request to
the SFR server. The SFR enabled Feed Reader may also indicate as part of the
channel subscription procedure that while roaming, content delivery shall
automatically be suspended. In that case and upon detection that the UE is
roaming, the SFR server shall suspend the delivery.
Each transaction on the \"Admin\", \"Push\" and \"Pull\" reference point is
uniquely identified by a transaction-identifier, which is provided with the
value of the Message-ID field. The value of the Message-ID field is composed
of a unique transaction-id identifier followed by two numeric characters for
message index within the transaction. The transaction identifier is the same
for all related messages of a transaction within a session.
The SFR enabled Feed Reader can find e.g. the response to a certain request
message based on the transaction-identifier. All messages belonging to the
same transaction shall use the same transaction identifier value in the
Message-ID field.
Example of message-id:
Transaction id= 01178AC32
Message id = 01178AC3200 for the first message, and message id = 01178AC3201
for the second message.
# 5 Protocols and procedures for optimized feed reception
## 5.1 Introduction
SFR is a profile of the DCD enabler [5] dedicated to ATOM, RSS content
delivery and reception.
## 5.2 Syndicated Feed Discovery
Syndicated feed discovery refers to methods for the UE to obtain a list of
available syndicated feeds with the intent to activate the reception of one or
more syndicated feeds. As part of the optimized delivery of SFR, two methods
for discovering a feed (internal discovery and external discovery) are
specified.
The UE may discover syndicated feeds either through the SFR enabled Feed
Reader, an external UE application (such as the browser) or an external device
(such as a browser on a PC). Syndicated feeds can also be discovered through
an external device (such as a PC browser) and the syndicated feed reader in
the UE may be notified to initiate the reception. This external reception
initiation is further defined in section 5.4.3.
Using an external UE application for syndicated feed discovery is defined in
5.2.1. The syndicated feed URI is given to the SFR enabled Feed Reader.
Using the SFR enabled Feed Reader for syndicated feed discovery is defined in
section 5.2.2. The Syndicated Feed reader retrieves information about all
available feeds from the SFR server.
### 5.2.1 Feed Discovery using an external UE application
The user discovers available syndicated feeds using an external UE application
such as a UE browser. The external UE application makes the feed URI available
to the SFR enabled feed reader.
The SFR enabled Feed Reader gets the feed URI as input and then needs to
determine if it is an SFR optimized feed or if it is a regular ATOM/RSS feed.
Details for the syndicated feed subscription are defined in section 5.4.
An example of feed discovery using an external UE application is described in
clauses A.1 and A.4.
The feed can be available at a new SFR server with which the SFR enabled Feed
Reader is not configured. In such case the SFR enabled feed reader needs to
activate to the new SFR server in order to receive feeds. This activation
process is specified in sections 5.3.2.2,5.3.3 and 6.1.1 of [5].
### 5.2.2 Feed Discovery using the SFR enabled Feed Reader
The SFR enabled Feed Reader includes methods for feed discovery. The SFR
enabled Feed Reader is already activated and registered to an existing SFR
server. The syndicated feed reader receives a list of available syndicated
feeds from the SFR server. An initial list, the Channel-Guide List, of
syndicated feeds is received with the ApplicationRegistrationResponse message
(see section 5.3).
{width="3.513888888888889in" height="2.4520833333333334in"}
Figure 2: Channel Discovery
The SFR enabled Feed Reader uses a subset of Channel Discovery methods defined
in section 7.1.3.10 of [5].
Information Elements (IE) of the ChannelDiscoveryRequest Message:
  * Message-ID: Mandatory in OMA DCD and SFR.
  * Session-ID; Mandatory in OMA DCD and SFR.
  * Channel-Metadata: Mandatory in OMA DCD and SFR. The relevant subset for SFR is defined in section 5.7.
Information Elements (IE) of the ChannelDiscoveryInfo Message:
  * Session-ID; Mandatory in OMA DCD and SFR.
  * Message-ID: Mandatory in OMA DCD and SFR.
  * Channels-added: Conditional in OMA DCD and SFR.
  * Channels-removed: Conditional in OMA DCD and SFR.
  * Channels-updated: Conditional in OMA DCD and SFR.
An example of feed discovery using the SFR enabled Feed Reader is described in
Annex A.2.
## 5.3 Activation for Syndicated Feed Reception
### 5.3.1 Introduction
Reception activation procedures of OMA DCD [5] are re-used to activate
optimized reception of syndicated feeds.
### 5.3.2 Activation triggered by the client
#### 5.3.2.1 Activation to a default SFR server.
The SFR enabled Feed Reader is configured to a default SFR server. See section
5.1 of [5] and perform the activation to that SFR server. Details of the
activation parameters are described in section 5.3.2.3
#### 5.3.2.2 Discovery of a new SFR server via URI scheme
The SFR enabled Feed Reader shall be able to identify whether this feed is an
SFR feed or a legacy ATOM/RSS feed. The syndicated feed URI follows a
predefined URI scheme in order to identify the SFR server and provide relevant
connection parameters associated with the SFR server. If such a feed URI is
identified the SFR enabled Feed Reader uses the SFR parameters contained in
the URI scheme to send an activation request to the SFR server.
Example of flow:
{width="6.002777777777778in" height="3.925in"}
Figure 3: Discovery of a new SFR server via URI scheme
In order for SFR enabled Feed Reader to connect to a new SFR server the
following parameters shall be included in the URI (based on DCD-3 connection
profile see Section 8.1.2 of [5]):
  * SFR server address: address (URL) of the SFR server with which the SFR enabled Feed Reader should activate.
  * Proxy: address (IP address or hostname) of the proxy that should be used for communications with SFR server. This parameter may be omitted if no proxy is required to connect to the SFR server.
  * Data connection details: Additional bearer-network-specific connection details e.g. APN, data connection username/password, etc. This parameter may be omitted if no additional data connection details are required to connect to the SFR server.
Example of SFR URI:
\
Upon reception of these parameters, the SFR enabled Feed Reader shall send an
activation request message as specified in section 7.1.3.1 of [5] to the
server address retrieved as part of the URI parameters. Once the SFR enabled
Feed Reader activation is complete, an SFR enabled Feed Reader sends
registration and channel subscription request(s), as specified in [5].
The SFR enabled Feed Reader may combine all 3 requests into a single request
using multipart HTTP requests. With this approach the assumption is that
authentication (basic, digest, or TLS) associated with activation request is
sufficient to facilitate registration and subscription combined into the
single transaction with activation. In other words, as registration and
subscription requests are bundled with authenticated activation request
there\'s no need to send session ID with these requests.
Details of the activation process are described in 5.3.2.3
#### 5.3.2.3 Activation process
Each SFR enabled Feed Reader must perform at least once the \"Activation for
Syndicated Feed Reception\" procedure as defined in this section before using
any other syndicated feed optimization procedure.
{width="3.2125in" height="3.2284722222222224in"}
Figure 4: Activation and registration Procedure
The procedure uses a subset of OMA DCD procedures, namely the Client
Activation (defined in section 7.1.3.1 of [5]) and the Application
Registration (defined in section 7.1.3.3 of [5]) procedures. Client activation
procedure and application registration procedure are separate transactions to
allow an OMA DCD like implementation of syndicated feed reception.
Information Elements (IE) of the ClientActivationRequest Message:
  * Device-ID: Optional in OMA DCD and SFR.
  * Version: The Version IE is mandatory in OMA DCD and SFR. The Version shall take the value \"SFR1.0\".
Information Elements of the ClientActivationResponse Message
  * Session-ID: Conditional in OMA DCD and SFR. The SFR server provides the Session-ID in case of successful client activation. The \"Session-ID\" is used in subsequent transactions with the SFR server.
Information Elements of the ApplicationRegistrationRequest message:
  * Session-ID: Mandatory in OMA DCD. The Session-ID value is provided during ClientActivationResponse. Usage for SFR is mandatory.
  * Application-Profile including the channel-selection-metadata: Mandatory in DCD. Relevant subset of DCD metadata for SFR is defined in section 5.7.
Information Elements of the ApplicationRegistrationResponse message:
  * Session-ID: Mandatory in OMA DCD and SFR.
  * Message-ID: Mandatory in OMA DCD and SFR.
  * Channel-Guide including general-channel-metadata: Mandatory in OMA DCD and SFR. Relevant subset of the general channel metadata for SFR is defined in section 5.7.
The activation procedure may include authentication and authorization
transactions. Authentication and Authorization shall follow \"HTTP Digest
Authentication\" as defined in section 10.1.1.2 of [5].
The SFR enabled Feed Reader may combine multiple requests
(ClientActivationRequest, ApplicationRegistrationRequest and
ChannelSubscriptionRequest (see section 5.4) into a single request using
multipart HTTP requests. With this approach the assumption is that
authentication (basic, digest, or TLS) associated with activation request is
sufficient to facilitate registration and subscription combined into the
single transaction with activation. In other words, as registration and
subscription requests are bundled with authenticated activation request
there\'s no need to send session ID with these requests.
#### 5.3.2.4 Deactivation process
The deactivation process can be initiated by the SFR enabled Feed Reader or by
the SFR server.
The process for SFR enabled Feed Reader initiated deactivation process is
specified in section 7.1.3.2 of [5] and the information elements contained in
the ClientDeactivationRequest and ClientDeactivationResponse messages are
specified in section 7.1.3.2.1 of [5]
The process for SFR server initiated deactivation process is specified in
section 7.1.3.2.2 of [5].
### 5.3.3 Activation triggered by the network
Upon discovery of an external feed, the SFR enabled Feed Reader is provided
with a feed URI. The SFR enabled Feed Reader shall be able to identify whether
this feed is associated with a new SFR server.
The SFR enabled Feed Reader fetches the feed URI and provides the SFR UAProf
parameters as part of the request. Upon reception of such parameters, the SFR
server initiates the activation process with the SFR enabled Feed Reader.
The SFR enabled Feed Reader shall pass the UAProf with the following SFR
extensions when sending the HTTP GET discovery request message to the feed
URI.
Attribute = SFR Version
Attribute = DeviceID
{width="6.002777777777778in" height="3.925in"}
Figure 5: Activation triggered by the network
Upon receipt of the extended UAProf, the new SFR server shall send to the SFR
enabled Feed Reader a RequestForClientActivation message as specified in
section 7.1.3.1.2 of [5]. This is followed by a ClientActivationRequest and
ClientActivationResponse as specified in section 5.3.2.3. Upon completion of
the activation process the SFR enabled Feed Reader registration and channel
subscription request as specified in sections 7.1.3.3 and 7.1.3.7 of [5] are
issued.
The SFR enabled Feed Reader may combine all 3 requests into a single request
using multipart HTTP requests. With this approach the assumption is that
authentication (basic, digest, or TLS) associated with activation request is
sufficient to facilitate registration and subscription combined into the
single transaction with activation. In other words, as registration and
subscription requests are bundled with authenticated activation request
there\'s no need to send session ID with these requests.
Information Elements (IE) of the RequestForClientActivation Message:
If the feed is available at an SFR server with which the SFR enabled Feed
Reader is configured with; the RequestForClientActivation message shall
contain only the dcd-3-connection-profile-name parameter specified in section
7.1.3.1.2 of [5] shall be used.
If the feed is available at a new SFR server, the RequestForClientActivation
message shall only contain the dcd-3-connection-profile parameters specified
in section 7.1.3.1.2 of [5].
Information Elements (IE) of the SFR enabled Feed Reader registration and
channel subscription request messages are specified in sections 5.2.2 and
5.3.2.3.
## 5.4 Optimized reception initiation of a syndicated feed
### 5.4.1 Introduction
The sections below specify the methods for initiating the optimised reception
of feeds, whether the initiation is triggered by an external component,by the
SFR enabled Feed Reader, or by the SFR server.
### 5.4.2 Optimized reception initiation triggered by the UE
The reception initiation for optimized reception procedure may be triggered
when a UE subscribes to a syndicated feed. A UE subscribes to a syndicated
feed, when it is interested in the content updates provided in this syndicated
feed.
The SFR enabled Feed Reader registers with the SFR server to enable optimized
reception of syndicated feed updates and its enclosures and attachments (e.g.
images). The \"activation for syndicated feed reception\" procedure (section
5.3) shall be executed at least once before the reception initiation
procedure.
The SFR server may need to establish a relation with the Syndicated Feed
Provider to become aware about new content. If the Syndicated Feed Provider is
a DCD Content Provider, then the SFR server should use procedures as defined
in section 7.2.1 of [5] for the OMA CPR interface. In a scenario whereby the
syndicated feed provider is not a \"DCD Content Provider\" and does not
support the OMA-CPR interface, the SFR server retrieves the content from the
syndicated feed provider via an HTTP GET request and inserts the relevant
metadata in the feed both for optimised handling of enclosures and for
optimised delivery.
{width="5.983333333333333in" height="2.55in"}
Figure 6: Reception Initiation triggered by the UE
The Reception Initiation procedure (see figure 6) uses a subset of the OMA DCD
Channel Subscription Procedure (see section 7.1.3.7 of [5]).
Information Elements of the ChannelSubscriptionRequest message:
  * Session-ID: Mandatory in OMA DCD and SFR.
  * Message-ID: Mandatory in OMA DCD and SFR.
  * Delivery-personalization-Metadata: Conditional in OMA DCD and SFR. Delivery-personalization-metadata contains at least the Channel-ID. In SFR the Channel-ID shall take the value of the feed address. The relevant subset of delivery personalization metadata for SFR is defined in section 5.7.
  * Channel-ID: Conditional in OMA DCD and SFR.
  * Subscription-ID Conditional in OMA DCD and SFR (issued upon subscription personalization).
Information Elements of the ChannelSubscriptionResponse message:
  * Session-ID: Mandatory in OMA DCD and SFR.
  * Message-ID: Mandatory in OMA DCD and SFR.
  * Channel-Metadata (delivery-preference-metadata): Optional in OMA DCD and SFR. If delivery-preference-metadata is return, the feed address is provided as the value of the channel-id. Relevant subset of the delivery-preference metadata for SFR is defined in section 5.7.
Note: The Channel-Metadata is used to describe the type of \"Push\" bearer
used for syndicated feed delivery. The dcd-interface attribute has the value
\"DCD-2/Point-to-Point\" when OMA Push is used for reception. Other values to
indicate the usage of MBMS Download are described in section 5.7.
The delivery over MBMS might be done via the DCD OMA-BCAST adaptation
specification or as an MBMS direct adaptation specification as described in
section 5.6.
### 5.4.3 External triggered optimized reception initiation
The user discovers a feed via other means (e.g. from an operator\'s web
portal) and subscribes the UE externally (e.g. using a PC) for optimized
syndicated feed reception. The user provides the relevant information (e.g.
MSISDN) to receive the syndicated feed on its UE.
{width="6.266666666666667in" height="2.673611111111111in"}
Figure 7: Reception Initiation triggered by an external device
If an external device triggers the Reception Initiation through the SFR
server, a subset of the OMA DCD Channel Subscription Notification Procedure
(see section 7.1.3.9 of [5]) is used (see figure 7).
Information Elements of the ChannelSubscriptionNotification message:
  * Session-ID: Mandatory in OMA DCD and SFR.
  * Message-ID: Mandatory in OMA DCD and SFR.
  * Application -ID: Mandatory in OMA DCD and SFR.
  * Subscription-ID Conditional in OMA DCD and SFR (if issued upon subscription personalization).
  * Channel-Metadata: General-channel-metadata are mandatory, delivery-preference-metadata are conditional. Relevant subset of the channel metadata defined in section 5.7.
Information Elements of the ChannelSubscriptionNotificationResponse message:
  * Session-ID: Mandatory in OMA DCD and SFR.
  * Message-ID: Mandatory in OMA DCD and SFR.
  * Channel-Metadata (delivery-personalization-metadata): Mandatory in OMA DCD and SFR. The relevant subset of the delivery-personalization-metadata is defined in section 5.7.
Note: To perform the subscription, the client must be activated as specified
in section 5.4.
## 5.5 Reception Termination
Reception termination corresponds to the procedure, when a UE decides to
discontinue optimized reception of syndicated feed updates.
{width="3.4854166666666666in" height="1.6611111111111112in"}
Figure 8: Reception Termination
The Reception Termination procedure (see figure 8) uses a subset of the OMA
DCD Channel Unsubscription Procedure (see section 7.1.3.8 of [5]).
Information Elements of the ChannelUnsubscriptionRequest message:
  * Session-ID: Mandatory in OMA DCD and SFR.
  * Message-ID: Mandatory in OMA DCD and SFR.
  * Channel-ID: Mandatory in OMA DCD and SFR...
Note: The Channel-ID takes the value of the \"Content Address\" (i.e. the
Syndicated feed URI).
Information Elements of the ChannelUnsubscriptionResponse message:
  * Session-ID: Mandatory in OMA DCD and SFR.
  * Message-ID: Mandatory in OMA DCD and SFR.
## 5.6 Content Reception
The SFR enabled Feed Reader uses the \"Push\" interface for optimized
reception. The \"Push\" interface uses the DCD-2 interface and related
procedures. Note that DCD-2 transactions are partly built on DCD-1
transactions:
  * Content Update Push procedure: ContentUpdate Push message and optionally ContentDeliveryConfirmation message
  * Content Update Notification procedure: ContentUpdateNotification message, ContentUpdateRequest message, ContentUpdateResponse message and optionally ContentDeliveryConfirmation message.
The DCD-2 interface binds to:
  * OMA-PUSH as specified in [5]. SFR enabled Feed Reader shall support OTA-WSP notifications and may support other OMA-Push features. The SFR server shall use OTA-WSP for the content update push procedure and the Content Update Notification procedure for larger transmissions. The SFR server may support other OMA-Push features.
  * MBMS delivery if supported:
```{=html}
``` \- Via DCD adaptation to BCAST. This is optional to support for both the
SFR server and SFR enabled Feed Reader.
  * Via MBMS direct adaptation specification for DCD procedures as follow:
    * When MBMS is supported, the SFR enabled Feed Reader and the SFR server shall support the mbms-access-info parameters in the DCD-2-broadcast-profile element as described in section 5.9
    * Via OTA-PTM (if supported)
The SFR enabled Feed Reader may use the \"Pull\" interface for optimized
reception. This can be used when the content provider specify that the content
can be retrieved in \"pull\" as per the content network-preference metadata.
The \"Pull\" interface uses a sub-set of DCD-1 interface that corresponds to
the Content Update procedure, wich is widely aligned with the Content Update
Notification procedure of the \"Push\" interface. The Content Update procedure
consists of the ContentUpdateRequest, ContentUpdateResponse and optionally the
ContentUpdateConfirmation messages.request, ContentUpdate response and
ContentUpdateConfirmation as specified in section 7.1.1.1.
Other DCD procedures (e.g. Content Submission procedure) specified for the
DCD-1 interface may be supported by some implementations but are not required
for SFR enabled Feed Readers and SFR servers 1.0.
## 5.7 SFR profile of DCD
### 5.7.1 Procedure
The SFR profile defines the set of DCD procedures that an SFR enabled Feed
Reader and an SFR server supports:
SFR enabled Feed Reader and an SFR server shall support the following DCD
procedures:
\- Channel Discovery (section 7.1.3.10.3 of [5])
\- Activation (section 7.1.3.1 of [5]) and deactivation (section 7.1.3.2 of
[5])
\- Application Registration (section 7.1.3.3 of [5]) and deregistration
(section 7.1.3.4 of [5])
\- Channel Subscription (section 7.1.3.7 of [5]) and un-subscription (section
7.1.3.8 of [5])
\- Channel Suspend and Channel Resume (section 7.1.3.11 of [5])
\- Syndicated Feed Delivery over DCD-2 using OMA Push and MBMS if these
delivery methods are supported on the device
\- Syndicated Feed Delivery over DCD-1
\- Embedding DCD metadata into RSS and Atom feeds as per sections 9.2 and 9.3
of [5]
Other DCD procedures may be supported but are not required for this
specification:
\- Content Submission
\- Usage tracking report
\- Channel Subscription Update
\- Content Repair
\- Contextual Information Update
\- Channel Metadata update
\- All procedures between DCD client and DCD enabled Client Application
\- All procedures between DCD servers and DCD content providers
### 5.7.2 Metadata
#### 5.7.2.1 Application Profile Metadata
The SFR enabled Feed Reader and the SFR server shall support the following
subset of DCD application profile metadata as specified in section 8.1.2 of
[5]:
\- \"application-profile\" element with the following attributes:
\- \"application-id\"
\- \"dcd-channel-selection-metadata\" element
#### 5.7.2.2 Channel Selection Metadata
The SFR enabled Feed Reader and the SFR server shall support all Channel
Selection metadata as specified in section 8.2.2.1.1 of [5].
#### 5.7.2.3 Delivery Personalisation Metadata
Channel Delivery personalisation metadata listed below, as specified in
section 8.2.2.1.2 of [5], with specific values for particular parameters. The
Channel delivery personalization metadata is always sent from client to
server:
\- \"channel-id\" attribute: either RSS URL or value of \"atom:id\"
\- \"content-availability-notification\" attribute: The SFR enabled Feed
Reader should set this to\"true\"
\- \"delivery-when-roaming\" attribute: default False
\"dcd-2-broadcast-profile\" element with the following additional sub-
parameters (Mbms-access-info and usd-description) to support the direct
binding to MBMS:
+--------------+----+------+--------------+-----------+--------+ | **d | E2 | 0..1 | A set of | Structure | DC | | cd-2-broadca | | | parameters | | | | st-profile** | | | that define | | | | | | | how the DCD | | | | | | | Client | | | | | | | receives | | | | | | | content via | | | | | | | the DCD-2 | | | | | | | interface | | | | | | | for specific | | | | | | | transports | | | | | | | (note: WAP | | | | | | | Push | | | | | | | requires no | | | | | | | special | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | figuration). | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Contains the | | | | | | | following | | | | | | | **a | | | | | | | ttributes** : | | | | | | | | | | | | | | **cel | | | | | | | l-broadcast- | | | | | | | message-id** | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Contains the | | | | | | | following | | | | | | | **sub | | | | | | | -elements** : | | | | | | | | | | | | | | bcast | | | | | | | -access-info | | | | | | | | | | | | | | mbm | | | | | | | s-acess-info | | | +--------------+----+------+--------------+-----------+--------+ | **Mbms-a | E3 | 0..1 | MBMS | Structure | DS, DC | | ccess-info** | | | specific | | | | | | | connection | | | | | | | details for | | | | | | | file | | | | | | | delivery | | | | | | | session over | | | | | | | which the | | | | | | | SFR Enabled | | | | | | | feed Reader | | | | | | | should | | | | | | | expect DCD-2 | | | | | | | interface | | | | | | | data to be | | | | | | | delivered | | | | | | | via MBMS | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Contains the | | | | | | | following | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | ub-elements: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Sdp | | | | | | | -description | | | +--------------+----+------+--------------+-----------+--------+ | **usd-d | A | 1 | URI to the | String | DS, DC | | escription** | | | MBMS User | | | | | | | Service | | | | | | | Description | | | | | | | Fragment | | | +--------------+----+------+--------------+-----------+--------+
#### 5.7.2.4 General Channel Metadata
The SFR enabled Feed Reader and the SFR server shall support the following DCD
general channel metadata as specified in section 8.2.2.2.1 of [5] with the
following values. The general channel metadata is provided from the SFR server
to the SFR enabled Feed Reader:
\- DCD Channel-ID: SFR server or SFR Feed provider shall use the DCD Channel
ID for identification of the RSS feed. The value of Channel ID shall be
identical to the RSS feed URL. In the case of Atom feed, the DCD Channel ID
shall take the value of the \"atom:id\" element.
\- DCD Content-type : This metadata parameter is provided by SFR server and
used by SFR enabled Feed Reader to filter available syndicated feeds in the
channel guide. It is used at channel/feed discovery stage to enable the SFR
server to match application preferences and available feeds and to create a
subset of channels/feeds that correspond to the preferences of installed SFR
enabled applications. This subset is returned to device during channel
discovery and the SFR client enables subscription to the particular feeds. The
DCD content-type corresponds to the rss category or atom:category fields.
\- DCD Mime-type: This metadata parameter is provided to indicate needed mime
type support to correctly receive the syndicated feed. This parameter is used
at channel/feed discovery stage e.g. filtering relevant channels and content
for the UE:
\- By SFR enabled Feed Reader to announce capabilities (i.e. supported mime-
types).
\- By SFR server to announce types of syndicated feeds and of media content
included in the enclosures of the syndicated feeds in the channel. RFC 4281
shall be used to indicate the mime-type.
The SFR enabled Feed Reader and the SFR server may support the following DCD
general channel metadata, as specified in section 8.2.2.2.1 of [5], that
corresponds to some ATOM or RSS feed metadata. If these DCD metadata are
supported, the value of equivalent parameters in ATOM or RSS shall be used as
values for the corresponding DCD metadata:
\- DCD Channel-name: This DCD channel metadata corresponds to the RSS Channel
Title and/or to the ATOM Feed.title parameter.
\- DCD Updated: This DCD channel metadata corresponds to the RSS channel
lastbuildDate and/or to the ATOM feed.updated parameter.
\- DCD channel-description: This DCD channel metadata corresponds to the RSS
channel description and/or to the ATOM feed.subtitle parameter.
\- DCD genre: This DCD channel metadata corresponds to the RSS channel
category and/or to the ATOM feed.category.
\- DCD channel-icon: This DCD channel metadata corresponds to the RSS channel
image and/or to the ATOM feed.icon/ feed.logo. The DCD Channel-icon provides a
mime-type attribute that is not available in ATOM and RSS.
Other general channel metadata as described in [5] and not listed above may be
supported but are not required for SFR.
#### 5.7.2.5 Delivery preference metadata
The delivery preference metadata listed below, as specified in section
8.2.2.2.3 of [5], with specific values for particular parameters, shall be
supported. Delivery preference metadata are provided either by feed provider
or SFR server:
\- \"channel-id\" attribute: either RSS URL or value of \"atom:id\"
\- \"dcd-interface\":
\- \"DCD-2/point-to-point\": OMA-Push with point-to-point bearers
\- \"DCD-2/Broadcast\": Content delivery with MBMS Download delivery method in
case of direct MBMS binding
\- \"DCD-1/HTTP(S)\": Content reception using unicast UMTS bearer services
\- \"dcd-2-broadcast-profile\" with the additional element \"Mbms-access-
info**\"** define in section 5.7.2.3.
#### 5.7.2.6 Content Metadata
Content Metadata are provided by the feed provider. In SFR, content metadata
are RSS and ATOM metadata and may consist of DCD Content metadata. The SFR
server can update or add some DCD metadata to the content metadata received
from the feed provider.
If the syndicated feed provider uses the DCD content metadata, or if the SFR
server extends the feed metadata with DCD metadata, then the following shall
apply:
The SFR enabled Feed Reader and the SFR server shall support the DCD content
metadata as specified in section 8.3.2 of [5] and with the particular
limitations described below:
\- DCD mime-type: This parameter shall be used by SFR to indicate the expected
mime-type of the content item and of the enclosure in the item. RFC 4281 shall
be used to indicate the mime-type.
\- DCD replace-content-id: this parameter shall be used by SFR to indicate
which content item shall be replaced by the content item for which a content-
id (RSS item guid and/or ATOM feed.entry.id) is provided in the same message.
The SFR enabled Feed Reader and the SFR server may support the following DCD
content metadata as specified in section 8.3.2 of [5] that corresponds to some
ATOM or RSS entry metadata. If these DCD metadata are supported, the value of
equivalent parameters in ATOM or RSS shall be used as values for the
corresponding DCD metadata:
\- DCD content-id: This DCD content metadata corresponds to the RSS item guid
and/or to the ATOM feed.entry.id parameter.
\- DCD content-name: This DCD content metadata corresponds to the RSS item
title and/or to the ATOM feed.entry.title parameter.
\- DCD content-update: This DCD content metadata corresponds to the ATOM
feed.entry.updated parameter. There is no equivalent parameter in RSS.
#### 5.7.2.7 Other DCD Metadata
Other DCD metadata may be supported but are not required for SFR v1.0:
\- Charging metadata as specified in section 8.2.2.2.1 of [5]
# 6 Optimized handling of enclosure
## 6.1 Introduction
SFR provides a method of advertising, before retrieval, all required
codecs/profiles/levels within a media file reference. SFR also allows the
description of either alternative enclosures or the definition of tailored
syndicated feeds for specific devices capabilities..
Unless the client on the UE requests a special SFR defined alternate enclosure
the handling of enclosure is independent of optimized reception, hence a
regular ATOM/RSS server may be capable of providing feeds with optimized
enclosure.
## 6.2 RSS enclosure
RSS schema has dedicated XML element for enclosure. \"Enclosure\" element in
RSS [3] has three required attributes: \"url\", \"length\", and \"type\".
An SFR feed provider shall use the type attribute to specify the relevant 3GPP
Mime type and Codec as specified in RFC 4281 of the referenced content that is
in a 3GP format.
An SFR parser shall determine from the type attribute the mime type and codec
associated with the referenced content and, upon determining whether the
content is usable on the UE, retrieve it, if usable.
Example of RSS enclosure using RFC 4281 and TS 26.244:
\
## 6.3 ATOM enclosure
Enclosure in ATOM [4] is specified by using the "link" element with the
\"rel\" attribute value set to \"enclosure\". The other three attributes of
the "link" element used to specify enclosure parameters are \"type\",
\"length\" and \"href\".
An SFR feed provider shall use the type attribute to specify the relevant 3GPP
Mime type and Codec as specified in RFC 4281 of the referenced content that is
in a 3GP format.
An SFR parser shall determine from the type attribute the mime type and codec
associated to the referenced content and, upon determining whether the content
is usable on the UE, retrieve it, if usable.
Example of ATOM enclosure using RFC 4281 and TS 26.244:
link rel=\"enclosure\" type=\"audio/3gp; codec=" samr " \" length=\"1337\"
href=http://example.org/audio/ph34r_my_podcast.3gp
## 6.4 Providing alternative enclosures
Content Provider can publish media content in multiple formats, some matching
UE capabilities, some not. There are three methods to provide tailored
enclosures for UE capabilities:
\- Alternative description in the syndicated feeds: The syndicated feed is
extended to include multiple versions of the same content. An example is
provided below for ATOM. Other ways are possible for both ATOM and RSS.
\- Alternative syndicated feed channels: The feed aggregator creates tailored
syndicated feeds, which all match the device capabilities.
\- Alternative delivery of enclosure based on the requesting device: The
server selects the correct version of the content, when the device requests
the enclosure.
The feed provider or the SFR server may offer syndicated feeds tailored for
device classes. The SFR server in case of optimized delivery can use the DCD
content type and DCD-Mime Types parameters to associate the registering device
to the matching tailored syndicated feed.
Additionally, the syndicated feed server may offer alternative versions of
media content, either based on the knowledge of UE capabilities or just based
on alternative version availability.
In such a case, the enclosure support in ATOM/RSS will be reused for primary
enclosure as per section 6.2 and 6.3 above.
Alternative enclosures could be used to specify alternative formats for the
media content.
An syndicated feed server may include alternative enclosure in the RSS feed:
\- if it is aware of the UE capabilities and there are multiple available
versions of the same media content in formats usable by the UE. This applies
both to the optimised and non optimised delivery mode.
\- or if the SFR server is not aware of the UE capabilities and the format of
media content in primary enclosure may not be usable by the UE. This may apply
to the non optimized delivery mode.
An SFR enabled Feed Reader should add the UAProf header [11] to all HTTP
requests. If a feed provider or SFR server wants to personalize the response
to device capabilities, the server should interpret the UAProf header and send
an according response, e.g. enclosure codecs settings, which match the device
capabilities.
It is also possible to describe multiple enclosures in the syndicated feeds.
For instance, the ATOM format [4] allows providing multiple enclosure links in
a single entry for the purpose of providing alternative media formats or
content formats relating to the Entry.
An alternative enclosure in SFR for ATOM can be defined as follow:
\- Multiple \"rel\" attributes with values set to \"enclosure\" are used in a
single parent entry element.
\- The \"type\" attribute value in the enclosure links are specified according
to section 6.1
Example of alternative enclosure in ATOM:
> \
>
> \urn:uuid:1225c695-cfb8-4ebb-aaaa-80da344efa6a\
>
> \ href=http://example.org/audio/ph34r_my_podcast.aac/>
>
> \ href=rtsp://example.org/audio/ph34r_my_podcast.sdp/>
>
> \
# 7 Media codecs and formats for syndicated feeds
## 7.1 Media Transport for enclosures
This section defines the media transport formats for Syndicated Feed
Reception.
Syndicated Feed Reception supports progressive reception and rendering of 3GP
files received using HTTP and packet switched streaming (PSS) sessions. A UE
including reception support for 3GP files as defined in 3GPP TS 26.234 [6]
should support Basic profile, Extended-presentation profile and Progressive-
download profile as defined 3GPP TS 26.244 [7]. The UE shall support the mime
type parameters as defined in RFC 4281[10] and should support Annex A of 3GPP
TS 26.244 [7],
Syndicated Feed Reception supports RTP streaming sessions as defined in Packet
Switched Streaming (PSS) with URIs as enclosures. A UE including a Packet
Switched Streaming (PSS) client as defined in 3GPP TS 26.234 [6] should accept
Packet Switched Streaming RTSP URIs as enclosures.
The Syndicated Feed Reader may receive linked files over MBMS and OMA Push.
## 7.2 Media codecs and formats
This section defines the default media formats and codecs supported syndicated
feed reception.
PSS Media codecs and formats decoding capabilities defined in 3GPP TS 26.234
[6] are applicable to the present syndicated feeds, including in particular
text and image, graphics codecs and formats.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Interaction examples
This annex contains a set of informative interaction examples between SFR
enabled Feed Readers, SFR server and feed servers. There are several
alternatives to discover and subscribe to syndicated feeds.
  * Feed Discovery using the UE Browser
  * Feed Discovery using the Syndicated Feed Reader
  * SFR Server Discovery triggered by Feed Discovery
  * Feed Discovery using the PC Browser
# A.1 Feed Discovery using the UE browser
This informative example scenario assumes syndicated feed discovery through
the UE browser (example external application). The scenario assumes that the
SFR enabled Feed Reader has configured a \"default\" SFR server. It also
assumes that feed announcement and the actual syndicated feed are served from
different HTTP servers.
The UE browser is used in this example to discover the syndicated feed.
Syndicated feeds may use the auto-discovery techniques to simplify
identification of syndicated feed URI for the browser. One or more auto-
discovery tags are added into the head-section of the HTML file. An example of
an auto-discovery tag is given below.
> \
>
> \
>
> \...\
>
> \
> href=\"http://feeds.example.com/ExampleNewsFeed.rss\">
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
This example auto-discovery tag announces the URI of an RSS feed with the
title \"Example Feed\" and the MIME Type \"application/rss+xml\".
The following figure depicts the sequence flow for the feed discovery using a
browser. It includes also the Reception Activation transaction and a Content
Update Reception.
{width="6.444444444444445in" height="4.178472222222222in"}
Figure A.1: Feed Discovery using the UE Browser
  1. The user uses a browser to find syndicated feeds. Note: syndicated feed discovery using the UE browser is one realization of syndicated feed discovery and not in scope of this specification.
  2. When the user finds a syndicated feed of interest and subscribes to it, the browser hands-over the feed URI to the SFR enabled Feed Reader. If the client has not performed the activation procedure with the server, it runs the \"activation for syndicated feed reception\" procedure as defined in section 5.3.\ \ When the client has run the activation procedure with the SFR server, the client initiates the optimized feed reception as defined in section 5.4. The syndicated feed URI (received from the browser) is used as \"Channel-ID\" or \"Content-Address\" in the reception initiation procedure.\ \ The ChannelSubscriptionResponse contains the Channel-Metadata structure. If content update notification is delivered using OMA push, then the \"dcd-interface\" element in the channel metadata contains the value \"DCD-2/Point-To-Point\".\ \ If content update notification is delivered using MBMS, then the \"dcd-interface\" element in the channel metadata contains the value \"DCD-2/Broadcast\". The \"network-preferences\" element shall contain the string \"MBMS\" in that case.\ \ The SFR server has established a \"Content update\" relation with the desired syndicated feed server. In a scenario whereby the syndicated feed provider is not a \"DCD Content Provider\" and does not support the CPR interface and messages exchanged over the CPR interface, the SFR server retrieves the content from the syndicated feed provider via an HTTP GET request and inserts the relevant metadata in the feed both for optimised handling of enclosures and for optimised delivery.
  3. Content Updates are received.
# A.2 Feed Discovery using the Syndicated Feed Reader
The SFR enabled Feed Reader may provide a build-in function to select and
subscribe to syndicated feeds. The SFR enabled Feed Reader fetches the list of
available feeds from the SFR server.
{width="7.070138888888889in" height="4.324305555555555in"}
Figure A.2: Feed Discovery using the SFR enabled Feed Reader
  1. The SFR enabled Feed Reader must have previously executed once the OMA DCD activation and registration procedures. The SFR enabled Feed Reader gets a list of available syndicated feeds in the ApplicationActivationResponse message.
  2. The SFR enabled Feed Reader may send a request to update the list of syndicated feeds, when a user starts browsing the available syndicated feeds.
  3. When the user finds a syndicated feed of interest, the SFR enabled Feed Reader sends the ChannelSubscriptionRequest message to the SFR server to initiate the optimized reception of the feed. The Content Address contains the URI of the syndicated feed.
The ChannelSubscription Response contains a Channel Metadata. If content
update notification is delivered using OMA push, then the \"dcd-interface\"
element in the channel metadata contains the value \"DCD-2/Point-To-Point\".
Other channel metadata are defined for OMA DCD.
If content update notification is delivered using MBMS, then the \"dcd-
interface\" element in the channel metadata contains the value
\"DCD-2/Broadcast\". The \"network-preferences\" element shall contain the
string \"MBMS\" in that case.
The SFR server has established a \"Content update\" relation with the desired
syndicated feed server. In a scenario whereby the syndicated feed provider is
not a \"DCD Content Provider\" and does not support the CPR interface and
messages exchanged over the CPR interface, the SFR server retrieves the
content from the syndicated feed provider via an HTTP GET request and inserts
the relevant metadata in the feed both for optimised handling of enclosures
and for optimised delivery.
# A.3 SFR Server Discovery triggered by Feed Discovery
The syndicated feed is served through a new SFR server. The terminal needs to
discover the new SFR server or needs to be discovered as an SFR capable
terminal by this new SFR server. It may also happen that the UE has no
\"default\" SFR server configured.
The SFR enabled Feed Reader can activate and register to a new SFR server when
the SFR feed URI contains the SFR server connection information as specified
in section 5.3.2.2.
{width="6.002777777777778in" height="3.925in"}
Figure A.3: SFR Server Discovery triggered by Feed Discovery
  1. The user browses and discovers a feed URI. The browser pass the URI to the SFR enabled Feed Reader. The SFR enabled Feed Reader retrieves from the URI the SFR server parameters.
  2. The SFR enabled Feed Reader uses the SFR server connection parameters to activate and further register to the SFR server and provide the feed URI to the SFR server. The SFR server establishes a content update relation with the feed server if not already in place.
  3. Content updates are received.
Alternatively, the SFR enabled Feed Reader can be activated by a new SFR
server as the SFR enabled Feed Reader provides its SFR UAProf capabilities
when fetching the feed URI as specified in section 5.3.3.
{width="6.002777777777778in" height="3.925in"}
Figure A.4: activation triggered by SFR Server
  1. The terminal fetches a feed URI and provides its SFR UAprof parameters as part of the request. The web server forward these information to the SFR server. Alternatively, as per figure 5 in section 5.3.3, upon reception of the feed URI, the SFR enabled Feed Reader requests the feed to the SFR server and provides itq SFR capabilities as part of the UAprof information element.
  2. The SFR server sends a request for activation notification to the SFR enabled Feed Reader (e.g. via SMS message).
  3. Upon completion of the activation/registration process, content updates are received.
# A.4 Feed Discovery using the PC browser
This informative example assumes syndicated feed discovery through the PC
browser (example external application). The example requires, that the SFR
enabled Feed Reader has configured a \"default\" SFR server.
The user discovers a feed via other means (e.g. from a web portal) and
provides the relevant information (i.e. a delivery context) to receive the
feed on its SFR terminal. The feed is routed via the SFR server to which the
terminal is connected. (For instance, if a phone number is identified as
belonging to a particular mobile network operator the feed provider knows the
SFR server of that carrier)
The figure bellow illustrates the flow for external subscription to an
external feed and corresponds to DCD figure 9, flow 3 as described in [5].
{width="5.999305555555556in" height="3.7604166666666665in"}
Figure A.5: Feed Discovery using an external device
Upon reception of the some subscription notification from the web portal, the
SFR server sends a ChannelSubscriptionNotification message to the SFR enabled
Feed Reader via the DCD-3 interface as specified in section 7.1.3.9 of [5].
The SFR enabled Feed Reader processes this message and returns a
ChannelSubscriptionNotificationResponse to the SFR server as specified in
section 7.1.3.9 of [5].
1) The user uses a browser to find and subscribe to syndicated feeds on the
service provider\'s portal. Note: syndicated feed discovery using the PC
browser is one realization of syndicated feed discovery and not in scope of
this specification. The assumption is that the UE is configured with the SFR
server associated with the service provider\'s portal. The user provides as
part of the subscription process some information allowing to identify the UE
(e.g. MSISDN). Upon completion of the subscription process, the SFR server is
provided with the feed address and the UE information.
```{=html}
``` 1) The SFR server sends a ChannelSubscriptionNotification message to the
UE as specified in section 7.1.3.9 of [5]. (e.g. this may be done via an SMS
message) The user confirms the channel subscription and a
ChannelSubscriptionNotificationResponse is sent from the UE to the SFR server
as specified in section 7.1.3.9.1 of [5]
2) content updates are received.
#