# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
Requirements for codecs and media handling in support of the Mission Critical
Push To Talk (MCPTT) service are contained in this document.
The MCPTT service supports voice communication between several users (i.e.
group call), where each user has the ability to gain access to the permission
to talk in an arbitrated manner. The MCPTT service also supports private calls
between two users.
Background information in support of this document may be found in TR 26.989
[4].
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the codecs and media handling for MCPTT. The
corresponding service requirements are defined in 3GPP TS 22.179 [2]. The
corresponding functional architecture, procedures and information flows are
defined in 3GPP TS 23.179 [3].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.179: \"Mission Critical Push To Talk (MCPTT) over LTE; Stage
1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.179: \"Functional architecture and information flows to support
mission critical communication services; Stage 2\".
[4] 3GPP TR 26.989: \"Media codecs and Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service
(MBMS) enhancements for MCPTT over LTE\".
[5] 3GPP TS 24.379: \"Mission Critical Push To Talk (MCPTT) call control;
Protocol specification\".
[6] 3GPP TS 24.380: \"Mission Critical Push To Talk (MCPTT) media plane
control; Protocol specification\".
[7] 3GPP TS 26.171: \"Speech codec speech processing functions; Adaptive
Multi-Rate - Wideband (AMR-WB) speech codec; General description\".
[8] 3GPP TS 26.173: \"ANCI-C code for the Adaptive Multi Rate - Wideband (AMR-
WB) speech codec\".
[9] 3GPP TS 26.190: \"Speech codec speech processing functions; Adaptive
Multi-Rate - Wideband (AMR-WB) speech codec; Transcoding functions\".
[10] 3GPP TS 26.191: \"Speech codec speech processing functions; Adaptive
Multi-Rate - Wideband (AMR-WB) speech codec; Error concealment of erroneous or
lost frames\".
[11] 3GPP TS 26.192: \"Speech codec speech processing functions; Adaptive
Multi-Rate - Wideband (AMR-WB) speech codec; Comfort noise aspects\".
[12] 3GPP TS 26.193: \"Speech codec speech processing functions; Adaptive
Multi-Rate - Wideband (AMR-WB) speech codec; Source controlled rate
operation\".
[13] 3GPP TS 26.194: \"Speech codec speech processing functions; Adaptive
Multi-Rate - Wideband (AMR-WB) speech codec; Voice Activity Detector (VAD)\".
[14] 3GPP TS 26.204: \"Speech codec speech processing functions; Adaptive
Multi-Rate - Wideband (AMR-WB) speech codec; ANSI-C code\".
[15] 3GPP TS 26.441: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); General
overview\".
[16] 3GPP TS 26.442: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); ANSI C code
(fixed-point)\".
[17] 3GPP TS 26.443: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); ANSI C code
(floating-point)\".
[18] 3GPP TS 26.445: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Detailed
algorithmic description\".
[19] 3GPP TS 26.447: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Error
concealment of lost packets\".
[20] 3GPP TS 26.449: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Comfort Noise
Generation (CNG) aspects\".
[21] 3GPP TS 26.450: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Discontinuous
Transmission (DTX)\".
[22] 3GPP TS 26.451: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Voice Activity
Detection (VAD)\".
[23] IETF RFC 4867 (2007): \"RTP Payload Format and File Storage Format for
the Adaptive Multi-Rate (AMR) and Adaptive Multi-Rate Wideband (AMR-WB) Audio
Codecs\", J. Sjoberg, M. Westerlund, A. Lakaniemi and Q. Xie.
[24] IETF RFC 3550 (2003): \"RTP: A Transport Protocol for Real-Time
Applications\", H. Schulzrinne, S. Casner, R. Frederick, V. Jacobson.
[25] IETF RFC 3551 (2003): \"RTP Profile for Audio and Video Conferences with
Minimal Control", H. Schulzerinne, S. Casner.
[26] IETF RFC 3711 (2004): \"The Secure Real-time Transport Protocol (SRTP)\",
M. Baugher, D. McGrew, M. Naslund, E. Carrara, K. Norrman.
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
(void)
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
AMR-WB Adaptive Multi Rate Wideband (codec)
AVP Audio-Video Profile
EVS Enhanced Voice Services
FB Fullband
KPI Key Performance Indicator
MBMS Multimedia Broadcast Multicast Services
MBSFN Multicast Broadcast Single Frequency Network
MCPTT Mission Critical Push-To-Talk
RTP Real-time Transport Protocol
SAVP Secure Audio-Video Profile
SRTP Secure Real-time Transport Protocol
SWB Super Wideband
WB Wideband
# 4 Codecs and media handling for MCPTT
## 4.1 MCPTT client
### 4.1.1 Codec
MCPTT clients shall support the AMR-WB codec as specified in 3GPP TS 26.171
‎‎[7], 3GPP TS 26.190 ‎[9], 3GPP TS 26.173 ‎[8] and 3GPP TS 26.204 [14],
including all 9 modes and source controlled rate operation as specified in
‎3GPP TS 26.193 [12], voice activity detection as specified in 3GPP TS 26.194
[13], comfort noise generation as specified in 3GPP TS 26.192 [11] and error
concealment as specified in TS 26.191[10]. The MCPTT clients shall be capable
of operating with any subset of these 9 codec modes.
Based on operator / MCPTT service provider policy, MCPTT clients may
additionally support the EVS codec in super-wideband mode.
If an operator / MCPTT service provider chooses to additionally use SWB
according to its policy, then an MCPTT client that offers super-wideband
speech communication shall support the EVS codec in SWB mode as defined in
3GPP TS 26.441 [15], 3GPP TS 26.445 [18], 3GPP TS 26.442 [16], 3GPP TS 26.443
[17], discontinuous transmission 3GPP TS 26.450 [21], voice activity detection
as specified in 3GPP TS 26.451 [22], comfort noise generation as specified in
3GPP TS 26.449 [20] and error concealment as specified in TS 26.447 [19].
NOTE: In evaluating the codec alternatives for MCPTT, two codecs; AMR-WB and
EVS were considered in detail. The EVS codec was shown to provide
statistically significant performance improvements relative to the AMR-WB
codec for some of the MCPTT KPIs as studied and reported in the TR 26.989 [4].
After consideration of all factors in Release 13, as documented in TR 26.989
[4], the currently widely deployed and available AMR-WB codec meets the needs
of MCPTT services and was decided upon as the mandatory codec for MCPTT.
### 4.1.2 Control plane protocol
General MCPTT client procedures for SDP offer-answer are specified in 3GPP TS
24.379 [5] and 3GPP TS 24.380 [6].
MCPTT clients shall support both "RTP/AVP" [25] and "RTP/SAVP" [26] profiles
in SDP offer/answer. MCPTT clients shall not reject an SDP offer due to
offered RTP profile being either "RTP/AVP" or "RTP/SAVP". MCPTT clients may,
based on operator / MCPTT service provider policy, offer either "RTP/AVP" or
"RTP/SAVP" RTP profiles.
MCPTT clients shall support and offer a payload type with AMR-WB.
If an operator / MCPTT service provider policy enables an MCPTT service using
the EVS codec in SWB mode, then MCPTT clients may, based on operator / MCPTT
service provider policy, additionally offer a payload type with the EVS codec
in SWB mode.
The offer-answer protocol, setting of the codec preference order, and the
generation of SDP offer and answer shall be configured according to operator /
MCPTT service provider policy.
### 4.1.3 User plane protocol
MCPTT clients shall support both RTP [24] and SRTP [26] media transport.
An MCPTT client shall understand the payload formats and options as defined in
RFC 4867 [23]. The MCPTT client does not have to support operating according
to all the options defined in RFC 4867 but shall be capable of properly
accepting or rejecting all options.
The following payload format options from RFC 4867 are defined as follows to
ensure minimum interoperability:
\- bandwidth-efficient shall be supported
\- mode-set: shall support all modes and shall offer no particular mode set
\- mode-change-period: both \"1\" and \"2\" shall be supported, \"1\" shall be
offered (or not included)
\- mode-change-capability: both \"1\" and \"2\" shall be supported, \"2\"
shall be offered
\- mode-change-neighbor: both \"0\" and \"1\" shall be supported, \"0\" shall
be offered (or not included)
\- channels: shall offer \"1\"
Other parameters:
\- ptime: shall be supported, \"20\" shall be offered
\- maxptime: shall be supported, \"240\" shall be offered
\- max-red: shall be supported, \"0\" shall be offered
If, based on operator / MCPTT service provider policy, the MCPTT service
additionally supports the EVS codec in SWB mode, then an MCPTT client that
supports the optional EVS codec in SWB mode shall understand the EVS payload
format as specified in 3GPP TS 26.445 [18] in order to support EVS in SWB
mode. The MCPTT client does not have to support operating according to all the
options defined in 3GPP TS 26.445 [18] but must be capable of properly
accepting or rejecting all options.
### 4.1.4 De-jitter buffer
When MCPTT voice traffic is received on the MBMS bearer in MBMS/MBSFN, the
traffic is scheduled to arrive at intervals of multiples of 40ms. The received
traffic could also exhibit time-varying jitter introduced in the backhaul and
the uplink transmission by the talker before being scheduled for transmission
on the MBMS bearer. The MCPTT UE receiving traffic on an MBMS bearer shall
support and use a de-jitter buffer that is able to manage this amount of
jitter.
## 4.2 MCPTT network
### 4.2.1 Control plane protocol
MCPTT Server procedures are specified in 3GPP TS 24.379 [5] and 3GPP TS 24.380
[6].
MCPTT call media codec information shall include codecs according to MCPTT
Client capabilities as specified in clause 4.1.1.
#