# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the digital test sequences for the Enhanced
Voice Services (EVS) Codec. These sequences test for a bit-exact
implementation of the EVS Codec (3GPP TS 26.445), Voice Activity Detection
(VAD) (3GPP TS.26.451), Comfort Noise Generation (3GPP TS 26.449),
Discontinuous Transmission (DTX) (3GPP TS 26.450), Error Concealment of Lost
Packets (3GPP TS 26.447), Jitter Buffer Management (JBM) (3GPP TS 26.448), and
AMR-WB Interoperable Function (3GPP TS 26.446). In addition, the present
document specifies conformance testing (FFS).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 26.445: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Detailed
Algorithmic Description\".
[3] 3GPP TS 26.451: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Voice Activity
Detection (VAD)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 26.449: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Comfort Noise
Generation (CNG) Aspects\".
[5] 3GPP TS 26.450: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Discontinuous
Transmission (DTX)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 26.447: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Error
Concealment of Lost Packets\".
[7] 3GPP TS 26.442: \" Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); ANSI C code
(fixed-point)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 26.443: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); ANSI C code
(floating-point)\".
[9] 3GPP TS 26.174: \"Adaptive Multi-Rate - Wideband (AMR-WB) Speech Codec
Test Sequences\".
[10] 3GPP TS 26.446: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); AMR-WB
Backward Compatible Functions\".
[11] 3GPP TS 26. 448: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Jitter Buffer
Management\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 26.445 [2], 3GPP TS 26.451 [3], 3GPP TS 26.449 [4], 3GPP TS 26.450
[5], 3GPP TS 26.447 [6], 3GPP TS 26.448 [11], and 3GPP TS 26.446 [10] apply.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
ACELP Algebraic Code-Excited Linear Prediction
AMR-WB Adaptive Multi Rate Wideband (codec)
CNG Comfort Noise Generator
DTX Discontinuous Transmission
EVS Enhanced Voice Services
FB Fullband
FEC Frame Erasure Concealment
IP Internet Protocol
JBM Jitter Buffer Management
MSB Most Significant Bit
MTSI Multimedia Telephony Service for IMS
NB Narrowband
PS Packet Switched
PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network
SAD Sound Activity Detection
SC-VBR Source Controlled - Variable Bit Rate
SID Silence Insertion Descriptor
SWB Super Wideband
VAD Voice Activity Detection
WB Wideband
WMOPS Weighted Millions of Operations Per Second
# 4 General
## 4.1 Introduction
Digital test sequences are necessary to test for a bit exact implementation of
the EVS codec (TS 26.445 [2]), Voice Activity Detection (TS 26.451 [3]),
Comfort Noise Generation (TS 26.449 [4]), Discontinuous Transmission (TS
26.450 [5]), and Concealment of Lost Packets (3GPP TS 26.447 [6]). Jitter
Buffer Management (JBM) (3GPP TS 26.448 [11]), and AMR-WB Interoperable
Function (3GPP TS 26.446 [10]) and for the testing of the bit exactness of
installations of the ANSI C code in TS 26.442 [7]. In addition, test sequences
for the testing of the bit exactness of installations of the ANSI C code in TS
26.443 [8] are provided. For a standard compliant implementation of the above
specifications the encoder and decoder output sequences shall match the
provided output test sequences in the attached ZIP file.
Clause 5 describes the format of the files, which contain the digital test
sequences. Clause 6 describes the test sequences for the EVS codec, including
error concealment of lost packets, the AMR-WB interoperable function. the VAD,
comfort noise generation, discontinuous transmission, the AMR-WB interoperable
function, the EVS jitter buffer management, Clause 7 describes the conformance
testing for non-bit exact implementations of the EVS codec.
# 5 Test sequence format
## 5.1 Introduction to test sequence format
This clause provides information on the format of the digital test sequences
for the EVS codec (TS 26.445 [2]), Voice Activity Detection (TS 26.451 [3]),
Comfort Noise Generation (TS 26.449 [4]), Discontinuous Transmission (TS
26.449 [5]), and Error Concealment of Lost Packets (TS 26.447 [6]), Jitter
Buffer Management (JBM) (3GPP TS 26.448 [11]), and AMR-WB Interoperable
Function (3GPP TS 26.446 [10]).
## 5.2 File format
The test sequence files in PC (little-endian) byte order are provided in
archive files (ZIP format, see the pointer file Readme.txt which accompanies
the present document).
Following decompression, three types of file are provided:
\- Files for input to the speech encoder: *.INP
\- Files for comparison with the encoder output and for input to the speech
decoder: *.COD
\- Files for comparison with the decoder output: *.OUT
\- Files for input to the speech decoder with JBM *.RTP
\- One mode control file for the mode switching test *.MOD
\- Instructions how to operate the test sequences *TXT
# 6 EVS codec test sequences including error concealment of lost packets
## 6.1 Introduction to test sequences
This clause provides information on the test sequences designed to exercise
the EVS codec (TS 26.445 [2]).
## 6.2 Codec configuration
The speech encoder shall be configured as instructed in the readme file
attached.
## 6.3 EVS codec test sequences
### 6.3.1 EVS encoder test sequences
The test sequences are provided and described in the ZIP archive.
The test sequences for encoder testing and instructions to operate the encoder
are summarized in Readme_EVS_enc.txt.
### 6.3.2 EVS decoder test sequences
The test sequences for decoder testing and instructions to operate the decoder
are summarized in Readme_EVS_dec.txt.
### 6.3.3 Test sequences for AMR-WB interoperable function
The test sequences for the AMR-WB interoperable function include the test
sequences defined in TS 26.174 [9], but *.COD and *.OUT files are not
identical to those provided by TS 26.174.
Readme_AMRWB_IO_enc.txt and Readme_AMRWB_IO_dec.txt summarized the input test
sequences, output test sequences, and instructions to execute the AMR-WB
interoperable function test.
### 6.3.4 Test sequences for jitter buffer management
The input test sequences, the output sequences, and instructions to run the
jitter buffer management test are summarized in the Readme_JBM_dec.txt.
# 7 Conformance Testing
Conformance Testing is for further study.
#