# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document contains an electronic copy of the ANSI C floating-point
code for the Enhanced Voice Services (EVS) Codec. This ANSI C code is the
unique alternative reference specification besides the ANSI-C fixed-point code
for the EVS Codec (3GPP TS 26.442) for a standard compliant implementation of
the EVS Codec (3GPP TS 26.445), Voice Activity Detection (VAD) (3GPP TS
26.451), Comfort Noise Generation (CNG) (3GPP TS 26.449), Discontinuous
Transmission (DTX) (3GPP TS 26.450), Packet Loss Concealment (PLC) of Lost
Packets (3GPP TS 26.447), Jitter Buffer Management (JBM) (3GPP TS 26.448), and
AMR-WB Interoperable Function (3GPP TS 26.446).
Requirements for any implementation of the EVS codec to be standard compliant
are specified in 3GPP TS 26.444 (Test sequences).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 26.445: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Detailed
Algorithmic Description\".
[3] 3GPP TS 26.451: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Voice Activity
Detection (VAD)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 26.449: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Comfort Noise
Generation (CNG) Aspects\".
[5] 3GPP TS 26.450: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Discontinuous
Transmission (DTX)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 26.447: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Error
Concealment of Lost Packets\".
[7] 3GPP TS 26.448: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Jitter Buffer
Management\".
[8] 3GPP TS 26.446: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); AMR-WB Backward
Compatible Functions\".
[9] IETF RFC 3550: \"RTP: A Transport Protocol for Real-Time Applications\".
[10] Recommendation ITU-T G.191 (03/10): \"Software tools for speech and audio
coding standardization\".
[11] Recommendation ITU-T G.192: \"A common digital parallel interface for
speech standardization activities\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the definitions given in TR 21.905
[1] apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document takes precedence
over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
ACELP Algebraic Code-Excited Linear Prediction
AMR-WB Adaptive Multi Rate Wideband (codec)
CNG Comfort Noise Generator
DTX Discontinuous Transmission
EVS Enhanced Voice Services
FB Fullband
FEC Frame Erasure Concealment
IP Internet Protocol
JBM Jitter Buffer Management
MSB Most Significant Bit
MTSI Multimedia Telephony Service for IMS
NB Narrowband
PS Packet Switched
PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network
SAD Sound Activity Detection
SC-VBR Source Controlled - Variable Bit Rate
SID Silence Insertion Descriptor
SWB Super Wideband
VAD Voice Activity Detection
WB Wideband
WMOPS Weighted Millions of Operations Per Second
# 4 C code structure
This clause gives an overview of the structure of the floating-point C code
and provides an overview of the contents and organization of the C code
attached to the present document.
The ANSI‑C code has been verified on the following platforms:
\- IBM PC compatible computers with Windows 7 operating systems and Microsoft
Visual C++ 2010 compiler, 32-bit.
ANSI‑C was selected as the programming language because portability was
desirable.
## 4.1 Contents of the C source code
The C code is organized as follows:
Table 1: Source code directory structure
* * *
Directory Description README.txt information on how to compile Makefile UNIX
style encoder Makefile Workspace_msvc/ Directory for the MSVC 2008 (or newer)
project files lib_com/ Source code files used both in encoder and decoder
lib_dec/ Source code files used solely in the decoder lib_enc/ Source code
files used solely in the encoder
* * *
The distributed files with suffix \"c\" contain the source code and the files
with suffix \"h\" are the header files. The ROM data is contained in files
named \"rom_xxx\" with suffix \"c\".
Makefiles are provided for the platforms in which the C code has been verified
(listed above). Once the software is installed, this directory will have a
compiled version of the encoder (named EVS_cod) and the decoder (named
EVS_dec).
## 4.2 Program execution
The codec for Enhanced Voice Services is implemented in two programs:
_-_ EVS_cod: encoder;
_-_ EVS_dec: decoder.
The programs should be called like:
\- EVS_cod [encoder options] \ \;
\- EVS_dec [decoder options]\ \.
The input and output files contain 16-bit linear encoded PCM samples and the
bitstream file contains encoded data.
The encoder and decoder options will be explained by running the programs
without any input arguments. See the file readme.txt for more information on
how to run the _encoder_ and _decoder_ programs.
# 5 File formats
This clause describes the file formats used by the encoder and decoder
programs. The test sequences defined in [1] also use the file formats
described here.
## 5.1 Input/output file format
Input files read by the encoder and output files written by the decoder
consist of 16-bit integer words per each data sample. The byte order in each
word depends on the host architecture (e.g. LSB first on PCs, etc.). Both the
encoder and the decoder program process complete frames corresponding to
multiples of 20 ms. The remaining samples are discarded.
The encoder will pad the last frame to integer multiples of 20ms frames, i.e.
n speech frames will be produced from an input file with a length between
[(n-1)*20ms+1 sample; n*20ms]. The files produced by the decoder will always
have a length of n*20ms.
## 5.2 Rate switching profile (encoder input)
The encoder program can optionally read in a rate switching profile file which
specifies the encoding bitrate for each frame of the input data. The rate
switching profile is a binary file, generated by \'gen-rate-profile\' tool,
which is part of STL 2009, as contained in ITU-T G.191 [10]. The rate
switching profile contains 32-bit integer words where each word represents the
encoding bitrate for each particular frame. The rate switching profile is
recycled if it contains less entries than the total number of frames in the
input file. The rate switching profile can contain EVS primary mode bitrates
and AMR-WB IO mode bitrates arbitrarily. I.e. switching between the two modes
can be specified by the rate switching profile.
## 5.3 Parameter bitstream file (encoder output / decoder input)
The files produced by the speech/audio encoder/expected by the speech decoder
contain an arbitrary number of frames in the following available formats.
### 5.3.1 ITU-T G.192 compliant format
* * *
SYNC_WORD DATA_LENGTH B1 B2 ... Bnn
* * *
Each box corresponds to one Word16 value in the bitstream file, for a total of
2+nn words or 4+2nn bytes per frame, where nn is the number of encoded bits in
the frame. Each encoded bit is represented as follows: Bit 0 = 0x007f, Bit 1 =
0x0081. The fields have the following meaning:
\- SYNC_WORD: Word to ensure correct frame synchronization between the encoder
and the decoder. It is also used to indicate the occurrences of bad frames.
In the encoder output: (0x6b21)
In the decoder input: Good frames (0x6b21)
Bad frames (0x6b20)
\- DATA_LENGTH: Length of the speech data. Codec mode and frame type is
extracted in the decoder using this parameter
### 5.3.2 Compact storage format file
The encoder and decoder programs can optionally write and read a file in the
octet-based compact storage format. The compact storage format is specified in
Annex A.2.6 of [2].
## 5.4 VoIP parameter bitstream file (decoder input)
* * *
Packet size Arrival time RTP header G.192 format (see 6.3.1)
* * *
The fields have the following size and meaning:
\- Packet size: 32 bit unsigned integer (= 12 + 2 + DATA_LENGTH).
\- Arrival time: 32 bit unsigned integer in ms.
\- RTP header: 96 bits (see RFC 3550 [9]), including RTP timestamp and SSRC.
## 5.5 Bandwidth switching profile (encoder input)
The encoder program can optionally read in a bandwidth switching profile,
which specifies the encoding bandwidth for each frame of speech processed. The
file is a text file where each line contains \"nb_frames B\". B specifies the
signal bandwidth that is one of the supported four bandwidths, i.e. NB, WB,
SWB or FB. And \"nb_frames\" is an integer number of frames and specifies the
duration of activation of the accompanied signal bandwidth B.
## 5.6 Channel-aware configuration file (encoder input and decoder output)
The encoder program can optionally read in a configuration file which
specifies the values of FEC indicator p and FEC offset o, where FEC indicator,
p: LO or HI, and FEC offset, o: 2, 3, 5, or 7 in number of frames. Each line
of the configuration file contains the values of p and o separated by a space.
The channel-aware configuration file is meant to simulate channel feedback
from a receiver to a sender, i.e. the decoder would generate FEC indication
and FEC offset values for receiver feedback that correspond to the current
transmission channel characteristics, thereby allowing optimization of the
transmission by the encoder which applies the FEC offset and FEC indication
when in the channel-aware mode.
## 5.7 JBM trace file (decoder output)
The decoder can generate a JBM trace file with the --Tracefile switch as a by-
product of the decoder operation in case of JBM operation (which is triggered
with the --VOIP switch on the decoder side).
The trace file is a CSV file with semi-colon as separator. The trace file
starts with one header line that contains the column names in the following
order:
rtpSeqNo;rtpTs;rcvTime;playtime;active
For each played out speech frame one entry is written to the trace file. The
interval of the playtime values is usually 20ms, but may differ, depending on
the JBM operation. Each entry is a line in the trace file that contains values
as specified in Table 1.
Table 1: JBM trace file entry format
* * *
Name Unit Description rtpSeqNo 1 RTP sequence number of played out speech
frame. -1 if no corresponding RTP packet for the speech frame exists. rtpTs ms
RTP time stamp of played out speech frame. -1 if no corresponding RTP packet
for the speech frame exists rcvTime ms Absolute reception time of the RTP
packet that corresponds to the speech frame. -1 if no corresponding RTP packet
for the speech frame exists. playtime ms Absolute play time (i.e. the time at
which the PCM data is made available by the decoder). Can be floating-point
value. active 0 or 1 Binary entry, which is set to 1 for active speech frames
(i.e. frames that are neither SID nor NO_DATA)
* * *
#