# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document provides non-mandatory recommendations for the use of the
different codec implementation options for the circuit switched multimedia
telephony service which is based on ITU-T Recommendation H.324 [7], and Annex
C of ITU-T Recommendation H.324 [7] in particular. These recommendations
address issues specific to the 3G operating environment, including
guaranteeing sufficient error resilience and interworking between terminals.
The contents of the present document are provided for information to assist in
high quality implementation of multimedia telephony terminals. All references
to \"terminals\" in this report are to terminals supporting the Circuit
Switched Multimedia Telephony Service as described in [7-9].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] ITU-T Recommendation H.223 (1996): \"Multiplexing protocol for low bit
rate multimedia communication\".
[2] ITU-T Recommendation H.223 -- Annex A (1998): \"Multiplexing protocol for
low bit rate multimedia mobile communication over low error-prone channels\".
[3] ITU-T Recommendation H.223 -- Annex B (1998): \"Multiplexing protocol for
low bit rate multimedia mobile communication over moderate error-prone
channels\".
[4] ITU-T Recommendation H.223 -- Annex C (1998): \"Multiplexing protocol for
low bit rate multimedia mobile communication over highly error-prone
channels\".
[5] ITU-T Recommendation H.245 (2000): \"Control protocol for multimedia
communication\"
[6] ITU-T Recommendation H.261 (1993): \"Video codec for audiovisual services
at px64 kbit/s\"
[7] ITU-T Recommendation H.324 (2006): \"Terminal for low bitrate multimedia
communication\"
[8] ITU-T Recommendation G.723.1 (1996): \"Dual rate speech coder for
multimedia communications transmitting at 5.3 and 6.3 kbit/s\".
[9] ITU-T Recommendation H.263 (1998): \"Video coding for low bit rate
communication\"
[10] 3GPP TS 26.110: \"Codec for Circuit Switched Multimedia Telephony
Service: General Description\".
[11] 3GPP TS 26.111: \"Codec for Circuit Switched Multimedia Telephony
Service, Modifications to H.324\".
[12] 3GPP TS 26.112: \"Codec for Circuit Switched Multimedia Telephony
Service; General description\".
[13] 3GPP TR 26.912: \"Codec for Circuit Switched Multimedia Telephony
Service; Quantitative performance evaluation of H.324 Annex C over 3G\".
[14] International Standard ISO/IEC 14496-2: \"Information technology \-
Coding of audio-visual objects - Part 2: Visual\".
[15] ISO/IEC JTC1/SC29/WG11 MPEG 99/N2724: \"MPEG-4 Applications\", March
1999.
[16] ITU-T Recommendation V.80: \"In-band DCE control and synchronous data
modes for asynchronous DTE\".
[17] 3^rd^ Generation Partnership Project (3GPP), 3GPP TS 25.301, Radio
Interface Protocol Architecture.
[18] ITU-T Recommendation H.264 (2003): \"Advanced video coding for generic
audiovisual services\" \| ISO/IEC 14496-10:2003: \"Information technology --
Coding of audio-visual objects -- Part 10: Advanced Video Coding\"
[19] ITU-T Recommendation H.241 (2003): \"Extended video procedures and
control signals for H.300 series terminals\"
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply:
**3G-324M terminal:** multimedia telephony terminal conforming to 3GPP TS
26.110 [10] and targeted for use in 3G mobile networks
**3G-324M codec:** implementation of ITU-T Recommendation H.324 [7] and all
its elements adapted to the 3G environment (known as 3G‑324M) is seen as a
\"codec\" consisting of an encoder and a decoder
**3G-324M encoder:** encoder part of the 3G-324M codec
**3G-324M decoder:** decoder part of the 3G-324M codec
## 3.2 Symbols
(void)
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
**AL1,2,3:** ITU-T Recommendation H.223 [2] Adaptation layers 1, 2 and 3 (see
[1])
**AL-SDU:** Adaptation Layer Service Data Unit (see [1])
**AMR:** Adaptive Multi-Rate (Audio Codec)
**CIF:** Common Intermediate Format (a picture format for Video Codec)
**CRC:** Cyclic Redundancy Check
**DCE:** Data Circuit-terminating Equipment
**DTE:** Data Terminal Equipment
**GOB:** Group of blocks (a sub-part of a video picture)
**GSM:** Global System for Mobile communications
**GSTN:** General Switched Telephone Network
**ISDN:** Integrated Services Digital Network
**ITU-T:** International Telecommunication Union -- Telecommunication
Standardization Sector
**MONA:** Media Oriented Negotiation Acceleration
**MUX-PDU:** Multiplex Packet Data Unit (see [1])
**NSRP:** Numbered Simple Retransmission Protocol
**PSC:** Picture start code (synchronization field for Video Codec)
**QCIF:** Quarter CIF (a picture format for Video Codec)
**RVLC:** Reversible Variable Length Code (see [11])
**SQCIF:** Sub QCIF (a picture format for Video Codec)
**SRP:** Simple Retransmission Protocol
**T401:** Acknowledgement timer used by ITU-T Recommendation H.245 [5]
implementations
**VOP:** Video Object Plane (see [11])
**WNSRP:** Windowed Numbered Simple Retransmission Protocol
# 4 General
The following clauses give implementation recommendations for different parts
of the 3G-324M codec. The clause division loosely follows the structure of
ITU-T Recommendation H.324 [7].
Most of the recommendations in the present document assume that both
transmitting and receiving terminals operate within the 3G system and conform
to 3G-324M specifications in [7-9]. Clause 11 additionally includes
recommendations relevant for interoperability between 3G-324M terminals and
other terminals.
The recommendations are primarily targeted for such aspects of the codec
implementation which have a significant effect on the quality perceived by the
user at the other end of the connection which usually implies emphasizing
encoder recommendations over decoder recommendations, although this division
cannot be made in all cases. It should be recognized that the ITU-T
Recommendation H.324 [7] specification leaves substantial amount of freedom
for terminal implementations and no definite quality guarantee can be given
even if all recommendations in the present document are followed.
# 5 Multiplex Protocol
Multiplexing of video, audio, data, and control information is based on the
ITU-T Recommendation H.223 [1]. The following general guidelines are
recommended to be followed in the implementation of\ ITU-T Recommendation
H.223 [1].
MUX-PDU size should be limited to be smaller than in typical GSTN use.
Specific values depend on the bit-rate and channel characteristics, but
suitable upper limits for MUX-PDU size are often in the range of 100-200
octets.
Encoders are recommended to support the boolean ITU-T Recommendation H.245 [5]
_maxMUXPDUSizeCapability_ (clause 7.2.2.4 of [2] Version 3) to indicate that
they are able to restrict the size of the MUX-PDUs that they transmit.
Decoders are recommended to utilize the _maxH223MUXPDUsize_ ITU-T
Recommendation H.245 [5] command (clause 7.11.5 of [2] Version 3) to restrict
the size of the MUX-PDUs, sent by the encoder, to a maximum of the specified
number of octets.
ITU-T Recommendation H.324 [7] mandates that ITU-T Recommendation H.263 [9]
encoders shall align picture start codes (PSC) with the start of an AL-SDU
(see [4], clause 6.6.1). It is here further recommended that AL-SDUs that do
not start with a PSC should start with a GOB header to improve error
resilience.
ITU-T Recommendation H.241 [19] mandates that ITU-T Recommendation H.264 [18]
encoders shall align Annex B/H.264 start code prefix for the first NAL unit of
each access unit with the start of an AL-SDU. Use of the NAL Alignment Mode
defined in TS 26.111 [11] is here further recommended.
No more than 1-3 audio frames should be included in one MUX-PDU to avoid
excessive delay.
Use of the optional retransmission procedure for video when using Adaptation
Layer Type 3 (AL3) is not recommended due to delay considerations. This
recommendation implies that receiving terminals should not send retransmission
requests. It is recommended that terminals support video also using Adaptation
Layer Type 2 (AL2) where retransmission is not possible and overhead is
slightly smaller.
The ITU-T Recommendation H.223 [1] abort procedures should not be used (see
ITU-T Recommendation H.223 [1] clauses 6.4.3, 7.2.3, 7.3.4, and 7.4.4).
## 5.1 H.223 Multiplex Transmission Bit Order
H.223 multiplex transmission bit order is defined in H.223 [1] Sec 3.2.2 as
LSB first. This first bit is transparently mapped to the first bit of "higher
layer PDU" depicted in 5.3.5 of TS25.301 [17], and vice versa.
An example is given by the following figure:
Figure 1: UMTS Network Model (3G Terminal \ 3G Terminal)
# 6 Control Protocol
It is recommended that terminals support the latest possible version of ITU-T
Recommendation H.245 [5]. Capability to support latest improvements in ITU-T
Recommendation H.324 [7] are usually dependent on supporting the corresponding
signalling in ITU-T Recommendation H.245. [5] Most of the recommendations in
the present document require support for at least ITU-T Recommendation H.245
[5] Version 3 and some require even newer versions.
Recommendations for the control protocol are not limited to this clause of the
present document. Other clauses of the present document give recommendations
for the different parts of the terminal often implying corresponding support
from ITU-T Recommendation H.245 [5]. These recommendations are not replicated
in this clause, but they should still be interpreted as recommendations for
the ITU-T Recommendation H.245 [5] control protocol implementation.
Note that it is allowed for terminals to declare only H.245 [5] "transmit"
capabilities, indicating that the terminal is only capable of transmitting
media, and that logical channels should be established accordingly. Also note
that it is allowed for terminals to use H.245 [5] to declare only audio or
only video capabilities, and that logical channels should be established
accordingly.
Any combination of H.245 [5] OpenLogicalChannel requests that would result in
a number of active audio and / or video channels exceeding the terminal's
simultaneous capabilities should be considered a source of conflict. Note that
terminals declaring receiveAndTransmit capabilities does require symmetric
logical channels, i.e. use of the same codec in both directions, which is also
a possible source of conflict. Terminals should resolve such conflicts by
H.245 [5] master/slave conflict procedures, i.e. the master rejects the
slave's request and the slave accepts the master's request, unless the slave
has to reject the master's OpenLogicalChannel request with cause "unsuitable
reverse parameters", as described in H.245 [5]. For some cases where, although
originally intended, a two-way communication would not result, the slave may
have to complete the procedure by issuing a uni-directional
OpenLogicalChannel. Note that a logical channel with nullData media type is
not considered an active channel in this context. Editor's note: IMTC has
proposed a text on H.245 OpenLogicalChannel conflict handling and resolution
to ITU-T for possible inclusion in a future H.324 Implementer's Guide. The
text of this paragraph intends to cover that issue in the absence of such
H.324 Implementer's Guide.
The end-to-end transmission delay in the 3G system is expected to be somewhat
higher than in GSTN. This will need to be considered for timer settings in
connection with the ITU-T Recommendation H.245 [5] implementation. For that
reason, ITU-T Recommendation H.324 [7] Annex C (and hence also 3G-324M)
mandates the use of ITU-T Recommendation H.324 [7] Annex E for initializing
the timer T401. The following additional guidelines for initializing and
updating the timer T401 should be considered: ffs.
ITU-T recommendation H.324 [7] Annex A defines WNSRP (Windowed Numbered Simple
Retransmission Protocol). WNSRP should be supported.
If WNSRP is not supported, NSRP or SRP shall be used. H.324 [7] Annex A
defines the NSRP retransmission protocol that H.324 [7] Annex C mandates for
use on mobile channels. To reduce the application setup time, H.245 [5]
messages should be concatenated into as few NSRP packets as possible. Note
that NSRP is not a windowed protocol and thus requires that the transmitter
receive an NSRP response frame before the next NSRP command frame can be sent.
ITU-T recommendation H.324 [7] Annex K defines MONA (Media Oriented
Negotiation Acceleration), a call setup time reduction technique. H.324 [7]
Annex K should be supported.
MONA can be used in conjunction with WNSRP.
Note that the H.245 [5] OpenLogicalChannel replacementFor procedure may be
used to obtain seamless H.264 [18] change of sequence (parameter set update).
## 6.1 Usage of DRAWING_ORDER-information for MPEG-4 video objects
3G-324M decoders should ignore any drawing order information as signalled by
ITU-T Recommendation H.245 [5] drawingOrder Capability, see table E.5 in ITU-T
Recommendation H.245 [5], if the MPEG-4 simple profile level 1 is used.
# 7 Video Codec
This clause gives recommendations for the video codec implementations within
3G-324M terminals. Clause 7.1 is applicable to the use of any mandatory or
optional video codec. Clause 7.2 includes specific recommendations for using
the ITU-T Recommendation H.263 [9] codec. Clause 7.3 gives specific
recommendations for the use of MPEG-4 and other possible optional video
codecs.
## 7.1 General Recommendations
Regardless of which specific video codec standard is used, all video decoder
implementations should include basic error concealment techniques. These
techniques may include replacing erroneous parts of the decoded video frame
with interpolated picture material from previous decoded frames or from
spatially different locations of the erroneous frame. The decoder should aim
to prevent the display of substantially corrupted parts of the picture. In any
case, it is recommended that the terminal should tolerate _every_ possible
bitstream without catastrophic behaviour (such as the need for a user-
initiated reset of the terminal).
3G-324M encoders and decoders are recommended to support the 1:1 pixel format
(square format) . Encoders should signal this capability using ITU-T
Recommendation H.245 [5] capability exchange and the appropriate header fields
in video codecs so that unnecessary pixel shape conversions can be avoided.
## 7.2 H.263
Several of the optional annexes of ITU-T Recommendation H.263 [9] are useful
for improving the compression efficiency and error resilience of the codec.
The annexes below form a balanced set of tools with respect to error
robustness, compression efficiency, quality, and complexity. It is recommended
that an\ ITU-T Recommendation H.263 [9] video decoder should support the
following annexes. The main feature of each annex is also mentioned:
  * Annex I (Advanced Intra Coding), improves error resilience and > compression efficiency.
  * Annex J (Deblocking Filter), improves compression efficiency.
  * Annex K (Slice Structure Mode, without RS submode), improves error > resilience.
  * Annex T (Modified Quantizer), improves compression efficiency.
Non-empty GOB headers should be used frequently to improve error resilience
(see [6], Clause 5.2).
ITU-T Recommendation H.263 [9] encoders in 3G-324M terminals should respond to
all videoFastUpdate commands received via the ITU-T Recommendation H.245 [5]
control channel (i.e., videoFastUpdatePicture, videoFastUpdateGOB, and
videoFastUpdateMB presented in clause 7.11.5 of [2] Version 3). Using this
feedback information to make a focused picture update can significantly
improve the error performance of the codec. 3G-324M decoders are
correspondingly recommended to transmit videoFastUpdate commands when the
received picture is detected to be significantly corrupted due to transmission
errors.
It is recommended that ITU-T Recommendation H.263 [9] decoders take advantage
of the GOB and slice header GOB Frame ID (GFID) field in recovering corrupted
picture header data (see Clauses 5.2.5 and K.2 of\ ITU-T Recommendation H.263
[9] recommendation version 2). For this purpose it is recommended that\ ITU-T
Recommendation H.263 [9] encoders should not use the Rounding Type (RTYPE) bit
of the extended picture header as described in Clause 5.1.4.3 of [1]. The
RTYPE bit should always be set to 0 since it otherwise effectively prevents
the use of the GFID field for picture header recovery.
## 7.3 Other Video Codecs
It is recommended that all 3G-324M terminals additionally support the ISO/IEC
14496-2 [14] (MPEG-4 Visual) video codec [11]. The explanatory text below
gives justification and further detail for this recommendation.
One of the main target environments for MPEG-4 Visual is mobile use. For this
purpose the following error resilient techniques have been adopted in MPEG-4
Visual: Resynch Marker, Header Extension Code, Data Partitioning, and
Reversible Variable Length Code. With these techniques MPEG‑4 Visual codec can
be used over errorprone channels enabling highly efficient low delay
multimedia communication services for 3G networks. Support for MPEG-4 Visual
potentially provides capabilities for communicating with heterogeneous
networks without transcoding, or reusing pictures/video from 3G multimedia
telephony service by different applications and vice versa.
MPEG-4 Visual and ITU-T Recommendation H.263 [9] have substantial technical
similarities. MPEG-4 Visual also includes support for the ITU-T Recommendation
H.263 [9] baseline codec.
Because of multi-functionality of MPEG-4 Visual, subsets of different tools
have been defined in order to allow effective implementations of the standard.
These subsets, called \"Profiles\", limit the tool set which shall be
implemented. For each of these Profiles one or more Levels have been set to
restrict the computational complexity of implementations. It is here
recommended that the Simple Visual Profile @ Level 0 is supported to achieve
adequate error resilience for transmission error and low complexity
simultaneously. No other Profiles are recommended to be supported. Higher
Levels for the Simple Visual Profile may be supported depending on the
terminal capabilities.
MPEG-4 Visual accepts various sizes of input picture within the capability
specified from the Profile and Level. Picture size of QCIF for Level 1 should
be used for the sake of interoperability.
All of the error resilience tools in Simple Visual Profile are recommended to
be activated.
Resync Marker is a tool which increases the opportunities for the decoder to
resynchronize with the bitstream and after loss of synchronization due to
errors in the bitstream, thus enabling normal decoder operation to continue.
The encoder should insert Resync Marker in the bitstream, in order to enable
the decoder to search for the Resync Marker in addition to the Start Code.
Header Extension Code (HEC) enables independent decoding of each video packet.
One or more than one video packet in a VOP should have HEC in order for. the
decoder to utilize information derived from HEC, to avoid discarding a whole
VOP when the VOP header could not be received.
Data Partitioning is a tool that separates the information within a video
packet to improve the degree of error localization and concealment. When the
decoder detect errors in a video packet, the decoder may not discard whole the
packet if themotion information or the I-VOP DC coefficients are decoded
correctly. The decoder may reconstruct the corresponding part of the picture
utilizing the above motion information or DC coefficients. The encoder should
use Data Partitioning syntax in order to enable the decoder the above
operation.
Reversible Variable Length Code (RVLC) is a tool which reduce the number of
discarded bits.. RVLC decoding operation as described in clause E.1.4 of Annex
E in [11] may be performed. The encoder should utilize RVLC to enable the
decoder to perform such operation.
In addition to these tools, Intra Refresh should be inserted in order to
prevent inter-frame propagation of errors. Adaptive Intra Refresh (AIR)
described in clause E.1.5 in Annex E of [11] should be used in conjunction
with cyclic Intra Refresh.
One Video Packet of MPEG-4 Visual should be mapped to one AL-SDU of ITU-T
Recommendation H.223 [1] Adaptive Layer.
When an incoming bi-directional openLogicalChannel request has unsuitable
reverse parameters for the local encoder, e.g., unsuitable MPEG-4
decoderConfigurationInformation, the terminal should reject the request. The
cause field of openLogicalChannelReject should be set to value
unsuitableReverseChannelParameters. A new openLogicalChannel request should be
sent to the other end, now using the forward channel parameters of the
rejected request as reverse channel parameters, and specifying new preferred
forward channel parameters.
All MPEG-4 encoders should accept and respond to ITU-T Recommendation H.245
[5] videoTemporalSpatialTradeOff commands. Support for temporal-spatial trade-
off cannot be signaled for MPEG-4 encoders, but the encoders should provide
that support by default. MPEG-4 decoders are encouraged to utilize the
videoTemporalSpatialTradeOff command. The specific response to the
TemporalSpatialTradeOff command by MPEG-4 encoders is not defined and it is up
to the implementation to decide how to respond to the command.
# 8 Audio Codec
## 8.1 AMR Codec
FFS. This clause will include guidance on how to utilize the different modes
of the AMR codec.
## 8.2 Other Audio Codecs
FFS.
# 9 Data Protocols
FFS.
# 10 Terminal Procedures
FFS.
# 11 Interoperation with Other Terminals
## 11.1 Audio Codecs
It is recommended that terminals additionally support the ITU-T Recommendation
G.723.1 [8] audio codec [5] when it is expected that interoperability with
GSTN is needed, because it cannot be guaranteed that\ ITU-T Recommendation
H.324 [7] terminals developed for GSTN use will support the AMR codec.
# 12 DTE-DCE Interface
It is recommended to use procedures defined in ITU-T Recommendation V.80 [16]
in the DTE-DCE interface in case of non-integrated videophone terminal
implementations with separate DTE and DCE devices. Due to the requirements of
3G-324M, the transparent synchronous access mode is the only relevant submode.
# 13 Optional Enhancements
FFS.
# 14 Multipoint Considerations
FFS.
# 15 Other Recommendations
FFS.
#