# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
Mobile telephony devices and voice services continue to develop and evolve and
their associated minimum performance requirements and test methodologies also
need to stay relevant and representative of quality demands.
While many advances were made in Rel. 11 to the acoustic requirements and test
specifications in TS 26.131 and TS 26.132 many items therein were left marked
"for further study" and require a final decision by SA4. Additionally, there
are new acoustic requirements and emerging tests we may wish to consider in a
future release, but require further study before incorporation to our
specifications.
This technical report will, first and foremost, address the remaining items
presently designated as "for further study" in TS 26.131 and TS 26.132.
This report will also examine opportunities for new acoustic tests and
requirements that help us to better characterise the UE acoustic experience,
opportunities to replace existing test methods with others that are more
accurate or more efficient and make specific recommendations for their
inclusion in existing or new specifications.
# 1 Scope
The scope of this study is to investigate, first and foremost, the existing
items presently designated as "for further study" in TS 26.131 and TS 26.132.
The investigation will additionally identify, examine and evaluate
opportunities for new acoustic tests and requirements that better help
characterise the UE acoustic experience, opportunities to replace existing
test methods with others that are more accurate or more efficient and to make
specific recommendations for their incorporation inclusion in existing or new
specifications.
While many advances were made in Rel 11 to the acoustic requirements and test
specifications in TS 26.131 and TS 26.132 many items therein were left marked
"for further study" and require a final disposition by SA4 including
  * NB & WB Stability loss, Headset UE (TS 26.131 Sections 5.6 & 6.6)
  * NB & WB Delay, Wireless Headset (TS 26.131 Section 5.12.2.2 & 6.11.2.2)
  * NB & WB Echo control ("double-talk") characteristics (TS 26.131 Sections 5.13 &6.12, TS 26.132 Section 8.11)
    * Handset, Headset, Handheld hands-free, Desktop and vehicle mounted hands-free are all marked FFS
  * NB& WB Free-field measurements for vehicle-mounted hands-free (TS 26.132 Section 7.2.3 & 8.2.3)
  * NB & WB Idle Channel Noise, Sending/Receiving of test signal (TS 26.132 Section 7.3.1, 7.3.2, 8.3.1 & 8.3.2 )
Additionally, there are new acoustic requirements and emerging tests that may
be considered in a future release, but require further study before
incorporation to our specifications. It has been anticipated that topics in
this area would include, but would not be limited to, an evaluation of
  * Time-variant user behaviour
  * Additional UE usage environments
  * New or refined test methods for existing requirements
  * Acceptance of updates (if any) to existing ETSI and ITU-T dependencies
Coordination with other SDOs, such as ITU-T SG 12 and ETSI STQ among others,
is also reported.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 41.001: \"GSM Release specifications\".
[3] 3GPP TR 21 912 (V3.1.0): \"Example 2, using fixed text\".
...
[x] \ \[ ([up to and
including]{yyyy[-mm]\|V\}[onwards])]: \"\\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**example:** text used to clarify abstract rules by applying them literally.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
\ \
# 4 Rel.11 "For Further Study" Items
## 4.1 [Stability loss, Headset UE]
[...]
## 4.2 [UE Delay, NB & WB Wireless Headset]
[...]
### 4.3 [NB & WB Echo control ("double-talk") characteristics]
### 4.3.1 Results from a study on NB Echo control ("double-talk")
characteristics using P.835 methodology
#### 4.3.1.1 Background
In Release 11 of TS26.132, new methods for evaluation of echo control
characteristics were introduced, Clauses 7.11 and 8.11. However, corresponding
requirements were not defined in TS26.131.
A subjective listening test based on methods from Recommendation ITU-T P.835
was conducted in order to provide some data for purposes of investigating
possible requirements.
Instead of a conversational test, or talking and listening test, this report
provides results from listening only test, so participants did not experience
echo while talking, only while passively listening. Below are presented
results of the subjective evaluation of real speech double talk test, for 12
devices, in both handset and handheld speakerphone for narrow band.
#### 4.3.1.2 Test Method & Results
##### 4.3.1.2.1 Methods
The categories defined in Clauses 7.11, Figure 17b5, (copied below for
convenience) and Table 2c, and 8.11, Figure 19b5, and Table 2g, are described
in perceptually-relevant terms.
Figure [xxxx]: Classification of echo canceller performance
Table \: Categories for echo canceller performance classification
* * *
Category Level difference (ΔL) Duration (D) Description **A1** -4 dB ≤ ΔL \
for echo canceller performance are compared to the subjective ratings reported
in 4.3.1.2.2. In addition to the categories and levels from TS 26.132, two
additional metrics are considered. The first is found in Recommendation ITU-T
P.502, revised Amendment III [xx], defining a method for computing the
attenuation in the sending direction under double-talk conditions, A~s,DT~.
The second is found in Recommendation ITU-T P.863 [xx]. While the application
to impairments resulting from double-talk is not explicitly within scope of
P.863, it has been used for this purpose in some instances.
#### 4.3.2.1.1 Method for P.863 computations
For P.863 computations, guidance from P.863.1 clause was followed. The four
sentences of segment 2 of the double-talk test signal from TS 26.132 were
grouped sequentially into two sentence-pairs. The reference signal for the
P.863 NB mode was the full-band source, filtered by a NB filter according to
P.863.1 Table 3. The reference signal for the P.863 SWB mode was the full band
source, filtered by a SWB filter according to P.863.1 Table 3. The validation
tests defined in P.863.1 clause 8.8 were passed, with both sentence-pair
references scoring 4.50 for MOS-LQOn and 4.75 for MOS-LQOw. For each test
condition, the P.863 scores MOS-LQOn and MOS-LQOw were computed using the
uplink measurements from that test condition, grouped into two sentence-pairs.
The MOS-LQOn and MOS-LQOw for the test condition are reported as the average
of the scores for each of the two sentence-pairs from the measurements for
that condition.
#### 4.3.2.2 Comparison of metrics to subjective SIG ratings
Table 1 contains summary values for the fit of the above-described metrics to
the SIG DT ratings for both HS and HHHF combined.
Table 1 Summary of model fits for SIG DT
* * *
**SIG** **R^2^** **correl.** **rmse** **ANOVA F**  
**3GPP** **Atten Class** **DT class A1** 0.963 0.981 0.256 _\  2 kHz). Device D at least tries to compensate the absolute
level difference, the lower frequency content almost match in both positions.
* * *
{width="3.1465277777777776in" height="1.99375in"}
{width="3.1465277777777776in" height="1.99375in"}
{width="3.1465277777777776in" height="1.99375in"}
{width="3.1465277777777776in" height="1.99375in"}
* * *
Figure 8: Frequency Responses for different devices and positionings.
Table 4 shows some more typical metrics for measurements under silence
conditions for each device which can describe these differences by single
values:
  * Sending Loudness Rating (acc. to ITU-T Rec. P. 79)
  * TOSQA 2001 (WB mode, electrical recording)
  * POLQA according to ITU-T P.863, Version 2.4 (fixed active speech level of 73dB SPL)
The absolute values are given in the column "norm", the difference to the
vertical position is given as "vert. - norm.".
* * *
                                      DUT A   DUT B         DUT C   DUT D                                       
                                      norm.   vert.-norm.   norm.   vert.-norm.   norm.   vert.-norm.   norm.   vert.-norm.
Sending Loudness Rating [dB] 10.15 +4.43 7.44 +3.31 7.36 +4.62 8.64 +3.14
TOSQA2001 (WB) [MOS] 3.61 -0.12 3.61 -0.37 3.74 -0.22 3.37 -0.23 P.863 (POLQA)
[MOS] 3.90 -0.23 3.89 -0.07 3.75 -0.24 3.79 +0.06
* * *
Table 4: Metrics for sending direction per device
All loudness ratings increase by at least 3.1 dB (up to 4.6), which is mainly
caused by the modified frequency responses shown in Figure 8. The large
differences in the spectral domain are not leading to huge differences in the
speech quality measures TOSQA and POLQA. In fact, all MOS scores decrease for
POLQA as well as for TOSQA when comparing normal vs. vertical position. The
maximum difference for POLQA is ‑0.24 for Device C, whereas the largest
difference for TOSQA is found for device B (‑0.37). Please note that the
effect of decreased loudness is not captured by TOSQA and POLQA, because a
constant listening level of 73 dB (A) SPL was set.
#### 5.3.3.2 Measurements with Ambient Noise {#measurements-with-ambient-noise
.list-paragraph}
The following tables provide the results according to TS 103 106 [6] for each
device and each positioning. Each MOS value is determined as the average over
16 American English test sentences taken from annex C of [6]. Note that MOS
values as well as the calculated differences are round to one decimal place.
{width="4.947916666666667in" height="2.9270833333333335in"}
Table **5: TS 103 106 S-/N-/G-MOS values for device A**
{width="4.9527777777777775in" height="2.9270833333333335in"}
Table **6: TS 103 106 S-/N-/G-MOS values for device B**
{width="4.9527777777777775in" height="2.9270833333333335in"}
Table **7: TS 103 106 S-/N-/G-MOS values for device C**
{width="4.942361111111111in" height="2.9298611111111112in"}
Table **8: TS 103 106 S-/N-/G-MOS values for device D**
The decrease of S-/N-/G-MOS for the vertical position is observable for all
devices. The minimum and maximum differences between vertical and normal
position for each category is shown in Table 9. In overall, scores decreases
at least by 0.1 and up to 1.0 MOS for S-, N- and G-MOS.
When using the two different background noise simulation systems very similar
scores are obtained for S-, N- and G-MOS in the normal position with a
tendency to slightly bigger differences in the vertical position. An exception
here is device D. This device shows significant differences between the
playback systems, for both positions. N-MOS scores increase up to 1.0 for the
background noise simulation according to TS 103224. Since the sound field
reproduction system according to TS 103224 provides an accurate sound field
reproduction at the location of the hand-held terminal (in contrast to an
almost diffuse noise field generated when using ES 202 396-1 which does not
reproduce the physical characteristics of the real sound field at the location
of the terminal) it can be assumed that these results might represent more
accurately the "real life" behavior of this device.
* * *
          Min. Diff.   Device   BGN           Max. Diff   Device   BGN
G-MOS -0.3 A Car -0.9 B Road N-MOS -0.2 A Train Stat. -0.9 D Cafeteria S-MOS
-0.1 C Car -1.0 B Train Stat.
* * *
Table **9: Minimum/maximum differences**
# Xx References {#xx-references .H2}
  1. "Determination of sensitivity/frequency characteristics of local telephone systems", ITU-T Rec. P.64, Annex E (11/2007)
  2. 3GPP TS 26.131: "Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects; Terminal acoustic characteristics for telephony"
  3. 3GPP TS 26.132: "Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects; Speech and video telephony terminal acoustic test specification"
  4. ETSI TS 103 224 (V1.1.1): "Speech and multimedia Transmission Quality (STQ); A sound field reproduction method for terminal testing including a background noise database".
  5. ETSI ES 202 396-1 (V1.2.2): "Speech Processing, Transmission and Quality Aspects (STQ); Speech quality performance in the presence of background noise; Part 1: Background noise simulation technique and background noise database".
  6. ETSI TS 103 106 (V1.2.1): "Speech quality performance in the presence of background noise: Background noise transmission for mobile terminals-objective test methods"
  7. Recommendation ITU-T P.58: Head and Torso simulator for Telephonometry
#