# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The scope of the present document is to support the generation of a technical
specification which defines a limited set of operation points for TV services
in order to enable a consistent service offering within 3GPP. For this purpose
the present document collects relevant information from other organizations
and summarizes and consolidates these findings. Additional 3GPP specific
aspects on TV profiles (such as existing and emerging UE capabilities,
delivery enablers, or specific service aspects) are collected and put in
context.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21 905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 26.234: \"Transparent end-to-end Packet-switched Streaming Service
(PSS); Protocols and codecs\".
[3] 3GPP TS 26.346: \"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service (MBMS); Protocols
and codecs\".
[4] 3GPP TS 26.247: \"Transparent end-to-end Packet-switched Streaming Service
(PSS); Progressive Download and Dynamic Adaptive Streaming over HTTP (3GP-
DASH)\".
[5] DVB ETSI TS 101 154 v2.2.1 (2015-06): \"Digital Video Broadcasting (DVB);
Specification for the use of Video and Audio Coding in Broadcasting
Applications based on the MPEG-2 Transport Stream \".
[6] ETSI TS 103 285 v1.1.1 (2015-05):: \"Digital Video Broadcasting (DVB);
MPEG-DASH Profile for Transport of ISO BMFF Based DVB Services over IP Based
Networks\".
[7] ETSI EN 300 468 V1.14.1 (2014-05): \"Specification for Service Information
(SI) in DVB systems\".
[8] ETSI EN 300 743 V1.5.1 (2014-01): \"Digital Video Broadcasting (DVB);
Subtitling systems\"
[9] ETSI TS 101 211 V1.12.1 (2013-12): \"Guidelines on implementation and
usage of Service Information (SI)\"
[10] DASH-IF, \"Guidelines for Implementation: DASH-IF Interoperability
Points\", version 3.0.
[11] ISO/IEC 23001-8:2013, \"Information technology -- MPEG systems
technologies -- Part 8: Coding-independent code points\".
[12] ISO/IEC 14496-12:2015: \"Information technology -- Coding of audio-visual
objects -- Part 12: ISO base media file format\".
[13] ITU-T Recommendation H.264 (01/2012): \"Advanced video coding for generic
audiovisual services\" \| ISO/IEC 14496-10:2010: \"Information technology --
Coding of audio-visual objects -- Part 10: Advanced Video Coding\".
[14] ISO/IEC 14496-15:2014/Cor 1:2015: \"Information technology -- Coding of
audio-visual objects -- Part 15: Carriage of network abstraction layer (NAL)
unit structured video in ISO base media file format\".
[15] ITU-T Recommendation H.265 (07/2013): \"Advanced video coding for generic
audiovisual services\" \| ISO/IEC 23008-2:2013: \" High Efficiency Coding and
Media Delivery in Heterogeneous Environments -- Part 2: High Efficiency Video
Coding\".
[16] ISO/IEC 23009-1:2014/Cor.1:2015/Amd.1:2015: \"Information technology --
Dynamic adaptive streaming over HTTP (DASH) -- Part 1: Media presentation
description and segment formats\".
[17] ATSC A/53, Part 4:2009: \"MPEG-2 Video System Characteristics\".
[18] ATSC A/72 Part 1 & 3: \"Video System Characteristics of AVC in the ATSC
Digital Television System\" & \"Video and Transport Subsystem Characteristics
of MVC for 3D-TV Broadcast in the ATSC Digital Television System\".
[19] ATSC A/153 Part 7:2012, \"AVC and SVC Video System Characteristics\".
[20] ANSI/SCTE 128-1 2013: \"AVC Video Constraints for Cable Television, Part
1 -- Coding\".
[21] ETSI TS 101 211 V1.12.1 (2013-12): \"Basic Parameter Values for the HDTV
Standard for the Studio and for International Programme Exchange\".
[22] SMPTE 170M: \"Television -- Composite Analog Video Signal -- NTSC for
Studio Applications\".
[23] DECE: \"Common File Format & Media Formats Specification\" v2.0.1
Dec.2014
[24] Recommendation ITU-R BT.601-7 (2011): \"Studio encoding parameters of
digital television for standard 4:3 and wide screen 16:9 aspect ratios\".
[25] Recommendation ITU-R BT.1700 (02/2005): \"Characteristics of composite
video signals for conventional analogue television systems\".
[26] 3GPP TS 26.244: \"Transparent end-to-end packet switched streaming
service (PSS); 3GPP file format (3GP)\".
[27] void
[28] Recommendation ITU-R BT.2022 (2012): \"General viewing conditions for
subjective assessment of quality of SDTV and HDTV television pictures on flat
panel displays\".
[29] ISO/IEC 14496-3: \"Information technology -- Coding of audio-visual
objects -- Part 3: Audio\".
[30] ETSI TS 102 366 V1.2.1 (2008-08): \"Digital Audio Compression (AC-3,
Enhanced AC-3) Standard\".
[31] ANSI/SCTE 128-2: \"AVC Video Constraints for Cable Television, Part 1 --
Transport\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
ARIB Association of Radio Industries and Business
ATSC Advanced Television Systems Committee
CDN Content Delivery Network
CICP Coding-independent code points
DASH Dynamic Adaptive Streaming over HTTP
DASH-IF DASH Industry Forum
DECE Digital Entertainment Content Ecosystem
DVB Digital Video Broadcasting
DTT Digital Terrestrial TV
EBU European Broadcast Union
GOP Group of Pictures
IRD Integrated Receiver-Decoder
ISO BMFF ISO Base Media File Format
HbbTV Hybrid broadcast broadband TV
HD High Definition
HEVC High Efficiency Video Coding
HRD Hypothetical Refence Decoder
LTE Long Term Evolution
MBMS Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service
MBSFN Multicast-Broadcast Single Frequency Network
MNO Mobile Network Operator
MPD Media Presentation Descriptor
PSS Packet-switched Streaming Service
RAP Random Access Point
SAP Stream Access Point
SCTE Society of Cable Technology Engineers
SD Standard Definition
SEI Supplemental Enhancement Information
TV TeleVision
UHD Ultra-High Definition
VoD Video on Demand
VUI Video Usability Information
# 4 Background and Context
## 4.1 Introduction
Linear TV services can be made available on 3GPP networks via MBMS [3] and PSS
[2] user services (over RTP or 3GP-DASH [4]).
\- 3GP-DASH aims at offering the best quality of experience as possible by
adapting to the UE capabilities and dynamically to the network conditions.
Linear TV and on-demand services are already identified as major use cases for
3GP-DASH delivery format.
\- (e)MBMS user services offer the possibility to offload the network when the
same content is consumed simultaneously by many UEs. This typically happens
when a large audience accesses the same content concurrently, such as a
popular football match, the Olympic Games, a political debate, breaking news,
etc. For this reason, the access to live broadcast TV services is a major use
case for eMBMS.
For traditional linear TV distribution, TV services accessed through
Satellite, Digital Terrestrial TV (DTT), cable or IPTV obey to requirements on
the video profiles to ensure a consistent quality of experience while
accessing different channels within a TV bouquet.
On-demand video services, via streaming or downloading, generally obey to the
same requirements.
Up to Release-12, 3GPP specifications are missing detailed definitions of
distribution formats (such as spatial and temporal resolutions, aspect ratios,
random access points, etc.) for which operators and service providers can
provide guarantees in terms of quality of experience. Typically, 3GPP service
specifications only define profiles and levels of video codecs.
Therefore, additional requirements/guidelines on video formats (frame rate,
resolution, aspect ratio, colorimetry, bit depth...) and codecs (random access
point period, SEI messages...) for linear TV and video-on-demand services need
to be documented. The definition of a limited set of operation points (e.g.
SDTV, HDTV...) provides confidence to content providers/broadcasters on the
quality of experience offered by 3GPP services when used for TV-like
distribution.
In addition, in the context of DASH operations, not only the main distribution
format is of relevance, but at least also a subset of spatial and temporal
resolutions. In order to minimize testing for seamless switching experience,
suitable lower resolutions of distribution formats are important for
consistent service offerings. Furthermore, to compensate congestion
situations, a minimum service quality should be defined in order to provide
service continuity.
Note that a TV service typically not only includes video components, but also
other audio and supplementary components, such as subtitles. These aspects are
also considered in the present document.
Such consolidated operation points are particularly useful for second screen
applications as well as hybrid broadcast broadband services. Traditional
broadcasters and service providers are keen to provide a unified service
offering to mobile devices without requiring adapting content encoding to a
multitude of different device capabilities. Input from such organizations on
main distribution formats for traditional distribution is relevant.
In order to address different device classes and distribution formats, a
limited set of operation points for a TV profile definition are expected to be
defined.
The objective of the present document is to support the generation of a
technical specification which defines a limited set of operation points for TV
services in order to enable a consistent service offering within 3GPP, but
also across different access networks including traditional distribution
systems.
Therefore, the present document addresses the collection of the following
information:
\- Relevant established and emerging traditional distribution formats.
\- Parameters assigned to an operation point including but not limited to:
spatial and temporal resolutions, bit depth, color space, etc.
\- Small subset of relevant distribution formats independent of the service.
\- Operation points from a video codec point of view (signaling of SEI
messages...).
\- Enablers in different 3GPP services (MBMS, PSS, DASH) to map such
parameters to 3GPP services, including service specific requirements, e.g.
adaptive resolution switching in DASH. etc.
\- Non-video relevant aspects.
## 4.2 Scenarios and Deployment Cases
### 4.2.1 Scenario
In the context of the present document, the provisioning of TV-like services
to 3GPP UEs is considered. Figure 1 provides a high-level context of a
possible scenario. The scenario is not considered being complete or
comprehensive, but only highlights the context. The present document also does
not consider the role of the mobile network operator (MNO), whether it is a
content/service provider itself, or it collaborates with a content provider to
distribute the content. Nevertheless, in any case it is the desire of the
content provider to provide a realistic and possibly controllable quality to
different end devices that are connected through a 3GPP network and include a
3GPP UE with PSS and/or MBMS client.
On the left hand sources that contribute to the generation of a TV program are
provided. Such sources may for example be satellite feeds, terrestrial
broadcast feeds, cable or other contribution links. These feeds typically
carry content that is encoded and distributed using formats such as defined by
DVB, ATSC, SCTE or other broadcast organizations. Examples for video formats
are SD content, HD content, full HD content or UHD content. The content may
have different properties to support the service, for example display
instructions, random access point frequencies and so on. At the same time, the
content may be augmented with program that is available On-demand, for example
VoD assets or ad content. The content is expected to be received by 3GPP UE
with PSS and/or MBMS client. Such receivers may be heterogeneous in terms of
capabilities, for example in terms of display resolutions, decoding
capabilities, audio rendering capabilities and many other aspects.
An important scenario is the adaptation and provisioning of the content
originating from a multitude of sources to a heterogeneous receiver population
(equipped with a 3GPP UE functionality) through a 3GPP network. This work is
not expected to cover all flavors of such a complex service offering, but
focusses on the media-format related challenges in such a scenario that
motivate the definition of operation points in the context of TV Video
Profiles.
Figure 1: Scenario for Distributing TV Content to Mobile Devices
### 4.2.2 Media-Format Related Challenges
In the following a few media-format related challenges are provided that
motivate the definition of TV Video Profiles.
1) On the Contribution Formats:
a) The live contribution formats may be different depending on the
contribution link, the applied standard or the location/region. Different
content sources need to be taken into account, for example different broadcast
standards such as DVB or ATSC, different contribution links, as well as
formats that are used in different regions. It is expected that a 3GPP-based
set of TV profiles enables to distribute formats in different regions of the
world distributed with different standards.
b) Legacy and new formats: Broadcast quite often needs to maintain legacy
distribution in order to ensure compatibility to an installed base. At the
same time advanced formats with better quality of experience are distributed
to newer devices. It is expected that a 3GPP-based set of TV profiles enables
to distribute new and emerging formats whereas legacy Broadcast TV formats are
of less relevance.
c) VoD Assets and Ads may be in different content formats. For example movies
are quite often provided in formats defined by MovieLabs, DECE or Bluray Disk
Association (BDA). It is expected that a 3GPP-based set of TV profiles enables
to distribute movies in commonly used formats.
d) Content industry generates new formats to enable new experiences, for
example wider colour gamut, higher dynamic ranges, etc. It is expected that a
3GPP-based set of TV profiles may be updated in the future to add such new
formats as interoperable options.
e) Contribution formats may contain certain properties (random access points,
encryption) or may carry specific metadata or auxiliary information
(subtitles, etc.). It is expected that a 3GPP-based set of TV profiles enables
to maintain relevant properties and metadata.
2) On Consuming Devices
a) Consuming Devices are heterogeneous including different display resolutions
and capabilities. It is expected that a 3GPP-based set of TV profiles enables
to provide TV-like contents to a collection of different device classes in a
controllable and consistent manner. In addition, it is expected that consuming
devices would be able to select a content that fits their capabilities.
However, it is not expected that a 3GPP-based set of TV profiles would cover
all capabilities of existing mobile devices, but would provide an ability
that, in the future, consuming devices would consistently implement 3GPP TV
profiles to reduce fragmentation.
b) Higher-end 3GPP UEs already provide media capabilities that may be suitable
for consuming TV-like services. Therefore it is expected that at least one TV
profile would be defined that would enable content distribution with higher-
end capabilities than those already deployed UEs.
c) Mobile devices provide new capabilities to enable new media experiences,
for example wider colour gamut, higher dynamic ranges, higher resolution, etc.
It is expected that a 3GPP-based set of TV profiles may be updated in the
future to add such new formats as interoperable options.
3) On Content Distribution
a) Efficient distribution is of utmost relevance for 3GPP-based distribution.
It is expected that a 3GPP-based set of TV profiles would enable the efficient
distribution of video formats to different devices. In particular it is
expected that options would be provided that would enable the use of latest
advances in compression efficiency.
b) In order to enable cost-efficient distribution, scalable delivery is
important. This could enable for example the use of broadcast distribution
(either directly or using MBMS-on-Demand) and/or CDN architectures for
efficient caching. It is expected that a 3GPP-based set of TV profiles would
support scalable distribution of content.
c) In order to react to throughput changes, for example due to mobility,
congestion, handovers and other mobile variability, rate and quality adaptive
distribution is relevant for consistent quality and service continuity. It is
expected that a 3GPP-based set of TV profiles would support adaptive
distribution of content, in particular 3GP-DASH.
4) On Content Adaptation and Provisioning
a) It is expected that different types of content will be made available in a
service offering, for example by content splicing at the sender (program mix)
or also in the receiver (targeted ad insertion). It is expected that a 3GPP-
based set of TV profiles would support different types of content, and also
the change and update of the format in a linear program.
b) The processing requirements in content adaptation should be manageable. It
is expected that a 3GPP-based set of TV profiles would support content
adaptation in a processing-manageable manner.
c) Content adaptation may lead to quality degradation, for example due to
transcoding, distribution format change, frame rate adaptation, cropping,
subsampling, aspect ratio adaptation and so on. It is expected that a 3GPP-
based set of TV profiles would enable content adaptation such that quality
degradations due to content adaptation are avoided or at least minimized. In
particular, TV profiles should have capabilities that result in frame rate
conversion being avoided for the large majority of content.
Based on these initial considerations, some functions that are relevant for
content adaptation and provisioning are documented below.
### 4.2.3 Content Adaptation and Provisioning Functions
Based on the discussions in clauses 4.3.1 and 4.3.2, at least the following
content adaptation and provisioning functions are considered relevant and are
expected to be considered to enable the distribution of common media formats
with 3GPP TV profiles:
\- Mapping of typical broadcast distribution formats to 3GPP TV Profiles
\- Mapping of typical VoD and Ad content formats to 3GPP TV Profiles
\- Mapping of relevant properties and metadata of broadcast and movie formats
to 3GPP TV Profiles
\- Provisioning of content for different device classes with different
decoding and rendering capabilities
\- Provisioning of new media formats
\- Encoding/transcoding such that efficient distribution is enabled
\- Mapping to 3GP-DASH formats
# 5 Traditional Distribution Formats
## 5.1 Overview
In order to collect relevant traditional TV distribution formats, several
broadcast TV related groups have been identified and an analysis was conducted
in order to provide an overview of existing and emerging TV distribution
formats. Details on the methodology are provided in clause 5.2, the collected
information of responding organizations is in clause 5.3 and clause 5.4
provides a summary.
## 5.2 Methodology
In order to collect relevant information of existing TV distribution formats,
communication was initiated with a number of Broadcast-related organizations
such as :the Advanced Television Systems Committee (ATSC), the DASH Industry
Forum (DASH-IF), the Digital Entertainment Content Ecosystem (DECE) and the
Digital Video Broadcasting (DVB) Project.
The objective was to get an overview of the relevant parameters that are
constrained in the context of the live and on-demand TV distribution.
The analysis was conducted by identifying the specifications that contain TV
video profiles where the relevant parameters were listed with their
constrained values. Video and non-video related requirements were collected
together with their context of application (type of service considered).
Such parameters are depicted in theTable 1a below with two sets of values as
example.
Table 1a: Parameters for TV profiles
* * *
Parameter Operation Point #1 (example) Operation Point #2 (example) Picture
Resolution 1920 x 1080 352 × 288 (\'CIF\') Picture Aspect Ratio 16:9 4:3
Chroma Format YCbCr YCbCr Sub-sampling format 4:2:2 4:2:0 Sample aspect ratio
1:1 (\'square\') 11 x 10 Bit Depth 10 8 Color Primaries BT.2020 709 Transfer
function (SDR or HDR) SMPTE (\'PQ\') 709 (SDR)
Frame rates (Hz) 60 24
Video coding format AVC aka H.264 H.263 Video Codec Profile Level HEVC Main
Tier MP level4.1
Audio Channel Count 5,1 1 Audio Codec AAC LC 5.1ch AMR
Transport Layer MPEG-2 TS RTP Closed Captioning CEA-708 inband 3GPP Timed Text
SEI messages Picture Timing SEI Message VUI parameters Aspect Ratio
Information Random Access Point Definition Bar data handling (aka letterbox
etc.) AFD
* * *
## 5.3 Collected Information
### 5.3.1 DVB
#### 5.3.1.1 Introduction
The main specification defining TV profiles in DVB is the ETSI TS 101 154
v2.1.1 [5]. This specification defines, among others, video profiles based on
H.264/AVC [13] (in SD and HD) and H.265/HEVC [15] (in HD and UHD). The TS 101
154 defines additional profiles, including for example MPEG-2 video as well as
formats with interlaced video. All the profiles are defined in TS 101 154 in
the context of the MPEG-2 TS.
In addition, the DVB-DASH profile using MPEG DASH and ISO Base Media File
Format for encapsulation is defined in the ETSI TS 103 285 v1.1.1 [6] This
specification defines certain extensions to video profiles in the context of
DASH, but still refers to TS 101 154 for the core video profiles.
DVB Service Information is provided in ETSI EN 300 468 [7]. This document also
defines signaling related to TV Video profiles.
#### 5.3.1.2 Video codec profiles and levels
The video profiles defined by the specification TS 101 154 that are considered
of interest for 3GPP SA4 are:
\- H.264/AVC Main Profile at Level 3 is used for H.264/AVC SDTV,
\- H.264/AVC High Profile at Level 4 is used for 25 Hz and 30 Hz H.264/AVC
HDTV,
\- H.264/AVC High Profile at Level 4.2 is used for 50 Hz and 60 Hz H.264/AVC
HDTV,
\- HEVC Main Profile at Level 4.1 is used for HEVC HDTV 8-bit IRDs,
\- HEVC Main 10 Profile at Level 4.1 is used for HEVC HDTV 10-bit IRDs,
\- HEVC Main 10 Profile at Level 5.1 is used for HEVC UHDTV.
#### 5.3.1.3 Defined parameters for video profiles
The TS 101 154 defines video related parameters provided in the Tables below
(focusing on progressive formats only), specifically:
\- H.264/AVC SDTV IRDs and Bitstreams in Table 1
\- H.264/AVC HDTV IRDs and Bitstreams in Table 2
\- HEVC IRDs and Bitstreams in Table 3
Table 1: H.264/AVC SDTV IRDs and Bitstreams
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Profile | 25 Hz H.264/AVC | 30 Hz H.264/AVC | | | SDTV\ | SDTV\ | | | (clause 5.6.2) | (clause 5.6.3) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Picture Resolution | 720 × 576, 544 x | 720 × 480, 640 × | | | 576,\ | 480,\ | | | 480 x 576, 352 x | 544 × 480, 480 × | | | 576,\ | 480,\ | | | 352 x 288 | 352 × 480, 352 × 240 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Picture Aspect Ratio | 4:3 or 16:9 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Chroma Format | YCbCr | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Sub-sampling format | 4:2:0 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Sample aspect ratio | Provided in Table 8 | Provided in Table 10 | | | signaled by | signaled by | | | aspect_ratio_idc | aspect_ratio_idc | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Bit Depth | 8 bit | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Color Primaries and | Recommended to use | Recommended to use | | Transfer Function | BT.1700 Part A | BT.1700 Part A | | | | | | | * | **c | | | *colour_primaries=5 | olour_primaries** =6 | | | transfer | **transfer_ | | | _characteristics=5\ | characteristics** =6\ | | | matr | **matr | | | ix_coefficients=5** | ix_coefficients**=6 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Frame rates (Hz) | 25 | 24 000/ 1 001, 24,\ | | | | 30 000/ 1 001, 30 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Video coding format | H.264/AVC | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Video Codec Profile | Main Profile Level 3 | | | Level | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
Table 2: H.264/AVC HDTV IRDs and Bitstreams
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Profile | 25 Hz\ | 30 Hz\ | 50 Hz\ | 60 Hz\ | | | (clause | (clause | (clause | (clause | | | 5.7.2) | 5.7.3) | 5.7.4) | 5.7.5) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Picture | 1920 × | | | | | Resolution | 1080, 1440 | | | | | | × 1080, | | | | | | 1280 × | | | | | | 1080, 960 × | | | | | | 1080,\ | | | | | | 1280 × 720, | | | | | | 960 × 720, | | | | | | 640 × 720 | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Picture | 16:9 | | | | | Aspect | | | | | | Ratio | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Chroma | YCbCr | | | | | Format | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | S | 4:2:0 | | | | | ub-sampling | | | | | | format | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Sample | Provided in | | | | | aspect | Table 11 | | | | | ratio | signaled by | | | | | | aspect\ | | | | | | _ratio_idc | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Bit Depth | 8 bit | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Color | Recommended | | | | | Primaries | to use | | | | | and | either | | | | | Transfer | BT.709:\ | | | | | Function | **colour_p | | | | | | rimaries=1, | | | | | | transf | | | | | | er_charact | | | | | | eristics=1, | | | | | | ma | | | | | | trix_coeff | | | | | | icients=1** | | | | | | | | | | | | or IEC | | | | | | 61966-2-4 | | | | | | (xvYCC)\ | | | | | | **colour_p | | | | | | rimaries=1, | | | | | | transfe | | | | | | r_characte | | | | | | ristics=11, | | | | | | ma | | | | | | trix_coeff | | | | | | icients=1** | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Frame rates | 25 | 24 000/1 | 25 or 50 | 24 000/1 | | (Hz) | | 001, 24,\ | | 001, 24,\ | | | | 30 000/1 | | 30 000/1 | | | | 001, 30 | | 001, 30,\ | | | | | | 60 000/1 | | | | | | 001 or 60 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Video | H.264/AVC | | | | | coding | | | | | | format | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Video Codec | High | High | | | | Profile | Profile | Profile | | | | Level | Level 4 | Level 4.2 | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Table 3: HEVC IRDs and Bitstreams
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Profile | HEVC HDTV | HEVC HDTV | HEVC UHDTV\ | | | 8-bit\ | 10-bit\ | (see clause | | | (clause | (clause | 5.14.3) | | | 5.14.2) | 5.14.2) | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Picture | 1920 × 1080, | 3840 x 2160, | | | Resolution | 1440 × 1080, | 2880 x 2160,\ | | | | 1600 × 900,\ | 3200 x 1800, | | | | 1280 × 720, | 2560 x 1440, | | | | 960 × 720, 960 | 1920 × 1080, | | | | × 540 | 1440 × 1080, | | | | | 1600 × 900, | | | | | 1280 × 720, | | | | | 960 × 720, 960 | | | | | × 540 | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Picture Aspect | 16:9 | | | | Ratio | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Chroma Format | YCbCr | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Sub-sampling | 4:2:0 | | | | format | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Sample aspect | Provided in | Provided in | | | ratio | Table 20 | Table 21 | | | | signaled by | signaled by | | | | aspe | aspe | | | | ct_ratio_idc | ct_ratio_idc | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Bit Depth | 8 bit | 10 bit | 8 and 10 bit | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Color | BT.709:\ | BT.709 | | | Primaries and | **colour | | | | Transfer | _primaries=1, |** cp**= 1, | | | Function | transfer_char |** tc**=1, | | | | acteristics=1, |** mc**=1 | | | | matrix_co | | | | | efficients=1** | or BT.2020 | | | | | (NCL) | | | | or optionally | | | | | IEC 61966-2-4 | **cp** = 9, | | | | (xvYCC)\ | **tc** =14, | | | | **colour |** mc**=9 | | | | _primaries=1, | | | | | t | Note: displays | | | | ransfer_chara | may not | | | | cteristics=11, | support | | | | matrix_co | BT.2020, but | | | | efficients=1** | are expected | | | | | to handle the | | | | | signaling. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Frame rates | _24 000/1 001, |_ 24 000/1 001, | _24 000/1 001, | | (Hz) | 24, 25, 30 | 24, 25, 30 | 24, 25, 30 | | | 000/1 001, 30, | 000/1 001, 30, | 000/1 001, 30, | | | 50, 60000/1 | 50, 60000/1 | 50, 60000/1 | | | 001 or 60 Hz_ | 001 or 60 Hz _| 001 or 60 Hz_ | | | | | | | | _Note: two |_ Note: two | | | | types of | types of | | | | decoding | decoding | | | | capabilities | capabilities | | | | are defined | are defined | | | | (50Hz and 60 | (50Hz and 60 | | | | Hz family)_| Hz family)_ | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Video coding | HEVC | | | | format | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Video Codec | Main Profile, | Main-10 | Main-10 | | Profile Level | Level 4.1 | Profile, Level | Profile, Level | | | | 4.1 | 5.1 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
[]{.underline}
#### 5.3.1.4 Video coding parameters for broadcast distribution
TS 101 154 provides detailed requirements on the following parameters:
\- Random Access Point Definition and Frequency
\- Signalling in the VUI information
\- Constraints in the Parameter Sets (High-Level Syntax)
\- Supported SEI messages
\- Scalability (for example for forward compatibility)
\- Seamless splicing
\- Signalling for additional information
\- Auxiliary Data in the Video Elementary Stream
\- Discusses Active Format Descriptors (AFD) and Bar data handling
#### 5.3.1.5 Audio related Parameters
DVB defines a toolbox for codecs and audio and video are not combined in a
single profile. It is up to the service provider to choose the appropriate
combination of video and audio interoperability points.
For audio, the following codecs are referenced:
\- MPEG-1 Layer I, MPEG-1 Layer II, MPEG-2 Layer II backward compatible,
\- AC-3, Enhanced AC-3 [30],
\- DTS, DTS-HD,
\- MPEG-4 AAC, MPEG-4 HE AAC or MPEG-4 HE AAC v2 audio.
From the toolbox of codecs only some of the options are in common use: MPEG-1
Layer II, AC-3, MPEG-4 AAC, HE-AAC, and E-AC-3. Some of these are considered
legacy codecs, and only a subset of these codecs with relevant efficiency are
commonly used for new DVB broadcast services.
The relevant parameters for commonly used audio codecs are summarized in Table
4.
Table 4: Relevant parameters for commonly used audio codecs
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | audio | MP1L2 | AC-3 | EAC-3 | AAC | HE-AAC | | codec | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | codec | | 0x6, | 0x6, | 0x11, | 0x11, | | si | | 0xBD, | 0xBD | 0b110x | 0b110x | | gnaling\ | | | | xxxx | xxxx | | strea | | Refer to | Refer to | | | | m_type, | | TS 101 | TS 101 | Refer to | Refer to | | st | | 154, | 154, | TS 101 | TS 101 | | ream_id | | clause | clause | 154, | 154, | | | | 4.1.6.1 | 4.1.6.1 | clause | clause | | | | | | 4.1.6.1 | 4.1.6.1 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | codec | | 0x6A | 0x7A | 0x7C | 0x7C | | specific | | | | | | | de | | Refer to | Refer to | Refer to | Refer to | | scriptor | | TS 101 | TS 101 | TS 101 | TS 101 | | tag for | | 154, | 154, | 154, | 154, | | PMT | | clause | clause | clause | clause | | | | 4.1.8.23 | 4.1.8.23 | 4.1.8.26 | 4.1.8.26 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | inte | not | not | not | L | L | | rmediate | required | required | required | ATM/LOAS | ATM/LOAS | | wrapping | | | | | | | | | | | Refer to | Refer to | | | | | | TS 101 | TS 101 | | | | | | 154, | 154, | | | | | | clause | clause | | | | | | 6.4.1 | 6.4.1 | | | | | | and | and | | | | | | ISO/IEC | ISO/IEC | | | | | | 14496-3 | 14496-3 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Specific | n.a. | yes, | yes, | no | no | | PES | | refer to | refer to | | | | con | | TS 101 | TS 101 | | | | straints | | 154, | 154, | | | | | | clause | clause | | | | | | 6.2.1 | 6.2.1 | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | rec | | 5696 | 5696 | 3584 | 3584 | | ommended | | bytes | bytes | bytes | bytes | | STD | | | | (L2), | (L2), | | audio | | Refer to | Refer to | 8976 | 8976 | | buffer | | TS 101 | TS 101 | bytes | bytes | | size | | 154, | 154, | (L4) | (L4) | | | | clause | clause | | | | | | 4.1.8.20 | 4.1.8.20 | Refer to | Refer to | | | | | | TS 101 | TS 101 | | | | | | 154, | 154, | | | | | | clause | clause | | | | | | 4.1.8.20 | 4.1.8.20 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | DVB SI | | Yes | Yes | yes | yes | | c | | | | | | | omponent | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | scriptor | | | | | | | required | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | RAP | not | not | not | Yes | Yes | | n | required | required | required | | | | ecessary | | | | Refer to | Refer to | | | | | | TS 101 | TS 101 | | | | | | 154, | 154, | | | | | | clause | clause | | | | | | 6.5 | 6.5 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | sampling | | 32 kHz, | 32 kHz, | 32 kHz, | 32 kHz, | | rates | | 44.1 | 44.1 | 44.1 | 44.1 | | | | kHz, 48 | kHz, 48 | kHz, 48 | kHz, 48 | | | | kHz, | kHz, | kHz, | kHz, | | | | | | refer to | refer to | | | | Refer to | Refer to | ISO/IEC | ISO/IEC | | | | TS 102 | TS 102 | 14496-3 | 14496-3 | | | | 366, | 366, | | | | | | Annex A | Annex A | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | channel | | up to | up to | up to | up to | | configs | | 5.1 | 7.1 | 5.1, | 5.1, | | | | | | refer to | refer to | | | | Refer to | Refer to | ISO/IEC | ISO/IEC | | | | TS 101 | TS 101 | 14496-3 | 14496-3 | | | | 154, | 154, | | | | | | clause | clause | | | | | | 6.2.1.1 | 6.2.1.1 | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | codec | | not | not | up to | up to | | levels, | | required | required | stereo = | stereo = | | compa | | | | L2,\ | L2,\ | | tibility | | | | up to | up to | | indi | | | | 7.1 = | 7.1 = | | cation* | | | | L4, | L4, | | | | | | refer to | refer to | | | | | | TS 101 | TS 101 | | | | | | 154 | 154 | | | | | | clause | clause | | | | | | 6.4.2.1 | 6.4.2.1 | | | | | | and | and | | | | | | ISO/IEC | ISO/IEC | | | | | | 14496-3 | 14496-3 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | audio | | yes, | yes, | o | o | | control | | refer to | refer to | ptional, | ptional, | | MD (DRC | | TS 102 | TS 102 | refer to | refer to | | and | | 366, | 366, | TS 101 | TS 101 | | l | | clause 6 | clause 6 | 154 | 154 | | oudness) | | | | Annex C5 | Annex C5 | | | | | | and | and | | | | | | ISO/IEC | ISO/IEC | | | | | | 14496-3 | 14496-3 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | as | yes | Yes, | Yes, | yes, | Yes, | | sociated | | | | | | | audio | | Refer to | Refer to | Refer to | Refer to | | mixing | | TS 102 | TS 102 | TS 101 | TS 101 | | | | 366, | 366, | 154, | 154, | | | | clause 6 | clause 6 | Annex E | Annex E | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | ISO 639 | yes | yes | Yes | yes | yes | | Language | | | | | | | De | | | | | | | scriptor | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
#### 5.3.1.6 Parameters for special services (supplementary streams, DASH sub-
resolutions, etc.)
For auxiliary video services, TS 101 154 does not provide any specific
aspects.
However, DVB DASH as defined in TS 103 285 [6] provides additional information
and restrictions, namely:
\- Luminance Resolutions and Frame Rates for DASH-based distribution, more
resolutions are permitted to enable seamless adaptive switching
\- Video Switching Between Different Representations in the same Adaptation
Set
\- Restrictions on carriage of Parameters Sets inband and Initialization
Segments
\- Trick Mode considerations
For auxiliary audio services, the following is defined
\- TS 101 154, Supplementary Audio Services for MPEG-1 layer II. Other codecs
define supplementary services as part of their codec specifications.
\- TS 103 285, Using the Role Scheme to Distinguish Between Different
Adaptation Sets
\- EN 300 468 [7] DVB SI contains descriptors
In terms of DASH specific restrictions for audio, DVB DASH TS 103 285 defines
the following:
\- Audio behavior in case of adaptive switching include seamless switching
performance
\- Service Continuity Considerations
\- Bitrate recommendations for codecs in case of multiple Adaptation Sets
For subtitles, TS 101 154 does not provide any information. However, ETSI EN
300 743 [8] defines DVB subtitling based on bitmaps. Furthermore, the DVB-DASH
specification TS 103 285 provides information on DASH Specific Aspects for
Subtitles including a reference to EBU-TT, the provisioning of metadata to
annotate subtitles as well as how to use downloadable fonts. In addition,
usage guidelines are defined in clause 10.7.
#### 5.3.1.7 Any implementation guidelines
DVB provides a certain amount of implementation guidelines in:
\- ETSI TS 101 211 [9]: Guidelines on implementation and usage of Service
Information (SI)
\- As part of ETSI TS 102 385 in the DVB DASH specification
#### 5.3.1.8 Deducted Information on Random Access Points
The DVB specification TS 101 154 [5], defines RAP frequency requirements for
AVC and HEVC bitstreams. H.264/AVC and HEVC RAPs in the video elementary
stream appear at least once every 5 s with a recommendation of aa average of
at least every 2 s. Where rapid channel change times are important 500 ms is
also recommended for H.264/AVC and 1 s for HEVC . The time interval between
successive RAPs is measured as the difference between their respective DTS
values.
### 5.3.2 ATSC
#### 5.3.2.1 Introduction
The ATSC relevant specifications for video related parameters are:
\- ATSC [A/53, Part 4:2009]{.underline}, \"MPEG-2 Video System
Characteristics\" [17]
\- ATSC [A/72 Part 1 & 3]{.underline}, \"Video System Characteristics of AVC
in the ATSC Digital Television System\" & \"Video and Transport Subsystem
Characteristics of MVC for 3D-TV Broadcast in the ATSC Digital Television
System\" [18]
\- ATSC [A/153 Part 7:2012]{.underline}, \"AVC and SVC Video System
Characteristics\" [19]
the information in this clause is collected.
#### 5.3.2.2 Colorimetry aspects
The ATSC standard for H.264/AVC [19] defines the possible input formats of 3
types:
\- SMPTE 274M corresponding to the full HD resolution (1920x1080)
\- SMPTE 296M corresponding to the 720p HD resolution
\- ITU-R BT.601-5 corresponding to NTSC SD resolution (720x480)
For H.264/AVC, the color transfer function characteristics are conveyed within
the VUI message, inside the SPS.
For the VUI-related constraints, the ATSC refers to the SCTE specification on
AVC video constraints for Cable TV [20] which states that even if all the
allowed values by the H.264/AVC standard may be used for **_colour_primaries_
*, **transfer_characteristics**,_and_** matrix_coefficients***, the preferred
values are the ITU-R BT.709 [21] for 720p HD and Full HD inputs; and SMPTE
170M [22] for the NTSC SD input.
#### 5.2.2.3 Frame rate aspects
Focusing only on the HDTV formats all the following frame rates are supported:
23,97 Hz (24/1 001); 24 Hz; 29,97 Hz (30/1 001); 30 Hz; 59,94 Hz (60/1 001);
60 Hz; 25 Hz and 50 Hz.
One exception is made for the 720p format that is not required to support:
29,97 Hz; 30 Hz and 25 Hz.
#### 5.2.2.4 RAP period in ATSC
The ATSC standard for H.264/AVC [19] applies the requirements from the SCTE
128-2 [31] specification. For applications where fast channel change or random
access is important, the maximum time interval between the decoding time stamp
of successive SRAP Pictures is less than or equal to 1 second for integer
frame rates, with appropriate adjustment (less than two pictures) for (1) non-
integer frame rates and (2) small variabilities associated with scene change
detection during encoding.
### 5.3.3 DECE
#### 5.3.3.1 Introduction
The DECE Common File Format & Media Formats Specification\" [23] contains
requirements related to colorimetry, frame rate and random access point period
aspects as depicted in the following sub-clauses.
#### 5.3.3.2 Colorimetry aspects
\- PD (portable device) Media profile: Video streams conforming to this Media
Profile are encoded using the color parameters defined by BT.709 [21].
\- SD (Standard Definition) Media Profile: Video streams conforming to this
Media Profile are (i) preferably encoded using the color parameters defined by
BT.709 [21]; and (ii) encoded with the following color parameters:
\- for 24 Hz, 30 Hz & 60 Hz content: the color parameters defined by BT.709
[21], or the color parameters defined for 525‐line video systems as per BT.601
[24]; or
\- for 25 Hz & 50 Hz content: the color parameters defined by BT.709 [21], or
the color parameters defined for 625‐PAL video systems as per BT.1700 [25].
\- High Definition (HD) and High Definition High bitrate (xHD) Media Profiles:
Video streams conforming to this Media Profile are encoded using the color
parameters defined by BT.709 [21].
#### 5.3.3.3 Frame rate aspects
The specification on Common File Format & Media Formats [23] defines a set of
media profiles in annex B for which the maximum frame rates are indicated.
Delivery targets are defined where only the Multi-track delivery target
provides additional constraints on frame rates.
\- PD (portable device) Media profile:
\- Maximum frame rate is 30 Hz
\- The following frame rates are supported: (i) for 24 and 30Hz contents:
23.97; 24; 29.97 and 30 Hz, (ii) for 25 Hz contents: 25 Hz
\- SD (Standard Definition) Media Profile:
\- Maximum frame rate is 60 Hz
\- The following frame rates are supported: (i) for 24, 30 Hz and 60 Hz
contents: 23.97; 24; 29.97; 30; 59.94 and 60 Hz, (ii) for 25 and 50 Hz
contents: 25 and 50 Hz
\- High Definition (HD) Media Profile:
\- Maximum frame rate is 60 Hz
\- The following frame rates are supported: (i) for 24, 30 Hz and 60 Hz
contents: 23.97; 24; 29.97; 30; 59.94 and 60 Hz, (ii) for 25 and 50 Hz
contents: 25 and 50 Hz
\- High Definition High bitrate (xHD) Media Profile:
\- Maximum frame rate is 60 Hz
\- The following frame rates are supported: (i) for 24, 30 Hz and 60 Hz
contents: 23.97; 24; 29.97; 30; 59.94 and 60 Hz, (ii) for 25 and 50 Hz
contents: 25 and 50 Hz
#### 5.3.3.4 RAP period in DECE
The specification on Common File Format & Media Formats [23] defines common
requirements for AVC and HEVC on random access point period as being an
occurance of RAP every 3.003 seconds or less.
### 5.3.4 Response from DASH-IF
DASH-IF does not define content profiles but focuses on transport and codec
interoperability. However, relevant information on constraints in DASH-based
content offerings is defined in \"DASH-IF Implementation Guidelines.
Interoperability Points\" [10] including video, audio and subtitles.
## 5.4 Summary
### 5.4.1 Overview
This clause provides a summary of the relevant aspects extracted from the
clause 5.3 and a recommendation on how to make use of this information in the
context of 3GPP TV Video Profiles.
Specifically the following aspects are considered of relevance:
\- Spatial Resolutions
\- Frame rate aspects
\- Colormetry Aspects
\- Random Access Points periods
\- Video Codecs and Related Parameters
### 5.4.2 Spatial Resolution
This clause presents the different constraints on spatial resolutions to be
supported for the delivery of video contents in the Broadcast and the On-
demand delivery environments.
As a summary:
\- Spatial resolutions typically define profiles and operation points.
\- For any advanced format, the committed aspect ratio is 16:9. For legacy,
still 4:3 exists.
\- The following relevant content formats are identified:
\- UHD: 3 840 x 2 160
\- HD: 1 920 x 1 080, 1 280 x 720
\- SD: 640x480, 854x480, 720x576
\- The following relevant distribution formats are identified:
\- For UHD: 3 840 x 2 160, 3 200 x 1 800, 2 560 x 1 440, 1 920 × 1 080, 1 600
× 900, 1 280 × 720, 960 × 720, 960 × 540
\- For HD: 1 920 × 1 080, 1 600 × 900, 1 280 × 720, 960 × 540
\- For SD: 640x480, 854x480, 720x576
It is understood that content nowadays is available almost exclusively in HD
formats or beyond, but for distribution a subsampled version may be used in
order to address specific device classes or bitrate constraints. SD formats
are maintained for legacy in TV broadcast standards, but of decreasing
relevance.
Therefore, the 3GPP TV Video Profile may be the right place and time to
deprecate SD formats, by at least not adding those to the recommended video
profile operation points.
Based on this, the following subset of spatial resolutions may be considered
as most relevant:
\- Content formats: 3 840 x 2 160, 1 920 x 1 080, 1 280 x 720
\- Distribution formats: 3 840 x 2 160, 3 200 x 1 800, 2 560 x 1 440, 1 920 ×
1 080, 1 600 × 900, 1 280 × 720, 960 × 540
It is expected that sufficient tools would be available to convert content
into one of the above distribution formats, for example by the use of letter
boxing, cropping etc.
In addition the following aspects are relevant to be considered:
\- It needs to be checked if for mobile distribution, a lower spatial
resolution than 960 x 540 for distribution may be considered.
\- For DASH services Adaptation Sets may be provided in different resolutions.
If the above spatial resolutions are applied, then seamless switching across
different spatial resolutions is expected to be straight-forward.
### 5.4.3 Frame Rates
This clause presents the different constraints on frame rates to be supported
for the delivery of video contents in the Broadcast and the On-demand delivery
environments.
As a summary:
\- ATSC and DECE require the support of **23.97** (24/1 001); **24** ;
**29.97** (30/1 001); **30** ; **59.94** (60/1 001); **60** ; **25** and
**50** Hz.
\- DVB requires the support of
\- **25** and **50** Hz for 25Hz HDTV systems
\- **23.97** (24/1 001); **24** ; **29.97** (30/1 001); **30** ; **59,+.94**
(60/1 001); **60** Hz for 30Hz HDTV systems
\- UHDTV systems require all the above-mentioned frame rates to be supported.
It is understood that globally two families of frame rates are of major
relevance
\- Fractional frame rates (30/1 001) and (60/1 001)
\- Frame rates of 25 and 50 Hz
Fractional frame rates are still quite frequently used by broadcast
distribution systems. In order to enable distribution of existing video format
in 3GPP TV Video Profiles it seems unavoidable to include also fractional
frame rates into the video formats.
Based on this discussion, it is proposed that a video operation point in 3GPP
TV Video Profiles is expected to support the following frame rates: **24** ;
**25** ; **30; 50 and 60 Hz.** The following fractional frame rates are
beneficially also be supported: **24/1.001, 30/1.001, 60/1.001 Hz**.
It is expected that sufficient tools would be available to convert content
into one of the above frame rates.
In addition the following aspects are relevant to be considered:
\- A frame rate cannot be associated with a specific video format
(resolution).
\- For DASH services provisioning Adaptation Sets with frame rates restricted
in one family (24 Hz, 25 and 50 Hz, 30 Hz and 60Hz, 30/1.001 and 60/1.001 Hz)
may simplify switching between representations without complex frame rate
adaption.
### 5.4.4 Colorimetry Formats
This clause presents the different constraints on colorimetry formats for the
delivery of video contents in the Broadcast environment and the On-demand
delivery area.
As a summary:
\- ATSC defines the support of _BT.709_ for HD and Full HD inputs; and _SMPTE
170M_ for the NTSC SD input.
\- DVB defines the support of _BT.1700_ for the delivery of conventional SDTV
and _BT.709_ for HDTV and HD sub-resolutions (DASH) and _BT.2020_ for HEVC
HDTV and UHDTV.
\- DECE defines the support of _BT.709_ for types of content plus _BT.601_ and
_BT.1700_ for traditional SD contents.
From this collection of information and given the approach to only consider
contents from an HD delivery workflow in the TVProf Work Item, BT.709 and
BT.2020 are considered most relevant.
Furthermore, it is observed that in many cases it is expected that the
receiving and rendering device can support BT.2020 signalling and the device
is responsible to map the provided signal to the color space of the device.
Based on this observation, the following is proposed for the TV Video
Profiles:
\- Operation Points for 3GPP may either signal BT.709 or BT.2020
\- If no signal is provided for the color space, BT.709 should be assumed as
default color space
\- Receiving devices are expected to support BT.2020 signalling and provide an
appropriate mapping of the signal to the supported color space of the device
In addition the following aspects are relevant to be considered:
\- A color space cannot be associated to a specific video format (resolution).
\- For DASH services Adaptation Sets being provided in a unique color space
may be considered beneficial in order to be able to switch between
representations without color variations.
### 5.4.5 Random Access
This clause presents the different constraints on random access point period
for the delivery of video contents in the Broadcast environment and the On-
demand delivery area.
As a summary:
\- ATSC mandates a RAP period less than 1 second.
\- DVB mandates a RAP period less than 5 seconds, recommends 2 seconds and
optionally 0.5 second for AVC and 1 second for HEVC.
\- DECE mandates a RAP period less than 3.003 seconds.
Defining a random access point period of N seconds is typically equivalent to
define a channel change time or a channel access time to be on average roughly
equal to N/2 seconds.
In general, the numbers from above should be taken into account in order to
provide random access in TV-like services. Details how to achieve this may
depend on the distribution formats, the service configuration, and many other
aspects.
### 5.4.6 Video Codecs and Other Video Parameters
Video codecs in all standards consistently use 16:9 aspect ratio, YCbCr as the
Chroma Format and 4:2.0 for color sub-sampling.
Despite the fact that there are still profiles for interlaced video signals,
progressive formats are more and more relevant with the introduction of UHD
productions. 3GPP TV Video profile is the right time and place to deprecate
interlaced formats, by not adding those to the recommended video profile
operation points.
On video codecs, the following codec profiles are considered relevant in
today\'s TV services:
\- H.264/AVC High Profile
\- H.265/HEVC Main Tier Main Profile
\- H.265/HEVC Main Tier Main-10 Profile
The levels depend on the supported video formats and range up to level 5.1 for
H.265/HEVC Main Tier Main-10 Profile.
As a summary, the following video codec capabilities are worthwhile to be
considered to support certain amount of service and classes of potential
interest:
\- Consistent use of 16:9 aspect ratio, YCbCr as the Chroma Format and 4:2.0
for color sub-sampling
\- H.264/AVC High Profile level 4.1 to support consistent HD services
\- H.265/HEVC Main Tier Main Profile level 4.1 to support consistent HD
services
\- H.265/HEVC Main-10 Tier Main Profile level 5.1 to support consistent UHD
services
In addition, TV services may also be supported with the capabilities defined
in TS26.234 [2] and TS 26.346 [3] using 720p and H.264/AVC Progressive High
Profile Level 3.1 or H.265/HEVC Main Profile Main Tier Level 3.1.
### 5.4.7 Non-Video Related Parameters
For a consistent TV experience, other aspects such as audio, subtitling,
closed captioning as well as metadata are of relevance and are likely to be
addressed in the future. However, in the context of the present document, the
focus is on video related aspects only.
# 6 Video Operation Point Parameters
## 6.1 Video resolution
### 6.1.1 Introduction
Mobile terminals (smartphones, tablets) have display capabilities that are
increasing over time. This is enabled by greater screen sizes as well as
increasing pixel density.
Table 5 below presents a list of the main resolutions available in the market
place as of mid-2014, including the picture aspect ratio:
Table 5: Main screen resolutions for mobile terminals
* * *
Resolution Pixel Width Pixel Height Aspect ratio HVGA 480 320 1.5 WVGA 800 480
1.67 qHD 960 540 16:9 DVGA 960 640 1.5 WSVGA 1024 600 1.71 XGA 1024 768 4:3
iPhone5 1136 640 16:9 WXGA* 1280 768 1.67 720p 1280 720 16:9 iPhone6 1334 750
\~16:9 WXGA* 1280 800 1.6 1080p 1920 1080 16:9 4XGA 2048 1536 4:3
* * *
### 6.1.2 Working assumptions
With the generalization of High Definition in residential TV services,
production environments mainly use the HD format (in 720p or 1080p) and
increasingly also UHD and set the 16:9 picture aspect ratio as the main layout
of video services.
When the aspect ratio of the video and the display do not match, some mobile
terminal implementations offer the capability to zoom the video so as to fill
otherwise black areas of the screen. But, for non-technical reasons, unless
there is an agreement with the content provider, the network operator/service
provider is not allowed to crop the video so as to fit with particular device
capabilities.
Based on this the following working assumptions are established:
\- the picture aspect ratio of the TV services over 3GPP services is 16:9;
\- the video is displayed by default in letter-box mode when the UE display
resolution is not 16:9.
### 6.1.3 Video profile resolution definition
Based on the working assumptions in clause 6.1.2, and from Table 1, it is then
possible to define the 16:9 picture resolutions that best fit in each display
resolution as shown in Table 2:
Table 2: 16:9 letter-box formats for each display resolution
+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+----------+ | Re | Pixel | Pixel | L | | | | solution | Width | Height | etterBox | | | | | | | 16:9 | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | solution | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+----------+ | | | | Width | Height | Number | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | pixels | | | | | | | (in | | | | | | | th | | | | | | | ousands) | +----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+----------+ | HVGA | 480 | 320 | 480 | 270 | 129.6 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+----------+ | WVGA | 800 | 480 | 800 | 450 | 360 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+----------+ | qHD | 960 | 540 | 960 | 540 | 518.4 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+----------+ | DVGA | 960 | 640 | 960 | 540 | 518.4 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+----------+ | WSVGA | 1024 | 600 | 1024 | 576 | 589.824 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+----------+ | XGA | 1024 | 768 | 1024 | 576 | 589.824 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+----------+ | iPhone5 | 1136 | 640 | 1136 | 639 | 725.904 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+----------+ | WXGA | 1280 | 768 | 1280 | 720 | 921.6 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+----------+ | 720p | 1280 | 720 | 1280 | 720 | 921.6 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+----------+ | iPhone6 | 1334 | 750 | 1334 | 750 | 1000.5 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+----------+ | WXGA | 1280 | 800 | 1280 | 720 | 921.6 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+----------+ | 1080p | 1920 | 1080 | 1920 | 1080 | 2073.6 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+----------+ | 4XGA | 2048 | 1536 | 2048 | 1152 | 2359.296 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+----------+ | QHD | 2560 | 1440 | 2560 | 1440 | 3684.4 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+----------+ | WQXGA | 2560 | 1600 | 2560 | 1440 | 3684.4 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+----------+ | UHD | 3840 | 2160 | 3840 | 2160 | 8294.4 | | (pro | | | | | | | duction) | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+----------+ | Legend | | | | | | | | | | | | | | The last | | | | | | | column | | | | | | | of gives | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | number | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | pixels | | | | | | | for all | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | 16:9 | | | | | | | formats. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | g | | | | | | | reyscale | | | | | | | ba | | | | | | | ckground | | | | | | | intends | | | | | | | to group | | | | | | | similar | | | | | | | formats | | | | | | | so as to | | | | | | | minimize | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | number | | | | | | | of final | | | | | | | res | | | | | | | olutions | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+----------+
The last column of Table 2 gives the number of pixels for all of the 16:9
formats. The greyscale background intends to regroup the similar formats so as
to minimize the number of final resolutions.
Based on Table 2, for each identified group, only the smallest resolution is
kept as presented in Table 3. The last column of Table 3 names these
resolutions explicitly as they are used in the remainder of this
specification.
Table 3: Selected 16:9 format and labelling
* * *
Resolution Pixel Width Pixel Height LetterBox 16:9 resolution Resolution Name  
Width Height  
HVGA 480 320 480 270 qSD WVGA 800 480 800 450 SD qHD 960 540 960 540 qHD DVGA
960 640 960 540  
WSVGA 1024 600 960 540  
XGA 1024 768 960 540  
iPhone5 1136 640 960 540  
WXGA 1280 768 1280 720 720p HD 720p 1280 720 1280 720  
iPhone6 1334 750 1280 720  
WXGA 1280 800 1280 720  
1080p 1920 1080 1920 1080 Full HD 4XGA 2048 1536 1920 1080  
QHD 2560 1440 2560 1440 UHD WQXGA 2560 1600 2560 1440  
UHD 3840 2160 3840 2160
* * *
### 6.1.4 Selection of video profile resolutions for operation points
Finally, Table 4 summarizes the selected resolutions and highlights the
increment factor between 2 consecutive formats:
Table 4: Summary of selected resolutions (option 1)
* * *
Format name Format definition Increment factor qSD 480x270 - SD 800x450 2.78
qHD 960x540 1.44 720p HD 1280x720 1.78 Full HD 1920x1080 2.25 Beyond HD 2560 x
1440 1.77 UHD 3840 x 2160 2.25
* * *
In order to limit the number of resolutions to be selected for the definition
of operation points, the qHD format could be removed thus providing a
reasonably consistent table in terms of increment factors (around 2.5) as
presented below in Table 5.
Table 5: Summary of selected resolutions (option 2)
* * *
Format name Format definition Increment factor qSD 480x270 - SD 800x450 2.78
720p HD 1280x720 2.56 Full HD 1920x1080 2.25 UHD 3840 x 2160 4.00
* * *
NOTE: Although the Release12 3GPP specifications are limited to 720p
resolutions, 1080p and beyond resolution is kept for information and might be
referred to in the future.
## 6.2 Viewing Distance and Resolution
### 6.2.1 Introduction
Higher spatial resolution is relevant in order to avoid artefacts such as
pixilation of the video. However, pixilation also depends on the viewing
distance and possibly also on the applied upsampling filters So this clause
provides a very brief overview on the relation of spatial resolutions and the
viewing distance.
The following parameters are of relevance:
\- Pixel Density: Pixels per inch (PPI) is a measurement of the pixel density
(resolution) of an electronic image device, such as a computer monitor or
television display, or image digitizing device such as a camera or image
scanner. Pixel density can be computed as sqrt(wp^2^ + hp^2^)/di with wp and
hp the vertical and horizontal pixel size, respectively, and di the diagonal
size of the screen in inches,
\- Visual Acuity (VA) commonly refers to the clarity of vision. Visual Acuity
is dependent from optical and neural factors, i.e. (i) the sharpness of the
retinal focus within the eye, (ii) the health and functioning of the retina,
and (iii) the sensitivity of the interpretative faculty of the brain. Normal
visual acuity is commonly referred to as 20/20 vision: At 20 feet, a human eye
with nominal performance is able to separate contours that are approximately
1.75 mm apart. Vision of 20/40 corresponds to lower than nominal performance;
vision of 20/10 corresponds to better performance.
\- Optimum Viewing Distance (OVD): Optimum viewing distance is the distance
that provides the viewer with the optimum immersive visual experience. Note
that the actual viewing distance may be larger than OVD without impacting the
pixelation quality the OVD can be computed as follows:
OVD = 1/(PPI * 2 * tan(1/120*VA))
### 6.2.2 Optimum Viewing Distance
In the following, the normal VA of 20/20 is assumed. Figure 2 shows the
optimum viewing distance in inches for different screen resolutions in ranges
that are typical for mobile devices in the market at the time of the
generation of the report for different spatial resolutions as documented in
Table 4 above. Screen resolutions of 3\'\' to 11\'\' are selected.
{width="5.919444444444444in" height="3.3333333333333335in"}
Figure 2: Optimum Viewing Distance vs. Screen resolution for typical mobile
device screen sizes
Figure 3 shows the optimum viewing distance in inches for different screen
resolutions in ranges that are typical for TV screens in the market at the
time of the generation of the report for different spatial resolutions as
documented in Table 4 above. Screen resolutions of 11\'\' to 100\'\' are
selected.
{width="5.80625in" height="3.2666666666666666in"}
Figure 3: Optimum Viewing Distance vs. Screen resolution for typical TV set
screen sizes
In a similar fashion, ITU-R BT.2022 [28] provides information on the optimal
viewing distance depending on the picture height for different image systems.
The key image systems as documented in ITU-R BT.2022 [28], Table 1, are
summarized in Table 6. The ITU-R BT.2022 [28] confirms the model introduced in
clause 6.2.1.
Table 6: Optimum Viewing Distance as function of picture heights (H) and
screen resolution (S)
* * *
Format name Resolution Optimum Viewing\ Optimum Viewing\ Optimum Viewing
Distance (S) according to 6.2.1 Distance (H) Distance (S) BT.2022
VGA 640 x 480 7 H 4.2 S n/a
SD 720 x 576 6 H 3.6 S n/a
720p HD 1280x720 4.8 H 2.4 S 2.3S
Full HD 1920x1080 3.2 H 1.6 S 1.6S
UHD 3840 x 2160 1.6 H 0.8 S 0.8S
8K 7680 x 4320 0.8 H 0.4 S n/a
* * *
### 6.2.3 Conclusions
Based on the data and discussion in clause 6.2.2, the following conclusions
are drawn:
\- Spatial resolutions of 720p are essential to provide highest picture
quality at regular viewing distances with phones of screen size as available
today.
\- Spatial resolutions of 1080p are very desirable to provide highest picture
quality at regular viewing distances with phones of screen size as available
today If other form factors are added such as tablets, then such spatial
resolutions are essential.
\- If other form factors, such as TV screens are of relevance, then 720p and
1080p are absolutely essential and 1440p and UHD are desirable formats to be
added as well.
# 7 Non-video related aspects
For a consistent TV experience, other aspects such as audio, subtitling,
closed captioning as well as metadata are of relevance and should be addressed
in the future. However, in the context of the present document, the focus is
on video related aspects only.
# 8 Enablers for different 3GPP services
## 8.1 Introduction
This clause provides an overview on the enablers in different 3GPP services
(MBMS, PSS, DASH) to map parameters to 3GPP services, including service
specific requirements, e.g. adaptive resolution switching in DASH. etc.
## 8.2 DASH Signalling Enablers
### 8.2.1 Relevant Signaling Parameters
The relevant parameters for video property signaling according to clause 5.3.1
are:
  * Picture Resolution
  * Picture Aspect Ratio
  * Chroma Format
  * Sub-sampling format
  * Sample aspect ratio
  * Bit Depth
  * Color Primaries and Transfer Function
  * Frame rates (Hz)
  * Video coding format
  * Video Codec Profile Level
  * Random Access Point
Parameters for other media types are not considered in this context. .
### 8.2.2 DASH Signaling Background
#### 8.2.2.1 Representations in one Adaptation Set
In order to understand the relevant signaling aspects in DASH, a processing
model for Representations in one Adaptation Set is provided in the Figure 5
below. In this case, original video in a certain format (e.g. any of those
documented in the TR) may be preprocessed, for example by temporal and/or
spatial subsampling. Afterwards, the signal is encoded, possibly in different
bitrates such that adaptive switching across the provided Representations is
permitted. After delivery, the receiver decodes and processes the data to
display the data. Different video formats may be offered to the client and the
video format may be differentiated on selection or on adaptation level.
{width="6.551388888888889in" height="3.875in"}
Figure 5: End to end Processing model for one Adaptation Set
#### 8.2.2.2 Receiver Processing Model
It is relevant that the video signal is processed in multiple instances in the
receiver in a DASH-based model. This is shown in Figure 6. The DASH client
provides the downloaded information to an ISO BMFF [12] processing engine that
consumes the downloaded data and provides the elementary streams to the video
decoder and to the display. The parameters as documented in clause 8.2.1 may
be available and required in different levels of the processing chain, namely
in the DASH client (i.e. MPD), the ISO BMFF parser (i.e. in the movie fragment
header), in the video decoder (i.e. in the elementary stream) or for the
display (i.e. in VUI and/or SEI parameters).
The purpose and consistency of the parameters is important.
Figure 6: Receiver reference model for DASH based streaming
#### 8.2.2.3 Signaling Framework and Options
In DASH, the following signaling options are available for the different
parameters and also some constraints are mentioned:
\- Picture Resolution
\- Adaptation Set Parameters \@maxWidth and \@maxHeight
\- Note in [6] and [10]: The attributes \@maxWidth and \@maxHeight are
recommended to be used such that they describe the target display size. This
means that they may exceed the actual largest size of any coded Representation
in one Adaptation Set.
\- Common Adaptation Set or Representation Parameters \@width and \@height
\- Note in [6] and [10]: \@width, \@height, and \@sar attributes are
recommended to be used so as to indicate the vertical and horizontal sample
count of encoded and cropped video samples, not the intended display size in
pixels.
\- Requirement in [6] and [10]: Only the active video area is required to be
encoded so that devices can frame the height and width of the encoded video to
the size and shape of their currently selected display area without extraneous
padding in the decoded video, such as \"letterbox bars\" or \"pillarbox
bars\".
\- Width and height in track header box of the ISO BMFF
\- Requirement in [12]: the width and height values in the track header box
has the nominal display size in square pixels after decoding, H.264/AVC
cropping, and rescaling.
\- Picture Aspect Ratio
\- The Adaptation Set parameter \@par
\- Requirement in [15]: the picture aspect ratio as specified by this
attribute is the same as indicated by the values of \@width, \@height, and
\@sar, i.e. it expresses the same ratio as (\@width * sarx): (\@height *
sary), with sarx the first number in \@sar and sary the second number.
\- Chroma Format
\- Signaling in Coding-Independent Code Points (CICP) ISO/IEC 23001-8 [11]
through the matrix coefficients code point
\- Defines the URN format urn:mpeg:mpegB:cicp:MatrixCoefficients
\- Defines the allowed values in Table 4 of ISO/IEC 23001-8 [11].
\- In DASH the Essential or Supplemental Descriptor may be used to signal the
value using the CICP scheme and values
\- In the ISO BMFF [12], the ColourInformationBox may be used to signal the
matrix coefficients code point
\- Signaling through VUI information in the matrix_coeffs
\- Sub-sampling format
\- No signaling in DASH, but through \@codecs parameter (see below)
\- No explicit signaling in ISO BMFF, but through the sample entry
\- Signaling in elementary stream through chroma_format_idc
\- Sample aspect ratio
\- Common Adaptation Set or Representation Parameters \@sar in DASH
\- Note in [6] and [10]: \@width, \@height, and \@sar attributes are
recommended so as to indicate the vertical and horizontal sample count of
encoded and cropped video samples, not the intended display size in pixels.
\- PixelAspectRatioBox in the ISO BMFF [12]
\- Bit Depth
\- No signaling in DASH, but through \@codecs parameter (see below)
\- No explicit signaling in ISO BMFF, but through sample entry
\- Signaling in HEVC elementary stream [15] through bit_depth_luma_minus8 and
bit_depth_chroma_minus8.
\- Color Primaries and Transfer Function
\- Signaling in CICP ISO/IEC 23001-8 through the colour primaries and transfer
characteristics code point
\- Defines the URN format urn:mpeg:mpegB:cicp: ColourPrimaries and
urn:mpeg:mpegB:cicp:TransferCharacteristics
\- Defines the values in Table 4 of ISO/IEC 23001-8 [11].
\- In DASH the Essential or Supplemental Descriptor may be used to signal the
value using the CICP scheme and values
\- In the ISO BMFF [12], the ColourInformationBox may be used.
\- Signaling through VUI information in the elementary stream [14] and [15].
\- Frame rates (Hz)
\- Adaptation Set Parameter \@maxFrameRate
\- Common Adaptation Set or Representation Parameter \@frameRate
\- The frar parameter in the Track Selection box of the user Data in the ISO
BMFF [12]. This is driven by decoding and composition times in the ISO BMFF.
\- No explicit signaling of the frame rate is possible in the elementary
stream. Note that in the HRD parameters, this may be implicitly defined.
\- Video coding format and Video Codec Profile Level
\- Common Adaptation Set or Representation Parameter \@codecs in MPEG-DASH
\- In the Visual Sample entry in the ISO BMFF [12]
\- Random Access Point
\- In DASH this can be signaled by segment durations and \@startsWithSAP
signaling being 1, 2 or 3.
\- In the ISO BMFF [12], Random access points can be signaled with the Segment
Index and the sync sample table.
#### 8.2.2.4 Open Questions and Potential Answers
In order to consistently support the formats in DASH based environments, at
least the following questions need be answered by for video profiles in the
context of DASH. Based on the considerations in clauses 5 and 6, initial
answers to the questions are collected.
\- What are the relevant Signal Parameters for 3GPP to support the TV Profile
parameters?
\- (Display) Picture Resolution: see Table 4 and 5: 3840 x 2160, 1920 x 1080,
1280 x 720, 800x450, 480x270
\- (Encoded) Picture Resolution: 3840 x 2160, 3200 x 1800, 2560 x 1440, 1920 ×
1080, 1600 × 900, 1280 × 720, 960 × 540, 800x450, 480x270
\- Frame rates (Hz): 24; 25; 30; 50 and 60Hz. Addition of fractional frame
rates is currently not considered relevant.
Video Codec Profile and Level:
\- H.264/AVC High Profile level 3.1
\- H.265/HEVC Main Tier Main Profile level 3.1
\- H.264/AVC High Profile level 4.1
\- H.265/HEVC Main Tier Main Profile level 4.1
\- H.265/HEVC Main-10 Tier Main Profile level 5.1
\- Random Access Point: values between 0.5 to 5 seconds.
\- Color Primaries and Transfer Function: BT.709 and BT.2020
\- Video coding format: progressive (no signaling necessary, if not present
this default value is used)
\- Picture Aspect Ratio: 16:9 (no signaling necessary, if not present this
default value is used)
\- Chroma Format: YCbCr (no signaling necessary, if not present this default
value is used)
\- Sub-sampling format: 4:2:0 (no signaling necessary, if not present this
default value is used)
\- Sample aspect ratio: 1:1 (no signaling necessary, if not present this
default value is used)
\- What are relevant selection parameters for video Adaptation Sets, i.e.
which parameters may be placed on Adaptation Set level?
\- Frame rates (Hz)
\- Video Codecs and Video Codec Profile
\- Random Access Point
\- (Display) Picture Resolution
\- Color Primaries and Transfer Function
\- What are relevant adaptation parameters for video Adaptation Sets, i.e.
which parameters may be placed on Representation level?
\- (Encoded) Picture Resolution: Any decimated resolution of the (Display)
Picture resolution
\- Frame rates (Hz): only within family, i.e. 25/50, 30/60. Video Codec Level
\- What are parameters not to be changed within one Adaptation Set?
\- (Display) Picture Resolution, if signaled at all
\- Color Primaries and Transfer Function
\- Video codecs
\- Video codec Profiles
\- What parameters are expected to be signaled on what level?
\- Adaptation Set level:
\- (Display) Picture Resolution: see Table 4 and 5: 3840 x 2160, 1920 x 1080,
1280 x 720, 800x450, 480x270, if signaled at all
\- Frame rates (Hz): 24; 25; 30; 50 and 60Hz.
\- Video Codec Profile Level:
\- H.264/AVC High Profile level 3.1
\- H.265/HEVC Main Tier Main Profile level 3.1
\- H.264/AVC High Profile level 4.1
\- H.265/HEVC Main Tier Main Profile level 4.1
\- H.265/HEVC Main-10 Tier Main Profile level 5.1
\- Random Access Point: values between 0.5 to 5 seconds.
\- Color Primaries and Transfer Function: BT.709 and BT.2020
\- Representation level
\- (Encoded) Picture Resolution: 3840 x 2160, 3200 x 1800, 1920 × 1080, 1600 ×
900, 1280 × 720, 960 × 540, 800x450, 480x270
\- Frame rates (Hz): 25 or 50, 30 or 60Hz.
\- Video Codec Level:
\- H.264/AVC High Profile: level 3.1 or level 4.1
\- H.265/HEVC Main Tier Main Profile level 3.1 or level 4.1
\- Random Access Point: values between 0.5 to 5 seconds.
\- If parameters are available on different levels, how do they relate? Can
they differ? Which one takes precedence?
\- Typically no, but for example the Adaptation Set may provide the maximum
of:
\- Frame rate
\- Codec level
\- Spatially encoded resolution
\- What are the signaling methods to provide the parameters?
\- See clause 8.2.2.3
#### 8.2.2.5 Gap Analysis on DASH-based signalling
Based on the discussions in clauses 8.2.2.2, 8.2.2.3 and 8.2.2.4 and the
analysis of 3GP-DASH [4] and 3GPP File format [26] up to Release 12, at least
the following gaps are identified:
\- Interpretation of the \@maxWidth and \@maxHeight in DASH needs to be
clarified according to [6] and [10].
\- Interpretation of the \@width, \@height, and \@sar in DASH needs to be
clarified according to [6] and [10].
\- Interpretation of width and height in track header box of the ISO BMFF
needs to be clarified according to [12].
\- Addition of Picture Aspect Ratio to TS 26.247 with some restricted values.
\- Enable signaling of CICP parameters for Matrix Coefficients, Colour
Primaries and Transfer Functions in DASH and ISO BMFF.
\- Enable a frame rate signaling in DASH.
\- Provide signaling for the defined parameters and options in the TV Profile
Specification addressing the questions in clause 8.2.2.4.
\- Define default parameters if certain signaling is not present.
# 9 Information from Example Deployments
## 9.1 Description of Linear / Live TV using MBMS
MBMS allows the carriage of linear TV services over MBMS bearers as well as
using unicast bearers. The access information for unicast TV content
acquisition is provided together with the MBMS metadata.
The following DASH format description is often used in MBMS deployments and
provides additional details and examples following the recommendations from
the TS 26.346 Annex K [3].
MBMS bearers offer a constant and guaranteed bitrate service. Although 3GP
DASH is an adaptive bitrate format, only a single video representation is
offered over an MBMS bearer in a single MBSFN (if the service is a video
service). The used resolution is in the area of WVGA (854x480) and HD
(1280x720). The service may also include one or more audio tracks (multi-
language) and other components (e.g. timed text) in the offering.
Many DASH players today support playback of multiplexed segments (i.e. audio,
video and other components are multiplexed into the same segment). Some
deployments use multiplexed segments, with the intent to increase the spectral
efficiency on wireless systems. A higher spectral efficiency allows for more
simultaneous MBMS sessions or reduces the capacity need (in terms of allocated
LTE subframes) for the service.
For services over MBMS Bearers, the DASH media segment duration is in range of
1 sec to 2 sec. Short segment durations are selected with the intent of having
a reasonable tune-in delay at still a reasonably good application layer FEC
efficiency. Each DASH Media segment contains only a single ISO BMFF movie
fragment.
Each segment contains at least one SAP that is placed at the beginning of the
segment. Each segment can act as random access point into the stream. Note,
DASH profiles allow segments without a SAP, which are beneficial for low delay
operations. For instance, when working with 500 ms DASH Segment durations, not
each segment should contain a SAP in order to keep a reasonable video
compression efficiency. The DASH Media Presentation Description (MPD) is valid
for a long time. An initial MPD is provided with service announcement before
the actual Live DASH session starts and is typically valid for the entire Live
session. The segment duration is constant on average during the session. For
video representations, each segment contains the same number of video samples
at constant framerate. For other media components such as audio, the number of
samples per segment may vary around an average (+/- 1 sample per segment).
The DASH Initialization Segment is sent with the MBMS service announcement
prior to the Live session and is not updated during the session.
The system can send MPD updates, for instance to add the media presentation
duration. The MPD may also be updated with additional periods or old periods
may be removed. For service offerings over MBMS bearers, an updated MPD with
the new set of Periods is provided sufficiently in advance, so that the DASH
Player receives the updated MPD in time, i.e. latest at the start of the new
period.
Segment size variations: Segment sizes varies due to the content jitter.
Transmission duration over MBMS bearers may vary accordingly. Often the rate
control works with a content jitter buffer in the area of 2sec. Live Encoders
use a rate control to shape variable bitrate content into a constant bitrate
stream to provide a higher video quality at the same bitrate. The player
follows the value of \@minBufferTime since this expresses the shaping window
of the rate control. Note, the value of \@minBufferTime may be longer than
segment duration (e.g. MBT = 2sec while \@duration=1sec).
Open GOP structures: Only a single video quality is offered over MBMS bearers.
Players do not need to switch Representations (unless a transition to unicast
happens). Therefore, using Open GOP structures (i.e. SAP type 3) may be
preferable, at least when offering services only over MBMS Bearers. In case of
MBMS Services offerings over unicast and broadcast offerings (allowing for
service continuity), the service over unicast may be offered with multiple
video quality representations using closed GOP (SAP Type 1 or 2).
MBMS clients keep the DASH segments for some duration in local memory in order
to offer local timeshift capabilities. This allows users to pause the stream
for a short while still receiving the broadcast stream. Often, the duration of
the local timeshift capability is in order of 5 min. When the MBMS client
establishes the timeshift buffer from the broadcast stream, then the full
timeshift buffer depth is not available after tune-in. The full timeshift
buffer is only available after the client has received data for the timeshift
buffer duration from the stream. Example: when the timeshift buffer value in
the MPD is set to 5 min, then the client will receive data from the broadcast
stream for at least 5 min to have the full timeshift buffer depth.
Full timeshift buffer after tune-in: When the MBMS service is offered over
unicast and broadcast, then the client may fetch DASH segments using unicast
for the time until the timeshift buffer is established for broadcast.
# 10 Conclusions and Recommendations
Based on the discussion and material provided in the present document, the
following conclusions and recommendations are drawn.
It is recommended that typical formats available for broadcast distribution,
VoD and Ad content as well as their relevant metadata should be easily
delivered within the formats defined for 3GPP TV Profiles.
Encoding/transcoding should be enabled such that efficient distribution is
enabled and at least a mapping to 3GP-DASH formats should be defined.
Based on clause 5 and the analysis of established Broadcast TV distribution,
the following conclusions and recommendations can be drawn:
\- TV Video Profile specification should define operation points to support
the spatial resolution of content and distribution formats as defined in
clause 5.4.2, namely:
\- Content formats: 3840 x 2160, 1920 x 1080, 1280 x 720
\- Distribution formats: 3840 x 2160, 3200 x 1800, 2560 x 1440, 1920 × 1080,
1600 × 900, 1280 × 720, 960 × 540. Smaller resolutions may be added for
service continuity.
\- TV Video Profile specification should define operation points to support
frame rates as defined in clause 5.4.3, namely 24; 25; 30; 50 and 60Hz. The
following fractional frame rates are beneficially also be supported: 24/1.001,
30/1.001 and 60/1.001 Hz.
\- TV Video Profile specification should define operation points to support
colorimetry formats as defined in clause 5.4.4, namely BT.709 or BT.2020.
Receiving devices are expected to support BT.2020 signalling and provide an
appropriate mapping of the signal to the supported color space of the device.
\- TV Video Profile specification should enable the random access period
numbers as outlined in clause 5.4.4, specifically the DVB recommendations.
\- TV Video Profile specification should enable the following video related
parameters:
\- Consistent use of 16:9 aspect ratio, YCbCr as the Chroma Format and 4:2.0
for color sub-sampling
\- H.264/AVC High Profile level 4.1 to support consistent HD services
\- H.265/HEVC Main Tier Main Profile level 4.1 to support consistent HD
services
\- H.265/HEVC Main-10 Tier Main Profile level 5.1 to support consistent UHD
services
\- In addition, TV services may also be supported with existing capabilities
in TS26.234 [2] and TS26.346 [3].
\- Based on clause 6.1.2, it is recommended that:
\- the picture aspect ratio of the TV services over 3GPP services is 16:9.
\- the video is displayed by default in letter-box mode when the UE display
resolution is not 16:9.
\- Based on clause 6.1.3, the specification should define operation points to
support the spatial resolution formats 480x270, 800x450, 960x540 1280x720,
1920x1080, 2560 x 1440, and 3840 x 2160.
\- Based on clause 6.2.3, the content formats as recommended in clause 5.4.2
are confirmed.
\- Based on clause 7, for a consistent TV experience, other aspects such as
audio, subtitling, closed captioning as well as metadata are of relevance and
should be addressed in the future. However, in the context TV Video Profile,
the focus is on video related aspects only.
\- Based on clause 8, it is recommended to define the DASH-based signalling to
support the TV video profiles taking into account the signalling in the video
elementary stream, VUI parameters, the ISO base media file format as well as
the DASH MPD.
This report provides in clause 4 the considered scenario that is of relevance
for the TV video profile. The key issues are summarized:
\- The content provider would like to provide content from a multitude of
sources to a multitude of device classes.
\- It is relevant to define a reduced and constrained amount of content
formats that can target a wide variety of device classes, but the device
classes are able to decode and render the content formats.
Figure 7 provides an overview of the expected specification work for TV Video
Profile. Operation Points are defined by a collection of tools that may be
used by the one generating the service offering to generate a \"bitstream\".
Note that the term \"bitstream\" is used, despite the data may be delivered
not in a bitstream mode, it may be packetized in segments or in packets.
However, the intention is to initially address the use of media coding tools
and generating media bitstreams. The system level signaling is a derived
aspect and should not influence the definition of the operation points.
{width="6.5in" height="3.5430555555555556in"}
Figure 7: Overview of the expected specification work for TV Video Profile
The specification of a TV Profile operation should include the following
aspects:
\- Definition of an Operation Point: A collection of discrete combinations of
different content formats including spatial and temporal resolutions, color
mapping, transfer functions, etc. and the encoding format.
\- The bitstream: If a bitstream conforms to a certain operation point, it
includes features that are included in the operation point. There should be a
signalling on delivery system level that indicates to what operation point the
bitstream is conforming.
\- The receiver: If a receiver conforms to a certain operation point, it
includes all necessary tools to decode and render a bitstream that conforms to
an operation point.
\- The bitstream and client requirements handling includes usage VUI messages.
\- The specification should document the requirements for the bitstream and
the receiver.
\- A bitstream may conform to one or multiple operation points.
\- A receiver may conform to one or multiple operation points.
\- The specification needs to be extensible to new operation points for future
releases and to other media types.
\- The number of operation points should be small and be justified by
different deployment cases and/or device classes.
\- Operation Points should have catchy names.
\- The specification should be written such that operation points can be
referred from outside.
\- Operation Points should provide an overview on compatibility to other
operation points.
\- Operation Points should include the relevant aspects identified in the
present document.
\- An operation point may be delivered by a delivery system, for example DASH.
For each operation point, the delivery specific aspects for the sender and the
receiver should be defined. Specific aspects such as DASH signalling should be
included.
Such a specification will then be useful as:
\- It allows to generate bitstreams that conform to operation points.
\- It allows receivers to be tested by being able to process bitstreams that
conform to a certain bitstream.
\- It allows to also to test delivery systems that deliver certain operation
points.
#