# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document provides information on the Enhanced Voice Services (EVS)
codec Selection, Verification and Characterization Phases which were run using
the fixed-point code (3GPP TS 26.442). Experimental test results from the
subjective quality testing are reported to illustrate the behaviour of the EVS
codec. Additional information is provided on implementation complexity of the
EVS codec and objective test results. Also the verification results for the
floating-point version of the EVS codec (3GPP TS 26.443) are presented.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 26.441: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); General
overview\".
[3] 3GPP TS 26.442: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); ANSI C code
(fixed-point)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 26.443: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); ANSI C code
(floating-point)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 26.444: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Test
Sequences\".
[6] 3GPP TS 26.445: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Detailed
algorithmic description\".
[7] 3GPP TS 26.446: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Adaptive Multi-
Rate - Wideband (AMR-WB) backward compatible functions\".
[8] 3GPP TS 26.447: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Error
concealment of lost packets\".
[9] 3GPP TS 26.448: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Jitter buffer
management\".
[10] 3GPP TS 26.449: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Comfort Noise
Generation (CNG) aspects\".
[11] 3GPP TS 26.450: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Discontinuous
Transmission (DTX)\".
[12] 3GPP TS 26.451: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Voice Activity
Detection (VAD)\".
[13] 3GPP TS 26.114: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); Multimedia telephony;
Media handling and interaction\".
[14] 3GPP TS 26.131: \"Terminal acoustic characteristics for telephony;
Requirements\".
[15] 3GPP SP-100202: \"EVS Work Item Description\".
[16] 3GPP TR 22.813: \"Study of use cases and requirements for enhanced voice
codecs for the Evolved Packet System (EPS) \".
[17] EVS-3 Permanent Document: \"EVS Performance Requirements\".
[18] EVS-4 Permanent Document: \"EVS Design Constraints\".
[19] EVS-5b Permanent Document: \"EVS Selection Rules\".
[20] EVS-6b Permanent Document: \"EVS Selection Deliverables\".
[21] EVS-7b Permanent Document: \"Processing Plan for the EVS Selection
Phase\".
[22] EVS-8b Permanent Document: \"Test Plan for the EVS Selection Phase\".
[23] EVS-7c Permanent Document: Processing Plan for the EVS Characterization
Phase
[24] EVS-8c Permanent Document: \"Test Plan for the EVS Characterization
Phase\".
[25] Recommendation ITU-T P.800: \"Methods for subjective determination of
transmission quality\".
[26] 3GPP TR 22.105: \"Services and service capabilities\".
[27] Recommendation ITU-T G.191: "Software tools for speech and audio coding
standardization", 03/2010, electronic attachment: STL2009 Software Tool
Library.
[28] Recommendation ITU-T G.100.1: "The use of the decibel and of relative
levels in speechband telecommunications", 11/2001.
[29] 3GPP TS 26.132: "Speech and video telephony terminal acoustic test
specification (Release 12)".
[30] Recommendation ITU-T P.501: "Test signals for use in telephonometry",
01/2012.
# 3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
ACELP Algebraic Code-Excited Linear Prediction
ACR Absolute Category Rating
AMR Adaptive Multi-Rate
AMR-WB Adaptive Multi-Rate Wideband
CCR Comparison Category Rating
CI Confidence Interval
CMOS Comparison MOS
CNG Comfort Noise Generation
CS Circuit Switched
CuT Codec under Test
DCR Degradation Category Rating
DMOS Differential MOS
DS Direct Source
DTMF Dual Tone Multi Frequency
DTX Discontinuous Transmission
EDGE Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution
EFR Enhanced Full-Rate
ETSI European Telecommunication Standards Institute
EVS Enhanced Voice Services
FB Fullband
FEC Frame Erasure Concealment
FER Frame Erasure
FR Full-Rate
GAL Global Analysis Laboratory
GERAN GSM/EDGE Radio Access Network
GSM Global System for Mobile communications
HD High Definition
HR Half-Rate
IO Interoperable
ITU-T International Telecommunication Union -- Telecommunications
Standardisation Sector
IP Internet Protocol
JICO Jitter Induced Concealment Operation
JBM Jitter Buffer Management
LL Listening Laboratory
MNRU Modulated Noise Reference Unit
MOPS Million of Operation per Seconds
MOS Mean Opinion Score
MSB Most Significant Bit
MTSI Multimedia Telephony Service for IMS
NB Narrowband
PS Packet Switched
PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network
REF Reference
TSG-SA Technical Specification Group - Service and System Aspects
SA4 Service and System Aspects Working Group 4 (TSG-SA WG4)
SAD Sound Activity Detection
SC-VBR Source Controlled - Variable Bit Rate
SID Silence Insertion Descriptor
SNR Signal To Noise Ratio
SWB Super Wideband
TFO Tandem Free Operation
TSG Technical Specification Group
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunication System
UTRAN Universal Terrestrial Radio Access network
VAD Voice Activity Detection
WID Work Item Description
WB Wideband
wMOPS weighted Million of Operations per Second
# 4 General
## 4.1 Project History
In 2010, 3GPP finalized the Enhanced Voice Services (EVS) study item with the
publication of TR 22.813 [16]. This study focused on how 3GPP could maintain
the high value and competitiveness of its voice services and whether the new
Evolved Packet System (EPS) with LTE (Long Term Evolution) access could open
up new opportunities for a major voice service enhancements. Mobile use cases
pertinent to LTE access and that may benefit from improved audio quality were
studied. Part of the study included examining any potential need for enhanced
codecs beyond AMR and AMR-WB, the codecs now used in 3GPP voice services.
Envisioned use cases for enhanced voice services included improvements beyond
classical telco-grade telephony (typically realized as IMS Multimedia
Telephony), high-quality multi-party conferencing, call on hold or audio-
visual communication, offering a \'being-there\' quality of experience.
Additional aspects of the study included how enhanced voice services could
complement the existing voice service. Even streaming voice and audio as well
as offline voice and audio delivery were also considered as an application
scenario using the EVS codec.
Based on the conclusions of the study item in TR 22.813, 3GPP immediately
launched a work item targeting the standardization of a new speech codec for
Enhanced Voice Services, the EVS codec. The goal of the work item with its WID
objectives was to provide clear benefit in terms of overall service quality,
service efficiency and interoperability in 3GPP LTE networks. As a result of
the study item, it is anticipated that enhanced voice services based on the
new EVS codec will become the dominant voice service in 3GPP LTE networks. It
is further envisioned that enhanced voice services with EVS will extend beyond
3GPP LTE system scope, ranging from deployments in circuit switched, to other
mobile and wireless (WiFi) networks, fixed networks and the Internet. In that
context not only the performance of the EVS codec in comparison to existing
3GPP and ITU-T codecs is of interest but even to other state-of-the art
codecs.
Thirteen companies declared their intention to submit codecs to the
Qualification Phase. Each codec was evaluated in 12 subjective experiments,
each conducted twice; once in the candidates\' own laboratory and once in a
laboratory selected at random from the other 12, see EVS-7b [21] and EVS-8b
[22]. Tests were blinded with all of the processing being conducted by a
dedicated Host laboratory (Dynastat Inc.). Each of the candidates was
evaluated against the requirements by an independent (non-codec proponent)
Global Analysis Laboratory (GAL, Dynastat Inc.). At 3GPP SA4#72bis meeting in
March 2013, the top five candidates were judged to have qualified although all
13 codecs had passed more than 95 % of the 296 requirements tested duplicated
in two languages. After the qualification process, companies declared several
collaborations around the qualified candidates. Note that the test results of
the Qualification Phase are not included in the present document because they
reflect different coders than the final standard.
As a result of examining the codec high level descriptions provided by each
candidate at the Qualification meeting, it became clear to the various
collaboration groups that all of the qualified candidates were based upon very
similar coding principles.
In September 2013, 12 companies (Ericsson, Fraunhofer IIS, Huawei, Nokia, NTT,
NTT DOCOMO, Orange, Panasonic, Qualcomm, Samsung, VoiceAge and ZTE
Corporation) that confirmed their intent to submit a codec in selection
declared their intention to work together and to develop a single jointly-
developed candidate for the Selection Phase by merging the best elements of
the codecs from each of the different collaboration groups.
Even though only a single codec entered the Selection Phase the strict 3GPP
process for codec selection was maintained. The subjective Selection testing
comprised 24 experiments, each conducted in two languages. Independent (non-
codec proponent) Host Lab (Dynastat Inc.), Cross-check Lab (Audio Research
Labs, LLC), Listening Labs (Dynastat Inc., DELTA, and Mesaqin.com s.r.o.
(Ltd.)) and Global Analysis Lab (Dynastat Inc.) were used. This testing
allowed the codec to be evaluated in 389 requirements, duplicated in two
languages. The codec exhibited only two systematic failures (in both
languages) at the 95 % confidence level. One of these failures was
subsequently addressed as it was found to be the result of a software bug.
Objective testing was also performed.
The single joint candidate was selected at 3GPP SA4#80bis meeting in August
2014 and the EVS codec specifications were approved at 3GPP TSG-SA#65 in
September 2014. The selected EVS codec fulfils the project targets.
Verification Phase was launched and several organizations volunteered to
verify that the code supplied to 3GPP complied with the design constraints and
requirements.
The Characterization Phase is the latest phase. During this phase the codec
was tested in a more complete manner than in the selection phase. In order to
evaluate the selected codec in the broadest possible way a further set of 17
subjective experiments have been designed. Five of these experiments have been
conducted in two different languages, for a total of 22 tests. The aim of
these additional experiments, and other objective evaluations, was to evaluate
features of the codec which remained untested in previous phases or to
highlight areas of interest to 3GPP such as tandeming cases, fullband cases,
and multi-bandwith comparisons. The same listening laboratories used for
selection were again employed in characterization.
3GPP has also specified a floating-point version of the EVS codec (3GPP TS
26.443). This work was completed by 3GPP TSG-SA#66 in December 2014.
## 4.2 Overview of the EVS Codec Work Item
This clause provides an overview of the objectives before the actual work
started, as a historical background. The standardized EVS codec fulfilled all
project objectives [15].
With the advent of increasingly compact yet powerful mobile devices and the
proliferation of high-speed wireless access to telecommunications networks
around the globe, users of mobile devices expect and demand growing
sophistication in the communication services being offered. Multi-modal
interfaces supporting rich multimedia services for content and conversation
are commonplace on the desktop, with demand for smart mobile devices with
similar functionality steadily growing.
The identification of this potential was the background for 3GPP to launch a
study investigating and defining the use cases and requirements for an
Enhanced Voice Service in the Evolved Packet System leading to TR 22.813 [16].
The present document defines a new set of high-level technical recommendations
and recommended requirements for a new codec for the Enhanced Voice Service
and concludes that substantially enhanced voice services will become possible
with a codec meeting them. The present document recommends starting an EVS
codec development work item with the target to meet the requirements and
recommendations set in it.
The overall objective of this work item is to develop a codec suitable for the
Enhanced Voice Service in the EPS. The following objectives should be achieved
with the new codec:
\- Enhanced quality and coding efficiency for narrowband (NB) and wideband
(WB) speech services, leading to improved user experience and system
efficiency. This should also be achieved in interoperation with 3GPP pre-
Rel-10 systems and services employing WB voice.
\- Enhanced quality by the introduction of super-wideband (SWB) speech,
leading to improved user experience.
\- Enhanced quality for mixed content and music in conversational applications
(for example, in-call music), leading to improved user experience for cases
when selection of dedicated 3GPP audio codecs is not possible.
\- Robustness to packet loss and delay jitter, leading to optimized behaviour
in IP application environments like MTSI within the EPS.
\- Backward interoperability to the 3GPP AMR-WB codec by having some WB EVS
modes supporting the AMR-WB codec format used throughout 3GPP conversational
speech telephony service (including CS). The AMR-WB interoperable operation
modes of the EVS codec may be either identical to those in the AMR-WB codec or
different but bitstream interoperable with them.
These are the project objectives while meeting all design constraints and
performance requirements set forth in 3GPP TR 22.813 [16]. It is further
desirable that the codec fulfills needs for enhanced voice services in other
3GPP systems, such as CS. The developments under this work item should lead to
a set of new specifications defining among others textual description of the
coding algorithm and the VAD/DTX/CNG scheme.
Following 3GPP practice, fixed-point and floating-point C code and associated
test vectors should also be part of this set of specifications. The included
AMR-WB interoperable coding format may become an alternative implementation
for AMR-WB operation, provided that the enhancements are consistently
significant. Jitter buffer management and packet loss concealment should be
specified as part of the set of EVS specifications.
The EVS codec enhances coding efficiency and quality for NB and WB for a large
bit rate range, starting from 5.9 kbps VBR. It further provides a significant
step in quality over these traditional telephony bandwidths with SWB and FB
operation starting from 9.6 and 16.4 kbps, respectively. Maximum bit rate is
128 kbps with support for WB, SWB, and FB. The ability to switch the bit rate
at every 20-ms frame allows the codec to easily adapt to changes in channel
capacity. The codec features discontinuous transmission (DTX) with algorithms
for voice/sound activity detection (VAD) and comfort noise generation (CNG).
An error concealment mechanism mitigates the quality impact of channel errors
resulting in lost packets. A system for jitter buffer management (JBM) is
included. The codec also features a channel-aware mode to further improve
frame/packet error resilience. Enhanced interoperation with AMR-WB is provided
over all nine bit rates between 6,6 kbps and 23,85 kbps.
## 4.3 Presentation of the Following clauses
Clause 5 outlines the Terms of reference for the EVS project. In clause 6, the
selection process in 3GPP is presented. An overview of selection and
characterization tests can be found in clause 7. The subjective tests provide
statistical data which are subject to variations; important notes about
interpretation of results are described in clause 8.
The actual test results are presented in clause 9 (narrowband), clause 10
(wideband), and clause 11(super-wideband). Clause 12 contains the results of
mixed-bandwidth and full-band test, while clause 13 presents the results of
objective evaluations.
# 5 Terms of Reference
3GPP sets the codec Terms of Reference as Design Constraints and Performance
Requirements.
The design constraints specified in the EVS-4 Permanent Document [18] set the
framework for the EVS codec in terms of capability and resource usage. As such
they list functionalities that are divided into mandatory, recommended and
optional features to be provided by EVS codec candidates. In the final
standard, all modes have an equal status and they together form the EVS codec.
Codec features were defined as follows:
\- support for input-output sampling at 8, 16, 32, 48 kHz independent of coded
audio bandwidth;
\- support of narrowband (NB), wideband (WB), superwideband (SWB) and fullband
(FB) coded bandwidths;
\- support for bit-rates of 5.9 (VBR), 7.2, 8, 9.6, 13.2, 16.4, 24.4, 32, 48,
64, 96, and 128 kbps for the _EVS primary modes_ ;
\- support of the 9 AMR-WB bit-rates for the _EVS AMR-WB interoperable modes_
;
\- a jitter buffer management (JBM) solution conforming to TS 26.114 [13];
\- rate switching at arbitrary frame boundaries; packet loss concealment; and
\- discontinuous transmission (DTX) operation for rates up to 24.4 kbps.
Table 5.1 shows the EVS primary modes and the signal bandwidth supported at
each codec bit rate. Discontinuous transmission (DTX) operation is supported
at each bit rate of the standardized codec (primary modes and interop modes).
Table 5.1: Source codec bit-rates for the EVS Primary Modes
* * *
Source codec bit-rate (kbit/s) Signal bandwidths supported 5,9 (VBR) NB, WB
7,2 NB, WB 8,0 NB, WB 9,6 NB, WB, SWB 13,2 NB, WB, SWB 13,2 (channel aware)
WB, SWB 16,4 NB, WB, SWB, FB 24,4 NB, WB, SWB, FB 32 WB, SWB, FB 48 WB, SWB,
FB 64 WB, SWB, FB 96 WB, SWB, FB 128 WB, SWB, FB
* * *
Table 5.2: Source codec bit-rates for the EVS AMR-WB IO Modes
* * *
Source codec bit-rate (kbit/s) 6,6 8,85 12,65 14,25 15,85 18,25 19,85 23,05
23,85
* * *
The EVS-4 Permanent Document [18] also sets constraints on maximum algorithmic
delay (32 ms); frame length (20ms); maximum computational complexity (88
WMOPS); memory limits; and limit of the output gain. As a recommended feature,
5.9 kbps operation with source controlled variable bit-rate (VBR) is included.
Further constraints are set for optional features.
The minimum performance of the EVS codec was defined across relevant operating
points in the EVS-3 Permanent Document [17]. This document reflects the
performance required for an enhanced voice service, following the
recommendations specified in TR 22.813 [16]. The EVS-3 Permanent Document [17]
lists subjective performance requirements in the form of statistical tests
(e.g. not worse than, better than), as well as objective performance
requirements on VAD, background noise attenuation, and JBM. The subjective
requirements cover operating points in clean speech, noisy speech (car,
street, office noise), music and mixed content, including clean and noisy
channel (0%, 3%, 6% FER, delay-loss conditions) and several input levels (-16,
-26, and -36 dBov), for all operation modes of EVS.
A full description of the performance requirements can be found in EVS-3
Permanent Document: Performance Requirements [17].
# 6 Selection Process
3GPP runs codec selection as a rigorous process, outlined below.
Codec selection in 3GPP follows pre-defined procedures. Proponents are obliged
to provide certain information about their candidate to facilitate selection,
and strict rules are set prior to selection to provide guidance on selecting
the candidate to be standardized. Verification serves the purpose of cross-
check and provision of additional (technical) information.
Selection Deliverables are specified in EVS-6b Permanent Document [20].
Proponents were required to provide the following information about their
candidate for selection (named selection deliverables):
\- High-level description and draft codec specifications
\- Report of compliance to Design Constraints
\- Funding payment (proponents paid for selection testing)
\- IPR declaration
\- Objective evaluation results
\- Candidate codec fixed-point source code
Selection rules are specified in EVS-5b Permanent Document [19].
The strict 3GPP selection process involved the following rules (which were
agreed before selection) to determine the candidate to be standardized:
\- Provision of a full set of selection phase deliverables
\- Compliance with design constraints
\- Fulfilment of objective performance requirements
\- Codec performance analyzed in sets according to EVS WID [15]:
\- Enhanced quality and coding efficiency for NB and WB speech services
\- Enhanced quality by SWB speech
\- Enhanced conversational music quality
\- Robustness to packet loss and delay jitter
\- Backward interoperability to AMR-WB
In the 3GPP SA4#80bis meeting the selection deliverables and selection test
results were reviewed and based on this information, 3GPP SA4 selected the
jointly developed EVS codec candidate as the 3GPP EVS standard. Sub-sequently
the SA#65 plenary meeting approved the EVS codec selection and the set of EVS
specifications [2], [3], [4], [5], [6], [7], [8], [9], [10], [11] and [12].
# 7 Introduction to the Testing of the EVS codec
## 7.0 General methodology
The fixed-point EVS codec was rigorously tested using the ITU-T P.800 [25]
methodology with naïve listeners, demonstrating fulfillment of all testable
EVS WID objectives (see clause 4.2 for more details). The extensive Selection
and Characterization testing required a budget exceeding 1 Million €. The
tests were conducted in independent (non-codec proponent) laboratories to
guarantee a transparent process.
## 7.1 EVS Selection Phase Testing
The selection phase test details can be found in EVS-8b Permanent Document,
Test Plan for Selection Phase [22], and in EVS-7c Permanent Document,
Processing Plan for Selection Phase [21]. In the selection phase, an
executable based on the 16-bit fixed-point C code developed by the proponents
of the single joint candidate was used. The proponents submitted the selection
executable for selection testing and it is included in the electronic
attachment to 3GPP TS 26.442 v.12.0.0.
The EVS codec Selection Tests are split into 24 experiments listed in Table
7.1. Each experiment is performed twice and this results 48 listening tests in
total. Table 7.1 shows the allocation of experiments.
Table 7.1: List of experiments in the EVS codec Selection Tests
{width="6.491666666666666in" height="3.7375in"}
The selection test plan defined 24 P.800 experiments consisting of 7 ACR and
17 DCR tests and containing 389 conditions for the codec under test. A total
of 6 talkers/language (3 male + 3 female) and 6 categories (e.g. classical,
modern, movie trailer, ...) were used for the speech experiments and the music
experiments, respectively. Each experiment was conducted twice (i.e. by 2
different listening laboratories in different languages). In total, 48
listening tests were performed with 10 languages. Each test involved the use
of 32 naïve listeners. The 778 ToR conditions were tested against performance
requirements by the dependent groups Students T-test with 95 % confidence
interval. Additional evaluation against performance objectives were performed
using the independent groups T-test wherever available.
The selection test plan also defined numerous objective evaluations, including
gain, JBM compliance, active frame ratio, attenuation in inactive region, bit
rate and complexity.
To evaluate the EVS codec under well-defined and reproducible conditions, SA4
developed a selection processing plan in EVS-7b Permanent Document [21]
defining processing steps for subjective and objective tests. Most methods are
based on well-established procedures already used in other standardization
efforts, for example, AMR-WB. Additional methods address novel features of the
EVS codec, e.g. evaluation of the jitter buffer manager. The processing
methods were implemented and crosschecked by two independent entities,
ensuring that the audio material was processed error-free for the subjective
evaluations.
Table 7.2 shows a list of the 24 Experiments (48 tests) involved in the EVS
Selection Phase. For each Experiment, the table shows the Experiment Label,
subjective test methodology (ACR or DCR), the Source Materials (Speech or
Music/Mixed Content), and the number of test-conditions. Also shown is
information on the two LLs conducting the Tests for the Experiment, including:
Test-Label, Listening Lab, and Language. The Test Label is a three-character
code (xy#), where:
\- x is the LL designator - a=Delta, b=Dynastat, c=Mesaqin.com;
\- y is the Experiment group designator - n=NB, w=WB, i=IO, s=SWB;
\- # is the specific Experiment within the Group - 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7.
Table 7.2: Allocation of listening laboratories and languages in selection
{width="6.3284722222222225in" height="4.259722222222222in"}
For the evaluation of test results, the Test Plan specified that Requirement
ToR tests would use Dependent Groups T-tests (DGTT) to statistically evaluate
the performance of a CuT condition relative to that of one or more REF
conditions. The randomization-playlists were designed so that such comparisons
would employ the highest-precision comparison available while also providing a
valid and unconfounded test statistic. The GAL developed two independent
procedures for conducting the DGTT ToR tests. One procedure was an Excel
spreadsheet tool that accessed the raw voting data directly from the data-
delivery spreadsheets and computed the DGTT T-test statistic for each ToR. For
the second procedure, the GAL developed a FORTRAN program that read ASCII data
files derived from the data-delivery spreadsheets and computed the appropriate
DGTT T-test statistic. Across the 24 Experiments there were 389 Requirement
ToR tests. With each ToR evaluated in two subjective Tests, there were a total
of 778 Requirement ToR tests. However, since many of the ToR tests required
comparisons of the CuT against two or three REFs, there were a total of 1018
DGTT T-test statistics to be computed. The GAL cross-checked all of the T-test
statistics provided by the two ToR computation processes, one set of
statistics from the Excel spreadsheet tool and one set from the FORTRAN
program. All 1018 T-test statistics were successfully cross-checked.
The Test Plan specified that Objective ToR tests would use Independent Groups
T-tests (IGTT) to statistically evaluate the performance of a CuT condition
relative to that of one or more REF conditions. The IGTT was specified for the
Objective ToR tests because randomization-playlists could not be designed to
accommodate both Requirement and Objective ToR tests and still maintain
acceptable \"Balance\" in the allocation of samples to CuT and REF conditions
(a requirement for DGTT ToR tests). The GAL used the same two procedures for
cross-checking Objective ToR tests as was described for Requirements in the
previous clause. Across the 24 Experiments there were 295 Objective ToR tests.
With each ToR evaluated in two tests, there were a total of 590 Objective ToR
tests. Since a few of the Objective ToR tests require comparisons of the CuT
against two REFs, there were a total of 612 IGTT T-test statistics to be
computed. The GAL cross-checked all of the T-test statistics provided by the
two ToR computation processes. All 612 T-test statistics were successfully
cross-checked.
## 7.2 EVS Characterization Phase Testing
The characterization phase test details can be found in EVS-8c Permanent
Document, Test Plan for Characterization Phase [24], and in EVS-7c Permanent
Document, Processing Plan for Characterization Phase [23]. In the
characterization phase, the standardized 16-bit fixed-point C code (electronic
attachment to 3GPP TS 26.442, September 15, 2014, v.12.0.0) was used.
The purpose of the Characterization phase experiments is to evaluate the
performance of the EVS codec candidate algorithm in three different
categories:
\- Conditions that were not tested in selection.
\- Conditions specifically deferred to characterization.
\- Additional interesting use cases not specifically defined in EVS-3
performance requirements [17].
Table 7.3 shows allocation of LLs and their languages to be used so that each
experiment is conducted twice by different LLs with different languages.
Table 7.3: Overview of characterization experiments with allocation of LLs and
languages
* * *
**Experiment** **# Tests** **Content** **# Cond** **Test Type** **Lab-a**
**Lab-b** **Lab-c** N1 1 Clean Speech 48 ACR FIN N2 1 Noisy Speech 36 DCR NAE2
N3 1 Noisy Speech 36 DCR FRN N4 1 Music/mixed 48 ACR DANm W1 2 Clean Speech 48
ACR NAE1 CHNm W2 2 Noisy Speech 36 DCR SPN SLV W3 2 Clean Speech 48 ACR NAE3
SLV W4 1 Music/mixed 36 DCR NAEm W5 1 Clean Speech tandeming 48 ACR DAN S1 2
Clean Speech 36 DCR DAN NAE1 S1(noisy) 1 Noisy Speech 36 DCR NAE1 S2 2 Noisy
Speech 36 DCR FIN FRN S3 1 Music/mixed 36 DCR SPNm M1 1 Speech 36 DCR NAE2 M2
1 Noisy Speech 36 DCR FIN M3 2 Music/mixed 36 DCR NAEm CHNm F1 1 Clean Speech
36 DCR GER F2 1 Music/mixed 36 DCR DANm Total 24 ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ 7 10 7
* * *
# 8 Important Notes about the Interpretation of Test Results
Mean Opinion Scores can only be representative of the test conditions in which
they were recorded (speech/music material, processing, listening conditions,
language, and cultural background of the listening subject). Listening tests
performed with other conditions than those used in the testing could lead to a
different set of MOS results. On the other hand, the relative performances of
different codecs under test is considered more reliable and less impacted by
cultural difference between listening subjects than absolute MOS values. When
looking at the relative differences of the codecs in the same test, it should
be noted that a difference of typically 0.15-0.2 MOS between two test results
would not usually be found statistically significant; appropriate statistical
significance tests such as Student\'s T-test should be used to get an accurate
figure of statistically significant difference between conditions within an
experiment.
The subjective testing is conducted using limited amount of source material in
order to keep the size of the experiment within reasonable limits. Sometimes
this can cause some irregularities to the test results. Also the performance
of the tested codecs is not always known when designing the test, thus
balancing the test conditions may not always be perfect. This may result in
imperfect utilisation of the ranking scale and difficulties to discriminate
the codecs with quality very close to each other.
Furthermore, in a number of experiments both clean and erroneous channel
conditions were presented in the same experiment. It can be expected that the
separation of the different clean channel conditions is less in those
experiments compared to experiments where only clean channel conditions are
presented. During the setup of the listening experiments SA4 experts made
every effort to minimize effects like scale saturation and alike. However, the
large number of conditions to be tested and the limited number of experiments
that could be conducted made certain compromises unavoidable. It should be
noted that the testing effort in the selection and characterization of the EVS
codec with 48 and 22 P.800 tests in the selection phase and characterization
phase, respectively, is un-precedented.
The resolution of the testing is limited. The listeners only use a scale from
1 to 5 to rank the different codecs. However, during the tests presented in
the present document, we are characterising a large number of different EVS
modes, most of which are very high quality codecs and this may cause sometimes
a \"saturation\" effect in the test, i.e. the listeners cannot discriminate
the different codecs because of the limited range and scale.
Taking into account the comments presented above, the reader is advised to
exercise some precautions when looking and comparing the individual scores of
the tests. Usually, looking at the whole picture and overall trends in the
test in question may give better interpretation of the performance of the
codecs. This precaution should be especially taken into account when looking
at the experiments conducted using impaired channels which may present rather
big variability of results over the limited amount of tested conditions.
Throughout the present document, test results are presented in two different
graphical forms.
\- **Test Profiles** \- For each Selection and Characterization Experiment, a
_Test Profile_ presents the results for the test in a column graph showing the
Mean scores and 95 % Confidence Intervals for each test condition involved in
the experiment. The scores are grouped into three major categories: Reference
Conditions (Direct Source and MNRU conditions), Reference Codec Conditions,
and EVS Codec Conditions. Furthermore, the Codec conditions are color-coded
according to the major parameters under test in the Experiment. Each value
shown in the Profiles are based on 192 votes. The score Profiles are intended
to give the reader a snapshot of the results for the Experiment and no
conclusions on the statistical significance of the results should be inferred
from the profiles. Instead, appropriate statistical tests such as Students
T-test should be used to obtain a valid and accurate figure of statistically
significant differences between conditions within an experiment.
\- **Line-graphs** \- Summary results are presented in line-graphs which
compare the Reference codecs and the EVS codec for various test parameters,
(e.g. Bit-rate, Frame Error Rate, DTX on/off, etc.). The line-graphs only
include conditions from within a test, i.e., no comparisons are made across
tests. Confidence intervals are not shown in the line-graphs as they tend to
clutter the graphs and obscure the general trends for which the line-graphs
are intended. Again, statistically significant differences should not be
inferred from the graphical results except where specified in the text.
# 9 EVS Performance in Narrowband
## 9.1 NB Selection Tests
In selection phase, four experiments, N1, N2, N3, N4 were designed to evaluate
the performance of the EVS codec in narrowband.
\- Experiment N1 (ACR): NB clean speech under clean channel condition
including input level dependency.
\- Experiment N2 (ACR): NB clean speech under impaired channel conditions
including delay/jitter profiles.
\- Experiment N3 (DCR): NB noisy speech under clean channel condition and
impaired channel conditions (Car noise at 15 dB SNR).
\- Experiment N4 (ACR): NB Mixed content and music under clean channel
condition and impaired channel conditions including delay/jitter profiles.
When testing under impaired channel conditions, AMR reference used the
informative packet loss concealment technologies specified in the AMR
specification 3GPP TS 26.091, however, implementations in mobile devices may
use more advanced PLC algorithms. Further reference was the more recent G.718
codec that also includes a more advanced PLC technology than AMR. Packet loss
concealment in EVS is normative.
Furthermore, a network simulator [21] is used to mimic the delay jitter/loss
impaired channel characteristic for EVS-NB conditions and subsequently tested
under the -voip mode of EVS. On the other hand, the delay/loss profiles are
mapped to an error pattern using the tool (dlyerr_2_errpat.exe [21] [23]) that
is applied to the AMR bit stream to mimic the delay jitter/loss impaired
channel characteristic. The JBM profiles used in the EVS Selection and
Characterization testing includes JBM Profiles 1 through 10 covering different
cases of delay jitter/loss characteristics [13].
### 9.1.1 Experiment N1
This ACR test was conducted to evaluate EVS codec in narrowband mode under
clean channel conditions. Dynastat and Mesaqin.com conducted the North
American English and Chinese language tests respectively.
EVS performance was compared against AMR at 3 different input levels, i.e. low
(-36 dBov), nominal (-26 dBov) and high (-16 dBov). Both DTX on (Figure 9.1)
and DTX off (Figure 9.2) conditions of EVS were compared to AMR DTX off case.
EVS bit rates 5.9, 7.2, 8.0, 9.6 and 13.2 kbps that support narrowband
bandwidth were compared against AMR narrowband mode bitrates 7.95, 10.2 and
12.2 kbps.
{width="3.25in" height="2.6125in"} {width="3.009027777777778in"
height="2.6118055555555557in"}
**(a) (b)**
Figure 9.1: Experiment N1, testing EVS DTX off with NB clean speech under
clean channel condition with level dependency with (a) North American English
language and (b) Chinese language
{width="6.695138888888889in" height="3.026388888888889in"}
**(a) (b)**
Figure 9.2: Experiment N1, testing EVS DTX on with NB clean speech under clean
channel condition with level dependency with (a) North American English
language and (b) Chinese language
Experiment N1 has shown that in narrowband mode, EVS meets or exceeds all
performance requirements set forth in [17] under clean channel conditions.
Moreover, Figures 9.1 and 9.2 indicate that EVS exhibits statistically
significant performance improvement over AMR, for NB clean speech under clean
channel conditions. This clear improvement over AMR is present across all
narrowband bit rates, and across all input speech levels tested.
Subjective quality variation of EVS over bit rate does not appear significant.
When EVS uses DTX on or off, it has no significant impact on the performance.
It is important to note that for low level inputs (-36 dBov), EVS consistently
achieves more than 0.4 MOS performance gain over corresponding AMR bitrates,
across both languages.
At most bit rates, EVS offers transparent NB quality.
### 9.1.2 Experiment N2
To evaluate performance of EVS codec in narrowband mode under various impaired
channel conditions with the EVS JBM, Experiment N2 was conducted as an ACR
test. This included comparisons of EVS against both AMR and G.718 codecs. Both
3 % and 6 % FER channel errors were used to simulate impaired channel
conditions, at nominal input signal level. Also as part of this experiment,
EVS bitrate 9.6 kbps in narrowband mode was compared against AMR bitrate 12.2
kbps, under MTSI delay-loss profiles 1...6 defined in 3GPP TS 26.114 [13].
Nominal level (-26 dBov) inputs were used.
Delta and Dynastat labs conducted the Finnish language and North American
English language tests, respectively.
{width="3.1013888888888888in"
height="2.5243055555555554in"}{width="3.1013888888888888in"
height="2.5243055555555554in"}
**(a) (b)**
Figure 9.3: Experiment N2, testing EVS-NB clean speech under impaired channel
conditions (a) with Finnish language and (b) with North American English
language
{width="3.1in" height="2.5in"}{width="3.1in" height="2.5in"}
**(a) (b)**
Figure 9.4: Experiment N2, testing EVS-NB clean speech under impaired channel
conditions including delay/jitter profiles (a) with Finnish language and (b)
with North American English language
The test results in Figure 9.3 show that the performance of EVS narrowband
mode is NWT G.718 codec across multiple bit rates, under both 3% and 6% FER
channel error conditions. Furthermore, EVS-NB mode at its lowest bit rate of
5.9 kbps already demonstrates improvement over AMR 12.2 kbps.
The test results of Experiment N2 in Figures 9.3 and 9.4 show a consistent
performance advantage for EVS in impaired channel conditions especially when
compared to AMR. Figure 9.4 shows that EVS, running at 9.6 kbps, is especially
better for delay-loss profile 5 which contains the most severe channel
impairments, compared to AMR running at 12.2 kbps. There is a noticeable
difference in absolute MOS grades between Finnish and North American English
content.
### 9.1.3 Experiment N3
A DCR test was conducted in Experiment N3 to evaluate performance of EVS for
noisy speech signal inputs, under both clean and impaired channel conditions
of 3% and 6% FER. Car noise mixed with speech at 15 dB SNR level (see [21] for
details of noisy input signal generation) was used as input. Comparison was
done against both AMR and G.718 codecs. Nominal level (-26 dBov) inputs were
used for this test. Delta and Mesaqin.com labs conducted the tests for Swedish
language and French language, respectively.
{width="3.098611111111111in"
height="2.5277777777777777in"}{width="3.098611111111111in"
height="2.5277777777777777in"}
**(a) (b)**
Figure 9.5: Experiment N3, testing EVS-NB noisy speech (car noise at 15 dB
SNR) under clean channel condition and impaired channel conditions (a) with
Swedish language and (b)\ with French language
Figure 9.5 shows consistently superior performance of EVS-NB for noisy speech
inputs over both AMR and G.718 codecs. The performance improvement is clearly
evident across all bitrates tested and across all channel conditions (0 %, 3%
and 6% FER channel errors). Furthermore, it is important to note that the
performance gain achieved by EVS is more pronounced under impaired channel
conditions as shown in Figure 9.5.
### 9.1.4 Experiment N4
Another ACR test was conducted in Experiment N4 to evaluate and compare the
performance of narrowband mode of EVS codec against AMR for mixed speech/music
and music content inputs. This test included both clean channel and impaired
channel conditions, as well as delay-loss profiles that simulate the network
conditions in a packet switched network. Nominal level (-26 dBov) inputs were
used. Delta and Dynastat labs conducted the Danish and Latin American Spanish
language tests, respectively.
{width="3.1in" height="2.5319444444444446in"}{width="3.1in"
height="2.5319444444444446in"}
**(a) (b)**
Figure 9.6: Experiment N4, testing EVS-NB Mixed content and music under clean
channel condition and impaired channel conditions including delay/jitter
profiles (a) with Danish language and (b) with LA Spanish language
{width="3.1in" height="2.540277777777778in"}{width="3.1in"
height="2.540277777777778in"}
**(a) (b)**
Figure 9.7: Experiment N4, testing EVS-NB Mixed content and music under clean
channel condition and impaired channel conditions including delay/jitter
profiles (a) with Danish language and (b) with LA Spanish language
Results of Experiment N4 in Figure 9.6 show superior performance of EVS
narrowband modes compared to AMR across all bitrates. Under impaired channel
conditions, the subjective performance gain offered by EVS over AMR for mixed
and music content input is consistently more than 0.4 MOS across all bitrates
and both languages tested in Experiment N4. Note that in certain cases, the
improvement offered by EVS is as high as 0.8 MOS as shown in Figure 9.6.
In Figure 9.7, performance of EVS narrowband at 9.6 kbps bitrate (with EVS
JBM) is compared to AMR 12.2 kbps bitrate (with JBM simulation) under impaired
channel conditions, using MTSI delay-loss profiles defined in 3GPP TS 26.114
[13]. This indicates the superior performance gain of EVS narrowband mode over
AMR across all six delay-loss profiles, for mixed and music content inputs.
Note that Figure 9.7 compares EVS at 9.6 kbps with AMR at 12.2 kbps. EVS at
9.6 and 13.2 kbps gets close to transparency and performs as well as G.711
(G.711 results are not shown in the graphs, see attachment).
## 9.2 NB Characterization Tests
### 9.2.0 List of experiments in the narrowband telephone bandwidth
In characterization phase, four experiments, N1, N2, N3, N4 were designed to
evaluate the performance of the EVS codec in narrowband:
\- Experiment N1 (ACR): NB clean speech in Finnish language to evaluate rate
switching, tandeming and JBM.
\- Experiment N2 (DCR): NB speech in North American English language under
street background noise at 20 dB SNR to evaluate rate switching, untested
conditions in selection testing, and tandeming.
\- Experiment N3 (DCR): NB speech in French language under street background
noise at 25 dB with impaired channels at high FER.
\- Experiment N4 (ACR): NB music and mixed content in Danish language to
evaluate rate switching and untested conditions in selection phase.
### 9.2.1 Experiment N1
The purpose of this experiment was to evaluate the performance of the EVS
codec in narrowband mode with respect to AMR codec, with clean speech inputs
of different levels, under clean and impaired channel conditions, rate
switching, tandeming and JBM conditions. ACR test was conducted in Finnish
Language by Delta lab.
{width="3.379861111111111in"
height="2.4402777777777778in"}{width="2.9833333333333334in"
height="2.4756944444444446in"}
**(a) (b)**
Figure 9.8: Experiment N1, testing EVS-NB clean speech under impaired channel
condition with delay-loss profiles and 3% and 6% FER, with Finnish language
{width="3.1770833333333335in" height="2.629166666666667in"}
Figure 9.9: Experiment N1, testing EVS-NB clean speech at various input levels
with Finnish language
{width="3.540277777777778in" height="3.2569444444444446in"}
Figure 9.10: Experiment N1, testing EVS-NB clean speech with Finnish language
Figure 9.8(a) shows results similar to Figure 9.4 where EVS narrowband mode
scores consistently over AMR under impaired channel conditions simulated by
MTSI delay-loss profiles 1...6. In case of profile 5, the subjective
performance gain offered by EVS-NB over AMR is close to 0.9 MOS.
Comparison of EVS rateswitching conditions (switching among EVS narrowband
rates 7.2, 8.0. 9.6 and 13.2 kbps) with AMR 7.4 kbps DTX off is shown in
Figure 9.8(b), under both clean and impaired channel conditions 3 % and 6 %
FER. This comparison is shown for different levels of clean input speech, i.e.
low (-36 dBov), nominal (-26 dBov) and high (-16 dBov). EVS-NB rate switching
in both DTX on and DTX off cases offer statistically similar subjective
performance. However, these EVS cases far exceed the subjective performance of
AMR 7.4 kbps across all channel conditions shown in Figure 9.9. In case of 6%
FER channel errors, EVS-NB rate switching conditions (7.2-13.2 kbps)
demonstrate more than 0.8 MOS subjective performance gain as compared to AMR
7.2 kbps.
For low input level, performance of EVS-NB rate switching subjective
performance is similar to or NWT AMR 7.4 kbps. This is in contrast to the
results shown in clause 9.1.1 (Figures 9.1, 9.2) where EVS-NB performance for
low level clean speech inputs far exceed that of AMR. However, a similar trend
is noticed here for nominal and high level clean speech inputs.
### 9.2.2 Experiment N2
In this experiment, EVS-NB rate switching conditions were evaluated with noisy
speech signal input against AMR 7.95 and 10.2 kbps rates. Street background
noise mixed with speech at 20 dB SNR level [21] at nominal level -26 dBov was
used as input. This DCR test was conducted by Dynastat using North American
English language.
Figure 9.11: Experiment N2, testing EVS-NB noisy speech (street noise at 20 dB
SNR), DTX off, with North American English language
Results in Figure 9.11 show statistically similar or better performance of
EVS-NB mode (both rateswitching and non rateswitching conditions) compared to
AMR under clean channel conditions, with noisy speech input at nominal levels.
In contrast, subjective quality of EVS-NB is significantly higher compared to
AMR 7.95 kbps and 10.2 kbps rates, under impaired channel with 6% errors.
### 9.2.3 Experiment N3
In this experiment, EVS-NB performance was evaluated with respect to AMR under
channel error conditions as high as 10 %. Nominal level noisy speech input was
used with street background noise at 25 dB SNR. This DCR test was conducted in
French language by Mesaqin.com lab.
Figure 9.12: Experiment N3, testing EVS-NB noisy speech (street noise at 25 dB
SNR), DTX on, under impaired channel conditions with French language
Figure 9.13: Experiment N3, testing EVS-NB noisy speech (street noise at 25 dB
SNR), DTX on, under impaired channel conditions at 3 %, 6 %, and 10 % FER with
French language
Figure 9.13 shows the gradual degradation of subjective quality of EVS-NB with
increasing channel error percentage, as expected, under noisy input
conditions. However, in all impaired channel conditions with noisy input, EVS-
NB achieves significantly high MOS scores compared to AMR, with highest
increases shown at 6 % and 10 % channel error rates.
At higher bitrates towards 24.4 kbps, EVS-NB mode approaches the saturation
region near the Direct Source quality for noisy speech inputs, under clean
channel conditions.
### 9.2.4 Experiment N4
Experiment N4 in characterization phase was conducted to evaluate performance
of EVS for narrowband, nominal level mixed and music content under both clean
and impaired channel conditions. Delta lab conducted this test in Danish
language. VBR mode is designed to achieve the average data rate (ADR) of 5.9
kbps for active speech. In order to further evaluate and confirm the
performance of the VBR mode in music/mixed content, this experiment included
the VBR condition in NB. While achieving the ADR of 5.9 kbps for active
speech, the VBR mode may result in a different ADR between 5.9 and 8 kbps for
music/mixed content; the ADR value was in this experiment N4 7.07 kbps for
music/mixed content.
{width="4.356944444444444in" height="3.8090277777777777in"}
Figure 9.14: Experiment N4, testing EVS-NB music and mixed content with Danish
language
{width="6.5in" height="3.2819444444444446in"}
Figure 9.15: Experiment N4, testing EVS-NB music and mixed content with Danish
language
Figure 9.14 shows a clear performance improvement of EVS-NB over AMR even at
lowest bitrates of EVS for mixed and music content input. This is trend is
significantly evident when channel errors are introduced, where AMR 7.95 kbps
MOS scores at 0 % errors (clean channel) are statistically similar or below
that of EVS-NB under impaired channel with 6% FER errors.
Trends shown in Figure 9.15 indicate the gradual degradation of subjective
speech quality in both EVS-NB and AMR when the channel conditions are
degraded. It is noticeable that AMR, in general, presents a more steeper drop
in MOS scores in the face of channel impairments. Under clean channel
conditions, EVS-NB VBR and 7.2 kbps mode achieve similar MOS scores as AMR
10.2 kbps. Same is observed for EVS-NB 8.0 kbps and AMR 12.2 kbps.
For music and mixed content, EVS starting with 9.6 kbps provides better
performance than any rate of the AMR codec.
## 9.3 Conclusions on EVS Performance in Narrowband
As discussed in the results shown in clauses 9.1 and 9.2 above, EVS codec in
narrowband mode demonstrates a significantly improved performance over prior
codecs including AMR, G.711, and G.718.
The improvement is evident across all bitrates, all tested languages, various
input speech levels, different input content spanning speech / music / mixed
content, as well as clean vs noisy inputs. This performance improvement in
EVS-NB is more pronounced under impaired channel conditions, emphasizing the
improved robustness of EVS against transmission errors, as compared to AMR.
The EVS codec demonstrates a significantly improved performance in NB over the
AMR codec at all bit rates, with clean and noisy speech and mixed content and
music, both for clean and impaired channels. The differences are especially
large for mixed and music content, where EVS at 9.6 and 13.2 kbps gets close
to transparency and performs as well as G.711, and for high FER values which
emphasizes the improved robustness of EVS against transmission errors, as
compared to AMR.
# 10 EVS Performance in Wideband
## 10.1 WB Selection Tests
In selection phase, seven experiments, W1...W7 were designed to evaluate the
performance of the EVS Primary Modes in wideband:
\- Experiment W1 (ACR): WB clean speech under clean channel condition
including input level dependency: The purpose of this experiment is to
evaluate the performance of the EVS candidate algorithm with respect to well-
known references in WB clean speech (free of background noise), clean
(unimpaired) channel condition and different input levels.
\- Experiment W2 (ACR): WB clean speech under impaired channel conditions
including delay/jitter profiles: The purpose of this experiment is to evaluate
the performance of the EVS candidate algorithm with respect to well-known
references in WB clean speech (free of background noise) and impaired channel
conditions including delay/jitter profiles.
\- Experiment W3 (DCR): WB noisy speech under clean channel condition (Car
noise at 15 dB SNR): The purpose of this experiment is to evaluate the
performance of the EVS candidate algorithm with respect to well-known
references in WB noisy speech and clean channel condition.
\- Experiment W4 (DCR): WB noisy speech under impaired channel conditions
(Street noise at 20 dB SNR)**:** The purpose of this experiment is to evaluate
the performance of the EVS candidate algorithm with respect to well-known
references in WB noisy speech and impaired channel conditions.
\- Experiment W5 (DCR): WB mixed contents and music under clean channel
condition: The purpose of this experiment is to evaluate the performance of
the EVS candidate algorithm with respect to well-known references in WB mixed
content and music and clean channel condition.
\- Experiment W6 (DCR): WB mixed contents and music under impaired channel
conditions including delay/jitter profiles: The purpose of this experiment is
to evaluate the performance of the EVS candidate algorithm with respect to
well-known references in WB mixed content and music and impaired channel
conditions included delay/jitter profiles. This experiment is focused on the
bitrate at 13.2 kbps or lower.
\- Experiment W7 (DCR): WB mixed contents and music under impaired channel
conditions: The purpose of this experiment is to evaluate the performance of
the EVS candidate algorithm with respect to well-known references in WB mixed
content and music and impaired channel conditions. This experiment is focused
on the bitrate at 16.4 kbps or higher.
In selection phase, six experiments, I1...I6 were designed to evaluate the
performance of the EVS AMR-WB IO Modes in wideband. The EVS AMR-WB IO mode is
evaluated in three different configurations, namely: case A: EVS AMR-WB IO
encoding, AMR-WB decoding, Case B: AMR-WB encoding, EVS AMR-WB IO decoding,
and Case C: EVS AMR-WB IO encoding/decoding.
\- Experiment I1 (ACR): EVS AMR-WB IO clean speech under clean channel
condition including input level dependency
\- Experiment I2 (ACR): EVS AMR-WB IO clean speech under impaired channel
conditions
\- Experiment I3 (DCR): EVS AMR-WB IO noisy speech under clean channel
condition
\- Experiment I4 (DCR): EVS AMR-WB IO noisy speech under impaired channel
conditions
\- Experiment I5 (DCR): EVS AMR-WB IO mixed contents and music under clean
channel condition
\- Experiment I6 (DCR): EVS AMR-WB IO mixed contents and music under impaired
channel conditions
In WB Selection tests W2, W4, I2, I4, and I6, when testing impaired channel
conditions with FER, AMR-WB decoding was replaced by G.718 IO decoding, which
provides backward compatible operation with improved error concealment over
the informative concealment specified in the AMR-WB standard in 3GPP TS
26.191. Actual AMR-WB implementations may or may not use such improved
concealment technology. PLC in EVS is normative.
Furthermore, a network simulator [21] is used to mimic the delay jitter/loss
impaired channel characteristic for EVS conditions and subsequently tested
under the -voip mode of EVS. On the other hand, the delay/loss profiles are
mapped to an error pattern using the tool (dlyerr_2_errpat.exe [21] [23]) that
is applied to the AMR-WB bit stream to mimic the delay jitter/loss impaired
channel characteristic. The JBM profiles used in the EVS Selection and
Characterization testing includes JBM Profiles 1 through 10 covering different
cases of delay jitter/loss characteristics [13].
### 10.1.1 Experiment W1
{width="3.1305555555555555in" height="2.515972222222222in"}
{width="3.140277777777778in" height="2.520138888888889in"}
**(a) (b)**
Figure 10.1: Experiment W1, testing EVS-WB clean speech under clean channel
condition including input level dependency (a) with North American English
language and (b) with Slovak language
The test results of Experiment W1 in Figure 10.1 show improved performance of
EVS over AMR-WB across all bit-rates and input levels. The improvement is even
more pronounced for low input level at all bit-rates and across all levels for
the lower bit-rates.
### 10.1.2 Experiment W2
{width="3.120833333333333in" height="2.6in"}{width="3.1305555555555555in"
height="2.604861111111111in"}
**(a) (b)**
Figure 10.2: Experiment W2, testing EVS-WB clean speech under impaired channel
conditions including delay/jitter profiles (a) with LA Spanish language (a)
and (b) with German language
{width="3.120138888888889in" height="2.6277777777777778in"}{width="3.06875in"
height="2.6083333333333334in"}
**(a) (b)**
Figure 10.3: Experiment W2, testing EVS-WB clean speech under impaired channel
conditions including delay/jitter profiles (a) with Spanish language and (b)
with German language
Experiment W2 was conducted in LA Spanish and German languages, to evaluate
the EVS codec performance for WB clean speech under impaired channel
conditions. As shown in Figure 10.2, the EVS-WB codec demonstrates improved
performance over AMR-WB at frame erasure rates (FERs) of 3 % and 6 % for each
bit-rate. Figures 10.3 illustrates the improved performance of the EVS codec
at 13.2 kbps over AMR-WB at 15.85 kbps under varying delay/jitter conditions
simulated by delay-loss profiles 1...6. A network simulator [21] is used to
mimic the delay jitter/loss impaired channel characteristic for EVS conditions
and subsequently tested under the -voip mode of EVS. On the other hand, the
delay/loss profiles are mapped to an error pattern using the tool
(dlyerr_2_errpat.exe [21] [23]) that is applied to the AMR-WB bit stream to
mimic the delay jitter/loss impaired channel characteristic. AMR-WB as shown
in Figure 10.2 uses improved packet loss concealment specified in G.718 IO
mode. The delay-loss profiles 1...6 are defined in [13].
### 10.1.3 Experiment W3
{width="3.16875in" height="2.5319444444444446in"} {width="3.152083333333333in"
height="2.5319444444444446in"}
**(a) (b)**
Figure 10.4: Experiment W3, testing EVS-WB noisy speech (car noise at 15 dB
SNR) under clean channel condition, (a) with Finnish language and (b) with
North American English language
The WB noisy speech (car noise at 15 dB SNR) test results of Experiment W3 in
Figure 10.4 show that EVS-WB at a particular bit rate offers quality which is
either equivalent or better than AMR-WB at a higher bit rate for both DTX on
and off cases. Furthermore, EVS-WB performance at 32 and 48 kbps is improved
over the corresponding G.722 reference codec at 56 and 64 kbps, respectively.
EVS codec data point at 32 kbps and 64 kbps had a fixed point implementation
bug in selection testing that was corrected in characterization testing (See
clause 10.2.2 and clause 12.1.2).
### 10.1.4 Experiment W4
{width="3.1506944444444445in"
height="2.5277777777777777in"}{width="3.1506944444444445in"
height="2.5277777777777777in"}
**(a) (b)**
Figure 10.5: Experiment W4, testing EVS-WB noisy speech (street noise at 20 dB
SNR) under impaired channel conditions (a) with Japanese language and (b) with
North American English
The WB noisy speech (street noise at 20 dB SNR) test results of Experiment W4
in Figure 10.5 show improved performance of EVS-WB over AMR-WB at each bit
rate and FER rate, for both languages. AMR-WB uses improved packet loss
concealment specified in G.718 IO mode.
### 10.1.5 Experiment W5
{width="3.152083333333333in" height="2.5319444444444446in"}
{width="3.152083333333333in" height="2.5319444444444446in"}
**(a) (b)**
Figure 10.6: Experiment W5, testing EVS-WB mixed contents and music under
clean channel condition (a) with North American English language and (b) with
French language
The WB mixed content and music test results of Experiment W5 in Figure 10.6
show largely improved performance of EVS-WB over AMR-WB at each bit rate, for
both languages. EVS also scales towards much higher quality than AMR-WB for
high rates and reaches transparency at 24.4 kbps. In case of EVS, DTX on and
DTX off cases make no significant difference.
### 10.1.6 Experiment W6
{width="3.1506944444444445in" height="2.536111111111111in"}
{width="3.161111111111111in" height="2.540277777777778in"}
**(a) (b)**
Figure 10.7: Experiment W6, testing EVS-WB mixed contents and music under
impaired channel conditions including delay/jitter profiles (a) with Swedish
language and (b) with German language
{width="3.160416666666667in" height="2.540277777777778in"}
{width="3.160416666666667in" height="2.540277777777778in"}
**(a) (b)**
Figure 10.8: Experiment W6, testing EVS-WB mixed contents and music under
impaired channel conditions including delay/jitter profiles (a) with Swedish
language and (b) with German language
As illustrated in Figure 10.7, EVS-WB at a particular bit-rate offers quality
which is either equivalent or better than AMR-WB at a higher bit rate for both
3% and 6% FERs. Figures 10.8 shows the significantly improved performance of
EVS-WB at 13.2 kbps over AMR-WB at 15.85 kbps under varying delay/jitter
conditions simulated by delay-loss profiles 1...6.
### 10.1.7 Experiment W7
{width="3.1506944444444445in" height="2.5277777777777777in"}
{width="3.1506944444444445in" height="2.5277777777777777in"}
**(a) (b)**
Figure 10.9: Experiment W7, testing EVS-WB mixed contents and music under
impaired channel conditions (a) with Danish language and (b) with Chinese
language
The WB mixed content and music test results of Experiment W7 in Figure 10.9
show an improved EVS performance over G.722.1 at 3% and 6% FER rates. The
improvement is much more significant for Danish language than for Chinese
language.
### 10.1.8 Experiment I1
**(a) (b)**
Figure 10.10: Experiment I1, testing EVS AMR-WB IO case B with clean speech
under clean channel condition including input level dependency, DTX off, (a)
with Finnish language and (b) with LA Spanish language
{width="6.5in" height="2.8493055555555555in"}
**(a) (b)**
Figure 10.11: Experiment I1, testing EVS AMR-WB IO case A with clean speech
under clean channel condition including input level dependency, DTX on, (a)
with Finnish language and (b) with LA Spanish language
The test results of Experiment I1 in Figures 10.10 and 10.11 show
statistically equal performance of EVS AMR-WB IO and AMR-WB at nominal and
high levels. The performance of the EVS AMR-WB IO mode and its reference, AMR-
WB have shown a significant performance drop for low level speech compared to
the performance for nominal and high level speech. EVS AMR-WB IO offers
improved performance over AMR-WB at low level for Finnish language. However,
this improvement is not observed for LA Spanish language.
### 10.1.9 Experiment I2
{width="3.158333333333333in" height="2.5277777777777777in"}
{width="3.152083333333333in" height="2.5319444444444446in"}
**(a) (b)**
Figure 10.12: Experiment I2, testing EVS AMR-WB IO case B with clean speech
under impaired channel conditions (a) with Japanese language and (b) with
Slovak language
The test results of Experiment I2 in Figure 10.12 show statistically equal
performance of EVS AMR-WB IO case B and AMR-WB / G.718IO.
### 10.1.10 Experiment I3
{width="3.152083333333333in"
height="2.540277777777778in"}{width="3.152083333333333in"
height="2.5319444444444446in"}
**(a) (b)**
Figure 10.13: Experiment I3, testing EVS AMR-WB IO with noisy speech, DTX off,
under clean channel condition (a) with Danish language and (b) with French
language
**(a) (b)**
Figure 10.14: Experiment I3, testing EVS AMR-WB IO with noisy speech, DTX on,
under clean channel condition (a) with Danish language and (b) with French
language
The test results of Experiment I3 in Figures 10.13 and 10.14 show similar
performance of EVS AMR-WB IO case B and AMR-WB. For EVS AMR-WB IO case A,
there is difference observed between the two languages.
### 10.1.11 Experiment I4
{width="3.160416666666667in" height="2.5319444444444446in"}
{width="3.160416666666667in" height="2.5319444444444446in"}
**(a) (b)**
Figure 10.15: Experiment I4, testing EVS AMR-WB IO with noisy speech under
impaired channel conditions (a) with North American English language and (b)
with Chinese language
The test results of Experiment I4 in Figures 10.15 show statistically equal
performance of EVS AMR-WB IO and AMR-WB / G.718IO.
### 10.1.12 Experiment I5
{width="3.152083333333333in" height="2.540277777777778in"}
{width="3.152083333333333in" height="2.5277777777777777in"}
**(a) (b)**
Figure 10.16: Experiment I5, testing EVS AMR-WB IO case B with mixed contents
and music under clean channel condition (a) with Swedish language and (b) with
LA Spanish language
The test results of Experiment I5 in Figure 10.16 show equal performance of
EVS AMR-WB IO and AMR-WB for Case A (EVS AMR-WB IO encoder and AMR-WB
decoder). Case B (AMR-WB encoder and EVS AMR-WB IO decoder) shows overall an
improvement over the AMR-WB decoder.
### 10.1.13 Experiment I6
{width="3.152083333333333in" height="2.5319444444444446in"}
{width="3.152083333333333in" height="2.5319444444444446in"}
**(a) (b)**
Figure 10.17: Experiment I6, testing EVS AMR-WB IO (case B) mixed contents and
music under impaired channel conditions (a) with North American English
language and (b) with German language
The test results of Experiment I6 in Figure 10.17 show equal or better
performance of EVS AMR-WB IO over AMR-WB; specifically, the EVS AMR-WB IO mode
(case B) shows improved performance compared to AMR-WB/G.718 IO mode for bit
rates 14.25 kbps and 23.85 kbps with 3% FER. Also EVS AMR-WB IO mode (Case B)
shows improved performance compared to AMR-WB/G.718 IO mode for bit rates 6.6,
8.85, 19.85, 23.05 and 23.85 kbps with 6 % FER.
## 10.2 WB Characterization Tests
### 10.2.0 List of experiments in the wideband frequency bandwidth
In characterization phase, five experiments, W1...W5 were designed to evaluate
the performance of the EVS codec in wideband:
\- Experiment W1 (ACR): clean speech in North American English and Chinese
languages to evaluate rate switching and channel aware mode
\- Experiment W2 (DCR): speech in Spanish and Slovak under background noise
(office noise at 20 dB SNR) to evaluate rate switching
\- Experiment W3 (ACR): clean speech in North American and Slovak languages to
evaluate rate switching and EVS AMR-WB IO modes
\- Experiment W4 (DCR): music and mixed content in North American English
language to evaluate rate switching
\- Experiment W5 (ACR): clean speech in Danish language to evaluate tandem and
high FER conditions
In the characterization tests, with respect to impaired channels, AMR-WB was
used without the G.718 IO mode concealment method to give a more complete
picture of the performance.
### 10.2.1 Experiment W1
Experiment W1 was conducted to evaluate the EVS codec WB clean speech
performance under clean background conditions. Experiment W1 was conducted in
two different listening labs: one in North American English, see Figure
10.18(a), 10.19(a) and another one in Chinese language, see Figure 10.18(b),
10.19(b). The codec performance was evaluated for rate switching conditions
for low rates under three different input levels: nominal (-26 dBov), low (-36
dBov) and high (-16 dBov) levels as shown in Figure 10.19(a, b).
{width="3.1770833333333335in" height="2.7375in"} {width="3.1770833333333335in"
height="2.7597222222222224in"}
**(a) (b)**
Figure 10.18: Experiment W1, testing EVS-WB clean speech (a) with North
American English language and (b) with Chinese language
{width="2.9916666666666667in"
height="2.467361111111111in"}{width="2.977777777777778in"
height="2.4756944444444446in"}
**(a) (b)**
Figure 10.19: Experiment W1, testing EVS-WB clean speech (a) with North
American English language and (b) with Chinese language
As shown in Figure 10.19 (a, b), EVS performs consistently across all input
signal levels. Based on the languages tested, the W1 performance results were
consistent across laboratories as well as languages tested.
Some observations from characterization experiment W1, Figures 10.18(a, b) and
10.19(a, b) include:
1) EVS-WB RS(13.2-64) performs comparable to 13.2 kbps in non-rate switching
conditions.
2) EVS-WB channel aware mode at 13.2 kbps demonstrates a significantly
improved FER performance compared to AMR-WB and EVS AMR-WB IO at 15.85 kbps .
3) EVS-WB non-channel aware 13.2 kbps mode has shown improved performance
compared to the AMR-WB 15.85 kbps mode.
### 10.2.2 Experiment W2
Experiment W2 was conducted to evaluate the EVS codec WB noisy speech
performance under clean channel conditions to evaluate EVS codec under rate
switching conditions. Experiment W2 was conducted in two different listening
labs one in Latin American Spanish language, see Figure 10.20(a), 10.21(a),
10.22(a) and another in Slovak language, see Figure 10.20(b), 10.21(b),
10.22(b). The codec performance was evaluated for nominal level (-26 dBov)
speech mixed with office noise with effective SNR of 20 dB.
**(a) (b)**
Figure 10.20: Experiment W2, testing EVS-WB noisy speech (office noise at 20
dB SNR), DTX off, (a) with LA Spanish language and (b) with Slovak language
{width="3.0208333333333335in" height="2.420138888888889in"}
{width="3.140972222222222in" height="2.420138888888889in"}
**(a) (b)**
Figure 10.21: Experiment W2, testing EVS-WB noisy speech (office noise at 20
dB SNR), DTX on, (a) with LA Spanish language and (b) with Slovak language
{width="2.9715277777777778in" height="2.75625in"}
{width="2.9715277777777778in" height="2.75625in"}
**(a) (b)**
Figure 10.22: Experiment W2, testing EVS-WB noisy speech (office noise at 20
dB SNR) (a) with LA Spanish language and (b) with Slovak language
Based on the languages tested, the W2 performance results are consistent
across laboratories as well as languages tested. Some observations from
characterization experiment W2, Figures 10.20(a, b), 10.21(a, b) and 10.22(a,
b) include:
1) EVS-WB 7.2-16.4 RS has shown significant performance improvement compared
to AMR-WB 8.85 kbps mode for both DTX on and DTX off conditions.
2) Similarly, EVS-WB 13.2-64 RS has shown significant performance improvement
compared to AMR-WB 15.85 kbps mode for both DTX on and DTX off conditions in
Figures 10.20(a,b) and 10.21(a,b).
3) EVS-WB 13.2 kbps self-tandeming condition has performed comparable to AMR-
WB 12.65 kbps mode without tandeming as shown in Figures 10.22(a,b). The
impact of self-tandeming to the EVS-WB codec performance is less pronounced at
24.4 kbps than at lower bit rates. At 48 kbps, the impact is negligible.
### 10.2.3 Experiment W3
Experiment W3 was conducted to evaluate EVS AMR-WB IO mode case C and case B
clean speech performance under degraded channel conditions. Experiment W3 was
conducted in two different listening labs: one in North American English
language, see Figure 10.23(a), 10.24(a), 10.25(a), 10.25(a) and another one in
Slovak language, see Figure 10.23(b), 10.24(b), 10.25(b), 10.25(b). The codec
performance was evaluated for nominal level (-26 dBov) speech.
{width="3.1506944444444445in"
height="2.7944444444444443in"}{width="3.2444444444444445in"
height="2.7868055555555555in"}
**(a) (b)**
Figure 10.23: Experiment W3, testing EVS-WB clean speech in EVS AMR-WB IO Case
C (a) with North American English language and (b) with Slovak language
{width="2.9763888888888888in"
height="3.0493055555555557in"}{width="3.0069444444444446in"
height="2.982638888888889in"}
**(a) (b)**
Figure 10.24: Experiment W3, testing EVS-WB clean speech in EVS AMR-WB IO Case
C (a) with North American English language and (b) with Slovak language
{width="3.0069444444444446in" height="3.129166666666667in"}{width="3.0125in"
height="3.1131944444444444in"}
**(a) (b)**
Figure 10.25: Experiment W3, testing EVS-WB clean speech in EVS AMR-WB IO Case
B (a) with North American English language and (b) with Slovak language
{width="2.988888888888889in"
height="2.6256944444444446in"}{width="3.0006944444444446in"
height="2.6444444444444444in"}
**(a) (b)**
Figure 10.26: Experiment W3, testing EVS-WB clean speech in EVS AMR-WB IO Case
C (a) with North American English language and (b) with Slovak language
The test results of Experiment W3 in Figure 10.23, 10.24, 10.25 and 10.26 show
that the EVS AMR-WB IO demonstrated improved performance compared to the AMR-
WB codec at the same bit rate. Figure 10.26 shows EVS-WB has improved
performance compared to EVS AMR-WB IO case C in FER conditions.
### 10.2.4 Experiment W4
Experiment W4 was conducted to evaluate the performance of EVS rate switching
and EVS AMR-WB IO modes under clean channel conditions for music and mixed
content material in North American English language. The results are shown in
Figure 10.27. VBR mode is designed to achieve the average data rate (ADR) of
5.9 kbps for active speech. In order to further evaluate and confirm the
performance of the VBR mode in music/mixed content, this experiment included
the VBR condition. While achieving the ADR of 5.9 kbps for active speech, the
VBR mode may result in a different ADR between 5.9 and 8 kbps for music/mixed
content; the value of ADR was 7.52 kbps in this experiment. The codec
performance was evaluated for nominal level (-26 dBov) test materials.
{width="4.027083333333334in" height="2.8131944444444446in"}
Figure 10.27: Experiment W4, testing EVS-WB music and mixed content with North
American English language
{width="3.017361111111111in" height="2.9125in"} {width="3.2909722222222224in"
height="2.9166666666666665in"}
**(a) (b)**
Figure 10.28: Experiment W4, testing EVS-WB music and mixed content with North
American English language
The test results of Experiment W4 in Figure 10.27 and 10.28 show EVS AMR-WB IO
mode demonstrated a consistent improvement over corresponding AMR-WB mode
under clean, 3% and 6% FER channel error rates.
### 10.2.5 Experiment W5
Experiment W5 is conducted to evaluate the EVS codec performance under tandem,
primary/IO-mode switching and high FER conditions. This clean speech test was
conducted in Danish language, see Figure 10.28. Different tandem conditions
such as AMR-WB->AMR-WB, EVS-WBG.722, G.722EVS-WB, G.711.1 R2b (u law) EVS-
WB, EVS-WB G.711.1 R2b (µ-law), EVS-WB self-tandem, EVS-WB AMR-WB and AMR-WB
EVS-WB were tested in this experiment. Furthermore, EVS primary/IO mode rate
switching performance was evaluated for nominal (-26 dBov), high (-16 dBov)
and low level (-36 dBov) speech signals.
{width="4.156944444444444in" height="3.4583333333333335in"}
Figure 10.29: Experiment W5, testing EVS-WB clean speech with Danish language
{width="4.784027777777778in" height="3.448611111111111in"}
Figure 10.30: Experiment W5, testing EVS-WB clean speech with Danish language
{width="3.5819444444444444in" height="3.0590277777777777in"}
Figure 10.31: Experiment W5, testing EVS-WB clean speech with Danish language
Some observations from characterization experiment W5 (Figures 10.29, 10.30,
10.31) include:
1) When EVS primary modes are in tandem with non-EVS codecs (e.g. G.722,
G.711.1), conditions with EVS --WB mode as the last codec, scores better than
the cases when the last codec in the processing chain is not the EVS codec.
2) EVS-WB self-tandeming conditions perform comparable to the tandem
conditions of AMR-WB codec operating at a considerably higher rate.
3) The EVS primary/IO rate switching conditions show a performance degradation
for low level speech.
## 10.3 Conclusions on EVS Performance in Wideband
As discussed in the results shown in clauses 10.1 and 10.2, EVS codec in
wideband mode demonstrates a significantly improved performance over prior
codecs including AMR-WB, G.722 and G.718.
The improvement is evident across all bit rates, all rate conditions including
rate switching, all tested languages, various input speech levels, different
input content spanning speech / music / mixed content, as well as clean vs.
noisy inputs. Furthermore, EVS demonstrates a high robust performance under
channel error conditions compared to prior codecs including AMR-WB.
EVS-WB shows significant improvements over AMR-WB for all content types (clean
speech, noisy speech, mixed content and music) and in clean channel as well as
under impaired channel conditions. EVS is able to maintain good quality at
bitrates much lower than AMR-WB, and scales to much higher qualities close to
transparency for bitrates of 24.4 kbps and higher. EVS also performs much
better with low level input signals.
The EVS AMR-WB-IO mode shows improvements over AMR-WB for mixed content and
music and in impaired channel conditions especially when compared to AMR-WB
without G.718 IO mode. In some cases, the EVS AMR-WB-IO mode also shows
improvements for clean speech and for low input levels.
# 11 EVS Performance in Super-Wideband
## 11.1 SWB Selection Tests
In Selection phase, seven experiments, S1-S7, have been conducted to evaluate
the performance of the EVS codec with super-wideband (SWB) content sampled at
32 kHz. While the experiments S1 through S5 used clean/noisy speech, the
experiments S6 and S7 used mixed/music content for evaluating the SWB
performance of the EVS codec. All the seven SWB experiments used the ITU-T
P.800 DCR subjective test methodology.
\- Experiment S1: SWB clean speech under clean channel condition including
input level dependency
\- Experiment S2: SWB clean speech under impaired channel conditions including
delay/jitter profiles
\- Experiment S3: SWB noisy speech (Street noise at 20 dB) under clean channel
condition
\- Experiment S4: SWB noisy speech (Office noise at 20 dB) under clean channel
condition
\- Experiment S5: SWB noisy speech (Car noise at 15 dB) under impaired channel
condition
\- Experiment S6: SWB mixed contents and music under clean channel condition
\- Experiment S7: SWB mixed contents and music under impaired channel
conditions including delay/jitter profiles
### 11.1.1 Experiment S1
Experiment S1 is conducted to evaluate the EVS codec SWB clean speech
performance under clean channel conditions at three different active input
levels, namely, 1) nominal level at -26 dBov, 2) low level at -36 dBov, and 3)
high level at -16 dBov. Experiment S1 is conducted in two different listening
labs in North American English language, see Figure 11.1(a) and in French
language, see Figure 11.1(b).
{width="3.16875in" height="2.5319444444444446in"} {width="3.152083333333333in"
height="2.5319444444444446in"}
**(a) (b)**
**Figure 11.1: Experiment S1, testing EVS-SWB clean speech under clean channel
condition at three different active input levels (nominal -26 dBov, low -36
dBov, and high -16 dBov). (a) North American English language, (b) French
language.**
Figure 11.1(a, b) shows the EVS codec SWB performance at bit rates of 13.2,
16.4, 24.4, and 32 kbps. In both the languages tested, the SWB performance
results are consistent and furthermore comparable across the three different
input signal levels (Nominal: blue, Low: red, and High: purple shown as
markers with solid fill). In particular, it is observed that there is
negligible performance degradation due to operating at a wider range of active
input signal levels from -16 dBov to -36 dBov. The Reference SWB codecs shown
in Figure 11.1(a,b) include G.722.1C at 32 kbps, G.718B at 36 kbps, and G.719
at 48, 64, and 80 kbps.
Some observations from Selection Experiment S1, Figure 11.1(a,b) include:
1) The EVS-SWB clean speech quality at 13.2 kbps is comparable to that of
G.718B at 36 kbps and G.719 at 48 kbps.
2) The SWB clean speech quality at 24.4 kbps already approaches that of the
Direct Source quality based on the ITU-T P.800 DCR test methodology.
3) The EVS-SWB clean speech test shows that not only the performance
requirements are met but it also shows that the codec exceeds the EVS
selection performance objectives. Please refer to Annex A for ToR performance
(Table A.1 and Table A.3) of SWB clean speech quality in EVS Selection
Experiment S1.
### 11.1.2 Experiment S2
Experiment S2 is conducted to evaluate the EVS codec SWB clean speech
performance under impaired channel conditions. In particular, the EVS-SWB
codec performance at frame erasure rates (FERs) of 3% and 6% is evaluated in
two different labs using the Japanese language (Figure 11.2(a)) and Spanish
language (Figure 11.2(b)).
Figure 11.2(a, b) shows the EVS codec SWB performance at bit rates of 13.2,
16.4, 24.4, and 32 kbps. In both the languages, the EVS-SWB performance is
significantly better than the Reference codecs used in the EVS Selection
Experiment S2. The Reference SWB codecs shown in Figure 11.2(a,b) include
G.719 at 48, 56, 64, and 80 kbps.
{width="3.152083333333333in" height="2.540277777777778in"}
{width="3.152083333333333in" height="2.5319444444444446in"}
**(a) (b)**
Figure 11.2: Experiment S2, testing EVS-SWB clean speech under impaired
channel condition with frame erasure rates of 3% and 6%. (a) Japanese
language, (b) LA Spanish language.
Figure 11.3(a, b) shows the EVS codec SWB performance at 13.2 kbps under six
different delay/loss profiles simulating impaired channel characteristic with
varying delay and jitter as specified in the 26.114 specification. In both the
languages, i.e., in Japanese Figure 11.3(a) and in Spanish (Figure 11.3(b)),
the EVS-SWB performance is significantly better than the Reference codec. The
Reference SWB codec shown in Figure 11.3(a, b) is G.722.1C at 32 kbps.
{width="3.1708333333333334in" height="2.5520833333333335in"}
{width="3.18125in" height="2.5479166666666666in"}
**(a) (b)**
Figure 11.3: Experiment S2, testing EVS-SWB clean speech under impaired
channel conditions with frame erasures introduced through Delay/Loss Profiles
1-6. (a) Japanese language, (b) LA Spanish language.
Some observations from Selection Experiment S2, Figure 11.2(a, b) and Figure
11.3(a, b) include:
1) Under the frame erasure rate of 3%, the EVS-SWB clean speech performance at
13.2 kbps already is better than the G.719 at 80 kbps. Similar trend is seen
at frame erasure rate of 6% where EVS-SWB clean speech performance at 13.2
kbps is significantly better than the G.719 at 80 kbps.
2) Under the frame erasure rate of 6%, the EVS-SWB clean speech performance is
comparable or better than the performance of G.719 at 3% FER for all tested
operating points.
3) The EVS-SWB clean speech test under impaired channel conditions (FER,
delay-loss profiles) shows that not only the performance requirements are met
but it also shows that the codec exceeds the EVS selection performance
objectives. Please refer to Annex A for ToR performance (Table A.1 and Table
A.3) of SWB clean speech quality under impaired channel in EVS Selection
Experiment S2. There is a steady progression of quality increase from 13.2
kbps to 24.4 kbps in EVS. (In the standardized code a fixed-point
implementation bug at 32 kbps was removed but it was still present in
selection testing affecting the performance at 32 kbps).
### 11.1.3 Experiment S3
Experiment S3 is conducted to evaluate the EVS codec SWB noisy speech
performance under Street noise that is mixed at 20 dB SNR. In particular, the
EVS-SWB codec noisy speech performance under DTX on/off conditions is
evaluated in two different labs using the Swedish language (Figure 11.4(a))
and North American English language (Figure 11.4(b)).
Figure 11.4(a, b) shows the EVS codec SWB noisy speech performance at bit
rates of 13.2, 16.4, 24.4, 48, 64, and 96 kbps. In both the languages, the
EVS-SWB performance is better than the Reference codecs. The three Reference
codecs shown in Figure 11.4(a,b) include G.722.1C at 24, 32, and 48 kbps under
DTX off; G.719 at 64, 80, and 112 kbps under DTX off; and AMR-WB at 19.85,
23.05, and 23.85 kbps under DTX on.
{width="3.152083333333333in" height="2.540277777777778in"}
{width="3.138888888888889in" height="2.5277777777777777in"}
**(a) (b)**
Figure 11.4: Experiment S3, testing EVS-SWB noisy speech (Street Noise, at 20
dB) under clean channel condition. (a) Swedish language, (b) North American
English language.
Some observations from Selection Experiment S3, Figure 11.4(a, b) include:
1) Under DTX off conditions (shown as \"(off)\" in the legend), the EVS-SWB
noisy speech performance at 13.2 and 16.4 kbps is better than G.722.1C at 24
kbps and comparable to that of G.722.1C at 32 kbps. The EVS-SWB noisy speech
performance at 24.4 kbps is comparable to that of G.722.1C at 48 kbps, and
starts approaching the DMOS region of saturation and \"Direct Source\"
quality.
2) Under DTX off conditions (shown as \"(off)\" in the legend) at higher bit
rates, i.e., 48 kbps, 64 kbps, and 96 kbps, the EVS-SWB codec performance is
in the DMOS saturation region close to the \"Direct Source.\" EVS codec data
point at 64 kbps had a fixed point implementation bug that shows a significant
quality drop (e.g. in North American English language) in selection testing
that was subsequently corrected in characterization testing (see clause
12.1.2).
3) Under DTX on conditions (shown as \"(on)\" in the legend), the EVS-SWB
codec noisy speech performance (at 13.2, 16.4, and 24.4 kbps) is benchmarked
against the AMR-WB (19.85, 23.05, and 23.85 kbps). As can be seen from Figure
11.4(a, b) the EVS-SWB DTX performance is significantly better (more than
about 0.5 DMOS) than the AMR-WB DTX performance.
4) There is a steady progression of quality increase from 13.2 kbps to 24.4
kbps in EVS-SWB noisy speech performance and tends to approach the region of
transparency at higher bit rates.
### 11.1.4 Experiment S4
Experiment S4 is conducted to evaluate the EVS codec SWB noisy speech
performance under office noise that is mixed at 20 dB SNR. In particular, the
EVS-SWB codec noisy speech performance under DTX on/off conditions is
evaluated in two different labs using the North American English language
(Figure 11.5(a)) and Chinese language (Figure 11.5(b)).
{width="3.152083333333333in" height="2.540277777777778in"}
{width="3.1277777777777778in" height="2.5319444444444446in"}
**(a) (b)**
Figure 11.5: Experiment S4, testing EVS-SWB noisy speech (Office Noise, at 20
dB) under clean channel condition. (a) North American English language, (b)
Chinese language.
Figure 11.5(a, b) shows the EVS codec SWB noisy speech performance at bit
rates of 13.2, 16.4, 24.4, 48, 64, and 96 kbps. In both the languages, the
EVS-SWB performance is better than the Reference codecs at lower bit rates.
The three Reference codecs shown in Figure 11.4(a,b) include G.722.1C at 24,
32, and 48 kbps under DTX off; G.719 at 64, 80, and 112 kbps under DTX off;
and AMR-WB at 19.85, 23.05, and 23.85 kbps under DTX on.
Similar observations from Selection Experiment S3 can be extended to
Experiment S4 also:
1) Under DTX off conditions (shown as \"(off)\" in the legend in Figure
11.5(a, b)), the EVS-SWB noisy speech performance at 13.2 and 16.4 kbps is
better than G.722.1C at 24 kbps and comparable to that of G.722.1C at 32 kbps.
The EVS-SWB noisy speech performance at 24.4 kbps is comparable to that of
G.722.1C at 48 kbps, and starts approaching the DMOS region of saturation and
\"Direct Source\" quality.
2) At higher bit rates, i.e., 48 kbps and 96 kbps, the EVS-SWB codec
performance is in the DMOS saturation region close to the \"Direct Source.\"
The EVS-SWB at 64 kbps had a fixed-point implementation bug in selection
testing which was eventually corrected in characterization testing (see clause
12.1.2).
3) Under DTX on conditions (shown as \"(on)\" in the legend in Figure 11.5(a,
b)), the EVS-SWB codec noisy speech performance (at 13.2, 16.4, and 24.4 kbps)
is benchmarked against the AMR-WB (19.85, 23.05, and 23.85 kbps). As can be
seen from Figure 11.5(a, b) the EVS-SWB DTX performance is significantly
better (more than about 0.5 DMOS) than the AMR-WB DTX performance.
### 11.1.5 Experiment S5
Experiment S5 is conducted to evaluate the EVS codec SWB noisy speech
performance (with Car noise mixed at 15 dB SNR) under impaired channel
conditions. In particular, the EVS-SWB codec performance at frame erasure
rates (FERs) of 3% and 6% is evaluated in two different labs using the Finnish
language (Figure 11.6(a)) and North American English language (Figure
11.6(b)).
Figure 11.6(a, b) shows the EVS codec SWB performance at bit rates of 13.2,
16.4, 24.4, 32, 48, and 64 kbps. In both the languages, the EVS-SWB
performance is significantly better than the Reference codecs. The Reference
SWB codecs shown in Figure 11.2(a,b) include G.722.1C at 24, 32, and 48 kbps;
and G.719 at 48, 56, 64, 80, and 112 kbps.
{width="3.1479166666666667in" height="2.504166666666667in"}
{width="3.1479166666666667in" height="2.504166666666667in"}
**(a) (b)**
Figure 11.6: Experiment S5, testing EVS-SWB noisy speech (Car Noise, at 15 dB)
under impaired channel condition. (a) Finnish language, (b) North American
English language.
Some observations from Selection Experiment S5, Figure 11.6(a, b) include:
1) Under the frame erasure rate of 3 %, the EVS-SWB noisy speech performance
at 13.2 kbps already is comparable to that of G.719 at 80 kbps. Similar trend
is seen at frame erasure rate of 6 % where EVS-SWB noisy speech performance at
13.2 kbps is comparable to that of G.719 at 80 kbps.
2) There is a steady progression of quality increase from 13.2 kbps to 24.4
kbps in EVS, while meeting not only the performance requirements (PRs) but
also exceeding the EVS Selection performance objectives in Experiment S5.
Please refer to Annex A for ToR performance (Table A.1 and Table A.3) of SWB
noisy speech quality under impaired channel in EVS Selection Experiment S5.
3) EVS codec data point at 32 kbps and 64 kbps had a fixed point
implementation bug in Selection testing that was corrected in Characterization
testing (See clause 11.2.2 and clause 12.1.2).
### 11.1.6 Experiment S6
Experiment S6 is conducted to evaluate the EVS codec SWB mixed/music
performance. In particular, the EVS-SWB codec performance is evaluated in two
different labs using the Danish mixed/music content (Figure 11.7(a)) and
Chinese mixed/music content (Figure 11.7(b)).
Figure 11.7(a, b) shows the EVS codec SWB performance at bit rates of 13.2-96
kbps. In both Danish and Chinese mixed/music content, the EVS-SWB performance
is comparable to the Reference codecs. The Reference SWB codecs shown in
Figure 11.7(a,b) include AMR-WB+ at 9.75, 12, and 16 kbps; and G.719 at 32,
48, 64, and 96 kbps.
Some observations from Selection Experiment S6, Figure 11.7(a,b) include:
1) The EVS-SWB mixed/music quality at lower bit rates (13.2, 16.4, and 24.4
kbps) is better than the high-delay codec AMR-WB+ (at 9.75, 12, and 16 kbps).
At higher bit rates (32-96 kbps) the SWB mixed/music performance is comparable
to that of the G.719 at the same bit rate (32-96 kbps).
2) There is negligible performance impact between DTX off and DTX on
conditions at lower bit rates.
{width="3.152083333333333in" height="2.540277777777778in"}
{width="3.171527777777778in" height="2.5277777777777777in"}
**(a) (b)**
Figure 11.7: Experiment S6, testing EVS-SWB mixed/music performance. (a)
Danish mixed/music,\ (b) Chinese mixed/music
### 11.1.7 Experiment S7
Experiment S7 is conducted to evaluate the EVS codec SWB mixed/music
performance under impaired channel conditions. In particular, the EVS-SWB
codec performance at frame erasure rates (FERs) of 3% and 6% are evaluated in
two different labs using the North American English mixed/music content
(Figure 11.8(a)) and German mixed/music content (Figure 11.8(b)).
Figure 11.8(a, b) shows the EVS codec SWB performance at bit rates of 13.2-64
kbps. In both the NAE and German mixed/music content, the EVS-SWB performance
is better than the Reference codecs. The Reference SWB codecs shown in Figure
11.8(a,b) include AMR-WB at 19.85, 23.85 kbps; and G.719 at 32, 48, and 64
kbps.
Figure 11.9(a, b) shows the EVS codec SWB performance at 24.4 kbps under six
different delay/loss profiles simulating impaired channel characteristic with
varying delay and jitter as specified in the 26.114 specification. In both the
NAE and German mixed/music content, the EVS-SWB performance is better than the
Reference codec. The Reference SWB codec shown in Figure 11.9(a,b) is G.722.1C
at 24 kbps.
Some observations from Selection Experiment S7, Figure 11.8(a,b) and Figure
11.9(a,b) include:
1) Under the frame erasure rate of 3%, the EVS-SWB mixed/music performance at
lower bit rates is significantly better than the AMR-WB at 23.85 kbps. Similar
trend is seen at frame erasure rate of 6%. At higher bit rates (32-64 kbps),
the performance is better than G.719 at the same bit rate under impaired
channel (both FER 3%, 6 %).
2) There is a steady progression of quality increase from 13.2 kbps to 64 kbps
under mixed/music, while meeting not only the performance requirements (PRs)
but also exceeding the EVS Selection performance objectives in Experiment S7.
Please refer to Annex A for ToR performance (Table A.1 and Table A.3) of SWB
mixed/music quality under impaired channel in EVS Selection Experiment S7.
{width="3.1506944444444445in" height="2.5277777777777777in"}
{width="3.1506944444444445in" height="2.5277777777777777in"}
**(a) (b)**
Figure 11.8: Experiment S7, testing EVS-SWB mixed/music performance under
impaired channel condition with frame erasure rates of 3% and 6%. (a) North
American English language, (b) German language
{width="3.1in" height="2.339583333333333in"} {width="3.111111111111111in"
height="2.3430555555555554in"}
**(a) (b)**
Figure 11.9: Experiment S7, testing EVS-SWB mixed/music performance under
impaired channel conditions with frame erasures introduced through Delay/Loss
Profiles 4 and 6. (a) North American English language, (b) German language
## 11.2 SWB Characterization Tests
### 11.2.0 List of experiments in the super-wideband frequency bandwidth
In Characterization phase, four experiments, S1, S2, S3, and S1_Noisy have
been conducted to evaluate the performance of the EVS codec with super-
wideband (SWB) content sampled at 32 kHz. While the experiments S1, S2, and
S1_Noisy used clean/noisy speech, the experiment S3 used mixed/music content
for evaluating the SWB performance of the EVS codec. All the four SWB
experiments used the ITU-T P.800 DCR subjective test methodology.
\- Experiment S1: clean speech in North American English and Danish languages
to evaluate rate switching, channel aware mode, and tandem conditions.
\- Experiment S2: speech in Danish and French languages under background noise
(car noise at 15 dB SNR) to evaluate rate switching and high FER conditions.
\- Experiment S3: music and mixed content in Spanish language to evaluate rate
switching, untested conditions in selection phase, and JBM.
\- Experiment S1_Noisy: Noisy speech (car noise 15 dB) in North American
English to evaluate rate switching, channel aware mode, and tandem conditions.
### 11.2.1 Experiment S1
Characterization Experiment S1 is conducted to evaluate the EVS codec SWB
clean speech performance under clean channel and impaired channel conditions.
Experiment S1 is conducted in two different listening labs in North American
English language (Figure 11.10(a)) and in Danish language (Figure 11.10(b)).
Figure 11.10(a, b) shows the EVS-SWB channel aware mode performance at 13.2
kbps under clean channel as well as under five different delay/loss profiles
(Profiles 5, 7, 8, 9, and 10) simulating impaired channel characteristic with
varying delay and jitter. In both the languages, i.e., in North American
English Figure 11.10(a) and in Danish (Figure 11.10(b)), the EVS-SWB
performance under impaired channel with channel aware mode enabled is
significantly better than the EVS-SWB without channel aware mode as well as
the Reference codecs. The Reference codecs shown in Figure 11.10(a, b) include
AMR-WB at 23.85 kbps, EVS AMR-WB-IO at 23.85 kbps, and the EVS-SWB non-channel
aware mode at 13.2 kbps.
{width="3.0368055555555555in" height="2.5076388888888888in"}
{width="3.1458333333333335in" height="2.497916666666667in"}
**(a) (b)**
Figure 11.10: Experiment S1, testing EVS-SWB channel aware mode performance
under clean and impaired channel conditions. (a) North American English
language, (b) Danish language
Figure 11.10(a, b) indicate that compared against AMR-WB/EVS AMR-WB-IO modes,
the subjective quality performance gap with EVS-SWB Channel Aware mode
increases from about 0.3 DMOS to 0.75 DMOS when tested across lower to higher
frame erasure rates (e.g. Profile 7 through Profile 10). In clean channel
condition, the EVS-SWB channel aware mode at 13.2 kbps performs significantly
better than AMR-WB / EVS AMR-WB IO at its highest bit rate of 23.85 kbps.
### 11.2.2 Experiment S2
Characterization Experiment S2 is conducted to evaluate the EVS codec SWB
noisy speech rate switching performance under clean channel and impaired
channel conditions. Experiment S2 is conducted in two different listening labs
in Danish language (Figure 11.11(a)) and in French language (Figure 11.11(b)).
From the bar charts shown in Figure 11.11(a, b), it is noted that the EVS-SWB
performance under various rate switching conditions (e.g. rate switching
conditions in the range of 13.2 to 48 kbps and 32 to 128 kbps both in DTX on
and off) is significantly better than the corresponding Reference condition
both under clean channel and under impaired channel.
{width="3.138888888888889in" height="2.267361111111111in"}
{width="3.152083333333333in" height="2.279861111111111in"}
**(a) (b)**
Figure 11.11: Experiment S2, testing EVS-SWB noisy speech (Car noise 15 dB) to
evaluate rate switching performance in DTX on and DTX off. (a) Danish
language, (b) French language
{width="3.0in" height="2.2083333333333335in"}{width="3.009027777777778in"
height="2.2118055555555554in"}
**(a) (b)**
Figure 11.12 Experiment S2, testing EVS-SWB noisy speech (Car noise 15 dB) to
evaluate rate switching performance in DTX on and DTX off. (a) Danish
language, (b) French language
{width="3.057638888888889in"
height="2.2680555555555557in"}{width="2.977777777777778in"
height="2.2680555555555557in"}
**(a) (b)**
Figure 11.13: Experiment S2, testing EVS-SWB noisy speech (Car noise 15 dB) to
evaluate rate switching performance in DTX on and DTX off. (a) Danish
language, (b) French language
### 11.2.3 Experiment S3
Characterization Experiment S3 is conducted to evaluate the EVS codec SWB
mixed/music rate switching performance under clean channel and impaired
channel conditions.
From the bar charts shown in Figure 11.14, it is noted that the EVS-SWB
performance under various rate switching conditions is significantly better
than the corresponding Reference condition both under clean channel and under
impaired channel.
Figure 11.15 indicates the SWB results at 3% and 6% FER. Furthermore, Figure
11.16 shows the EVS-SWB performance at 24.4 kbps under six different
delay/loss profiles (Profiles 1 through 6) simulating impaired channel
characteristic. These profiles are explained and included in [13].
{width="3.729861111111111in" height="2.777083333333333in"}
Figure 11.14: Experiment S3, testing EVS-SWB mixed/music content. LA Spanish
language
{width="3.0208333333333335in" height="2.5277777777777777in"}
{width="3.0215277777777776in" height="2.540277777777778in"}
**(a) (b)**
Figure 11.15: Experiment S3, testing EVS-SWB mixed/music content in LA Spanish
language under impaired channel (3% and 6% FER)
{width="3.1083333333333334in" height="2.420138888888889in"}
Figure 11.16: Experiment S3, testing EVS-SWB mixed/music content in LA Spanish
language under impaired channel (MTSI profiles 1...6)
### 11.2.4 Experiment S1_Noisy
Characterization Experiment S1_Noisy was conducted to evaluate the EVS codec
SWB noisy speech performance under clean channel and impaired channel
conditions, in North American English language.
Figure 11.17 shows the EVS-SWB channel aware mode performance at 13.2 kbps
under clean channel as well as under five different delay/loss profiles
(Profiles 5, 7, 8, 9, and 10) simulating impaired channel characteristic with
varying delay and jitter. The EVS-SWB performance under impaired channel with
channel aware mode enabled is significantly better than the EVS-SWB without
channel aware mode as well as the reference codecs. The reference codecs shown
in Figure 11.10(a, b) include AMR-WB at 23.85 kbps, EVS AMR-WB-IO at 23.85
kbps, and EVS-SWB non-channel aware mode at 13.2 kbps.
{width="4.690277777777778in" height="3.098611111111111in"}
Figure 11.17: Experiment S1_Noisy, testing EVS-SWB channel aware mode
performance in noisy speech (car noise at 15 dB) under clean and impaired
channel conditions, with North American English language
Observations from characterization experiment S1 can be extended to S1_Noisy
(Figure 11.17) test as follows:
When compared against AMR-WB/EVS AMR-WB-IO modes, the subjective quality
performance advantage with EVS-SWB channel aware mode increases from about 0.3
DMOS to 0.75 DMOS when tested across lower to higher frame erasure rates (e.g.
Profile 7 through Profile 10). In clean channel condition and noisy speech,
the EVS-SWB channel aware mode at 13.2 kbps achieves subjective quality
comparable to that of AMR WB and EVS AMR-WB-IO mode at its highest bit rate of
23.85 kbps.
## 11.3 Conclusions on EVS Performance in Super-Wideband
EVS-SWB shows significant improvements over existing Super-Wideband codecs,
such as G.722.1C and G.719, especially for clean speech and speech with
background noise, both in clean channel as well as under impaired channel
conditions. EVS is able to achieve good quality at bitrates much lower than
G.722.1C and G.719, and scales to much higher quality with increasing bit rate
before saturation.
EVS-SWB also shows major improvements for mixed-content and music, performing
equally or better than AMR-WB+, G.722.1C or G.719, at much lower algorithmic
delay than those codecs.
When compared to AMR-WB in the same test, EVS-SWB modes outperform AMR-WB.
The channel aware coding mode of the 3GPP EVS codec offers a highly error
resilient coding mode at 13.2 kbps. The channel aware mode quality degrades
much more gracefully even out to the 10% FER of profile 10 (that may occur for
example in best-effort channels), compared to the AMR-WB and EVS AMR-WB-IO
conditions.
# 12 Mixed Bandwidth and Fullband Tests in Characterization
## 12.1 Mixed Bandwidth Tests
In characterization phase, three experiments, M1, M2, M3 have been conducted
to evaluate the mixed bandwidth performance of the EVS codec. Across a wide
range of bit rates, the mixed bandwidth tests may effectively characterize the
codec, e.g. encoding up to SWB bandwidth relative to encoding up to only NB or
WB. While the experiments M1 and M2 used clean/noisy speech, the experiment M3
used mixed/music content for evaluating extended bandwidth coding performance
of the EVS codec beyond NB/WB. All the three mixed bandwidth experiments used
the ITU-T P.800 DCR subjective test methodology.
\- Experiment M1 (DCR): NB/WB/SWB clean speech in North American English
language under clean channel condition
\- Experiment M2 (DCR): NB/WB/SWB speech in Finnish language under background
noise (car noise at 20 dB SNR) under clean channel condition
\- Experiment M3 (DCR): NB/WB/SWB music and mixed content in Chinese language
under clean channel condition
### 12.1.1 Experiment M1
Experiment M1 is conducted to evaluate the EVS codec multi-bandwidth NB/WB/SWB
clean speech performance under clean channel conditions. Experiment M1 is
conducted in North American English language.
Figure 12.1 and 12.2 shows the EVS codec NB/WB/SWB performance at bit rates
ranging from 5.9 to 64 kbps. For benchmarking purposes, the previously
standardized codecs AMR NB (7.4 to 12.2 kbps) and AMR-WB (8.85 to 23.85 kbps)
are also tested in the same mixed bandwidth test.
Figure 12.1: Experiment M1, testing EVS-NB, WB, SWB mixed-bandwidth test, DTX
on, with clean speech in North American English language
{width="3.01875in" height="2.327777777777778in"}
Figure 12.2: Experiment M1, testing EVS-NB, WB, SWB mixed bandwidth test, DTX
off, with clean speech in North American English language
Observations from the characterization experiment M1 with clean speech, Figure
12.1 and 12.2, include:
  1. The EVS-NB codec performance is significantly better than the AMR NB across a wide range of bit rates. In particular, the EVS-NB coding at its lowest bit rate VBR 5.9 kbps already achieves the subjective quality comparable to that of AMR NB at its highest bit rate of 12.2 kbps coding in clean speech. The EVS-NB coding at its highest bit rate 24.4 kbps starts converging into the subjective quality region of AMR-WB at its lowest bit rate 8.85 kbps.
  2. The EVS-WB codec performance is significantly better than the previously standardized AMR-WB codec. In particular, the EVS-WB coding at 5.9 kbps achieves subjective quality better than the AMR-WB at 8.85 kbps and comparable to that of AMR-WB at 12.65 kbps in clean speech. The subjective quality of EVS-WB coding starting at 9.6 kbps is significantly better than the AMR-WB coding at its highest bit rate of 23.85 kbps. There is a steady progression of EVS-WB subjective quality from 5.9 kbps to 16.4 kbps (Figure 12.1) and tending towards the region of DMOS saturation for WB at higher bit rates (Figure 12.1, 12.2).
  3. The EVS-SWB codec performance is significantly better than the previously standardized AMR-WB codec as well as the corresponding bit rates of EVS-WB. The subjective quality of EVS-SWB coding at 9.6 kbps is better than the AMR-WB at 23.85 kbps as well as EVS-WB at 24.4 kbps. There is a further significant quality increase starting from 13.2 kbps as compared to 9.6 kbps.
  4. From the Mixed-Bandwidth experiment, M1, the EVS-SWB clean speech quality at 13.2 kbps already approaches that of the "Direct Source" quality based on the ITU-T P.800 DCR test methodology.
### 12.1.2 Experiment M2
Experiment M2 is conducted to evaluate the EVS codec mixed bandwidth NB/WB/SWB
noisy speech performance (in car noisy at 20 dB SNR) under clean channel
conditions, in Finnish language.
Figure 12.3 and 12.4 show the EVS codec NB/WB/SWB performance at bit rates
ranging from 5.9 to 64 kbps. For benchmarking purposes, the previously
standardized codecs AMR NB (7.4 to 12.2 kbps) and AMR-WB (8.85 to 23.85 kbps)
are also tested in the same mixed bandwidth test.
Figure 12.3: Experiment M2, testing EVS-NB, WB, SWB mixed bandwidth test, DTX
on, with noisy speech (car noise at 20 dB SNR) in Finnish language
{width="3.01875in" height="2.327777777777778in"}
Figure 12.4: Experiment M2, testing EVS-NB, WB, SWB mixed bandwidth test, DTX
off, with noisy speech (car noise at 20 dB SNR) in Finnish language
Observations from the characterization experiment M2 with noisy speech, Figure
12.3 and 12.4, include:
1) The EVS-NB codec performance is significantly better than the AMR NB across
a wide range of bit rates. In particular, the subjective quality of EVS-NB
coding at 7.2 kbps is comparable to that of AMR NB at its highest bit rate of
12.2 kbps coding. There is a steady increase in EVS-NB subjective quality
performance from 5.9 kbps to 24.4 kbps.
2) The EVS-WB codec performance is significantly better than the previously
standardized AMR-WB codec. In particular, the EVS-WB coding at its lowest bit
rate at 5.9 kbps achieves subjective quality comparable to that of AMR-WB at
8.85 kbps. The subjective quality of EVS-WB coding at 13.2 kbps is comparable
to that of AMR-WB coding at its highest bit rate of 23.85 kbps in noisy
speech. There is a consistent progression of EVS-WB subjective quality in DTX
on from 5.9 kbps to 24.4 kbps (Figure 12.4) and tending towards the region of
DMOS saturation for WB at higher bit rates tested in DTX off configuration
(Figure 12.4).
3) The EVS-SWB codec performance is significantly better than the previously
standardized AMR-WB codec as well as the corresponding bit rates of EVS-WB.
The subjective quality of EVS-SWB coding at 13.2 kbps is significantly better
than the AMR-WB at 23.85 kbps. There is a significant progression of EVS-SWB
subjective quality in DTX on from 9.6 kbps to 24.4 kbps (Figure 12.4) and
tending towards the region of DMOS saturation for SWB at higher bit rates
tested in DTX off configuration (Figure 12.4).
### 12.1.3 Experiment M3
Experiment M3 is conducted to evaluate the EVS codec mixed bandwidth NB/WB/SWB
mixed/music coding performance under clean channel conditions. Experiment M3
is conducted in Chinese and North American English mixed/music content.
Figures 12.5(a, b) and 12.6(a, b) show the EVS codec NB/WB/SWB performance at
bit rates ranging from 5.9 to 64 kbps. VBR mode is designed to achieve the
average data rate (ADR) of 5.9 kbps for active speech. In order to further
evaluate and confirm the performance of the VBR mode in music/mixed content,
this experiment included the VBR condition in NB and WB. While achieving the
ADR of 5.9 kbps for active speech, the VBR mode may result in a different ADR
between 5.9 and 8 kbps for music/mixed content; the ADR values were in this
experiment M3 7.11 kbps for NB and 7.68 kbps for WB for Chinese music/mixed
content, and 7.01 kbps for NB and 7.53 kbps for WB for North American English
music/mixed content. For benchmarking purposes, the previously standardized
codecs AMR (7.4 to 12.2 kbps) and AMR-WB (8.85 to 23.85 kbps) are also tested
in the same mixed bandwidth test.
{width="3.2805555555555554in"
height="2.5430555555555556in"}{width="3.171527777777778in"
height="2.551388888888889in"}
**(a) (b)**
Figure 12.5: Experiment M3, testing EVS-NB, WB, SWB music and mixed content in
(a) Chinese language and (b) North American English language
{width="3.2055555555555557in" height="2.775in"}{width="3.297222222222222in"
height="2.7736111111111112in"}
**(a) (b)**
Figure 12.6: Experiment M3, testing EVS-NB, WB, SWB music and mixed content in
(a) Chinese language and (b) North American English language
Observations from the characterization experiment M3 with mixed/music content,
Figure 12.5(a, b) and 12.6(a, b), include:
1) The EVS-NB mixed/music codec performance is significantly better than the
AMR across a wide range of bit rates. In particular, the subjective quality of
EVS-NB coding at its lowest constant bit rate coding of 7.2 kbps is
significantly better than that of AMR 7.4 kbps coding. Starting from 9.6 kbps,
EVS-NB is significantly better than AMR at any bit rate. EVS-NB up to 13.2
kbps performs equal or better than AMR-WB at a similar bit rate.
2) The EVS-WB codec performance is significantly better than the previously
standardized AMR-WB codec at any comparable bit rate. In particular, the EVS-
WB coding starting at 13.2 kbps achieves subjective quality that is
significantly better than that of AMR-WB at any bit rate; for North American
English music and mixed content, EVS-WB coding starting already at 9.6 kbps
achieves better quality than AMR-WB at any bit rate.
3) The EVS-SWB codec performance is significantly better than the previously
standardized AMR-WB codec at any comparable bit rate. The subjective quality
of EVS-SWB coding starting at 13.2 kbps is significantly better than the AMR-
WB at its highest bit rate 23.85 kbps. For North American English music and
mixed content, EVS-SWB coding starting already at 9.6 kbps achieves better
quality than AMR-WB at its highest bit rate. There is a steady progression of
EVS-SWB subjective quality in DTX on from 9.6 kbps to 24.4 kbps (Figure 12.5)
and tending towards the region of DMOS saturation for SWB at higher bit rates
tested in DTX off configuration (Figure 12.6).
4) For North American English music and mixed content, EVS-SWB coding performs
significantly better than EVS-WB at the same bit rate.
## 12.2 Fullband Tests
### 12.2.0 List of experiments in the fullband frequency bandwidth
In characterization phase, two experiments, F1 and F2 have been conducted to
evaluate the EVS fullband coding performance. While the experiment F1 used
clean speech, the experiment F2 used mixed/music content. Both the fullband
experiments used the ITU-T P.800 DCR subjective test methodology.
\- Experiment F1 (DCR): clean speech in German language to evaluate EVS-SWB
and FB performance under clean channel condition.
\- Experiment F2 (DCR): music and mixed content in Danish language to evaluate
EVS-SWB and FB performance under clean and impaired channel conditions.
### 12.2.1 Experiment F1
Figure 12.7 and 12.8 show the EVS-FB (Red curve) performance relative to EVS-
SWB (blue curve) coding at various bit rates. The fullband experiment F1 was
conducted with clean speech in German language. The support for FB starts from
16.4 kbps and extends up to 128 kbps.
As shown in Figure 12.7 and 12.8, the subjective quality of EVS-FB coding (up
to 20 kHz bandwidth) is quite comparable to that of EVS-SWB coding (up to 16
kHz bandwidth) in clean speech both in DTX on as well as DTX off conditions.
{width="3.029166666666667in" height="2.327777777777778in"}
Figure 12.7: Experiment F1, testing EVS-SWB and EVS-FB clean speech in German
language
{width="3.01875in" height="2.327777777777778in"}
Figure 12.8: Experiment F1, testing EVS-SWB and EVS-FB clean speech in German
language
### 12.2.2 Experiment F2
{width="3.4895833333333335in" height="2.8208333333333333in"}
Figure 12.9: Experiment F2, testing EVS-SWB and EVS-FB music and mixed content
with Danish language
Figure 12.9 shows the EVS-FB (Red curve) performance relative to EVS-SWB (blue
curve) coding at various bit rates and testing under various impaired channels
with frame erasure rates of 3 % and 6 %. The fullband experiment F2 was tested
using Danish mixed/music content.
Observations from fullband tests F1 and F2, Figures 12.7, 12.8, and 12.9
include:
1) As shown in Figure 12.9, the subjective quality of EVS-FB coding (up to 20
kHz bandwidth) is quite comparable to that of EVS-SWB coding (up to 16 kHz
bandwidth) in mixed/music coding.
2) There is a steady progression of music coding quality from lower rates of
EVS-SWB/FB coding to higher rates of EVS-SWB/FB coding and tending towards the
subjective quality of Direct Source.
# 13 Objective Evaluations
## 13.1 Selection Phase
### 13.1.1 Objective Measurements
The purpose of the objective measurement is to verify the performance of the
EVS codec candidate algorithms using objective metrics. Those are applied to
test the fulfillment of the design constraints defined in EVS-4 Permanent
Document: Design Constraints [18] or to evaluate objective performance
requirements defined in EVS-3 Permanent Document: Performance Requirements
[17].
The objective metrics for selection consist of the following items:
1) Gain verification (design constraints) (**Gain**)
\- The EVS candidate codecs do not amplify the output signal relative to the
input signal beyond limits.
2) JBM compliance to TS 26.114 (design constraints) (**JBM**)
\- A JBM solution conforming to the requirements in TS 26.114 [13], except for
the functional requirement in sub-clause 8.2.2 of TS 26.114: \"_Speech JBM
used in MTSI shall support all the codecs as defined in clause 5.2.1_ \", will
be provided with the candidate codecs.
3) Active Frame Ratio (AFR) (performance requirements) (**AFR**)
\- This part of the evaluation is based on a large database of speech and
noisy speech of length (approximately 10 to 30 min) with an AFR of
approximately 40 % (AFR is based on P.56 measured on clean speech). The
requirements are set for clean speech, speech under background noise, music
and mixed content, in narrowband, wideband, super-wideband, at all bit rates
below 24.4 kbps.
4) Attenuation during inactive regions (performance requirements) (**Att.**)
\- For clean speech and speech under background noise, the attenuation of
background noise level during inactive regions is constrained.
5) Average active speech bit rate of VBR and CBR (**BR**)
\- Verification of average active bit rate.
6) Complexity measurement (**Cmp**)
\- Processing details are described in EVS-7b [21].
Processing of objective performance requirements is described in EVS-7b
Processing Plan, Annex A.
Table 13.1: List of databases used for objective evaluations
* * *
Database Description Gain JBM AFR Att. BR Cmp 1 NB clean speech filtered by
MSIN, in 8 kHz sampling, at -16, -26 and -36 dBov pass pass n/a pass pass pass
2 WB clean speech filtered by HP50, in 16 kHz sampling, at -16, -26 and -36
dBov pass pass n/a pass pass pass 3 SWB clean speech filtered by HP50, in 32
kHz sampling at -16, -26 and -36 dBov pass pass n/a pass pass pass 4 NB speech
with car noise at [15 ]dB SNR filtered by MSIN, in 8 kHz sampling pass n/a
pass pass pass pass 5 WB speech with car noise at [15] dB SNR filtered by
HP50, in 16 kHz sampling pass n/a pass pass pass pass 6 SWB speech with car
noise at [15] dB SNR filtered by HP50, in 32 kHz sampling pass n/a pass pass
pass pass 7 NB speech with street noise at [20] dB SNR filtered by MSIN, in 8
kHz sampling pass n/a pass pass pass pass 8 WB speech with street noise at
[20] dB SNR filtered by HP50, in 16 kHz sampling pass n/a pass pass pass pass
9 SWB speech with street noise at [20] dB SNR filtered by HP50, in 32 kHz
sampling pass n/a pass pass pass pass 10 NB speech with office noise at [20]
dB SNR filtered by MSIN, in 8 kHz sampling pass n/a pass pass pass pass 11 WB
speech with office noise at [20] dB SNR filtered by HP50, in 16 kHz sampling
pass n/a pass pass pass pass 12 SWB speech with office noise at [20] dB SNR
filtered by HP50, in 32 kHz sampling pass n/a pass pass pass pass 13 NB mixed
content and music filtered by MSIN, in 8 kHz sampling rate pass n/a n/a n/a
pass pass 14 WB mixed content and music filtered by HP50, in 16 kHz sampling
pass n/a n/a n/a pass pass 15 SWB mixed content and music filtered by HP50, in
32 kHz sampling pass n/a n/a n/a pass pass
* * *
For verification of the candidate solution several objective metrics will be
evaluated by using the tools defined in EVS-7b [21]. PC should use the tools
defined in EVS-7b to create JBM objective metrics, but may also use their own
tool. Proponents reported how they have made the JBM objective metrics
compliance assessment as part of the selection deliverables defined in EVS-6b
[20].
### 13.1.2 Verification of Codec Performance with respect to Acoustic Test
Cases based on the EVS Selection Phase Executable
#### 13.1.2.1 Evaluation Setup {#evaluation-setup .list-paragraph}
The first step in the evaluation is the scaling with regard to a certain
overload point. Two overload points (3.0 vs 9.0 dBm0) for the conversion from
the physical unit Volt to 16-bit scale were taken into account.
Since the overload point (OVLP) refers to a full-scale sine wave (with level
T~max~ = -3.01 dBov according to Error: Reference source not found), for the
scaling between dBov and dBm0 resp. dBV, the following notation can be made:
T~max~ = -3.01 dBov
{width="3.5083333333333333in" height="0.175in"}
{width="4.217361111111111in" height="0.175in"}
Example: For an OVLP of 3.0 dBm0, the scaling between dBV and dBov is defined
as:
{width="3.6416666666666666in" height="0.175in"}
{width="2.025in" height="0.4in"}
The scaling back to the physical unit Volt was applied in the corresponding
inverse way.
After scaling, the next step included the encoding and decoding of the audio
data. This was conducted with the provided command line executable. The source
code was not recompiled to a new binary.
For the evaluation of narrowband, wideband, and super-wideband mode, all bit
rates which are available in each bandwidth mode according to Table 1 of [2]
were used.
#### 13.1.2.2 General
Several tests according to 3GPP TS 26.132 [29] were performed in order to
evaluate the performance according to [14] of the EVS codec. Only frequency
response results are reported in this subclause. Detailed results can be found
in Annex D.
TS 26.132 is originally intended for acoustic testing of terminals. Since the
EVS codec is regarded as the "device under test", only electrical insertions
are reasonable for testing and thus only measurements in (acoustic) receiving
direction are taken into account.
In narrowband the test signal bandlimitation as defined in 3GPP TS 26.132 [29]
was used. For superwideband the ITU-T P.501 [30] test signals were downsampled
to 32 kHz, cut-off frequency 14.4 kHz, >80 dB/oct. For fullband the original
speech signals from ITU-T P.501 [30] were used.
With this approach, the EVS codec can be evaluated with typical test
scenarios, which will occur in real-life applications with mobile phones.
The following graphs include multiple curves representing the different bit
rates within each bandwidth mode. For the sake of clarity, the corresponding
legends are not repeated in each graph, Table 13.2 shows the legends used in
the following clauses.
Table 13.2: Legends for different bit rates
* * *
{width="1.5756944444444445in" height="1.5125in"} {width="1.5756944444444445in"
height="2.4791666666666665in"} **NB mode** **WB mode**
{width="1.5756944444444445in" height="1.8402777777777777in"}
{width="1.5840277777777778in" height="1.7493055555555554in"} **SWB mode** **FB
mode**
* * *
#### 13.1.2.3 EVS-Mode: Narrowband (NB) -- Frequency Response with Real Speech
In narrowband mode, a sampling rate of 8 kHz and all bit rates (5.9, 7.2, 8.0,
9.6, 13.2, 16.4 and 24.4 kbit/s) according to Table 1 of [2] were used. The
two possible target overload points 3.0 and 9.0 dBm0 were used by default for
all analyses.
It should be noted, that even though Table 1 of [2] states that a narrowband
signal can be encoded with 16.4 and 24.4 kbit/s, the provided command line
executable produces a bitstream with 13.2 kbit/s. Therefore, the magenta, the
blue, and the grey curves are identical in the plots of this section and the
last three rows of Table 2 and Table 3 state the same values.
The following results are produced by applying the measurement instructions
according to clause 7.4.2 of [29]. To simulate also the impact of level
variations, additional overload points of 21.0 and 39.0 dBm0 were also
simulated. These overload points do not represent a realistic conversion, they
are only used for checking the linearity of the codec and can be regarded as
attenuations of 18.0 resp. 36.0 dB compared to the overload point of 3.0 dBm0.
* * *
{width="3.1458333333333335in" height="1.992361111111111in"}
{width="3.1458333333333335in" height="1.992361111111111in"}
{width="3.1458333333333335in" height="1.992361111111111in"}
{width="3.1458333333333335in" height="1.992361111111111in"} Figure 13.1:
Frequency response for NB for different overload points
* * *
The results of this analysis are shown in Figure 13.1. For the default and
extra overload points, the codec meets the given tolerance scheme according to
[14] for all bit rates.
#### 13.1.2.4 EVS-Mode: Wideband (WB) -- Frequency Response with Real Speech
In wideband mode, a sampling rate of 16 kHz and all bit rates (5.9, 7.2, 8.0,
9.6, 13.2, 16.4, 24.4, 32.0, 48.0, 64.0, 96.0 and 128.0 kbit/s) according to
Table 1 of [2] were used. The two possible target overload points 3.0 and 9.0
dBm0 were used by default for all analyses.
The following results are produced by applying the measurement instructions
according to clause 8.4.2 of [29]. To simulate also the impact of level
variations, additional overload points of 21.0 and 39.0 dBm0 were also
simulated. These overload points do not represent a realistic conversion, they
are only used for checking the linearity of the codec and can be regarded as
attenuations of 18.0 resp. 36.0 dB compared to the overload point 3.0 dBm0.
* * *
{width="3.1458333333333335in" height="1.9868055555555555in"}
{width="3.1458333333333335in" height="1.9868055555555555in"}
{width="3.1458333333333335in" height="1.9868055555555555in"}
{width="3.1458333333333335in" height="1.9868055555555555in"} Figure 13.2:
Frequency response for WB for different overload points
* * *
The results of this analysis are shown in Figure 13.2. For the default and
extra overload points, the codec meets the given tolerance scheme according to
[14] for all bit rates.
#### 13.1.2.5 EVS-Mode: Super-Wideband (SWB) -- Frequency Response with Real
Speech
In super-wideband mode, a sampling rate of 32 kHz and all bit rates (9.6,
13.2, 16.4, 24.4, 32.0, 48.0, 64.0, 96.0 and 128.0 kbit/s) according to Table
1 of [2] were used. The two possible target overload points 3.0 and 9.0 dBm0
were used by default for all analyses.
It should be noted, that even though Table 1 of [2] states that a signal can
be encoded in super-wideband mode with 9.6 kbit/s, this mode was not tested
during Selection Phase of EVS development. Unfortunately a software bug was
present in the version used for Selection and the provided command line
executable encodes effectively only the wideband bandwidth up to 8 kHz.
Therefore, the green curve violates the tolerance schema in Figure 13.3. The
software bug was corrected in v.12.1.0 -- See clause 13.4.1
The following results are produced by applying measurement instructions
similar to clause 8.4.2 of [29] which are adapted to super-wideband by
replacing the source signal with a fullband version of the same file and
extending the tolerance schema to 14 kHz. To simulate also the impact of level
variations, additional overload points of 21.0 and 39.0 dBm0 were also
simulated. These overload points do not represent a realistic conversion; they
are only used for checking the linearity of the codec and can be regarded as
attenuations of 18.0 resp. 36.0 dB compared to the overload point 3.0 dBm0.
* * *
{width="3.1458333333333335in" height="1.9868055555555555in"}
{width="3.1458333333333335in" height="1.9868055555555555in"}
{width="3.1458333333333335in" height="1.9868055555555555in"}
{width="3.1458333333333335in" height="1.9868055555555555in"} Figure 13.3:
Frequency response for SWB for different overload points
* * *
The results of this analysis are shown in Figure 13.3. For the default and
extra overload points, the codec meets the given tolerance scheme according to
[14] for all bit rates but 9.6 kbit/s as explained above.
#### 13.1.2.6 Conclusions
In narrowband mode, all bit rates pass all requirements of [14].
Across all bitrates and for various operating bandwidths NB/WB/SWB, the EVS
codec version tested during the Selection Phase meets the frequency response
tolerance requirements over an extended range of overload points when tested
using real speech.
Note that more detailed results can be found in Annex D.
## 13.2 Complexity and Delay Analysis
With all features supported and measured according to EVS-8b, the worst case
complexity of the coder is 87.97 WMOPS which splits up to 56.25 WMOPS for
encoder (24.4 kbit/s SWB with DTX on) and 31.72 WMOPS for decoder (9.6 kbit/s
SWB with DTX on, FER=30%). The coder uses 149 kW of RAM (with no JBM
included), 147 kW of ROM, and 114500 program instructions.
The JBM solution was measured to consume 18 WMOPS and 49 kW RAM.
The computational complexity and program ROM (PROM) were measured with ITU-T
STL2009 [27]. RAM and ROM are reported using 16 bit word-size.
Typical, or mean, and maximum complexity figures for the various sample rates
and coded bandwidths of operation have been further analysed and are provided
in Tables 13.2a and 13.2b. In these tables, as in the above analysis, the
complexity has been analysed on a per-audio-frame basis and the means and
maxima collected. The source file comprised 8.5minutes of mixed speech and
music.
NOTE: EVS AMR-WB IO is considered to be included in the calculated WB 16 kHz
and 32 kHz figures.
The figures in Table 13.2a are calculated using the mean of the per-audio-
frame complexity over the whole file. They represent the highest values of the
mean complexity when comparing all of the available bit rates for the given
bandwidth and sample rate. In the case of the balanced combined figures, the
bit rate is identical for the encoder and decoder. In the worst/worst combined
figures the complexity of the most complex encoder bit rate is added to that
of the most complex decoder bit rate, even though this combination might not
occur in actual use.
In both Tables 13.2a and 13.2b, the bold figures represent the complexities
for the native (i.e. minimum appropriate) sample rates for each coded
bandwidth.
Table 13.2a: Highest values of the mean complexity for different sample rates
and coded bandwidths
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Coded | Sample | Encoder | Decoder | Balanced | Wor | | B | Rate | Co | Co | | st/Worst | | andwidth | | mplexity | mplexity | Combined | Combined | | | (kHz) | | | Co | Co | | | | (WMOPS) | (WMOPS) | mplexity | mplexity | | | | | | | | | | | | | (WMOPS) | (WMOPS) | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | NB | **8** | * | * | * | * | | | | _29.98_ _|_ 15.40**| *43.97** | _45.38_ _| +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | 16 | 31.52 | 16.38 | 47.35 | 47.90 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | 32 | 37.34 | 19.37 | 56.71 | 56.71 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | WB |__16_ _| * | * | * | * | | | |_ 38.25**| *18.29** | _51.38_ _|_ 56.54**| +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | 32 | 43.32 | 22.88 | 60.92 | 66.20 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | SWB |** 32**| * | * | * | * | | | | *45.12** | _22.67_ _|_ 65.56**| *67.80** | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
Worst-case complexity figures for the various sample rates and coded
bandwidths of operation are provided in Table 13.2b. In this table the per-
audio-frame maxima have been used.
Table 13.2b: Highest values of the worst-case complexity for different sample
rates and coded bandwidths
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Coded | Sample | Encoder | Decoder | Balanced | Wor | | B | Rate | Co | Co | | st/Worst | | andwidth | | mplexity | mplexity | Combined | Combined | | | (kHz) | | | Co | Co | | | | (WMOPS) | (WMOPS) | mplexity | mplexity | | | | | | | | | | | | | (WMOPS) | (WMOPS) | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | NB | **8** | * | * | * | * | | | | _47.95_ _|_ 25.59**| *73.54** | _73.54_ _| +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | 16 | 49.48 | 25.81 | 75.30 | 75.30 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | 32 | 52.06 | 28.33 | 79.49 | 80.39 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | WB |__16_ _| * | * | * | * | | | |_ 50.63**| *27.69** | _76.71_ _|_ 78.32**| +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | 32 | 55.27 | 30.63 | 84.80 | 85.90 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | SWB |** 32**| * | * | * | * | | | | *56.25** | _31.72_ _|_ 87.13**| *87.97** | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
It can be seen from Tables 13.2a and 13.2b that the complexity of the EVS
codec broadly scales with coded bandwidth and sample rate of operation and
that the mean computational load is significantly lower than the worst-case
figures.
Table 13.2c provides the highest values of the mean complexity for AMR-WB
calculated using ITU-T STL2009 [27], the same methodology and testfile
described above and Table 13.2d provides the relative complexity increase for
the EVS codec compared to AMR-WB. Such figures clearly reflect the additional
battery drain due to the codec for an EVS service over one based upon AMR-WB.
Table 13.2c: Highest values of the mean complexity for AMR-WB
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Coded | Sample | Encoder | Decoder | Balanced | Wor | | B | Rate | Co | Co | | st/Worst | | andwidth | | mplexity | mplexity | Combined | Combined | | | (kHz) | | | Co | Co | | | | (WMOPS) | (WMOPS) | mplexity | mplexity | | | | | | | | | | | | | (WMOPS) | (WMOPS) | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | WB | **16** | * | **7.80** | * | * | | | | _32.30_ _| |_ 38.73**| *40.11** | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
Table 13.2d: Incremental mean complexity for EVS relative to AMR-WB
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Coded | Sample | Encoder | Decoder | Balanced | Wor | | B | Rate | Co | Co | | st/Worst | | andwidth | | mplexity | mplexity | Combined | Combined | | | (kHz) | | | Co | Co | | | | (WMOPS) | (WMOPS) | mplexity | mplexity | | | | | | | | | | | | | (WMOPS) | (WMOPS) | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | NB | **8** | ** | ** | ** | ** | | | | -7.18%**| +97.4%** | +13.5%**| +13.1%** | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | 16 | -2.41% | +110% | +22.3% | +19.4% | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | 32 | +15.6% | +148% | +46.4% | +41.4% | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | WB | **16** | ** | * | ** | ** | | | | +18.4%**| *+134%** | +32.7%**| +41.0%** | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | 32 | +34.1% | +193% | +57.3% | +65.0% | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | SWB | **32** | ** | * | ** | ** | | | | +39.8%**| *+191%** | +69.3%**| +69.0%** | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
From Table 13.2d it is clear that there is a significant complexity increase
in the EVS decoder compared to that of AMR-WB which is closely linked to
enhancements in post-processing and frame erasure concealment leading to the
significant performance improvements of EVS in error-free and impaired
channels. It should also be noted that the EVS codec complexities also include
sample rate conversion to and from the different sampling rates. Overall
though, the worst/worst combined complexity increase in Table 13.2d, which
represents a doubling of the audio bandwidth of AMR-WB (SWB at 32kHz =
+69.0%), is well within the complexity goal for EVS which was to be less than
twice the complexity of AMR-WB.
The coder operates on 20 msec frames and the algorithmic delay (frame size
plus look-ahead) is less than or equal to 32 msec.
## 13.3 EVS JBM Objective Performance Evaluation in Channel Aware Mode
The objective performance evaluation results on EVS channel aware mode
presented below are pertaining to the modes that were tested in EVS
characterization testing. In particular, the delay and JICO (jitter induced
concealment operations) objective performance conformance are reported as
defined by 3GPP TS 26.114 [13] for delay error profiles 1-6 (MTSI profiles)
and 7-10 (VoLTE profiles). The four VoLTE profiles were defined in Annex D of
the EVS-7c [23] document and used for EVS Characterization Testing. The
evaluation was done by setting the frame offset for partial redundancy to 3
(o=3) and frame erasure rate to HI (p = HI).
The test conditions used and the JBM performance evaluation results are given
in Table 13.3.
Table 13.3: Conditions tested and conformance results of JBM objective
performance evaluation for EVS channel aware mode
* * *
Label Condition Codec Bit rate DTX Level FER/Profile RF Obj Requirements
Pass/Fail 1 channel aware mode clean channel (p=HI, o=3) EVS-WB 13.2 kbps on
-26 dBov Profile 1 on Pass 2 channel aware mode frame erasures (p=HI, o=3)
EVS-WB 13.2 kbps on -26 dBov Profile 2 on Pass 3 channel aware mode frame
erasures (p=HI, o=3) EVS-WB 13.2 kbps on -26 dBov Profile 3 on Pass 4 channel
aware mode frame erasures (p=HI, o=3) EVS-WB 13.2 kbps on -26 dBov Profile 4
on Pass 5 channel aware mode MTSI bundled frame erasures (p=HI, o=3) EVS-WB
13.2 kbps on -26 dBov Profile 5 on Pass 6 channel aware mode clean channel
(p=HI, o=3) EVS-WB 13.2 kbps on -26 dBov Profile 6 on Pass 7 channel aware
mode clean channel (p=HI, o=3) EVS-WB 13.2 kbps on -26 dBov Profile 7 on Pass
8 channel aware mode frame erasures (p=HI, o=3) EVS-WB 13.2 kbps on -26 dBov
Profile 8 on Pass 9 channel aware mode frame erasures (p=HI, o=3) EVS-WB 13.2
kbps on -26 dBov Profile 9 on Pass 10 channel aware mode frame erasures (p=HI,
o=3) EVS-WB 13.2 kbps on -26 dBov Profile 10 on Pass 11 channel aware mode
clean channel (p=HI, o=3) EVS-SWB 13.2 kbps on -26 dBov Profile 1 on Pass 12
channel aware mode frame erasures (p=HI, o=3) EVS-SWB 13.2 kbps on -26 dBov
Profile 2 on Pass 13 channel aware mode frame erasures (p=HI, o=3) EVS-SWB
13.2 kbps on -26 dBov Profile 3 on Pass 14 channel aware mode frame erasures
(p=HI, o=3) EVS-SWB 13.2 kbps on -26 dBov Profile 4 on Pass 15 channel aware
mode MTSI bundled frame erasures (p=HI, o=3) EVS-SWB 13.2 kbps on -26 dBov
Profile 5 on Pass 16 channel aware mode clean channel (p=HI, o=3) EVS-SWB 13.2
kbps on -26 dBov Profile 6 on Pass 17 channel aware mode clean channel (p=HI,
o=3) EVS-SWB 13.2 kbps on -26 dBov Profile 7 on Pass 18 channel aware mode
frame erasures (p=HI, o=3) EVS-SWB 13.2 kbps on -26 dBov Profile 8 on Pass 19
channel aware mode frame erasures (p=HI, o=3) EVS-SWB 13.2 kbps on -26 dBov
Profile 9 on Pass 20 channel aware mode frame erasures (p=HI, o=3) EVS-SWB
13.2 kbps on -26 dBov Profile 10 on Pass
* * *
The measurements are performed using scripts derived from the selection
processing with necessary updates to run the channel aware mode.
Item 2 of TS 26.114, clause 8.2.3.1 (design guidelines for JBM minimum
performance requirements) underscores the need for handling conditions that
cause higher JICO even at the expense of increased buffering times.
_\"2. If the limit of jitter induced concealment operations cannot be met, it
is always preferred to increase the buffering time in order to avoid growing
jitter induced concealment operations going beyond the stated limit above.
This guideline applies even if that means that end-to-end delay requirement
given in 3GPP TS 22.105 [26] can no longer be met;\"._
Increased error burst lengths are common with network conditions that result
in higher JICO. In such cases of larger error bursts, the EVS channel aware
mode can be configured to utilize increased buffering times via higher FEC
offsets to maximize the availability of partial copies. In particular, EVS
channel aware mode is designed to use FEC offsets 5 and 7 to address the above
mentioned scenario.
The results in Table 13.3 show that the EVS JBM in channel aware mode conforms
to the delay and JICO objective requirements defined by 3GPP TS 26.114 for all
configurations with FEC offsets 2 and 3.
## 13.4 Frequency Response
### 13.4.1 Evaluation of Codec Performance with respect to Acoustic Test Cases
based on EVS v.12.1.0 [7]
The measurement results presented in this clause are based on the release
codec version 12.1.0. The measurement results presented include the fullband
version which is available in the release version. It shows that the error
found in the pre-release version in wideband 9.6 kb/s mode is corrected. For
all tests except 5.9 kb/s bitrate DTX was deactivated.
#### 13.4.1.1 Evaluation Setup
The first step in the evaluation is the scaling with regard to a certain
overload point. Two overload points (3.0 vs 9.0 dBm0) for the conversion from
the physical unit Volt to 16-bit scale were taken into account.
Since the overload point (OVLP) refers to a full-scale sine wave (with level
T~max~ = -3.01 dBov according to [29]), for the scaling between dBov and dBm0
resp. dBV, the following notation can be made:
T~max~ = -3.01 dBov
{width="3.5083333333333333in" height="0.175in"}
{width="4.217361111111111in" height="0.175in"}
Example: For an OVLP of 3.0 dBm0, the scaling between dBV and dBov is defined
as:
{width="3.6416666666666666in" height="0.175in"}
{width="2.025in" height="0.4in"}
The scaling back to the physical unit Volt was applied in the corresponding
inverse way.
After scaling, the next step included the encoding and decoding of the audio
data. This was conducted with the provided command line executable. The source
code was not recompiled to a new binary.
For the evaluation of narrowband, wideband, and super-wideband mode, all bit
rates which are available in each bandwidth mode according to Table 1 of [2]
were used.
#### 13.4.1.2 General
Several tests according to 3GPP TS 26.132 [29] were performed in order to
evaluate the performance according to [14] of the EVS codec. Only frequency
response results are reported in this subclause. Further results, e.g.
distortion measurement results, can be found in Annex D.
TS 26.132 is originally intended for acoustic testing of terminals. Since the
EVS codec is regarded as the "device under test", only electrical insertions
are reasonable for testing and thus only measurements in (acoustic) receiving
direction are taken into account.
In narrowband the test signal bandlimitation as defined in 3GPP TS 26.132 [29]
was used. For superwideband the ITU-T P.501 [30] test signals were downsampled
to 32 kHz. For fullband the original speech signals from ITU-T P.501 [30] were
used.
With this approach, the EVS codec can be evaluated with typical test
scenarios, which will occur in real-life applications with mobile phones.
The following graphs include multiple curves representing the different bit
rates within each bandwidth mode. For the sake of clarity, the corresponding
legends are not repeated in each graph, Table 13.4 shows the legends used in
the following sections.
Table 13.4: Legends for different bit rates
* * *
{width="1.5756944444444445in" height="1.5125in"} {width="1.5756944444444445in"
height="2.4791666666666665in"} NB mode WB mode {width="1.5756944444444445in"
height="1.8402777777777777in"} {width="2.0208333333333335in"
height="1.7708333333333333in"} SWB mode FB mode
* * *
#### 13.4.1.3 EVS-Mode: Narrowband (NB) -- Frequency Response with Real Speech
In narrowband mode, a sampling rate of 8 kHz and all bit rates (5.9, 7.2, 8.0,
9.6, 13.2, 16.4 and 24.4 kbit/s) according to Table 1 of [2] were used. The
two possible target overload points 3.0 and 9.0 dBm0 were used by default for
all analyses.
The following results are produced by applying the measurement instructions
according to clause 7.4.2 of [29]. To simulate also the impact of level
variations, additional overload points of 21.0 and 39.0 dBm0 were also
simulated. These overload points do not represent a realistic conversion, they
are only used for checking the linearity of the codec and can be regarded as
attenuations of 18.0 resp. 36.0 dB compared to the overload point of 3.0 dBm0.
* * *
{width="3.1444444444444444in" height="1.9909722222222221in"}
{width="3.1444444444444444in" height="1.9909722222222221in"}
{width="3.1444444444444444in" height="1.9909722222222221in"}
{width="3.1444444444444444in" height="1.9909722222222221in"} Figure 13.4:
Frequency response for NB for different overload points
* * *
The results of this analysis are shown in Figure 13.4. For the default and
extra overload points, the codec does not violate the given tolerance scheme
according to [14] for all bit rates.
The results when using 1/3^rd^ octave instead of 1/12^th^ octave analysis are
in Figure 13.5.
* * *
{width="3.138888888888889in" height="1.9875in"} {width="3.138888888888889in"
height="1.9875in"} Figure 13.5: Frequency response EVS NB in 1/3^rd^ Oct. for
different overload points with P.501 speech signals
* * *
#### 13.4.1.4 EVS-Mode: Wideband (WB) -- Frequency Response with Real Speech
In wideband mode, a sampling rate of 16 kHz and all bit rates (5.9, 7.2, 8.0,
9.6, 13.2, 16.4, 24.4, 32.0, 48.0, 64.0, 96.0 and 128.0 kbit/s) according to
Table 1 of [2] were used. The two possible target overload points 3.0 and 9.0
dBm0 were used by default for all analyses.
The following results are produced by applying the measurement instructions
according to clause 8.4.2 of [28]. To simulate also the impact of level
variations, additional overload points of 21.0 and 39.0 dBm0 were also
simulated. These overload points do not represent a realistic conversion, they
are only used for checking the linearity of the codec and can be regarded as
attenuations of 18.0 resp. 36.0 dB compared to the overload point 3.0 dBm0.
* * *
{width="3.138888888888889in" height="1.9875in"} {width="3.138888888888889in"
height="1.9875in"} {width="3.138888888888889in" height="1.9875in"}
{width="3.138888888888889in" height="1.9875in"} Figure 13.6: Frequency
response for WB for different overload points
* * *
The results of this analysis are shown in Figure 13.6. For the default and
extra overload points, the codec does not violate the given tolerance scheme
according to [14] for all bit rates.
Instead of 1/12^th^ octave analysis was used. The results using 1/3^rd^ octave
analysis are shown in Figure 13.7.
* * *
{width="3.138888888888889in" height="1.9875in"} {width="3.138888888888889in"
height="1.9875in"} Figure13.7: Frequency response EVS WB in 1/3^rd^ Oct. for
different overload points with P.501 speech signals
* * *
#### 13.4.1.5 EVS-Mode: Super-Wideband (SWB) -- Frequency Response with Real
Speech
In super-wideband mode, a sampling rate of 32 kHz and all bit rates (9.6,
13.2, 16.4, 24.4, 32.0, 48.0, 64.0, 96.0 and 128.0 kbit/s) according to Table
1 of [2] were used. The two possible target overload points 3.0 and 9.0 dBm0
were used by default for all analyses.
The following results are produced by applying measurement instructions
similar to clause 8.4.2 of [28] which are adapted to super-wideband by
replacing the source signal with a fullband version of the same file. To
simulate also the impact of level variations, additional overload points of
21.0 and 39.0 dBm0 were also simulated. These overload points do not represent
a realistic conversion; they are only used for checking the linearity of the
codec and can be regarded as attenuations of 18.0 resp. 36.0 dB compared to
the overload point 3.0 dBm0.
* * *
{width="3.138888888888889in" height="1.9875in"} {width="3.138888888888889in"
height="1.9875in"} {width="3.138888888888889in" height="1.9875in"}
{width="3.138888888888889in" height="1.9875in"} Figure 13.8: Frequency
response for SWB for different overload points
* * *
The results of this analysis are shown in Figure 13.8. For the default and
extra overload points, the codec provides an accurate transmission behavior
for all bit rates.
The results for the 1/3^rd^ octave analysis are shown in Figure 13.9.
* * *
{width="3.138888888888889in" height="1.9875in"} {width="3.138888888888889in"
height="1.9875in"} Figure13.9: Frequency response EVS SWB in 1/3^rd^ Oct. for
different overload points with P.501 speech signals
* * *
#### 13.4.1.6 EVS-Mode: Fullband (FB) -- Frequency Response with Real Speech
In fullband mode, a sampling rate of 48 kHz and all possible bit rates (16.4,
24.4, 32.0, 48.0, 64.0, 96.0 and 128.0 kbit/s) according to Table 1 of [2]
were used. The two possible target overload points 3.0 and 9.0 dBm0 were used
by default for all analyses.
The following results are produced by applying measurement instructions
similar to clause 8.4.2 of [28] which are adapted to fullband by replacing the
source signal with a fullband version of the same. To simulate also the impact
of level variations, additional overload points of 21.0 and 39.0 dBm0 were
also simulated. These overload points do not represent a realistic conversion;
they are only used for checking the linearity of the codec and can be regarded
as attenuations of 18.0 resp. 36.0 dB compared to the overload point 3.0 dBm0.
The results of this analysis are shown in Figure 13.10.
* * *
{width="3.134027777777778in" height="1.9847222222222223in"}
{width="3.134027777777778in" height="1.9847222222222223in"}
{width="3.134027777777778in" height="1.9847222222222223in"}
{width="3.134027777777778in" height="1.9847222222222223in"} Figure 13.10:
Frequency response for FB for different overload points
* * *
For lower codec rates (16.4 and 24.4 kbit/s, red/green curves), the
transmission characteristics show some slight degradations for frequencies
between 15 and 20 kHz.
#### 13.4.1.7 Conclusions
In narrowband mode, all bit rates pass all requirements of [14].
Across all bitrates and for various operating bandwidths NB/WB/SWB, the EVS
codec version 12.1.0 exceeds the frequency response tolerance requirements
over an extended range of overload points when tested using both real speech
and composite source signal.
The fullband mode was introduced with the release version 12.1.0. Since no
requirements are available for this mode, results can only be reported.
However, besides some slight degradation in the frequency response
evaluations, the codec accurately performs on all tests.
Note that more detailed results can be found in Annex D.
## 13.5 Further Evaluations
Further evaluation results, e.g. distortion measurement results, can be found
in Annex D.
## 13.6 Conclusions on Objective Evaluations
The objective evaluation results on the single joint EVS candidate
demonstrated a \"pass\" at every condition. With this, the EVS coder fully
meets all objective performance requirements for each database and also the
acoustic requirements.
###### ### Annex A: ToR Tests in Selection Phase
# A.1 ToR Tests for Requirements
Table A.1 summarizes the results for the Requirements ToR tests over the 24
Experiments. Each row of the table shows results of ToR tests for a single
Experiment -- results for Test#1 on the left and for Test#2 on the right. For
each Experiment, the table shows the #Requirement ToR\'s followed by the
Test#1 label, #ToRs passed, #ToRs failed, Test#2 label, #ToRs passed, #ToRs
failed and finally the Percent of ToRs passed across both Tests within the
Experiment.
On the far right side of the table, \"Percent ToRs Passed\" values are shown
for each of the four Groups of Experiments: 100% for NB, 99.58% for WB, 90.38%
for EVS AMR-WB IO, and 97.93% for SWB. Finally, at the bottom of the table,
\"Percent ToRs Passed\" for the entire Selection Phase is reported - 25 of 778
ToRs were failed for a Percent Passed value of 96.79%. It is noted that 20
(i.e., 80%) of those 25 failures occurred in the EVS AMR-WB IO Experiments.
Over all of the DGTT comparisons where the test was \"CuT Not Worse Than
REF\", 61% of those comparisons showed that the CuT was significantly \"Better
Than\" the REF.
Table A.1: Summary ToR Test Results for Requirements
{width="5.103472222222222in" height="6.177083333333333in"}
Table A.2 shows a list of the 25 failures for Requirement ToRs. Note that,
consistent with the attached spreadsheet, the Experiment column is color-coded
for the LL that conducted the test
{width="1.6756944444444444in" height="0.19652777777777777in"}
Table A.2: Requirement ToR Failures
{width="6.4875in" height="6.574305555555555in"}
There were two instances where a Requirement ToR was failed in both of the LLs
that conducted the Test. Those two \"Systematic Failures\" are listed below.
\- Failures #19 and #21, Test _ai5_ and _bi5_ , CuT condition c27 vs. REF
conditions c07 and c08 for the combination ToR \"c27 BT c07 OR c27 NWT c08\"
\- Failures #23 and #24, Test _as3_ and _bs3_ , CuT condition c20 vs. REF
conditions c01 and c11 for the combination ToR \"c20 NWT c01 OR c20 NWT c11\"
Annex A contains a complete description of the CuT and REF conditions involved
in the 25 Requirement ToRs that were failed.
In Table A.2, the systematic noisy speech failure at 64 kbps in Experiment S3
is due to a rather serious fixed point implementation bug that affected the
conditions #23, #24, and #25. In particular, the quantization steps used in
the encoder at 64 kbps were twice as large as in decoder. This bug has been in
time resolved for Characterization testing and is shown to address the issue
from Experiments S2 and M2 in Characterization testing. Furthermore, another
systematic bug that is related to EVS AMR-WB IO in mixed/music testing in
Experiment I5 conditions #19 and #21 was noted at lower bit rates (i.e., at
6.6 kbps). From the Selection Experiment I5, while the subjective quality from
the EVS AMR-WB IO Case B (at 6.6 kbps) shows minor improvement to AMR-WB at
same bit rate, the performance requirement of better than AMR-WB 6.6 kbps
could not be met.
# A.2 ToR Tests for Objectives
Table A.3 summarizes the results for the Objectives ToR tests over the 24
Experiments. The table is organized in the same manner as the Summary results
for Requirement ToRs shown in Table A.1.
On the far right side of the table, \"Percent ToRs Passed\" values are shown
for each of the four Groups of Experiments: 98.15% for NB, 92.90% for WB,
55.42% for EVS AMR-WB IO, and 90.58% for SWB. Finally, at the bottom of the
table, \"Percent ToRs Passed\" for all of the Objectives in the Selection
Phase is reported - 110 of 590 ToRs were not-passed for a Percent Passed value
of 81.36%. It is noted that 67% of those 110 ToRs that were \"not-passed\"
occurred in the EVS AMR-WB IO Experiments.
Table A.3: Summary ToR Test Results for Objectives
{width="5.497222222222222in" height="6.783333333333333in"}
# A.3 ToR Tests by Sets
Table A.4 shows ToR results by Sets, where Sets were defined by the EVS sub-
working group. The Total number of ToRs and the number of ToRs failed for
Requirements are shown in the left-hand side of the table. For Objectives, the
Total number of ToRs and the number of ToRs not-passed are shown in the right-
hand side of the table.
Table A.4: ToR Test Results for Requirements and Objectives by Set
{width="5.104166666666667in" height="2.71875in"}
The ToRs in Set 5A account for most of the ToRs failed for Requirements (80%)
and also for most of the ToRs \"Not-passed\" for Objectives (67%).
# A.4 Comparison of Listening Labs
There was a discrepancy among the LLs in the number of Requirement ToRs
failed. The LL running the most Tests (Lab-b with 18) and therefore the most
ToR conditions showed the fewest (3) Requirement ToR failures. A logical
hypothesis for this discrepancy is that the LL with the lowest failure rate
might have lower sensitivity to quality differences and lower resolving-power
in the T-tests. Table 9 shows results of analyses designed to test that
hypothesis. The table shows that Lab-b had the lowest ToR failure rate (1%)
but also had virtually the same sensitivity to differences as the other two
LLs. In fact, the Minimum Significant Differences for all three LLs were
remarkably similar, 0.118 for Lab-a, 0.116 for Lab-b, and 0.114 for Lab-c.
Note that these values have been adjusted to take into account the differences
in the Average Range of the Rating Scale used by the listeners tested in the
three individual LLs.
Table A.5: Comparison of LLs for the Sensitivity and Precision of the
Requirements ToRs
{width="5.69375in" height="1.020138888888889in"}
Table A.6 Shows Means and Standard Deviations across conditions for each of
the two Tests conducted within each of the 24 Experiments involved in the
Selection Phase. In the last column on the right side of the table is the
correlation of the condition Mean scores between the two Tests/LLs. Annex B
contains two plots for each Experiment. The first plot shows MOS/DMOS for the
MNRU Reference conditions for the two Tests within the Experiment. The second
plot shows a scatter-plot of MOS/DMOS for the two tests within the Experiment.
Table A.6: Comparison of scores for the two Tests/LLs within each Experiment
{width="6.486805555555556in" height="4.6618055555555555in"}
###### ### Annex B: Overall Characterization of the EVS Codec
EVS is the next generation codec in 3GPP which provides an advantage over
existing 3GPP coders in terms of:
\- Extended audio bandwidth (super-wideband, fullband)
\- Improved performance for narrowband and wideband speech
\- Improved robustness against transmission errors
\- Lower average bit rate through discontinuous transmission and through
source-controlled variable bit rate operation for active speech
\- Better performance for music and mixed content in all bandwidths
\- Backward interoperability to AMR-WB by inclusion of EVS AMR-WB IO modes
The fixed-point EVS codec was rigorously tested using the ITU-T P.800 [25]
methodology with naïve listeners, demonstrating fulfillment of all testable
EVS WID objectives. The extensive Selection and Characterization testing
required a budget exceeding 1Million €. The first EVS WID objective was to
provide improvements for NB and WB services, and the NB improvement over AMR
at all comparable bit rates was demonstrated. Similarly, the WB improvements
over AMR-WB that EVS offers are apparent, including equivalence to Direct at
24.4 kbps.
To fulfill the SWB EVS WID objective, the EVS codec provides state-of-the-art
SWB performance, both in benign conditions and in more realistic conditions of
background noise and frame erasures. The WID objective for the robustness of
EVS was demonstrated in SWB and also confirmed in NB and WB testing.
Addressing an objective for improved performance in mixed content and music,
the EVS codec provides a significant improvement over legacy codecs.
3GPP\'s rigorous and transparent standardization process involved the
definition of demanding terms of reference (ToR\'s). The EVS codec was tested
against these ToR\'s in three test phases and with extensive independent
evaluations using an unprecedented budget. The test campaign included 70
subjective tests performed in 10 languages, several input signal categories,
and using independent test labs.
The standardization successfully delivered the EVS codec standard with greatly
enhanced performance as compared current codec standards from 3GPP, ITU-T and
the IETF.
EVS is currently the best available codec for all mobile and VoIP
applications.
The performance of the EVS codec excels, especially at low bit rates of up to
24.4 kbps, a feature of utmost importance for the deployment of cost-effective
mobile services, a cornerstone of mobile operator businesses.
###### ### Annex C: EVS Permanent Documents in 3GPP FTP-site
The standardization of the EVS codec is described in a series of permanent
project documents. They contain the most important guidelines, rules and
decisions. The following permanent project documents can be found in a
specific location on the 3GPP FTP site:
Table C.1: EVS Permanent Project Documents
* * *
SA4 TDoc number P-doc Title S4-140756 EVS-1 EVS codec development overview
S4-141016 EVS-2 EVS Project plan S4-130522 EVS-3 EVS performance requirements
S4-130778 EVS-4 EVS design constraints S4-140208 EVS-5b Selection Rules
S4-140630 EVS-6b Selection Deliverables S4-141026 EVS-7b Processing functions
for selection phase S4-141126 EVS-7c Processing functions for characterization
phase S4-141036 EVS-8b EVS Permanent Document EVS-8b: Test plan for selection
phase S4-141131 EVS-8c EVS Permanent Document EVS-8c: Test plan for
characterization phase S4-100547 EVS-10 List of potential reference codecs
S4-140983 EVS-11 EVS Verification Items S4-140918 EVS-12 Incorporating EVS
into TS 26.114
* * *
The latest version of these documents can be found in the following link:
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/tsg_sa/WG4_CODEC/EVS_Permanent_Documents/
###### ### Annex D: Attachments
Attachements to the present document include:
1) Excel sheet containing the EVS Selection Phase Test Results
2) Excel sheet containing the EVS Characterization Phase Test Results
3) Contribution S4-150559: HEAD acoustics, EVS -- Objective Codec Evaluation -
including results of codec release version 12.1.0, 3GPP SA4#83 Meeting, 13-17
April 2015
#