# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
Media handling of Multimedia Telephony Service over IMS, MTSI, are based on
3GPP SA4 TS 26.114 [1]. MTSI media handling is referred to by GSMA in GSMA PRD
IR.92 [21] also known as VoLTE and GSMA PRD IR.94 [22] also known as video
over LTE. MTSI clients can connect to conferencing IMS communication services.
3GPP conducted a study as part of a work item on Multi-stream Multiparty
Conferencing Media-Handling for MTSI. The work objective is to specify an
increment to MTSI client media-handling specification TS 26.114 to enable a
mass-market multiparty communication service with excellent multiparty user
experience and media quality. Such Operator communication service evolution
would match proprietary communication services in quality with excellent
efficiency and device reach.
The present document captures the study inputs, discussions and findings of
the Multi-stream Multiparty Conference Media Handling (MMCMH) work item. It
describes a set of use cases with corresponding problem descriptions and
potential solutions. The conclusion gives recommendations as to what needs to
be normatively specified to achieve the MMCMH work item objectives.
# 1 Scope
The Technical Report provides a study on the media handling aspects of Multi-
stream Multiparty Conferencing for MTSI. The study focuses on enabling
  * support to receive multi-stream audio/video at the terminals in a multiparty conferencing,
  * support for at least two video contents, e.g. one main and one presentation,
  * talker ID provisioning,
  * compatibility with MTSI TS 26.114 and GSMA IR.94 (Video over LTE) [22] and GSMA IR.92 (VoLTE) [21], and
  * applicability to both mobile and fixed access terminals
High-level use cases along with current limitations and recommendations are
documented in the present document.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 26.114 (V12.9.0): \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); Multimedia
Telephony, Media handling and interaction\".
[2] S4-150097: \"Updated New Work Item Description on MTSI Extension on Multi-
stream Multiparty Conferencing Media Handling\".
[3] 3GPP TS 24.147: \"Conferencing Using IP Multimedia Core Network; Stage
3\".
[4] 3GPP TS 24.605: \"CONF Using IP Multimedia Core Network\".
[5] 3GPP TS 22.228: \"Service Requirements for IP Multimedia Core Network;
Stage 1\".
[6] 3GPP TS 23.218:\"IP Multimedia Session Handling; IP Multimedia Call Model;
Stage 2\".
[7] 3GPP TS 24.228: \"Signalling Flows for IP Multimedia Call Control Based on
SIP and SDP; Stage 3\".
[8] 3GPP TS 24.229: \"IP Multimedia Call Control Protocol Based on SIP and
SDP; Stage 3\".
[9] 3GPP TR 22.948: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem Convergent Multimedia
Conferencing\".
[10] 3GPP TR 29.847: \"SIP Conferencing Models, Flows and Protocols\".
[11] GSM Association: \"WebRTC Codecs DRAFT v1.3\", September 2014,
http://www.gsma.com/newsroom/wp-content/uploads/WebRTC-
Whitepaper-v13.pdf[.]{.underline}
[12] IETF Internet Draft: \"Using Simulcast in SDP and RTP Sessions\", January
2015, https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-mmusic-sdp-simulcast/ .
[13] IETF RFC 4796: \"The Session Description Protocol (SDP) Content
Attribute\", February 2007, https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/rfc4796/.
[14] GSM Association PRD IR.39: \"IMS Profile for High Definition Video
Conferencing (HDVC) v5.0\", July 2014, http://www.gsma.com/newsroom/wp-
content/uploads//IR.39-v5.0.pdf.
[15] IETF RFC 4582: \"The Binary Floor Control Protocol (BFCP)\", November
2006, https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/rfc4582/.
Note A new version of this RFC is in the process of being published. See [17].
[16] IETF RFC 4583: \"Session Description Protocol (SDP) Format for Binary
Floor Control Protocol (BFCP) Streams\", November 2006,
https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/rfc4583/.
Note: A new version of this RFC is in the process of being published. See
[18].
[17] draft-ietf-bfcpbis-rfc4582bis-13: \"The Binary Floor Control Protocol
(BFCP), February 2015, WORK IN PROGRESS,
https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-bfcpbis-rfc4582bis/.
[18] draft-ietf-bfcpbis-rfc4583bis-11: \"Session Description Protocol (SDP)
Format for Binary Floor Control Protocol (BFCP) Streams\", February 2015, WORK
IN PROGRESS, https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-bfcpbis-
rfc4583bis/_._
[19] IETF RFC 3550: \"RTP: A Transport Protocol for Real-Time Applications\",
July 2003,\ https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/rfc3550/.
[20] IETF RFC 5104: \"Codec Control Messages in the RTP Audio-Visual Profile
with Feedback (AVPF)\", February 2008,
https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/rfc5104/.
[21] GSM Association PRD IR.92, \"IR.92 IMS Profile for Voice and SMS\", v9.0,
April 2015, http://www.gsma.com/newsroom/wp-content/uploads//IR.92-v9.0.pdf.
[22] GSM Association PRD IR.94: \"IR.94 IMS Profile for Conversational Video
Service\", v8.0.1, November 2014, http://www.gsma.com/newsroom/wp-
content/uploads//IR.94-v8.01.pdf.
[23] Internet Draft, \"RTP Stream Pause and Resume\", March 2015,
https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-avtext-rtp-stream-pause/
(submitted to IESG for publication).
[24] 3GPP TS 24.173: \"IMS Multimedia Telephony Communication Service and
Supplementary Services\".
[25] IETF RFC 4353: \"A Framework for Conferencing with the Session Initiation
Protocol (SIP)\", February 2006, https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/rfc4353/.
[26] IETF RFC 3515: \"The Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) Refer Method\",
April 2003, https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/rfc3515/.
[27] IETF RFC 5939: \"Session Description Protocol (SDP) Capability
Negotiation\", Sept. 2010.
[28] IETF RFC 6184: \"RTP Payload Format for H.264 Video\", May 2011,
https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc6184.txt.
[29] draft-ietf-payload-rtp-h265, \"RTP Payload Format for H.265/HEVC Video\",
https://tools.ietf.org/id/draft-ietf-payload-rtp-h265-14.txt.
[30] ITU-T Recommendation H.264: \"Advanced video coding for generic
audiovisual services\".
[31] IETF RFC 3261: SIP: \"Session Initiation Protocol\", June 2002.
[32] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[33] IETF RFC 4796 (2007): \"The Session Description Protocol (SDP) Content
Attribute\".
[34] IETF Internet Draft, draft-ietf-mmusic-sdp-simulcast-03 (2015): \"Using
Simulcast in SDP and RTP Sessions\" (WORK IN PROGRESS).
[35] 3GPP TS 24.147: \"Conferencing Using IP Multimedia Core Network; Stage
3\".
[36] IETF RFC 4575 (2006): \"A Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) Event Package
for Conference State\".
[37] IETF RFC 4582 (2006): \"The Binary Floor Control Protocol (BFCP)\".
[38] IETF RFC 4583 (2006): \"Session Description Protocol (SDP) Format for
Binary Floor Control (BFCP) Streams\".
[39] IETF Internet Draft, draft-ietf-avtext-rtp-stream-pause-10 (2015): \"RTP
Stream Pause and Resume\" (WORK IN PROGRESS).
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [32] and the following apply.\ A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR
21.905 [32].
**Mode-set:** Used for the AMR and AMR-WB codecs to identify the codec modes
that can be used in a session. A mode-set can include one or more codec modes.
**MSMTSI client:** A multi-stream capable MTSI client supporting multiple
streams. An MTSI client may support multiple streams, even of the same media
type, without being an MSMTSI client. Such an MTSI client may, for example,
add a second video to an ongoing video telephony session as shown in TS 26.114
Annex A.11.
**MSMTSI MRF:** An MSMTSI client implemented by functionality included in the
MRFC and the MRFP.
**MSMTSI client in terminal:** An MSMTSI client that is implemented in a
terminal or UE. The term \"MSMTSI client in terminal\" is used in the present
document when entities such as MRFP, MRFC or media gateways are excluded.
**MTSI client:** A function in a terminal or in a network entity (e.g. a MRFP)
that supports MTSI.
**MTSI client in terminal:** An MTSI client that is implemented in a terminal
or UE. The term \"MTSI client in terminal\" is used in the present document
when entities such as MRFP, MRFC or media gateways are excluded.
**MTSI media gateway (or MTSI MGW):** A media gateway that provides
interworking between an MTSI client and a non MTSI client, e.g. a CS UE. The
term MTSI media gateway is used in a broad sense, as it is outside the scope
of the current specification to make the distinction whether certain
functionality should be implemented in the MGW or in the MGCF.
**Operational mode:** Used for the EVS codec to distinguish between EVS
Primary mode and EVS AMR-WB IO mode.
**Simulcast:** Simultaneously sending different encoded representations
(simulcast formats) of a single media source (e.g. originating from a single
microphone or camera) in different simulcast streams.
**Simulcast format:** The encoded format used by a single simulcast stream,
typically represented by an SDP format and all SDP attributes that apply to
that particular SDP format, indicated in RTP by the RTP header payload type
field.
**Simulcast stream:** The RTP stream carrying a single simulcast format in a
simulcast.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[32] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [32].
AVC Advanced Video Coding
BFCP Binary Floor Control Protocol
CCM Codec Control Messages
LTE Long Term Evolution
MSRP Message Session Relay Protocol
MSMTSI Multi-Stream Multimedia Telephony Service for IMS
MTSI Multimedia Telephony Service for IMS
SDP Session Description Protocol
# 4 Overview
Clause 5 provides a high-level description of the media handling in current
3GPP conferencing. The rest of the document is organized as follows. clause 6
describes the use cases analysed in this study. Clause 7 provides the
conclusion and recommendations for further standardization efforts. Annex A
includes some SDP offer/answer examples.
# 5 Media Handling in Current 3GPP Conferencing
The current 3GPP specifications mentioning conferencing or group communication
is mainly focusing on (SIP) signalling aspects, and there is very little on
media handling aspects. Those specifications include (list not intended to be
exhaustive) [3], [4], [5], [6], [7], [8], [9] and [10].
{width="5.0in" height="3.004166666666667in"}
Figure 1. Existing Conference Architecture Example.
This briefly summarizes a few things regarding IMS conferences that are
already specified, and that have an impact on media handling:
\- A centralized conference with the MRFP as conference focus is assumed [3],
where media handling is not explicitly described:
\- MRFP is assumed to be an RTP \"mixer\" in IETF RFC 3550 [19] sense:
\- One possible implicit assumption is that the conference focus always
transcodes (decodes, mixes, and re-encodes) media individually towards every
participant.
\- Another possibility is to switch the video RTP stream untouched from one
participant to another, and possibly to all other participants.
\- It is not described which video stream the MRFP should distribute to the
different participants:
\- One possible and reasonable assumption is that the video from some \"active
speaker\" is distributed to other participants, which would require some
\"active speaker\" decision in the MRFP that in turn could be based on speech
activity analysis of the audio streams from every participant.
\- If \"active speaker\" is distributed, it is common on the market to not
distribute media from that \"active speaker\" to itself, but rather the
previous \"active speaker\" (as depicted in Figure 1).
\- Another possible assumption is that all, or at least most, participant
videos are re-sized, composed, and transcoded into a checkerboard layout.
\- A third possible assumption is that some type of floor control, e.g. based
on Binary Floor Control Protocol (BFCP) [3] and [15], is used, where the usage
details in that case are so far left unspecified.
\- When MRFP is not transcoding, when changing from forwarding one
participant\'s video to another participant\'s video, and since encoded video
typically makes use of temporal redundancy, this change can only be made at a
point in the video stream that does not depend on any previous part of that
video stream -- a so called \"intra\" picture. When deciding to make a change
of forwarded video, the MRFP can trigger the UE to send such intra picture by
issuing an RTCP CCM FIR command to the UE, as described in RFC 5104, and make
the actual switch only when that intra picture arrives to the MRFP. Timing,
reliability and bandwidth aspects of FIR transmission are described in RFC
5104. A MTSI UE is already required to support and react on FIR. When changing
to a new source and if the new source is inactive (on hold or not established)
then that stream has to be activated before the MRFP can switch to it.
\- SIP conference call control includes three allowed options [3] and [8]:
\- Each participating UE calls in to conference (SIP INVITE).
\- The originating UE calls in to conference and requests it to call out to
other participants (SIP INVITE with recipient list).
\- A UE has an ongoing point-to-point or three-party call that is moved into a
conference (SIP REFER).
\- MRFC always includes \"isFocus\" tag in its SIP signalling [3] (regardless
if it is a SIP request or response), which lets the UE know that it is
signalling with a conference and not another UE.
\- The conference may optionally make use of explicit floor control through
Binary Floor Control Protocol (BFCP) [3] and [15]:
\- The use of a floor control protocol allows explicitly, and even manually,
controlling which participant\'s video is distributed to others by the MRFP.
\- The use of this \"application\" media stream is negotiated through SDP
[16].
\- TCP transport of BFCP is assumed, possibly because this was until fairly
recently the only specified transport in IETF, but many BFCP implementations
on the market instead use UDP in a straightforward way, and there is well
progressed work in IETF to describe this in an update to the BFCP RFC [17].
The MMCMH work item objectives include enabling multi-stream audio/video
support at the terminals. In addition, as specified in the MMCMH WI
objectives, the conference focus and the terminals may receive stereo streams
for further processing and rendering. The clauses below present the multi-
stream audio and video use cases, where the terminals receive and decode the
multiple streams of audio/video and thumbnails, and render them at the
terminal that is potentially transcoder-free. Conferencing using IP multimedia
core network and with conference focus mixing (e.g. with MRFP) are addressed
in 3GPP TS 24.147 and IETF RFC 4353.
# 6 Use cases
## 6.1 Overview
This clause contains multimedia group communication use cases that enables
multi-stream video and audio support at the terminals.
## 6.2 Use case A: Transcoding Free Continuous Presence
When calling in to a group video call, the user is able to see video from more
than a single one of the other participants in the call, which is commonly
referred to as \"continuous presence\". This is typically desirable in a group
communication for a user to be able to see the reactions of more than a single
participant.
In contrast, when receiving video from one participant at a time, several
different approaches to choose that single participant are possible, subject
to implementation in the conference focus. It may be that the active speaker
is chosen, based on conference focus analysis of some (unspecified) voice
activity measure of all participants. It may be based on a chair person\'s
explicit and manual control of the conference focus, typically requiring a
floor control protocol, such as for example BFCP, [15]. It can also be based
on other approaches, such as for example an automatic, timed round-robin among
all participants.
The participant layout or the number of participants simultaneously visible in
a continuous presence layout is neither specified nor specifically restricted
in this use case. An implementation will however always be limited, either by
the receiving UE capability, or by group call network resources. Examples of
receiving UE capability limitations are available display size, and decoding
resources. Examples of network resource limitations are network bandwidth and
conference focus processing capacity. Different UE implementations may
typically have different amounts of limitation, and a solution could possibly
accommodate that by letting the conference focus adapt the layout to
individual UE.
{width="5.0in" height="3.0118055555555556in"}
Figure 2. Continuous presence example.
If the chosen layout is able to fit all participants in the group
communication, no further action has to be taken. However, when the number of
group participants is larger than the number of participants in the chosen
layout, those participants have to be selected somehow, just as for the single
video layout described above. The selection of participants to include in such
continuous presence layout can be based on the same principles as for the
single video case. For example, if a voice activity approach is used, the N
currently most active speakers can be chosen. In that case, it is often
desirable that the current active speaker is highlighted in some way, for
example by using a larger video image size.
Typically, a separate composed video layout has to be created for each
receiver, since it is often not desirable to show the receiving user as part
of such composition. Specifically, the currently active speaker should also be
shown something else than itself in active speaker position, for example the
previously active speaker. If it is desirable to show a self-view video, this
is much more efficient to solve locally in the sending UE, since that video
then neither has to occupy any composition resources in the conference focus
nor any downlink bandwidth. A video layout is possible to re-use in group
communications where the total number of participants is at least two more
than the number of participants included in the video layout.
The receiving user should ideally be able to impact the received layout, but
it may also be decided by some policy implemented in the UE application, in
the conference focus, or some combination.
### 6.2.1 Problem Description
Assuming that a UE can receive only a single video stream, creation of the
composed \"continuous presence\" picture has to happen elsewhere, typically in
the conference focus media handling part. Such composition requires decoding
of video from all of the participants to be composed, re-sizing them to fit
the layout, composing the layout in the decoded pixel domain, and re-encoding
the resulting video. This transcoding operation introduces increased end-to-
end delay and decreases video quality, similar to what is described in [11]
(although that document focuses on transcoding between different video
codecs). It also requires a significant amount of transcoding and video
composition resources in the conference focus, per group video communication
participant.
To summarize, the problem with this approach to continuous presence is
threefold:
1\. Increased end-to-end delay
2\. Decreased video quality
3\. Increased amount of resources in the conference focus
The increased bandwidth with respect to multi-stream vs. transcoding is
considered in a separate use case in clause 6.4.
### 6.2.2 Proposed Solution
The suggested solution is instead using local video composition of decoded
video in the receiving UE, meaning that it receives and independently decodes
all of the video streams to be used for composition. The conference focus is
then neither composing any continuous presence image nor transcoding it, but
just forwarding video streams from the sending participants to appropriate
receivers.
The composition can be part of the normal video display process and does not
introduce any noticeable extra video delay. In addition, the video composition
process is also under full control of the receiving UE, and leaves significant
freedom to the local graphical user interface (GUI) to layout the different
videos, and can easily (but optionally) allow the user of the receiving UE to
impact such layout, without or with minimal changes to the conference focus or
received video streams.
{width="5.0in" height="3.0277777777777777in"}
Figure 3. Transcoding-free multi-stream continuous presence example.
If the receiving UE is able to express capability for maximum number of
received video streams and also their corresponding \"sizes\", it is fairly
easy to use that information to construct meaningful local video layouts. For
example, assuming that the conference focus uses voice activity detection for
the group communication participants, and further assuming it is able to send
videos for the N most active speakers, where the current active speaker is
provided in normal resolution while the rest (N-1) is provided in low
resolution (\"thumbnails\"). A conference focus having this information per
connected UE can easily choose which, and which number of participant videos
to forward to a specific UE.
To support that the active speaker is shown in normal size on receiving UE
while thumbnails are smaller, the conference focus needs that active speaker
to send a normal size video, while the others being shown as thumbnails may
send smaller sized videos. To accommodate the previous active speaker to be
shown in normal size as active speaker to the current active speaker (instead
of itself), the previous active speaker may have to send both a normal sized
video (to be forwarded by conference focus to current active speaker), and a
small sized video (to be forwarded as thumbnail to other participants). This
way of sending multiple simultaneous representations of the same content is
called \"simulcast\" [12].
This can be accomplished in SDP by letting the active speaker be described by
the already present video m-line, and add a set of additional video m-lines
(number can be decided by UE capability) to describe the additional (possibly
thumbnail) videos. The advantages with this approach are that the number of
and details for each additional thumbnail can be negotiated (and also
rejected) independently. This approach is also fully in line with existing SDP
semantics, where additional m-lines describe media that are sent in addition
to and simultaneously with other m-lines (like, for example, the current audio
and video m-lines).
When it comes to simulcast (see above), this is slightly different, and there
is ongoing work in IETF on this issue. Different (and simultaneous)
representations of the same video source should be described by a single
m-line (see details in [12]). It is of course possible to express capability
for and negotiate the use of simulcast.
Note that the way to implement multi-stream in this scenario does not require
any specific video codec type. Any video codec type can be used, as long as
the sending and receiving UE use compatible video codecs, described and
negotiated by SDP, for example the mandatory TS 26.114 video codec H.264.
## 6.3 Use case B: Screen Sharing
In a group video communication, it is sometimes desirable for a user to show
something else than the video from the camera to the other participants, like
a document, image or something else that can be shown on the user\'s local
screen.
### 6.3.1 Problem Description
The basic problem is that there is no commonly accepted interchange format to
transfer screen content between peers, although several proprietary formats do
exist. It is in principle possible to send screen content as regular video, if
encoding is adapted to that specific application (like, for example, high
resolution and low frame rate), but general video coding is usually not
optimal for the task.
It is not expected that 3GPP SA4 or the MMCMH Work Item particular could take
on a task to define such format
That screen share content should also preferably be treated differently from
\"normal\" video from a participant, such that the conference focus should not
change what video to send to others based on voice activity. If it was changed
based on voice activity, it would not be possible for another participant to
comment on what is shown without having that commenting participant being
shown instead of the screen share video. To make this distinction, the
conference focus has to know this specific status of screen share video.
Typically, it is desirable to let only one participant at a time in a group
communication to share its screen, which is then distributed to all other
participants. In some scenarios, that can be controlled informally by regular
social interaction between participants (for example using meeting audio and
video communication), but in other scenarios it is preferable with more formal
control by some type of meeting chair.
This problem is thus twofold:
1) The conference focus has to be able to distinguish between normal video and
screen share to be able to apply another strategy what video to distribute to
participants.
It should be possible to control that only a single one is sharing at any
point in time, as well as who that is, and the needed formalism in this
decision can differ.
### 6.3.2 Proposed Solution
It is noted that current HEVC extensions for screen content coding is in
progress in the ISO/MPEG ITU-T JVC group. Thus, if the approach is taken to
use video as screen content format, current H.264 or H.265 encoding can be
used (possibly with specific encoder settings), at least as an interim
solution, subject to normal UE capability negotiation, awaiting a more
optimized format, like the ongoing screen content coding.
Thus, with the above assumptions, this use case can in principle be
accomplished by functionality in the UE that can take video input from the UE
screen instead of (or in addition to) from the camera.
To indicate the special screen share status of a video, it is proposed to
adopt the approach taken by already existing equipment, using a separate video
m-line in the SDP and label it with the already defined SDP \"a=content\"
attribute [13], with a value of \"slides\".
It can be noted that this is the approach taken by GSM Association in IR.39
\"High Definition Video Conference (HDVC)\" [14].
It can also be noted that when using a separate SDP (video) m-line for screen
share, and if there are sufficient UE processing resources and network
bandwidth, it is almost independent of how the real-time video is done, and
thus possible to use the screen sharing in combination with the multi-stream
use case for continuous presence described above (as indicated by the lower
right UE in Figure 4).
Control of who is allowed to share screen content, and whose screen content
the MRFP should forward to the conference participants can be implemented in
different ways. The approach taken by IR.39 [14] is to use Binary Floor
Control Protocol (BFCP) [3], [15], [17], which is already part of IMS
infrastructure. An (incomplete) example of SDP signalling for setting up a
BFCP stream for TCP transport is provided below.
{width="5.0in" height="3.0868055555555554in"}
Figure 4. Screen share video example.
Table 1: BFCP in SDP
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | SDP Offer from UE | SDP Answer from conference | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | m=video ...\ | m=video ...\ | | a=content:main _(optional, but | a=content:main\ | | clarifying)_ \ | a=sendrecv | | a=sendrecv | | | | m=video ...\ | | m=video ...\ | a=content:slides\ | | a=content:slides _(mandatory, | a=label:10_(added by MRFP, for | | for screen share)_\ | reference below)_ \ | | a=sendonly | a=recvonly | | | | | m=application 50324 TCP/BFCP *\ | a=application 50324 TCP/BFCP *\ | | a=floorctrl:c-only _(UE assumed | a=floorctrl:s-only_(server only | | BFCP client only)_| if UE is client only)_ \ | | | a=floorid:1 mstrm:10 _(floor 1 | | ... | has media label:10)_ \ | | | a=confid:3824 _(allocated BFCP | | | conference ID)_ \ | | | a=userid:293069 _(allocated BFCP | | | user ID for UE)_ | | | | | | ... | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
If a UE sends media on the content:slides stream to the MRFP without owning
the screen sharing floor, that media is silently discarded by the MRFP and is
not forwarded to any other conference participant.
The first screen sharing media a UE sends after being granted the screen
sharing floorhas to be independently decodable, a \"refresh point\", meaning
that the encoded mediawill not reference any previous media that the receivers
may not have access to. An example of a refresh point is a video intra (or
IDR) picture, in combination with and being preceded by the active parameter
sets. The MRFP should not start forwarding screen sharing media to other
receivers until a refresh point is received. If the MRFP does not receive a
complete refresh point in a timely manner, a FIR should be sent towards the
screen sharing UE, which should respond by including such refresh point at its
earliest convenience. A UE receiving the screen share stream may similarly use
FIR to ask for additional refresh points from the MRFP.
Whether or not screen sharing in the conference is moderated (by a BFCP floor
chair) is a matter of conference configuration. How this configuration is made
is outside the scope of the present document.
If there is a floor chair, BFCP floor requests from UE are forwarded by the
MRFP to the floor chair for explicit approval, and grants or rejections are
sent back to the requesting UE. If there is no floor chair, the decision to
grant or reject floor requests is left to the MRFP. The details on how this
decision is taken can be left to individual MRFP implementations, but possible
alternatives include:
1) Always accepting new floor requests, possibly revoking the floor from a UE
that is currently owning it
2) Only accepting new floor requests when no other UE owns it, requiring UE to
always release the floor after sharing is done
Use of BFCP to control screen sharing can, as a simplistic alternative, also
be optional. In that case, every UE that starts sending screen share media
automatically gets the screen share floor, similar to either 1) or 2) above.
In this case, the floor is automatically released when sending screen share
media stops. In the simplest case and if this simple approach is considered
sufficient, not even the MRFP needs to support BFCP. It should also be noted
that without explicit floor control such as BFCP, no moderation is possible.
If the MRFP supports BFCP with screen sharing, but not all UE in the
conference do, the MRFP may generate BFCP floor requests and releases on
behalf of the UEs not supporting BFCP, based on the simple approach above. An
advantage with letting the MRFP generate BFCP requests and releases on behalf
of non-BFCP UE is that the screen sharing floor can be moderated to some
extent even for non-BFCP UE.
## 6.4 Use Case C: Bandwidth Handling
**This use case deal with how to control bandwidth for a UE with multistream
capability in six different sub-scenarios, which must all be possible to
handle and where different behaviour is needed:**
a) A non-multistream capable UE calling in to a multistream-capable
conference.
b) A multistream capable UE calling in to a multistream-capable conference,
where the bandwidth usage desired by the UE application is less than the
current network restriction (no effective limit).
c) A multistream capable UE calling in to a multistream-capable conference,
where the bandwidth usage desired by the UE application is slightly greater
than the current network restriction.
d) A multistream capable UE calling in to a multistream-capable conference,
where the bandwidth usage desired by the UE application is significantly
greater than the current network restriction (severe restrictions).
e) A multistream capable UE calling point-to-point to another multistream
capable UE.
f) A multistream capable UE calling point-to-point to a non-multistream
capable UE.
### 6.4.1 Problem Description
**The number of media streams used between the conference and each individual
participant UE, or point-to-point between UEs, will not exceed the UE or
conference capability, andit willl thus be possible to decide through regular
SDP Offer/Answer procedures.**
**The maximum amount of bandwidth occupied in total is limited by the
available end-to-end bandwidth capacity, which is normally communicated to the
UE through IMS procedures in combination with SDP Offer/Answer. This approach
will be possible to use also with multiple media streams.**
**The UE and the conference should each be given some reasonable amount of
control over the division of this total IMS-decided total bandwidth among the
different media streams, enough to be able to scale the use of multiple media
streams with bandwidth availability in a way that makes sense for group video
communication applications.**
**It will be possible to avoid using multistream functionality or additional
bandwidth in cases where it is not applicable, for example in some cases when
calling point-to-point.**
### 6.4.2 Proposed Solution
**This clause includes for clarification a set of example SDP fragments. It
should be noted that these are not valid or complete SDP examples, but are for
brevity and clarity just fragments, highlighting only bandwidth aspects of the
SDP offer/answer process that are relevant to the accompanying text, and
sometimes also contains clarifying comments (_in brackets and italics_) that
would not be part of an actual SDP.**
**The SDP additions for multistream functionality (simulcast, thumbnails,
screen sharing, and floor control; see other clauses), are all defined as SDP
media-level attributes or as separate SDP m-lines, meaning that they are
governed by existing SDP offer/answer rules.**
#### 6.4.2.1 Single-stream to multi-stream
**If multistream functionality is not included in an SDP offer, it will also
not be present in the SDP answer. The bandwidth use will then not differ from
a non-multistream case, for example sub-use case a) above, where a non-
multistream client calls in to a multistream-capable conference.**
**Table 2: Single-stream Offer to Multi-stream Conference**
+-------------+-------------+ | SDP Offer | SDP Answer | +-------------+-------------+ | m=video ... | m=video ... | | | | | b=AS:500 | b=AS:500 | | | | | a=sendrecv | a=sendrecv | | | | | ... | ... | +-------------+-------------+
#### 6.4.2.2 Multi-stream to single-stream
**If multistream functionality is included in the SDP offer but rejected and
disabled in the SDP answer, the negotiated bandwidth in the direction from the
offerer to the answerer (in the answer) will not differ from a non-multistream
case. The negotiated bandwidth in the direction from the answerer to the
offerer (in the offer) is on the other hand applicable to the bandwidth needed
with multistream functionality included, which will then be the bandwidth used
by IMS and unnecessarily high as multistream functionality was negotiated away
and will not be used.**
**When the offerer that offered multistream functionality learns from the SDP
answer that the answerer will not make use of the multistream functionality,
it can (if needed) send an updated SDP offer where the multistream
functionality is disabled and the bandwidth adjusted accordingly. This second
SDP offer/answer does not add to call setup time, since all media streams that
are applicable to the session are already started, and the only modification
needed is bandwidth allocation optimization. The resulting bandwidth use will
not differ from a non-multistream case, for example in sub-use case f) above,
where a multistream capable UE calls a non-multistream UE. It could be noted
that in this specific point-to-point case, the offerer decision to send an
updated SDP offer disabling multistream functionality can be assisted by the
knowledge that it is a point-to-point call, since the \"isFocus\" SIP tag is
not in the SIP message that carries the SDP answer.**
**Table 3: Multi-stream Offer to Single-stream UE**
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 1^st^ SDP | 1^st^ SDP | 2^nd^ SDP | 2^nd^ SDP | | Offer | Answer | Offer | Answer | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | m=video ... | m=video ... | m=video ... | m=video ... | | (_main_) | | | | | | b=AS:500 | b=AS:500 | b=AS:500 | | b=AS:500 | | | | | | a=sendrecv | a=sendrecv | a=sendrecv | | a=sendrecv | | | | | | m=video 0 ... | m=video 0 ... | m=video 0 ... | | a= simulcast | | | | | send p1 p2 | m=video 0 ... | m=video 0 ... | m=video 0 ... | | | | | | | m=video ... | ... | ... | ... | | (_thumbnail | | | | | 1_) | | | | | | | | | | b=AS:80 | | | | | | | | | | a=recvonly | | | | | | | | | | m=video | | | | | (_thumbnail | | | | | 2_) | | | | | | | | | | b=AS:80 | | | | | | | | | | a=recvonly | | | | | | | | | | ... | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
#### 6.4.2.3 Multi-stream to multi-stream without bandwidth restriction
**If multistream functionality is in the SDP offer, if the SDP answerer
supports the offered multistream functionality, and if the desired bandwidth
can be supported by the end-to-end network path, the IMS can use the included
b-lines (per m-line) in the SDP to allocate necessary resources, just as for
non-multistream cases, only that there are more than a single audio line and a
single video line in the SDP. In case any of those m-lines are mapped to the
same bearer, for example if all video m-lines are mapped to a single QCI 2
(video) bearer, the corresponding b-line values can be added together (by the
IMS) to obtain a single total bandwidth value to use for that bearer.**
**A simulcast receiver, whether it is the SDP offerer or answerer, may
typically indicate a slightly higher b-line value for the m-line containing
the simulcast, to allow some extra bandwidth for the simulcast streams in
receive direction. An entity that is only a simulcast sender should not
indicate a higher bandwidth for the simulcast m-line, since the SDP b-line
only indicates the willingness to receive the specified bandwidth, not what is
sent. It should be noted that this results in intentional asymmetric bandwidth
usage.**
**A thumbnail receiver, irrespective if it is the SDP offerer or answerer,
includes the desired maximum receive bandwidth as the b-line value with the
receive-only (a=recvonly) thumbnail m-line(s). A thumbnail sender, again
irrespective if it is the SDP offerer or answerer, includes the intended
maximum send bandwidth as the b-line value with the send-only (a=sendonly)
thumbnail m-line(s). A thumbnail sender must not use a higher b-line value for
the thumbnail in an SDP answer than was received in a corresponding offer.**
Table 4: Multi-stream Offer to Multi-stream Capable Conference
+-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | SDP Offer | SDP Answer | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | m=video ... (_main_) | m=video ... (_main_) | | | | | b=AS:500 | b=AS:800 (_bandwidth includes | | | simulcast_) | | a=sendrecv | | | | a=sendrecv | | a= simulcast send p1 p2 | | | | a= simulcast recv p1 p2 (_simulcast | | m=video ... (_ thumbnail 1 _) | accepted_) | | | | | b=AS:80 | m=video ... (_thumbnail 1_) | | | | | a=recvonly | b=AS:80 | | | | | m=video (_thumbnail 2_) | a=sendonly | | | | | b=AS:80 | m=video (_thumbnail 2_) | | | | | a=recvonly | b=AS:80 | | | | | ... | a=sendonly | | | | | | ... | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+
#### 6.4.2.4 Multi-stream to multi-stream with minor bandwidth restrictions
**In a use case similar to the above, but where the UE or conference desires
to use a higher bandwidth than what is available, the IMS can selectively
limit all bandwidths in the SDP. This limitation should preferably be made in
a way such that the reduction in bandwidth affects the perceived application
experience as little as possible. In this specific use case, it is assumed
that the difference between desired bandwidth and actually available bandwidth
is small, and the IMS here choses (as an example) to decrease all the
individual bandwidths with the same ratio. It is thus assumed that the
offerer\'s and/or answerer\'s IMS decreases the bandwidth in the SDP offer
with some amount (here 10%) before it reaches the answerer. It is similarly
assumed that the answerer\'s and/or offerer\'s IMS decreases the bandwidth in
the SDP answer with some amount (here 15%) before it reaches the offerer. The
bandwidth for sendonly streams in the SDP answer is not modified by IMS since
that SDP modification will not be seen by the RTP stream sender (the SDP
answerer) unless yet another SDP offer/answer is initiated. IMS can avoid this
problem by instead modifying those streams in the SDP offer, when they are
recvonly and before reaching the SDP answerer.**
Table 5: Multi-stream Offer to Bandwidth-Restricted Multi-stream Receiver
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Sent SDP Offer | Received SDP | Sent SDP | Received SDP | | | Offer | Answer | Answer | | (sent by UE) | | | | | | (modified by | (sent by MRFC) | (modified by | | | IMS) | | IMS) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | m=video ... | m=video ... | m=video ... | m=video ... | | (_main_) | (_main_) | (_main_) | (_main_) | | | | | | | b=AS:500 | b=AS:450 | b=AS:720 | b=AS:612 | | | | | | | a=sendrecv | a=sendrecv | a=sendrecv | a=sendrecv | | | | | | | a= simulcast | a= simulcast | a= simulcast | a= simulcast | | send p1 p2 | send p1 p2 | recv p1 p2 | recv p1 p2 | | | | | | | m=video ... | m=video ... | m=video ... | m=video ... | | (_thumbnail | (_ thumbnail | (_thumbnail | (_ thumbnail | | 1 _) | 1_) | 1 _) | 1_) | | | | | | | b=AS:80 | b=AS:72 | b=AS:72 | b=AS:72 | | | | | | | a=recvonly | a=recvonly | a=sendonly | a=sendonly | | | | | | | m=video | m=video | m=video | m=video | | (_thumbnail |_(thumbnail | (_thumbnail | (_ thumbnail | | 2 _) | 2_) | 2 _) | 2_) | | | | | | | b=AS:80 | b=AS:72 | b=AS:72 | b=AS:72 | | | | | | | a=recvonly | a=recvonly | a=sendonly | a=sendonly | | | | | | | ... | ... | ... | ... | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
#### 6.4.2.5 Multi-stream to multi-stream with severe bandwidth restriction
**Again, in a use case similar to the above, but where the UE or conference
desires to use a significantly higher bandwidth than what the network can
support, the IMS can still selectively limit all bandwidths in the SDP. As
above, the limitation should preferably be made in a way such that the
reduction in bandwidth affects the perceived application experience as little
as possible, but in this case it will anyway be significant. In this specific
use case, it is assumed that the difference between desired bandwidth and
actually available bandwidth is significant, and the offerer\'s IMS here
choses (as an example) to decrease a few of the bandwidths from the top of the
SDP to what can be supported, and disables the last thumbnail (setting port to
zero). The answerer\'s IMS (still as an example) has even worse conditions and
reduces bandwidth even more. As for the previous example, it is not possible
for IMS to disable or reduce bandwidth for RTP streams that are sendonly in
the SDP answer (here thumbnails), unless an additional, subsequent SDP
offer/answer is initiated. IMS can avoid this problem by instead modifying
those streams in the SDP offer, when they are recvonly and before reaching the
SDP answerer. How to best decrease bandwidth and/or disable streams is
application-specific, included here only as an example and is not specified
further. If the described methodology is followed, it can accommodate various
different bandwidth-reduction approaches and be kept application-specific
without requiring any changes to the UE.**
**Table 6: Multi-stream Offer to Severely Bandwidth-Restricted Multi-stream
Receiver**
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Sent SDP Offer | Received SDP | Sent SDP | Received SDP | | | Offer | Answer | Answer | | (sent by UE) | | | | | | (modified by | (sent by MRFC) | (modified by | | | IMS) | | IMS) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | m=video ... | m=video ... | m=video ... | m=video ... | | (_main_) | (_main_) | (_main_) | (_main_) | | | | | | | b=AS:500 | b=AS:250 | b=AS:300 | b=AS:250 | | | | | | | a=sendrecv | a=sendrecv | a=sendrecv | a=sendrecv | | | | | | | a= simulcast | a= simulcast | a= simulcast | a= simulcast | | send p1 p2 | send p1 p2 | recv p1 p2 | recv p1 p2 | | | | | | | m=video ... | m=video ... | m=video ... | m=video ... | | (_thumbnail | (_ thumbnail | (_thumbnail | (_ thumbnail | | 1 _) | 1_) | 1 _) | 1_) | | | | | | | b=AS:80 | b=AS:50 | b=AS:50 | b=AS:50 | | | | | | | a=recvonly | a=recvonly | a=sendonly | a=sendonly | | | | | | | m=video | m=video 0 | m=video 0 | m=video 0 | | (_thumbnail |_(thumbnail | (_thumbnail | (_ thumbnail | | 2 _) | 2_) | 2 _) | 2_) | | | | | | | b=AS:80 | ... | ... | ... | | | | | | | a=recvonly | | | | | | | | | | ... | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
#### 6.4.2.6 Multi-stream UE to multi-stream UE in point-to-point
**The multi-stream capable UE sending the SIP INVITE cannot in general be
assumed to know whether it will be talking to a conference or not before
making the call, and will thus include its multi-stream capabilities in the
SDP offer. It has been shown above that this will not have any negative impact
if the called UE is a single-stream UE, since it will disable all non-
supported functionality in the answer. If the called UE is a multi-stream UE,
it does have capabilities corresponding to those in the offer, and could in
principle enable the multi-stream also point-to-point. There would however
hardly be any point in sending different simulcast versions between UEs, and
there would also hardly be any use for thumbnails, so both of those should be
disabled in the UE-to-UE case.**
**One way to distinguish this situation is to look at the presence of the
\"isFocus\" tag in the SIP header. A conference will include this tag, but a
UE will never include it. The UE receiving the SIP INVITE can therefore know
that the call is not coming from a conference and can therefore safely disable
all multi-stream functionality that does not make sense to use point-to-point
between UE. The UE that sent the SIP INVITE can also see from the SIP response
that the other party is not a conference, and know that is the reason for
disabling multi-stream functionality. If the SIP response does not include the
\"isFocus\" tag, and if multi-stream functionality is _not_ disabled in the
SDP answer, the offerer should probably use multi-stream functionality with
some caution, if at all, under the assumption that the remote UE did not
correctly handle the SDP offer/answer with the multi-stream functionality
included and therefore generated an incorrect SDP answer.**
**A valid SDP example for this case will look the same as in Table 3 above.**
## 6.5 Use Case D: Active Speaker Override
While in a group video call, one of the participants wants to show something
specific to the entire group and let the group discuss about it, while
everyone sees that same video. In Figure 5 below, the top right UE is the one
sharing its video (of the car) to the others, but the lower right UE is the
one that is active speaker (commenting what is shown). This is similar to a
screen share situation (described in Use Case B), but uses a regular video
camera instead of sending the contents of a screen. It should be possible for
the user of the sending UE to understand when and if the video it is sending
is forwarded to the other participants. It should also be possible for the
user of the sending UE to see the reactions to the shared video by receiving a
regular voice activated video from the other participants in the group.
{width="5.0in" height="3.161111111111111in"}
Figure 5. Talk-about example
### 6.5.1 Problem Description
The choice of which video that is shown to the participants in a group video
call is controlled by the conference and a reasonable choice will often be the
most active speaker. In some cases, this is however not a very good choice.
One of those situations is the \"talk-about\" use case above.
If the video switching decision is using active speaker as criterion, the
video content supposed to be discussed will be replaced as soon as someone
else starts speaking about that content, which hampers the purpose of the
discussion and may even cause the participants to be confused and annoyed.
In such situations, it is necessary to have the possibility to at least
temporarily override the active speaker as video switching decision, replacing
it with a manual choice that will be left up to the participants. It is very
likely sufficient to leave up to each individual participant to make the
choice to override a voice activated switching, but it could also in some
cases be preferable to let someone appointed as responsible for the group
video call (a \"chair\") to control who is allowed to send video. This chair
may or may not be identical to the one that initiated the group video call. It
will also be possible to terminate the video switch override and let the
conference go back to the default video switching choice, like active speaker.
It may not be a particularly efficient use of downlink resources to send the
shared video content back to the sharing participant, which suggests that it
should instead receive some other video, for example keep active speaker
switching for that participant. This requires the conference to apply
different video switching decisions simultaneously in the same conference, but
for different participants.
If this use case is used in combination with the explicit content share use
case, there can be both implicit and explicit floor control in the same
conference, for different participants. This situation can also arise for this
use case from that some participants may be \"legacy\" MTSI clients that do
not support BFCP at all.
### 6.5.2 Proposed Solution
The suggested solution is to re-use the floor control functionality, as
already provided by BFCP [3], [15], [17] for the screen share use case, to
control the \"regular\" camera video m-line in SDP. This allows the conference
to delegate the decision on which video to switch out to the participants,
selecting the video sent from the party that \"owns the sending floor\".
Note that while floor-controlling the camera video, it is in no way forbidden
to send video when not \"owning the floor\". The floor control only handles
the shared resource of MRFP _video switching decision_ , not the general
\"permission\" to send video. As soon as someone has requested and been
granted the floor, video switching in the MRFP is \"manual\". When no one has
requested the floor, or if everyone has released it, the MRFP is free to apply
whatever \"automatic\" video switching logic it sees fit.
By re-using BFCP functionality from screen share, the controlling party could
either be each individual participant, or requests could alternatively be
moderated by a floor chair. BFCP supports multiple floor handling, and camera
share and document share simply use different floor identifications, which are
communicated through SDP and can be used in BFCP signalling to choose which
video to control.
The floor handling controls should be an integrated part of the video call UI,
and could possibly be shown to the user only when in a group call, since the
\"isFocus\" tag in SIP signalling [3] in combination with BFCP capability in
SDP received from the remote party indicates this to the UE.
In the simplest controlled case, leaving floor control to the participants as
a group, the conference always accepts all requests to become video sender.
Any new request will automatically revoke any previous owner of the floor and
replace it with the sender of the new request. It is likely that this approach
will work well in most group video calls, leaving the control of who is
sending to be based on regular social interaction among the group
participants.
A UE that is granted the floor, as indicated through the BFCP \"Granted\"
response, can indicate to the user in the graphical user interface that its
video is now being seen by everyone. When the UE owning the floor releases it,
the conference changes back to use the default switching principles, like
voice activated.
The conference could also be configured (by means not yet specified here) to
be moderated, in which case all requests for the \"sending floor\" will be
explicitly granted or denied by an appointed floor chair. The chair can of
course grant the floor also to itself. Otherwise, the functionality is the
same as above.
The MRFP has to know which participant that currently owns the \"sending
floor\", which makes it possible to apply a different video switching decision
to that participant, not sending back the shared video content. Active speaker
video switching is instead kept for that participant, enabling to show voiced
reactions from other participants to the shared video content.
It should be noted that while current 3GPP specifications only refer to IETF
RFC [15], [16] where TCP is used as BFCP transport, industry best current
practice for BFCP is to use UDP transport and there are well progressed
Internet Drafts for this [17], [18]. One of the key benefits when using UDP is
the ability to leverage existing NAT traversal infrastructure, as described in
Appendix B of [17]. Multi-stream MTSI UE should use UDP transport for BFCP
according to those specifications, but may in addition support TCP transport.
It would be preferable to update 3GPP specifications to allow for BFCP UDP
transport.
The example below shows an SDP signalling fragment that hints how to enable
the active speaker override functionality based on BFCP, including BFCP-
controlled screen share to show their relation and identification:
Table 7: Active Speaker Override in SDP
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | SDP Offer from UE | SDP Answer from conference | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | m=video ...\ | m=video ...\ | | a=content:main _(optional, but | a=content:main\ | | clarifying)_ \ | a=label:10 _(added by MRFP, for | | a=sendrecv | reference below)_ \ | | | a=sendrecv | | m=video ...\ | | | a=content:slides _(mandatory, | m=video ...\ | | for screen share)_ \ | a=content:slides\ | | a=sendonly | a=label:11 _(added by MRFP, for | | | reference below)_ \ | | m=application ... UDP/BFCP *\ | a=recvonly | | a=bfcpver:1 2 _(version 2 needed | | | in list for UDP)_ \ | a=application ... UDP/BFCP *\ | | a=floorctrl:c-only _(UE assumed | a=bfcpver:1 2_(also supports | | BFCP client only)_| versions 1 and 2)_ \ | | | a=floorctrl:s-only _(server only | | ... | if UE is client only)_ \ | | | a=floorid:1 mstrm:10 _(floor 1 | | | has media label:10)_ \ | | | a=floorid:2 mstrm:11 _(floor 2 | | | has media label:11)_ \ | | | a=confid:3824 _(allocated | | | conference ID)_ \ | | | a=userid:293069 _(allocated UE | | | user ID)_ | | | | | | ... | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
The single BFCP m-line can handle multiple, separate floors. Each m-line to be
controlled by BFCP has an associated \"a=label:\\" attribute with a unique
but arbitrarily chosen value \.
Those label \ values are related to BFCP floor identifications \ through
\"a=floorid:\ mstrm:\\" attributes under the BFCP m-line. The BFCP floor
identification values are used in the BFCP signalling stream between the UE
and the MRFP when requesting and granting floors for the related media
streams. The \ and \ identifiers may be chosen freely by the MRFP.
This simple use of BFCP has very limited use of the \"a=confid\" and
\"a=userid\" BFCP attributes, but the BFCP specification recommends that they
are always included. The identifier values for those attributes may also be
chosen freely by the MRFP, as long as each UE is given a unique userid value
in the conference, and the same confid value is used for all UE in the
conference.
The \"a=bfcpver\" attribute is needed when BFCP version 2 is used, which is in
turn required for BFCP UDP transport.
## 6.6 Use Case E: Pausing Unused Streams
While in a group video call using switched multi-stream in combination with
simulcast, and if there are more participants in that call than what can be
shown simultaneously as active speaker and thumbnails on the receiving UEs,
the MRFP will at every point in time have some video streams that are not
switched to any receiving UEs. Figure 6 below shows an example time instant of
such group video call, showing all video streams in the call, marking the non-
needed as dotted and therefore the ones desirable to pause. It could be noted
that there will be an increasing number of paused streams with increasing
number of participants, which also means that pausing improves scaling of
total conference resource consumption with the group call size.
In this use case, it is only the MRFP that has the need to pause and resume
streams, and only the MRFP has the information on which streams are needed or
not. This also means that pause/resume operation is only needed for uplink
streams. A different set of streams will be switched to receiving UE when
active speaker changes, which is depicted in Figure below.
{width="6.5in" height="3.0395833333333333in"}
Figure 6. Pausing Example
{width="6.5in" height="3.1666666666666665in"}
Figure 7. Pausing Example After Active Speaker Change
Some streams that were paused are now needed and must be resumed. Other
streams that were previously needed can now be paused. For most streams, the
pause/resume status is not changed, but the origin of the stream (shown as
different colour) may have changed.
### 6.6.1 Problem Description
When the MRFP detects that active speaker has changed, the video stream from
previous active speaker should no longer be forwarded as active speaker video
to the group participants, and the video stream from the new active speaker
should instead be used as active speaker video stream. If the video stream
from this new active speaker was paused, it will now be resumed. It is assumed
that the group participants want to see this new active speaker as soon as
possible. The time from when the MRFP detects the new active speaker until it
is shown on the receiver\'s displays should thus be minimized.
It would be possible to use the existing signalling channel between the UE and
the MRFP and send SIP UPDATE from the MRFP, changing directionality of the
affected streams. Pausing a sendrecv stream in SDP from the UE would become a
sendonly stream in the updated MRFP offer, which in SIP is indistinguishable
from putting the stream on hold [24].
This ambiguity in what type of pause is wanted is not desirable, and may even
risk that the UE treats the call as on hold.
Holding a call typically lasts for some time, and it is reasonable for a UE to
then close and release at least some of the most battery-consuming transport
and codec resources. Resuming a call on hold is also typically not time
critical, and it would be acceptable for the UE to for example re-initialize
the camera and re-instantiate and re-initialize the video codec. The type of
pause described in this use case however requires a more \"hot\" pause
operation, where the UE is prepared for a low latency resume.
The frequency of such active speaker-triggered SIP UPDATE between MRFP and
most group call participants could also be fairly high, like up to once every
few seconds. This is at least significantly higher than the average time
between group participants leaving or joining the call, which is probably
otherwise the cause of most MRFP SIP signalling load. The amount of SIP/SDP
information required on the signalling bearer will be significantly increased
compared to when pause / resume is not used in this way, especially since
multi-stream SDP can be significantly larger than without multi-stream. This
may even impact ongoing media quality negatively due to the signalling bearer
having higher priority than media.
An additional drawback with using SIP UPDATE and SDP is that current simulcast
specification sends all simulcast versions under the same m-line, and it is
not possible to change direction for individual streams, only for the entire
m-line.
Some of the uplink thumbnail simulcast streams may also have to be resumed
when changing active speaker, due to that they were not previously viewed by
any receiving UE, but that they are now desirable to show as thumbnail on some
UE (replacing some other thumbnail, for example one that was quiet for a
longer period of time). The desirable timing for such thumbnail change is
almost as strict as the active speaker change described above, and the
frequency of pausing and resuming thumbnails as seen from a single UE-MRFP
connection may be even higher than active speaker changes.
All of the above suggests that using the currently available signalling
channel between the UE and the MRFP, SIP UPDATE, is not any ideal solution to
pause / resume streams, and another, faster and less resource-demanding
solution should be found.
### 6.6.2 Proposed Solution
The suggested solution is to use RTP pause / resume as described by [23],
which implements the pause / resume signalling as RTCP feedback messages. This
has no SIP/SDP signalling impact on active speaker changes, and thus provides
a resource efficient and sufficiently fast signalling solution.
This is an SDP signalling fragment example that hints how to negotiate this
pause / resume functionality:
Table 8: Pause / resume in SDP
+-------------------------------+-------------------------------+ | SDP Offer from UE | SDP Answer from conference | +-------------------------------+-------------------------------+ | m=video ...\ | m=video ...\ | | a=rtcp-fb:* ccm pause nowait | a=rtcp-fb:* ccm pause nowait | | | | | ... | ... | +-------------------------------+-------------------------------+
The fact that the \"ccm pause\" is present in the SDP answer means that RTCP
pause / resume signalling can be used for the streams related to the affected
m-line.
The \"nowait\" parameter tells the remote peer that the party sending the SDP
believes the pause operation can take effect immediately, without concerns
that there may be more simultaneous receivers of the stream than the MRFP that
do not want to pause it. This is effectively always true when UE and MRFP are
connected point-to-point (see [23] for further details), which is a situation
that should in general be known by the UE and the MRFP. If \"nowait\" is
present in SDP offer and answer, both ends believe they are connected point-
to-point, there is no need to apply the hold-off delay described in [23], and
pausing can thus occur immediately. Opposite examples, when MRFP and UE are
not effectively point-to-point, could be when the MRFP implements an RTP
Translator topology, or when the MRFP is connected to the UEs via an IP
multicast network.
The MRFP may optionally not implement the ability to pause its own streams on
peer request, but just include the functionality to pause the UE\'s streams.
The UE may similarly and optionally not implement the ability to pause a
peer\'s (like the MRFP) streams, but just include the functionality to pause
its own streams. This type of limited configuration can also be negotiated in
SDP, through the use of an optional \"config\" parameter to the \"ccm pause\"
line:
Table 9: Pause / resume with limited configuration in SDP
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | SDP Offer from UE | SDP Answer from conference | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | m=video ...\ | m=video ...\ | | a=rtcp-fb:* ccm pause config=3 | a=rtcp-fb:* ccm pause config=2 | | nowait | nowait | | | | | ... | ... | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
If the UE specifies config=3 in the offer, it means that the UE can receive
pause and resume requests and act on them, but will not send those requests
itself. In this case, the SDP answer from the MRFP contains the \"opposite\"
functionality and configuration, config=2.
It is recommended that both UE and MRFP implement full pause / resume
capability (corresponding to \"config=1\", which is default if no \"config\"
is included on the \"ccm pause\" line). A UE may optionally instead implement
config=3, and an MRFP may optionally instead implement config=2.
## 6.7 Use Case F: Conference Rate Adaptation Considerations
While in a group video call using switched multi-stream, either uplink or
downlink streams (or both) may experience channel capacity variations,
requiring rate adaptation to keep within the channel limits and avoid packet
loss and/or increased delay for media carried by the affected streams.
### 6.7.1 Problem Description
For the case when the conference MRFP performs individual transcoding for
every MRFP-UE downlink, all downlink rate adaptations are independent and
accounts only for the local downlink channel variations. When instead using
video switching to avoid video transcoding in the MRFP, this also limits the
possibility to do per-link rate adaptation to individual group participant
UEs. Rate adaptation in a group call will therefore in principle be made end-
to-end, instead of separately UE-to-MRFP and MRFP-to-UE. This poses a
potential problem, since there are typically multiple receivers of the same,
switched, video stream. There is also potentially a conflict of interest
between UE receivers with different conditions that all want as good quality
as possible, matching exactly their (end-to-end) channel.
When using multi-stream, there may be multiple streams sharing the same
(varying) channel resources (bearer). Those resources will thus be distributed
dynamically to the different streams in a way that avoids exceeding the total
available channel capacity.
### 6.7.2 Proposed Solution
It is suggested to keep some separation of uplink (UE-MRFP) and downlink
(MRFP-UE) in rate adaptation, letting the MRFP be involved in rate adaptation
to the extent possible and feasible.
When rate adaptation is needed on the UE-MRFP uplink, this is basically the
same as a point-to-point call from a rate adaptation perspective. The media
quality resulting from rate adaptation on the uplink is then the starting
point for any rate adaptation necessary on the downlink. Naturally, no
received downlink media stream can be any better than what was achieved on the
uplink, regardless of the individual downlink quality.
When the conference MRFP uses video switching to the largest extent possible,
the same video streamwill fit all downlinks simultaneously. The aggregate rate
adaptation feedback information from the MRFP to the stream sender will then
have to reflect the worst observed UE-to-UE path.
An example of this is depicted in Figure 8 below, where the stream sender is
located bottom right in the picture, and the affected receivers are top and
bottom left. Rate adaptation feedback is indicated by a dashed arrow, and the
related media stream is indicated through a dashed loop connected to the
signalling arrow.
If there is a very large difference between a (few) worst path(s) and the
other ones, the worst path(s) would affect many receivers to an unreasonably
large extent. It may be possible to avoid this unwanted situation by letting
the MRFP dynamically apply transcoding only towards downlink receiving UE that
experiences particularly bad channel conditions.
Another way of avoiding unwanted quality degradations to downlink receivers
with good channel conditions because there are other downlink receivers with
much worse channel conditions is to utilize simulcast streams. If the stream
that needs rate adaptation has a lower quality simulcast version, and if the
needed rate adaptation is so substantial that the resulting quality would be
similar to the lower quality simulcast version, the MRFP could simply switch
the lower quality simulcast version to the UE that experiences bad channel
conditions. An example of this is depicted in Figure 9 below.
As with the previous figure, rate adaptation feedback is indicated by a dashed
arrow, and the related media stream is indicated through a dashed loop
connected to the signalling arrow. A few things could be noted:
\- There are no other receivers of the \"large\" simulcast version from the
bottom right sender, but if there were, they would not have been affected by
the upper right receiver no longer using it.
\- The uplink rate adaptation of the \"large\" simulcast version is not
affected by the MRFP rate adaptation decision to no longer use it.
\- The upper right receiver is now instead receiving the \"small\" simulcast
version, and any further rate adaptation needed to that version from either
one of the other, left, receivers, will affect all receivers, as was described
above.
\- If the channel conditions for the upper right receiver improve
considerably, the MRFP could go back to sending the \"large\" simulcast
version, possibly amended with the method described in Figure 8 above.
{width="5.000694444444444in" height="2.9590277777777776in"}
Figure 8. Worst Path Rate Adaptation Example
{width="6.5in" height="3.1180555555555554in"}
Figure 9. Simulcast Rate Adaptation Example
If downlink channel conditions towards a UE become really bad, there is of
course always a possibility to stop or at least temporarily pause (similar but
not identical to Video Use Case in clause 6.6) one or more downlink streams
sharing the affected channel resource. This does not impact other receivers of
those streams. An example of this is depicted in Figure 10 below, where both
\"thumbnails\" are (temporarily) stopped to the upper right receiver.
{width="6.5in" height="3.0166666666666666in"}
Figure 10. Pruning Rate Adaptation Example
When the channel situation improves, the stopped/paused streams can be resumed
again.
When multiple streams share a common channel resource, it is expected that the
UE can know this and adapt the rate adaptation feedback information for the
affected streams such as not to exceed the shared resource. When using
TMMBR/TMMBN as rate adaptation feedback, the decision of bitrate allocation to
individual streams (stream \"priority\") will be left to the receiving UE,
since TMMBR/TMMBN scope is a single stream, not the entire shared resource.
This is believed to be sufficient, until proven otherwise. A \"joint\" rate
adaptation would require another rate adaptation technology and/or feedback
format.
All rate adaptation aspects described above can be used in the same
conference, some even simultaneously, subject to MRFP implementation and
available channel conditions towards individual receiving UE.
## 6.8 Use Case G: Multi-stream Audio Steering or Panning
Figure 11 shows an example use case where the audio from conference
participants are directed or steered such that it appears that the
participants A, B, and C are spatially distributed in a particular
configuration. Head-related transfer function (HRTF) tools can be used to
perform audio panning at the rendering device. Audio panning may reduce the
fatigue to the participant D where the simultaneous talking of e.g.
participant A and C is easily distinguished through spatial steering of audio.
Audio panning may also enable the rendering device to choose to naturally vary
the audio levels of participants before HRTF mixing. For example, participant
D may prefer to give more importance to participant A\'s audio relative to
participants B and C and selectively adjust the mixing gains in the
personalized HRTF functions. In one example, the participant D may completely
mute all participants except participant A during multiple active talkers.
This achieves the same functionality as in Video Use Case D without requiring
use of a conference focus, see clause 6.5. Further, participant D may also
signal to the conference focus to manage the bit rate and audio bandwidth SDP
negotiations based on talker preferences and depending on the rendering device
capabilities.
Figure 12 shows a block diagram with decoded audio streams of talkers A, B,
and C processed using the HRTFs. The HRTFs may be pre-computed based on a
preferred virtual speaker location assignment. For example, the HRTF_A
function may steer spatially the talker A\'s audio stream to be perceived to
arrive from the left side (e.g. as shown in Figure 11). Similarly, HRTF_B and
HRTF_C steer the talker B\'s and talker C\'s audio spatially to arrive as
shown in Figure 11. The HRTFs may also include gain control to emphasize a
preferred talker relative to others.
{width="3.4472222222222224in" height="1.9993055555555554in"}
Figure 11. Audio panning of participants A, B, and C and rendering to
participant D.
{width="4.497916666666667in" height="2.361111111111111in"}
Figure 12. Multi-stream audio from participants A, B, and C are mixed at the
rendering device of participant D using personalized HRTFs.
## 6.9 Use Case H: De-jitter Buffer Handling
Figure 13 shows a block diagram where multiple audio stream RTP packets are
received at the conference focus. The conference focus will be equipped with
multiple de-jitter buffers to handle the multiple RTP audio packets and send
in a sequential order (e.g. based on RTP_A, RTP_B, and RTP_C packet
timestamps) for decoding and subsequent mixing and re-encoding. At the
rendering device the received mixed audio is decoded and played out. In
effect, audio mixing at the conference focus may contribute to increased JBM
delay along with transcoding delays. In addition, the JBM design at both the
conference focus and at the rendering device will meet the TS 26.114 delay
requirements.
Furthermore, as described in MMCMH video use cases, if the multiple streams of
video are not transcoded, while the audio is mixed/transcoded as per Figure 13
at the conference focus, the aforementioned delay adjustment between the video
and audio streams may become a challenging problem. In such case, the logic
for JBM and transcoding delay compensation for Audio and Video stream
synchronization may have to be performed both at the conference focus and at
the rendering device. On the other hand, if both video and audio streams are
transcoded at the conference focus, then the principles of 3GPP TS 24.147 are
followed.
Figure 14 shows a block diagram where multiple audio stream RTP packets are
received at the rendering device with timestamps unchanged by the conference
focus. In this case, packets are exposed to de-jitter buffer delays only once
at the receiving UE. This is in contrast to the scenario in Figure 13, where
packets from a single stream are exposed to de-jitter buffer delays twice --
once at the conference focus, and once in the receiving UE. The MMCMH video
and audio media handling at the rendering devices provides flexibility, based
on the jitter and network delay characteristics, to determine a desired bit
rate per talker and HRTF mixing scenarios.
{width="6.295138888888889in" height="2.05in"}
Figure 13. De-jitter buffer control at the conference focus and at the
rendering device
{width="5.141666666666667in" height="2.1034722222222224in"}
Figure 14. De-jitter buffer control at the rendering device with multiple
audio streams
## 6.10 Use Case I: Audio Spatialization based on head-tracking
Figure 15 shows an example use case where the audio from conference
participants are steered based on the head tracking tools at the rendering
device. The head-tracking information, for example, can be integrated into the
HRTF functions to rotate the sound field as shown in Figure 16.
As shown in Figure 16, for audio spatialization, the head-tracking information
can be taken into account along with the individual talkers seating location.
{width="5.291666666666667in" height="3.001388888888889in"}
Figure 15. Multi-stream audio from participants A, B, and C are mixed at the
rendering device of participant D using personalized HRTFs and using the head-
tracking information.
{width="2.859722222222222in" height="2.0006944444444446in"}
Figure 16. Audio spatialization of participants A, B, and C and rendering to
participant D based on head-tracking information.
## 6.11 Use Case J: Mixing at the Rendering Device -- Media Handling,
Distribution via Multi-Unicast
Figure 17 shows an example use case where there are three conference
participants whose multiple media streams and signalling are handled without a
central Conference Focus.
{width="3.439583333333333in" height="2.970138888888889in"}
Figure 17. Multi-stream media handling in a conference with media routed to
the rendering devices to enable mixing to be performed at the UEs.
**Clause 6.4 of [25] describes three media distribution models where
distributed mixing is performed in a conference: multi-unicast, multicast, and
single-source multicast (SSM). Each of these models is analysed further in the
following subclauses.**
### 6.11.1 Concurrent Codec Capabilities Exchange
#### 6.11.1.1 Concurrent Decoding
**Media distribution via multi-unicast requires that a UE concurrently decode
multiple audio and/or video streams received from the other conference
participants. Each terminal has a computational limit to the number decoder
instances it can operate concurrently. This limits the number of participants
that can be in a conference with the terminal, or requires that the terminal
has the ability to prioritize decoding certain streams and ignore others.**
**Let,**
  * **_MaxDec_ be the maximum number of decoders that can be run concurrently by the terminal**
  * **_N_ be the number of participants in the conference, including the conference initiator**
If a terminal does not ignore any media streams it receives then
* * *
**_N_ \ min(_MaxDec_ of each terminal) + 1** **Eq. 6.11.1-8**
* * *
**as long as the terminal and all the other terminals in the conference do not
decode all of the media streams they receive. This requires that the terminals
have a means for choosing which streams to prioritize and which ones to
ignore.**
**In the case of speech, this selection could be made based on which streams
are not in DTX mode. In most cases, talkers will naturally floor control each
other as it is difficult to listen to more than two speakers at the same time.
Therefore a terminal that can decode up to two or three concurrent audio
streams could handle most audio conference configurations. However, it should
be noted that there will still be some operational complexity increase with
increasing _N_ as the terminal has to inspect the voice packets (at least for
size) from the media streams to determine which are active.**
**It is also possible for the terminal to attempt to prioritize the media
streams with the loudest volumes. However, this requires decoding of the media
from each stream to determine the loudest _MaxDec_ streams. The terminal could
save some complexity if the sampling/selecting is not performed for every
voice frame, e.g. periodically at longer intervals.**
**For video, it is not as simple to dynamically select which streams to
prioritize and ignore as there are not the same concepts of DTX and volume.
Looking at other criteria such as the amount of movement will involve
significant complexity. Simpler criteria such as looking at the size of video
packets might be used to get a very rough idea of motion/new information in
particular video streams.**
**Video has the additional challenge that most of the frames in the streams
are differentially encoded wrt previous video frames in the stream. If a media
stream is ignored it cannot simply be decoded again until an independently-
decodable (e.g. IDR) frame, or a frame whose reference frame has already been
pre-stored, is received.**
#### 6.11.1.5 Conclusions
**When sending the SDP Offer for a conference that has in-terminal mixing, the
conference initiator needs to consider, its computational constraints, i.e.
the maximum number of concurrent encoders and decoders the conference
initiator can operate. Before sending the SDP Offer, the conference initiator
should also be informed of the computational constraints of the other
conference participants, i.e. the maximum number of concurrent encoders and
decoders each terminal can operate, and take these constraints into account.**
## 6.12 Use Case K: Mixing at the Rendering Device -- Media Handling,
Distribution via Multicast
**In a multicast model, each participant joins a common multicast group, and
each participant sends a single copy of its media stream to that group. The
underlying multicast infrastructure then distributes the media, so that each
participant gets a copy.**
**The advantage of this distribution model over multi-unicast is that it does
not require the sending terminal to send individual copies of the media to
each of the other (N-1) participants. This could provide a big savings on the
uplink capacity, uplink coverage, and terminal battery life for conferences
with large N.**
Note 1: FFS is the potential delay incurred by participants subscribing and
setting up the multicast tree to receive media.
Note 2: Architectural impacts due to multicast need to be checked with SA2.
### 6.12.1 Session Establishment
#### 6.12.1.1 In the presence of a Conference Focus
**If a Focus was involved in session establishment of a multicast session, the
conference focus would convey the same information as the conference
initiator, albeit with possibly different signalling methods. For example, the
conference focus will initiate the dialog with N participants to set up a
conference, but the session description associated with the dialog will allow
media to be distributed via multicast to all the participants. The multicast
IP addresses (public or private) associated with the multicast groups for each
of the mandatory and recommended codecs are selected and assigned by the
conference focus. The security considerations are handled by the conference
focus through SIP authentication mechanisms.**
### 6.12.2 Media Handling
#### 6.12.2.1 In the absence of a Conference Focus for media handling
**As multicast groups were designed primarily for streaming applications, some
additional media handling needs to be specified when using this topology for
conferencing.**
**If a terminal supports more than the mandatory codec(s) for a particular
media type and wishes to receive media on the optional codec(s) then, as
described in the previous clause, it will also register to receive the media
in a multicast group carrying a mandatory codec. If more than one mandatory
codec is offered by the conference initiator there are two possibilities for
the participants:**
1) Each listening participant has to register to listen to all the multicast
groups carrying media from the mandatory codecs. When sending media, each
sender only has to encode media using one of the mandatory codecs and send
this media over the corresponding multicast group.
2) Each listening participant only has to register for one multicast group
carrying media from one of the mandatory codecs. When sending media, each
sender has to encode media using all of the mandatory codecs and send the
media on all their corresponding multicast groups.
**The second approach increases the encoding load for the sender while
decreasing the decoding load of the receivers and is generally less desirable
than the first approach as encoding is computationally more taxing than
decoding.**
**Since media is always going to be sent on the mandatory multicast groups and
all terminals will listen to these groups, no terminal is ever required to
encode media using the optional codecs and their multicast groups. Even the
conference initiator does not have to encode media using the optional codecs
for which it has established and offered a multicast group to the other
participants. However, terminals that are capable of concurrently encoding
both a mandatory and optional codec should still encode using the optional
codec if it provides better quality.**
**For each multicast group a terminal is listening to, the terminal should
examine the sources (e.g. source IP address) of the media to determine which
traffic is coming from the same participant and avoid decoding multiple
versions of media coming from the same source. The terminal should compare the
source information to any media received from other multicast groups it is
listening to. If there is duplication of media representations, i.e. media
coming from the same source with the same RTP timestamp or sequence number,
the terminal should choose to decode the media from one of the codecs,
preferably the one that offers the best quality. This choice could change on a
per-frame-frame basis in the event that some loss is experienced for packets
traversing through different multicast trees.**
**Once the media packet is chosen, the terminal should perform de-jitter
buffering on that packet in relation to previously chosen packets for that
media type from the same participant, but not necessarily the same codec type.
Note that this switching of codec types being fed into the de-jitter buffer
requires that the codec information is also maintained in the de-jitter buffer
operation to ensure proper decoding after de-jittering.**
**Listening terminals will also examine the source of the media received to
avoid decoding its own media when the terminal is also transmitting media to
the multicast group. This is to prevent generating an echo of the speaker\'s
transmission.**
**Terminals concurrently sending media using multiple codec types will encode
media at the same time-frame boundaries and use the same timestamps and
sequence numbers to allow the listeners to identify duplicate representations
of the media type.**
**Some of the following limitations have been identified for media
distribution via multicast in 3GPP networks:**
1) 3GPP terminals are generally assigned private IP addresses by the MNO,
which can prevent multicast spanning trees from spanning different private IP
address domains. As 3GPP PGWs currently do not support the ability to have the
multicast trees span across different private IP address domains, this limits
conferences using multicast distribution to terminals in the same operator\'s
private IP address domain, i.e. where the private IP address assignments are
unique.
2) There is a security risk as the joining of a multicast spanning tree is not
authenticated, allowing an attacker to listen in on any multicast group
conference.
3) There is no standardized mechanism in 3GPP networks that enables the
terminal to request assignment of an available multicast IP address for its
use.
Note: The media handling described in this clause also applies to the case
where a central Focus is used to establish the session.
## 6.13 Use Case L: Mixing at the Rendering Device -- Media Handling,
Distribution via Single Source Multi-Unicast
**The limitations of multicast distribution listed in clause 6.12 can be
mitigated by using a simple Focus for media handling. The configuration,
described as single-source multi-unicast, uses the Focus to essentially
perform the function of the multicast routers, i.e. replicating media and
sending it down to the appropriate receivers. Figure 19 illustrates this
topology where media from A is replicated and unicast by the Focus to users B,
C, and D.**
{width="4.659722222222222in" height="3.3944444444444444in"}
Figure 19. Single-Source Multi-unicast Topology.
**This configuration provides the following benefits:**
\- The media sender only has to send one copy of each encoded packet to the
Focus, minimizing the uplink bandwidth, similar to the uplink efficiency of
the multicast case.
\- The unicast traffic sent to and from the Focus can traverse Network Address
Translator (NAT) boxes serving MNO\'s private IP address domains, thus
enabling the conference to span multiple private IP address domains.
\- Provided with the appropriate credentials and keys, the Focus can
authenticate users attempting to listen in on, and send media to, the
conference.
\- There is no need to reserve or be assigned a multicast IP address for the
conference. The Focus is assigned its own unique (possibly private) IP address
using standard assignment protocols supported in the operator\'s network, e.g.
DHCP.
\- The Focus does not have to perform any transcoding, merely replication of
media traffic. **Not only is this less-computationally expensive, it would
also allow the media traffic sent to be encrypted end-to-end as the Focus does
not have to decrypt the media in order to replicate and send it to all the
receivers.**
**Note that this single-source multi-unicast topology can be understood as a
particular implementation of the solution described in clause 6.2.**
**In particular, in clause 6.2, to support that the active speaker is shown in
normal size at the receiving terminal while thumbnails are smaller. The
conference focus needs that active speaker to send a normal size video, while
the others being shown as thumbnails may send smaller sized videos. To
accommodate the previous active speaker to be shown in normal size as active
speaker to the current active speaker, the previous active speaker may have to
send both a normal sized video (to be forwarded by conference focus to current
active speaker), and a small sized video (to be forwarded as thumbnail to
other participants). This way of sending multiple simultaneous representations
of the same content is called \"simulcast\". In SSMU, each participant encodes
media using at least one mandatory codec for the media type. If a participant
chooses to encode using an optional codec then it simulcasts this along with
the mandatory codec media for the same media type. So, essentially while in
continuous presence case, the normal size and thumbnail are simulcast based on
active/inactive talker, the SSMU media handling is based on mandatory/optional
codec. In one way, these two use cases fall into the category of media
distribution of multiple encoded streams of the same media.**
### 6.13.1 Session Establishment
**The conference using a single-source multi-unicast topology can be
established using the same mechanisms as for establishing general Focus-based
conferences. The conference scheduler or initiator can use out-of-band means
to inform all of the participants of the Focus\' IP address and conference
details. The initiator could provide a list of the authorized participants to
the Focus along with security credentials (e.g. PIN/PASSWORD) that enable the
Focus to authenticate users joining the session. The initiator could even
instruct the Focus to directly contact each of the participants to
authenticate and connect them to the conference bridge.**
**When setting up individual sessions with the call participants, the Focus
offers the codecs that were offered or pre-selected by the conference
initiator. The Focus could choose only to offer the mandatory codecs provided
by the conference initiator, which would guarantee that all terminals use
these mandatory codecs and no transcoding would be required.**
**The Focus could also choose to offer some optional codecs to improve
conference quality or performance. To avoid transcoding and support use of
optional codecs, the Focus has to offer the optional codecs as being simulcast
with a corresponding mandatory codec stream for the same media type, i.e. the
participants wishing to receive an optional codec media stream will also
listen for the mandatory codec media stream. Similarly, a participant sending
media using an optional codec will also simulcast a representation of the same
media using the mandatory codec for that media type. This is in case one of
the participants is unable to encode or decode its media using the optional
codec stream.**
**To avoid the need to transcode any media and also enable in-terminal mixing
of media in the participants without exceeding their concurrent codec
capabilities, the terminals and Focus can use the concurrent codec
capabilities format described in clause 6.15.1 and the exchange protocol
described in clause 6.15.2.**
**Note that after all the individual sessions between the Focus and
participants are established, the Focus could re-negotiate the codecs to
disable transmission and reception of optional codec media if there are no, or
a very limited number of, participants who can decode or encode the optional
codec stream.**
### 6.13.2 Media Handling
**As explained in clause 6.13.1, the conference participants perform the
following procedures which are similar to those described in clause 6.12.2.**
\- Each participant encodes media using at least one mandatory codec for the
media type.
\- If a participant chooses to encode using an optional codec then it
simulcasts this along with the mandatory codec media for the same media type.
When simulcasting the media the sender uses the same RTP timestamps and
sequence numbers for the different representations of the same source content.
\- Each participant is configured to be able to decode media received from any
(if multiple) of the mandatory codecs for the media type.
\- If a participant receives optional codec media for a media type, it can
decide whether to decode this optional media or the mandatory codec
representation (if available) for the same source content, which is identified
by the same RTP timestamp or sequence number. The receiver should use the
better quality representation when it is available.
\- The Focus can replicate optional codec media and send it to any
participants who have selected to receive the optional codec media.
\- The Focus replicates and sends to all other participants (those not able to
decode the optional codec) any incoming media using mandatory codecs. For
robustness (e.g. transmission over a more reliable channel), the Focus could
also choose to send the mandatory codec to terminals that are receiving the
optional codec stream.
## 6.14 Use Case M: Provisioning of Talker ID
**In a point-to-point call, traditional and well-established methods can be
used to identify the remote party. For an outgoing call, the remote party
identification is used by the originating user already when choosing whom to
call. In an IMS context, the remote user is identified through its Public User
Identity, likely often taken from the originating user\'s address book, or
from some public or private directory service. Unless supplementary services
such as call forwarding are used, the originating user can be reasonably
certain who the remote party is. For an incoming call, the remote party\'s
Public User Identity can be presented to the local user, given that number
presentation service is enabled, and the remote user has not blocked its
Public User Identity from being presented. The situation becomes slightly
different when multiple UEs participate in a conference.**
### 6.14.1 Use Case Description
**In this use case, multiple UEs and thus users are connected to a multi-party
conference.**
**It is assumed that a user is in general interested in knowing the identity
of the other participants in the conference. It is further assumed that it is
in general interesting to know not only a list of intended or actual
participants, but also actually who is who, and in particular who is currently
speaking or being shown (when video media is used in the conference). This
identification is preferably made as user-friendly as possible on a human
interaction level, meaning that it is presented to the UE user as
participants\' names or aliases (\"friendly name\"), not just a UE
identification number such as the Public User Identity.**
**A UE receiving a media stream is given identification information relating a
participant name with that media stream, and can therefore present the media
together with the participant name. Examples can be visually highlighting a
participant\'s name in a list when that participant is speaking, or including
some visual marker related to a video or image of the speaking participant.
Also non-speaking participants that are presented by image or video are
possible to identify by relating their \"friendly names\" with the visual
media. Exactly how that presentation is implemented can be left up to the UE
graphical interface, as long as the necessary association is possible.**
**The provided participant identification is supported by the underlying IMS
system, such that the identity in a subscriber database for the UE can be
used, rather than some user-provided name. This can be a desirable feature
whenever it is important for the participating users to have a solid
authentication of conference participants.**
**A user not desiring to reveal any identity is still capable of participating
in such conference. In this case, an anonymous but still unique identity
(within the scope of the conference) can be assigned to the anonymous user by
the conference focus. By that, it is possible for other users to consistently
recognize a speaker, even if no \"real\" identity is known.**
### 6.14.2 Problem Description
**It cannot be assumed that a user is always capable of identifying who is
speaking or is shown in the conference solely based on recognizing their voice
or even by looking at them (if image or video are available), so some other
type of identification is desirable.**
**In a multi-party conference with a conference focus, the participating UE
either called in to the focus, or was called by the focus. Thus, the point-to-
point type identification information available to the UE user is the focus
itself, or maybe some service number that indirectly refers to the focus. As
seen from that point-to-point call, there is no information available in the
context of the conference call itself what other users are participating. This
has long been the case for multi-party voice calls to a conference bridge and
various (often more or less proprietary) methods are used to provide
participant lists, recently often through web-based solutions. Some of those
include a static list of call participants, while others also include a
dynamic indication of who is currently speaking.**
**That type of identification functionality is desirable, but is currently not
defined in a conference focus context.**
### 6.14.3 Suggested Solution
**Identification of active speakers in a conference entirely without
conference focus involves multiple point-to-point calls being placed between
the participants, and thus regular per-call, point-to-point number
presentation methods can be used as identification. Detection and presentation
of ID for active speaker(s) becomes a local matter for the receiving UE,
matching some media activity measure and Public User Identity between the call
legs included in the conference, presenting it in some suitable way to the UE
user.**
**In a multi-party conference using a conference focus, it can be seen from
the participant list in an XML-based conference roster which users that were
invited to the conference, and which have actually joined the conference. A UE
can obtain that information by subscribing to the RFC 4575 [6] conference
event package from the conference focus, as described by TS 24.147** [3]**.**
**The conference focus can use methods from regular AS call control in TS
24.229 [8] (clause 5.7.1.4) to determine who a user calling in is, and can
populate the conference roster sent to subscribing conference participants
based on that. The IMS Public User Identity contains an optional Display Name
field that should (if available) be the preferred identity information
contained in the conference roster \  element \ sub-
element value presented to the UE user. If a UE receives entries in a
conference roster that do not have any user Display Name, the UE can, just as
for regular point-to-point calls, map received Public User Identities in the
\\'s element \ sub-element with entries from the local
address book to display a remote party friendly name to the UE user. The same
can be done in case \ contains a Public User Identity instead of
a friendly name.**
**The conference roster \  element has an \ sub-element, which
in turn has a \ sub-element that can take a set of pre-defined values,
including \"connected\" and \"disconnected\". This can be used by the
conference focus to list not only joined participants, but also participants
that are somehow invited or expected to join the conference (by means out of
scope for the present document) but that did not join (yet).**
**To be able to indicate dynamic identity information such as who is active
speaker, the participant identification described above will relate to a media
level identification that is traceable end-to-end from media sender, across
the conference focus, all the way to the media receiver. It is assumed that
the conference focus has both participant level and media level
identifications from all participants, as discussed above. It is further
assumed that the conference focus also has information about what media
streams are switched to different participants, including what switching
criteria that are used, such as active speaker.**
**It should be noted that the change rate of active speaker can be as high as
in the order of once every couple of seconds. It should also be noted that the
potential number of receivers of such information is in general fairly high,
since the solution should scale to a large number of participants. Therefore,
sending explicit (for example SIP-based) dynamic identification notifications
from the conference focus to all affected receivers can be very resource
demanding, and is therefore not seen as a feasible approach.**
**Instead, existing identification already present in the media stream should
be preferred, combining it with participant identification described above. A
unique media ID in the affected RTP session is already available through the
SSRC field in the RTP [5] header of every RTP media packet. This can be
related to the participant identification in the conference roster through the
\  element\'s \, \, and \ sub-element
hierarchy, where \ is required to contain the related RTP stream SSRC
value. By this, a receiving UE can learn the friendly name of a media stream
source simply by looking in a received media RTP packet header for the SSRC
value, and match that with the corresponding remote identification from the
received conference roster.**
**This is however complicated slightly from an SSRC identification perspective
by the fact that the conference focus sits in the media path between the UE
originating media and the UE receiving media.**
**A conference focus has a choice in how it uses RTP in the conference, even
when it has already chosen to switch media and thus does not perform any
transcoding. This affects in what way UEs are interconnected on an RTP
protocol level, which becomes of importance in any multi-party scenario, and
is commonly referred to as RTP Topologies [7] and [8]. In brief, the
conference focus can either pass RTP streams through without changing SSRC
values, or it can re-packetize the payload from incoming RTP packets into
other RTP packets, marking them with an SSRC of its own choice. There are
different benefits, disadvantages, and trade-offs related with both approaches
(described in [7] and [8]), neither of which will be discussed further here.**
**If the conference focus chooses to change incoming SSRC values, itwill also
keep that information aligned with what is sent as \  in the
conference roster. That can be achieved in two ways; either the conference
focus announces its own SSRC values in the conference roster (consistently re-
mapping all received SSRC information), or it keeps the SSRC of the original
RTP sender in \ in the roster and instead adds the original SSRC value
to the RTP header (optional) CSRC field.**
**Both alternatives will work if a receiving UE maps a received CSRC towards \
 in the roster, and uses the received SSRC to map towards \
when there is no CSRC. If the UE receives an SSRC or CSRC that are not
represented in the conference roster, it does not know the original sender of
the stream and thus cannot present any media identification to the UE user.**
**To populate the \  values in the conference roster, the conference
focus thus needs to know what SSRC values are used by the sending
participants. The conference focus can inspect RTP header SSRC in received
packets from participants, and send an updated roster when there is media from
a newly joining participant. All SSRC in the roster will be unique in the
scope of the conference, so a new roster will also have to be sent when and if
there are changes in SSRC values from participants, for example due to SSRC
collisions [5].**
## 6.15 Use Case N: Mixing at the Rendering Device -- Media Handling,
Concurrent Codec Capabilities Exchange
**When sending the SDP Offer for a conference that has in-terminal mixing, the
conference initiator needs to consider, its computational constraints, i.e.
the maximum number of concurrent encoders and decoders the conference
initiator can operate. Before sending the SDP Offer, the conference initiator
should also be informed of the computational constraints of the other
conference participants, i.e. the maximum number of concurrent encoders and
decoders each terminal can operate, and take these constraints into account.**
### 6.15.1 Format of the Concurrent Codec Capabilities Information
#### 6.15.1.1 Using Current SDP Parameters
The CCC information described the clause 6.11.1 can be communicated in the SDP
offer as described below.
The concurrent encoder capabilities can be described using the simulcast
attribute. For each codec that can be operated concurrently, the SDP format
tokens (usually corresponding to RTP payload) for each of these codecs are
listed in the send direction, indicating that they can be simulcast by the
source.
The concurrent decoder capabilities can be described using multiple m lines.
For example, if a terminal can receive and decode up to N-1 AMR-NB or AMR-WB
audio streams, the SDP offer would list N-1 m lines, with each m line listing
that either AMR-NB or AMR-WB can be received.
If the terminal has the ability to trim the number of received media streams
to what it actually decodes, it can advertise more m lines than it actually
has the concurrent decoding capabilities for.
If the terminal has limitations on the number of RTP streams it can
concurrently send or receive, it indicates this by limiting the number of
codecs that it lists in the simulcast attribute and limiting the number of m
lines which it can receive, respectively.
As codecs have different levels of computational complexity, the number of
concurrent encoders and decoders that can be used in a session can vary with
the types of codecs being offered. To be able to express these different sets
of codecs and number of participants, the terminal can use the SDPCapNeg
protocol specified in RFC 5939 **Error! Reference source not found.** to
describe these different sets as separate SDPCapNeg configurations. For
example, a terminal may list an actual configuration with EVS, AMR-WB, and
AMR-NB codecs and the ability to support 4 other participants, and another
configuration supporting only AMR-WB and AMR-NB but supporting up to 8 other
participants.
#### 6.15.1.2 Using Compact SDP Parameters
As the number of concurrent decoding streams (and therefore, the number other
participants in a conference) that the terminal can support increases, so does
the number of m lines in SDP. Also, as the number of different types of codecs
with different computational complexities are supported, the number of
SDPCapNeg configurations offered also increases. Also, when concurrently
supporting different types of media (audio, video, screen share), the number
of SDPCapNeg configurations can increase to support the different combinations
of these media in a session, e.g. audio only, audio+video, audio+video+screen
share. All of these factors will greatly increase the size of the SDP offer
when using the SDP parameters described in the previous clause.
An alternative approach is to define a new SDP attribute that could
communicate the CCC information in a more compact format, defined in ABNF as
follows:
> codec_list = \"a\" \"=\" \"codec_list\" \":\" codeclist \":\" \"ENC:\"
> combination [*63(\";\" combination)] \":\" \"DEC:\" combination [*63(\";\"
> combination)]
>
> codeclist = \"{\" codec SP level SP [profile] \"};\" *15(\";{\" codec SP
> level SP [profile] \"}\")
>
> combination = 1*32(num SP codec_idx)
>
> codec = byte-string
>
> ; byte-string defined in RFC 4566
>
> level = 1*3DIGIT
>
> profile = 1*3DIGIT
>
> num = %d1-16
>
> codec_idx = %d1-16
codec is the media type name of a codec as defined in the RTP payload format
for that codec, e.g. \"video/H264\" for H.264 as defined in [28] and
\"video/H265\" for H.265 as defined in [29], respectively.
level specifies the level of the codec, e.g. for H.264 and H.265 the value is
equal to level_idc as defined in [3] and level-id as defined in [29],
respectively, and when the codec is EVS, the value of this field being 1, 2, 3
and 4 specifies NB, WB, SWB and FB, respectively.
profile, which is optional, specifies the profile of the codec, e.g. for H.264
and H.265 the value is equal to profile_idc as defined in [30] and profile-id
as defined in [29], respectively.
num specifies the maximum number of supported concurrent encoders (when the
combination follows \"ENC\") or decoders (when the combination follows
\"DEC\") of the specified codec at the specified level and profile (when
present).
codec_idx specifies that the index to the list codeclist of the specified
codec at the specified level and profile (when present).
If the terminal has the ability to trim the number of received media streams
it actually decodes, it can advertise a num value that is larger than it
actually has the concurrent decoding capabilities for.
### 6.15.2 Protocol for Concurrent Codec Capabilities Exchange (CCCEx)
#### 6.15.2.1 Requirements for the CCCEx
From the analysis provided in clause 6.11.1, the following requirements can be
applied to the CCCEx protocol:
1) Can exchange CCC before a call is ever initiated, e.g.
a) when users enter each other\'s contact information into a directory on the
terminal;
b) when user the codec capabilities of a terminal change (via download or
swapping of terminal hardware),
2) Can exchange CCC at call set-up, if needed.
#### 6.15.2.2 Potential Solution for the CCCEx
The SIP OPTIONS method specified in RFC 3261 [31] can be used to query the
capabilities of another client/user agent by asking the agent to send a copy
of the SDP it would offer describing its capabilities. This SDP will contain
the CCC information as described in the previous clause.
The OPTIONS request can be made well in-advance of a conference call and the
SDP response be stored in a profile for the queried terminal. Or, immediately
before setting up a conference, the conference initiator could query the
capabilities of all the terminals it plans to invite for which it does not
have the information pre-stored.
### 6.15.3 Examples of Concurrent Codec Capabilities (CCC) Usage
Table 10 shows example concurrent codec combinations supported at the
terminal. For illustration purposes, only an audio example is shown here. As
shown in Table 10, the terminal may have identified three possible CCCEx
combinations through profiles (shown for 6 participants). SDP offer examples
from the terminal to the MRF for each of the profiles A, B, and C are shown.
If the terminal decides to send the SDP offer associated with the profile A,
the MRF may then send an SDP answer as shown using the simulcast attribute and
multiple m-lines.
Table 10: CCCEx using SDP through simulcast and multiple m-audio lines
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Number of | Concurrent | SDP offer | SDP Answer | | | p | Codec | examples | from the | | | articipants | C | from the | MRF to the | | | | ombinations | terminal to | terminal up | | | | supported | the MRF for | on | | | | at the | profiles A, | receiving, | | | | terminal | B, and C | | | | | | (for | e.g. SDP | | | | | i | offer A | | | | | llustration | (N=6) | | | | | purposes, | | | | | | only audio | | | | | | is shown | | | | | | below); | | | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | terminal | | | | | | would send | | | | | | one of the | | | | | | SDP offers | | | | | | associated | | | | | | with the | | | | | | CCCEx of | | | | | | profile A | | | | | | or B or C | | | | | | in the | | | | | | examples | | | | | | shown | | | | | | below. | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | N \ [Decoder/recv: 1 AMR, 1 AMR-WB, 3 EVS] | | | | | | B. [Encoder/send: AMR-WB, EVS] | | | | | | > [Decoder/recv: 1 AMR-WB, 4 EVS] | | | | | | C. [Encoder/send: AMR, EVS] | | | | | | > [Decoder/recv: 1 AMR, 5 EVS] | +------------------------+--------------------------------------------+ | | | +------------------------+--------------------------------------------+ | | | +------------------------+--------------------------------------------+
Table A.8: Example SDP offer for CCCEx example configuration A from MSMTSI
terminal
+----------------------------------------------------+ | SDP offer | +----------------------------------------------------+ | **m=audio 49152 RTP/AVP 96 97 98** | | | | b=AS:42 | | | | a=tcap:1 RTP/AVPF | | | | a=pcfg:1 t=1 | | | | a=rtpmap:96 EVS/16000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:96 br=13.2-24.4; bw=wb-swb; max-red=220 | | | | a=rtpmap:97 AMR-WB/16000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:97 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220 | | | | a=rtpmap:98 AMR/8000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:98 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220 | | | | a=ptime:20 | | | | a=maxptime:240 | | | | **a=simulcast: send pt:96;97;98 recv pt:96,97,98** | | | | **m=audio 49154 RTP/AVP 101 102 103** | | | | b=AS:42 | | | | a=tcap:1 RTP/AVPF | | | | a=pcfg:1 t=1 | | | | a=recvonly | | | | a=rtpmap:101 EVS/16000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:101 br=13.2-24.4; bw=wb-swb; max-red=220 | | | | a=rtpmap:102 AMR-WB/16000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:102 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220 | | | | a=rtpmap:103 AMR/8000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:103 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220 | | | | a=ptime:20 | | | | a=maxptime:240 | | | | **a=simulcast: recv pt:101,102,103** | | | | **m=audio 49156 RTP/AVPF 104 105 106** | | | | b=AS:42 | | | | a=tcap:1 RTP/AVPF | | | | a=pcfg:1 t=1 | | | | a=recvonly | | | | a=rtpmap:104 EVS/16000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:104 br=13.2-24.4; bw=wb-swb; max-red=220 | | | | a=rtpmap:105 AMR-WB/16000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:105 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220 | | | | a=rtpmap:106 AMR/8000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:106 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220 | | | | a=ptime:20 | | | | a=maxptime:240 | | | | **a=simulcast: recv pt:104,105,106** | | | | **m=audio 49158 RTP/AVP 107 108** | | | | b=AS:42 | | | | a=tcap:1 RTP/AVPF | | | | a=pcfg:1 t=1 | | | | a=recvonly | | | | a=rtpmap:107 AMR-WB/16000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:107 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220 | | | | a=rtpmap:108 AMR/8000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:108 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220 | | | | a=ptime:20 | | | | a=maxptime:240 | | | | **a=simulcast: recv pt:107,108** | | | | **m=audio 49160 RTP/AVPF 109** | | | | b=AS:29 | | | | a=tcap:1 RTP/AVPF | | | | a=pcfg:1 t=1 | | | | a=recvonly | | | | a=rtpmap:109 AMR/8000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:109 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220 | | | | a=ptime:20 | | | | a=maxptime:240 | | | | **a=simulcast: recv pt:109** | +----------------------------------------------------+
Table A.9: Example SDP answer from MSMTSI MRF accepting multi-stream audio and
enabling a conference with 6 participants (for SDP offer in Table A.8)
+----------------------------------------------------+ | SDP answer | +----------------------------------------------------+ | **m=audio 49152 RTP/AVPF 96 97 98** | | | | b=AS:113 | | | | a=acfg:1 t=1 | | | | a=rtpmap:96 EVS/16000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:96 br=13.2-24.4; bw=wb-swb; max-red=220 | | | | a=rtpmap:97 AMR-WB/16000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:97 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220 | | | | a=rtpmap:98 AMR/8000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:98 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220 | | | | a=ptime:20 | | | | a=maxptime:240 | | | | **a=simulcast: recv pt:96;97;98 send pt:96,97,98** | | | | **m=audio 49154 RTP/AVPF 101 102 103** | | | | b=AS:42 | | | | a=acfg:1 t=1 | | | | a=sendonly | | | | a=rtpmap:101 EVS/16000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:101 br=13.2-24.4; bw=wb-swb; max-red=220 | | | | a=rtpmap:102 AMR-WB/16000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:102 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220 | | | | a=rtpmap:103 AMR/8000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:103 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220 | | | | a=ptime:20 | | | | a=maxptime:240 | | | | **a=simulcast: send pt:101,102,103** | | | | **m=audio 49156 RTP/AVPF 105 106** | | | | b=AS:42 | | | | a=acfg:1 t=1 | | | | a=sendonly | | | | a=rtpmap:105 AMR-WB/16000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:105 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220 | | | | a=rtpmap:106 AMR/8000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:106 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220 | | | | a=ptime:20 | | | | a=maxptime:240 | | | | **a=simulcast: send pt:105,106** | | | | **m=audio 49158 RTP/AVP 108** | | | | b=AS:29 | | | | a=tcap:1 RTP/AVPF | | | | a=pcfg:1 t=1 | | | | a=rtpmap:108 AMR/8000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:108 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220 | | | | a=ptime:20 | | | | a=maxptime:240 | | | | **a=send 108** | | | | **m=audio 49160 RTP/AVPF 109** | | | | b=AS:29 | | | | a=tcap:1 RTP/AVPF | | | | a=pcfg:1 t=1 | | | | a=recvonly | | | | a=rtpmap:109 AMR/8000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:109 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220 | | | | a=ptime:20 | | | | a=maxptime:240 | | | | **a=send pt:109** | +----------------------------------------------------+
Table A.10 shows example where the MSMTSI MRF identifies there are only four
participants in the conference and disables the two \"m=\"lines.
Table A.10: Example SDP answer from MSMTSI MRF accepting multi-stream audio
and enabling a conference with 4 participants (for SDP offer in Table A.8)
+----------------------------------------------------+ | SDP answer | +----------------------------------------------------+ | **m=audio 49152 RTP/AVPF 96 97 98** | | | | b=AS:113 | | | | a=acfg:1 t=1 | | | | a=rtpmap:96 EVS/16000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:96 br=13.2-24.4; bw=wb-swb; max-red=220 | | | | a=rtpmap:97 AMR-WB/16000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:97 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220 | | | | a=rtpmap:98 AMR/8000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:98 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220 | | | | a=ptime:20 | | | | a=maxptime:240 | | | | **a=simulcast: recv pt:96;97;98 send pt:96,97,98** | | | | **m=audio 49154 RTP/AVPF 101 102 103** | | | | b=AS:42 | | | | a=acfg:1 t=1 | | | | a=sendonly | | | | a=rtpmap:101 EVS/16000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:101 br=13.2-24.4; bw=wb-swb; max-red=220 | | | | a=rtpmap:102 AMR-WB/16000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:102 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220 | | | | a=rtpmap:103 AMR/8000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:103 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220 | | | | a=ptime:20 | | | | a=maxptime:240 | | | | **a=simulcast: send pt:101,102,103** | | | | **m=audio 49156 RTP/AVPF 105 106** | | | | b=AS:42 | | | | a=acfg:1 t=1 | | | | a=sendonly | | | | a=rtpmap:105 AMR-WB/16000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:105 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220 | | | | a=rtpmap:106 AMR/8000/1 | | | | a=fmtp:106 mode-change-capability=2; max-red=220 | | | | a=ptime:20 | | | | a=maxptime:240 | | | | **a=simulcast: send pt:105,106** | | | | **m=audio 0 RTP/AVP 108** | | | | **m=audio 0 RTP/AVP 109** | +----------------------------------------------------+
#