# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project: Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
32**.111-1** \"Fault Management; Part 1: 3G fault management requirements\".
**32.111-2 \"Fault Management; Part 2: Alarm Integration Reference Point
(IRP): Information Service (IS)\".**
32**.111-6** \"Fault Management; Part 6: Alarm Integration Reference Point
(IRP): Solution Set (SS) definitions.
The present document is part of a set of TSs which describes the requirements
and information model necessary for the Telecommunication Management (TM) of
3GPP systems. The TM principles and TM architecture are specified in 3GPP TS
32.101 [6] and 3GPP TS 32.102 [7].
A 3GPP system is composed of a multitude of Network Elements (NE) of various
types and, typically, different vendors inter-operate in a co-ordinated manner
in order to satisfy the network users\' communication requirements.\ The
occurrence of failures in a NE may cause a deterioration of this NE\'s
function and/or service quality and will, in severe cases, lead to the
complete unavailability of the NE. In order to minimize the effects of such
failures on the Quality of Service (QoS) as perceived by the network users it
is necessary to:
\- detect failures in the network as soon as they occur and alert the
operating personnel as fast as possible;
isolate the failures (autonomously or through operator intervention), i.e.
switch off faulty units and, if applicable, limit the effect of the failure as
much as possible by reconfiguration of the faulty NE/adjacent NEs;
\- if necessary, determine the cause of the failure using diagnosis and test
routines; and,
\- repair/eliminate failures in due time through the application of
maintenance procedures.
This aspect of the management environment is termed \"Fault Management\" (FM).
The purpose of FM is to detect failures as soon as they occur and to limit
their effects on the network QoS as far as possible.\ The latter is achieved
by bringing additional/redundant equipment into operation, reconfiguring
existing equipment/NEs, or by repairing/eliminating the cause of the failure.
Fault Management (FM) encompasses all of the above functionalities except
commissioning/decommissioning of NEs and potential operator triggered
reconfiguration (these are a matter of Configuration Management).
FM also includes associated features in the Operations System (OS), such as
the administration of alarm list, the presentation of operational state
information of physical and logical devices/resources/functions, and the
provision and analysis of the alarm and state history of the network.
# 1 Scope
The present document defines the Alarm Integration Reference Point (IRP)
Information Service (IS), which addresses the alarm surveillance aspects of
Fault Management (FM), applied to the Itf-N.
The purpose of the AlarmIRP is to define an interface through which a
\"system\" (typically a Network Element Manager or a Network Element) can
communicate alarm information for its managed objects to one or several
Manager Systems (typically Network Management Systems).
The Alarm IRP IS defines the semantics of alarms and the interactions visible
across the reference point in a protocol neutral way. It defines the semantics
of the operations and notifications visible in the IRP. It does not define the
syntax or encoding of the operations, notifications and their parameters.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.150: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Concept and definitions\".
[2] ITU-T Recommendation X.733 (02/92): \"Information technology - Open
Systems Interconnection - Systems Management: Alarm reporting function\".
[3] ITU-T Recommendation X.721 (02/92): \"Information Technology - Open
Systems Interconnection -Structure of management information: Definition of
management information\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.401: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM); Concept and requirements\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.302: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service
(IS)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[8] Void.
[9] 3GPP TS 32.111-1: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management; Part
1: 3G fault management requirements\".
[10] Void.
[11] ITU-T Recommendation M.3100 (04/05): \"Generic network information
model\".
[12] Void.
[13] Void.
[14] 3GPP TS 32.312: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Integration
Reference Point (IRP) management; Information Service (IS)\".
[15] ITU-T Recommendation X.736 (01/92): \"Information technology - Open
Systems Interconnection - Systems Management: Security alarm reporting
function\".
[16] 3GPP TS 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[17] 3GPP TS 28.622: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Network Resource
Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
[18] ETSI TS 101 251 V6.3.0 (1999-07): \"Digital cellular telecommunications
system (Phase 2+); Fault management of the Base Station System (BSS) (GSM
12.11 version 6.3.0 Release 1997)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 32.101 [6], 3GPP TS 32.102 [7], 3GPP TS 32.111-1 [9] , 3GPP TS 21.905
[16] and the following apply:
**active alarm:** an alarm that has not been cleared ( i.e. an alarm whose
perceivedSeverity is not Cleared).
**Event:** Network occurrence which has significance for the management of an
NE. Events do not have state.
**IRPAgent:** See 3GPP TS 32.150 [1].
**IRPManager:** See 3GPP TS 32.150 [1].
**IRP document version number string (IRPVersion):** See 3GPP TS 32.312 [14].
**Itf-N:** Management interface defined in 3GPP TS 32.101 [6] subclause
5.1.2.2 and 3GPP TS 32.102 [7] subclause 7.3.2.
**Matching-Criteria-Attributes:** which identifies a set of ITU-T
Recommendation X.733 [2] defined attributes.\ Notifications carrying identical
values for these attributes are considered to be carrying alarm information
related to (a) the same network resource and (b) the same alarmed condition.
The matching-criteria-attributes are: objectInstance, eventType, probableCause
and specificProblem, if present.
**Notification:** Information message originated below Itf-N..
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TS
32.101 [6], 3GPP TS 32.102 [7], 3GPP TS 32.111-1 [9] , 3GPP TS 21.905 [16] and
the following apply . An abbreviation defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in 3GPP TS
32.101 [6], 3GPP TS 32.102 [7], 3GPP TS 32.111-1 [9] and 3GPP TS 21.905 [16],
in that order.
DN Distinguished Name
EM Element Manager
FM Fault Management
IOC Information Object Class
IRP Integration Reference Point
IS Information Service
NE Network Element
NM Network Manager
OS Operations System
QoS Quality of Service
SS Solution Set
SupportIOC Support Information Object Class
TM Telecommunication Management
UML Unified Modelling Language
# 4 Basic aspects
## 4.1 Void
## 4.2 System Context
The general definition of the System Context for the present IRP is found in
3GPP TS 32.150 [1] subclause 4.7.\ In addition, the set of related IRP(s)
relevant to the present IRP is shown in the two diagrams below.
Figure 1: System Context A
Figure 2: System Context B
# 5 Information Object Classes
## 5.1 Imported information entities and local labels
* * *
Label reference Local label 32.302 [5], SupportIOC, NotificationIRP
NotificationIRP 32.302 [5], interface, notificationIRPNotification
NotificationIRPNotification
32.312 [14], SupportIOC, ManagedGenericIRP ManagedGenericIRP
* * *
## 5.2 Class diagram
### 5.2.0 Introduction
This clause introduces the set of classes (i.e. IOCs, SupportIOCs) that
encapsulate information within the AlarmIRP. The intent is to identify the
information required for the AlarmIRP implementation of its operations and
notification emission. This clause provides the overview of all support object
classes in UML. Subsequent clauses provide more detailed specification of
various aspects of these support object classes.
### 5.2.1 Attributes and relationships
{width="6.689583333333333in" height="4.720138888888889in"}
### 5.2.2 Inheritance
{width="1.8298611111111112in" height="2.095138888888889in"}
## 5.3 Information Object Class Definitions
### 5.3.1 AlarmInformation
#### 5.3.1.1 Definition
AlarmInformation contains information about alarm condition of an alarmed
MonitoredEntity.
One AlarmIRP is related to at most one AlarmList. The IRPAgent or its related
AlarmIRP or the related AlarmList assigns an identifier, called alarmId, to
each AlarmInformation in the AlarmList. An alarmId unambiguously identifies
one AlarmInformation in the AlarmList.
#### 5.3.1.2 Attribute
+-------------------------------------------------+-------------------+ | Attribute name | Support Qualifier | +-------------------------------------------------+-------------------+ | alarmId | M | +-------------------------------------------------+-------------------+ | notificationId | M | +-------------------------------------------------+-------------------+ | alarmRaisedTime | M | +-------------------------------------------------+-------------------+ | alarmClearedTime | M | +-------------------------------------------------+-------------------+ | alarmChangedTime | O | +-------------------------------------------------+-------------------+ | eventType | M | +-------------------------------------------------+-------------------+ | probableCause | M | +-------------------------------------------------+-------------------+ | perceivedSeverity | M | +-------------------------------------------------+-------------------+ | rootCauseIndicator | O | +-------------------------------------------------+-------------------+ | specificProblem | O | +-------------------------------------------------+-------------------+ | backedUpStatus | O | +-------------------------------------------------+-------------------+ | trendIndication | O | +-------------------------------------------------+-------------------+ | thresholdInfo | O | +-------------------------------------------------+-------------------+ | stateChangeDefinition | O | +-------------------------------------------------+-------------------+ | monitoredAttributes | O | +-------------------------------------------------+-------------------+ | proposedRepairActions | O | +-------------------------------------------------+-------------------+ | additionalText | O | +-------------------------------------------------+-------------------+ | additionalInformation | O(see note 4) | +-------------------------------------------------+-------------------+ | ackTime | M | +-------------------------------------------------+-------------------+ | ackUserId | M | +-------------------------------------------------+-------------------+ | ackSystemId | O | +-------------------------------------------------+-------------------+ | ackState | M | +-------------------------------------------------+-------------------+ | clearUserId | O (see note 2) | +-------------------------------------------------+-------------------+ | clearSystemId | O (see note 2) | +-------------------------------------------------+-------------------+ | serviceUser | O (see note 3) | +-------------------------------------------------+-------------------+ | serviceProvider | O (see note 3) | +-------------------------------------------------+-------------------+ | securityAlarmDetector | O (see note 3) | +-------------------------------------------------+-------------------+ | NOTE 1: Void. | | | | | | NOTE 2: These attributes and qualifiers are | | | applicable only if the IRPAgent supports | | | clearAlarms() (they are absent if clearAlarms() | | | is not supported). | | | | | | NOTE 3: These attributes must be supported if | | | the IRPAgent emits notifyNewAlarm that carries | | | security alarm information. | | | | | | NOTE 4: This attribute is optionally populated | | | whenever vendor specific attributes are | | | needed.\ | | | A specific condition for this optional | | | population is when an alarm presented by the EM | | | (e.g. EM user interface) has different values | | | of perceived severity, and / or alarm type, | | | compared with the values presented to the | | | Itf-N. | | +-------------------------------------------------+-------------------+
#### 5.3.1.3 State diagram
Alarms have states. The alarm state information is captured in
AlarmInformation in AlarmList.
The solid circle icon represents the Start State. The double circle icon
represents the End State. In this state, the alarm is Cleared and
acknowledged. The AlarmInformation shall not be accessible via the IRP and is
removed from the AlarmList.
Note the state diagram uses \" X / Y \^ Z \" to label the arc that indicates
state transition. The meanings of X, Y and Z are:
\- X identifies the triggering event
\- Y identifies the action of AlarmIRP because of the triggering event
\- Z is the notification to be emitted by AlarmIRP because of the triggering
event
Note that acknowledgeAlarm\^notifyAckStateChanged and the
unacknowledgeAlarm\^notifyAckStateChange refer to cases when the request of
the IRPManager is successful for the AlarmInformation concerned. They do not
refer to the cases when the request is a failure since in the failure cases,
no state transition would occur.
Note that, to reduce cluttering to the diagram, the setComment\^notifyComment
is not included in the figure. One transition should be applied from
unack&unclear to itself. Similarly, another transition should be applied from
ack&unclear to itself. Another one is from unack&clear to itself.
\"PS\" used in the state diagram stands for \"perceived severity\".
Figure A is used if it supports \^notifyChangedAlarm and Figure B is used if
it does not support \^notifyChangedAlarm.
Figure A. \^notifyChangedAlarm supported
Figure B. \^notifyChangedAlarm not supported
### 5.3.2 AlarmList
#### 5.3.2.1 Definition
AlarmIRP maintains an AlarmList that contains currently active alarms (i.e.
AlarmInformation whose perceivedSeverity is not Cleared) and alarms that are
Cleared but not yet acknowledged.
#### 5.3.2.2 Attribute
There is no additional attribute defined for this class besides those
inherited.
### 5.3.3 AlarmIRP
#### 5.3.3.1 Definition
AlarmIRP is the representation of the alarm management capabilities specified
by the present document. This class inherits from ManagedGenericIRP class
specified in 3GPP TS 32.312 [14].
#### 5.3.3.2 Attribute
There is no additional attribute defined for this class besides those
inherited.
#### 5.3.3.3 Notification Table
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyAlarmListRebuilt M See 6.8.4.
notifyPotentialFaultyAlarmList O See 6.11.1.
* * *
### 5.3.4 Comment
#### 5.3.4.1 Definition
Comment contains commentary and associated information such as the time when
the commentary is made.
#### 5.3.4.2 Attribute
* * *
Attribute Name Support Qualifier commentTime M commentText M commentUserId M
commentSystemId O
* * *
### 5.3.5 CorrelatedNotification
#### 5.3.5.1 Definition
It identifies one MonitoredEntity. For that MonitoredEntity identified, a set
of notification identifiers is also identified. One or more
CorrelatedNotification instances can be related to an AlarmInformation. In
this case, the information of the AlarmInformation is said to be correlated to
information carried in the notifications identified by the
CorrelatedNotification instances. See further definition of correlated
notification in ITU-T Recommendation X.733 [2], clause 8.1.2.9.
The notification identified by the CorrelatedNotification, as defined in ITU-T
and used here, can carry all types of information and not restricted to
carrying alarm information only (see TS 32.302 [5]). For example, a
notification, identified by the CorrelatedNotification, can indicate a managed
instance attribute value change. In this case, the information of the
AlarmInformation is said to be correlated to the managed instance attribute
value change event.
The meaning of correlation is dependent on the type of notification itself.
See the comment column of the correlatedNotification input parameter for each
type of notification, such as notifyNewAlarm.
Notification carries AlarmInformation. The AlarmInformation instances referred
to by the correlatedNotification may or may not exist in the AlarmList. For
example, the AlarmInformation carried by the identified notification may have
been acknowledged and Cleared and therefore, no longer exist in the AlarmList.
#### 5.3.5.2 Attribute
* * *
Attribute Name Support Qualifier source M notificationIdSet M
* * *
### 5.3.6 MonitoredEntity
#### 5.3.6.1 Definition
It represents classes that can have an alarmed state. The types of classes
that can have alarmed state are:
> a) All classes whose Notification Tables include alarm notifications.
>
> b) VSE subclass of 3GPP defined classes and VSE defined classes that can
> have alarmed state.
The objectClass and objectInstance of this class identifies an instance of
this class. The AlarmInformation uses this information in two places. In one
place, the information is used to identify the instance that is in alarmed
state. In another place, the information is used to identify an instance that
can be used as the back up network resource for the instance that is in
alarmed state.
#### 5.3.6.2 Attribute
There is no attribute for this class.
## 5.4 Information relationships definition
### 5.4.1 relation-AlarmIRP-AlarmList (M)
#### 5.4.1.1 Definition
This represents the relationship between AlarmIRP and AlarmList.
#### 5.4.1.2 Role
There is no role defined for this relationship.
#### 5.4.1.3 Constraint
There is no constraint for this relationship.
### 5.4.2 relation-AlarmList-AlarmInformation (M)
#### 5.4.2.1 Definition
This represents the relationship between AlarmList and AlarmInformation.
#### 5.4.2.2 Role
* * *
Name Definition identifyAlarmInformation It represents a capability to obtain
the information contained in AlarmInformation.
* * *
#### 5.4.2.3 Constraint
* * *
Name Definition inv_ hasAlarmInformation1 No AlarmInformation playing the role
of theAlarmInformation shall have its perceivedSeverity = \"cleared\" and its
ackState = \"acknowledged\". inv_ hasAlarmInformation2 The alarmId of all
AlarmInformation instances playing the role of theAlarmInformation are
distinct.
* * *
### 5.4.3 relation-AlarmInformation-Comment (M)
#### 5.4.3.1 Definition
This represents the relationship between AlarmInformation and Comment.
#### 5.4.3.2 Role
* * *
Name Definition comment It represents a capability to obtain the information
contained in Comment.
* * *
#### 5.4.3.3 Constraint
There is no constraint.
### 5.4.4 relation-AlarmInformation-CorrelatedNotification (M)
#### 5.4.4.1 Definition
This represents the relationship between AlarmInformation and
CorrelatedNotification.
#### 5.4.4.2 Role
* * *
Name Definition correlatedNotification It represents a capability to obtain
the information contained in CorrelatedNotification.
* * *
#### 5.4.4.3 Constraint
There is no constraint.
### 5.4.5 relation-AlarmedObject-AlarmInformation (M)
#### 5.4.5.1 Definition
This represents the relationship between MonitoredEntity and AlarmInformation.
#### 5.4.5.2 Role
* * *
Name Definition objectClass/objectInstance It represents the capability to
obtain the identification, in terms of objectClass and objectInstance, of
alarmed network resource.
* * *
#### 5.4.5.3 Constraint
* * *
Name Definition inv_relation-AI-ME All AlarmInformation involved in this
relationship with the same MonitoredEntity shall have at least one different
value in the following attributes: eventType, probableCause and
specificProblem.
* * *
### 5.4.6 relation-backUpObject-AlarmInformation (O)
#### 5.4.6.1 Definition
The relationship represents the relationship between AlarmInformation and the
backUpObject.
#### 5.4.6.2 Role
* * *
Name Definition backUpObject It represents a capability to obtain the
identification, in terms of objectClass and objectInstance, of the
backUpObject.
* * *
#### 5.4.6.3 Constraint
* * *
Name Definition inv_identifyBackUpObject This relationship is present if and
only if the AlarmInformation.backedUpStatus attribute is present and is
indicating true.
* * *
## 5.5 Information attribute definition
### 5.5.1 Definition and legal values
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Name | Definition | Legal Values | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | alarmId | It identifies one | | | | AlarmInformation in | | | | the AlarmList. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | notificationId | It identifies the | | | | notification that | | | | carries the | | | | AlarmInformation. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | alarmRaisedTime | It indicates the | All values | | | date and time when | indicating valid | | | the alarm is first | time. | | | raised by the | | | | alarmed resource. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | alarmChangedTime | It indicates the | All values | | | last date and time | indicating valid | | | when the | time. | | | AlarmInformation is | | | | changed by the | | | | alarmed resource. | | | | Changes to | | | | AlarmInformation | | | | caused by | | | | invocations of the | | | | IRPManager would not | | | | change this date and | | | | time. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | alarmClearedTime | It indicates the | All values | | | date and time when | indicating valid | | | the alarm is | time. | | | Cleared. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | eventType | It indicates the | See Annex A. | | | type of event. See | | | | Annex A for | | | | information on event | | | | type. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | probableCause | It qualifies alarm | See Annex B. | | | and provides further | | | | information than | | | | eventType. See Annex | | | | B for a complete | | | | listing. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | perceivedSeverity | It indicates the | Critical, Major, | | | relative level of | Minor, Warning, | | | urgency for operator | Indeterminate, | | | attention. | Cleared: see ITU-T | | | | Recommendation X.733 | | | | [2]. This IRP does | | | | not recommend the | | | | use of | | | | indeterminate. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | specificProblem | It provides further | Provided by vendor. | | | qualification on the | | | | alarm than | | | | probableCause. This | | | | attribute value | | | | shall be | | | | single-value and of | | | | simple type such as | | | | integer or string. | | | | See definition in | | | | ITU-T Recommendation | | | | X.733 [2] clause | | | | 8.1.2.2. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | backedUpStatus | It indicates if an | All values that | | | object (the | carry the semantics | | | MonitoredEntity) has | of backedUpStatus | | | a back up. See | defined by ITU-T | | | definition in ITU-T | X.733 [2] clause | | | Recommendation X.733 | 8.1.2.4. | | | [2] clause | | | | 8.1.2.4. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | trendIndication | It indicates if some | \"Less severe\", | | | observed condition | \"no change\", | | | is getting better, | \"more severe\": see | | | worse, or not | definition in ITU-T | | | changing. | Recommendation X.733 | | | | [2] clause | | | | 8.1.2.6. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | thresholdInfo | It indicates the | | | | crossed threshold | | | | information such as: | | | | | | | | - The identifier | | | | of the monitored | | | | attribute whose | | | | value has | | | | crossed a | | | | threshold, | | | | | | | | - The threshold | | | | settings, | | | | | | | | - The observed | | | | value that have | | | | crossed a | | | | threshold, etc. | | | | | | | | > See definition in | | | | > ITU-T | | | | > Recommendation | | | | > X.733 [2] clause | | | | > 8.1.2.7. See also | | | | > for information in | | | | > TS 32.401 [4] | | | | > subclause 5.6. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | s | It indicates MO | | | tateChangeDefinition | attribute value | | | | changes. See | | | | definition in ITU-T | | | | Recommendation X.733 | | | | [2] clause | | | | 8.1.2.10. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | monitoredAttributes | It indicates MO | | | | attributes whose | | | | value changes are | | | | being monitored. See | | | | definition in ITU-T | | | | Recommendation X.733 | | | | [2] clause | | | | 8.1.2.11. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | p | It indicates | | | roposedRepairActions | proposed repair | | | | actions. See | | | | definition in ITU-T | | | | Recommendation X.733 | | | | [2] clause | | | | 8.1.2.12. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | additionalText | It carries semantics | N/A | | | that is outside the | | | | scope of this IRP | | | | specification. It | | | | may provide the | | | | identity of the NE | | | | (e.g. RNC, Node-B) | | | | from which the alarm | | | | has been originated. | | | | It corresponds to | | | | the \"user label\" | | | | attribute of the | | | | object class | | | | representing the NE | | | | in the Generic | | | | Network Resource | | | | Model [17]. | | | | | | | | It can contain | | | | further information | | | | on the alarm. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | a | This attribute when | The additional | | dditionalInformation | present allows the | information field is | | | inclusion of a set | a list of one or | | | of vendor specific | more information | | | alarm information in | parts. | | | the alarm. | | | | | This specification | | | A specific condition | allows the support | | | for this optional | of two such | | | population is when | information parts to | | | an alarm presented | carry | | | by the EM (e.g. EM | | | | user interface) has | - vendor defined | | | different values of | perceived | | | perceived severity, | severity | | | and / or alarm type, | | | | compared with the | - vendor defined | | | values presented to | alarm type | | | the Itf-N. | | | | | using defined | | | Any other uses of | identification. | | | additional | | | | information on the | Other vendor | | | alarm and its | specific information | | | semantics is outside | parts are allowed by | | | the scope of this | using vendor | | | IRP. | specific | | | | identifications. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | ackTime | It identifies the | All values that | | | time when the alarm | indicate valid time | | | has been | that are later than | | | acknowledged or | that carried in | | | unacknowledged the | alarmRaisedTime. | | | last time, i.e. it | | | | registers the time | | | | when ackState | | | | changes. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | ackUserId | It identifies the | It can be used to | | | last user who has | identify the human | | | changed the | operator such as | | | Acknowledgement | \"John Smith\" or it | | | State. | can identify a | | | | group, such as | | | | \"Team Six\", or it | | | | can contain no | | | | information such as | | | | \"\". | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | ackSystemId | It identifies the | It can be used to | | | system (EM or NM) | identify the system, | | | that last changed | such as \"system 6\" | | | the ackState of an | or it can contain no | | | alarm, i.e. | information such as | | | acknowledged or | \"\". | | | unacknowledged the | | | | alarm. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | ackState | It identifies the | Acknowledged: the | | | Acknowledgement | alarm has been | | | State of the alarm. | acknowledged. | | | | | | | | Unacknowledged: the | | | | alarm has been | | | | unacknowledged or | | | | the alarm has never | | | | been acknowledged. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | commentTime | It carries the time | | | | when the comment has | | | | been added to the | | | | alarm. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | commentText | It carries the | | | | textual comment. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | commentUserId | It carries the | | | | identification of | | | | the user who made | | | | the comment. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | commentSystemId | It carries the | | | | identification of | | | | the system (EM or | | | | NM) from which the | | | | comment is made. | | | | That system supports | | | | the user that made | | | | the comment. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | rootCauseIndicator | It indicates that | "Yes", "No" | | | this | | | | AlarmInformation is | | | | the root cause of | | | | the events captured | | | | by the notifications | | | | whose identifiers | | | | are in the related | | | | Co | | | | rrelatedNotification | | | | instances. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | source | It identifies one | All values that | | | MonitoredEntity. | carry the semantics | | | | of DN. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | notificationIdSet | It carries one or | | | | more notification | | | | identifiers. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | clearUserId | It carries the | It can be used to | | | identity of the user | identify the human | | | who invokes the | operator such as | | | clearAlarms | \"John Smith\" or it | | | operation. | can identify a | | | | group, such as | | | | \"Team Six\", or it | | | | can contain no | | | | information such as | | | | \"\". | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | clearSystemId | It carries the | It can be used to | | | identity of the | identify the system, | | | system in which the | such as \"system 6\" | | | IRPManager runs. | or it can contain no | | | That IRPManager | information such as | | | supports the user | \"\". | | | who invokes the | | | | clearAlarms(). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | serviceUser | It identifies the | This attribute may | | | service-user whose | carry no information | | | request for service | if the server user | | | provided by the | is not identifiable. | | | serviceProvider led | | | | to the generation of | | | | the security alarm. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | serviceProvider | It identifies the | | | | service-provider | | | | whose service is | | | | requested by the | | | | serviceUser and the | | | | service request | | | | provokes the | | | | generation of the | | | | security alarm. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | s | It carries the | This attribute may | | ecurityAlarmDetector | identity of the | carry no information | | | detector of the | if the security | | | security alarm. | alarm detector is | | | | not identifiable. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### 5.5.2 Constraints
* * *
Name Definition inv_alarmChangedTime Time indicated shall be later than that
carried in alarmRaisedTime. inv_alarmClearedTime Time indicated shall be later
than that carried in alarmRaisedTime. inv_ackTime Time indicated shall be
later than that carried in alarmRaisedTime. inv_notificationId NotificationIds
shall be chosen to be unique across all notifications of a particular Managed
Object (representing the NE) throughout the time that alarm correlation is
significant. The algorithm by which alarm correlation is accomplished is
outside the scope of this IRP.
* * *
# 6 Interface Definition
## 6.1 Class diagram
{width="5.479861111111111in" height="3.6166666666666667in"}
## 6.2 Generic rules
Rule 1: each operation with at least one input parameter supports a pre-
condition valid_input_parameter which indicates that all input parameters
shall be valid with regards to their information type. Additionally, each such
operation supports an exception operation_failed_invalid_input_parameter which
is raised when pre-condition valid_input_parameter is false. The exception has
the same entry and exit state.
Rule 2: Each operation with at least one optional input parameter supports a
set of pre-conditions supported_optional_input_parameter_xxx where \"xxx\" is
the name of the optional input parameter and the pre-condition indicates that
the operation supports the named optional input parameter. Additionally, each
such operation supports an exception
operation_failed_unsupported_optional_input_parameter_xxx which is raised when
(a) the pre-condition supported_optional_input_parameter_xxx is false and (b)
the named optional input parameter is carrying information. The exception has
the same entry and exit state.
Rule 3: each operation shall support a generic exception
operation_failed_internal_problem that is raised when an internal problem
occurs and that the operation cannot be completed. The exception has the same
entry and exit state.
## 6.3 Interface AlarmIRPOperations_1 (M)
### 6.3.1 acknowledgeAlarms (M)
#### 6.3.1.1 Definition
The IRPManager invokes this operation to acknowledge one or more alarms.
The IRPManager may supply the identifier of the alarm and its
perceivedSeverity. The reason for supplying the perceivedSeverity, in addition
to the identifier of the alarm, is given in Annex E.
#### 6.3.1.2 Input Parameters
+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Name | Qualifier | Information | Comment | | | | Type | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | alarmInfor | M | List of | It carries one | | mationAndSeveri | | AlarmInfo | or more | | tyReferenceList | | rmation.alarmId | identifiers | | | | and | identifying | | | | Alar | A | | | | mInformation.pe | larmInformation | | | | rceivedSeverity | instances in | | | | | AlarmList, | | | | | including | | | | | optionally the | | | | | pe | | | | | rceivedSeverity | | | | | of the | | | | | A | | | | | larmInformation | | | | | instance that | | | | | is going to be | | | | | acknowledged. | | | | | | | | | | alarm | | | | | Informa | | | | | tionAndSeverity | | | | | ReferenceList | | | | | | | | | | { alarmId - | | | | | Mandatory; | | | | | | | | | | pe | | | | | rceivedSeverity | | | | | - Optional | | | | | | | | | | } | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | ackUserId | M | AlarmInform | It identities | | | | ation.ackUserId | the user | | | | | acknowledging | | | | | the alarm. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | ackSystemId | O | AlarmInformat | It identifies | | | | ion.ackSystemId | the processing | | | | | system on which | | | | | the subject | | | | | IRPManager | | | | | runs. It may be | | | | | absent implying | | | | | that IRPManager | | | | | does not wish | | | | | this | | | | | information be | | | | | kept in | | | | | A | | | | | larmInformation | | | | | in AlarmList. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 6.3.1.3 Output Parameters
+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Name | Qualifier | Matching | Comment | | | | Information | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | badAlarm | M | List of pair of | If | | Information | | AlarmInfor | allAla | | ReferenceList | | mation.alarmId, | rmsAcknowledged | | | | ENUM | is true, it | | | | ( | contains no | | | | UnknownAlarmId, | information. | | | | Acknow | | | | | ledgmentFailed, | If | | | | WrongPer | someAl | | | | ceivedSeverity) | armAcknowledged | | | | and additional | is true, then | | | | failure reason. | it contains | | | | | identifications | | | | | of | | | | | A | | | | | larmInformation | | | | | that are (a) | | | | | present in | | | | | input parameter | | | | | AlarmInformati | | | | | onReferenceList | | | | | but are absent | | | | | in the | | | | | AlarmList = | | | | | UnknownAlarmId; | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | | (b) present | | | | | in input | | | | | parameter | | | | | AlarmInformati | | | | | onReferenceList | | | | | and are present | | | | | in the | | | | | AlarmList but | | | | | the | | | | | Acknowledgement | | | | | Information | | | | | (see note below | | | | | table) has not | | | | | changed, in | | | | | contrast to | | | | | IRPManager\'s | | | | | request = | | | | | Acknow | | | | | ledgmentFailed; | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | | (c) present | | | | | in input | | | | | parameter | | | | | AlarmInformati | | | | | onReferenceList | | | | | and are present | | | | | in the | | | | | AlarmList but | | | | | the | | | | | pe | | | | | rceivedSeverity | | | | | to be | | | | | acknowledged | | | | | has changed | | | | | and/or is | | | | | different | | | | | within the | | | | | Alarm List = | | | | | WrongPe | | | | | rceivedSeverity | | | | | (applicable | | | | | only if | | | | | pe | | | | | rceivedSeverity | | | | | was provided). | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | status | M | ENUM | If | | | | (Oper | someAl | | | | ationSucceeded, | armAcknowledged | | | | O | is true, status | | | | perationFailed, | = | | | | OperationPart | OperationPar | | | | iallySucceeded) | tiallySuceeded. | | | | | | | | | | If | | | | | allAla | | | | | rmsAcknowledged | | | | | is true, status | | | | | = | | | | | Oper | | | | | ationSucceeded. | | | | | | | | | | If | | | | | op | | | | | eration_failed | | | | | is true, status | | | | | = | | | | | O | | | | | perationFailed. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
NOTE: Acknowledgement Information is defined as the information contained in
AlarmInformation.ackTime, AlarmInformation.ackUserId,
AlarmInformaton.ackSystemId, AlarmInformation.ackState.
#### 6.3.1.4 Pre-condition
atLeastOneValidId.
* * *
Assertion Name Definition atLeastOneValidId The AlarmInformationReferenceList
contains at least one identifier that identifies one AlarmInformation in
AlarmList and that this identified AlarmInformation shall have its ackState
indicating \"unacknowledged\" and, if provided, an equal perceivedSeverity.
* * *
#### 6.3.1.5 Post-condition
someAlarmAcknowledged OR allAlarmsAcknowledged.
* * *
Assertion Name Definition someAlarmAcknowledged At least one but not all
AlarmInformation identified in input parameter AlarmInformationReferenceList
has been acknowledged. Acknowledgement of an AlarmInformation means that the
ackState attribute has been set to \"acknowledged\", that ackUserId,
ackSystemId attributes of this AlarmInformation have been set to the values
provided as input parameter and that the time of acknowledgeAlarms operation
has been registered in ackTime attribute. allAlarmsAcknowledged All
AlarmInformation identified in input parameter have been acknowledged.
Acknowledgement of an AlarmInformation means that the ackState attribute has
been set to \"acknowledged\", that ackUserId, ackSystemId attributes of this
AlarmInformation have been set to the values provided as input parameter and
that the time of acknowledgeAlarms operation has been registered in ackTime
attribute.
* * *
#### 6.3.1.6 Exceptions
+-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Name | Definition | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | operation_failed | **Condition:** Pre-condition is false or | | | post-condition is false. | | | | | | **Returned Information:** The output parameter | | | status. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+
### 6.3.2 getAlarmList (M)
#### 6.3.2.1 Definition
The IRPManager invokes this operation to request the AlarmIRP to provide
either the complete list of AlarmInformation instances in the AlarmList or
only a part of this list (partial alarm alignment).
The parameters baseObjectClass and baseObjectInstance are used to identify the
part of the alarm list to be returned. If they are absent, then the complete
alarm list shall be provided (full alarm alignment). If they identify a
particular class instance, then only a) the AlarmInformation instances related
to this class instance and b) the AlarmInformation instances related to the
subordinate class instances of this class instance shall be provided (partial
alarm alignment). An instance-a is said to be subordinate to instance-b if the
DN of the latter is part of the DN of the former.
There are two modes of operation. One mode is synchronous. In this mode, the
list of AlarmInformation instances in AlarmList is returned synchronously with
the operation. The other mode is asynchronous. In this mode, the list of
AlarmInformation instances is returned via notifications. In asynchronous mode
of operation, the only information returned synchronously is the status of the
operation. A method allowing to abort an ongoing alarm alignment process shall
be available in the asynchronous mode. The mode of operation to be used is
determined by means outside the scope of specification. To use asynchronous
mode, the IRPManager must have established a subscription with the
NotificationIRP via the subscribe operation specified in 3GPP TS 32.302 [5].
#### 6.3.2.2 Input Parameters
+----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | Name | Qualifier | Information | Comment | | | | Type | | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | alarmAckState | O | ENUM (all | It carries a | | | | alarms, all | constraint. | | | | active alarms, | The AlarmIRP | | | | all active and | shall apply it | | | | acknowledged | on | | | | alarms, all | Al | | | | active and | armInformation | | | | u | instances in | | | | nacknowledged, | AlarmList when | | | | all Cleared | constructing | | | | and | its output | | | | unacknowledged | parameter | | | | alarms, all | AlarmIn | | | | u | formationList. | | | | nacknowledged) | | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | b | O, see note 1 | This parameter | See how this | | aseObjectClass | | is either | attribute is | | | | absent or | used to | | | | carries the | support full | | | | object class | alarm | | | | of a certain | alignment and | | | | class. | partial alarm | | | | | alignment in | | | | | 6.3.2.1. | | | | | | | | | | See note 2. | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | base | O, see note 1 | This parameter | See how this | | ObjectInstance | | is either | attribute is | | | | absent or | used to | | | | carries the DN | support full | | | | of a certain | alarm | | | | class | alignment and | | | | instance. | partial alarm | | | | | alignment in | | | | | 6.3.2.1. | | | | | | | | | | See note 2. | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | filter | O | N/A | It carries a | | | | | filter | | | | | constraint. | | | | | | | | | | If the filter | | | | | is present, | | | | | the AlarmIRP | | | | | shall apply it | | | | | on | | | | | Al | | | | | armInformation | | | | | instances in | | | | | AlarmList when | | | | | constructing | | | | | its output | | | | | parameter | | | | | AlarmIn | | | | | formationList. | | | | | | | | | | If the filter | | | | | is not | | | | | present, all | | | | | of the | | | | | Al | | | | | armInformation | | | | | instances | | | | | included by | | | | | the scope are | | | | | selected. | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | NOTE 1: If the | | | | | notification | | | | | notifyAl | | | | | armListRebuilt | | | | | supports | | | | | indicating | | | | | that only a | | | | | part of the | | | | | alarm list has | | | | | been rebuilt | | | | | then the | | | | | operation | | | | | getAlarmList | | | | | shall support | | | | | partial alarm | | | | | alignment. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The | | | | | legal values | | | | | of the | | | | | parameters | | | | | b | | | | | aseObjectClass | | | | | and | | | | | base | | | | | ObjectInstance | | | | | are restricted | | | | | to those | | | | | carried by the | | | | | parameters | | | | | b | | | | | aseObjectClass | | | | | and | | | | | base | | | | | ObjectInstance | | | | | in the recent | | | | | notifyAl | | | | | armListRebuilt | | | | | notifications. | | | | | The timeline | | | | | for "recent" | | | | | is | | | | | ve | | | | | ndor-specific. | | | | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+
#### 6.3.2.3 Output Parameters
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Name | Qualifier | Matching | Comment | | | | Information | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | alarmI | M | List of | It carries the | | nformationList | | Ala | requested | | | For the | rmInformation. | Al | | | Qualifier of | | armInformation | | | the parameters | | instances. | | | in each list | | | | | entry see the | | Case when | | | following | | synchronous | | | table | | mode of | | | | | operation is | | | | | used: | | | | | | | | | | (a) The | | | | | AlarmIRP shall | | | | | apply the | | | | | constraints | | | | | expressed in | | | | | alarmAckState | | | | | and filter to | | | | | Al | | | | | armInformation | | | | | instances when | | | | | constructing | | | | | this output | | | | | parameter. | | | | | | | | | | Case when | | | | | asynchronous | | | | | mode of | | | | | operation is | | | | | used (i.e. | | | | | this output | | | | | parameter is | | | | | conveyed via | | | | | n | | | | | otifications): | | | | | | | | | | (a) If the | | | | | filter | | | | | parameter is | | | | | present, the | | | | | IRPAgent shall | | | | | apply the | | | | | constraint | | | | | when | | | | | constructing | | | | | this output | | | | | parameter. | | | | | Furthermore, | | | | | if the | | | | | alarmAckState | | | | | constraint is | | | | | present, the | | | | | IRPAgent shall | | | | | apply that | | | | | constraint as | | | | | well. The | | | | | filter | | | | | constraint, if | | | | | any, that is | | | | | currently | | | | | active in the | | | | | notification | | | | | channel is not | | | | | used for the | | | | | construction | | | | | of this output | | | | | parameter. | | | | | | | | | | (b) If the | | | | | filter | | | | | parameter is | | | | | absent, the | | | | | IRPAgent shall | | | | | apply the | | | | | filter | | | | | constraint | | | | | currently | | | | | active in the | | | | | notification | | | | | channel when | | | | | constructing | | | | | this output | | | | | parameter. If | | | | | the | | | | | alarmAckState | | | | | constraint is | | | | | present, the | | | | | IRPAgent shall | | | | | apply that | | | | | constraint as | | | | | well. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | status | M | ENUM | If | | | | (Opera | allAlarmInfor | | | | tionSucceeded, | mationReturned | | | | Op | is true, | | | | erationFailed) | status = | | | | | Opera | | | | | tionSucceeded. | | | | | | | | | | If | | | | | ope | | | | | ration_failed | | | | | is true, | | | | | status = | | | | | Op | | | | | erationFailed. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
The following table lists the set of sub-elements of the alarmInformationList
attribute, and alarmInformationList forms a list of such sets.
+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Name | Qualifier | Matching | Comment | | | | Information | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | n | M | \"n | The parameter | | otificationType | | otifyNewAlarm\" | carries | | | | | | | | | or | - | | | | | notifyNewAlarm | | | | "noti | in case the | | | | fyChangedAlarm" | alarm has | | | | | not yet | | | | or | changed and | | | | | has not yet | | | | "noti | been | | | | fyClearedAlarm" | cleared. | | | | | | | | | | - not | | | | | ifyChangedAlarm | | | | | in case the | | | | | alarm has | | | | | changed but | | | | | has not yet | | | | | been | | | | | cleared. | | | | | | | | | | - not | | | | | ifyClearedAlarm | | | | | in case the | | | | | alarm has | | | | | been | | | | | cleared but | | | | | not yet | | | | | | | | | | acknowledged. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | alarmType | M | AlarmInform | This parameter | | | | ation.eventType | indicates | | | | | \ | | | | | "Communications | | | | | Alarm\", | | | | | \"Processing | | | | | Error Alarm\", | | | | | \"Environmental | | | | | Alarm\". | | | | | \"Quality Of | | | | | Service Alarm\" | | | | | or \"Equipment | | | | | Alarm\" for | | | | | non-s | | | | | ecurity-related | | | | | alarms. | | | | | | | | | | It indicates | | | | | \"Integrity | | | | | Violation\", | | | | | \"Operational | | | | | Violation\", | | | | | \"Physical | | | | | Violation\", | | | | | \"Security | | | | | Service or | | | | | Mechanism | | | | | Violation\" or | | | | | \"Time Domain | | | | | Violation" for | | | | | security | | | | | alarms. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | objectClass, | M | MonitoredEnt | | | objectInstance | | ity.objectClass | | | | | where the | | | | | MonitoredEntity | | | | | is identified | | | | | by the | | | | | relation- | | | | | AlarmedObject-A | | | | | larmInformation | | | | | of the new | | | | | Al | | | | | armInformation. | | | | | | | | | | MonitoredEntity | | | | | .objectInstance | | | | | where the | | | | | MonitoredEntity | | | | | is identified | | | | | by the | | | | | relation- | | | | | AlarmedObject-A | | | | | larmInformation | | | | | of the new | | | | | Al | | | | | armInformation. | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | notificationId | M | This carries | | | | | the semantics | | | | | of notification | | | | | identifier. | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | eventTime | O | Al | The parameter | | | | armInformation. | carries the | | | | alarmRaisedTime | | | | | or | - | | | | | alarmRaisedTime | | | | Ala | in case | | | | rmInformation.a | n | | | | larmChangedTime | otificationType | | | | or | carries | | | | | | | | | Ala | notifyNewAlarm | | | | rmInformation.a | | | | | larmClearedTime | - a | | | | | larmChangedTime | | | | | in case | | | | | n | | | | | otificationType | | | | | carries | | | | | not | | | | | ifyChangedAlarm | | | | | | | | | | - a | | | | | larmClearedTime | | | | | in case | | | | | n | | | | | otificationType | | | | | carries | | | | | not | | | | | ifyClearedAlarm | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | availability | | | | | and accuracy of | | | | | time carried by | | | | | the time | | | | | parameters in | | | | | individual | | | | | entries of the | | | | | list (i.e. | | | | | eventTime, | | | | | a | | | | | larmRaisedTime, | | | | | a | | | | | larmClearedTime | | | | | and ackTime) | | | | | shall be \"best | | | | | effort\". | | | | | | | | | | Reason: An EMS | | | | | is not required | | | | | to persistently | | | | | store these | | | | | times or other | | | | | alarm | | | | | information (as | | | | | in case of | | | | | synchronization | | | | | information may | | | | | be provided by | | | | | the NE), while | | | | | also some NE\'s | | | | | do not keep | | | | | these times | | | | | (and a later | | | | | attempt to | | | | | retrieve the | | | | | alarm data from | | | | | the NEs will | | | | | not deliver | | | | | these time | | | | | data). | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | systemDN | C | See usage of | Presence | | | | this attribute | dependent on | | | | in Notification | solution set. | | | | header - see | | | | | [5]. | See usage of | | | | | this attribute | | | | | in Notification | | | | | header - see | | | | | [5]. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | alarmId | M | AlarmInfo | | | | | rmation.alarmId | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | alarmRaisedTime | M | Al | The | | | | armInformation. | availability | | | | alarmRaisedTime | and accuracy of | | | | | time carried by | | | | | the time | | | | | parameters in | | | | | individual | | | | | entries of the | | | | | list (i.e. | | | | | eventTime, | | | | | a | | | | | larmRaisedTime, | | | | | a | | | | | larmClearedTime | | | | | and ackTime) | | | | | shall be \"best | | | | | effort\". | | | | | | | | | | Reason: An EMS | | | | | is not required | | | | | to persistently | | | | | store these | | | | | times or other | | | | | alarm | | | | | information (as | | | | | in case of | | | | | synchronization | | | | | information may | | | | | be provided by | | | | | the NE), while | | | | | also some NE\'s | | | | | do not keep | | | | | these times | | | | | (and a later | | | | | attempt to | | | | | retrieve the | | | | | alarm data from | | | | | the NEs will | | | | | not deliver | | | | | these time | | | | | data). | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | a | O | Ala | not applicable | | larmChangedTime | | rmInformation.a | if the severity | | | | larmChangedTime | of related | | | | | alarm was not | | | | | changed | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | availability | | | | | and accuracy of | | | | | time carried by | | | | | the time | | | | | parameters in | | | | | individual | | | | | entries of the | | | | | list (i.e. | | | | | eventTime, | | | | | a | | | | | larmRaisedTime, | | | | | al | | | | | armChangedTime, | | | | | a | | | | | larmClearedTime | | | | | and ackTime) | | | | | shall be \"best | | | | | effort\". | | | | | | | | | | Reason: An EMS | | | | | is not required | | | | | to persistently | | | | | store these | | | | | times or other | | | | | alarm | | | | | information (as | | | | | in case of | | | | | synchronization | | | | | information may | | | | | be provided by | | | | | the NE), while | | | | | also some NE\'s | | | | | do not keep | | | | | these times | | | | | (and a later | | | | | attempt to | | | | | retrieve the | | | | | alarm data from | | | | | the NEs will | | | | | not deliver | | | | | these time | | | | | data). | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | a | M | Ala | not applicable | | larmClearedTime | | rmInformation.a | if related | | | | larmClearedTime | alarm was not | | | | | cleared | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | availability | | | | | and accuracy of | | | | | time carried by | | | | | the time | | | | | parameters in | | | | | individual | | | | | entries of the | | | | | list (i.e. | | | | | eventTime, | | | | | a | | | | | larmRaisedTime, | | | | | a | | | | | larmClearedTime | | | | | and ackTime) | | | | | shall be \"best | | | | | effort\". | | | | | | | | | | Reason: An EMS | | | | | is not required | | | | | to persistently | | | | | store these | | | | | times or other | | | | | alarm | | | | | information (as | | | | | in case of | | | | | synchronization | | | | | information may | | | | | be provided by | | | | | the NE), while | | | | | also some NE\'s | | | | | do not keep | | | | | these times | | | | | (and a later | | | | | attempt to | | | | | retrieve the | | | | | alarm data from | | | | | the NEs will | | | | | not deliver | | | | | these time | | | | | data). | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | probableCause | M | AlarmInformatio | | | | | n.probableCause | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | pe | M | Alar | | | rceivedSeverity | | mInformation.pe | | | | | rceivedSeverity | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | roo | O | Alarm | | | tCauseIndicator | | Information.roo | | | | | tCauseIndicator | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | specificProblem | O | Al | | | | | armInformation. | | | | | specificProblem | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | backedUpStatus | O | A | not applicable | | | | larmInformation | if related | | | | .backedUpStatus | alarm is a | | | | | security alarm | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | trendIndication | O | Al | not applicable | | | | armInformation. | if related | | | | trendIndication | alarm is a | | | | | security alarm | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | thresholdInfo | O | AlarmInformatio | not applicable | | | | n.thresholdInfo | if related | | | | | alarm is a | | | | | security alarm | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | stateC | O | AlarmInformat | not applicable | | hangeDefinition | | ion.stateChange | if related | | | | | alarm is a | | | | | security alarm | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | moni | O | AlarmI | not applicable | | toredAttributes | | nformation.moni | if related | | | | toredAttributes | alarm is a | | | | | security alarm | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | propos | O | AlarmInf | not applicable | | edRepairActions | | ormation.propos | if related | | | | edRepairActions | alarm is a | | | | | security alarm | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | additionalText | O | A | | | | | larmInformation | | | | | .additionalText | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | additi | O | AlarmInf | | | onalInformation | | ormation.additi | | | | | onalInformation | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | ackTime | M | AlarmInfo | not applicable | | | | rmation.ackTime | if related | | | | | alarm was not | | | | | acknowledged | | | | | nor | | | | | unacknowledged | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | availability | | | | | and accuracy of | | | | | time carried by | | | | | the time | | | | | parameters in | | | | | individual | | | | | entries of the | | | | | list (i.e. | | | | | eventTime, | | | | | a | | | | | larmRaisedTime, | | | | | a | | | | | larmClearedTime | | | | | and ackTime) | | | | | shall be \"best | | | | | effort\". | | | | | | | | | | Reason: An EMS | | | | | is not required | | | | | to persistently | | | | | store these | | | | | times or other | | | | | alarm | | | | | information (as | | | | | in case of | | | | | synchronization | | | | | information may | | | | | be provided by | | | | | the NE), while | | | | | also some NE\'s | | | | | do not keep | | | | | these times | | | | | (and a later | | | | | attempt to | | | | | retrieve the | | | | | alarm data from | | | | | the NEs will | | | | | not deliver | | | | | these time | | | | | data). | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | ackUserId | M | AlarmInform | not applicable | | | | ation.ackUserId | if related | | | | | alarm was not | | | | | acknowledged | | | | | nor | | | | | unacknowledged | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | ackSystemId | O | AlarmInformat | not applicable | | | | ion.ackSystemId | if related | | | | | alarm was not | | | | | acknowledged | | | | | nor | | | | | unacknowledged | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | ackState | M | AlarmInfor | not applicable | | | | mation.ackState | if related | | | | | alarm was not | | | | | acknowledged | | | | | nor | | | | | unacknowledged | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | clearUserId | O | AlarmInformat | not applicable | | | | ion.clearUserId | if related | | | | | alarm was not | | | | | cleared | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | clearSystemId | O | AlarmInformatio | not applicable | | | | n.clearSystemId | if related | | | | | alarm was not | | | | | cleared | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | backUpObject | O | MonitoredEntity | not applicable | | | | .objectInstance | if related | | | | where the | alarm is a | | | | MonitoredEntity | security alarm | | | | is identified | | | | | by | | | | | relation | | | | | -BackUpObject-A | | | | | larmInformation | | | | | of the new | | | | | Al | | | | | armInformation. | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | correlat | O | The set of | | | edNotifications | | Correla | | | | | tedNotification | | | | | related to this | | | | | Al | | | | | armInformation. | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | comments | M | The set of | not applicable | | | | Comment | if the related | | | | instances | alarm has no | | | | involved in a | appended | | | | relationship | comments | | | | with this | | | | | Al | | | | | armInformation. | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | serviceUser | M | AlarmInformat | not applicable | | | | ion.serviceUser | if related | | | | | alarm is not a | | | | | security alarm | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | serviceProvider | M | Al | not applicable | | | | armInformation. | if related | | | | serviceProvider | alarm is not a | | | | | security alarm | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | securi | M | AlarmInf | not applicable | | tyAlarmDetector | | ormation.securi | if related | | | | tyAlarmDetector | alarm is not a | | | | | security alarm | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 6.3.2.4 Pre-condition
baseObjectExists
+------------------+--------------------------------------------------+ | Assertion Name | Definition | +------------------+--------------------------------------------------+ | baseObjectExists | If the parameters baseObjectClass and | | | baseObjectInstance are provided the object | | | identified by them has to exist. | | | | | | If they are not provided this pre-condition is | | | not applicable. | +------------------+--------------------------------------------------+
#### 6.3.2.5 Post-condition
allAlarmInformationReturned.
* * *
Assertion Name Definition allAlarmInformationReturned All AlarmInformation
that satisfy the constraints expressed in input parameters filter and
alarmAckState and are present in the AlarmList at the moment of this operation
invocation are returned. All AlarmInformation in AlarmList remains unchanged
as the result of this operation.
* * *
#### 6.3.2.6 Exceptions
+---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | Assertion Name | Definition | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | operation_failed | **Condition:** At least one input | | | parameter is invalid or the | | | pre-condition is false or the | | | post-condition is not true. | | | | | | **Returned Information:** The output | | | parameter status. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | filter_complexity_limit | **Condition:** Operation not performed | | | because the filter parameter was too | | | complex. | | | | | | **Returned Information** : The output | | | parameter status. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
## 6.4 Interface AlarmIRPOperation_2 (O)
### 6.4.1 getAlarmCount (M)
#### 6.4.1.1 Definition
An IRPManager wishes to know the amount of AlarmInformation kept in the
AlarmList. The IRPManager requests the counts via this operation. Possible
usage is for IRPManager to find out the number of AlarmInformation in
AlarmList before invoking getAlarmList operation.
#### 6.4.1.2 Input Parameters
+---------------+-----------+-------------------+-------------------+ | Name | Qualifier | Information Type | Comment | +---------------+-----------+-------------------+-------------------+ | filter | O | N/A | It carries a | | | | | filter | | | | | constraint. The | | | | | operation shall | | | | | apply it when | | | | | counting the | | | | | AlarmInformation | | | | | instances in | | | | | AlarmList. | | | | | | | | | | Case when | | | | | synchronous mode | | | | | of operation is | | | | | used for | | | | | getAlarmList: | | | | | | | | | | (a) If this | | | | | parameter is | | | | | present, the | | | | | operation shall | | | | | count the | | | | | AlarmInformation | | | | | instances which | | | | | satisfy both (a) | | | | | this filter | | | | | constraint and | | | | | (b) the condition | | | | | set by input | | | | | parameter | | | | | alarmAckState. | | | | | | | | | | (b) If this | | | | | parameter is | | | | | absent, the | | | | | operation shall | | | | | count all | | | | | AlarmInformation | | | | | instances that | | | | | satisfy the | | | | | condition set by | | | | | input parameter | | | | | alarmAckState. | | | | | | | | | | Case when | | | | | asynchronous mode | | | | | of operation is | | | | | used for | | | | | getAlarmList: | | | | | | | | | | (a) If this | | | | | parameter is | | | | | present, the | | | | | operation shall | | | | | count all | | | | | AlarmInformation | | | | | instances that | | | | | satisfy this | | | | | filter constraint | | | | | and the condition | | | | | set by input | | | | | parameter | | | | | alarmAckState. | | | | | | | | | | (b) If this | | | | | parameter is | | | | | absent, the | | | | | operation shall | | | | | count | | | | | AlarmInformation | | | | | instances that | | | | | satisfy (a) the | | | | | filter constraint | | | | | currently active | | | | | in the | | | | | notification | | | | | channel | | | | | established | | | | | between the | | | | | IRPManager and | | | | | the IRPAgent that | | | | | is equipped with | | | | | NotificationIRP | | | | | capabilities and | | | | | (b) the condition | | | | | set by input | | | | | parameter | | | | | alarmAckState. | +---------------+-----------+-------------------+-------------------+ | alarmAckState | O | ENUM (all alarms, | It carries a | | | | all active | constraint. The | | | | alarms, all | operation shall | | | | active and | apply it on | | | | acknowledged | AlarmInformation | | | | alarms, all | instances in | | | | active and | AlarmList when | | | | unacknowledged, | counting. | | | | all cleared and | | | | | unacknowledged | | | | | alarms, all | | | | | unacknowledged) | | +---------------+-----------+-------------------+-------------------+
#### 6.4.1.3 Output Parameters
+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Name | Qualifier | Matching | Comment | | | | Information | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | criticalCount, | M | N/A | They carry the | | majorCount, | | | number of | | minorCount, | | | A | | warningCount, | | | larmInformation | | inde | | | in AlarmList | | terminateCount, | | | that has the | | clearedCount | | | following | | | | | properties. | | | | | | | | | | Case when | | | | | synchronous | | | | | mode of | | | | | operation is | | | | | used: | | | | | | | | | | (a) The | | | | | operation shall | | | | | apply the | | | | | constraints | | | | | expressed in | | | | | alarmAckState | | | | | and filter to | | | | | A | | | | | larmInformation | | | | | instances when | | | | | counting. | | | | | | | | | | Case when | | | | | asynchronous | | | | | mode of | | | | | operation is | | | | | used (i.e. this | | | | | output | | | | | parameter is | | | | | conveyed via | | | | | notifications): | | | | | | | | | | (a) If the | | | | | filter | | | | | parameter is | | | | | present, the | | | | | operation shall | | | | | apply the | | | | | constraint when | | | | | counting. | | | | | Furthermore, if | | | | | the | | | | | alarmAckState | | | | | constraint is | | | | | present, the | | | | | operation shall | | | | | apply that | | | | | constraint as | | | | | well. The | | | | | filter | | | | | constraint, if | | | | | any, that is | | | | | currently | | | | | active in the | | | | | notification | | | | | channel is not | | | | | used for the | | | | | counting. | | | | | | | | | | (b) If the | | | | | filter | | | | | parameter is | | | | | absent, the | | | | | operation shall | | | | | apply the | | | | | filter | | | | | constraint | | | | | currently | | | | | active in the | | | | | notification | | | | | channel when | | | | | counting. If | | | | | the | | | | | alarmAckState | | | | | constraint is | | | | | present, the | | | | | operation shall | | | | | apply that | | | | | constraint as | | | | | well. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | status | M | ENUM | If | | | | (Oper | allAlarmInf | | | | ationSucceeded, | ormationCounted | | | | O | is true, status | | | | perationFailed) | = | | | | | Oper | | | | | ationSucceeded. | | | | | | | | | | If | | | | | op | | | | | eration_failed | | | | | is true, status | | | | | = | | | | | O | | | | | perationFailed. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 6.4.1.4 Pre-condition
There are no pre-conditions.
#### 6.4.1.5 Post-condition
allAlarmInformationCounted.
+----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Assertion Name | Definition | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | allAlarmInformationCounted | All AlarmInformation that satisfy the | | | constraints expressed in input | | | parameters filter and alarmAckState | | | and are present in the AlarmList at | | | the moment of this operation | | | invocation are counted and the result | | | returned. | | | | | | All AlarmInformation in AlarmList | | | remains unchanged as the result of | | | this operation. | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+
#### 6.4.1.6 Exceptions
+---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | Name | Definition | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | operation_failed | **Condition:** the pre-condition is | | | false or the post-condition is true. | | | | | | **Returned Information:** The output | | | parameter status. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | filter_complexity_limit | **Condition:** Operation not performed | | | because the filter parameter is too | | | complex. | | | | | | **Returned Information** : The output | | | parameter status. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
## 6.5 Interface AlarmIRPOperation_3 (O)
### 6.5.1 unacknowledgeAlarms (M)
#### 6.5.1.1 Definition
IRPManager invokes this operation to remove acknowledgement information kept
in one or more AlarmInformation instances.
#### 6.5.1.2 Input Parameters
* * *
Name Qualifier Information Type Comment alarmInformationReferenceList M List
of AlarmInformation.alarmId It carries one or more identifiers identifying
AlarmInformation in AlarmList. ackUserId M AlarmInformation.ackUserId It
identities the user that invokes this operation. ackSystemId O
AlarmInformation.ackSystemId It identifies the processing system on which the
subject IRPManager runs.
* * *
#### 6.5.1.3 Output Parameters
+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Name | Qualifier | Matching | Comment | | | | Information | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | ba | M | List of pair of | If | | dAlarmInformati | | AlarmInfo | allAlarm | | onReferenceList | | rmation.alarmId | sUnacknowledged | | | | and the failure | is true, it | | | | reason. | contains no | | | | | information. | | | | | | | | | | If | | | | | someAlar | | | | | mUnacknowledged | | | | | is true, then | | | | | it contains | | | | | identifications | | | | | of | | | | | A | | | | | larmInformation | | | | | that are | | | | | | | | | | (a) present | | | | | in input | | | | | parameter | | | | | AlarmInformati | | | | | onReferenceList | | | | | but are absent | | | | | in the | | | | | AlarmList; or | | | | | | | | | | (b) present | | | | | in input | | | | | parameter | | | | | AlarmInformati | | | | | onReferenceList | | | | | and are present | | | | | in the | | | | | AlarmList but | | | | | the | | | | | Acknowledgement | | | | | Information | | | | | (see note below | | | | | table) has not | | | | | changed, in | | | | | contrast to | | | | | IRPManager\'s | | | | | request. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | status | M | ENUM | If | | | | (Oper | someAlar | | | | ationSucceeded, | mUnacknowledged | | | | O | is true, status | | | | perationFailed, | = | | | | OperationPart | OperationPart | | | | iallySucceeded) | iallySucceeded. | | | | | | | | | | If | | | | | allAlarm | | | | | sUnacknowledged | | | | | is true, status | | | | | = | | | | | Oper | | | | | ationSucceeded. | | | | | | | | | | If | | | | | op | | | | | eration_failed | | | | | is true, status | | | | | = | | | | | O | | | | | perationFailed. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
NOTE: Acknowledgement Information is defined as the information contained in
AlarmInformation.ackTime, AlarmInformation.ackUserId,
AlarmInformaton.ackSystemId and AlarmInformation.ackState.
#### 6.5.1.4 Pre-condition
atLeastOneValidId AND validUserId&SystemId.
* * *
Assertion Name Definition atLeastOneValidId The AlarmInformationReferenceList
contains at least one identifier that identifies one AlarmInformation in
AlarmList and that this identified AlarmInformation shall have its ackState
indicating \"acknowledged\". validUserId&SystemId The values of ackUserId and
ackSystemId attributes of the AlarmInformation must be the same as the ones
provided as input parameters. The AlarmInformation is identified by the input
parameter AlarmInformationReferenceList.
* * *
#### 6.5.1.5 Post-condition
someAlarmUnacknowledged OR allAlarmsUnacknowledged.
* * *
Assertion Name Definition someAlarmUnacknowledged At least one but not all
AlarmInformation identified in input parameter alarmListReferenceList has been
unacknowledged. This means that the ackState attribute has been set to
\"unacknowledged\", that ackTime, ackUserId, ackSystemId attributes of this
AlarmInformation have been set to containing no information.
allAlarmsUnacknowledged All AlarmInformation identified in input parameter
have been unacknowledged. This means that the ackState attribute has been set
to \"unacknowledged\", that ackTime, ackUserId, ackSystemId attributes of this
AlarmInformation have been set to contain no information.
* * *
#### 6.5.1.6 Exceptions
+-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Name | Definition | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | operation_failed | **Condition:** Pre-condition is false or | | | post-condition is false. | | | | | | **Returned Information:** The output parameter | | | status. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+
## 6.6 Interface AlarmIRPOperation_4 (O)
### 6.6.1 setComment (M)
#### 6.6.1.1 Definition
The IRPManager invokes this operation to record a comment in one or more
AlarmInformation instances in AlarmList.
#### 6.6.1.2 Input Parameters
* * *
Name Qualifier Information Type Comment alarmInformation ReferenceList M List
of AlarmInformation.alarmId It carries one or more identifiers identifying
AlarmInformation instances in the AlarmList. commentUserId M The
Comment.commentUserId where Comment is involved in relation-AlarmInformation-
Comment with an AlarmInformation.  
commentSystemId O The Comment.commentSystemId where Comment is involved in
relation-AlarmInformation-Comment with an AlarmInformation.  
commentText M The comment.commentText where Comment is involved in relation-
AlarmInformation-Comment with an AlarmInformation.
* * *
#### 6.6.1.3 Output Parameter
+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Name | Qualifier | Matching | Comment | | | | Information | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | badAlarm | M | List of pair of | If allUpdated | | Information | | AlarmInfo | is true, it | | ReferenceList | | rmation.alarmId | contains no | | | | and the failure | information. | | | | reason. | | | | | | If someUpdated | | | | | is true, then | | | | | it contains | | | | | identifications | | | | | of | | | | | A | | | | | larmInformation | | | | | that are not | | | | | present in | | | | | AlarmList or | | | | | that they are | | | | | present, but | | | | | AlarmInfor | | | | | mation.comments | | | | | has not | | | | | changed, in | | | | | contrast to | | | | | IRPManager\'s | | | | | request. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Status | M | ENUM(\ | If allUpdated | | | | Operation | is true, then | | | | succeeded,\ | status = | | | | Operation | Oper | | | | failed,\ | ationSucceeded. | | | | Operation | | | | | partially | If someUpdated | | | | failed) | is true, then | | | | | status = | | | | | OperationP | | | | | artiallyFailed. | | | | | | | | | | If exception | | | | | operationFailed | | | | | is raised, then | | | | | status = | | | | | O | | | | | perationFailed. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 6.6.1.4 Pre-condition
atLeastOneValidId.
* * *
Assertion Name Properties atLeastOneValidId The AlarmInformationReferenceList
contains at least one identifier that identifies one AlarmInformation in
AlarmList.
* * *
#### 6.6.1.5 Post-condition
allUpdated OR someUpdated.
+----------------+----------------------------------------------------+ | Assertion Name | Properties | +----------------+----------------------------------------------------+ | allUpdated | The AlarmInformation.comment of all alarms | | | identified by the input parameter | | | AlarmInformationReferenceList has been updated. | | | | | | The input parameter commentText, commentUserId and | | | commentSystemId are added to the | | | AlarmInformation.comment. The time of the | | | operation invocation is captured in the | | | AlarmInformation.comment as well. | | | | | | To make it possible to add the new comment, the | | | IRPAgent may remove one or more old comment | | | previously held by AlarmInformation.comments. | +----------------+----------------------------------------------------+ | someUpdated | The AlarmInformation.comment attribute of at least | | | one but not all alarms identified by the input | | | parameter AlarmInformationReferenceList has been | | | updated. | | | | | | The input parameter commentText, commentUserId and | | | commentSystemId are added to the | | | AlarmInformation.comment. The time of the | | | operation invocation is captured in the | | | AlarmInformation.comment as well. | | | | | | To add a new Comment, it may be necessary to | | | remove one or more old Comment instances being | | | held. The commentTime of the removed Comment | | | instances shall be older than that of the | | | remaining Comment instances. | +----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
#### 6.6.1.6 Exceptions
+-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Name | Properties | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | operation_failed | **Condition:** the pre-condition is false or | | | the post-condition is false. | | | | | | **Returned Information:** The output parameter | | | status. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+
## 6.7 Interface AlarmIRPOperation_5 (O)
### 6.7.1 clearAlarms (M)
#### 6.7.1.1 Definition
The IRPManager invokes this operation to clear one or more AlarmInformation
instances in AlarmList. For example, this operation can be used to support the
manual clearing of the ADMC (automatic detection and manual clearing, see also
3GPP TS 32.111-1 [9]) alarms.
#### 6.7.1.2 Input Parameter
* * *
Name Qualifier Information Type Comment alarmInformation ReferenceList M List
of AlarmInformation.alarmId It carries one or more identifiers identifying
AlarmInformation instances in the AlarmList. clearUserId M
AlarmInformation.clearUserId It identities the user clearing the alarm.
clearSystemId O AlarmInformation.clearSystemId It identifies the processing
system on which the subject IRPManager runs. It may be absent implying that
IRPManager does not wish this information be known to the IRPAgent.
* * *
#### 6.7.1.3 Output Parameter
+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Name | Qualifier | Matching | Comment | | | | Information | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | badA | M | List of pair of | If allCleared | | larmInformation | | AlarmInfo | is true, it | | ReferenceList | | rmation.alarmId | contains no | | | | and the failure | information. | | | | reason. | | | | | | If someCleared | | | | | is true, then | | | | | it contains | | | | | identifications | | | | | of | | | | | A | | | | | larmInformation | | | | | that are not | | | | | present in | | | | | AlarmList or | | | | | that are | | | | | present in | | | | | AlarmList but | | | | | remain | | | | | unchanged, in | | | | | contrast to | | | | | IRPManager\'s | | | | | request. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | status | M | ENUM(\ | If allCleared | | | | Opera | is true, then | | | | tionSucceeded,\ | status = | | | | Op | Oper | | | | erationFailed,\ | ationSucceeded. | | | | OperationPart | | | | | iallySucceeded) | If someCleared | | | | | is true, then | | | | | status = | | | | | OperationPart | | | | | iallySucceeded. | | | | | | | | | | If exception | | | | | operationFailed | | | | | is raised, then | | | | | status = | | | | | O | | | | | perationFailed. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 6.7.1.4 Pre-condition
atLeastOneValidId.
* * *
Assertion Name Properties atLeastOneValidId The input parameter
alarmInformationReferenceList contains at least one identifier that identifies
one AlarmInformation in AlarmList.
* * *
#### 6.7.1.5 Post-condition
allCleared OR someCleared.
* * *
Assertion Name Properties allCleared The AlarmInformation.perceivedSeverity of
all instances identified by the input parameter alarmInformationReferenceList
are set to \'cleared\'. The AlarmInformation.clearUserId and
AlarmInformation.clearSystemId of all instances identified are set with values
carried by input parameters clearUserId and clearSystemId respectively.
someCleared It has the same properties as allCleared except that it is
applicable to one or more but not all instances identified by the input
parameter alarmInformationReferenceList.
* * *
#### 6.7.1.6 Exceptions
+-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Name | Properties | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | operation_failed | **Condition:** the pre-condition is false or | | | the post-condition is false. | | | | | | **Returned Information:** The output parameter | | | status. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+
## 6.8 Notification AlarmIRPNotifications_1 (M)
### 6.8.0 Introduction
The present document does not specify methods for IRPManager to detect alarm
loss. The use of alarmId to detect alarm loss is an arrangement made between
IRPAgent and IRPManager. The use of such arrangement is outside the scope of
the present document. For example, IRPAgent may use integer sequence (e.g. 1,
2, 3, 4, 5, ...) as alarmId instances for its alarms. Based on this knowledge,
IRPManager can detect alarm loss. This kind of arrangement may not be possible
for all SS.
The present document does not specify how IRPAgent can determine if IRPManager
has received alarms correctly. Not all SSs provide such capability.
The present document does not specify methods for IRPManager and IRPAgent to
recover alarm loss. The only mechanism recommended to deal with alarm loss is
the use of getAlarmList operation. The present document does not specify
conditions under which IRPManager should invoke this operation.
The filter qualifiers in tables listing input parameters of notifications only
refer to applying a filter constraint to that notification. In other words:
The filter qualifiers Y(es)/N(o) specify if the input parameter can be used or
not when constructing the input parameter filter of operations subscribe or
changeSubscriptionFilter defined in 3GPP TS 32.302 [5].
### 6.8.1 notifyNewAlarm (M)
#### 6.8.1.1 Definition
A new AlarmInformation has been added in the AlarmList. The subscribed
IRPManager instances are notified of this fact if the added AlarmInformation
satisfies the current filter constraint of their subscription.
There are two tables for Input Parameters. If alarmType parameter indicates
\"Communications Alarm\", \"Processing Error Alarm\", \"Environmental Alarm\".
\"Quality Of Service Alarm\" or \"Equipment Alarm\", the first table (see
clause 6.8.1.2) shall be applicable for this notifyNewAlarm. If alarmType
parameter indicates \"Integrity Violation\", \"Operational Violation\",
\"Physical Violation\", \"Security Service or Mechanism Violation\" or \"Time
Domain Violation\", the second table (see clause 6.8.1.3) shall be applicable.
#### 6.8.1.2 Input Parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment objectClass M,Y
MonitoredEntity.objectClass Notification header - see [5]. It shall carry the
MonitoredEntity class name. The MonitoredEntity is identified by the relation-
AlarmedObject-AlarmInformation of the new AlarmInformation. objectInstance M,Y
MonitoredEntity.objectInstance Notification header - see [5]. It shall carry
the DN of the MonitoredEntity. The MonitoredEntity is identified by the
relation-AlarmedObject-AlarmInformation of the new AlarmInformation.
notificationId M,N -- Notification header - see [5]. eventTime M,Y
AlarmInformation.alarmRaisedTime Notification header - see [5]. systemDN C,Y
-- Notification header - see [5]. notificationType M,Y \"notifyNewAlarm\".  
probableCause M,Y AlarmInformation.probableCause  
perceivedSeverity M,Y AlarmInformation.perceivedSeverity  
rootCauseIndicator O,N It indicates that this AlarmInformation is the root
cause of the events captured by the notifications whose identifiers are in the
related CorrelatedNotification instances. "Yes", "No" alarmType M,Y
AlarmInformation.eventType The notification structure defined by this table is
applicable if this parameter indicates \"Communications Alarm\", \"Processing
Error Alarm\", \"Environmental Alarm\". \"Quality Of Service Alarm\" or
\"Equipment Alarm\". specificProblem O,N AlarmInformation.specificProblem  
correlatedNotifications O,N The set of CorrelatedNotification related to this
AlarmInformation.  
backedUpStatus O,N AlarmInformation.backedUpStatus  
backUpObject O,N MonitoredEntity.objectInstance It carries the DN of the back
up object. The object is identified by relation-BackUpObject-AlarmInformation
of the new AlarmInformation. trendIndication O,N
AlarmInformation.trendIndication  
thresholdInfo O,N AlarmInformation.thresholdInfo  
stateChangeDefinition O,N AlarmInformation.stateChangeDefinition  
monitoredAttributes O,N AlarmInformation.monitoredAttributes  
proposedRepairActions O,N AlarmInformaton.proposedRepairActions  
additionalText O,N AlarmInformation.additionalText  
additionalInformation O,N AlarmInformation.additionalInformation  
alarmId M,N AlarmInformation.alarmId
* * *
#### 6.8.1.3 Input Parameters for notification related to security alarm
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment objectClass M,Y
MonitoredEntity.objectClass See Table 6.8.1.2. objectInstance M,Y
MonitoredEntity.objectInstance See Table 6.8.1.2. notificationId M,N -- See
Table 6.8.1.2. eventTime M,Y AlarmInformation.alarmRaisedTime See Table
6.8.1.2. systemDN C,Y -- See Table 6.8.1.2. notificationType M,Y
\"notifyNewAlarm\".  
probableCause M,Y AlarmInformation.probableCause  
perceivedSeverity M,Y AlarmInformation.perceivedSeverity  
rootCauseIndicator O,N It indicates that this AlarmInformation is the root
cause of the events captured by the notifications whose identifiers are in the
related CorrelatedNotification instances. "Yes", "No" alarmType M,Y
AlarmInformation.eventType The notification structure of this table is
applicable if this parameter indicates \"Integrity Violation\", \"Operational
Violation\", \"Physical Violation\", \"Security Service or Mechanism
Violation\", \"Time Domain Violation\". correlatedNotifications O,N The set of
CorrelatedNotification related to this AlarmInformation.  
additionalText O,N AlarmInformation.additionalText  
additionalInformation O,N AlarmInformation.additionalInformation  
serviceUser M,N AlarmInformation.serviceUser This may contain no information
if the identify of the service-user (requesting the service) is not known.
serviceProvider M,N AlarmInformation.serviceProvider This shall always
identify the service-provider receiving a service request, from serviceUser,
that provokes the security alarm. securityAlarmDetector M,N
AlarmInformation.securityAlarmDetector This may contain no information if the
detector of the security alarm is the serviceProvider. alarmId M,N
AlarmInformation.alarmId
* * *
#### 6.8.1.4 Triggering Event
##### 6.8.1.4.1 From-state
noMatchedAlarm.
+----------------+----------------------------------------------------+ | Assertion Name | Definition | +----------------+----------------------------------------------------+ | noMatchedAlarm | AlarmList does not contain an AlarmInformation | | | that has the following properties: | | | | | | Its matching-criteria-attributes values are | | | identical to that of the newly generated network | | | alarm and it is involved in | | | relation-AlarmObject-AlarmInformation with the | | | same MonitoredEntity as the one identified by the | | | newly generated network alarm. | +----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
##### 6.8.1.4.2 To-state
newAlarmInAlarmList.
+---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | Assertion Name | Definition | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+ | newAlarmInAlarmList | AlarmList contains an AlarmInformation | | | holding information conveyed by the newly | | | generated network alarm. This | | | AlarmInformation is involved in | | | relation-AlarmObject-AlarmInformation with | | | the same MonitoredEntity as the one | | | identified by the newly generated network | | | alarm. | | | | | | The following attributes of the | | | AlarmInformation shall be populated with | | | information in the newly generated alarm. | | | | | | alarmId, notificationId, alarmRaisedTime, | | | eventType, probableCause, perceivedSeverity. | | | | | | The following attributes of the same | | | AlarmInformation shall be populated with | | | information in the newly generated alarm if | | | the information is present (in the newly | | | generated alarm) and if the attribute is | | | supported: | | | | | | specificProblem, backedUpStatus, | | | trendIndication, thresholdInfo, | | | stateChangeDefinition, monitoredAttributes, | | | proposedRepairActions, additionalText, | | | additionalInformation. | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
### 6.8.2 notifyAckStateChanged (M)
#### 6.8.2.1 Definition
The subscribed IRPManager instances are notified regarding changes in alarm
Acknowledgement State. The AlarmInformation carried in the notification shall
satisfy the current filter constraint of the subscription.
The notification shall contain all parameters that are filterable and are
present in the original (related) notifyNewAlarm notification.
The IRPManager and the EM can acknowledge and unacknowledge alarms as defined
by 3GPP TS 32.111-1 [9]. Specifically, the AlarmIRP itself can acknowledge
alarms.
The capability that IRPAgent itself acknowledges alarms is optional. The
trigger, of such capability, is vendor defined. For example, it runs once a
day, once every 4 hours, or always. The algorithm for determining which
cleared alarm should be acknowledged is vendor specific. For example:
acknowledge alarm records that have been cleared more than 24 hours or
acknowledge alarm records whose highest perceived severity level has been
MINOR. When acknowledged, the alarm ackState changes and the AlarmIRP shall
emit the corresponding notifyAckStateChanged.
#### 6.8.2.2 Input Parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment objectClass M,Y
MonitoredEntity.objectClass See Table 6.8.1.2. objectInstance M,Y
MonitoredEntity.objectInstance See Table 6.8.1.2. notificationId M,N -- See
Table 6.8.1.2. eventTime M,Y AlarmInformation.ackTime See Table 6.8.1.2.
systemDN C,Y -- See Table 6.8.1.2. notificationType M,Y
\"notifyAckStateChanged\"  
probableCause M,Y AlarmInformation.probableCause  
perceived Severity M,Y AlarmInformation.perceivedSeverity  
alarmType M,Y AlarmInformation.eventType  
alarmId M,N AlarmInformation.alarmId  
ackState M,N AlarmInformation.ackState  
ackUserId M,N AlarmInformation.ackUserId If this AlarmInformation has been
acknowledged by a human operator, than this parameter contains the operator
identifier. If it has been acknowledged by a System (EM or NM), than this
parameter contains the identifier of the System. ackSystemId O,N
AlarmInformation.ackSystemId This parameter always contains the identifier of
the System (EM or NM) where the acknowledgement request was originated.
* * *
#### 6.8.2.3 Triggering Event
##### 6.8.2.3.1 From-state
ackedByIRPManager OR ackedByIRPAgent AND alarmInformationExists.
* * *
Assertion Name Definition ackedByIRPManager Reception of a acknowledgeAlarms
operation and a subsequent operation success return. ackedByIRPAgent Reception
of a local (non-standard) acknowlegeAlarms equivalent operation and a
subsequent operation success return. alarmInformationExists The
AlarmInformation exists in AlarmList.
* * *
##### 6.8.2.3.2 To-state
alarmAckStateHasChanged.
+-------------------------+-------------------------------------------+ | Assertion Name | Definition | +-------------------------+-------------------------------------------+ | alarmAckStateHasChanged | The AlarmInformation.ackState of the | | | AlarmInformation identified by from-state | | | assertion alarmInformationExists have | | | been updated. Specifically, the following | | | attributes of the subject | | | AlarmInformation are updated: | | | | | | -- notificationId, ackTime, ackUserId, | | | ackState, ackSystemId. | +-------------------------+-------------------------------------------+
### 6.8.3 notifyClearedAlarm (M)
#### 6.8.3.1 Definition
IRPAgent notifies the subscribed IRPManager of alarm clearing if the subject
AlarmInformation satisfies the optional filter constraint expressed in the
subscribe operation.
The notification shall contain all parameters that are filterable and are
present in the original (related) notifyNewAlarm notification.
#### 6.8.3.2 Input Parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment objectClass M,Y
MonitoredEntity.objectClass See Table 6.8.1.2. objectInstance M,Y
MonitoredEntity.objectInstance See Table 6.8.1.2. notificationId M,Y -- See
Table 6.8.1.2. eventTime M,Y AlarmInformation.alarmClearedTime See Table
6.8.1.2. systemDN C,Y -- See Table 6.8.1.2. notificationType M,Y
\"notifyClearedAlarm\"  
probableCause M,Y AlarmInformation.probableCause  
perceivedSeverity M,Y AlarmInformation.perceivedSeverity Its value shall
indicate Cleared. alarmType M,Y AlarmInformation.eventType  
correlated Notifications O,N The set of CorrelatedNotification related to this
AlarmInformation. It contains references to other AlarmInformation instances
whose perceivedSeverity levels are Cleared as well. In this way,
perceivedSeverity level of multiple AlarmInformation instances can be Cleared
by one notification. clearUserId O,N AlarmInformation.clearUserId It is
present if the AlarmInformation is cleared by the IRPManager using
clearAlarms. clearSystemId O,N AlarmInformation.clearSystemId It is present if
clearUserId is present and if AlarmInformation.clearSystemId contains
information. alarmId M,N AlarmInformation.alarmId
* * *
#### 6.8.3.3 Triggering Event
##### 6.8.3.3.1 From-state
alarmMatchedAndCleared OR clearedByIRPManager.
+------------------------+--------------------------------------------+ | Assertion Name | Definition | +------------------------+--------------------------------------------+ | alarmMatchedAndCleared | The matching-criteria-attributes of the | | | newly generated network alarm have values | | | that are identical (matched) with ones in | | | one AlarmInformation in AlarmList and the | | | perceivedSeverity of the matched | | | AlarmInformation is not Cleared | | | | | | AND | | | | | | The perceivedSeverity of the newly | | | generated network alarm is cleared. | +------------------------+--------------------------------------------+ | clearedByIRPManager | Reception of a valid clearAlarms operation | | | that identifies the subject | | | AlarmInformation instances. This | | | triggering event shall occur regardless of | | | the perceivedSeverity state of the | | | identified AlarmInformation instances. | +------------------------+--------------------------------------------+
##### 6.8.3.3.2 To-state
alarmInformationCleared_1 OR alarmInformationCleared_2.
+----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Assertion Name | Definition | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | alarmInformationCleared_1 | Case if From-state is | | | alarmMatchedAndCleared: | | | | | | The following attributes of the | | | subject AlarmInformation are updated: | | | | | | notificationId, perceivedSeverity | | | (updated to Cleared), | | | alarmClearedTime. | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | alarmInformationCleared_2 | Case if From-state is | | | clearedByIRPManager: | | | | | | The following attributes of the | | | subject AlarmInformation are updated: | | | | | | notificationId, perceivedSeverity | | | (updated to Cleared), | | | alarmClearedTime, alarmClearedUserId, | | | alarmClearedSystemId. | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+
### 6.8.4 notifyAlarmListRebuilt (M)
#### 6.8.4.1 Definition
The IRPAgent or its related AlarmIRP maintains an AlarmList. They can lose
confidence in the integrity of its AlarmList. Under this condition, IRPAgent
or its related AlarmIRP shall invoke notifyAlarmListRebuilt notification after
the AlarmList has been rebuilt.
The AlarmIRP can also invoke notifyAlarmListRebuilt notification indicating
that part of the AlarmList has been rebuilt. In this case, the notification
carries the class instance indicating that the AlarmList only have been
rebuilt for alarms concerning this class instance and its subordinate class
instances. Furthermore, this notification indicates that there is no rebuilt
going on for superior class instances of this class instance.
#### 6.8.4.2 Input Parameters
+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Matching | Comment | | | | Information | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | objectClass | M,Y | It identifies | Notification | | | | | header - see | | | | a) the class | [5]. | | | | of the | | | | | instance | If it | | | | identified | identifies the | | | | by systemDN | class of the | | | | or | instance | | | | | identified in | | | | b) the class | systemDN, then | | | | of | all | | | | M | A | | | | onitoredEntity. | larmInformation | | | | | instances in | | | | | the AlarmList | | | | | may have been | | | | | rebuilt. | | | | | | | | | | If it | | | | | identifies the | | | | | class of | | | | | M | | | | | onitoredEntity, | | | | | then some or | | | | | all | | | | | A | | | | | larmInformation | | | | | instances in | | | | | the AlarmList | | | | | may have been | | | | | rebuilt. See | | | | | next parameter | | | | | for the | | | | | identification | | | | | of the set of | | | | | A | | | | | larmInformation | | | | | that have been | | | | | rebuilt. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | objectInstance | M,Y | It identifies | Notification | | | | | header - see | | | | a) the | [5]. | | | | instance | | | | | identified | If it | | | | by systemDN | identifies the | | | | or | instance | | | | | identified by | | | | b) an instance | systemDN, then | | | | of | all | | | | M | A | | | | onitoredEntity. | larmInformation | | | | | instances in | | | | | the AlarmList | | | | | may have been | | | | | rebuilt. | | | | | | | | | | If it | | | | | identifies an | | | | | instance of | | | | | M | | | | | onitoredENtity, | | | | | then the | | | | | AlarmList only | | | | | have been | | | | | rebuilt for | | | | | A | | | | | larmInformation | | | | | of this | | | | | instance and | | | | | A | | | | | larmInformation | | | | | of its | | | | | subordinate | | | | | instances. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | notificationId | M,N | -- | See Table | | | | | 6.8.1.2. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | eventTime | M,Y | -- | Notification | | | | | header - see | | | | | [5]. It | | | | | carries the | | | | | time when the | | | | | AlarmList is | | | | | rebuilt. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | systemDN | C,Y | -- | See Table | | | | | 6.8.1.2. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | n | M,Y | \"notifyAlar | | | otificationType | | mListRebuilt\". | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | reason | M,N | \"Agent-NE | It carries the | | | | communication | reason why the | | | | error\", | IRPAgent has | | | | \"Agent | rebuilt the | | | | restarts\", | AlarmList. This | | | | \"i | may carry | | | | ndeterminate\". | different | | | | Other values | reasons than | | | | can be added. | that carried by | | | | | the immediate | | | | | previous | | | | | n | | | | | otifyPotentialF | | | | | aultyAlarmList. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | alarmListAlign | O(note),N | ENUM | It carries an | | mentRequirement | | (ali | enumeration of | | | | gnmentRequired, | \"alig | | | | alignm | nmentRequired\" | | | | entNotRequired) | and | | | | | \"alignmen | | | | | tNotRequired\". | | | | | | | | | | IRPAgent uses | | | | | al | | | | | ignmentRequired | | | | | to indicate | | | | | that IRPAgent | | | | | current AL is | | | | | not identical | | | | | to the one that | | | | | could have been | | | | | built using (a) | | | | | IRPAgent AL | | | | | information at | | | | | the time it | | | | | emits the | | | | | immediate | | | | | previous | | | | | no | | | | | tifyPotentialFa | | | | | ultyAlarmList() | | | | | and (b) the | | | | | notifications | | | | | (carrying alarm | | | | | information) | | | | | emitted after | | | | | the previously | | | | | identified | | | | | notification | | | | | and before the | | | | | subject | | | | | notification. | | | | | | | | | | Otherwise, the | | | | | IRPAgent uses | | | | | alignm | | | | | entNotRequired. | | | | | | | | | | When this | | | | | parameter is | | | | | absent, it | | | | | implies | | | | | ali | | | | | gnmentRequired. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
NOTE: If IRPAgent supports notifyPotentialFaultyAlarmList() notification, it
shall support this parameter. If IRPAgent does not support
notifyPotentialFaultyAlarmList() notification, it shall not support this
parameter.
#### 6.8.4.3 Triggering Event
##### 6.8.4.3.1 From-state
alarmListRebuilt_0 OR alarmListRebuilt_1.
* * *
Assertion Name Definition alarmListRebuilt_0 IRPAgent has cold-started,
initialized, re-initialized or rebooted and it has initiated procedure to
rebuild its AlarmList. alarmListRebuilt_1 IRPAgent loses confidence in part or
whole of its AlarmList. IRPAgent has initiated procedure to repair its
AlarmList.
* * *
##### 6.8.4.3.2 To-state
alarmListRebuilt_2.
* * *
Assertion Name Definition alarmListRebuilt_2 IRPAgent rebuilt the whole or
part of AlarmList.
* * *
## 6.9 Notification AlarmIRPNotification_2 (O)
### 6.9.1 notifyChangedAlarm (M)
#### 6.9.1.1 Definition
The subscribed IRPManager instances are notified regarding changes in
AlarmInformation in AlarmList. This notification is only triggered by a change
in perceivedSeverity attribute value (except to the value \"Cleared\"). The
AlarmInformation carried in the notification shall satisfy the current filter
constraint of the subscription.
The notification shall contain all parameters that are filterable and are
present in the original (related) notifyNewAlarm notification.
#### 6.9.1.2 Input Parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment objectClass M,Y
MonitoredEntity.objectClass See Table 6.8.1.2. objectInstance M,Y
MonitoredEntity.objectInstance See Table 6.8.1.2. notificationId M,N -- See
Table 6.8.1.2. eventTime M,Y AlarmInformation.alarmChangedTime See Table
6.8.1.2. systemDN C,Y -- See Table 6.8.1.2. notificationType M,Y
\"notifyChangedAlarm\"  
probableCause M,Y AlarmInformation.probableCause  
perceivedSeverity M,Y AlarmInformation.perceivedSeverity  
alarmType M,Y AlarmInformation.eventType  
alarmId M,N AlarmInformation.alarmId
* * *
#### 6.9.1.3 Triggering Event
##### 6.9.1.3.1 From-state
alarmMatched AND alarmNotCleared AND alarmChanged.
* * *
Assertion Name Definition alarmMatched The matching-criteria-attributes of the
newly generated network alarm has values that are identical (matches) with
ones in one AlarmInformation in AlarmList. alarmNotCleared The
perceivedSeverity of the newly generated network alarm is not Cleared.
alarmChanged The perceivedSeverity of the newly generated network alarm and of
the matched AlarmInformation are different.
* * *
##### 6.9.1.3.2 To-state
informationUpdate.
+-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Assertion Name | Definition | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | informationUpdate | - The AlarmInformation identified in | | | alarmMatched in from-state has been updated | | | according to the following rules: | | | perceivedSeverity is updated; | | | | | | - notificationId is updated; | | | | | | - alarmChangedTime is updated; | | | | | | - ackTime, ackUserId and ackSystemId are | | | updated to contain no information; | | | | | | - ackState is updated to \"unacknowledged\"; | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+
## 6.10 Notification AlarmIRPNotification_3 (O)
### 6.10.1 notifyComments (M)
#### 6.10.1.1 Definition
The subscribed IRPManager instances are notified regarding the addition of a
Comment instance to an AlarmInformation instance in the AlarmList. The
AlarmInformation carried in the notification shall satisfy the current filter
constraint of the subscription.
The notification shall contain all parameters that are filterable and are
present in the original (related) notifyNewAlarm notification.
The IRPManager and the IRPAgent can add comments to instances of
AlarmInformation as described in 3GPP TS 32.111-1 [9].
IRPAgent shall support this notification if it supports the operation
setComment.
#### 6.10.1.2 Input Parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment objectClass M,Y
MonitoredEntity.objectClass See Table 6.8.1.2. objectInstance M,Y
MonitoredEntity.objectInstance See Table 6.8.1.2. notificationId M,N -- See
Table 6.8.1.2. eventTime M,Y Comment.commentTime Notification header - see
[5]. It carries the time when the last Comment is added. systemDN C,Y --
Notification header - see [5]. notificationType M,Y \"notifyComments\"  
alarmType M,Y AlarmInformation.eventType  
probableCause M,Y AlarmInformation.probableCause  
perceived Severity M,Y AlarmInformation.perceivedSeverity  
comments M,N The set of Comment instances involved in a relationship with this
AlarmInformation.  
alarmId M,N AlarmInformation.alarmId
* * *
#### 6.10.1.3 Triggering Events
##### 6.10.1.3.1 From-state
commentedByIRPManager OR commentedByIRPAgent AND alarmInformationExists.
* * *
Assertion Name Definition commentedByIRPManager Reception of a setComment
operation and a subsequent operation success return. commentedByIRPAgent
Reception of a local (non-standard) setComment equivalent operation and a
subsequent operation success return. alarmInformationExists The
AlarmInformation is in AlarmList.
* * *
##### 6.10.1.3.2 To-state
commentInserted.
+-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Assertion Name | Definition | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | commentInserted | One Comment has been created and it is involved | | | in a relationship with the AlarmInformation | | | identified by from-state assertion | | | alarmInformationExists. The following attributes | | | of the newly created Comment instance shall be | | | populated: | | | | | | commentTime, commentText, commentUserId and | | | commentSystemId. | +-----------------+---------------------------------------------------+
## 6.11 Notification AlarmIRPNotification_4 (O)
### 6.11.1 notifyPotentialFaultyAlarmList (M)
#### 6.11.1.1 Definition
The IRPAgent or its related AlarmIRP maintains an AlarmList. They can lose
confidence in the integrity of its AlarmList. Under this condition, IRPAgent
or its related AlarmIRP or the related AlarmList shall invoke
notifyPotentialFaultyAlarmList. They then can begin to rebuild the faulty
AlarmList, if found necessary. After the successful rebuilt or the discovery
that rebuilt is not necessary, they shall invoke notifyAlarmListRebuilt
notification.
This notification can identify a set of AlarmInformation that is potentially
faulty or unreliable. This identification is done in the following way. If the
MOI of an AlarmInformation is the same or is a subordinate to the MOI carried
in the notification, then the AlarmInformation may be faulty or unreliable.
This notification can identify all the AlarmInformation instances of the
AlarmList that are potentially faulty or unreliable. In this case, the
notification shall carry a MOI identifying the IRPAgent.
The IRPManager behaviour, on reception of this notifyPotentialFaultyAlarmList
notification, is not specified. The IRPManager behaviour is considered not
essential for the specification of the interface itself. However, the
following are recommended actions the IRPManager should take, in case it
receives this notification.
1) The IRPManager should not perform any task requiring the integrity of the
AlarmInformation identified as faulty or unreliable by the subject
notification.
2) The IRPManager should not invoke operations that require integrity of the
AlarmList such as getAlarmList., acknolwedgeAlarms operations.
#### 6.11.1.2 Input Parameters
+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Matching | Comment | | | | Information | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | objectClass | M,Y | It identifies | Notification | | | | | header - see | | | | a) the class | [5]. | | | | of the | | | | | instance | If it | | | | identified | identifies the | | | | by systemDN | class of the | | | | or | instance | | | | | identified in | | | | b) the class | systemDN, then | | | | of | all | | | | M | A | | | | onitoredEntity. | larmInformation | | | | | instances in | | | | | the AlarmList | | | | | may not be | | | | | reliable. | | | | | | | | | | If it | | | | | identifies the | | | | | class of | | | | | M | | | | | onitoredEntity, | | | | | then some or | | | | | all | | | | | A | | | | | larmInformation | | | | | instances in | | | | | the AlarmList | | | | | may not be | | | | | reliable. See | | | | | next parameter | | | | | for the | | | | | identification | | | | | of the set of | | | | | A | | | | | larmInformation | | | | | that may not be | | | | | reliable. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | objectInstance | M,Y | It identifies | Notification | | | | | header - see | | | | a) the | [5]. | | | | instance | | | | | identified | If it | | | | by systemDN | identifies the | | | | or | instance | | | | | identified by | | | | b) an instance | systemDN, then | | | | of | all | | | | M | A | | | | onitoredEntity. | larmInformation | | | | | instances in | | | | | the AlarmList | | | | | may not be | | | | | reliable. | | | | | | | | | | If it | | | | | identifies an | | | | | instance of | | | | | M | | | | | onitoredENtity, | | | | | then | | | | | A | | | | | larmInformation | | | | | of this | | | | | instance and | | | | | A | | | | | larmInformation | | | | | of its | | | | | subordinate | | | | | instances may | | | | | not be | | | | | reliable. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | notificationId | M,N | -- | Notification | | | | | header - see | | | | | [5]. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | eventTime | M,Y | -- | Notification | | | | | header - see | | | | | [5]. It | | | | | carries the | | | | | time when the | | | | | objectInstance | | | | | has lost | | | | | confidence of | | | | | its AlarmList | | | | | content. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | systemDN | C,Y | -- | See Table | | | | | 6.8.1.2. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | n | M,Y | \"not | | | otificationType | | ifyPotentialFau | | | | | ltyAlarmList\". | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | reason | M,N | \"Agent-NE | It carries the | | | | communication | reason why the | | | | error\", | IRPAgent has to | | | | \"Agent | rebuild its | | | | restarts\", | AlarmList. | | | | \"i | | | | | ndeterminate\". | | | | | Other values | | | | | can be added. | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 6.11.1.3 Triggering Event
##### 6.11.1.3.1 From-state
faultyAlarmListDetected.
* * *
Assertion Name Definition faultyAlarmListDetected IRPAgent detects faults in
part or whole of its AlarmList.
* * *
##### 6.11.1.3.2 To-state
faultyAlarmList
* * *
Assertion Name Definition faultyAlarmList IRPAgent initiates the AlarmList
rebuild process.
* * *
## 6.12 Notification AlarmIRPNotification_5 (O)
### 6.12.1 notifyCorrelatedNotificationChanged (M)
#### 6.12.1.1 Definition
The set of SupportIOC CorrelatedNotification instances has been created,
updated or removed. The subscribed IRPManager instances are notified of this
fact if the changes satisfy the current filter constraint of their
subscription.
#### 6.12.1.2 Input Parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment objectClass M,Y
MonitoredEntity.objectClass See Table 6.8.1.2. objectInstance M,Y
MonitoredEntity.objectInstance See Table 6.8.1.2. notificationId M,N -- See
Table 6.8.1.2. eventTime M,Y -- Notification header - see [5]. It carries the
time when the CorrelatedNotification is added. systemDN C,Y -- Notification
header - see [5]. notificationType M,Y \"notifyCorrelatedNotificationChanged\"  
correlatedNotifications M,N The set of CorrelatedNotification related to this
AlarmInformation.  
alarmId M,N AlarmInformation.alarmId  
rootCauseIndicator O,N AlarmInformation.rootCauseIndicator
* * *
#### 6.12.1.3 Triggering Events
##### 6.12.1.3.1 From-state
newAlarmCorrelationInfoIsAvailable AND alarmInformationExists.
* * *
Assertion Name Definition newAlarmCorrelationInfoIsAvailable New alarm
correlation information is available but not yet conveyed to any IRPManager.
alarmInformationExists The AlarmInformation is in AlarmList.
* * *
##### 6.12.1.3.2 To-state
alarmCorrelatedInfoUpdated.
* * *
Assertion Name Definition alarmCorrelatedInfoUpdated The set of SupportIOC
CorrelatedNotification instances has been created, updated or removed.
* * *
## 6.13 Notification AlarmIRPNotification_6 (O)
### 6.13.1 notifyChangedAlarmGeneral (M)
#### 6.13.1.1 Definition
The subscribed IRPManager instances are notified regarding changes in
backedUpStatus, backUpObject, trendIndication, thresholdInfo,
stateChangeDefinition, monitoredAttributes, proposedRepairActions,
additionalText, additionalInformation, serviceUser, serviceProvider or
securityAlarmDetector of an AlarmInformation instance in the AlarmList. This
notification is triggered by value change in one or some of these attributes.
The AlarmInformation carried in the notification shall satisfy the current
filter constraint of the subscription.
The notification shall contain all parameters holding a value.
There are two tables for Input Parameters. If alarmType parameter indicates
\"Communications Alarm\", \"Processing Error Alarm\", \"Environmental Alarm\".
\"Quality Of Service Alarm\" or \"Equipment Alarm\", the first table (see
clause 6.13.1.2) shall be applicable. If alarmType parameter indicates
\"Integrity Violation\", \"Operational Violation\", \"Physical Violation\",
\"Security Service or Mechanism Violation\" or \"Time Domain Violation\", the
second table (see clause 6.13.1.3) shall be applicable.
#### 6.13.1.2 Input Parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment objectClass M,Y
MonitoredEntity.objectClass Notification header - see [5]. It shall carry the
MonitoredEntity class name. The MonitoredEntity is identified by the relation-
AlarmedObject-AlarmInformation of the new AlarmInformation. objectInstance M,Y
MonitoredEntity.objectInstance Notification header - see [5]. It shall carry
the DN of the MonitoredEntity. The MonitoredEntity is identified by the
relation-AlarmedObject-AlarmInformation of the new AlarmInformation.
notificationId M,N -- Notification header - see [5]. eventTime M,Y
AlarmInformation.alarmChangedTime Notification header - see [5]. systemDN C,Y
-- Notification header - see [5]. notificationType M,Y
\"notifyChangedAlarmGeneral\".  
probableCause M,Y AlarmInformation.probableCause  
perceivedSeverity M,Y AlarmInformation.perceivedSeverity  
rootCauseIndicator O,N It indicates that this AlarmInformation is the root
cause of the events captured by the notifications whose identifiers are in the
related CorrelatedNotification instances. "Yes", "No" alarmType M,Y
AlarmInformation.eventType The notification structure defined by this table is
applicable if this parameter indicates \"Communications Alarm\", \"Processing
Error Alarm\", \"Environmental Alarm\". \"Quality Of Service Alarm\" or
\"Equipment Alarm\". specificProblem O,N AlarmInformation.specificProblem  
correlatedNotifications O,N The set of CorrelatedNotification related to this
AlarmInformation.  
backedUpStatus O,N AlarmInformation.backedUpStatus  
backUpObject O,N MonitoredEntity.objectInstance It carries the DN of the back
up object. The object is identified by relation-BackUpObject-AlarmInformation
of the new AlarmInformation. trendIndication O,N
AlarmInformation.trendIndication  
thresholdInfo O,N AlarmInformation.thresholdInfo  
stateChangeDefinition O,N AlarmInformation.stateChange  
monitoredAttributes O,N AlarmInformation.monitoredAttributes  
proposedRepairActions O,N AlarmInformaton.proposedRepairActions  
additionalText O,N AlarmInformation.additionalText  
additionalInformation O,N AlarmInformation.additionalInformation  
alarmId M,N AlarmInformation.alarmId  
changedAlarmAttributes M,N LIST OF SEQUENCE \ The changed alarm attributes (name/value pairs) (with old
values).
* * *
#### 6.13.1.3 Input Parameters for notification related to security alarm
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment objectClass M,Y
MonitoredEntity.objectClass See Table 6.8.1.2. objectInstance M,Y
MonitoredEntity.objectInstance See Table 6.8.1.2. notificationId M,N -- See
Table 6.8.1.2. eventTime M,Y AlarmInformation.alarmChangedTime See Table
6.8.1.2. systemDN C,Y -- See Table 6.8.1.2. notificationType M,Y
\"notifyChangedAlarmGeneral\".  
probableCause M,Y AlarmInformation.probableCause  
perceivedSeverity M,Y AlarmInformation.perceivedSeverity  
rootCauseIndicator O,N It indicates that this AlarmInformation is the root
cause of the events captured by the notifications whose identifiers are in the
related CorrelatedNotification instances. "Yes", "No" alarmType M,Y
AlarmInformation.eventType The notification structure of this table is
applicable if this parameter indicates \"Integrity Violation\", \"Operational
Violation\", \"Physical Violation\", \"Security Service or Mechanism
Violation\", \"Time Domain Violation\". correlatedNotifications O,N The set of
CorrelatedNotification related to this AlarmInformation.  
additionalText O,N AlarmInformation.additionalText  
additionalInformation O,N AlarmInformation.additionalInformation  
serviceUser M,N AlarmInformation.serviceUser This may contain no information
if the identify of the service-user (requesting the service) is not known.
serviceProvider M,N AlarmInformation.serviceProvider This shall always
identify the service-provider receiving a service request, from serviceUser,
that provokes the security alarm. securityAlarmDetector M,N
AlarmInformation.securityAlarmDetector This may contain no information if the
detector of the security alarm is the serviceProvider. alarmId M,N
AlarmInformation.alarmId  
changedAlarmAttributes M,N LIST OF SEQUENCE \ The changed alarm attributes (name/value pairs) (with old
values).
* * *
#### 6.13.1.4 Triggering Event
##### 6.13.1.4.1 From-state
alarmMatched AND alarmNotCleared AND alarmChanged.
* * *
Assertion Name Definition alarmMatched The matching-criteria-attributes of the
newly generated network alarm has values that are identical (matches) with
ones in one AlarmInformation in AlarmList. alarmChanged The backedUpStatus,
backUpObject, trendIndication, thresholdInfo, stateChangeDefinition,
monitoredAttributes, proposedRepairActions, additionalText,
additionalInformation, serviceUser, serviceProvider or securityAlarmDetector
of the newly generated network alarm and of the matched AlarmInformation are
different.
* * *
##### 6.13.1.4.2 To-state
informationUpdate.
+-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Assertion Name | Definition | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | informationUpdate | The AlarmInformation identified in alarmMatched | | | in from-state has been updated according to the | | | following rules: backedUpStatus, backUpObject, | | | trendIndication, thresholdInfo, | | | stateChangeDefinition, monitoredAttributes, | | | proposedRepairActions, additionalText, | | | additionalInformation, serviceUser, | | | serviceProvider or securityAlarmDetector is | | | updated; | | | | | | notificationId is updated; | | | | | | alarmChangedTime is updated; | | | | | | ackTime, ackUserId and ackSystemId are updated | | | to contain no information; | | | | | | ackState is updated to \"unacknowledged\"; | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+
###### ## Annex A (normative): Event Types
This annex lists and explains event types used by the present document.
The table below lists the event types referred to in the present document.
Notification IRP: Information Service in 3GPP TS 32.302 [5] defines a
parameter called notificationType that shall be present in all notification.
The present document defines a parameter called alarmType that shall be
present in all notifications carrying alarm information. Examples of the
notificationType are \"notification of new alarm\", \"notification of
AlarmList rebuilt\", \"notification of alarm cleared\", etc. Examples of the
alarmType are the event types defined in table below.
The present document also defines an attribute of AlarmInformation called
eventType. The mapping of this eventType (internal attribute and not visible
to IRPManager) to notificationType or alarmType (both visible to IRPManager)
is defined in relevant sections of the present document. The choice of using
\"eventType\" is to keep the list of attributes of AlarmList unchanged
(compared to Release 99). One can replace this eventType with two attributes,
called notificationType and alarmType so that mapping of these two attributes
to the externally visible parameters of the same name will be straight-
forward.
It is noted that the mapping of the IS notificationType and alarmType to CORBA
event_name or other fields are specified in the respective Solution Set.
Table A.1: Event Types
* * *
Event Types Explanation Communications Alarm An alarm of this type is
associated with the procedure and/or process required conveying information
from one point to another (ITU-T Recommendation X.733 [2]). Processing Error
Alarm An alarm of this type is associated with a software or processing fault
(ITU‑T Recommendation X.733 [2]). Environmental Alarm An alarm of this type is
associated with a condition related to an enclosure in which the equipment
resides (ITU-T Recommendation X.733 [2]). Quality of Service Alarm An alarm of
this type is associated with degradation in the quality of a service (ITU‑T
Recommendation X.733 [2]). Equipment Alarm An alarm of this type is associated
with an equipment fault (ITU-T Recommendation X.733 [2]). Integrity Violation
An indication that information may have been illegally modified, inserted or
deleted. Operational Violation An indication that the provision of the
requested service was not possible due to the unavailability, malfunction or
incorrect invocation of the service. Physical Violation An indication that a
physical resource has been violated in a way that suggests a security attack.
Security Service or Mechanism Violation An indication that a security attack
has been detected by a security service or mechanism. Time Domain Violation An
indication that an event has occurred at an unexpected or prohibited time.
* * *
###### ## Annex B (normative): Probable Causes
This annex lists probable causes and their corresponding event types.
Sources of these probable causes are ITU-T Recommendation M.3100 [11], ITU-T
Recommendation X.721 [3], ITU‑T Recommendation X.733 [2], and ITU-T
Recommendation X.736 [15]. In addition, probable causes for wireless systems
are listed in ETSI TS 101 251 V6.3.0 (1999-07) [18].
Table B.1: Probable Causes from ITU-T Recommendation M.3100 [11]
* * *
M.3100 Probable cause Event type Indeterminate Unknown Alarm Indication Signal
(AIS) Communications Broadcast Channel Failure Communications Call Setup
Failure Communications Communications Receive Failure Communications
Communications Transmit Failure Communications Connection Establishment Error
Communications Degraded Signal Communications Demodulation Failure
Communications Far End Receiver Failure (FERF) Communications Framing Error
Communications Invalid Message Received Communications Local Node Transmission
Error Communications Loss Of Frame (LOF) Communications Loss Of Pointer (LOP)
Communications Loss Of Signal (LOS) Communications Modulation Failure
Communications Payload Type Mismatch Communications Transmission Error
Communications Remote Alarm Interface Communications Remote Node Transmission
Error Communications Routing Failure Communications Excessive Bit Error Rate
(EBER) Communications Path Trace Mismatch Communications Unavailable
Communications Signal Label Mismatch Communications Loss Of Multi Frame
Communications Antenna Failure Equipment Back Plane Failure Equipment Battery
Charging Failure Equipment Data Set Problem Equipment Disk Failure Equipment
Equipment Identifier Duplication Equipment External IF Device Problem
Equipment Frequency Hopping Failure Equipment IO Device Error Equipment Line
Card Problem Equipment Loss Of Redundancy Equipment Loss Of Synchronization
Equipment Multiplexer Problem Equipment NE Identifier Duplication Equipment
Power Problem Equipment Power Supply Failure Equipment Processor Problem
Equipment Protection Path Failure Equipment Protecting Resource Failure
Equipment Protection Mechanism Failure Equipment Real Time Clock Failure
Equipment Receiver Failure Equipment Replaceable Unit Missing Equipment
Replaceable Unit Type Mismatch Equipment Signal Quality Evaluation Failure
Equipment Synchronization Source Mismatch Equipment Terminal Problem Equipment
Timing Problem Equipment Transceiver Failure Equipment Transmitter Failure
Equipment Trunk Card Problem Equipment Replaceable Unit Problem Equipment Air
Compressor Failure Environmental Air Conditioning Failure Environmental Air
Dryer Failure Environmental Battery Discharging Environmental Battery Failure
Environmental Commercial Power Failure Environmental Cooling Fan Failure
Environmental Cooling System Failure Environmental Engine Failure
Environmental Fire Detector Failure Environmental Fuse Failure Environmental
Generator Failure Environmental Low Battery Threshold Environmental Pump
Failure Environmental Rectifier Failure Environmental Rectifier High Voltage
Environmental Rectifier Low F Voltage Environmental Ventilation System Failure
Environmental Enclosure Door Open Environmental Explosive Gas Environmental
External Equipment Failure Environmental External Point Failure Environmental
Fire Environmental Flood Environmental High Humidity Environmental High
Temperature Environmental High Wind Environmental Ice Build Up Environmental
Intrusion Detection Environmental Low Fuel Environmental Low Humidity
Environmental Low Cable Pressure Environmental Low Temperature Environmental
Low Water Environmental Smoke Environmental Toxic Gas Environmental
Application Subsystem Failure Processing Error Configuration Or Customisation
Error Processing Error Database Inconsistency Processing Error File Error
Processing Error Storage Capacity Problem Processing Error Memory Mismatch
Processing Error Corrupt Data Processing Error Loss of Real Time Processing
Error Out Of CPU Cycles Processing Error Out Of Memory Processing Error
Reinitialized Processing Error Software Environment Problem Processing Error
Software Error Processing Error Software Download Failure Processing Error
Timeout Expired Processing Error Underlaying Resources Unavailable Processing
Error Version Mismatch Processing Error Bandwidth Reduced Quality of service
Congestion Quality of service Excessive Error Rate Quality of service
Excessive Response Time Quality of service Excessive Retransmission Rate
Quality of service Reduced Logging Capability Quality of service System
Resources Overload Quality of service
* * *
Table B.2: Probable Causes from ITU-T Recommendation X.721 [3], X.733 [2],
X.736 [15]
* * *
X.721/X.733/X.736 Probable Cause Event type Adapter Error Equipment
Application Subsystem Failure Processing error Authentication Failure Security
Service or Mechanism Violation Bandwidth Reduction Quality of service Breach
of Confidentiality Security Service or Mechanism Violation Cable Tamper
Physical Violation Call Establishment Error Communications Communication
Protocol Error Communications Communication Subsystem Failure Communications
Configuration or Customizing Error Processing error Congestion Quality of
service Corrupt Data Processing error CPU Cycles Limit Exceeded Processing
error Data Set or Modem Error Equipment Degraded Signal Communications Delayed
Information Time Domain Violation Denial of Service Operational Violation DTE-
DCE Interface Error Communications Duplicate Information Integrity Violation
Enclosure Door Open Environmental Equipment Malfunction Equipment Excessive
Vibration Environmental File Error Processing error Fire Detected
Environmental Flood Detected Environmental Framing Error Communications
Heating or Ventilation or Cooling System Problem Environmental Humidity
Unacceptable Environmental Information Missing Integrity Violation Information
Modification detected Integrity Violation Information out of Sequence
Integrity Violation Input/Output Device Error Equipment Input Device Error
Equipment Intrusion Detection Physical Violation Key Expired Time Domain
Violation LAN Error Communications Leak Detection Environmental Local Node
Transmission Error Communications Loss of Frame Communications Loss of Signal
Communications Material Supply Exhausted Environmental Multiplexer Problem
Equipment Non-Repudiation Failure Security Service or Mechanism Violation Out
of Hours Activity Time Domain Violation Out of Memory Processing error Out of
Service Operational Violation Output Device Error Equipment Performance
Degraded Quality of service Power Problem Equipment Pressure Unacceptable
Environmental Procedural Error Operational Violation Processor Problem
Equipment Pump Failure Environmental Queue Size Exceeded Quality of service
Receive Failure Equipment Receiver Failure Equipment Remote Node Transmission
Error Communications Resource at or Nearing Capacity Quality of service
Response Time Excessive Quality of service Re-transmission Rate Excessive
Quality of service Software Error Processing error Software Program Abnormally
Terminated Processing error Software Program Error Processing error Storage
Capacity Problem Processing error Temperature Unacceptable Environmental
Threshold Crossed Quality of service Timing Problem Equipment Toxic Leak
Detected Environmental Transmit Failure Equipment Transmitter Failure
Equipment Unauthorised Access Attempt Security Service or Mechanism Violation
Underlying Resource Unavailable Processing error Unexpected Information
Integrity Violation Unspecified Reason Operational Violation Unspecified
Reason Physical Violation Unspecified Reason Security Service or Mechanism
Violation Version Mismatch Processing error
* * *
Table B.3: Probable Causes for Wireless Systems from ETSI TS 101 251 V6.3.0
(1999-07) [18]
* * *
Wireless Systems Event Type A-bis to BTS interface failure Equipment A-bis to
TRX interface failure Equipment Antenna problem Equipment Battery breakdown
Equipment Battery charging fault Equipment Clock synchronization problem
Equipment Combiner problem Equipment Disk problem Equipment Equipment failure
Equipment Excessive receiver temperature Equipment Excessive transmitter
output power Equipment Excessive transmitter temperature Equipment Frequency
hopping degraded Equipment Frequency hopping failure Equipment Frequency
redefinition failed Equipment Line interface failure Equipment Link failure
Equipment Loss of synchronization Equipment Lost redundancy Equipment Mains
breakdown with battery back-up Equipment Mains breakdown without battery back-
up Equipment Power supply failure Equipment Receiver antenna fault Equipment
Receiver Failure Equipment Receiver multicoupler failure Equipment Reduced
transmitter output power Equipment Signal quality evaluation fault Equipment
Timeslot hardware failure Equipment Transceiver problem Equipment Transcoder
problem Equipment Transcoder or rate adapter problem Equipment Transmitter
antenna failure Equipment Transmitter antenna not adjusted Equipment
Transmitter failure Equipment Transmitter low voltage or current Equipment
Transmitter off frequency Equipment Database inconsistency Processing error
File system call unsuccessful Processing error Input parameter out of range
Processing error Invalid parameter Processing error Invalid pointer Processing
error Message not expected Processing error Message not initialized Processing
error Message out of sequence Processing error System call unsuccessful
Processing error Timeout expired Processing error Variable out of range
Processing error Watch dog timer expired Processing error Cooling system
failure Environmental External equipment failure Environmental External power
supply failure Environmental External transmission device failure
Environmental Fan failure Environmental High humidity Environmental High
temperature Environmental Intrusion detected Environmental Low humidity
Environmental Low temperature Environmental Smoke detected Environmental
Excessive Error Rate Quality of service Reduced alarm reporting Quality of
service Reduced event reporting Quality of service Reduced logging capability
Quality of service System resources overload Quality of service Broadcast
channel failure Communications Connection establishment error Communications
Invalid message received Communications Invalid MSU received Communications
LAPD link protocol failure Communications Local alarm indication
Communications Remote alarm indication Communications Routing failure
Communications SS7 protocol failure Communications Transmission error
Communications
* * *
Table B.4 identifies probable causes that are defined by more than one
standard. This is for information only.
Table B.4: Duplicated Probable Causes
+-----------+----------+-----------+-------+--------+-----------+ | D | 32.111-2 | X.721 | X.736 | M.3100 | Event | | uplicated | | X.733 | | | Type | | Probable | | | | | | | Cause | | | | | | +-----------+----------+-----------+-------+--------+-----------+ | Broadcast | X | | | X | Commu | | Channel | | | | | nications | | Failure | | | | | | +-----------+----------+-----------+-------+--------+-----------+ | Call | | X | | X | Commu | | Esta | | | | | nications | | blishment | | | | | | | Error | | | | | | | (X.72 | | | | | | | 1/X.733)\ | | | | | | | Call | | | | | | | Setup | | | | | | | Failure | | | | | | | (M.3100) | | | | | | +-----------+----------+-----------+-------+--------+-----------+ | C | X | | | X | Commu | | onnection | | | | | nications | | Esta | | | | | | | blishment | | | | | | | Error | | | | | | +-----------+----------+-----------+-------+--------+-----------+ | Degraded | | X | | X | Commu | | Signal | | | | | nications | +-----------+----------+-----------+-------+--------+-----------+ | Framing | | X | | X | Commu | | Error | | | | | nications | +-----------+----------+-----------+-------+--------+-----------+ | Invalid | X | | | X | Commu | | Message | | | | | nications | | Received | | | | | | +-----------+----------+-----------+-------+--------+-----------+ | Local | | X | | X | Commu | | Node | | | | | nications | | Tra | | | | | | | nsmission | | | | | | | Error | | | | | | +-----------+----------+-----------+-------+--------+-----------+ | Loss of | | X | | X | Commu | | Frame | | | | | nications | +-----------+----------+-----------+-------+--------+-----------+ | Loss of | | X | | X | Commu | | Signal | | | | | nications | +-----------+----------+-----------+-------+--------+-----------+ | Remote | | X | | X | Commu | | Node | | | | | nications | | Tra | | | | | | | nsmission | | | | | | | Error | | | | | | +-----------+----------+-----------+-------+--------+-----------+ | Routing | X | | | X | Commu | | Failure | | | | | nications | +-----------+----------+-----------+-------+--------+-----------+ | Antenna | X | | | X | Equipment | | Failure | | | | | | | (M.3100) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Antenna | | | | | | | Problem | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | 32.111-2) | | | | | | +-----------+----------+-----------+-------+--------+-----------+ | Battery | X | | | X | Equipment | | Charging | | | | | | | Failure | | | | | | | (M.3100) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Battery | | | | | | | Charging | | | | | | | Fault | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | 32.111-2) | | | | | | +-----------+----------+-----------+-------+--------+-----------+ | Disk | X | | | X | Equipment | | Failure | | | | | | | (M.3100) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Disk | | | | | | | Problem | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | 32.111-2) | | | | | | +-----------+----------+-----------+-------+--------+-----------+ | Equipment | X | X | | | Equipment | | Failure | | | | | | | (3 | | | | | | | 2.111-2)\ | | | | | | | Equipment | | | | | | | Ma | | | | | | | lfunction | | | | | | | (X.7 | | | | | | | 21/X.733) | | | | | | +-----------+----------+-----------+-------+--------+-----------+ | Frequency | X | | | X | Equipment | | Hopping | | | | | | | Failure | | | | | | +-----------+----------+-----------+-------+--------+-----------+ | IO Device | | X | | X | Equipment | | Error | | | | | | | (M.3100) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Inp | | | | | | | ut/Output | | | | | | | Device | | | | | | | Error | | | | | | | (X.7 | | | | | | | 21/X.733) | | | | | | +-----------+----------+-----------+-------+--------+-----------+ | Loss Of | X | | | X | Equipment | | R | | | | | | | edundancy | | | | | | | (M.3100) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Lost | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | edundancy | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | 32.111-2) | | | | | | +-----------+----------+-----------+-------+--------+-----------+ | Loss Of | X | | | X | Equipment | | Synchr | | | | | | | onization | | | | | | +-----------+----------+-----------+-------+--------+-----------+ | Mu | | X | | X | Equipment | | ltiplexer | | | | | | | Problem | | | | | | +-----------+----------+-----------+-------+--------+-----------+ | Power | | X | | X | Equipment | | Problem | | | | | | +-----------+----------+-----------+-------+--------+-----------+ | Power | X | | | X | Equipment | | Supply | | | | | | | Failure | | | | | | +-----------+----------+-----------+-------+--------+-----------+ | Processor | | X | | X | Equipment | | Problem | | | | | | +-----------+----------+-----------+-------+--------+-----------+ | Receiver | X | X | | X | Equipment | | Failure | | | | | | +-----------+----------+-----------+-------+--------+-----------+ | Signal | X | | | X | Equipment | | Quality | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | valuation | | | | | | | Failure | | | | | | | (M.3100) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Signal | | | | | | | Quality | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | valuation | | | | | | | Fault | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | 32.111-2) | | | | | | +-----------+----------+-----------+-------+--------+-----------+ | Timing | | X | | X | Equipment | | Problem | | | | | | +-----------+----------+-----------+-------+--------+-----------+ | Tr | X | | | X | Equipment | | ansceiver | | | | | | | Failure | | | | | | | (M.3100) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Tr | | | | | | | ansceiver | | | | | | | Problem | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | 32.111-2) | | | | | | +-----------+----------+-----------+-------+--------+-----------+ | Tr | X | X | | X | Equipment | | ansmitter | | | | | | | Failure | | | | | | +-----------+----------+-----------+-------+--------+-----------+ | Cooling | X | | | X | Envi | | System | | | | | ronmental | | Failure | | | | | | +-----------+----------+-----------+-------+--------+-----------+ | External | X | | | X | Envi | | Equipment | | | | | ronmental | | Failure | | | | | | +-----------+----------+-----------+-------+--------+-----------+ | Enclosure | | X | | X | Envi | | Door Open | | | | | ronmental | +-----------+----------+-----------+-------+--------+-----------+ | Fan | X | | | X | Envi | | Failure | | | | | ronmental | | (3 | | | | | | | 2.111-2)\ | | | | | | | Cooling | | | | | | | Fan | | | | | | | Failure | | | | | | | (M.3100) | | | | | | +-----------+----------+-----------+-------+--------+-----------+ | Fire | | X | | X | Envi | | Detected | | | | | ronmental | | (X.72 | | | | | | | 1/X.733)\ | | | | | | | Fire | | | | | | | (M.3100) | | | | | | +-----------+----------+-----------+-------+--------+-----------+ | Flood | | X | | X | Envi | | Detected | | | | | ronmental | | (X.72 | | | | | | | 1/X.733)\ | | | | | | | Flood | | | | | | | (M.3100) | | | | | | +-----------+----------+-----------+-------+--------+-----------+ | High | X | | | X | Envi | | Humidity | | | | | ronmental | +-----------+----------+-----------+-------+--------+-----------+ | High | X | | | X | Envi | | Te | | | | | ronmental | | mperature | | | | | | +-----------+----------+-----------+-------+--------+-----------+ | Intrusion | X | | X | X | Envi | | Detected | | | | | ronmental | | (3 | | | | | (3 | | 2.111-2)\ | | | | | 2.111-2); | | Intrusion | | | | | | | Detection | | | | | Physical | | (X.73 | | | | | Violation | | 6/M.3100) | | | | | (X.73 | | | | | | | 6/M.3100) | +-----------+----------+-----------+-------+--------+-----------+ | Low | X | | | X | Envi | | Humidity | | | | | ronmental | +-----------+----------+-----------+-------+--------+-----------+ | Low | X | | | X | Envi | | Te | | | | | ronmental | | mperature | | | | | | +-----------+----------+-----------+-------+--------+-----------+ | Pump | | X | | X | Envi | | Failure | | | | | ronmental | +-----------+----------+-----------+-------+--------+-----------+ | Smoke | X | | | X | Envi | | Detected | | | | | ronmental | | (3 | | | | | | | 2.111-2)\ | | | | | | | Smoke | | | | | | | (M.3100) | | | | | | +-----------+----------+-----------+-------+--------+-----------+ | Ap | | X | | X | P | | plication | | | | | rocessing | | Subsystem | | | | | Error | | Failure | | | | | | +-----------+----------+-----------+-------+--------+-----------+ | Bandwidth | | X | | X | Quality | | Reduced | | | | | of | | | | | | | Service | | Bandwidth | | | | | | | Reduction | | | | | | | (X.7 | | | | | | | 21/X.733) | | | | | | +-----------+----------+-----------+-------+--------+-----------+ | Conf | | X | | X | P | | iguration | | | | | rocessing | | or | | | | | Error | | Cust | | | | | | | omization | | | | | | | Error | | | | | | | (M.3100) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Conf | | | | | | | iguration | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | Cu | | | | | | | stomizing | | | | | | | Error | | | | | | | (X.7 | | | | | | | 21/X.733) | | | | | | +-----------+----------+-----------+-------+--------+-----------+ | Database | X | | | X | P | | Inco | | | | | rocessing | | nsistency | | | | | Error | +-----------+----------+-----------+-------+--------+-----------+ | File | | X | | X | P | | Error | | | | | rocessing | | | | | | | Error | +-----------+----------+-----------+-------+--------+-----------+ | Storage | | X | | X | P | | Capacity | | | | | rocessing | | Problem | | | | | Error | +-----------+----------+-----------+-------+--------+-----------+ | Excessive | X | | | X | Commu | | Bit Error | | | | | nications | | Rate | | | | | (M.3100) | | (M.3100) | | | | | | | | | | | | Quality | | Excessive | | | | | of | | Error | | | | | Service | | Rate | | | | | (GSM | | ( | | | | | 12.1 | | 32.111-2) | | | | | 1/M.3100) | | | | | | | | | Excessive | | | | | | | Error | | | | | | | Rate | | | | | | +-----------+----------+-----------+-------+--------+-----------+ | Corrupt | | X | | X | P | | Data | | | | | rocessing | | | | | | | Error | +-----------+----------+-----------+-------+--------+-----------+ | Out Of | | X | | X | P | | Memory | | | | | rocessing | | | | | | | Error | +-----------+----------+-----------+-------+--------+-----------+ | Software | | X | | X | P | | Error | | | | | rocessing | | | | | | | Error | +-----------+----------+-----------+-------+--------+-----------+ | Timeout | X | | | X | P | | Expired | | | | | rocessing | | | | | | | Error | +-----------+----------+-----------+-------+--------+-----------+ | Un | | X | | X | P | | derlaying | | | | | rocessing | | Resource | | | | | Error | | Un | | | | | | | available | | | | | | | (M.3100) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | U | | | | | | | nderlying | | | | | | | Resource | | | | | | | Un | | | | | | | available | | | | | | | (X.7 | | | | | | | 21/X.733) | | | | | | +-----------+----------+-----------+-------+--------+-----------+ | Version | | X | | X | P | | Mismatch | | | | | rocessing | | | | | | | Error | +-----------+----------+-----------+-------+--------+-----------+ | C | | X | | X | Quality | | ongestion | | | | | of | | | | | | | Service | +-----------+----------+-----------+-------+--------+-----------+ | Reduced | X | | | X | Quality | | Logging | | | | | of | | C | | | | | Service | | apability | | | | | | +-----------+----------+-----------+-------+--------+-----------+ | System | X | | | X | Quality | | Resources | | | | | of | | Overload | | | | | Service | +-----------+----------+-----------+-------+--------+-----------+ | Excessive | | X | | X | Quality | | Response | | | | | of | | Time | | | | | Service | | (M.3100) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Response | | | | | | | Time | | | | | | | Excessive | | | | | | | (X.7 | | | | | | | 21/X.733) | | | | | | +-----------+----------+-----------+-------+--------+-----------+ | Excessive | | X | | X | Quality | | Retra | | | | | of | | nsmission | | | | | Service | | Rate | | | | | | | (M.3100) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Re-Tra | | | | | | | nsmission | | | | | | | Rate | | | | | | | Excessive | | | | | | | (X.7 | | | | | | | 21/X,733) | | | | | | +-----------+----------+-----------+-------+--------+-----------+ | Tra | X | | | X | Commu | | nsmission | | | | | nications | | Error | | | | | | +-----------+----------+-----------+-------+--------+-----------+
###### ## Annex C (informative): Examples of using notifyChangedAlarm
This annex describes a number of valid and invalid interactions governing the
case when IRPAgent is reporting a specific fault of a particular network
resource whose alarm severity level changes from, e.g. \"Critical\" to
\"Minor\" and then to \"Cleared\".
In the following examples:
> ni is notificationId,
>
> moc is managedObjectClass,
>
> moi is managedObjectInstance,
>
> et is eventType,
>
> pc is probableCause,
>
> sp is specificProblem,
>
> ps is perceivedSeverity and
>
> ai is alarmId.
EXAMPLE 1: Valid sequence of a hypothetical case:
(1) NotifyNewAlarm
> (ni=1, ai=X, moc=A, moi=B, et=C, pc=D, sp=E, ps=Critical)
(2) NotifyChangedAlarm
> (ni=2, ai=X, moc=A, moi=B, et=C, pc=D, sp=E, ps=Minor)
(3) NotifyClearedAlarm
> (ni=3, ai=X, moc=A, moi=B, et=C, pc=D, sp=E, ps=Cleared)
EXAMPLE 2: Valid sequence of a hypothetical case (assuming that the alarm with
\"ai=X\" is acknowledged after either (1) or (2), but before (3)):
(1) NotifyNewAlarm
> (ni=1, ai=X, moc=A, moi=B, et=C, pc=D, sp=E, ps=Critical)
(2) NotifyClearedAlarm
> (ni=2, ai=X, moc=A, moi=B, et=C, pc=D, sp=E, ps=Cleared)
(3) NotifyNewAlarm
> (ni=3, ai=Y, moc=A, moi=B, et=C, pc=D, sp=E, ps=Minor)
(4) NotifyClearedAlarm
> (ni=4, ai=Y, moc=A, moi=B, et=C, pc=D, sp=E, ps=Cleared)
EXAMPLE 3: Invalid sequence of a hypothetical case:
(1) NotifyNewAlarm
> (ni=1, ai=X, moc=A, moi=B, et=C, pc=D, sp=E, ps=Critical)
(2) NotifyChangedAlarm
> (ni=2, ai=Y, moc=A, moi=B, et=C, pc=D, sp=E, ps=Minor)
(3) NotifyClearedAlarm
> (ni=3, ai=Y, moc=A, moi=B, et=C, pc=D, sp=E, ps=Cleared)
Interaction (2) is illegal since it uses a different ai for the same alarm. It
should use ai=X as in interaction (1).
EXAMPLE 4: Invalid sequenceof a hypothetical case:
(1) NotifyNewAlarm
> (ni=1, ai=X, moc=A, moi=B, et=C, pc=D, sp=E, ps=Critical)
(2) NotifyNewAlarm
> (ni=2, ai=X, moc=A, moi=B, et=C, pc=D, sp=E, ps=Minor)
Interaction (2) is illegal since it invokes notifyNewAlarm using same ai
value. It should use notifyChangedAlarm with the same ai value.
###### ## Annex D (informative): Examples of using correlatedNotification
This annex describes a number of examples of when the IRPAgent is indicating
that several alarms are correlated.
EXAMPLE 1: Alarms X and Y are correlated, but the root cause is unknown.
> Information of AlarmInformation X has been captured in a notification whose
> identifier is "x".
>
> AlarmInformation X holds a relation to a CorrelatedNotification instance
> which has the following attribute values
>
> source="ABC"
>
> notificationIdSet carries the identifier "y"
>
> X.rootCauseIndicator="No"
>
> Information of AlarmInformation Y has been captured in a notification whose
> identifier is "y".
>
> Optionally, AlarmInformation Y may hold a relation to a
> correlatedNotification instance which has the following attribute values
>
> source="DEF"
>
> notificationIdSet carries the identifier "x"
>
> Y.rootCauseIndicator="No"
EXAMPLE 2: Alarms X and Y are correlated, where Alarm X is the root cause of
Alarm Y.
> Information of AlarmInformation X has been captured in a notification whose
> identifier is "x".
>
> AlarmInformation X holds a relation to a correlatedNotification instance
> which has the following attribute values
>
> source="ABC"
>
> notificationIdSet carries the identifier "y"
>
> X.rootCauseIndicator="Yes"
>
> Information of AlarmInformation Y has been captured in a notification whose
> identifier is "y".
>
> Optionally, AlarmInformation Y may hold a relation to a
> correlatedNotification instance which has the following attribute values
>
> source="DEF"
>
> notificationIdSet carries the identifier "x"
>
> Y.rootCauseIndicator="No"
###### ## Annex E (informative): AcknowledgeAlarms operation scenario
The acknowledgeAlarms operation may optionally include perceivedSeverity as
input parameter.
The reason for using perceivedSeverity in the acknowledgeAlarms operation is
to avoid an undesirable consequence. An example sequence of events is:
  1. IRPAgent AlarmList has alarmId=6 with perceivedSeverity=minor
  2. IRPManager issues getAlarmList
  3. IRPAgent updates alarmId=6 with perceivedSeverity=critical
  4. In case IRPAgent have not issued the notifyChangedAlarm in time or in the case IRPManager ignores the notifyChangedAlarm received, for examples...
  5. IRPManager issues acknowledgeAlarms of alarmId=6 with perceivedSeverity=minor
  6. IRPAgent rejects acknowledgement, with reason WrongPerceivedSeverity
> If the optional perceivedSeverity input parameter was not used in step 5, in
> step 6 the IRPAgent would have accepted the acknowledgement, with the
> undesirable consequences:
  * IRPManager wrongly concludes that it had acknowledged alarm=6 with perceivedSeverity=minor.
  * IRPAgent wrongly concludes that alarmId=6 with perceivedSeverity=critical had been acknowledged.
  * Other IRPManagers will see alarmId=6 with perceivedSeverity=critical being acknowledged (and possibly taken care of) by an IRPManager.
#