# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
**Ready for Converged Management**
> This specification is part of a set that has been developed for converged
> management solutions.
# Introduction
The present document is part a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management, as identified below:
**TS 32.140: \"Subscription Management (SuM) requirements\".**
**TS 32.141: \"Subscription Management (SuM) architecture\".**
**TS 32.171: \"Subscription Management (SuM) Network Resource Model (NRM)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements\".**
TS 32.172: \"Subscription Management (SuM) Network Resource Model (NRM)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
**TS 32.176:** \"**Subscription Management (SuM) Network Resource Model (NRM)
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Solution Set (SS) definitions** \"**.**
TS 28.751: \"Subscription Management (SuM) Network Resource Model (NRM)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements\".
TS 28.752: \"Subscription Management (SuM) Network Resource Model (NRM)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
**TS 28.753:** \"**Subscription Management (SuM) Network Resource Model (NRM)
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Solution Sets (SS) definitions** \"**.**
The 3G environment requires more complex service delivery mechanisms and is no
longer simply an internal matter for a single operator but a capability that
is achieved by linking together features across multiple service providers and
operators. Subscription Management (SuM) is a feature that permits Service
Providers, Value Added Service Providers, and Mobile Operators to provision
services for a specific subscriber. The feature is necessary to allow service
providers and operators to provision, control, monitor and bill the
configuration of services that they offer to their subscribers.
For further details see 3GPP TS 32.140 [5] on SuM requirements that gives an
overview of SuM.
# 1 Scope
The present document defines the architecture for Subscription Management
(SuM) , including Converged Management of fixed and mobile networks.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.002: \"Network Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.140: \"Telecommunication management; Subscription Management
(SuM) requirements\".
[6] 3GPP TS 23.008: \"Organization of subscriber data\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.150: \"Integration Reference Point (IRP) Concept and
definitions\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply:
**subscriber:** See 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**service:** See 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**Integration Reference Point (IRP):** See 3GPP TS 32.101 [3].
**user:** See 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**subscription:** See 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**Subscription Management (SuM):** See 3GPP TR 32.140 [5].
**Subscription Profile:** See 3GPP TR 32.140 [5].
**Subscription Profile Component:** See 3GPP TR 32.140 [5].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
2G Second Generation Mobile
3G Third Generation Mobile
API Application Programming Interface
ASP Application Service Provider
AuC Authentication Center
B2B Business to Business
CS Circuit Switch
EIR Equipment Identity Register
GTT Global Text Telephony
GUP Generic User Profile
HE Home Environment
HLR Home Location Register
HSS Home Subscriber Server
IMS IP Multimedia Subsystem
IRP Integration Reference Point (3GPP TS 32.102 [4])
ISP Internet Service Provider
NPDB Number Portability Data Base
NRM Network Resource Model
OAM Operations, Administration and Maintenance
OSA Open Services Access
OSF Operations System Functions
OSS Operations Support System
PS Packet Switch
SLA Service Level Agreement
SM&O Service Management and Operations (TMF/ITU-T)
SP Service Provider
SuM Subscription Management
TMN Telecommunication Management Network
TR-IRP Trading Partner IRP
UICC Universal Integrated Circuit Card
USIM Universal Subscriber Identity Module
VASP Value Added Service Provider
VHE Virtual Home Environment
VNO Virtual Network Operator
# 4 Subscription Management (SuM) architecture
3G Telecommunication Management focuses on the most important and strategic
contexts in the physical architecture for the management of UMTS. The
framework to help define a telecom management physical architecture for a
planned UMTS and to adopt standards and provide products that are easy to
integrate is defined in 3GPP TS 32.102 [4].
SuM manages Subscription Profile Components stored in network resources for
the purpose of providing services to specific subscribers. This is done with
an architecture that is consistent with the one specified in 3GPP TS 32.102
[4].
Subscription Profiles represent services and are associated to subscribers
that employ these services (3GPP TS 32.140 [5]). To the extent the HSS
controls certain services, Subscription Profile Components can be associated
with the HSS. Other services, and as a result Subscription Profiles
Components, are outside the jurisdiction of the HSS.
## 4.1 Functional entities
Functional entities belonging to SuM are described in Figure 1. The figure
also contains the actors related to Subscriptions.
Figure 1: Functional entities in SUM
Actors described in Figure 1 are:
  * **Subscriber** (definition See TS 21.905)
  * **User** (definition See TS 21.905)
  * **Service** **Provider** (definition See TS 21.905)
  * **PLMN** **Operator** (definition See TS 21.905)
The entities described in Figure 1 are:
  * **Subscription** **Profile** (definition See TS 32.140)
  * **Subscription** **Profile** **Component** (definition See TS 32.140)
  * **Service** (definition See TS 21.905)
  * **System** (definition See TS 32.102)
  * **Service** **Preferences** : Contains the service preferences chosen for a user. Each user configures his preferences for a particular subscribed service, but only within the limits defined by the Subscription.
**Clarifications to the figure:**
  * A PLMN Operator/Service Provider has one or several Services to offer for Subscribers.
  * A Subscriber has one or several Subscription Profiles, where each describes an offered Service.
  * A User has one or several Service Preferences, where each describes the user's chosen preferences for the service.
  * A Subscription Profile may consist of one or several Subscription Profile Components.
  * A Subscription Profile may define one or several Service Preferences.
  * A Subscription Profile Component resides in one or several systems
  * Subscriptions are managed in the form of Subscription profile components, which may be distributed across Service Management & Operations (SM&O), Network Resource Management & Operations (RM&O) and Network Domains. There may also be mappings among the SM&O, RM&O and Network Domains.
## 4.2 Interfaces
### 4.2.1 Application of Itf-N for SuM
Figure 2: Overview of PLMN Telecom Management Domains and Itf-N (3GPP TS
32.102 [4])
The Itf-N for SuM is realized by means of an Integration Reference Point (IRP)
as defined in 3GPP TS 32.102 [4].
Operations System Functions (OSF) functionality can be realized in NEs or in
the NE Management systems. SuM, for this release, is concerned with the OSF
functionality contained in the Core Network Basic Entities Domain and
specifically that of the Common CN Domain. Subscription Profile Components are
located in the NEs OSF\'s within the Common CN Domain or their NEs OSF\'s in
the NE management systems, and are in either case accessed consistent with the
IRP concept. SuM OSF\'s for Network Management and Service Management are
located in network- and service management systems.
### 4.2.2 Void
## 4.3 Overview of IRP
Figures 3 and 4 identify system contexts of the IRP in terms of its
implementation, called IRPAgent (see 3GPP TS 32.150 [7]), and the user of the
IRPAgent, called IRPManager (see 3GPP TS 32.150 [7]).
The IRPAgent implements and supports the Interface IRPs for SuM NRM IRP. The
IRPAgent can reside in an Element Manager (EM) or a Network Element (NE) (3GPP
TS 32.102 [4]). In the former case, the interface (represented by a thick
dotted line) between the EM and the NEs is not the subject of the Interface
IRPs for SuM NRM IRP.
An IRPManager using the Interface IRPs for SuM NRM IRP shall choose one of the
two System Contexts defined here, for each NE. For instance, if an EM is
responsible for managing a number of NEs, the NM shall access the Interface
IRPs for SuM NRM IRP through the EM and not directly to those NEs.
The interface IRPs for SuM NRM IRP can be the following:
\- Basic CM IRP
Figure 3: System Context A
Figure 4: System Context B
### 4.3.1 IRP security
The IRP interface is made secure by controlling access to the network and
management systems. Operations processes must insure that only authorized
personnel have the access authority to retrieve and alter SuM data. Standard
protocols used over the interface between the IRPManager and the IRPAgent
provide some degree of security. The exact nature of the security is described
in the Solution Set for that protocol. In addition to the requirement that the
IRPManager and the IRPAgent be secure, most physical links between them are
secured as well.
## 4.4 Methodology
The methodology used to conclude the standard work for SuM shall follow the
IRP methodology described in 3GPP TS 32.150 [4]. This subclause describes how
to apply that methodology.
### 4.4.1 SuM Stage 1
SuM Stage 1 is documented in 3GPP TS 32.140 [5].
### 4.4.2 SuM Stage 2
SuM Stage 2 is documented as follows:
a) The present document (3GPP TS 32.141) is finalized by identifying the
relevant IRPs.
b) 3GPP TS 32.171 (for non-converged management) and TS 28.751 (for converged
management) define the Requirements for the SuM NRM IRP.\ 3GPP TS 32.171 and
TS 28.751 shall, where applicable, follow the structure in 3GPP TS 32.621 (for
non-converged management) and TS 28.621 (for converged management) (Generic
NRM IRP: Requirements) , respectively.
c) 3GPP TS 32.172 (for non-converged management) and TS 28.752 (for converged
management) describe the Information Service for the SuM NRM IRP -- containing
the Information Object Classes (IOCs), attributes, relations etc. for SuM.\
3GPP TS 32.172 and TS 28.752 shall, where applicable, follow the structure in
3GPP TS 32.622 (for non-converged management) and TS 28.622 (for converged
management) (Generic NRM IRP: Information Service) , respectively.
### 4.4.3 SuM Stage 3
SuM Stage 3 is documented in the following documents:
\- TS 32.176 (for non-converged management) and TS 28.623 (for converged
management) SuM NRM IRP: Solution Set definition s.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Void
#