# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document contains the template to be used for the production of
all Integration Reference Point (IRP) Information Service (IS) specifications
for Converged Management.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.150: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Concept and definitions\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.156: "Telecommunication management; Fixed Mobile Convergence
(FMC) Model Repertoire
[5] 3GPP TS 32.302: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service
(IS)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102 [2], 3GPP TS 32.150 [3] and the following
apply:
**IRPAgent:** See 3GPP TS 32.150 [3].
**IRPManager:** See 3GPP TS 32.150 [3].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TS
32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102 [2], 3GPP TS 32.150 [3] and the following apply:
IOC Information Object Class
IRP Integration Reference Point
IS Information Service
OMG Object Management Group
UML Unified Modelling Language (OMG)
# 4 Information Service (IS) template
## 4.1 General
The present document contains the templates to be used for the production of
all Integration Reference Point (IRP) Information Service (IS) specifications
for Converged Management.
Clause 4.2 is applicable for NRM IRP IS specifications.
Clause 4.3 is applicable for Interface IRP IS specifications.
For the introductory clauses 2 and 3 of all IRP ISs, the text shall be written
conforming to the standard 3GPP TS template (i.e. not this template).
_The IS template uses qualifiers M, O, CM, CO and C. The semantics of these
qualifiers are defined in [4]._
_The IS template uses type definition as one characteristic to describe class
attributes and operation/notification parameters. The valid type definitions
that can be used and their semantics are defined in [4]._
Usage of fonts shall be according to the following table.
* * *
Item Font Class names Courier New Attribute names Courier New Operation names
Courier New Parameter names Courier New Assertion names Courier New
Notification names Courier New Exception names Courier New State names Arial
Matching Information Courier New Information Type Courier New Legal Values
Courier New NOTE: These font requirements do not apply to UML diagrams.
* * *
## 4.2 Template for NRM IRP IS
W1 Scope
_The following quoted text is relevant for all NRM IRP ISs. It shall be copied
as the first two paragraphs of the NRM IRP IS specification. IRP IS author may
add additional paragraph(s) if necessary._
\"
The present document specifies the \> _(where \ > shall be
substituted by the name of the NRM IRP IS concerned such as 'HNS', 'E_UTRAN',
'GERAN')_ network resource information that can be communicated between an
IRPAgent and an IRPManager for telecommunication network management purposes,
including management of converged networks.
This document specifies the semantics and behaviour of information object
class attributes and relations visible across the reference point in a
protocol and technology neutral way. It does not define their syntax and
encoding.
\"
W2 References
_TBD_
W3 Definitions and abbreviations
_TBD_
W4 Model
W4.1 Imported information entities and local labels
_This clause identifies a list of information entities (e.g. information
object class, interface, attribute) that have been defined in other
specifications and that are imported in the present (target) specification.
All imported entities shall be treated as if they are defined locally in the
target specification. One usage of import is for inheritance purpose._
_Each element of this list is a pair (label reference, local label). The label
reference contains the name of the specification where the information entity
is defined, the information entity type and its name. The local label contains
the name of the information entity that appears in the target specification.
The local label can then be used throughout the target specification instead
of that which appears in the label reference._
This information is provided in a table. An example of such a table is given
here below:
* * *
Label reference Local label 3GPP TS 32.622 [71], information object class, Top
Top
* * *
W4.2 Class diagram
W4.2.1 Relationships
_This first set of diagrams represents all classes defined in this IS with all
their relationships and all their attributes, including relationships with
imported information entities (if any). These diagrams shall contain class
cardinalities (for associations as well as containment relationships) and may
also contain role names. These shall be UML compliant class diagrams (see also
[_ 4 _])._
_Characteristics (attributes, relationships) of imported information entities
need not to be repeated in the diagrams. Allowable classes are specified in
[4]._
_Use this as the first paragraph: \"_ This clause depicts the set of classes
(e.g. IOCs) that encapsulates the information relevant for this IRP. This
clause provides an overview of the relationships between relevant classes in
UML. Subsequent clauses provide more detailed specification of various aspects
of these classes.\"
W4.2.2 Inheritance
_This second set of diagrams represents the inheritance hierarchy of all
classes defined in this specification. These diagrams do not need to contain
the complete inheritance hierarchy but shall at least contain the parent
classes of all classes defined in the present document. By default, a class
inherits from the class \"top\"._
_Characteristics (attributes, relationships) of imported classes need not to
be repeated in the diagrams._
_NOTE: some inheritance relationships presented in clause W4.2.2 can be
repeated in clause W4.2.1 to enhance readability._
_Use \"_ This subclause depicts the inheritance relationships.\" _as the first
paragraph._
W4.3 Class definitions
_Each class is defined using the following structure._
_Inherited items (attributes etc.) shall not be shown, as they are defined in
the parent class(es) and thus valid for the subclass._
W4.3.a InformationObjectClassName
_InformationObjectClassName is the name of the information object class._
_The \"a\" represents a number, starting at 1 and increasing by 1 with each
new definition of a class._
W4.3.a.1 Definition
_The \  clause is written in natural language. The \
clause refers to the class itself._
Optionally, information on traceability back to one or more requirements
supported by this class can be defined here, in the following form:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.xyz [xy] REQ-SM-CON-23
_Optional clarification_ 3GPP TS 32.xyz [xy] REQ-SM-FUN-11 _Optional
clarification_
* * *
W4.3.a.2 Attributes
_The \  clause presents the list of attributes, which are the
manageable properties of the class. Each attribute is characterised by some of
the attribute properties (see Table 1 of [4]), i.e. supportQualifier,
isReadable, isWritable, isInvariant and isNotifyable._
_The legal values and their semantics for attribute properties are defined in
[4]._
_This information is provided in a table._
_An example below indicates_
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable eNodeBId M M - M M
* * *
_Another example below indicates that the attribute password1 is not readable,
is writable, is not an invariant and no notifyAttributeValueChange_ will be
emitted when the attribute value is changed.
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable password1 O - M - -
* * *
_Another example below indicates that the attribute password2 and password1_
(in example above) has same qualifiers for the shown properties except that of
isReadable. In the case of password1, the standard specification determines
the qualifier to be M, i.e. it is readable. In the case of password2, the
standard specification does not make a determination. The vendor would make
the determination if the attribute is readable or not readable.
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable password2 O O M - -
* * *
_In case there is one or more attributes related to role (see section 5.2.9 of
[4]), the attributes related to role shall be specified at the bottom of the
table with a divider \"Attribute related to role\",_ as shown in the following
example:
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable aTMChannelTerminationPointid M M - M M **...**  
**...**  
**Attribute related to role**  
theATMPathTerminationPoint M M - - M theIubLink M M - - M
* * *
_This clause shall state \"None.\" when there is no attribute to define._
W4.3.a.3 Attribute constraints
_The \  clause presents constraints for the attributes,
and one use is to present the predicates for conditional qualifiers (CM/CO)._
This information is provided in a table. An example of such a table is given
here below:
* * *
Name Definition pci CM write qualifier Centralized PCI assignment (see TS
32.500, ref [15] clause 6.1.6) is supported. pciList CM support qualifier
Distributed PCI assignment (see TS 32.500, ref [15] clause 6.1.6) is
supported. partOfSectorPower CM support qualifier The IOC
SectorEquipmentFunction is used. attributeX max value The value of attributeX
shall be within the specified value range but may never be higher than the
value of attributeY.
* * *
_This clause shall state \"None.\" when there is no attribute constraint to
define._
W4.3.a.4 Notifications
_The \  clause, for this class, presents one of the following
options:_
> _a) The class defines (and independent from those inherited) the support of
> a set of notifications that is identical to that defined in clause W.4.5. In
> such case, use \"The common notifications defined in clause W.4.5 are valid
> for this class, without exceptions or additions.\" as the lone sentence of
> this clause._
>
> _b) The class defines (and independent from those inherited) the support of
> a set of notifications that is a superset of that defined in clause W.4.5.
> In such case, use \"The common notifications defined in clause W.4.5 are
> valid for this IOC. In addition, the following set of notification is also
> valid.\" as the lone paragraph of this clause. Then, define the 'additional'
> notifications in a table. See clause W.4.5 for the notification table
> format._
>
> _c) The class defines (and independent from those inherited) the support of
> a set of notifications that is not identical to, nor a superset of, that
> defined in clause W.4.5. In such case, use \"The common notifications
> defined in clause W.4.5 are not valid for this IOC. The set of notifications
> defined in the following table is valid.\" as the lone paragraph of this
> clause. Specify the set of notifications in a table. See clause W.4.5 for
> the notification table format._
>
> _d) The class does not define (and independent from those inherited) the
> support of any notification. In such case, use \"There is no notification
> defined.\" as the lone sentence of this clause._
_The notifications identified (i.e. option-a, option-b and option-c above) in
this clause are notifications that can be emitted across the Itf-N, where the
\"object class\" and \"object instance\" parameters of the notification header
(see note 2) of these notifications identifies an instance of the class (or
its direct or indirect derived class) defined by the encapsulating clause
(i.e. clause W4.3.a)._
_The notifications identified (i.e. option-a and option-b above) in this
clause, may originate from implementation object(s) whose identifier may or
may not be the same as that carried in the notification parameters \"object
class\" and \"object instance\". Hence the identification of notifications in
this clause does not imply nor identify those notifications as being
originated from an instance of the class (or its direct or indirect derived
class) defined by the encapsulating clause (i.e. clause W4.3.a)._
_NOTE 1: This clause shall state \"This class does not support any
notification.\" (see option-c) when there is no notification defined for this
class. (Note that if its parent class has defined some notifications, the
implementation of this class is capable of emitting those inherited defined
notifications.)_
_NOTE 2: The notification header is defined in the notification IRP
Information service TS 32.302 [5]._
_NOTE 3: The qualifier of a notification, specified in Notification Table,
indicates if an implementation can generate a notification carrying the DN of
the subject class. The qualifier of a notification, specified in an Interface
IRP, indicates if an implementation of the Interface IRP can generate such
notification in general._
> _An IRPManager can receive notification-XYZ that carries DN (the \"object
> class\" and \"object instance\") of class-ABC instance if and only if:_
>
> _a) The class-ABC Notification Table defines the notification-XYZ and_
>
> _b) The class-ABC instance implementation supports this notification-XYZ
> and_
>
> _c) An Interface IRP defines the notification-XYZ and_
>
> _d) The Interface IRP implementation supports this notification-XYZ._
W4.4 Attribute definitions
_Void._
W4.4.1 Attribute properties
_It has a lone paragraph_ \"The following table defines the properties of
attributes that are specified in the present document. \".
_Each information attribute is defined using the following structure._
_Inherited attributes shall not be shown, as they are defined in the parent
class(es) and thus valid for this class._
_An attribute has properties (see Table 1 of [4]). Some properties of an
attribute are defined in W4.3.a.2 (e.g. Support Qualifier). The remaining
properties of an attribute (e.g. documentation, default value) are defined
here._
_The information is provided in a table. In case a) attributes of the same
name are specified in more than one class and b) the attributes have different
properties, then the attribute names (first column) should be prefixed with
the class name followed by a period._
An example is given below:
+----------------+----------------------------------+---------------------------+ | Attribute Name | Documentation and Allowed Values | Properties | +----------------+----------------------------------+---------------------------+ | xyzId | It identifies ... | type: Integer | | | | | | | allowedValues: ... | multiplicity: ... | | | | | | | | isOrdered: ... | | | | | | | | isUnique: ... | | | | | | | | defaultValue: ... | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------+----------------------------------+---------------------------+ | Abc.state | It indicates ... | type: \> | | | | | | | allowedValues: | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | \"ON\": the state is on; | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | \"OFF\": the state is off. | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: False | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------+----------------------------------+---------------------------+ | Zyz.state | It indicates ... | type: \> | | | | | | | allowedValues: | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | \"HIGH\": the state is high; | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | \"MEDIUM\": the state is medium; | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | \"LOW\": the state is low. | defaultValue: False | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------+----------------------------------+---------------------------+ | abc | It defines... | type: ... | | | | | | | allowedValues: ... | multiplicity: ... | | | | | | | | isOrdered: ... | | | | | | | | isUnique: ... | | | | | | | | defaultValue: ... | | | | | | | | isNullable: ... | +----------------+----------------------------------+---------------------------+
_In case there is one or more attributes related to role (see section 5.2.9 of
[4]), the attributes related to role shall be specified at the bottom of the
table with a divider \"Attribute related to role\"._ See example below.
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Attribute Name** | Documentation and | **Properties** | | | Allowed Values | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | abc | It defines... | type: | | | | \> | | | allowedValues: ... | | | | | multiplicity: ... | | | | | | | | isOrdered: ... | | | | | | | | isUnique: ... | | | | | | | | defaultValue: ... | | | | | | | | isNullable: ... | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Attribute related | | | | to role** | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | aEnd | It defines... | type: DN | | | | | | | allowedValues: | multiplicity: ... | | | Values to be | | | | conformant to TS | isOrdered: ... | | | 32.300 [13] ... | | | | | isUnique: ... | | | | | | | | defaultValue: ... | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
_This clause shall state_ \"_None._ \" _if there is no attribute to define._
W4.4.2 Constraints
_The \  clause indicates whether there are any constraints
affecting attributes. Each constraint is defined by a pair (propertyName,
propertyDefinition). PropertyDefinitions are expressed in natural language._
An example is given here below:
* * *
Name Definition inv_TimerConstraints The ntfTimeTickTimer is lower than or
equal to ntfTimeTick.
* * *
_This clause shall state \"None.\" if there is no constraint._
W4.5 Common Notifications
_This \  clause presents notifications that can be
referred to by any class defined in the specification. This information is
provided in tables._
W4.5.1 Alarm notifications
_The following quoted text shall be copied as the only paragraph of this
clause._
\"This clause presents a list of notifications, defined in [x], that
IRPManager can receive. The notification header attribute
objectClass/objectInstance, defined in [y], shall capture the DN of an
instance of a class defined in this specification.\"
The information is provided in a table. The following is an example.
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyNewAlarm M --
* * *
W4.5.2 Configuration notifications
_The following quoted text shall be copied as the only paragraph of this
clause._
\"This clause presents a list of notifications, defined in [x], that
IRPManager can receive. The notification header attribute
objectClass/objectInstance, defined in [z], shall capture the DN of an
instance of a class defined in this specification.\"
The information is provided in a table. The following is an example.
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyAttributeValueChange O -- notifyObjectCreation O --
notifyObjectDeletion O --
* * *
## 4.3 Template for Interface IRP IS
Y1 Scope
_TBD_
Y2 References
_TBD_
Y3 Definitions and abbreviations
_TBD_
Y4 TBD
TBD
#