# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is part of a series of Technical Specifications (TSs)
that specify charging functionality and charging management in 3GPP networks.
The GSM/UMTS core network charging architecture and principles are specified
in TS 32.240 [1], which provides an umbrella for other charging management
documents that specify:
\- the content of the CDRs per domain and subsystem (offline charging);
\- the content of real-time charging messages per domain / subsystem (online
charging);
\- the functionality of online and offline charging for those domains and
subsystems;
\- the interfaces that are used in the charging framework to transfer the
charging information (i.e. CDRs or charging events).
The complete document structure of the charging management TSs is defined in
TS 32.240 [1].
The present document covers all internal aspects of the Online Charging System
(OCS). The document contains the architecture and functions of the OCS logical
components and thereby derives the functionality of the OCS interfaces. A
detailed specification of interfaces between the logical OCS components is
also included. The functionality of the OCS, as described in the present
document, applies to all charging domains (bearer, session and service).
The interfaces connecting to the OCS (e.g. Ro, CAP) are out of the scope of
the present document.
NOTE: In the current release the present document is limited to the interface
between the charging function and the Rating Function(RF), namely Re.
All terms, definitions and abbreviations used in the present document, that
are common across 3GPP TSs, are defined in TR 21.905 [100]. Those that are
common across charging management in 3GPP domains, services, or subsystems are
provided in the umbrella document TS 32.240 [1]. Finally, those items that are
specific to the present document are defined exclusively in the present
document.
Furthermore, requirements that govern the charging work are specified in TS
22.115 [101].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.240: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Charging Architecture and Principles\".
[2] - [10] Void.
[11] 3GPP TS 32.251: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Packet Switched (PS) domain charging\".
[12] - [19] Void
[20] 3GPP TS 32.260: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management; IP
Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) charging\".
[21] - [29] Void.
[30] 3GPP TS 32.270: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Multimedia Messaging Service (MMS) charging\".
[31] 3GPP TS 32.271: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Location Services (LCS) charging\".
[32] 3GPP TS 32.272: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Push-to-talk over Cellular (PoC) charging\".
[33] 3GPP TS 32.273: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Multimedia Broadcast and Multicast Service (MBMS) charging\".
[34] 3GPP TS 32.274: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Short Message Service (SMS) charging\".
[35] 3GPP TS 32.275: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
MultiMedia Telephony (MMTel) charging\".
[36] 3GPP TS 32.276: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Voice Call Service Charging\".
[37] 3GPP TS 32.277: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Proximity-based Services (ProSe) Charging\".
[38] - [39] Void.
[40] 3GPP TS 32.280: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Advice of Charge (AoC) service \".
[41] - [49] Void.
[50] 3GPP TS 32.299: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Diameter charging application\".
[51] Void.
[52] 3GPP TS 32.297: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Charging Data Records (CDR) file format and transfer\".
[53] - [99] Void.
[100] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[101] 3GPP TS 22.115: \"Service aspects; Charging and billing\".
[101] - [200] Void.
[201] 3GPP TS 22.024: \"Description of Charge Advice Information (CAI)\".
[202] 3GPP TS 23.078: \"Customised Applications for Mobile network Enhanced
Logic (CAMEL) Phase 4; Stage 2\".
[203] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification\".
[204] 3GPP TS 29.002: \"Mobile Application Part (MAP) specification\".
[205] 3GPP TS 29.230: \"Diameter applications; 3GPP specific codes and
identifiers\".
[206] 3GPP TS 23.203: \"Policy and charging control architecture\".
[207] 3GPP TS 29.219: \"Policy and charging control: Spending limit reporting
over Sy reference point \".
[208] 3GPP TS 29.213: \"Policy and charging control signalling flows and
Quality of Service (QoS) parameter mapping\".
[209] - [400] Void.
[401] IETF RFC 3588 (2003): \"Diameter Base Protocol\".
[402] IETF RFC 4006 (2005): \"Diameter Credit-Control Application\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [100], TS 32.240 [1] and the following apply:
**account:** structure residing in the OCS for holding dynamic subscription
data with monetary equivalence. Accounts may have balances/counters of
currency or a unit type. An account can have one or more users associated with
it. Examples of account type could include individual, family, corporate, etc.
As opposed to bank accounts, transaction history is not necessarily kept in
the OCS account data structure.
**account balance: represents the current numerical value from which service
delivery decisions can be determined.**
**chargeable event:** activity utilizing telecommunications network resources
and related services for:
\- user to user communication (e.g. a single call, a data communication
session or a short message); or
\- user to network communication (e.g. service profile administration); or
\- inter-network communication (e.g. transferring calls, signalling, or short
messages); or
\- mobility (e.g. roaming or inter-system handover); and
\- that the network operator may want to charge for.
As a minimum, a chargeable event characterises the resource / service usage
and indicates the identity of the involved end user(s).
**charging:** a function within the telecommunications network and the
associated OCS/BD components whereby information related to a chargeable event
is collected, formatted, transferred and evaluated in order to make it
possible to determine usage for which the charged party may be billed (offline
charging) or the subscribers account balance may be debited (online charging).
**counter:** aggregation of units of service usage or monetary units, which
may be in relation to subscriber contractual terms (e.g. number of used SMS
per day or number of free minutes per month).\ These form the basis for any
type of loyalty program like discounts or bonus.
**domain:** part of a communication network that provides services using a
certain technology
**offline charging:** charging mechanism where charging information **does
not** affect, in real-time, the service rendered
**online charging:** charging mechanism where charging information can affect,
in real-time, the service rendered and therefore a direct interaction of the
charging mechanism with session/service control is required
**subscriber:** a subscriber is an entity (associated with one or more users)
that is engaged in a subscription with a service provider. The subscriber is
allowed to subscribe and unsubscribe services, to register a user or a list of
users authorised to enjoy these services, and also to set the limits relative
to the use that associated users make of these services.
**subscription:** a subscription describes the commercial relationship between
the subscriber and the service provider.
**tariff:** set of parameters defining the network utilization charges for the
use of a particular bearer / session / service.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
Bo Offline Charging Reference Point towards the operator\'s post-processing
system
Ga Reference point for CDR transfer between a CDF and the CGF
Rc Online Charging Reference Point towards the ABMF
Re Online Charging Reference Point towards the RF
Ro Online Charging Reference Point towards the online charging functions
(EBCF, SBCF)
Rr Online Charging Reference Point towards an external account recharging
server
Sy Reference point for policy enforcement between OCF and the PCRF
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
APN Access Point Name
AoC Advice of Charge
CAMEL Customised Applications for Mobile network Enhanced Logic
CAP CAMEL Application Part
CCA Credit Control Answer
CCR Credit Control Request
CDF Charging Data Function
CDR Charging Data Record
CGF Charging Gateway Function
CS Circuit Switched
CSCF Call Session Control Function
EBCF Event Based Charging Function
ECUR Event Charging with Unit Reservation
EPS Evolved Packet System
E-UTRAN Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
FBC Flow Based Charging
GMLC Gateway Mobile Location Center
GPRS General Packet Radio Service
HTTP HyperText Transfer Protocol
IEC Immediate Event Charging
IMS IP Multimedia core network Subsystem
IMSI International Mobile Subscriber Identity
IP Internet Protocol
ISC IMS Service Control
ISDN Integrated Services Digital Network
LCS LoCation Services
MAP Mobile Application Part
MBMS Multimedia Broadcast and Multicast Service
MMS Multimedia Messaging Service
MMTel Multimedia Telephony
MSC Mobile Services Switching Centre
MSISDN Mobile Station ISDN number
MVNO Mobile Virtual Network Operator
OCF Online Charging Function
OCS Online Charging System
PCC Policy and Charging Control
PCEF Policy and Charging Enforcement Function
PCRF Policy and Charging Rules Function
PoC Push-to-talk over Cellular
ProSe Proximity-based Services
PRQ PriceRequest
PRS PriceResponse
PS Packet-Switched
P-GW PDN Gateway
QoS Quality of Service
RF Rating Function
SBCF Session Based Charging Function
SGSN Serving GPRS Support Node
SIP Session Initiation Protocol
SMS Short Message Service
SUQ ServiceUsageRequest
SUS ServiceUsageResponse
TDF Traffic Detection Function
TRQ TariffRequest
TRS TariffResponse
URL Uniform Resource Locator
VCS Voice Call Service
# 4 Required functionality of the OCS
The OCS shall support mechanisms for:
\- online bearer charging towards access / core network entities (e.g. SGSN,
PCEF, TDF). Online charging interfaces to be supported are Ro and CAP;
\- online charging of applications/services that are provided to subscribers
via service nodes (outside the core network) e.g. MMS and LCS. The online
charging interface to be supported is Ro;
\- IMS online charging. Online charging interface to be supported is Ro;
\- account balance management towards external account management servers e.g.
recharge server, hot billing server;
\- generation of Charging Data Records (CDRs) and their transfer to the
operator\'s post-processing system;
\- spending limit and balance monitoring and reporting based on subscription
or configuration within OCS, towards Policy and Charging Rule Function.
The OCS may optionally support mechanisms for:
\- correlation of bearer, service and IMS charging.
To support these requirements, the functions listed below are necessary in the
OCS:
> 1\. rating (before and/or after service consumption):
\- unit determination: calculation and reservation of a number of session-
related non-monetary units (service units, data volume, time and events);
\- price determination: calculation of monetary units (price) for a given
number of non-monetary units;
\- tariff determination: determination of tariff information based on the
subscribers contractual terms and service being requested (e.g. information
for AoC);
\- get/set counters applicable for rating (alternatively these counters can be
here or in the subscriber account balance management; for further details
refer to clause 5.2.2).
> 2\. subscriber account balance management:
\- check account balance;
\- account balance update (credit/debit);
\- account balance reservation;
\- get/set counters;
\- get/set expiry date of the (pre-paid) account (optional).
> 3\. charging transaction control:
\- perform charging control on request basis for bearer and events/services;
\- immediate charging and charging with reservation;
\- generation of charging information/CDR per charging transaction.
> 4\. advice of charge support (defined in TS 32.280 [40]):
\- receive tariff information from external system;
\- provide Advice of Charge (AoC) information (tariff and/or cost).
To support the correlation requirements, the functions listed below are
possible in the OCS:
> 5\. correlation function:
\- context handling of bearer, service and IMS charging events related to a
given subscriber;
\- generation of a combined multiple event and session requests to the Rating
Function.
> 6\. notification management:
\- monitor account balance and/or counters thresholds;
\- session management of notification subscriptions for a given subscriber;
\- mapping of account balance and/or counters thresholds to notification
statuses (e.g. policy counter statuses);
\- report changes in notification statuses for a given subscriber;
\- respond to queries of notification status values for a given subscriber.
# 5 Architectural concept
## 5.1 Architecture reference model for online charging
Figure 5.1.1 shows the OCS in the framework of the overall charging
architecture as defined in TS 32.240 [1]. The present document covers only the
OCS internal architecture (i.e. the blue box in figure 5.1.1).
NOTE 1: The Rc, Re, Sy and Ga reference points connect both online charging
functions (i.e. the Session Based Charging Function and the Event Based
Charging Function) with the Account Balance Management Function, the Rating
Function, Policy and Charging Rules Function and the Charging Gateway
Function.
NOTE 2: The support of ISC as charging interface towards IMS CSCF requires
additional functionality to be provided by the OCS. The support of Ro as
charging interface towards OCS requires additional functionality to be
provided by the IMS CSCF.
NOTE 3: Only network entities covered in this Release are depicted. Other
network entities may be connected to the OCS, but these are out of scope for
the current release.
Figure 5.1.1: OCS architecture
Towards the SGSN, the OCS or a separate function could provide a translation
between CAP and Ro. This is beyond the scope of the present document.
In case of Flow Based Charging (FBC), the PCEF is used for all PCC
interactions between P-GW and OCS, for details refer to TS 32.251 [11].
In case of Application Based Charging (ABC), the TDF is used for interactions
with the OCS, for details refer to TS 32.251 [11].
NOTE: According to the TS 23.203 [206], in order to avoid charging for the
same traffic in both the TDF and the PCEF, this specification supports
charging implemented in either the PCEF or the TDF for a certain IP-CAN
session, but not both for the same IP-CAN session. An operator may also apply
this solution with both PCEF and TDF performing charging for a single IP-CAN
session as long as the network is configured in such a way that the traffic
charged in the PCEF does not overlap with the traffic charged by the TDF.
The architecture details on the Ro reference point used for IMS (IMS CSCF, IMS
Application Server and IMS MRFC) specified in TS 32.260 [20].
The service specific architecture details on the Ro reference point are
specified for the MMS Relay/Server in TS 32.270 [30], for the GMLC in TS
32.271 [31], for the PoC Server in TS 32.272 [32] , for the MBMS Server in TS
32.273 [33], for the SMS Node in TS 32.274 [34] , for the IMS Application
Server in TS 32.275 [35] , for the Proxy Function in TS 32.276 [36] and for
the ProSe Function in TS 32.277 [37].
The Session Based Charging Function (SBCF) performs session based charging on
the bearer level using the CAP interface towards MSC and SGSN, and the Ro
reference point towards other network elements. The Session Based Charging
Function (SBCF also performs session based charging on the subsystem level
(i.e. IMS session charging) using the Ro reference point towards the IMS CSCF.
Whether the CSCF is directly connected to the OCS or via a gateway (IMS
Gateway Function) is beyond the scope of the present document.
The Event Based Charging Function (EBCF) performs event-based charging using
the CAP interface towards MSC and SGSN (e.g. for charging of SMS), and the Ro
reference point towards other network elements.
The Rating Function (RF) and the Account Balance Management Function (ABMF)
are described in clause 4.\ The Re reference point allows the interaction
between the online charging functions (SBCF, EBCF) and the RF.
The Rc reference point allows the interaction between the online charging
functions (SBCF, EBCF) and the ABMF to access the subscribers account balance.
The Ga reference point allows the collection and transfer of charging
information from the Charging Data Functions (CDF) to the Charging Gateway
Function (CGF). In the context of online charging, the CDFs are always
integrated into the online charging functions (SBCF, EBCF). Whether the CGF is
also integrated into the Online Charging Function (OCF), or whether it is a
separate function inside the OCS, or whether it is an external function
outside the OCS is not defined in this 3GPP release.
The Bo reference point allows the transfer of charging information from the
CGF to the operator\'s post-processing system as the OCS variant of the Bx
interface description in TS 32.297 [52].
The Rr reference point allows the interaction between the ABMF and an external
recharging server.
The policy and charging control architecture is specified in TS 23.203 [206]
and the Sy protocol details are specified in TS 29.213 [208] and TS 29.219
[207]. The Sy reference point allows the interaction between the OCS and
Policy and Charging Rules Function (PCRF) for obtaining information from the
OCS for policy decision purposes.
There may be other external systems connected to the OCS (e.g. hot billing
server). These systems are not considered in the present document.
## 5.2 Functions within the OCS
### 5.2.1 Online Charging Functions
#### 5.2.1.1 Event Based Charging Function
The EBCF performs event based charging and Credit-Control (e.g. content
charging):
> \- on the bearer level, based on bearer usage requests received from the
> network. It controls the bearer usage in the network, e.g. SMS;
>
> \- on a subsystem level, based on session resource usage requests received
> from the network (e.g. the IMS MRFC). It controls the resource availability
> in network, e.g. it has the ability to grant or deny the resource usage;
>
> \- on service level, based on application server requests received from the
> network (e.g. an IMS application server or MMS relay server). It controls
> the application service availability in the network, e.g. it has the ability
> to grant or deny the service usage in the network.
It communicates with the RF in order to determine the value of the requested
service usage. It communicates with the ABMF to query and update the
subscribers\' account and counters status (counters are not applicable if a
class \"B\" RF is used).
When a correlation process is enabled a correlation context may be consulted
or created. If multiple chargeable events exist in the correlation context a
combined request is issued for the RF.
#### 5.2.1.2 Session Based Charging Function
The SBCF performs session based charging and Credit-Control:
> \- on the bearer level, based on bearer usage requests received from the
> network. It controls the bearer usage in the network, e.g. in terms of time
> or volume granted;
>
> \- on the subsystem level, based on session resource usage requests received
> from the network (e.g. the IMS CSCF). It controls sessions in the network,
> e.g. it has the ability to grant or deny a session setup request and to
> terminate an existing session;
>
> \- on the service level, based on service usage requests received from the
> network. It controls service availability in the network, e.g. it has the
> ability to grant or deny a usage of a service.
It communicates with the RF in order to determine the value of the requested
bearer resources or the requested session. It communicates with the ABMF to
query and update the subscribers\' account and counters status (counters are
not applicable if a class \"B\" RF is used).
When a correlation process is enabled a correlation context may be consulted
or created. If multiple chargeable events exist in the correlation context a
combined request is issued for the RF.
### 5.2.2 Rating Function
The RF performs both monetary and non-monetary unit determination (rating). It
provides the following functionalities:
\- Rating for network- and external services and applications (session,
service and event) before and after service delivery and based on dynamic
credit limit update;
\- Rating considering the cross-product, cross-channel, counter-based, rental-
based and recharge-based discounts, benefits and allowances.
The RF shall be able to handle a wide variety of rateable instances, such as:
\- Rating of volume (in terms of granted units or money, e.g. based on
charging initiated by an access network entity);
\- Rating of time (in terms of granted units or money, e.g. based on charging
initiated by a SIP application);
\- Rating of events (e.g. based on charging of web content or MMS).
The RF includes the determination of the tariff or the price of a chargeable
event or of multiple chargeable events (correlation scenario); examples
include the price of a call minute, data volume, multimedia session, Web
content, etc.
Upon receipt of a rate request (price or TariffRequest) from the OCF, the RF:
\- Evaluates the request. Rate requests include various rating parameters such
as service identifier, subscriber reference, network identification, user
location, service usage time, transferred data volume, etc. Note that the rate
request may contain multiple service identifiers that reflect the list of
active services contained in the context handled by the OCF.
\- Determines the applicable price or tariff model and returns it to the OCF,
according to rate requests, subscriber contractual terms, the rating rules
configured by operators and billing related information. Note that in case of
multiple service requests received, the RF may apply a special price or tariff
which can be different to the price or tariff applied to the related services
handled separately. For example when sending an MMS, the rating of volume
associated with the bearer usage can be free of charge while the rating of the
event and/or volume associated with the service level MMS submission is
greater than zero. This correlation procedure depends on the operator
configurable rating rules. Note that in case of tax should be taken into
consideration configured by operators, the tax may be included in the
determined and returned applicable price or tariff.
To support the online rating process, the RF needs counters. The counters may
be maintained by the RF or by the ABMF. The RF that does not maintain counters
are marked as class \"A\" RF. The RF that maintains counters are marked as
class \"B\" RF.
Editor\'s Note: The handling of combined session and event requests is for
further study.
# 6 Functionalities and message flowsNumber range Chapter
## 6.1 Reference point required functionality
### 6.1.1 Re Reference Point (EBCF, SBCF - RF)
#### 6.1.1.1 Functionality for class \"A\" Rating Function
##### 6.1.1.1.0 Introduction
The following applies with respect to the Rating Interface:
\- The RF potentially covers all rating scenarios for all charging levels
(bearer, session and service) and all payment channels (pre-paid and post-
paid).
\- The RF covers the methods **PriceRequest** and **TariffRequest**.
\- The RF operates in a stateless way on a per request basis. No context or
state is stored internally.
\- The RF does not modify accounts or counters directly. Instead it passes the
corresponding information (instruction how to modify counters) as part of the
response. Details are explained in the next clause.
\- The Rating interface is an interface in a trusted environment. Session
handling, transaction control or authentication / authorization are not
required.
\- No records are written by the RF. Thus billing relevant information is part
of the response.
Resulting from these requirements following functionality of Re reference
point is proposed:
\- Basic methods:
\- PriceRequest (to calculate a price for given service usage);
\- Tariff Request (to request a tariff that is applicable).
\- Additional supported functionalities:
\- Discounts, benefits and allowances, e.g. because of specific counters;
\- Loyalty programs;
\- Taxes;
\- Detailed information for use during invoice generation.
Depending on the service or product offered and on the customer\'s contract,
the RF supports the following methods:
**\- PriceRequest** : Determination of a price for the execution of a service
or the delivery of a good. From the rating perspective this is the same method
if run before delivery (e.g. for balance check or AoC), after delivery (post-
rating for charging) or even later in a rerating process. The same method
applies for one-time or recurrent charges. The PriceRequest is used by the
EBCF.
**\- TariffRequest** : Determination of a tariff for a given service. This
method is used, e.g., for voice calls, where tariff is returned by the RF.
Based on the tariff the OCF calculates either the amount of units for a given
price or the price for a given number of units. The method can also be used
for various other services. The TariffRequest is used by the SBCF.
Input for Rating:
\- Rating Request Type: PriceRequest, Tariff Request.
\- Service-specific data: Service-ID, Time/Date of Service usage, QoS, etc.
\- Subscriber-specific static data: Subscriber-ID, Partner-ID (e.g. MVNO,
merchant), additional tariff information (e.g. \"Friends & Family\" list),
other static data.
\- Subscriber specific dynamic data: Account Balances incl. units/currency
(money, loyalty), Subscriber Counters (e.g. Service-Type (SMS/MMS/Volume/Time)
used per time-unit (day/week/month/year), other dynamic data).
Output of Rating:
\- Rating Request Type Response: Price or Service units or Tariff including
tariff switch information\ (Tariff Switch Time (absolute time/duration),
etc.);
\- Charge and Recharge Information: Value for accounts and Subscriber Counters
(e.g. charge money, recharge loyalty accounts);
\- Tax information : Tax value for price or service units for tariff
determination, if tax should be taken into account as configured by operators;
\- Detailed information to be used for invoice generation.
##### 6.1.1.1.1 Class \"A\" counter handling
As defined in clause 5.2.2, if a class \"A\" RF is used, counters reside in
the ABMF. The charging functions fetch the counters from the ABMF over the Rc
Reference Point at the beginning of an online charging session, together with
the account balance.\ The counter values are passed on to the RF in the
PriceRequest or TariffRequest method over the Re reference point. On the Re
reference point, counters have to be supported in a very generic way in order
to support the use of counters in the largest possible variety of call
scenarios. The structure of counter elements on the Re interface is defined in
clause 7.
In the Rating Request, the charging function will inform the RF about the
current value and the expiry date of all applicable counters.
In the Rating Response, the RF may instruct the charging function to modify
counters. The following kinds of counter manipulation are supported:
> \- increase or decrease one or more specified counters with a specified
> value, once for this online charging session;
>
> \- increase or decrease one or more specified counters with a specified
> value per consumed service unit;
>
> \- increase or decrease one or more specified counters with a specified
> value per charged; the specified value and the tariff may change due to a
> tariff switch;
>
> \- set one or more specified counters explicitly to a specified value; this
> instruction can be used to reset counters;\ if the specified counter does
> not exist, the charging function shall create this counter in the ABMF;
> hence, using this instruction, the RF can trigger the creation of new
> counters;
>
> \- set a counter threshold for one or more specified counters; when a
> threshold is reached, the tariff information from the Rating Response
> message expires, and the OCF shall send a new Rating Request message towards
> the RF;
>
> \- set the expiry date of one or more specified counters.
Additionally, the RF may give the following information to the OCF:
> \- a list of counters, which are applicable to the present online charging
> session; the OCF shall include only these counters in subsequent rating
> requests within this session; the list of applicable counters can be
> modified by the RF in each Rating Response; the purpose of this information
> is to reduce load on the Re-interface.
Note that from a principal point of view, in class \"A\" the account balance
can be considered as a special kind of counter: it resides in the ABMF, it has
a current value and an expiry date, and it is modified during an online
charging session by the OCF according to resource usage and according to
information received from the RF.
#### 6.1.1.2 Functionality for class \"B\" Rating Function
If class \"B\" RF is chosen, i.e. counters are maintained in the RF, then the
Re reference point is modified with respect to the previous clause in the
following way:
\- the RF has to become statefull;
\- the RF has to modify counters directly;
\- the RF has to handle sessions / has to support transaction control;
\- the PriceRequest and TariffRequest have to support reservations;
Depending on the service or product offered and on the customer\'s contract,
the RF supports the following methods:
**\- TariffRequest** : Determination of a tariff and price for a given session
oriented service. This method is used, e.g. for voice calls, where tariff is
returned by the RF. At the beginning or during the session, the RF receives
requested service units and returns the tariff information. The OCF can grant
the requested units or recalculate the granted units based on the returned
tariff and the account balance. At the end of the session, the RF returns the
conclusive price of the consumed service. The method can also be used for
various other services. The TariffRequest is used by the SBCF.
**\- PriceRequest** : Determination of a price for a given event or service.
The same method applies for one-time or recurrent charges. The PriceRequest is
used by the EBCF.
Scenarios involving granted units may be covered via a TariffRequest or by the
Class \"B\" RF directly. The handling of the first case is part of the OCF.
For the latter case the Re interface offers a special request type:
**\- ServiceUsageRequest** : This type of request, also called backward
rating, determines the amount of units of a given service given the price. The
ServiceUsageRequest is useful (but not limited) in the case where the
subscriber\'s price plan is formed in usage per monetary units amount (e.g. 45
seconds per 100 Yen). Since the basic requirements are covered by the former
requests, this request is optional.
### 6.1.2 Rc reference point (EBCF, SBCF - ABMF)
Details of functionality across the Rc reference point and interface
Implementation options are provided in annex B.
## 6.2 Re message flows
### 6.2.0 Introduction
This clause describes message flows for the Re reference point by explaining
example online charging sessions (i.e. Credit-Control sessions on the Ro
interface or CAP dialogues).
On the interface towards the serving network nodes (i.e. Ro, CAP) the generic
message names \"online charging request\" and \"online charging response\" are
used. These generic names should be mapped to real messages depending on the
type of interface as indicated in the following table.
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | generic name | Ro Interface | CAP Interface | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | online charging | Cr | _first message, | | request | edit-Control-Request | initiating the | | | (CCR) | charging dialogue:_ | | | | | | | | - Initial DP, | | | | | | | | - Initial DP GPRS, | | | | | | | | _\- Initial DP SMS_ | | | | | | | | _subsequent | | | | messages:_ | | | | | | | | - Apply Charging | | | | Report, _Event | | | | Report BCSM,_ | | | | | | | | - Apply Charging | | | | Report GPRS, Event | | | | Report GPRS, | | | | | | | | _\- Event Report SMS_ | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | online charging | C | - Apply Charging, | | response | redit-Control-Answer | Request Report BCSM | | | (CCA) | Event (+ Connect / | | | | Continue), | | | | | | | | - Apply Charging | | | | GPRS, Request Report | | | | GPRS Event (+ | | | | Connect GPRS / | | | | Continue GPRS), | | | | | | | | - Request Report | | | | SMS Event, Connect | | | | SMS, Continue SMS | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
For details on the CAP messages and message flows, refer to TS 23.078 [202].
It should be noted that several service requests can be included in one
message using Services-Rating AVP.\ The basic functionality of the single or
multiple requests are the same so only single request scenario is described in
message flows.
In addition to the differences between a class \"A\" and a class \"B\" RF as
described in the previous clause, the Re message flows of both classes differ
from a principal point of view as follows:
> \- In class \"A\", a TariffRequest is sent by the OCF only when an online
> charging request is received from the network, _and_ no valid tariff is
> known (i.e. at the beginning of an online charging session or after tariff
> expiry). Therefore, distinction between different scenarios in the following
> description is necessary.
>
> \- In class \"B\", a TariffRequest is sent by the OCF after every online
> charging request received from the network. Therefore, no distinction
> between different TariffRequest scenarios is necessary.
### 6.2.1 Class \"A\" RF message flows
#### 6.2.1.1 PriceRequest method
6.2.1.1.0 Introduction
The PriceRequest method is used only for event based charging, i.e. only the
EBCF uses this method.
According to TS 32.299 [50], two different scenarios need to be distinguished,
the Immediate Event Charging (IEC) and the event charging with unit
reservation (ECUR).
Both scenarios in this clause describe the case where the EBCF invokes the
PriceRequest method for charging or Advice of Charge.
##### 6.2.1.1.1 PriceRequest scenario with IEC
Figure 6.2.1.1.1.1 describes the case where the EBCF invokes the PriceRequest
method in an IEC scenario.
Figure 6.2.1.1.1.1: PriceRequest method with IEC
\- Step 1: The EBCF receives an online charging request for a certain
event/service.
\- Step 2: The EBCF requests account and counter information for the
subscriber from the ABMF.
\- Step 2\' (Optional):In case there is no existing subscriber\'s context, the
EBCF creates a new subscriber\'s context information. Otherwise, the EBCF
updates the existing subscriber\'s context and gets the list of active
services for the given subscriber (see note below). This Step only applies
when correlation is enabled.
\- Step 3: Upon receipt of this data, the EBCF sends a PriceRequest to the RF
in order to determine the price of the desired service. Note that this
scenario assumes that the EBCF has not received any service cost information
in the online charging request. Note that the PriceRequest may contain several
service requests depending on the number of ongoing services.
\- Step 4: The RF calculates the price and counter updates for the given
service according to the service and subscriber specific information included
in the request.
\- Step 5: The calculated price and counter updates are returned to the EBCF.
\- Step 6: The EBCF continues event charging and performs account and counter
control (i.e. it checks and adjusts the account and counter values).
\- Step 7: The EBCF sends the appropriate online charging response.
If the PriceRequest method with IEC is used, the service delivery may occur
before or after the online charging dialogue.
In addition to the price, the PriceResponse may also include \"Basic Price\".
This may be used e.g. to realize a basic fee, that is applicable once per
day/week/month, if a certain service is used. Note that the Basic Price may be
service specific. The EBCF has to include the timestamp of the last charging
of the Basic Price in the PriceRequest, if the Basic Price is applicable. This
handling applies also for the PriceRequest scenario with Unit Reservation as
described in the following clause.
NOTE: If a context already exists when the EBCF interrogates the context, then
the EBCF may optionally get the price for the desired service.
##### 6.2.1.1.2 PriceRequest scenario with ECUR
Figure 6.2.1.1.2.1 describes the case where the EBCF invokes the PriceRequest
method in an ECUR scenario.
Figure 6.2.1.1.2.1: PriceRequest method with ECUR
\- Step 1: The EBCF receives an online charging request for a certain
event/service.
\- Step 2: The EBCF requests account and counter information for the
subscriber from the ABMF.
\- Step 2\' (Optional):In case there is no existing subscriber\'s context, the
EBCF creates a new subscriber\'s context information. Otherwise, the EBCF
updates the existing subscriber\'s context and gets the list of active
services for the given subscriber. This Step only applies when correlation is
enabled.
\- Step 3: Upon receipt of this data, the EBCF sends a PriceRequest to the RF
in order to determine the price of the desired service. Note that this
scenario assumes that the EBCF has not received any service cost information
in the online charging request.
\- Step 4: The RF calculates the price and counter updates for the given
service according to the service and subscriber specific information included
in the request.
\- Step 5: The calculated price and counter updates are returned to the EBCF.
\- Step 6: The EBCF continues event charging and performs account and counter
control (i.e. it makes reservations for the requested service).
\- Step 7: The EBCF sends the appropriate online charging response (i.e. it
grants or denies service delivery).
\- Step 8: After service delivery, the serving network node sends an
indication of successful (or unsuccessful) service delivery to the EBCF.
\- Step 9: The EBCF performs account and counter control (i.e. it adjusts the
account and counter values accordingly).
\- Step 10: Finally, the EBCF sends an acknowledgment message to the serving
network node in order to terminate the online charging dialogue.
If the second online charging request (step 8) contains updated information
about the consumed service, a second Price Retrieval Operation may occur
between step 8 and step 9, i.e. the EBCF may send a second PriceRequest
containing the updated information to the RF. The RF will send an appropriate
PriceResponse, and the information contained in this second PriceResponse may
be used by the EBCF for account and counter control (step 9).
If the second online charging request (step 8) contains information about the
release of the ongoing service, the EBCF updates the existing subscriber\'s
context to remove the entry related to this service and to get the list of
remaining active services. A second Price Retrieval Operation may occur
between step 8 and step 9, i.e. the EBCF may send a second PriceRequest
containing the updated information to the RF. The RF will send an appropriate
PriceResponse containing the updated price for the remaining ongoing services
and the information contained in this second PriceResponse may be used by the
EBCF for account and counter control (step 9).
#### 6.2.1.2 TariffRequest method
##### 6.2.1.2.0 Introduction
The TariffRequest method is used for bearer charging and IMS session charging,
i.e. only the SBCF uses this method.
All scenarios in this clause describe the case where the SBCF invokes the
TariffRequest method for charging or Advice of Charge. All scenarios are valid
independent of the type of applicable \"units\" (i.e. for both, time or
volume).
In the context of bearer charging or session charging, only the event charging
with unit reservation (ECUR) (TS 32.299 [50]) is relevant. Therefore, only
ECUR is considered in this clause.
##### 6.2.1.2.1 Basic TariffRequest scenario
Figure 6.2.1.2.1.1 shows a basic message flow for the TariffRequest method.
Figure 6.2.1.2.1.1: Basic TariffRequest method
\- Step 1: The SBCF receives an online charging request referring to an MS\'s
bearer/session resource usage.
\- Step 2: The SBCF requests account and counter information for the
subscriber from the ABMF.
\- Step 2\' (Optional):In case there is no existing subscriber\'s context, the
SBCF creates a new subscriber\'s context information. Otherwise, the SBCF
updates the existing subscriber\'s context and gets the list of active
services for the given subscriber. This Step only applies when correlation is
enabled.
\- Step 3: Upon receipt of this data, the SBCF requests tariff information
applicable for this bearer/session.
\- Step 4: The RF retrieves the appropriate tariff to be applied for the
bearer/session.
\- Step 5: The RF returns the tariff information to the SBCF.
\- Step 6: Based on the received tariff information, the SBCF determines the
granted units and the price.
\- Step 7: The SBCF continues bearer/session charging and performs account and
counters control (i.e. it makes reservations).
\- Step 8: Assuming successful account control, the SBCF returns the granted
units to the requesting network element. Service usage can start immediately
or later.
\- Step 9: When the granted units have been used, a new request is send from
the serving network element to the SBCF.
\- Step 10: This time the SBCF can directly determine the granted units and
the price.
\- Step 11: The SBCF performs account and counter control (i.e. it makes
reservations).
\- Step 12: Again, assuming successful account control, a positive
acknowledgment (including granted units) is returned to the network entity.
\- Step 13: The MS terminates bearer/session usage. The used units are sent to
the SBCF.
\- Step 14: The SBCF performs final rating for the consumed bearer/session
resources.
\- Step 15: The SBCF adjusts the account and counters accordingly.
\- Step 16: Finally, the SBCF sends an acknowledgment message to the serving
network node in order to terminate the online charging dialogue.
In this basic scenario only one request to the RF is needed during the whole
online charging session.
The message flow in the previous figure is an example of an online charging
session to illustrate the usage of the basic Tariff Request method on the Re
interface. The sequence of steps 9-12 is optional or can be repeated multiple
times.
If the SBCF detects that the account balance is not sufficient for a minimum
number of granted units (in step 6 in the example), there is no reservation
(step 7 is skipped), and the SBCF will deny the online charging request (in
step 8), i.e. the service usage request is rejected by the mobile network. The
same handling applies if the account reservation fails (in step 7, 11). Note
that this can only occur, if the account is modified independently of the
current online charging session, e.g. due to several parallel online charging
sessions. This handling of insufficient account balances applies for all class
\"A\" TariffRequest scenarios, i.e. also for the following clauses.
This basic scenario assumes, that the tariff information is valid for the
whole online charging session (i.e. the tariff is not affected by the amount
of resources used, the time of day, etc.).
In addition to the tariff information, the TariffResponse may also include
\"Basic Price\", that is deducted directly from the subscriber\'s account
balance. This may be used e.g. to realize a basic fee, that is applicable once
per day/week/month, if a certain service is used. Note that the Basic Price
may be service specific. The SBCF has to include the timestamp of the last
charging of the Basic Price in the TariffRequest, if the Basic Price is
applicable. This handling applies for all class \"A\" TariffRequest scenarios,
i.e. also for the following clauses.
##### 6.2.1.2.2 TariffRequest scenario with multiple Tariff switches and
expiry time
Figure 6.2.1.2.2.1shows a message flow for the TariffRequest method with
multiple tariff switches, i.e. the tariff will change at specified times,
multiple times during the online charging session.
To allow for correct charging of this kind of scenarios, the RF needs to make
sure that all tariff information contained in a TariffResponse message expires
between the next two tariff switches, i.e. between the tariff switch time that
is defined within this TariffResponse message and the next subsequent tariff
switch time.\ For this purpose, a parameter ExpiryTime is used. The ExpiryTime
defines, how long the tariff information contained in the TariffResponse
message is valid after the timestamp of the TariffRequest that triggered this
response. For the handling of multiple tariff switches, it is recommended to
set the ExpiryTime to the difference between the next two tariff switch times.
It should be noted that the ExpiryTime may also be used when _no_ tariff
switch is foreseen, to ensure a subsequent tariff retrieval operation after a
specified time period has passed.
Figure 6.2.1.2.2.1: Tariff Request method with multiple Tariff switches
\- Step 1: The SBCF receives an online charging request referring to an MS\'s
bearer usage/session resource usage.
\- Step 2: The SBCF requests account and counter information for the
subscriber from the ABMF.
\- Step 2\' (Optional):In case there is no existing subscriber\'s context, the
SBCF creates a new subscriber\'s context information. Otherwise, the SBCF
updates the existing subscriber\'s context and gets the list of active
services for the given subscriber. This Step only applies when correlation is
enabled.
\- Step 3: Upon receipt of this data, the SBCF requests tariff information
applicable for this bearer/session.
\- Step 4: The RF retrieves the appropriate tariff to be applied for the
bearer/session.
\- Step 5: The RF returns the tariff information to the SBCF, including
indication of an upcoming tariff switch and the appropriate expiry time.
\- Step 6: Based on the received tariff information, the SBCF determines the
granted units and the price.
\- Step 7: The SBCF continues bearer/session charging and performs account and
counter control (i.e. it makes reservations).
\- Step 8: It returns the granted units, an indication of the upcoming tariff
switch, and the expiry time to the requesting network element. Service usage
can start immediately or later.\ _If supported by the online charging response
message, the SBCF may return two quota of granted units, one valid before the
tariff switch, the other valid after the tariff switch._
\- Step 9: The (first) tariff switch occurs in the network.
\- Step 10: When the granted units have been used, a new request is send from
the serving network element to the SBCF. The units used before and after the
tariff switch are sent to the SBCF as separate values in this request.
\- Step 11: Since the tariff information from the last TariffResponse (step 5)
has not expired, the SBCF can directly determine the next granted units and
the price.
\- Step 12: The SBCF continues bearer/session charging and performs account
and counter control (i.e. it makes reservations).
\- Step 13: Again, assuming successful account control, a positive
acknowledgment (including granted units and an indication of the expiry time)
is returned to the requesting network element.
\- Step 14: When the tariff expires (i.e. the expiry time is reached), a new
request is send from the serving network element to the SBCF immediately. This
request includes the number of units consumed so far.
\- Step 15: The SBCF performs (final) rating for the bearer/session resources
consumed so far.
\- Step 16: The SBCF adjusts the account and counters accordingly.
\- Step 17: The SBCF again requests tariff information applicable for the
bearer/session.
\- Step 18: The RF retrieves the appropriate tariff to be applied for the
bearer/session.
\- Step 19: The RF returns the tariff information to the SBCF, including
indication of the next upcoming tariff switch and the appropriate expiry time.
\- Step 20: Based on the received tariff information, the SBCF determines the
granted units and the price.
\- Step 21: The SBCF continues bearer/session charging and performs account
and counter control (i.e. it makes reservations).
\- Step 22: It returns the granted units, an indication of the next upcoming
tariff switch, and the expiry time to the requesting network element.
\- Step 23: The (second) tariff switch occurs in the network.
\- Step 24: The MS terminates bearer/session usage. The units used before and
after the (second) tariff switch are sent to the SBCF as separate values.
\- Step 25: The SBCF performs final rating for the consumed bearer/session
resources.
\- Step 26: The SBCF adjusts the account and counters accordingly.
\- Step 27: Finally, the SBCF sends an acknowledgment message to the serving
network node in order to terminate the online charging dialogue.
In this scenario one request to the RF is needed for every tariff switch. No
messages are sent at the time when a tariff switch occurs. The SBCF is
informed about the units used before and after the tariff switch in the
_first_ online charging request, that is sent after the tariff switch has
occurred (steps 10 and 24 in the example scenario). The handling when the
tariff expires due to the parameter ExpiryTime is similar to the closing of
one online charging session and the immediate starting of a new online
charging session.
The message flow in the previous figure is an example of an online charging
session to illustrate the usage of the Tariff Request method on the Re
interface if handling of multiple tariff switches is required. Variations of
this message flow will occur, depending on the exact times when the tariff
switches occur, on the number of tariff switches during the online charging
session, etc. Of course, it is also possible that the granted units are used
in the network or that the session ends without the occurrence of a tariff
switch.
If only _one_ tariff switch is foreseen, the ExpiryTime parameter is not
needed. In this case, the message flow is identical to the basic scenario as
described in clause 6.2.1.2.1. A single tariff switch does not lead to any
additional messages, nor does it require any additional handling in the SBCF.
##### 6.2.1.2.3 TariffRequest scenario with limited validity
Figure 6.2.1.2.3.1 shows a message flow for the TariffRequest method with
limited validity, i.e. the tariff is only valid for a limited number of used
service units (e.g. seconds, kBytes) or until a counter threshold is reached.
This scenario applies e.g. for regressive tariffs or for the usage of free /
discounted service units.
Figure 6.2.1.2.3.1: TariffRequest method with valid units
\- Step 1: The SBCF receives an online charging request referring to an MS\'s
bearer usage/session resource usage.
\- Step 2: The SBCF requests account and counter information for the
subscriber from the ABMF.
\- Step 2\' (Optional):In case there is no existing subscriber\'s context, the
SBCF creates a new subscriber\'s context information. Otherwise, the SBCF
updates the existing subscriber\'s context and gets the list of active
services for the given subscriber. This Step only applies when correlation is
enabled.
\- Step 3: Upon receipt of this data, the SBCF requests tariff information
applicable for this bearer/session.
\- Step 4: The RF retrieves the appropriate tariff to be applied for the
bearer/session.
\- Step 5: The RF returns the tariff information to the SBCF, including
indication of the number of units for which this tariff is valid.
\- Step 6: Based on the received tariff information, the SBCF determines the
granted units and the price.
\- Step 7: The SBCF continues bearer/session charging and performs account and
counter control (i.e. it makes reservations).
\- Step 8: It returns the granted units to the requesting network element.
Service usage can start immediately or later. Note that the number of granted
units is in general different from the number of \"valid units\" received from
the RF (i.e. the number of granted units can be smaller than the number of
valid units).
\- Step 9: When the granted units have been used, a new request is send from
the serving network element to the SBCF.
\- Step 10: The SBCF checks, whether all valid units have been used. If there
are valid units left, the scenario continues with step 6 again.
\- Step 11: If all valid units have been used, the SBCF performs (final)
rating for the bearer/session resources consumed so far.
\- Step 12: The SBCF adjusts the account and counters accordingly.
\- Step 13: The SBCF again requests tariff information applicable for the
bearer/session.
\- Step 14: The RF retrieves the appropriate tariff to be applied for the
bearer/session.
\- Step 15: The RF returns the tariff information to the SBCF, including
indication of the number of units for which this tariff is valid.
\- Step 16: Based on the received tariff information, the SBCF determines the
granted units and the price.
\- Step 17: The SBCF continues bearer/session charging and performs account
and counter control (i.e. it makes reservations).
\- Step 18: It returns the granted units to the requesting network element.
\- Step 19: The MS terminates bearer/session usage. The used units are sent to
the SBCF.
\- Step 20: The SBCF performs final rating for the consumed bearer/session
resources.
\- Step 21: The SBCF adjusts the account and counters accordingly.
\- Step 22: Finally, the SBCF sends an acknowledgment message to the serving
network node in order to terminate the online charging dialogue.
In this scenario two requests to the RF are needed during the online charging
session. In general, one additional request is needed, whenever a tariff
expires (i.e. whenever the number of valid units has been consumed or whenever
a counter threshold is reached). The handling when the number of valid units
has been consumed is similar to the closing of one online charging session and
the immediate starting of a new online charging session.
The message flow in the previous figure is an example of an online charging
session to illustrate the usage of the Tariff Request method on the Re
interface, if the tariff is valid only for a limited number of service units.\
The sequence of steps 6-10 can be repeated multiple times (as already
indicated in step 6), and also the sequence of steps 6-15 can be repeated
multiple times (i.e. including the complete consumption of valid units and a
new request towards the RF).
An optional optimization of the message flow with respect to service
availability is as follows: If the charging function is informed about the
tariff that is valid _after_ all valid units have been used, the SBCF can send
an online charging response and grant the usage of a limited amount of units
based on the new tariff _immediately_ after all valid units have been used
(i.e. after step 10); in parallel, the SBCF requests new tariff information
from the RF as described above (steps 11 \- 15); when the granted units have
been used, the mobile network will send an online charging request to the
SBCF, and processing continues in step 16 as described above.
A TariffRequest scenario with limited validity, where the tariff is only valid
for a limited number of used service units, may also be combined with a tariff
switch scenario (see clause 6.2.1.2.2). Operators should take care, that
proper interworking is ensured. In general it is recommended, that the first
condition that leads to tariff expiry (i.e. expiry time or consumption of all
valid units) shall lead to an account and counters update and trigger a new
TariffRequest towards the RatingFunction if interworking between these
scenarios needs to be ensured.
##### 6.2.1.2.4 TariffRequest scenario with unsolicited changes of session
parameters
Figure 6.2.1.2.4.1 shows a message flow for the TariffRequest method in a
scenario, where the tariff depends on the Quality of Service (QoS). In this
case, a new tariff applies whenever the QualityOfService in the network
changes. The QoS change is an example of an unsolicited change of charging
relevant session parameters in the network.
Figure 6.2.1.2.4.1: Tariff request method with charging based on QoS
\- Step 1: The SBCF receives an online charging request referring to an MS\'s
bearer usage/session resource usage.
\- Step 2: The SBCF requests account and counter information for the
subscriber from the ABMF.
\- Step 2\' (Optional):In case there is no existing subscriber\'s context, the
SBCF creates a new subscriber\'s context information. Otherwise, the SBCF
updates the existing subscriber\'s context and gets the list of active
services for the given subscriber. This Step only applies when correlation is
enabled.
\- Step 3: Upon receipt of this data, the SBCF requests tariff information
applicable for this bearer/session.
\- Step 4: The RF retrieves the appropriate tariff to be applied for the
bearer/session.
\- Step 5: The RF returns the tariff information to the SBCF.
\- Step 6: Based on the received tariff information, the SBCF determines the
granted units and the price.
\- Step 7: The SBCF continues bearer/session charging and performs account and
counter control (i.e. it makes reservations).
\- Step 8: It returns the granted units to the requesting network element.
Service usage can start immediately or later.
\- Step 9: When a QoS change occurs in the network, a new request is send from
the serving network element to the SBCF immediately. This request includes the
number of units consumed so far.
\- Step 10: The SBCF performs (final) rating for the bearer/session resources
consumed so far.
\- Step 11: The SBCF adjusts the account and counters accordingly.
\- Step 12: The SBCF again requests tariff information applicable for the
bearer/session. Note that the new (changed) QoS is included in this request.
\- Step 13: The RF retrieves the appropriate tariff to be applied for the
bearer/session.
\- Step 14: The RF returns the tariff information to the SBCF.
\- Step 15: Based on the received tariff information, the SBCF determines the
granted units and the price.
\- Step 16: The SBCF continues bearer/session charging and performs account
and counter control (i.e. it makes reservations).
\- Step 17: It returns the granted units to the requesting network element.
\- Step 18: The MS terminates bearer/session usage. The used units are sent to
the SBCF.
\- Step 19: The SBCF performs final rating for the consumed bearer/session
resources.
\- Step 20: The SBCF adjusts the account and counters accordingly.
\- Step 21: Finally, the SBCF sends an acknowledgment message to the serving
network node in order to terminate the online charging dialogue.
In this scenario two requests to the RF are needed during the online charging
session. In general, one additional request is needed, whenever the
QualityOfService changes in the network. A change in the QualityOfService is
handled similar to the closing of one online charging session and the
immediate starting of a new online charging session.
The message flow in the previous figure is an example of an online charging
session to illustrate the usage of the Tariff Request method on the Re
interface, if the tariff expires due to an unsolicited change of charging
relevant session parameters in the mobile network. Besides a QualityOfService
change, other events in the network that could cause a tariff expiry include
e.g. a location change, an SGSN change, etc. Also, e.g. the sequence of steps
6-9 can be repeated multiple times (if no QoS change occurs and the granted
units have been used in step 9), and also the sequence of steps 6-14 can be
repeated multiple times (if multiple QoS changes occur).
### 6.2.2 Class \"B\" RF message flows
#### 6.2.2.1 PriceRequest method
##### 6.2.2.1.0 General
The PriceRequest method is used only for event based charging, i.e. only the
EBCF uses this method.
According to TS 32.299 [50], two different scenarios need to be distinguished,
the IEC and the ECUR.
##### 6.2.2.1.1 PriceRequest scenario with IEC
Figure 6.2.2.1.1.1 describes the case where the EBCF invokes the PriceRequest
method in an IEC scenario.
Figure 6.2.2.1.1.1: PriceRequest method with Immediate Charging
\- Step 1: The EBCF receives an online charging request for a certain
event/service.
\- Step 1\' (Optional):In case there is no existing subscriber\'s context, the
EBCF creates a new subscriber\'s context information. Otherwise, the EBCF
updates the existing subscriber\'s context and get the list of active services
for the given subscriber. This Step only applies when correlation is enabled.
\- Step 2: The EBCF sends a PriceRequest with a reserve instruction to the RF
to determine the price of the desired service. Please note that this scenario
assumes that the EBCF has not received any service cost information in the
online charging request.
\- Step 3: The RF calculates the price and reserves the counters related to
the given service according to the service and subscriber specific information
included in the request.
\- Step 4: The calculated price is returned to the EBCF.
\- Step 5: The EBCF continues event charging and performs account control
(i.e. it checks and adjusts the account balance).
\- Step 6: Assuming a successful account control, the EBCF sends a
PriceRequest with a debit instruction to the RF. Otherwise, the EBCF sends a
PriceRequest with a release instruction.
\- Step 7: The RF updates or releases counters as appropriate.
\- Step 8: The RF acknowledges the operation to the EBCF.
\- Step 9: The EBCF sends the appropriate online charging response (i.e.
service granted or denied, based on the account control result and Price
Retrieval with debit/release).
Note that from the network perspective there is immediate charging as
described in TS 32.299 [50], i.e. there is no reservation on the account
balance. Nevertheless, internal reservations in the OCS on the counters may be
involved as shown here.
##### 6.2.2.1.2 PriceRequest scenario with Unit Reservation
Figure 6.2.2.1.2.1 describes the case where the EBCF invokes the PriceRequest
method to make reservation but debits after service delivery. Two
PriceRequests are always issued (Reserve & Debit).
The service parameters may be changed in the second request.
Figure 6.2.2.1.2.1: PriceRequest method with Unit Reservation
\- Step 1: The EBCF receives an online charging request for a certain
event/service.
\- Step 1\' (Optional):In case there is no existing subscriber\'s context, the
EBCF creates a new subscriber\'s context information. Otherwise, the EBCF
updates the existing subscriber\'s context and get the list of active services
for the given subscriber. This Step only applies when correlation is enabled.
\- Step 2: The EBCF sends a PriceRequest with a reserve instruction to the RF
in order to determine the price of the desired service. Please note that this
scenario assumes that the EBCF has not received any service cost information
in the online charging request.
\- Step 3: The RF calculates the price and reserves the counters related to
the given service according to the service and subscriber specific information
included in the request and
\- Step 4: the calculated price is returned to the EBCF.
\- Step 5: The EBCF reserves the calculated price from the subscriber\'s
account.
\- Step 6: Upon successful reservation it grants the service usage or rejects
the service if there is insufficient balance or if the reservation fails.
\- Step 7: After service delivery, the serving network node sends an
indication of successful (or unsuccessful) service delivery to the EBCF. (This
step is omitted if the service was rejected in the previous step.)
\- Step 8: Assuming a successful service delivery, the EBCF sends a
PriceRequest with a debit instruction to the RF. Please note that the request
may contain updated information about the consumed service. If the service was
rejected in step 6 or was not successfully delivered, the EBCF sends a
PriceRequest with a release instruction instead.
\- Step 9: The RF re-calculates the price if needed and updates or releases
the counters as necessary.
\- Step 10: The final calculated price is returned to the EBCF if the service
was delivered successfully. Otherwise a release acknowledgment is sent.
\- Step 11: The EBCF performs account control, if applicable.
\- Step 12: Finally, the EBCF sends an acknowledgment message to the serving
network node in order to terminate the online charging dialogue, if the
service was delivered successfully.
#### 6.2.2.2 TariffRequest method
#### 6.2.2.2.0 Introduction
The TariffRequest method is used for bearer charging and IMS session charging,
i.e. only the SBCF uses this method.
All scenarios in this clause describe the case where the SBCF invokes the
TariffRequest method for charging or Advice of Charge. All scenarios are valid
independent of the type of applicable \"units\" (i.e. for both, time or
volume).
In the context of bearer charging or session charging, only the Session
charging with unit reservation (SCUR) (TS 32.299 [50]) is relevant. Therefore,
only SCUR is considered in this clause.
##### 6.2.2.2.1 TariffRequest scenario with successful service delivery
Figure 6.2.2.2.1.1 describes the message flow for the TariffRequest method.
The scenario describes the case where the SBCF invokes the TariffRequest
method for charging several times during the same session, with successful
reservation and service delivery.
Figure 6.2.2.2.1.1: Tariff request scenario with successful service delivery
\- Step 1: The SBCF receives an online charging request referring to an MS\'s
bearer/session usage.
\- Step 1\' (Optional):In case there is no existing subscriber\'s context, the
SBCF creates a new subscriber\'s context information. Otherwise, the SBCF
updates the existing subscriber\'s context and get the list of active services
for the given subscriber. This Step only applies when correlation is enabled.
\- Step 2: The SBCF requests tariff information applicable for this
bearer/session. The initial amount of requested units is predetermined
according to the operator policy. Note that the requested units are required
for counters reservation in the RF.
\- Step 3: The RF retrieves the appropriate tariff to be applied for the
bearer/session and reserves counter values if needed.
\- Step 4: The RF returns the tariff information to the SBCF.
\- Step 5: Based on the received tariff, the SBCF calculates the price. The
SBCF performs account balance reservation.
\- Step 6: If the reservation fails due to insufficient account balance, the
SBCF recalculates the granted units and price based on the received tariff
information and the available account balance. Note that the granted units are
limited by the amount of requested units and the amount of valid units. The
SBCF performs an adjusted account balance reservation.
\- Step 7: Assuming a successful account balance reservation, the SBCF returns
the granted units to the requesting network element. Otherwise, the service is
being denied (see clause 6.2.2.2.2 for details).
\- Step 8: When the granted units have been used or the tariff has expired, a
new request is send from the network element to the SBCF.
\- Step 9: The SBCF requests another quota of requested units for the service.
The amount of requested units can be optimized, based on the tariff
information and account balance.
\- Step 9-Number range StepNumber range StepNumber range Step14: Repeat steps
2-7.
\- Step 15: The session ends and a final charging request is issued with
updated session details (e.g. exact session length).
\- Step 16: The SBCF sends a final rating request with a debit instruction.
\- Step 17: The RF performs final rating for the consumed resources and
adjusts the counters accordingly.
\- Step 18: The RF returns the final price to the SBCF.
\- Step 19: Based on the received price, the SBCF performs final account
control.
\- Step 20: Finally, the SBCF sends an acknowledgment message to the serving
network node in order to terminate the online charging dialogue.
In this scenario a TariffRequest message is send whenever an online charging
request is received from the mobile network. The first TariffRequest message
at the beginning of the session is marked \"with reservation\". The last
TariffRequest at the end of the session is marked \"with debit\". Any number
(0 or more) of TariffRequests (marked \"with reservation\") can appear during
the session. During the session steps 9-14 can be repeated multiple times.
Between any repetitions of those sequences, the charging session parameters
that are relevant for rating may change. The change can be solicited (e.g.
tariff switch) or unsolicited (e.g. QoS change). The network element issues
another charging request in those cases i.e. on expiry time if tariff switch
occurred, when granted units are consumed or QoS is changed.
To allow for correct charging of this kind of scenarios, the RF needs to make
sure that all tariff information contained in a TariffResponse message expires
between the next two tariff switches, i.e. between the tariff switch time that
is defined within this TariffResponse message and the next subsequent tariff
switch time. For this purpose, a parameter ExpiryTime is used. The ExpiryTime
defines, how long the tariff information contained in the TariffResponse
message is valid after the timestamp of the TariffRequest that triggered this
response. For the handling of multiple tariff switches, it is recommended to
set the ExpiryTime to the difference between the next two tariff switch times.
It should be noted that the ExpiryTime may also be used when _no_ tariff
switch is foreseen, to ensure a subsequent tariff retrieval operation after a
specified time period has passed.
The TariffRequest message contains session, subscriber and service
information, the number of the requested units (quota) from the service and
information about the previously consumed service quota, as applicable.
In the first TariffRequest message, the number of the requested units is
predetermined in the SBCF (e.g. according to the service; 15 Minutes for a
data service as an example). The RF retrieves the appropriate tariff, makes
counters reservations and returns the tariff.
In subsequent TariffRequest messages, the OCF can take into account the
account balance and the applied tariff and try to optimize the number of the
requested units in order to minimize the number of tariff retrievals. The OCF
sends information on both, the passed quota and the new quota. Specifically,
when a tariff switch occurred, the OCF shall pass the consumed units before
and after the tariff switch in the following TariffRequest message. The RF,
adjusts the reserved counters if needed as a result from the updated
information. The RF makes new counters reservations for the next quota and
returns the tariff for the next quota.
In the response to the TariffRequest message with reservation indication the
RF returns the applicable tariff. The OCF is responsible to calculate the
price and to keep the account balance reservation accordingly.
If the calculated price is higher than the account balance, the OCF shall re-
calculate the price and the number of the granted service units based on the
received tariff information and the account balance. The RF will adjust the
counter reservation based on the actual number of service units consumed in a
subsequent Tariff Request message.
In response to a TariffRequest message with debit indication, the
TariffResponse message contains the final service price.
##### 6.2.2.2.2 TariffRequest scenario with service denial or unsuccessful
delivery
Figure 6.2.2.2.2.1 describes the message flow for the TariffRequest method.
The scenario describes the case where the SBCF invokes the TariffRequest
method and the service delivery is denied (e.g. due to insufficient account
balance) or where the service is not delivered (e.g. party didn\'t answer).
Figure : 6.2.2.2.2.1 Tariff request scenario with service denial or
unsuccessful delivery
\- Step 1-Number range StepNumber range StepNumber range StepNumber range
Step6: Repeat the same scenario in figure in clause 6.2.2.2.1.
\- Step 7: Assuming a successful account balance reservation, the SBCF returns
the granted units to the requesting network element. Otherwise, the service is
being denied.
\- Step 8: The service is not delivered (e.g. the called party doesn\'t
answer) and the network element informs the SBCF about the unsuccessful
delivery. (If the service was denied on step 7, this step is omitted.)
\- Step 9: The SBCF sends a Tariff Request with a release instruction.
\- Step 10: The RF releases the counters accordingly.
\- Step 11: The RF acknowledges the operation to the SBCF.
\- Step 12: The SBCF performs final account control (i.e. releases account
balance reservations). If the reservation failed already in step 6, this step
is omitted.
\- Step 13: Finally, the SBCF sends an acknowledgment message to the serving
network node in order to terminate the online charging dialogue.
In this scenario the service was not delivered in one of the following cases:
**\- Service denied** \-- e.g. in the case of insufficient account balance.
**\- Service delivery unsuccessful** \-- e.g. network failure or destination
party does not answer.
Reservations made to the account balance and to counters are fully released.
The OCF is using a TariffRequest message with a release request subtype to
explicitly denote that the service was not delivered.
#### 6.2.2.3 ServiceUsageRequest with reservation method
All message flows described in this clause are applicable for the SBCF.
In the context of bearer charging or session charging, only the Session
charging with unit reservation (SCUR) (see TS 32.299 [50]) is relevant.
Therefore, only SCUR is considered in this clause.
In the ServiceUsageRequest, a monetary quota is passed to the RF and the
response contains the allowed service units for this monetary quota.
Figure 6.2.2.3.1 describes the message flow for the service usage request
method. The scenario describes the case where the SBCF invokes the
ServiceUsageRequest method for charging several times during the same session,
with reservation.
Figure 6.2.2.3.1: Service usage request method with reservation
\- Step 1: The SBCF receives an online charging request referring to an MS\'s
bearer/session usage.
\- Step 2: The SBCF performs account balance reservation, based on the
operator policy (typically the reservation is service dependent). If there is
insufficient balance, the available amount in the account balance is reserved.
\- Step 2\' (Optional):In case there is no existing subscriber\'s context, the
SBCF creates a new subscriber\'s context information. Otherwise, the SBCF
updates the existing subscriber\'s context and get the list of active services
for the given subscriber. This Step only applies when correlation is enabled.
\- Step 3: The SBCF requests the allowed usage of this service (service units)
for the given monetary quota (i.e. the amount reserved from the account
balance). The SBCF provides also a minimal number of requested service units.
\- Step 4: The RF retrieves the appropriate tariff to be applied for the
bearer/session. It calculates the number of service units that are allowed for
the given monetary quota. If the calculated number of service units is lower
than the minimal number of requested units for this service, the minimal
requested units are used. The RF reserves counter values if needed and
calculates the price. Note that the price may be different than the given
monetary units (e.g. the user has free units from this service or the given
monetary quota was insufficient for the minimal requested units from this
service).
\- Step 5: The RF returns the allowed usage, price and tariff information to
the SBCF.
\- Step 6: If the RF has returned a price which is higher than the initial
account balance reservation (e.g. for a premium service), the OCF makes
another reservation to meet the returned price.
\- Step 7: Assuming a successful account balance reservation, the SBCF returns
the granted units to the requesting network element. Otherwise the service is
denied.
\- Step 8: When the granted units have been used, a new request is send from
the network element to the SBCF.
\- Step 9: Based on the tariff information and the price received in step 5
and the amount already reserved (either in step 2 or 6), the SBCF performs
another account balance reservation.
\- Step 10-Number range StepNumber range StepNumber range Step14: Repeat steps
3-7 .
\- Step 15: The session ends and a final charging request is issued with
updated session details (e.g. exact session length).
\- Step 16: The SBCF sends a final service usage request with a debit
instruction.
\- Step 17: The RF performs final rating for the consumed resources and
adjusts the counters accordingly.
\- Step 18: The RF returns the final price to the SBCF.
\- Step 19: Based on the received price, the SBCF performs final account
control.
Step 20: Finally, the SBCF sends an acknowledgment message to the serving
network node in order to terminate the online charging dialogue.
In this scenario a service usage message request is send for every online
charging request. The sequence of steps 8-13 can be repeated multiple times.
Between any repetitions of those sequences, the charging session parameters
that are relevant for rating may change. The change can be solicited (e.g.
tariff switch) or unsolicited (e.g. QoS change). The network element shall
issue another charging request in those cases i.e. on expiry time if tariff
switch occurred, when granted units are consumed or when the QoS is changed.
In all those cases, the OCF, sends information on both, the passed quota and
the new quota. Specifically, when a tariff switch occurred, the OCF shall pass
the consumed units before and after to the tariff switch in the following
TariffRequest method. The RF adjusts the reserved counters if needed as a
result from the new information from the SBCF. The RF makes new counters
reservations for the next quota and returns the allowed number of service
units for the next quota.
To allow for correct charging of this kind of scenarios, the RF needs to make
sure that all tariff information contained in a TariffResponse message expires
between the next two tariff switches, i.e. between the tariff switch time that
is defined within this TariffResponse message and the next subsequent tariff
switch time. For this purpose, a parameter ExpiryTime is used. The ExpiryTime
defines, how long the tariff information contained in the TariffResponse
message is valid after the timestamp of the TariffRequest that triggered this
response. For the handling of multiple tariff switches, it is recommended to
set the ExpiryTime to the difference between the next two tariff switch times.
It should be noted that the ExpiryTime may also be used when _no_ tariff
switch is foreseen, to ensure a subsequent tariff retrieval operation after a
specified time period has passed.
The service usage request message contains the reserved monetary quota for the
service. The monetary quota in the first service usage request message is
predetermined in the SBCF (e.g. according to the service). The predetermined
monetary quota shall be designed to be sufficient for a minimal service usage.
In some cases (e.g. premium services), setting the monetary quota to meet a
minimal service usage can not be guaranteed. Hence, the first service usage
request contains also a minimal number of service units required. The RF
retrieves the appropriate tariff and calculates the allowed number of service
units. The number of service units is calculated as the maximum of the minimal
requested units and the number of units that can be consumed for the given
monetary quota.
If the service is free of charge (e.g. the user has some free service units),
the RF may not allow the whole quantity at once. If the free service units are
shared between several users, the RF may break the allowed units to smaller
quotas to enable sharing of the free service units between the users, based on
the operators policy. The RF returns also the accumulated price for the
consumed service and the requested service in the current quota. The price is
used by the OCF to determine if additional account balance reservation is
needed.
Service denial is being handled in the same manner as in the TariffRequest
scenario (see clause 6.2.2.2.2 for details).\ If the service was not delivered
at all for any reason, an explicit service usage request with a release
request subtype is send from the OCF to the RF.
After the first service usage request, subsequent service usage request
messages can take into account the account balance and the applied tariff and
try to optimize the monetary quota in order to minimize the number of service
usage requests. The monetary quota is bounded by the account balance.
Requesting service usage for a very low monetary quota can result in a small
amount of granted service units. In this case, the SBCF may decide to deny the
service and close the session with the actual number of service units
consumed.
The allowed units are calculated as if consumed in the highest tariff
available for the subscriber (e.g. if the volume tariff is time dependent, the
price is calculated as if the volume was consumed solely during the higher
rate period). If the tariff is not time dependent, but volume dependent, the
tariff steps is taken into account in advance.
At the final service usage request message (with the debit indication), the
counters are updated and the final service price is returned. The OCF is
responsible to free any extra reservations made.
## 6.3 Sy message flows
As defined in the TS 23.203 [206] for subscriber spending limits, policy
counters are maintained in the OCS. The PCRF can make policy decisions based
on the status of the policy counters. The OCS reports policy counter status
values when requested by the PCRF and notifies the PCRF of status changes.
Figure 6.3.1 illustrates a simple example of a single policy counter
representing currency maintained in the OCS, with four thresholds T1, ..., T4
representing spending limits and five labels S1, ..., S5 representing the
status.\ The current value (grey white border) belongs to the interval [T3,
T4]; the current status to be reported is S4.
Figure 6.3.1: Spending limits example for policy counter representing currency
Policy counter status reporting may be used for other purposes.
Policy counters are a subset of the previously specified counters maintained
by the OCS. The representation is operator dependent. Additional example use
cases include:
\- OCS supervision of multiple policy counters simultaneously for an
individual subscription.
\- Particular promotion (e.g. discounts, benefits and allowances) applied or
terminated for an individual subscription may trigger policy counter status
updates
Detailed message flows between PCRF and OCS are specified in TS 29.213 [208].
# 7 Definition of charging information
## 7.1 Re message types and formats
### 7.1.1 General guidelines
#### 7.1.1.1 General description of data types and message formats
The messages and data types used on the Re interface are defined based on the
Diameter base protocol [401].\ The contents of the messages is defined in
clause 7.1.2. Primitive data types are used as defined in the specification of
the Diameter base protocol [401]. The structure of more complex data types is
defined in clause 7.1.3.\ Details on the Diameter implementation of the Re
interface are described in clause 7.1.4.
The category in the tables denotes the category are used according to the
charging data configuration defined in clause 5.4 of TS 32.240 [1], if special
conditions apply in addition, then these conditions are part of the
description.
#### 7.1.1.2 RF Class selection
Although the contents of the messages are almost identical, the handling of
the messages in the RF is different depending on the class of RF used in a
network. To distinguish between both classes of RFs, the parameter
RequestSubType is used.
If a \"Class A\" RF is used, the parameter RequestSubType will not be present,
because there are no subtypes in this case.
If a \"Class B\" RF is used, the parameter RequestSubType will always be
present.
### 7.1.2 Methods
#### 7.1.2.1 PriceRequest method
This request type is used to determine the price for a given event.
The following tables indicate the contents of the PriceRequest and
PriceResponse messages.
The body of the **PriceRequest** message consists of the following fields:
+-----------------+----------+-------------+-----------------+---+ | Information | Category | Description | Example | | | Element | | | | | | | in class | | | | +-----------------+----------+-------------+-----------------+---+ | | \"A\" | \"B\" | | | +-----------------+----------+-------------+-----------------+---+ | SessionID | M | M | Session | | | | | | identification, | | | | | | used to match | | | | | | the request / | | | | | | response. | | +-----------------+----------+-------------+-----------------+---+ | ActualTime | M | M | Actual | | | | | | timestamp of | | | | | | the current | | | | | | request. | | +-----------------+----------+-------------+-----------------+---+ | SubscriptionId | M | M | Identifies the | | | | | | Charged Party.\ | | | | | | This element | | | | | | contains one of | | | | | | the following;\ | | | | | | - MSISDN (E.164 | | | | | | format) | | | | | | | | | | | | - IMSI (E.212 | | | | | | format) | | | | | | | | | | | | - SIP-URL | | | | | | | | | | | | - NAI | | | | | | | | | | | | - private ID | | | | | | (i.e. operator | | | | | | specific). | | | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | Subscription-Id | | | | | | AVP is | | | | | | described in | | | | | | clause | | | | | | 7.1.4.2.54.\ | | | | | | The definition | | | | | | is taken from | | | | | | IETF RRC 4006 | | | | | | [402]. | | | | | | | | | | | | Editor\'s Note: | | | | | | Applicability | | | | | | of NAI for 3GPP | | | | | | needs to be | | | | | | checked. | | +-----------------+----------+-------------+-----------------+---+ | ServiceRating | M | M | One or more | | | | | | service | | | | | | elements. If | | | | | | several | | | | | | services are | | | | | | rated with one | | | | | | request,\ | | | | | | this grouped | | | | | | element is | | | | | | included | | | | | | several times.\ | | | | | | The structure | | | | | | of | | | | | | Service-Rating | | | | | | element is | | | | | | described in | | | | | | clause 7.1.3.1. | | +-----------------+----------+-------------+-----------------+---+
The body of the **PriceResponse** message from the Rating Engine consists of
the following fields:
* * *
Information Element Category in class Description Example  
\"A\" \"B\"  
SessionID M M Session identification, used to match the request / response.  
ServiceRating M M One or more service elements. If several services are rated
with one request, this grouped element is included several times. The
structure of Service-Rating element is described in clause 7.1.3.1.
* * *
#### 7.1.2.2 TariffRequest method
The following tables indicate the contents of the TariffRequest and
TariffResponse messages.
The body of the **TariffRequest** message consists of the following fields:
+---------------+---------------+-------------+---------------+---+ | Information | Category in | Description | Example | | | Element | class | | | | +---------------+---------------+-------------+---------------+---+ | | \"A\" | \" B\" | | | +---------------+---------------+-------------+---------------+---+ | SessionID | M | M | Session | | | | | | id | | | | | | entification, | | | | | | used to match | | | | | | the request / | | | | | | response. | | +---------------+---------------+-------------+---------------+---+ | FirstRequest | O | O | Indicates | | | | | | that this is | | | | | | the first | | | | | | TariffRequest | | | | | | within this | | | | | | rating | | | | | | dialogue. | | +---------------+---------------+-------------+---------------+---+ | BeginTime | O | O | Ev | | | | | | ent-timestamp | | | | | | of service | | | | | | activation | | | | | | request. | | +---------------+---------------+-------------+---------------+---+ | ActualTime | M | M | Actual | | | | | | timestamp of | | | | | | the current | | | | | | request. | | +---------------+---------------+-------------+---------------+---+ | S | M | M | Identifies | | | ubscriptionId | | | the Charged | | | | | | Party.\ | | | | | | This element | | | | | | contains one | | | | | | of the | | | | | | following;\ | | | | | | - MSISDN | | | | | | (E.164 | | | | | | format) | | | | | | | | | | | | - IMSI | | | | | | (E.212 | | | | | | format) | | | | | | | | | | | | - SIP-URL | | | | | | | | | | | | - NAI | | | | | | | | | | | | - private ID | | | | | | (i.e. | | | | | | operator | | | | | | specific). | | | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | Su | | | | | | bscription-Id | | | | | | AVP is | | | | | | described in | | | | | | clause | | | | | | 7.1.4.2.54.\ | | | | | | The | | | | | | definition is | | | | | | taken from | | | | | | IETF RRC 4006 | | | | | | [402]. | | | | | | | | | | | | Editor\'s | | | | | | Note: | | | | | | Applicability | | | | | | of NAI for | | | | | | 3GPP needs to | | | | | | be checked. | | +---------------+---------------+-------------+---------------+---+ | ServiceRating | M | M | One or more | | | | | | service | | | | | | elements. If | | | | | | several | | | | | | services are | | | | | | rated with | | | | | | one request,\ | | | | | | this grouped | | | | | | element is | | | | | | included | | | | | | several | | | | | | times.\ | | | | | | The structure | | | | | | of | | | | | | S | | | | | | ervice-Rating | | | | | | element is | | | | | | described in | | | | | | clause | | | | | | 7.1.3.1. | | +---------------+---------------+-------------+---------------+---+
The body of the **TariffResponse** message from the Rating Engine consists of
the following fields:
* * *
Information Element Category in class Description Example
                        \"A\"               \"B\"
SessionID M M Session identification, used to match the request / response.
ServiceRating M M One or more service elements. If several services are rated
with one request,\  
this grouped element is included several times.\  
The structure of Service-Rating element is described in clause 7.1.3.1.
* * *
#### 7.1.2.3 ServiceUsageRequest method
The ServiceUsageRequest method is implemented only if Class B RF is used.
The following tables indicate the contents of the ServiceUsageRequest and
ServiceUsageResponse messages.
The body of the **ServiceUsageRequest** message consists of the following
fields:
+---------------+---------------+-------------+---------------+---+ | Information | Category in | Description | Example | | | Element | class | | | | +---------------+---------------+-------------+---------------+---+ | | \"A\" | \"B\" | | | +---------------+---------------+-------------+---------------+---+ | SessionID | - | M | Session | | | | | | id | | | | | | entification, | | | | | | used to match | | | | | | the request / | | | | | | response. | | +---------------+---------------+-------------+---------------+---+ | BeginTime | - | O | Ev | | | | | | ent-timestamp | | | | | | of service | | | | | | activation | | | | | | request. | | +---------------+---------------+-------------+---------------+---+ | ActualTime | - | M | Actual | | | | | | timestamp of | | | | | | the current | | | | | | request. | | +---------------+---------------+-------------+---------------+---+ | S | - | M | Identifies | | | ubscriptionId | | | the Charged | | | | | | Party.\ | | | | | | This element | | | | | | contains one | | | | | | of the | | | | | | following;\ | | | | | | - MSISDN | | | | | | (E.164 | | | | | | format) | | | | | | | | | | | | - IMSI | | | | | | (E.212 | | | | | | format) | | | | | | | | | | | | - SIP-URL | | | | | | | | | | | | - NAI | | | | | | | | | | | | - private ID | | | | | | (i.e. | | | | | | operator | | | | | | specific). | | | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | Su | | | | | | bscription-Id | | | | | | AVP is | | | | | | described in | | | | | | clause | | | | | | 7.1.4.2.54.\ | | | | | | The | | | | | | definition is | | | | | | taken from | | | | | | IETF RRC 4006 | | | | | | [402]. | | | | | | | | | | | | Editor\'s | | | | | | Note: | | | | | | Applicability | | | | | | of NAI for | | | | | | 3GPP needs to | | | | | | be checked. | | +---------------+---------------+-------------+---------------+---+ | ServiceRating | M | M | One or more | | | | | | service | | | | | | elements. If | | | | | | several | | | | | | services are | | | | | | rated with | | | | | | one request,\ | | | | | | this grouped | | | | | | element is | | | | | | included | | | | | | several | | | | | | times.\ | | | | | | The structure | | | | | | of | | | | | | S | | | | | | ervice-Rating | | | | | | element is | | | | | | described in | | | | | | clause | | | | | | 7.1.3.1. | | +---------------+---------------+-------------+---------------+---+
The body of the **ServiceUsageResponse** message from the Rating Engine
consists of the following fields:
* * *
Information Element Category in class Description Example
                        \"A\"               \"B\"
SessionID - M Session identification, used to match the request / response.
ServiceRating M M One or more service elements. If several services are rated
with one request,\  
this grouped element is included several times.\  
The structure of Service-Rating element is described in clause 7.1.3.1.
* * *
### 7.1.3 Parameter definitions
#### 7.1.3.1 Common parameters
The **DestinationID** parameter has the following structure:
+----------------------+----------+----------------------+---------+ | Information Element | Category | Description | Example | +----------------------+----------+----------------------+---------+ | Destination­ID­Type | M | Type of Subscriber | | | | | information | | | | | contained in the | | | | | DestinationIDData | | | | | element. | | | | | | | | | | Supported are the | | | | | following types: | | | | | | | | | | MSISDN, APN, URL, | | | | | e-mail address,... | | | | | | | | | | Editor\'s Note: | | | | | Further types are | | | | | TBD. | | +----------------------+----------+----------------------+---------+ | Destination­ID­Data­ | M | Identifies the | | | | | destination, to | | | | | which the requested | | | | | service is | | | | | directed.\ | | | | | This element | | | | | contains one of the | | | | | following;\ | | | | | - Number (E.164 | | | | | format, e.g. MSISDN) | | | | | | | | | | - APN | | | | | | | | | | - URL | | | | | | | | | | - e-mail address | | | | | | | | | | - private ID (i.e. | | | | | operator specific). | | +----------------------+----------+----------------------+---------+
The **ServiceRating** parameter has the following structure:
Information Element | Category in class | Description | Available |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| "A" | "B" |  | PRQ | PRS | TRQ | TRS | SUQ | SUS  
ServiceIdentifier | M | M | Identifies the service for which the online charging request was sent.  
If M-S-R AVP is not present, this AVP is mandatory. | X | X | X | X | X | X  
DestinationID | O | O | The structure of an individual DestinationID element is described in clause 7.1.3.1.  
Multiple occurrences of this element are possible. | X |  | X |  | X |   
ServiceInformation | O | O | The structure of a Service-Information AVP is defined in the middle-tier documents and formally specified in TS 32.299 [50]. The content of this parameter corresponds to the service indicated by the ServiceIdentifier. | X |  | X |  |  |   
Extension | O | O | Subscriber or operator-specific information, e.g. contract parameters. The format and content is out of scope for 3GPP standards. | X | X | X | X | X | X  
Counter | O | - | One or multiple Counter elements.  
The structure of an individual Counter element is described in clause 7.1.3.2 | X |  | X |  |  |   
BasicPrice­­Time­Stamp | O | - | The timestamp of the last charging of the Basic Price, if applicable for the service indicated by the ServiceID. | X |  | X |  |  |   
RequestSub­Type | - | M | Request sub type as described in clause 7.1.3.3. | X |  | X |  | X |   
Price | M | M | Price for the requested service. |  | X |  | X |  | X  
BillingInfo | O | O | Textual description for bill presentation. |  | X |  | X |  | X  
BasicPrice | O | - | Basic Price for the requested service, e.g. basic fee once per day. |  | X |  | X |  |   
Counter­­­Price | O | - | One or multiple CounterPrice elements. The structure of an individual CounterPrice element is described in clause 7.1.3.2. |  | X |  |  |  |   
ImpactOn  
Counter | - | O | Description of the impacted counters. This parameter is being used only in the result of a  
request with a debit request subtype. The structure of an individual impact on counter element is described in clause 7.1.3.3. Multiple occurrences of this element might be used. |  | X |  | X |  | X  
RequestedUnits | - | O | The number of requested units from the service. This parameter is mandatory in a request with reservation request subtype. |  |  | X |  |  |   
ConsumedUnits | - | O | The total number of consumed units of the service since previous request. |  |  | X |  | X |   
ConsumedUnitsAfterTariffSwitch | - | O | The number of consumed units of the service since previous request after tariff switch occurred. This parameter is mandatory if the tariff switch occurred since the previous request. |  |  | X |  | X |   
TariffSwitch­Time | O | O | Time in Seconds from the time in parameter ActualTime of the TariffRequest until a tariff switch occurs.  
'0' means immediately (the second tariff is valid). |  |  |  | X |  | X  
CurrentTariff | M | O | Tariff that are currently valid. Tariff structure is defined in [50]. Class "B": This parameter is mandatory in the response message after a request with reservation subtype. |  |  |  | X |  | X  
Next­Tariff | O | O | Tariff after the next TariffSwitch Tariff structure is defined in [50]. |  |  |  | X |  | X  
ExpiryTime | O | O | Time period in seconds from the time in parameter ActualTime of the TariffRequest until the expiration of all tariff information contained in this TariffResponse message.  
_This field may be used e.g. if multiple TariffSwitches are foreseen, or if interworking between limited valid units and TariffSwitches needs to be ensured._ |  |  |  | X |  | X  
ValidUnits | O | O | Defines for how many units the tariff is valid. |  |  |  | X |  |   
Monetary­­Tariff­After­­Valid­­Units | O | O | Tariff after all valid units have been used. Tariff structure is defined in clause 7.1.4.2.45. _This field may be used to optimize service availability in scenarios with limited valid units._ |  |  |  | X |  |   
Counter­­Tariff | O | - | One or multiple CounterTariff elements. The structure of an individual CounterTariff element is described in clause 7.1.3.2. |  |  |  | X |  |   
Requested­Counter | O | - | One or multiple CounterIDs. Only the counters identified in this list shall be included by the SBCF in subsequent TariffRequest messages within this session. The list is valid until a modified list is received by the SBCF or until the session ends. |  |  |  | X |  |   
MonetaryQuota | - | O | Number of monetary units reserved for the service usage. Mandatory in a reservation request subtype. |  |  |  |  | X |   
MinimalRequestedUnits | - | O | The minimal number of requested units from the service. This parameter is mandatory in the first request with reservation request subtype. |  |  |  |  | X |   
AllowedUnits | - | O | Defines how many units can be granted for this monetary quota. Returning the AllowedUnits is mandatory in the reservation and AoC request subtypes. |  |  |  |  |  | X  
#### 7.1.3.2 Class \"A\" specific parameters
The **Counter** parameter has the following structure:
* * *
Information Element Category Description Example CounterID M Identifies the
Counter (i.e. used to address the counter).  
CounterValue O The actual current value of the Counter. 17 Counter­Expiry­Date
O Timestamp for the expiration date of the current counter value.
* * *
The **CounterPrice** parameter has the following structure:
* * *
Information Element Category Description Example CounterID M Identifies the
Counter (i.e. used to address the counter).  
CounterType O Operator specific value, for descriptive purposes.  
CounterChange O Value with which the counter shall be incremented or
decremented. -2 SetCounterTo O Value, to which the counter shall be set. 50
Counter­Expiry­Date O Timestamp for the expiration date of the current counter
value.
* * *
The **CounterTariff** parameter has the following structure:
* * *
Information Element Category Description Example
CounterID M Identifies the Counter (i.e. used to address the counter).
CounterType O Operator specific value, for descriptive purposes.
CounterChange­PerSession O Value, with which the counter shall be incremented
or decremented for the whole session. 4
CounterChange­PerConsumed­ServiceUnit O Value, with which the counter shall be
incremented or decremented per consumed service unit. -1
CounterChange­­­­­­­ForFirst­Chargeable­TimeUnit O Value, with which the
counter shall be incremented or decremented for the first chargeable unit (as
defined by\ -2 E-parameter E7 from MonetaryTariff).
CounterChange­­PerSubsequent­Chargeable­­TimeUnit O Value, with which the
counter shall be incremented or decremented per chargeable unit (as defined
by\ -1 E-parameter E2 from MonetaryTariff, i.e. except for the first unit).
CounterChange­PerChargeable­VolumeUnit O Value, with which the counter shall
be incremented or decremented per chargeable unit (as defined by\ 3
E-parameter E6 from MonetaryTariff).
CounterChange­­­­­­­ForFirst­Chargeable­TimeUnitAfter­Switch O Value, with
which the counter shall be incremented or decremented for the first chargeable
unit after a Tariff Switch has occurred (as defined by E-parameter E7 from
NextMonetaryTariff). -4
CounterChange­­PerSubsequent­Chargeable­­TimeUnitAfter­Switch O Value, with
which the counter shall be incremented or decremented per chargeable unit
after a Tariff Switch has occurred (as defined by E-parameter E2 from
NextMonetaryTariff, i.e. except for the first unit). -1
CounterChange­PerChargeable­VolumeUnitAfter­Switch O Value, with which the
counter shall be incremented or decremented per chargeable unit after a Tariff
Switch has occurred (as defined by E-parameter E6 from NextMonetaryTariff). 5
Counter­Threshold O Threshold value for this counter. If this threshold is
reached, all tariff information contained in this TariffResponse message
expires, and the OCF shall sent a new TariffRequest message. 30
SetCounterTo O Value, to which the counter shall be set. 50
Counter­Expiry­Date O Timestamp for the expiration date of the current counter
value.
* * *
#### 7.1.3.3 Class \"B\" specific parameters
The **RequestSubType** parameter can have the following values:
\- AoC - In this sub-type, there is no counter reservation and no counter
updates by the RF.
\- Reservation - This Price Request sub-type is used at event authorization
time, prior to granting a service to a user. The RF will reserve counters as
needed according to the request. A Price Request with a Debit sub-type should
follow after a service successful delivery or a Release sub-type in case the
delivery failed.
\- Debit - This Price Request sub-type is issued when a session ends or a
service was granted successfully to a user, in order to debit a previously
reservation request. The RF will free any unused portion of an outstanding
counter reservation. Note that multiple Price Requests with a Debit sub-type
can be sent during a session for partial charging.
\- Release - This Price Request sub-type is issued when a service delivery
failed to release a previously reserved amount. The RF will free any
outstanding counter reservation.
The following tables summarize the IE status in the various methods and
messages.
Parameter presence in the **PriceRequest** message:
+---------------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Information Element | Category in | Category in | Category in | | | | | | | | Reservation | Debit | Release | +---------------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | SessionID | M | M | M | +---------------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | ActualTime | M | M | O | +---------------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Subscription-Id | M | - | - | +---------------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Service-Identifier | M | - | - | +---------------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | DestinationID | O | O | - | +---------------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Service­Information | O | O | - | +---------------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Extension | O | O | O | +---------------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | RequestSub­Type | M | M | M | +---------------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Parameter presence in the **PriceResponse** message:
+---------------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Information Element | Category in | Category in | Category in | | | | | | | | Reservation | Debit | Release | +---------------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | SessionID | M | M | M | +---------------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Price | M | M | M | +---------------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | BillingInfo | - | O | O | +---------------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Extension | O | O | O | +---------------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | BasicPrice | - | - | - | +---------------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Counter­­­Price | - | - | - | +---------------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | ImpactOnCounter | - | O | - | +---------------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Parameter presence in the **TariffRequest** message:
+------------------------+-------------+-----------+-----------+ | Information Element | Status in | Status in | Status in | | | | | | | | Reservation | Debit | Release | +------------------------+-------------+-----------+-----------+ | SessionID | M | M | M | +------------------------+-------------+-----------+-----------+ | FirstRequest | - | - | - | +------------------------+-------------+-----------+-----------+ | BeginTime | O | - | - | +------------------------+-------------+-----------+-----------+ | ActualTime | M | M | M | +------------------------+-------------+-----------+-----------+ | Subscription Id | M | - | - | +------------------------+-------------+-----------+-----------+ | Service Identifier | M | - | - | +------------------------+-------------+-----------+-----------+ | DestinationID | O | O | - | +------------------------+-------------+-----------+-----------+ | Service Information | O | O | - | +------------------------+-------------+-----------+-----------+ | Extension | O | O | O | +------------------------+-------------+-----------+-----------+ | Counter | - | - | - | +------------------------+-------------+-----------+-----------+ | BasicPrice­­Time­Stamp | - | - | - | +------------------------+-------------+-----------+-----------+ | RequestSub­Type | M | M | M | +------------------------+-------------+-----------+-----------+ | RequestedUnits | M | - | - | +------------------------+-------------+-----------+-----------+ | ConsumedUnits | O | M | - | +------------------------+-------------+-----------+-----------+ | ConsumedUnits\ | O | O | - | | AfterTariffSwitch | | | | +------------------------+-------------+-----------+-----------+
Parameter presence in the **TariffResponse** message:
+--------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Information Element | Category in | Category in | Category in | | | | | | | | Reservation | Debit | Release | +--------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | SessionID | M | M | M | +--------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | TariffSwitch­Time | O | - | - | +--------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | ­Current-Tariff | M | - | - | +--------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Next-­Tariff | O | - | - | +--------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | ExpiryTime | O | - | - | +--------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | ValidUnits | O | - | - | +--------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Monetary­­Tariff­After­­Valid­­Units | - | - | - | +--------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | BillingInfo | - | O | - | +--------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Extension | O | O | O | +--------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Counter­­Tariff | - | - | - | +--------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Requested­Counter | - | - | - | +--------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | BasicPrice | - | - | - | +--------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Price | - | M | - | +--------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | ImpactOn\ | - | O | - | | Counter | | | | +--------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Parameter presence in the **ServiceUsageRequest** message:
* * *
Information Element Category in\ Category in\ Category in\ Reservation Debit
Release
SessionID M M M
BeginTime O - -
ActualTime M - -
Subscription-Id M M M
Service-Identifier M - -
DestinationID O O -
Service­Information O O -
MonetaryQuota O O -
Minimal\ O - - RequestedUnits
Extension O O O
RequestSubType M M M
ConsumedUnits O M -
ConsumedUnits\ O O - AfterTariffSwitch
* * *
Parameter presence in the **ServiceUsageResponse** message:
+---------------------+--------------+-------------+-------------+ | Information Element | Category in\ | Category in | Category in | | | Reservation | | | | | | Debit | Release | +---------------------+--------------+-------------+-------------+ | SessionID | M | M | M | +---------------------+--------------+-------------+-------------+ | TariffSwitch­Time | O | - | - | +---------------------+--------------+-------------+-------------+ | Current-­Tariff | M | - | - | +---------------------+--------------+-------------+-------------+ | Next-­Tariff | O | - | - | +---------------------+--------------+-------------+-------------+ | ExpiryTime | O | - | - | +---------------------+--------------+-------------+-------------+ | AllowedUnits | O | - | - | +---------------------+--------------+-------------+-------------+ | Price | M | M | - | +---------------------+--------------+-------------+-------------+ | BillingInfo | - | O | - | +---------------------+--------------+-------------+-------------+ | ImpactOn\ | - | O | - | | Counter | | | | +---------------------+--------------+-------------+-------------+ | Extension | - | O | O | +---------------------+--------------+-------------+-------------+
The **ImpactOnCounter** parameter has the following structure:
* * *
Information Element Category Description Example CounterID M Identifies the
Counter (i.e. used to address the counter).  
CounterValueBegin O The counter value at the beginning of the online charging
session. 17 CounterValueChange M The change in the counter value as result of
the current online charging session. -4 CounterValueEnd O The counter value at
the end of the online charging session. Note that this value may be different
from the value at the beginning of the online charging session plus the value
change in case of concurrent service consumption. 11
* * *
### 7.1.4 Protocol specification
#### 7.1.4.0 Introduction
The messages for the Re interface, their formats and their contents are
defined in terms of the Rating Application, a new 3GPP specific Diameter
application based on the Diameter Base Protocol [401]. The application ID for
the Rating Application is _defined in TS 29.230 [205]_.
The messages for the Re interface are defined in the following clause 7.1.4.1.
These are new messages that are not included in the Diameter base protocol,
however, relevant AVPs from the Diameter base protocol are included in the
definition of these messages. Additional AVPs which are required for the
functionality of the Re interface are also included. These additional AVPs are
explained in detail in clause 7.1.4.2.
Editor\'s Note: We have to define Finite State Machines (for class \"A\" only
for the OCF, for class \"B\" for both, OCF and RF)?
Editor\'s Note: Error handling needs to be defined (separate clause).
#### 7.1.4.1 Rating messages on the Re interface
The table 7.1.4.1.1 below describes the use of messages on the Re interface.
Details on the use of these messages can be found in clause 6.2 of this
document.
* * *
**Message** **Source** **Destination** **Abbreviation** PriceRequest EBCF RF
PRQ PriceResponse RF EBCF PRS TariffRequest SBCF RF TRQ TariffResponse RF SBCF
TRS ServiceUsageRequest SBCF RF SUQ ServiceUsageResponse RF SBCF SUS
* * *
Table 7.1.4.1.1: Rating messages on the Re interface
Editor\'s Note: Command codes shall be defined by 3GPP WG CT4, and shall be
included in TS 29.230.
Editor\'s Note: Do we have to include (some of the) other messages defined in
the Diameter base protocol?
The following clauses describe the structure of the individual messages on the
Re interface. The descriptions are based directly on the format of the
_Accounting-Request_ and _Accounting-Answer_ messages defined in the base
Diameter protocol specification [401].
The following symbols are used in the tables:
\- \ indicates a mandatory AVP with a fixed position in the message.
\- {AVP} indicates a mandatory AVP in the message.
\- [AVP] indicates an optional AVP in the message.
\- *AVP indicates that multiple occurrences of an AVP are possible.
##### 7.1.4.1.1 PriceRequest message
The Diameter _PriceRequest_ command as used on the Re interface has the
following structure.
> \ :: = \
>
> \\ {Origin-Host}\ {Origin-Realm}\ {Destination-Realm}\
> [Destination-Host]\ [Vendor-Specific-Application-Id]\ [User-Name]\ [Event-
> Timestamp]\ {ActualTime}\ {Subscription-Id}\ *{Service-Rating}
Editor\'s Note: Check if all included AVPs from the Diameter base protocol are
needed.\ Check if additional AVPs from the Diameter base protocol shall be
included.
##### 7.1.4.1.2 PriceResponse message
The Diameter _PriceResponse_ command as used on the Re interface has the
following structure.
> \ :: = \
>
> \\ {Origin-Host}\ {Origin-Realm}\ [Vendor-Specific-Application-
> Id]\ [User-Name]\ [Event-Timestamp]\ *{Service-Rating}
Editor\'s Note: Check if all included AVPs from the Diameter base protocol are
needed.\ Check if additional AVPs from the Diameter base protocol shall be
included.
##### 7.1.4.1.3 TariffRequest message
The Diameter _TariffRequest_ command as used on the Re interface has the
following structure.
> \ :: = \
>
> \\ {Origin-Host}\ {Origin-Realm}\ {Destination-Realm}\
> [Destination-Host]\ [Vendor-Specific-Application-Id]\ [User-Name]\ [Event-
> Timestamp]\ [FirstRequest]\ [BeginTime]\ {ActualTime}\ {Subscription-Id}\
> *{Service-Rating}
Editor\'s Note: Check if all included AVPs from the Diameter base protocol are
needed.\ Check if additional AVPs from the Diameter base protocol shall be
included.
##### 7.1.4.1.4 TariffResponse message
The Diameter _TariffResponse_ command as used on the Re interface has the
following structure.
> \ :: = \
>
> \\ {Origin-Host}\ {Origin-Realm}\ [Vendor-Specific-Application-
> Id]\ [User-Name]\ [Event-Timestamp]\ *{Service-Rating}
Editor\'s Note: Check if all included AVPs from the Diameter base protocol are
needed.\ Check if additional AVPs from the Diameter base protocol shall be
included.
##### 7.1.4.1.5 ServiceUsageRequest message
The Diameter _ServiceUsageRequest_ command as used on the Re interface has the
following structure.
> \ :: = \
>
> \\ {Origin-Host}\ {Origin-Realm}\ {Destination-Realm}\
> [Destination-Host]\ [Vendor-Specific-Application-Id]\ [User-Name]\ [Event-
> Timestamp]\ [BeginTime]\ {ActualTime}\ {Subscription-Id}\ *{Service-Rating}
Editor\'s Note: Check if all included AVPs from the Diameter base protocol are
needed.\ Check if additional AVPs from the Diameter base protocol shall be
included.
Editor\'s Note: Check if the order of the AVPs is aligned with the
TariffRequest.
##### 7.1.4.1.6 ServiceUsageResponse message
The Diameter _ServiceUsageResponse_ command as used on the Re interface has
the following structure.
> \ :: = \\ \ \\ {Origin-Host}\
> {Origin-Realm}\ [Vendor-Specific-Application-Id]\ [User-Name]\ [Event-
> Timestamp]\ *{Service-Rating}
Editor\'s Note: Check if all included AVPs from the Diameter base protocol are
needed.\ Check if additional AVPs from the Diameter base protocol shall be
included.
Editor\'s Note: Check if the order of the AVPs is aligned with the tariff
response.
#### 7.1.4.2 AVPs for Rating on the Re interface
The use of the Attribute Value Pairs (AVPs) that are defined in the Diameter
Base Protocol [401] is specified in\ clause 7.1.4.1 for the Re interface.
Detailed specification of these AVPs is available in the Diameter base
protocol specification.
Editor\'s Note: \"The 3GPP Rating Application uses the value _xxx_ (3GPP) as
_Vendor-Id_.\" -- Do we need this ?
Additional AVPs which are not included in the Diameter Base Protocol are used
for rating purposes in all messages on the Re interface. The use of these AVPs
is described in clause 7.1.4.1.
Detailed descriptions of AVPs that are used specifically for online rating are
provided in the clauses below the table. The table contains all AVPs used for
the Diameter Rating application, in alphabetical order. For AVPs that are just
borrowed from other applications only the reference is provided in the table
below, and the detailed description is not repeated.
* * *
**AVP** **AVP Code** **Data Type** **Description / Reference**
**AVPs from Diameter Base Protocol**
[Destination-Host] [401]
{Destination-Realm} [401]
[Event-Timestamp] [401]
{Origin-Host} [401]
{Origin-Realm} [401]
\ [401]
[User-Name] [401]
[Vendor-Specific-Application-Id] [401]
**General Diameter Rating AVPs**
{ActualTime} TBD Time clause 7.1.4.2.1
[BeginTime] TBD Time clause 7.1.4.2.5
[FirstRequest] TBD Enumerated clause 7.1.4.2.41
*{Service-Rating} TBD Grouped 
{Service-Identifier} TBD UTF8String clause 7.1.4.2.53; [402]
* [DestinationID] TBD Grouped clause 7.1.4.2.29
{DestinationIDType} TBD Enumerated clause 7.1.4.2.31
{DestinationIDData} TBD UTF8String clause 7.1.4.2.30
[ServiceInformation] TBD Grouped clause 7.1.4.2.54
[Extension] TBD Grouped clause 7.1.4.2.40
[Price] TBD Unsigned32 clause7.1.4.2.48;\ mandatory in PRS, optional in TRS
[BillingInfo] TBD UTF8String clause 7.1.4.2.6
[TariffSwitchTime] TBD Unsigned32 clause 7.1.4.2.59
{Current-Tariff} TBD Grouped As defined in [50]
[Next-Tariff] TBD Grouped As defined in [50]
[ExpiryTime] TBD Unsigned32 clause 7.1.4.2.39
[ValidUnits] TBD Unsigned32 clause 7.1.4.2.60
[MonetaryTariffAfterValidUnits] TBD Grouped clause 7.1.4.2.45
{Subscription-Id} TBD Grouped clause 7.1.4.2.56
{Subscription-Id-Type} TBD Enumerated clause 7.1.4.2.58
{Subscription-Id-Data} TBD UTF8String clause 7.1.4.2.57; [402]
**Class A specific Diameter Rating AVPs**
*{Service-Rating} TBD Grouped 
* [Counter] TBD Grouped clause 7.1.4.2.9
{CounterID} TBD Unsigned32 clause 7.1.4.2.20
[CounterValue] TBD Integer32 clause 7.1.4.2.25
[CounterExpiryDate] TBD Time clause 7.1.4.2.19
[BasicPriceTimeStamp] TBD Time clause 7.1.4.2.4
[BasicPrice] TBD Unsigned32 clause 7.1.4.2.3
* [CounterPrice] TBD Grouped clause 7.1.4.2.21
{CounterID} TBD Unsigned32 clause 7.1.4.2.20
[CounterType] TBD Unsigned32 clause 7.1.4.2.24
[CounterChange] TBD Integer32 clause 7.1.4.2.10
[SetCounterTo] TBD Integer32 clause 7.1.4.2.55
[CounterExpiryDate] TBD Time clause 7.1.4.2.19
* [CounterTariff] TBD Grouped clause 7.1.4.2.22
{CounterID} TBD Unsigned32 clause 7.1.4.2.20
[CounterType] TBD Unsigned32 clause 7.1.4.2.24
[CounterChangePerSession] TBD Integer32 clause 7.1.4.2.16
[CounterChangePerConsumed­ ServiceUnit] TBD Integer32 clause 7.1.4.2.15
[CounterChangeForFirst­ ChargeableTimeUnit] TBD Integer32 clause 7.1.4.2.11
[CounterChangePerSubsequent­ ChargeableTimeUnit] TBD Integer32 clause
7.1.4.2.17
[CounterChangePerChargeable­ VolumeUnit] TBD Integer32 clause 7.1.4.2.13
[CounterChangeForFirst­ ChargeableTimeUnitAfterSwitch] TBD Integer32 clause
7.1.4.2.12
[CounterChangePerSubsequent­ ChargeableTimeUnitAfterSwitch] TBD Integer32
clause 7.1.4.2.18
[CounterChangePerChargeable­ VolumeUnitAfterSwitch] TBD Integer32 clause
7.1.4.2.14
[CounterThreshold] TBD Integer32 clause 7.1.4.2.23
[SetCounterTo] TBD Integer32 clause 7.1.4.2.55
[CounterExpiryDate] TBD Time clause 7.1.4.2.19
* [RequestedCounters] TBD Unsigned32 clause 7.1.4.2.50
**Class B specific Diameter Rating AVPs**
*{Service-Rating} TBD Grouped 
[RequestSubType] TBD Enumerated clause 7.1.4.2.52
[ImpactonCounter] TBD Grouped clause 7.1.4.2.42
{CounterID} TBD Unsigned32 clause 7.1.4.2.20
[CounterValueBegin] TBD Integer32 clause 7.1.4.2.26
[CounterValueChange] TBD Integer32 clause 7.1.4.2.27
[CounterValueEnd] TBD Integer32 clause 7.1.4.2.28
[RequestedUnits] TBD Unsigned32 clause 7.1.4.2.51
[ConsumedUnits] TBD Unsigned32 clause 7.1.4.2.7
[ConsumedUnitsAfterTariffSwitch] TBD Unsigned32 clause 7.1.4.2.8
[MonetaryQuota] TBD Unsigned32 clause 7.1.4.2.46
[MinimalRequestedUnits] TBD Unsigned32 clause 7.1.4.2.43
[AllowedUnits] TBD Unsigned32 clause 7.1.4.2.2
* * *
Editor\'s Note: AVP codes shall be defined by 3GPP WG CT4, and shall be
included in TS 29.230.
Editor\'s Note: Check if definitions of some AVPs can be replaced by reference
to IETF RRC 4006 [402].
##### 7.1.4.2.1 ActualTime AVP
The _ActualTime_ AVP (AVP code xxxx) is of type Time. It contains the actual
timestamp of the current rating request message (i.e. PRQ or TRQ).
Editor\'s Note: Is this AVP necessary, or is the content equal to the Event-
Timestamp AVP from Diameter base?
##### 7.1.4.2.2 AllowedUnits AVP
The _AllowedUnits_ AVP (AVP code xxxx) is of type Unsigned32. It defines how
many service units the OCF can grant for the MonetaryQuota reserved.
##### 7.1.4.2.3 BasicPrice AVP
The _BasicPrice_ AVP (AVP code xxxx) is of type Unsigned32. It contains a
basic fee, that is applicable e.g. only once per day. If the BasicPrice AVP is
received by an OCF, the OCF will deduct this price from the subscriber\'s
Account Balance, and it will store the current system time internally as
timestamp for the last charging of the Basic Price.
##### 7.1.4.2.4 BasicPriceTimeStamp AVP
The _BasicPriceTimeStamp_ AVP (AVP code xxxx) is of type Time. It contains the
timestamp of the last charging of the Basic Price which is applicable for the
service indicated in the current request.
##### 7.1.4.2.5 BeginTime AVP
The _BeginTime_ AVP (AVP code xxxx) is of type Time. It contains the timestamp
of the service activation request from the network.
##### 7.1.4.2.6 BillingInfo AVP
The _BillingInfo_ AVP (AVP code xxxx) is of type UTF8String. It contains
billing relevant information. The content of this AVP is operator specific and
out of scope for 3GPP standards.
##### 7.1.4.2.7 ConsumedUnits AVP
The _ConsumedUnits_ AVP (AVP code xxxx) is of type Unsigned32. It defines how
many service units were totally consumed since the previous TRQ or SUQ
message. This information is being used by the RF to update counters and track
the price.
##### 7.1.4.2.8 ConsumedUnitsAfterTariffSwitch AVP
The _ConsumedUnitsAfterTariffSwitch_ AVP (AVP code xxxx) is of type
Unsigned32. It defines how many service units were totally consumed after
tariff switch since the previous TRQ or SUQ message. If no tariff switch
occurred, the value 0 shall be used. This information is being used by the RF
to update counters and track the price.
##### 7.1.4.2.9 Counter AVP
The _Counter_ AVP (AVP code xxxx) is of type Grouped. It contains information
related to a specified counter of the subscriber, as stored in the ABMF.
Multiple Counter AVPs can be included in one rating request message (i.e. PRQ
or TRQ).
The AVP has the following format:
> Counter :: = \
>
> { CounterID }\ [ CounterValue ]\ [ CounterExpiryDate ]
##### 7.1.4.2.10 CounterChange AVP
The _CounterChange_ AVP (AVP code xxxx) is of type Integer32. It contains the
value, with which the addressed counter (as identified by the associated
CounterID AVP) shall be incremented or decremented.
##### 7.1.4.2.11 CounterChangeForFirstChargeableTimeUnit AVP
The _CounterChangeForFirstChargeableTimeUnit_ AVP (AVP code xxxx) is of type
Integer32. It contains the value, with which the addressed counter (as
identified by the associated CounterID AVP) shall be incremented or
decremented for the first chargeable time unit. The first chargeable time unit
is defined by the EParameterE7 AVP in the MonetaryTariff AVP.
##### 7.1.4.2.12 CounterChangeForFirstChargeableTimeUnitAfterSwitch AVP
The _CounterChangeForFirstChargeableTimeUnitAfterSwitch_ AVP (AVP code xxxx)
is of type Integer32. It contains the value, with which the addressed counter
(as identified by the associated CounterID AVP) shall be incremented or
decremented for the first chargeable time unit, if a tariff switch has
occurred immediately at the beginning of the online charging session. In this
case, the first chargeable time unit is defined by the EParameterE7 AVP in the
Next-Tariff AVP.
##### 7.1.4.2.13 CounterChangePerChargeableVolumeUnit AVP
The _CounterChangePerChargeableVolumeUnit_ AVP (AVP code xxxx) is of type
Integer32. It contains the value, with which the addressed counter (as
identified by the associated CounterID AVP) shall be incremented or
decremented per chargeable volume unit. The chargeable volume unit is defined
by the EParameterE6 AVP in the Current-Tariff AVP.
##### 7.1.4.2.14 CounterChangePerChargeableVolumeUnitAfterSwitch AVP
The _CounterChangePerChargeableVolumeUnitAfterSwitch_ AVP (AVP code xxxx) is
of type Integer32. It contains the value, with which the addressed counter (as
identified by the associated CounterID AVP) shall be incremented or
decremented per chargeable volume unit after a tariff switch has occurred. The
chargeable volume unit is defined by the EParameterE6 AVP in the Next-Tariff
AVP.
##### 7.1.4.2.15 CounterChangePerConsumedServiceUnit AVP
The _CounterChangePerConsumedServiceUnit_ AVP (AVP code xxxx) is of type
Integer32. It contains the value, with which the addressed counter (as
identified by the associated CounterID AVP) shall be incremented or
decremented per consumed service unit.
##### 7.1.4.2.16 CounterChangePerSession AVP
The _CounterChangePerSession_ AVP (AVP code xxxx) is of type Integer32. It
contains the value, with which the addressed counter (as identified by the
associated CounterID AVP) shall be incremented or decremented once for the
whole online charging session.
##### 7.1.4.2.17 CounterChangePerSubsequentChargeableTimeUnit AVP
The _CounterChangePerSubsequentChargeableTimeUnit_ AVP (AVP code xxxx) is of
type Integer32. It contains the value, with which the addressed counter (as
identified by the associated CounterID AVP) shall be incremented or
decremented per chargeable time unit, except for the first chargeable time
unit. The chargeable time unit is defined by the EParameterE2 AVP in the
Current-Tariff AVP.
##### 7.1.4.2.18 CounterChangePerSubsequentChargeableTimeUnitAfterSwitch AVP
The _CounterChangePerSubsequentChargeableTimeUnitAfterSwitch_ AVP (AVP code
xxxx) is of type Integer32. It contains the value, with which the addressed
counter (as identified by the associated CounterID AVP) shall be incremented
or decremented per chargeable time unit (except for the first chargeable time
unit) after a tariff switch has occurred. In this case, the chargeable time
unit is defined by the EParameterE2 AVP in the Next-Tariff AVP.
##### 7.1.4.2.19 CounterExpiryDate AVP
The _CounterExpiryDate_ AVP (AVP code xxxx) is of type Time. It contains the
timestamp, at which the current value of the addressed counter (as identified
by the associated CounterID AVP) expires.
##### 7.1.4.2.20 CounterID AVP
The _CounterID_ AVP (AVP code xxxx) is of type Unsigned32. It is used to
address a specific counter, i.e. it identifies the counter. Therefore, the
CounterID shall be unique for each subscriber.
##### 7.1.4.2.21 CounterPrice AVP
The _CounterPrice_ AVP (AVP code xxxx) is of type Grouped. It is used in the
PriceResponse message, and it contains information on how the OCF shall modify
a specified counter of the subscriber in the ABMF.
The AVP has the following format:
> CounterPrice :: = \
>
> { CounterID }\ [ CounterType ]\ [ CounterChange ]\ [ SetCounterTo ]\ [
> CounterExpiryDate ]
##### 7.1.4.2.22 CounterTariff AVP
The _CounterTariff_ AVP (AVP code xxxx) is of type Grouped. It is used in the
TariffResponse message, and it contains information on how the OCF shall
modify a specified counter of the subscriber in the ABMF.
The AVP has the following format:
> CounterTariff :: = \
>
> { CounterID }\ [ CounterType ]\ [ CounterChangePerSession ]\ [
> CounterChangePerConsumedServiceUnit ]\ [
> CounterChangeForFirstChargeableTimeUnit ]\ [
> CounterChangePerSubsequentChargeableTimeUnit ]\ [
> CounterChangePerChargeableVolumeUnit ]\ [
> CounterChangeForFirstChargeableTimeUnitAfterSwitch ]\ [
> CounterChangePerSubsequentChargeableTimeUnitAfterSwitch ]\ [
> CounterChangePerChargeableVolumeUnitAfterSwitch ]\ [ CounterThreshold ]\ [
> SetCounterTo ]\ [ CounterExpiryDate ]
##### 7.1.4.2.23 CounterThreshold AVP
The _CounterThreshold_ AVP (AVP code xxxx) is of type Integer32. It contains a
threshold value for the addressed counter (identified by the associated
CounterID AVP). If the value of the specified counter reaches this threshold
value, all tariff information contained in the TRS message expires, and the
OCF shall sent a new TRQ message to the RF.
##### 7.1.4.2.24 CounterType AVP
The _CounterType_ AVP (AVP code xxxx) is of type Unsigned32. It contains an
operator specific value which characterizes the addressed counter (identified
by the associated CounterID AVP). The CounterType AVP is used only for
descriptive purposes. In contrast to the CounterID AVP, the CounterType AVP
may be not unique.
##### 7.1.4.2.25 CounterValue AVP
The CounterValue AVP (AVP code xxxx) is of type Integer32. It contains the
actual current value for the addressed counter (identified by the associated
CounterID AVP) as stored in the ABMF.
##### 7.1.4.2.26 CounterValueBegin AVP
The _CounterValueBegin_ AVP (AVP code xxxx) is of type Integer32. It contains
the value for the addressed counter (identified by the associated CounterID
AVP) at the beginning of the current online charging session.
##### 7.1.4.2.27 CounterValueChange AVP
The _CounterValueChange_ AVP (AVP code xxxx) is of type Integer32. It contains
the change of the value for the addressed counter (identified by the
associated CounterID AVP) as result of the current online charging session.
##### 7.1.4.2.28 CounterValueEnd AVP
The _CounterValueEnd_ AVP (AVP code xxxx) is of type Integer32. It contains
the value for the addressed counter (identified by the associated CounterID
AVP) at the end of the current online charging session.
##### 7.1.4.2.29 DestinationID AVP
The _DestinationID_ AVP (AVP code xxxx) is of type Grouped. It contains
information about the destination of the service usage in the network (e.g.
the called party in a telephony scenario). Multiple Destination AVPs can be
included in one rating request message (i.e. PRQ or TRQ), if the service is
directed towards multiple destinations (e.g. one SMS to multiple recipients).
The AVP has the following format:
> DestinationID :: = \
>
> { DestinationIDType }\ { DestinationIDData }
##### 7.1.4.2.30 DestinationIDData AVP
The _DestinationIDData_ AVP (AVP code xxxx) is of type UTF8String. Its
contents identify the destination to which the requested service is directed
(e.g. the called party in a telephony scenario, the recipient of an SMS, ...).
The DestinationIDType AVP defines which type of identifier is used.
If an APN is included in the DestinationIDData AVP, it should be noted that
3GPP TS 23.003 [203] defines the APN with a maximum length of 100 octets, but
3GPP TS 29.002 [204] uses a length of 63.
##### 7.1.4.2.31 DestinationIDType AVP
The _DestinationIDType_ AVP (AVP code xxxx) is of type Enumerated. It is used
inside the DestinationID AVP, and it indicates which kind of destination
information is contained in this DestinationIDData AVP.
The following values are currently defined for the DestinationIDType AVP:
0 Destination_Number
1 Destination_APN
2 Destination_URL
3 Destination_EmailAddress
4 Destination_PrivateID
##### 7.1.4.2.32 Void
##### 7.1.4.2.33 Void
##### 7.1.4.2.34 Void
##### 7.1.4.2.35 Void
##### 7.1.4.2.36 Void
##### 7.1.4.2.37 Void
##### 7.1.4.2.38 Void
##### 7.1.4.2.39 ExpiryTime AVP
The _ExpiryTime_ AVP (AVP code xxxx) is of type Unsigned32. It is used in the
TRS message. It contains the time period in seconds from the time included in
the ActualTime AVP of the corresponding TRQ message until all tariff
information contained in this TRS message expires.
The OCF shall start a timer whenever a TRQ message is sent (i.e. at the
timestamp indicated in the ActualTime AVP of the TRQ message). When this timer
reaches the value indicated in the ExpiryTime AVP of the TRS message that is
received in response, the OCF shall send a new TRQ message to the RF.
##### 7.1.4.2.40 Extension AVP
The _Extension_ AVP (AVP code xxxx) is of type Grouped. Its purpose is to
allow transmission of additional information elements not covered by this
document, in order to meet operator-specific requirements.
The format and the contents of this AVP are vendor- and/or operator-specific.
The definition of this AVP is out of scope for 3GPP standards.
Note that the format of the Extension AVP may be different in the various
messages of the Diameter Rating Application (i.e. PRQ, PRS, TRQ, TRS).
Editor\'s Note: Check if the notation \"* [AVP]\" can be used alternatively.
##### 7.1.4.2.41 FirstRequest AVP
The _FirstRequest_ AVP (AVP code xxxx) is of type Enumerated. Its purpose is
to indicate, whether this TariffRequest message is the first Tariff Request
message within this rating dialogue, i.e. this message \"initiates\" the
rating dialogue.
The following values are defined for the FirstRequest AVP:
0 Subsequent Request:
this is not the first Tariff Request message within this rating dialogue
1 First Request:
this is the first Tariff Request message in this rating dialogue
If the FirstRequest AVP is not included in a TariffRequest message, this shall
be interpreted as a FirstRequest AVP set to \"0\", i.e. the TariffRequest is
not the first request in this rating dialogue.
##### 7.1.4.2.42 ImpactOnCounter AVP
The _ImpactOnCounter_ AVP (AVP code xxxx) is of type Grouped. It contains
information on how the counter has been modified as a result of the current
online session. It is used by the CDF for inclusion in the CDRs (refer to
clause 7.2).
The AVP has the following format:
> ImpactOnCounter:: = \
>
> { CounterID }\ [ CounterValueBegin ]\ { CounterValueChange }\ [
> CounterValueEnd ]
##### 7.1.4.2.43 MinimalRequestedUnits AVP
The _MinimalRequestedUnits_ AVP (AVP code xxxx) is of type Unsigned32. It
defines the minimal number of service units the OCF intends to grant. This
information is being used by the RF to calculate the allowed units and to
reserve counters.
##### 7.1.4.2.44 Void
##### 7.1.4.2.45 MonetaryTariffAfterValidUnits AVP
The _MonetaryTariffAfterValidUnits_ AVP (AVP code xxxx) is of type Grouped. It
is used in the TariffResponse message, and it contains the tariff information
that is valid after all valid units (as indicated in the ValidUnits AVP) have
been used. This AVP may be used to optimize service availability in call
scenarios involving a limited number of valid units (ref. to clause 6.2.1.2.3
for details).
The MonetaryTariffAfterValidUnits AVP may only be included in a TRS message,
if the ValidUnits AVP is also included in the same message.
The MonetaryTariffAfterValidUnits AVP has the same structure as Next-Tariff
AVP.
##### 7.1.4.2.46 MonetaryQuota AVP
The MonetaryQuota AVP (AVP code xxxx) is of type Unsigned32. It defines the
amount of monetary units reserved by the OCF. The RF calculates the amount of
service units that can be consumed with this amount.
##### 7.1.4.2.47 Service-Rating AVP
The _Service-Rating_ AVP (AVP code xxxx) is of type Grouped. It is used in the
all messages once if single service is rated or multiple times if several
services are rated in a single transaction.
The AVP has the following format:
> Service-Rating :: = \
>
> { Service-Identifier }\ *[ DestinationID ]\ [ ServiceInformation ]\ [
> Extension ]\ [ Price ]\ [ BillingInfo ]\ [ TariffSwitchTime ]\ {
> MonetaryTariff }\ [ NextMonetaryTariff ]\ [ ExpiryTime ]\ [ ValidUnits ]\ [
> MonetaryTariffAfterValidUnits ]\ * [ Counter ]\ [ BasicPriceTimeStamp ]\ [
> BasicPrice ]\ * [ CounterPrice ]\ * [ CounterTariff ]\ * [ RequestedCounters
> ]\ [ RequestSubType ]\ [ ImpactonCounter ]\ [ RequestedUnits ]\ [
> ConsumedUnits ]\ [ ConsumedUnitsAfterTariffSwitch ]\ [ MonetaryQuota ]\ [
> MinimalRequestedUnits ]\ [ AllowedUnits ]
##### 7.1.4.2.48 Void
##### 7.1.4.2.49 Price AVP
The _Price_ AVP (AVP code xxxx) is of type Unsigned32. It contains the price
of the requested service.
##### 7.1.4.2.50 RequestedCounter AVP
The _RequestedCounter_ AVP (AVP code xxxx) is of type Unsigned32. An
individual RequestedCounter AVP contains the ID of a counter (ref.
7.1.4.2.19). Multiple RequestedCounter AVPs may be included in one TRS
message.
Only counters with CounterIDs included as a RequestedCounter AVP in a TRS
message shall be included by the OCF in subsequent TRQ messages within this
session. The list of RequestedCounters is valid until a modified list is
received by the OCF in a subsequent TRS message or until the online charging
session ends (i.e. if the list of requested counters does not change during
the online charging session, the RequesedCounter AVPs shall only be included
in the first TRS message during this online charging session).
##### 7.1.4.2.51 RequestedUnits AVP
The _RequestedUnits_ AVP (AVP code xxxx) is of type Unsigned32. It defines how
many service units the OCF intends to grant. This information is being used by
the RF to reserve counters.
##### 7.1.4.2.52 RequestSubType AVP
The _RequestSubType_ AVP (AVP code xxxx) is of type Enumerated. It is used
when class \"B\" RF is used (for details see clause 7.1.3.3).
The following values are currently defined for the RequestSubType AVP:
0 REQ_SUBTYPE_AOC
1 REQ_SUBTYPE_RESERVE
2 REQ_SUBTYPE_DEBIT
3 REQ_SUBTYPE_RELEASE
##### 7.1.4.2.53 Service-Identifier AVP
Refer to IETF RRC 4006 [402] for details.
##### 7.1.4.2.54 Service-Information AVP
The Service-Information AVP is defined in TS 32.299[50].
Note that the location information is included inside the Service-Information
AVP.
##### 7.1.4.2.55 SetCounterTo AVP
The _SetCounterTo_ AVP (AVP code xxxx) is of type Integer32. It contains a
value, to which the addressed counter (as identified by the associated
CounterID AVP) shall be set. This AVP may be used, e.g., to reset counters.
Using the SetCounterTo AVP, the RF can also trigger the creation of new
counters: if the addressed counter does not exist, the OCF shall create this
counter in the ABMF and initialize it with the value contained in the
SetCounterTo AVP.
##### 7.1.4.2.56 Subscription-Id AVP
The _Subscription-Id_ AVP is of type Grouped. It contains information which
identifies the subscriber, to which the online charging session applies (i.e.
the charged party).
The AVP has the following format:
> Subscription-Id :: = \
>
> { Subscription-Id-Type }\ { Subscription-Id-Data }
Refer to IETF RRC 4006 [402] for details.
##### 7.1.4.2.57 Subscription-Id-Data AVP
Refer to IETF RRC 4006 [402] for details.
##### 7.1.4.2.58 Subscription-Id-Type AVP
The _Subscription-Id-Type_ AVP is of type Enumerated. It is used inside the
Subscription-Id AVP, and it indicates which kind of subscriber information is
contained in this Subscription-Id AVP.
The following values are currently defined for the Subscription-Id-Type AVP:
0 END_USER_E164
1 END_USER_IMSI
2 END_USER_SIP_URI
3 END_USER_NAI
4 END_USER_PRIVATE
Refer to IETF RRC 4006 [402] for details.
##### 7.1.4.2.59 TariffSwitchTime AVP
The _TariffSwitchTime_ AVP (AVP code xxxx) is of type Unsigned32. It is used
in the TRS message. It contains the time period in seconds from the time
included in the ActualTime AVP of the corresponding TRQ message until the next
tariff switch occurs. A value \"0\" of the TariffSwitchTime AVP means, that
the tariff switch occurs immediately, i.e. the tariff information contained in
the NextMonetaryTariff AVP is valid immediately.
##### 7.1.4.2.60 ValidUnits AVP
The _ValidUnits_ AVP (AVP code xxxx) is of type Unsigned32. It is used in the
TRS message. It defines, for how many consumed service units the tariff
information in this TRS message is valid. After the number of units defined in
the ValidUnits AVP has been consumed by the subscriber, the OCF shall send a
new TRQ message to the RF. If available, the OCF may use the
MonetaryTariffAfterValidUnits AVP to charge service consumption after all
valid units have been consumed (ref. to clause 6.2.1.2.3 for details).
## 7.2 OCS CDRs
### 7.2.0 Introduction
Only general requirements on the generation and the contents of OCS CDRs are
described in the present document. The detailed implementation is vendor
specific and may be standardized in a later release.
### 7.2.1 General description
OCS CDRs are created in the CDF, which is always integrated in the OCF (i.e.
EBCF, SBCF). The generation of an OCS CDR is triggered by the first incoming
online charging request from the network. The record remains open during the
complete online charging session. It is closed after the final online charging
response is sent from the OCF to the network (refer to clause 6.2 for a
definition of online charging request and online charging response). Partial
records may be supported for some scenarios, e.g. for Packet Switched bearer
charging.
OCS CDRs are transferred immediately from the CDF to the CGF via the Ga
reference point. The CGF forwards CDRs via the Bo reference point to the
operator\'s post-processing systems.
The following types of OCS CDRs shall be supported:
\- in the scope of bearer level charging:
\- OCS CDR(s) for CS Charging
\- OCS CDR(s) for PS Charging
Note that bearer level charging also covers SMS.
\- in the scope of subsystem level charging:
\- OCS CDR(s) for IMS Charging
\- in the scope of service (event) level charging:
\- OCS CDR(s) for MMS Charging
\- OCS CDR(s) for LCS Charging
\- OCS CDR(s) for PoC Charging
\- OCS CDR(s) for MBMS Charging
\- OCS CDR(s) for SMS Charging
\- OCS CDR(s) for MMTel Charging
Additional CDRs may be supported for further services.
OCS records include only data from the incoming online charging requests and
internal data from the OCS. The following charging data are required in CDRs
(if applicable for the online charging session):
\- data relevant for charging from CAP messages (InitialDP,
ApplyChargingReport, ...)
\- data relevant for charging from Ro messages (Credit-Control-Request)
\- tariff information received from the RF
\- call / session charges
\- account balance at the end of the online charging session
\- counter values at the beginning and at the end of the online charging
session; optionally also the change of counter values that occurred due to the
specific online charging session.\ Note that inclusion of the change of
counter values is especially important, when multiple online charging sessions
can occur in parallel (e.g. when counters are shared among several
subscribers).
It is not required that the OCS collects further information from systems
outside the OCS just for inclusion in the records.
The CGF can be integrated with each of the online charging functions (SBCF,
EBCF), because all data necessary for the generation of OCS CDRs is already
available in the charging functions.
OCS CDRs files are transferred from the CGF to the operator\'s post-processing
systems via the Bo reference point (see [1], [52] for details).
## 7.3 Sy message types and formats
The messages and data types used on the Sy interface are specified in TS
29.219 [207].
###### ## Annex A (informative): Bibliography
**a) 3GPP charging specifications**
\- 3GPP TS 32.250: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Circuit Switched (CS) domain charging\".
\- 3GPP TS 32.276: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management; Voice
call service charging\".
\- 3GPP TS 32.295: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Charging Data Record (CDR) transfer\".
\- 3GPP TS 32.298: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Charging Data Record (CDR) parameter description\".
**b) Common 3GPP specifications**
**-**
**c) Other Domain and Service specific 3GPP / ETSI specifications**
**-**
**d) Relevant ITU Recommendations**
**-**
**e) Relevant IETF RFCs**
-
###### ## Annex B (informative): Rc reference point operator guidance
# B.1 Introduction
The present Annex describes the Rc reference point functionality, and its
message flows, syntax definition when Diameter Credit-Control Application
(DCCA) is used.
For guidance on how the Rc reference point can be realised by operators there
are two options presented on how to fulfil the Rc reference point. These are
based on the re-use of existing 3GPP Diameter applications: an option based on
the 3GPP Ro Diameter application which is same with DCCA and an option based
on the 3GPP Re Diameter application. The Ro-based alternative can be used when
no counters are in use or are managed by the RF (RF is class \"B\"). If
counters are managed by ABMF (RF is class \"A\"), the Re-based alternative is
the appropriate solution.
The Ro based approach is based on the Ro Diameter application as specified in
TS 32.299 [50]. The Re based approach is based on the Re Diameter application
as specified in clause 7.1.4.
# B.2 Reference point functionality
Rc reference point implements following operations to access the AMBF:
\- Immediate Account Debit operation
In this operation the OCF immediately debits monetary units from the
subscriber\'s account in the ABMF. If counters are managed by the ABMF, the
counters may be updated if needed.
\- Event based Account Reservation with Debit / Release operation
In this operation the OCF makes a reservation against the subscriber\'s
account. Upon service delivery completion the OCF makes the final debit. If
counters are managed by the ABMF, counter reservations may be made with the
monetary reservation and the counters are updated along with the final debit.
If the service delivery fails, the credit reservation is released.
\- Session based Account Reservation with Debit / Release operation
In this operation the OCF makes a reservation against the subscriber\'s
account. The OCF may update the reservation along the progress of the service
delivery. Upon service delivery completion the OCF makes the final debit. If
counters are managed by the ABMF, counters reservation may be made with the
monetary reservation and the counters are updated along with the associated
debit. If the service delivery fails, the credit reservation is released.
\- Account Refund operation
In this operation the OCF refund monetary units to the subscriber\'s account
in the ABMF. If counters are managed by the ABMF, the counters may be updated
if needed.
\- Account Balance Query operation
In this operation the OCF queries the subscriber\'s account in the ABMF. If
counters are managed by the ABMF, the counters\' values are returned along
with the balance.
# B.3 Rc reference point message flows
## B.3.1 Immediate Account Debit
The following figure B.3.1.1 describes an Immediate Account Debit scenario for
the case when the EBCF interacts with an ABMF over an Rc reference point.
Figure B.3.1.1: Immediate Account Debit
\- Step 1: The EBCF receives an online charging request for a certain
event/service.
\- Steps 2 through 5 relate to unit and price determination.
_\- Step_ _2(Optional): The EBCF requests account and counter information for
the subscriber from the ABMF.\ Only valid for Rating class \"A\"._
_\- Step 3(Optional): The EBCF receives account and counter information for
the subscriber from the ABMF.\ Only valid for Rating class \"A\"._
_\- Step 4 (Optional):_ _In case there is no existing subscriber\'s context,
the EBCF creates a new subscriber\'s context information. Otherwise, the EBCF
updates the existing subscriber\'s context and gets the list of active
services for the given subscriber. This Step only applies when correlation is
enabled._
\- Step 5: The EBCF determines the units and price of the requested service.
This step particularly involves the RF.
\- Step 6: The EBCF requests the ABMF to apply the (debit) operation the
account. Counters update is performed for Rating class \"A\".
\- Step 7: The EBCF receives the response to the (debit) request to apply the
account.
\- Step 8: The EBCF sends the appropriate online charging response.
## B.3.2 Event based Account Reservation with Debit or Release
The following figure B.3.2.1 describes an Event based Account Reservation with
Debit or Release scenario for the case when the EBCF interacts with an ABMF
over an Rc reference point.
Figure B.3.2.1: Event based Account Reservation with Debit or Release
\- Step 1: The EBCF receives an online charging request for a certain
event/service.
\- Steps 2 through 5 relate to unit and price determination.
-
_\- Step_ _2(Optional): The EBCF requests account and counter information for
the subscriber from the ABMF. Only valid for Rating class \"A\"._
_\- Step 3(Optional): The EBCF receives account and counter information for
the subscriber from the ABMF. Only valid for Rating class \"A\"._
_\- Step 4 (Optional): In case there is no existing subscriber\'s context, the
EBCF creates a new subscriber\'s context information. Otherwise, the EBCF
updates the existing subscriber\'s context and gets the list of active
services for the given subscriber (see note below). This Step only applies
when correlation is enabled._
\- Step 5: The EBCF determines the units and price of the requested service.
This step particularly involves the RF.
\- Step 6: The EBCF requests the ABMF to create reservations for the requested
service.
\- Step 7: The EBCF receives the response to the request to create
reservations for the requested service.
\- Step 8: The EBCF sends the appropriate online charging response.
\- Step 9: The service is delivered by the serving network.
\- Step 10: The serving network node sends an indication of service delivery
status to the EBCF.
\- Step 11: The EBCF requests the ABMF to debit (or \"release\" if the service
delivery status is unsuccessful) the reservations for the requested service.
An additional \"price\" operation may be required prior to this step if
indicated in step 10. Counters update is performed for Rating class \"A\".
\- Step 12: The ABMF responds to the account (debit or release) operation
request.
\- Step 13: The EBCF sends the appropriate online charging response.
## B.3.3 Session based Account Reservation with Debit or Release
The following figure B.3.3.1 describes a Session based Account Reservation
with Debit or Release scenario for the case when the SBCF interacts with an
ABMF over an Rc reference point.
Figure B.3.3.1: Session based Account Reservation with Debit or Release
\- Step 1: The SBCF receives an online charging request for a certain
event/service.
\- Steps 2 through 5 relate to unit and price determination.
_\- Step_ _2(Optional): The SBCF requests account and counter information for
the subscriber from the ABMF. Only valid for Rating class \"A\"._
_\- Step 3(Optional): The SBCF receives account and counter information for
the subscriber from the ABMF. Only valid for Rating class \"A\"._
_\- Step 4 (Optional): In case there is no existing subscriber\'s context, the
SBCF creates a new subscriber\'s context information. Otherwise, the SBCF
updates the existing subscriber\'s context and gets the list of active
services for the given subscriber (see note below). This Step only applies
when correlation is enabled._
\- Step 5: The SBCF determines the tariff for the requested service. This step
particularly involves the RF.
\- Step 6: The SBCF determines the granted units and price. The RF is involved
based on different circumstances and Rating class.
\- Step 7: The SBCF requests the ABMF to create reservations for the requested
service.
\- Step 8: The SBCF receives the response to the request to create
reservations for the requested service.
\- Step 9: The SBCF sends the appropriate online charging response, indicating
granted units.
\- Step 10: The granted units are used as the service is delivered by the
serving network or session parameters changed (e.g. QoS).
\- Steps 11 through 15 are optional and may repeat zero or more times.
\- Step 11: The serving network node sends an indication of the granted
units\' usage to the SBCF.
\- Step 12: The SBCF determines the granted units and price. The RF is
involved based on different circumstances and Rating class.
\- Step 13: The SBCF requests the ABMF to update the reservation for the
requested service.
\- Step 14: The SBCF receives the response to the request to update the
reservation.
\- Step 15: Assuming account balance status is successful the granted units
are acknowledged once again to the serving node in the network.
\- Step 16: The service session ends.
\- Step 17: The SBCF receives an online charging request.
\- Step 18: The SBCF performs final rating for the consumed session resources.
The RF is involved based on the Rating class.
\- Step 19: The SBCF requests the ABMF to debit the reservations for the
delivered service. The debit value may be equal or lower than reserved value.
Counters update is performed for Rating class \"A\".\ If the service delivery
fails the SBCF requests a reservation release.
\- Step 20: The ABMF responds to the debit or release operation request.
\- Step 21: The SBCF sends the appropriate online charging response.
## B.3.4 Account Refund
Figure B.3.4.1 describes a Refund message flow when OCF interacts with an ABMF
over an Rc reference point.
Figure B.3.4.1: Account Refund message flow
\- Step1: The EBCF receives an online charging request for a certain
event/service.
\- Step2: The OCF calculates monetary and counters refund information.\ This
step particularly involves the RF.
\- Step 3: The OCF requests for refund from the ABMF using Debit Unit Request
(Refund).
\- Step 4: The ABMF performs refund operation for the refunded service.
\- Step 5: The ABMF returns the result code to the OCF using Debit Unit
Response (Refund).
\- Step 6: The EBCF sends the appropriate online charging response.
## B.3.5 Balance Query
The following figure B.3.5.1 describes a Balance Query message flow when OCF
interacts with an ABMF over an Rc reference point.
**Figure B.3.5.1: Balance Query**
\- Step 1: The EBCF receives an online charging request for balance query.
\- Step 2: The OCF requests for balance query of the subscriber\'s account
from the ABMF using Debit Units Request (Balance Query).
\- Step 3: The ABMF retrieves the subscriber\'s account balance
\- Step 4: The ABMF returns the account balance information to the OCF using
Debit Units Response (Balance Query).
\- Step 5: The EBCF sends the appropriate online charging response.
# B.4 Rc operation mapping to Diameter
The Rc functional operations are mapped to the Diameter protocol operations as
follows. Debit Units Request is implemented in Credit-Control-Request (CCR)
and Debit Units Response in Credit-Control-Answer (CCA).
* * *
Rc operation Diameter operation Description Immediate Account Debit IEC The
Credit-Control process for events is controlled by the Debit Units
Request[Event]. Event based Account Debit with Reservation ECUR ECUR is used
for credit control sessions and uses the Debit Units Request [Initial,
Terminate]. Session based Account Debit with Reservation SCUR SCUR is used for
credit control sessions and uses the Debit Units Request [Initial, Update and
Terminate]. Account Refund IEC Debit Units Request[Event] to refund monetary
units to the subscriber\'s account. The Requested-Action AVP (RA) is set to
REFUND_ACCOUNT. Account Balance Query IEC Debit Units Request[Event] to query
the subscriber\'s account. The Requested-Action AVP (RA) is set to
BALANCE_CHECK.
* * *
# B.5 Rc Diameter AVP definitions
## B.5.0 Introduction
In order to provide a unified way for Rc implementation, the following
guidance of credit control format is used for Rc reference point
implementation.
NOTE: The AVP defnitions referred to in this clause are the same as in TS
32.299 [50], except when there is a specific definition.
## B.5.1 CCR message syntax definition for Rc
The CCR messages, indicated by the Command-Code field set to 272 is sent by
the OCF to the ABMF in order to request account credits for the request SBCF,
and EBCF.
The CCR message format is defined according to IETF RFC 4006 [402] as follows:
\ ::= \
**\ 
{ Origin-Host }
{ Origin-Realm }
{ Destination-Realm }
{ Auth-Application-Id }
{ Service-Context-Id }
{ CC-Request-Type }
{ CC-Request-Number }
[ Destination-Host ]
[ User-Name ]
~~[ CC-Sub-Session-Id ]~~
~~[ Acct-Multi-Session-Id ]~~
[ Origin-State-Id ]
[ Event-Timestamp ]
*[ Subscription-Id ]
~~[ Service-Identifier ]~~
[ Termination-Cause ]
~~[ Requested-Service-Unit ]~~
[ Requested-Action ]
~~*[ Used-Service-Unit ]~~
~~[ AoC-Request-Type ]~~
[ Multiple-Services-Indicator ]
*[ Multiple-Services-Credit-Control ]
~~*[ Service-Parameter-Info ]~~
~~[ CC-Correlation-Id ]~~
~~[ User-Equipment-Info ]~~
*[ Proxy-Info ]
~~*[ Route-Record ]~~
[ Service-Information ]
*[ AVP ]
In the Rc Account debit request, the AVP definitions refer to TS 32.299 [50].
## B.5.2 CCA message syntax definition for Rc
The CCA messages, indicated by the Command-Code field set to 272 is sent by
the ABMF to the OCF in order to reply to the Rc request.
The CCA message format is defined according to IETF RFC 4006 [402] as follows:
\ ::= \
\
{ Result-Code }
{ Origin-Host }
{ Origin-Realm }
{ Auth-Application-Id }
{ CC-Request-Type }
{ CC-Request-Number }
~~[ User-Name ]~~
[ CC-Session-Failover ]
~~[ CC-Sub-Session-Id ]~~
~~[ Acct-Multi-Session-Id ]~~
~~[ Origin-State-Id ]~~
~~[ Event-Timestamp ]~~
~~[ Granted-Service-Unit ]~~
*[ Multiple-Services-Credit-Control ]
[ Cost-Information]
[ Low-Balance-Indication ]
[ Remaining-Balance ]\ [ AB-Response ]
~~[ Final-Unit-Indication ]~~
~~[ Check-Balance-Result ]~~
[ Credit-Control-Failure-Handling ]
[ Direct-Debiting-Failure-Handling ]
~~[ Validity-Time]~~
*[ Redirect-Host]
[ Redirect-Host-Usage ]
[ Redirect-Max-Cache-Time ]
*[ Proxy-Info ]
~~*[ Route-Record ]~~
*[ Failed-AVP ]
[ Service-Information ]
*[ AVP ]
In the Rc Account Debit Answer, the AVP definitions refer to TS 32.299 [50].
# B.6 AVPs description for the Rc reference point
In Rc Account Balance Request and Account Balance Response message, the AVP
definitions are same as in TS 32.299 [50], except there is definition in the
present clause.
Detailed descriptions of AVPs that are used specifically for account balance
management are provided in the clauses below the table. The table contains all
AVPs used for the Diameter ABM application, in alphabetical order. For AVPs
that are just borrowed from other applications only the reference is provided
in the table below, and the detailed description is not repeated.
* * *
**AVP** **AVP Code** **Data Type** **Description / Reference**
[ AB-Response ] TBD Grouped clause B.6.1 * [ Acct-Balance ] TBD Group clause
B.6.2 [ Acct-Balance-Id ] TBD Unsigned64 clause B.6.3 [ Unit-Value ] Used as
defined in DCCA [402]. [ Value-Digits ] Used as defined in DCCA [402]. [
Exponent ] Used as defined in DCCA [402]. * [ Counter ] TBD Grouped Used as
defined in clause 7.1.4.2.9 { CounterID } TBD Unsigned32 Used as defined in
clause 7.1.4.2.20 [ CounterValue ] TBD Integer32 Used as defined in clause
7.1.4.2.25 [ CounterExpiryDate ] TBD Time Used as defined in clause 7.1.4.2.19
* * *
## B.6.1 AB-Response AVP
The _AB-Response_ AVP (AVP code XXXX) is of type Grouped. It contains
information related to present information and counters information which
stored in the ABMF.
The AVP has the following format:
> AB-Response:: = \\ \ * [ Acct-Balance ]\ * [ Counter ]
## B.6.2 Acct-Balance AVP
The _Acct-Balance_ AVP (AVP code XXXX) is of type Grouped. It contains
information related to return specific account balance when a subscriber has
multiple accounts. A subscriber may have multiple accounts assigned by
operator, e.g. normal account, present account, etc.
The AVP has the following format:
> Acct-Balance:: = \\ \ [ Acct-Balance-Id ]\ [ Unit-Value ]\
> [ Value-Digits ]\ [ Exponent ]
## B.6.3 Acct-Balance-Id AVP
The _Acct-Balance-Id_ AVP (AVP code XXXX) is of type Unsigned64. It uniquely
identifies the account balance within the ABMF.
#