# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; Test management Integration Reference
Point (IRP), as identified below:
32.321: \"Test management Integration Reference Point (IRP); Requirements\"
32.322: \"Test management Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information
Service (IS)\"
**32.326: \"Test management Integration Reference Point (IRP): Solution Set
definitions (SS)\"**
A 3G telecommunication network is composed of a multitude of different Network
Elements (NE). For a successful operation of the network the operator must be
provided with mechanisms allowing him to manage the network. These management
activities can be grouped into several areas: configuration management, fault
management, performance management, accounting management and security
management.
A management function assisting in different high level management areas such
as fault management and performance management is test management. The purpose
of testing is to get information about the functionality and performance of
the 3G managed network subject to the test.
The present document is part of a TS-family defining the Telecommunication
Management (TM) of 3G systems.\ The TM principles are described in 3GPP TS
32.101 [2]. The TM architecture is described in 3GPP TS 32.102 [3].\ The other
specifications define the interface (Itf-N) between the managing system
(manager), which is in general the Network Manager (NM) and the managed system
(agent), which is either an Element Manager (EM) or the managed NE itself. The
Itf-N is composed of a number of integration reference points (IRPs) defining
the information in the agent that is visible for the manager, the operations
that the manager may perform on this information and the notifications that
are sent from the agent to the manager. One of these IRPs is the Test
Management IRP.
Each IRP is specified by the requirements part, the IS part and SS part.
# 1 Scope
The present document contains the Solution Sets for the IRP whose semantics is
specified in Test management IRP IS (3GPP TS 32.322 [5]).
This Solution Set specification is related to 3GPP TS 32.322 V12.0.X.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.150: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Concept and definitions\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.322: \"Telecommunication management; Test management
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.300: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Name convention for Managed Objects\".
[7] W3C SOAP 1.1 specification (http://www.w3.org/TR/2000/NOTE-SOAP-20000508/)
[8] W3C XPath 1.0 specification (http://www.w3.org/TR/1999/REC-xpath-19991116)
[9] W3C WSDL 1.1 specification (http://www.w3.org/TR/2001/NOTE-wsdl-20010315)
[10] W3C SOAP 1.2 specification (http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-part1/)
[11] 3GPP TS 32.306: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP): Solution Set (SS)
definitions\".
[12] 3GPP TS 32.312: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Integration
Reference Point (IRP) management; Information Service (IS)\".
[13] 3GPP TS 32.336: \"Telecommunication management; Notification Log (NL)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Solution Set (SS) definitions\".
[14] 3GPP TS 32.331: \"Telecommunication management; Notification Log (NL)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements\".
[15] Object Management Group 98 (November 1998): \"_Notification Service:
Joint Revised Submission OMG TC Document telecom/98-11-01_ \".
http://www.omg.org/technology/documents/
[16] G CORBA Services (November 1996): \"Common Object Services
Specification\" (clause 4 contains the Event Service specification).
http://www.omg.org/technology/documents/
[17] 3GPP TS 32.311: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Integration
Reference Point (IRP) management; Requirements\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1], 3GPP TS 32.101 [2], 3GPP TS 32.102 [3], 3GPP TS 32.150 [4],
3GPP TS 32.331 [14] and 3GPP TS 32.322 [5] apply. A term defined in the
present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if
any, in TR 21.905 [1].
**Test Category:** one or more tests sharing a common purpose and similar
characteristics
**Tester Object (TO):** managed object that is instantiated for the purpose of
monitoring and controlling a test invocation\ Each test invocation has one
associated TO. TOs are created and deleted by managed objects with TARR
functionality.
**IRP document version number string:**
The IRP document version number (sometimes called \"IRP version\" or \"version
number\") string is used to identify the present document. The definition of
\"IRP document version number string\" in 3GPP TS 32.311 [17] provides the
rule to derive such a string.
This string is returned in get_test_management_IRP_versions method and is
carried in the first field of the notification header of all notifications
related to Test Management IRP. This string is also returned in
get_notification_categories method of the Notification IRPAgent, in case that
IRPAgent is responsible for emitting notifications related to Test Management
IRP.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1], in 3GPP TS 32.101 [2], 3GPP TS 32.102 [3], 3GPP TS 32.150 [4], and the
following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
CORBA Common Object Request Broker Architecture
EM Element Manager
GSM Global System for Mobile communications
IDL Interface Definition Language
IRP Integration Reference Point
IOC Information Object Class
IS Information Service
NE Network Element
NL Notification Log
NM Network Manager
OMG Object Management Group
QoS Quality of Service
SS Solution Set
TARR Test Action Request Receiver
TM Test Management
TMIRP Test Management IRP
TO Tester Object
XML eXtensible Markup Language
# 4 Solution Set Definitions
This specification defines the following 3GPP Test management IRP Solution Set
Definitions:
Annex A provides the CORBA Solution Set.\ Annex B provides the XML
Definitions.\ Annex C provides the SOAP Solution Set.
###### ## Annex A (normative): CORBA Solution Set
This annex contains the CORBA Solution Set for the IRP whose semantics is
specified in Test management IRP: Information Service (TS 32.322 [5]).
# A.1 Architectural features
The overall architectural feature of Test Management IRP is specified in 3GPP
TS 32.322 [5]. This clause specifies features that are specific to the CORBA
SS.
## A.1.1 Syntax for Distinguished Names
The syntax of a Distinguished Name is defined in 3GPP TS 32.300 [6].
## A.1.2 Notification Services
In implementations of CORBA SS, IRPAgent conveys Test Management information
to IRPManager via OMG Notification Service (OMG Notification Service [15]).
OMG Event Service [16] provides event routing and distribution capabilities.
OMG Notification Service provides, in addition to Event Service, event
filtering and Quality of Service (QoS) as well.
A necessary and sufficient sub set of OMG Notification Services shall be used
to support TestManagementIRPNotifications notifications as specified in 3GPP
TS 32.322 [5].
## A.1.3 Push and Pull Style
OMG Notification Service defines two styles of interaction. One is called push
style. In this style, IRPAgent pushes notifications to IRPManager as soon as
they are available. The other is called pull style. In this style, IRPAgent
keeps the notifications till IRPManager requests for them.
The Notification CORBA SS in 3GPP TS 32.306 [11] specifies that support of
Push style is Mandatory (M) and that support of Pull style is Optional (O).
## A.1.4 Support multiple notifications in one push operation
For efficiency reasons, IRPAgent may send multiple notifications using one
single push operation. To pack multiple notifications into one push operation,
IRPAgent may wait and not invoke the push operation as soon as notifications
are available. To avoid IRPAgent to wait for an extended period of time that
is objectionable to IRPManager, IRPAgent shall implement an IRPAgent wide
timer configurable by administrator. On expiration of this timer, IRPAgent
shall invoke push if there is at least one notification to be conveyed to
IRPManager. This timer is re-started after each push invocation.
## A.1.5 TestManagementIRPNotification Interface
OMG CORBA Notification push operation is used to realise the notification of
TestManagementIRPNotifications. All the notifications in this interface are
implemented using this push_structured_event method.
### A.1.5.1 Method push (M)
module CosNotifyComm {
> ...
>
> Interface SequencePushConsumer : NotifyPublish {
>
> void push_structured_events(
>
> in CosNotification::EventBatch notifications)
>
> raises( CosEventComm::Disconnected);
>
> ...
>
> }; // SequencePushConsumer
>
> ...
}; // CosNotifyComm
NOTE 1: The push_structured_events method takes an input parameter of type
EventBatch as defined in the OMG CosNotification module (OMG Notification
Service [15]). This data type is the same as a sequence of Structured Events.
Upon invocation, this parameter will contain a sequence of Structured Events
being delivered to IRPManager by IRPAgent to which it is connected.
NOTE 2: The maximum number of events that will be transmitted within a single
invocation of this operation is controlled by IRPAgent wide configuration
parameter.
NOTE 3: The amount of time the supplier (IRPAgent) of a sequence of Structured
Events will accumulate individual events into the sequence before invoking
this operation is controlled by IRPAgent wide configuration parameter as well.
NOTE 4: IRPAgent may push EventBatch with only one Structured Event.
# A.2 Mapping
## A.2.1 Operation and Notification mapping
The Test Management IRP IS in 3GPP TS 32.322 [5] defines semantics of
operation and notification visible across the Test Management IRP. Table A.2.1
indicates mapping of these operations and notifications to their equivalents
defined in the present SS.
Table A.2.1: Mapping from IS Operations and Notification to SS equivalents
* * *
IS Operations/ notification TS 32.322 [5] SS Method Qualifier
initiateTests initiate_tests M
terminateTests terminate_tests M
monitorTest monitor_test M
getIRPVersion get_test_management_IRP_versions M
getOperationProfile (see note) get_test_management_IRP_operation_profile O
getNotificationProfile (see note) get_test_management_IRP_notification_profile
O
notifyTestResult push_structured_event (See subclause A.1.5) M
NOTE: This operation is of ManagedGenericIRP IOC specified in 3GPP TS 32.312
[12].\  
The TestManagementIRP IOC of [5] inherits from it.
* * *
## A.2.2 Operation parameter mapping
The Test Management IRP IS in 3GPP TS 32.322 [5] defines semantics of
parameters carried in operations across the Test Management IRP. The tables
below show the mapping of these parameters, as per operation, to their
equivalents defined in this SS.
Table A.2.2.1: Mapping from IS initiateTests parameters to SS equivalents
+-------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS Method parameter | Qualifier | +-------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | testInvocationInitiator | T | M | | | estManagementIRPConstDefs | | | | ::TestInvocationInitiator | | | | te | | | | st_invocation_initiator | | +-------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | toBeInitiatedTests | TestManagementIRPConstD | M | | | efs::ToBeInitiatedTestSeq | | | | to\ | | | | _be_initiated_test_seq | | +-------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | response | TestManagementIRPConstDe | M | | | fs::InitiateTestsResponse | | | | | | | | Exceptions: | | | | | | | | > InitiateTests, | | | | > | | | | > ManagedGenericIRPSyste | | | | m::ParameterNotSupported, | | | | > | | | | > ManagedGenericIR | | | | PSystem::InvalidParameter | | +-------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
Table A.2.2.2: Mapping from IS terminateTests parameters to SS equivalents
+------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS Method parameter | Qualifier | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | toBeTerminatedTests | TestManagementIRPConstDe | M | | | fs::ToBeTerminatedTestSeq | | | | to_ | | | | be_terminated_test_seq | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | response | TestManagementIRPConstDef | M | | | s::TerminateTestsResponse | | | | | | | | Exceptions: | | | | | | | | > TerminateTests, | | | | > | | | | > ManagedGenericIRPSyste | | | | m::OperationNotSupported, | | | | > | | | | > ManagedGenericIRPSyste | | | | m::ParameterNotSupported, | | | | > | | | | > ManagedGenericIR | | | | PSystem::InvalidParameter | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
Table A.2.2.3: Mapping from IS monitorTest parameters to SS equivalents
+--------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS Method parameter | Qualifier | +--------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | toBeMonitoredTO | TestManagementIRPC | M | | | onstDefs::ToBeMonitoredTO | | | | to_be_monitored_TO | | +--------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | monitoredAttributeValues | TestManagementI | M | | | RPConstDefs::TOAttributes | | | | tO_attributes | | +--------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | error | ManagedGe | M | | | nericIRPConstDefs::Signal | | | | | | | | Exceptions: | | | | | | | | > MonitorTest, | | | | > | | | | > ManagedGenericIRPSyste | | | | m::OperationNotSupported, | | | | > | | | | > ManagedGenericIRPSyste | | | | m::ParameterNotSupported, | | | | > | | | | > ManagedGenericIR | | | | PSystem::InvalidParameter | | +--------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
## A.2.3 Notification parameter mapping
The Test Management IRP IS in 3GPP TS 32.322 [5] defines semantics of
parameters carried in notifications. The following table indicates the mapping
of these parameters to their OMG CORBA Structured Event (defined in OMG
Notification Service [15]) equivalents. The composition of OMG Structured
Event, as defined in the OMG Notification Service [15], is:
Header
Fixed Header
domain_name
type_name
event_name
Variable Header
Body
filterable_body_fields
remaining_body
Table A.2.3 lists in the second column all OMG Structured Event attributes.
The first column identifies notification parameters defined in 3GPP TS 32.322
[5], Test Management: Information Service (IS).
Table A.2.3: Mapping for notifyTestResult
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | IS Parameters | OMG CORBA | Qualifier | Comment | | | Structured | | | | | Event attribute | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | There is no | domain_name | M | It carries the | | corresponding | | | IRP document | | IS parameter. | | | version number | | | | | string. See | | | | | subclause 3.1. | | | | | | | | | | It indicates | | | | | the syntax and | | | | | semantics of | | | | | the Structured | | | | | Event as | | | | | defined by the | | | | | present | | | | | document. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | n | type_name | M | This is the | | otificationType | | | NOTIFY_T | | | | | M_TEST_RESULT | | | | | of module of | | | | | TestManageme | | | | | ntIRPConstDefs. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | There is no | event_name | M | It carries no | | corresponding | | | information. | | IS parameter. | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | There is no | Variable Header | | | | corresponding | | | | | IS parameter. | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | objectClass, | One NV pair of | M | NV stands for | | objectInstance | filterable_ | | name-value | | | body_fields | | pair. Order | | | | | arrangement of | | | | | NV pairs is not | | | | | significant. | | | | | The name of | | | | | NV-pair is | | | | | always encoded | | | | | in string. | | | | | | | | | | Name of this NV | | | | | pair is the | | | | | MANAGED_O | | | | | BJECT_INSTANCE | | | | | of interface | | | | | Att | | | | | ributeNameValue | | | | | of module | | | | | Notificati | | | | | onIRPConstDefs. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | string. See | | | | | corresponding | | | | | table in | | | | | TS 32.306 | | | | | [11] | | | | | Notification | | | | | IRP: Solution | | | | | Set (SS) | | | | | definitions. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | notificationId | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | remaining_body | | is the | | | | | N | | | | | OTIFICATION_ID | | | | | of interface | | | | | Att | | | | | ributeNameValue | | | | | of module | | | | | Notificati | | | | | onIRPConstDefs. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a long. | | | | | See | | | | | corresponding | | | | | table in | | | | | T | | | | | S 32.306 [11] | | | | | Notification | | | | | IRP: Solution | | | | | Set (SS) | | | | | definitions. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | eventTime | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | filterable_ | | is the | | | body_fields | | EVENT_TIME of | | | | | interface | | | | | Att | | | | | ributeNameValue | | | | | of module | | | | | Notificati | | | | | onIRPConstDefs. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is | | | | | IRPTime. See | | | | | corresponding | | | | | table in | | | | | T | | | | | S 32.306 [11] | | | | | Notification | | | | | IRP: Solution | | | | | Set (SS) | | | | | definitions. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | systemDN | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | filterable_ | | is the | | | body_fields | | SYSTEM_DN of | | | | | interface | | | | | Att | | | | | ributeNameValue | | | | | of module | | | | | Notificati | | | | | onIRPConstDefs. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | string. See | | | | | corresponding | | | | | table in | | | | | T | | | | | S 32.306 [11] | | | | | Notification | | | | | IRP: Solution | | | | | Set (SS) | | | | | definitions. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | testInvo | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | cationInitiator | filterable | | is the | | | _body_fields | | TEST_INVOCA | | | | | TION_INITIATOR | | | | | of module | | | | | TestManageme | | | | | ntIRPConstDefs. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | string. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | testOutcome | One NV pair of | O | Name of NV pair | | | remaining_body | | is the | | | | | TEST_OUTCOME | | | | | of module | | | | | TestManageme | | | | | ntIRPConstDefs. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a enum | | | | | {Inconclusive, | | | | | Pass, Fail, | | | | | TimeOut, | | | | | Premat | | | | | ureTermination} | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | mORT | One NV pair of | O | Name of NV pair | | | remaining_body | | is the MORT of | | | | | module | | | | | TestManageme | | | | | ntIRPConstDefs. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | string. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | propos | One NV pair of | O | Name of NV pair | | edRepairActions | remaining_body | | is the | | | | | PROPOSED_ | | | | | REPAIR_ACTIONS | | | | | of module | | | | | TestManageme | | | | | ntIRPConstDefs. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | string. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | additi | One NV pair of | O | Name of NV pair | | onalInformation | remaining_body | | is the | | | | | ADDITION | | | | | AL_INFORMATION | | | | | of module | | | | | TestManageme | | | | | ntIRPConstDefs. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | string. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | fileReference | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | remaining_body | | is the | | | | (Note 1) | FILE_REFERENCE | | | | | of module | | | | | TestManageme | | | | | ntIRPConstDefs. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | string. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | fileExpiryDate | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | remaining_body | | is the | | | | (Note 2) | FIL | | | | | E_EXPIRY_DATE | | | | | of module | | | | | TestManageme | | | | | ntIRPConstDefs. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | string. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | Note 1: It | | | | | shall contain | | | | | no information | | | | | or be absent if | | | | | there is no | | | | | test result | | | | | captured in a | | | | | file.\ | | | | | It shall | | | | | contain | | | | | information if | | | | | the test | | | | | results are | | | | | captured in a | | | | | file. | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: It | | | | | shall contain | | | | | no information | | | | | or be absent if | | | | | fileReference | | | | | carries no | | | | | information or | | | | | absent.\ | | | | | Otherwise, it | | | | | shall contain a | | | | | valid future | | | | | date and time. | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+
# A.3 Solution Set definitions
## A.3.1 IDL definition structure
Clause A.3.2 defines the constants and types used by the Test management IRP.
Clause A.3.3 defines the operations which are performed by the Test management
IRP agent.
Clause A.3.4 defines the notifications which are emitted by the Test
management IRP agent.
## A.3.2 IDL specification \"TestManagementIRPConstDefs.idl\"
// File: TestManagementIRPConstDefs.idl
#ifndef _TESTMANAGEMENTIRPCONSTDEFS_IDL_
#define _TESTMANAGEMENTIRPCONSTDEFS_IDL_
#include \"CosNotification.idl\"
#include \"ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs.idl\"
// This statement must appear after all include statements
#pragma prefix \"3gppsa5.org\"
/* ## Module: TestManagementIRPConstDefs
This module contains commonly used definitions for Test Management IRP
======================================================================
*/
module TestManagementIRPConstDefs
{
/*
This defines the notification type of this Test Management
IRP.
*/
const string NOTIFY_TM_TEST_RESULT = \"x1\";
/*
This enum defines the test state
*/
enum TestStateType {
NotInitialized,
Idle,
Initializing,
Testing,
Terminating,
Disabled
};
/*
This enum defines the test outcome
*/
enum TestOutcomeType {
Inconclusive,
Pass,
Fail,
TimeOut,
PrematureTermination
};
/*
This block defines notification attributes of this IRP.
These attribute values should not clash with those used
in Notification header (see IDL of Notification IRP).
*/
interface AttributeNameValue
{
const string TEST_INVOCATION_INITIATOR = \"f\";
const string TEST_INVOCATION_ID = \"g\";
const string TEST_ACTUAL_START_TIME = \"h\";
const string TEST_ACTUAL_STOP_TIME = \"i\";
const string TEST_OUTCOME = \"j\";
const string MORT = \"k\";
const string PROPOSED_REPAIR_ACTIONS = \"l\";
const string ADDITIONAL_INFORMATION = \"m\";
const string FILE_REFERENCE = \"n\";
const string FILE_EXPIRY_DATE = \"o\";
const string TEST_SOURCE_ADDRESS = \"p\";
const string TEST_DESTINATION_ADDRESS = \"q\";
const string TEST_LOOPBACK_ADDRESS = \"r\";
const string TEST_PACKET_INFORMATION = \"s\";
};
typedef string TestInvocationInitiator;
typedef string ToBeMonitoredTO;
typedef CosNotification::PropertySeq NVPairs;
/*
Define a seq of to-be-initiated-test
*/
struct ToBeInitiatedTest
{
unsigned long max_testing_state_duration;//seconds;0->no limit
string toBeTestedMORT; //MORT DN
string tOClass; //Tester object class
string tODN; //Tester object DN
NVPairs tONVPair; //Tester object attributes in NV pairs
};
typedef sequence \ ToBeInitiatedTestSeq;
/*
Define the structure returned by initiate_tests
*/
struct InitiateTestsResponseElement
{
// If failureReason is NULL, the test is initiated successfully and
// testInvocationId contains the invocation id. In case the tester object name
is not
// provided in the request, it shall be carried by testerObjectDN. In case the
tester
// object name is provided in the request tODN shall be NULL.
// Else, the test initiation fails and failureReason contains
// the failure reason and testInvocationId contains garbage.
string failureReason;
string testInvocationId;
string tODN;
};
typedef sequence \ InitiateTestsResponse;
/*
Define a seq of to-be-terminated-test
*/
typedef string TestInvocationId;
typedef sequence \ ToBeTerminatedTestSeq;
/*
Define the structure returned by terminate_tests
*/
struct TerminateTestsResponseElement
{
// If failureReason is NULL, the test has terminated successfully and
// testInvocationId identifies the terminated invocation.
// Else, the test termination fails and failureReason contains
// the failure reason and testInvocationId contains garbage.
string failureReason;
string testInvocationId;
};
typedef sequence \ TerminateTestsResponse;
/*
Define the structure of a TOAttributes.
*/
struct TOAttributes
{
TestStateType testState;
TestOutcomeType testOutcome;
NVPairs attributesInNVPairs;
};
};
#endif // _TESTMANAGEMENTIRPCONSTDEFS_IDL_
## A.3.3 IDL specification \"TestManagementIRPSystem.idl\"
// File: TestManagementIRPSystem.idl
#ifndef _TESTMANAGEMENTIRPSYSTEM_IDL_
#define _TESTMANAGEMENTIRPSYSTEM_IDL_
#include \"TestManagementIRPConstDefs.idl\"
#include \"ManagedGenericIRPSystem.idl\"
// This statement must appear after all include statements
#pragma prefix \"3gppsa5.org\"
/* ## Module: TestManagementIRPSystem
This module contains the specification of all methods of TestManagement IRP
Agent.
================================================================
*/
module TestManagementIRPSystem
{
/*
System may fail to complete an operation. System can provide reason
to qualify the failed reason. The semantics carried in reason
is outside the scope of this IRP.
*/
exception GetTestManagementIRPVersions { string reason; };
exception GetTestManagementIRPOperationsProfile { string reason; };
exception GetTestManagementIRPNotificationProfile { string reason; };
exception InitiateTests { string reason; };
exception TerminateTests { string reason; };
exception MonitorTest { string reason; };
interface TestManagementIRP
{
/*
Return the list of all supported TestManagement IRP versions.
*/
ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::VersionNumberSet
get_Test_Management_IRP_versions (
)
raises (GetTestManagementIRPVersions);
/*
Return the list of all supported operations and their supported
parameters for a specific TestManagement IRP version.
*/
ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::MethodList
get_Test_Management_IRP_operations_profile (
in ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::VersionNumber
test_management_irp_version
)
raises (GetTestManagementIRPOperationsProfile,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::OperationNotSupported,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::InvalidParameter);
/*
Return the list of all supported notifications and their supported
parameters for a specific TestManagement IRP version.
*/
ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::MethodList
get_Test_Management_IRP_notification_profile (
in ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::VersionNumber
test_management_irp_version
)
raises (GetTestManagementIRPNotificationProfile,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::OperationNotSupported,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::InvalidParameter);
/*
Request to initiate tests.
*/
TestManagementIRPConstDefs::InitiateTestsResponse
initiate_tests (
in TestManagementIRPConstDefs::TestInvocationInitiator
test_invocation_initiator,
in TestManagementIRPConstDefs::ToBeInitiatedTestSeq
to_be_initiated_test_seq
)
raises (InitiateTests,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::InvalidParameter);
/*
Request to terminate tests.
*/
TestManagementIRPConstDefs::TerminateTestsResponse
terminate_tests (
in TestManagementIRPConstDefs::ToBeTerminatedTestSeq
to_be_terminated_test_seq
)
raises (TerminateTests,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::InvalidParameter);
/*
Request test info (to monitor a test).
*/
ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::Signal monitor_test (
in TestManagementIRPConstDefs::ToBeMonitoredTO
to_be_monitored_TO,
out TestManagementIRPConstDefs::TOAttributes tO_attributes
)
raises (MonitorTest,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::InvalidParameter);
};
};
#endif // _TESTMANAGEMENTIRPSYSTEM_IDL_
## A.3.4 IDL specification \"TestManagementIRPNotifications.idl\"
// File: TestManagementIRPNotifications.idl
#ifndef _TESTMANAGEMENTIRPNOTIFICATIONS_IDL
#define _TESTMANAGEMENTIRPNOTIFICATIONS_IDL
#include \"TestManagementIRPConstDefs.idl\"
#include \"NotificationIRPConstDefs.idl\"
#include \"NotificationIRPNotifications.idl\"
// This statement must appear after all include statements
#pragma prefix \"3gppsa5.org\"
/* ## Module: TestManagementIRPNotifications
This module contains the specification of all notifications of Test Management
IRP Agent.
============================================================================
*/
module TestManagementIRPNotificationsfDefs
{
/**
* Constant definitions for the notifyTestResult notification
*/
interface notifyTestResult: NotificationIRPNotifications::Notify
{
const string EVENT_TYPE = \"notifyTestResult\";
/**
* This constant defines the name of the period property,
* which is transported in the filterable_body fields.
* The data type for the value of this property
* is TestManagementIRPConstDefs:: TestInvocationInitiator.
*/
const string TEST_INVOCATION_INITIATOR =
TestManagementIRPConstDefs::AttributeNameValue::TEST_INVOCATION_INITIATOR;
/*
* This constant defines the name of the
* TestInvocationId property,
* which is transported in the remaining body
* fields.
* The data type for the value of this property
* is TestManagementIRPConstDefs:: TestInvocationId.
*/
const string TEST_INVOCATION_ID =
TestManagementIRPConstDefs::AttributeNameValue::TEST_INVOCATION_ID;
/*
* This constant defines the name of the
* TestActualStartTime property,
* which is transported in the remaining_body
* fields.
* The data type for the value of this property
* is TestManagementIRPConstDefs:: TestActualStartTime.
*/
const string TEST_ACTUAL_START_TIME =
TestManagementIRPConstDefs::AttributeNameValue::TEST_ACTUAL_START_TIME;
/*
* This constant defines the name of the
* TestActualStopTime property,
* which is transported in the remaining_body
* fields.
* The data type for the value of this property
* is TestManagementIRPConstDefs:: TestActualStopTime.
*/
const string TEST_ACTUAL_STOP_TIME =
TestManagementIRPConstDefs::AttributeNameValue::TEST_ACTUAL_STOP_TIME;
/*
* This constant defines the name of the
* testOutcome property,
* which is transported in the remaining_body
* fields.
* The data type for the value of this property
* is TestManagementIRPConstDefs:: testOutcome.
*/
const string TEST_OUTCOME =
TestManagementIRPConstDefs::AttributeNameValue::TEST_OUTCOME;
/*
* This constant defines the name of the
* MORT property,
* which is transported in the remaining_body
* fields.
* The data type for the value of this property
* is TestManagementIRPConstDefs::MORT.
*/
const string MORT = TestManagementIRPConstDefs::AttributeNameValue::MORT;
/*
* This constant defines the name of the
* ProposedRepairActions property,
* which is transported in the remaining_body
* fields.
* The data type for the value of this property
* is TestManagementIRPConstDefs::ProposedRepairActions.
*/
const string PROPOSED_REPAIR_ACTIONS =
TestManagementIRPConstDefs::AttributeNameValue::PROPOSED_REPAIR_ACTIONS;
/*
* This constant defines the name of the
* AdditionalInformation property,
* which is transported in the remaining_body
* fields.
* The data type for the value of this property
* is TestManagementIRPConstDefs:: AdditionalInformation.
*/
const string ADDITIONAL_INFORMATION =
TestManagementIRPConstDefs::AttributeNameValue::ADDITIONAL_INFORMATION;
/*
* This constant defines the name of the
* FileReference property,
* which is transported in the remaining_body
* fields.
* The data type for the value of this property
* is TestManagementIRPConstDefs:: FdditionalInformation.
*/
const string FILE_REFERENCE =
TestManagementIRPConstDefs::AttributeNameValue::FILE_REFERENCE;
/*
* This constant defines the name of the
* FileExpiryDate property,
* which is transported in the remaining_body
* fields.
* The data type for the value of this property
* is TestManagementIRPConstDefs:: FileExpiryDate.
*/
const string FILE_EXPIRY_DATE =
TestManagementIRPConstDefs::AttributeNameValue::FILE_EXPIRY_DATE;
};
};
#endif // _TESTMANAGEMENTIRPNOTIFICATIONS_IDL_
###### ## Annex B (normative): XML Definitions
This annex contains the XML Definitions for the Test management Integration
Reference Point (Test management IRP) as it applies to Itf-N, in accordance
with Test management IRP IS definitions [5] as well as Notification Log IRP
XML Definitions [13].
Apart from being used for the Notification Log, the XML definitions for Test
management IRP notifications are also used by the Test management IRP SOAP SS.
# B.1 Architectural Features
The overall architectural feature of Test management IRP is specified in 3G TS
32.322 [5]. This clause specifies features that are specific to the XML
definitions.
## B.1.1 Syntax for Distinguished Names
The syntax of a Distinguished Name is defined in 3GPP TS 32.300 [6].
## B.1.2 Notification Services
This annex defines the XML syntax of Test management IRP notifications that is
to be used for the Test management IRP SOAP Solution Set and in conjunction
with Notification Log IRP XML Definitions for Notification Log IRP XML Data
File and the NL IRP XML Notification Format [13].
## B.1.3 IOC Definitions
This annex defines the XML syntax for the IOC definitions of the Test
management IRP IS [5], which are used by the XML definitions for the Test
management IRP notifications and the Test management IRP IS operations.
# B.2 Mapping
Not present in the current version of this specification.
# B.3 Solution Set definitions
## B.3.1 XML definition structure
Clause B.3.2 provides a graphical representation of the XML elements.
Clause B.3.3 provides XML definitions of Test management IRP notifications as
defined in [5]. These definitions are to be used for the Test management IRP
SOAP Solution Set and in conjunction with Notification Log IRP XML Definitions
for Notification Log IRP XML Data File and the NL IRP XML Notification Format
[13], as well as considerations for NL IRP XML File Name Conventions defined
therein.
## B.3.2 Graphical Representation
{width="6.542361111111111in" height="3.8131944444444446in"}
Figure B.3.2
NOTE: The use of XML schema key word \"sequence\" to support IS-defined set
(not sequence) is for the purpose of XML processor efficiency. This shall not
imply the use of \"sequence\" in other technology.
## B.3.3 XML Schema "tMIRPNotif.xsd"
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
###### ## Annex C (normative): SOAP Solution Set
This annex specifies the SOAP Solution Set for the IRP whose semantics are
specified in Test management IRP: Information Service (3GPP TS 32.322 [5]).
# C.1 Architectural features
The overall architectural feature of the Test management IRP is specified in
3GPP TS 32.322 [5]. This clause specifies features that are specific to the
SOAP Solution Set.
## C.1.1 Syntax for Distinguished Names
The syntax of a Distinguished Name is defined in 3GPP TS 32.300 [6].
## C.1.2 Notification Services
The Test management IRP SOAP SS uses the Notification IRP SOAP SS of 3GPP TS
32.306 [11]. The IRPAgent shall support the push interface model, which means
that the IRPAgent sends notifications to the IRPManager as soon as new events
occur. The IRPManager does not need to check (\"pull\") for events.
Relevant definitions are imported from the Test management IRP XML definitions
in Annex B.
## C.1.3 Supported W3C specifications
The SOAP 1.1 specification [7] and WSDL 1.1 specification [9] are supported.
The SOAP 1.2 specification [10] is supported optionally.
This specification uses \"document\" style in WSDL file.
This specification uses \"literal\" encoding style in WSDL file.
The filter language used in the SS is the XPath Language (see W3C XPath 1.0
specification [8]). IRPAgents may throw a FilterComplexityLimit fault when a
given filter is too complex.
## C.1.4 Prefixes and namespaces
This specification uses a number of namespace prefixes throughout that are
listed in Table C.1.4.
Table C.1.4: Prefixes and Namespaces used in this specification
* * *
**PREFIX** **NAMESPACE** (no prefix) http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/wsdl/ soap
http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/wsdl/soap/ tmIRPSystem
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/specs/archive/32_series/32.326#TMIRPSystem tmIRPData
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/specs/archive/32_series/32.326#TMIRPData genericNrm
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/specs/archive/32_series/32.626#genericNrm
genericIRPSystem
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/specs/archive/32_series/32.316#GenericIRPSystem
ntfIRPNtfSystem
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/specs/archive/32_series/32.306#NotificationIRPNtfSystem
* * *
# C.2 Mapping
## C.2.1 Operation and notification mapping
The Test management IRP IS (3GPP TS 32.322 [5]) defines semantics of operation
and notification visible across the Itf-N. Table C.2.1 indicates mapping of
these operations and notifications to their equivalents defined in this SS.
Table C.2.1: Mapping from IS Operation to SS Equivalents
* * *
IS Operations in 3GPP TS 32.322 [5] SS Operations SS Port Qualifier
initiateTests initiateTests TMIRPControlOperationsPort M terminateTests
terminateTests TMIRPControlOperationsPort M monitorTest monitorTest
TMIRPMonitorOperationsPort M notifyFilePreparationError notify (note 1)
NotificationIRPNtfPort M NOTE 1: The IS equivalent maps to an XML definition
specified in Annex B, and this being an input parameter to the operation
notify under the port type ntfIRPNtfSystem:NotificationIRPNtf and under the
binding ntfIRPNtfSystem:NotificationIRPNtf of 3GPP TS 32.306 [11].
* * *
## C.2.2 Operation parameter mapping
The Test management IRP IS (3GPP TS 32.322 [5]) defines semantics of
parameters carried in the operations. The tables below show the mapping of
these parameters, as per operation, to their equivalents defined in this SS.
Table C.2.2.1: Mapping from IS initiateTests parameters to SS equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Method parameter Qualifier testInvocationInitiator
testInvocationInitiator M toBeInitiatedTests toBeInitiatedTests M response
response M
* * *
Table C.2.2.2: Mapping from IS terminateTests parameters to SS equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Method parameter Qualifier toBeTerminatedTests
toBeTerminatedTests M response response M
* * *
Table C.2.2.3: Mapping from IS monitorTest parameters to SS equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Method parameter Qualifier toBeMonitoredTO
toBeMonitoredTO M monitoredAttributeValues monitoredAttributeValues M error
error M
* * *
## C.2.3 Notification parameter mapping
The Test management IRP Notifications are defined in Annex B.
# C.3 Solution Set definitions
## C.3.1 WSDL definition structure
Clause C.3.2 provides a graphical representation of the Test management IRP
service.
Clause C.3.3 defines the services which are supported the Test management IRP
agent.
## C.3.2 Graphical Representation
The WSDL structure is depicted in Figure C.3.2 below, depicting port type,
binding and service. The port type contains port type operations, which again
contains input, output and fault messages. The binding contains binding
operations, which have the same name as the port type operations. The binding
connects to a port inside the service.
{width="6.684027777777778in" height="2.698611111111111in"}
Figure C.3.2: Test management IRP SOAP Solution Set WSDL structure
## C.3.3 WSDL specification "TMIRPSystem.wsdl"
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
#