# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; Notification Log Integration Reference
Point (IRP), as identified below:
32.331 \"Notification Log (NL) Integration Reference Point (IRP);
Requirements\".
32.332 \"Notification Log (NL) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information
Service (IS)\".
**32.336 \"Notification Log (NL) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Solution
Set (SS) definitions\".**
The present document describes the requirements and information model
necessary for Telecommunication Management (TM). The TM principles and TM
architecture are specified in 3GPP TS 32.101 [2] and 3GPP TS 32.102 [3].
A communications system is composed of a multitude of Network Elements (NE) of
various types and, typically, different vendors, which inter-operate in a co-
ordinated manner in order to satisfy the network users\' communication
requirements.
The occurrence of faults in an NE may cause deterioration or loss of this
NE\'s function. Fault Management is the functional area, which allows the
operator to detect the occurrence of faults in the network in real-time.
Configuration Management and Performance Management are two more functional
areas, which require the operator to be alerted to certain conditions in the
network.
A standard general-purpose mechanism for the management of logs containing
selected notifications from the network is required to provide an ability to
perform historical analysis on faults and conditions, which occurred in the
network.\ The TS 32.33x-series, constituting the Notification log IRP, sets
forth such a mechanism - and the present document contains the SS definition.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the Solution Sets for the IRP whose semantics
is specified in Notification Log (NL) IRP IS (3GPP TS 32.332 [5]).
This Solution Set specification is related to 3GPP TS 32.332 V12.0.X.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.150: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Concept and definitions\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.332: \"Telecommunication management; Notification Log (NL)
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.342: \"Telecommunication management; File Transfer (FT)
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
[7] W3C SOAP 1.1 specification (http://www.w3.org/TR/2000/NOTE-SOAP-20000508/)
[8] W3C XPath 1.0 specification (http://www.w3.org/TR/1999/REC-xpath-19991116)
[9] W3C WSDL 1.1 specification (http://www.w3.org/TR/2001/NOTE-wsdl-20010315)
[10] W3C SOAP 1.2 specification (http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-part1/)
[11] 3GPP TS 32.306: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP): Solution Set (SS)
definitions\".
[12] OMG TC Document telecom/98-11-01: \"OMG Notification Service\".
http://www.omg.org/technology/documents/
[13] OMG CORBA Services: \"Common Object Services Specification, Update:
November 22, 1996\" (Clause 4 contains the Event Service specification).
http://www.omg.org/technology/documents/
[14] 3GPP TS 32.311: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Integration
Reference Point (IRP) management; Requirements\".
[15] 3GPP TS 32.111-6: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management; Part
5: Alarm Integration Reference Point (IRP): Solution Set (SS) definitions\".
[16] 3GPP TS 32.331: \"Telecommunication management; Notification Log (NL)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements\".
[17] 3GPP TS 32.300: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Name convention for Managed Objects\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1], 3GPP TS 32.101 [2], 3GPP TS 32.102 [3], 3GPP TS 32.150 [4],
3GPP TS 32.331 [16] and 3GPP TS 32.332 [5] apply. A term defined in the
present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if
any, in TR 21.905 [1].
**notification category:** it refers to the set of notifications of one 3GPP
IRP Information Service specification\ A Notification Category is identified
by the name of the IRP specification and the IRP specification version number.
**IRP document version number string (or \"IRPVersion\"):** See 3GPP TS 32.311
[14] subclause 3.1.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1], in 3GPP TS 32.101 [2], 3GPP TS 32.102 [3], 3GPP TS 32.150 [4], and the
following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
CORBA Common Object Request Broker Architecture
EM Element Manager
FT File Transfer
IDL Interface Definition Language
IRP Integration Reference Point
IS Information Service
MOC Managed Object Class
MOI Managed Object Instance
NE Network Element
NL Notification Log
NLIRP Notification Log Integration Reference Point
NM Network Manager
NRM Network Resource Model
UML Unified Modelling Language
OMG Object Management Group
XML eXtensible Markup Language
# 4 Solution Set Definitions
This specification defines the following 3GPP NL IRP Solution Set Definitions:
Annex A provides the CORBA Solution Set.\ Annex B provides the XML
Definitions.\ Annex C provides the SOAP Solution Set.
###### ## Annex A (normative): CORBA Solution Set
This annex contains the CORBA Solution Set for the IRP whose semantics is
specified in NL IRP: Information Service (TS 32.332 [5]).
# A.1 Architectural Features
The overall architectural feature of Notification Log IRP is specified in 3GPP
TS 32.332 [5]. This clause specifies features that are specific to the CORBA
SS.
## A.1.1 Syntax for Distinguished Names
The syntax of a Distinguished Name is defined in 3GPP TS 32.300 [17].
## A.1.2 Notification Services
In implementations of CORBA SS, IRPAgent conveys Notification Log
notifications to IRPManager via OMG Notification Service (OMG Notification
Service [12]).
OMG Event Service [13] provides event routing and distribution capabilities.
OMG Notification Service provides, in addition to Event Service, event
filtering and Quality of Service (QoS).
A necessary and sufficient subset of OMG Notification Services shall be used
to support Notification Log notifications as specified in 3GPP TS 32.332 [5].
These operation are classified as \> in GPP TS 32.332
[5].
## A.1.3 Push and Pull Style
OMG Notification Service defines two styles of interaction. One is called push
style. In this style, IRPAgent pushes notifications to IRPManager as soon as
they are available. The other is called pull style. In this style, IRPAgent
keeps the notifications till IRPManager requests for them.
The Notification CORBA SS in 3GPP TS 32.306 [11] specifies that support of
Push style is Mandatory (M) and that support of Pull style is Optional (O).
## A.1.4 Support multiple notifications in one push operation
For efficiency reasons, IRPAgent may send multiple notifications using one
single push operation. To pack multiple notifications into one push operation,
IRPAgent may wait and not invoke the push operation as soon as notifications
are available. To avoid IRPAgent to wait for an extended period of time that
is objectionable to IRPManager, IRPAgent shall implement an IRPAgent wide
timer configurable by administrator. On expiration of this timer, IRPAgent
shall invoke push if there is at least one notification to be conveyed to
IRPManager. This timer is re-started after each push invocation.
## A.1.5 NotificationLogIRPNotifications Interface
OMG CORBA Notification push operation is used to realise the notification of
NotificationLogIRPNotifications. All the notifications in this interface are
implemented using this push_structured_event method.
### A.1.5.1 Method push (M)
module CosNotifyComm {
...
Interface SequencePushConsumer : NotifyPublish {
> void push_structured_events(
>
> in CosNotification::EventBatch notifications)
>
> raises( CosEventComm::Disconnected);
>
> ...
}; // SequencePushConsumer
...
}; // CosNotifyComm
NOTE 1: The push_structured_events method takes an input parameter of type
EventBatch as defined in the OMG CosNotification module (OMG Notification
Service [12]). This data type is the same as a sequence of Structured Events.
Upon invocation, this parameter will contain a sequence of Structured Events
being delivered to IRPManager by IRPAgent to which it is connected.
NOTE 2: The maximum number of events that will be transmitted within a single
invocation of this operation is controlled by IRPAgent wide configuration
parameter.
NOTE 3: The amount of time the supplier (IRPAgent) of a sequence of Structured
Events will accumulate individual events into the sequence before invoking
this operation is controlled by IRPAgent wide configuration parameter as well.
NOTE 4: IRPAgent may push EventBatch with only one Structured Event.
# A.2 Mapping
## A.2.1 Operation and Notification mapping
3GPP TS 32.332 [5] defines semantics of operations and notifications visible
across the Notification Log IRP.\ The following table indicates the mapping of
these operations and notifications to their equivalents defined in this SS.
Table A.2.1: Mapping from IS Notification/Operation to SS equivalents
* * *
IS Operation/ notification 3GPP TS 32.332 [5] SS Method Qualifier subscribeLog
subscribe_log M unsubscribeLog unsubscribe_log M exportLogRecords
export_log_records O getLogRecords get_log_records O getLogSubscriptionIds
get_log_subscription_ids O getLogSubscriptionStatus
get_log_subscription_status O notifyLogSubscribed push_structured_event (note
1). See clause A.1.5. M notifyLogUnsubscribed push_structured_event (note 1).
See clause A.1.5. M notifyOccupancyLevelCrossed push_structured_event (note
1). See clause A.1.5. O notifyLoggingResumed push_structured_event (note 1).
See clause A.1.5. O NOTE: OMG Notification Service OMG Notification Service
[12] defines this method.
* * *
## A.2.2 Operation parameter mapping
3GPP TS 32.332 [5] defines semantics of parameters carried in operations
across the Notification Log IRP.\ The following tables indicate the mapping of
these parameters, as per operation, to their equivalents defined in this SS.
Table A.2.2.1: Mapping from IS subscribeLog parameters to SS equivalents
+------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS Method parameter | Qualifier | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | logSubscriptionId | NotificationLogIRPCon | M | | | stDefs::LogSubscriptionId | | | | logSubscriptionId | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | loggingEndTIme | GenericIRPMan | O | | | agementConstDefs::IRPTime | | | | loggingEndTimeAsked | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | notificationCategories | Gene | O | | | ricIRPManagementConstDefs | | | | ::NotificationCategorySet | | | | notificationCategorySet | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | filter | GenericIRPManag | O | | | ementConstDefs::StringOpt | | | | filter | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | logManagerToken | NotificationLogIRPCons | O | | | tDefs::LogManagerTokenOpt | | | | logManagerToken; | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | loggingEndTime | GenericIRPManagementConst | O | | | Defs::loggingEndTimeGiven | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | status | GenericIRPMa | M | | | nagementConstDefs::Signal | | | | | | | | Exceptions: | | | | | | | | SubscribeLog, | | | | GenericIRPManagement | | | | System::InvalidParameter, | | | | GenericIRPManagementSyste | | | | m::ParameterNotSupported, | | | | GenericIRPManagementS | | | | ystem::ValueNotSupported, | | | | InvalidLogSubscriptionId, | | | | UnknownLogManagerToken. | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
Table A.2.2.2: Mapping from IS unsubscribeLog parameters to SS equivalents
+------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS Method parameter | Qualifier | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | logSubscriptionId | NotificationLogIRPCon | M | | | stDefs::LogSubscriptionId | | | | logSubscriptionId | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | logManagerToken | NotificationLogIRPCons | O | | | tDefs::LogManagerTokenOpt | | | | logManagerToken | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | status | GenericIRPMa | M | | | nagementConstDefs::Signal | | | | | | | | Exceptions: | | | | | | | | UnsubscribeLog, | | | | GenericIRPManagement | | | | System::InvalidParameter, | | | | GenericIRPManagementSyste | | | | m::ParameterNotSupported, | | | | UnknownLogSubscriptionId, | | | | UnknownLogManagerToken). | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
Table A.2.2.3: Mapping from IS exportLogRecords parameters to SS equivalents
+------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS Method parameter | Qualifier | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | logSubscriptionId | NotificationLogIRPCon | M | | | stDefs::LogSubscriptionId | | | | logSubscriptionId | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | notificationCategories | Notif | O | | | icationLogIRPConstDefs::N | | | | otificationCategorySetOpt | | | | notificationCategorySet | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | filter | GenericIRPManag | O | | | ementConstDefs::StringOpt | | | | filter | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | invocationId | string invocationId | M | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | status | GenericIRPMa | M | | | nagementConstDefs::Signal | | | | | | | | Exceptions: | | | | | | | | ExportLogRecords, | | | | GenericIRPManagement | | | | System::InvalidParameter, | | | | GenericIRPManagementSyste | | | | m::ParameterNotSupported, | | | | GenericIRPManagementSyste | | | | m::OperationNotSupported, | | | | UnknownLogSubscriptionId. | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
Table A.2.2.4: Mapping from IS getLogRecords parameters to SS equivalents
+------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS Method parameter | Qualifier | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | logSubscriptionId | NotificationLogIRPCon | M | | | stDefs::LogSubscriptionId | | | | logSubscriptionId | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | notificationCategories | Notif | O | | | icationLogIRPConstDefs::N | | | | otificationCategorySetOpt | | | | notificationCategories, | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | filter | GenericIRPManag | O | | | ementConstDefs::StringOpt | | | | filter | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | getLogRecordsResult | Some or all of the | M | | | information contained in | | | | getLogRecordsResult will | | | | be returned via the | | | | return value of type | | | | DsLogAdmin::RecordList. | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | status | Exceptions: | M | | | | | | | GetLogRecords, | | | | GenericIRPManagement | | | | System::InvalidParameter, | | | | GenericIRPManagementSyste | | | | m::ParameterNotSupported, | | | | GenericIRPManagementS | | | | ystem::ValueNotSupported, | | | | GenericIRPManagementSyste | | | | m::OperationNotSupported, | | | | UnknownLogSubscriptionId. | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
Table A.2.2.5: Mapping from IS getLogSubscriptionIds parameters to SS
equivalents
+------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS Method parameter | Qualifier | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | logSubscriptionIds | return value of type | M | | | DsLogAdmin::LogIdList | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | status | Exceptions: | M | | | | | | | GetLogSubscriptionIds, | | | | GenericIRPManagementSyste | | | | m::OperationNotSupported. | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
Table A.2.2.6: Mapping from IS getLogSubscriptionStatus parameters to SS
equivalents
+------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS Method parameter | Qualifier | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | logSubscriptionId | NotificationLogIRPCon | M | | | stDefs::LogSubscriptionId | | | | logSubscriptionId | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | logAttributeList | NotificationLogIRPCo | M | | | nstDefs::LogAttributeList | | | | logAttributeList | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | status | GenericIRPMa | M | | | nagementConstDefs::Signal | | | | | | | | Exceptions: | | | | | | | | GetLogSubscriptionStatus, | | | | GenericIRPManagement | | | | System::InvalidParameter, | | | | GenericIRPManagementSyste | | | | m::OperationNotSupported. | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
## A.2.3 Notification parameter mapping
3GPP TS 32.332 [5] defines semantics of parameters carried in notifications.
The following tables indicate the mapping of these parameters to their OMG
CORBA Structured Event (defined in OMG Notification Service [12]) equivalents.
The composition of OMG Structured Event, as defined in the OMG Notification
Service [12], is:
Header
Fixed Header
domain_name
type_name
event_name
Variable Header
Body
filterable_body_fields
remaining_body
The following tables list all OMG Structured Event attributes in the second
column. The first column identifies the 3GPP TS 32.332 [5] defined
notification parameters.
Table A.2.3.1: Mapping for notifyLogSubscribed
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | IS Parameters | OMG CORBA | Qualifier | Comment | | | Structured | | | | | Event attribute | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | There is no | domain_name | M | It carries the | | corresponding | | | IRP document | | IS parameter. | | | version number | | | | | string. See | | | | | sub-clause 3.1. | | | | | | | | | | It indicates | | | | | the syntax and | | | | | semantics of | | | | | the Structured | | | | | Event as | | | | | defined by this | | | | | specification. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | n | type_name | M | This is the | | otificationType | | | Not | | | | | ificationLogIRP | | | | | Notifications:: | | | | | Notify | | | | | LogSubscribed:: | | | | | NOTIFY_ | | | | | LOG_SUBSRIBED. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | There is no | event_name | M | Null-string | | corresponding | | | | | IS parameter. | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | There is no | variable Header | | | | corresponding | | | | | IS parameter. | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | objectClass, | One NV (note 1) | M | Name of NV pair | | objectInstance | pair of | | is the | | | filterabl | | Notificatio | | | e_body_fields | | nIRPConstDefs:: | | | | | Attri | | | | | buteNameValue:: | | | | | MANAGED_OB | | | | | JECT_INSTANCE. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | string. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | notificationId | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | remaining_body | | is the | | | | | Notificatio | | | | | nIRPConstDefs:: | | | | | Attri | | | | | buteNameValue:: | | | | | NO | | | | | TIFICATION_ID. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a long. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | eventTime | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | filterabl | | is the | | | e_body_fields | | Notificatio | | | | | nIRPConstDefs:: | | | | | Attri | | | | | buteNameValue:: | | | | | EVENT_TIME. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is of type | | | | | GenericIR | | | | | PManagementCons | | | | | tDefs::IRPTime. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | systemDN | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | filterabl | | is the | | | e_body_fields | | Notificatio | | | | | nIRPConstDefs:: | | | | | Attri | | | | | buteNameValue:: | | | | | SYSTEM_DN | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | string. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | lo | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | gSubscriptionId | remaining_body | | is the | | | | | Not | | | | | ificationLogIRP | | | | | Notifications:: | | | | | NotifyLogSubs | | | | | cribed::LOG_SU | | | | | BSCRIPTION_ID. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is of type | | | | | No | | | | | tificationLogIR | | | | | PConstDefs::Log | | | | | SubscriptionId. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | loggingEndTime | One NV pair of | O | Name of NV pair | | | remaining_body | | is the | | | | | NotificationL | | | | | ogIRPNotificati | | | | | ons::NotifyLogS | | | | | ubscribed::LOGG | | | | | ING_END_TIME. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | string. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | notific | One NV pair of | O | Name of NV pair | | ationCategories | remaining_body | | is the | | | | | Not | | | | | ificationLogIRP | | | | | Notifications:: | | | | | N | | | | | otifyLogSubscri | | | | | bed::NOTIFICATI | | | | | ON_CATEGORIES. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is of type | | | | | Gen | | | | | ericIRPManageme | | | | | ntConstDefs::Ve | | | | | rsionNumberSet. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | filter | One NV pair of | O | Name of NV pair | | | remaining_body | | is | | | | | not | | | | | ificationLogIRP | | | | | Notifications:: | | | | | Notify | | | | | LogSubscribed:: | | | | | FILTER | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | string. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | NOTE: NV stands | | | | | for name-value | | | | | pair. Order | | | | | arrangement of | | | | | NV pairs is not | | | | | significant. | | | | | The name of | | | | | NV-pair is | | | | | always encoded | | | | | in string. This | | | | | note is | | | | | applicable to | | | | | all NV-pairs | | | | | and all mapping | | | | | tables for all | | | | | notifications. | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+
Table A.2.3.2: Mapping for notifyLogUnsubscribed
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | IS Parameters | OMG CORBA | Qualifier | Comment | | | Structured | | | | | Event attribute | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | There is no | domain_name | M | It carries the | | corresponding | | | IRP document | | IS parameter. | | | version number | | | | | string. See | | | | | sub-clause 3.1. | | | | | | | | | | It indicates | | | | | the syntax and | | | | | semantics of | | | | | the Structured | | | | | Event as | | | | | defined by this | | | | | specification. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | n | type_name | M | This is the | | otificationType | | | Not | | | | | ificationLogIRP | | | | | Notifications:: | | | | | Notify | | | | | LogSubscribed:: | | | | | NOTIFY_LOG | | | | | _UNSUBSCRIBED. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | There is no | event_name | M | Null-string. | | corresponding | | | | | IS parameter. | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | There is no | variable Header | | | | corresponding | | | | | IS parameter. | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | objectClass, | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | objectInstance | filterabl | | is the | | | e_body_fields | | Notificatio | | | | | nIRPConstDefs:: | | | | | Attri | | | | | buteNameValue:: | | | | | MANAGED_OB | | | | | JECT_INSTANCE. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | string. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | notificationId | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | remaining_body | | is the | | | | | Notificatio | | | | | nIRPConstDefs:: | | | | | Attri | | | | | buteNameValue:: | | | | | NO | | | | | TIFICATION_ID. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a long. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | eventTime | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | One NV pair of | | is the | | | filterabl | | Notificatio | | | e_body_fields | | nIRPConstDefs:: | | | | | Attri | | | | | buteNameValue:: | | | | | EVENT_TIME. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | IRPTime of | | | | | module | | | | | GenericIRPManag | | | | | ementConstDefs. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | systemDN | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | filterabl | | is the | | | e_body_fields | | Notificatio | | | | | nIRPConstDefs:: | | | | | Attri | | | | | buteNameValue:: | | | | | SYSTEM_DN | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | string. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | lo | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | gSubscriptionId | filterabl | | is the | | | e_body_fields | | Not | | | (editor note) | | ificationLogIRP | | | | | Notifications:: | | | | | Notify | | | | | LogSubscribed:: | | | | | LOG_SU | | | | | BSCRIPTION_ID. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is of type | | | | | No | | | | | tificationLogIR | | | | | PConstDefs::Log | | | | | SubscriptionId. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+
Editor note: The placement of this parameter in filterable_body_fields so that
it is filterable is not yet aligned with current IS and require further
discussion.
Table A.2.3.3: Mapping for notifyOccupancyLevelCrossed
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | IS Parameters | OMG CORBA | Qualifier | Comment | | | Structured | | | | | Event attribute | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | There is no | domain_name | M | It carries the | | corresponding | | | IRP document | | IS parameter. | | | version number | | | | | string. See | | | | | sub-clause 3.1. | | | | | | | | | | It indicates | | | | | the syntax and | | | | | semantics of | | | | | the Structured | | | | | Event as | | | | | defined by this | | | | | specification. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | n | type_name | M | This is the | | otificationType | | | Not | | | | | ificationLogIRP | | | | | Notifications:: | | | | | Notify | | | | | LogSubscribed:: | | | | | NOTIFY_L | | | | | OG_OCCUPANCY_ | | | | | LEVEL_CROSSED. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | There is no | event_name | M | Null-string | | corresponding | | | | | IS parameter | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | There is no | variable Header | | | | corresponding | | | | | IS parameter. | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | objectClass, | One NV pair of | M | NV stands for | | objectInstance | filterabl | | name-value | | | e_body_fields | | pair. Order | | | | | arrangement of | | | | | NV pairs is not | | | | | significant. | | | | | The name of | | | | | NV-pair is | | | | | always encoded | | | | | in string. | | | | | | | | | | Name of NV pair | | | | | is the | | | | | Notificatio | | | | | nIRPConstDefs:: | | | | | Attri | | | | | buteNameValue:: | | | | | MANAGED_OB | | | | | JECT_INSTANCE. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | string. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | notificationId | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | remaining_body | | is the | | | | | Notificatio | | | | | nIRPConstDefs:: | | | | | Attri | | | | | buteNameValue:: | | | | | NO | | | | | TIFICATION_ID. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a long. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | eventTime | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | filterabl | | is the | | | e_body_fields | | Notificatio | | | | | nIRPConstDefs:: | | | | | Attri | | | | | buteNameValue:: | | | | | EVENT_TIME. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | IRPTime of | | | | | module | | | | | GenericIRPManag | | | | | ementConstDefs. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | systemDN | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | filterabl | | is the | | | e_body_fields | | Notificatio | | | | | nIRPConstDefs:: | | | | | Attri | | | | | buteNameValue:: | | | | | SYSTEM_DN | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | string. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | lo | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | gSubscriptionId | filterabl | | is the | | | e_body_fields | | Not | | | | | ificationLogIRP | | | | | Notifications:: | | | | | Notify | | | | | LogSubscribed:: | | | | | LOG_SU | | | | | BSCRIPTION_ID. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is of type | | | | | No | | | | | tificationLogIR | | | | | PConstDefs::Log | | | | | SubscriptionId. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | curren | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | tOccupancyLevel | One NV pair of | | is the | | | filterabl | | Not | | | e_body_fields | | ificationLogIRP | | | | | Notifications:: | | | | | Notify | | | | | LogSubscribed:: | | | | | CURRENT_OC | | | | | CUPANCY_LEVEL. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is an | | | | | unsigned short | | | | | (i.e. | | | | | DsLogAdmin:: | | | | | Threshold). | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | logFullAction | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | filterabl | | is the | | | e_body_fields | | Not | | | | | ificationLogIRP | | | | | Notifications:: | | | | | Notify | | | | | LogSubscribed:: | | | | | LOG | | | | | _FULL_ACTION. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is of type | | | | | NotificationLo | | | | | gIRPConstDefs:: | | | | | Log | | | | | FullActionType. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+
Table A.2.3.4: Mapping for notifyLoggingResumed
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | IS Parameters | OMG CORBA | Qualifier | Comment | | | Structured | | | | | Event attribute | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | There is no | domain_name | M | It carries the | | corresponding | | | IRP document | | IS parameter. | | | version number | | | | | string. See | | | | | sub-clause 3.1. | | | | | | | | | | It indicates | | | | | the syntax and | | | | | semantics of | | | | | the Structured | | | | | Event as | | | | | defined by this | | | | | specification. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | n | type_name | M | This is the | | otificationType | | | Not | | | | | ificationLogIRP | | | | | Notifications:: | | | | | Notify | | | | | LogSubscribed:: | | | | | NOTIFY_ | | | | | LOG_SUBSRIBED. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | There is no | event_name | M | Null-string | | corresponding | | | | | IS parameter. | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | There is no | variable Header | | | | corresponding | | | | | IS parameter. | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | objectClass, | One NV (note 1) | M | Name of NV pair | | objectInstance | pair of | | is the | | | filterabl | | Notificatio | | | e_body_fields | | nIRPConstDefs:: | | | | | Attri | | | | | buteNameValue:: | | | | | MANAGED_OB | | | | | JECT_INSTANCE. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | string. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | notificationId | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | remaining_body | | is the | | | | | Notificatio | | | | | nIRPConstDefs:: | | | | | Attri | | | | | buteNameValue:: | | | | | NO | | | | | TIFICATION_ID. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a long. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | eventTime | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | filterabl | | is the | | | e_body_fields | | Notificatio | | | | | nIRPConstDefs:: | | | | | Attri | | | | | buteNameValue:: | | | | | EVENT_TIME. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is of type | | | | | GenericIR | | | | | PManagementCons | | | | | tDefs::IRPTime. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | systemDN | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | filterabl | | is the | | | e_body_fields | | Notificatio | | | | | nIRPConstDefs:: | | | | | Attri | | | | | buteNameValue:: | | | | | SYSTEM_DN | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | string. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | lo | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | gSubscriptionId | remaining_body | | is the | | | | | Not | | | | | ificationLogIRP | | | | | Notifications:: | | | | | NotifyLogSubs | | | | | cribed::LOG_SU | | | | | BSCRIPTION_ID. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is of type | | | | | No | | | | | tificationLogIR | | | | | PConstDefs::Log | | | | | SubscriptionId. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | loggingEndTime | One NV pair of | O | Name of NV pair | | | remaining_body | | is the | | | | | NotificationL | | | | | ogIRPNotificati | | | | | ons::NotifyLogS | | | | | ubscribed::LOGG | | | | | ING_END_TIME. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | string. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | notific | One NV pair of | O | Name of NV pair | | ationCategories | remaining_body | | is the | | | | | Not | | | | | ificationLogIRP | | | | | Notifications:: | | | | | N | | | | | otifyLogSubscri | | | | | bed::NOTIFICATI | | | | | ON_CATEGORIES. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is of type | | | | | Gen | | | | | ericIRPManageme | | | | | ntConstDefs::Ve | | | | | rsionNumberSet. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | filter | One NV pair of | O | Name of NV pair | | | remaining_body | | is | | | | | not | | | | | ificationLogIRP | | | | | Notifications:: | | | | | Notify | | | | | LogSubscribed:: | | | | | FILTER | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | string. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | NOTE: NV stands | | | | | for name-value | | | | | pair. Order | | | | | arrangement of | | | | | NV pairs is not | | | | | significant. | | | | | The name of | | | | | NV-pair is | | | | | always encoded | | | | | in string. This | | | | | note is | | | | | applicable to | | | | | all NV-pairs | | | | | and all mapping | | | | | tables for all | | | | | notifications. | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+
# A.3 Solution Set definitions
## A.3.1 IDL definition structure
Clause A.3.2 defines the constants and types used by the NL IRP.
Clause A.3.3 defines the operations which are performed by the NL IRP agent.
Clause A.3.4 defines the notifications which are emitted by the NL IRP agent.
## A.3.2 IDL specification \"NotificationLogIRPConstDefs.idl\"
// File: NotificationLogIRPConstDefs.idl
#ifndef _NOTIFICATIONLOGIRPCONSTDEFS_IDL_
#define _NOTIFICATIONLOGIRPCONSTDEFS_IDL_
#ifndef _DSLOGADMIN_IDL_
#define _DSLOGADMIN_IDL_
#include \
#endif // _DSLOGADMIN_IDL_
#include \"NotificationIRPConstDefs.idl\"
#include \"GenericIRPManagementConstDefs.idl\"
// This statement must appear after all include statements
#pragma prefix \"3gppsa5.org\"
module NotificationLogIRPConstDefs
{
typedef DsLogAdmin::LogId LogSubscriptionId;
typedef DsLogAdmin::RecordId RecordId;
typedef DsLogAdmin::RecordIdList RecordIdList;
typedef string LogManagerToken;
/*
LogManagerTokenOpt is a type carrying an optional parameter.
If the boolean is TRUE, then the value is present; else absent.
*/
union LogManagerTokenOpt switch (boolean)
{
case TRUE: LogManagerToken value;
};
/*
IRPTimeOpt is a type carrying an optional parameter.
If the boolean is TRUE, then the value is present; else absent.
*/
union IRPTimeOpt switch (boolean)
{
case TRUE: GenericIRPManagementConstDefs::IRPTime value;
};
typedef GenericIRPManagementConstDefs::VersionNumberSet
NotificationCategorySet;
/*
NotificationCategorySetOpt is a type carrying an optional parameter.
If the boolean is TRUE, then the value is present; else absent.
*/
union NotificationCategorySetOpt switch (boolean)
{
case TRUE: NotificationCategorySet value;
};
enum LogState { LOGGING, LOGFULL, STOPPED};
typedef DsLogAdmin::CapacityAlarmThresholdList
CapacityAlarmThresholdList;
typedef unsigned short LogFullActionType;
const LogFullActionType wrap = 0;
const LogFullActionType halt = 1;
/*
IteratorOpt is a type carrying an optional parameter.
If the boolean is TRUE, then the value is present; else absent.
*/
union IteratorOpt switch (boolean)
{
case TRUE: DsLogAdmin::Iterator value;
};
struct LogAttributes {
LogSubscriptionId logSubscriptionId;
GenericIRPManagementConstDefs::IRPTime loggingEndTime;
unsigned long long maxSize;
unsigned long long currentSize;
LogState logState;
unsigned long long logRecordCount;
NotificationIRPConstDefs::NotificationCategorySet notificationCategories;
string filter;
LogFullActionType logFullAction;
CapacityAlarmThresholdList occupancyLevels;
};
typedef sequence \ LogAttributeList;
};
#endif // _NOTIFICATIONLOGIRPCONSTDEFS_IDL_
## A.3.3 IDL specification "NotificationLogIRPSystem.idl"
// File: NotificationLogIRPSystem.idl
#ifndef _NOTIFICATIONLOGIPRSYSTEM_IDL_
#define _NOTIFICATIONLOGIRPSYSTEM_IDL_
#include \"NotificationLogIRPConstDefs.idl\"
#include \"GenericIRPManagementSystem.idl\"
#include \
#ifndef _DSLOGADMIN_IDL_
#define _DSLOGADMIN_IDL_
#include \
#endif // _DSLOGADMIN_IDL_
// This statement must appear after all include statements
#pragma prefix \"3gppsa5.org\"
module NotificationLogIRPSystem
{
/*
System fails to complete the method. System can provide reason
to qualify the exception. The semantics carried in reason
is outside the scope of this IRP.
*/
exception SubscribeLog { string reason; };
exception UnsubscribeLog { string reason; };
exception ExportLogRecords { string reason; };
exception GetLogSubscriptionIds { string reason; };
exception GetLogRecords { string reason; };
exception GetLogSubscriptionStatus { string reason; };
exception InvalidLogSubscriptionId { string reason; };
exception UnknownLogSubscriptionId {};
exception UnknownLogManagerToken {};
exception InvalidConstraint { string reason; };
interface NotificationLogIRP : GenericIRPManagementSystem::
GenericIRPManagement
{
GenericIRPManagementConstDefs::Signal subscribe_log (
in NotificationLogIRPConstDefs::LogSubscriptionId logSubscriptionId,
in NotificationLogIRPConstDefs::IRPTimeOpt loggingEndTimeAsked,
in NotificationLogIRPConstDefs::NotificationCategorySetOpt
notificationCategorySet,
in GenericIRPManagementConstDefs::StringOpt filter,
out NotificationLogIRPConstDefs::LogSubscriptionId
logSubscriptionIdOut,
out NotificationLogIRPConstDefs::LogManagerTokenOpt logManagerToken,
out NotificationLogIRPConstDefs::IRPTimeOpt loggingEndTimeGiven
)
raises ( SubscribeLog,
GenericIRPManagementSystem::InvalidParameter,
GenericIRPManagementSystem::ParameterNotSupported,
GenericIRPManagementSystem::ValueNotSupported,
InvalidLogSubscriptionId, UnknownLogManagerToken
);
GenericIRPManagementConstDefs::Signal unsubscribe_log (
in NotificationLogIRPConstDefs::LogSubscriptionId logSubscriptionId,
in NotificationLogIRPConstDefs::LogManagerTokenOpt logManagerToken
)
raises ( UnsubscribeLog,
GenericIRPManagementSystem::InvalidParameter,
GenericIRPManagementSystem::ParameterNotSupported,
UnknownLogSubscriptionId, UnknownLogManagerToken);
GenericIRPManagementConstDefs::Signal export_log_records (
in NotificationLogIRPConstDefs::LogSubscriptionId logSubscriptionId,
in NotificationLogIRPConstDefs::NotificationCategorySetOpt
notificationCategorySet,
in GenericIRPManagementConstDefs::StringOpt filter,
out string invocationId
)
raises ( ExportLogRecords,
GenericIRPManagementSystem::InvalidParameter,
GenericIRPManagementSystem::ParameterNotSupported,
GenericIRPManagementSystem::OperationNotSupported,
UnknownLogSubscriptionId);
// If some but not all of the information is returned via the return value
// RecordList, then the rest of the information is returned via the
// iterator. Otherwise, the iterator is absent.
//
DsLogAdmin::RecordList get_log_records(
in NotificationLogIRPConstDefs::LogSubscriptionId logSubscriptionId,
in NotificationLogIRPConstDefs::NotificationCategorySetOpt
notificationCategories,
in GenericIRPManagementConstDefs::StringOpt filter,
out NotificationLogIRPConstDefs::IteratorOpt iterator
)
raises ( GetLogRecords,
GenericIRPManagementSystem::InvalidParameter,
GenericIRPManagementSystem::ParameterNotSupported,
GenericIRPManagementSystem::ValueNotSupported,
GenericIRPManagementSystem::OperationNotSupported,
UnknownLogSubscriptionId);
DsLogAdmin::LogIdList get_log_subscription_ids()
raises ( GetLogSubscriptionIds,
GenericIRPManagementSystem::OperationNotSupported
);
GenericIRPManagementConstDefs::Signal get_log_subscription_status (
in NotificationLogIRPConstDefs::LogSubscriptionId logSubscriptionId,
out NotificationLogIRPConstDefs::LogAttributeList logAttributeList
)
raises ( GetLogSubscriptionStatus,
GenericIRPManagementSystem::InvalidParameter,
GenericIRPManagementSystem::OperationNotSupported
);
};
};
#endif // _NOTIFICATIONLOGIPRSYSTEM_IDL_
## A.3.3 IDL specification "NotificationLogIRPNotifications.idl"
// File: NotificationLogIRPNotifications.idl
#ifndef _NOTIFICATIONLOGIRPNOTIFICATIONS_IDL_
#define _NOTIFICATIONLOGIRPNOTIFICATIONS_IDL_
#include \"NotificationIRPNotifications.idl\"
// This statement must appear after all include statements
#pragma prefix \"3gppsa5.org\"
module NotificationLogIRPNotifications
{
interface NotifyLogSubscribed: NotificationIRPNotifications::Notify
{
const string NOTIFY_LOG_SUBSRIBED = \"x1\";
const string LOG_SUBSCRIPTION_ID = \"id\";
const string LOGGING_END_TIME = \"loggingEndTime\";
const string NOTIFICATION_CATEGORIES = \"categories\";
const string FILTER = \"filter\";
};
interface NotifyLogUnubscribed: NotificationIRPNotifications::Notify
{
const string NOTIFY_LOG_UNSUBSCRIBED = \"x2\";
const string LOG_SUBSCRIPTION_ID = \"id\";
};
interface NotifyLogOccupancyLevelCrossed:
NotificationIRPNotifications::Notify
{
const string NOTIFY_LOG_OCCUPANCY_LEVEL_CROSSED = \"x3\";
const string LOG_SUBSCRIPTION_ID = \"id\";
const string CURRENT_OCCUPANCY_LEVEL = \"level\";
const string LOG_FULL_ACTION = \"fullAction\";
};
interface NotifyLoggingResumed: NotificationIRPNotifications::Notify
{
const string NOTIFY_LOGGING_RESUMED = \"x4\";
const string LOG_SUBSCRIPTION_ID = \"id\";
};
};
#endif // _NOTIFICATIONLOGIRPNOTIFICATIONS_IDL_
###### ## Annex B (normative): XML Definitions
This annex contains the XML Definitions for the Notification Log Integration
Reference Point (NL IRP) as it applies to Itf-N, in accordance with NL IRP IS
definitions [5].
Apart from being used for the Notification Log, the XML definitions for NL IRP
notifications are used by the NL IRP SOAP SS.
# B.1 Architectural Features
The overall architectural feature of NL IRP is specified in 3GPP TS 32.332
[5]. This clause specifies features that are specific to the XML definitions.
## B.1.1 Syntax for Distinguished Names
The syntax of a Distinguished Name is defined in 3GPP TS 32.300 [17].
## B.1.2 Notification Services
This annex defines the XML syntax of NL IRP notifications that is to be used
for the NL IRP SOAP Solution Set and NL IRP XML Data File and NL IRP XML
Notification Format.
## B.1.3 IOC Definitions
This annex defines the XML syntax for the IOC definitions of the NL IRP IS
[5], which are used by the XML definitions for the NL IRP notifications and
the NL IRP IS operations.
# B.2 Mapping
Not present in the current version of this specification.
# B.3 Solution Set definitions
## B.3.1 XML definition structure
The present clause defines the XML exchanged between an IRPManager and an
IRPAgent as part of NL IRP IS (see 3GPP TS 32.332 [5]):
  * the NL IRP XML Data File,
  * NL IRP notifications.
The use of XML schemas ensures NL XML have the proper structure and to some
extent the proper content, and in particular to ensure:
\- for a given Notification instance, it is properly named/positioned with
regard to the global naming tree;
\- for a given Notification instance, only attributes of the corresponding
Notification are present;
\- for a given Notification attribute, its value is of the proper type.
XML definitions for other application specific notifications (e.g. Alarm IRP
notifications, Notification IRP Notification Header) are defined within the
respective IRP series within specification 32.xy6.
### B.3.1.1 Global structure
Editor\'s Note: To be added in future version of this specification.
### B.3.1.2 XML elements fileHeader and fileFooter
Editor\'s Note: To be added in future version of this specification.
### B.3.1.3 NL IRP XML File Name Conventions
For NL IRP XML File Name Conventions the generic file name definitions as
specified by the FT IRP apply (see [6]).
### B.3.1.4 NL Interface IRP-specific XML schemas
Interface IRP-specific XML schemas with definition of corresponding XML
namespace prefixes are listed by the following table:
Table B.3.1.4: Interface IRP-specific XML schemas, corresponding 3GPP TSs and
XML namespace prefixes
* * *
IRP XML schema 3GPP TS no. XML namespace prefix Alarm IRP alarmIRPnotif.xsd
32.111-6 [15] xa Notification IRP notification.xsd 32.306 [11] xe Notification
Log IRP notificationLog.xsd 32.336 xl
* * *
Each Interface IRP-specific XML schema explicitly declares Interface IRP-
specific XML element types for the related Interface IRP.
Additionally, XML schema notification.xsd (see [11]) also provides global XML
declarations and definitions for the support of:
\- Notification header XML element type declaration
### B.3.1.5 NL IRP XML File Content Definitions
#### B.3.1.5.1 NL IRP XML Data File
The structure of the Notification Log IRP XML Data File is shown in graphical
depiction below:
{width="6.992361111111111in" height="1.4215277777777777in"}
Figure B.3.1.5.1: Structure of the Notification Log IRP XML Data File
The notificationLogRecords element holds the instances of the notification
records that are imported from the Notification Format XML schema. Note that
Notification Header XML definitions are provided in [11].
The Notification Log IRP XML Data File is a simple instance based construct.
The XML schema for the Notification Log IRP XML Data File is defined in Annex
B.3.3.
## B.3.2 Graphical Representation
{width="6.665972222222222in" height="2.4375in"}
{width="6.249305555555556in" height="1.40625in"}
{width="6.689583333333333in" height="1.9951388888888888in"}
{width="6.177777777777778in" height="1.40625in"}
The use of XML schema key word \"sequence\" to support IS-defined set (not
sequence) is for the purpose of XML processor efficiency. This shall not imply
the use of \"sequence\" in other technology.
## B.3.3 XML Schema \"notificationLog.xsd\"
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
## B.3.4 XML Schema \"ntfLogNotif.xsd\"
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
## B.3.5 NL IRP XML Example Notifications
This annex provides an XML example notification, demonstrating the use of and
the embedding into the NL IRP XML Notification Format. This example makes use
of the Alarm IRP XML Schema for Notification.
\
\
\
\32.336 V10.0\
\Text\
\Text\
\
\
\
\1001\
\
\
\String\
\2147483647\
\2001-12-17T09:30:47.0Z\
\String\
\String\
\
\
\Indeterminate\
\Critical\
\Communications Alarm\
\
\
\String\
\
\2147483647\
\
\
\
\String\
\String\
\
\
\
\
\String\
\
\String\
\2147483647\
\2001-12-17T09:30:47.0Z\
\String\
\String\
\
\
\Indeterminate\
\Critical\
\Communications Alarm\
\String\
\String\
\
\
\String\
\
\2147483647\
\
\
\
\true\
\String\
\Less Severe\
\
\String\
\3.14159E0\
\
\Up\
\3.14159E0\
\3.14159E0\
\
\2001-12-17T09:30:47.0Z\
\
\
\
\Administrative State\
\
\locked\
\
\
\unlocked\
\
\
\
\Usage State\
\
\idle\
\
\
\busy\
\ \
\
\
\
\String\
\Text\
\
\
\String\
\String\
\String\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\String\
\2147483647\
\2001-12-17T09:30:47.0Z\
\String\
\String\
\
\
\Indeterminate\
\Critical\
\Communications Alarm\
\String\
\Acknowledged\
\String\
\String\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\String\
\2147483647\
\2001-12-17T09:30:47.0Z\
\String\
\String\
\
\
\
\Agent NE Communications Error\
\
\Alignment
Required\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\String\
\2147483647\
\2001-12-17T09:30:47.0Z\
\String\
\String\
\
\
\Indeterminate\
\Critical\
\Communications Alarm\
\String\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\String\
\2147483647\
\2001-12-17T09:30:47.0Z\
\String\
\String\
\
\
\Indeterminate\
\Critical\
\Communications Alarm\
\String\
\
\
\String\
\
\2147483647\
\2147483647\
\
\
\
\String\
\
\2147483647\
\2147483647\
\
\
\
\String\
\String\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\String\
\2147483647\
\2001-12-17T09:30:47.0Z\
\String\
\String\
\
\
\Communications Alarm\
\Indeterminate\
\Critical\
\
\
\2001-12-17T09:30:47.0Z\
\String\
\String\
\String\
\
\
\String\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\String\
\2147483647\
\2001-12-17T09:30:47.0Z\
\String\
\String\
\
\
\
\Agent NE Communications Error\
\
\
\
\
\
\
###### ## Annex C (normative): SOAP Solution Set
This annex specifies the SOAP Solution Set for the IRP whose semantics are
specified in NL IRP: Information Service (3GPP TS 32.332 [5]).
# C.1 Architectural features
The overall architectural feature of the NL IRP is specified in 3GPP TS 32.332
[5]. This clause specifies features that are specific to the SOAP Solution
Set.
## C.1.1 Syntax for Distinguished Names
The syntax of a Distinguished Name is defined in 3GPP TS 32.300 [17].
## C.1.2 Notification Services
The NL IRP SOAP SS uses the Notification IRP SOAP SS of 3GPP TS 32.306 [11].
The IRPAgent shall support the push interface model, which means that the
IRPAgent sends notifications to the IRPManager as soon as new events occur.
The IRPManager does not need to check (\"pull\") for events.
Relevant definitions are imported from the NL IRP XML definitions in Annex B.
## C.1.3 Supported W3C specifications
The SOAP 1.1 specification [7] and WSDL 1.1 specification [9] are supported.
The SOAP 1.2 specification [10] is supported optionally.
This specification uses \"document\" style in WSDL file.
This specification uses \"literal\" encoding style in WSDL file.
The filter language used in the SS is the XPath Language (see W3C XPath 1.0
specification [8]). IRPAgents may throw a FilterComplexityLimit fault when a
given filter is too complex.
## C.1.4 Prefixes and namespaces
This specification uses a number of namespace prefixes throughout that are
listed in Table C.1.4.
Table C.1.4: Prefixes and Namespaces used in this specification
* * *
**PREFIX** **NAMESPACE** (no prefix) http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/wsdl/ soap
http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/wsdl/soap/ nlRPSystem
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/specs/archive/32_series/32.336#NLRPSystem nlIRPData
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/specs/archive/32_series/32.336#NLIRPData xl
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/specs/archive/32_series/32.336#ntfLogIRPNotif
genericIRPSystem
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/specs/archive/32_series/32.316#GenericIRPSystem
ntfIRPNtfSystem
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/specs/archive/32_series/32.306#NotificationIRPNtfSystem
* * *
# C.2 Mapping
## C.2.1 Operation and notification mapping
The Notification Log (NL) IRP IS (3GPP TS 32.332 [5]) defines semantics of
operation and notification visible across the Itf-N. The following tables
indicate mapping of these operations and notifications to their equivalents
defined in this SS.
Table C.2.1: Mapping from IS Operation to SS Equivalents
* * *
IS Operations in 3GPP TS 32.332 [5] SS Operations SS Port Qualifier
subscribeLog subscribeLog NLIRPOperations1Port M unsubscribeLog unsubscribeLog
NLIRPOperations1Port M exportLogRecords exportLogRecords NLIRPOperations1Port
O getLogRecords getLogRecords NLIRPOperations1Port O getLogSubscriptionIds
getLogSubscriptionIds NLIRPOperations2Port O getLogSubscriptionStatus
getLogSubscriptionStatus NLIRPOperations2Port M notifyLogSubscribed notify
(note 1) NotificationIRPNtfPort M notifyLogUnsubscribed notify (note 1)
NotificationIRPNtfPort M notifyOccupancyLevelCrossed notify (note 1)
NotificationIRPNtfPort M notifyLoggingResumed notify (note 1)
NotificationIRPNtfPort M NOTE 1: The IS equivalent maps to an XML definition
specified in Annex B, and this being an input parameter to the operation
notify under the port type ntfIRPNtfSystem:NotificationIRPNtf and under the
binding ntfIRPNtfSystem:NotificationIRPNtf of 3GPP TS 32.306 [11].
* * *
## C.2.2 Operation parameter mapping
The Notification Log (NL) IRP IS (3GPP TS 32.332 [5]) defines semantics of
parameters carried in the operations. The tables below show the mapping of
these parameters, as per operation, to their equivalents defined in this SS.
Table C.2.2.1: Mapping from IS subscribeLog parameters to SS equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Method parameter Qualifier logSubscriptionId
logSubscriptionId M loggingEndTIme loggingEndTIme O notificationCategories
notificationCategories O filter filter O logManagerToken logManagerToken O
loggingEndTime loggingEndTime O status status M
* * *
Table C.2.2.2: Mapping from IS unsubscribeLog parameters to SS equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Method parameter Qualifier logSubscriptionId
logSubscriptionId M logManagerToken logManagerToken O status status M
* * *
Table C.2.2.3: Mapping from IS exportLogRecords parameters to SS equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Method parameter Qualifier logSubscriptionId
logSubscriptionId M notificationCategories notificationCategories O filter
filter O invocationId invocationId M status status M
* * *
Table C.2.2.4: Mapping from IS getLogRecords parameters to SS equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Method parameter Qualifier logSubscriptionId
logSubscriptionId M notificationCategories notificationCategories O filter
filter O getLogRecordsResult getLogRecordsResult M status status M
* * *
Table C.2.2.5: Mapping from IS getLogSubscriptionIds parameters to SS
equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Method parameter Qualifier logSubscriptionIds
logSubscriptionIds M status status M
* * *
Table C.2.2.6: Mapping from IS getLogSubscriptionStatus parameters to SS
equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Method parameter Qualifier logSubscriptionId
logSubscriptionId M logAttributeList logAttributeList M status status M
* * *
## C.2.3 Notification parameter mapping
The Notification Log (NL) IRP Notifications are defined in Annex B.
# C.3 Solution Set definitions
## C.3.1 WSDL definition structure
Clause C.3.2 provides a graphical representation of the NL IRP service.
Clause C.3.3 defines the services which are supported the NL IRP agent.
## C.3.2 Graphical Representation
The WSDL structure is depicted in Figure C.3.2 below, depicting port type,
binding and service. The port type contains port type operations, which again
contains input, output and fault messages. The binding contains binding
operations, which have the same name as the port type operations. The binding
connects to a port inside the service.
{width="6.691666666666666in" height="3.183333333333333in"}
Figure C.3.2: Notification Log (NL) IRP SOAP Solution Set WSDL structure
## C.3.3 WSDL specification "NLSystem.wsdl"
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
#