# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management, as identified below:
32.341: \"File Transfer (FT) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements\"
32.342: \"File Transfer (FT) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information
Service (IS)\"
**32.346: \"File Transfer (FT) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Solution Set
(SS) definitions\"**
The present document is part of a TS-family which describe the requirements
and information model necessary for the Telecommunication Management (TM) of
3G systems. The TM principles and TM architecture are specified in 3GPP TS
32.101 [1] and 3GPP TS 32.102 [2].
Network Elements (NEs) under management, element managers as well as network
managers generate various management information stored in file format. This
IRP is addressing how these files are exchanged through Itf-N as well as
certain aspects of file management and maintenance. It is anticipated that
management functions (e.g. PM, Call Trace, CM) make reuse of capabilities
provided by this File Transfer IRP.
# 1 Scope
The present document contains the Solution Sets for the IRP whose semantics
are specified in File Transfer IRP: Information Service (3GPP TS 32.342 [15]).
This Solution Set specification is related to 3GPP TS 32.342 V12.0.X.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.341: \"Telecommunication management; File Transfer (FT)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements \".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.311: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Integration
Reference Point (IRP) management; Requirements\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.306: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP): Solution Set (SS)
definitions\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.300: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Name convention for Managed Objects\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.312: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Integration
Reference Point (IRP) management; Information Service (IS)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 32.316: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Integration
Reference Point (IRP) management; Solution Set (SS) definitions\".
[9] 3GPP TS 32.150: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Concept and definitions\".
[10] OMG TC Document telecom/98-11-01: \"OMG Notification Service\".
http://www.omg.org/technology/documents/
[11] W3C SOAP 1.1 specification (http://www.w3.org/TR/2000/NOTE-
SOAP-20000508/)
[12] W3C XPath 1.0 specification (http://www.w3.org/TR/1999/REC-
xpath-19991116)
[13] W3C WSDL 1.1 specification (http://www.w3.org/TR/2001/NOTE-wsdl-20010315)
[14] W3C SOAP 1.2 specification (http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-part1/)
[15] 3GPP TS 32.342: \"Telecommunication management; File Transfer (FT)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[16] 3GPP TS 32.336: \"Telecommunication management; Notification Log (NL)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Solution Set (SS) definitions\".
[17] 3GPP TS 32.331: \"Telecommunication management; Notification Log (NL)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102 [2], 3GPP TS 32.150 [9], 3GPP TS 32.331
[17] and 3GPP TS 32.341 [3] and the following apply:
**IRP document version number string (or \"IRPVersion\"):** See 3GPP TS 32.311
[4].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
CM Configuration Management
CORBA Common Object Request Broker Architecture
DN Distinguished Name
FT File Transfer
FTIRP File Transfer IRP
IDL Interface Definition Language
IRP Integration Reference Point
IS Information Service
NE Network Element
NL Notification Log
NRM Network Resource Model
OMG Object Management Group
PM Performance Management
SS Solution Set
UML Unified Modelling Language
WSDL Web Service Description Language
XML eXtensible Markup Language
# 4 Solution Set Definitions
This specification defines the following 3GPP FT IRP Solution Set Definitions:
Annex A provides the CORBA Solution Set.\ Annex B provides the XML
Definitions.\ Annex C provides the SOAP Solution Set.
###### ## Annex A (normative): CORBA Solution Set
This annex contains the CORBA Solution Set for the IRP whose semantics is
specified in FT IRP: Information Service (3GPP TS 32.342 [15]).
# A.1 Architectural features
The overall architectural feature of FT IRP is specified in 3GPP TS 32.341
[3].
This clause specifies features that are specific to the CORBA SS.
## A.1.1 Syntax for Distinguished Names
The syntax of a Distinguished Name is defined in 3GPP TS 32.300 [6].
## A.1.2 Notification Services
In implementations of CORBA SS, IRPAgent conveys FT Information to IRPManager
via OMG Notification Service (OMG Notification Service [10]).
A necessary and sufficient sub set of OMG Notification Services shall be used
to support FileTransferIRPNotifications notifications as specified in 3GPP TS
32.342 [15].
## A.1.3 Push and Pull Style
OMG Notification Service defines two styles of interaction. One is called push
style. In this style, IRPAgent pushes notifications to IRPManager as soon as
they are available. The other is called pull style. In this style, IRPAgent
keeps the notifications till IRPManager requests for them.
This CORBA SS specifies that support of Push style is Mandatory (M) and that
support of Pull style is Optional (O).
## A.1.4 Support multiple notifications in one push operation
For efficiency reasons, IRPAgent may send multiple notifications using one
single push operation. To pack multiple notifications into one push operation,
IRPAgent may wait and not invoke the push operation as soon as notifications
are available. To avoid IRPAgent to wait for an extended period of time that
is objectionable to IRPManager, IRPAgent shall implement an IRPAgent wide
timer configurable by administrator. On expiration of this timer, IRPAgent
shall invoke push if there is at least one notification to be conveyed to
IRPManager. This timer is re-started after each push invocation.
## A.1.5 FileTransferIRP Notification Interface
OMG CORBA Notification push operation is used to realise the notification of
FileTransferIRP Notifications. All the notifications in this interface are
implemented using this push_structured_event method.
### A.1.5.1 Method push (M)
module CosNotifyComm {
...
Interface SequencePushConsumer : NotifyPublish {
void push_structured_events(
in CosNotification::EventBatch notifications)
raises( CosEventComm::Disconnected);
...
}; // SequencePushConsumer
...
}; // CosNotifyComm
NOTE 1: The push_structured_events method takes an input parameter of type
EventBatch as defined in the OMG CosNotification module (OMG Notification
Service [10]). This data type is the same as a sequence of Structured Events.
Upon invocation, this parameter will contain a sequence of Structured Events
being delivered to IRPManager by IRPAgent to which it is connected.
NOTE 2: The maximum number of events that will be transmitted within a single
invocation of this operation is controlled by IRPAgent wide configuration
parameter.
NOTE 3: The amount of time the supplier (IRPAgent) of a sequence of Structured
Events will accumulate individual events into the sequence before invoking
this operation is controlled by IRPAgent wide configuration parameter as well.
NOTE 4: IRPAgent may push EventBatch with only one Structured Event.
# A.2 Mapping
## A.2.1 Operation and Notification mapping
FileTransferIRP: IS 3GPP TS 32.342 [15] defines semantics of operation and
notification visible across the FileTransferIRP. Table A.2.1 indicates mapping
of these operations and notifications to their equivalents defined in this SS.
Table A.2.1: Mapping from IS Operations and Notification to SS equivalents
* * *
IS Operations/ notification 3GPP TS 32.342 [15] SS Method Qualifier
listAvailableFiles list_available_files M fileDownloadIndication
file_download_indication O getIRPVersion (see note)
get_file_transfer_irp_versions M getOperationProfile (see note)
get_file_transfer_irp_operations_profile O getNotificationProfile (see note)
get_file_transfer_irp_notifications_profile O notifyFileReady
push_structured_events (see subclause A.1.5) M notifyFilePreparationError
push_structured_events (see subclause A.1.5) M NOTE: This operation is of
ManagedGenericIRP IOC specified in 3GPP TS 32.312 [7]. The FileTransferIRP IOC
of 3GPP TS 32.342 [15] inherits from it.
* * *
## A.2.2 Operation parameter mapping
The FileTransferIRP: IS 3GPP TS 32.342 [15] defines semantics of parameters
carried in operations across the FileTransferIRP. The following tables
indicate the mapping of these parameters, as per operation, to their
equivalents defined in this SS.
Table A.2.2.1: Mapping from IS listAvailableFiles parameters to SS equivalents
+------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS Method parameter | Qualifier | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | managementDataType | short | M | | | management_data_type | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | beginTime | FileTran | M | | | sferIRPConstDefs::UTCTime | | | | begin_time | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | endTime | FileTran | M | | | sferIRPConstDefs::UTCTime | | | | end_time | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | fileInfoList | FileTransferI | M | | | RPConstDefs::FileInfoList | | | | file_info_list | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | status | Return value of type | M | | | FileTra | | | | nsferIRPConstDefs::Result | | | | | | | | Exception: | | | | | | | | ListAvailableFiles, | | | | InvalidTimes, | | | | ManagedGenericIR | | | | PSystem::InvalidParameter | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
Table A.2.2.2: Mapping from IS fileDownloadIndication parameters to SS
equivalents
+------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS Method parameter | Qualifier | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | fileInfoList | FileTransferI | M | | | RPConstDefs::FileInfoList | | | | file_info_list | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | status | Return value of type | M | | | FileTra | | | | nsferIRPConstDefs::Result | | | | | | | | Exception: | | | | | | | | FileDownloadIndication, | | | | InvalidFileInfoList, | | | | ManagedGenericIRPSys | | | | tem:OperationNotSupported | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
Table A.2.2.3: Mapping from IS getIRPVersion parameters to SS equivalents
+------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS Method parameter | Qualifier | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | versionNumberSet | Return value of type | M | | | ManagedGenericIRPCo | | | | nstDefs::VersionNumberSet | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | status | Exception: | M | | | | | | | G | | | | etFileTransferIRPVersions | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
Table A.2.2.4: Mapping from IS getOperationProfile parameters to SS
equivalents
+---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS Method parameter | Qualifier | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | iRPVersion | ManagedGenericIR | M | | | PConstDefs::VersionNumber | | | | irp_version | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | operationNameProfile, | Return value of type | M | | operationParameterProfile | ManagedGeneri | | | | cIRPConstDefs::MethodList | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | status | Exception: | M | | | | | | | GetFileTran | | | | sferIRPOperationsProfile, | | | | ManagedGenericIRPSyste | | | | m::OperationNotSupported, | | | | ManagedGenericIR | | | | PSystem::InvalidParameter | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
Table A.2.2.5: Mapping from IS getNotificationProfile parameters to SS
equivalents
+---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS Method parameter | Qualifier | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | iRPVersion | ManagedGenericIR | M | | | PConstDefs::VersionNumber | | | | irp_version | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | notificationNameProfile, | Return value of type | M | | not | ManagedGeneri | | | ificationParameterProfile | cIRPConstDefs::MethodList | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | status | Exception: | M | | | | | | | GetFileTransfe | | | | rIRPNotificationsProfile, | | | | ManagedGenericIRPSyste | | | | m::OperationNotSupported, | | | | ManagedGenericIR | | | | PSystem::InvalidParameter | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
## A.2.3 Notification parameter mapping
The FileTransferIRP: IS 3GPP TS 32.342 [15] defines semantics of parameters
carried in notifications. The following table indicates the mapping of these
parameters to their OMG CORBA Structured Event (defined in OMG Notification
Service [10]) equivalents. The composition of OMG Structured Event, as defined
in the OMG Notification Service [10], is:
Header
Fixed Header
domain_name
type_name
event_name
Variable Header
Body
filterable_body_fields
remaining_body
The following tables list all OMG Structured Event attributes in the second
column. The first column identifies the FileTransferIRP: IS 3GPP TS 32.342
[15] defined notification parameters.
Table A.2.3.1: Mapping for notifyFileReady
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | IS Parameters | OMG CORBA | Qualifier | Comment | | | Structured | | | | | Event attribute | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | There is no | domain_name | M | It carries the | | corresponding | | | IRP document | | IS attribute. | | | version number | | | | | string. See | | | | | subclause 3.1. | | | | | | | | | | It indicates | | | | | the syntax and | | | | | semantics of | | | | | the Structured | | | | | Event as | | | | | defined by the | | | | | present | | | | | document. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | n | type_name | M | This is the | | otificationType | | | ET_FILE_READY | | | | | of module of | | | | | FileTransf | | | | | erIRPNotifDefs. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | There is no | event_name | M | It carries no | | corresponding | | | information. | | IS attribute. | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | There is no | Variable Header | | | | corresponding | | | | | IS attribute. | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | objectClass, | One NV pair of | M | NV stands for | | objectInstance | filterabl | | name-value | | | e_body_fields | | pair. Order | | | | | arrangement of | | | | | NV pairs is not | | | | | significant. | | | | | The name of | | | | | NV-pair is | | | | | always encoded | | | | | in string. | | | | | | | | | | Name of this NV | | | | | pair is the | | | | | MANAGED_O | | | | | BJECT_INSTANCE | | | | | of interface | | | | | Att | | | | | ributeNameValue | | | | | of module | | | | | Notificati | | | | | onIRPConstDefs. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | string. See | | | | | corresponding | | | | | table in | | | | | Notification | | | | | IRP: CORBA SS | | | | | (3GPP TS 32.306 | | | | | [5]). | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | notificationId | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | remaining_body | | is the | | | | | N | | | | | OTIFICATION_ID | | | | | of interface | | | | | Att | | | | | ributeNameValue | | | | | of module | | | | | Notificati | | | | | onIRPConstDefs. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a long. | | | | | See | | | | | corresponding | | | | | table in | | | | | Notification | | | | | IRP: CORBA SS | | | | | (3GPP TS 32.306 | | | | | [5]). | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | eventTime | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | filterabl | | is the | | | e_body_fields | | EVENT_TIME of | | | | | interface | | | | | Att | | | | | ributeNameValue | | | | | of module | | | | | Notificati | | | | | onIRPConstDefs. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is | | | | | IRPTime. See | | | | | corresponding | | | | | table in | | | | | Notification | | | | | IRP: CORBA SS | | | | | (3GPP TS 32.306 | | | | | [5]). | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | systemDN | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | filterabl | | is the | | | e_body_fields | | SYSTEM_DN of | | | | | interface | | | | | Att | | | | | ributeNameValue | | | | | of module | | | | | Notificati | | | | | onIRPConstDefs. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | string. See | | | | | corresponding | | | | | table in | | | | | Notification | | | | | IRP: CORBA SS | | | | | (3GPP TS 32.306 | | | | | [5]). | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | fileInfoList | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | remaining_body | | is the | | | | | F | | | | | ILE_INFO_LIST | | | | | of interface | | | | | NotifyFileReady | | | | | of module | | | | | FileTransferIR | | | | | PNotifications. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is | | | | | FileInfoList of | | | | | module | | | | | FileTransf | | | | | erIRPConstDefs. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | additionalText | One NV pair of | O | Name of NV pair | | | remaining_body | | is the | | | | | A | | | | | DDITIONAL_TEXT | | | | | interface | | | | | NotifyFileReady | | | | | of module | | | | | FileTransferIR | | | | | PNotifications. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | string. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+
Table A.2.3.2: Mapping for notifyFilePreparationError
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | IS Parameters | OMG CORBA | Qualifier | Comment | | | Structured | | | | | Event attribute | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | There is no | domain_name | M | It carries the | | corresponding | | | IRP document | | IS attribute. | | | version number | | | | | string. See | | | | | subclause 3.1. | | | | | | | | | | It indicates | | | | | the syntax and | | | | | semantics of | | | | | the Structured | | | | | Event as | | | | | defined by the | | | | | present | | | | | document. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | n | Type_name | M | This is the | | otificationType | | | ET_FILE_PRE | | | | | PARATION_ERROR | | | | | of module of | | | | | FileTransf | | | | | erIRPNotifDefs. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | There is no | event_name | M | It carries no | | corresponding | | | information. | | IS attribute. | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | There is no | Variable Header | | | | corresponding | | | | | IS attribute. | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | objectClass, | One NV pair of | M | NV stands for | | objectInstance | filterabl | | name-value | | | e_body_fields | | pair. Order | | | | | arrangement of | | | | | NV pairs is not | | | | | significant. | | | | | The name of | | | | | NV-pair is | | | | | always encoded | | | | | in string. | | | | | | | | | | Name of this NV | | | | | pair is the | | | | | MANAGED_O | | | | | BJECT_INSTANCE | | | | | of interface | | | | | Att | | | | | ributeNameValue | | | | | of module | | | | | Notificati | | | | | onIRPConstDefs. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | string. See | | | | | corresponding | | | | | table in | | | | | Notification | | | | | IRP: CORBA SS | | | | | (3GPP TS 32.306 | | | | | [5]). | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | notificationId | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | remaining_body | | is the | | | | | N | | | | | OTIFICATION_ID | | | | | of interface | | | | | Att | | | | | ributeNameValue | | | | | of module | | | | | Notificati | | | | | onIRPConstDefs. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a long. | | | | | See | | | | | corresponding | | | | | table in | | | | | Notification | | | | | IRP: CORBA SS | | | | | (3GPP TS 32.306 | | | | | [5]). | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | eventTime | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | filterabl | | is the | | | e_body_fields | | EVENT_TIME of | | | | | interface | | | | | Att | | | | | ributeNameValue | | | | | of module | | | | | Notificati | | | | | onIRPConstDefs. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is | | | | | IRPTime. See | | | | | corresponding | | | | | table in | | | | | Notification | | | | | IRP: CORBA SS | | | | | (3GPP TS 32.306 | | | | | [5]). | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | systemDN | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | filterabl | | is the | | | e_body_fields | | SYSTEM_DN of | | | | | interface | | | | | Att | | | | | ributeNameValue | | | | | of module | | | | | Notificati | | | | | onIRPConstDefs. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | string. See | | | | | corresponding | | | | | table in | | | | | Notification | | | | | IRP: CORBA SS | | | | | (3GPP TS 32.306 | | | | | [5]). | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | fileInfoList | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | remaining_body | | is the | | | | | F | | | | | ILE_INFO_LIST | | | | | of interface | | | | | NotifyFileP | | | | | reparationError | | | | | of module | | | | | FileTransferIR | | | | | PNotifications. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is | | | | | FileInfoList of | | | | | module | | | | | FileTransf | | | | | erIRPConstDefs. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | reason | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | remaining_body | | is the REASON | | | | | of interface | | | | | NotifyFileP | | | | | reparationError | | | | | of module | | | | | FileTransferIR | | | | | PNotifications. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | string. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | additionalText | One NV pair of | O | Name of NV pair | | | remaining_body | | is the | | | | | A | | | | | DDITIONAL_TEXT | | | | | of interface | | | | | NotifyFileP | | | | | reparationError | | | | | of module | | | | | FileTransferIR | | | | | PNotifications. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | string. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+
# A.3 Solution Set definitions
## A.3.1 IDL definition structure
Clause A.3.2 defines the constants and types used by the FT IRP.
Clause A.3.3 defines the operations which are performed by the FT IRP agent.
Clause A.3.4 defines the notifications which are emitted by the FT IRP agent.
## A.3.2 IDL specification \"FileTransferIRPConstDefs.idl\"
//File: FileTransferIRPConstDefs.idl
#ifndef _FILE_TRANSFER_IRP_CONST_DEFS_IDL_
#define _FILE_TRANSFER_IRP_CONST_DEFS_IDL_
#include \
// This statement must appear after all include statements
#pragma prefix \"3gppsa5.org\"
/* ## Module: FileTransferIRPConstDefs
This module contains commonly used definitions for FileTransferIRP.
================================================================
*/
module FileTransferIRPConstDefs
{
enum Result {OK, FAILURE};
typedef TimeBase::UtcT UTCTime;
enum LocationChoice {DIRECTORY, URL};
//The FileLocation may be a directory path or a URL
union FileLocation switch (LocationChoice)
{
case DIRECTORY: string file_location_directory;
/* e.g. \\\202.112.101.1\D:\user\performanceFiles\\\ */
case URL: string file_location_url;
/* e.g. ftp://nms.telecom_org.com/datastore/\ */
};
typedef unsigned long FileSize; //the unit is byte
typedef string FileCompression;
typedef string FileFormat;
struct FileInfo
{
FileLocation file_location;
FileSize file_size;
UTCTime file_ready_time;
UTCTime file_expiration_time;
FileCompression file_compression;
FileFormat file_format;
};
typedef sequence\ FileInfoList;
const short PM_MANAGEMENT_DATA_TYPE = 1; //Performance Management
const short CM_MANAGEMENT_DATA_TYPE = 2; //Configuration Management
const short IM_MANAGEMENT_DATA_TYPE = 3; //Inventory Management
const short TM_MANAGEMENT_DATA_TYPE = 4; //Test Management
const short CT_MANAGEMENT_DATA_TYPE = 5; //Subscriber & Equipment Trace
const short NL_MANAGEMENT_DATA_TYPE = 6; //Notification Log
const short CG_MANAGEMENT_DATA_TYPE = 7; //Charging
const short OT_MANAGEMENT_DATA_TYPE = 8; //Other Types
/*
Define the parameters specified in the notifyFileReady
and notifyFilePreparationError notifications.
*/
interface AttributeNameValue
{
const string FILE_INFO_LIST = \"FILE_INFO_LIST\";
const string ADDITIONAL_TEXT = \"ADDITIONAL_TEXT\";
const string REASON = \"REASON\";
};
};
#endif // _FILE_TRANSFER_IRP_CONST_DEFS_IDL_
## A.3.3 IDL specification \"FileTransferIRPSystem.idl\"
//File: FileTransferIRPSystem.idl
#ifndef _FILE_TRANSFER_IRP_SYSTEM_IDL_
#define _FILE_TRANSFER_IRP_SYSTEM_IDL_
#include \
#include \
#include \
// This statement must appear after all include statements
#pragma prefix \"3gppsa5.org\"
/* ## Module: FileTransferIRPSystem
This module implements capabilities of FileTransferIRP.
================================================================
*/
module FileTransferIRPSystem
{
exception InvalidTimes { string reason; };
exception InvalidFileInfoList { string reason; };
/*
System fails to complete the operation. System can provide reason
to qualify the exception. The semantics carried in reason
is outside the scope of this IRP.
*/
exception ListAvailableFiles { string reason; };
exception FileDownloadIndication { string reason; };
exception GetFileTransferIRPVersions { string reason; };
exception GetFileTransferIRPOperationsProfile { string reason; };
exception GetFileTransferIRPNotificationsProfile { string reason; };
interface FileTransferIRP
{
/*
* IRPManager invoke this operation to get the files information
*/
FileTransferIRPConstDefs::Result list_available_files(
in short management_data_type,
in FileTransferIRPConstDefs::UTCTime begin_time,
in FileTransferIRPConstDefs::UTCTime end_time,
out FileTransferIRPConstDefs::FileInfoList file_info_list
)
raises (ListAvailableFiles, InvalidTimes,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::InvalidParameter);
/*
* IRPManager invoke this operation to indicate completion of downloading files to IRPAgent
*/
FileTransferIRPConstDefs::Result file_download_indication(
in FileTransferIRPConstDefs::FileInfoList file_info_list
)
raises (FileDownloadIndication, InvalidFileInfoList,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::OperationNotSupported);
/**
* Return the list of all supported FileTransferIRP versions.
*/
ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::VersionNumberSet get_file_transfer_irp_versions (
)
raises (GetFileTransferIRPVersions);
/**
* Return the list of all supported operations and their supported
* parameters for a specific FileTransferIRP version.
*/
ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::MethodList
get_file_transfer_irp_operations_profile (
in ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::VersionNumber irp_version
)
raises (GetFileTransferIRPOperationsProfile,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::OperationNotSupported,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::InvalidParameter);
/**
* Return the list of all supported notifications and their supported
* parameters for a specific FileTransferIRP version.
*/
ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::MethodList
get_file_transfer_irp_notifications_profile
(
in ManagedGenericIRPConstDefs::VersionNumber irp_version
)
raises (GetFileTransferIRPNotificationsProfile,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::OperationNotSupported,
ManagedGenericIRPSystem::InvalidParameter);
};
};
#endif // _FILE_TRANSFER_IRP_SYSTEM_IDL_
## A.3.4 IDL specification \"FileTransferIRPNotifications.idl\"
//File: FileTransferIRPNotifications.idl
#ifndef _FILE_TRANSFER_IRP_NOTIFICATIONS_IDL_
#define _FILE_TRANSFER_IRP_NOTIFICATIONS_IDL_
#include \
#include \
// This statement must appear after all include statements
#pragma prefix \"3gppsa5.org\"
/* ## Module: FileTransferIRPNotifications
This contains the specification of notifications of FileTransferIRP.
====================================================================
*/
module FileTransferIRPNotifications
{
/**
* Constant definitions for the FileReady notification
*/
interface NotifyFileReady: NotificationIRPNotifications::Notify
{
const string EVENT_TYPE = \"notifyFileReady\";
/**
* This constant defines the name of the fileInfoList property,
* which is transported in the filterable_body fields.
* The data type for the value of this property is
* FileTransferIRPConstDefs::FileInfoList.
*/
const string FILE_INFO_LIST =
FileTransferIRPConstDefs::AttributeNameValue::FILE_INFO_LIST;
/**
* This constant defines the name of the additionalText property,
* which is transported in the filterable_body fields.
* The data type for the value of this property is string.
*/
const string ADDITIONAL_TEXT =
FileTransferIRPConstDefs::AttributeNameValue::ADDITIONAL_TEXT;
};
/**
* Constant definitions for the FilePreparationError notification
*/
interface NotifyFilePreparationError:
NotificationIRPNotifications::Notify
{
const string EVENT_TYPE = \"notifyFilePreparationError\";
/**
* This constant defines the name of the fileInfoList property,
* which is transported in the filterable_body fields.
* The data type for the value of this property is
* FileTransferIRPConstDefs::FileInfoList.
*/
const string FILE_INFO_LIST =
FileTransferIRPConstDefs::AttributeNameValue::FILE_INFO_LIST;
/**
* This constant defines the name of the reason property,
* which is transported in the filterable_body fields.
* The data type for the value of this property is string.
*/
const string REASON =
FileTransferIRPConstDefs::AttributeNameValue::REASON;
/**
* This constant defines the name of the additionalText property,
* which is transported in the filterable_body fields.
* The data type for the value of this property is string.
*/
const string ADDITIONAL_TEXT =
FileTransferIRPConstDefs::AttributeNameValue::ADDITIONAL_TEXT;
};
};
#endif // _FILE_TRANSFER_IRP_NOTIFICATIONS_IDL_
###### ## Annex B (normative): XML Definitions
This annex contains the XML Definitions for the File Transfer Integration
Reference Point (FT IRP) as it applies to Itf-N, in accordance with FT IRP IS
definitions [15] as well as Notification Log IRP XML Definitions [16].
Apart from being used for the Notification Log, the XML definitions for FT IRP
notifications are also used by the FT IRP SOAP SS.
# B.1 Architectural Features
The overall architectural feature of FT IRP is specified in 3G TS 32.342 [15].
This clause specifies features that are specific to the XML definitions.
## B.1.1 Syntax for Distinguished Names
The syntax of a Distinguished Name is defined in 3GPP TS 32.300 [6].
## B.1.2 Notification Services
This annex defines the XML syntax of FT IRP notifications that is to be used
for the FT IRP SOAP Solution Set and in conjunction with Notification Log IRP
XML Definitions for Notification Log IRP XML Data File and the NL IRP XML
Notification Format [16].
## B.1.3 IOC Definitions
This annex defines the XML syntax for the IOC definitions of the FT IRP IS
[15], which are used by the XML definitions for the FT IRP notifications and
the FT IRP IS operations.
# B.2 Mapping
Not present in the current version of this specification.
# B.3 Solution Set definitions
## B.3.1 XML definition structure
Clause B.3.2 provides a graphical representation of the XML elements.
Clause B.3.3 provides XML definitions of FT IRP notifications as defined in
[15]. These definitions are to be used for the FT IRP SOAP Solution Set and in
conjunction with Notification Log IRP XML Definitions for Notification Log IRP
XML Data File and the NL IRP XML Notification Format [16], as well as
considerations for NL IRP XML File Name Conventions defined therein.
Clause B.3.4 provides XML definitions of FT IOC as defined in [15].
## B.3.2 Graphical Representation
{width="6.691666666666666in" height="3.640972222222222in"}
Figure B.3.2.1
{width="6.688888888888889in" height="3.6569444444444446in"}
Figure B.3.2.2
NOTE: The use of XML schema key word \"sequence\" to support IS-defined set
(not sequence) is for the purpose of XML processor efficiency. This shall not
imply the use of \"sequence\" in other technology.
## B.3.3 XML Schema "fTIRPNotif.xsd"
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\**
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
## B.3.4 XML Schema "fTIRPIOCs.xsd"
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
###### ## Annex C (normative): SOAP Solution Set
This annex specifies the SOAP Solution Set for the IRP whose semantics are
specified in FT IRP: Information Service (3GPP TS 32.342 [15]).
# C.1 Architectural features
The overall architectural feature of the FT IRP is specified in 3GPP TS 32.342
[15]. This clause specifies features that are specific to the SOAP Solution
Set.
## C.1.1 Syntax for Distinguished Names
The syntax of a Distinguished Name is defined in 3GPP TS 32.300 [6].
## C.1.2 Notification Services
The FT IRP SOAP SS uses the Notification IRP SOAP SS of 3GPP TS 32.336 [16].
The IRPAgent shall support the push interface model, which means that the
IRPAgent sends FT notifications to the IRPManager as soon as new events occur.
The IRPManager does not need to check (\"pull\") for events.
Relevant definitions are imported from the FT IRP XML definitions in Annex B.
## C.1.3 Supported W3C specifications
The SOAP 1.1 specification [11] and WSDL 1.1 specification [13] are supported.
The SOAP 1.2 specification [14] is supported optionally.
This specification uses \"document\" style in WSDL file.
This specification uses \"literal\" encoding style in WSDL file.
The filter language used in the SS is the XPath Language (see W3C XPath 1.0
specification [12]). IRPAgents may throw a FilterComplexityLimit fault when a
given filter is too complex.
The FT IRP SOAP SS uses the Notification IRP SOAP SS of 3GPP TS 32.336 [5].
The IRPAgent shall support the push interface model, which means that the
IRPAgent sends FT notifications to the IRPManager as soon as new events occur.
The IRPManager does not need to check (\"pull\") for events.
## C.1.4 Prefixes and namespaces
This specification uses a number of namespace prefixes throughout that are
listed in Table C.1.4.
Table C.1.4: Prefixes and Namespaces used in this specification
* * *
**PREFIX** **NAMESPACE** (no prefix) http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/wsdl/ soap
http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/wsdl/soap/ fTIRPSystem
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/specs/archive/32_series/32.346#FTIRPSystem fTIRPData
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/specs/archive/32_series/32.346#FTIRPData xfi
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/specs/archive/32_series/32.346#fTIRPIOCs
genericIRPSystem
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/specs/archive/32_series/32.316#GenericIRPSystem
ntfIRPNtfSystem
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/specs/archive/32_series/32.306#NotificationIRPNtfSystem
* * *
# C.2 Mapping
## C.2.1 Operation and notification mapping
The FT IRP IS (3GPP TS 32.342 [15]) defines the operations and their
semantics.
Table C.2.1 maps the operations defined in the FT IRP IS to their equivalent
port type and binding operations in this Solution Set (SS).
Table C.2.1 also maps the notifications of the FT IRP IS, as well as inherited
operations.
Table C.2.1 also qualifies if an operation is Mandatory (M) or Optional (O).
Table C.2.1: Mapping from IS Operation to SS Equivalents
* * *
IS Operation in 3GPP TS 32.342 [15] SS: Operation for WSDL port type and WSDL
binding SS: Port of FileTransferIRPService Qualifier
listAvailableFiles listAvailableFiles (note 1) FileTransferIRPPort M
fileDownloadIndication fileDownloadIndication (note 1) FileTransferIRPPort O
notifyFileReady notify (note 2) NotificationIRPNtfPort M
notifyFilePreparationError notify (note 2) NotificationIRPNtfPort M
getIRPVersion (note 3) See TS 32.316 [8] GenericIRPPort M
getOperationProfile (note 3) See TS 32.316 [8] GenericIRPPort O
getNotificationProfile (note 3) See TS 32.316 [8] GenericIRPPort O
NOTE 1: The operation is under the port type
fTIRPSystem:FileTransferIRPPortType and under the binding
fTIRPSystem:FileTransferIRPBinding.
NOTE 2: The IS equivalent maps to an XML definition defined in Annex B, and
this being an input parameter to the operation notify under the port type
ntfIRPNtfSystem:NotificationIRPNtf and under the binding
ntfIRPNtfSystem:NotificationIRPNtf of 3GPP TS 32.306 [5]. This binding is
linked to a port of the FileTransferIRPService as indicated in the table
above.
NOTE 3: The IS operation is inherited from the ManagedGenericIRP IOC specified
in 3GPP TS 32.312 [7].\  
This inheritance is by the FileTransferIRP IOC of 3GPP TS 32.342 [15]
inheriting from the ManagedGenericIRP IOC. The corresponding binding is linked
to a port of the FileTransferIRPService as indicated in the table above.
* * *
## C.2.2 Operation parameter mapping
The FT IRP IS (3GPP TS 32.342 [15]) defines semantics of parameters carried in
the operations. The tables below show the mapping of these parameters, as per
operation, to their equivalents defined in this SS.
### C.2.2.1 Operation listAvailableFiles
#### C.2.2.1.1 Input parameters
Table C.2.2.1.1: Mapping from IS listAvailableFiles input parameters to SS
equivalents
+------------------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS WSDL type sub-element | Qualifier | | | | | | | used in corresponding input message | | | | | | | | under corresponding port type operation | | | | | | | | as indicated in Table 5.1 | | +------------------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------+ | managementDataType | managementDataType | M | +------------------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------+ | beginTime | beginTime | M | +------------------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------+ | endTime | endTime | M | +------------------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------+
#### C.2.2.1.2 Output parameters
Table C.2.2.1.2: Mapping from IS listAvailableFiles output parameters to SS
equivalents
+------------------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS WSDL type sub-element | Qualifier | | | | | | | used in corresponding output message | | | | | | | | under corresponding port type operation | | | | | | | | as indicated in Table 5.1 | | +------------------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------+ | fileInfoList | fileInfoList | M | +------------------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------+ | status | status | M | +------------------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------+
#### C.2.2.1.3 Fault definition
Table C.2.2.1.3: Mapping from IS listAvailableFiles exceptions to SS
equivalents
+----------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------+ | Assertion name | SS WSDL type enumeration value | Qualifier | | | | | | | used in corresponding fault message | | | | | | | | under corresponding port type operation | | | | | | | | as indicated in Table 5.1 | | +----------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------+ | invalidTimes | InvalidTimes | M | +----------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------+
### C.2.2.2 Operation fileDownloadIndication
#### C.2.2.2.1 Input parameters
Table C.2.2.2.1: Mapping from IS fileDownloadIndication input parameters to SS
equivalents
+------------------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS WSDL type sub-element | Qualifier | | | | | | | used in corresponding input message | | | | | | | | under corresponding port type operation | | | | | | | | as indicated in Table 5.1 | | +------------------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------+ | fileInfoList | fileInfoList | M | +------------------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------+
#### C.2.2.2.2 Output parameters
Table C.2.2.2.2: Mapping from IS fileDownloadIndication output parameters to
SS equivalents
+------------------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS WSDL type sub-element | Qualifier | | | | | | | used in corresponding output message | | | | | | | | under corresponding port type operation | | | | | | | | as indicated in Table 5.1 | | +------------------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------+ | status | status | M | +------------------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------+
#### C.2.2.2.3 Fault definition
Table C.2.2.2.3: Mapping from IS fileDownloadIndication exceptions to SS
equivalents
+---------------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------+ | Assertion name | SS WSDL type enumeration value | Qualifier | | | | | | | used in corresponding fault message | | | | | | | | under corresponding port type operation | | | | | | | | as indicated in Table 5.1 | | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------+ | InvalidFileInfoList | InvalidFileInfoList | M | +---------------------+-----------------------------------------+-----------+
# C.3 Solution Set definitions
## C.3.1 WSDL definition structure
Clause C.3.2 provides a graphical representation of the FT IRP service.
Clause C.3.3 defines the services which are supported the FT IRP agent.
## C.3.2 Graphical Representation
The WSDL structure is depicted in Figure C.3.2 below, depicting port type,
binding and service. The port type contains port type operations, which again
contains input, output and fault messages. The binding contains binding
operations, which have the same name as the port type operations. The binding
connects to a port inside the service.
{width="6.689583333333333in" height="2.201388888888889in"}
Figure C.3.2: File Transfer IRP SOAP Solution Set WSDL structure
## C.3.3 WSDL specification "FTRPSystem.wsdl"
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
#