# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
32.371: \"Security Management concept and requirements\".
**32.372: \"Security services for Integration Reference Points (IRP);
Information Service (IS)\".**
32.376: \"Security services for Integration Reference Point (IRP); Solution
Set (SS) definitions\".
In 3GPP SA5 context, IRPs are introduced to address process interfaces at the
Itf-N interface. The Itf-N interface is built up by a number of Integration
Reference Points (IRPs) and a related Name Convention, which realise the
functional capabilities over this interface. The basic structure of the IRPs
is defined in 3GPP TS 32.101 [1] and 3GPP TS 32.102 [2]. An IRP consists of
IRPManager and IRPAgent. Usually there are three types of transaction between
IRPManager and IRPAgent, which are operation invocation, notification, and
file transfer.
However, there are different types of intentional threats against the
transaction between IRPManagers and IRPAgents. All the threats are potential
risks of damage or degradation of telecommunication services, which operators
should take measures to reduce or eliminate to secure the telecommunication
service, network, and data.
By introducing Security Management, the present document describes security
mechanisms to relieve the threats between IRPManagers and IRPAgents.
As described in 3GPP TS 32.101 [1], the architecture of Security Management is
divided into two layers:
Layer A - Application Layer.
Layer B - O&M IP Network.
The threats and Security Management requirements of different layers are
different, which should be taken into account respectively.
3GPP defines three types of IRP specifications, (see 3GPP TS 32.102 [2]). One
type relates to the definitions of the interface deployed across the Itf-N.
These definitions need to be agreed between the IRPManagers and IRPAgents so
that meaningful communication can occur between them. An example of this type
is the Alarm IRP.
The other two types (NRM IRP and Data Definition IRP) relate to the network
resource model (schema) of the managed network. This network schema needs to
be agreed between the IRPManagers and IRPAgents so that the IRPAgent can
provide network management services to the IRPManager. An example of this type
is the UTRAN NRM IRP.
This Information Service specification is applicable to the Interface IRP
specifications. That is to say, it is concerned only with the security aspects
of operations/notifications/files deployed across the Itf-N.
# 1 Scope
The purpose of the present document is to specify the necessary security
features, services and functions to protect the network management data,
including Requests, Responses, Notifications and Files, exchanged across the
Itf‑N.
The present document specifies the Security Service for IRP Information
Service.
This Security Service for IRP IS defines the semantics of management
information visible across the Itf-N in a protocol and technology neutral way.
It does not define the syntax or encoding of the operations and their
parameters.
This Information Service specification is related to 3GPP TS 32.371 [6].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions that, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document in the same Release as the present document.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] ITU‑T Recommendation M.3016 (1998): \"TMN security overview\".
[4] 3GPP TS 33.102: \"3G security; Security architecture\".
[5] ITU-T Recommendation X.800: \"Security Architecture for OSI for CCITT
Applications\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.371: \"Telecommunication management; Security Management
concept and requirements\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.150: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Concept and definitions\".
[8] 3GPP TS 32.373: \"Telecommunication management; Security Service for
Integration Reference Point (IRP):Common Object Request Broker Architecture
(CORBA) Solution\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply.
**IRP:** See 3GPP TS 32.101 [1].
**IRPAgent:** See 3GPP TS 32.102 [2].
**IRPManager:** See 3GPP TS 32.102 [2].
**Operations System (OS):** indicates a generic management system, independent
of its location level within the management hierarchy
The present document makes use of the following terms and definitions from
3GPP TS 32.371 [6]:
**access control:** prevention of unauthorized use of a resource, including
the prevention of use of a resource in an unauthorized manner
**authentication:** See data origin authentication and peer element
authentication in 3GPP TS 32.371 [6].
**authorization:** granting of rights, which includes the granting of access
based on access rights
**credential:** Authentication and Authorization data that can be used to
authenticate the claimer is what it claims to be and authorize the claimer\'s
access rights
**signature:** cryptographic information appended to the transferred
management information that allows a receiver to verify integrity of the
transferred management information.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
CM Configuration Management
EM Element Manager
IOC Information Object Class
IRP Integration Reference Point
IS Information Service (see 3GPP TS 32.101 [1])
Itf-N Interface N
NDS Network Domain Security
NE Network Element
NM Network Manager
NRM Network Resource Model
OS Operations System
PM Performance Management
SAS Security Attribute Service
TMN Telecom Management Network
UML Unified Modelling Language (OMG)
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System
# 4 System overview
## 4.1 System context
The general definition of the System Context for the present IRP is found in
3GPP TS 32.150 [7], clause 4.7.
In addition, the set of related IRP(s) relevant to the present IRP is shown in
the two diagrams below.
{width="4.379166666666666in" height="1.8763888888888889in"}
Figure 4.1.1: System Context A
{width="4.147222222222222in" height="1.8263888888888888in"}
Figure 4.1.2: System Context B
## 4.2 Security Architecture
Figure 4.2.1 shows a view of the architecture of the IRPAgent and IRPManager
in the context of a Secured IRP.
Secured communication between IRPManager and IRPAgent is realised by using one
or more Security Services to address the specific identified threats.. Note
that there is no mandatory need to support all of the security services, these
services may be used on an as needed basis in order to counter identified
threat(s). The agreements regarding which security services are necessary are
subject to network operator and equipment vendor negotiation and are not the
subject of standardization.
Figure 4.2.1: Security Architecture for a secured IRP
The environment in which the IRPManager and IRPAgent operate has a big impact
on identifying set of potential threats and appropriate security services to
be deployed. If the Itf-N used is within the operator\'s closed network, which
has no possibility of connection to external pubic networks there may not be a
need for using any security services. However if the Itf-N used can be
accessed via a public network, then if Security Services are not used for the
communication between yyyIRP and IRPManager then the IRP can be considered as
being non-secured IRP. To enable Secured communication between a particular
IRPManager and its corresponding yyyIRP, both have to use their respective
IRPManager, and IRPAgent side Security Services appropriate to the identified
threats.
Some security services are expensive both in terms of license costs, and
machine CPU cycles, it is not advised to make use of all the security services
unless they are indeed necessary as the resulting solution will be impacted
both by costs such as larger processing machines (to cope with the additional
protocols and authorization checking algorithms) with possibly degraded
performance when compared with an unsecured implementation.
### 4.2.1 Security Features offered by IP Transport Network (IPsec or NDS)
The IP transport network may be protected by using IPSec, or NDS (Network
Domain Security.
It is assumed throughout this IS that some of the Security Services are
provided by a transport network which may be secured as per informative
annexes A and B of 3GPP TS 32.371 [6] to provide the following Security
capabilities:
1\. Confidentiality of authentication information.
2\. Confidentiality of session identification information.
3\. Data integrity.
### 4.2.2 Limitations of IP transport layer security
Figure 4.2.2 shows several inter connected ORBs which can communicate with
each other. IPSec provides a protected point to point transport connection.
However should any unprotected transport allow an alien ORB onto the CORBA
bus, the \"protected \" communications links will guard against an alien ORB,
as it will share any inter-ORB communications via the IIOP protocol from any
ORB which somehow gains access to the CORBA bus. Once access to the CORBA bus
has been obtained, normal inter ORB communications will permit access to any
connected ORB, even if there is a point to point IPSec connection to the
\"protected\" ORB.
Figure 4.2.2: TLS and ORB to ORB communication Risks
For example ORB 3 uses an unprotected IP transport connection. Since ORB 3 can
communicate to ORB 2, it can also use any of the \"protected\" ORBs 1,2, 4, 5
or 6. i.e. TLS needs to be used cautiously.
In Summary, IPSEC is a cheap, and efficient manner of protecting point to
point communications links. Care has to be taken in the overall design of the
secure system regarding how all systems intercommunicate and the protection
offered at each ORB in the network, as point to point security is only as
strong as the weakest link.
## 4.3 Compliance rules
All of the security services described in the present document may be used on
an as needed basis, and are all therefore optional. Actual usage is subject to
the environment and the related threats which need to be prevented by counter
measures. Selection of counter measures is subject to negotiation between an
equipment provider and a network operator, and as such is outside the scope of
the present document.
For general definitions of compliance rules related to qualifiers
(Mandatory/Optional/Conditional) for operations, notifications and parameters
(of operations and notifications) please refer to 3GPP TS 32.102 [2].
# 5 Security Services
This clause addresses Security Services which meet IRP security Requirements
addressed in 3GPP TS 32.371 [6].
Table 5.1.1 shows which Security Service meets which Security Requirement.
Table 5.1.1: Security Requirement and Security Service relationship
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | Manager | Agent | Author | In | S | A | | | | | ization | tegrity | ecurity | ctivity | | | Authent | Authent | | | | | | | ication | ication | S | pro | alarm | log | | | | | ecurity | tection | | | | | S | S | | | S | S | | | ecurity | ecurity | Requ | S | ecurity | ecurity | | | | | irement | ecurity | | | | | Requ | Requ | | | Requ | Requ | | | irement | irement | | Requ | irement | irement | | | | | | irement | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Authent | X | X | | | | | | ication | | | | | | | | S | | | | | | | | ecurity | | | | | | | | Service | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Author | | | X | | | | | ization | | | | | | | | S | | | | | | | | ecurity | | | | | | | | Service | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | A | | | | | | X | | ctivity | | | | | | | | Log | | | | | | | | S | | | | | | | | ecurity | | | | | | | | Service | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | File | | | | X | | | | In | | | | | | | | tegrity | | | | | | | | S | | | | | | | | ecurity | | | | | | | | Service | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | | The "X" | | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | | matrix | | | | | | | | above | | | | | | | | means | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | relat | | | | | | | | ionship | | | | | | | | between | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | S | | | | | | | | ecurity | | | | | | | | Service | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | elevant | | | | | | | | S | | | | | | | | ecurity | | | | | | | | requ | | | | | | | | irement | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | S | | | | | | | | ecurity | | | | | | | | Service | | | | | | | | meets. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | | It is | | | | | | | | defined | | | | | | | | in 3GPP | | | | | | | | TS | | | | | | | | 32.371 | | | | | | | | [6] | | | | | | | | that: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | In | | | | | | | | tegrity | | | | | | | | pro | | | | | | | | tection | | | | | | | | S | | | | | | | | ecurity | | | | | | | | requ | | | | | | | | irement | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | app | | | | | | | | licable | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | Bu | | | | | | | | lkCMIRP | | | | | | | | active | | | | | | | | file | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | files | | | | | | | | tran | | | | | | | | sferred | | | | | | | | by\ | | | | | | | | FTIRP. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | C | | | | | | | | onfiden | | | | | | | | tiality | | | | | | | | pro | | | | | | | | tection | | | | | | | | S | | | | | | | | ecurity | | | | | | | | requ | | | | | | | | irement | | | | | | | | is not | | | | | | | | app | | | | | | | | licable | | | | | | | | to any | | | | | | | | IRP. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | S | | | | | | | | ecurity | | | | | | | | alarm | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | pported | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | Al | | | | | | | | armIRP. | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
For Authentication Security Service, Authorization Security Service, and File
Integrity Security Service, each of them is composed of two parts, i.e.
Security Service on IRPManager side and Security Service on IRPAgent side.
These Security Services meet corresponding Security requirements respectively
by exchanging relevant security attributes between the two parts. Table 5.1.2
shows relationship between security attribute and Security Service.
Table 5.1.2: Security Attribute and Security Service relationship
* * *
                                                                                         Authentication Security Service   Authorization Security Service   Activity Log Security Service   File Integrity Security Service
Credential Security Attribute X X X  
Signature Security Attribute X NOTE: Activity Log Security Service does not
log the Credential Security Attributes.
* * *
## 5.1 Authentication Security Service
The authentication Security Service is provided by exchanging Authentication
information as required between the communicating peers. In this present
document, the authentication information used to provide the identity of
communication peer is defined is the Security Attribute \"Credential\".
To authenticate an IRPManager , the IRPManager\'s Authentication Security
Service generates an IRPManager Credential, This credential is sent with each
and every request to the IRPAgent.
The IRPAgent\'s Authentication Security Service receives the IRPManager\'s
Credential, and validates it. If the validation is successful, IRPAgent
processes the request and sends requested results back to the IRPManager.
IF the authentication fails an alert mechanism may be used to indicate the
attempted security breach and the IRPManagers request is to be rejected. It is
not always appropriate to raise an Itf-N security alarm as doing so may
provide information to the system attempting unauthorized access - this is
left open for negotiation depending upon agreed local policies.
### 5.1.1 Mutual Authentication
Once the IRPManager has been authenticated by the IRPAgent the IRPManager may
perform IRPAgent Authentication if required to achieve mutual Authentication.
To authenticate an IRPAgent the IRPAgent\'s Authentication Security Service
generates the IRPAgent\'s Credential. The IRPAgent sends it\'s credential with
each request result sent to the IRPManager.
The IRPManager\'s Authentication Security Service receives the IRPAgent\'s
response plus the IRPAgent\'s Credential, and validates it.
If the validation is successful, the IRPManager can accept request results
from the IRPAgent and may send additional requests to the IRPAgent.
If the authentication fails the IRPManager ceases making any more requests to
the IRPAgent or accepting any request result from the IRPAgent.
The Credential should be exchanged over Itf-N in a secured way to avoid
eavesdropping or other security risk. This is achieved by applying encryption
algorithm to Authentication information that can\'t be known or held by any
entity other than the owner.
The Authentication Mechanism used for the application layer Authentication
Security Service is solution specific. Industrial Authentication Mechanisms
available for application layer Authentication Security Service is shown in
3GPP TS 32.373 [6], annex A. For transport/network layer Authentication
Security Service, Authentication Mechanisms are defined in respective
transport/network security protocols addressed in annex A of 3GPP 32.371 [6].
The concrete content of Credential is dependent on the Authentication
Mechanism applied.
In secured IRP scenario, IRPManager and IRPAgent shall agree with the use of a
specific Authentication Mechanism.
Editor\'s note: whether the establishment of the agreement is within 3GPP
scope or not is FFS.
This TS-family recommends a number of Authentication Mechanisms for use. Out
of the scope is:
  * to recommend / identify encryption algorithm to be used by > Authentication Mechanism;
  * to recommend key distribution mechanism.
## 5.2 Authorization Security Service
Authorization Security Service is provided by controlling access to
resource(s) to only those users who are authorized due to an enforced access
control policy. Usually an access control policy is a necessary component of
Authorization Security Service, it contains access identity indicating
authorized user, identity indicating access rights, their relationship of
ownership, and maybe other context information as well.
In Itf-N scenario, IRPManager side Authorization Service provides
IRPManager\'s accessor identity to IRPAgent side Authorization Security
Service when IRPManager sends request to IRPAgent, IRPAgent side Authorization
Security Service validates if the IRPManager is authorized to make the desired
request by checking IRPManager\'s accessor identity against the access control
policy on behalf of IRPAgent.
The accessor identity of IRPManager is a part of Credential stated above,
which will be transferred over Itf-N, it is:
a) either the same as its Authentication identity, that is authorized certain
access rights according to the access control policy; or
b) an identity of role/group, that is authorized certain access rights
according to the access control policy.
Access control policy may be specified in one of the following access right
granularities:
1\. Authorization to use particular IRPs.
2\. Authorization to perform particular operations within an IRP.
3\. Authorization to perform a particular operation on particular IOCs or IOC
instances.
4\. Authorization to perform within specific contexts such as time schedule,
workstation, and such things.
5\. Authorization to access or use a specific non-persistent logical IOC, e.g.
Bulk CM session, notification registration.
In secured IRP scenario, IRPManager and IRPAgent shall agree with the access
control policy before starting communication, i.e. IRPAgent should assign
IRPManager an accessor identity and authorize IRPManager certain access rights
before IRPManager is able to make request to the IRPAgent.
The present document does not specify access control policy or access right
granularity in IRPAgent side Authorization Security Service.
## 5.3 Activity Log Security Service
Activity Log Security Service is provided by logging request-related
information transferred between communication entities.
In secured IRP scenario, IRPAgent side Activity Log Security Service logs
request-related information made by IRPManager.
Each Activity Log Record is associated with a single operation and
corresponding response. An activity log record contains the following
information:
  * IRPManager Authentication identity, timestamp and Authentication > result.
  * Authorization result.
  * The IRPManager\'s request (operation name and parameters including > parameter values) and a time stamp of its reception at the > IRPAgent.
  * The corresponding response (return status or exception, only in case > a response was sent) and a time stamp of its despatch at the > IRPAgent.
It should be possible to audit Activity after a long period of time has
elapsed since the activity happened. How to audit Activity Log is not
specified in the present document.
## 5.4 File Integrity Security Service
File Integrity Security Service is provided by applying Signature mechanism.
In Itf-N scenario, both IRPManager and IRPAgent can transfer data file to each
other. File Integrity Security Service on both IRPManager and IRPAgent side
should be able to sign data file to be transferred, to send the result
signature as a Security Attribute to the receiver, to receive the result
signature, and to verify the signed file received. The result signature can be
transferred in a detached file.
In case that IRPAgent acting as file receiver finds integrity of its received
file is broken, IRPAgent should refuse the received file and raise a security
alarm reflecting this error; in case that IRPManager acting as file receiver
finds integrity of its received file is broken, IRPManager should refuse the
received file and may request IRPAgent to re-transfer the file.
In secured IRP scenario, IRPManager and IRPAgent should agree with the digest
algorithm, encryption algorithm and key distribution method if necessary
before they exchange file(s).
# 6 Information Object Classes
## 6.1 Class diagram
This clause introduces the set of Information Object Classes (IOCs) that
encapsulate information available over Itf-N. This clause provides the
overview of all support object classes in UML. Subsequent clauses provide more
detailed specifications of various aspects of these support object classes.
### 6.1.1 Attributes and Relationships
#### 6.1.1.1 Class Diagram
{width="3.526388888888889in" height="0.75in"}
## 6.2 Information Object Class Definitions
### 6.2.1 Credential
#### 6.2.1.1 Definition
This IOC represents authentication and authorization information of its owner.
However, its attributes and behaviours are mechanism specific.
#### 6.2.1.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Visibility Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
authData \% M - -
* * *
### 6.2.2 Signature
#### 6.2.2.1 Definition
This IOC represents cryptographic information appended to the transferred
management information that allows a receiver to verify integrity of the
transferred management information.
However, its attributes are mechanism specific.
#### 6.2.2.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Visibility Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
sigData \% M - -
* * *
## 6.4 Information attribute definition
### 6.4.1 Definition and legal values
* * *
Attribute Name Definition Legal Values authData Authentication and
Authorization data that can be used to authenticate the claimer is what it
claims to be and authorize the claimer\'s access rights. Authentication and
Authorization mechanism related data. sigData Cryptographic information
appended to the transferred management information that allows a receiver to
verify integrity of the transferred management information. Signature
mechanism related data.
* * *
# 7 Interface definition
This clause addresses interface between IRPManager side Security Service and
IRPAgent side Security Service, including IRPManager Authentication, IRPAgent
Authentication, Authorization, Activity Log, and File Integrity Security
Service.
## 7.1 Credential transfer interface
As described in clause 5, Credential can contain IRPManager Authentication
identity, optional IRPAgent Authentication identity and IRPManager accessor
identity.
For each request exchanged between IRPManager and IRPAgent, IRPManager side
Security Service and IRPAgent side Security Service should cooperate to
exchange Credential accompanying the request and maybe corresponding result as
well.
Concrete procedure of Credential transfer mechanism/interface is Security
Service Solution specific.
## 7.2 Signature transfer Interface
As described in clause 5, Signature contains encrypted digest value of the
transferred file, whose concrete content is mechanism specific.
XML document instances are secured by transferring the Signature in the
document instances.
#