# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
32.401 Performance Management (PM); Concept and requirements
52.402 Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements -- GSM
32.404 Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements - Definitions and
template
**32.405 Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements Universal
Terrestrial Radio Access Network (UTRAN)**
32.406 Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements Core Network (CN)
Packet Switched (PS) domain
32.407 Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements Core Network (CN)
Circuit Switched (CS) domain
32.408 Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements Teleservice
32.409 Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements IP Multimedia
Subsystem (IMS)
32.452 Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements Home Node B
Subsystem (HNS)
**32.453 Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements Home enhanced
Node B Subsystem (HeNS)**
The present document is part of a set of specifications, which describe the
requirements and information model necessary for the standardised Operation,
Administration and Maintenance (OA&M) of a multi-vendor Home enhanced Node B
Subsystem (HeNS).
During the lifetime of HeNS, its logical and physical configuration will
undergo changes of varying degrees and frequencies in order to optimise the
utilisation of the network resources. These changes will be executed through
network configuration management activities and/or network engineering, see
3GPP TS 32.600 [1].
Many of the activities involved in the daily operation and future network
planning of HeNS require data on which to base decisions. This data refers to
the load carried by the network and the grade of service offered. In order to
produce this data performance measurements are executed in the NEs, which
comprise the network. The data can then be transferred to an external system,
e.g. an Operations System (OS) in TMN terminology, for further evaluation. The
purpose of the present document is to describe the mechanisms involved in the
collection of the data and the definition of the data itself.
Annex B of TS 32.404[2] helps in the definition of new performance
measurements that can be submitted to 3GPP for potential adoption and
inclusion in the present document. Annex B of TS 32.404[2] discusses a top-
down performance measurement definition methodology that focuses on how the
end-user of performance measurements can use the measurements.
# 1 Scope
The present document describes the measurements for Home enhanced Node B
Subsystem (HeNS).\ HeNS [3] is consists of a HeNB and optionally a HeNB GW.
And, it is connected by means of the standard S1 interface to the EPC (Evolved
Packet Core), more specifically to the MME (Mobility Management Entity) by
means of the S1-MME interface and to the Serving Gateway (S-GW) by means of
the S1-U interface\ TS 32.401 [4] describes Performance Management concepts
and requirements.\ The present document is valid for all measurement types
provided by an implementation of HeNS.\ Only measurement types that are
specific to HeNS are defined within the present documents. Vendor specific
measurement types used in HeNS are not covered. Instead, these could be
applied according to manufacturer\'s documentation.
Measurements related to \"external\" technologies (such as ATM or IP) as
described by \"external\" standards bodies (e.g. ITU-T or IETF) shall only be
referenced within this specification, wherever there is a need identified for
the existence of such a reference.
The definition of the standard measurements is intended to result in
comparability of measurement data produced in a multi-vendor network, for
those measurement types that can be standardised across all vendors\'
implementations.
The structure of the present document is as follows:
\- Header 1: Network Element (e.g. measurements related to HeNB and HeNB GW);
\- Header 2: Measurement function (e.g. HeNB registration measurements);
\- Header 3: Measurements.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.600: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Concept and high-level requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.404: \"Performance Management (PM); Performance measurements -
Definitions and template\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.401: "General Packet Radio Service (GPRS) enhancements for
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) access".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.401: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM); Concept and requirements\".
[5] 3GPP TS 36.300: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA); and
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN); Overall
description; Stage 2 (Release 9)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 36.413: \"Technical Specification Group Radio Access Network;
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN); S1 Application
Protocol (S1AP)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 36.331: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Radio Resource Control (RRC) protocol specification\".
[8] 3GPP TS 36.314: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Layer 2 -- Measurements\".
# 3 Measurement family and abbreviations
## 3.1 Measurement family
The measurement names defined in the present document are all beginning with a
prefix containing the measurement family name(e.g. S1.IncSctpPkt). This family
name identifies all measurements which relate to a given functionality and it
may be used for measurement administration (see 3GPP TS 32.401 [4]).
The list of families currently used in the present document is as follows:
  * S1 (measurements related to S1 interface).
  * CSG (measurements related to CSG membership)
  * HO (measurements related to handover)
  * DRB (measurements related to Data Radio Bearer)
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
3G 3^rd^ Generation
3GPP 3G Partnership Project
CS Circuit switched
CN Core Network
NE Network Element
NM Network Manager
OA&M Operation, Administration and Maintenance
OS Operations System (EM, NM)
PM Performance Management
QoS Quality of Service
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System
You can find below a list of abbreviations used within the measurement types
for field E of the measurement template (see 3GPP TS 32.404 [2]).
Ans Answer(ed)
Att Attempted
Auth Authorization
Cs Circuit switched
DER Discrete Event Registration
DeReg De-Registration
Dmn Domain
Estab Establish(ment)
Fail Failed(/Failure)
Fwd Forward(ed)
Inc Incoming
Ind Indication
Nbr Number
Rel Release(s,d)
Res Resource
Succ Success(es,ful)
# 4 Functionality related measurements
The measurements defined in this clause are related to the functionality
aspect performance. The detailed measurements for each function are defined in
the following subclauses.
## 4.1 Measurements related to HeNB-GW
A HeNB GW is optional in a HeNB subsystem. If the HeNB is connected by means
of the standard S1 interface to the HeNB GW, more specifically through HeNB GW
to the MME (Mobility Management Entity) by means of the S1-MME interface and
to the Serving Gateway (S-GW) by means of the S1-U interface.
NOTE 1: These measurements are only effective when HeNB GW is included in
HeNS.
### 4.1.1 Signalling Plane related measurements
#### 4.1.1.1 Numbers of incoming SCTP packets on the S1 interface, from HeNB
to HeNB GW
a) This measurement provides the number of SCTP data packets sent from HeNB to
HeNB GW which have been accepted and processed by the SCTP protocol entity on
the S1 interface.
b) CC.
c) Receipt of a SCTP data PDU from HeNB to HeNB GW on the S1-MME interface.
d) A single integer value.
e) S1.IncSctpPkt
f) HeNBGWFunction
g) Valid for packet switching
h) EPS
#### 4.1.1.2 Numbers of outgoing SCTP packets on the S1 interface, from HeNB
GW to HeNB
a) This measurement provides the number of SCTP data packets sent from HeNB GW
to HeNB which have been generated by the SCTP protocol entity on the S1
interface.
b) CC.
c) Transmission of a SCTP data PDU from HeNB GW to HeNB on the S1-MME
interface.
d) A single integer value.
e) S1.OutSctpPkt
f) HeNBGWFunction
g) Valid for packet switching
h) EPS
#### 4.1.1.3 Numbers of octets of incoming SCTP packets on the S1 interface,
from HeNB to HeNB GW
a) This measurement provides the number of octets of SCTP data packets sent
from HeNB to HeNB GW which have been accepted and processed by the SCTP
protocol entity on the S1 interface.
b) CC.
c) Receipt of a SCTP data PDU from HeNB to HeNB GW on the S1 interface.
d) A single integer value.
e) S1.IncSctpOct
f) HeNBGWFunction
g) Valid for packet switching
h) EPS
#### 4.1.1.4 Numbers of octets of outgoing SCTP packets on the S1 interface,
from HeNB GW to HeNB
a) This measurement provides the number of octets of SCTP data packets sent
from HeNB GW to HeNB which have been generated by the SCTP protocol entity on
the S1 interface.
b) CC.
c) Transmission of a SCTP data PDU from HeNB GW to HeNB on the Iuh interface.
d) A single integer value.
e) S1.OutSctpOct
f) HeNBGWFunction
g) Valid for packet switching
h) EPS
### 4.1.2 User plane related measurements
#### 4.1.2.1 Numbers of incoming GTP-U packets of S1 interface, from HeNB to
HeNB GW
a) This measurement provides the number of GTP-U data packets on the user
plane, sent from HeNB to HeNB GW on S1 interface.
b) CC.
c) Receipt of an GTP-U data PDU from HeNB to HeNB GW on the user plane of S1
interface.
d) A single integer value.
e) S1.IncPsPkt
f) HeNBGWFunction
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
#### 4.1.2.2 Numbers of outgoing GTP-U packets of S1 interface, from HeNB GW
to HeNB
a) This measurement provides the number of GTP-U data packets sent on the user
plane, from HeNB GW to HeNB on S1 interface.
b) CC.
c) Transmission of an GTP-U data PDU from HeNB GW to HeNB on the user plane of
S1 interface.
d) A single integer value.
e) S1.OutPsPkt
f) HeNBGWFunction
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
#### 4.1.2.3 Numbers of octets of incoming GTP-U packets of S1 interface, from
HeNB to HeNB GW
a) This measurement provides the number of octets of GTP-U data packets on the
user plane, sent from HeNB to HeNB GW on S1 interface.
b) CC.
c) Receipt of an GTP-U data PDU from HeNB to HeNB GW on the user plane of S1
interface.
d) A single integer value.
e) S1.IncPsOct
f) HeNBGWFunction
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
#### 4.1.2.4 Numbers of octets of outgoing GTP-U packets of S1 interface, from
HeNB GW to HeNB
a) This measurement provides the number of octets of GTP-U data packets on the
user plane, sent from HeNB GW to HeNB on S1 interface.
b) CC.
c) Transmission of an GTP-U data PDU from HeNB GW to HeNB on the user plane of
S1 interface.
d) A single integer value.
e) S1.OutPsOct
f) HeNBGWFunction
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
## 4.2 Measurements related to HeNB
### 4.2.1 Measurements related to CSG service
#### 4.2.1.1 Overview
A Closed Subscriber Group identifies subscribers of an operator who are
permitted to access one or more cells of the PLMN but which have restricted
access (CSG cells).
The CSG inbound mobility procedure provides means for UEs switching from other
cells to CSG HeNBs or to Hybrid Cells in RRC_CONNECTED mode. The procedure is
triggered when the target HeNB receives a HANDOVER REQUEST message from the
MME, including the CSG id and -- for handover to a hybrid cell -- CSG
Membership Status. In case the target HeNB is connected to MME through HeNB
GW, the HANDOVER REQUEST message should be sent from the HeNB GW. The
successful CSG inbound mobility rate poses an important impact on the QoE,
therefore it is essential to define related measurements
The CSG inbound mobility procedure is initiated by MME.
Performance measurement definitions in this subclause are based on 3GPP TS
36.413 [6].
The following paragraphs are of interest for this purpose:
  * HANDOVER REQUEST
  * HANDOVER REQUEST ACKNOWLEDGE
  * HANDOVER FAILURE
These paragraphs show in particular the following diagram.
{width="3.566666666666667in" height="1.71875in"}
Figure 1 CSG UE Inbound Procedure: Successful Operation
{width="3.567361111111111in" height="1.7180555555555554in"}
Figure 2 CSG UE Inbound Procedure: Unsuccessful Operation
#### 4.2.1.2 Mean number of attached CSG UEs in HeNB
a) This measurement provides the mean number of attached CSG UEs in the HeNB.
b) SI
c) This measurement is obtained by sampling at a pre-defined interval the
number of CSG UEs in the HeNB and then taking the arithmetic mean (see TS
36.300 [5]).
d) A single integer value
e) CSG.MeanNbrUsr
f) HeNB
g) Valid for circuit and packet switched traffic
h) EPS
    3.  #### Inbound CSG mobility measurements
The three measurement types defined in the subclause 4.2.1.3 are subject to
the \"2 out of 3 approach\".
##### 4.2.1.3.1 Attempted inbound mobility for UEs to CSG cells or Hybrid
cells in RRC_CONNECTED mode
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted inbound mobility for UEs
to CSG cells or hybrid cells in RRC_CONNECTED mode
b) CC
c) Receipt by the HeNB of a S1AP message HANDOVER REQUEST from the MME/HeNB GW
with the "CSG id" IE, and "CSG Membership Status" IE for handover to a hybrid
cell (see TS 36.413 [6]).
d) A single integer value.
e) CSG.AttInboundMobility
f) HeNB
g) Valid for circuit and packet switched traffic
h) EPS
##### 4.2.1.3.2 Successful inbound mobility for UEs to CSG cells or Hybrid
cells in RRC_CONNECTED mode
a) This measurement provides the number of successful inbound mobility for UEs
to CSG cells or hybrid cells in RRC_CONNECTED mode
b) CC
c) Transmission by the HeNB of a S1AP message HANDOVER REQUEST ACKNOWLEDGE to
the MME/HeNB GW, corresponding to the receipt by the HeNB of a S1AP message
HANDOVER REQUEST from the MME/HeNB GW with the "CSG id" IE, and "CSG
Membership Status" IE for handover to a hybrid cell (see TS 36.413 [6]).
d) A single integer value.
e) CSG.SuccInboundMobility
f) HeNB
g) Valid for circuit and packet switched traffic
h) EPS
##### 4.2.1.3.3 Failed inbound mobility for UEs to CSG cells or Hybrid cells
in RRC_CONNECTED mode
a) This measurement provides the number of failed successful inbound mobility
for UEs to CSG cells or hybrid cells in RRC_CONNECTED mode
b) CC
c) Transmission by the HeNB of a S1AP message HANDOVER FAILURE to the MME/HeNB
GW, corresponding to the receipt by the HeNB of a S1AP message HANDOVER
REQUEST from the MME/HeNB GW with the "CSG id" IE, and "CSG Membership Status"
IE for handover to a hybrid cell (see TS 36.413 [6]).
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of causes supported plus a possible sum value identified by the
_.sum_ suffix.
e) CSG.FailedInboundMobility. _Cause_
    where *Cause* identifies the failure cause.
f) HeNB
g) Valid for circuit and packet switched traffic
h) EPS
### 4.2.2 Measurements related to RRC
#### 4.2.2.1 Overview
Performance Measurement definitions in this subclause are based on 3PGG TS
36.413 [6].
The following paragraphs are of interest for this purpose:
  * RRC CONNECTION REQUEST
  * RRC CONNECTION SETUP COMPLETE
  * RRC CONNECTION REJECT
These paragraphs show in particular the following diagrams.
{width="3.8784722222222223in" height="1.7708333333333333in"}
Figure 3 RRC connection establishment, successful
{width="3.8784722222222223in" height="1.7708333333333333in"}
Figure 4 RRC connection establishment, network reject
#### 4.2.2.2 RRC connection establishments
The three measurement types defined in the clause 4.2.2.2 for HeNB are subject
to the \"2 out of 3 approach\".
##### 4.2.2.2.1 Attempted RRC connection establishments
a) This measurement provides the number of RRC connection establishment >
attempts for each establishment cause.
b) CC
c) Receipt of an RRC CONNECTION REQUEST message by the HeNB from the > UE.
Each RRC Connection Request message received is added to the > relevant per
cause measurement. The possible causes are included > in TS 36.331 [7]. The
sum of all supported per cause > measurements shall equal the total number of
RRC Connection > Establishment attempts. In case only a subset of per cause >
measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be provided > first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is > equal
to the number of causes plus a possible sum value identified > by the _.sum_
suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form RRC.AttConnEstab._Cause_ \ > where
_Cause_ identifies the Establishment Cause.
f) HeNB
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
##### 4.2.2.2.2 Successful RRC connection establishments
a) This measurement provides the number of successful RRC > establishments for
each establishment cause.
b) CC
c) Receipt by the HeNB of a RRC CONNECTION SETUP COMPLETE message > following
a RRC establishment attempt. Each RRC Connection Setup > Complete message
received is added to the relevant per cause > measurement. The possible causes
are included in TS 36.331 [7]. > The sum of all supported per cause
measurements shall equal the > total number of RRC Connection Establishments.
In case only a > subset of per cause measurements is supported, a sum
subcounter > will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is > equal
to the number of causes plus a possible sum value identified > by the _.sum_
suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form RRC.SuccConnEstab._Cause_ \ > where
_Cause_ identifies the Establishment Cause.
f) HeNB
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
##### 4.2.2.2.3 Failed RRC connection establishments
a) This measurement provides the number of RRC establishment failures > for
each rejection cause.
b) CC
c) Transmission of an RRC CONNECTION REJECT message by the HeNB to the > UE or
an expected RRC Connection Setup Complete message not > received by the HeNB.
Each failed RRC connection establishment is > added to the relevant per
establishment cause measurement. The > possible causes are included in TS
36.331 [7].\ > The sum of all supported per cause measurements shall equal the
> total number of RRC connection establishment failures. In case > only a
subset of per cause measurements is supported, a sum > subcounter will be
provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is > equal
to the number of causes plus a possible sum value identified > by the _.sum_
suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form RRC. FailConnEstab._Cause_ \ > where
_Cause_ identifies the Rejection Cause.
f) HeNB
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
### 4.2.3 Measurements related to E-RAB
#### 4.2.3.1 Overview
Performance Measurement definitions in this subclause are based on 3PGG TS
36.413 [6].
The following paragraphs are of interest for this purpose:
  * INITIAL CONTEXT SETUP REQUEST
  * INITIAL CONTEXT SETUP RESPONSE
  * INITIAL CONTEXT SETUP FAILURE
  * UE CONTEXT RELEASE REQUEST
  * E-RAB SETUP REQUEST;
  * E-RAB SETUP RESPONSE;
  * E-RAB RELEASE INDICATION.
These paragraphs show in particular the following diagrams.
{width="3.5590277777777777in" height="1.6729166666666666in"}
Figure 5 Initial Context Setup procedure. Successful operation
{width="3.4347222222222222in" height="1.6145833333333333in"}
Figure 6 Initial Context Setup procedure. Unsuccessful operation
{width="3.7708333333333335in" height="1.7708333333333333in"}
Figure 7 UE Context Release Request procedure. Successful operation
{width="3.7708333333333335in" height="1.7708333333333333in"}
Figure 8 E-RAB Setup procedures
{width="3.7708333333333335in" height="1.7708333333333333in"}
Figure 9 E-RAB Release INDICATION procedure. Successful operation
#### 4.2.3.2 Initial E-RAB setup
The three measurement types defined in the clause 4.2.3.2 for HeNB are subject
to the \"2 out of 3 approach\".
##### 4.2.3.2.1 Number of initial E-RABs attempted to setup
a) This measurement provides the number of initial E-RABs attempted to setup.
The measurement is split into subcounters per E-RAB QoS level (QCI).
b) CC
c) On receipt by the HeNB of an INITIAL CONTEXT SETUP REQUEST message, each
requested E-RABs in the message is added to the relevant measurement per QCI,
the possible QCIs are included in TS 36.413 [6]. The sum of all supported per
QCI measurements shall equal the total number of SAE Bearers attempted to
setup. In case only a subset of per QCI measurements is supported, a sum
subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of QCIs plus a possible sum value identified by the _.sum_
suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form ERAB.EstabInitAttNbr._QCI_ \ where _QCI_
identifies the E-RAB level quality of service class.
f) HeNB
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
##### 4.2.3.2.2 Number of initial E-RABs successfully established
a) This measurement provides the number of initial E-RABs successfully
established. The measurement is split into subcounters per E-RAB QoS level
(QCI).
b) CC
c) On transmission by the HeNB of an INITIAL CONTEXT SETUP RESPONSE message,
each E-RAB successfully established is added to the relevant measurement per
QCI, the possible QCIs are included in TS 36.413 [6]. The sum of all supported
per QCI measurements shall equal the total number of E-RABs successfully
setup. In case only a subset of per QCI measurements is supported, a sum
subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of QCIs plus a possible sum value identified by the _.sum_
suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form ERAB.EstabInitSuccNbr._QCI_ \ where _QCI_
identifies the E-RAB level quality of service class.
f) HeNB
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
##### 4.2.3.2.3 Number of initial E-RABs failed to setup
a) This measurement provides the number of initial E-RABs failed to setup. The
measurement is split into subcounters per failure cause.
b) CC
c) On transmission by the HeNB of an INITIAL CONTEXT SETUP RESPONSE, or
INITIAL CONTEXT SETUP FAILURE message, each E-RAB failed to establish is added
to the relevant measurement per cause, the possible causes are included in TS
36.413 [6]. The sum of all supported per cause measurements shall equal the
total number of E-RABs failed to setup. In case only a subset of per cause
measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of causes plus a possible sum value identified by the _.sum_
suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form ERAB.EstabInitFailNbr._Cause_ \ where
_Cause_ identifies the cause resulting in the initial E-RAB setup failure.
f) HeNB
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
#### 4.2.3.3 E-RAB setup
The three measurement types defined in the clause 4.2.3.3 for HeNB are subject
to the \"2 out of 3 approach\".
##### 4.2.3.3.1 Number of E-RABs attempted to setup
a) This measurement provides the number of E-RABs attempted to setup. > The
measurement is split into subcounters per E-RAB QoS level > (QCI).
b) CC
c) On receipt by the HeNB of a E-RAB SETUP REQUEST message, each requested
E-RAB in the message is added to the relevant measurement per QCI, the
possible QCIs are included in TS 36.413 [6]. The sum of all supported per QCI
measurements shall equal the total number of additional E-RABs attempted to
setup. In case only a subset of per QCI measurements is supported, a sum
subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is > equal
to the number of QCIs plus a possible sum value identified > by the _.sum_
suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form ERAB. EstabAttNbr._QCI_ \ > where _QCI_
identifies the E-RAB level quality of service class.
f) HeNB
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
##### 4.2.3.3.2 Number of E-RABs successfully established
a) This measurement provides the number of E-RABs successfully > established.
The measurement is split into subcounters per E-RAB > QoS level (QCI).
b) CC
c) On transmission by the HeNB of a E-RAB SETUP RESPONSE message, each > E-RAB
successfully established is added to the relevant > measurement per QCI, the
possible QCIs are included in > TS 36.413 [6]. The sum of all supported per
QCI measurements > shall equal the total number of E-RABs successfully setup.
In case > only a subset of per QCI measurements is supported, a sum >
subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is > equal
to the number of QCIs plus a possible sum value identified > by the _.sum_
suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form ERAB.EstabSuccNbr._QCI_ \ > where _QCI_
identifies the E-RAB level quality of service class.
f) HeNB
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
##### 4.2.3.3.3 Number of E-RABs failed to setup
a) This measurement provides the number of E-RABs failed to setup. The
measurement is split into subcounters per failure cause.
b) CC
c) On transmission by the HeNB of a E-RAB SETUP RESPONSE message, each > E-RAB
failed to establish is added to the relevant measurement per > cause, the
possible causes are included in TS 36.413 [6]. The > sum of all supported per
cause measurements shall equal the total > number of E-RABs failed to setup.
In case only a subset of per > cause measurements is supported, a sum
subcounter will be provided > first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is > equal
to the number of causes plus a possible sum value identified > by the _.sum_
suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form ERAB. EstabFailNbr._Cause_ \ > where
_Cause_ identifies the cause resulting in the additional > E-RAB setup
failure.
f) HeNB
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
#### 4.2.3.4 E-RAB release request by HeNS
##### 4.2.3.4.1 Number of E-RABs requested to release initiated by HeNB per
QCI
a) This measurement provides the number of E-RABs requested to release
initiated by HeNB. The measurement is split into subcounters per E-RAB QoS
level (QCI).
b) CC
c) On transmission by the HeNB of a E-RAB RELEASE INDICATION or UE CONTEXT
RELEASE REQUEST message, each corresponding E-RAB requested to release is
added to the relevant measurement per QCI, the possible QCIs are included in
TS 36.413 [6]. The sum of all supported per QCI measurements shall equal the
total number of E-RABs requested to release initiated by HeNB. In case only a
subset of per QCI measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be provided
first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of QCIs plus a possible sum value identified by the _.sum_
suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form ERAB.RelEnbNbr._QCI_ \ where _QCI_
identifies the E-RAB level quality of service class.
f) HeNB
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
##### 4.2.3.4.2 Number of E-RABs requested to release initiated by HeNB per
cause
a) This measurement provides the number of E-RABs requested to release
initiated by HeNB. The measurement is split into subcounters per cause.
b) CC
c) On transmission by the HeNB of a E-RAB RELEASE INDICATION or UE CONTEXT
RELEASE REQUEST message, each corresponding E-RAB requested to release is
added to the relevant measurement per cause. Possible causes are included in
TS 36.413 [6].
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of supported causes.
e) The measurement names have the form ERAB.RelEnbNbr._cause_ \ where _cause_
identifies the reason for the E-RABs release request initiated by HeNB.
f) HeNB
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
#### 4.2.3.5 E-RAB for Direct User Plane Path between HeNB and LGW
##### 4.2.3.5.1 Number of Direct User Plane Path
The three measurement types defined in the clauses 4.2.3.5.2, 4.2.3.5.3 and
4.2.3.5.4 are subject to the \"2 out of 3 approach\".
##### 4.2.3.5.1 Number of Direct User Plane Path attempted to setup
a) This measurement provides the number of direct user plane path between HeNB
and Local GW attempted to setup.
b) CC
c) On receipt by the HeNB of an INITIAL CONTEXT SETUP REQUEST message (for
initial E-RAB setup) or E-RAB SETUP REQUEST message (for other E-RAB setup)
and the PDN connection is established for Local IP Access, each requested
E-RABs in the message is added to the relevant measurement. The message
includes a Correlation ID for enabling the direct user plane path between the
HeNB and the L-GW. The Correlation ID is equal to the user plane PDN GW TEID
(GTP-based S5) or GRE key (PMIP-based S5). (3GPP TS 23.401[3]).
d) Integer.
e) The measurement name has the form ERAB.EstabDirectPathLGWAttNbr.
f) HeNB
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
##### 4.2.3.5.2 Number of Direct User Plane Path successfully established
a) This measurement provides the number of direct user plane path between HeNB
and Local GWsuccessfully established.
b) CC
c) On transmission by the HeNB of an INITIAL CONTEXT SETUP RESPONSE
message(for initial E-RAB setup) or E-RAB SETUP RESPONSE message (for other
E-RAB setup)and the PDN connection is established for Local IP Access, each
E-RAB successfully established is added to the relevant measurement.
d) Integer.
e) The measurement name has the form ERAB.EstabDirectPathLGWSuccNbr.
f) HeNB
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
##### 4.2.3.5.3 Number of Direct User Plane Path failed to setup
a) This measurement provides the number of direct user plane path between HeNB
and Local GW E-RABs failed to setup.
b) CC
c) On transmission by the HeNB of an INITIAL CONTEXT SETUP RESPONSE/INITIAL
CONTEXT SETUP FAILURE message (for initial E-RAB setup) or E-RAB SETUP
RESPONSE message (for other E-RAB setup) and the PDN connection is established
for Local IP Access, each E-RAB failed to establish is added to the relevant
measurement per cause, the possible causes are included in TS 36.413[6]. The
sum of all supported per cause measurements shall equal the total number of
E-RABs failed to setup. In case only a subset of per cause measurements is
supported, a sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of causes plus a possible sum value identified by the _.sum_
suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form ERAB.EstabDirectPathLGWFailNbr._Cause,_
where _Cause_ identifies the cause resulting in the E-RAB setup failure.
f) HeNB
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
### 4.2.4 Measurements related to handover
#### 4.2.4.1 Overview
Performance Measurement definitions in this subclause are based on 3PGG TS
36.413 [6].
The following paragraph is of interest for this purpose:
\- HANDOVER REQUEST
\- HANDOVER REQUEST ACKNOWLEDGE
\- RRC CONNECTION RECONFIGURATION
\- RRC CONNECTION RECONFIGURATION COMPLETE
\- RRC CONNECTION REESTABLISHMENT
\- MOBILITY FROM EUTRA COMMAND
\- UE CONTEXT RELEASE COMMAND
These paragraphs show in particular the following diagrams:
Figure10: Handover resource allocation: successful
Figure11: RRC connection reconfiguration, successful
Figure12: RRC connection reconfiguration, failure
Figure13: Mobility from E-UTRA, successful
Figure14: Mobility from E-UTRA, failure
Figure15: UE Context Release procedure. Successful
#### 4.2.4.2 eNB related Handovers
##### 4.2.4.2.1 Attempted outgoing handover to eNB per handover cause
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted outbound handover to eNB
per handover cause.
b) CC.
c) Transmission of the _RRCConnectionReconfiguration_ message from HeNB to the
UE, indicationg the handover to eNB (see TS 36.331 [7]). The sum of all
supported per cause measurements shall equal the total number of handover to
eNB events. In case only a subset of per cause measurements is supported, a
sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of causes supported plus a possible sum value identified by the
.sum suffix.
e) HO. ToeNBAtt._Cause_ \ where _Cause_ identifies the cause for handover.
f) HeNB
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
##### 4.2.4.2.2 Successful outgoing handover to eNB per handover cause
a) This measurement provides the number of successful outbound handover to eNB
per handover cause.
b) CC.
c) Receipt of a S1AP message _UE CONTXT RELEASE COMMAND_ sent from the MME to
the HeNB, indicating a successful handover to eNB with specific cause (see TS
36.413 [6]).The sum of all supported per cause measurements shall equal the
total number of outgoing intra-eNB handover events. In case only a subset of
per cause measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of causes supported plus a possible sum value identified by the
.sum suffix
e) HO. ToeNBSucc._Cause_ \ where _Cause_ identifies the cause for handover.
f) HeNB
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
##### 4.2.4.2.3 Failed outgoing handover to eNB per handover cause
a) This measurement provides the number of failed outbound handover to eNB per
handover cause.
b) CC
c) Transmission of the _RRCConnectionReestablishmentRequest_ message by the UE
to the HeNB, indicating the RRC connection reestablishment(see TS 36.331
[7]).The sum of all supported per cause measurements shall equal the total
number of handover from eNB events. In case only a subset of per cause
measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of causes supported plus a possible sum value identified by the
.sum suffix
e) HO. ToeNBFail._Cause_ \ where _Cause_ identifies the cause for handover.
f) HeNB
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
##### 4.2.4.2.4 Attempted incoming handover from eNB per handover cause
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted inbound handover from eNB
per handover cause.
b) CC.
c) Receipt of a S1AP message _HANDOVER REQUEST_ sent from the MME to the HeNB
(see TS 36.413 [6]). The sum of all supported per cause measurements shall
equal the total number of handover from eNB events. In case only a subset of
per cause measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of causes supported plus a possible sum value identified by the
.sum suffix.
e) HO. FromeNBAtt._Cause_ \ where _Cause_ identifies the cause for handover.
f) HeNB
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
##### 4.2.4.2.5 Successful incoming handover from eNB per handover cause
a) This measurement provides the number of successful inbound handover from
eNB per handover cause.
b) CC.
c) Receipt of a _RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete_ message sent from theUE
to the HeNB, indicating a successful handover from eNB with specific cause
(see TS 36.331 [7]).The sum of all supported per cause measurements shall
equal the total number of handover from eNB events. In case only a subset of
per cause measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of causes supported plus a possible sum value identified by the
.sum suffix
e) HO. FromeNBSucc._Cause_ \ where _Cause_ identifies the cause for handover.
f) HeNB
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
##### 4.2.4.2.6 Failed incoming handover from eNB per handover cause
a) This measurement provides the number of failed inbound handover from eNB
per handover cause.
b) CC
c) Transmission of the _RRCConnectionReestablishmentRequest_ message by the UE
to the eNB, indicating the RRC connection reestablishment(see TS 36.331
[7]).The sum of all supported per cause measurements shall equal the total
number of handover from eNB events. In case only a subset of per cause
measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of causes supported plus a possible sum value identified by the
.sum suffix
e) HO. FromeNBFail._Cause_ \ where _Cause_ identifies the cause for handover.
f) HeNB
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
#### 4.2.4.3 Inter-RAT Handovers
##### 4.2.4.3.1 Attempted outgoing handovers to UTRAN per handover cause
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted outgoing handovers to
UTRAN per cause and target cell specific.
b) CC.
c) Transmission of the _MobilityFromEUTRACommand_ message from the HeNB to the
UE indicating the attempt of an outgoing handover from HeNS to UTRAN with a
specific cause (see TS 36.331 [7]). The sum of all supported per cause
measurements shall equal the total number of outgoing handover to UTRAN
events. In case only a subset of per cause measurements is supported, a sum
subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of causes supported plus a possible sum value identified by the
_.sum_ suffix.
e) HO.ToUtranAtt._Cause_ \ _w_ here _Cause_ identifies the cause for handover
f) HeNB
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
##### 4.2.4.3.2 Successful outgoing handovers to UTRAN per handover cause
a) This measurement provides the number of successful outgoing handovers to
UTRAN per cause target cell specific.
b) CC.
c) Receipt of a S1AP message UE CONTEXT RELEASE COMMAND sent from the MME to
the HeNB, indicating a successful handover initiated due to a specific cause
(see TS 36.413 [6]).The sum of all supported per cause measurements shall
equal the total number of outgoing handover to UTRAN events. In case only a
subset of per cause measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be
provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of causes supported plus a possible sum value identified by the
_.sum_ suffix.
e) HO.ToUtranSucc._Cause\ w_ here _Cause_ indicating the cause for handover.
f) HeNB
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
##### 4.2.4.3.3 Failed outgoing handovers to UTRAN per handover cause
a) This measurement provides the number of failed outgoing handovers to UTRAN
per cause target cell specific.
b) CC
c) Transmission of the _RRCConnectionReestablishmentRequest_ message by the UE
to the HeNB, indicating the RRC connection reestablishment(see TS 36.331 [7]).
The sum of all supported per cause measurements shall equal the total number
of outgoing handover to UTRAN events. In case only a subset of per cause
measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of causes supported plus a possible sum value identified by the
_.sum_ suffix.
e) HO.ToUtranFail._Cause\ w_ here _Cause_ indicating the cause for handover.
f) HeNB
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
##### 4.2.4.3.4 Attempted outgoing handovers to GERAN per handover cause
a) This measurement provides the number of attempted outgoing handovers to
GERAN per cause and target cell specific.
b) CC.
c) Transmission of the _MobilityFromEUTRACommand_ message from the HeNB to the
UE indicating the attempt of an outgoing handover from HeNS to GERAN with a
specific cause (see TS 36.331 [7]). The sum of all supported per cause
measurements shall equal the total number of outgoing handover to GERAN
events. In case only a subset of per cause measurements is supported, a sum
subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of causes supported plus a possible sum value identified by the
_.sum_ suffix.
e) HO.ToGeranAtt._Cause_ \ _w_ here _Cause_ identifies the cause for handover
f) HeNB
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
##### 4.2.4.3.5 Successful outgoing handovers to GERAN per handover cause
a) This measurement provides the number of successful outgoing handovers to
GERAN per cause target cell specific.
b) CC.
c) Receipt of a S1AP message UE CONTEXT RELEASE COMMAND sent from the MME to
the HeNB, indicating a successful handover initiated due to a specific cause
(see TS 36.413 [6]).The sum of all supported per cause measurements shall
equal the total number of outgoing handover to GERAN events. In case only a
subset of per cause measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be
provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of causes supported plus a possible sum value identified by the
_.sum_ suffix.
e) HO.ToGeranSucc._Cause\ w_ here _Cause_ indicating the cause for handover.
f) HeNB
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
##### 4.2.4.3.6 Failed outgoing handovers to GERAN per handover cause
a) This measurement provides the number of failed outgoing handovers to GERAN
per cause target cell specific.
b) CC.
c) Transmission of the _RRCConnectionReestablishmentRequest_ message by the UE
to the HeNB, indicating the RRC connection reestablishment(see TS 36.331 [7]).
The sum of all supported per cause measurements shall equal the total number
of outgoing handover to UTRAN events. In case only a subset of per cause
measurements is supported, a sum subcounter will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value. The number of measurements is equal
to the number of causes supported plus a possible sum value identified by the
_.sum_ suffix.
e) HO.ToGeranFail._Cause\ w_ here _Cause_ indicating the cause for handover.
f) HeNB
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
### 4.2.5 Measurements related to PDCP SDU bit-rate
#### 4.2.5.1 Average DL cell PDCP SDU bit-rate
a) This measurement provides the average cell bit-rate of PDCP SDUs on the
downlink. This represents the ingress rate of user plane traffic to the HeNB
(via S1). The measurement is split into subcounters per SAE Bearer QoS level
(QCI).
b) CC
c) This measurement is obtained according to the Scheduled IP Throughput
definition in 3GPP TS 36.314 [8].
d) Each measurement is an integer value representing the bit-rate > measured
in kb/s. The number of measurements is equal to the > number of QCIs plus a
possible sum value identified by the _.sum_ > suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form DRB.PdcpSduBitrateDl._QCI_ \ > where
_QCI_ identifies the SAE Bearer level quality of service > class.
f) HeNB
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
#### 4.2.5.2 Average UL cell PDCP SDU bit-rate
a) This measurement provides the average cell bit-rate of PDCP SDUs on the
uplink. This represents successful transmissions of user plane traffic;
control signalling and retransmissions are excluded from this measure. The
measurement is split into subcounters per SAE Bearer QoS level (QCI).
b) CC
c) This measurement is obtained according to the Scheduled IP Throughput
definition in 3GPP TS 36.314 [8].
d) Each measurement is an integer value representing the bit-rate measured in
kb/s. The number of measurements is equal to the number of QCIs plus a
possible sum value identified by the _.sum_ suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form DRB. PdcpSduBitrateUl._QCI_ \ where _QCI_
identifies the SAE Bearer level quality of service class.
f) HeNB
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
#### 4.2.5.3 Maximum DL cell PDCP SDU bit-rate
a) This measurement provides the maximum cell bit-rate of PDCP SDUs on the
downlink. This represents the maximum ingress rate of user plane traffic to
the HeNB (via S1). This is a sum counter measured across all QCIs.
b) SI
c) This measurement is obtained according to the Scheduled IP Throughput
definition in 3GPP TS 36.314 [8].
d) A single integer value representing the maximum bit-rate measured in kb/s.
e) DRB.PdcpSduBitrateDlMax
f) HeNB
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
#### 4.2.5.4 Maximum UL cell PDCP SDU bit-rate
a) This measurement provides the maximum cell bit-rate of PDCP SDUs measured
on the uplink. This represents successful transmissions of user plane traffic;
control signalling and retransmissions are excluded from this measure. This is
a sum counter measured across all QCIs.
b) SI
c) This measurement is obtained according to the scheduled IP throughput
definition in 3GPP TS 36.314 [8].
d) A single integer value representing the maximum bit-rate measured in kb/s.
e) DRB.PdcpSduBitrateUlMax
f) HeNB
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
### 4.2.6 Measurements related to Packet Delay and Drop Rate
#### 4.2.6.1 Average DL PDCP SDU delay
a) This measurement provides the average (arithmetic mean) PDCP SDU delay on
the downlink. The measurement is split into subcounters per ERAB Bearer QoS
level (QCI).
```{=html}
``` a) DER (n=1)
b) This measurement is obtained according to the definition in 3GPP TS 36.314
[8].
c) Each measurement is an integer value representing the mean delay in ms. The
number of measurements is equal to the number of QCIs plus a possible sum
value identified by the _.sum_ suffix.
d) The measurement name has the form DRB.PdcpSduDelayDl._QCI_ \ where _QCI_
identifies the ERAB Bearer level quality of service class.
e) HeNB
f) Valid for packet switched traffic
g) EPS
#### 4.2.6.2 DL PDCP SDU drop rate
a) This measurement provides the fraction of IP packets (PDCP SDUs) which are
dropped on the downlink. Only user-plane traffic (DTCH) is considered. **A
dropped packet is one whose context is removed from the HeNB without any part
of it having been transmitted on the air interface. Packets discarded during
handover are excluded from the count.** The measurement is split into
subcounters per ERAB Bearer QoS level (QCI).
```{=html}
``` a) SI
b) This measurement is obtained according to the definition in 3GPP TS 36.314
[8]. Separate counters are maintained for each QCI. In case only a subset of
per QCI measurements is supported, a drop rate subcounter calculated across
all QCIs will be provided first.
c) Each measurement is an integer value representing the drop rate multiplied
by 1E6. The number of measurements is equal to the number of QCIs plus a
possible sum value identified by the _.sum_ suffix.
d) The measurement name has the form DRB.PdcpSduDropRateDl._QCI_ \ where _QCI_
identifies the target ERAB Bearer level quality of service class.
e) HeNB
f) Valid for packet switched traffic
g) EPS
### 4.2.7 Measurements related to Packet Loss Rate
#### 4.2.7.1 DL PDCP SDU air interface loss rate
a) This measurement provides the fraction of IP packets (PDCP SDUs) which are
lost (not successfully transmitted) on the downlink air interface. Only user-
plane traffic (DTCH) is considered. **A lost packet is one whose context is
removed from the HeNB after an attempt has been made to transmit part or all
of the packet on the air interface but the whole packet has not been
successfully transmitted.** The measurement is split into subcounters per ERAB
Bearer QoS level (QCI).
b) SI
c) This measurement is obtained according to the definition in 3GPP TS 36.314
[8]. Separate counters are maintained for each QCI. In case only a subset of
per QCI measurements is supported, a loss rate subcounter calculated across
all QCIs will be provided first.
d) Each measurement is an integer value representing the air interface loss
rate multiplied by 1E6. The number of measurements is equal to the number of
QCIs plus a possible sum value identified by the _.sum_ suffix.
e) The measurement name has the form DRB. PdcpSduAirLossRateDl._QCI_ \ where
_QCI_ identifies the target ERAB Bearer level quality of service class.
f) HeNB
g) Valid for packet switched traffic
h) EPS
#### 4.2.7.2 UL PDCP SDU loss rate
a) This measurement provides the fraction of IP packets (PDCP SDUs) which are
lost (not successfully received) on the uplink. Only user-plane traffic (DTCH)
and only PDCP SDUs that have entered PDCP (and given a PDCP sequence number)
are considered. The measurement is split into subcounters per ERAB Bearer QoS
level (QCI).
```{=html}
``` a) SI
b) This measurement is obtained according to the definition in 3GPP TS 36.314
[8]. Separate counters are maintained for each QCI. In case only a subset of
per QCI measurements is supported, a loss rate subcounter calculated across
all QCIs will be provided first.
c) Each measurement is an integer value representing the loss rate multiplied
by 1E6. The number of measurements is equal to the number of QCIs plus a
possible sum value identified by the _.sum_ suffix.
d) The measurement name has the form DRB.PdcpSduLossRateUl._QCI_ \ where _QCI_
identifies the target ERAB Bearer level quality of service class.
e) HeNB
f) Valid for packet switched traffic
g) EPS
###### ### Annex A: Use cases for performance measurements definition
# A.1 Use case of the SCTP signalling measurements
In order to avoid the overload of HeNB-GW, SCTP signaling measurements data
will be combined with HeNB-GW user plane measurement data to reflect load
status on HeNB-GW. When HeNB GW is present in HeNS, it is fairly a
straightforward way to collect such performance data from HeNB GW. Especially,
operators deploy a dedicated HeNS management system.
In addition, the ratio of signaling to data bandwidth usage is very useful to
monitor some abnormal events, such as if the ratio of them is too high, some
unusual events are possible happened. Therefore, the operator could analyze
whether some problems exist in the network or not, and may find out root-
causes leaded to the bad conditions, finally resolve the problems.
# A.2 Use case of HeNB-GW user plane measurements
HeNB-GW user plane related measurements are used to measure data volume on S1
interface including incoming and outgoing of data packets and octets for
GTP-U. When HeNB GW is present in HeNS, it is fairly a straightforward way to
collect such performance data from HeNB GW. Especially, operators deploy a
dedicated HeNS management system.
Based on that, the measurements are useful to analyze data volumes and
velocity from HeNB-GW point-of-view. If the data volume is too high, more
interface bandwidth should be deployed, or HeNB-GW load balance should be
considered. If data velocity is too high, the packet forwarding capacity of
HeNB-GW should be enhanced to avoid data congestion.
In addition, HeNB-GW user plane related measurements could be together with
other performance measurements to analyze network performance to find out the
abnormal events.
# A.3 CSG service related performance
A Closed Subscriber Group identifies subscribers of an operator who are
permitted to access one or more PLMN cells which have restricted access. It is
a new added feature in HeNB to facilitate the provisioning of new service. The
collection of CSG related performance on HeNB level could clearly reflects the
status of delivered service for each subscriber. In addition to this, HeNB is
an exclusive signalling terminator on the HeNS side when HeNB GW is absent.
Therefore, it is necessary to capture the CSG performance data on HeNB level.
By calculating these parameters relating to CSG service, the operator can
obtain the mean number of CSG UEs and the successful rate of inbound mobility
for UEs. The mean number of CSG UEs indicates how many users accessing the CSG
service, which is a key performance for service utilization. The successful
rate of inbound mobility for UEs performs a key indicator of CSG service
accessibility. As low handover success rate will impact user experience, it is
important to define measurements to capture handover success rate.
Furthermore, detailed analysis of handover failures is essential to know what
causes the handovers.
Based on these indicators, the operator can optimize the service coverage and
enhance the user experience.
# A.4 RRC related performance
RRC relevant performance parameters are essential to evaluate the radio link
quality. Especially, a HeNB is a kind of CPE. Depending on HeNB trail
experience, there might be serious interference happened between HeNB cell and
Macro Cell. The collection of RRC performance on each HeNB could directly to
indicate radio link quality. The collection of RRC performance is also helpful
for operator to locate the root causes if there is service faults are
occurred.
Based on that, these measurements are useful for drawing connection rate and
drop rate of HeNB system. Both rates reflect connectivity and continuity for
system services, and also direct key performance indicators of user
experience. By analysing these indicators, the operator can keep track of the
network as well as enhance user experience.
# A.5 E-RAB related performance
E-RAB management procedure includes E-RAB Setup procedure and E-RAB Release
Request procedure. The purpose of the E-RAB Setup procedure is to assign
resources on Uu and S1 for one or several E-RABs and to setup corresponding
Data Radio Bearers for a given UE. Based on the _E-RAB level QoS parameters_
IE the HeNB shall establish a Data Radio Bearer and allocate the required
resources on Uu. If E-RABs are failed to be established, the involved services
may fail. Therefore, the collection on per E-RAB QCI will give operators
important indications whether a particular service type is running well or
not. Especially, operators deliver some new feature services to customers.
During daily maintenance of network, measurements regarding E-RAB
establishment and release are useful for operators to evaluate E-RAB
management procedures, to analyze failure reasons of E-RAB establishment and
to analyze the causes of E-RAB release. In addition, the E-RAB performance
data on per QCI could give operators possibilities to assess the quality of
specific service.
Based on that, these measurements are useful for drawing connection rate and
drop rate of HeNB system. Both rates reflect connectivity and continuity for
system services, and also direct key performance indicators of user
experience. By analysing these indicators, the operator can keep track of the
network as well as enhance user experience.
# A.6 Handover related performance
In telecommunications, the term handover refers to the process of transferring
an ongoing call or data session from one channel connected to the core network
to another, which can be categorized according to RATs.
During daily maintenance of network, it is essential in network operations to
follow the success rate of various handover. Low handover success rate will
impact user experience, therefore it is important to define measurements to
follow handover success rate.
By calculating these parameters, we can obtain the success rate of handovers
for UEs, both eNBs and inter-RAT related. All these parameters are direct key
indicators of service connectivity and also useful for operators to evaluate
handover procedures and analyze failure reasons. To go for further analysis of
handover failures, it is also essential to know what causes the handovers. By
analysing these indicators, the operator can inspect the network as well as
enhance user experience.
# A.7 Radio bearer QoS related performance
A fundamental measure of QoS is the throughput (data rate) of the cell. The
total cell throughput measured across all radio bearers gives an indication of
the loading and activity in the cell. Adding a per QCI counter allows the
loading on the different QCIs to be measured. For example, if QCI 1 is used
exclusively for VoIP then the loading of conversational speech can be directly
determined. The maximum throughput can indicate to the operator whether there
is enough capacity in the network. Separate counters should be configured on
the downlink and uplink. The PDCP SDU bit-rate helps to evaluate the usage of
bandwidth and radio resource. Operators could perform network optimization
based on the throughput statistics. Hence it is important to monitor the total
cell throughput.
# A.8 Packet delay, drop rate and loss rate related performance
Latency is of prime concern for some services, particularly conversational
services like speech and instant messaging. A counter is added to measure the
mean delay for IP packets incurred within the HeNB. Separate counters are
provided per QCI which are particularly useful when the QCI is used by very
few services and the packet sizes vary little. It is only practical to measure
packet delays on the downlink.
When a cell is heavily loaded congestion can take place. When congestion is
not severe the impact is typically the incurrence of additional delay for non-
GBR radio bearers. However, when congestion is severe the HeNB may be forced
to discard packets. It is important for the operator to have visibility of
packet discard so that corrective action can be instigated (for example, by
adjusting admission control settings in the network). It is only practical to
measure packet discards on the downlink. Packet discards on handover should
not be included in the count.
The downlink air interface packet loss can be directly compared with the PELR
value of a QCI to see if the packet loss (over the air interface) aspect of
quality of service is being met within the cell. On the downlink this
measurement can be added to the congestion losses (see DL packet drop rate) to
determine the total packet loss rate at the HeNB. Consequently, the downlink
useful bit-rate can be estimated by scaling the measurement of the downlink
PDCP ingress bit-rate by (1 -- DL packet drop rate) (1 -- air interface packet
loss rate).
The uplink air interface packet loss rate (per QCI) can be compared directly
with the PELR defined for that QCI. An estimate of the uplink air interface
packet loss may be provided by the "Uplink PDCP SDU loss rate". This uplink
measurement is based on PDCP sequence numbers and cannot precisely measure the
air interface losses. Any packets discarded by the UE within the protocol
stack (i.e. at layer 2) are also counted since they will have been given a
PDCP sequence number. Discards at layer 3 are not counted.
#