# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a mulit-part deliverable covering the 3^rd^
Generation Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and
System Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
32.451: Key Performance Indicators (KPI) for E-UTRAN; Requirements;
**32.450:** Key Performance Indicators (KPI) for E-UTRAN; Definitions.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies requirements (business level requirements,
specification level requirements and use case descriptions) related to Key
Performance Indicators (KPIs) for E-UTRAN.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] ITU-T Recommendation E.800: \"Terms and Definitions related to Quality of
Service and Network Performance including Dependability\".
[2] 3GPP TS 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [2] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[2].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[2] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [2].
DRX Discontiuous Reception
eNB E-UTRAN Node B
EPS Evolved Packet System
E-RAB E-UTRAN Radio Access Bearer
E-UTRAN Evolved UTRAN
GBR Guaranteed Bit Rate
KPI Key Performance Indicator
KQI Key Quality Indicator
LTE Long Term Evolution
RAT Radio Access Technology
TTI Transmission Time Interval
UE User Equipment
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System
UTRAN UMTS Radio Access Network
# 4 KPI overview
The following KPI categories are covered by the present document:
  * Accessibility (see the definition in [1]).
  * Retainability (see the definition in [1]).
  * Integrity (see the definition in [1]).
  * Availability
  * Mobility
# 5 Requirements
## 5.1 KPI Category "Accessibility"
### 5.1.1 E-RAB Accessibility
#### 5.1.1.1 Business level requirements
If an end user cannot access a service it is hard to charge for the service.
Also, if it happens often that an end-user cannot access the provided service,
the end-user might change wireless subscription provider, i.e. loss of income
for the network operator.
Hence, to have a good accessibility of the services is important from a
business point of view. This measurement assists the network operator with
information about the accessibility provided to their customers.
#### 5.1.1.2 Specification level requirements
The accessibility of an end-user application covers a wider area than just the
E-UTRAN part. Hence it is important to realize that a KPI for this in E-UTRAN
shall be limited to the parts that E-UTRAN has control of, i.e. the E-UTRAN
KPI shall be defined so that it indicates the E-UTRAN contribution to the end-
user impact, NOT attempt to take responsibility of the whole end-to-end part
of service accessibility.
The service provided by E-UTRAN for this KPI shall be E-RAB.
It shall be possible to measure the accessibility of E-RABs in E-UTRAN.
Accessibility measurement should be available as a success rate for the
attempts.
As for defining an attempt, it shall be considered an attempt first when the
eNodeB can be certain that is a request for an E-RAB.
As for defining a success, it shall be considered a success when the eNodeB
have completed its task to setup resources and the result of the E-RAB
establishment can be informed to the requester of the E-RAB.
The KPI shall be available per QoS group.
#### 5.1.1.3 Use case description
In providing end-user services to wireless end-users, the first step is to get
access to the wireless service. First after access to the service has been
performed, the service can be used.
If an accessibility measurement is not considered OK, then the network
operator can investigate which steps that are required to improve the
accessibility towards their customers.
This measurement should be used for observing the impact of E-UTRAN on end-
users service accessibility.
## 5.2 KPI Category "Retainability"
### 5.2.1 E-RAB Retainability
#### 5.2.1.1 Business level requirements
If an end user is interrupted often during use of a service, or the service is
aborted during use, the time the service is not provided could be hard to
charge for. Also if it happens often that an end-user is interrupted or
aborted at service use it might change wireless subscription provider, i.e.
loss of income for the network operator.
Hence to have a good retainability of the services is important from a
business point of view. This measurement assists the network operator with
information about the retainability provided to their customers.
#### 5.2.1.2 Specification level requirements
The retainability of an end-user application covers a wider area than just the
E-UTRAN part. Hence it is important to realize that a KPI for this in E-UTRAN
shall be limited to the parts that E-UTRAN has control of, i.e. the E-UTRAN
KPI shall be defined so that it indicates the E-UTRAN contribution to the end-
user impact, NOT attempt to take responsibility of the whole end-to-end part
of service retainability.
The service provided by E-UTRAN for this KPI shall be E-RAB.
Since the keep-alive possibilities of E-RABs, i.e. DRX are available, it is
probable that E-RABs are kept alive much longer than they are used for
transmitting data. With an extreme setting of this keep-alive functionality it
can lead to that basically all E-RAB releases are doomed to be abnormal (the
normal system releases do not exist if keep-alive is set very long).
Hence the definition is to only count it as abnormal releases when there was
actually an impact on the end-user.
The preferred normalization of abnormal releases of the service shall be time
unit of transfer between abnormal releases, i.e. abnormal releases per served
session time.
The KPI shall be available per QoS group.
#### 5.2.1.3 Use case description
When a service is used it is important that it is not interrupted or aborted.
If a retainability measurement is not considered OK, then the network operator
can investigate which steps that are required to improve the retainability
towards their customers.
This measurement should be used for observing the impact of E-UTRAN on end-
users service retainability.
## 5.3 KPI Category "Integrity"
### 5.3.1 E-UTRAN IP Throughput
#### 5.3.1.1 Business level requirements
If an end user often experiences low quality during use of a service, the end-
user might change wireless subscription provider, i.e. loss of income for the
network operator.
Hence to have a good integrity of the services is important from a business
point of view. This measurement assists the network operator with information
about the integrity provided to their customers.
#### 5.3.1.2 Specification level requirements
The integrity of an end-user application covers a wider area than just the
E-UTRAN part. Hence it is important to realize that a KPI for this in E-UTRAN
shall be limited to the parts that E-UTRAN has control of, i.e. the E-UTRAN
KPI shall be defined so that it indicates the E-UTRAN contribution to the end-
user impact, NOT attempt to take responsibility of the whole end-to-end part
of service integrity.
The service provided by E-UTRAN for this KPI shall be delivery of IP packets.
To make the measurement on a Black Box level for the eNB it should be measured
on IP level (i.e. volume part in throughput measurement shall be IP volume).
The measurements shall be defined so that impact of file size is excluded.
E.g. Current speed allows maximum 1 500 B per TTI:
1) Transfer time for 1 500 Byte is then 1 TTI.
2) Transfer time for 1 501 Byte is then 2 TTIs.
Hence the measurement can be size dependent, unless care is taken, even if the
service is the same in both cases. Hence a method to exclude this is required.
The measurement shall be defined so that impact of burstyness on incoming data
flow is excluded (i.e. time when the eNodeB does not have anything to transmit
shall not be included in any calculations, see T_Idle in figure below).
The measurements shall be defined so that impact of transport network problems
are excluded (from the eNodeB this will just look like a bursty application
since the transport network is not dimensioned to continuously fill the radio
interface).
The measurements shall be defined so that impact from _methods used to reduce
the rate of the packet flow to the eNB,_ e.g. Rate Policing in the Core
Network, is excluded (from the eNodeB this will just look like a bursty
application since the incoming user plane data will not come often enough to
continuously fill the radio interface).
If methods to _reduce the rate of the packet flow are performed by the eNB,
e.g._ rate shaping, it shall be possible to see this in the Throughput KPI.
These samples shall be possible to filter out from the other "non rate shaped"
samples.
The KPI shall be available per QoS group
#### 5.3.1.3 Use case description
When a service is used it is important that the quality of the service is
acceptable. E.g. for non-GBR services, one of the important integrity
measurements is Throughput.
If an integrity measurement is not considered OK, then the network operator
can investigate which steps that are required to improve the quality provided
to their customers.
This measurement should be used for observing the impact of E-UTRAN on end-
users service integrity.
### 5.3.2 E-UTRAN IP Latency
#### 5.3.2.1 Business level requirements
If an end user often experiences low quality during use of a service, the end-
user might change wireless subscription provider, i.e. loss of income for the
network operator.
Hence to have a good integrity of the services is important from a business
point of view. This measurement assists the network operator with information
about the integrity provided to their customers.
#### 5.3.2.2 Specification level requirements
The integrity of an end-user application covers a wider area than just the
E-UTRAN part. Hence it is important to realize that a KPI for this in E-UTRAN
shall be limited to the parts that E-UTRAN has control of, i.e. the E-UTRAN
KPI shall be defined so that it indicates the E-UTRAN contribution to the end-
user impact, NOT attempt to take responsibility of the whole end-to-end part
of service integrity.
The service provided by E-UTRAN for this KPI shall be delivery of IP packets.
To make the measurement on a Black Box level for the eNB it should be measured
on IP level (i.e. volume time start to elaps when IP packet is received)
For Latency it can be dependent on packet size of the measured sample. E.g. a
10 Byte packet is delivered faster than a 1500 Byte packet. Hence a method to
exclude packet size is wanted.
{width="4.9215277777777775in" height="2.7583333333333333in"}
Hence, the measurement can be size dependent, unless care is taken, even if
the performance of the eNodeB is the same in both cases. A method to exclude
this is required.
The KPI shall be available per QoS group.
#### 5.3.2.3 Use case description
When a service is used it is important that the quality of the service is
acceptable. For e.g. non-GBR services one of the important integrity
measurements is Latency.
If an integrity measurement is not considered OK, then the network operator
can investigate which steps that are required to improve the quality provided
to their customers.
This measurement should be used for observing the impact of E-UTRAN on end-
users service integrity.
## 5.4 KPI Category "Availability"
### 5.4.1 E-UTRAN Cell Availability
#### 5.4.1.1 Business level requirements
If the radio network is not available to the end users it is hard to charge
for the service. Also if it happens often that there is no availability, the
end-user might change wireless subscription provider, i.e. loss of income for
the operator.
Hence, to have a good availability of the radio network is important from a
business point of view. This measurement assists the operator with information
about the availability in their radio network.
#### 5.4.1.2 Specification level requirements
It shall be possible to measure the percentage of time that the wireless
service is considered available for end-users in a cell. If measured on larger
area than cell, then the cell values can be aggregated to e.g. network level.
As for defining the E-UTRAN Cell Availability, it shall be considered
available when the eNB can provide any kind of service (E-RABs between UE and
Core Network) in the area.
#### 5.4.1.3 Use case description
In providing end-user services to wireless end-users, the first step is to
make it possible for the end-user to access the wireless service, i.e. to make
the radio network available for the end-users.
If an availability measurement is not considered OK, then the network operator
can investigate which steps that are required to improve the availability
towards their services.
Note that the quality of the service provided is covered in Integrity and the
possibility to access to a service is covered in Accessibility.
This measurement should be used for observing the E-UTRAN availability.
## 5.5 KPI Category \"Mobility\"
### 5.5.1 E-UTRAN Mobility
#### 5.5.1.1 Business level requirements
If an end user is interrupted often during use of a service or the service is
aborted during use, the time the service is not provided could be hard to
charge for. Also if it happens often that an end-user is interrupted or
aborted at service use it might change wireless subscription provider, i.e.
loss of income for the operator.
Hence, to have a good retainability of the services is important from a
business point of view.
#### 5.5.1.2 Specification level requirements
It shall be possible to measure the handover success rate in E-UTRAN. The
measurements shall be available to map towards end-user services. The
measurement shall include both Intra E-UTRAN and Inter RAT handovers. The
measurement shall be available on cell level.
The measurement shall include both the preparation and execution phase of
Handovers.
"Entering preparation phase" is defined as the point of time when the source
eNB attempts to prepare resources for an UE in a neighboring cell.
"Success of execution phase" is defined as the point of time when the source
eNB receives information that the UE successfully is connected to the target
cell.
#### 5.5.1.3 Use case description
When a service is used it is important that it is not interrupted or aborted.
One of the fault cases in a radio system for this is handovers/mobility.
If a mobility measurement is not considered OK, then the network operator can
investigate which steps that are required to improve the mobility towards
their services.
This measurement should be used for observing the impact of mobility in
E-UTRAN on end-users.
#