# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects,
Telecommunication management; as identified below:
**32.501: Self-Configuration of Network Elements; Concepts and Integration
Reference Point (IRP) Requirements**
32.502: Self-Configuration of Network Elements Integration Reference Point
(IRP); Information Service (IS)
32.506: Self-Configuration of Network Elements Integration Reference Point
(IRP); Solution Set (SS) definitions
# 1 Scope
The present document describes the concepts how self-configuration works and
what IRP requirements need to be met to support this functionality. The
document also captures if a requirement shall be met via the Itf-N interface
or via other protocols. This version of the TS is restricted to
self-**configuration** of eNBs. The requirements in this document are not
imposed on HNBs.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[4] 3GPP TR 32.816: \"Telecommunication management; Study on Management of
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) and Evolved
Packet Core (EPC)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.531: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture; Software
Management Concepts and IRP Requirements \".
[6] ITU-T Recommendation X.800: \"Security architecture for Open Systems
Interconnection for CCITT applications\".
[7] 3GPP TS 33.310: \" Network Domain Security (NDS); Authentication Framework
(AF)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TS 32.101 [2], TS 32.102 [3] and TS 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term
defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the
same term, if any, in TS 32.101 [1], TS 32.102 [2] and TS 21.905 [5], in that
order.
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Credentials:** Data that is transferred to establish the claimed identity of
an entity, see ITU-T Recommendation X.800 [6].
**Plug and Play:** The process of connecting a minimally preconfigured node to
the transport network, whereby the node, with minimum operator attention, can
exchange information with the OAM system and other relevant nodes to an extent
that the node is configured and ready to handle traffic.
**Plug and Connect:** T**he procedure by which an eNodeB gets basic
connectivity information after it is powered up and gets connected to its EM
system in a multi-vendor environment. Multi-vendor Plug and Connect is part of
the Multi-Vendor Plug and Play.**
**Self Configuration:** The process which brings a network element into
service requiring minimal human operator intervention or none at all.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
CA Certification Authority
CMP Certificate Management Protocol
DHCP Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol
DNS Doman Name System
EM Element Manager
FQDN Fully Qualified Domain Name
IP@ IP address
MvPnC Multi-vendor Plug and Connect
MvPnP Multi-vendor Plug and Play
NAT Network Address Translation
PnC Plug and Connect
PnP Plug and Play
RA Registration Authority
SC Self **Configuration**
SeGW Security Gateway
TLS Transport Layer Security
**VLAN Virtual LAN**
VM Vendor Mediator
# 4 Concepts and background
Provide here an update of See TS 32.816 [4] §5.1.3.1.1 "Establishment of new
eNodeB in network"
## 4.1 Self-Configuration Concept
### 4.1.1 Logical Function Blocs
#### 4.1.1.1 Address Allocation Function (AAF):
This functional bloc supports the following functions: [SC1], [SC3].
#### 4.1.1.2 OAM Connectivity Establishment Function (OAM CO_EF):
This functional bloc supports the following functions: [SC2], [SC3], [SC4],
[SC5], [SC13].
#### 4.1.1.3 Software Management Function (SW_MF):
This functional bloc supports the following functions: [SC3], [SC6], [SC7],
[SC8], [SC20], [SC21].
#### 4.1.1.4 Inventory Update Function (Inv_UF):
This functional bloc supports the following functions: [SC16].
#### 4.1.1.5 Self-Test Function (ST_F):
This functional bloc supports the following functions: [SC17].
This function performs eNodeB self-tests.
#### 4.1.1.6 Self-Configuration Monitoring and Management Function (SC_MMF):
This functional bloc supports the following functions: [SC18].
This function monitors the self-configuration process and provides the
operator with this information. This function must be able to get information
about all other functional blocs. In addition to this it allows the operator
to control the execution of the self-configuration process.
#### 4.1.1.6.1 Self-Configuration Monitoring and Management Function
(SC_MMF_NM):
SC_MMF_NM (IRP Manager): representing the NM portion of SC_MMF (necessary
monitoring and limited interaction capabilities to support an automated
optimization), as well as related IRPManager functionality
#### 4.1.1.6.2 Self-Configuration Monitoring and Management Function
(SC_MMF_EM):
SC_MMF_EM (IRP Agent): representing the portion of SC_MMF operating below
Itf-N, as well as related IRPAgent functionality
#### 4.1.1.7 Call Processing Link (CPL) Set Up Function (CPL_SUF):
This functional bloc supports the following functions: [SC14], [SC15].
#### 4.1.1.8 Radio Network Configuration Data Function (R_CD_F):
This functional bloc supports the following functions: [SC9], [SC11], [SC12].
#### 4.1.1.9 Transport Network Configuration Data Function (T_CD_F):
This functional bloc supports the following functions: [SC9], [SC11], [SC12].
#### 4.1.1.10 NRM IRP Update Function (NRM_UF):
This functional bloc supports the following functions: [SC19].
This function updates the E-UTRAN and EPC NRM IRP with information about the
new eNodeB.
#### 4.1.1.11 Radio Network and Transport Network Configuration Data
Preparation Function
This functional bloc supports the following functions: [SC10].
## 4.2 Automatic Radio Configuration Data handling Function (ARCF) Concept
### 4.2.1 Definitions
**ARCF Data:** ARCF data are the data which are required for successful
activation (of e.g. cell, eNB) that require coordination between several cells
and cannot be generated below Itf-N. Some of the ARCF data may be used
directly as eNodeB configuration data and some of the ARCF data may be used to
generate more other eNodeB configuration data. eNodeB will use the ARCF data
together with other configuration data as initial eNodeB radio configuration
data. The eNodeB initial radio configuration data will be used for self-
configuration.
**ARCF Handling:** This includes ARCF data preparation, ARCF Data Transfer and
ARCF Data Validation.
**ARCF Data Preparation:** This makes the ARCF data ready in operator's
network management system. How to prepare the ARCF data in operator's network
management system is out of scope of this specification.
**ARCF Data Transfer:** This transfers the ARCF data from IRPManager to the
IRPAgent,
**ARCF Data Validation:** This validates the syntax and semantics of ARCF
data. It takes place in the IRPAgent.
## 4.3 Multi-Vendor Plug and Play eNB connection to network Concept
### 4.3.1 General description
The basic idea of Plug and Play is to avoid pre-configuration of an eNB as far
as possible. In an ideal PnP world an eNB equipment is totally agnostic of its
future purpose, its location in the network, its addresses, its basic
configuration parameters etc... All this information is only supplied step by
step during the PnP process.
The required information for the new eNB is stored at specific places. The eNB
needs to know how to access these places. The PnP process provides this
information to the eNB.
The entities involved in the PnP concept are eNB, DHCP server, DNS Server,
Certification Authority server, Element Manager (including the Initial and
Serving Element Managers that could be the same in certain deployment
scenarios), Security Gateway.
The Plug and Play includes \"Plug and Connect\" and Self-Configuration. The
basic steps of Plug and Connect are described in clause 6.4.3.
After Plug and Connect Self-Configuration procedures are used to complete Plug
and Play.
### 4.3.2 Network Scenarios
#### 4.3.2.1 eNB connected via a Non-Secure, Operator Controlled Network
An eNB is typically connected to the operator\'s network according to one of
the following scenarios:
In Figure 4.3.2-1, the eNB is connected directly to a network controlled by
the operator. The eNB can use IP Infrastructure services (DHCP Server, DNS
Server, etc.) in the Non-secure Operator Network. The Operator has full
control of these nodes. One or more Security Gateways protect the Secure
Operator Network from malicious eNBs. Within the Secure Operator Network,
there are also IP Infrastructure nodes.
{width="6.639583333333333in" height="3.046527777777778in"}
Figure 4.3.2-1 eNB connected to an Non-Secure Operator Network
#### 4.3.2.2 eNB connected via an External Network
In Figure 4.3.2-2, the eNB is connected to a network controlled by an entity
external to the Operator. In contrast to the first scenario, the IP
Infrastructure nodes in the External Network are not fully controlled by the
operator. In both cases, the eNB needs to traverse the Security Gateway(s) to
access the nodes in the Secure Operator Network.
{width="6.695138888888889in" height="3.225in"}
Figure 4.3.2-2 eNB connected to an External Network
#### 4.3.2.3 eNB connection to the OAM Network and multiple CNs via separate
SeGWs
Following certificate enrolment with the operator's CA, an eNB establishes a
secure tunnel to the SeGW of the OAM network. Through this tunnel it then
connects to its DM from which it receives software updates and configuration
information, including its transport configuration to the core network(s) it
is supposed to connect to. It then typically establishes a separate secure
tunnel to the SeGW of the operator's core network. In the case of RAN Sharing,
the eNB may establish further tunnels to other Participating Operators' core
networks. The OAM and CN SeGWs may or may not be separate physical entities in
practice.
Figure 4.3.2-3 shows an example of an eNB connected to the OAM Network and
multiple CNs via separate SeGWs.
{width="6.697916666666667in" height="4.360416666666667in"}
Figure 4.3.2-3 Example of eNB connected to OAM Network and multiple CNs via
separate SeGWs
### 4.3.3 Security Aspects
#### 4.3.3.1 Root Certificate Acquisition:
In accordance to TS 33.310 [yy] §9.2 there are two options how to obtain the
operator root certificate:
Option 1: The operator root certificate is provisioned in the base station
prior to the CMPv2 protocol run
Option 2: The operator root certificate is provisioned in the base station
during the CMPv2 protocol run (as part of the Initialisation Response)
The required pre-provisioning in option 1 is against the basic idea of PnP to
minimize pre-provisioning. Therefore from the PnP perspective Option 2 is more
interesting. From a security point of view the following considerations are
relevant:
Option 2 has the risk that during the CMP initialisation a man-in the middle
attack could take place. In order to be successful, such an attack must happen
timely during the actual CMP initialization run and the attacker must have
access to the access network between base station and RA/CA.\ This risk can be
assessed as acceptable, given (a) the risks which are present at Options 1's
prior provisioning -- see below, (b) the short time window of vulnerability,
(c) the closed access networks of many operators. In addition, most attacks
will only lead to inability of the base station to connect to the network, or
to misuse of the new base station by the attacker. The operator should notice
it soon if the base station does not connect, and will investigate the issue.
Option 1 avoids the above "time window of vulnerability". On the other hand it
requires pre-provisioning of the operator root certificate, either in factory
or on-site by service personnel. There is the risk of a security leak during
the provisioning of the root certificate within the vendor / commissioning
environment.
It seems questionable from a security point of view to allow option 2 also in
public Internet (without operator-trusted access network). There the attacks
stated above are more probable, and an attacker may even install some (static)
catching or spoofing equipment in the public Internet to always capture such
"initialization requests".
It is up to the network operator to choose the option with is preferable from
his point of view (risk assessment, Plug and Play importance).
#### 4.3.3.2 Number of CA servers
There could be one or more RA/CA server, e. g. one per vendor. If more than
one RA/CA server is deployed with one RA/CA server per vendor then the vendor
identification would be needed either in the FQDN of the RA server or in the
information from the IP AutoConfiguration Service carrying the information
about RA/CA server.
#### 4.3.3.3 Number of OAM SeGWs
There could be one or more OAM SeGW, e. g. one per vendor. If more than one
OAM SeGW is deployed with one OAM SeGW per vendor then the vendor
identification would be needed either in the FQDN of the OAM SeGW or in the
information from the IP AutoConfiguration Service carrying the information
about OAM SeGW.
# 5 Business Level Requirements
## 5.1 Self- Configuration of eNodeB's
**REQ_SCMAN_CON_1** The actor on NM level shall be able to manage the self-
configuration process.
**REQ_SCMON_CON_1** The actor on NM level shall be able to monitor the
execution of the self-configuration process.
**REQ_SCMON_CON_2** To support the monitoring of the execution of the self-
configuration process, existing capabilities shall be reused as much as
possible.
**REQ_SCSW_CON_1** The software download, installation, activation and
fallback should be automated as much as possible so that no or only minimal
manual intervention is required.
**REQ_SCSW_CON_1** see **REQ_SW_CON_4**
**REQ_SCSW_CON_2** see **REQ_SW_CON_2**
**REQ_SCOCE__CON_1** The OAM connectivity (incl. the IP address allocation)
should be established in a fully automated manner.
**REQ_SCOCE_CON_2** The amount of parameters that needs to be preconfigured
should be minimized.
**REQ_SCIU_CON_1** Inventory information about the new equipment shall be
reported to the actor at NM level as part of the self-configuration process.
**REQ_SCIU_CON_2** Inventory information shall be made available to the
IRPManager reusing existing capabilities as much as possible.
**REQ_SCRCD_CON_1** The radio configuration data shall be made available to
the eNodeB as part of the self-configuration process.
**REQ_SCTCD_CON_1** The transport configuration data shall be made available
to the eNodeB as part of the self-configuration process.
**REQ_SCCPLSU_CON_1** X2- and S1-interfaces shall be set up as part of the
self-configuration process, based on the radio configuration, the transport
configuration and Neighbour cell Relation information made available to the
eNodeB.
> Note: If there is no Neighbour cell Relation information provided, then no
> X2 interface is set up as part of the self-configuration process.
### 5.1.1 Actor roles
### 5.1.2 Telecommunications resources
### 5.1.3 High-level use cases
## 5.2 Business Requirements for Multi Vendor Plug and Play eNB connection to
network
**REQ_PnP_CON_1** Plug and Play for an eNB´s connection to the network shall
use standard protocols.
**REQ_PnP_CON_2** VPN tunnels needed for Plug and Play for an eNB´s connection
to the network shall be set-up automatically.
**REQ_PnP_CON_3** The complete key management during Plug and Play for an
eNB´s connection to the network shall be a full automatic secure procedure,
based on procedures defined by 3GPP SA3.
**REQ_PnP_CON_4** After Plug and connect an eNB and potentially additional
self-configuration of the eNB it shall be possible to bring an eNB into
service
**REQ_PnP_CON_5** As a result of Plug and Play for an eNB´s connection to the
network and potentially additional self-configuration of the eNB, the newest
software and parameter settings as defined by the network operator shall be
used in the eNB.
**REQ_PnP_CON_6:** It shall be possible to perform the MvPnP procedures using
secure protocols and procedures between the eNB and OAM.
**REQ_PnP_CON_7 eNB shall be able to get its own IP addresses and EM IP
address without manual configuration.**
**REQ_PnP_CON_8 For Plug and Connect the Element Manager shall only be
accessible by authenticated and authorized eNBs.**
**REQ_PnP_CON_9 For Plug and Connect the initial and final configuration of
the eNB (or the information how to retrieve them) shall only be accessible by
authenticated and authorized eNBs.**
**REQ_PnP_CON_10** The MvPnP solution shall be usable for IPv4-only networks,
for IPv6-only networks and for dual stack IP networks.
**REQ_PnP_CON_11 MvPnP procedures shall support Network Sharing including the
connection of an eNB to multiple core networks and PLMNs.**
**REQ_PnP_CON_12** MvPnP procedures shall support connection of eNBs with and
without NAT and via External Networks or Non-Secure Operator Networks.
# 6 Specification level requirements
## 6.1 General
## 6.2 Actor roles
## 6.3 Telecommunications resources
## 6.4 Use cases
### 6.4.1 Use case for Automatic Radio Network Configuration Data Handling
#### 6.4.1.1 Use case radio network configuration data request, transfer and
validity check
+-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Use Case Stage** | **Evolution / |** \>**| | | Specification** | | | | | **Related use** | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Goal (*) | Transfer the radio | | | | network configuration | | | | data to the IRPAgent | | | | and ensure that it is | | | | valid when it is used | | | | during | | | | self-configuration. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Actors and Roles (*) | IRPManager as user | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Telecom resources | The E-UTRAN network | | | | including its OSS. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Assumptions | OAM connection is | | | | working. | | | | | | | | IRPAgent cannot | | | | determine all radio | | | | configuration data on | | | | its own. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Pre conditions | NA | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Begins when | Radio network | | | | configuration data is | | | | to be made known to | | | | the IRPAgent. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Step 1 (O) | [ARCF-1-1] | | | | **IRPAgent indicates | | | | need for radio | | | | configuration data to | | | | the IRPManager** | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Step 2 (M) | [ARCF-1-2] | | | | IRPManager transfers | | | | the radio | | | | configuration **data | | | | to IRPAgent or** | | | | | | | | **indicates to | | | | IRPAgent where the | | | | radio configuration | | | | data is available and | | | | IRPAgent retrieves the | | | | data from there** | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Step 3 (O) | [ARCF-1-3] | | | | IRPManager requests | | | | IRPAgent to validate | | | | the received radio | | | | configuration data | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Step 4 (M) | [ARCF-1-4] IRPAgent | | | | validates the received | | | | radio configuration | | | | data | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Ends when | **Ends when all steps | | | | identified above are | | | | completed or when an | | | | exception occurs** | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Exceptions | One of the steps | | | | identified above | | | | fails. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Post Conditions | The self-configuration | | | | process can use the | | | | radio configuration | | | | data. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Traceability | FFS | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+
### 6.4.2 Use case Self-configuration of a new eNodeB
This use case starts with the first initial self test and ends when the eNodeB
is taken into operation.
+-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / | \> | | | Specification | | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Goal (*) | After physical | | | | installation, put in an | | | | automated manner the | | | | eNodeB into a state to | | | | be ready to carry | | | | traffic. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Actors and Roles (*) | FFS | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Telecom resources | The E-UTRAN/EPC network | | | | including its OSS. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Assumptions | IP network connectivity | | | | exists between the | | | | eNodeB and the OAM (sub) | | | | systems providing | | | | support for the | | | | self-configuration | | | | process. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Pre conditions | The eNodeB is physically | | | | installed and physically | | | | connected to an IP | | | | network. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Begins when | **The field personnel | | | | start the | | | | self-configuration | | | | process. It is also | | | | possible that the | | | | process is triggered | | | | automatically after the | | | | completion of an eNodeB | | | | self-test.** | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Step 1 (*) (M\|O) | The order of the bullet | | | | points in the list below | | | | does not imply any | | | | statements on the order | | | | of execution. | | | | | | | | [SC1] An eNodeB IP | | | | address is allocated to | | | | the new eNodeB. | | | | | | | | [SC2] Basic | | | | information about the | | | | transport network (e. g. | | | | gateways) environment is | | | | provided to the eNodeB. | | | | With this information | | | | the eNodeB is able to | | | | exchange IP packets with | | | | other internet hosts. | | | | | | | | [SC3] The eNodeB | | | | provides information | | | | about its type, hardware | | | | and other relevant data | | | | about itself to the OAM | | | | (sub) systems providing | | | | support for the | | | | self-configuration | | | | process. | | | | | | | | [SC4] The address(es) | | | | of the OAM (sub) | | | | system(s) providing | | | | support for the | | | | self-configuration | | | | process (e.g. subsystem | | | | for software download, | | | | subsystem for | | | | configuration data | | | | download) is provided to | | | | the eNodeB. The address | | | | is equal to an IP | | | | address and a port | | | | number, or a DNS name | | | | and port number, or an | | | | URI. | | | | | | | | [SC5] The address(es) | | | | of the OAM | | | | (sub)system(s) providing | | | | support for normal OAM | | | | functions after | | | | completion of the | | | | self-configuration | | | | process are provided to | | | | the eNodeB. The address | | | | is equal to an IP | | | | address and a port | | | | number, or a DNS name | | | | and port number, or an | | | | URI. | | | | | | | | [SC6] The eNodeB | | | | connects to the OAM | | | | system providing support | | | | for the software | | | | download. | | | | | | | | [SC7] The decision | | | | which software or | | | | software packages have | | | | to be downloaded to the | | | | eNodeB is taken. | | | | | | | | [SC8] The software is | | | | downloaded into the | | | | eNodeB. | | | | | | | | [SC9] The eNodeB | | | | connects to the OAM | | | | system providing support | | | | for the configuration | | | | data download. | | | | | | | | [SC10] The (transport | | | | and radio) configuration | | | | data for the eNodeB is | | | | made available by either | | | | preparing it or making | | | | prepared configuration | | | | data available. | | | | | | | | [SC11] The (transport | | | | and radio) configuration | | | | data is downloaded into | | | | the eNodeB. | | | | | | | | [SC12] Dependent nodes | | | | (MMEs, eNodeBs) are | | | | updated with new | | | | configuration data as | | | | well (if required). | | | | | | | | [SC13] The eNodeB | | | | connects to the OAM | | | | (sub) system(s) | | | | providing support for | | | | normal OAM functions | | | | after completion of the | | | | self-configuration | | | | process. | | | | | | | | [SC14] The S1-links | | | | are be set up. | | | | | | | | [SC15] The (planned) | | | | X2-links are be set up. | | | | | | | | **[SC16] The inventory | | | | system in the OAM is | | | | informed that a new | | | | eNodeB is in the | | | | field.** | | | | | | | | **[SC17] The eNodeB | | | | performs a self-test. | | | | Self-tests of different | | | | types can run at | | | | different places within | | | | the self-configuration | | | | procedure.** | | | | | | | | **[SC18] The operator | | | | is informed about the | | | | progess of the | | | | self-configuration | | | | process and important | | | | events occuring during | | | | the self-configuration | | | | process.** | | | | | | | | **[SC19] The network | | | | resource models visible | | | | over Itf-N are updated | | | | during and after the | | | | self-configuration | | | | process.** | | | | | | | | **[SC20] SW is | | | | installed, i.e. prepared | | | | in such a way, that the | | | | NE is ready to use it. | | | | For some implementations | | | | this step is done not at | | | | all or considered part | | | | of [SC21]** or of | | | | [SC8]**.** | | | | | | | | **[SC21] SW is | | | | activated, i.e. final | | | | provisions are done such | | | | that the NE is allowed | | | | to use the SW. For some | | | | implementations this | | | | step is considered part | | | | of [SC20]** or of | | | | [SC8]**.** | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Ends when (*) | **Ends when all steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully completed | | | | or when an exception | | | | occurs.** | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Exceptions | FFS. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Post Conditions | The eNodeB is ready to | | | | carry traffic. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Traceability (*) | | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+
Security aspects are FFS.
### 6.4.3 Use case Multi Vendor Plug and Connect eNB to network
Table 6.4.3-1
+-------------------+----------------------------+-------------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / Specification | \ | | | | | | | | Related use | +-------------------+----------------------------+-------------------+ | Goal | After physical | | | | installation, connect the | | | | eNB to its initial Element | | | | Manager and to the Core | | | | Network(s) as | | | | automatically as possible. | | +-------------------+----------------------------+-------------------+ | Actors and Roles | eNB as user | | +-------------------+----------------------------+-------------------+ | Telecom resources | eNB; IP networks: | | | | Non-Secure Operator | | | | Network, External Network, | | | | and its elements like DHCP | | | | server optionally DNS, | | | | CA/RA servers, Security | | | | Gateway(s) (each | | | | protecting one or more | | | | Secure Operator Networks), | | | | Secure Operator Network(s) | | | | including Element | | | | Manager(s), Core | | | | Network(s) | | +-------------------+----------------------------+-------------------+ | Assumptions | There is a functional | | | | power supply for the eNB. | | | | | | | | There may be one or more | | | | IP Autoconfiguration | | | | Services like DHCP and | | | | Router Advertisements and | | | | zero or more DNS servers. | | +-------------------+----------------------------+-------------------+ | Pre conditions | The eNB is physically | | | | installed. | | | | | | | | IP connectivity exists | | | | between the involved | | | | telecom resources. | | | | | | | | The involved telecom | | | | resources are functional. | | | | | | | | The relevant information | | | | is stored and available: | | | | | | | | \\- Vendor Certificate at | | | | the eNB | | | | | | | | > \- Operator Certificate | | | | > at the CA/RA | | | | > | | | | > \- For the External | | | | > Network or Non-Secure | | | | > Operator Network: | | | | > | | | | > \- (Outer) IP | | | | > autoconfiguration | | | | > information at the IP | | | | > Autoconfiguration | | | | > Service | | | | > | | | | > \- FQDN of the initial | | | | > OAM SeGW at the eNB\ | | | | > and/or\ | | | | > FQDN or IP address of | | | | > the initial OAM SeGW at | | | | > the IP Autoconfiguration | | | | > Service | | | | > | | | | > \- FQDN of the CA/RA | | | | > servers at the eNB\ | | | | > and/or\ | | | | > FQDN or IP address of | | | | > the CA/RA servers at the | | | | > IP Autoconfiguration | | | | > Service | | | | > | | | | > \- If FQDNs need to be | | | | > resolved, corresponding | | | | > IP address(es) at the | | | | > DNS server(s) | | | | > | | | | > \- For the Secure | | | | > Operator Network: | | | | > | | | | > \- (Inner) IP | | | | > autoconfiguration | | | | > information at the IP | | | | > Autoconfiguration | | | | > Service or at the | | | | > initial OAM SeGW | | | | > | | | | > \- FQDN or IP address of | | | | > the initial EMS at the | | | | > eNB and/or DHCP Server | | | | > of the Secure Operator | | | | > Network. | | | | > | | | | > \- If FQDNs need to be | | | | > resolved, corresponding | | | | > IP address(es) at the | | | | > DNS server(s) | | | | > | | | | > \- Configuration and | | | | > software for the eNB at | | | | > the EM(s) | | +-------------------+----------------------------+-------------------+ | Begins when | **The eNB is powered up.** | | +-------------------+----------------------------+-------------------+ | Step 1 (M) | **If a VLAN ID is | | | | available the eNB uses | | | | it**. Otherwise the eNB | | | | uses the **native VLAN | | | | where PnP traffic is sent | | | | and received untagged** | | +-------------------+----------------------------+-------------------+ | Step 2 (M) | The eNB acquires its IP | | | | address through stateful | | | | or stateless IP | | | | autoconfiguration. This | | | | may provide 0 or more DNS | | | | server addresses. | | +-------------------+----------------------------+-------------------+ | Step 3 (M) | The eNB acquires the IP | | | | address of the CA/RA | | | | server. The FQDN of the | | | | CA/RA server may be | | | | pre-configured in the eNB | | | | or the FQDN or IP address | | | | of the CA/RA server may be | | | | provided by the IP | | | | Autoconfiguration Service. | | | | FQDNs are resolved through | | | | the DNS if necessary. | | | | Information provided by | | | | the IP Autoconfiguration | | | | Services shall supersede | | | | those pre-configured at | | | | the eNB. | | +-------------------+----------------------------+-------------------+ | Step 4 (M) | The eNB performs | | | | Certificate Enrolment. | | +-------------------+----------------------------+-------------------+ | Step 5 (M) | The eNB acquires the IP | | | | address of the OAM SeGW. | | | | The FQDN of the OAM SeGW | | | | may be pre-configured in | | | | the eNB or the FQDN or the | | | | IP address of the OAM SeGW | | | | may be provided by the IP | | | | Autoconfiguration Service. | | | | FQDNs are resolved through | | | | the DNS if necessary. | | +-------------------+----------------------------+-------------------+ | Step 6 (M) | The eNB establishes a | | | | secure connection (tunnel) | | | | to the Security Gateway | | | | given by Step 5. | | | | | | | | The eNB receives its | | | | (inner) IP | | | | autoconfiguration | | | | information (which may be | | | | the same as the outer IP | | | | address obtained in step2) | | | | and optionally the address | | | | of one or more DNS servers | | | | within the Secure Operator | | | | Network from the | | | | Configuration Parameters | | | | of IKEv2 during tunnel | | | | establishment. | | +-------------------+----------------------------+-------------------+ | Step 7 (M) | The eNB acquires the IP | Secure connection | | | address of the correct | | | | Element Manager by either, | | | | issuing a DHCP request | | | | including the eNB's vendor | | | | information, resolving | | | | FQDNs via DNS if | | | | necessary, or by having a | | | | pre-configured FQDN | | | | (including the eNB's | | | | vendor information) | | | | resolved via DNS. | | +-------------------+----------------------------+-------------------+ | Step 8 (M) | The eNB establishes a | Secure connection | | | connection to the provided | | | | EM and acquires its | | | | configuration and software | | | | if any. | | | | | | | | The configuration may | | | | contain an address to | | | | another EM that this | | | | specific node shall use as | | | | EM. | | | | | | | | The configuration may | | | | contain an address to | | | | another SeGW that should | | | | be used before connecting | | | | to the EM. | | | | | | | | The eNB may then | | | | | | | | - release the connection | | | | to the current EM and OAM | | | | SeGW and then restart | | | | (returning to step 1), | | | | | | | | - release the connection | | | | to the current EM and OAM | | | | SeGW and then return to | | | | step 6, | | | | | | | | - release the connection | | | | to the current EM and then | | | | repeat step 8, or | | | | | | | | - continue with step 9. | | +-------------------+----------------------------+-------------------+ | Step 9 (M) | The eNB establishes a | | | | connection to the Core | | | | Network(s) using the | | | | transport (VLAN ID, IP | | | | addresses) and security | | | | parameters provided in | | | | step 8. | | +-------------------+----------------------------+-------------------+ | Ends when | **Ends when all mandatory | | | | steps identified above are | | | | successfully completed or | | | | when an exception | | | | occurs.** | | +-------------------+----------------------------+-------------------+ | Exceptions | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +-------------------+----------------------------+-------------------+ | Post Conditions | One or more secure | | | | connections exist between | | | | the eNB and the Element | | | | Manager and the Core | | | | Network(s). Via the | | | | connection to the Element | | | | Manager the eNB can | | | | receive further | | | | instructions to become | | | | operational and carry user | | | | traffic, e.g. the | | | | administrativeState is set | | | | to "unlocked". | | +-------------------+----------------------------+-------------------+ | Traceability | All requirements of clause | | | | 5.2 and 6.5.3. | | +-------------------+----------------------------+-------------------+
Editor's note: The CA/RA server itself may be protected by a SeGW.
Security aspects -- e.g. prevention of unauthorized network access and of fake
parameters supplied to the eNBs etc. -have special importance. Security
related sub-steps to establish secure connections are not shown in table
6.4.3-1. More security aspects are described in a specific chapter (see clause
4.3.3).
## 6.5 Requirements
### 6.5.1 Automatic Radio Network Configuration Data Handling
**REQ-ARCF-FUN-1:** IRPManager shall be able to transfer the ARCF data to
IRPAgent or indicate to IRPAgent where the ARCF data is available for
downloading.
**REQ-ARCF-FUN-2:** IRPManager should be able to request IRPAgent to validate
the previously downloaded ARCF data.
**REQ-ARCF-FUN-3:** IRPAgent shall be able to check the consistency, syntax
and semantic of the downloaded ARCF data to ensure that the ARCF data can be
implemented in the network.
### 6.5.2 Self-configuration of a new eNodeB
The following requirements apply to the macro eNB only. Requirements for the
HNB can be found in TR 32.821.
The way to make any information available to eNB is outside the scope of
standardisation.
Conflict resolution in case of contradicting information made aware to the
eNodeB is outside the scope of standardisation.
#### 6.5.2.1 Self-Configuration Management and Monitoring
##### 6.5.2.1.1 Management Part
**REQ_SCMAN_FUN_1**
It shall be possible for an IRPManager to retrieve
\- information regarding how an NE or a group of NEs behaves during self-
configuration, i.e. in which sequence the essential steps of self-
configuration are executed\ \- information regarding where the IRPManager can
interact with a self-configuration - by suspending the self-configuration
process at one or more self-configuration stop points.\ Steps, their sequence
and their stop point qualification are not imposed by the standard.
**REQ_SCMAN_FUN_2**
If choices for stop points to suspend the SWM process are offered, then it
shall be possible for an IRPManager to choose/select among them where it will
suspend (stop) a self-configuration process (i.e. to ensure fulfillment of
pre-conditions for the step like the fulfillment of the presence of required
input data for the step).
The IRPManager shall be able to read or select or de-select the stop points
offered.
The IRPManager shall be informed about creation and deletion of a profile
which is a holder of information regarding the offered self configuration
steps, the offered sequence of the steps and the configuration steps stop
points.
The IRPManager should be able to change the content of a created profile and
be informed about the change.
**REQ_SCMAN_FUN_3**
It shall be possible for an IRPManager to resume a suspended self-
configuration for one or multiple NEs.
**REQ_SCMAN_FUN_4**
It shall be possible for an IRPManager to terminate an currently ongoing self-
configuration for one or multiple NEs. After a terminattion it is not possible
to resume the self-configuration.
##### 6.5.2.1.2 Monitoring Part
**REQ_SCMON_FUN_1**
The IRPAgent shall send an alarm in case of failures during the self-
configuration process.
**REQ_SCMON_FUN_2**
The IRPAgent should report the progress of a self-configuration of one or
multiple NEs to the IRPManager.
**REQ_SCMON_FUN_3**
When a self-configuration profile is created or deleted, then the IRPAgent
shall inform the IRPManager about this creation and deletion.\ When the
optional change of a self-configuration profile is performed, then the
IRPAgent shall inform the IRPManager about such a change.
**REQ_SCMON_FUN_4**
It shall be possible for IRPManager to retrieve information about the progress
of a self-configuration.
**REQ_SCMON_FUN_5**
The IRPAgent shall send a notification about the start, stop, completion and
optionally cancellation of a self-configuration.
**REQ_SCMON_FUN_6**
The IRPAgent shall inform the IRPManager whenever the self-configuration
process has been suspended or resumed
##### 6.5.2.2 Software Management
**REQ_SCSW_FUN_1** see **REQ_SWM_FUN_1 in 32.531**
**REQ_SCSW_FUN_2** see **REQ_SWM_FUN_2 in 32.531**
**REQ_SCSW_FUN_3** see **REQ_SWM_FUN_4 in 32.531**
**REQ_SCSW_FUN_4** see **REQ_SWM_FUN_5 in 32.531**
**REQ_SCSW_FUN_5** see **REQ_ASWM_FUN_1 in 32.531**
**REQ_SCSW_FUN_6** see **REQ_ASWM_FUN_2 in 32.531**
**REQ_SCSW_FUN_7** see **REQ_ASWM_FUN_3 in 32.531**
**REQ_SCSW_FUN_8** see **REQ_ASWM_FUN_4 in 32.531**
**REQ_SCSW_FUN_9** see **REQ_ASWM_FUN_5 in 32.531**
#### 6.5.2.3 Address Allocation and OAM Connectivity Establishment
**REQ_SCOCE_FUN_1**
The automatic establishment of the OAM connectivity shall be fully secured.
**REQ_SCOCE_FUN_2**
The IRPManager shall be informed that the eNB has reached OAM connectivity.
#### 6.5.2.4 Inventory Update
The details of the inventory information to be reported are FFS.
#### 6.5.2.5 Self-Test
FFS
#### 6.5.2.6 Radio Configuration Data
**FFS**
#### 6.5.2.7 Transport Configuration Data
**FFS**
#### 6.5.2.8 Call Processing Link Set-Up
**FFS**
#### 6.5.2.9 NRM IRP Update
**REQ_SCNRMU_FUN_1**
The related E-UTRAN NRM IRP and EPC NRM IRP instances shall be created and
updated.
### 6.5.3 Specification Requirements for Multi-Vendor Plug and Play eNB
connection to network
**REQ_PnP_FUN_1** The establishment of secure tunnels from the eNB to the OAM
or Core Network(s) shall support NAT traversal.
# 7\. Functions and Architecture
## 7.1 Self-Configuration Logical Architecture
The lines between the functional blocks do not indicate specific 3GPP
interfaces.
For the abbreviations used, please see the headlines of chapter 4.
Figure 7.1-1: Self-Configuration Logical Architecture
## 7.2 Self-Configuration Reference Model
The SC_MMF has a part located in the EM and a part located at the NM.
For the abbreviations used, please refer to Chapter 4.
Figure 7.2-1: Self-Configuration Reference Model
###### ## Annex A (informative): Graphical representation of the PnC Use Case
The Multi-Vendor eNB Plug and Connect procedure, given in section 6.4.3 are
classified into two sets corresponding to those conducted at External Network
(or Non-secure Operator Network) and those conducted at the Secure Operator
Network. An interpretation of these procedures is depicted in figures A.1 and
A.2 respectively.
{width="5.939583333333333in" height="9.579166666666667in"}
Figure A.1: PnC procedure for the External Network or Non-secure Operator
Network.
{width="6.439583333333333in" height="9.592361111111112in"}
**Figure A.2: PnC Procedure for the secure Operator Network.**
#