# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects,
Telecommunication management; as identified below:
32.531: Telecommunication management; Software management; Concepts and
Integration Reference Point (IRP) Requirements
**32.532:** Telecommunication management; **Software management Integration
Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)**
32.536: Telecommunication management; Software management Integration
Reference Point (IRP); Solution Set (SS) definitions
# 1 Scope
The present document contains the Software Management Interface IRP
Information Services descriptions.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[4] Void.
[5] Void.
[6] 3GPP TS 32.531: \"Telecommunication management; Software management;
Concepts and Integration Reference Point (IRP) Requirements\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.622: \"Telecommunication management; Generic network resources
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Network Resource Model (NRM)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 32.312: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Integration
Reference Point (IRP) management: Information Services\".
[9] 3GPP TS 32.302: Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service
(IS).
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TS 32.101 [2], TS 32.102 [3] and TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term
defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the
same term, if any, in TS 32.531 [6], TS 32.101 [2], TS 32.102 [3] and TS
21.905 [1], in that order.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1], TS 32.531 [6] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the
present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
abbreviation, if any, in TR 21.905 [1] and TS 32.531 [6].
# 4 Information Object Classes
## 4.1 Imported information entities and local labels
## 4.2 Class diagram
### 4.2.1 Attributes and relationships
The diagram reflects the definitions in the text of the following clauses. In
case of conflict text takes precedence.
{width="6.424305555555556in" height="3.7666666666666666in"}
### 4.2.2 Inheritance
The diagram reflects the definitions in the text of the following clauses. In
case of conflict text takes precedence.
## 4.3 Information object class definitions
### 4.3.1 GenManCapability
#### 4.3.1.1 Definition
This object class is a support object class. Sub-classes of this IOC represent
the IRPAgent's capability in support of automated management.
It is created by the IRPAgent and cannot be modified by the IRPManager.\ An
instance of a sub-class of genManCapability object is valid for a certain NE
type or a set of NE types.\ Multiple genManCapability objects may be
instantiated in the IRPAgent.
The object identifies:
a) the sequence of the self-configuration steps\ and for each step
a.1) the possibility, whether before the step a stop point can be selected,
such that the self-configuration step is suspended and waits for a request by
the IRPManager to resume.
b) the final administrativeState (ITU-T X.731) of the NE after successful
self-configuration.
#### 4.3.1.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier id M M -
nEInformation M M - stepsAndOfferedStopPointList M M -
offeredFinalAdministrativeStateInformation M M -
* * *
#### 4.3.1.3 Notifications
None.
### 4.3.2 GenManProfile
#### 4.3.2.1 Definition
This object class is a support object class. Sub-classes of this IOC represent
the IRPManager's decision related to automated management.
An instance of a sub-class of GenManProfile is valid for a certain NE type or
a set of NE types.\ For an NE starting its self-configuration process (see
genManProcess) there shall be no ambiguity which instance of a sub-class of
GenManProfile is valid for a certain NE type or a set of NE types.\ Multiple
instances of sub-classes of GenManProfile objects may be instantiated in the
IRPAgent.
By using an instance of a sub-class of this object the IRPManager decides
which of the possible stop points offered in the related instance of a sub-
class of genManCapability are used to suspend the automated management process
of the specified NE type (or set of NE types) and which of the
offeredFinalAdministrativeStateInformation is selected.
#### 4.3.2.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier id M M -
versionNumber M M - nEInformation M M - stepsAndSelectedStopPointList M M -
selectedFinalAdministrativeState M M -
* * *
#### Notifications
None.
### 4.3.3 GenManProcess
#### 4.3.3.1 Definition
This object class is a support object class. Sub-classes of this IOC describe
the automated management process for an NE. They allow the IRPManager to be
informed about the current progress of the process and where stop points are
set. No intervention of the IRPManager is foreseen except resume after a stop
point was reached or termination of the self-configuration.
When the automated management process for an NE starts, an instance of the
sub-class of genManProcess is created automatically.
The steps in the stepInfoList shall conform to the content of the relevant
sub-class of genManProfile instance.\ Example:\ If the
stepsAndOfferedStopPointList of a sub-class instance of genManProfile
indicates stopPointCanBeSetBeforeThisStep for step X, then the entry for step
X in the stepInfoList of the sub-class instance of genManProcess can only have
the value stopPointIsNotSet .
When there is no relevant genManProfile at creation time of genManProcess,
then the IRPAgent creates the genManProcess based on the relevant
genManCapability. In this case preferably no stop point shall be set in the
self configuration process.
When the last step of the self configuration process is completed
successfully, the genManProcess instance is deleted automatically.
When self configuration process is terminated by the IRPManager, the
genManProcess instance is deleted automatically.
#### 4.3.3.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier id M M -
nEIdentification M M - profileId M M - stepInfoList M M -
* * *
#### Notifications
None.
### 4.3.4 SwMCapability
#### 4.3.4.1 Definition
This object class is a sub-class of genManCapability and represents the
IRPAgent's capability in support of SWM.
It is created by the IRPAgent and cannot be modified by the IRPManager.\ A
SwMManagementCapability object is valid for a certain NE type or a set of NE
types with a certain SW version or set of versions. For an NE there shall be
no ambiguity which SwMManagementCapability object is valid for the NE.\
Multiple SwMManagementCapability objects may be instantiated in the IRPAgent.
The object identifies:
a) the sequence of the self-configuration steps
and for each step:
a.1) the possibility, whether before the step a stop point can be selected,
such that the self-configuration step is suspended and waits for a request by
the IRPManager to resume.
b) the final administrativeState of the NE after successful self-
configuration.
Information on Requirements Traceability:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.531 [6] REQ_SWM_FUN_5  
3GPP TS 32.531 [6] REQ_ASWM_FUN_1
* * *
#### 4.3.4.2 Attributes
All attributes inherited from IOC GenManCapability.
Additional attributes:
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
swVersionToBeInstalledOfferList CM *) M -
* * *
*) Condition: objectClass_is_swMCapability
#### 4.3.4.3 Attribute constraints
* * *
Name Definition objectClass_is_swMCapability objectClass is equal to
swMCapabilities
* * *
#### 4.3.4.4 Notifications
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyNewSwAvailability M
* * *
### 4.3.5 SwMProfile
#### 4.3.5.1 Definition
This object class is a sub-class of genManProfile. It allows the IRPManager to
select from the stop points offered in the swMCapabilites object those which
should be used to stop the SW management process for NEs, which fit to the
nEInformation and swVersionToBeInstalled, and which of the
offeredFinalAdministrativeStateInformation is selected.\ For an NE starting
its SWM process there shall be no ambiguity which swMManagementProfile is
valid for the NE. Therefore the nEInformation of different swMProfile
instances shall not intersect. Example for a not allowed intersection: profile
1 has nEInformation=(neType=eNB), profile 2 has nEInformation=((neType=eNB)
and (Id=1)) ).
Information on Requirements Traceability:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.531 [6] REQ_ASWM_FUN_1  
3GPP TS 32.531 [6] REQ_ASWM_FUN_2  
3GPP TS 32.531 [6] REQ_ASWM_FUN_3  
3GPP TS 32.531 [6] REQ_ASWM_FUN_4  
3GPP TS 32.531 [6] REQ_SWM_FUN_7 _The part of the requirement to avoid service
impact can be fulfilled by creating a swmProfile with_
selectedFinalAdministrativeState equal locked
* * *
#### 4.3.5.2 Attributes
All attributes inherited from IOC GenManProfile.
Additional attributes:
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
swVersionToBeInstalled CM M -
* * *
Condition: objectClass_is_swMProfile
#### 4.3.5.3 Attribute constraints
* * *
Name Definition objectClass_is_swMProfile objectClass is equal to swMProfile
* * *
#### 4.3.5.4 Notifications
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifySwMProfileCreation M  
notifySwMProfileChange CM Condition: Present if operation changeSwMProfile is
supported. notifySwMProfileDeletion M
* * *
### 4.3.6 SwMProcess
#### 4.3.6.1 Definition
This object class is a sub-class of genManProcess . It describes the SW
management process for an NE. It allows the IRPManager to be informed about
the current progress of the SWM process and where stop points are set. No
intervention of the IRPManager is foreseen except to provide indication to
resume after a stop point was reached or to abort the self-configuration.
When the automated management process for an NE starts, an instance of the
swMProcess is created automatically.
The id of the swMProcess shall be identical to the identifier of the NE and
identify the swMProcess instance uniquely.
The steps in the stepInfoList shall conform to the content of the relevant
swMProfile instance.\ Example:\ If the stepsAndOfferedStopPointList of
swMProfile indicates stopPointCanBeSetBeforeThisStep for step X, then the
entry for step X in the stepInfoList of swMProcess can only have the value
stopPointIsNotSet .
When there is no relevant swMProfile at creation time of swMProcess, then the
IRPAgent creates the swMProcess based on the relevant swMCapability. In this
case preferably no stop point shall be set in the self configuration process.
When the last step of the self configuration process is completed
successfully, the swMProcess instance is deleted automatically.
When self configuration process is terminated by the IRPManager, the
swMProcess instance is deleted automatically.
Information on Requirements Traceability:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.531 [6] REQ_ASWM_FUN_2  
3GPP TS 32.531 [6] REQ_ASWM_FUN_3  
3GPP TS 32.531 [6] REQ_ASWM_FUN_4  
3GPP TS 32.531 [6] REQ_ASWM_FUN_5  
3GPP TS 32.531 [6] REQ_ASWM_FUN_6
* * *
#### 4.3.6.2 Attributes
All attributes inherited from IOC GenManProcess.
Additional attributes: None.
#### 4.3.6.3 Notifications
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifySwMProcessCreation M  
notifySwMProcessStage M  
notifySwMProcessDeletion M
* * *
### 4.3.7 SwMIRP
#### 4.3.7.1 Definition
This information object represents a Software Management IRP. It inherits from
IOC managedGenericIRP.
#### 4.3.7.2 Attributes
All attributes inherited from IOC managedGenericIRP.
Additional attributes: None.
#### 4.3.7.3 Notifications
All notifications inherited from IOC managedGenericIRP.
Additional notifications: None.
### 4.3.8 SwMManagedEntity
#### 4.3.8.1 Definition
The proxy IOC, SwMManagedEntity represents the role that can be played by an
instance of a managed element. The objectClass and objectInstance identify a
managed element instance.
## 4.4 Information relationship definitions
### 4.4.1 relation-swMIRP-swMCapability (M)
#### 4.4.1.1 Definition
This represents the relationship between SwMIRP and SwMCapability.
#### 4.4.1.2 Roles
* * *
Name Definition theSwmIRP It represents the SwmIRP. theSwMCapability It
represents the SwMCapability
* * *
#### 4.4.1.3 Constraints
There is no constraint for this relationship.
### 4.4.2 relation-SwmIRP-swMProfile (M)
#### 4.4.2.1 Definition
This represents the relationship between SwmIRP and SwMProfile.
#### 4.4.2.2 Roles
* * *
Name Definition theSwmIRP It represents the SwmIRP. theSwMProfile It
represents the SwMProfile.
* * *
#### 4.4.2.3 Constraints
There is no constraint for this relationship.
### 4.4.3 relation-swMIRP-swMProcess (M)
#### 4.4.3.1 Definition
This represents the relationship between SwmIRP and SwMProcess.
#### 4.4.3.2 Roles
* * *
Name Definition theSwMIRP It represents the SwMIRP. theSwMProcess It
represents the SwMProcess.
* * *
#### 4.4.3.3 Constraints
There is no constraint for this relationship.
### 4.4.4 relation-swMCapabilites-swMProfile (M)
#### 4.4.4.1 Definition
This represents the relationship between swMCapability and swMProfile.
#### 4.4.4.2 Roles
* * *
Name Definition theSwMCapability It represents the swMCapability.
theSwMProfile It represents the swMProfile.
* * *
#### 4.4.4.3 Constraints
A relation can only exist between a SwMProfile and a SwMCapability when
a) all steps which are entries in the stepsAndSelectedStopPointList of
SwMProfile have stopPointCanBeSetBeforeThisStep = Yes in the
stepsAndOfferedStopPointList of the SwMCapability.
b) nEInformation of SwMProfile is a subset of nEInformation of SwMCapability.
### 4.4.5 relation swMProfile-swMProcess (M)
#### 4.4.5.1 Definition
This represents the relationship between SwMProfile and SwMProcess.
#### 4.4.5.2 Roles
* * *
Name Definition theSwMProfile It represents the theSwMProfile. theSwMProcess
It represents the SwMProcess.
* * *
#### 4.4.5.3 Constraints
A SwMProcess shall perform all self-configuration steps according to
stepsAndOfferedStopPointList of SwMProfile.
A relation can only exist between a SwMProcess and a SwMProfile when
nEIdentification of SwMProcess falls into nEInformation of SwMProfile.
## 4.5 Information attribute definitions
### 4.5.1 Definition and legal values
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Attribute Name | Definition | Legal Values | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | id | It identifies | | | | uniquely an instance | | | | of its object class. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | nEIdentification | This attribute | | | | identifies the NE | | | | for which the self | | | | management activity | | | | is done. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | nEInformation | This attribute | "NE instance/s" only | | | defines the neType | applies for | | | or NE instance/s - | instance/s already | | | with optional | known to the | | | software | IRPManager, e.g. in | | | identification | case of | | | information - , for | re-configuration or | | | which this | SW update. | | | capability/profile | | | | instance is valid. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | startStepName | nameOfStep, this | The legal value of | | | attribute defines | startStepName could | | | the start step for | be one of the step | | | resume operation. | which defined in | | | | stepsAnd | | | | OfferedStopPointList | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | sw | This attribute | | | VersionToBeInstalled | describes which SW | | | | identification | | | | information shall be | | | | used at the end of | | | | self management in | | | | NEs for which this | | | | swMC | | | | apability/swMProfile | | | | applies. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | stepsAnd | Each entry in the | nameOfStep: | | OfferedStopPointList | list contains for | | | | each step the | nEHealthCheck,\ | | | following | swDownload, | | | information: | | | | | swInstallation, | | | - nameOfStep:\ | | | | This list shall | swActivation | | | be exhaustive; | | | | if a certain | More values for | | | step is not | nameOfStep may be | | | visible or not | used by other IRPs. | | | supported in the | | | | SWM process, | All steps may be | | | then it shall | offered as stop | | | not be shown | points. | | | (listed) in the | | | | stepsAndO | sequ | | | fferedStopPointList. | enceNumberInProcess: | | | | | | | - seq | Positive Integer | | | uenceNumberInProcess | | | | | stopPointCan | | | - stopPointCa | BeSetBeforeThisStep: | | | nBeSetBeforeThisStep | Yes, No | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | stepsAndS | Each entry in the | nameOfSwMStep,\ | | electedStopPointList | list contains for | seque | | | each step the | nceNumberInProcess:\ | | | following | see | | | information: | stepsAnd | | | | OfferedStopPointList | | | - nameOfStep: | | | | | sto | | | - seq | pPointSetIndication: | | | uenceNumberInProcess | | | | | stopPoint | | | - st | IsSetBeforeThisStep, | | | opPointSetIndication | stopPointIsNotSet | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | stepInfoList | This list attribute | nameOfSwMStep,\ | | | contains information | seque | | | about all steps and | nceNumberInProcess:\ | | | how far they have | see | | | progressed. Each | stepsAnd | | | entry in the list | OfferedStopPointList | | | contains: | | | | | stop | | | - nameOfStep | PointSetIndication:\ | | | | see | | | - seq | stepsAndS | | | uenceNumberInProcess | electedStopPointList | | | | | | | - st | stepProgress:\ | | | opPointSetIndication | notYetStarted,\ | | | | running,\ | | | - stepProgress | completed,\ | | | | awaitingResume,\ | | | | failure,\ | | | | terminated | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | swMprocessList | This attribute | See individual | | | contains information | definitions of the | | | about the instances | list entry content. | | | of swMProcess . Each | | | | entry in the list | | | | contains (SET OF): | | | | | | | | - id | | | | | | | | - nEIdentification | | | | | | | | - stepInfoList | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | of | It describes which | One or more of the | | feredFinalAdministra | selection is offered | following values: | | tiveStateInformation | regarding the | | | | administrativeState | locked, | | | of the NE after | | | | successful automated | unlocked, | | | management: If it | | | | may have the value | determine | | | locked or unlocked | dByConfigurationData | | | or if the value of | | | | the | The value unlocked | | | administrativeState | should always be | | | may be determined by | present. | | | the configuration | | | | data which is | | | | uploaded in the | | | | course of the | | | | automated | | | | management. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | selectedFina | Determines which of | One of the following | | lAdministrativeState | the offers made | values: | | | regarding the | | | | administrativeState | locked, | | | of the NE after | | | | successful | unlocked, | | | self-configuration | | | | is taken. | determine | | | | dByConfigurationData | | | | | | | | Default value is | | | | value unlocked. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | swVersionTo | This list describes | Minimum size of | | BeInstalledOfferList | for which SW | list: 1 entry | | | version/s the | | | | capability object is | | | | valid. The first | | | | element in the list | | | | indicates the | | | | default software | | | | version to be | | | | installed. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | versionNumber | This number is the | Integer | | | version number of a | | | | profile. Its value | | | | is 1 when a profile | | | | is created. It is | | | | incremented by 1 | | | | each time a profile | | | | is successfully | | | | changed. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | profileId | This parameter | See versionNumber | | | records the | | | | identification of | | | | the profile used by | | | | the process. It | | | | consists of two | | | | data: | | | | | | | | - id (of the | | | | profile) | | | | | | | | - versionNumber | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | m | This parameter | See nEInformation | | atchingNEInformation | records the | | | | information of the | | | | NE which was | | | | matching with the | | | | nEInformation of the | | | | profile when | | | | determining which | | | | profile is to be | | | | used for the | | | | process. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | result | This parameter | success, | | | records the result | | | | of an operation. | failure, | | | | | | | | stepNameNotMatch: | | | | The current process | | | | step doesn't match | | | | the startStepName in | | | | the operation. | | | | | | | | nEInf | | | | ormationIntersection | | | | : There shall be no | | | | ambiguity which | | | | swMManagementProfile | | | | is valid for the NE. | | | | Therefore the | | | | nEInformation of | | | | different swMProfile | | | | instances shall not | | | | intersect. Example | | | | for a not allowed | | | | intersection: | | | | profile 1 has | | | | nEInfor | | | | mation=(neType=eNB), | | | | profile 2 has | | | | nEInfor | | | | mation=((neType=eNB) | | | | and (Id=1)). | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### 4.5.2 Constraints
None.
# 5 IRP descriptions: Interface Definitions
## 5.1 Class diagram representing interfaces
{width="6.692361111111111in" height="6.739583333333333in"}
Additionally, the operations and notifications of this document are specified
and grouped under Interfaces as shown in the following sections. To allow the
flexible support of the necessary and sufficient operations and notifications
for software management, the operations and notifications of this
specification are packaged into two groups, one related to automatic software
management (ASWM) and the other related to non-automated software management
(NASWM).
Automatic Software Management requires the following operations and
notifications:
  1. SwMOperations_1 and SwMNotifications_1 shall be mandatory
  2. SwMOperations_2 and SwMNotifications_2 shall be optional
Non Automatic Software Management requires the following operations and
notifications:
  1. SwMOperations_3 and SwMNotifications_3 shall be mandatory
  2. SwMOperations_4 and SwMNotifications_4 shall be optional
> 3\. SwMOperations_5 shall be conditional mandatory; the condition is:
> progress reporting for or cancellation of NASWM operations is supported.
>
> 4\. SwMOperations_6 shall be conditional mandatory; the condition is:
> cancellation of NASWM operations is supported.
{width="6.685416666666667in" height="3.689583333333333in"}
Figure 5.1-2 Operations and Notifications for ASWM
{width="6.6930555555555555in" height="5.076388888888889in"}
Figure 5.1-3 Operations and Notifications for NASWM
## 5.2 Generic rules
\- **Rule 1:** each operation with at least one input parameter supports a
pre-condition valid_input_parameter which indicates that all input parameters
shall be valid with regards to their information type. Additionally, each such
operation supports an exception operation_failed_invalid_input_parameter which
is raised when pre-condition valid_input_parameter is false. The exception has
the same entry and exit state.
\- **Rule 2:** each operation with at least one optional input parameter
supports a set of pre-conditions supported_optional_input_parameter_xxx where
\"xxx\" is the name of the optional input parameter and the pre-condition
indicates that the operation supports the named optional input parameter.
Additionally, each such operation supports an exception
operation_failed_unsupported_optional_input_parameter_xxx which is raised when
(a) the pre-condition supported_optional_input_parameter_xxx is false and (b)
the named optional input parameter is carrying information. The exception has
the same entry and exit state.
\- **Rule 3:** each operation shall support a generic exception
operation_failed_internal_problem which is raised when an internal problem
occurs and that the operation cannot be completed. The exception has the same
entry and exit state.
NOTE: These rules are mapped at the solution set level. Pre-conditions and
exceptions, generated by these rules, need not appear explicitly in the
present document.
## 5.3 SwMIRPOperations_1 Interface (M)
### 5.3.1 Operation listSwMCapabilities (M)
#### 5.3.1.1 Definition
This operation allows the IRPManager to determine on the Itf-N interface which
steps in the SW management are performed in NEs of a certain type, what is
done by the NE in case a step does not perform normally and before which steps
a stop point can be set, such that the software download halts and waits for a
continuation request by the IRPManager.
Information on Requirements Traceability:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.531 [6] REQ_ASWM_FUN_1
* * *
#### 5.3.1.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Information type Comment nEInformation M
swM.nEInformation If this input parameter contains no information, all
(offered) SwMCapability instances are to be listed in the output.
* * *
#### 5.3.1.3 Output parameters
+----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Matching | Comment | | | | Information | | +----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | capabilityList | M | swM | Each entry in | | | | .capabilityList | the list | | | | | contains: | | | | | | | | | | - Id of | | | | | | | | | | SwMCapability | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | nEInformation | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | SwMCapability | | | | | | | | | | - s | | | | | wVersionToBeIns | | | | | talledOfferList | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | SwMCapability | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | stepsAndOffer | | | | | edStopPointList | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | SwMCapability | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | offeredFinal | | | | | AdministrativeS | | | | | tateInformation | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | SwMCapability | +----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | result | M | swM.result | result=success | | | | | and empty | | | | | sw | | | | | MCapabilityList | | | | | mean: No | | | | | instance found. | +----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 5.3.1.4 Post-condition
* * *
Assertion Name Definition dataDelivered The requested data is delivered.
* * *
#### 5.3.1.5 Exceptions
##### 5.3.1.5.1 operation_failed
+-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Exception Name | Definition | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | operation_failed | Condition: Pre-condition is false or | | | post-condition is false. | | | | | | Returned Information: The output parameter | | | result. | | | | | | Exit state: Entry state. | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+
### 5.3.2 Operation listSwMProfiles (M)
#### 5.3.2.1 Definition
This operation allows the IRPManager to find out which instances of SwMProfile
are valid NEs of a certain type.
Information on Requirements Traceability:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.531 [6] REQ_ASWM_FUN_1  
3GPP TS 32.531 [6] REQ_ASWM_FUN_2
* * *
#### 5.3.2.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Information type Comment nEInformation M
swM.nEInformation If this input parameter contains no information, all profile
instances are to be listed in the output.
* * *
#### 5.3.2.3 Output parameters
+----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Matching | Comment | | | | Information | | +----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | swMProfileList | M | swM | Each entry in | | | | .swMProfileList | the list | | | | | contains: | | | | | | | | | | - Id of | | | | | profile | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | versionNumber | | | | | of | | | | | swMprofile | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | nEInformation | | | | | of profile | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | stepsAndSelect | | | | | edStopPointList | | | | | of profile | | | | | | | | | | - se | | | | | lectedFinalAdmi | | | | | nistrativeState | | | | | of profile | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | conditionally | | | | | swVersi | | | | | onToBeInstalled | | | | | of | | | | | swMprofile | +----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | result | M | swM.result | | +----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
### 5.3.3 Operation createSwMProfile (M)
#### 5.3.3.1 Definition
This operation allows the IRPManager to establish an instance of SwMProfile to
be valid for NEs of a certain type.
Information on Requirements Traceability:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.531 [6] REQ_ASWM_FUN_2
* * *
#### 5.3.3.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Information type Comment id O swM.id Identifier of
swMprofile nEInformation M swM.nEInformation See 4.5 swVersionToBeInstalled M
swM.swVersionToBeInstalled See 4.5 stepsAndSelectedStopPointList M
swM.stepsAndSelectedStopPointList See 4.5 selectedFinalAdministrativeState M
swM.selectedFinalAdministrativeState See 4.5
* * *
#### 5.3.3.3 Output parameters
+----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Matching | Comment | | | | Information | | +----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | id | CM | SwMProfile.id | See the | | | | | definition of | | | | | the result | | | | | field described | | | | | below | +----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | result | M | ENUM | If result = | | | | | success , then | | | | { | parameter id | | | | | contains the id | | | | success, | of the created | | | | | swMProfile. | | | | failure, | | | | | | If result = | | | | nEInformati | failure , then | | | | onIntersection, | parameter id is | | | | | absent. | | | | notAllo | | | | | wedBecauseOfOng | If result = | | | | oingSwmActivity | nEInformati | | | | | onIntersection, | | | | } | then parameter | | | | | id contains the | | | | | id of a | | | | | swMProfile | | | | | whose | | | | | nEInformation | | | | | would intersect | | | | | with the | | | | | proposed | | | | | nEInformation | | | | | for the new | | | | | swMProfile, | | | | | which was not | | | | | created in this | | | | | case. | | | | | | | | | | If result = | | | | | notAllowe | | | | | dBecauseOfOngoi | | | | | ngSwmOperation, | | | | | then parameter | | | | | id is absent. | +----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
### 5.3.4 Operation deleteSwMProfile (M)
#### 5.3.4.1 Definition
This operation allows the IRPManager to delete an instance of swMProfile.
Information on Requirements Traceability:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.531 [6] REQ_ASWM_FUN_2
* * *
#### 5.3.4.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Information type Comment id M swM.id Identifier of
swMprofile
* * *
#### 5.3.4.3 Output parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment result M swM.result
* * *
### 5.3.5 Operation listSwMProcesses (M)
#### 5.3.5.1 Definition
This operation allows the IRPManager to find out the status of one or several
swMProcess instances
Information on Requirements Traceability:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.531 [6] REQ_ASWM_FUN_4
* * *
#### 5.3.5.2 Input parameters
+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Information | Comment | | | | type | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | n | O | swM.n | It describes | | EIdentification | | EIdentification | for which NE | | | | | the swMprocess | | | | | is to be | | | | | listed. | | | | | | | | | | If this | | | | | parameter is | | | | | not present, | | | | | all swMprocess | | | | | instances are | | | | | to be listed in | | | | | the output. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 5.3.5.3 Output parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment swMprocessList M
swM.swMprocessList See 4.5 result M swM.result result=success and empty
swMProcessList mean: No instance found
* * *
### 5.3.6 Operation resumeSwMProcess (M)
#### 5.3.6.1 Definition
This operation allows the IRPManager to resume a SW management process which
currently has stopped at a stop point step.
Information on Requirements Traceability:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.531 [6] REQ_ASWM_FUN_3
* * *
#### 5.3.6.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Information type Comment
id M swM.id Identifier of swMprocess
startStepName M swM.NameOfStep The start step for the resume operation.\ If
the current process step is equal to the startStepName value, the process will
start from startStepName.\ If the current process step does not match the
startStepName value, then it will be indicated in the result of the operation.
Not matching startStepName value can either be the case that the process has
already started from the specified step (i.e. request is too late) or that the
process has not yet reached the specified step (i.e request is too early).
* * *
#### 5.3.6.3 Output parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment result M swM.result
* * *
### 5.3.7 Operation swFallback (M)
#### 5.3.7.1 Definition
This operation enables the IRPManager to initiate a SW fallback.
Information on Requirements Traceability:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.531 [6] REQ_SWM_FUN_6
* * *
#### 5.3.7.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Information type Comment filter M swM.filter To
describe properties of the NEs to be selected.
* * *
#### 5.3.7.3 Output parameters
+----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Matching | Comment | | | | Information | | +----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | nEList | M | swM.nEList | Each entry in | | | | | the list | | | | | contains: | | | | | | | | | | n | | | | | EIdentification | | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | wFallbackStatus | | | | | (values: | | | | | fall | | | | | backSuccessful, | | | | | fallba | | | | | ckUnsuccessful) | +----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | result | M | swM.result | - Success, | | | | | | | | | | - Partly | | | | | successful | | | | | -- | | | | | s | | | | | wFallbackStatus | | | | | is | | | | | fallb | | | | | ackUnsuccessful | | | | | for at | | | | | least one | | | | | NE | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | fal | | | | | lbackSuccessful | | | | | for at least | | | | | one other NE | | | | | | | | | | - Failure | | | | | | | | | | Empty NEList | | | | | and | | | | | Result=Success | | | | | means: No NEs | | | | | fulfilling | | | | | filter were | | | | | found. | +----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
### 5.3.8 Operation terminateSwMProcess (M)
#### 5.3.8.1 Definition
This operation allows the IRPManager to terminate a SW management process
which is currently ongoing.
Information on Requirements Traceability:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.531 [6] REQ_ASWM_FUN_6
* * *
#### 5.3.8.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Information type Comment id M swM.id Identifier of
swMprocess .
* * *
#### 5.3.8.3 Output parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment result M swM.result
* * *
## 5.4 SwMIRPOperations_2 Interface (O)
### 5.4.1 Operation changeSwMProfile (O)
#### 5.4.1.1 Definition
This operation allows the IRPManager to change an instance of SwMProfile.
A change in a profile which was already used at the start of an swMProcess
does not affect that swMProcess (which is run to its completion according to
the former version of the profile.
Information on Requirements Traceability:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.531 [6] REQ_ASWM_FUN_2
* * *
#### 5.4.1.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Information type Comment id M swM.id Identifier of
swMprofile nEInformation M swM.nEInformation See 4.5 swVersionToBeInstalled M
swM.swVersionToBeInstalled See 4.5 stepsAndSelectedStopPointList M
swM.stepsAndSelectedStopPointList See 4.5 selectedFinalAdministrativeState M
swM.selectedFinalAdministrativeState See 4.5
* * *
#### 5.4.1.3 Output parameters
+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Matching | Comment | | | | Information | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | result | M | ENUM | If result = | | | | | success or | | | | { | failure , then | | | | | parameter id | | | | success, | may be absent | | | | | or contain the | | | | failure, | id of the | | | | | changed | | | | nEInformati | swMprofile. | | | | onIntersection, | | | | | | If result = | | | | notAllo | nEInformati | | | | wedBecauseOfOng | onIntersection, | | | | oingSwmActivity | then parameter | | | | | confl | | | | } | ictingProfileId | | | | | contains the id | | | | | of a SwMProfile | | | | | "A" whose | | | | | nEInformation | | | | | would intersect | | | | | with the | | | | | proposed | | | | | nEInformation | | | | | for the | | | | | SwMProfile"B" = | | | | | input parameter | | | | | id. | | | | | SwMProfile"B" | | | | | will not be | | | | | changed in this | | | | | case. | | | | | | | | | | If result = | | | | | notAllow | | | | | edBecauseOfOngo | | | | | ingSwmActivity, | | | | | (which means | | | | | that the | | | | | operation is | | | | | rejected | | | | | because another | | | | | SWM activity is | | | | | ongoing for at | | | | | least one NE | | | | | covered by | | | | | input parameter | | | | | neInformation), | | | | | | | | | | then parameter | | | | | confl | | | | | ictingProfileId | | | | | is absent. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | versionNumber | M | SwMProfil | See 4.5. This | | | | e.versionNumber | parameter has | | | | | value 0 when | | | | | result \<> | | | | | success. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | confl | C *) | SwMProfile.id | See definition | | ictingProfileId | | | of result | | | | | above. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
Editor Note: whether this parameter needs to be conditional or mandatory needs
further discussion. The condition: result_is_nEInformationIntersection
#### 5.4.1.4 Constraints
* * *
Name Definition result_is_nEInformationIntersection result is equal to
nEInformationIntersection
* * *
## 5.5 SwMIRPNotifications_1 Interface (M)
### 5.5.1 Notification notifySwMProfileCreation (M)
#### 5.5.1.1 Definition
This notification conveys information about the creation of an instance of IOC
swMProfile.
#### 5.5.1.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifiers Matching Information Comment id M,Y swM.id
Identifier of swMprofile versionNumber M, Y swM.versionNumber See 4.5
nEInformation M,Y swM.nEInformation See 4.5 swVersionToBeInstalled M,Y
swM.swVersionToBeInstalled See 4.5 stepsAndSelectedStopPointList M,N
swM.stepsAndSelectedStopPointList See 4.5 selectedFinalAdministrativeState M,N
swM.selectedFinalAdministrativeState See 4.5
* * *
### 5.5.2 Notification notifySwMProfileDeletion (M)
#### 5.5.2.1 Definition
This notification conveys information about the deletion of an instance of IOC
swMProfile.
Information on Requirements Traceability:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.531 [6] REQ_ASWM_FUN_2
* * *
#### 5.5.2.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifiers Matching Information Comment id M,Y swM.id
Identifier of swMprofile
* * *
### 5.5.3 Notification notifySwMProcessCreation (M)
#### 5.5.3.1 Definition
This notification conveys information about the creation of an instance of IOC
swMProcess.
Information on Requirements Traceability:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.531 [6] REQ_ASWM_FUN_2
* * *
#### 5.5.3.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifiers Matching Information Comment id M,Y swM.id
Identifier of swMprocess nEIdentification M,Y swM.nEIdentification see 4.5
profileId M,N swM.profileId see 4.5 matchingNEInformation M,N
swM.matchingNEInformation see 4.5 stepInfoList M,N swM.stepInfoList see 4.5
* * *
### 5.5.4 Notification notifySwMProcessStage (M)
#### 5.5.4.1 Definition
This notification conveys information about the stage of an instance of IOC
swMProcess that has been completed or at which that process has been stopped
(based on pre-set stop points).
Information on Requirements Traceability:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.531 [6] REQ_ASWM_FUN_5
* * *
#### 5.5.4.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifiers Matching Information Comment id M,Y swM.id
Identifier of swMprocess stepInfoList M,N swM.stepInfoList see 4.5
* * *
### 5.5.5 Notification notifySwMProcessDeletion (M)
#### 5.5.5.1 Definition
This notification conveys information about the deletion of an instance of IOC
swMProcess
IRPAgent shall also send out this notification in case of a process
termination caused by an exception, for example IRP Agent terminates the
process because it had to wait too long after a suspend operation.
Information on Requirements Traceability:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.531 [6] REQ_ASWM_FUN_2
* * *
#### 5.5.5.2 Input parameters
+-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifiers | Matching | Comment | | | | Information | | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | id | M,Y | swM.id | Identifier of | | | | | swMprocess | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | tri | M, Y | swM.tri | This parameter | | ggerForDeletion | | ggerForDeletion | describes what | | | | | triggered the | | | | | deletion of the | | | | | swMprocess | | | | | instance: | | | | | | | | | | trig | | | | | gerForDeletion: | | | | | | | | | | irpAg | | | | | entTermination, | | | | | | | | | | irpMana | | | | | gerTermination, | | | | | | | | | | au | | | | | tomatedSWMSucce | | | | | sfullyConcluded | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | additi | O, N | swM.additi | | | onalInformation | | onalInformation | | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+
### 5.5.6 Notification notifyNewSwAvailability (M)
#### 5.5.6.1 Definition
This notification conveys information about the availability of new SW.
Information on Requirements Traceability:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.531 [6] REQ_ASWM_FUN_2
* * *
#### 5.5.6.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifiers Matching Information Comment nEandSWversion M,Y
swM.NEandSWversion Informs about new available SW, SW version and NE / NE
version (types) for which it is valid
* * *
## 5.6 SwMIRPNotifications_2 Interface (O)
### 5.6.1 Notification notifySwMProfileChange (C/O)
#### 5.6.1.1 Definition
This notification conveys information about a change of an instance of IOC
swMProfile.
Information on Requirements Traceability:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.531 [6] REQ_ASWM_FUN_2
* * *
#### 5.6.1.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifiers Matching Information Comment id M,Y swM.id
Identifier of swMprofile versionNumber M,Y swM.versionNumber See 4.5
nEInformation M,Y swM.nEInformation See 4.5 swVersionToBeInstalled M,N
swM.swVersionToBeInstalled See 4.5 stepsAndSelectedStopPointList M,N
swM.stepsAndSelectedStopPointList See 4.5 selectedFinalAdministrativeState M
swM.selectedFinalAdministrativeState See 4.5
* * *
## 5.7 SwMIRPOperations_3 Interface (M)
### 5.7.1 Operation downloadNESw (M)
#### 5.7.1.1 Definition
This operation allows IRPManager to request an IRPAgent to download network
element software entities from a specified location. IRPManager provides a
unique reference where IRPAgent can download NE software from.
NOTE: The file transfer may not happen over Itf-N and the details on how to
transfer file from IRPAgent to NE(s) is vendor specific and outside the scope
of this specification.
Information on Requirements Traceability:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.531 [6] REQ_NASWM_FUN_1  
3GPP TS 32.531 [6] REQ_NASWM_FUN_2
* * *
#### 5.7.1.2 Input parameters
+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Information | Comment | | | | type | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | s | M | List of STRUCT | These | | wToBeDownloaded | | \ | unique location | | | | | of software. | | | | | This attribute | | | | | includes the | | | | | name of the | | | | | software or a | | | | | software | | | | | version. | | | | | | | | | | _swFileSize:_ | | | | | It identifies | | | | | the size of the | | | | | file. Its value | | | | | is positive | | | | | Integer (the | | | | | unit is byte). | | | | | It is optional | | | | | to fill in this | | | | | attribute | | | | | value. | | | | | | | | | | _swFi | | | | | leCompression:_ | | | | | It identifies | | | | | the name of the | | | | | compression | | | | | algorithm used | | | | | for the file. | | | | | An empty | | | | | fileCompression | | | | | means that | | | | | there is no | | | | | compression on | | | | | the file. | | | | | Choice of | | | | | compression | | | | | algorithm is | | | | | vendor-specific | | | | | but is | | | | | encouraged to | | | | | use industrial | | | | | standard | | | | | algorithm such | | | | | as GZIP. It is | | | | | optional to | | | | | fill in this | | | | | attribute | | | | | value. | | | | | | | | | | _swFileFormat:_ | | | | | It identifies | | | | | the encoding | | | | | technique used | | | | | by the file. It | | | | | is optional to | | | | | fill in this | | | | | attribute value | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | neIdentifier | M | Distinguished | Identifies the | | | | Name (DN) | destination | | | | | where the | | | | | software can be | | | | | downloaded and | | | | | can include | | | | | network | | | | | element, | | | | | managed element | | | | | or managed | | | | | functionality | | | | | etc. The | | | | | information is | | | | | represented | | | | | using a full | | | | | Distinguished | | | | | Name according | | | | | to | | | | | 3GPP TS 32.300. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 5.7.1.3 Output parameters
+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Matching | Comment | | | | Information | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | do | M | Integer | An Identifier | | wnloadProcessId | | | generated by | | | | | IRPAgent upon | | | | | receiving a | | | | | non-automated | | | | | software | | | | | management | | | | | request from | | | | | IRPManager. | | | | | | | | | | In this case, | | | | | it identifies | | | | | the NE software | | | | | download | | | | | operation | | | | | request. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | result | M | ENUM | Indicates | | | | | whether SwMIRP | | | | { | has accepted or | | | | | rejected the | | | | r | download | | | | equestAccepted, | request. | | | | | | | | | requestFailed, | It can have any | | | | | one of the | | | | notAllo | three possible | | | | wedBecauseOfOng | values: | | | | oingSwmActivity | | | | | | - "r | | | | } | equestAccepted" | | | | | > which | | | | | > means | | | | | > that | | | | | > IRPAgent | | | | | > would | | | | | > perform | | | | | > the NE | | | | | > software | | | | | > download | | | | | > operation | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | "requestFailed" | | | | | > which | | | | | > means | | | | | > that | | | | | > IRPAgent | | | | | > has | | | | | > failed to | | | | | > initiate | | | | | > the NE | | | | | > software | | | | | > download | | | | | | | | | | > operation. | | | | | > Specific | | | | | > error | | | | | > condition | | | | | > can be | | | | | > captured | | | | | > in reason | | | | | > field | | | | | | | | | | - notAllo | | | | | wedBecauseOfOng | | | | | oingSwmActivity | | | | | > which | | | | | > means | | | | | > that the | | | | | > operation | | | | | > is | | | | | > rejected | | | | | > because | | | | | > another | | | | | > SWM | | | | | > activity | | | | | > is | | | | | > ongoing | | | | | > for the | | | | | > requested | | | | | > NE.. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | reason | O | String | To capture | | | | | detailed error | | | | | reason. The | | | | | field is empty | | | | | when there is | | | | | no error. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | listOfStepNumbe | CM | List of | This identifies | | rsAnd­Durations | | | a list of steps | | | Note 1) | { | of the | | | | | non-automated | | | | Integer; | software | | | | | management | | | | (Integer;I | process and for | | | | nteger;Integer) | each step the | | | | | estimated | | | | } | duration | | | | | (hours, | | | | | minutes, | | | | | seconds) for | | | | | its completion. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
Note 1:Condition: Progress reporting of NASWM operations is supported.
#### 5.7.1.4 Pre condition
* * *
Assertion Name Definition swDownloadable NE software is available which
IRPAgent can download
* * *
#### 5.7.1.5 Post-condition
* * *
Assertion Name Definition swDownloadInProgress The SwMIRP has accepted the
download request to perform the requested operation. swAvailable This is the
final state when downloadNESw operation is complete and
notifyDownloadNESwStatusChanged has been generated.
* * *
#### 5.7.1.6 Exceptions
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | Exception Name | Definition | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | operationFailed | Condition: Pre-condition is false or | | | post-condition is false. | | | | | | Returned Information: The output parameter | | | status. | | | | | | Exit state: Entry state. | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | resourceLimitation | **Condition: Operation not performed due to | | | resource limitation.** | | | | | | **Returned Information: The output parameter | | | status.** | | | | | | **Exit state: Entry state.** | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
### 5.7.2 Operation activateNESw (M)
#### 5.7.2.1 Definition
This operation allows IRPManager to activate network element software entity
which has been previously downloaded or installed on the request of
IRPManager. This operation may be service affecting.
NOTE: activateNESw can be triggered through automatic or manual ways.
Information on Requirements Traceability:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.531 [6] REQ_NASWM_FUN_5  
3GPP TS 32.531 [6] REQ_NASWM_FUN_8
* * *
#### 5.7.2.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Information type Comment swVersionToBeActivated M
swVersion swVersion denotes the software version which would be activated. The
details on how to activate a software version is vendor specific. neIdentifier
M Distinguished Name (DN) Identifies the destination where software has to be
activated. This is a full Distinguished Name according to 3GPP TS 32.300
* * *
#### 5.7.2.3 Output parameters
+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Matching | Comment | | | | Information | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | ac | M | Integer | An Identifier | | tivateProcessId | | | is generated by | | | | | IRPAgent upon | | | | | receiving a | | | | | non-automated | | | | | software | | | | | management | | | | | request from | | | | | IRPManager. In | | | | | this case, it | | | | | identifies the | | | | | NE software | | | | | activation | | | | | operation | | | | | request. This | | | | | id is unique | | | | | for | | | | | activateNESw | | | | | operations. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | result | M | ENUM | Indicates | | | | | whether SwMIRP | | | | { | has accepted or | | | | | rejected the NE | | | | r | software | | | | equestAccepted, | activation | | | | | request. | | | | requestFailed, | | | | | | It can have any | | | | notAllo | one of the | | | | wedBecauseOfOng | three possible | | | | oingSwmActivity | values: | | | | | | | | | } | - "r | | | | | equestAccepted" | | | | | > which | | | | | > means | | | | | > that | | | | | > IRPAgent | | | | | > would | | | | | > perform | | | | | > the NE | | | | | > software | | | | | | | | | | > activation | | | | | > operation | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | "requestFailed" | | | | | > which | | | | | > means | | | | | > that | | | | | > IRPAgent | | | | | > has | | | | | > failed to | | | | | > initiate | | | | | > the NE | | | | | > software | | | | | | | | | | > activation | | | | | | | | | | > operation. | | | | | > Specific | | | | | > error | | | | | > condition | | | | | > can be | | | | | > captured | | | | | > in reason | | | | | > field | | | | | | | | | | - notAllo | | | | | wedBecauseOfOng | | | | | oingSwmActivity | | | | | > which | | | | | > means | | | | | > that the | | | | | > operation | | | | | > is | | | | | > rejected | | | | | > because | | | | | > another | | | | | > SWM | | | | | > activity | | | | | > is | | | | | > ongoing | | | | | > for the | | | | | > requested | | | | | > NE.. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | reason | O | String | To capture | | | | | specific error | | | | | conditions. The | | | | | field is empty | | | | | when there is | | | | | no error. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | listOfStepNumbe | CM | See 5.7.1.3 | **See 5.7.1.3** | | rsAnd­Durations | | | | | | Note 1) | | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
Note 1:Condition: Progress reporting of NASWM operations is supported.
#### 5.7.2.4 Pre condition
swAvailable or swInstalled
* * *
Assertion Name Definition swAvailable The NE software has been successfully
downloaded swInstalled The NE software has been installed
* * *
#### 5.7.2.5 Post-condition
* * *
Assertion Name Definition swActivationInProgress The SwMIRP has accepted the
request to perform the requested activation operation. swActivated This is the
final state when activateNESw operation is complete and
notifyActivateNESwStatusChanged has been generated
* * *
#### 5.7.2.6 Exceptions
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | Exception Name | Definition | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | operationFailed | Condition: Pre-condition is false or | | | post-condition is false. | | | | | | Returned Information: The output parameter | | | status. | | | | | | Exit state: Entry state. | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | resourceLimitation | **Condition: Operation not performed due to | | | resource limitation.** | | | | | | **Returned Information: The output parameter | | | status.** | | | | | | **Exit state: Entry state.** | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
## 5.8 SwMIRPOperations_4 Interface (O)
### 5.8.1 Operation installNESw (O)
#### 5.8.1.1 Definition
This operation allows IRPManager to initiate installation of NE software
entity which has been previously downloaded on the request of IRPManager.
Installation may also be initiated from a remote location.
Information on Requirements Traceability:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.531 [6] REQ_NASWM_FUN_3  
3GPP TS 32.531 [6] REQ_NASWM_FUN_4
* * *
#### 5.8.1.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Information type Comment swTobeInstalled M swLocation
swLocation denotes a unique location (local or remote) of software which can
be a directory path or a URL and includes 1) the name of software or 2) a
software version neIdentifier M Distinguished Name (DN) Identifies the
destination where the NE software needs to be installed. This is a full
Distinguished Name according to 3GPP TS 32.300
* * *
#### 5.8.1.3 Output parameters
+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Matching | Comment | | | | Information | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | i | M | Integer | An Identifier | | nstallProcessId | | | generated by | | | | | IRPAgent upon | | | | | receiving a | | | | | non-automated | | | | | software | | | | | management | | | | | request from | | | | | IRPManager. In | | | | | this case, it | | | | | identifies the | | | | | NE software | | | | | installation | | | | | operation | | | | | request. This | | | | | id is unique | | | | | for installNESw | | | | | operations. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | result | M | ENUM | Indicates | | | | | whether SwMIRP | | | | { | has accepted or | | | | | rejected the | | | | r | installation | | | | equestAccepted, | request. | | | | | | | | | requestFailed, | It can have any | | | | | one of the | | | | notAllo | twhreeo | | | | wedBecauseOfOng | possible | | | | oingSwmActivity | values: | | | | | | | | | } | - "r | | | | | equestAccepted" | | | | | > which | | | | | > means | | | | | > that | | | | | > IRPAgent | | | | | > uld | | | | | > perform | | | | | > the NE | | | | | > software | | | | | | | | | | > installation | | | | | > operation | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | "requestFailed" | | | | | > which | | | | | > means | | | | | > that | | | | | > IRPAgent | | | | | > has | | | | | > failed to | | | | | > initiate | | | | | > the NE | | | | | > software | | | | | | | | | | > installation | | | | | | | | | | > operation. | | | | | > Specific | | | | | > error | | | | | > condition | | | | | > can be | | | | | > captured | | | | | > in reason | | | | | > field | | | | | | | | | | - notAllo | | | | | wedBecauseOfOng | | | | | oingSwmActivity | | | | | > which | | | | | > means | | | | | > that the | | | | | > operation | | | | | > is | | | | | > rejected | | | | | > because | | | | | > automatic | | | | | > SWM is | | | | | > ongoing | | | | | > for the | | | | | > requested | | | | | > NE.. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | reason | O | String | To capture | | | | | detailed error | | | | | conditions. The | | | | | field is empty | | | | | when there is | | | | | no error. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | listOfStepNumbe | CM | See 5.7.1.3 | See 5.7.1.3 | | rsAnd­Durations | | | | | | Note 1) | | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
Note 1: Condition: Progress reporting of NASWM operations is supported..
#### 5.8.1.4 Pre condition
* * *
Assertion Name Definition swAvailable NE software is available
* * *
#### 5.8.1.5 Post-condition
* * *
Assertion Name Definition swInstallationInProgress The SwMIRP has successfully
accepted the request to perform the requested installation operation
swInstalled This is the final state when installNESw operation is complete and
notifyInstallNESwStatusChanged has been generated
* * *
#### 5.8.1.6 Exceptions
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | Exception Name | Definition | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | operationFailed | Condition: Pre-condition is false or | | | post-condition is false. | | | | | | Returned Information: The output parameter | | | status. | | | | | | Exit state: Entry state. | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | resourceLimitation | **Condition: Operation not performed due to | | | resource limitation.** | | | | | | **Returned Information: The output parameter | | | status.** | | | | | | **Exit state: Entry state.** | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | swNotAvailable | **Condition: NE software is not available.** | | | | | | **Returned Information: The output parameter | | | status.** | | | | | | **Exit state: Entry state.** | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
## 5.9 SwMIRPNotifications_3 Interface (M)
### 5.9.1 Notification notifyDownloadNESwStatusChanged (M)
#### 5.9.1.1 Definition
This notification, generated by IRPAgent conveys information about the status
of the downloadNESw operation.
Information on Requirements Traceability:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.531 [6] REQ_NASWM_FUN_1
* * *
#### 5.9.1.2 Input parameters
+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Matching | Comment | | | | Information | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | objectClass | M, Y | SwMManagedEnt | Represents the | | | | ity.objectClass | network element | | | | | object class | | | | | generating this | | | | | event. Also | | | | | refer to | | | | | Notification | | | | | header [9]. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | objectInstance | M,Y | S | Represents the | | | | wMManagedEntity | network element | | | | .objectInstance | instance | | | | | generating the | | | | | event. Also | | | | | refer to | | | | | Notification | | | | | header [9]. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | notificationId | O,N | -- | Refer to | | | | | Notification | | | | | header [9]. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | eventTime | M,Y | -- | Refer to | | | | | Notification | | | | | header [9]. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | systemDN | C,Y | -- | Refer to | | | | | Notification | | | | | header [9]. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | n | _M,Y_ | "no | | | otificationType | | tifyDownloadNES | | | | | wStatusChanged" | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | do | M, Y | Integer | To allow | | wnloadProcessId | | | IRPManager | | | | | correlate this | | | | | notification | | | | | with the | | | | | downloadNESw | | | | | operation | | | | | request. Also | | | | | refer to | | | | | section 5.7.1 | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | download | M,Y | enum { | Provides | | OperationStatus | | | information on | | | | NE_SWDOWNLO | the status of | | | | AD_SUCCESSFUL, | downloadNESw | | | | | operation for | | | | NE_SWDO | the network | | | | WNLOAD_FAILED, | element | | | | | involved. | | | | NE_SWD | | | | | OWNLOAD_PARTIA | Note: When only | | | | LLY_SUCCESSFUL | one software | | | | | entity has to | | | | } | be downloaded, | | | | | download | | | | | OperationStatus | | | | | can be either | | | | | NE_SWDOWNL | | | | | OAD_SUCCESSFUL | | | | | or | | | | | NE_SWDO | | | | | WNLOAD_FAILED. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | dow | O,N | LIST\ | where the | | | | | software or | | | | | version got | | | | | downloaded on | | | | | the NE | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | failedSwInfo | O,N | LIST\ | software not | | | | | abled to be | | | | | downloaded and | | | | | the | | | | | corresponding | | | | | failure reason. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
####
#### 5.9.1.3 Triggering Event
##### 5.9.1.3.1 From State
neSwDownloadInProgress
* * *
Assertion Name Definition neSwDownloadInProgress IRPAgent has accepted the
request to download software and downloadProcessId is available
* * *
##### 5.9.1.3.2 To State
neSwDownloadSuccessful or neSwDownloadFailed or
neSwDownloadPartiallySuccessful.
* * *
Assertion Name Definition neSwDownloadSuccessful Software has been
successfully downloaded. When multiple software have to be downloaded, it
means that all software entities have been downloaded successfully
neSwDownloadFailed Software has not been **downloaded.** When multiple
software have to be downloaded, it means that no software has been downloaded
neSwDownloadPartiallySuccessful **At least one of the software has not been
downloaded (hence can be used only when multiple software need to be
downloaded)**
* * *
#### 5.9.1.4 Constraints
None
### 5.9.2 Notification notifyActivateNESwStatusChanged (M)
#### 5.9.2.1 Definition
This notification, generated by IRPAgent conveys information about the status
of the activateNESw operation.
Information on Requirements Traceability:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.531 [6] REQ_NASWM_FUN_5
* * *
#### 5.9.2.2 Input parameters
+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Matching | Comment | | | | Information | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | objectClass | _M, Y_ | SwMManagedEnt | Represents the | | | | ity.objectClass | network element | | | | | object class | | | | | generating this | | | | | event. Also | | | | | refer to | | | | | Notification | | | | | header [9]. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | objectInstance | _M, Y_ | S | Represents the | | | | wMManagedEntity | network element | | | | .objectInstance | instance | | | | | generating the | | | | | event. Also | | | | | refer to | | | | | Notification | | | | | header [9]. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | notificationId | _O,N_ | -- | Refer to | | | | | Notification | | | | | header [9]. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | eventTime | _M,Y_ | -- | Refer to | | | | | Notification | | | | | header [9]. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | systemDN | _C,Y_ | -- | Refer to | | | | | Notification | | | | | header [9]. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | n | _M,Y_ | "no | | | otificationType | | tifyActivateNES | | | | | wStatusChanged" | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | ac | M, Y | Integer | To allow | | tivateProcessId | | | IRPManager | | | | | correlate this | | | | | notification | | | | | with the | | | | | activateNESw | | | | | operation | | | | | request. Also | | | | | Refer to | | | | | section 5.7.2 | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | activate | M,Y | ENUM{ | Provides | | OperationStatus | | | information on | | | | > | the status of | | | | NE_SWACTIVATI | activateNESw | | | | ON_SUCCESSFUL, | operation for | | | | > NE_SWACTI | the network | | | | VATION_FAILED, | element | | | | > | involved. When | | | | > NE_SWACT | the activation | | | | IVATION_PARTIA | could get | | | | LLY_SUCCESSFUL | completed to | | | | | only a certain | | | | } | extent, partial | | | | | success may be | | | | | used. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | swVersion | M, Y | swVersion | The software | | | | | version which | | | | | the | | | | | activateNESw | | | | | operation has | | | | | tried to | | | | | activate, no | | | | | matter the | | | | | activateNESw | | | | | operation is | | | | | successful or | | | | | failed or | | | | | partially | | | | | successful. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | failureReason | CM,N | String | The error | | | | | reason when the | | | | | activateNESw | | | | | operation is | | | | | not successful. | | | | | | | | | | Condition: | | | | | | | | | | activate | | | | | OperationStatus | | | | | \<> | | | | | NE_SWACTIVAT | | | | | ION_SUCCESSFUL | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 5.9.2.3 Triggering Event
##### 5.9.2.3.1 From State
neSwActivationInProgress
* * *
Assertion Name Definition neSwActivationInProgress IRPAgent has accepted the
request to activate software and activateProcessId is available
* * *
##### 5.9.2.3.2 To State
neSwActivationSuccessful or neSwActivationFailed or
neSwActivationPartiallySuccessful.
* * *
Assertion Name Definition neSwActivationSuccessful Software has been
successfully activated. neSwActivationFailed Software has not been
**activated.** neSwActivationPartiallySuccessful **When activation can be
completed only to a certain extent, partial success may be used.**
* * *
#### 5.9.2.4 Constraints
None.
## 5.10 SwMIRPNotifications_4 Interface (O)
### 5.10.1 Notification notifyInstallNESwStatusChanged (O)
#### 5.10.1.1 Definition
This notification, generated by IRPAgent conveys information about the status
of the installNESw operation.
Information on Requirements Traceability:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.531 [6] REQ_NASWM_FUN_3
* * *
#### 5.10.1.2 Input parameters
+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Matching | Comment | | | | Information | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | objectClass | _M, Y_ | SwMManagedEnt | Represents the | | | | ity.objectClass | network element | | | | | object class | | | | | generating this | | | | | event. Also | | | | | refer to | | | | | Notification | | | | | header [9]. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | objectInstance | _M, Y_ | S | Represents the | | | | wMManagedEntity | network element | | | | .objectInstance | instance | | | | | generating the | | | | | event. Also | | | | | refer to | | | | | Notification | | | | | header [9] | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | notificationId | _O,N_ | -- | Refer to | | | | | Notification | | | | | header [9]. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | eventTime | _M,Y_ | -- | Refer to | | | | | Notification | | | | | header [9]. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | systemDN | _C,Y_ | -- | Refer to | | | | | Notification | | | | | header [9]. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | n | _M,Y_ | "n | | | otificationType | | otifyInstallNES | | | | | wStatusChanged" | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | i | M, Y | Integer | To allow | | nstallProcessId | | | IRPManager | | | | | correlate this | | | | | notification | | | | | with the | | | | | installNESw | | | | | operation | | | | | request. Also | | | | | refer to | | | | | section 5.8.1 | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | install | M,Y | ENUM { | Provides | | OperationStatus | | | information on | | | | > N | the status of | | | | E_SWINSTALLATI | installNESw | | | | ON_SUCCESSFUL, | operation for | | | | > NE_SWINSTAL | the network | | | | LATION_FAILED, | element | | | | > | involved. | | | | > NE_SWINSTA | | | | | LLATION_PARTIA | | | | | LLY_SUCCESSFUL | | | | | | | | | | } | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | in | O,N | LIST\ | where the | | | | | software or | | | | | version got | | | | | installed on | | | | | the NE | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | failedSwInfo | O,N | LIST\ | information on | | | | | the software | | | | | which failed in | | | | | installation | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 5.10.1.3 Triggering Event
##### 5.10.1.3.1 From State
neSwInstallationInProgress
* * *
Assertion Name Definition neSwInstallationInProgress IRPAgent has accepted the
request to install software and installProcessId is available
* * *
##### 5.10.1.3.2 To State
neSwInstallationSuccessful or neSwInstallationFailed or
neSwInstallationPartiallySuccessful.
* * *
Assertion Name Definition neSwInstallationSuccessful Software has been
successfully installed neSwInstallationFailed Software has not been
**installed** neSwInstallationPartiallySuccessful **At least one of software
has not been installed**
* * *
#### 5.10.1.4 Constraints
None.
## 5.11 SwmOperations_5 Interface (CM)
### 5.11.1 Operation listNaswmProcesses (M)
#### 5.11.1.1 Definition
This operation allows the IRPManager to find out the status of one or several
downloadNESw, installNESw or activateNESw operations which have not yet been
completed.
Information on Requirements Traceability:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 32.531 [6] REQ_NASWM_FUN_7
* * *
#### 5.11.1.2 Input parameters
+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Information | Comment | | | | type | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | naswmProcessId | O | swM | It identifies | | | | .naswmProcessId | the ongoing | | | | | do | | | | | wnloadProcessId | | | | | or | | | | | i | | | | | nstallProcessId | | | | | or | | | | | ac | | | | | tivateProcessId | | | | | of the | | | | | operation about | | | | | which | | | | | information is | | | | | to be listed in | | | | | the output. | | | | | | | | | | If this | | | | | parameter is | | | | | not present, | | | | | all processes | | | | | of the input | | | | | nas | | | | | wmOperationType | | | | | are to be | | | | | listed in the | | | | | output. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | nas | M | swM.nas | It describes | | wmOperationType | | wmOperationType | whether | | | | | information is | | | | | requested about | | | | | an ongoing | | | | | downloadNESw, | | | | | installNESw or | | | | | activateNESw | | | | | operation. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 5.11.1.3 Output parameters
+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Matching | Comment | | | | Information | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | n | M | swM.n | Each entry of | | aswmProcessList | | aswmProcessList | this list | | | | | contains: | | | | | | | | | | naswmProcessId | | | | | (M) , see | | | | | 5.11.1.2 | | | | | | | | | | n | | | | | eIdentification | | | | | (M) , see 4.5.1 | | | | | | | | | | nas | | | | | wmOperationType | | | | | (M) , see | | | | | 5.11.1.2 | | | | | | | | | | es | | | | | timatedRemainin | | | | | gCompletionTime | | | | | (M) -- | | | | | indicating the | | | | | estimated | | | | | remaining time | | | | | until | | | | | completion of | | | | | the operation | | | | | in hours, | | | | | minutes, | | | | | seconds | | | | | | | | | | listOfStepNumb | | | | | ersAndDurations | | | | | (O) , **see | | | | | 5.7.1.3** | | | | | | | | | | numberOfCur | | | | | rentProcessStep | | | | | (O) - | | | | | indicating | | | | | which of the | | | | | steps is | | | | | currently | | | | | performed | | | | | | | | | | esti | | | | | matedRemainingC | | | | | ompletionTimeFo | | | | | rTheCurrentStep | | | | | (O) -- | | | | | indicating the | | | | | estimated | | | | | remaining time | | | | | until | | | | | completion of | | | | | the current | | | | | process step in | | | | | hours, minutes, | | | | | seconds | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | result | M | swM.result | result=success | | | | | and empty | | | | | n | | | | | aswmProcessList | | | | | mean: No | | | | | ongoing NASWM | | | | | process found | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | reason | O | String | To capture | | | | | detailed error | | | | | conditions. The | | | | | field is empty | | | | | when there is | | | | | no error. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
## 5.12 SwmOperations_6 Interface (CM)
### 5.12.1 Operation cancelNaswmProcesses (M)
#### 5.12.1.1 Definition
This operation allows the IRPManager to request from the IRPAgent to cancel a
downloadNESw or installNESw or activateNESw operation.
Information on Requirements Traceability:
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment
3GPP TS 32.531 [6] REQ_NASWM_FUN_2,\  
REQ_NASWM_FUN_4,\  
REQ_NASWM_FUN_8
* * *
#### 5.12.1.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Information type Comment processId M Integer It
describes which download/activate/installNESw operation is to be cancelled,
i.e. gives its download/install/activationProcessId as provided in the output
parameters of download/activate/installNESw operation. naswmOperationType M
swM.naswmOperationType It describes whether cancellation is requested of a
ongoing downloadNESw, installNESw or activateNESw operation.
* * *
#### 5.12.1.3 Output parameters
+----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Matching | Comment | | | | Information | | +----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | result | M | swM.result | success or | | | | | | | | | | operationIsA | | | | | lreadyCompleted | | | | | or | | | | | noSuchProcess | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | | failure | +----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | reason | O | String | To capture | | | | | detailed error | | | | | conditions. The | | | | | field is empty | | | | | when there is | | | | | no error. | +----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 5.12.1.4 Pre condition
* * *
Assertion Name Definition operationStoppable The specified operation is
ongoing and can be terminated
* * *
#### 5.12.1.5 Post-condition
downloadedSWIsDeleted or swCanBeActivatedLater or swUninstalled
* * *
Assertion Name Definition downloadedSWIsDeleted This post-condition applies if
the operation to be cancelled has naswmOperationType downloadNESw: If software
has been downloaded before the download operation was cancelled, then it is
deleted. swCanBeActivatedLater This post-condition applies if the operation to
be cancelled has naswmOperationType activateNESw: The software which was not
activated can been activated at another later time. swUninstalled This post-
condition applies if the operation to be cancelled has naswmOperationType
installNESw: The software which was not completely installed is completely
uninstalled.
* * *
#### 5.12.1.6 Exceptions
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | Exception Name | Definition | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | operationFailed | Condition: Pre-condition is false or | | | post-condition is false. | | | | | | Returned Information: The output parameter | | | status. | | | | | | Exit state: Entry state. | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | resourceLimitation | **Condition: Operation not performed due to | | | resource limitation.** | | | | | | **Returned Information: The output parameter | | | status.** | | | | | | **Exit state: Entry state.** | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
###### ##
#