# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects,
Telecommunication management; as identified below:
**32.531: Telecommunication management; Software management; Concepts and
Integration Reference Point (IRP) Requirements**
32.532: Telecommunication management; Software management Integration
Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)
32.536: Telecommunication management; Software management Integration
Reference Point (IRP); Solution Set (SS) definitions
# 1 Scope
The present document describes the concepts how SWM of NEs works and what IRP
requirements need to be met to support this functionality.
In the 3GPP Rel-8 the present document focuses on automated software
management of eNBs.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[4] Void.
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TS 32.101 [2], TS 32.102 [3] and TS 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term
defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the
same term, if any, in TS 32.101 [2], TS 32.102 [3] and TS 21.905 [1], in that
order.
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Software Management:** Activities to control which software is available
and/or active in a network element.
**Automated Software Management:** Software Management which is performed
without the presence of an IRPManager (SWM). An IRPManager may monitor and /or
control the software management activities. An IRPAgent\ receives information
to perform the Software Management activities in an autonomous way.\ \ **Non-
Automated Software Management:** Software Management which requires the
presence of IRPManager (SWM) to fully control and monitor the software
management activities. The IRPAgent receives explicit instructions from the
IRPManager about the SW Management activities which shall be performed.
**Software Installation:** Installation of software puts it into a form
suitable for activation or use.
**Software Activation** : Activation of software makes it ready to be used and
the software starts providing service.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
ASWM Automated Software Management
NASWM Non-Automated Software Management
NE Network Element
SWM Software Management
# 4 Concepts and background
## 4.1 Business Level Requirements
### 4.1.1 Business Level Requirements 1
> **REQ_SW_CON_1** The software management functions used during the
> establishment of a new NE in the network should be usable also for software
> upgrade.
#### 4.1.1.1 Actor roles
FFS
#### 4.1.1.2 Telecommunications resources
FFS
#### 4.1.1.3 High-level use cases
FFS
### 4.1.2 Business Level Requirements 2
> **REQ_SW_CON_2** The IRPManager should have monitoring and interaction
> capabilities regarding the software download, installation, activation and
> fallback in/to the NE.
#### 4.1.2.1 Actor roles
FFS
#### 4.1.2.2 Telecommunications resources
FFS
#### 4.1.2.3 High-level use cases
FFS
### 4.1.3 Business Level Requirements 3
> **REQ_SW_CON_3** The software installation shall have no or limited service
> impacts.
#### 4.1.3.1 Actor roles
FFS
#### 4.1.3.2 Telecommunications resources
FFS
#### 4.1.3.3 High-level use cases
FFS
### 4.1.4 Business Level Requirements 4
**REQ_SW_CON_4\** The IRPManager shall be able to predefine which specific
software version, component or software package shall be downloaded to one or
more eNodeBs during automated software management procedure.
#### 4.1.4.1 Actor roles
FFS
#### 4.1.4.2 Telecommunications resources
FFS
#### 4.1.4.3 High-level use cases
FFS
## 4.2 Specification level requirements
### 4.2.1 Specification level requirement on general SWM
**REQ_SWM_FUN_1** \ If a software installation/activation fails, a software
fallback should be done.
**REQ_SWM_FUN_2** \ It shall be possible for the IRPManager to retrieve
information about the SW which is present in an NE or a group of NEs.
**REQ_SWM_FUN_3** \ It shall be possible for the IRPManager to monitor changes
in the SW which is present in an NE (newly
downloaded/installed/activated/fallback).
**REQ_SWM_FUN_4\** It shall be possible for the IRPManager to receive alarms
in case of failures during the SW-download/installation/activation/fallback.
**REQ_SWM_FUN_5** \ Void.
**REQ_SWM_FUN_6** \ It shall be possible for the IRPManager to instruct the
IRPAgent to trigger a SW fallback in an individual NE or groups of NEs.
**REQ_SWM_FUN_7** \ It shall be possible for the IRPManager to instruct the
IRPAgent to configure those new mandatory parameters in a new SW version for
which no default values are available or are not sufficient, as soon as
possible and before any service affecting errors occur that have impact on the
customer and the network.
#### 4.2.1.1 Actor roles
FFS
#### 4.2.1.2 Telecommunications resources
FFS
#### 4.2.1.3 Use cases
FFS
##### 4.2.1.3.1 Use case 1
FFS
### 4.2.2 Specification level requirement on Automated SWM
**REQ_ASWM_FUN_1\** It shall be possible for an IRPManager to retrieve
\- information regarding how an NE or a group of NEs behaves during ASWM, i.e.
in which sequence the essential steps of ASWM are executed
\- information regarding where the IRPManager can interact with ASWM - by
suspending the ASWM process at one or more ASWM stop points.\ Steps, their
sequence and their stop point qualification are not imposed by the standard.
**REQ_ASWM_FUN_2\** If choices for stop points to suspend the SWM process are
offered, then it shall be possible for an IRPManager to choose/select among
them where it will suspend (stop) a SWM process (i.e. to ensure fulfillment of
pre-conditions for the step like the fulfillment of the presence of required
input data for the step).
The IRPManager shall be able to read or select or de-select the stop points
offered.
The IRPManager shall be informed about the availability of new SW, about the
creation and deletion of a profile which is a holder of information regarding
the offered SWM steps, the offered sequence of the steps and the configuration
steps stop points.
The IRPManager should be able to change the content of a created profile and
be informed about the change.
**REQ_ASWM_FUN_3\** It shall be possible for an IRPManager to resume a
suspended ASWM process.
**REQ_ASWM_FUN_4\** It shall be possible for IRPManager to retrieve
information about the progress of ASWM.
**REQ_ASWM_FUN_5\** The IRPAgent should send a notification when the ASWM
process
  * was suspended
  * was resumed
  * was terminated
**REQ_ASWM_FUN_6**
It shall be possible for an IRPManager to terminate a currently ongoing ASWM
process for one or multiple NEs. After a termination it is not possible to
resume the ASWM process.
**REQ_ASWM_FUN_7**
In order to declare the SW activation succeeded, a self test should have been
completed.
**REQ_ASWM_FUN_8**
If the software activation fails, information documenting the reasons for the
failure should be logged, to support the trouble shooting.
#### 4.2.2.1 Actor roles
FFS
#### 4.2.2.2 Telecommunications resources
FFS
#### 4.2.2.3 Use cases
##### 4.2.2.3.1 Use case Self-Configuration
+-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / | \> | | | Specification | | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Goal (*) | Supply an eNodeB with | | | | the latest applicable | | | | software in the course | | | | of self-configuration | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Actors and Roles (*) | IRPManager | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Telecom resources | The E-UTRAN/EPC network | | | | including its OSS. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Assumptions | IP network connectivity | | | | exists between the | | | | eNodeB and the OAM (sub) | | | | systems providing | | | | support for the | | | | self-configuration | | | | process and for | | | | automated software | | | | management. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Pre conditions | The eNodeB is physically | | | | installed and physically | | | | connected to an IP | | | | network. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Begins when | **The self-configuration | | | | process reaches the | | | | point where the software | | | | version for the new eNB | | | | was be determined and | | | | needs to be delivered to | | | | the eNB.** | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Step 1 (*) (M\|O) | [SU1] The software is | | | | downloaded into the | | | | eNodeB. | | | | | | | | [SU2] The SW is | | | | installed on the eNB. | | | | | | | | [SU3] The SW is | | | | activated on the eNB. | | | | | | | | [at least one of SU2/3 | | | | shall be done] | | | | | | | | **[SU4]** **The | | | | inventory system in the | | | | OAM is informed that a | | | | new software for this | | | | eNodeB is in the | | | | field.** | | | | | | | | **[SU5]** **The | | | | network resource models | | | | visible over Itf-N are | | | | updated** | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Ends when (*) | **Ends when all steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully completed | | | | or when an exception | | | | occurs.** | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Exceptions | | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Post Conditions | The software is ready | | | | for usage in the eNB. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Traceability (*) | | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+
##### 4.2.2.3.1 Use case Automated Software Update
+-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / | \> | | | Specification | | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Goal (*) | Supply the latest | | | | applicable software to | | | | an eNB which is already | | | | running in the network. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Actors and Roles (*) | FFS | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Telecom resources | The E-UTRAN/EPC network | | | | including its OSS. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Assumptions | IP network connectivity | | | | exists between the | | | | eNodeB and the OAM (sub) | | | | systems providing | | | | support for the | | | | automated software | | | | update process. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Pre conditions | FFS | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Begins when | **New software is | | | | provided for an eNB.** | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Step 1 (*) (M\|O) | [SU1] Information | | | | about the availability | | | | of new software is | | | | provided to the OAM | | | | (sub)system. | | | | | | | | [SU2] The software is | | | | downloaded into the | | | | eNodeB. | | | | | | | | [SU3] The SW is | | | | installed on the eNB. | | | | | | | | [SU4] The SW is | | | | activated on the eNB. | | | | | | | | [at least one of SU3/4 | | | | shall be done] | | | | | | | | **[SU5]** **The | | | | inventory system in the | | | | OAM is informed that a | | | | new software for this | | | | eNodeB is in the | | | | field.** | | | | | | | | **[SU6]** **The | | | | network resource models | | | | visible over Itf-N are | | | | updated** | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Step n (M\|O) | | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Ends when (*) | **Ends when all | | | | mandatory steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully completed | | | | or when an exception | | | | occurs.** | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Exceptions | FFS. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Post Conditions | The eNodeB can use the | | | | new software. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Traceability (*) | | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+
### 4.2.3 Specification level requirement on Non-Automated SWM
**REQ_NASWM_FUN_1**
**It shall be possible for an IRPManager to request to download software units
to one or multiple network elements. A notification shall be generated at the
end of download operation for both success and failure scenarios. The
notification may optionally contain specific error conditions (e.g.
insufficient disk space, communication error etc.) in case of failures.**
**REQ_NASWM_FUN_2**
**The IRPAgent should support a capability for the IRPManager to request the
IRPAgent to cancel an ongoing download operation to one or multiple network
elements. If download is not complete, software units that had been downloaded
between the time download operation was invoked and the time when download
operation was cancelled shall be deleted.**
**REQ_NASWM_FUN_3**
**It may be possible for an IRPManager to initiate installation of NE software
to one or multiple network elements. A notification shall be generated at the
end of installation operation for both success and failure scenarios. The
notification may optionally contain specific error conditions in case of
failures.**
**REQ_NASWM_FUN_4**
**The IRPAgent should support a capability for the IRPManager to request the
IRPAgent to cancel an ongoing installation process to one or multiple network
elements. If an install operation is cancelled by IRPManager before it is
complete, software units that had been installed between the time install
operation was invoked and the time when install operation was cancelled shall
be uninstalled.**
**REQ_NASWM_FUN_5**
**It shall be possible for an IRPManager to activate NE software for one or
multiple network elements. A notification shall be generated at the end of
activation operation for both success and failure scenarios. The notification
may optionally contain specific error conditions in case of failures.**
**REQ_NASWM_FUN_6**
**IRPManager shall be able to invoke fallback operation for one or multiple
network elements after software installation or after software activation to
fallback to a configuration it was in prior to software installation or
software activation respectively.**
**REQ_NASWM_FUN_7**
It shall be possible for IRPManager to retrieve information about the progress
of NASWM.
**REQ_NASWM_FUN_8**
**The IRPAgent should support a capability for the IRPManager to cancel an
ongoing activation process to one or multiple network elements. If an
activation operation is cancelled by IRPManager before it is complete,
software units that had been not been activated between the time activation
operation was invoked and the time when activation operation was cancelled
shall be** ready for later retry of activation**.**
#### 4.2.3.1 Actor roles
FFS
#### 4.2.3.2 Telecommunications resources
FFS
#### 4.2.3.3 Use cases
##### 4.2.3.3.1 Use case Non-Automated Software Update
+-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / | \> | | | Specification | | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Goal (*) | Supply the new software | | | | to a Network Element | | | | (NE) which is already | | | | running in the network. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Actors and Roles (*) | IRPManager | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Telecom resources | The E-UTRAN/EPC network | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Assumptions | IP network connectivity | | | | exists between the | | | | IRPManager and IRPAgent | | | | (i.e. DM or Network | | | | Element under system | | | | context A & B | | | | respectively) providing | | | | support for the | | | | non-automated software | | | | update process. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Pre conditions | Software is available | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Begins when | **NE software is | | | | identified and ready to | | | | be downloaded** | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Step 1 (*) (M\|O) | Editor's Note: | | | | | | | | Some of the steps | | | | mentioned below may be | | | | combined. The details of | | | | whether an operation is | | | | optional or mandatory is | | | | for further study | | | | | | | | [SU1A] IRPManager | | | | initiates a request over | | | | Itf-N to download | | | | software | | | | | | | | [SU1B] The software is | | | | successfully downloaded | | | | into the NE. | | | | | | | | [SU2A] IRPManager | | | | requests over Itf-N to | | | | install the downloaded | | | | software | | | | | | | | [SU2B] Software is | | | | successfully installed | | | | on the NE. | | | | | | | | [SU3A] IRPManager | | | | requests over Itf-N to | | | | activate the installed | | | | software | | | | | | | | [SU3B] The software is | | | | successfully activated | | | | on the NE. | | | | | | | | **[SU4]** **The** | | | | IRPManager is informed | | | | about the inventory | | | | change **that new | | | | software for this NE is | | | | activated and ready to | | | | be used** | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Ends when (*) | **Ends when software is | | | | successfully activated | | | | or when an exception | | | | occurs.** | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Exceptions | FFS. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Post Conditions | The new software is | | | | operational. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Traceability (*) | | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+
##### 4.2.3.3.2 Fallback during Non-Automated Software Update
Fallback during NE Software Installation:
+-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / | \> | | | Specification | | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Goal (*) | To allow IRPManager to | | | | initiate fallback for | | | | Network Element(s) | | | | undergoing a software | | | | update | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Actors and Roles (*) | IRPManager | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Telecom resources | The E-UTRAN/EPC network | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Assumptions | | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Pre conditions | Software has been | | | | successfully downloaded | | | | on the NE | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Begins when | **IRPManager has | | | | initiated fallback | | | | request** | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Step 1 (*) (M\|O) | Editor's Note: | | | | | | | | Some of the steps | | | | mentioned below may be | | | | combined. The details of | | | | whether an operation is | | | | optional or mandatory is | | | | for further study | | | | | | | | [SU1A] IRPManager | | | | requests over Itf-N to | | | | install the downloaded | | | | software | | | | | | | | [SU1B] Installation of | | | | the NE software fails | | | | | | | | [SU2] IRPManager | | | | decides to initiate | | | | fallback | | | | | | | | [SU3] The software may | | | | be uninstalled on the NE | | | | (non-service affecting) | | | | but it is not always | | | | necessary | | | | | | | | **[SU4]** **The** | | | | IRPManager is informed | | | | that fallback is | | | | successful. | | | | | | | | **A fallback is also | | | | allowed under success | | | | scenarios as mentioned | | | | below.** | | | | | | | | [SU1A] IRPManager | | | | requests over Itf-N to | | | | install the downloaded | | | | software | | | | | | | | [SU1B] Software is | | | | successfully installed | | | | on the NE (non-service | | | | affecting) | | | | | | | | [SU2] IRPManager | | | | decides to initiate | | | | fallback | | | | | | | | [SU3] The software may | | | | be uninstalled on the NE | | | | (non-service affecting) | | | | | | | | **[SU4]** **The** | | | | IRPManager is informed | | | | that fallback is | | | | successful. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Ends when (*) | **NE continues to use | | | | the software version it | | | | was in before the | | | | fallback operation was | | | | invoked or when there is | | | | an exception** | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Exceptions | FFS. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Post Conditions | The NE remains in same | | | | version it was in before | | | | fallback was invoked | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Traceability (*) | | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+
Fallback during NE Software Activation:
+-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / | \> | | | Specification | | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Goal (*) | To allow IRPManager to | | | | initiate fallback for | | | | Network Element(s) | | | | undergoing a software | | | | update | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Actors and Roles (*) | IRPManager | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Telecom resources | The E-UTRAN/EPC network | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Assumptions | | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Pre conditions | **Software has been | | | | successfully downloaded | | | | and installed on the | | | | NE** | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Begins when | **IRPManager has | | | | initiated fallback | | | | request** | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Step 1 (*) (M\|O) | Editor's Note: | | | | | | | | Some of the steps | | | | mentioned below may be | | | | combined. The details of | | | | whether an operation is | | | | optional or mandatory is | | | | for further study | | | | | | | | [SU1A] IRPManager | | | | requests over Itf-N to | | | | install the downloaded | | | | software | | | | | | | | [SU1B] Software is | | | | successfully installed | | | | on the NE | | | | | | | | [SU2A] IRPManager | | | | requests over Itf-N to | | | | activate the installed | | | | software | | | | | | | | [SU2B] Activation of | | | | the NE software fails | | | | | | | | [SU3] IRPManager | | | | decides to initiate | | | | fallback | | | | | | | | [SU4] Changes made | | | | during activation are | | | | successfully reverted on | | | | the NE | | | | | | | | **[SU5]** **The** | | | | IRPManager is informed | | | | that fallback is | | | | successful. | | | | | | | | **A fallback is also | | | | allowed under success | | | | scenarios as mentioned | | | | below.** | | | | | | | | [SU1A] IRPManager | | | | requests over Itf-N to | | | | install the downloaded | | | | software | | | | | | | | [SU1B] Software is | | | | successfully installed | | | | on the NE | | | | | | | | [SU2A] IRPManager | | | | requests over Itf-N to | | | | activate the installed | | | | software | | | | | | | | [SU2B] The software is | | | | successfully activated | | | | on the NE | | | | | | | | [SU3] IRPManager | | | | decides to initiate | | | | fallback on the NE | | | | | | | | [SU4] Changes during | | | | activation are | | | | successfully reverted on | | | | the NE | | | | | | | | **[SU5]** **The** | | | | IRPManager is informed | | | | that fallback is | | | | successful. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Ends when (*) | **NE uses the software | | | | version it was in before | | | | the activation operation | | | | was invoked or when | | | | there is an exception** | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Exceptions | FFS. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Post Conditions | The NE has successfully | | | | gone back to the version | | | | it was in before | | | | activation of software | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Traceability (*) | | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+
##### 4.2.3.3.3 Backup Network Element Software Configuration Data
#####
+-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / | \> | | | Specification | | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Goal (*) | To allow IRPManager | | | | backup network element | | | | software configuration | | | | data | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Actors and Roles (*) | IRPManager | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Telecom resources | The E-UTRAN/EPC network | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Assumptions | | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Pre conditions | None specific. NE is up | | | | and running | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Begins when | **IRPManager initiates | | | | backup request and | | | | indicates the software | | | | to be backed up** | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Step 1 (*) (M\|O) | [SU1] IRPManager | | | | requests via Itf-N to | | | | backup one or multiple | | | | NE software | | | | configuration data (e.g. | | | | parameters which | | | | influence the | | | | usage/performance of | | | | software and can be | | | | changed by the software | | | | user without changing | | | | the software itself, | | | | data files that have | | | | these parameters etc) | | | | from one or multiple | | | | Network Elements. A | | | | location may also be | | | | specified (e.g. a | | | | preconfigured place or | | | | user defined location). | | | | | | | | [SU2] IRPAgent | | | | initiates backup of NE | | | | software configuration | | | | data. | | | | | | | | [SU3] NE software | | | | configuration data is | | | | successfully backed up | | | | in the location | | | | specified. | | | | | | | | **[SU4]** **The** | | | | IRPManager is informed | | | | that backup is | | | | successful. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Ends when (*) | **Ends when backup is | | | | successful or when there | | | | is an exception** | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Exceptions | | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Post Conditions | The NE software | | | | configuration data is | | | | successfully backed up | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Traceability (*) | | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+
##### 4.2.3.3.4 Restore Network Element Software Configuration Data
+-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / | \> | | | Specification | | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Goal (*) | To allow IRPManager | | | | restore software | | | | configuration data for | | | | Network Element(s) from | | | | a backed up software | | | | entity | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Actors and Roles (*) | IRPManager | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Telecom resources | The E-UTRAN/EPC network | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Assumptions | | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Pre conditions | **A backup of software | | | | configuration data to be | | | | restored is available** | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Begins when | **IRPManager initiates a | | | | restore request** | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Step 1 (*) (M\|O) | [SU1] IRPManager | | | | requests over Itf-N to | | | | restore one or multiple | | | | NE software | | | | configuration data for | | | | one or multiple Network | | | | Elements from previously | | | | backed up software. | | | | | | | | [SU1B] The restore | | | | operation is initiated | | | | | | | | [SU2] The software is | | | | successfully restored | | | | | | | | **[SU3]** **The** | | | | IRPManager is informed | | | | that software | | | | configuration data | | | | restore is successful. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Ends when (*) | **Ends when backup is | | | | successful or when there | | | | is an exception** | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Exceptions | FFS. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Post Conditions | The NE software is | | | | successfully restored | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Traceability (*) | | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+
#