# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects,
Telecommunication management; as identified below:
**32.541: "****Self-Organizing Networks (SON); Self-Healing Concepts and
Requirements"**
Stage 2 for Self-Healing is not in a TS of its own. Stage 2 for selected Self-
Healing functions is or will be part of 32.522 [6] and 32.762 [7].
# 1 Scope
The present document describes concept and requirements of OAM for Self-
Healing of **Self-Organizing Networks (SON)**.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1]. 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.111-1: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management; Part
1: 3G fault management requirements\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.301: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements\".
[5] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.522: \"Telecommunication management; Self-Organizing Networks
(SON) Policy Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP);
Information Service (IS)\"
[7] 3GPP TS 32.762: \"Telecommunication management; Evolved Universal
Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) Network Resource Model (NRM)
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\"
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [5] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[5].
**alarm:** See 3GPP TS 32.111-1 [3].
**Cell Outage** : Cell outage is the total loss of radio services in the
coverage area of a cell.
**fault:** See 3GPP TS 32.111-1 [3].
**Stop condition:** The Self-healing procedure may include one or more
iterations until the related fault is resolved or the thresholds of some
parameters (e.g. iteration counter or iteration duration time, etc.) are
reached. These thresholds may be used to determine whether to stop the
procedure if the related fault is still not resolved after several iterations
or a long time. We call these thresholds as well as fault resolution the stop
conditions.
**Self-healing Process:** When a TCoSH is reached, particular action(s) will
be triggered to solve or mitigate the particular fault.
**Self-healing Function:** a Self-healing Function is to monitor a particular
TCoSH and then, if necessary, to trigger a Self-healing Process to solve or
mitigate the particular fault.
**Trigger Condition of Self-Healing (TCoSH):** it is the condition which is
used to judge whether a Self-healing Process needs to be started. This
condition could be an alarm or the detection of a fault.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[5] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [5].
ADAC Automatically Detected and Automatically Cleared
ADMC Automatically Detected and Manually Cleared
EM Element Manager
EPC Evolved Packet Core
E-UTRAN Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
NE Network Element
NM Network Manager
OAM Operation Administration Maintenance
SON Self Organizing Networks
TCoSH Trigger Condition of Self-Healing
UE User Equipment
# 4 Concepts and background
## 4.1 Overview
### 4.1.1 General description
Self-healing is a functionality of SON. The purpose of Self-healing is to
solve or mitigate the faults which could be solved automatically by triggering
appropriate recovery actions.
From the point of view of fault management, for each detected fault,
appropriate alarms shall be generated by the faulty network entity, regardless
of whether it is an ADAC or an ADMC fault.
The trigger of Self-healing can be an alarm. In this case, the Self-healing
functionality monitors the alarms, and when it finds alarm/s which could be
solved automatically, it gathers more necessary information (e.g.
measurements, testing result, etc) and does deep analysis, and then according
to the analysis result, if necessary, it triggers appropriate recovery actions
to solve the fault automatically.
For some Self-healing functions which are located in NEs and require more
rapid response, the trigger of Self-healing can be the detection of a fault.
Hence, when a fault is detected, an appropriate Self-healing Process will be
triggered to try to heal the fault automatically.
The Self-healing functionality also monitors the execution of the recovery
action/s and decides the next step accordingly. After a Self-healing procedure
ended, the Self-healing functionality shall generate and forward appropriate
notifications to inform the IRPManager about the Self-healing result and all
the information of the performed recovery actions may be logged.
### 4.1.2 Recovery actions
In the case of software faults, the recovery actions may be：
> a) system initializations (at different levels),
>
> b) reload of a backup of software,
>
> c) activation of a fallback software load,
>
> d) download of a software unit,
>
> e) reconfiguration, etc.
In the case of hardware faults, the recovery actions depend on the existence
and type of redundant (i.e. back-up) resources.
If the faulty resource has no redundancy, the recovery actions may be:
> a) Isolate and remove the faulty resource from service so that it does not
> disturb other working resources;
>
> b) Remove the physical and functional resources (if any) from the service,
> which are dependent on the faulty one. This prevents the propagation of the
> fault effects to other fault-free resources;
>
> c) State management related activities for the faulty resource and other
> affected/dependent resources;
>
> d) Reset the faulty resource;
>
> e) Other reconfiguration actions, etc.
If the faulty resource has redundancy, the recovery action shall be
changeover, which includes the action a), c) and d) above and a specific
recovery sequence. The detail of the specific recovery sequence is out of the
scope of the present document.
In the case of other kinds of faults, the recovery actions are FFS.
### 4.1.3 General Self-healing procedure
The Self-healing Function has two parts: the monitoring part and the healing
process part. The logic view of the general Self-healing procedure is shown in
figure 4.1.3-1:
Figure 4.1.3-1: logic view of the general Self-healing procedure
The general Self-healing procedure includes following steps:
> [Monitoring part:]
>
> [SH01]The Self-healing Function monitors the TCoSHs continuously.
>
> [SH02]When a TCoSH is reached, then an appropriate Self-healing Process
> shall be triggered.
>
> [Healing process part:]
>
> [SH03]The Self-healing Function gathers more necessary information (e.g.
> measurements, CM data, testing result, etc).
>
> [SH04]Based on the TCoSH and gathered information, the Self-healing Function
> does deep analysis and diagnosis, and gives the result. If the result
> includes recovery action/s, then go to next step, if not, go to End.
>
> [SH05] The configuration data prior to the executing of the recovery
> action/s is backed up if needed.
>
> [SH06]If necessary, the Self-healing Function triggers the executing of the
> recovery action/s.
>
> [SH07] The Self-healing Function evaluates the result of the self-healing
> recovery action/s:
>
> If the fault hasn't been solved and the stop condition/s is not reached,
> then the self-healing runs again, i.e. go to SH03.
>
> If the fault has been solved, then go to [SH09].
>
> If the stop condition/s is reached, then:
>
> [SH08] If necessary, fallback is executed. Go to [SH09].
>
> [SH09] The Self-healing Function emits a notification to report the result
> of the Self-healing Process.
>
> [SH10] If necessary, the Self-healing Function logs the information of the
> performed recovery actions and the occurrence of important events during the
> self-healing process.
Remark：The detailed healing process part of the individual self-healing use
cases may differ from this general description, for example:
1) The order of the bullet points in the list does not imply any statement on
the order of execution.
2) In [SH05], whether the backup of the configuration data is needed and which
configuration data should be backed up shall be decided on a use case by use
case basis.
3) In [SH08], whether a fallback is needed shall be decided on a use case by
use case basis.
4) In [SH10], whether log is needed and the detail of the logged information
shall be decided on a use case by use case basis.
## 4.2 Self-healing Concept
### 4.2.1 Logical Function Blocks
#### 4.2.1.1 Self-healing Input Monitoring Function (SH_MON_F)
This functional block supports the following steps: [SH01], [SH02] (See clause
4.1.3).
#### 4.2.1.2 Self-healing Diagnosis Function (SH_DG_F)
This functional block supports the following step: [SH04] (See clause 4.1.3).
#### 4.2.1.3 Triggering Recovery Action/s Function (SH_TG_F)
This functional block supports the following step: [SH06] (See clause 4.1.3).
#### 4.2.1.4 Self-healing Evaluating Function (SH_EV_F)
This functional block supports the following step: [SH07] (See clause 4.1.3).
#### 4.1.2.5 Self-healing Fallback Function (SH_FB_F)
This functional block supports the following step: [SH08] (See clause 4.1.3).
#### 4.2.1.6 NRM IRP Update Function (NRM_UF)
This function updates the E-UTRAN and EPC NRM IRP with the self-healing
modification, if needed.
#### 4.2.1.7 Self-healing Monitoring and Management Function (SH_MMF)
Editor\'s note: This functional block supports the following functions: FFS.
This function monitors the self-healing process and provides the operator with
the necessary information of the self-healing process. This function shall be
able to get information about all other functional blocks. In addition to
this, it allows the operator to control the execution of the self-healing
process.
##### 4.2.1.7.1 Self-healing Monitoring and Management Function (SH_MMF_NM)
SH_MMF_NM (IRP Manager): representing the NM portion of SH_MMF (necessary
monitoring and limited interaction capabilities to support a self-healing
process), as well as related IRPManager functionality.
##### 4.2.1.7.2 Self-healing Monitoring and Management Function (SH_MMF_EM)
SH_MMF_EM (IRP Agent): representing the portion of SH_MMF operating below
Itf-N, as well as related IRPAgent functionality.
#### 4.2.1.8 Self-healing of Cell Outage Function (SH_CO_F)
This function handles the self-healing function for cell outage.
#### 4.2.1.9 Self Recovery of NE software Function (SR_NSW_F)
This function handles the self-healing function of recovery of NE software.
#### 4.2.1.10 Self-healing of Board Fault Function (SH_BF_F)
This function handles the self-healing function for board fault.
# 5 Business level requirements
## 5.1 Requirements
**REQ_SH_CON_001** It should be possible for the self-healing actions to be
confirmed by the IRPManager before they are executed.
**REQ_SH_CON_002** The Self-healing functionality shall be performed with
minimal human intervention.
**REQ-SH- CON-003** The IRPAgent shall support a capability allowing the
IRPManager to know the success or failure result of Self-healing.
**REQ-SH-CON-004** The IRPAgent should support a capability allowing the
IRPManager to monitor the self-healing actions.
**REQ-SH-CON-005** The self-healing complex corrective actions shall be
executed in a consistent and coordinated way.
**REQ-SH-CON-006** The IRPAgent or eNB should perform the necessary
reconfigurations during a cell outage. If that is not or only partly possible
or not supported, then the IRPAgent should indicate the need for assistance to
the IRPManager.
**REQ_SH_CON_007** The IRPAgent shall support a capability allowing the
IRPManager to know which alarms are associated with a self-healing operation,
which is in progress.
## 5.2 Actor roles
## 5.3 Telecommunications Resources
## 5.4 High-Level use case
### 5.4.1 Alarm Triggered Self-healing
+-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Use Case Stage** | **Evolution / |** \>**| | | Specification** | | | | | **Related use** | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Goal (*) | In the OAM system, the | | | | alarms are monitored | | | | in real-time. When an | | | | alarm which can be | | | | self-healed is raised, | | | | it is treated as the | | | | trigger of the | | | | Self-healing and the | | | | gathering of | | | | correlated | | | | information. By | | | | gathering the | | | | correlated information | | | | and further analysis, | | | | the self-healing | | | | actions of the fault | | | | shall be triggered. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Actors and Roles (*) | Self-healing function, | | | | IRPManager | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Telecom resources | The E-UTRAN/EPC | | | | network including its | | | | OSS. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Assumptions | The network is | | | | properly installed and | | | | running. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Pre conditions | Network is in normal | | | | operation. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Begins when | Automatically | | | | triggered when an | | | | alarm received, the | | | | alarm may be emitted | | | | by NE or OAM system. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Step 1 (*) (M) | The Self-healing | | | | functionality monitors | | | | the alarms, and when | | | | it finds alarm/s which | | | | can be solved | | | | automatically, goes to | | | | step 2. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Step 2 (*) (M) | It gathers more | | | | necessary information | | | | (e.g. measurements, CM | | | | data, testing result, | | | | etc). | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Step 3 (*) (M) | Based on the alarm and | | | | gathered information, | | | | it does deep analysis | | | | and diagnosis, and may | | | | give the result, i.e. | | | | recovery actions. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Step 4 (*) (M) | If necessary, it | | | | triggers appropriate | | | | recovery actions to | | | | solve the fault | | | | automatically. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Step 5 (*) (M) | It evaluates the | | | | result of | | | | self-healing: | | | | | | | | If the fault hasn't | | | | been solved and the | | | | stop condition/s is | | | | not reached, then the | | | | self-healing runs | | | | again. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Ends when (*) | **Ends when** it finds | | | | that the fault has | | | | been solved **or** it | | | | finds that the | | | | recovery is failed | | | | **or the result of | | | | step 3 gives no | | | | recovery action or | | | | when an exception | | | | occurs.** | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Exceptions | FFS. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Post Conditions | If the fault has been | | | | solved, then the alarm | | | | is disappeared. A | | | | notification is raised | | | | to report the | | | | Self-healing result, | | | | and the information of | | | | the performed recovery | | | | actions is logged. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Traceability (*) | | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+
### 5.4.2 Cell outage scenarios
  1. **Loss of total radio services in the coverage area of a cell**
In this scenario, when there is a loss of total radio services in the outage
cell, all the UEs cannot establish or maintain all the Radio Bearers (RBs) via
that particular cell. For example, all the Cell Center Users (CCU) and Cell
Edge Users (CEU) cannot establish the RRC connection in the outage Cell A.
{width="3.990972222222222in" height="2.4159722222222224in"}
Figure 5.4.2-1: Loss of total radio services in the coverage area of a cell
# 6 Specification level requirements
## 6.1 Requirements
### 6.1.1 Monitoring and Management part
**REQ_SH_FUN_001** The IRPAgent should provide information to the IRPManager
about the self-healing actions. The specific activities to be reported to the
IRPManager by each Self-Healing function will be determined on a use case by
use case basis.
**REQ_SH_FUN_002** The IRPAgent shall provide information to the IRPManager
about the self-healing results.
**REQ_SH_FUN_003** The IRPAgent shall support a capability allowing the
IRPManager to enable and disable the self-healing functionalities on a use
case by use case basis.
**REQ-SH-FUN-004** The IRPAgent shall support a capability allowing the
IRPManager to get the information (e.g. a list) of the supported Self-healing
Functions on a use case by use case basis.
**REQ-SH-FUN-005** The IRPAgent shall support a capability allowing the
IRPManager to get the status (enabled or disabled) of the Self-healing
Functions on a use case by use case basis.
**REQ-SH-FUN-006** The IRPAgent shall support a capability allowing the
IRPManager to be notified (according to TS 32.301 [4]) of the start and end of
Self-healing action on a use case by use case basis.
**REQ-SH-FUN-007** The IRP Agent shall provide information to the IRP Manager
that allows the IRP Manager to identify which alarms are associated with a
self healing operation which is in progress on a use case by use case basis.
### 6.1.2 Self-healing of Cell Outage Function
**REQ_SHCOC_FUN_1**
The IRPAgent shall inform the IRPManager about begin and end of a cell outage
compensation.
**REQ_SHCOC_FUN_2**
The IRPAgent should provide the IRPManager the possibility to know the result
of a cell outage recovery.
**REQ_SHCOC_FUN_3**
The IRPAgent shall provide the IRPManager the possibility to know the result
of a cell outage compensation.
**REQ_SHCOC_FUN_4**
The IRPAgent should provide the IRPManager the possibility to define which
cells are allowed or prohibited to be reconfigured for cell outage
compensation.
## 6.2 Actor roles
## 6.3 Telecommunications Resources
## 6.4 Use case
### 6.4.1 Self Recovery of NE Software
+-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / | \> | | | Specification | | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Goal (*) | The NE software is | | | | recovered to the initial | | | | status or the status of | | | | latest backup, to ensure | | | | the NE software runs | | | | normally. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Actors and Roles (*) | IRPManager and | | | | Self-healing function | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Telecom resources | The E-UTRAN/EPC network | | | | including its OSS. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Assumptions | The network is properly | | | | installed and running. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Pre conditions | The operator has the | | | | initial backup or the | | | | latest backup of the NE | | | | software and | | | | configuration data. | | | | | | | | The NE Software Self | | | | Recovery function is | | | | started. | | | | | | | | The monitoring part of | | | | the NE Software Self | | | | Recovery function | | | | monitors the TCoSH | | | | continuously. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Begins when | A TCoSH of this function | | | | is detected. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Step 1 (*) (M) | Self-healing Process of | | | | the NE Software Self | | | | Recovery is triggered to | | | | heal the fault : | | | | | | | | Verify the version of | | | | software, if it is found | | | | that the software is | | | | destroyed, restore the | | | | backup of the destroyed | | | | software. | | | | | | | | Check the configuration | | | | data, if it is found | | | | that the configuration | | | | data is incorrect, | | | | reconfigure or restore | | | | the configuration data. | | | | | | | | If necessary, restart | | | | the process. | | | | | | | | If it is still abnormal | | | | after the healing | | | | procedure, a | | | | notification shall be | | | | raised to notify the | | | | IRPManager. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Ends when (*) | **Ends when all steps | | | | identified above are | | | | completed or when an | | | | exception occurs.** | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Exceptions | FFS. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Post Conditions | The NE software is | | | | running normally or the | | | | operator processes the | | | | problem manually. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Traceability (*) | | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+
This use case is typically covered by existing functionality in most products.
No additional specification requirements are identified.
### 6.4.2 Self-healing of board faults
+-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Use Case Stage** | **Evolution / |** \>**| | | Specification** | | | | | **Related use** | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Goal (*) | System detects board | | | | faults and mitigates | | | | or solves them | | | | automatically to avoid | | | | user impact (E.g. | | | | system switch to | | | | standby board | | | | automatically when | | | | active board | | | | malfunctions). | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Actors and Roles (*) | IRPManager and | | | | Self-healing Function | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Telecom resources | The E-UTRAN/EPC | | | | network including its | | | | OSS. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Assumptions | The network is | | | | properly installed and | | | | running. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Pre conditions | Network is in normal | | | | operation. | | | | | | | | The board faults | | | | Self-healing function | | | | is started. | | | | | | | | The monitoring part of | | | | the board faults | | | | Self-healing function | | | | monitors the TCoSH | | | | continuously. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Begins when | A TCoSH of this | | | | function is detected. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Step 2 (*) (M) | Self-healing Process | | | | of this function is | | | | triggered to heal the | | | | fault : | | | | | | | | A) The Self-healing | | | | functionality collects | | | | the redundant | | | | information of the | | | | faulty board, and | | | | processes accordingly: | | | | | | | | - If there is a | | | | stand-by board and | | | | the stand-by board | | | | is in operational | | | | state, then the | | | | failed board will | | | | be blocked and a | | | | changeover will be | | | | started | | | | automatically. | | | | Reset the blocked | | | | board, if it turns | | | | to normal, then it | | | | treated as the | | | | redundant board. | | | | | | | | - If there is not a | | | | redundant board or | | | | the redundant | | | | board is in | | | | abnormal state, | | | | then the failed | | | | board will be | | | | blocked. | | | | | | | | B) A notification | | | | shall be raised to | | | | notify the IRPManager | | | | about the healing | | | | result. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Ends when (*) | **Ends when all steps | | | | identified above are | | | | completed or when an | | | | exception occurs.** | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Exceptions | FFS. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Post Conditions | The device is running | | | | normally or the | | | | operator processes the | | | | problem manually. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Traceability (*) | | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+
This use case is typically covered by existing functionality in most products.
No additional specification requirements are identified.
### 6.4.3 Self Healing of Cell Outage
#### 6.4.3.1 Use case Cell Outage Detection
+-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / | \> | | | Specification | | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Goal (*) | System detects a cell | | | | outage (e.g. sleeping, | | | | out-of-service, etc.) | | | | automatically. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Actors and Roles (*) | IRPManager as user | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Telecom resources | The E-UTRAN/EPC network | | | | including its OSS. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Assumptions | N/A | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Pre conditions | The network is properly | | | | installed and running. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Begins when | N/A | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Step 1 (*) (M) | The input parameters | | | | (KPIs, alarms, etc.) are | | | | monitored continuously | | | | by cell outage detection | | | | function. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Step 2 (*) (M) | When the monitored | | | | parameters meet the cell | | | | outage detection | | | | condition, e.g.when | | | | there is a cell outage | | | | related alarm or the | | | | value of one KPI crossed | | | | the threshold, the cell | | | | outage is detected. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Step 3 (*) (O) | IRPManager got | | | | information about the | | | | cell outage. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Ends when (*) | Ends when all steps | | | | identified above are | | | | completed or when an | | | | exception occurs. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Exceptions | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails | | | | and retry is | | | | unsuccessful. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Post Conditions | In case of success of | | | | step 1 and step 2: Cell | | | | outage is detected. | | | | | | | | In case of exception in | | | | step 1 or step 2: Cell | | | | outage is not detected. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Traceability (*) | FFS | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+
#### 6.4.3.2 Use case Cell Outage Recovery
+--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | **Use Case Stage** | **Evolution / |** \>**| | | Specification** | | | | | **Related use** | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Goal | System recovers a cell | | | | outage (e.g. sleeping, | | | | out-of-service, etc.) | | | | automatically | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Actors and Roles | Cell outage recovery | | | | function, IRPManager | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Telecom resources | The E-UTRAN/EPC network | | | | including its Management | | | | Systems. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Assumptions | The network is properly | | | | installed and running. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Pre conditions | A cell-outage was | | | | detected. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Begins when | Information about | | | | cell-outage is available | | | | to Cell Outage recovery | | | | function. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Step 1 (M) | Try recovery action/s | | | | (examples: switch to | | | | redundant hardware if the | | | | fault is caused by | | | | malfunction of redundant | | | | entity, re-establish or | | | | re-configure the cell, | | | | software restart etc.) | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Step 2 (O) | Reporting of the Cell | | | | Outage Recovery results to | | | | the IRP Manager | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Ends when | Ends when all steps | | | | identified above are | | | | completed or when an | | | | exception occurs. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Exceptions | Recovery action/s is/are | | | | not successful. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Post Conditions | In case of success: Cell | | | | outage ended. | | | | | | | | In case of exception: Cell | | | | outage persists | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Traceability | | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+
#### 6.4.3.3 Use case Cell Outage Compensation
+--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | **Use Case Stage** | **Evolution / |** \>**| | | Specification** | | | | | **Related use** | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Goal | System compensates a cell | | | | outage (e.g. sleeping, | | | | out-of-service, etc.) | | | | automatically to maintain | | | | as much as possible normal | | | | services to the network | | | | users | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Actors and Roles | IRPManager | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Telecom resources | The E-UTRAN/EPC network | | | | including its Management | | | | Systems. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Assumptions | The network is properly | | | | installed and running. | | | | | | | | Optional assumption: | | | | IRPManager is continuously | | | | aware about configuration | | | | information and other | | | | relevant data in order to | | | | support an efficient and | | | | effective re-configuration | | | | when a compensated cell | | | | outage ends. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Pre conditions | A cell-outage was detected | | | | and is still ongoing. | | | | | | | | Cell-outage recovery -- if | | | | attempted -- was not yet | | | | successful. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Begins when | Cell outage compensation | | | | function (COCF) is | | | | informed about a detected | | | | cell-outage. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Step 1 (CO) | Current configuration | | | | information and other | | | | relevant data are gathered | | | | in order to support an | | | | efficient and effective | | | | re-configuration when a | | | | compensated cell outage | | | | ends. | | | | | | | | Remark: Depending on the | | | | type of outage some | | | | configuration information | | | | may not be available. | | | | | | | | Condition: Continuous | | | | awareness of configuration | | | | information (see optional | | | | assumption above) is not | | | | there. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Step 2 (M) | Reconfiguration of related | | | | neighbouring eNBs to | | | | compensate the cell | | | | outage. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Step 3 (O) | Make changed configuration | | | | which was done for the | | | | Cell Outage Compensation | | | | (see step 2) available to | | | | the IRP Manager | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Ends when | Ends when all steps | | | | identified above are | | | | completed or when an | | | | exception occurs. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Exceptions | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails and | | | | retry is unsuccessful. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Post Conditions | Impact of cell outage on | | | | end user experience is | | | | minimized. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Traceability | | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+
#### 6.4.3.4 Use case Return from Cell Outage Compensation
+--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | **Use Case Stage** | **Evolution / |** \>**| | | Specification** | | | | | **Related use** | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Goal | System returns to normal | | | | operation after a cell | | | | outage compensation | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Actors and Roles | IRPManager | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Telecom resources | The E-UTRAN/EPC network | | | | including its Management | | | | Systems. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Assumptions | The network is properly | | | | installed and running. | | | | | | | | Optional assumption: | | | | IRPManager is continuously | | | | aware of configuration | | | | information and other | | | | relevant data in order to | | | | support an efficient and | | | | effective re-configuration | | | | when a compensated cell | | | | outage ends | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Pre conditions | Cell outage compensation | | | | is applied. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Begins when | End of cell-outage is | | | | announced to the COCF. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Step 1 (M) | System checks if a cell | | | | outage compensation was | | | | done for the ended cell | | | | outage. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Step 2 (CO) | Current configuration | | | | information and other | | | | relevant data are gathered | | | | in order to support an | | | | efficient and effective | | | | re-configuration.\ | | | | Condition: Continuous | | | | awareness of configuration | | | | information (see optional | | | | assumption above) is not | | | | there. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Step 3 (M) | Reconfiguration of related | | | | neighbouring eNBs and | | | | formerly failed cell to | | | | remove compensation of the | | | | cell outage. This should | | | | lead to the same | | | | configuration as before | | | | the cell outage in case | | | | the configuration itself | | | | was not the reason for the | | | | cell outage and in case | | | | the cell neighbourhood, | | | | topology did not change | | | | since the beginning of the | | | | cell outage. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Step 4 (O) | Make changed configuration | | | | after the Cell Outage | | | | available to the IRP | | | | Manager | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Exceptions | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails and | | | | retry is unsuccessful. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Post Conditions | The involved cells are | | | | re-configured. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Traceability | | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+
# 7 Functions and Architecture
## 7.1 Self-healing Logical Architecture
The lines between the functional blocks do not indicate specific 3GPP
interfaces.
For the abbreviations used, please see the headlines of clause 4.
Figure 7.1-1: Self-healing Logical Architecture
## 7.2 Self-healing Reference Model
The SH_MMF has a part located in the EM and a part located at the NM.
For the abbreviations used, please refer to clause 4.
Figure 7.2-1: Self-healing Reference Model
#