# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
32.661 Configuration Management (CM); Kernel CM Requirements
**32.662 Configuration Management (CM); Kernel CM Information Service (IS)**
32.666: Configuration Management (CM); Kernel CM Integration Reference Point
(IRP); Solution Set (SS) definitions
Configuration Management (CM), in general, provides the operator with the
ability to assure correct and effective operation of the 3G network as it
evolves. CM actions have the objective to control and monitor the actual
configuration on the Network Elements (NEs) and Network Resources (NRs), and
they may be initiated by the operator or by functions in the Operations
Systems (OSs) or NEs.
CM actions may be requested as part of an implementation programme (e.g.
additions and deletions), as part of an optimisation programme (e.g.
modifications), and to maintain the overall Quality of Service (QoS). The CM
actions are initiated either as single actions on single NEs of the 3G
network, or as part of a complex procedure involving actions on many
resources/objects in one or several NEs.
# 1 Scope
The present document defines Integration Reference Point (IRP) through which
an \'IRPAgent\' (typically an Element Manager or Network Element) can
communicate Configuration Management related information to one or several
\'IRPManagers\' (typically Network Managers).
The function of this Kernel CM IRP Information Service is to define an
interface that provides the essential CM services. While it is not expected
that the Kernel CM IRP alone will provide adequate CM capability, The Kernel
CM IRP is expected to provide the common supporting capability required for
other IRPs such as the Basic CM IRP or the Bulk CM IRP, each of which require
the Kernel CM IRP.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions, which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.302: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service
(IS)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.312: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Integration
Reference Point (IRP) management; Information Service (IS)\".
[5] Void.
[6] 3GPP TS 32.672: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); State Management Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service
(IS)\".
[7] ITU-T Recommendation X.710 (1997): \"Information technology - Open Systems
Interconnection - Common Management Information Service\".
[8] ITU-T Recommendation X.721 (1992): \"Information technology - Open Systems
Interconnection - Structure of Management Information: Definition of
management information\".
[9] ITU-T Recommendation X.730 (1992): \"Information technology - Open Systems
Interconnection - Systems Management: Object Management Function\".
[10] ITU-T Recommendation X.733 (1992): \"Information technology - Open
Systems\ Interconnection - Systems Management: Alarm reporting function\".
[11] - [12] Void.
[13] 3GPP TS 32.300: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Name convention for Managed Objects\".
[14] 3GPP TS 32.600: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Concept and high-level requirements\".
[15] ITU-T Recommendation X.720: \"Information technology - Open Systems
Interconnection - Structure of management information: Management information
model\".
[16] 3GPP TS 32.623: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Generic network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP): Common
Object Request Broker Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set (SS)\".
[17] 3GPP TS 32.643: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); UTRAN network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP): Common Object
Request Broker Architecture (CORBA) Solution Set (SS)\".
[18] 3GPP TS 32.642: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); UTRAN network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP): Network
Resource Model (NRM)\".
[19] 3GPP TS 32.150: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Concept and definitions\".
[20] 3GPP TS 32.311: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Integration
Reference Point (IRP) management: Requirements.
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply. For terms and definitions not found here, please refer to TS 32.101
[1], TS 32.102 [2] and TS 32.600 [14].
**association:** In general it is used to model relationships between Managed
Objects. Associations can be implemented in several ways, such as:
(1) name bindings,
(2) reference attributes, and
(3) association objects.
This IRP stipulates that containment associations shall be expressed through
name bindings, but it does not stipulate the implementation for other types of
associations as a general rule. These are specified as separate entities in
the object models (UML diagrams). Currently however, all (non-containment)
associations are modelled by means of reference attributes of the
participating MOs.
**Managed Element (ME):** instance of the Managed Object Class
G3ManagedElement
**Managed Object (MO):** In the context of the present document, a Managed
Object (MO) is a software object that encapsulates the manageable
characteristics and behaviour of a particular Network Resource. The MO is
instance of a MO class defined in a MIM/NRM. An MO class has **attributes**
that provide information used to characterize the objects that belong to the
class. Furthermore, an MO class can have **operations** that represent the
behaviour relevant for that class. An MO class may support **notifications**
that provide information about an event occurrence within a network resource.
**Management Information Base (MIB):** A MIB is an instance of an NRM and has
some values on the defined attributes and associations specific for that
instance. In the context of the present document, an MIB consists of:
(1) a Name space (describing the MO containment hierarchy in the MIB through
Distinguished Names),
(2) a number of Managed Objects with their attributes, and
(3) a number of Associations between these MOs. Also note that TMN (ITU-T
Recommendation X.710 [7]) defines a concept of a Management Information Tree
(also known as a Naming Tree) that corresponds to the name space (containment
hierarchy) portion of this MIB definition. Figure 3.1 depicts the
relationships between a Name space and a number of participating MOs (the
shown association is of a non-containment type).
Figure 3.1: Relationships between a Name space and a number of participating
MOs
**Management Information Model (MIM):** Also referred to as NRM -- see the
definition below.
**Name space:** A name space is a collection of names. The IRP name convention
(see TS 32.300 [13]) restricts the name space to a hierarchical containment
structure, including its simplest form - the one-level, flat name space.\ All
Managed Objects in a MIB shall be included in the corresponding name space and
the MIB/name space shall only support a strict hierarchical containment
structure (with one root object). A Managed Object that contains another is
said to be the superior (parent); the contained Managed Object is referred to
as the subordinate (child). The parent of all MOs in a single name space is
called a Local Root. The ultimate parent of all MOs of all managed systems is
called the Global Root.
**Network Resource Model (NRM):** A model representing the actual managed
telecommunications network resources that a System is providing through the
subject IRP. An NRM describes Managed Object Classes, their associations,
attributes and operations. The NRM is also referred to as \"MIM\" (see above),
which originates from the ITU-T TMN.
**Node B:** A logical node responsible for radio transmission/reception in one
or more cells to/from the User Equipment.\ It terminates the Iub interface
towards the RNC.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
CMIS Common Management Information Service
CN Core Network
CORBA Common Object Request Broker Architecture
DN Distinguished Name (see TS 32.300 [13])
EM Element Manager
FM Fault Management
IDL Interface Definition Language
IRP Integration Reference Point
ITU-T International Telecommunication Union, Telecommunication Sector
ME Managed Element
MIB Management Information Base
MIM Management Information Model
MO Managed Object
MOC Managed Object Class
MOI Managed Object Instance
NE Network Element
NM Network Manager
NR Network Resource
NRM Network Resource Model
PM Performance Management
RDN Relative Distinguished Name (see TS 32.300 [13])
SNMP Simple Network Management Protocol
SS Solution Set
TMN Telecommunications Management Network
UML Unified Modelling Language
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System
VSE Vendor Specific Extensions
# 4 System overview
## 4.1 System Context
The general definition of the System Context for the present IRP is found in
3GPP TS 32.150 [19] subclause 4.7.
In addition, the set of related IRP(s) relevant to the present IRP is shown in
the two diagrams below.
Figure 4.1: System Context A
Figure 4.2: System Context B
## 4.2 Compliance rules
For general definitions of compliance rules related to qualifiers
(Mandatory/Optional/Conditional) for _operations_ , _notifications_ _and_
_parameters_ (of operations and notifications) please refer to TS 32.150 [19].
An IRPAgent that incorporates vendor-specific extensions shall support normal
communication with a 3GPP SA5‑compliant IRPManager with respect to all
Mandatory and Optional managed object classes, attributes, associations,
operations, parameters and notifications without requiring the IRPManager to
have any knowledge of the extensions.
Given that
\- rules for vendor-specific extensions remain to be fully specified, and
\- many scenarios under which IRPManager and IRPAgent interwork may exist,
it is recognised that the IRPManager, even though it is not required to have
knowledge of vendor-specific extensions, may be required to be implemented
with an awareness that extensions can exist and behave accordingly.
# 5 Modelling approach
See 3GPP TS 32.150 [19].
# 6 Information Object Classes (IOCs)
## 6.1 Imported Information entities and local labels
* * *
Label reference Local label 32.312 [4], SupportIOC, ManagedGenericIRP
ManagedGenericIRP
* * *
## 6.2 Class diagram
This sub-clause introduces the set of Support Information Object Classes
(SupportIOCs) that encapsulate information within the IRPAgent. The intent is
to identify the information required for the KernelCMIRP Agent implementation
of its operations and notification emission. This sub-clause provides the
overview of all SupportIOCs in UML. Subsequent sub-clauses provide more
detailed specification of various aspects of these SupportIOCs.
### 6.2.1 Attributes and relationships
{width="4.8875in" height="1.76875in"}
### 6.2.2 Inheritance
{width="1.9381944444444446in" height="2.058333333333333in"}
## 6.3 Information Object Class Definitions
### 6.3.1 KernelCmIRP
#### 6.3.1.1 Definition
KernelCMIRP is the representation of the Kernel configuration management
capabilities specified by the present document. This SupportIOC inherits from
ManagedGenericIRP SupportIOC specified in TS 32.312 [4].
### 6.3.2 ManagedEntity
#### 6.3.2.1 Definition
The IOC ManagedEntity represents the role that can be played by an instance of
an IOC defined in Network Resources Models, e.g. Generic Network Resource
Model, Core Network Resource Model, UTRAN Network Resource Model or GERAN
Network Resource Model.
## 6.4 Information relationship definitions
### 6.4.1 containment (M)
#### 6.4.1.1 Definition
This represents the relationship containment as defined in ITU-T
Recommendation X.720 [15].
#### 6.4.1.2 Role
* * *
Name Definition container It represents the capability, for an instance of a
ManagedEntity, to contain other objects. content It represents the capability,
for an instance of a ManagedEntity, to be contained in another object.
* * *
#### 6.4.1.3 Constraint
* * *
Name Definition inv_noSelfContainment No instance of the IOC ManagedEntity can
play both roles container and content in the same instance of the relationship
containment.
* * *
# 7 Interface Definition
## 7.1 Class diagram
{width="6.690277777777778in" height="5.627083333333333in"}
## 7.2 Generic rules
**Rule 1:** Each operation with at least one input parameter supports a pre-
condition valid_input_parameter which indicates that all input parameters
shall be valid with regards to their information type. Additionally, each such
operation supports an exception operation_failed_invalid_input_parameter which
is raised when pre-condition valid_input_parameter is false. The exception has
the same entry and exit state.
**Rule 2:** Each operation with at least one optional input parameter supports
a set of pre-conditions supported_optional_input_parameter_xxx where \"xxx\"
is the name of the optional input parameter and the pre-condition indicates
that the operation supports the named optional input parameter. Additionally,
each such operation supports an exception
operation_failed_unsupported_optional_input_parameter_xxx which is raised when
(a) the pre-condition supported_optional_input_parameter_xxx is false and (b)
the named optional input parameter is carrying information. The exception has
the same entry and exit state.
**Rule 3:** Each operation shall support a generic exception
operation_failed_internal_problem that is raised when an internal problem
occurs and that the operation cannot be completed. The exception has the same
entry and exit state.
## 7.3 Interface KernelCmIRPOperations
### 7.3.1 Operation getNRMIRPVersion (M)
#### 7.3.1.1 Definition
When the IRPManager invokes getNRMIRPVersion to find out the Network Resource
IRP SS document versions (IRPVersions) supported by the IRPAgent, the IRPAgent
shall respond, via the versionNumberList output parameter, with a list of
supported Network Resource IRPversions. The rule for deriving the IRP document
version number string is defined in TS 32.311 [20]. An example of this return
value can contain two IRPVersions, where one indicates the 3GPP Generic
Network Resource IRPVersion (e.g. \"32.623 V4.2\" in case of CORBA
implementation) while the other indicates the 3GPP UTRAN Network Resource
IRPVersion (e.g. \"32.643 V4.1\" in case of CORBA implementation).
It is expected that vendors may provide vendor-specific extended capabilities
and features (VSE) that are based on a 3GPP published specification. It is
further expected that the vendor will publish these VSE in a document with an
unambiguous identification.
If an IRPAgent does not support VSE, the vSEVersionNumberList parameter shall
contain no information.
If an IRPAgent supports VSE, the vSEVersionNumberList parameter shall contain
identification of one or more documents published by the vendor. The
versionNumberList shall contain the IRPVersions indicating the 3GPP Network
Resource IRP specifications on which the VSE is based. The versionNumberList
may only identify IRPVersions that are consistent with the requirements of
clause 4.2 of the present document and similar requirements statements in all
CM and Network Resource IRPs. The convention to identify the vendor-specific
document is not a subject of the present document. It is recommended that the
identification should include (a) the 3GPP IRPVersion on which the VSE is
based (b) the name of the vendor and (c) the identification of the VSE
document and/or its version. The inclusion of the part-(b) is to avoid
possible name conflict in a multi-vendor environment. An example would be
\"32.642 V4.0 Ericsson v.1\". This sample indicates the identification of a
document published by Ericsson that specifies a list of VSE that is based on
the TS 32.642 V4.0.x. Note in this example, the IRPVersion \"32.642 V4.0\"
shall also be present in the versionNumberList.
The lists returned by versionNumberList and vSEVersionNumberList shall not
contain duplicates.
#### 7.3.1.2 Input parameters
None.
#### 7.3.1.3 Output parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment versionNumberList M
ManagedGenericIRP.iRPVersion It carries one or more SS version numbers
supported by this IRP agent. vSEVersionNumberList M
ManagedGenericIRP.iRPVersion It carries one or more identifications of vendor
published documents containing VSE NRMs specifications. status M ENUM
(Operation succeeded, Operation failed) If operation_failed_internal_problem
status = OperationFailed.
* * *
#### 7.3.1.4 Pre-condition
None specific.
#### 7.3.1.5 Post-condition
None specific.
#### 7.3.1.6 Exceptions
None specific.
## 7.4 Interface KernelCmIRPNotifications_1
### 7.4.1 notifyObjectCreation (O)
#### 7.4.1.1 Definition
IRPAgent notifies the subscribed IRPManager that a new Managed Object has been
created and that the new object satisfies the filter constraint expressed in
IRPManager's subscribe operation (see TS 32.302 [3]). This notification is
based on the objectCreation notification type specified in ITU-T
Recommendation X.721 [8] and ITU-T Recommendation X.730 [9] (difference
compared to these specifications are indicated in the description below).
#### 7.4.1.2 Input Parameters
+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Matching | Comment | | | | Information | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | objectClass | M,Y | ManagedEnt | Notification | | | | ity.objectClass | header - see | | | | | [3]. It shall | | | | | carry the | | | | | ManagedEntity | | | | | class name. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | objectInstance | M,Y | ManagedEntity | Notification | | | | .objectInstance | header - see | | | | | [3]. It shall | | | | | carry the DN of | | | | | the | | | | | ManagedEntity. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | notificationId | M,N | -- | Notification | | | | | header - see | | | | | [3]. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | eventTime | M,Y | -- | Notification | | | | | header - see | | | | | [3]. It shall | | | | | carry the | | | | | ManagedEntity | | | | | creation time. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | systemDN | C,Y | -- | Notification | | | | | header - see | | | | | [3]. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | n | M,Y | Mapped to | Notification | | otificationType | | n | header - see | | | | otificationType | [3]. | | | | in [3] -- see | | | | | annex A. | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | correlat | O,N | -- | A set of | | edNotifications | | | notifications | | | | | that are | | | | | correlated to | | | | | the subject | | | | | notification. | | | | | Defined in\ | | | | | ITU-T | | | | | Recommendation | | | | | X.733 [10]. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | additionalText | O,N | -- | It can contain | | | | | further | | | | | information in | | | | | text on the | | | | | creation of the | | | | | MO.\ | | | | | For | | | | | notifications | | | | | with | | | | | sourceIndicator | | | | | =SON_operation | | | | | information | | | | | about the | | | | | involved SON | | | | | functionality | | | | | (like | | | | | self | | | | | -configuration, | | | | | sel | | | | | f-optimization, | | | | | self-healing | | | | | etc.) may be | | | | | added here, if | | | | | available. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | sourceIndicator | O,N | ENUM( | This parameter, | | | | | when present, | | | | Resou | indicates the | | | | rce_operation, | source of the | | | | | operation that | | | | Managem | led to the | | | | ent_operation, | generation of | | | | | this | | | | SON_ope | notification. | | | | ration,Unknown) | It can have one | | | | | of the | | | | | following | | | | | values: | | | | | | | | | | 1. resource | | | | | operation: | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | | notification | | | | | was | | | | | generated | | | | | in response | | | | | to an | | | | | internal | | | | | operation | | | | | of the | | | | | resource; | | | | | | | | | | 2. management | | | | | operation: | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | | notification | | | | | was | | | | | generated | | | | | in response | | | | | to a | | | | | management | | | | | operation | | | | | applied | | | | | across the | | | | | managed | | | | | object | | | | | boundary | | | | | external to | | | | | the managed | | | | | object; | | | | | | | | | | 3. SON | | | | | operation: | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | | notification | | | | | was | | | | | generated | | | | | as result | | | | | of a SON | | | | | (Self | | | | | Organising | | | | | Network) | | | | | process | | | | | like | | | | | self | | | | | -configuration, | | | | | sel | | | | | f-optimization, | | | | | | | | | | self-healing | | | | | etc. . | | | | | | | | | | 4. unknown: It | | | | | is not | | | | | possible to | | | | | determine | | | | | the source | | | | | of the | | | | | operation. | | | | | | | | | | Remark: An | | | | | IRPAgent may | | | | | not in any case | | | | | be aware that | | | | | SON operation | | | | | lead to the | | | | | generation of | | | | | this | | | | | generation. In | | | | | this case | | | | | another value | | | | | than | | | | | SON_operation | | | | | for | | | | | sourceIndicator | | | | | might be sent. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | attributeList | O,N | LIST OF | The attributes | | | | SEQUENCE | (name/value | | | | \ | pairs) of the | | | |  | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 7.4.1.3 Triggering Event
##### 7.4.1.3.1 From-state
stateBeforeObjectCreation.
* * *
Assertion Name Definition stateBeforeObjectCreation The number of instances of
the IOC ManagedEntity is equal to N.
* * *
##### 7.4.1.3.2 To-state
stateAfterObjectCreation.
* * *
Assertion Name Definition stateAfterObjectCreation The number of instances of
the IOC ManagedEntity is equal to N + 1.
* * *
## 7.5 Interface KernelCmIRPNotifications_2
### 7.5.1 notifyObjectDeletion (O)
#### 7.5.1.1 Definition
IRPAgent notifies the subscribed IRPManager of a deleted Managed Object. The
IRPAgent invokes this notification because the subject notification satisfies
the filter constraint expressed in the IRPManager subscribe operation (see TS
32.302 [3]). This notification is based on the objectDeletion notification
type specified in ITU-T Recommendation X.721 [8] and ITU-T Recommendation
X.730 [9] (difference compared to these specifications are indicated in the
description below).
Note that when a Managed Object is deleted, all subordinate Managed Objects
(i.e. the complete sub-tree of the MIB) are also deleted. Furthermore, all
associations where the Managed Object participates are deleted.
#### 7.5.1.2 Input Parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment objectClass M,Y
ManagedEntity.objectClass See Table 7.4.1.2. objectInstance M,Y
ManagedEntity.objectInstance See Table 7.4.1.2. notificationId M,N -- See
Table 7.4.1.2. eventTime M,Y -- Notification header -- see [3]. It shall carry
the ManagedEntity deletion time. systemDN C,Y -- See Table 7.4.1.2.
notificationType M,Y Mapped to notificationType in [3] -- see annex A. See
Table 7.4.1.2. correlatedNotifications O,N -- See Table 7.4.1.2.
additionalText O,N -- See Table 7.4.1.2. sourceIndicator O,N See Table
7.4.1.2. See Table 7.4.1.2. attributeList O,N LIST OF SEQUENCE
\ The attributes (name/value pairs) of the
deleted MO.
* * *
#### 7.5.1.3 Triggering Event
##### 7.5.1.3.1 From-state
stateBeforeObjectDeletion.
* * *
Assertion Name Definition StateBeforeObjectDeletion The number of instances of
the IOC ManagedEntity is equal to N.
* * *
##### 7.5.1.3.2 To-state
stateAfterObjectDeletion.
* * *
Assertion Name Definition stateAfterObjectDeletion The number of instances of
the IOC ManagedEntity is equal to N - 1.
* * *
## 7.6 Interface KernelCmIRPNotifications_3
### 7.6.1 notifyAttributeValueChange (O)
#### 7.6.6.1 Definition
IRPAgent notifies the subscribed IRPManager of a change of one or several
attributes of a Managed Object in the NRM. The IRPAgent invokes this
notification because the subject notification satisfies the filter constraint
expressed in the IRPManager subscribe operation (see TS 32.302 [3]). This
notification is based on the attributeValueChange notification type specified
in ITU-T Recommendation X.721 [8] and ITU-T Recommendation X.730 [9]
(difference compared to these specifications are indicated in the following
table).
#### 7.6.6.2 Input Parameters
+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Matching | Comment | | | | Information | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | objectClass | M,Y | ManagedEnt | See Table | | | | ity.objectClass | 7.4.1.2. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | objectInstance | M,Y | ManagedEntity | See Table | | | | .objectInstance | 7.4.1.2. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | notificationId | M,N | -- | See Table | | | | | 7.4.1.2. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | eventTime | M,Y | -- | Notification | | | | | header - see | | | | | [3]. It shall | | | | | carry the | | | | | attribute(s) | | | | | value(s) | | | | | changed time. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | systemDN | C,Y | -- | See Table | | | | | 7.4.1.2. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | n | M,Y | Mapped to | See Table | | otificationType | | n | 7.4.1.2. | | | | otificationType | | | | | in [3] -- see | | | | | annex A. | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | correlat | O,N | -- | See Table | | edNotifications | | | 7.4.1.2. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | additionalText | O,N | -- | See Table | | | | | 7.4.1.2. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | sourceIndicator | O,N | See Table | See Table | | | | 7.4.1.2. | 7.4.1.2. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | attri | M,N | LIST OF | The changed | | buteValueChange | | SEQUENCE | attributes | | | | \ | (name/value | | | |  | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 7.6.6.3 Triggering Event
##### 7.6.6.3.1 From-state
stateBeforeAttributeValueChange.
* * *
Assertion Name Definition stateBeforeAttributeValueChange The subject
attribute has a value at time T1.
* * *
##### 7.6.6.3.2 To-state
stateAfterAttributeValueChange.
* * *
Assertion Name Definition stateAfterAttributeValueChange The subject attribute
has been changed to a value other than the value at time T1.
* * *
## 7.7 Interface KernelCmIRPNotifications_4
### 7.7.1 notifyCMSynchronizationRecommended (O)
#### 7.7.1.1 Definition
IRPAgent notifies the subscribed IRPManager that part of or whole
configuration information of the IRPAgent should be synchronized.
The configuration information may lose consistency between IPRAgent and
IRPManager for several reasons, such as communication failure, NE or EM
restarting/initialisation, new network elements being added into networks,
etc. In such cases, the configuration information should be synchronized
between IRPManager and IRPAgent. Normally, when there are changes in IRPAgent,
these changes are sent to IRPManager through notifications like
\"notifyObjectCreation\", \"notifyObjectDeletion\" or
\"notifyObjectAttributeValueChange\". If there are large changes generated in
the network, it may be inefficient to send lots of notifications to IRPManager
through Itf-N. The notification \"notifyCMSynchronizationRecommended\" is used
in this case to efficiently inform the IRPManager of large changes in CM.
In all cases, the baseMOClass, baseMOInstance and scope parameters specify the
set of managed network resources whose information should be synchronized.
The recommendation is to send only this notifyCMSynchronizationRecommended
notification in such event as described above, but there is no guarantee that
the IRPAgent succeeds in suppressing all the other CM notifications related to
MOs defined by the baseMOClass, baseMOInstance and scope parameters.
If the IRPAgent suppresses any of \"notifyObjectCreation\",
\"notifyObjectDeletion\" or \"notifyObjectAttributeValueChange\", the
IRPManager must subscribe the \"notifyCMSynchronizationRecommended\" in order
to be aware of the changes.
Whenever notifications are suppressed, \"notifyCMSynchronizationRecommended\"
must follow as early as possible.
#### 7.7.1.2 Input Parameters
+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Matching | Comment | | | | Information | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | objectClass | M,Y | KernelCM | Notification | | | | IRP.objectClass | header - see | | | | | [3]. It shall | | | | | carry the | | | | | KernelCMIRP | | | | | class name. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | objectInstance | M,Y | KernelCMIRP | Notification | | | | .objectInstance | header - see | | | | | [3]. It shall | | | | | carry the DN of | | | | | the KernelCMIRP | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | notificationId | M,N | -- | See Table | | | | | 7.4.1.2. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | eventTime | M,Y | -- | Notification | | | | | header - see | | | | | [3]. It shall | | | | | carry the time | | | | | when | | | | | KernelCMIRP is | | | | | recommending | | | | | s | | | | | ynchronization. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | systemDN | C,Y | -- | See Table | | | | | 7.4.1.2. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | n | M,Y | Mapped to | See Table | | otificationType | | n | 7.4.1.2. | | | | otificationType | | | | | in [3] -- see | | | | | annex A | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | baseMOClass | M,N | -- | It specifies | | | | | the class of | | | | | the root | | | | | managed entity | | | | | of a whole | | | | | subtree, of | | | | | which the | | | | | configuration | | | | | information | | | | | should be | | | | | synchronized by | | | | | NM. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | baseMOInstance | M,N | -- | It specifies | | | | | the root | | | | | managed entity | | | | | of a whole | | | | | subtree, of | | | | | which the | | | | | configuration | | | | | information | | | | | should be | | | | | synchronized by | | | | | NM. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | scope | M,N | enum ScopeType | The scope | | | | | specifies the | | | | { | number of | | | | | levels in the | | | | BASE_ONLY, | tree below the | | | | | baseMOinstance | | | | BA | which are | | | | SE_NTH_LEVEL, | affected by | | | | | this | | | | BASE_SUBTREE, | notification. | | | | | | | | | BASE_ALL | | | | | | | | | | }; | | | | | | | | | | struct | | | | | ScopePara | | | | | | | | | | { | | | | | | | | | | ScopeType type; | | | | | | | | | | unsigned long | | | | | level; | | | | | | | | | | }; | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | additionalText | O,N | -- | It can contain | | | | | further | | | | | information in | | | | | text on this | | | | | notification. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 7.7.1.3 Triggering Event
##### 7.7.1.3.1 From-state
iRPAgentInitialisation OR largeChangesDetected
* * *
Assertion Name Definition iRPAgentInitialisation The IPRAgent begins its
internal initialisation and subsequently requires synchronization with the
network resources. largeChangesDetected The IRPAgent has detected that large
changes has taken place in the network, which requires synchronization with
the network resources.
* * *
##### 7.7.1.3.2 To-state
iRPAgentSuccessEmitNotification
* * *
Assertion Name Definition iRPAgentSuccessEmitNotification IRPAgent finished
emitting notifyCMSynchronizationRecommended notification.
* * *
## 7.8 Interface KernelCmIRPNotifications_5
### 7.8.1 notifyStateChange (O)
#### 7.8.1.1 Definition
IRPAgent notifies the subscribed IRPManager of a change of state and or status
of a Managed Object in the NRM.\ The IRPAgent invokes this notification
because the subject notification satisfies the filter constraint expressed in
the IRPManager subscribe operation (see 3GPP TS 32.302 [3]).
This notification is in part based on the stateChange notification type
specified in ITU-T Recommendation X.721 [8] and using state management
definitions from 3GPP TS 32.672 [6].
#### 7.8.1.2 Input parameters
+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter Name | Qualifier | Matching | Comment | | | | Information | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | objectClass | M,Y | ManagedEnt | See Table | | | | ity.objectClass | 7.4.1.2. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | objectInstance | M,Y | ManagedEntity | See Table | | | | .objectInstance | 7.4.1.2. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | notificationId | M, N | -- | See Table | | | | | 7.4.1.2. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | eventTime | M,Y | -- | Notification | | | | | header - see | | | | | [3]. It shall | | | | | carry the | | | | | ManagedEntity | | | | | state changed | | | | | time. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | systemDN | C,Y | -- | See Table | | | | | 7.4.1.2. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | n | M,Y | Mapped to | See Table | | otificationType | | n | 7.4.1.2. | | | | otificationType | | | | | in [3] -- see | | | | | annex A | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | stateChange | M,N | LIST OF | The changed | | | | SEQUENCE | state values | | | | | (name/value | | | | \ | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | correlat | O,N | -- | See Table | | edNotifications | | | 7.4.1.2. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | additionalText | O,N | -- | It can contain | | | | | further | | | | | information in | | | | | text on the | | | | | attribute | | | | | change of the | | | | | MO. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | sourceIndicator | O,N | See Table | See Table | | | | 7.4.1.2 | 7.4.1.2. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 7.8.1.3 Triggering Event
##### 7.8.1.3.1 From-state
stateBeforeStateChange.
* * *
Assertion Name Definition stateBeforeStateChange The subject attribute has a
value at time T1.
* * *
##### 7.8.1.3.2 To-state
stateAfterStateChange.
* * *
Assertion Name Definition stateAfterStateChange The subject attribute has been
changed to a value other than the value at time T1.
* * *
###### ## Annex A (normative): Notification/Event Types
The Notification IRP: Information Service (3GPP TS 32.302 [3]) defines an
attribute called notificationType that shall be present in all notifications.
The present document defines an attribute called eventType that shall be
present in all CM notifications defined herein. The mapping of this eventType
to the notificationType is that they are semantically equal for the CM
notifications. Thus, the event types described below shall be mapped to the
notificationType of the notification header.
This annex lists and explains Event Types used by Kernel CM IRP and then lists
the Event Types valid for each notification in this IRP.
Encoding of eventType is Solution Set dependent. For example, the value of
eventType may be encoded as a numeric string in the CORBA SS.
The following tables may be extended in the future.
Table A.1: Event Types
* * *
Event Types Explanation Object creation A notification of this type indicates
that a new managed object instance has been created (as defined in ITU-T
Recommendation X.721 [8] and ITU-T X.730 [9]). Object deletion A notification
of this type indicates that a managed object instance has been deleted (as
defined in ITU-T Recommendation X.721 [8] and ITU-T Recommendation X.730 [9]).
Attribute value change A notification of this type indicates that the value(s)
of one or more attributes have changed (as defined in ITU-T Recommendation
X.721 [8] and ITU-T Recommendation X.730 [9]). CM synchronization recommended
A notification of this type informs NM that part of or the whole configuration
information of the managed system should be synchronized. State change A
notification of this type indicates that the state and/or status of a managed
object instance have changed (in part based on definitions from X.721 [8] and
using state/status definitions from 3GPP TS 32.672 [6]).
* * *
Table A.2: Event types applicable to each Notification
* * *
Notification Event Type notifyObjectCreation Object creation
notifyObjectDeletion Object deletion notifyAttributeValueChange Attribute
value change notifyCMSynchronizationRecommended CM synchronization recommended
notifyStateChange State change
* * *
#