# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
Heterogeneous Network is a collective term for a network comprising radio
nodes of varying sizes and roles, from small base station nodes to big macro
base station nodes. The purpose of using a heterogeneous network is to improve
capacity and/or coverage, and to allow a variation of role over time for some
of the nodes in order to optimize the overall performance.
Also small base station nodes may perform two roles and may switch role as
necessary:
\- acting as a coverage extender, most likely resulting in low traffic volumes
in the node
\- acting as a capacity booster, most likely resulting in high traffic volumes
in the node
As the number of nodes to be managed will increase significantly by
introducing small base station nodes, the management of the network must
change.
Because of the large number of small base stations, it is essential to
minimize the set of configuration parameters. It is also desirable to minimize
the set of configuration parameters for the macro base stations. This means
that there is no difference from minimization of configuration point of view
for managing small or large base stations.
Because a significant proportion of the network traffic will be carried by
small base stations, the need for providing alarms and network KPIs are the
same for small base stations as for big macro base stations. So also from PM
and FM point of view there is no difference on the type of information that
needs to be managed depending on the size of the base station.
What needs to change is the volume of data that needs to be decreased over
Itf-N. However, some base stations are more important to be managed in real
time. In order to keep CAPEX and OPEX down, it must be possible to choose how
the management info is propagated to the NMS. Different criteria can be used
to have all information on line (as before), to only get information when the
manager requests it, or something in between.
# 1 Scope
The present document investigates and makes recommendations on how management
information can be selected by the manager over Itf-N for heterogeneous
networks (see TR 21.905 [1]) nodes that are owned, deployed and maintained by
the operator.
The nodes that are owned, deployed or maintained by residential users are out
of scope of the present document, such as Home NodeBs, Home eNodeBs.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 36.932: \"Scenarios and requirements of small cell enhancements
for E-UTRA and E-UTRAN\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.451 Key Performance Indicators (KPI) for Evolved Universal
Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN); Requirements.
[4] 3GPP TS 32.450 Key Performance Indicators (KPI) for Evolved Universal
Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN): Definitions.
[5] 3GPP TS 32.410 Key Performance Indicators (KPI) for UMTS and GSM.
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
Active mode: Information passes Itf-N when the IRPAgent or the IRPManager have
something to communicate.
Passive mode: No information passes the Itf-N unless when the IRPManager has
requested it.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
None.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
BS Base Station
CAPEX Capital Expenditures
ES Energy Saving
FM Fault Management
HetNet Heterogeneous Network
KPI Key Performance Indicator
LTE Long Term Evolution
NE Network Element
O&M Operation and Maintenance
OPEX Operational Expenditures
PM Performance Management
# 4 Concept
## 4.1 Deployment Scenarios
### 4.1.0 General
A Heterogeneous Network consists of different types of Base Stations (BSs),
supporting cells such as macro, micro and pico cells. These types of BSs will
be mixed in an operating network.
### 4.1.1 Small cell deployment scenarios
Heterogeneous networks management should consider cells in a heterogeneous
network, including small cells both with and without macro coverage, both
outdoor and indoor small cell deployments and both sparse and dense small cell
deployments. (See Figure 4.1-1)
{width="5.904861111111111in" height="2.282638888888889in"}
NOTE 1: F1 and F2 are the carrier frequency for macro layer and local-node
layer, respectively
Figure 4.1-1: Deployment scenarios of small cell
### 4.1.2 With and without macro coverage
Two typical HetNet small cell deployment scenarios are shown in Figure 4.1-1.
1) For capacity: Small cell nodes are deployed under the coverage of one or
more than one overlaid macro cell layer(s) to act as capacity booster.
2) For coverage: Small cell nodes are not deployed under the coverage of any
overlaid macro cell layer(s) to act as coverage extender.
### 4.1.3 Outdoor and indoor
HetNet management should consider both outdoor and indoor small cell
deployments. The small cell nodes could be deployed indoors or outdoors, and
in either case could provide service to indoor or outdoor UEs.
### 4.1.4 Sparse and dense
HetNet management should consider sparse and dense small cell deployments. As
documented in TR 36.932 [2], in some scenarios (e.g., hotspot indoor/outdoor
places, etc.), single or a few small cell node(s) are sparsely deployed, e.g.
to cover the hotspot(s). Meanwhile, in some scenarios (e.g., dense urban,
large shopping mall, etc.), a lot of small cell nodes are densely deployed to
support huge traffic over a relatively wide area covered by the small cell
nodes. The coverage of the small cell layer is generally discontinuous between
different hotspot areas. Each hotspot area can be covered by a group of small
cells, i.e. a small cell cluster.
# 5 Use Cases
1) A Mobile Network Operator needs to extend network capacity and coverage.
The Mobile Network Operator accomplishes this by adding small nodes to the
network.
2) A Mobile Network Operator wishes to add small nodes to the network, but is
constrained by the fact that extra personnel are not available to install the
small nodes. The Mobile Network Operator accomplishes this by allowing
customers to install the small nodes and connect the small nodes to the
network. The small nodes are automatically configured.
3) A Mobile Network Operator adds small nodes to the network, but is
constrained by the fact that extra personnel are not available to maintain the
small nodes. The Mobile Network Operator accomplishes this by using automated
processes to manage the small nodes and to attempt to heal any faults.
4) A Mobile Network Operator adds small nodes to the network, but cannot
justify collecting all the available data from the small nodes for reasons of
bandwidth, OPEX and CAPEX. The Mobile Network Operator selects the degree of
information that shall be provided by the small nodes, by using O&M policies.
5) A Mobile Network Operator designates a cell as important. This may be based
upon factors such as lack of overlay coverage, high traffic levels, or high
revenue. The Mobile Network Operator configures active mode for this cell.
6) A Mobile Network Operator designates a cell as not important. This may be
based upon factors such as overlay coverage, low traffic levels, or low
revenue. The Mobile Network Operator configures passive mode for this cell.
7) The importance of a cell may vary. At certain times, the cell may carry a
lot of traffic, and therefore faults should be fixed as soon as possible. At
these times, active mode is suitable. At other times, the cell may carry
almost no traffic, and therefore faults do not need to be fixed immediately.
At these times, passive mode is suitable. An automated system configures
active or passive mode for this cell.
# 6 Potential requirements
## 6.1 Business level requirements
Operators should be able to manage a much larger network than today with the
same number of personnel.
Operators should be able to manage a much larger network with same amount of
performance data, even though the number of nodes has increased significantly.
## 6.2 Specification level requirements
The IRPAgent should support different modes of operation, e.g. different
active modes and possibly passive mode, according to IRPManager policies on
the node/cell level.
The IRPAgent should support the capability to allow the IRPManager to create,
change and delete policies. On demand policies may include the objects (node
or cell), time period for the node or cell to be in the passive mode and data
filter for the IRPManager (e.g. for notifications or performance
measurements).
The IRPAgent should support the capability to allow the IRPManager to get data
(e.g. notifications or performance measurements) from the objects (node or
cell) when needed.
# 7 Management solutions
## 7.1 On demand Management
In large networks, it is not practical to let the IRPAgents push all data to
the IRPManager. The data may be performance data, trace data, notification log
data and notifications carrying alarms and configuration data. Therefore, some
IRPAgents may be instructed not to push data to the IRPManager. Instead, the
IRPManager pulls data selectively as necessary.
The 3GPP Alarm IRP allows the IRPManager to avoid the use of notifications.
The IRPManager may read the current alarm list from the IRPAgent.
The 3GPP Notification IRP allows the IRPManager to enable and disable the
sending of notifications. Currently there is no mechanism in the 3GPP
Notification IRP to fetch the notifications from the IRPAgent.
The 3GPP Notification Log IRP allows the IRPManager to fetch the notification
log data from the IRPAgent.
The 3GPP Performance Management IRP allows the IRPManager to enable and
disable the sending of measurements from the IRPAgent. Currently there is no
mechanism in the 3GPP Performance Management IRP to fetch the measurements
from the IRPAgent.
## 7.2 Classification of importance
### 7.2.1 Background
The traditional network management paradigm treats all nodes and all cells as
equally important. As the size of the network increases, these traditional
assumptions become less relevant. In a heterogeneous network, the variety of
types of nodes and variety of sizes of cells will force the traditional
assumptions to be questioned, as the number of nodes will increase
tremendously. That may lead to the Network Manager (or the operator
technicians) being overloaded or that more operator technicians must be
employed to manage the network.
In a large network, the operator may need to evaluate which nodes or cells are
most important. It is simply not practical to allocate equal resources to
manage each node or cell. This is not a unique problem for heterogeneous
networks, it is just that the need for prioritisation becomes more visible in
a heterogeneous network.
For an operator to allocate management resources within the network, the
operator must evaluate the importance of each node or cell in the network. The
importance of each node or cell means different things to each operator. The
importance may be based upon positive values (such as the revenue generated by
the cell) or negative values (such as lack of coverage caused by a cell
outage).
Each operator should have the freedom to define the importance of each managed
entity according to the operator's own values.
It should be noted that the importance of a node or cell may be unrelated to
the size of the node or cell.
In a large network, the results of the importance evaluation for each node or
cell such as absolute value or relative value of "importance" may change over
time either predictably or unpredictably. The cause of such changes could be
periodic changes in traffic levels and patterns (e.g. time of day, day of the
week, event based), instantaneous changes in coverage (e.g. deployment of new
nodes, compensated and uncompensated outages), short term trends in user
demands (e.g. VIP visits, promotional campaigns), long term trends in user
demands (e.g. new applications with higher data requirements, growth of the
user population), etc...
Static allocation of importance values may potentially degrade network
performance and availability or result in waste of management resources and
reduced savings in OPEX. Periodic manual re-evaluation of importance values
may consume significant management resources. Dynamic allocation of importance
values based on operator specified set of Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)
should also be considered.
### 7.2.2 Analysis
#### 7.2.2.1 Definition of solutions
In a large network, it is not practical for the operator to always manually
evaluate the importance of each node or cell in the network. Therefore, some
automated process is probably required to evaluate the importance of each node
or cell.
This automated process shall use evaluation criteria to evaluate a node or
cell's importance. There are 3 general architectures to allocate
responsibility between the IRPManager and the IRPAgent.
Solution 1: The evaluation criteria of the node/cell's importance are created
and used by the IRPManager.
Solution 2: The evaluation criteria of the node/cell's importance are created
by the IRPManager but are used by the IRPAgent.
Solution 3: The evaluation criteria of the node/cell's importance are created
and used by the IRPAgent.
#### 7.2.2.2 Solution 1
Solution 1 has the advantage that the result is more predictable, from the
perspective of the IRPManager. The IRPManager has a finite set of resources
(human and computational) available to manage the network. In solution 1, the
IRPManager can set the relative importance of nodes/cells to ensure that the
management resources are fully utilised but not overloaded. In solution 2 and
3, the IRPAgents may classify a suitable amount of nodes/cells as important,
or may classify too few nodes/cells as important resulting in under-
utilisation of management resources, or may classify too many nodes/cells as
important resulting in overload of management resources. Solution 1 also has
the advantage that the importance of the cell can be something that is
unrelated to the normal network data, e.g. that the cell is supporting a
company with VIP subscription. The evaluation criteria can be done by the
operator technicians and/or the radio planning tool.
The solution 1 supports the use cases 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7.
#### 7.2.2.3 Solution 2
Solution 2 has the advantage that in a heterogeneous network, due to the huge
amount of heterogeneous nodes, it is better to avoid the situation of bottle-
neck handling in configuration management for the decision point, in a
situation where a cell's importance varies dynamically according to some
dynamic mode evaluation criteria. Compared with the IRPManager, the IRPAgent
may be a better candidate for decision point, since its location is near to
the network elements and will not be overloaded in dynamically adjusting the
cell's importance in its domain. The cell's importance result (based on
dynamic mode criteria) may be notified to the IRPManager, but should not be
predicted by the IRPManager in advance.
The details of how to do evaluation criteria work in the IRPAgent are FFS.
The solution 2 supports the use case 7 and the first sentence of use case 4.
#### 7.2.2.4 Solution 3
No justification exists for this solution.
#### 7.2.2.5 Comparison between solution 1 and 2
The evaluation criteria of a node or cell's importance can be grouped into the
following categories:
a) Static mode evaluation criteria
The static mode evaluation criteria are mostly created from the global view or
high level of the network in a pre-planning way. When the cell's importance is
determined by using the static mode evaluation criteria, the cell can keep the
importance for a relatively long duration (e.g. a few weeks or months). The
examples of static mode evaluation criteria may include:
> \- Revenue generated by the cell
>
> \- Distribution of VIP users
>
> \- Deployment role of the cell
b) Dynamic mode evaluation criteria
Dynamic mode evaluation criteria bring more opportunities to change a cell's
importance during the operational phase. Generally, the time between a cell's
importance updates can be shortened significantly (e.g. to a few hours or
days). The dynamic mode evaluation criteria are foreseen to be strongly
correlated to the operational indicators of a cell. Some operational
indicators which may be used to determine a cell's importance dynamically
include:
  * Operational status of a cell, such as energySaving state, cell outage state, or other cell states identified for the SON coordination purpose. For example, when a cell is in energySaving state, it should consume less management resources and then be regarded as unimportant in this sleeping phase. However, in another similar scenario, when the cell is in an outage status, the importance of the cell should be improved to get more management resources to detect the root cause of the outage.
## 7.3 Policy-based management
In a policy-based group management system, the operator defines groups of
managed entities with operator-selected characteristics. The operator may set
a policy describing how each group should be managed. Considering the
different managed entities in HetNet, i.e., different types of Base Stations
(BSs) and different supporting cells such as macro, micro and pico cells, the
policy-based group management includes cell group management. The cell group
management includes management of cell group and management of cells in each
cell group.
Heterogeneous networks management should consider cells in a heterogeneous
network, including small cells both with and without macro coverage, both
outdoor and indoor small cell deployments and both sparse and dense small cell
deployments (See Figure 4.1-1). With this consideration, there could be
different cell grouping policies that would lead to different cell groups
results. Using figure 7.3-1 as an example of HetNet cell deployment, there
could be different cell grouping results (see Table 7.3-1) according to
different cell grouping criteria such as coverage area, capacity, services
provided or importance of cells.
Figure 7.3-1: Cell deployment example
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Cell Grouping |** Cell Grouping | **Note** | | Criteria**| Result** | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Coverage | Cell group 1 which | To extend the | | | includes macro cell | coverage of small | | | 1, small cell 1 and | cell 1 and small | | | small cell 2; | cell 2, macro cell 1 | | | | is deployed, so | | | Cell group 2 which | macro cell 1, small | | | includes macro cell | cell 1 and small | | | 3 and small cell 3. | cell 2 are grouped | | | | together in the same | | | | cell group, i.e., | | | | cell group 1; | | | | | | | | Similar, small cell | | | | 3 and macro cell 3 | | | | are grouped in | | | | another cell group, | | | | i.e., cell group 2. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Capacity | Cell group 1 which | There are hot spots | | | includes small cell | in the areas covered | | | 1, small cell 2 and | by macro cell 1 and | | | small cell 3. | macro cell 3, to | | | | boost the capacity | | | | of these hot spot | | | | areas, small cell 1, | | | | small cell 2 and | | | | small cell 3 are | | | | deployed in those | | | | hot spot areas, so | | | | these small cells | | | | are grouped together | | | | in a same cell | | | | group, i.e., cell | | | | group 1. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
Table 7.3-1: Cell grouping result example
Policy-based group management would reduce the amount of configuration data to
be managed by the IRPManager. The IRPManager would only need to set the
configuration data (i.e. management policy) for each group.
For the policy-based management, there are two kinds of policy: grouping
policy and management policy.
1) Grouping policy
The grouping policy defines how the Cells are grouped into different groups.
The policy allocation should support a mechanism where an operator may specify
a set of Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) and their thresholds as criteria
for allocating Cell to a particular management group managed by a common
policy. The mechanism may be implemented as a rule set or as a grouping
policy. The Cells will be allocated to specific groups not only by the
"importance" parameter manually configured by the operator, but also by
evaluating the important operational indicators such as amount of carried
traffic, number of served UEs, number of incoming and outgoing handovers,
presence of VIP users, call failure rates, state of energy savings (ES)
algorithm on the NE and neighbouring NEs, coverage area information, base
station type, etc. The KPIs or operational indicators will be re-evaluated
periodically and Cells may change their management group assignments
accordingly.
2) Management policy
The management policy defines how the Cells in one group should be managed.
Each group may have one assigned management policy. The management policy
defines management parameters for each group, the management parameters may
include PM data reporting interval, etc.
## 7.4 Reduction of management data
### 7.4.1 Filtering
The quantity of management data may be reduced by filtering performance data,
trace data and notifications carrying alarms and configuration data over
Itf-N.
The 3GPP Performance Management IRP allows the IRP Manager to specify exactly
which Measurement Families, Measurement Types or subcounters should be
collected.
The 3GPP Trace IRP allows the IRPManager to specify exactly in which area
scope trace data shall be collected.
The 3GPP Alarm IRP allows filtering of alarm lists, alarm counts and alarm-
related notifications.
The 3GPP Notification IRP allows filtering of subscribed notifications.
### 7.4.2 Aggregation
The quantity of management data may be reduced by aggregating alarms and
performance data.
### 7.4.3 Probabilistic management
A group of NEs with similar characteristics (e.g. deployed in the same area,
similar priorities) in specific Use Cases can reduce the overall amount of
alarms and performance data by applying probabilistic approach to decide which
particular group member(s) shall report particular management information.
### 7.4.4 Reduction of PM data
The overall amount of PM data for a cell may be reduced by use of longer PM
collection and reporting intervals.
For such less frequently reported PM data, its usefulness for management and
optimization decisions at the Network Management level may be improved by also
reporting locally predicted performance measurement trends (e.g. rate of
change, direction of change, prediction confidence level).\ The specific
solution details require additional investigation.
The amount of transferred PM data related to some of the KPIs defined in ref
[3] to [5] can be reduced if the KPIs, as an alternative to be calculated
above Itf-N, are calculated below Itf-N, as follows:
  * If a KPI is calculated by an entity below Itf-N, it is not necessary to always transfer some or all of the individual counter values related to the KPI formula over Itf-N with the calculated KPI.
  * From the set of KPIs that can be calculated below Itf-N, the operator should be able to select KPIs to be calculated below and transferred across Itf-N.
  * For KPIs selected to be calculated below and transferred across Itf-N, the operator should be able to select individual counter values (a subset or all of the counter values related to the KPI formula) to be transferred across Itf-N with the calculated KPI.
  * In the case where the calculated KPI and all the individual counter values need to be transferred, there will not be any reduction of the total amount of transferred PM data.
  * The mechanisms to select KPIs to be calculated below and transferred across Itf-N are for further study. Possibly, PM IRP can be used to support these mechanisms. This is for further study.
## 7.5 Self-configuration
As the number of managed nodes increases, it is not practical to plan and
configure each node individually. As a long-term goal, it should be possible
to have a node delivered directly from a factory to the site and the node
should be automatically configured to begin operation within the network.
For this long-term goal to become a reality, the following issues must be
solved:
\- Only legitimate equipment should be connected to the operator's network.
\- The operator's equipment cannot be moved to another operator's network.
\- Newly-connected radio equipment must not degrade performance of
neighbouring cells.
These issues should be investigated in a separate plug-and-play study because
they have very little relevance for Itf-N. However, Itf-N may be used by the
operator to check that the self-configuration process has been completed
successfully. In particular, the Inventory Management IRP will be essential to
allow verification that the newly-installed equipment has the correct
hardware, software, and licenses.
## 7.6 Self-healing
In a large network, it is essential that faults should be resolved
automatically if possible.
Nodes should be capable of restarting automatically in case of failure. In
case of failure, the nodes should be able to fallback to a previous
configuration or perform a factory reset.
The network should be tolerant of node failures. Existing 3GPP Itf-N features
"Cell Outage Detection" and "Cell Outage Compensation" may be used.
## 7.7 Self-optimization
As the number of nodes to be managed will increase significantly by
introducing large quantity of base station nodes, the optimization of the
network should be done automatically as much as possible.
A network should be capable of optimizing automatically to improve capacity
and/or coverage, and to optimize the overall network performance under the
condition that the roles of some of the nodes could change over time.
Besides the traditional self-optimization features (HO parameter Optimization,
Load Balancing Optimization, Capacity and Coverage Optimization, RACH
Optimization and Inter Cell Interference Coordination), the management of
enhanced Inter-Cell Interference Coordination (eICIC), which specifically
considers HetNet interference scenarios, should be investigated in the scope
of self-optimization with the aim of reduction of management.
# 8 Conclusions and recommendations
## 8.1 Classification of importance
As the use cases supported by solution 1 are a superset of the use cases
supported by solution 2 and 3, the solution 1 is recommended.
## 8.2 Reduction of management data
### 8.2.1 Aggregation
The concept is rather interesting but due to lack of contributions, it is not
possible to make any detailed recommendation.
### 8.2.2 Probabilistic management
The concept is rather interesting but due to lack of contributions, it is not
possible to make any detailed recommendation.
### 8.2.3 Reduction of PM data
The overall amount of PM data for a cell may be reduced by use of longer PM
collection and reporting intervals.
A recommended way to reduce the amount of PM data (related to some KPIs)
transferred over Itf-N, is to calculate KPIs below and transfer across Itf-N
without transferring all or some of the individual counter values related to
the KPI formula.
## 8.3 Self-configuration
The concept is rather interesting but due to lack of contributions, it is not
possible to make any detailed recommendation.
## 8.4 Self-healing
The concept is rather interesting but due to lack of contributions, it is not
possible to make any detailed recommendation.
## 8.5 Self-optimization
The concept is rather interesting but due to lack of contributions, it is not
possible to make any detailed recommendation.
#