# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
Optimization of the coverage and capacity performance of the network
represents an important Self-Organizing Networks (SON) use case, which
requires appropriate support functions in the 3GPP specifications.\ The
present document studies Network Management (NM) centralized Coverage and
Capacity Optimization (CCO) SON function with the focus on necessary support
in the 3GPP specifications.
The NM centralized CCO function would help operators in reducing OPEX related
to the maintenance and optimization of network coverage and capacity by
automating these functions.\ NM centralized CCO function would observe network
coverage and capacity performance, automatically detect problems and intervene
with necessary actions or raise a notification toward the operator, when
operator action is needed.
# 1 Scope
The present document summarizes the result of the study on \"Enhanced Network
Management (NM) centralized Coverage and Capacity Optimization\".
A CCO function that resides outside the NM is out of the scope for this study.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 37.320: \"Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (UTRA) and Evolved
Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA); Radio measurement collection for
Minimization of Drive Tests (MDT); Overall description; Stage 2\".
[3] 3GPP TS 36.331: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRAN);
Radio Resource Control (RRC) Protocol specification\".
[4] 3GPP TS 36.213: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Physical layer procedures\".
[5] 3GPP TS 36.214: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Physical layer; Measurements\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.425: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM); Performance measurements Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
(E-UTRAN)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.422: \"Telecommunication management; Subscriber and equipment
trace; Trace control and configuration management\".
[8] 3GPP TS 36.133 \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Requirements for support of radio resource management\".
[9] 3GPP TS 36.305: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network\
(E-UTRAN); Stage 2 functional specification ofUser Equipment (UE) positioning
in E-UTRAN\"
[10] 3GPP TS 36.321: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA)
Medium Access Control (MAC) protocol specification\".
[11] S3-130559 \"LS on Applying user consent for SON use cases\"
# 3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
C-RNTI Cell Radio Network Temporary Identity
CCO Coverage and Capacity Optimization
E-DCH Enhanced Dedicated Channel
GNSS Global Navigation Satellite Systems
HOF Handover Failure
OPEX Operating Expenditures
SINR Signal to Interference and Noise Ratio
RCEF RRC Connection Establishment Failure
RLF Radio Link Failure
TAC Type Allocation Code
TCE Trace Collection Entity
TR Trace Reference
TRSR Trace Recording Session Reference
# 4 NM centralized CCO function
### 4.1A Function cycle and division into stages
NM centralised SON function like CCO needs to be divided into 3 different
stages:
  1. Monitoring the network
  2. Detailed improvement analysis
  3. Improvement action
Figure 4.1A-1: NM Centralized CCO function stages
Monitoring is constantly active and monitors the whole network all the time to
find potential improvements. This is done by using performance monitoring. For
the monitoring step to detect improvement possibilities there is no need to
continuously report fine granular detailed information, since at this stage it
is wanted to detect the existence of the improvement opportunity and not
necessarily the exact location and reason of the improvement opportunity. This
allows aggregations in PM measurements (e.g., in space and time), which makes
the continuous monitoring scalable for the whole network without losing the
detection capability.
Detailed improvement analysis may be activated for the area where monitoring
has detected an improvement opportunity in order to do a more fine grained
assessment of the improvement possibility and its localisation. This is done
by using a fine grained detection function/tool, e.g. MDT with periodic
measurements.
Improvement action will determine and apply specific improvement action(s).
The action may be to reconfigure some cell parameters, e.g. output power. To
reconfigure any attribute, the existing CM operations over Itf-N are reused.
When no automated corrective action can be applied, the CCO function may
provide information to the operator that a new base station site may be
installed in the area where an improvement is needed.
## Architecture
The logical architecture that applies in case of NM centralized CCO SON
function is shown in Figure 4.1-1.
Figure 4.1-1: NM Centralized CCO function logical architecture
The NM centralized CCO function needs to monitor the network and collect UE
and network measurements.\ Based on the analysis of received data the CCO
algorithm may identify potential coverage or capacity problems or improvement
possibilities and may execute change of network configuration accordingly.\
The CCO function may also provide information to the operator about the
executed changes, performance improvements or indications where some operator
interaction is needed.
## 4.2 Examples of CCO use cases
### 4.2.1 General
Coverage and capacity are two closely related characteristics of a cellular
network, which largely determine the network capabilities in terms of
providing a certain grade of service for a given number of customers in a
given geographical area and on a given set of radio spectrum. In order to
utilize cell resources in the most efficient way and to serve as many
customers as possible with the required level of service, there is a need to
configure cell resources according to the actual radio conditions, propagation
environment and traffic needs.
Such an optimization process should be automated with no or minimal manual
intervention and has to be based upon actual network conditions, i.e. measured
data obtained from UEs and from the network.\ Looking for coverage holes or
finding capacity improvement potentials manually is particularly time
consuming, costly and requires expert knowledge. Therefore, an automated CCO
function can significantly contribute to OPEX reductions and at the same time
respond to coverage or capacity problems faster and with better solutions than
any human based manual method may provide.
As all use cases in this document are NM centralised, they are only able to
address long optimisation cycles (5 minutes or longer). This means that
optimisation in or near real time is excluded.
### 4.2.2 Downlink coverage map
To do the detection of coverage and capacity problems, the geographical area
could be divided into bins.\ One of possible creation ways of bins is that the
bins could be created by dividing the geographical area using lines of
longitude and latitude, this does not imply that the performance measurements
and MDT data have to be reported directly with the information of longitude
and latitude. Using MDT measurements (RSRP for E-UTRA, UE location
information, etc., see 3GPP TS 37.320 [2]) and some network performance
measurements related to the bins, the CCO function could know the coverage
situation of the target region by coverage map and do the optimization later.\
The accuracy of coverage problem detection and effectiveness of optimization
depend on several factors, such as the size and number of bins, the accuracy
of MDT and network measurement data, and the number of MDT UEs.
A downlink coverage map example is shown in figure 4.2.2-1:\ Target CCO
optimization region (the cells area covered by eNB a and b) is divided into
many bins and marked by different colours that show the corresponding signal
strength (e.g. cell downlink RSRP).
{width="4.302083333333333in" height="3.5729166666666665in"}
Figure 4.2.2-1 Target CCO optimization region divided into bins with different
colours\ that show corresponding cell downlink signal
If a downlink or uplink coverage map (signal strength and/or signal quality
e.g. RSRP and/or RSRQ) using bins is to be created, UE measurements and the UE
locations must be activated in all cells in the area where the map is wanted.
If it is used for monitoring, the map needs to show the whole network. The
creation of the bins and measurements can be made either in the NM CCO
function or in the RAN nodes (RNC or eNB). The bins can also be created in the
DM/EM fully or partially (e.g. via data pre-processing below Itf-N).
To create the bins in the NM CCO function means that the UE measurements and
the location information are forwarded to a TCE that is used by the NM CCO
function, using the MDT mechanism.
To create the bins in the RAN nodes means that the UE measurements and the
location information retrieved from one or more MDT session(s) are kept in the
RAN node, where they are converted to performance measurements that are
transferred to NM CCO function.
### 4.2.3 Use case 1: Cell coverage adapting to traffic demand
Cell coverage is typically decided at time of network planning, where exact
distribution of users is hard to take into account. However, the service
performance as seen by the user will depend among others on the traffic load
in the particular cell, e.g. on the number of users that has to share the cell
resources at a particular location. Therefore, there may be a need to adapt
cell sizes to the typical distribution of traffic demand from time to time
when the distribution of users or the environmental situation are changing
(e.g. rush hours).
The NM centralized CCO function needs to detect such service performance
problems caused by load imbalances, for which it may need to collect for
example, information about number of active UEs, IP Throughput, Packet Delay,
Drop, Loss Rate, Data Volume measurements and environmental information (e.g.
the location of freeway, stadiums). The NM centralized CCO function may also
collect information of the used / available capacity estimated by the eNB
itself, based on resource management algorithms implemented in the eNB. Such
estimation can be expressed for example in percent of total cell capacity over
certain time interval.
It is FFS how capacity information can improve this use case and whether
existing measurements can be reused.
Based on the collected information, the CCO function may decide to adjust
capacity or coverage areas of the related cells.
Figure 4.2.3-1 shows a possible way to indicate that the UE distribution can
be monitored periodically by two dimensional bins measurements, which are
created by T~ADV~ and AOA measurements reported by connected mode UE (see
clause 10.2 and 10.3 of TS 36.133 [8]).
{width="4.973611111111111in" height="3.94375in"}
Figure 4.2.3-1 Two dimensional bin measurements
The UE distribution in a cell can be obtained from the 2D bin measurements
shown below:
**Measurement description:**
This measurement provides two dimensional bins to monitor the UE distribution
across geographical area (e.g. in a cell). The two dimensional bins are formed
from Timing Advance (T~ADV~) and Angle of Arrival (AOA) (See Ref. 3GPP TS
36.133 [8]),
where T~ADV~ = 1) N~TA~ -- for UEs that are uplink timing aligned (TS 36.213
[4])
2) 11 bits Timing Advance value -- for UEs that are not uplink timing aligned
(TS 36.321 [10])
AOA (TS 36.133 [8]) = measured on any part of the uplink transmission, such as
user data frame or PRACH, or via Sounding Reference Signals
**Collection method:**
Cumulative counter triggered by the occurrence of the measured event
**Condition:**
The bin counter identified by T~ADV~ and AOA is incremented by 1. The 2D bins
are identified by index _x_ (representing T~ADV~) and _y_ (representing AOA).
When (in any order):
a) eNB sends11 bits or 6 bits Timing Advance value to an UE, the T~ADV~ of
such UE is obtained.
and
b) eNB estimates its AOA via the uplink transmission of the UE.
Note:
1\. A sectorized cell will only use a subset of index _y_. For example, for
3-sector cells, the index _y_ can be (0..3), (4..7), or (8..11), corresponding
to each sector.
2\. This measurement is only valid for eNodeB capable of estimating the AOA.
**Measurement result:**
Each measurement (as defined in _x-y_) is an integer value.
**Measurement type:**
MR.UeDistribution._xy_ , where, _x_ and _y_ are integers within implementation
specific ranges
Table illustrating an example implementation with x and y ranges [0..10]:
* * *
**Index _x_ \-- T~ADV~ (Unit Ts)** **Index _y_ \-- AOA (Unit Degree °)**  
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11  
0°-30° 30°-60° 60°-90° 90°-120° 120°-150° 150°-180° 180°-210° 210°-240°
240°-270° 270°-300° 300°-330° 330°-360°  
0 0 ≤T~ADV~\ RLF-Report-r9 ::= SEQUENCE {
>
> measResultLastServCell-r9 SEQUENCE {
>
> rsrpResult-r9 RSRP-Range,
>
> rsrqResult-r9 RSRQ-Range OPTIONAL
>
> },
>
> measResultNeighCells-r9 SEQUENCE {
>
> measResultListEUTRA-r9 MeasResultList2EUTRA-r9 OPTIONAL,
>
> measResultListUTRA-r9 MeasResultList2UTRA-r9 OPTIONAL,
>
> measResultListGERAN-r9 MeasResultListGERAN OPTIONAL,
>
> measResultsCDMA2000-r9 MeasResultList2CDMA2000-r9 OPTIONAL
>
> } OPTIONAL,
>
> ...,
>
> [[ locationInfo-r10 LocationInfo-r10 OPTIONAL,
>
> failedPCellId-r10 CHOICE {
>
> cellGlobalId-r10 CellGlobalIdEUTRA,
>
> pci-arfcn-r10 SEQUENCE {
>
> physCellId-r10 PhysCellId,
>
> carrierFreq-r10 ARFCN-ValueEUTRA
>
> }
>
> } OPTIONAL,
>
> reestablishmentCellId-r10 CellGlobalIdEUTRA OPTIONAL,
>
> timeConnFailure-r10 INTEGER (0..1023) OPTIONAL,
>
> connectionFailureType-r10 ENUMERATED {rlf, hof} OPTIONAL,
>
> previousPCellId-r10 CellGlobalIdEUTRA OPTIONAL
>
> ]],
>
> [[ failedPCellId-v1090 SEQUENCE {
>
> carrierFreq-v1090 ARFCN-ValueEUTRA-v9e0
>
> } OPTIONAL
>
> ]],
>
> [[ basicFields-r11 SEQUENCE {
>
> c-RNTI-r11 C-RNTI,
>
> rlf-Cause-r11 ENUMERATED {
>
> t310-Expiry, randomAccessProblem,
>
> rlc-MaxNumRetx, spare1},
>
> timeSinceFailure-r11 TimeSinceFailure-r11
>
> } OPTIONAL,
>
> previousUTRA-CellId-r11 SEQUENCE {
>
> carrierFreq-r11 ARFCN-ValueUTRA,
>
> physCellId-r11 CHOICE {
>
> fdd-r11 PhysCellIdUTRA-FDD,
>
> tdd-r11 PhysCellIdUTRA-TDD
>
> },
>
> cellGlobalId-r11 CellGlobalIdUTRA OPTIONAL
>
> } OPTIONAL,
>
> selectedUTRA-CellId-r11 SEQUENCE {
>
> carrierFreq-r11 ARFCN-ValueUTRA,
>
> physCellId-r11 CHOICE {
>
> fdd-r11 PhysCellIdUTRA-FDD,
>
> tdd-r11 PhysCellIdUTRA-TDD
>
> }
>
> } OPTIONAL
>
> ]]
>
> }
Figure 7.2.1.2.2-1: RLF report content as defined in TS 36.331 [3]
Figure 7.2.1.2.2-2 illustrates the scenario where Immediate MDT data and RLF
report are correlated at the TCE using the C-RNTI.
Figure 7.2.1.2.2-2: Correlation of Immediate MDT and RLF data based on C-RNTI
##### 7.2.1.2.3 Correlation of Logged MDT and RCEF reports
Both the RRC Connection Establishment Failure and Logged MDT happen when UE is
in the Idle Mode.\ When UE experiences a RCEF and has the Logged MDT active,
the data recorded in the Logged MDT session before and after the RCEF may
provide a complete picture and help in the root cause analysis.\ Therefore,
the correlation of RCEF reports and Logged MDT is important.
One possible way to link the RCEF report to the Logged MDT data and avoid
correlation (either at the eNB or at the TCE) completely is to record the RCEF
as an event in the Logged MDT if Logged MDT session was already active at the
UE.
Figure 7.2.1.2.3-1: Logged MDT and RCEF reporting
Figure 7.2.1.2.3-1 illustrates the scenario where UE is configured for a
Logged MDT session by eNB1, goes into Idle Mode and logs MDT measurements. The
UE attempts to establish connection to eNB2 and experiences a RCEF.\ It logs
the RCEF Report and continues to log the MDT measurements.\ The UE
successfully establishes connection to eNB3 and indicates the RCEF Report and
MDT Log availability.\ The eNB3 retrieves the RCEF report and, if the RCEF
collection session was activated earlier at the eNB3, creates the RCEF Trace
File and forwards it to the TCE.\ The eNB3 also retrieves the MDT Log from the
UE and forwards it to the TCE.\ Since at the time of RCEF occurrence the UE
was in the Idle Mode, there is no C-RNTI (at the time of failure) associated
with it. The RCEF reporting and MDT Log reporting to the TCE happen
independently (RCEF reporting requires an active reporting job at the eNB, MDT
Log reporting does not). But it may be possible to logically link RCEF Report
and MDT Log indicating that both were retrieved from the same UE without
adding the UE identity and violating the MDT anonymization requirements by use
of a temporary identifier (e.g. by adding the C-RNTI of the UE at the
retrieval time to the MDT log and RCEF report being sent to the TCE as
illustrated on Figure 7.2.1.2.3-2).
Figure 7.2.1.2.3-2: Correlation of Logged MDT and RCEF data based on C-RNTI
##### 7.2.1.2.4 Correlation of Immediate MDT and RLF/RCEF reports based on MME
mapping mechanism
Figure 7.2.1.2.4-1 Correlation of RLF/RCEF and MDT measurements\ based on MME
mapping information (one MME scenario)
Figure 7.2.1.2.4-1 exemplifies a situation where MDT measurement collection is
active for the UE at eNB1 and the UE experiences an RLF at eNB1. After UE
experiences the RLF, the UE successfully re-establishes connection at eNB2 and
sends the RLF report. When eNB1 initially activates the MDT measurement
collection for the UE, it sends mapping request to the MME (by sending the
CELL TRAFFIC TRACE message) including the indication for the anonymized
mapping in the message, considering the user consent and anonymization
constraints.\ The MME sends the mapping of trace reference and trace recording
session reference to anonymized UE identity toward the TCE. The anonymized UE
identity can be generated by MME if there is user consent.
When the UE re-establishes connectivity at eNB2 and sends the RLF report, eNB2
allocates a new trace recording session reference, sends mapping request to
MME and creates a trace file.\ The eNB2 may also activate immediate MDT
measurements to the UE, when an area based immediate MDT trace session is
active at eNB2.\ The MME maps the new trace reference and trace recording
session reference to anonymized UE identity and forwards the mapping
information to TCE.\ The TCE can correlate MDT measurements and RLF reports
based on the anonymized UE identity, including MDT measurements made before
and after the RLF, i.e. reported to eNB1 and eNB2.
The anonymized UE identity can be generated by the MME and may be derived for
example, from an existing UE identity. When it is necessary for privacy
reasons, the lifetime of the anonymized UE identity shall be limited.\ The
other alternative solution for anonymized UE identity is to let HSS generate
new unique identity for a UE which can be shared by all the MMEs, the
correlation then can be done with the new unique identity.\ This solution
needs changes also to the traffic signalling standards.
The user consent is extended to have three values: consent for IMSI, consent
for anonymized UE identity and no consent given. This is to give the
subscribers to give user consent without having their permanent identity being
visible in the recorded data.
## 7.3 Evaluation of correlation solution
There are two different solutions for correlation of UE data used for CCO. The
first is using C-RNTI and the second is using a new anonymised identifier
(Anonymised Id) to correlate the data.
* * *
Use Case (sub-clause) C-RNTI Anonymised Id Detecting coverage holes and
capacity problems (4.2.2) Solves the use case for LTE and for UTRAN. Solves
the use case for LTE and UTRAN. Cell coverage adapting to traffic demand
(4.2.3) Solves the use case. Solves the use case. Coverage and accessibility
in LTE (4.2.4) Solves the use case. Solves the use case. LTE coverage holes
with underlaid UTRAN/GERAN (4.2.5) Solves the use case for LTE and for UTRAN.
Solves the use case for LTE and UTRAN. LTE connection failure in idle mode
(4.2.6) Solves the use case. Solves the use case. However, it supports also UE
measurements being recorded in idle mode to be correlated with the connected
mode UE measurements. LTE connection failure in connected mode (4.2.6) Solves
the use case. Solves the use case. Radio link quality in LTE and UTRAN (4.2.7)
Solves the use case for LTE and for UTRAN. Solves the use case for LTE and
UTRAN.
* * *
# 8 Measurement collection mechanism
The existing measurements collection mechanisms are considered to be
sufficient.
# 9 Configuration attributes
The existing configuration attributes are considered to be sufficient.
# 10 Recommendations
## 10.1 CCO for GERAN
It is recommended that the NM centralised CCO function excludes GERAN.
## 10.2 Method for triggering measurements for PM purposes
As measurements for RSRP and RSRQ etc. already are specified in the 3GPP TS
32.425 [6], it is recommended to keep the same method as the existing trigger
mechanism for the UE report interval for the RSRP and RSRQ measurements for
the CCO Function.
## 10.3 Correlation of data
Both solutions are equal from a current use case point of view. While the
anonymised Id is more future proof, it has a dependancy on the core network.
## 10.4 Optimisation cycles
As all solutions in this document are for NM centralised SON, they are only
able to address long optimisation cycles (5 minutes or longer). This means
that these solutions are not able to address real time or near real time
optimisation cycles.
#