# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
WLAN offload is becoming a compelling solution for operators to cope with
rapid growth of mobile data traffic without the need of network upgrades or
expansions. To enable WLAN playing such a role to complement the cellular
technology, the behaviour of WLAN has to be known by the 3GPP OAM system. The
present document is intended to enable a 3GPP OAM system to monitor WLAN
performance measurements and alarms that are essential to evaluate the
performance of WLAN offloading. The WLAN performance measurements can also be
used in network planning.
# 1 Scope
The present document describes the study on WLAN management that focuses on
WLAN performance monitoring and alarm reporting. The WLAN performance
measurements and alarms are sent to the NM via the Type-2 interface.\ No
impact to the Type-1 interface of WLAN NE and the WLAN MIB specified by other
SDO is expected.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] IEEE Std \"Part 11: Wireless LAN Medium Access Control (MAC) and Physical
Layer (PHY) Specifications\".
[2] RFC 2863: \"The Interfaces Group MIB\".
[3] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.150: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Concept and definitions\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.111-2: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management, Part
2: Alarm Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.401: \"Performance Management (PM); Concept and requirements\".
[8] RFC 3877: \"Alarm Management Information Base (MIB)\", September, 2004.
# 3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[3] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [3].
AC Access Controller
AP Access Point
SDO Standards Development Organization
# 4 Concept and architecture implied
## 4.1 General concept
WLAN is becoming an essential technology to complement 3GPP RAN, as operators
are deploying huge number of WLAN nodes to mitigate the traffic congestion
caused by the surge of mobile data traffic. As the result, performance
measurements of eNB and WLAN AP are important measurements for monitoring the
performance of WLAN offloading. Since mobile data traffic can fluctuate very
rapidly and dynamically, the performance measurements of both eNB/NB and WLAN
APs that are overlaid by the eNB/NB need to be collected, and then correlated
on a regular basis, in order to understand the WLAN offloading performance,
and to identify any potential issues that may degrade the offloading
performance.
For interworking with 3GPP networks, WLAN alarm reporting is also needed.
## 4.2 Architectures
### 4.2.1 General
The architecture for management of WLAN AP is conformant to the Management
reference model defined (see figure 1 of TS 32.101 [4]). The WLAN AP is
depicted as NE in the Management reference model.
The System Context for WLAN management is System Context A (see figure 4.7.1
of TS 32.150 [5]).
IRPManager manages the WLAN AP by sending/receiving the management data
to/from IRPAgent over the Type-2 interface.
### 4.2.2 Data correlation scenarios
This clause describes 3 scenarios supporting data correlation for alarms and
correlation of performance measurements.
Figure 4.2-1 depicts a scenario where correlation is done.
{width="3.786111111111111in" height="2.4493055555555556in"}
Figure 4.2-1: Data correlation at NM
Figure 4.2-2 depicts a scenario where data correlation is done at DM.
{width="1.7854166666666667in" height="2.4493055555555556in"}
Figure 4.2-2: Data correlation at DM
Figure 4.2-3 depicts a scenario where data correlation is done via peer DM.
Figure 4.2-3: Data correlation via peer DM
## 4.3 Sources of performance measurements and alarm data
3GPP does not specify interface(s), neither directly nor indirectly, between
WLAN AP and DM.\ IEEE and IETF specify standards for accessing management data
of WLAN AP.
For the data, here are the relevant SNMP MIBs:
  * IEEE 802.11 \"Wireless LAN Medium Access Control (MAC) and Physical Layer (PHY) Specifications\" [1];
  * RFC 2863, \"The Interfaces Group MIB\" [2].
The IEEE 802.11 MIB, as defined in IEEE 802.11 [1], includes for example
dot11QosCountersTable, which provides counters to measure the performance of a
WLAN AP.
The following examples extracted from RFC 3877 [8] shows IETF defined alarms
based on linkup/linkdown notifications.
> **\"6.1. Alarms Based on linkUp/linkDown Notifications**
>
> linkDown NOTIFICATION-TYPE
>
> OBJECTS { ifIndex, ifAdminStatus, ifOperStatus }
>
> STATUS current
>
> DESCRIPTION
>
> \"\"
>
> ::= { snmpTraps 3 }
>
> linkUp NOTIFICATION-TYPE
>
> OBJECTS { ifIndex, ifAdminStatus, ifOperStatus }
>
> STATUS current
>
> DESCRIPTION
>
> \"\"
>
> ::= { snmpTraps 4 }\"
>
> alarmModelIndex 3
>
> alarmModelState 1
>
> alarmModelNotificationId linkUp
>
> alarmModelVarbindIndex 0
>
> alarmModelVarbindValue 0
>
> alarmModelDescription \"linkUp\"
>
> alarmModelSpecificPointer ituAlarmEntry.3.1
>
> alarmModelVarbindSubtree ifIndex (1.3.6.1.2.1.2.2.1.1)
>
> alarmModelResourcePrefix 0.0
>
> alarmModelRowStatus active (1)
>
> ituAlarmEventType communicationsAlarm (2)
>
> ituAlarmPerceivedSeverity cleared (1)
>
> ituAlarmGenericModel alarmModelEntry.3.1
>
> alarmModelIndex 3
>
> alarmModelState 3
>
> alarmModelNotificationId linkDown
>
> alarmModelVarbindIndex 2
>
> alarmModelVarbindValue up (1)
>
> alarmModelDescription \"linkDown - confirmed problem\"
>
> alarmModelSpecificPointer ituAlarmEntry.3.3
>
> alarmModelVarbindSubtree ifIndex (1.3.6.1.2.1.2.2.1.1)
>
> alarmModelResourcePrefix 0.0
>
> alarmModelRowStatus active (1)
>
> ituAlarmEventType communicationsAlarm (2)
>
> ituAlarmPerceivedSeverity critical (3)
ituAlarmGenericModel alarmModelEntry.3.3\"
3GPP Mapping function would map these IETF defined alarms to 3GPP defined
notifyNewAlarm and notifyCleardAlarm accordingly (see clause 4.4).
## 4.4 3GPP -- WLAN mapping function
Figure 4.4-1 depicts the mapping function that is to map the relevant
management data produced by WLAN AP in a form suitable for distribution via
the Type-2 interface to IRPManager(s). The mapping function is logical in that
its location is not specified. Furthermore, its internal and external
interfaces are not standardized.
Figure 4.4-1: 3GPP -- WLAN mapping function
NOTE 1: WLAN AP can report the management data to the mapping function
directly, or via AC.
NOTE 2: The interface and entities below EM are out of the scope of the
standard.
## 4.5 Performance measurements handling
There are two solutions in the handling of WLAN performance measurements.
**Solution 1: performance measurements are handled at EM**
WLAN performance monitoring use case in clause 5.1 shows that ifInOctets,
ifOutOctets, ifHCInOctets and ifHCOutOctets in IF-MIB [2] can be used to
measure data volume. The ifInOctets, ifOutOctets, ifHCInOctets and
ifHCOutOctets are referred to as SNMP-counters.
The SNMP-counters (e.g. ifInOctets, ifHCInOctets) would be incremented by '1'
when one byte of data is received. The SNMP-counters (e.g. ifOutOctets,
ifHCOutOctets) would be incremented by '1' when one byte of data is
transmitted. The SNMP-counter value would wrap around when it reaches the
maximum allowed value for the SNMP-counter. The SNMP-counter value would be
reset to zero in certain situations.
Data volume is collected via the method of CC (Cumulative Counter) (TS 32.401
[7]) over the Itf-N.
CC cannot be used to carry the values of SNMP-counters since SNMP-counters are
not reset to '0' at the beginning of each Granularity Period (GP), as required
by the CC definition.
The EM entity, dependent on vendor specific algorithm, would collect two
values by reading SNMP-counters at the beginning and the end of the GP. The
difference between these values is the CC measurement in the GP. The algorithm
should take into consideration that the SNMP-counter values might have wrapped
around or reset to zero during the GP,
The selection of SNMP-counters (e.g. using 32 or 64 bits SNMP-counters) for
data volume measurement should take into account the WLAN line speed used, in
order to prevent the counters from wrapping around twice in a GP.
The mean and maximum statistics of WLAN counters (e.g. the number of
associated UE dot11AssociatedStationCount in IEEE802dot11-MIB [1]) are
typically collected via the method SI (Status Inspection) TS 32.401 [7] over
the Itf-N. However, dot11AssociatedStationCount is a SNMP-counter that does
not support SI. Therefore, the EM entity may need firstly to sample at a pre-
defined interval the SNMP-counters, secondly to calculate the arithmetic mean
of all samples at the end of the granularity period to compute the mean
statistics, and thirdly to select the maximum value from all samples at the
end of the granularity period to compute the maximum statistics.
**Solution 2: performance measurements are handled at NM**
WLAN performance monitoring use case in clause 5.1 shows that ifHCInOctets and
ifHCOutOctets in IF-MIB [2] can be used to measure data volume. The
ifHCInOctets and ifHCOutOctets are referred to as SNMP-counters.
The SNMP-counters (e.g. ifHCInOctets) would be incremented by '1' when one
byte of data is received.\ The SNMP-counters (e.g. ifHCOutOctets) would be
incremented by '1' when one byte of data is transmitted.\ The SNMP-counter
value would wrap around when it reaches the maximum allowed value for the
SNMP-counter.\ The SNMP-counter value would be reset to zero in certain
situations.
For 64bits SNMP-counter, the EM entity receives it from WLAN AP and forwards
the counter to the Network Manager directly at end of the collection period
(e.g. 15 minutes).
The same principle applies to counters which use other collection methods in
3GPP (e.g. SI/DER/GAUGE).
## 4.6 Alarm handling
WLAN AP produces network management information. Some of such information is
handled as alarm in the following manner.
On reception of such alarm, the mapping function should process the alarm and
decide if:
a) There exists no AlarmInformation TS 32.111-2 [6] in AlarmList [6]
corresponding to the newly received alarm or
b) There exists an AlarmInformation in AlarmList corresponding to the newly
received alarm.\ There is a need (see Editor's Note 3) to change the value of
perceivedSeverity of the corresponding AlarmInformation to any value but
Cleared or
c) There exists an AlarmInformation in AlarmList corresponding to the newly
received alarm.\ There is a need (see Editor's Note 3) to change the value of
perceivedSeverity of the corresponding AlarmInformation to Cleared.
In case of a), a new AlarmInformation is added in the AlarmList. The
IRPManager, who has a subscription with NotificationIRP, is notified via
notifyNewAlarm if the added AlarmInformation satisfies the subscription filter
constraint.
In case of b), the corresponding AlarmInformation perceivedSeverity is
changed. The IRPManager, who has a subscription with NotificationIRP, is
notified via notifyChangedAlarm if the subject AlarmInformation satisfies the
subscription filter constraint.
In case of c), the corresponding AlarmInformation is removed from the
AlarmList if it has been acknowledged; else its perceivedSeverity is changed
to Cleared. The IRPManager, who has a subscription with NotificationIRP, is
notified via notifyClearedAlarm if the subject AlarmInformation satisfies the
subscription filter constraint.
Editor's note 1: Whether there is a need to specify the detail of mapping is
FFS.
Editor's note 2: Whether there is a need to identify the information produced
by WLAN AP is FFS as 3GPP alarms.
Editor's note 3: Since information produced by WLAN AP (identified as 3GPP
alarms) may not convey explicitly or implicitly the meaning of
perceivedSeverity level, how to determine the 'need' is for FFS.
# 5 Use cases
## 5.1 WLAN performance monitoring
To enable WLAN playing a role as a complement to cellular technology, the
performance of WLAN needs to be known by cellular operators. WLAN performance
data is also essential to monitor the quality of service a subscriber may
receive. The WLAN performance may be monitored by following parameters:
\- Data volume;
\- The number of associated UE.
**Data volume**
It measures data volume on MAC layer or IP layer level per elapsed time unit
that provides an indication of loading and activity in the WLAN AP.
The following lists the possible PM counters that are to be mapped to the
network management data, and then delivered to the IRPManager via the Itf-N
interface:
> \- ifInOctets, ifOutOctets,ifHCInOctets and ifHCOutOctets in IF-MIB (IETF
> RFC 2863 [2])
**The number of associated UE**
It is also of interest to determine how many users are associated with a given
WLAN AP, as it indicates the number of UE that are connected to a WLAN AP. If
lower packet throughput is generated from large number of associated UE, it
may be the indication to poor WLAN performance.
The following lists the possible PM counter that is to be mapped to the
network management data, and then delivered to the IRPManager via the Itf-N
interface:
> \- dot11AssociatedStationCount in IEEE802dot11-MIB (IEEE 802.11)
## 5.2 WLAN alarm reporting
Table 5.2-1 WLAN alarm reporting (I)
+--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / | \> | | | Specification | | | | | Related use | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Goal (*) | WLAN AP alarm reporting | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Actors and Roles (*) | IRPManager as user | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Telecom resources | The WLAN AP, IRPAgent, | | | | and IRPManager. | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Assumptions | IRPAgent is able to | | | | receive or get WLAN AP | | | | alarms. | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Pre conditions | The WLAN AP is up and | | | | running. | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Begins when | A fault in a WLAN AP | | | | causes the WLAN air | | | | interface link to go | | | | down. | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Step 1 (*) (M) | EM receives an alarm | | | | from WLAN AP as the | | | | result of state change\ | | | | (e.g. ifOperStatus (RFC | | | | 2863 [2]) is | | | | transitioned from up(1) | | | | to down (2)) | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Step 2 (*) (M) | EM\'s associated mapping | | | | function maps this alarm | | | | received from WLAN AP\ | | | | to a state change | | | | notification over Itf-N. | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Step 3 (*) (M) | IRPAgent sends the state | | | | change notification to | | | | the IRPManager over | | | | Itf-N. | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Ends when (*) | The IRPManager receives | | | | the state change | | | | notification. | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Exceptions | FFS | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Post Conditions | | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Traceability (*) | | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | NOTE -- Fields marked | | | | with \"*\" are | | | | mandatory for all use | | | | case specifications. | | | | Other fields are only | | | | mandatory when relevant | | | | for the specific use | | | | case. | | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+
Table 5.2-2 WLAN alarm reporting (II)
+--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / | \> | | | Specification | | | | | Related use | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Goal (*) | WLAN AP alarm reporting | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Actors and Roles (*) | IRPManager as user | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Telecom resources | The WLAN AP, IRPAgent, | | | | and IRPManager. | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Assumptions | IRPAgent is aware of | | | | WLAN AP generated | | | | events. IRPAgent knows | | | | which\ | | | | WLAN AP generated events | | | | should be reported as | | | | alarm via Itf-N. | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Pre conditions | None. | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Begins when | WLAN AP generated an | | | | event and is received by | | | | IRPAgent. | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Step 1 (*) (M) | IRPAgent knows the | | | | received event should be | | | | reported as alarm. | | | | IRPAgent, together\ | | | | with the mapping | | | | function, will process | | | | the received event as | | | | described in clause 4.6. | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Ends when (*) | The IRPManager receives | | | | the notification | | | | carrying alarm | | | | information. | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Exceptions | No exception | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Post Conditions | None | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Traceability (*) | None | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | NOTE -- Fields marked | | | | with \"*\" are | | | | mandatory for all use | | | | case specifications. | | | | Other fields are only | | | | mandatory when relevant | | | | for the specific use | | | | case. | | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+
## 5.3 WLAN alarm retrieval
Table 5.2-2 WLAN alarm retrieval
+--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / | \> | | | Specification | | | | | Related use | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Goal (*) | WLAN AP alarm retrieval | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Actors and Roles (*) | IRPManager as user | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Telecom resources | The WLAN AP, IRPAgent, | | | | and IRPManager. | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Assumptions | The IRPAgent is able to | | | | retrieve WLAN AP alarms. | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Pre conditions | The WLAN AP is up and | | | | running. | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Begins when | The IRPManager is ready | | | | to retrieve the alarm | | | | information of a WLAN AP | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Step 1 (*) (M) | The IRPManager requests | | | | the WLAN AP alarm | | | | information from the | | | | IRPAgent | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Step 2 (*) (M) | The IRPAgent returns the | | | | WLAN AP alarm | | | | information to the | | | | IRPManager | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Ends when (*) | The IRPManager receives | | | | the WLAN AP alarm | | | | information. | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Exceptions | FFS | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Post Conditions | | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Traceability (*) | | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | NOTE -- Fields marked | | | | with \"*\" are | | | | mandatory for all use | | | | case specifications. | | | | Other fields are only | | | | mandatory when relevant | | | | for the specific use | | | | case. | | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+
# 6 Potential requirements
The IRPAgent should provide the capability to the IRPManager to retrieve the
performance measurements of the WLAN AP using an existing Interface IRP, such
as File Transfer IRP.
The IRPAgent should support the capability of reporting alarms of the WLAN AP
to the IRPManager by using the existing Alarm IRP and Notification IRP.
The IRPAgent should support the capability of allowing the IRPManager to
retrieve the alarms of the WLAN AP by using the existing Alarm Interface IRP.
# 7 Conclusion
The study concludes that it is technically possible to collect the WLAN
performance measurements, but there are two solutions in the handling of
performance measurements, as described in clause 4.5 Performance Measurements
Handling. Which solution is to be used should be decided in the subsequent
normative work phase.
This study concludes that IETF defined alarms on linkUp and linkDown
notifications (RFC 3877 [8]) should be reported via Itf-N using notifyNewAlarm
and notifyClearedAlarm.
#