# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The massive number and variety of network elements in a mobile system creates
a huge amount of alarms, saturating the alarm management systems. In parallel
the numbers of different types of alarms have increased to overwhelming
proportions.
The network administrators are flooded with alarms and alarms often of poor
quality. The consequences of bad quality alarms are severe, affecting many
areas. Determining the service impacts of faults in the networks is an
increasingly complex challenge for operators and requires good quality alarms.
The fault management area is well established in the telecommunications
business; this technical report will explore the alarm information itself,
target users, usage of information, mechanisms and processes to enhance
usability of the alarm information.
The telecommunications alarm management experience described is shared in
basically all areas of alarm management. Standardization bodies in the
production and engineering fields (e.g. EEMUA [7], ANSI [6]) have addressed
the problem and undertaken substantial work under last decade to come up with
solutions.
The objective of this study is to analyse and secure applicability and impacts
of the concept of alarm management in Telecom management. It is proposed to
benefit from work in the production and engineering field, since the task of
alarm management to a very high degree is independent of different businesses.
It is a human-machine interaction.
This study also makes a shift in direction for telecommunications fault
management standards, which historically have been focused on protocols and
syntax for alarm parameters. In order to address the real problems, standards
also need to focus on alarm quality and alarm semantics.
The present document is the result of the 3GPP WG SA5 study conducted under
SP-120774 [12] \"New WID Study on Alarm Management\", SA #58, Barcelona,
December 2012.
# 1 Scope
The scope of the present document is to study how to improve the quality of
alarms and enhance usability of alarm systems.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.101: \" Telecommunication management, Principles and high level
requirements\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.111-1: \"Telecommunication management, Fault Management; Part
1: 3G fault management requirements\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.111-2: \"Telecommunication management, Fault Management; Part
2: Alarm Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[5] ITU-T M.3050.x series (2004): \"Enhanced Telecom Operations Map (eTOM)\".
[6] ANSI/ISA standard 18.2 -2009: \"Management of Alarm Systems for the
Process Industries \".
[7] EEMUA No 191 Edition 2 (2007): \"Alarm Systems: A Guide to Design,
Management and Procurement\".
[8] ITU-T Recommendation X.733: \"Information technology - Open Systems
Interconnection - Systems Management: Alarm reporting function\".
[9] Journal of Network and System Management (2009): \"Chasing a Definition of
\"Alarm\"\"\", 17:457--481, Stefan Wallin.
[10] 12th IFIP/IEEE International Conference on Management of Multimedia and
Mobile Networks and Services (2009) "Telecom Network and Service Management:
an Operator Survey\", Stefan Wallin, Viktor Leijon.
> [11] IEC 62682 Ed. 1: \"Management of Alarm Systems for the Process
> Industries\".
>
> [12] SP-120774: \"New WID Study on Alarm Management\", 3GPP TSG SA Meeting
> #58, Barcelona, Spain, 10 -- 12 December 2012.
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**alarm:** TBD.
The following definitions are given in ANSI/ISA 18.2 [6]:
**alarm management:** The processes and practices for determining,
documenting, designing, operating, monitoring and maintaining alarm systems.
**alarm philosophy:** A document that establishes the basic definitions,
principles and processes to design, implement, and maintain an alarm system.
**alarm system:** The collection of hardware and software that detects an
alarm state, communicates the indication of that state to the operator and
records changes in the alarm state.
**chattering alarm:** An alarm that repeatedly transitions between the alarm
state and the normal state in a short period of time.
**eclipsing:** Integrating repeated alarm in a single line
**highly managed alarm:** An alarm belonging to a class with more requirements
than general alarms (e.g. a safety\ alarm).
**nuisance alarm:** An alarm that annunciates excessively, unnecessarily, or
does not return to normal after the\ correct response is taken (e.g.
chattering, fleeting, or stale alarms).
**out-of-service:** The state of an alarm during which the alarm indication is
suppressed, typically manually, for\ reasons such as maintenance.
**shedding:** Activating predefined filter automatically in case of alarm
flooding
**shelve:** A mechanism, typically initiated by the operator, to temporarily
suppress an alarm.
**suppress:** Any mechanism to prevent the indication of the alarm to the
operator when the base alarm\ condition is present (i.e., shelving, suppressed
by design, out-of-service).
**suppressed by design:** A mechanism implemented within the alarm system that
prevents the transmission of the\ alarm indication to the operator based on
plant state or other conditions
**stale alarm:** An alarm that remains in the alarm state for an extended
period of time (e.g. 24 hours).
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
ADAC Automatically Detected and Automatically Cleared
ADMC Automatically Detected and Manually Cleared
AM Alarm Management
ANSI American National Standards Institute
CAPEX CApital EXpenditure
CPU Central Processing Unit
EEMUA Engineering Equipment and Materials Users\'s Association
eTOM Enhanced Telecom Operations Map
FM Fault Management
HMA Highly Managed Alarms
> HMI Human-Machine Interface
IETF Internet Engineering Task Force
IRP Integration Reference Point
IS Information Service
ISA International Society of Automation
> ITU International Telecommunication Union
>
> KPI Key Performance Indicator
>
> NE Network Element
>
> NEM Network Element Manager
NM Network Manager
OPEX OPerating EXpenditure
OS Operations System
QoS Quality of Service
> SNMP Simple Network Management Protocol
TMN Telecom Management Network
TR Technical Report
# 4 Rationale for the study on alarm management
The massive amount of network elements(NEs) in a mobile system and the variety
of NEs and infrastructure equipment creates huge amount of alarms saturating
operators alarm management systems. In parallel the numbers of types of alarms
have increased to overwhelming proportions.
Major mobility network incident management centre can count alarms in the
hundreds of thousands a day, with thousands of different types of alarms.
Findings from independent researchers [9] are frightening:
\- > 80 % of all alarm types results in a trouble ticket less than once every
1 000 alarms
\- > 90 % of all tickets are from the \ X.733 alarm [8]: A notification, of the form defined by this function, of a
> specific event. An alarm may or may not represent an error.
>
> X.733 alarm report [8]: A specific type of event report used to convey alarm
> information.
>
> 3GPP alarm [3]: Abnormal network entity condition, which categorizes an
> event as a fault.
>
> 3GPP alarm notification [3]: Notification used to inform the recipient about
> the occurrence of an alarm.
>
> 3GPP event in 32.111-1 [3]: This is a generic term for any type of
> occurrence within a network entity.
>
> NOTE: A notification or event report may be used to inform one or more OS(s)
> about the occurrence of the event.
>
> 3GPP event in 32.111-2 [4]: Occurrence that is of significance to network
> operators, the NEs under surveillance and network management applications.
> Events do not have state.
The problem in telecommunications obviously starts with retaining a definition
like ITU-T Recommendation X.733 [8] \"An alarm may or may not represent an
error\".
EEMUA No 191 [7] and ANSI/ISA 18.2 [6] clearly emphasize the philosophy of
alarm management and if the following most important criterion for alarms is
not agreed, the severe problems with \"alarms\" will persists:
\- Does the event require an operator response? If the answer is \"No\" it
shall not be defined as an alarm.
**The accepted key criterion is that alarms must require an operator response
-- that is, an action**.
To be effective, the alarm system must be reserved for the implementation of
items complying with this definition -- things requiring operator action to
avoid a consequence. Items that do not comply must be removed from the alarm
system. Alarms everywhere are configured without meeting this criterion, which
is one of the main reasons the alarm problem exists.
Basic principles of the EEMUA No 191[7] approach and its guidelines for alarm
systems are:
\- Each alarm should alert, inform and guide.
\- Every alarm presented to the operator should be useful and relevant to the
operator.
\- Every alarm should have a defined response.
\- The alarm rate should not exceed th e rate an operator canhandle.
\- The alarm system should be explicitly designed to take account of human
limitations.
**ANSI ISA 18.2 [6]:**
Alarm: An audible or visible means of indicating to the operator an equipment
or process malfunction or abnormal condition requiring an action.
Alarm management: The processes and practices for determining, documenting,
designing, operating, monitoring, and maintaining alarm systems.
ANSI/ISA 18.2 [6] and EEMUA No 191 [7] very strongly address the need to
redefine the term \"alarm\". The fundamental usage must be reclaimed and
communicated.
## 7.2 Good alarms
EEMUA No 191 [7] emphasizes that alarms must exist solely as a tool for the
benefit of the operator. They are not to be configured as a miscellaneous
recording tool or for the benefit of the control engineer or other staff.
To let operators monitor only necessary alarms at the right time by extracting
the alarms they need, is the key to solve the problem identified. If any
secondary logs are provided it must be possible to easily separate those from
other events.
Some of the characteristics that an alarm should have are summarized below:
{width="5.611111111111111in" height="2.292361111111111in"}
A more detailed list of characteristics of a \"good alarm\" should be explored
focusing on the telecommunications arena. Such a list should be the prime
source to support other 3GPP groups involved inNnetwork Element(NE)
standardization, with guidelines to enhance the readability, accuracy and
relevance of alarm information.
A major challenge for a coherent management of the mobile system is the
continued involvement of more and more IP based solutions based on other
management paradigms such as SNMP. This is potentially a major opportunity to
work with IETF on an alarm standard for devices.
**Proposal 1:** Elaborate a requirements list for \"good alarms\" that could
be shared between standard organizations and interfaces.
## 7.3 New alarm definition requirements
### 7.3.0 General
The new definition should address solutions to the following requirements:
1\. Drastically decrease the amount of alarms.
2\. Increase the information quality in the alarms in order to support the
operational processes and enable automation.
3\. Decrease the integration efforts and costs of alarm interfaces and NEs.
### 7.3.1 Decrease the amount of alarms
The output of EEMUA, ANSI is clear on the need of a fundamental shift in
philosophy on how vendors generate alarms. Vendors lack a solid definition of
what should constitute an alarm.
Important requirements that need to be part of the definition:
\- Alarms represent an undesired state.
\- Alarms require manual action from an operator.
\- The fewer alarms the better.
It is important to realize what the above means. First of all, many alarms
sent today are generated from a state change such as a link going down. But is
that an alarm? Not if it is configured down, not if it is test equipment, not
if it is not carrying any service. But most devices anyhow blindly send a link
down alarm.
If a remedial action that is required by an operator cannot be described, it
is not an alarm.
There is a need for a proper definition of alarm that is adopted by vendors so
a clear distinction is made between e.g.
\- Alarms
\- Events (not in the alarm system)
\- Log messages (not in the alarm system)
\- Data for later analysis (not in the alarm system)
A definition that includes the above criteria\'s is an important output of the
present document. It must be written in such a way that vendors can use it in
order to reduce the number of alarms sent. A side effect of this is probably
that there will be a need for another \"channel\" for events or log messages
that do not qualify as alarms. This is still useful for reporting, post-
analysis, debugging etc., but these are not alarms. These kind of messages
pollute the current alarm systems
**Proposal 2:** Revisit 3GPP TS 32.111-2 [4] for alarm definition and make it
much stricter and add requirements for alarms.
**Proposal 3:** Consider solutions for efficient transfer/separation of events
or log messages.
### 7.3.2 Increase the information quality
The alarm information quality must be addressed by proper information design
when generating alarms. Vendors must understand that operators _and_ software
do analyse the alarms and therefore information quality is of vital
importance.
Are there relevant alarm types for 3G and 4G networks? There is an outdated
TMN probable cause list with values like \"Out of CPU cycles\".
**Proposal 4:** Work on a relevant and updated list of alarms rather than
copying the outdated TMN probable cause list.
It is important for an operator to know if a potential cleared alarm
notification will be sent, (ADAC or ADMC in 3GPP terminology), however there
is nothing in the alarm that indicates this. ADAC/ADMC indication should be
added to the information model. Rather the standard has a confusing manual
clearing state and operation. Can an operator manually clear an ADAC alarm?
One should not mix state changes from operators and state changes from the
devices. Alarms can potentially be cleared from the devices. Operators can
acknowledge alarms, consider the alarms to be fixed and comment alarms. The
three latter are examples of operator states, which should be handled by the
standard including a textual comment to these kinds of state changes. They
must allow for several operators, so a list with operator-state and comment,
rather than a single attribute for \"ack\".
**Proposal 5:** Revisit 3GPP TS 32.111-2 [4] and make the information model
more strict.
Which data belongs to the alarm type?
Looking at the current alarm interfaces they do not distinguish between data
that belongs to all instances of an alarm types and which are unique for an
alarm instance. Examples of data that belongs to the alarm type:
\- Operator instruction.
\- Does the alarm have a corresponding cleared alarm notification
(ADAC/ADMC)?\ It is very important for an operator to know if the device will
report a cleared alarm or not.
\- One could put here a mapping to X.733 type identifiers: [event type,
probable cause, specific problem].
Alarm-type data does not need to be sent in the notifications. It is enough
with the alarm-type identity.
Which data belongs to the alarm instance?
\- **Severity** : The severity of an alarm).\ Much more focus must be spent on
this. Studies show that the severity sent by the vendor has no correlation
with the priority set by operators.
\- **Clear/Active** : It is important to separate the clear state from the
severity as such. This is not well handled in standards. A minor alarm must be
possible to declare as cleared for example.
\- **Clear separation of state-changes from devices versus actions from
operators**.\ For example the notion of \"manual clear\" is sometimes used,
the operator view is one thing, the device view is another, and these should
not be mixed.
**Proposal 6:** Separate the severity of the alarm and make it independent if
is cleared or not.
The classical alarm type identification is [event type, probable cause,
specific problem]. This has some problems in that probable cause is a flat
enumerated and specific problem. It is in most cases a free form text string.
This has led to probable cause being an old not manageable enumerated and
vendors escape to the free form text string. It is time to improve on this.
One could learn from other systems like DNS, a hierarchical naming scheme is
much more manageable. One could use a similar pattern for alarm types and
define standardized alarm types and let vendors specialize those with \"sub-
types\". The standardized alarm types must be worked upon by 3GPP and not left
to vendors. Since specific problem is a string, vendors can add alarm types
\"randomly\". This makes it hard to produce a good alarm management system
since there might be alarm types without a corresponding well defined action.
**Proposal 7:** Allow for a hierarchical alarm type definition so that vendors
can subtype standardized alarm types rather than escaping to an unmanaged free
form string.
**Proposal 8:** The definition shall be inspired by work done by EEMUA and
ANSI.
### 7.3.3 Decrease the integration cost
Although there are alarm interface standards, the cost of integrating alarm
interfaces to the OSS are still surprisingly high. The cost comes from two
major layers:
\- **Syntactical Layer** : protocols and data-models for the integration
interface.\ (3GPP SA5TSs on Solution Sets).
\- **Semantical Layer** : making something useful out of the alarms to the
operators.\ This includes automatic look-up of proposed repair actions, alarm
texts etc. (Not really addressed today).
The **Syntactical Layer** should be studied. Why there are still needed costly
integration projects for integrating alarm interfaces? There are a couple of
issues in the current solution set around how alarm instances are identified
that certainly adds to the integration complexity. AlarmId is an overlapping
identification mechanism in parallel with the X.733 triplet. It actually adds
inconsistencies to the model. This is one example that should be cleaned up.
The **Semantical Layer** is not covered in today\'s standards. There is a need
to address a way of expressing a semantic alarm model which defines all alarm
types and what they mean: so thealarms can automatically be integrated into
the alarm system. Today this is a intensive manual reading documentation
process, looking at specific problem strings, asking the vendor etc.
When it comes to protocols and data models for alarm interfaces, 3GPP should
look at IETF liaison for several reasons:
1\. Great value if we can have a common alarm interface across 3GPP and IETF.
2\. IETF has a respectable record to deliver usable and concrete protocols and
data models, but has not elaborated the concept of alarms to perfection. IETF
skills in defining concrete interfaces could help 3GPP improve.
One could get feedback from the 3GPP Solution Set integration projects. What
takes time? What is costly? Why is it complex to do the alarm interface
integration? Based on that one can improve the syntactical interface
definition. Study how the semantic information can be defined, which alarm
types do exist? What do they mean? What is the operator action? This should be
expressed in such a way that the alarm interface integration could be done
automatically.
## 7.4 New alarm definition proposal
### 7.4.0 Definition of Alarm
EEMUA [7] and ANSI/ISA18.2 [6] emphasize the need of a redefinition of the
term \"alarm\". This is to communicate to \"producers\" and \"users\" of alarm
the very most important basic thing: - alarms must exist solely as a tool for
the benefit of the operator and requiring operator action to avoid a
consequence.
The paper \" Chasing a Definition of \" Alarm\" \" [9] is an important
walkthrough of the complexity of alarm definitions, related concepts and
includes also comparisons between different standardization bodies in\ t
elecommunications as (ITU--T X.733, IETF, 3GPP, DMTF and ITIL). The analysis
in thepresent document is clear, the telecommunications business shares the
very similar issues with an unprecise definition of \" Alarm\" as the
production and engineering businesses. The paper argues for the need to focus
on the definition of the alarm concept and on the alarm information itself.
ANSI/ISA18.2 [6] defines:
**Alarm:** An audible or visible means of indicating to the operator an
equipment or process malfunction or abnormal condition requiring an action.
Analysis of the EEMUA anad ANSI/ISA work states:
> Alarm response is really not a function of the specific process being
> controlled. It is a human-machine interaction.\ There is little difference
> between different businesses. While many industries feel "We're different!"-
> that is simply not the case when it comes to alarm response.
The understanding of the definition may be easily mapped to the
telecommunications environment, primarily the focus \" indicating to the
operator\" and \" condition requiring an action\". \"Audible\" and "process
malfunction" may be terms that are not fully applicable/used in the
telecommunications business.
The usage of the term \" Alarm\" is spread in a telecommunications
organization into many different processes, with very different level of
detailed knowledge. It would thereby be beneficial to try to set a definition
that can easily be shared and give a common understanding of what is meant
with an \" alarm\".
In paper [9] a similar definition is proposed:
**Alarm:** An alarm signifies an abnormal state in a resource for which an
operator action is required.
In the telecommunications business the terms "state" and "resources" are well
defined and established. The very most important part "for which an operator
action is required" is included.
The concept of \" states\" are important in telco and \" resources\" are
widely used in e.g. TMForum eTOM.
The term \" abnormal state\" could be reworded to \" undesired state\". Its
better aligned with the EEMUA and ANSI/ISA 18.2 work, focusing on \" it
requires an operator action to avoid a consequence\".
**Alarm:** An alarm signifies an undesired state in a resource for which an
operator action is required.
**Proposal 9** : Introduce the above definition as a new definition of \"
Alarm\" in 3GPP.
### 7.4.1 Definition of alarm notification
In paper [9] the following figure is introduced to clarify some basics:
{width="6.0in" height="1.0944444444444446in"}
Figure 7.4.1:
Beyond the imprecise definition of \" alarm\", \" alarm\" is often referred to
the alarm _notifications_ exchanged by systems. It may be difficult to fully
change the usage of such dualism but in the context of standardization a
definition of \"alarm notification\" is also essential.
**Alarm notification:** A message about an alarm state change such as raise or
clear.
**Proposal 10** : Introduce the above definition of \" Alarm notification\" in
3GPP.
### 7.4.2 Definition of managed alarm
ANSI/ISA18.2 has defined the concept of highly managed alarms but has not
defined the term \" managed alarm\" itself.
It is proposed the concept of managed alarm to include added states and other
information that relate to the alarm management process, in the NM domain
(above Itf-N). Here the operator can enrich the information for the purpose of
the alarm management process. With \" managed alarm\" the operator can e.g.
transform severity of the alarm from resource focus to a full focus on service
impacts, to prevent or mitigate network and service outage and degradation.
The concept applies to any severity level.
**Managed alarm** : The management representation of the alarm in the NM
domain.
**Proposal 11** : Introduce the above definition of \" Managed alarm\" in
3GPP.
# 8 Alarm management
## 8.1 General
ANSI/ISA 18.2 [6] postulates that a foundational part of alarm management is
the definition of an alarm; an audible and/or visible means of indicating to
the operator an equipment malfunction, process deviation, or abnormal
condition requiring a response. The essential element of this definition is
the response to the alarm. This definition is reinforced in the alarm
management processes described in the standard.
Beyond the fundamental definition/redefinition of an alarm, alarm management
is about work processes. The alarm response is a human-machine interaction.
This takes place above the Itf-N. The Itf-N machine to machine interaction is
required to facilitate these work processes and the human-machine interaction.
Better performing alarm systems must be created based on the requirements on
how they are used and the challenges we face in a continuously changing
environment, as described in clause 4.
## 8.2 Operability
A higher level alarm design issue is the fundamental limitation of the human
user. It is crucial that the operators are not overloaded with alarms and
potentially loses the overview of the network and services.
The concept of alarm management, as elaborated by ANSI / EEMUA, emphasises two
main parallel approaches to minimize the threat to operator effectiveness:
1\. Eliminate the alarm overload. This is done in the design of alarms,
ensuring that all alarms are justified and properly configured. This should be
the first priority but is a cumbersome and prolonged effort and will not cover
all potential overload scenarios.
2\. Improve the management of alarm overload. The designers of any alarm
system should recognise the fundamental human usability limitation and support
functionality to cope with alarm overload.\ E.g. alarm lists displays should
never be allowed to be unusable caused by repeating alarms. Many different
systematic technics are available, see clause 11 \"Alarm suppression
methods\".
It is noted that alarm overload is among other things, affected by the number
of resources handling the alarms and the amount of alarms generated.
# 9 Alarm management lifecycle
## 9.1 Processes
ANSI/ISA18.2 [6] emphasizes the need to implement a lifecycle process to
manage the alarm systems.
A basic planning is necessary and the first step is to develop an alarm
philosophy that documents the objectives of the alarm system and the processes
to meet those objectives.
The different processes can be grouped into an engineering part (A-E),
operational part (F-H,I) and follow up part (J).
Figure 9.1 from ANSI/ISA 18.2 [6] presents the main processes in the alarm
management lifecycle. Details of this important concept can be found in the
ISA 18.2 standard.
{width="3.6590277777777778in" height="3.3777777777777778in"}
Figure 9.1: Main processes in the alarm management lifecycle (from ANSI/ISA
18.2 [6])
Of prime importance and of most complexity of the alarm management processes
is probably the rationalization task that will analyse and prioritize many of
the individual alarms. In telecommunications most of the classification of
alarm severity is done by the equipment vendors and will need to be analyzed
and often reclassified dependent on the network environment, service offered
etc.
ANSI /ISA18.2 [6] stresses the audit functionality, to regular follow the
behaviour of the alarm systems with defined KPIs. Important part of alarm
management will be alarm suppression methods presented in clause 11.
Obviously there is a similarity with inheriting eTOM [5] processes. It will be
up to the individual operators to tailor their operations and will not be
target for standardisation.
However, bad quality alarms, in contrast with \"good alarms\" will be complex
or impossible to handle even in an advanced alarm management environment.
## 9.2 Highly Managed Alarms (HMAs)
The alarm severities defined in a mobile system are basically set out of
criteria limiting the functionality the network equipment is supporting. Huge
amount of alarms classified as critical are sent to operator\'s management
centers but are rarely critical from the overall business perspective. They
may even not be critical from time to respond.
An operator view may obviously be very different from the alarm severity
defined by the equipment vendor.
ANSI / ISA 18.2 [6] have defined one class of alarms called \"Highly Managed
Alarms\", (HMAs). These alarms are the very most critical alarms, catastrophic
from operations, security, business or any other top level reason. These
alarms should receive special treatment particularly when it comes to viewing
their status in the Human-Machine Interface (HMI). These are the alarms that
must never be missed and must always be given the highest attention.
Considerable high levels of administrative requirements are applicable for the
HMAs. For companies following this standard, detailed documentation and a
multitude of special administrative requirements in a precise way need to be
fulfilled.
These include:
\- Specific shelving requirements, such as access control with audit trail
\- Specific \"Out of Service\" alarm requirements, such as interim protection,
access control, and audit trail
\- Mandatory initial and refresher training with specific content and
documentation
\- Mandatory initial and periodic testing with specific documentation
\- Mandatory training around maintenance requirements with specific
documentation
\- Mandatory audit requirements
The Highly Managed Alarm (HMA) classes are also subject to special
requirements for operator training, frequency of testing, and archiving of
alarm records for proof of regulatory compliance.
In telecommunications, there are hardly physical catastrophic scenarios or
human physical security aspects to handle. However, the services may be a part
of a delivery chain that could be vital components in a HMA scene and as such
the HMA or part of the HMA concept could apply also for the telecommunications
parts.
Millions of mobile customers are now and then affected by major failures in
the infrastructure of mobile systems. Assurance management of the continuously
increasing complexity of our mobile systems could benefit from concepts like
Highly Managed Alarms (HMAs). The very most critical equipment should be
identified and secure that these types of alarms are treated in the most
thoughtful way. The HMAs may never be hidden, delayed etc in e.g. alarm
flooding.
Setup of HMA will include many of the processes identified in the alarm
management lifecycle. To implement HMA in the mobile system new requirements
on the information services of the 3GPP IRP can be expected.
# 10 Alarm states
The 3GPP alarm states are limited to the operational state of the logical
and/or physical resource(s). State information is also related to the life-
cycle of the alarm from an operator\'s point of view. Separate operator states
that indicates \"the alarm is not of interest any more\", \"already seen\"
etc. would be valuable information for operators and the alarm systems. A
state called \"closed\" could be introduced. Operators view should not be
mixed with the device view for e.g. \"clear\".
**Proposal 12:** Consider extension of the alarm states to include operators
alarm life-cycle view.
**Proposal 13:** Consider introduction of an alarm state called e.g.
\"closed\".
ANSI/ISA 18.2 [6] has elaborated and extended alarm states for alarm systems
with a set of states for alarm suppression. These should be of significant
value also for the telecommunications business. The states are called
\"shelved\", \"suppressed by design\" and \"out of service\" and can connect
to any alarm state shown in figure 10.1.
ANSI/ISA 18.2 [6] do define these states as:
**Shelved state**
The shelved state is used when an alarm is temporarily suppressed using a
controlled methodology. An alarm in the shelved state is under the control of
the operator. The shelving system may automatically unshelve alarms.
**Suppressed by design state**
The suppressed by design state is used to suppress alarms based on operating
conditions or plant states. An alarm in the suppressed by design state is
under the control of logic that determines the relevance of the alarm.
**Out-of-service alarm state**
The out-of-service alarm state is used to manually suppress alarms, (e.g. use
control system functionality to remove alarm from service), when they are
removed from service, typically for maintenance. An alarm in the out-of-
service state is under the control of maintenance.
In the telecommunications business, alarms generated under maintenance and/or
change management contribute to a very high degree to the alarm floods in our
alarm systems. A specific Out-of-service alarm state would together with
appropriate OSS functionality enable limitation of these nuisance alarms.
{width="5.690972222222222in" height="6.667361111111111in"}
Figure 10.1 Alarm state transition diagram from ANSI/ISA 18.2 [6]
# 11 Alarm suppression methods
## 11.1 Purpose
A key idea of EEMUA No 191 [7] is that the cognitive resources of operators
are limited and therefore should not be overloaded with alarms. The alarm
management solutions should support the operators with specific techniques to
handle alarm flooding as grouping of alarms.
The common expectation is that operators should never overlook important
alarms. However it is important to understand that human operators have a
limitation to the extent to which they can operate effectively to a period of
high level uploading. It emphasizes the usability of an alarm system from the
operator\'s perspective. The conclusion is obvious: every alarm should be
useful and relevant to the operator. There should be no alarm without a
predefined operator response.
3GPP Telecomunications management has not focus on standardization of NEM/NM
OSS functionality. However the concept that EEMUA and ANSI has introduced and
standardized in this area could be of significant potential in our
telecommunications business. The systematic approach to handle suppression of
alarm floods is impressive. The telecommunications businesses share the very
same problems where the production and engineering field have come up with
solutions.
Suppression methods have been elaborated for e g repeating alarms, alarm
flooding, chattering and fleeting alarms, testing, shelving, eclipsing, load
shedding and out-of-service handling. Such functionality are preferably
introduced at lowest possible level in the TMN logical functional hierarchy.
The reference documents EEMUA [7] and ANSI/ISA 18.2 [6] include rich and
detailed descriptions of a variety of alarm suppression methods and are
recommended for further study on this topic.
**Proposal 14:** Secure that the 3GPP IRP concept will support/enable
efficient alarm suppression methods at lowest possible level in the TMN
logical functional hierarchy according to the systematic EEMUA/ANSI approach.
**Clauses 11.2 to 11.4 contains a presentation from ANSI /ISA 18.2 [6] of
three of the key suppressions methods and the approach taken in this area.**
## 11.2 Alarm shelving
### 11.2.0 General
The temporary shelving of alarms by the operator is a common practice to keep
nuisance alarms and other alarms from interfering with the effectiveness of
the alarm system. Shelving includes a set of functions to ensure the integrity
of the alarm system is maintained. Where alarm shelving is provided, the
requirements of this clause shall be met.
### 11.2.1 Alarm shelving functional requirements
The alarm shelving function shall provide the following:
a) displays of shelved alarms or equivalent list capabilities, to indicate all
alarm shelved,
b) a time limit for shelving,
c) access control for shelving of highly managed alarms, if allowed,
d) the ability to unshelve alarms,
e) a record of each alarm shelved.
### 11.2.2 Alarm shelving functional recommendations
The alarm shelving function should be designed to prevent alarm floods when
alarms are\ automatically un-shelved.
### 11.2.3 Shelved alarm displays
#### 11.2.3.0 General
Shelved alarm displays, or equivalent list capabilities, for an alarm system
with shelving\ functionality have several required and recommended functions.
#### 11.2.3.1 Information requirements
Shelved alarm displays shall provide the following information:
a) the tag name and description,
b) alarm type,
c) the unsuppressed alarm state,
d) the alarm priority,
e) the time and date the alarm was shelved or the shelved time remaining.
#### 11.2.3.2 Functional requirements
Shelved alarm displays shall provide the following functions:
a) sorting of alarms by chronological order of shelving or shelved time
remaining,
b) sorting of alarms by priority,
c) individual unshelving of alarms.
#### 11.2.3.3 Functional recommendations
Shelved alarms displays should provide the following functions:
a) sorting of alarms by chronological order for active alarms,
b) operator entry of the reason the alarm was shelved,
c) filtering of alarms by priority,
d) filtering of alarms by alarm state,
e) filtering of alarms by process area,
f) navigational link to a process display,
g) navigational link to the tag display.
## 11.3 Out-of-service alarms
### 11.3.0 General
The suppression of alarms by placing an alarm out of service is common
practice to remove\ alarms from service to allow maintenance. There are
several required and recommended HMI\ functions related to out-of-service
alarms.
### 11.3.1 Out-of-service alarm functional requirements
The out-of-service alarm function shall provide the following:
a) a method to individually remove each alarm from service,
b) a method to individually return each alarm to service,
c) displays of out-of-service alarms or equivalent list capabilities, to
indicate all alarm out-of-service,
d) access control to place highly managed alarms out-of-service if allowed,
e) a record of each alarm placed out-of-service.
### 11.3.2 Out-of-service alarm displays
#### 11.3.2.0 General
Out-of-service alarm display, or equivalent list capabilities, shall be
provided for the alarm\ system. Out-of-service alarm displays have several
required and recommended functions. The\ out-of-service alarm displays may be
combined with the shelved alarm displays.
#### 11.3.2.1 Information requirements
Out-of-service alarm displays shall provide the following information:
a) the tag name and description,
b) alarm type,
c) the unsuppressed alarm state,
d) the alarm priority,
e) the time and date the alarm was placed out-of-service.
#### 11.3.2.2 Information recommendations
Out-of-service alarm displays should provide an indication of the suppression
method (e.g.\ out-of-service).
#### 11.3.2.3 Functional recommendations
Out-of-service alarm displays should provide the following functions:
a) sorting of alarms by chronological order of suppression,
b) operator entry of the reason the alarm was suppressed,
c) sorting of alarms by priority,
d) sorting of alarms by alarm state,
e) sorting of alarms by process area,
f) individual return-to-service of alarms.
## 11.4 Alarms suppressed by design
### 11.4.0 General
The designed suppression of alarms is common practice to prevent alarms that
are not needed due to intended or actual operating conditions. Where alarm
designed suppression is provided, the requirements of this clause shall be
met.
### 11.4.1 Designed suppression functional requirements
The designed suppression function shall provide the following:
a) displays of alarms suppressed by design or equivalent list capabilities, to
indicate all alarms suppressed by design,
b) a record of each alarm suppressed by design.
### 11.4.2 Designed suppression displays
#### 11.4.2.0 General
Designed suppression displays, or equivalent list capabilities, shall be
provided for the alarm\ system. Designed suppression displays have several
required and recommended functions.\ The designed suppression displays may be
combined with the shelved alarm displays or outof-\ service alarm displays.
#### 11.4.2.1 Information requirements
Designed suppression displays shall provide the following information:
a) the tag name and description,
b) alarm type,
c) the unsuppressed alarm state,
d) the alarm priority,
e) the time and date the alarm was suppressed.
#### 11.4.2.2 Information recommendations
Designed suppression displays should provide an indication of the suppression
method (e.g.\ designed suppression).
#### 11.4.2.3 Functional recommendations
Designed suppression displays should provide the following functions:
a) sorting of alarms by chronological order of suppression,
b) sorting of alarms by priority,
c) sorting of alarms by alarm state,
d) sorting of alarms by process area.
# 12 Conclusions
This work has been triggered by valuable work and solutions found in the
production and engineering industry of an escalating major problematic area in
management of a mobile system. Our network administrators are flooded with
alarms and alarms with often poor quality, hindering efficiency and ability to
adopt better OS support.
Standardization bodies in the production and engineering fields (e.g. EEMUA
[7], ANSI/ISA 18.2 [6]) have addressed the problem and undertaken substantial
work under last decade to come up with solutions. The work with ANSI/ISA-18.2
Alarm Management Standard started 2003. ISA -18.2 is a standard, not a
guideline or a recommended practice, and is reported to be developed in
accordance with stringent ANSI methodologies. As such, it will be regarded as
a \"recognized and generally accepted good engineering practice\" (RAGAGEP) by
regulatory agencies and insurance companies. ANSI/ISA -18.2 is in the process
of being adopted as an IEC standard (IEC 62682 Ed. 1.0 [12]).
Management of a mobile system may not face the security and hazardous issues
that triggered the ANSI/ISA-18.2 work, but obviously the telecommunications
business do share the very same problem in the alarm management field.
Potential dependencies with security and hazardous impacts are usage of mobile
services as transport mechanism for delivering alarm notifications from e g
equipment in rural areas in power grid networks. It may be brought to focus by
regulatory agencies. The expanding field of machine-machine communication and
deployment of heterogeneous networks are other areas that will challenge the
existing way of alarm management in a mobile system and call for efficient
solutions.
At present there is no good/suitabletechnology to relieve operators of manual
work, this is shared with the production and engineering field, main
identified reason is the alarm quality issues. It is worth noting that after
decades of research in telecommunications, alarm correlation is still the most
prioritized research area. This can partially be interpreted as a failure,
since no solution seems to be ready [10].
There are many drivers to adopt and benefit from the work done by EEMUA and
ANSI/ISA18.2.
The systematic approach on a specific process for alarm management and the set
of alarm suppression methods are impressive. The significance of enhanced
alarm quality and the most fundamental of all; a new alarm definition to
reclaim the real use of alarms. The basic principle of proper alarm management
is that alarms must require an operator response, items that do not comply
must be removed from the alarm system. Alarms must exist solely as a tool for
the benefit of the operator. The production and engineering fields argue that
if this principle is followed, huge improvement in a system will be made, even
if none of the other principles are followed -- it is that powerful!
The outcomes of the EEMUA and ANSI/ISA-18.2 work is an important \"eye-
opener\" in telecommunications management. Many of the solutions proposed
cannot be target for standardization in 3GPP, e.g. the improvement of the work
process on top of the Itf-N, the improvement of the human-machine interface.
However the alarm management processes are proposed to be the focus and be
supported by 3GPP telecommunications management solutions. A new alarm
definition is obviously a fundamental approach to solve the identified issues.
The alarm rationalization stage in the lifecycle of alarm management would in
management of a mobile system need to handle tens of thousands different types
of alarms. To minimize operators need to analyse and transform every single
alarm related to its usability should be at the essence of 3GPP
telecommunications management standardization work. In order to address
significant and real problems, our specifications also need to focus on alarm
quality and alarm semantics.
# 13 Recommendations
Be inspired by and adopt EEMUA No 191[7] and ANSI/ISA 18.2 [6] as guides for
alarm management of a 3GPP mobile system. This is impressive work that should
be reused in telecommunications management.
Redefine the term \"alarm\" used in 3GPP specifications according to the
ANSI/ISA 18.2 and EEMUA findings. The fundamental usage must be reclaimed and
communicated.
Accept the proposed new definitions in clause 7.4 for \" alarm\"\", alarm
notification\" and \"managed alarm\" as new definitions in 3GPP.
Items that do not comply with the new alarm definition must efficiently be
transferred/separated from 3GPP alarm systems.
Elaborate a requirements list for \"good alarms\" that could be shared between
standard organizations and interfaces.
Work on a relevant and updated alarm probable cause lists for entities of a
3GPP compliant mobile system.
Revisit 3GPP TS 32.111-2 [4] for alarm definition and make it much stricter
and add requirements for alarms. 3GPP SA5 needs to enhance the alarm quality
and alarm semantics.
Separate the severity of the alarm versus it if is cleared or not. Consider
extension of the alarm states to include operators alarm life-cycle view.
Consider introduction of an alarm state called e.g. \"closed\".
Allow for a hierarchical alarm type definition so that vendors can subtype
standardized alarm types rather than use an unmanaged free form string.
#