# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
Network sharing is emerging as a mechanism for operators to substantially and
sustainable improve network costs and to efficiently utilize network capacity.
The traditional model of single ownership of all network layers and elements
is being challenged and more and more operators are adopting network sharing
as a means of cutting the heavy costs involved in initial roll-out, Capital
Expenditure (CAPEX) and Operating Expenditure (OPEX).
In general, increasing number of operators are sharing their mobile networks.
Main arguments presented are:
\- Increased rollout speed;
\- Quickly expand coverage to meet customer demand for wider coverage;
\- Sharing low-traffic areas gains long-term cost advantage;
\- Sharing high-license burdens;
\- Cost efficiency (CAPEX and OPEX);
\- Joint effort to offer availability of services at more affordable price.
Network sharing has some major implications on the operations of the network.\
Alignment on operational priorities, common network planning/evolution
strategy, sharing end-user data/subscriber data, sharing performance data,
alarms etc. in the shared network need to be considered carefully.\ Privacy,
security and competitive information are also important for the operations of
a shared network.
# 1 Scope
The present document is aimed at addressing the operational implications of
network sharing.
There are a wide variety of deployment scenarios for network sharing.\
Scenarios identified in 3GPP TS 23.251 [3] and TR 22.951 [2] are taken into
consideration to identify OAM impacts.
3GPP TS 23.251 \"Network sharing; Architecture and functional description\"
specifies the stage 2 descriptions which are also considered to address OAM
aspects.
NGCOR defined RAN sharing requirements are taken into account as input for
this study.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 22.951: \"Service aspects and requirements for network sharing\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.251: \"Network sharing; Architecture and functional
description\".
[4] 3GPP TS 36.300: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN); Overall
description; Stage 2\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1], TR 22.951 [2], TS 23.251 [3] and the following apply. A
term defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of
the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1], TR 22.951 [2], TS 23.251 [3].
**Organizational Roles:**
**Master Operator (MO):** In RAN/Core Sharing scenarios, deployment and daily
operation of shared network elements are entrusted to a single Actor, called
the Master Operator. The Master Operator provides network and OAM services to
other Operators, called Sharing Operators. The Master Operator is the only one
to have a direct OAM connection from his DM to the shared network elements.
**Sharing Operator (SO):** Sharing Operators (SO) are service providers who
share, alongside other Sharing Operators (SO), the network (RAN/Core network)
facilities provided by the Master Operator. According to 3GPP TS 36.300 [4] up
to 6 operators can share a RAN.
> Note: In a RAN/Core sharing scenario where Operator (service providers) A
> and B are Sharing Operators (SO), the Master Operator (MO) represents a role
> which can be played by either:
>
> 1) Operator A or Operator B: in that case, Operator A or Operator B plays
> both roles, i.e. is the Master Operator and one of the Sharing Operators at
> the same time,
>
> or
>
> 2) a joint-venture between Operator A and Operator B,
>
> or
>
> 3) third-party entity: In this context, third party is referring to a
> wholesale mobile connectivity provider.
>
> In the two latter cases, operators A and B rely on another company to play
> the role of Master Operator.\ This company cannot play the role of SO.
**Resources in a Shared RAN/Core environment:**
**Master Operator Network Manager:** Network Manager managing the shared
RAN/Core.
**Master Operator Shared Core dm:** Domain Manager managing the S-CORE.
**Master Operator Shared RAN dm:** Domain Manager managing the S-RAN.
**Shared Core:** Core Network shared with other Sharing Operators. It may or
may not include all core elements.\ For example the operators may share only
the MME while having independent S/P-GWs.
**Sharing Operator Core DM:** A Domain Manager enabling the Sharing Operator
to manage its own core network (not shared).
**Sharing Operator NM:** Network Management System (NMS) enabling the Sharing
Operator to manage its own network and its portion of the shared network.
**Sharing Operator RAN DM:** A Domain Manager enabling the Sharing Operator to
manage its own RAN (not shared).
**Shared RAN:** A set of Radio Access Network elements shared among Operators.
**Sharing Operator CORE DM:** A Domain Manager enabling the Sharing Operator
to manage its own core network (not shared).
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1], TR 22.951 [2], TS 23.251 [3] and the following apply. An
abbreviation defined in the present document takes precedence over the
definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
DM Domain Manager
DN Domain Name
GWCN GateWay Core Network
HRNM
MDT Minimization of Drive Test
**MO Master Operator**
MO-NM Master Operator Network Manager
MO-SC-DM Master Operator Shared Core Domain Manager
MO-SR-DM Master Operator Shared RAN Domain Manager
NGCOR Next Generation Converged Operations Requirements
NM Network Manager
NMS Network Management System
OAM Operations, Administration and Maintenance
RN Relay Node
**S-CORE Shared Core**
S-RAN Shared Radio Access Network
SO Sharing Operator
SO-CORE-DM Sharing Operator Core Domain ManagerSO-NM Sharing Operator Network
Manager
SO-RAN-DM Sharing Operator RAN Domain Manager
SON Self Organizing Networks
TCE Trace Collection Entity
# 4 Operational scenarios for network sharing
## 4.1 Scenario 1: Multiple Operators Core Network sharing common radio access
network
### 4.1.1 General description
The scenario described is for the RAN access Network that is shared by
multiple operators with independent core networks.
The RAN sharing can potentially be based on several factors like dedicated
carriers, geographical area, shared resources, etc.
Figure 4.1.1.1 shows that a shared RAN is composed not only of the RAN nodes
that are shared, but also of RAN nodes that are not shared by the operators.
Figure 4.1.1.1: RAN shared by multiple operators with independent core
networks
Note: An operator can also have multiple PLMNs.\ This is currently focused on
all operations within the same country.
A RAN, even if shared between several operators, is always belonging to a
given operator. So there is always a primary PLMN.
In all RAN sharing cases where multiple operators are involved the following
impacts need to be analyzed:
  1. Handling of multiple PLMN IDs with the RAN. The MO\'s ability to filter/distinguish certain PLMN-specific information based on PLMN is important for the operators sharing the RAN.
  2. In addition, a single operator may have multiple PLMNs.
  3. Ability to define policies that allow OAM to control actions per operator (and/or per PLMN)\ (example initiation of call trace etc.).
To address the above impact various OAM deployment scenarios for a RAN shared
network needs to be analyzed.
### 4.1.2 Use case description
#### 4.1.2.1 Scenario 1A: Shared node managed by Master Operator
Figure 4.1.2.1.1:Scenario 1A - Shared node managed by the Master Operator
In this scenario the MO is responsible for managing the S-RAN. Each operator
has his own NM.
According to the operators\' sharing management agreement, the MO-SR-DM makes
available a relevant portion (of management data) to individual SO-NM.
This scenario aligns with the scenario defined in NGCOR document, business
requirements defined in Reference [3]: Business Scenario 4, Section 3.4.2.
Editor\'s Note: This is not aligned with the 3GPP TS 32.101 [5] reference
architecture.\ There are use cases in the present document that are outside of
the reference architecture.\ Need to determine if the reference architecture
needs to be extended.
#### 4.1.2.2 Scenario 1B: S-RAN managed by Master Operator (3GPP defined)
Figure 4.1.2.2.1: Scenario 1B - Shared RAN managed by the Master Operator
(3GPP)
MO-SR-DM may need to forward management data (including the PLMN
identification of the operators sharing the nodes) to the MO- NM. According to
the operators\' sharing management agreement, the MO-NM sends the relevant
portion (of management data) to the SO-NM.
This scenario aligns with the scenario defined in NGCOR document, business
requirements defined in Reference [3]: Business Scenario 4, Section 3.4.2.
This scenario is compliant with the 3GPP reference management architecture.
#### 4.1.2.3 Scenario 1C: Master Operator manages all RAN
The management architecture of 1C is same as 1A and the RAN sharing management
information is exchanged between MO-SR-DM and SO-NM.
A slight variation to scenario 1A can be as stated below. S-RAN is managed by
the MO which is a third party.\ In some cases if the operators do not want to
deal with the day to day management of the nodes but still want just the high
level view of their network, the node level management may be outsourced to a
different company (managed service provider).
Figure 4.1.2.3.1: Scenario 1C - Master Operator (MO) manages all RAN
According to the operators\' sharing management agreement, the third party MO
will make available a relevant portion (of management data) to SO-NM.
Editors Note: This is not aligned with the 3GPP TS 32.101 [5] reference
architecture.
#### 4.1.2.4 Scenario 1D: Master Operator manages all RAN (3GPP defined)
The management architecture of 1D is same as 1B that the RAN sharing
management information is exchanged between MO-NM and SO-NM.
A slight variation to scenario 1C can be as stated below. This scenario is
compliant with the 3GPP reference architecture. Otherwise there is no
difference between 1D and 1C. MO is a third party.
Figure 4.1.2.4.1:Scenario 1D - Master Operator (MO) manages all RAN (3GPP)
According to the operators\' sharing management agreement, the MO-SR-DM will
make available S-RAN data to the MO-NM which in turn will provide the relevant
portion (of the management data) to SO-NM.
This is a 3GPP defined shared scenario.
#### 4.1.2.5 Scenario 1E: Network sharing between operators who own
independent equipment and no DM/NM sharing
The management architecture of 1E is same as 1B that the RAN sharing
management information is exchanged between MO-NM and SO-NM.
In this scenario the operator A owns his network completely and Operator B
owns his network completely.\ The Operator A\'s subscribers with PLMN A can be
serviced by Operator B\'s network as though it is an extension of the Operator
A\'s network.\ The UE traversing to Operator B\'s network will see Operator
A\'s information and will appear to be in the same PLMN.
Figure 4.1.2.5.1:Scenario 1E - Network sharing between operators who own\
independent equipment and no DM/NM sharing
According to the operators\' sharing management agreement, the SO-RAN-DM will
make available a relevant portion (of management data) to individual
operator\'s SO-NM.
### 4.1.3 Fault Management impact
Alarms raised by the 3GPP nodes are generally associated with equipment,
resources on the node etc. and are alarms that all operators sharing the RAN
resources would need to know.
However, there can be alarms raised when resources allocated on a PLMN basis
or application that is PLMN specific needs attention. In those cases there may
be need to filter alarms based on PLMN when delivered to the NM, particularly
if the alarms are operator sensitive information.
Example: CAC (Call Admission Control) failure alarm.
Several options for addressing the above are explored here.
**Option 1:** Introduce information in alarm (a new attribute) that identifies
the PLMN.\ The parameter can be optional. This attribute will not be
applicable to a large category of the alarms.
**Option 2:** Introduce the PLMN identification in the additional text or
additionalInfo attributes in the alarm.\ This implies a vendor specific
string.
**Option 3:** Change the NRM to introduce an \> or
\> for representing the PLMN. The alarm raised that is PLMN
specific can be identified by the DN in the alarm.\ The exact modelling will
be explored later.
**Option 4:** No changes. There is really no need to identify the alarm
specific to a PLMN.
**Option 5:** Add an attribute to each monitored entity to identify the PLMN.
### 4.1.4 Performance Management impact
There are several categories of counters that characterize QoS and are split
per operator. These need to be identified
Editor\'s Note: Identification of the PM counters which need to be per PLMN is
TBD.
**Option 1:** Introduce the PLMN identification in an additional tag in the
3GPP PM file (a proprietary or standardized extension).
**Option 2:** Change the NRM to introduce an object class for representing the
PLMN.\ The PM counters can be associated with the PLMN object.
**Option 3:** No changes needed. There is no need to separate these counters
per PLMN.
### 4.1.5 Configuration Management impact
There will be NRM impacts as a result of supporting network sharing. Clause 5
identifies the specifications that may have potential impact. The exact
changes will be identified in the WI phase.
### 4.1.6 Security Management impact
As a result of network sharing there is need to control access and visibility
of certain operations and data. The ability to provide the access control on
the NM will be supported by introducing and enhancing the information over
Itf-N. Clause 5 identifies the specifications that may have potential
impacts.\ The exact changes will be identified in the WI phase.
### 4.1.7 MDT/Call Trace impact
#### 4.1.7.1 UE Selection in Area based MDT
In area based MDT, whether a UE belonging to participating operator can be
selected by other operator\'s MDT job depends on the operators\' RAN sharing
agreement.
For example, for scenarios 1A (figure 4.1.7.1), 1B, 1C, 1D and 1E listed in
clause 4.1.2, whether UE2 can be selected by Operator A\'s MDT job as shown in
Figure 4.1.7.1 depends on the network sharing agreement.
Figure 4.1.7.1: UE selection in area based MDT
#### 4.1.7.2 UE Selection and Data Retrieval in MDT
##### 4.1.7.2.1 Criteria of analysis
The first and obvious criterion is availability of the user consent. Most of
the RAN sharing scenarios listed in clause 4.1.2 involve only two operators
(operator A and operator B). However, there are certain scenarios where a
3^rd^ operator may be involved -- for simplicity, we\'ll just call it a third
party. Here we list various possibilities for user consent availability.
1\. User consent possibilities:
> 1.1 User has not given his consent to any operator
>
> 1.2 User has given his consent to all operators
>
> 1.3 User has given his consent to operator A only
>
> 1.4 User has given his consent to operator B only
>
> 1.5 User has given his consent to operators A and B only (not to any 3^rd^
> parties)
NOTE 1: There is no existing solution addressing all these user consent
possibilities.
The second criterion that is related to the SA3 requirement about data control
\"Consent to collect MDT data is given to specific data controllers\". The
data in MDT is stored at a Trace Collection Entity (TCE), so we list various
possibilities for TCE ownership and control in a RAN sharing environment. In
all these possibilities we assume that the TCE under question is directly
\"reachable\" from the eNB that retrieved the UE data. Multiple \"relay\"
scenarios are possible, but these add complexity and may be interpreted in a
way that the first TCE in a \"relay\" chain has the full control over data and
any forwarding decision is outside of MDT scope (e.g. similar to a case where
operator \"sells\" the collected data to a third party). Here we list various
possibilities for TCE ownership and control.
2\. TCE possibilities (assuming that these are all directly reachable from the
eNB):
> 2.1 Both operators A and B have (and fully control) their own TCEs
>
> 2.2 Only operator A has his own TCE and fully controls it
>
> 2.3 Only operator B has his own TCE and fully controls it
>
> 2.4 Both operators A and B share the same TCE (share control and have access
> to all data)
>
> 2.5 Neither operator A nor B have their own TCEs and use a third party TCE
NOTE 2: The TCE possibilities are dependent on the network deployment.
Potentially there are multiple decision points in MDT that may be affected by
the RAN sharing. Here we list the two critical ones: a) UE selection in
management based MDT (whether a particular UE may be selected for a particular
MDT session) and b) MDT data retrieval.
3\. UE selection time decisions:
> 3.1 UE selection for immediate MDT
>
> 3.2 UE selection for logged MDT
The MDT data retrieval decision in immediate MDT cannot be logically separated
from the UE selection decision\ (eNB configures a measurement in UE and
receives the UE response in RRC message) therefore we don\'t list it below.
4\. Data retrieval time decisions:
> 4.1 Logged MDT data retrieval
##### 4.1.7.2.2 Scenario analysis
In all scenarios documented in clause 4.1.2 only Hosting RAN Operator (the
operator that manages the shared node) is able to activate a management based
MDT session on the Shared RAN Node.\ Two cases are possible: operator A
activates MDT job on its own behalf and operator A activates MDT job on behalf
of operator B. The path of activation forwarding may differ case by case (e.g.
request of operator B received by SRDM directly from PONM, request of operator
B received by SRDM via HRNM, etc.).
The important aspect of UE \"belongs\" relationship is where the user has
given his consent.
There is also potential difference between the five scenarios documented in
clause 4.1.2 in terms of Trace Collection Entity (TCE) possibilities listed in
clause 4.1.7.1.1, but currently it is not documented -- therefore it is
assumed, that all TCE possibilities are valid in all 5 scenarios.
Table 4.1.7.1.2.a: UE selection by shared Node for immediate MDT on behalf of
the operator A
* * *
UE selection on behalf of operator A TCE possibilities  
2.1 2.2 2.3 2.4 2.5  
Consent possibilities 1.1 NO NO NO NO NO 1.2 YES YES YES YES YES 1.3 YES YES
NO NO NO 1.4 NO NO NO NO NO 1.5 YES YES YES YES NO
* * *
Table 4.1.7.1.2.b: UE selection by shared Node for immediate MDT on behalf of
operator B:
* * *
UE selection on behalf of operator B TCE possibilities  
2.1 2.2 2.3 2.4 2.5  
Consent possibilities 1.1 NO NO NO NO NO 1.2 YES YES YES YES YES 1.3 NO NO NO
NO NO 1.4 YES NO YES NO NO 1.5 YES YES YES YES NO
* * *
The UE selection for logged MDT in general should follow the criteria used in
UE selection for immediate MDT, but may potentially be relaxed depending on
the area scope used for MDT job. For example, a UE may have the MDT job
activated by shared Node and then continue while moving towards a non-shared
Node (not shared nodes with potentially different available TCE connections).
In logged MDT data retrieval analysis, the table cells marked \"n/a\" indicate
that this combination is not valid (e.g. if UE has not given consent to any
operator there will be no logged MDT session on this UE and no logged data to
be retrieved, or if UE has not given consent to a particular operator there
will be no logged MDT session on this UE for that particular operator and no
logged data to be retrieved, etc...).
Table 4.1.7.1.2.c: Logged MDT data retrieval by shared Node (MDT session
\"for\" operator A)
* * *
Logged MDT data retrieval TCE possibilities  
2.1 2.2 2.3 2.4 2.5  
Consent possibilities 1.1 N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A 1.2 YES YES YES YES YES 1.3 YES
YES NO NO NO 1.4 N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A 1.5 YES YES YES YES NO
* * *
Table 4.1.7.1.2.d: Logged MDT data retrieval by shared Node (MDT session
\"for\" operator B)
* * *
Logged MDT data retrieval TCE possibilities  
2.1 2.2 2.3 2.4 2.5  
Consent possibilities 1.1 N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A 1.2 YES YES YES YES YES 1.3 N/A
N/A N/A N/A N/A 1.4 YES NO YES NO NO 1.5 YES YES YES YES NO
* * *
The UE selection rules outlined in tables 4.1.7.1.2.a and 4.1.7.1.2.b and MDT
data retrieval rules outlined in tables 4.1.7.1.2.c and 4.1.7.1.2.d apply to
all scenarios listed in clause 4.1.2.
The rules in tables 4.1.7.1.2.a and 4.1.7.1.2.b are symmetric -- the important
fact is on whose behalf the UE selection is performed, not which operator
performs the selection.
There is no conceptual difference between scenario 1A (where operator A
selects UEs behalf of operator B) and\ scenario 1E (operator B selects UEs on
behalf of operator A).
##### 4.1.7.2.3 Conclusion
The important criteria for UE selection and data retrieval for MDT in RAN
sharing environment are user consent availability (and specific operator
details of user consent information) and control over the TCE(s) reachable
from the shared node.
Different RAN sharing scenarios documented in clause 4.1.2 may potentially
imply different TCE connectivity and availability.
UE selection for logged MDT on shared nodes may potentially use more relaxed
rules than UE selection for immediate MDT.
#### 4.1.7.3 Rel-11 solution
**Background:**
In Rel-10 there is a restriction that MDT is only allowed within one PLMN.
This triggered SA to send a LS to SA5 saying that all functions should support
network sharing. If that could not be fulfilled, it shouldexplicitly be
mentioned.
The MDT function should have a basic support the use of shared networks in
Rel-11. And as the trace function is used for MDT, all Subscriber and
Equipment Trace functions should have the same support for shared network.
In Rel-11 some CRs have been agreed to allow MDT among the operators that are
sharing a RAN. However, this has been done without considering the
accessibility of MDT data by the different operators.
**Conditions:**
For the Rel-11 solution, the following conditions apply:
  * Only RAN sharing is considered.
  * The user consent remains unchanged (i.e. 1 bit).
  * SA5 reference model remains unchanged, i.e. scenarios 1B, 1D and 1E.
**Solution:**
> **Management Based Activation (MBA):**
>
> The requirement that MDT should work for shared networks is interpreted as
> any of the operators that are sharing a RAN should be able to access MDT
> data for its subscribers wherever they are in the shared RAN.\ That means
> that even if the RAN is owned by Operator A, the Operator B should be
> allowed to access MDT data for the shared RAN for its subscribers and vice
> versa.
>
> Whether or not the Operator B is allowed to start Area Based MDT via a
> machine-to-machine interface is out of the scope for Rel-11.\ Rel-12 should
> study scenarios 1A and 1C etc. and what deployments of the Domain Manager
> (DM) for shared networks should be supported by 3GPP and how these
> deployments are allowed to interact.
>
> **Signalling Based Activation (SBA):**
>
> As Signalling Based Activation is done in the core network, there is no
> issue for activation of Trace Sessions or Trace Recording Sessions.
>
> **Reporting of recorded data for Management Based Logged MDT and for
> Signalling Based MDT:**
>
> As only RAN sharing is supported, when a signalling based MDT recording is
> combined with Trace in a core network, all sharing operators should be
> allowed to start such recording and the recorded data from all parts of the
> own core network and the shared RAN should be sent to the operator that
> initiated the recording.\ Also for Management Based Logged MDT, the UE can
> report the log to any eNB/RNC in the shared RAN and in the own RAN (if not
> the whole RAN is shared), even if they do not have knowledge about the Trace
> Session.\ This means that the TCE IP addresses and the mapping of the Trace
> Collection Entity (TCE) addresses should be coordinated between all
> operators that share a RAN. How that coordination is done is outside the
> scope of standardization.
### 4.1.8 Impact on management of SON and related topics
Editor\'s Note: The impact on SON uses cases as a result of network sharing is
for futher study.
### 4.1.9 Architectural impact
There are two RAN sharing alternative management architectures are identified:
1\. **Management Architecture #1** , in which the MO offer management
capabilities to SOvia its Shared RAN Domain Manager (MO-SR-DM) as shown in
Scenario 1A and 1C.
2\. **Management Architecture #2** , in which the MO offer management
capabilities to SOs via its Network Manager (MO-NM) as shown in Scenario 1B,
1D and 1E.
The scenarios 1A and 1C, in which the MO-SR-DM is connected directly to SO-NM
are not supported by the existing 3GPP Management Reference Model (cf. [2]).
The diagram below describes an extended 3GPP reference management architecture
where the MO-SR-DMis connected directly to SO-NM via Type-7 interface.
Figure 4.1.9.1
Note: The impacts of enabling a MO-SR-DM to be directly connected to SO-NMs
need further investigation.
### 4.1.10 Other impacts
Void.
## 4.2 Scenario 2: Relay Node (RN) in a RAN sharing scenario
### 4.2.1 General description
Even though operators may reach an agreement to share the DeNB in a RAN
sharing scenario, it is possible that each operator would want to deploy RNs
independently and for the exclusive use of their customers e.g. to address
coverage issues raised by a customer. In this scenario it can happen that an
operator wants a RN to select a different PLMN on the shared Cell of the DeNB
than the primary PLMN of the cell. It should be possible to configure the RN
to select the correct PLMN on a shared cell.
### 4.2.2 Use case description
The following describes this scenario in more detail.
**RN Pre-configuration (Phase 1)**
Consider a scenario where a RN Connects to a RAN shared Cell on say PLMN A in
phase 1 to obtain RN pre-configuration information. OAM would like to indicate
that RN needs to connect to a PLMN B on shared cell for RN operation e.g.
because only CN B has the MME RN or is for exclusive use by the operator B.
Figure 4.2.2.1 illustrates the need for the DeNB Cell List information to be
updated to include information about the PLMN which RN should connect to.
Figure 4.2.2.1: Illustration of scenario where RN connects to RN OAM via a
PLMN A\ but is requested by OAM to connect as a RN on PLMN B
### 4.2.3 Fault Management impact
No specific impact for this use case. This will be addressed by general
changes related to RAN sharing and support for DeNB.
### 4.2.4 Performance Management impact
No specific impact for this use case. This will be addressed by general
changes related to RAN sharing and support for DeNB.
### 4.2.5 Configuration Management impact
According to 3GPP TS 32.766 [6], the DeNB cell list is a list of ECGIs as
referenced below.
Quote:
> **A.2.2.15 IOC RNFunction**
Mapping from NRM IOC RNFunction attributes and associations\ to SS equivalent
MOC RNFunction attributes
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | A | SS | SS Type | Support | Read | Write | | ttribute | A | | Q | Q | Q | | of IOC | ttribute | | ualifier | ualifier | ualifier | | RN | | | | | | | Function | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | 3GPP T | | | | | | | S 32.762 | | | | | | | [4] | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | id | id | string | M | M | - | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | ser | ser | Ge | M | M | M | | vingCell | vingCell | nericNet | | | | | | | workReso | | | | | | | urcesIRP | | | | | | | System:: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Att | | | | | | | ributeTy | | | | | | | pes::MOR | | | | | | | eference | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | ca | ca | genericE | M | M | M | | ndidateD | ndidateD | UTRANNRM | | | | | eNBCells | eNBCells | Attribut | | | | | | | eTypes:: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Ecgi | | | | | | | ListType | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
Unquote.
Editor\'s note: the need of attribute candidate DeNBCells is for further
study.
This definition of the DeNB cell list seems appropriate for the non-RAN
sharing case where the eNB is broadcasting only the primary PLMN. However, if
the RN OAM needs the RN to connect to PLMN B on the shared cell, there is no
way to indicate this information in the DeNB cell list. The definition of DeNB
cell list should be updated to support the RAN sharing case.
### 4.2.6 Security Management impact
No specific impact for this use case. This will be addressed by general
changes related to RAN sharing and support for DeNB.
### 4.2.7 MDT/Call Trace impact
No specific impact for this use case. This will be addressed by general
changes related to RAN sharing and support for DeNB.
### 4.2.8 Impact on management of SON and related topics
No specific impact for this use case. This will be addressed by general
changes related to RAN sharing and support for DeNB.
### 4.2.9 Other Impacts
None.
## 4.3 Scenario 3: DM shared between Operators affiliates
### 4.3.1 General description
The scenario described here is for large service providers having footprints
in many countries. Though, in some of these countries, they are incumbent, it
also happens that, in some other countries, they are challengers, have limited
footprints and have to lower their CAPEX and OPEX to be competitive. In some
cases, they deploy a relatively limited number of network elements in each
country and put in place a unique organization responsible for operating these
domestic networks. The resulting 24/7 shared Network Operation Centre (NOC)
uses a single DM for all the nation-wide networks it is in charge of. NOC
staff is responsible of daily operation of the various networks. However, the
local operation teams should have management capabilities for their respective
network elements.
This scenario can apply to any 3GPP network entities.
### 4.3.2 Use case description
In this scenario, network elements are not shared between Operator\'s
affiliates. However, they are managed from a common DM, which can be under the
responsibility of one of the Operator\'s affiliates which have an agreement
for sharing their DM (namely Affiliate A and Affiliate B in the example below)
or under the responsibility of any other affiliate, based on Operator\'s
policy.
Figure 4.3.2.1
This scenario aligns with the scenario defined in NGCOR document, business
requirements defined in NGCOR Next Generation Converged Operations
Requirements v1.2, Feb. 28th, 2012: Business Scenario 1, Section 3.4.1.1.
### 4.3.3 Fault Management impact
Since Operator\'s Affiliates do not share their nodes, it is expected that
alarms raised by Operator\'s affiliate A network elements are not visible to
other Operator\'s affiliates.
### 4.3.4 Performance Management impact
It should be possible that each Operator\'s affiliate configures its PM jobs
from its NM, independently from each others.
It should be possible that performance counters and KPIs be split per
Operator\'s affiliate.
### 4.3.5 Configuration Management impact
It should be possible that each Operator\'s affiliate configures its network
elements from its NM, independently from each others.
### 4.3.6 Security Management impact
Mechanisms shouldexist so that Operator\'s affiliate A NM should not be able
to retrieve or access information from other Operator\'s Affiliate network
elements.
### 4.3.7 MDT/Call Trace impact
Impact on MDT/Call Trace as a result of Network Sharing is for futher study.
### 4.3.8 Impact on management of SON and related topics
Impact on SON uses cases as a result of Network Sharing is for futher study.
### 4.3.9 Other impacts
Inventory Management: It should be possible that each Operator\'s affiliate
inventories its network elements from its NM, independently from each other.
## 4.4 Scenario 4: Gateway Core Network (GWCN)
### 4.4.1 General description
A network sharing architecture may allow operators to share all or part of the
core in addition to sharing radio access network. This configuration is
usually referred to as a Gateway Core Network (GWCN) configuration.
The architecture for GWCN is addressed in 3GPP TS 23.351 [3].
### 4.4.2 Use case description
#### 4.4.2.1 Scenario 4.4a: Management Model for GWCN (Option #1)
Figure 4.4.2.1.1
In this scenario both core network and RAN are shared and managed by MO.
#### 4.4.2.2 Scenario 4.4b: Management Model for GWCN (Option #2, conformant
with 3GPP current management architecture)
Figure 4.4.2.2.1
In this scenario both core network and RAN are shared and managed by MO.
### 4.4.3 Fault Management impact
Operators sharing the Core should be able to view alarms from the shared
nodes. It may be necessary for certain alarms to be identified as pertaining
to a particular PLMN or Operator.
The need or ability to view a subset of the alarms depending on the nature of
the alarm is to be analyzed further.
Note: The shared RAN part of the scenario is addressed in clause 4.1 and the
analysis applies here for the shared RAN part.
### 4.4.4 Performance Management impact
Operators sharing the Core should be able to view performance counters from
the shared nodes. It may be necessary for certain performance counters to be
identified as releated to a particular PLMN or Operator.
The need or ability to view a subset of the performance counters depending on
the type of the performance counter is to be analyzed further.
Note: The shared RAN part of the scenario is addressed in clause 4.1 and the
analysis applies here for the shared RAN part.
### 4.4.5 Configuration Management impact
There will be NRM impacts as a result of supporting network sharing. Clause 5
identifies the specifications that may have potential impacts. The exact
changes will be identified in the WI phase.
### 4.4.6 Security Management impact
As a result of network sharing there is need to control access and visibility
of certain operations and data. The ability to provide the access control on
the NM will be supported by introducing and enhancing the information over
Itf-N. Clause 5 identifies the specifications that may have potential
impacts.\ The exact changes will be identified in the WI phase.
### 4.4.7 MDT/Call Trace impact
Impact on MDT/Call Trace as a result of Network Sharing is for futher study.
### 4.4.8 Impact on management of SON and related topics
Impact on SON uses cases as a result of Network Sharing is for futher study.
### 4.4.9 Other impacts
## 4.5 Scenario 5: Shared Core with independent RAN
### 4.5.1 General description
A network sharing architecture may allow operators to share all or part of the
core and have their own radio access network.
### 4.5.2 Use case description
In these scenarios, the management of the shared core network needs to be
studied.
#### 4.5.2.1 Scenario 4.5a: Shared Core with independent RANs (Option #1)
Figure 4.5.2.1.1
In this scenario the core is shared and managed by MO.\ MO-SC-DM manages the
S-CORE and can be operated by a MO.
#### 4.5.2.2 Scenario 4.5b: Shared Core with independent RANs (Option #2,
conformant with 3GPP current management architecture)
Figure 4.5.2.2.1
This is the same as Scenario 4.4a, except this scenario follows the current
3GPP management architecture.
### 4.5.3 Fault Management impact
The shared Core part of the scenario is addressed in Clause 4.4 and the
analysis applies here for the shared Core part.
### 4.5.4 Performance Management impact
The shared Core part of the scenario is addressed in Clause 4.4 and the
analysis applies here for the shared Core part.
### 4.5.5 Configuration Management impact
The shared Core part of the scenario is addressed in Clause 4.4 and the
analysis applies here for the shared Core part.
### 4.5.6 Security Management impact
The shared Core part of the scenario is addressed in Clause 4.4 and the
analysis applies here for the shared Core part.
### 4.5.7 MDT/Call Trace impact
Impact on MDT/Call Trace as a result of Network Sharing is for futher study.
### 4.5.8 Impact on management of SON and related topics
Impact on SON uses cases as a result of Core Sharing is for futher study.
### 4.5.9 Other impacts
None.
# 5 Recommendation on OAM impacts for Network sharing
## 5.1 Summary and way forward
A LS was received from SA to all WG in Rel 10 to support Network Sharing. The
main goal with the present document is to provide a response to the LS to
study and understand what needs to be done to ensure existing functionality
and new enhancement can support network sharing scenarios identified in the
3GPP SA5 specifications. In addition, the goal is to take into account NGCOR
scenarios and requirements.
The analysis of use cases for Network Sharing resulted in 2 different
management architectures as detailed in clause 4.1.9:
1\. Management Architecture #1, in which the Master Operator offer management
capabilities to Sharing Operators via its Shared RAN Domain Manager (also
referred to as MO-SR-DM) as shown in Scenario 1A and 1C.
2\. Management Architecture #2, in which the Master Operator offer management
capabilities to Sharing Operators via its Network Manager (also referred to as
MO-NM) as shown in Scenario 1B and 1D. Management Architecture #2 is
consistent with the 3GPP reference management architecture.
While it is important to cover all aspects of Network Sharing, the
recommendation and conclusion is to break up the work.
Based on the analysis the recommendations are provided below/
  1. \- A new Work Item will be opened to address the changes to the specification related to use cases analysed in the present document that align with Management Architecture #2.
  2. \- A new Study Item can be used to extend the analysis in the present document for additional scenarios of network sharing based on SA1 and NGCOR work that may require extending 3GPP reference management architecture.
## 5.2 Scenario 2 related changes
This definition of the DeNB cell list seems appropriate for the non-RAN
sharing case where the eNB is broadcasting only the primary PLMN. However, if
the RN OAM needs the RN to connect to PLMN B on the shared cell, there is no
way to indicate this information in the DeNB cell list. The definition of DeNB
cell list should be updated to support the RAN sharing case.
The recommendation is to provide changes in 3GPP TS 28.658 [7] to address this
need.
## 5.3 Impact on existing specifications
Any resources identified by a \ in the 3GPP specifications may support
management of network sharing for the standardized operations, notifications,
objects and attributes without modification to existing specifications
(example: eNodeB level).
However, extensions may be needed to introduce new \s and/or modify
existing \s and/or modify existing interface IRPs for certain scenarios
(example: cell level).
Note that vendor specific operations, notifications, objects and attributes,
etc. are out of scope.
Note: Only Architecture #2 detailed in clause 4.1.9 is considered in the
analysis.
The directive from SA came in at the beginning of Rel-11. The analysis has
been done (2013-07) for specs in Rel-11 and existing Rel-12 specs.
The sharing has the following architecture:
RAN sharing can be made in two ways:
  1. One cell is shared by several Sharing Operators
  2. Each Sharing Operator has its own cell, even if the RAN node(s) are shared.
The Master Operator can access all data, regardless if it is shared or not.
The division of data for Sharing Operators are made in the Master Operator\'s
Network Manager.
**Legend used in the table:**
> **N/A -- Not Applicable:** \ The specification is not relevant to Network
> Sharing: example 3GPP TS 32.581, 32.582.\ A note, \"Network sharing is not
> applicable in this release\", will be added in the Requirement TS in the
> scope clause.
>
> **NS - Not supported and no proposal to modify in the current Release:\**
> Needs modifications but may/will not be changed in current release.\ A note,
> \"Network sharing is not supported in this Release\", will be added in the
> Requirement TS in the scope clause of the identified specification of
> Release 12,.
>
> **NR: Not required:** The network sharing scenario is not specified in 3GPP
> TS 23.251 [3].
>
> **SWM: Supports with modification proposed in current release:\**
> Specification will be modified so it supports Network Sharing scenarios. The
> specification is marked SWM if ANY change is needed regardless of whether
> certain Network sharing scenarios are already supported with no change.\ A
> note (except for 3GPP TS 32.101, 32.102, 32.155) will be added in the SA5
> Requirement TS in the scope clause explaining support of network sharing
> impact (e.g. changes needed in the TS).
>
> **NM: Supports with no modification** :\ The specification supports Network
> Sharing scenarios with no modifications. Examples are generic NRM.\ Even
> though this NRM is needed for supporting configuration management for a
> shared node, there is no change needed to the specification. No note is
> needed to be added in the TS.
>
> This Study uses the following **Modes** to further qualify the meaning of
> the word \'Support\' in NM and SWM.\ These **Modes** are used in Table
> 5.3.1.
>
> **Mode 1:** Support sharing in the sense that all resources (e.g. identified
> by the IOCs in the specifications excepting those imported) are shared with
> no differentiation between the Sharing Operators.\ Notifications of events,
> including alarms, of the shared resources are distributed to all Sharing
> Operators.
>
> **Mode 2:** Support sharing in the sense that all resources (e.g. identified
> by the IOCs in the specifications excepting those imported) are shared based
> on some kind of rules, e.g. one Sharing Operator can only use 40% of the
> identified resource and the other Sharing Operator can only use 60% of the
> shared resource.\ Notifications of events, including alarms, about the
> Sharing Operator quota are distributed to that Sharing Operator only.
Table 5.3.1
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 3GPP Specification | 3GPP specification | Changes needed to | | Number | Title | support network | | | | sharing scenarios | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **TS 28.401** | Performance | NM (Mode 1), SWM | | | Management (PM); | (Mode 2) | | | Performance | | | | measurements for | | | | Core Network (CN) | | | | and non-3GPP access | | | | Interworking System | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **TS 28.402** | Performance | NM | | | Management (PM); | | | | Performance | | | | measurements for | | | | Evolved Packet Core | | | | (EPC) and non-3GPP | | | | access Interworking | | | | System | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **TS | Core Network (CN) | NR | | 28.601/602/606** | Model (NRM); | WLAN from different | | | Integration | operators be | | | Reference Point | connected to the | | | (IRP); | same CN nodes | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **TS | Evolved Packet Core | NR | | 28.611/612/616** | Resource Model | WLAN from different | | | (NRM); Integration | operators be | | | Reference Point | connected to the | | | (IRP); | same CN nodes | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | TS | Telecommunication | NM (Mode 1, Mode2) | | 28.620 | (FMC) Federated | | | | Network Information | | | | Model (FNIM) | | | | Umbrella Information | | | | Model (UIM) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **TS | Telecommunication | SWM (Mode 1, Mode 2) | | 28.621/622/623** | Integration | attribute setOfMcc | | | Reference Point | need to indicate | | | (IRP); Requirements | whether some MCCs | | | | belongs to the same | | | | operator or not? | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **TS | State management | NM (Mode 1, Mode 2) | | 28.624/625/626** | (IRP) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **TS | Self-Organizing | N/A | | 28.627/628/629** | Integration | | | | Reference Point | | | | (IRP); | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **TS | Inventory Management | N/A | | 28.631/632/633** | Reference Point | | | | (IRP) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **TS | Universal | SWM (Mode 1, Mode 2) | | 28.651/652/653** | Resource Model (NRM) | | | | Integration | | | | Reference Point | | | | (IRP) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **TS | GSM/EDGE Radio | SWM (Mode 1, Mode 2) | | 28.654/655/656** | Integration | | | | Reference Point | | | | (IRP); | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **TS | Evolved Universal | NM (Mode 1)\ | | 28.657/658/659** | Resource Model (NRM) | | | | Integration | SWM (Mode 2) | | | Reference Point | | | | (IRP) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **TS | Generic Radio Access | NM (Mode 1), SWM | | 28.661/662/663** | Integration | | | | Reference Point | | | | (IRP); | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **TS | Home Node B (HNB) | N/A | | 28.671/672/673** | Integration | | | | Reference Point | | | | (IRP) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **TS | Home enhanced Node B | N/A | | 28.674/675/676** | Integration | | | | Reference Point | | | | (IRP) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **TS | Telecommunication | See 32.631/2/6. | | 28.701/702/703** | Integration | | | | Reference Point | | | | (IRP) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **TS | Telecommunication | NR | | 28.704/705/706** | Resource Model (NRM) | | | | Integration | | | | Reference Point | | | | (IRP); Requirements | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **[TS | Evolved Packet Core | NM | | 28.707] | (EPC) Network | | | (http://www.3gpp.org | Resource Model (NRM) | | | /ftp/Specs/html-info | Integration | | | /28707.htm)708/709** | Reference Point | | | | (IRP) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **TS | Transport Network | NM (Mode 1), | | 28.731/732/733** | Integration | Are there any | | | Reference Point | requirments to share | | | (IRP) | transport network? | | | | Ask transport | | | | network expert if NS | | | | is | | | | possible/supported. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **TS | Signalling Transport | NM (Mode 1), | | 28.734/735/736** | Network (STN) | | | | interface Network | SWM (Mode 2)?? | | | Resource Model (NRM) | | | | Integration | Are there any | | | Reference Point | requirments to share | | | (IRP); | transport network? | | | | Ask STN expert if NS | | | | is | | | | possible/supported. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **TS | Subscription | Out of the scope of | | 28.751/752/753** | Management (SuM) | this study | | | Network Resource | Note:HLR/HSS cannot | | | Model (NRM) | be shared between | | | Integration | two operators | | | Reference Point | | | | (IRP); Requirements | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | TS | Principles and high | SWM (Mode 1, Mode 2) | | 32.101 | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | TS | Architecture | SWM (Mode 1, Mode 2) | | 32.102 | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | TS | Integration | NM | | 32.103 | usage guide | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | TS | Telecommunication | NM | | 32.107 | (FMC) Federated | | | | Network Information | | | | Model (FNIM) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **TS | Fault Management;: | NM (Mode 1), SWM | | 32.111-1/2/3/6** | 3G fault management | (Mode 2) | | | requirements | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **TS | Advanced Alarm | NM (Mode 1), SWM | | 32.121/122/126** | (IRP): | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **TS 32.140** | Telecommunication | NM??Out of scope of | | | management; | this study | | | Subscription | | | | Management (SuM) | | | | requirements | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **TS 32.141** | Telecommunication | Out of scope of this | | | management; | study. | | | Subscription | | | | Management (SuM) | | | | architecture | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | TS | Integration | NM | | 32.150 | definitions | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | TS | Integration | NM | | 32.151 | Service (IS) | | | | template | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | TS | Integration | NM | | 32.152 | Service (IS) Unified | | | | Modelling Language | | | | (UML) repertoire | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | TS | Integration | NM | | 32.153 | specific templates, | | | | rules and guidelines | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | TS | Backward and Forward | N/A | | 32.154 | definitions | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | TS | Requirements | SWM (Mode 1, Mode 2) | | 32.155 | | TS author: if SA5 | | | | members agreed to | | | | support NS, the TS | | | | captures it as a | | | | requirement. If SA5 | | | | members do not agree | | | | (e.g. after | | | | consultation with | | | | other groups that | | | | device signalling | | | | protocol cannot or | | | | do not support NS) | | | | to support, the TS | | | | does not need to | | | | mention it. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | TS | Fixed Mobile | NM | | 32.156 | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | TS | Telecommunication | NM | | 32.157 | Reference Point | | | | (IRP) Information | | | | Service (IS) | | | | template | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **TS | Telecommunication | See TS | | 32.171/172/176** | management; | 28.751/752/753 | | | Subscription | | | | Management (SuM) | | | | Network Resource | | | | Model (NRM) | | | | Integration | | | | Reference Point | | | | (IRP); Requirements | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **TS | Telecommunication | ?? | | 32.1 | management; User | | | 81/182** | Model Handling and | | | | Management | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | TS | Configuration | NM (Mode 1), SWM | | 32.300 | Managed Objects | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **TS | Configuration | NM (Mode 1), SWM | | 32.301/302/306** | Management (CM); | (Mode 2) | | | Notification | | | | Integration | | | | Reference Point | | | | (IRP) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **TS | Generic Integration | NM (Mode 1), SWM | | 32.311/312/316** | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **TS | Test management | NM (Mode 1), SWM | | 32.321/322/326** | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **TS | Notification Log | NM (Mode 1), SWM | | 32.331/332/336** | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **TS | File Transfer (FT) | NM (Mode 1), SWM | | 32.341/342/346** | | | | | | | | **_Removed specs do | | | | not exist in Rel-11 | | | | or later._** | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **TS | Communication | NM (Mode 1), SWM | | 32.351/352/356** | (IRP) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **TS | Entry Point (EP) | NM (Mode 1), SWM | | 32.361/362/366** | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **TS | Telecommunication | NM | | 32.371/372/376** | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **TS | Telecommunication | NM (Mode 1), SWM | | 32.381/382/386** | Reference Point | | | | (IRP); Requirements | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **TS | Telecommunication | NM (Mode 1), SWM | | 32.391/392/396** | Reference Point | | | | (IRP); Requirements | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | TS | Telecommunication | NM | | 32.401 | Management (PM); | | | | Concept and | | | | requirements | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | TS | Telecommunication | NM | | 32.404 | Management (PM); | | | | Performance | | | | measurements; | | | | Definitions and | | | | template | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | TS | Telecommunication | NM (Mode 1), SWM | | 32.405 | Management (PM); | | | | Performance | | | | measurements; | | | | Universal | | | | Terrestrial Radio | | | | Access Network | | | | (UTRAN) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | TS | Telecommunication | NM (Mode 1), SWM | | 32.406 | Management (PM); | | | | Performance | | | | measurements; Core | | | | Network (CN) Packet | | | | Switched (PS) domain | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | TS | Telecommunication | NM (Mode 1), SWM | | 32.407 | Management (PM); | | | | Performance | | | | measurements; Core | | | | Network (CN) Circuit | | | | Switched (CS) | | | | domain; UMTS and | | | | combined UMTS/GSM | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | TS | Telecommunication | NM (Mode 1), SWM | | 32.408 | Management (PM); | | | | Performance | | | | measurements; | | | | Teleservice | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | TS | Telecommunication | NM (Mode 1), SWM | | 32.409 | Management (PM); | | | | Performance | | | | measurements; IP | | | | Multimedia Subsystem | | | | (IMS) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | TS | Telecommunication | NM, (Mode 1), SWM | | 32.410 | Indicators (KPI) for | | | | UMTS and GSM | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **TS | Telecommunication | NM (Mode 1), SWM | | 32.411/412/416** | Integration | | | | Reference Point | | | | (IRP): Requirements | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **TS | Telecommunication | SWM (Mode 1, Mode 2) | | 32.421/422/423** | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | TS | Telecommunication | NM (Mode 1), SWM | | 32.425 | Management (PM); | | | | Performance | | | | measurements Evolved | | | | Universal | | | | Terrestrial Radio | | | | Access Network | | | | (E-UTRAN) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | TS | Telecommunication | NM (Mode 1), SWM | | 32.426 | Management (PM); | | | | Performance | | | | measurements Evolved | | | | Packet Core (EPC) | | | | network | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | TS | Telecommunication | NM | | 32.432 | measurement: File | | | | format definition | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | TS | Telecommunication | NM | | 32.435 | measurement; | | | | eXtensible Markup | | | | Language (XML) file | | | | format definition | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | TS | Telecommunication | NM | | 32.436 | measurement: | | | | Abstract Syntax | | | | Notation 1 (ASN.1) | | | | file format | | | | definition | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **TS | Trace Management | SWM (Mode 1, Mode 2) | | 32.441/442/446** | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | TS | Key Performance | NM, (Mode 1), SWM | | 32.450 | Terrestrial Radio | | | | Access Network | | | | (E-UTRAN): | | | | Definitions | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | TS | Key Performance | NM, (Mode 1), SWM | | 32.451 | Terrestrial Radio | | | | Access Network | | | | (E-UTRAN); | | | | Requirements | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | TS | Performance | N/A | | 32.452 | measurements Home | | | | Node B (HNB) | | | | Subsystem (HNS) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | TS | Performance | N/A | | 32.453 | measurements Home | | | | enhanced Node B | | | | (HeNB) Subsystem | | | | (HeNS) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | TS | Key Performance | NR | | 32.454 | Subsystem (IMS); | | | | Definitions | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | TS | Key Performance | NM (Mode 1) SWM | | 32.455 | Core (EPC); | | | | Definitions | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | TS | Self-Organizing | NM | | 32.500 | requirements | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **TS | Self-configuration | NM | | 32.501/502/506** | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | TS | Automatic Neighbour | NM | | 32.511 | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **TS 521/522/526** | Self-Organizing | N/A | | | Networks (SON) | | | | Policy Network | | | | Resource Model (NRM) | | | | Integration | | | | Reference Point | | | | (IRP); | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **TS | Software management | N/A | | 32.531/532/536** | (IRP) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | TS | Self-Organizing | N/A | | 32.541 | concepts and | | | | requirements | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | TS | Energy Saving | N/A | | 32.551 | requirements | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **TS | Home Node B (HNB) | N/A | | 32.5 | and Home eNode B | | | 71/572** | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **TS | Home Node B (HNB) | N/A | | 32.581/582/583/584** | Provisioning | | | | (OAM&P): Type 1 | | | | interface | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **TS | Home enhanced Node B | N/A | | 32.591/582/593/594** | Provisioning | | | | (OAM&P): Type 1 | | | | Interface | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **TS | Configuration | NM | | 32.600/601/602/606** | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **TS | Configuration | NM | | 32.611/612/616** | (IRP) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **TS | Configuration | SWM (Mode 1, Mode | | 32.621\ | | http://www.3gpp.org/ | Generic network | Can SubNetwork be | | ftp/Specs/html-info/ | resources | shared? Does the | | 32621.htm)/622/626** | Integration | attribute setOfMcc | | | Reference Point | need to indicate | | | (IRP) | whether some MCCs | | | | belongs to the same | | | | operator or not?. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **TS | Configuration | NM | | 32.631/632/636** | Integration | | | | Reference Point | | | **_Removed specs do | (IRP) | | | not exist in Rel-11 | | | | or later._** | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **TS | Configuration | See 28.651/652/653 | | 32.641/642/646** | Integration | | | | Reference Point | | | | (IRP) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **TS | Configuration | See 28.654/655/65 | | 32.651/652/656** | Integration | | | | Reference Point | | | | (IRP) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **TS | Configuration | NM (Mode 1), SWM | | 32.661/662/666** | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **TS | Configuration | N/A | | 32.671/672/676 _._** | Reference Point | | | | (IRP) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **TS 32.690** | Telecommunication | N/A | | | management; | | | | Inventory Management | | | | (IM); Requirements | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **TS | Inventory Management | N/A | | 32.691/692/696** | (IM) Network | | | | Resource Model (NRM) | | | | Integration | | | | Reference Point | | | | (IRP) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **TS | Transport Network | NM (Mode 1), SWM | | 32.711/712/716** | (TN) interface | (Mode 2) | | | Network Resource | | | | Model (NRM) | Ask transport expert | | | Integration | if NS is | | | Reference Point | possible/supported. | | | (IRP) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **TS | Repeater Network | ?? | | 32.721/722/726** | Resource Model (NRM) | | | | Integration | | | | Reference Point | | | | (IRP); | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **TS | Telecommunication | ?? | | 32.731/732/736** | management; IP | | | | Multimedia Subsystem | | | | (IMS) Network | | | | Resource Model (NRM) | | | | Integration | | | | Reference Point | | | | (IRP); Requirements | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **TS | Signalling Transport | NM (Mode 1), SWM | | 32.741/742/746** | Network (STN) | (Mode 2) | | | interface Network | | | | Resource Model (NRM) | Are there any | | | Integration | requirments to share | | | Reference Point | transport network? | | | (IRP); | Ask STN expert if NS | | | | is | | | | possible/supported. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **TS | Evolved Packet Core | NM | | 32.751/752/756** | (EPC) Network | | | | Resource Model (NRM) | | | | Integration | | | | Reference Point | | | | (IRP) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **TS | Evolved Universal | NM (Mode 1), SWM | | 32.761/762/766** | Terrestrial Radio | (Mode 2)\ | | | Access Network | Why? What needs to | | | (E-UTRAN) Network | be changed (size of | | | Resource Model (NRM) | lists? COC?) | | | Integration | | | | Reference Point | | | | (IRP) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **TS | Home Node B (HNB) | N/A | | 32.771/772/776** | Subsystem (HNS) | | | | Network Resource | | | | Model (NRM) | | | | Integration | | | | Reference Point | | | | (IRP) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **TS | Home enhanced Node B | N/A. | | 32.781/782/786** | (HeNB) Subsystem | | | | (HeNS) Network | | | | Resource Model (NRM) | | | | Integration | | | | Reference Point | | | | (IRP) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **TS | Generic Radio Access | NM | | 32.791/792/796** | Network (RAN) | | | | Network Resource | | | | Model (NRM) | | | | Integration | | | | Reference Point | | | | (IRP); | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
## 5.4 Need for new specifications
A new 3GPP SA5 TS 32.xyz will be created to capture the stage 1 network
sharing requirements, terminologies, OAM Reference architecture, scenarios and
use cases. Materials will be mainly extracted from the present document.
We do not foresee any new Stage 2 or Stage 3 specification and existing TS
will be modified as indicated in clause 5.3.
A TS supporting network sharing will have stated requirement statement(s) or
have reference(s) to stated requirement statement(s) of another TS.
Note: The recommendations provided in clause 5.3 will be used as a starting
point for the Work Item.\ However further analysis during the Work Item may be
needed.
## 5.5 Need LS
In the case that network sharing solution for Mode 2 is desirable, SA5 will
issue LS to the relevant group to confirm if their standard would support
network sharing.
# 6 System description (system roles)
**This clause describes the system diagram and system roles to explain the
support of various network sharing scenarios documented.**
{width="5.999305555555556in" height="2.928472222222222in"}
Figure 6 -1: System diagram (for network and for non-network sharing
scenarios)\ with system roles
**The above left diagram is for network sharing scenarios. The right diagram
is for the non-network sharing scenarios.**
**System Role:**
> **nM: DM plays the role-nMS when interacting with NM in non-network-sharing
> scenario.**
**Other system roles (e.g. +m) are described after Figure** 6-**2 where
organization roles are included.**
{width="5.995138888888889in" height="1.9652777777777777in"}
Figure 6-2: System diagram with organization roles and system roles\ (without
non-network sharing)
Organization Roles:
masterOperator: See definition in clause 3. MO is its abbreviation.
sharingOperator: See definition in clause 2. SO is its abbreviation.
**System Roles:**
**m: MO DM plays the role-m when interacting with MO NM**
**s2: MO DM plays the role-s when interacting with SO NM**
**s1: MO NM plays the role-s when interacting with SO NM.**
The definitions of Organization Roles are defined in clause 2.\ Only the
system diagram supporting network sharing scenarios is shown in Figure 6-2.\
The system diagram not supporting network sharing scenario (i.e. the right
side diagram of Figure 6-1) is not useful to illustrate Organization Roles
(and does not appear in Figure 6-2).
**There is no distinction made in f** igure 6-2 **between Operator and
Affiliate (where X number of Affiliates can be associated with one Operator
and at most one Affiliate operates in one country).**
#