# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the Stage 1 description of High Speed Circuit
Switched Data (HSCSD). HSCSD is a feature that introduce General Bearer
Services and a multislot mechanism is used for user rates that can be achieved
with one or more TCH/F. Multislot also defines a flexible use of air interface
resources which makes efficient and flexible use of higher user rates
feasible.
The Multislot mechanism is only applicable to GERAN.
At UTRAN radio access parameters used for GBS user data are specified at TS
23.107.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.002: \"Bearer Services (BS) supported by a Public Land Mobile
Network (PLMN)\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.004: \"General on supplementary services\".
[4] 3GPP TS 405.002: \" Multiplexing and multiple access on the radio path\".
# 3 Abbreviations and definitions
## 3.1 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
AIUR Air Interface User Rate
EDGE Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution
FNUR Fixed Network User Rate
GBS General Bearer Services
GERAN GSM/EDGE radio access network
HSCSD High Speed Circuit Switched Data
MO Mobile Originated
MT Mobile Terminated
NT Non Transparent
T Transparent
UE User Equipment (same as MS in GSM specifications)
Additional abbreviations can be found in TS 22.905 [1].
## 3.2 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply:
**Fixed Network User Rate:** user rate between IWF and the fixed network.
**Air Interface User Rate:** user rate between Mobile Termination and IWF. For
T services it is the maximum possible AIUR not including padding. For NT
services it is the maximum possible AIUR.
**maximum possible GERAN AIUR:** highest possible GERAN AIUR that the multiple
TCH/F can provide, e.g. 2 TCH/F using TCH/F9.6 provides a maximum possible
AIUR of 19,2 kbit/s.
**padding:** fill bits needed to adapt the maximum possible AIUR supported by
a given number of TCH/F with a given channel coding to a FNUR that is lower
than the maximum possible AIUR.
# 4 Description
## 4.1 General
HSCSD is a feature that introduce General Bearer Services (GBS) and a
multislot mechanism is used for user rates that can be achieved with one or
more TCH/F. HSCSD also defines mechanisms for the use of air interface
resources which makes efficient and flexible use of higher user rates
feasible. The Multislot mechanism is only applicable to GERAN.
## 4.2 Applicability
GBS shall provide flexible ways of supporting GSM Phase 2, T and NT data
services and new data services at the higher rates. Data compression shall be
applicable to NT GBS. Supplementary Services applicable to the General Bearer
Services are specified at TS 22.004, [3].
## 4.3 General Bearer Services
The General Bearer Services are defined in TS 22.002 [2].
The General Bearer Services (GBS) consist of two Bearer Services, and they are
as follows:
\- asynchronous;
\- synchronous.
## 4.4 Parameters to be indicated and negotiated
### 4.4.1 Call set-up
The parameters to be indicated, and negotiated, if applicable, during the call
set-up shall include:
\- FNUR;
\- GERAN Channel coding(s) acceptable (for the call);
\- maximum number of GERAN TCH/F (that the mobile user can accept);
\- wanted AIUR (desired rate that the mobile user wants the network to
allocate). The wanted AIUR is applicable to NT services only;
  * indication if the user initiated modification is required, and if so, the network resource needs;
```{=html}
``` \- channel coding asymmetry indication.
Some of the parameters are only utilised by GERAN. When UTRAN radio access
bearer is allocated the values are ignored.
The GERAN channel coding(s) acceptable shall be indicated by the mobile at
call set-up and is not negotiable. It indicates the GERAN channel coding(s)
that may be chosen by the network for the call.
The maximum number of GERAN TCH/F shall be indicated at call set-up. It
enables the mobile user to limit the number of GERAN TCH/F used and thus to
control an essential parameter for charging. It sets the upper limit of number
of TCH/F that the network may allocate to the mobile.
The wanted AIUR (applicable to NT services only) indicates the AIUR that the
mobile user wants and which the network shall try to reach but which it is not
allowed to exceed. The exception where the network is allowed to exceed the
wanted AIUR is when the network can achieve the GERAN AIUR with a lower number
of TCH/F, e.g. wanted GERAN AIUR indicated by the mobile is 14,4 kbit/s, GERAN
channel codings acceptable are both TCH/F9.6 and TCH/F4.8 and maximum number
of TCH/F are 3, then the network shall choose 2 x 9,6 over 3 x 4,8 if a
channel coding of TCH/F9.6 is available on two TCH/F.
If the user wishes to make use of the user initiated modification procedure,
this shall be indicated at the call set-up.
It shall be possible to reserve a different FNUR than the AIUR.
Channel coding asymmetry indication is only applicable to NT calls where the
user has indicated acceptance for channel coding(s) based on enhanced
modulation. In this case the user may indicate preference for channel coding
symmetry, downlink biased channel coding asymmetry, or uplink biased channel
coding asymmetry. The channel coding asymmetry indication is only applicable
in direction UE to network.
#### 4.4.1.1 T services
The ME or the network may propose to modify the FNUR. The calling entity may
accept or release the call. Autobauding is not allowed.
The AIUR is always equal to the FNUR.
Fax Group 3 can make use of HSCSD.
The GERAN channel coding selected must be one of the channel coding(s)
indicated in the channel coding(s) acceptable parameter, the number of TCH/F
selected shall not exceed the maximum number of TCH/F parameter, and the
combination of the two shall result in an AIUR that is equal to the FNUR.
#### 4.4.1.2 NT services
The ME or the network may propose to modify the FNUR. The calling entity may
accept or release the call. Autobauding is allowed.
The wanted AIUR is indicated by the mobile at call set-up.
### 4.4.2 Network initiated modification
#### 4.4.2.1 T services
For transparent calls the radio resource parameters must remain within limits
that allow the transparent call to maintain it is characteristics of fixed end
to end throughput and delay. This means that in GERAN the channel coding and
the number of TCH/F used may change during the call as long as a channel
coding indicated in the channel coding(s) acceptable parameter is used, the
maximum number of TCH/F is not exceeded and the AIUR is kept constant.
#### 4.4.2.2 NT services
For NT calls the network may modify the number of TCH/F and the channel coding
used at GERAN and thus also the AIUR during the call as long as the maximum
number of TCH/F, and the channel coding(s) acceptable are all respected. The
network shall try to reach the wanted GERAN AIUR indicated, as long as the
resource situation allows it.
### 4.4.3 User initiated modification
The in-call modification feature shall be supported in case of alternate
services.
#### 4.4.3.1 T services
The user initiated modification is not applicable to T services.
#### 4.4.3.2 NT services
The user may indicate a change of the parameters maximum number of GERAN
TCH/F, wanted AIUR, and channel coding asymmetry. No other parameters may be
modified.
The user initiated modification is only applicable to the data phase of
alternate services.
## 4.5 Air Interface Resource Allocation
### 4.5.1 Minimum GERAN Air Interface Resource Allocation and Allocation
Increment
Air interface resources shall be allocated to HSCSD calls at TCH/F increments.
The minimum air interface resource allocation for HSCSD calls shall be one
TCH/F.
### 4.5.2 Flexible Air Interface Resource Allocation
Flexible air interface resource allocation enables:
\- the network to allocate dynamically resources related to the air interface
usage according to the network operator\'s strategy, within the limits
negotiated at the call set-up or during a user initiated modification.
## 4.6 Symmetric and asymmetric connections
### 4.6.1 Symmetric connections
For symmetric connections, air interface resources are allocated
symmetrically.
### 4.6.2 Asymmetric connections
There are two types of asymmetry, asymmetric air interface connection and
channel coding asymmetry. Asymmetric air interface connection implies that
more time slots are used in the downlink than in the uplink at GERAN. Channel
coding asymmetry implies that one channel coding is used in the uplink and
another channel coding is used in the downlink at GERAN.
#### 4.6.2.1 Asymmetric air interface connection
The provision of the asymmetric air interface connections allows simple ME (of
Type 1, Reference TS 405.002, [4]) to receive at higher AIUR than otherwise
would be possible with a symmetric connection.
Asymmetric air interface connections that are a subset of the symmetric HSCSD,
and support different user rates at uplink and downlink, shall be provided.
Asymmetric air interface connections are only applicable to the downlink-
biased asymmetry, i.e., where the ME is receiving at a higher rate than it is
transmitting.
Asymmetric air interface connections shall only be applicable to NT GBS.
#### 4.6.2.2 Channel coding asymmetry
Channel coding asymmetry may be set up by the network in three cases:
\- if the UE only supports enhanced modulation in the downlink;
\- if the UE supports enhanced modulation in both links, but the user
indicates preference for uplink or downlink biased channel coding asymmetry;
\- if the UE supports enhanced modulation in both links, and the user
indicates preference for channel coding symmetry, but the link conditions
justifies different channel codings in up- and downlink.
In the case when preference of uplink or downlink biased channel coding
asymmetry is indicated by the user, and a asymmetric channel coding connection
is set up based on this indication, the network shall always assign a
TCH/F14.4 channel at GERAN on the unbiased link.
Channel coding asymmetry shall only be applicable to NT services applying the
GERAN channel codings TCH/F14.4, TCH/F28.8 and TCH/F43.2.
In case a symmetric channel coding connection is set up, the link adaptation
mechanism may change a symmetric channel coding connection to an asymmetric
channel coding connection.
### 4.6.3 Network choice of connection symmetry
When the network has a choice of allocating either a symmetric or an
asymmetric air interface connection it shall proceed as follows:
\- in the case where the wanted AIUR is smaller than or equal to the AIUR
supported symmetrically by the ME, or asymmetric air interface connection is
not supported by the network, then a symmetric air interface connection is
established;
\- in the case where the wanted AIUR exceeds the AIUR supported symmetrically
by the ME, the network shall assign the maximum AIUR supported by the ME in
the down-link at GERAN, upper-bounded by the maximum number of TCH/F indicated
by the mobile user, and the number of TCH/F supported by the network,
maintaining the minimum of one TCH/F.
## 4.7 User Equipment/Mobile Equipment requirements
The general UE capabilities is applicable to HSCSD.
A ME that supports multislot mechanism shall support one or more of the GERAN
channel types TCH/F at or above 4,8 kbit/s.
Given that the ME supports a certain GERAN channel coding, the network shall
be able to assume that the ME can support this channel coding in any multislot
configuration allowed by its multislot class (Reference TS 45.002, [4]).
## 4.8 Mobility Management
HSCSD shall be provided for within the existing supported Mobility Management.
## 4.9 Roaming
Roaming shall be possible.
## 4.10 Quality of Service
### 4.10.1 Bit error rate
#### 4.10.1.1 GERAN TCH/F Bit Error Rate
The bit error rate performance of each TCH/F of a multiple TCH/F HSCSD call
shall be the same as that of a single TCH/F data call for the same channel
coding.
#### 4.10.1.2 Overall GBS Bit Error Rate
Any increase in the bit error rate caused by the splitting and combining of
multiple GERAN TCH/F shall be kept to a minimum.
### 4.10.2 GERAN Radio resource management
The multislot mechanism shall be provided for within the existing Radio
Resource management control functions, including the relevant handover types.
The handover shall be simultaneous for all air interface timeslots making up
the call.
The multislot mechanism shall be provided with full mobility.
### 4.10.3 Call set-up delay
Any increase in call set-up delay of the GBS calls compared to GSM Phase 2
data services shall be kept to a minimum.
### 4.10.4 End-to-end delay
Any increase in end-to-end delay of the GBS calls compared to GSM Phase 2 data
services shall be kept to a minimum.
### 4.10.5 Throughput
The throughput for GBS T calls shall remain constant for the duration of the
call except for the interruption of transmission at handover.
### 4.10.6 Network planning and interference levels
The impact of multislot mechanism on network planning and interference levels
shall be kept to a minimum.
## 4.11 Mapping of FNUR to GERAN TCH/F for T services
For some FNUR padding is required to adapt the maximum possible AIUR to the
FNUR.
## 4.12 Mapping of GERAN AIUR to GERAN TCH/F for NT services
The following table indicates the mapping of AIUR to the number of TCH/F for
NT services.
Table 1: Mapping of AIUR to TCH/F for NT services
* * *
AIUR TCH/F4.8 TCH/F9.6 TCH/F14.4 TCH/F28.8 TCH/F43.2 4,8 kbit/s 1 N/A N/A N/A
N/A 9,6 kbit/s 2 1 N/A N/A N/A 14,4 kbit/s 3 N/A 1 N/A N/A 19,2 kbit/s 4 2 N/A
N/A N/A 28,8 kbit/s N/A 3 2 1 N/A 38,4 kbit/s N/A 4 N/A N/A N/A 43,2 kbit/s
N/A N/A 3 N/A 1 57,6 kbit/s N/A N/A 4 2 N/A N/A Not applicable.
* * *
For Fixed Network User Rates (FRUR) see TS 22.002 [2].
NOTE: GERAN TCH/F28.8 and GERAN TCH/F43.2 require EDGE capability.
## 4.13 GBS MMI aspects
It shall be possible to configure the parameters negotiated and indicated at
GBS call set-up and during user initiated modification.
## 4.14 GBS Subscription aspects
HSCSD is not subscribed to. Users wanting to use multislot mechanism must
subscribe to the General Bearer Services.
## 4.15 GBS charging aspects
To allow accurate charging of multislot calls, a record of start and stop
timestamps versus the number of TCH/F, for each change in TCH/F allocation,
shall be provided.
NOTE: For MO multislot calls, the A party is liable for the use of all the
TCH/F in her PLMN.
For MT multislot calls, the B party may have to pay for one or more of the
TCH/F in her PLMN.
In case the originating or terminating subscriber is a fixed network
subscriber, there should be no additional charge (in respect of the changing
allocation of GERAN TCH/F) for the originating or terminating fixed network
subscriber.
## 4.16 O and M aspects
For GBS call, there are several new and modified parameters compared to GSM
Phase 2 data calls.
For GBS, the air interface resource allocation may change several times during
the call (network initiated and user initiated changes). It shall be possible
to limit the frequency of changes per call, separately for network initiated
and user initiated changes.
Multislot calls can occupy multiple TCH/F. It shall dynamically be possible to
limit the maximum number of GERAN TCH/F allowed for GBS calls per cell.
## 4.17 Multislot security aspects
Authentication and ciphering are applicable to multislot calls with no or
minimal reduction in the security of the air interface.
# 5 Exceptional procedures or unsuccessful outcome
When a GBS call is offered to an entity (either ME or network) unable to
support the offered GBS call, it shall be possible, within the limitations of
the service, to revert the call:
\- to an GBS call the entity can support; or
\- at GERAN to a GSM Phase 2 data service.
# 6 Interworking requirements
## 6.1 Service interworking
### 6.1.1 Interworking with supplementary services
Supplementary Services that are applicable to the General Bearer Services can
be used (Reference TS 22.004, [3]).
### 6.1.2 Interworking with other services
The simultaneous use of multislot mechanism and SMS MO/PP, and multislot
mechanism and SMS MT/PP services shall be possible.
## 6.2 Network interworking
Interworking should be possible to all networks which are covered by GSM Phase
2 bearer services:
\- PSTN;
\- ISDN.
#