# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the stage 1 description of the enhanced
Multi‑Level Precedence and Pre‑emption Service (eMLPP). This service has two
parts: precedence and pre‑emption. Precedence involves assigning a priority
level to a call in combination with fast call set‑up. Pre‑emption involves the
seizing of resources, which are in use by a call of a lower precedence, by a
higher level precedence call in the absence of idle resources. Pre‑emption can
also involve the disconnection of an on‑going call of lower precedence to
accept an incoming call of higher precedence.
The eMLPP service is provided as a network operator\'s option to a domain of a
network. The domain can be the whole network or a subset of the network. The
eMLPP service applies to all network resources in the domain that is in common
use. The eMLPP service is applicable to all mobile stations in the domain with
all or some mobile stations having a respective subscription assigning
precedence according to the eMLPP service.
eMLPP is a supplementary service and shall be provided to a subscriber for all
basic services subscribed to and for which eMLPP applies.
The service is described from the service subscriber\'s and user\'s point of
view, in particular:
‑ the procedure for normal operation with successful outcome;
‑ the action to be taken in exceptional circumstances;
‑ the interaction with other services and features.
The present document does not deal with the Man‑Machine Interface (MMI)
requirements, but makes reference to the appropriate specifications.
The present document is applicable to teleservices 1x and 6x and to all bearer
services used in a mobile network if eMLPP is provided. Any interaction with
other services and/or networks not dealt with in clauses 8 or 9 are outside
the scope of the present document.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.004: \"General on supplementary services\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.024: \"Description of Charge Advice Information (CAI)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 22.068: \"Voice Group Call Service (VGCS) ‑ Stage 1\".
[6] 3GPP TS 22.069: \"Voice Broadcast Service (VBS) ‑ Stage 1\".
[7] 3GPP TS 43.005: \"Technical performance objectives\".
[8] 3GPP TS 23.068: \"Voice Group Call Service (VGCS) ‑ Stage 2\".
[9] 3GPP TS 23.069: \"Voice Broadcast Service (VBS) ‑ Stage 2\".
[10] ITU‑T Recommendation I.255.3: \"ISDN Multi‑Level Precedence and
Pre‑emption (MLPP) stage 1\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following definitions apply:
**called-party pre-emption:** Termination of a call to a particular user when
a higher priority call is directed towards that specific user. Called party
pre-emption is decided by the User Equipment without interaction of the user.
**calling subscriber:** Service subscriber which invokes the eMLPP service.
**network operator:** Entity which provides the network operating elements and
resources for the execution of the enhanced Multi‑Level Precedence and
Pre‑emption service (eMLPP).
**precedence:** Precedence is the priority associated with a call.
**service provider:** Entity which offers the eMLPP service for subscription.
The network operator may be the service provider.
**service subscriber:** Mobile subscriber which subscribes to the eMLPP
service. In principle, if a network provides eMLPP service, all users are able
to subscribe to this service.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply,
in addition to those listed in GSM 01.04 and 3GPP TR 21.905 [1]:
eMLPP enhanced Multi‑Level Precedence and Pre‑emption
# 4 Description
a) The enhanced Multi‑Level Precedence and Pre‑emption service (eMLPP)
provides different levels of precedence for call set‑up and for call
continuity in case of handover.
eMLPP shall be applicable also in case of roaming if supported by the related
networks.
The maximum precedence level of a subscriber is set at the subscription time
by the service provider, based on the subscriber\'s need. The subscriber may
select a precedence level up to and including the maximum precedence level
subscribed to, on a per call basis.
There are at maximum 7 priority levels. The highest level (A) is reserved for
network internal use, e.g. for emergency calls or the network related service
configurations for specific voice broadcast or voice group call services. The
second highest level (B) may be used for network internal use or, optionally,
depending on regional requirements, for subscription. These two levels (A and
B) may only be used locally, i.e. in the domain of one MSC. The other five
priority levels are offered for subscription and may be applied globally, e.g.
on inter switch trunks, if supported by all related network elements, and also
for interworking with ISDN networks providing the MLPP service.
The seven priority levels are defined as follows:
A (highest, for network internal use).
B (for network internal use or, optionally, for subscription).
0 (for subscription).
1 (for subscription).
2 (for subscription).
3 (for subscription).
4 (lowest, for subscription).
Levels A and B shall be mapped to level 0 for priority treatment outside of
the MSC area in which they are applied.
b) Priorities shall be treated in the network as defined for the following
call scenarios:
‑ Mobile originated calls:
‑ The priority level depends on the calling subscriber.
‑ If the user has no eMLPP subscription, the call shall have a default
priority level defined in the network.
‑ If the user has an eMLPP subscription, the call shall have the priority
level selected by the user at set‑up or the priority level predefined by the
subscriber as default priority level by registration.
‑ Mobile terminated calls:
‑ The priority level depends on the calling party. For this, interworking with
the ISDN MLPP (Multi‑Level Precedence and Pre‑emption) service is required.
‑ If the call is not an ISDN MLPP call, i.e. no priority level is defined, the
call shall be treated in the mobile network with a default priority level.
‑ If the call is an ISDN MLPP call, the call shall be treated with the
priority level provided by the interfacing network.
‑ Mobile‑to‑mobile calls in case of roaming:
The priority shall be treated for the calling subscriber as for mobile
originated calls and for the called subscriber as for mobile terminated calls.
‑ Mobile‑to‑mobile calls in one network:
The priority shall be treated for the calling subscriber as for mobile
originated calls and for the called subscriber as for mobile terminated calls.
‑ Voice broadcast (VBS) and voice group calls (VGCS):
At the first instances of the voice broadcast or voice group call, when there
is only a link between the calling mobile station and the network, the call
shall be treated at the defined priority level of this voice broadcast or
voice group call if this information is available. If the information is not
available the call shall be treated as defined for mobile originated calls.
Then, for the set‑up of the voice broadcast or voice group call links in the
related cells, the call shall have the priority level as defined for this
voice broadcast or voice group call in the network.
c) There are three classes of set‑up time performance and examples of the call
set‑up times are:
‑ class 1 fast set‑up 1‑2 s;
‑ class 2 normal set‑up \< 5 s;
‑ class 3 slow set‑up \< 10 s.
The achievement of the set‑up times depends on technical realizations and
network planning. Mechanisms shall be implemented to provide the performance
defined by the service provider under normal circumstances (no congestion).
They do not include any allowance for user reaction times. The call set‑up
time is considered to be the time from pressing the \"send\" button to the
point at which the called party, or at least one called party in the case of a
multi‑party, voice group or voice broadcast call, can receive information.
The class 1 figures depend on the required connection type and service and
will have to be considered accordingly. It is assumed that for calls which
originate or terminate in external networks, 25 % of the set‑up time is spent
in these external networks. The procedures assume normal operating conditions
apply, e.g. reference loads as defined in 3GPP TS 43.005, the mobile station
is in an area of sufficient coverage, the mobile station is not busy, no call
redirection is in place, etc.
d) Calls with a high priority requiring a class 1 set‑up may not require
authentication at call set‑up nor confidentiality on the radio link.
e) For precedence calls, the network shall have the possibility to pre‑empt
on‑going calls with lower priority, in ascending order of priority, in case of
congestion at set‑up on the radio interface or the core network side,
respectively, or at handover of the precedence call to a congested cell. In
case of necessary pre‑emption of another on‑going call at set‑up, the
successful call set‑up may exceed the set‑up time performance defined under c)
but shall be completed as soon as possible.
A call can be pre‑empted any time after the precedence level of the call has
been established and before call clearing has begun.
Pre‑emption shall only be performed to provide precedence for those priority
levels which have a pre‑emption capability allocated by the network operator.
Priority levels with no pre‑emption capability allocated shall only have
queuing priority.
f) A subscriber shall be able to set her mobile station to automatic answer a
call if the incoming call is of or exceeds a defined priority level,
respectively.
In case of called mobile subscriber busy, the on‑going call shall be
pre‑empted (or set automatically on call hold by the mobile station in case of
telephony and if the subscriber is entitled to call hold services) to accept
the incoming call with the priority defined for automatic answering. If the
on‑going call is a point‑to‑point call, this function is only possible if the
subscriber has a subscription for Call Waiting (CW).\ In public networks the
capability to pre‑empt an on‑going TS12 call (emergency call) shall be subject
to national regulations.
The definition of the priority level which shall cause automatic answering of
an incoming call or pre‑emption of another on‑going call shall be stored in
the mobile station and can be changed by the subscriber.
If a mobile station does not automatically accept an incoming call while being
idle and the user does not accept the call, the call may be forwarded to
another party if Call Forwarding on No Reply (CFNRy) applies.
If a mobile station does not pre‑empt an on‑going point‑to‑point call to
accept an incoming call of higher priority, the call is indicated by CW and
the user may still accept the incoming call. It the user rejects CW, the call
may be forwarded to another party if Call Forwarding on mobile station Busy
(CFB) applies.
If the mobile station does not pre‑empt an on‑going voice broadcast or voice
group call to accept an incoming call of higher priority, the call may be
forwarded to another party if CFNRy applies.
g) The network operator can allocate set‑up classes and resource pre‑emption
capabilities to each priority level. Table 1 presents an example for the
assignment of priority levels and the corresponding parameters.
Table 1: Example on eMLPP service composition
* * *
Priority level Set‑up time **Pre‑emption** Examples A class 1 yes VBS/VGCS
emergency applications B class 2 yes Operators calls 0 class 2 yes TS12
Emergency calls 1 class 3 yes Premium rate calls 2 class 3 no Standard rate
calls 3 class 3 no Default for no eMLPP subscription 4 class 3 no Low tariff
calls
* * *
Network operators which provide the eMLPP service for subscription need to
consider the interrelation of the number of subscriptions offered (possibly
restricted for particular users), the technical performance and the network
planning issues in order to guarantee the service performance for the
subscriber.
h) In case of pre‑emption the pre‑empted subscriber shall be provided with a
suitable indication.
## 4.1 Applicability to telecommunication services
The applicability of this supplementary service is defined in 3GPP TS 22.004.
The effects of the eMLPP service are applicable, potentially, to all
subscribers in a network, should a precedence call set‑up or handover occur
and pre‑emption be necessary.
# 5 Normal operation with successful outcome
## 5.1 Provision
A maximum authorized precedence level is provided to a service subscriber
after prior arrangements with the service provider. Service subscribers
without an eMLPP subscription are assigned to a default priority level (in
case of emergency calls, TS12, exceptions shall be possible).
## 5.2 Withdrawal
The maximum authorized precedence level can be changed or the complete eMLPP
service withdrawn at the subscriber\'s request or for administrative reasons.
## 5.3 Registration
The definition of the priority level to be used as default level at mobile
originated call establishment shall be registered in the network. This default
level will be used if a subscriber has a subscription for a priority level
higher than the lowest priority level and has not selected a priority level at
call set‑up.
Registration can take place either by the service provider or with an
appropriate control procedure by the subscriber.
If the subscriber requests a priority level higher than the maximum entitled
one then the network shall reject this registration with an appropriate
indication to the subscriber.
## 5.4 Erasure
Erasure of a default priority level is done as a result of a new registration
overruling, and thus effectively erasing the previous registration.
## 5.5 Network related service configuration
The allocation of eMLPP priority levels to the call set‑up classes and the
possibility of pre‑emption of on‑going calls in case of congestion will be
arranged by the network operator for a specific composition of the eMLPP
service in a network. This is not related to one specific service subscriber.
An example is given in table 1 of clause 4.
## 5.6 Activation
Not applicable.
## 5.7 Deactivation
Not applicable.
## 5.8 Invocation
The eMLPP shall be invoked automatically by the network at call set‑up.
The precedence level may be selected by the user on a per call basis. The user
may select any precedence level up to and including her maximum authorized
precedence level. The maximum authorized precedence level shall be stored on
the SIM/USIM and the mobile station shall check that only an authorized level
is used for set‑up. In addition, it shall be possible to verify in the network
the level used at set‑up against the maximum authorized level.
If the user has not selected a precedence level at set‑up, the network shall
apply the subscriber specific default precedence level.
If the user has selected a precedence level higher than the maximum authorized
level, the maximum authorized precedence level shall be applied for the call.
## 5.9 Normal operation
At invocation of the eMLPP on a call set‑up, the network notes the call
priority related to the call and decides on the respective actions to be
taken, i.e. on queuing priority, fast call set‑up procedures and possibly
pre‑emption in case of congestion of network resources. In case of pre‑emption
the network shall release the lowest lower priority call and seize the
necessary resources that are required to set‑up the higher priority call.
Once set for a call, the precedence level cannot be changed.
In the case of automatic answering of an incoming call with a sufficient
priority level, the alerting indication to the calling party may not be
provided in order shorten the set‑up time. In case of called mobile subscriber
busy, the on‑going call shall be released if automatic answering applies (or
set on call hold in case of a telephony call) to accept an incoming call of
higher priority.
When pre‑emption applies, at handover to a congested cell, higher priority
calls shall replace those of the lowest priority. The pre‑empted user shall
receive an indication for congestion as defined in 3GPP TS 22.001.
## 5.10 Interrogation
A service subscriber may interrogate the range of priority levels he can use
and the default priority level used for mobile originated call establishment.
## 5.11 Charging requirements
The utilized precedence level shall be able to be extracted from the event
records if different from the default precedence level.
# 6 Exceptional procedures or unsuccessful outcome
When a service subscriber makes a call, he expects the network to
automatically invoke the eMLPP service according to her subscription. If the
network cannot provide the service for some reason an indication shall be
provided to the service subscriber to notify her of the absence or
modification of the priority handling.
Exceptional procedures for voice group call and voice broadcast call
establishment durations exceeding the specified times are given in 3GPP TS
22.068 and 3GPP TS 22.069, respectively.
# 7 Alternate procedures
None identified.
# 8 Interaction with other supplementary services
## 8.1 Calling Line Identification Presentation (CLIP)
No interaction.
## 8.2 Calling Line Identification Restriction (CLIR)
No interaction.
## 8.3 Connected Line Identification Presentation (COLP)
No interaction.
## 8.4 Connected Line Identification Restriction (COLR)
No interaction.
## 8.5 Call Forwarding Unconditional (CFU)
The CFU service takes precedence over the eMLPP service. The precedence level
of calls shall be preserved during the forwarding process.
No interaction except for voice broadcast and voice group calls (see the
respective stage 1 descriptions 3GPP TS 22.069 and 3GPP TS 22.068 ).
## 8.6 Call Forwarding on mobile subscriber busy (CFB)
An incoming call with higher priority level shall override CFB in case of CW
(see item f of clause 4).
If the mobile station does not pre‑empt the on‑going call of lower priority
and the user rejects the CW, the call may be forwarded to another party if CFB
applies.
## 8.7 Call Forwarding on No Reply (CFNRy)
If a mobile station does not automatically accept an incoming call while being
idle and the user does not accept the call, the call may be forwarded to
another party if CFNRy applies.
## 8.8 Call Forwarding on mobile subscriber Not Reachable (CFNRc)
No interaction.
## 8.9 Call Waiting (CW)
Pre‑emption of on‑going point‑to‑point calls to accept incoming calls of
higher priority is only possible if the subscriber has a CW subscription.
The CW indication to the mobile station shall imply the precedence level in
order to enable the mobile station to decide on automatic accepting of the
waiting call.
## 8.10 Call Hold
A held call may be pre‑empted due to lack of network resources. The call is
cleared and the pre‑empted user shall receive an appropriate indication.
## 8.11 Multi‑party Service (MPTY)
eMLPP shall apply to the different call legs of a MPTY as for other calls.
## 8.12 Closed User Group (CUG)
No interaction. eMLPP shall not override CUG restrictions, except high
priority calls shall override CUG restrictions as a network option.
## 8.13 Advice of Charge (AoC)
No interactions.
NOTE: Different charge metres for different priorities can be obtained e.g. by
variation of the e1 or e2 parameters of the charge advice information
according to 3GPP TS 22.024.
## 8.14 Barring of Outgoing Calls (BAOC)
High priority calls shall override BAOC as a network option.
## 8.15 Barring of Outgoing International Calls (BOIC)
High priority calls shall override BOIC as a network option.
## 8.16 Barring of Outgoing International Calls except those to the Home PLMN
country (BOIC‑exHC)
High priority calls shall override BOIC‑exHC as a network option.
## 8.17 Barring of All Incoming Calls (BAIC)
An incoming high priority call shall override BAIC as a network option.
## 8.18 Barring of Incoming Calls when Roaming outside the home PLMN country
(BIC‑Roam)
See subclause 8.17.
## 8.19 Call Transfer (ECT)
For a normal call transfer, the precedence level of calls is preserved during
the transfer process.
# 9 Interworking considerations
Interworking of the eMLPP service with other networks shall be provided based
on the MLPP service specified in ITU‑T Recommendation I.255.3 or a possibly
future EN related to MLPP.
For this interworking it shall be considered that:
‑ precedence levels A and B shall be mapped to precedence level 0 (see clause
4);
‑ pre‑emption of network resources and on‑going calls in the interfacing
network will be performed according to the MLPP service, i.e. pre‑emption will
only affect other MLPP subscribers;
‑ other details in the treatment of precedence calls as specified for MLPP
which are different to eMLPP.
The precedence level of a call except levels A and B shall not be changed when
interworking with networks providing MLPP.
#