# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document gives an overall view of how this service shall operate
both in the PLMN and within the Mobile Station (MS). This TS defines
functionality and is not intended to constrain implementation.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 22.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.004: \"General on supplementary services\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.030: \" Man-machine Interface (MMI) of the mobile station
(MS)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.040: \"Technical realization of the Short Message Service (SMS)
Point to Point (PP)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 22.135: \"Multicall\".
[6] 3GPP TS 22.001: \"Principles of circuit telecommunication services
supported by a Public Land Mobile Network (PLMN) \".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of this TS the following definitions apply:
**Subscriber** : The user who is provisioned with the MSP service
**Profile:** A profile consists of a set of telecommunications services for
the subscriber. In the case of the single numbering scheme there is a unique
MSISDN associated with each profile. In the multi-numbering scheme there is
the ability to have a unique MSISDN associated with each basic service in each
profile.
**Service Provider (SP):** The organisation through which the subscriber
obtains PLMN telecommunication services. This may be the network operator or
possibly a separate body.
**Profile Identification (Profile ID):** The profile IDs allow unambiguous
identification of each profile. This will allow the subscriber to select the
preferred profile for outgoing calls and for subscriber actions. For
terminating calls the profile ID shall be part of the notification of the
profile.
**Registered Profile:** The registered profile is that registered by/for the
subscriber
**Selected Profile:** For mobile originated calls and short messages this is
the registered profile unless the subscriber explicitly selects an alternative
profile. For mobile terminating activities, this is the profile associated
with the MSISDN addressed.
**Mobile Terminating Activities:** These include mobile terminating calls,
short messages (SMS MT) and Call Independent Supplementary Services (e.g. NI-
USSD).
**Default Profile** : Profile to be used when roaming to non-supporting
network
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of this TS the following abbreviations apply, in addition,
abbreviations used in this TS are listed in 3GPP TS 21.905 [1].
MSP Multiple Subscriber Profile
# 4 Description
Multiple Subscriber Profile is an optional service to enable mobile
subscribers to have several profiles associated with a single IMSI, with each
profile being a subscription option. Each profile may be used for mobile
originated and mobile terminated calls.
Up to four different profiles can be provisioned against a subscriber using
the MSP feature. This will allow the subscriber to separate her
telecommunication service needs into different identities (e.g. business and
home).
The charges accrued for services shall be associated with the appropriate
profile, allowing separate charging for each profile.
A supporting visited network shall indicate [on the billing record] for
charging purposes the profile used.
## 4.1 Applicability to telecommunication services
The applicability of this supplementary service is defined in 3GPP TS 22.004
[2].
# 5 Functional requirements
## 5.1 Handling of the MSP Service
This clause describes the normal procedures for the handling of the MSP
service.
### 5.1.1 Provision
The MSP service shall be provided after prior arrangement with the service
provider. If the MSP service is provisioned for the subscriber at the first
time the subscriber shall also be provisioned with at least two profiles.
### 5.1.2 Withdrawal
Withdrawal of the MSP service shall be done by either the service provider at
the subscriber's request or for administrative reasons. The MSP service shall
be withdrawn when there is only one profile remaining.
### 5.1.3 Activation
The MSP service is activated by the service provider as a result of provision.
### 5.1.4 Deactivation
The MSP service is deactivated by the service provider as a result of
withdrawal.
### 5.1.5 Invocation
The MSP service is invoked by mobile originated and mobile terminating calls.
## 5.2 Handling of the Profile
This subclause describes the normal procedures for selecting the registered
profile for mobile originated calls, short messages and call independent
supplementary service related activities. For mobile terminating activities
the profile is selected automatically by association with the MSISDN
addressed.
### 5.2.1 Provision
The provision of profiles (up to a maximum of four) is provided by prior
arrangement with the service provider. The subscriber may select any
provisioned profile on a per call basis or register one of them. The
subscriber will nominate one of their provisioned profiles as the default
profile to be used when roaming to non-supporting networks. The subscriber may
subsequently nominate an alternative default (i.e. roaming) profile,
nevertheless the default profile can only be changed by the service provider.
### 5.2.2 Withdrawal
The Service Provider shall be able to withdraw profiles. The registered
profile shall never be withdrawn, and consequently if the registered profile
needs to be withdrawn the service provider shall first register the subscriber
onto another profile.
### 5.2.3 Registration
Registration is the procedure by which information is written to the network
to allocate a particular profile to be used for all outgoing calls and
supplementary service related activities. Registration to a profile shall take
place either by the service provider or with an appropriate control procedure
by the subscriber as defined in 3GPP TS 22.030 [3]. At all times only one
profile shall be registered. The network shall indicate to the user whether an
attempt to register a profile has been successful or not.
### 5.2.4 Selection
The profile to be used for mobile originated calls is selected either
implicitly or explicitly:
\- Implicit selection occurs if the served subscriber does not indicate a
profile ID when initiating a call or short message. In this case the selected
profile is the registered profile.
\- Explicit selection occurs if the served subscriber does indicate a profile
ID when initiating a call or short message.
The control procedure used to select the profile is as defined in 3GPP TS
22.030 [3].
For mobile terminating activities, the profile is selected according to the
MSISDN addressed.
### 5.2.5 Erasure
A previous registration can be erased in the following ways:
\- the subscriber can register to another profile which causes the previous
registration to be overridden;
\- the registered profile is erased as a result of withdrawal of the MSP
service.
### 5.2.6 Interrogation
The subscriber shall be able to interrogate which profile is the registered
profile and all other available profile IDs, with an appropriate control
procedure as defined in 3GPP TS 22.030 [3].
## 5.3 Normal operation with successful outcome
### 5.3.1 Mobile Originating Calls
Mobile originating calls shall be handled according to the selected profile.
This shall be the registered profile unless an alternative is explicitly
selected by the subscriber. Profiles are registered and selected according to
control procedures in 3GPP TS 22.030 [3].
Any activity that is normally chargeable shall be identified against the
selected profile.
### 5.3.2 Mobile Terminating Calls
The MSISDN addressed shall be used to determine the profile to be used. If
there are any active supplementary services, which are applicable to the
telecommunication service within the profile, then those supplementary
services shall apply. For example, if the MS is busy in a call, further
incoming call attempts shall be rejected or busy, even if they were on a
different profile. This shall not prevent the normal operation of Call Waiting
or Call Forwarding if appropriate.
The serving network shall indicate the profile towards the mobile station done
by changing the alerting pattern.
Any activity that is normally chargeable shall be identified against the
profile used for the mobile terminating activity.
### 5.3.3 Mobile Originating Call Independent Supplementary Service Activities
The activity shall be handled according to the registered profile.
### 5.3.4 Call Related Supplementary Service Activities
The handling of call related supplementary service activities is described in
clause 7.
## 5.4 Exceptional procedures or unsuccessful outcome
### 5.4.1 Roaming into networks not supporting MSP
The default profile shall be used for outgoing traffic when the subscriber
roams to a non-supporting network.
Incoming calls and short messages to all profiles will still be received.
### 5.4.2 Registration or Selection of a profile that is already registered
If there is an attempt to register a profile that is already the registered
profile, the registration shall continue uninterrupted and the user shall not
be informed.
If there is an attempt to select a profile that is already the registered
profile, the selection shall continue uninterrupted and the user shall not be
informed.
### 5.4.3 Registration or Selection of a non-provisioned profile
If there is an attempt to register a profile that has not been provisioned,
the registration attempt shall fail and the user shall be informed. The
registered profile shall remain unchanged.
If there is an attempt to select a profile that has not been provisioned the
selection and associated call activity shall fail. The user shall be informed.
The registered profile shall remain unchanged.
### 5.4.4 Registration or Selection attempts where MSP is not provisioned
If there is an attempt by a subscriber who does not have MSP provisioned to
register a profile, the registration attempt shall fail and subscriber shall
be informed.
If there is an attempt by a subscriber who does not have MSP provisioned to
select a profile, the selection attempt shall fail and subscriber shall be
informed.
# 6 Interaction with supplementary services
The profile used when a supplementary service is invoked will be subject to
the charging principles and invocation requirements relevant to that
supplementary service. The service provider may decide which profiles to
charge for the service provision.
## 6.1 Line Identification Services
The profile in use for the incoming or outgoing call shall be used for the
line identification services.
The Line Identification services will be provisioned on a per subscriber
basis. If provisioned, the Line Identification services shall apply over all
profiles.
## 6.2 Call Hold (HOLD)
The HOLD service can only be invoked if the profile for that active call has
the HOLD service provisioned.
## 6.3 Call Waiting (CW)
CW for an incoming call can only be invoked if the profile for the ongoing
call has the CW service provisioned and active although the incoming call may
be on any profile.
## 6.4 Call Forwarding
Call Forwarding will be available to the subscriber per-profile. An operator
specific control procedure may be used by the subscriber to control the call
forwarding service.
The subscriber shall be able to forward calls to from one profile to another
profile.
## 6.5 Multi Party Service (MPTY)
The MPTY service can only be invoked or an MPTY call controlled or extended if
MPTY is provisioned for the served subscriber for each profile(s) associated
with the MPTY call leg(s).
## 6.6 Closed User Group (CUG)
An MO call shall be treated according to the rules of the CUG service if CUG
is provisioned for the selected profile. An MT call shall be treated according
to the rules of the CUG service if CUG is provisioned for the profile defined
by the called MSISDN.
## 6.7 Advice of Charge (AoC)
If subscribed to, AoCI or AoCC shall be applicable to the selected profile.
Each profile shall have a separate meter (ACM) and a separate upper limit
(ACMmax) when AoCC is subscribed. There shall be an overall meter for all
profiles, with its own upper limit for AoCC if subscribed. For normal
operation both the individual meter applicable to the selected profile and the
overall meter shall be incremented.
When roaming to a non-supporting network, only the overall meter shall be
incremented.
## 6.8 Call Barring
Call Barring will be available to the subscriber per-profile. An operator
specific control procedure may be used by the subscriber to control the call
barring service.
## 6.9 Explicit Call Transfer (ECT)
ECT can only be invoked if the service is provisioned for each profile which
governs a call leg to be joined by the ECT service.
## 6.10 CCBS
The CCBS service shall be provisioned per profile. The option not to be a
target of CCBS requests shall also apply per profile. When the subscriber is
informed of a CCBS recall, the profile in use when the CCBS request was
activated shall be used for the CCBS call. If the subscriber activates a CCBS
call request on a profile that is not the default profile and subsequently
moves to a network not supporting MSP Phase 2, then if the CCBS recall
matures, the corresponding CCBS request shall be suspended until the
subscriber next registers on a network supporting MSP Phase 2.
The limit to the number of outstanding CCBS requests that can be activated by
the subscriber shall apply regardless of the number of profiles.
The limit to the number of outstanding CCBS requests that can be activated
against the subscriber shall apply regardless of the number of profiles.
## 6.11 eMLPP
eMLPP shall be provisioned per subscriber.
## 6.12 Multicall
The multicall supplementary service shall be provisioned on a per subscriber
basis. If provisioned, Nbr_SN, Nbr_SB, and Nbr_user shall apply over all
profiles. (See 3GPP TS 22.135 [5] "3.1 Definitions" for detailed information)
# 7 Interaction with other services
## 7.1 The Multi-Numbering Scheme
Each profile may employ the single-numbering scheme or the multi-numbering
scheme. The multi-numbering scheme is described in 3GPP TS 22.001 [6]. For
each of the profile(s) defined above, it shall be possible for the subscriber
to be allocated different MSISDNs for different basic services.
## 7.2 The Short Message Service
The Short Message Service is described in 3GPP TS 23.040 [4]. It will not be
possible to indicate the profile used for the MT case. All MO short messages
will be sent from the default profile.
MO short messages can be sent from (and charged to) the registered profile or
an explicitly selected profile.
Whilst roaming in a network not supporting MSP Phase 2, all MO short messages
will be sent from and charged to the default profile.
## 7.3 Interactions with CAMEL
CAMEL based services can be provisioned either per subscriber or per profile
depending on the operator specific implementation in the CSE.
For call independent supplementary service procedures for CAMEL based
services, information to identify the registered profile shall be passed to
the CAMEL server.
## 7.4 Interactions with OR
No interaction
NOTE: It is a HPLMN option to allow or deny OR of forwarded calls where the
HPLMN recognises that the IPLMN does not support MSP. This is due to the
requirement to include an indication of the profile ID in call detail records
which may be raised in the IPLMN and sent to the HPLMN.
## 7.5 Operator Determined Barring
ODB shall apply either per subscriber or per profile.
## 7.6 Roaming restrictions
These will apply on a per subscriber basis.
# 8 Cross-Phase Compatibility
The default profile will be sent to the visited network and can be addressed
by non-supporting networks.
Mobile terminated calls to a non-supporting MS shall still be accepted but the
indication of profile may not be supported.
#