# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The response to emergency situations (e.g., floods, hurricanes, earthquakes,
terrorist attacks) depends on the communication capabilities of public
networks. In most cases, emergency responders use private radio systems to aid
in the logistics of providing critically needed restoration services. However,
certain government and emergency management officials and other authorised
users have to rely on public network services when the communication
capability of the serving network may be impaired, for example due to
congestion or partial network infrastructure outages, perhaps due to a direct
or indirect result of the emergency situation.
Multimedia Priority Service, supported by the 3GPP system set of services and
features, is one element creating the ability to deliver calls or complete
sessions of a high priority nature from mobile to mobile networks, mobile to
fixed networks, and fixed to mobile networks.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the service requirements for Multimedia
Priority Service (MPS).
The scope of this document is to specify those requirements of MPS necessary
to provide an end-to-end service and to interwork with external networks where
needed. Service interactions with external networks are considered within the
scope of this document although these interactions may be specified in other
standards.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 22.952: \"Priority Service Guide\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.067: \"enhanced Multi-Level Precedence and Pre-emption service
(eMLPP); Stage 1\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.067: \"enhanced Multi-Level Precedence and Pre-emption service
(eMLPP); Stage 2\".
[5] 3GPP TS 24.067: \"enhanced Multi-Level Precedence and Pre-emption service
(eMLPP); Stage 3\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Service User:** An individual who has received a priority level assignment
from a regional/national authority (i.e., an agency authorised to issue
priority assignments) and has a subscription to a mobile network operator that
supports the MPS feature.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
**MPS** Multimedia Priority Service
# 4 General description
MPS allows qualified and authorized users to obtain priority access to the
next available radio channel on a priority basis before other PLMN users,
during situations when PLMN congestion is blocking session establishment
attempts. In addition, MPS supports priority sessions on an \"end-to-end\"
priority basis.
MPS is intended to be utilised for Voice, Video, and Data bearer services in
the Packet-switched (PS) domain and the IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS).
# 5 High level requirements
## 5.1 General
Upon invocation of MPS, the system shall provide preferential treatment for
access and core network resources associated with the session (i.e.,
signalling and media bearer related resources). A Service User is assigned a
priority level by a regional/national authority i.e., agency authorised to
issue priority levels. Upon MPS invocation the calling Service User's priority
level is used to identify the priority to be used for the session being
established.
Pre-emption of active sessions shall be subject to regional/national
regulatory requirements.
Subject to regional/national regulatory policy, a PLMN should have the
capability to retain public access as a fundamental function. Therefore, MPS
traffic volumes should be limited (e.g. not to exceed a regional/national
specified percentage of any concentrated network resource, such as eNodeB
capacity), so as not to compromise this function.
## 5.2 Priority session treatment in originating network
When an MPS session is originated by a Service User, the session shall receive
priority treatment (priority access to voice or traffic channels) in the
originating PLMN based on the originating Service User priority level.
When an MPS session is requested by a Service User and the originating network
supporting session establishment cannot assign the necessary resources to the
MPS session, the MPS session request shall be:
  * Queued,
  * Processed for the next available resource in accordance with the > calling Service Users priority level and session initiation time.
The network shall support the capability to inform the calling Service User
about the status of the MPS session (e.g., tones or signalling messages can be
used to indicate that the session request has been queued).
If the queued MPS session times out, then normal session processing applies.
## 5.3 Priority session progression
For an MPS session, a Service User shall receive priority session
treatment/progression through the PLMN (s). In case the MPS session traverses
or terminates in other networks (e.g., the PSTN), the network providing
priority session treatment/progression shall support the capability to
indicate to the other network that this is an MPS session.
Note: If there is no agreement on priority handling between networks, the
priority does not carry across network boundaries.
## 5.4 Priority session treatment in terminating network
When a terminating network receives an MPS session establishment attempt, the
MPS session shall receive priority treatment (priority access to voice or
traffic channels) in the terminating PLMN, based on the originating Service
User priority level. The priority level of the terminating party is
irrelevant.
When the terminating network supporting session establishment cannot assign
the necessary resources to the MPS session, the MPS session request shall be:
  * Queued,
  * Processed for the next available resource in accordance with the > calling Service Users priority level and session arrival time.
The network shall support the capability to inform the calling Service User
about the status of the MPS session (e.g., tones or signalling messages can be
used to indicate that the session request has been queued).
If the queued MPS session times out, then normal session processing applies.
## 5.4a Priority Data Bearer Service
When a Service User invokes Priority Data Bearer Service for transport of any
data packets to and from a Service User, the network should give priority in
admission of the Priority Data Bearer and in packet data scheduling in the
event of congestion(for new sessions and upgrade to existing sessions),
subject to regional/national regulatory policy. Specifically:
\- A Priority Data Bearer service session should be given priority for
admission over non-Priority Data Bearer sessions during times of congestion;
\- Data packets belonging to a Priority Data Bearer service should not be
dropped before data packets belonging to a non-Priority Data Bearer service
session, when the network is experiencing congestion, subject to the
limitation imposed by public access. Priority Data Bearer session QoS, as
required for the type of service invoked (e.g., packet delay), should be
maintained throughout the activity of the data session.
## 5.5 Priority levels
The Service User shall be assigned one of \"n\" user priority levels. The
priority levels are defined with 1 being the highest priority level and \"n\"
being the lowest priority level.
Priority levels are a matter of regional/national and operator policies.
In case of interconnecting networks that have different priority levels,
mappings between priority levels should be established.
## 5.6 Invocation on demand
MPS priority shall be invoked only when requested by the Service User.
MPS is applied when idle resources required for an origination session request
are not available.
If idle resources are available when MPS is requested, the request shall be
allowed to proceed as normal, but marked as an MPS request..
An indication of an MPS session should be propagated towards the terminating
network regardless of the availability of resources in the originating
network.
## 5.7 Multimedia priority service code/identifier
MPS shall be requested by including an MPS code/identifier in the session
origination request, or optionally, by using an MPS input string (e.g., an MPS
public user identity).
## 5.8 Roaming
MPS shall be supported when the Service User is roaming and the serving
(originating and terminating) network(s) supports MPS.
## 5.9 Handover
MPS shall be supported during and after the handover (i.e., sessions shall
continue to get priority treatment in the network during and after the
handover).
## 5.10 Interworking with CS domain
### 5.10.1 Mobile origination in the CS domain -> MPS mobile termination
For a Priority Service voice call, as described in [2] and as specified in [3,
4, 5], originated by a Service User in the CS Domain, MPS shall support Mobile
Termination of the session in the IMS. The priority level received from the CS
domain shall be used in the IMS.
### 5.10.2 MPS mobile origination -> mobile termination to the CS domain
For an MPS voice session originated by a Service User in the IMS, MPS shall
support delivery of the voice session to the serving CS Domain. The calling
Service User priority level shall be sent to the CS Domain.
# 6 MMI aspects
No MMI aspects have been identified specifically for MPS.
# 7 Security and privacy
Access to MPS shall be determined based on the subscriber\'s profile. A level
of authorisation in addition to authorisation to use the IMS is required.
Unauthorized access to MPS shall be prevented.
# 8 Charging aspects
A network supporting MPS shall be capable of recording the following charging
information, in addition to non-MPS information:
\- MPS invocation attempt and successful session set-up,
\- Session bearers (originations and/or terminations) on which MPS was used to
gain access to resources,
\- Recording of MPS information, e.g., priority level.
#