# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The document specifies the requirements and technical considerations for
Customized Ringing Signal (CRS) service in the PS and CS domains, especially
additional features for roaming and interoperability support.
This document considers voice and multi-media CRS, so the CRS user may
experience favourable songs, multi-media clips or other customized CRS.
This document specifies the CRS filtering service requirements that allow the
user to filter the CRS.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.173: \"IP Multimedia Core Network Subsystem (IMS) Multimedia
Telephony Service and supplementary services; Stage 1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.240: \"Service requirements for 3GPP Generic User Profile
(GUP); Stage 1\".
[4] ETSI TISPAN TR 181 015: \"Requirements for Customized Originating and
Terminating Multimedia Information Presentation (COMIP/CTMIP) and Customized
Originating and Terminating Multimedia Information Filtering (COMIF/CTMIF)
Requirements Analysis\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Ringing Signal:** A Ringing Signal is played to the called party as an
incoming communication indication during establishment of a communication.
**Customized Ringing Signal:** A Ringing Signal that is customized by the
calling party or the called party. A Customized Ringing Signal (CRS) may e.g.
be a picture, a piece of recorded or composed music, greeting words, voice,
advertisement or video.
**CRS inter-action** : CRS inter-action is the interaction of the CRS service
with other services, e.g. inter-action with Call Forwarding.
**CRS inter-working** : CRS inter-working is the interworking of a CRS service
over different domains or subsystems (CS or IMS) as well as between PLMNs.
**CRS content provider:** A service provider that provides a set of **Ring
Signals** for use as CRS for subscribes of the CRS service. A 3GPP operator
may be a **CRS** content provider.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
CRS Customized Ringing Signal
# 4 CRS Service Requirements
## 4.1 Basic functionality of CRS service
The Customized Ringing Signal service (CRS service) is an operator specific
service by which an operator enables the subscriber to customize the ringing
signal which is played to the called party. The CRS content will be provided
to the called party only it's allowed by the called party.
\- The service user shall be able to subscribe to the services, activate the
services, update the settings, e.g. to change his active CRS.
\- The CRS service shall override the default ringing signal towards the
called party provided that media components are compatible..
\- The called party shall be able to experience the CRS set by the called
service subscriber.
\- The called party shall be able to experience the CRS set by the calling
service subscriber.
\- The operator should have the capability to store multiple CRSs per service
subscriber.
\- It should be possible to inform the user about status and changes in his
service, e.g. service expiry date or a particular CRS content.
Note: In the CS domain, this information may be provided by existing means
such as SMS and web access.
\- The operator shall be able to charge for the CRS service and the related
contents.
\- It shall be possible for a subscriber to subscribe to CRS that is provided
by a third party content provider.
\- CRS service should not negatively affect the conversation between calling
and called parties, e.g. no voice /video clipping.
\- If the CRS can't be played for some reason (for example, the CRS system
fails, or the CRS content expiry is up, or the called user roams from 3G
network to 2G network, or other reasons), the called party shall experience
the default ringing signal instead of the CRS.
\- When the multi-media CRS fails to be played in some condition (such as the
caller roams from 3G network to 2G network or network congestion occurs), the
voice CRS may be played instead if possible.
### 4.1.1 Functionality - IMS domain
The CRS services in IMS domain are defined by:
\- For the CRS service, the called party's operator shall be able to configure
which CRS should have priority, the one set by the called or calling CRS
service subscriber. The called party's operator shall be able to take into
account the called CRS service subscriber's preferences. By default, if no
preference is set, the CRS set by the called party has priority.
\- When the called party answers the communication the CRS shall stop or
continue to play during the conversation, depending on operator or user
preferences. By default, if no preference is set, when the called party
answers the communication the CRS shall stop.
\- When the calling party is setting up a communication, the calling party
shall be able to send an indication to the CRS service which CRS to play to
the called party.
\- The called party shall have the capability to copy the CRS of the calling
party as his own CRS while the CRS is being played.The pre-requisites are that
the calling party has enabled CRS sharing, if applicable, for that instance of
CRS and that both parties are subscribers to the same HPLMN.
Note 1: A CRS might also be copied offline via e.g. web interface but that
functionality does not require standardisation.
Note 2: The expression \"to copy the CRS\" does not necessarily mean that the
CRS is actually copied. It may also mean that a purchase request is being sent
to the CRS service provider.
\- The CRS service shall be able to send CRS to the called party on per call
basis.
\- The CRS service shall send an indication to the multimedia information
presentation service which multimedia information to play to the called party
(e.g. when the called party is notified about an incoming communication, the
CRS subscriber can send an indication to the CRS service which CRS to play to
the called party).
\- The CRS subscriber may be able to replace one CRS with another one while it
is playing.
\- The CRS subscriber may be able to receive CRS service after communication
establishment.
### 4.1.2 Functionality - CS domain
The CRS services in CS domain are defined by:
\- For the CRS service, the called party's operator shall be able to configure
which CRS should have priority, the one set by the called or calling CRS
service subscriber. By default, if no preference is set, the CRS set by the
called party has priority.
\- When the called party answers the communication the CRS shall stop.
\- The called party shall have the capability to copy the CRS of the calling
party as his own CRS. The pre-requisites are that the calling user has enabled
CRS sharing, if applicable, for that instance of CRS and that both parties are
subscribers to the same HPLMN and the called party is within the HPLMN.
Note 1: A CRS might also be copied offline via e.g. web interface but that
functionality does not require standardisation.
Note 2: The expression \"to copy the CRS\" does not necessarily mean that the
CRS is actually copied. It may also mean that a purchase request is being sent
to the CRS service provider.
\- During the call setup over the CS domain, the called party UE shall be able
to start automatically downloading and streaming CRS content through PS
domain. Downloaded CRS content shall not be used for other purposes except CRS
service.
## 4.2 Normal procedures with successful outcome
### 4.2.1 Provisioning and Withdrawal
The CRS Service can be provisioned and withdrawn by the operator on a per
subscriber basis.
If the CRS service is not provisioned, the called party shall not experience
content of CRS, he should experience the default ringing signal.
Note: Procedures for provisioning and withdrawal are out of scope of
standardisation.
### 4.2.2 Activation and Deactivation and Update
#### 4.2.2.1 Activation
When a subscriber activates his CRS Service he shall be able to specify which
CRS a called user should experience, or use the operator's default setting.
After a subscriber has activated his CRS Service a called user should
experience the CRS that was chosen by the subscriber.
#### 4.2.2.2 Deactivation
After a subscriber has deactivated his CRS Service a called user shall
experience the default ringing signal.
#### 4.2.2.3 Update
When a subscriber updates his CRS Service, updated CRS should overwrite the
existing one.
### 4.2.3 Basic scenarios
#### 4.2.3.1 Only calling party has activated the CRS service
In the following scenarios, contained in table 1, it is assumed that only the
calling party (A) has activated his CRS Service. Calling party (A) is calling
B. The called party has subscribed and not activated the CRS service.
Note: To activate his CRS means the user has chosen that his CRS should be
experienced.
The CRS of A is CRS-A.
Table 1: Normal Operation Scenarios
* * *
      Called party B\   Required behaviour
      (condition)
1 B, ringing Depending on B settings, B will experience either CRS-A or the
default ringing signal.
* * *
#### 4.2.3.2 Only called party has activated the CRS service
In the following scenario, contained in table 2, it is assumed that only the
called party (B) has activated his CRS Service. Calling party (A) is calling
B. The calling party has not subscribed and/or activated the CRS service.
The CRS of B is CRS-B.
Table 2: Normal Operation Scenarios
* * *
      Called party B\   Required behaviour
      (condition)
1 B, ringing B experiences CRS-B or the default ringing signal.
* * *
#### 4.2.3.3 Both parties have activated the CRS service
In the following scenarios, contained in table 3, it is assumed that both the
calling party (A) and called party (B) have activated the CRS Service. Calling
party (A) is calling B.
The CRS of B is CRS-B, the CRS for A is CRS-A.
Table 3: Normal Operation Scenarios
+---+-----------------+----------------------------------------------+ | | Called party B\ | Required behaviour | | | (condition) | | +---+-----------------+----------------------------------------------+ | 1 | B, ringing | Depending on B settings, B experiences | | | | CRS-A, CRS-B or the default ringing signal. | | | | | | | | If B has not set preference, B experiences | | | | CRS-B. | +---+-----------------+----------------------------------------------+
### 4.2.4 Interaction with Supplementary Services
4.2.4.1 Originating Identification Presentation (OIP)
No impact. The OIP service is performed independently of the CRS, the CRS will
use the information provided by OIP.
The CRS service shall be able to distinguish information provided via service
platform and information provided by the network (e.g. public identity sends
by the OIP service).
#### 4.2.4.2 Originating Identification Restriction (OIR)
The OIR service takes precedence over the CRS service subscribed by the
calling party or by the called party.
#### 4.2.4.3 Communication Diversion (CDIV)
Table 4 describes when the forwarded-to party (C) has not subscribed or
activated the CRS service.
Table 4: Supplementary Service Interaction Scenarios
* * *
      Called party B\                                                                                Forwarded-to-party\   Required behaviour
      (condition)                                                                                    (condition)
1 B has activated Call Forwarding Unconditional (CFU) to C and A's call is
forwarded to C C, ringing C experiences CRS-A or CRS-B or the default ringing
signal.
2 B has activated Call Forwarding on Busy (CFB) to C, B is busy and A's call
is forwarded to C C, ringing C experiences CRS-A or CRS-B or the default
ringing signal.
3 B has activated Call Forwarding on No Reply (CFNRy) to C and A's call is
forwarded to C C, ringing C experiences CRS-A or CRS-B or the default ringing
signal.
4 B has activated Call Forwarding on Not Reachable (CFNRc) to C and A's call
is forwarded to C C, ringing C experiences CRS-A or CRS-B or the default
ringing signal.
* * *
Table 5 describes when the forwarded-to-party (C) has subscribed and activated
the CRS service.
The CRS of C is CRS-C.
Table 5: Supplementary Service Interaction Scenarios
+---+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | | Called party B\ | F | Required behaviour | | | (condition) | orwarded-to-party\ | | | | | (condition) | | +---+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 1 | B has activated | C, ringing | Depending on | | | Call Forwarding | | operator settings, | | | Unconditional | | subscriber C will | | | (CFU), Call | | experience the | | | Forwarding on Busy | | CRS-C or CRS-A or | | | (CFB) or Call | | CRS-B or the | | | Forwarding on Not | | default ringing | | | Reachable (CFNRc) | | signal. | | | to C. | | | | | | | | | | A's call is | | | | | forwarded to C | | | +---+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 2 | B has activated | C, ringing | B experiences the | | | Call Forwarding on | | standard ringing | | | No Reply (CFNRy) | | signal until B's | | | to C and A's call | | CFNRy timer has | | | is forwarded to C | | expired. Then C | | | | | experiences CRS-C | | | | | or CRS-A or CRS-B | | | | | or the default | | | | | ringing signal. | +---+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+
Note: in addition to playing the applicable CRS, related operator settings
allow (see [4], 7.1.1):
  * Case 1: when CRS-B is played to C, CDIV may also be set to present B's number to the forwarded-to user.
  * Case 2: when CRS-B is played to C, CDIV may also be set to NOT present B's number to the forwarded-to user.
  * Case 3: CRS-A may be provided to C when B's operator has chosen not to send CRS-B.
#### 4.2.4.4 Communication Waiting (CW)
If the called party B has activated the communication waiting service and he
is busy, depending on the operator's settings, the called party will
experience either the CRS service or the default communication waiting
indication.
If B experiences the CRS service, B shall receive appropriate media in order
to limit perturbation on the ongoing communication with C (e.g. CRS audio
information may be replaced by the default communication waiting tone).
Table 6 describes the situation that only the calling party A has subscribed
and activated the CRS service.
Table 6: Supplementary Service Interaction Scenarios
* * *
      Called party B\                          Required behaviour
      (condition)
1 B has activated Communication Waiting, Depending on operator settings or
user preference, B experiences the communication waiting indication or CRS-A
whose audio information is replaced by the communication waiting indication.
* * *
Table 7 describes the situation that only the called party B has subscribed
and activated the CRS service.
Table 7: Supplementary Service Interaction Scenarios
* * *
      Called party B\                          Required behaviour
      (condition)
1 B has activated Communication Waiting, Depending on operator settings or
user preference, B experiences the communication waiting indication or CRS-B
whose audio information is replaced by the communication waiting indication.
* * *
Table 8 describes the situation that both the calling party A and called party
B have subscribed and activated the CRS service.
Table 8: Supplementary Service Interaction Scenarios
* * *
      Called party B\                          Required behaviour
      (condition)
1 B has activated Communication Waiting, Depending on operator settings or
user preference, B experiences the communication waiting indication or
CRS-A/CRS-B whose audio information is replaced by the communication waiting
indication.
* * *
#### 4.2.4.5 Explicit Communication Transfer (ECT)
In case of immediate transfer the called party C shall either experience the
CRS from CRS-A or CRS-C depending on operator settings and if A or C has
activated the CRS service.
In case of consultative transfer, when A is on hold and B has invoked the ECT
service between A and C, C shall either experience the CRS from CRS-B or CRS-C
depending on operator settings and if B or C has activated the CRS service.
When the communication is established between A and C, C shall either
experience the CRS from CRS-A or CRS-C depending on operator settings and if A
or C has activated the CRS service.
## 4.3 CRS service configuration
The CRS subscriber should be able to configure the service with a service
profile based on the following parameters:
> 1\. CRS content descriptor -- Pointing to the right content or combination
> of contents (e.g. personal prompt plus chosen music/video track)
>
> 2\. CRS timing descriptor -- Time of day, day of week, specific date and
> intervals based on each of those parameters.
>
> 3\. User (called/calling party) descriptor -- user ID (or group ID of
> users), user presence, user location, CRS user charging mode
Note 1: As location information may be restricted in some instances, the
default user location may be set to "unknown"
Note 2: Presence information for a CS user is limited to attached or detached.
The CRS service shall be able to select the appropriate CRS according to the
CRS user profile.
A CRS subscriber who has activated his service, shall be able to select and
update his settings - e.g. select a different CRS than the current one. It
should be possible to charge the subscriber for selection / update of the CRS
settings.
A storage mechanism for a user Profile relevant to CRS and/or CRS filtering
should be supported.
A user/subscriber and/or CRS service provider should be able to access/manage
CRS and/or a CRS filtering User Profile.
A means of managing Access rights for User Profile components and media
content should be supported.
The network should provide the capability for the called/forwarded party to
reject CRS provided by the calling party according to some rules:
  * reject all CRS, unconditionally.
```{=html}
``` \- reject CRS for unknown parties and accept all known parties,
```{=html}
``` \- reject CRS for parties identified as with malicious information in a
black list and accept all others,
```{=html}
``` \- prompt the user to accept/reject CRS only for unknown parties and
accept CRS all others (default)
```{=html}
``` \- For IMS CRS, it should be possible to prompt the user to accept or
reject CRS for each incoming call (e.g. to present CRS or not).
## 4.4 The content of CRS
The content of CRS can be CRS such as music, voice, text, or video.
The CRS may be composed of music, voice, text, video, which can be provided by
the CRS content provider, operator or by the user himself.
The content of the CRS service may be dynamically created, possibly taking
into account information available in the network, e.g. calling and/or called
user's location and/or presence information.
The dynamic content of CRS service may be stored in the network in order to be
experienced again by the called party. This may be requested by the called
party, calling party, or service provider. The content may be downloaded to
the UE or streamed down to the UE when the CRS is playing.
## 4.5 Inter-working CRS
### 4.5.1 Inter-working between PLMNs
. The CRS service should therefore fulfil the following end user requirements:
> \- When receiving a communication from another PLMN, the called party shall
> be able to experience the CRS set by the calling party.
>
> \- When receiving a communication from another PLMN, the called party shall
> be able to experience the CRS set by the called party.
>
> \- When roaming to another PLMN, the called party shall be able to
> experience the CRS set by the called party.
>
> \- When roaming to another PLMN, the called party shall be able to
> experience the CRS set by the calling party.
>
> \- The called party shall be able to experience the CRS set by the calling
> party who is roaming to another PLMN.
### 4.5.2 Inter-working between CS and IMS
The CS and IMS based CRS services should fulfil the following end user
requirements:
> \- When receiving a communication from another domain (CS or IMS), the
> called party shall be able to experience the CRS set by the calling party.
>
> \- When receiving a communication from another domain (CS or IMS), the
> called party shall be able to experience the CRS set by the called party.
>
> \- When receiving a communication from another domain (CS or IMS), the
> called party should be able to copy the CRS of the calling user as his own
> CRS. The pre-requisites are that the calling user has enabled CRS sharing,
> if applicable, for that instance of CRS and that both users are subscribers
> to the same HPLMN.
The scope of this interoperability may result in a limited service capability.
#