# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
To ensure competitiveness in a longer time frame an evolution of the overall
3GPP system needs to be considered.
This document compiles requirements to ensure that an Evolved Packet System
can cope with the rapid growth in IP data traffic and demanding requirements
for new multimedia type of applications in terms of performance and quality,
delivered to the user, whilst at the same time enabling cost effective
deployment and operation.
The Evolved Packet System is characterised by:
\- Reduced latency
\- Higher user data rates equating to broadband performance
\- Improved system capacity and coverage
\- Lower operational costs
# 1 Scope
The present document describes the service requirements for the Evolved Packet
System. Additional requirements for E-UTRAN are contained in the
specifications identified in annex B.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 22.003: \"Circuit Teleservices supported by a Public Land Mobile
Network (PLMN)\".
[2] 3GPP TS 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP specifications\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.258: \"Service Requirements for the All-IP Network (AIPN);
Stage1\".
[4] 3GPP TR 25.913: \"Requirements for Evolved UTRA (E-UTRA) and Evolved UTRAN
(E-UTRAN)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 22.115: \"Service aspects; Charging and billing\".
[6] ETSI TS 102 250-1: \"Speech Processing, Transmission and Quality Aspects
(STQ); QoS aspects for popular services in GSM and 3G networks: Part 1:
Identification of Quality of Service aspects\".
[7] 3GPP TR 23.882: \"3GPP system architecture evolution (SAE): Report on
technical options and conclusions\".
[8] C.S0001-A Introduction to cdma2000 Standards for Spread Spectrum Systems -
Release A.
[9] C.S0002-A Physical Layer Standard for cdma2000 Spread Spectrum Systems -
Release A.
[10] C.S0003-A Medium Access Control (MAC) Standard for cdma2000 Spread
Spectrum Systems - Release A addendum 2.
[11] C.S0004-A Signaling Link Access Control (LAC) Specification for cdma2000
Spread Spectrum Systems -Addendum 2.
[12] C.S0005-A Upper Layer (Layer 3) Signaling Standard for cdma2000 Spread
Spectrum Systems - Release A addendum 2.
[13] C.S0006-A Analog Signaling Standard for cdma2000 Spread Spectrum Systems
- Addendum 2.
[14] A.S0007 -- A.S0009 Interoperability Specification (IOS) for High Rate
Packet Data (HRPD).
[15] A.S0011 -- A.S0017 Interoperability Specification (IOS) for cdma2000
Access Network Interfaces.
[16] X.S0011 cdma2000 Wireless IP Network.
[17] C.S0024-A cdma2000 High Rate Packet Data Air Interface Specification.
[18] C.S0024-0 cdma2000 High Rate Packet Data Air Interface Specification.
[19] **Void**.
[20] WiMAX Forum Mobile System Profile, Release 1.0 .
[21] 3GPP TS 22.101: \"Service Aspects; Service Principles\".
[22] \"Recommendations and Requirements for Networks based on WiMAX Forum
CertifiedTM Products\" (WiMAX stage 1)
[23] \"WiMAX Forum Network Architecture (Stage 2: Architecture Tenets,
Reference Model and Reference Points)\"
[24] \"WiMAX Forum Network Architecture (Stage 3: Detailed Protocols and
Procedures)\"
[25] Void.
[26] S.R0048-A 3G Mobile Equipment Identifier (MEID)
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [2] and the following apply.
**Evolved Packet System:** is an evolution of the 3G UMTS characterized by
higher-data-rate, lower-latency, packet-optimized system that supports
multiple RATs. The Evolved Packet System comprises the Evolved Packet Core
together with the evolved radio access network (E-UTRA and E-UTRAN).
**Service Continuity:** The uninterrupted user experience of a service that is
using an active communication (e.g. an ongoing voice call) when a UE undergoes
a radio access technology change or a CS/PS domain change without, as far as
possible, the user noticing the change.
Note: In particular Service Continuity encompasses the possibility that after
a RAT / domain change the user experience is maintained by a different
telecommunication service (e.g. tele- or bearer service) than before the RAT /
domain change.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[2] and the following apply.
NRT Non Real Time
RT Real Time
# 4 General description
## 4.1 Objectives
The Evolved Packet System is a higher-data-rate, lower-latency, packet-
optimized system that supports multiple RATs. The focus of the Evolved Packet
System work is on enhancement of Packet Switched technology to cope with rapid
growth in IP traffic.
The objectives of the Evolved Packet System are to:
\- Provide higher data rates, lower latency, high level of security and
enhanced QoS;
\- Support a variety of different access systems (existing and future),
ensuring mobility and service continuity between these access systems;
\- Support access system selection based on a combination of operator
policies, user preference and access network conditions;
\- Realise improvements in basic system performance whilst maintaining the
negotiated QoS across the whole system;
\- Provide capabilities for co-existence with legacy systems and migration to
the Evolved Packet System.
# 5 High-level requirements -- user and operational aspects
The Evolved Packet System shall be capable of accommodating a variety of
different access systems thus providing a multi-access system environment to
the user.
The Evolved Packet System shall provide mobility functionality within and
across the different access systems.
The Evolved Packet System shall provide capabilities to support the efficient
integration of E-UTRAN PS Core Network Nodes and GERAN/UTRAN PS Core Network
Nodes.
The Evolved Packet System shall optimize mobility functionality meaning that
it shall offer minimal signalling overhead, minimal handover interruption
time, secure handover procedure and local breakout.
The Evolved Packet System shall provide capabilities to inter-work with a
variety of broadband networks based on IP technologies including those not
specified by 3GPP.
The Evolved Packet System shall provide enhanced performance e.g., low
communication delay, low connection set-up time and high communication
quality.
The Evolved Packet System shall be able to efficiently support a variety of
traffic models e.g. user-to-user, user-to-group and traffic models generated
by ubiquitous services.
The Evolved Packet System shall provide functionality to support outbound
roaming subscribers on other Evolved Packet Systems and legacy networks.
The Evolved Packet System shall provide functionality to support inbound
roaming subscribers from other Evolved Packet Systems and legacy networks.
The Evolved Packet System shall be capable of supporting and inter-working
with PS services provided on Rel-7 and earlier networks. The Evolved Packet
System shall be capable of inter-working with CS services provided on Rel-7
and earlier networks.
The Evolved Packet System shall support service continuity between 3GPP access
systems and also between 3GPP access systems and non 3GPP access systems
whether the UE supports simultaneous radio transmission or not.
The Evolved Packet System shall be able to accommodate fixed access systems
and to inter-work with fixed networks in order to provide service continuity
over fixed/mobile converged networks.
The Evolved Packet System service capability set shall include, as a minimum,
support for the following categories of services that are likely to be used by
the majority of operators:
\- Voice
\- Video
\- Messaging
\- Data file exchange
The Evolved Packet System shall provide for efficient usage of system
resources, especially of radio resources through both signalling and transport
optimization, e.g. overhead, terminal power, radio resources, mobility state,
signalling load.
The Evolved Packet System shall support efficient delivery of text-based
broadcast messages received from a legacy CBC.
The Evolved Packet System shall support E-UTRAN only operators. The system
shall allow these operators to offer national roaming to their subscribers.
The Evolved Packet System shall be capable of uniquely identifying each device
that connects via 3GPP access networks and 3GPP2 access networks. For a dual
mode device supporting both 3GPP and 3GPP2 access technologies, there shall be
a single persistent identifier used to identify the device. This device
identifier shall be the same even when the device moves between 3GPP and 3GPP2
access types.
Note: The 3GPP2 device identifier structure is consistent with the IMEI
structure [26].
The EPC shall be capable of restricting access of specific 3GPP devices, 3GPP2
devices and dual mode 3GPP/3GPP2 devices.
## 5.1 Requirements for Fixed Mobile Interworking
The Evolved Packet System shall support the following scenarios: a single
Operator offering both fixed and mobile access; different Operators
collaborating to deliver services across both networks. These scenarios will
be supported by interworking between the access networks.
The Evolved Packet System shall support access to services on the mobile
network via interworking with a fixed access network.
The Evolved Packet System shall be able to support the following functions for
interworking between the fixed access and Evolved Packet Core:
\- connectivity,
\- subscriber authentication,
\- offline charging
\- online charging for traffic routed via the Evolved Packet Core
\- Policy Control and
\- Quality of Service.
Additionally the Evolved Packet System shall be able:
\- to minimize QoS and Policy management signalling overhead while
interworking between the fixed access and Evolved Packet Core.
\- to route different simultaneously active PDN connections through different
accesses while interworking between the fixed access and Evolved Packet Core.
\- to route different IP flows belonging to the same PDN connection through
different accesses while interworking between the fixed access and Evolved
Packet Core.
The requirements for mobility in chapter 7.1.3 apply also to interworking
between the fixed access and Evolved Packet Core.
# 6 Basic capabilities
## 6.1 Support of IP traffic
### 6.1.1 Support of increased IP traffic demand
The Evolved Packet System shall be able to provide guaranteed QoS for services
and use the resources of the Evolved Packet System with high efficiency i.e.
ensure that quality conditions for a particular communication are fulfilled
without deterioration between the communicating end-points.
### 6.1.2 Void
### 6.1.3 Void
### 6.1.4 Support of basic IP connectivity
Following registration on the network, the Evolved Packet System shall
maintain an IP connectivity with the UE. Following registration it shall be
possible for an UE to send and receive IP packets.
### 6.1.5 Support of IP multicast service
The Evolved Packet System shall support IP multicast service.
## 6.2 IP session control
The Evolved Packet System shall provide for session mobility and session
adaptation to terminal capabilities, user preferences, subscriber priorities,
network conditions and/or other operator-defined criteria. Session adaptation
shall be under the control of the operator.
The Evolved Packet System shall support session control for multi-party
sessions (e.g. user-to-group) and shall provide a scaleable solution.
In order to support the efficient routing of IP traffic, local breakout (see
Section 7.1.2) shall be supported.
The Evolved Packet System shall support a UE having simultaneously more than
one active PDN connections exchanging traffic with more than one peer
(external network or other UE), when the network policies and user
subscription allow it.
If a UE is under the coverage of 3GPP access and one or more non-3GPP
accesses, it shall be possible for the UE to communicate using multiple
accesses simultaneously.
The Evolved Packet System shall provide the system operator with the means to
control the number of simultaneously active PDN connections and combinations
thereof to and from a UE.
A single application running on the UE shall not be required to send and
receive traffic through multiple PDNs.
## 6.3 Quality of Service
The Evolved Packet System shall have the ability to provide a quality of
service equal to or better than the QoS requirements specified for GSM and
UMTS. Quality of Service from the customer\'s perspective is to be considered
in phases as specified in ETSI TS 102 250-1[6].
Figure 2: Phases of service use from customer\'s point of view
Figure 2 shows the different phases (Quality of Service aspects) during
service use from the customer\'s point of view.
The meaning of these QoS aspects are:
1) **Network Access:** The network indication on the display of the mobile is
a signal to the customer that he can use the service of this network operator
(or any other means to indicate to the user that a network is available).
2) **Service Access:** If the customer wants to use a service, the network
operator should provide him as fast as possible access to the service.
3) **Service Integrity:** This describes the Quality of Service during service
use.
4) **Service Retainability:** Service Retainability describes the termination
of services (in accordance with or against the will of the user).
In particular the Evolved Packet System shall provide for the following:
\- There should be no perceptible deterioration of audio quality of a voice
call during and following handover between dissimilar CS and PS access
networks, and transitions between PS access networks supporting different IP
protocol versions.
\- There should be no loss of data, as a result of handovers between
dissimilar fixed and mobile access systems, including those that support
different versions of the IP protocol.
\- There should be no discernable difference in perceived service quality for
users receiving services via unicast and users receiving the same service via
multicast.
\- The Evolved Packet System shall support QoS differentiations for unicast
bearers.
\- The Evolved Packet System shall support QoS backwards compatibility to
earlier 3GPP QoS releases.
\- It shall be possible for the Evolved Packet System to maintain end-to-end
QoS without modification when the terminal moves from one access system to a
new access system, and the new access system supports the required QoS.
\- It shall be possible for the Evolved Packet System to change QoS, when the
terminal moves from one access system to a new access system and the new
access system can not provide the same QoS as the old access system or the new
access system can provide higher QoS.
\- It shall be possible for the Evolved Packet System to support service
continuity for a terminal changing access system and the new access system
cannot provide the same QoS as the old one.
\- The Evolved Packet System shall support transport QoS differentiations for
multicast bearers.
\- It shall be possible for the Evolved Packet System to maintain QoS within a
multicast session without QoS changes for other members of the session when a
terminal joins or leaves the multicast session or moves to a new access
system.
\- The Evolved Packet System network shall support a minimum of 8 levels of
QoS in parallel.
\- The Evolved Packet System network shall support a minimum of 4 parallel RT
QoS levels with the appropriate QoS differentiation.
NOTE 1: The requirement for the number of simultaneously supported QoS levels
is independent of any MBMS QoS levels.
\- Multiple RT services, with similar QoS requirements, shall be served by the
same RT QoS level and multiple NRT services, with similar QoS requirements,
shall be served by the same NRT QoS level.
The maximum number of parallel RT and NRT services shall not be limited in the
Evolved Packet System including the UE. Only the number of parallel RT and NRT
QoS levels are limited to the upper value supported by the Evolved Packet
System.
\- Differentiated handling based on QoS is needed for different traffic types.
\- The Evolved Packet System shall support parallel operation of RT and NRT
services per user.
NOTE 2: The different QoS levels provided for RT and NRT services would be
differentiated with regards to e.g. maximum end-to-end delay, packet size,
packet drop percentage, etc. Bandwidth is not used to define a QoS level.
## 6.4 Support of Multicast and Broadcast Services
The Evolved Packet System shall be able to support Multicast and Broadcast
Services which shall be enhanced especially from some aspects, e.g. optimized
service provisioning procedures, better performance compared to current MBMS
system, and support of multiple access systems.
## 6.5 Support of Emergency Calls
The Evolved Packet System shall support IMS emergency calls applicable to the
PS domain, defined in TS 22.101 [21]
# 7 Multi-access and seamless mobility
## 7.1 Mobility management
### 7.1.1 Heterogeneous access systems mobility
{width="7.341666666666667in" height="4.438194444444444in"}
Figure 3: Heterogeneous access system mobility between 3GPP Legacy Systems or
E-UTRAN and non 3GPP Access Systems including Fixed Access systems
The Evolved Packet System shall support mobility between heterogeneous access
systems.
The Evolved Packet System shall provide mobility mechanisms to support
frequent handovers within and across 3GPP legacy systems or E-UTRAN and non
3GPP access systems in order to avoid service degradation.
The Evolved Packet System shall support mobility mechanisms that accommodates
access systems within Rel-7 and earlier.
### 7.1.2 Local breakout
The Evolved Packet System shall allow for local breakout. Local breakout means
that for a user which makes mobility within and across one operator-defined
network region, routing is optimized such that user plane traffic does not
need to leave the current region. An operator may define network regions e.g.,
according to administrative domains. Local breakout is applicable for user-to-
user traffic as well as for 3GPP-operator provided services (including
internet access).
Local breakout shall be allowed independently from the access system being
used.
Local breakout shall be allowed in both the non-roaming and the roaming case.
The use of local breakout shall be authorised by the HPLMN. If local breakout
is not authorised, the user plane traffic shall be handled in the home routed
mode.
### 7.1.3 Fixed Access Systems
The Evolved Packet System shall be able to support fixed access systems with
very limited or no mobility functionality.
The Evolved Packet System shall be able to support mobility within and across
3GPP and non-3GPP access systems including fixed access systems
### 7.1.4 Service continuity
#### 7.1.4.1 General
Service shall be maintained during and following changes of 3GPP access
systems and non 3GPP systems.
Service shall be maintained during and following a change of network in either
direction between a Rel-7 and earlier network and an Evolved Packet System.
It shall be possible to support Inter-PLMN handover with seamless service
continuity within a 3GPP specified access system (UTRAN, E-UTRAN).
When the access system changes, Multicast and Broadcast services shall be able
to continue with their corresponding Multicast and Broadcast services, if the
corresponding services are provided in the target access system.
Note: Corresponding Multicast and Broadcast services are the Multicast and
Broadcast services in the target access system which is associated to the
Multicast and Broadcast services in the source access system, providing
similar service experience, e. g. with same content but different bit-rate.
{width="3.561111111111111in" height="2.1534722222222222in"}
Figure 4: Inter-PLMN handover with seamless service continuity within a 3GPP
specified access system
#### 7.1.4.2 Service continuity at domain and RAT change for TS 11, TS 12 and
equivalent PS service
It shall be possible to support continuity of an established voice call, i.e.
between a TS11, TS12 and an equivalent PS service, when the UE moves between
two different domains and RATs. The user experience shall be as far as
possible unaffected by the change of domain and RAT. The RAT change procedure
executed to enable service continuity for an established voice call shall
target an interruption time not higher than 300 ms.
RAT change and domain selection shall be under the control of the registered
PLMN. When the UE is roaming, it shall be possible for the VPLMN to take into
account any user's HPLMN operator policy.
To support service continuity of an established voice call a UE shall not be
required to support simultaneous radio transmission via different 3GPP defined
RATs
NOTE: In the case of CS emergency calls (TS12) the service continuity at
domain and RAT change can only be performed if IMS emergency calls are
supported by the target system.
#### 7.1.4.2A Voice Call Service continuity between 3GPP defined RATs and non
3GPP defined RATs
Continuity of an established voice call, i.e. between a TS11 and an equivalent
PS service, when the UE moves between 3GPP defined RATs and non 3GPP defined
RATs, shall be supported provided that the non-3GPP defined RATs is connected
to the 3GPP system via the Evolved Packet Core.
The user experience shall be as far as possible unaffected by the change of
RAT.
#### 7.1.4.3 Service continuity between E-UTRAN and 3GPP2 accesses on Evolved
Packet Core
The Evolved Packet System shall support bidirectional service continuity
between cdma2000 1xRTT Revision A [8], [9], [10], [11], [12], [13], [14], [15]
and E-UTRAN.
NOTE 1: if bi-directional support is not practical, service continuity from
E-UTRAN to cdma2000 1xRTT Revision A should have the higher priority.
NOTE 2: The CS component of cdma2000 1xRTT Revision A is not expected to be
connected to the Evolved Packet Core.
The Evolved Packet System shall support bidirectional service continuity
between cdma2000 HRPD (1xEV-DO) Revision A [17], [14], [15], [16] and E-UTRAN
for best effort and real-time applications.
The Evolved Packet System shall support bidirectional service continuity
between cdma2000 HRPD (1xEV-DO) Revision 0 [18], [14], [15], [16] and E-UTRAN
for best effort applications.
#### 7.1.4.4 Service continuity between 3GPP and WiMAX access on Evolved
Packet Core
The Evolved Packet System shall support bidirectional service continuity
between Mobile WiMAX [20], [22], [23], [24] and GERAN PS.
The Evolved Packet System shall support bidirectional service continuity
between Mobile WiMAX [20], [22], [23], [24] and UTRAN PS.
The Evolved Packet System shall support bidirectional service continuity
between Mobile WiMAX [20], [22], [23], [24] and E-UTRAN.
NOTE: The above requirements assume that the service continuity takes place
through the Evolved Packet Core.
### 7.1.5 Access network discovery
To avoid unnecessary background scan by the UE and to facilitate service
continuity by the UE it shall be possible for the VPLMN and the HPLMN to
provide the UE with access network information pertaining to locally supported
non-3GPP access technologies, in a resource efficient and secure manner. This
mechanism is meant to facilitate changes, including service continuity,
between 3GPP access systems and non 3GPP access systems and vice versa. The
information may be restricted to the access technologies the UE can use. To
reduce battery drain, a UE should minimise the frequency of scanning for
different access technologies.
When discovering non-3GPP accesses a UE shall be able to receive information
from a non-3GPP access network concerning to which PLMN, or PLMNs, the
non-3GPP access network provides access.
Note: The capability to provide such information by a non-3GPP access network
is out of scope of 3GPP.
When a UE receives service via a non-3GPP access it shall be possible for the
PLMN that provides the non-3GPP access to indicate local availability of 3GPP
access to the UE,, in a secure manner, subject to capabilities of the non-3GPP
access network.
### 7.1.6 Steering of access
When a UE is accessing the Evolved Packet Core via E-UTRA, the operator of the
PLMN that provides the access (registered PLMN or RPLMN for short) may request
the UE to use - any or a specific - non-3GPP RAT. Similarly, if a UE is
accessing the Evolved Packet Core via a non-3GPP RAT then the RPLMN may want
to request the UE to use E-UTRA. The reason for such steering may be load
balancing (for camped- and traffic load balancing), operator policy, private
networks/home cells, service based mobility control etc.
The RPLMN shall be able to download on the UE a list of preferred access
technologies in priority order. If, while the UE is registered on that PLMN,
an access technology with higher priority than the one currently used is
detected, the UE shall attempt to use the higher priority access network to
access the RPLMN.
The UE shall only perform access technology selection within the RPLMN.
In case the UE is connected to the PLMN via a non-3GPP access, then the PLMN
reselection procedures specified for that access technology may be executed.
Note 1: The PLMN operator may provide access to the Evolved Packet Core either
through an own access network (E-UTRA or non-3GPP access) or in collaboration
with an access network operator that operates a non-3GPP access network.
Note 2: A specific non-3GPP RAT may e.g. be identified by RAT type and the
access network name (as advertized by the access network), or a list of access
network names.
The HPLMN may also provide the UE with a list of preferred access technologies
in priority order for use in the RPLMN. Only one list of preferred access
technologies can be active at a time and the list provided by the RPLMN takes
precedence over the list provided by the HPLMN. The list of preferred access
technologies received from the VPLMN is specific to that VPLMN and PLMNs
equivalent to it.
### 7.1.7 CS fallback
#### 7.1.7.1 General
For those services delivered via the HPLMN that the HPLMN only supports in the
CS domain (e.g. voice services), when such services are invoked while the UE
is configured to use CS Fallback and registered in the E-UTRAN (either in the
HPLMN or in a VPLMN), it shall be possible for the EPS to request the UE to
perform a change of radio access technology in order to deliver the service
over UTRAN or GERAN or 1xRTT.
In the case of an incoming CS service to a UE that is registered for CS
services and active in E-UTRAN, the EPS shall transfer the CLI to the UE if
available and the calling party has not restricted the presentation, prior to
triggering CS fallback. Depending on UE configuration and when the UE is in
connected mode, the user or an application on behalf of the user may request
to accept or reject CS fallback before performing a change of radio access
technology. The default behaviour of the UE is to accept the CS fallback.
#### 7.1.7.2 Roaming in a VPLMN not supporting CS fallback
When a UE that is configured to use CS fallback registers over E-UTRAN in a
VPLMN not supporting CS fallback the default behaviour of the UE is to attempt
to select a GERAN/UTRAN/1xRTT CS radio access technology in the VPLMN or in a
PLMN equivalent to the VPLMN. The default behaviour of the UE is not to
autonomously attempt to (re-)select the E-UTRAN for the duration of the time
the UE stays in a VPLMN and PLMNs equivalent to the VPLMN.
The default behaviour may be changed based on user preference settings.
The UE may offer the user to perform a PLMN scan and display the list of
available PLMNs. The selection of a different PLMN is performed using the
manual mode.
# 7.2 IFOM Service requirements
Simultaneous active mode of operation is an optional capability for multimode
UEs, which support 3GPP and WLAN access. UE supporting simultaneous active
mode of operation between one set of technologies may not be capable to
support simultaneous active mode of operation between a different technology
set (e.g. due to radio interference limitations).
The following requirements apply to the case of UEs with multiple interfaces
which will simultaneously connect to 3GPP access and one single WLAN access.
\- It shall be possible to provide service continuity when the UE moves from
the 3GPP access to WLAN access and vice versa.
\- If the UE is under the coverage of more than one access, including 3GPP and
WLAN accesses and communicates using multiple accesses simultaneously, it
shall be possible to select one access when a flow is started and re-
distribute the flows to/from a UE between accesses while connected.
\- It shall be possible for the operator to enable and control via policies
the simultaneous usage of multiple accesses.
\- It shall be possible to distribute IP flows to/from a UE between available
accesses based on the characteristics of the flows and the capabilities of the
available accesses, subjected to user\'s preferences and operator\'s policies.
\- It shall be possible for the operator to define policies for the control of
the distribution of IP flows between available accesses. Each policy shall
include a list of preferred accesses and whether the policy may be overridden
by the user\'s preferences.
NOTE: The possibility of manual selection or user override is not precluded.
> These policies may be defined per APN, per IP flow class under any APN or
> per IP flow class under a specific APN. The IP flow class identifies a type
> of service (e.g. IMS voice) or an operator defined aggregation of services.
>
> The policies apply with the following priority order:
  1. Policies per IP flow class under a specific APN.
  2. Policies per IP flow class under any APN.
  3. Policies per APN.
\- Distribution of flows to/from a UE between available accesses based on the
characteristics of the flows and/or the capabilities of the available accesses
shall be possible for flows exchanged by both operator controlled (e.g. IMS)
and non operator controlled (e.g. web and mail access) applications/services.
\- It shall be possible to move all the flows to/from a UE out of a certain
access in case the UE loses connectivity with that access (e.g. UE moves out
of coverage of a WLAN access while maintaining connectivity through the 3GPP
access).
\- Re-distribution of flows to/from a UE between accesses may be triggered by
changes to the characteristics of the flows (e.g. QoS requirements) or the
capabilities of the available accesses (e.g. due to network congestion,
mobility event, or UE discovers a new access) during the connection.
# 8 Performance requirements for the Evolved Packet System
The Evolved Packet System comprises the Evolved Packet Core together with the
evolved radio access network (E-UTRA and E-UTRAN). A study of the Evolved
Packet Core can be found in TS23.882 [7] and the evolved radio access network
E-UTRA and E-UTRAN in TR25.913 [4].
The performance objectives for the Evolved Packet System include higher user
data rates, reduced latency, improved system capacity and coverage, reduced
network complexity and lower operating costs.
The Evolved Packet System shall meet or exceed the following performance
criteria:
a) The radio access network shall be capable of supporting instantaneous peak
packet data rates of 100 Mbps on the radio access bearer downlink to the UE
and 50 Mbps on the uplink.
b) The Evolved Packet System shall be capable of providing lower user and
control plane latency when compared to existing 3GPP access networks. The
maximum delay should be comparable to that for fixed broadband Internet access
technologies. [e.g. less than 5ms in ideal conditions]
c) The system shall be capable of supporting large volumes of mixed e.g.
voice, data and multimedia traffic. Enhanced load balancing and steering of
roaming methods should be used to minimise cell congestion.
d) The level of system complexity and mobility management signalling shall be
optimised to reduce infrastructure and operating costs. UE power consumption
shall also be minimised accordingly.
e) For the Evolved Packet System the interruption time during handover of RT
and NRT services shall be kept to minimum and shall not exceed the values
defined in TR 25.913[4].
# 9 Security and privacy
## 9.1 General
The Evolved Packet System shall provide a high level of security and privacy
for users and Evolved Packet System operators.
## 9.2 Security requirements
The Evolved Packet System shall provide a high level of security, equivalent
or better than Rel-7 3GPP systems.
Any possible lapse in security in one access technology shall not compromise
security of other accesses.
The Evolved Packet System should provide protection against threats and
attacks including those present in the Internet.
The Evolved Packet System shall support information authenticity between the
terminal and Evolved Packet Systems.
The Evolved Packet System shall allow for a network to hide of internal
network elements from the UE.
Security policy shall be under the control of the home operator.
The security solution should not interfere with service delivery or 3GPP
inter-access handovers in a way that is noticeable to end-users or service
providers.
Appropriate traffic protection measures should be provided by the Evolved
Packet System.
The Evolved Packet System shall provide appropriate mechanisms to enable
lawful intercept.
The Evolved Packet System shall ensure that no unauthorized user can obtain a
legitimate IP address that can be used to establish communication or enable
malicious attacks on evolved system entities.
Release 99 or later Releases\' USIM application on the UICC is required to
authenticate a user in an Evolved Packet System and hence allowing the user to
get services in the Evolved Packet System according to her/his subscription.
Note: The above requirement is applicable when providing access to the EPC via
E-UTRAN.
Once authenticated via a 3GPP or Evolved Packet System, the USIM shall not be
required to re-authenticate upon changing between these systems, unless
specifically requested by the operator (PLMN).
NOTE: It may be possible to use other applications on the UICC in order to
provide authentication on the 3GPP or Evolved Packet System (e.g. for
connection to IMS). In addition, in case it is desirable to improve the level
of security or to add new security mechanisms for accessing the Evolved Packet
System compared to the one provided in Rel-7, a revised/upgraded application
on the UICC may be required.
## 9.3 Privacy requirements
The Evolved Packet System shall provide several appropriate levels of user
privacy including communication confidentiality, location privacy, and
identity protection.
The privacy of the contents, origin, and destination of a particular
communication shall be protected from disclosure to unauthorised parties.
The Evolved Packet System shall be able to hide the identities of users from
unauthorised third parties.
It shall be possible to provide no disclosure, at any level of granularity, of
location, location-related information, e.g. geographic and routing
information, or information from which a user's location can be determined, to
unauthorised parties, including another party on a communication.
# 10 Charging Aspects
The Evolved Packet System shall support various charging models including all
those supported by the 3GPP system contained within TS22.115 [5] .
Charging models that shall be supported by the Evolved Packet System include
(non-exhaustive list):
\- calling party pays
\- charging based on assured QoS
\- charging based on the transport
\- charging based on an event
\- charging based on content
\- charging adjustment (e.g. based on subscription bands)
\- alternate party charging
The Evolved Packet System shall also be able to support introduction of new
charging schemes including online and offline schemes, and charging schemes
for the multi-access system environment
Charging mechanisms of the Evolved Packet System shall provide (non-exhaustive
list):
\- Cost effective Control and Charging of IP Flows
\- Perform online charging
\- Support differentiated charging including zero rating of the bearer and
event charging
\- Awareness of subscriber identity, time-of-day, roaming status, QoS, Service
input etc
###### ## Annex A (informative): Requirements for further study
# A.1 Management of access networks
The Evolved Packet System shall be able to allow for self-managing
technologies (e.g. Plug-and-Play) for dynamically adding and removing non-3GPP
defined access networks.\ Such self-managing technologies shall take into
account the Evolved Packet System and access network policies.
E.g. depending on such policies it shall be possible to for the 3GPP system
operator to request encryption of user traffic that is transmitted over the
access network.
NOTE 1: The non-3GPP access network needs to have defined interworking with
3GPP.
An example could be a WLAN (operated by some WLAN operator) that can, if
needed, automatically be connected to a PLMN to serve as an I-WLAN access.
This would enable the PLMN operator to provide additional access resources on
a dynamic basis and to provide service to more customers (e.g. at mass
events).
NOTE 2: The degree of automation provided for network attachment is yet to be
determined, but is intended to simplify (or completely automate)
administration procedures.
# A.2 Use cases for Fixed Mobile Convergence
A family has purchased a family subscription plan that is independent of
access (e.g. fixed or wireless) and location (e.g. both when at home and away
from home). The subscription contains at least the following components:
  * Internet access: Operator specific service such as firewall and content filtering (parental control) independent of access for selected devices within the family. The service should be available at home, within the home mobile network and when roaming to a visited mobile network.
  * Voice/Multimedia: QoS and mobility between home WLAN and LTE wide area
  * Charging schemas connected to access type, preference and location
  * Video: Premium Video on Demand Service incl. guaranteed bandwidth and QoS regardless of access network.
**Description**
**Use case 1: Internet access with Parental control and personal firewall**
The kids leave their house and take a bus to their grandparents' house.
The operator specific services, like parental control and personal firewall,
are invoked for specific users and terminals from both home network and from
mobile network; this allows the kids to get the same service and filtering
inside the home, in the bus going to grandparents and at the grandparents. In
this use case the grandparents have a separate service provider than the
family but the services will still be provided by the service provider where
the family has a subscription.
**Use case 2: Voice/Multimedia and Charging**
The father travels home after work while talking on the phone with his
colleague.
The ongoing Voice/Multimedia call between the father and his colleague is
maintained while switching over between LTE Wide area and residential fixed
broadband WLAN network and charging for home-based access is applied when in
home. Bandwidth and QoS is maintained for the duration of the call to
guarantee the same service delivery.
**Use case 3: Video**
The kids in the backseat of the car are watching an Internet TV show on their
laptop using LTE while driving home from the grandparent's house.
The TV show is sent from an Internet TV provider. Once home the terminal
detects indoor WLAN coverage where the subscriber has a wifi Residential
Gateway connected to his Fixed Broadband network. The user or the terminal
automatically may select to switch the IP connection to the wireline broadband
connection and enable the user to resume watching the same TV show on the same
laptop, possibly with a better quality picture as allowed by the available
bandwidth, user-specific policy, network policy and QoS setting.
###### ## Annex B (Normative): Evolved Packet System (EPS) applicable
specifications
The specifications listed in clause B.1contain requirements applicable to the
Evolved Packet System (EPS).
# B.1 EPS Applicable Specifications
* * *
TS Title 21.905 Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications 22.011 Service
accessibility See note 22.016 International Mobile Equipment Identities (IMEI)
22.022 Personalisation of Mobile Equipment (ME); Mobile functionality
specification 22.030 Man-Machine Interface (MMI) of the User Equipment (UE)
22.038 USIM Application Toolkit (USAT/SAT); Service description; Stage 1
22.041 Operator Determined Call Barring 22.042 Network Identity and Time Zone
(NITZ) service description; Stage 1 22.066 Support of Mobile Number
Portability (MNP); Stage 1 22.067 enhanced Multi-Level Precedence and Pre-
emption service (eMLPP); Stage 1 22.071 Location Services (LCS); Service
description; Stage 1 22.078 Customised Applications for Mobile network
Enhanced Logic (CAMEL) 22.101 Service Principles 22.105 Services and Service
Capabilities 22.115 Charging and Billing 22.129 Handover requirements between
UTRAN and GERAN or other radio systems 22.146 Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast
Service (MBMS); Stage 1 22.153 Multimedia priority service 22.173 IP
Multimedia Core Network Subsystem (IMS) Multimedia Telephony Service and
supplementary services; Stage 1 22.174 Push service; Stage 1 22.182 Customized
Alerting Tones (CAT) Requirements 22.226 Global text telephony (GTT); Stage 1:
Service description 22.228 Service requirements for the Internet Protocol (IP)
multimedia core network subsystem (IMS); Stage 1 22.233 Transparent end-to-end
packet-switched streaming service; Stage 1 22.234 Requirements on 3GPP system
to Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN) interworking 22.240 Service requirements
for 3GPP Generic User Profile (GUP); Stage 1 22.242 Digital Rights Management
(DRM); Stage 1 22.246 Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service (MBMS) user
services; Stage 1 22.250 IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) Group Management; Stage
1 22.259 Service requirements for Personal Network Management (PNM); Stage 1
22.279 Combined Circuit Switched (CS) and IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS)
sessions; Stage 1 22.340 IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) messaging; Stage 1
Note: In case the UE is connected to the PLMN via a non-3GPP access, then the
PLMN (re)selection procedures specified for that access technology may be
executed.
* * *
#