# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
This Technical Report (TR) presents the results of the Study on LCS support
for non-3GPP accesses.
One main concept of EPC is to support a variety of different access systems
(existing and future) ensuring mobility and service continuity between these
access systems. In that perspective, the LCS support for non 3GPP accesses
should be also taken into account. However, historically, TS 22.071 has been
applicable only to 3GPP accesses and any new requirements for non 3GPP
accesses have not been discussed yet.
Therefore we need to consider how to support LCS in EPC for non 3GPP accesses,
e.g. 3GPP2 and WiMAX. Supporting LCS in EPC for non 3GPP access does not
necessarily mean that all positioning methods available in various kinds of
non 3GPP accesses should be supported in EPC or inventing new positioning
methods for other accesses. However, how to realize the presentation of
location information in EPC when users are connected in non 3GPP accesses
should be at least taken into account. In addition, the service scenarios
should be discussed whether new service requirements are needed for the users
camping on non 3GPP accesses through EPC.
This work will examine whether requirements in TS 22.071 would be applicable
for non 3GPP accesses and specify new service requirements for the users
connected to non 3GPP accesses through EPC.
Consideration will be given, but not limited, to the following:
  * High level requirements of LCS support for non 3GPP accesses;
  * Location information provided to the LCS client for non 3GPP > accesses;
  * QoS requirements of LCS support for non 3GPP accesses.
  * Priority between different LCS services for non 3GPP accesses.
  * Privacy requirements of LCS support for non 3GPP accesses.
  * Periodic location report of LCS services for non 3GPP accesses.
  * Impact on the LCS client and the LCS server to support LCS services > for non 3GPP accesses
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: "Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications".
[2] Open Mobile Alliance, OMA TS MLP: "Mobile Location Protocol",
(http://www.openmobilealliance.org)
[3] Open Mobile Alliance, OMA TS RLP: "Roaming Location Protocol",
(http://www.openmobilealliance.org)
[4] Open Mobile Alliance, OMA RD SUPL: \"Secure User Plane
Requirements\",(http://www.openmobilealliance.org)
[5] Open Mobile Alliance, OMA AD SUPL: \"Secure User Plane Location
Architecture\",(http://www.openmobilealliance.org)
[6] Open Mobile Alliance, OMA TS ULP: \"User Plane Location
Protocol\",(http://www.openmobilealliance.org)
[7] 3GPP TS 22.071: \"Technical Specification Group Systems Aspects; Location
Services (LCS); Stage 1\".
[8] 3GPP TS 23.271: "Technical Specification Group Systems Aspects; Location
Services (LCS); Functional stage 2 description of Location Services (LCS)".
# 3 Definitions, and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
SUPL Secure User Plane Location
# 4 Considerations
## 4.1 User plane solution
### 4.1.1 Introduction
User plane solution has been developed in OMA based on IP to accommodate
different radio accesses. Consequently, regardless of current attached access
networks, as long as IP connection is available, then OMA solution works
through direct communication between the location server and the UE. This
protocol is called 'Secure User Plane Location: SUPL' and this seems to be
well-suited to support LCS for non-3GPP accesses since naturally EPC is for
All-IP. And this solution is also working for non-3GPP terminal for 3GPP2 and
WiMAX and even WiMAX side already decided that SUPL would be used for location
service. SUPL also rely on a support of transport of the initiation message (
SUPL INIT). The SUPL today mandates WAP Push over SMS (or HTTP) for 3GPP and
SMS for 3GPP2. In addition SIP Push and UDP are optional. It is believed that
there is no problem for 3GPP2 terminal to support SUPL.
### 4.1.2 Roaming target UE
If OMA SUPL is adopted, it seems obvious that there is no impact at all on
EPC, however, it needs to consider other aspects such as the interaction
between location servers in HPLMN and VPLMN to support the positioning of the
UE in the VPLMN.
If the location server in VPLMN has a capability to calculate the position of
the UE connected to non-3GPP access then the location server in the VPLMN may
calculate the position of UE. But according to roaming agreement and operator
policy, if the location server in the VPLMN cannot calculate the position of
the UE connected to non-3GPP access, then VPLMN shall be possible to deliver
assistance data to the location server in the HPLMN to calculate the position
of the UE. The assistance data may consist of access specific information.
If the VPLMN does not have capabilities to calculate the position of UE
connected to non-3GPP access then the location server in the VPLMN shall be
possible to deliver the assistance data such as access specific parameters and
so on to the location server in the HPLMN to calculate the position of UE.
To achieve these cases, the interface between the location server in VPLMN and
the location server in HPLMN shall support the deliver of these assistance
data such as access specific parameters. Historically, this interface was
specified in the OMA and the protocol has been specified in the RLP [3].
In turn, in this TR, requirement discussed above can be specified, then OMA
can discuss further gap analysis to meet this requirement as done that for LCS
support for GSM / WCDMA such as MLP [2] and RLP. MLP is stage 3 specification
for the Le reference point [8] and RLP is stage 3 specification for the Lr
reference point [8]. Additionally, RLP is an instantiation of a reference
point between SUPL Providers with the purpose to transport information between
SUPL Providers to enable positioning of roaming SUPL Enabled Terminals.
Examples of such information are coarse position used when generating GPS
assistance data or the actual GPS assistance data.
### 4.1.3 Quality of Service
Quality of Serivice consists of horizontal accuray, vertical accuracy,
response time and QoS class. Since OMA SUPL supports all aspects of QoS
requirements, if OMA SUPL is used to locate non-3GPP terminals connected in
EPC, then QoS requirements in OMA SUPL can be applied as it is.
### 4.1.4 Priority between different LCS applications
Location requests for difference services may be processed with different
levels of priority. For example, for value added services, the LCS server may
allow different location requested to be assigned different levels of
priority. This aspect is already supported in OMA SUPL.
### 4.1.5 Privacy
Privacy requirements such as authorization of positioning attempts based on
privacy profile, user permission requests and handling of permission responses
from users, conditional positioning based on user's permission, conditional
reporting based on user's location and so on are also supported in OMA SUPL.
If OMA SUPL is used to locate non-3GPP terminals connected in EPC, then
privacy requirements in OMA SUPL can be applied as it is.
### 4.1.6 Periodic Location Report
Periodic location reporting specified in TS 22.071 is the act of the location
server initiating multiple position locations spread over a period of time.
OMA SUPL satisfies this requirement with the functionality called 'triggered
location request', which enables to generate multiple location determinations
of the target terminal at periodic intervals.
## 4.2 Control plane solution
Control plane solution would be considered to support LCS for non-3GPP
accesses in EPC, however, it seems to be very complicated to realize this
since a lot of network interfaces should be involved including non-3GPP access
networks and terminals.
However a similar approach as is specified in TS 23.271 for I-WLAN positioning
should be considered for non-3GPP terminal positioning. The above
specification supports MO, MT and emergency call positioning procedures that
are based on combined user plane and control plane capabilities. The principle
is that relevant core network procedures such as authorization of LCS Client,
determination of LCS support by the terminal, allowance to position a
terminal, retrieval of position information and forwarding it to the client
and finally sending accounting information to an accounting function. The
actual location determination is accomplished using SUPL capabilities,
communication between GMLC and terminal in particular.
# 5 Requirements
In order to support roaming non-3GPP terminals that are connected to EPC it is
assumed that location information, assisting location determination, may be
exchanged between home and visited networks. OMA RLP is a candidate for such
information exchange. However, such protocol requirements are outside 3GPP
mandate.
1\. LCS for non-3GPP networks shall be supported by interworking with V-GMLC
(assuming it supports Lr interface) to the extent the LCS capabilities are
supported by the non-3GPP network. The non-3GPP network must support the
corresponding capabilities on the Lr interface.
2\. LCS shall be supported by interworking with non-3GPP network based on use
of information in AAA and HSS.
3\. Interworking with non-3GPP network should be based on OMA SUPL when
applicable.
# 6 Conclusion
LCS is one of the killer services in current mobile telecommunication
services. As EPC is designed as a common core for both 3GPP and non-3GPP
accesses, it is essential to consider how to support LCS in EPC for non-3GPP
accesses as well.
This Study has identified potential requirements for LCS for non-3GPP access.
However, the identified requirements are found to be addressed by other 3GPP
specifications. Thus no more specification work is necessary.
#