# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
Network sharing is becoming more and more popular as a means to provide
coverage quickly and in a cost efficient way. The high price paid for the
license in some countries as well as mergers, acquisitions have raised
recently high interest in this topic. For these reasons 3GPP has decided to
investigate what shortcomings currently in the technical specifications may
prevent a standardized approach to the deployment of shared networks. This TR
is aimed to describe a wide variety of possible network sharing and highlight
the expected user experience for each of the scenarios. Charging aspects,
terminal aspects and security are also investigated.
The purpose of this technical report is to collate in a single document the
requirements, considerations and deployment scenarios that operators as well
as users need to see fulfilled for a successful use of a shared network.
Particular attention has been given in making possible the avoidance of
proprietary solutions particularly for what concerns the terminals.
Furthermore, the concepts discussed in this report may be applied to sharing a
GERAN and UTRAN infrastructure, in this sense the interest in network sharing
tools extends to the vast majority of the existing GSM operators who intend to
deploy a UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network layer to complement the
existing GSM/GPRS coverage.
# 1 Scope
In the current dynamic market place, as a result of partnerships,
acquisitions, creative agreements among operators and so on, the need for
tools that enable various degrees of network sharing is becoming more and more
important.
When GSM and then UMTS were specified, the possibility of sharing part or all
of the network by two or more separated commercial entities was not considered
and as a result the standards lack some functionalities that enable the
realisation of such commercial agreements.
GSM was designed under the principle \"one operator, one radio access
network\". The GSM network has some possibilities of infrastructure sharing,
but it does not support true radio access network sharing. The initial design
of 3GPP system has followed the same principle.
This technical report is aimed to capture the service and user requirements
that must be fulfilled by the 3GPP system in order to enable network sharing
in a standardised way. Section 5 describes various Network sharing includes
various scenarios e.g. spanning from common radio access network connected to
multiple core networks toor multiple radio access networks sharing one core
network. Section 6 contains a summary of the user classification and network
identities. In section 7 the user requirements are described, while section 8
deals with the network operator requirements. Section 9 describes the mobility
requirements in a shared network. The rest of the document is covering
security (section 10) and charging (section 11). Some conclusions can be found
in section 12 and an annex with examples of practical realisation of network
sharing is provided.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications \".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
**Core Network Operator:** Operator that offers core network services.
**Iu-flex:** Routing functionality for intra domain connection of RAN nodes to
multiple CN nodes.
**Radio Access Network Operator:** Operator that offers radio access to one or
more core network operators.
**RAN sharing:** Two or more CN operators share the same RAN, i.e. a RAN node
(RNC or BSC) is connected to multiple CN nodes (SGSNs and MSC/VLRs) belonging
to different CN operators.
**Roaming:** The ability for a user to function in a serving network different
from the home network. The serving network could be a shared network operated
by two or more network operator.
**Shared Network:** When two or more network operator sharing network
elements.
## 3.2 Symbols
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
# 4 General Aspects
# 5 Network Sharing Scenarios
Sharing networks and network infrastructure has become a very important part
of 3GPP systems. There are many network-sharing scenarios possible depending
on different operator strategies but also on rules and legislation in
different countries. 3GPP systems are originally not fully designed for
network sharing between different operators however some limited support
exists in the 3GPP Release 99.The equivalent PLMN feature in Release 99 allows
operators to share a common UTRAN, with certain parts of the core networks
also shared between the operators, see Figure 1.
Figure 1: Two operators sharing the same UTRAN. To make this work, parts of
the core network need to shared as well.
Important to note here is that this network-sharing scenario allows operators
without a UMTS license to share the network and supply its customers with 3G
services. For example, a 2G operator may supply its subscribers with 3G
services using another operator's allocated spectrum. A geographically split
network, i.e. a scenario in which cooperating operators cover different parts
of a country, is also possible in Release 99. One operator's core network may
also be connected to several UTRANs, see Figure 1.
Different kinds of evolution paths are essential for shared networks. For
example, it is not only the sharing solution at a certain time that is
important, but also how it is possible for the sharing partners to evolve
either to a more dedicated network or to a more joint network. That is, the
set of infrastructure sharing solutions and scenarios that is discussed in the
industry cover alternatives that together include:
\- solution alternatives targeting at dedicated networks in the near future,
\- solutions for infrastructure sharing not targeting at immediate exit, but
at exit when for example the network capacity demand so requires,
\- infrastracture sharing targeting at long term sharing, which for example is
the case when one of the operators lacks a frequency license.
Although these network-sharing scenarios are possible in Release 99 of 3GPP
systems, the solutions are far from optimised. Identifying, changing, and
adding appropriate functionality in the network will definitely lead to a
better shared-network operation.
## 5.1 Scenario1: Multiple core networks sharing common radio access network
in R99
For operators that have multiple frequency allocations it is possible to share
the RAN elements, but _not_ to share the radio frequencies. In this case the
operators connect directly to their own dedicated carrier layer in the shared
RNC in the shared RAN. This solution is possible with 3GPP Release 99 and is
illustrated below in Figure 2 for the case when two operators have one license
each.
Figure 2: The figure illustrates how it is possible to within the 3GPP Release
99 framework have dedicated carrier layers in the RAN for multiple operator.
The operators transmit their own mobile network code (MNC) on their dedicated
carrier
### 5.1.1 Limitations
FFS
## 5.2 Scenario 2: Geographically split networks sharing
In this scenario, two (or more) operators with individual 3G licenses will
with their respective radio access networks cover different parts of a country
but together provide coverage of the entire country.
This scenario can be divided into following cases:
1) When two (or more operators) employ national roaming for the users, which
implies that only one core network will be associated with each radio access
network. Care is obviously needed when coverage regions overlap, which makes
this a valid shared-networks scenario. This case is shown in Figure 3.
2) The operators can have their individual core networks connected to both
radio access networks throughout the entire coverage area, but utilizing the
different operator's allocated spectrum in different parts of the coverage
area. There will thus be multiple core network operators in each of the shared
radio access networks. The connection of the core networks to the radio access
networks can either be done by connecting the radio network controllers to
both operators\' core network elements or by sharing parts of the core
network, e.g. SGSNs and/or MSCs. The work on shared networks in Rel-6 should
not make any of these possibilities mandatory and it should be the choice of
the operator which one is implemented. Additionally it should, be possible to
introduce Iu-flex functionality between the common core network parts and the
radio access network for purely load-sharing purposes.
Figure 3: Geographically split network using national\ roaming between
operators.
Figure 4: Geographically split shared radio networks scenarios\ with dedicated
or common core networks
The national roaming scenario and the common core network scenario in Figure 4
can be deployed already today using R99 functionality and are therefore
important in the future work of 3GPP. The scenario with dedicated core
networks in Figure 4 is not supported by Rel-5 specifications.
In areas where more than one of the operators provide coverage, it should be
possible to restrict the access rights so that the users are only allowed to
use the radio access network provided by their home operator.
## 5.3 Scenario 3: Common Network Sharing
In this scenario, one operator will deploy coverage in a specific geographical
area, and other operators will be allowed to use this coverage for their
subscribers. Outside this geographical area, coverage is provided by each of
the operators.
For example, in the case of two operators, a third-party could provide UTRAN
coverage to operators A and B' subscribers in areas with high population
density. In less dense areas, GERAN coverage is provided by operator A and
operator B and in these areas the subscribers should connect to the access
network of their operator.
## 5.4 Scenario 4: Common spectrum network sharing
Common spectrum network sharing is applicable when
\- one operator has a 3G license and shares the allocated spectrum with other
operators.
\- a number of operators decide to pool their allocated spectrums and share
the total spectrum (operators without allocated spectrum may also share this
pooled spectrum).
The scenario can be realized as follows.
1\. Connecting each operator's core networks and to the shared radio access
network(s), see case 1 in Figure 5 below (only 1 radio network controller for
simplicity). In this case it should be possible that one or more of the core
network operators use Iu Flex between their core network and the shared radio
access network. The technical realisation of this scenario may reuse some of
the mechanisms already specified in REL-5 Iu Flex. Described in the figure
below are three network operators, A, B and C. Operators A and C are not using
multiple core network nodes (CN) and therefore may not need to use Iu-Flex.
Operator B is using multiple CNs and has decided to use Ie-Flex to enable the
intra-domain sharing of CNs
2\. The core network entities connected to radio access network can be shared,
see case 2 in Figure 5 below.
Figure 5: Two different cases of common spectrum network sharing
The work on shared networks in Rel-6 should not make any of these
possibilities mandatory and it should be the choice of the operator which one
is implemented.
## 5.5 Scenario 5: Multiple radio access networks sharing common core network
In this scenario multiple radio access networks share a common network. The
multiple RANs can belong to different PLMNs and network operators. Due to
operators' deployment different nodes or part of the common core network i.e.
HSS/HLR, SGSN etc can be shared.
The scenario is depicted in the figure below:
Figure 6: Multiple RANs sharing a common CN
# 6 Network Identities and User Classification
To fully support for example handover, service differentiation and access
rights in shared networks it is occasionally necessary to identify to which
operator that a user belongs to and possibly group the users according to this
information. To avoid complicated operation and maintenance procedures, such
user classification should be general for all the functions in the shared
network that needs information about the user identity.
# 7 User Requirements
Network sharing is an agreement between network operators and is transparent
to the user.
## 7.1 Network selection
When network sharing exists between different operators and a user roams into
the shared network it should be possible for that user to register with a core
network operator (among the network sharing partners) that either
(i) the user has a subscription with, or
(ii) the user's home operator has a roaming agreement with,
even if the operator is not offering radio coverage.
This requirement implies that it is possible to discriminate between core
network operators connected to a shared radio access network. The selection of
a core network operator among those connected to the shared radio access
network can either be manual (i.e. performed by the user after receiving a
list of available core network operators) or automatic (i.e. performed by the
UE according to user and operator preferred settings).
## 7.2 Network name display
The terminal always displays the name of the core network operator the user
has registered with. It should be noted that for pre-Rel-6 UEs the network
name display for roaming users in Scenarios 2 and 4 are not supported.
## 7.3 UE requirements
A Rel-6 network sharing solution should support legacy (pre-Rel-6) UEs. This
requirement is important since a Rel-6 network sharing solution may imply
changes in the UEs.
Without changes to pre-Rel 6 specifications, pre-Rel-6 UEs may in certain
cases not be able to support the full set of Rel-6 enhancements. The following
two cases have currently been identified:
  * Manual network selection for roaming users in Scenario 2 and Scenario 4.
  * Network name display for roaming users in Scenario 2 and Scenario 4.
# 8 Network requirements
The service capabilities and requirements should not be restricted by network
sharing scenarios.
It should be possible for a network operator to differentiate its service
offering from other network operators within shared network.
The services and service capabilities offered should not be restricted by the
existence of network sharing.
It should be possible for a network operator to differentiate its service
offering from other network operators within shared network.
The provision of services and service capabilities that is possible to offer
in a network should not be restricted by the existence of the network sharing
It should be possible for a core network operator to differentiate its service
offering from other core network operators within the shared network.
It should be possible to control the access to service capabilities offered by
a shared network according to the core network operator the user is subscribed
to.
# 9 Mobility Requirements
## 9.1 Service continuity
The mobility in a shared network, both when controlled by the UE and when
controlled by the network should not cause any undue interruption of service.
It should be possible for a subscriber to roam between the different parts of
a shared network without requiring the user intervention. The user experience
while roaming in a shared network should be no worse than the user experiences
in a non-shared network.
NOTE: in some instances the user intervention may be required, for example it
maybe required in cases where the change to a different part of the shared
network causes a change in the service tariff.
## 9.2 Handover
Seamless handover should be supported between a shared network and a non-
shared network. The user should be able to receive the same service level
during and after a handover between the networks.
The network should be able to access the relevant subscriber information in
order to determine the appropriate candidate for handover. Examples of
information that may be required in order to take the decision on the
candidate could include (non exhaustive list):
\- type of subscription (e.g. prepay / postpay)
\- home network of the subscriber (for roaming subscribers)
\- service(s) to be handed over
\- subscribed quality of service
## 9.3 Roaming
When the user is registered on a shared network, the control of the PLMN and
radio access technology (e.g. UTRA, GERAN) employed within that shared network
is under the sole control of the network operator. This does not imply any
limitation on the manual or automatic selection of a PLMN that does not belong
to the shared network where the user is registered.
The standards should specify mechanisms necessary to enable flexible
allocation of inbound roamers among core network operators that have roaming
agreements with the same roaming partners. The core network operators should
be able to pre-define their relative share of inbound roamers and the network
should distribute the inbound roamers that apply automatic network selection
to different core networks connected to the radio access network accordingly.
It should also be possible for the core network operator to allow or force the
subscribers to reselect to another part of the shared network so that the
relative share of inbound roamers is maintained.
In case the mobility in the shared network is controlled by the UE (e.g. cell
reselection) the operator should be able to set parameters, other than radio
parameters that determine the most appropriate candidate. Examples of these
parameters are: subscription information, requested service, network load and
so on.
# 10 Security Requirements
FFS
# 11 Charging Requirements
Charging solutions should support the shared network architecture so that both
end users and network sharing partners can be correctly charged for their
usage of the shared network.
# 12 Conclusions
This technical report has identified various scenarios, service and user
requirements that should be fulfilled by 3GPP specifications in order to
enable network sharing. The functionalities needed to enable network sharing
in a standardized way will be added to existing or new specifications. Chapter
12.1 is a non-exhaustive list of the affected specifications. It is concluded
that the further work in other groups within 3GPP on the requirements
identified in this technical report is carried out.
## _12.1 Impacts on 3GPP Specifications_
FFS
###### ## Annex A (informative): Examples of network sharing realisations
In this annex some examples of how network sharing can be realised in real
situations is described. Often the realisation of a shared network will
encompass more than one scenario described in section 5. These examples aim to
demonstrate how the functionalities needed identified in this technical report
are applied.
# A.1 Advanced Geographical split with seamless national roaming
Operators A and B, both licensed to operate a GSM network and a 3G network
have agreed to share the 3G portion of the radio access network in some areas
of the country where the traffic is expected to be low (Low Traffic Areas, or
LTA) while building separate 3G networks in the areas with higher traffic
density (High Traffic Areas or HTA). The LTA is split in two parts, one built
by Operator A, the other by Operator B.
Note that a HTA may correspond to a subset of a Location Area (e.g. motorway,
railway, shopping centre, train station...)
Operators A and B will not share their respective GSM networks anywhere in the
country and will not share the 3G network in the HTA, but want to achieve
seamless service continuity for subscribers moving among permitted networks.
{width="5.990277777777778in" height="4.116666666666666in"}
Figure A.1: mobility for a subscriber of operator A
Operator A and B aim to offer full mobility in the shared 3G network without
loss of active services (both Circuit and Packet switched) when crossing the
border between areas where coverage is provided by the other operator.
When the users exit the 3G coverage area, their UE are transferred to the 2G
network of the home operator. Similarly, when the user enters an HTA coming
from the home GSM network or from either of the LTA, the UE is transferred to
the 3G network of the home operator.
Moreover, when the subscriber registered in the GSM network moves into the HTA
it should be possible to move as soon as possible to the 3G network of the
home PLMN. More generally the subscriber should move to a permitted 3G network
as soon as it becomes available.
The network name displayed on the UE is that of the home operator regardless
of the provider of the 3G coverage.
## A.1.1 Functionalities needed
The need for the following functionalities can be identified by analysing the
above architecture and mobility rules for network sharing
  * Both operators will want to be able to apply different mobility rules according to the identity of the subscriber (IMSI). Examples of subscribers categories are:
> \- subscribers of operator A
>
> \- subscribers of operator B
>
> \- inbound international roaming subscribers\ The latter category could be
> further divided in sub-categories
  * The differentiated mobility behaviour needs to be supported both for UE controlled mobility (e.g. cell reselection) and for Network controlled mobility (e.g. handover).\ The differentiated mobility behaviour needs to be supported both in the UTRAN and in the GERAN.
  * Both operators will want the display of the operator name on the terminal to be independent of the provider of the radio coverage
  * Both operators will want the facility to steer the traffic to the preferred network and preferred radio access technology according to the subscriber profile, network status, service used
```{=html}
``` \- Both operators will want to provide services to their subscribers from
their respective core networks
  * Both operators will want to have continuity for both Packet Switched and Circuit Switched services used while the subscriber roams from one part of the network to another.
# A.2 Common shared spectrum scenario
Most of the functionalities needed for realisation of this scenario is related
to scenario 4 common spectrum network sharing.
Two operators, A and B, each have their own countrywide 2G networks in
operation. For 3G they agree to build a common countrywide radio access
network and to connect this radio access network to the two existing, 3G
enhanced, core networks. The two operators will continue with their own
subscribers and compete with services and prices.
For the radio access there are three countrywide radio access networks
involved: A, B, and C, where A is the 2G radio access network of operator A, B
the 2G radio access network of operator B, and C the common 3G radio access
network.
Each of these radio networks will broadcast their own PLMN id (PLMN Id =
MCC+MNC). Let us allocate Id_A, Id_B and Id_C respectively to this parameter.
Subscribers of operator A will have the MCC+MNC part of the IMSI equal to Id_A
and subscribers of operator B will have the MCC+MNC part of the IMSI equal to
Id_B. This means that the subscribers of operators A and B will regard the
respective 2G radio access network as their respective HPLMN and radio access
network C as a VPLMN. National roaming is assumed not to exist between the two
operators.
There are two core networks present, namely the 2G core networks of operator A
and of operator B, appropriately upgraded with the necessary 3G functionality.
The nodes of the 2G radio access network A are only connected to nodes in CN_A
and nodes of the 2G radio access network B are only connected to nodes in
CN_B. The nodes of the 3G radio access network C are connected to both nodes
in CN_A and to nodes in CN_B by some appropriately enhanced Iu interface.
The basic architecture is shown in Figure A.2. It must be assumed that all
different combinations of radio coverage exist, this is also shown in the
figure.
Figure A.2: Basic Network Sharing Architecture
## A.2.1 Functionalities needed
Here we describe the different functionalities needed to be identified within
the shared network scenario described in the Section above. The overall
requirement is that it should be completely transparent to the users that
operator A and operator B has chosen to share a 3G network.
Idle Mode Roaming
Subscribers of operator A
Subscribers of operator A should be served only by cells of radio networks A
and C and only by core network CN_A, _i.e._ the service area of a subscriber
of operator A is the sum of A, AB, AC, ABC, BC and C in Figure A.2. When the
subscriber switches on his UE in this service area he is automatically
registered in operator A's core network CN_A. The UE should display the
service provider name and possibly the PLMN name according to the settings of
the USIM/network/UE in the same way irrespective of the radio network used (A
or C).
The possibilities are summarized in Table A.1 below.
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | to cell in  | A | B | C | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | From cell in  | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | **other |** Allowed.**|** Not allowed | **Allowed.** | | network**| | (rejection by | | | |** Normal | CN).**|** Registration | | | r | | only to | | | egistration.**| | CN_A.** | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | A | **Allowed.** | **Not allowed |** Allowed.**| | | | (rejection by | | | |** Normal | CN).**|** Registration | | | location | | only to | | | updating.**| | CN_A.** | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | B | **Not |** Not | **Not | | | applicable.** | applicable.**| applicable.** | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | C | **Allowed.** | **Not allowed |** Allowed.**| | | | (rejection by | | | |** Normal | CN).**|** Normal | | | r | | location | | | egistration.**| | updating only | | | | | to CN_A.** | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
Table A.1: Change of registered cell and network for an operator A subscriber
Subscribers of operator B
The handling of subscribers of operator B is exactly the same as for
subscribers of operator A, with A and B interchanged.
Roaming users
There are three different types of roaming users to be considered (i) users
who are allowed to roam on operator A's network, (ii) users allowed to roam on
operator B's network, and (iii) users allowed to roam on both networks.
Visiting roaming users with roaming agreement with only operator A should be
handled the same way as subscribers of operator A, see previous Section.
Visiting roaming users with roaming agreement with only operator B should be
handled the same way as subscribers of operator B
Visiting roaming users with roaming agreements with both operator A and
operator B are entitled to receive service via all three radio networks (A, B
and C) and from both core networks (CN_A and CN_B). This leads to some
additional considerations.
  * The two operators A and B may have different charging policies for roaming users. Thus one of the operators may be preferred by some roamers and the other operator preferred by other roamers. It must therefore be possible to indicate to the UE, at least when it is in radio network C, which core networks are available so that the user can perform an active selection. If such a manual selection is made, the UE should be treated the same as a subscriber of the chosen operator.
  * If no such selection of core network is made, some filtering is required to select one of the core networks when the UE registers via radio network C. Unnecessary change of core network should be avoided. For example, if the UE is using radio network B and CN_B and changes radio network to C, the UE should remain registered in CN_B. Only when this UE has to change to radio network A (due to radio conditions) a change to CN_A has to be made.
After a core network operator has been chosen, the UE should display the PLMN
name of the CN operator currently used and possibly the service provider name
according to the settings of the USIM/network/ME.
The different possibilities are summarized in Table A.2 below.
Table A.2: Change of registered cell and network for a roaming user allowed to
roam on both both networks.
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | to cell in  | A | B | C | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | From cell in  | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | **other |** Allowed.**|** Allowed.**|** Allowed.**| | network** | | | | | | **Normal |** Normal | **Selection of | | | registration | registration | core network | | | (in CN_A).** | (in CN_B).**| made by the | | | | | radio network | | | | | or by | | | | | interaction | | | | | between the | | | | | radio network | | | | | and one or | | | | | both of the | | | | | core | | | | | networks.** | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | A | **Allowed.** | **Allowed.** | **Allowed.** | | | | | | | | **Normal |** Change to | **Normal | | | updating | CN_B is | updating, stay | | | (within | necessary.** | in CN_A.**| | | CN_A).** | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | B | **Allowed.** | **Allowed.** | **Allowed.** | | | | | | | | **Change to |** Normal | **Normal | | | CN_A is | updating | updating, stay | | | necessary.** | (within | in CN_B.**| | | | CN_B).** | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | C | **Allowed.** | **Allowed.** | **Allowed.** | | | | | | | | **If in CN_A, |** If in CN_B, | **Stay in the | | | stay in | stay in | registered | | | CN_A.** | CN_B.**| core | | | | | network.** | | | **If in CN_B, |** If in CN_A, | | | | change to | change to | | | | CN_A is | CN_B is | | | | necessary.**| necessary.** | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
Note: The case when a user actively picks the core network operator is not
covered in the table, see the text
Handover in the CS domain
Handovers between the three radio networks should follow the same principles
as idle mode roaming between the radio networks. A basic difference, however,
is that there is an anchor MSC and a serving MSC (MSC-B in GSM terminology)
involved in the core networks. The anchor MSC will always be in the core
network in which the UE is currently registered.
In order to avoid inter-MSC handovers between CN_A and CN_B, a basic
requirement is that the serving MSC should be in the same core network as the
anchor MSC. We should look at how this requirement can be fulfilled.
Subscribers of operator A
Subscribers of operator A should only be registered in CN_A and should only be
handed over between cells belonging to radio network A or radio network C.
With a suitable filtering mechanism in radio network C, the serving (target)
MSC can also be chosen in CN_A. The possible handover cases for a subscriber
of operator A are shown in Table A.3 below.
Table A.3: Handover cases for subscribers of operator A
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | to cell in  | A | B | C | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | From cell in  | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | **other |** Not | **Not |** Not | | network**| applicable.** | applicable.**| applicable.** | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | A | **Allowed.** | **Not |** Allowed.**| | | | allowed.** | | | | **Normal | |** Intra-MSC | | | handover | | and inter-MSC | | | (intra- and | | to MSC in | | | inter-MSC).**| | CN_A only.** | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | B | **Not |** Not | **Not | | | applicable.** | applicable.**| applicable.** | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | C | **Allowed.** | **Not |** Allowed.**| | | | allowed.** | | | | **Normal | |** Intra-MSC | | | handover | | and inter-MSC | | | (intra- and | | to MSC in | | | inter-MSC).**| | CN_A only.** | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
Roaming users
Visiting roaming users with roaming agreement with only operator A should be
handled the same way as subscribers of operator A. Visiting roaming users with
roaming agreement with only operator B should be handled the same way as
subscribers of operator B.
Visiting roaming users with roaming agreements with both operator A and
operator B are entitled to receive service via all three radio networks (A, B
and C) and from both core networks (CN_A and CN_B). This would imply that all
handover combinations between radio networks and core networks should be
possible for these subscribers. However, from a technical and operational
point of view it would simplify things if we still keep the requirement that
the serving (target) MSC should be in the same core network as the anchor MSC.
This limitation means that once a call has been set up in the core network
that was selected in idle mode (the registered core network), the handling of
that call will stay completely within that core network until the call is
terminated (i.e. no inter-MSC handovers between CN_A and CN_B). It also means
that if the call is started in radio network A, then it can only be handed
over to cells in radio network A or radio network C and if the call is started
in radio network B, it can only be handed over to cells in radio network B or
radio network C. The possible handover cases are summarized in Table A.4
below.
Table A.4: Handover cases for roaming users with roaming agreements with both
operator A and operator B
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | to cell in  | A | B | C | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | From cell in  | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | **other |** Not | **Not |** Not | | network**| applicable.** | applicable.**| applicable.** | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | A | **Allowed.** | **Not |** Allowed.**| | | | allowed.** | | | | **Normal | |** Inter-MSC | | | handover | | handover only | | | (intra- and | | to CN_A.**| | | inter-MSC).** | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | B | **Not |** Allowed.**|** Allowed.**| | | allowed.** | | | | | | **Normal |** Inter-MSC | | | | handover | handover only | | | | (intra- and | to CN_B.**| | | | inter-MSC).** | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | C | **Allowed only |** Allowed only | **Allowed.** | | | if anchor MSC | if anchor MSC | | | | in CN_A.**| in CN_B.** | **a) If anchor | | | | | MSC in CN_A, | | |** Then | **Then | then inter-MSC | | | inter-MSC | inter-MSC | handover only | | | handover only | handover only | to CN_A.** | | | to CN_A.**| to CN_B.** | | | | | | **b) If anchor | | | | | MSC in CN_B, | | | | | then inter-MSC | | | | | handover only | | | | | to CN_B.** | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
Handover in the PS domain
The same principles and requirements as for circuit switched handover should
apply.
Cell reselection in the PS domain
The same principles and requirements as for Idle mode roaming should apply.
#