# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
This Technical Report (TR) provides a \"Guide\" for Priority Service. The
intent of this \"Guide\" is to describe how existing 3GPP specifications
support the high-level requirements identified for Priority Service in TR
22.950.
Priority Service allows qualified and authorized users to obtain priority
access to available radio (voice or data traffic) resources on a priority
basis before other PLMN users during situations when PLMN congestion is
blocking call attempts. In addition, Priority Service supports priority call
progression and call completion to support an \"end-to-end\" priority call.
Priority Service is intended to be used by qualified and authorized users,
i.e., key emergency service personnel and those with leadership
responsibilities, only during times of emergency situations and network
congestion. Priority Service providers should adhere to uniform, nationwide
operating access procedures.
Priority Service is to be available at all times in equipped markets in both
the HPLMN and VPLMN within a country where a PLMN provider is offering the
service. Priority Service is applicable to both GERAN and UTRAN and is
activated on a per call basis using Priority Service dialling procedures.
Priority Service, supported by the 3GPP system set of services and features,
is one element in the ability to deliver calls of a high priority nature from
mobile to mobile networks, mobile to fixed networks, and fixed to mobile
networks.
# 1 Scope
This present document addresses the Service Aspects (Service Description),
Network Aspects (Call Flows), and Management Aspects (Operations,
Administration, Maintenance, and Provisioning) of Priority Service, based on
existing 3GPP specifications.
The Priority Service is intended to be used for both Voice and Data. However,
this document only addresses Circuit Switched Voice Service. Data, multimedia
and non-circuit switched aspects of Priority Service have not been addressed
and are for further study.
The Priority Service is intended to interwork with external networks to
provide an end-to-end service. Therefore, service interactions with external
networks are considered within the scope of this document, although the
specification of these interactions may be in another standard. If this
occurs, a reference to that specification is made.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 22.950: \"Priority service feasibility study\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.011: \"Service accessibility\".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.067: \"enhanced Multi-Level Precedence and Pre-emption service
(eMLPP); Stage 1\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.067: \"Enhanced Multi-Level Precedence and Pre-emption Service
(eMLPP); Stage 2\".
[6] 3GPP TS 24.067: \"Enhanced Multi-Level Precedence and Pre-emption service
(eMLPP); Stage 3\".
[7] 3GPP TS 51.011: \"Specification of the Subscriber Identity Module \-
Mobile Equipment (SIM-ME) interface\".
[8] 3GPP TS 31.102: \"Characteristics of the USIM application\".
[9] 3GPP TS 48.008: \"Mobile-services Switching Centre - Base Station system
(MSC-BSS) Interface Layer 3 Specification\".
[10] Alliance for Telecommunications Industry Solutions (ATIS) T1.111-2001:
Signaling System No.7, Message Transfer Part.
[11] ATIS T1.631-1993 (R1999): High Probability of Completion HPC Network
Capability.
[12] ATIS T1.113-2000: Signalling System No. 7 (SS7) - Integrated Services
Digital Network (ISDN) User Part (Revision of T1.113-1995; includes two
Supplements: T1.113a-2000 & T1.113b-2001).
[13] Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Second Report and Order (R&O)
00-242 (WT Docket No. 96-86).
[14] ITU-T Recommendation Q.764, Signalling System No. 7 -- ISDN user part
signalling procedures.
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
Refer to [1] for additional definitions and abbreviations used in this
document that are not defined below.
## 3.1 Definitions
**Service User** : subscriber to Priority Service
**Service Provider** : provider of Priority Service
## 3.2 Abbreviations
ATIS Alliance for Telecommunications Industry Solutions
IEPS International Emergency Preference Scheme
# 4 Service description
## 4.1 Assumptions and limitations
Priority Service is a subscription service, based on eMLPP service, as
described in the Priority Service feasibility study, 3GPP TR 22.950 [2]. There
are no Stage 1, Stage 2, Stage 3 specifications for Priority Service. Only
eMLPP Release 6 specifications have been updated to be compatible with
Priority Service. The following primary 3GPP capabilities were identified in
[2] to support Priority Service:
• Service Accessibility, as specified in 3GPP TS 22.011 [3],
• Enhanced Multi-Level Precedence and Pre-emption (eMLPP), as specified in
3GPP TS 22.067 [4], 3GPP TS 23.067 [5], and 3GPP TS 24.067 [6],
• Subscriber Identity Module (SIM), as specified in 3GPP TS 51.011 [7],
• Universal Subscriber Identity Module (USIM), as specified in 3GPP TS 31.102
[8],
• Priority Information Element, as specified in 3GPP TS 48.008 [9].
The following assumptions have been made to provide for Priority Service.
For the purposes of this document, the term \"Service User\" is a subscriber
to Priority Service and a \"Service Provider\" is a provider of Priority
Service.
No hardware or software modifications to existing Mobile Stations (MS) have
been identified as required to support Priority Service. Priority Service
subscribers may use MSs supporting the Adaptive Multi Rate (AMR), Enhanced
Full Rate (EFR) and basic full rate voice codecs.
The ISDN User Part (ISUP) Precedence parameter used in the Multi-Level
Precedence and Pre-emption (MLPP) service may be used to transmit the priority
of the calling Service User through any transit networks to the terminating
network.
## 4.2 Registration / erasure
The eMLPP registration and erasure procedures are not applicable for the
Priority Service.
## 4.3 Interrogation
The eMLPP interrogation procedure is not applicable for the Priority Service.
## 4.4 Call origination / invocation
Service Users are the only subscribers that are allowed to invoke Priority
Service. Priority Service is invoked on a per call basis.
### 4.4.1 Service accessibility
Service Accessibility, as specified in [3], supports an \"Access Control\"
capability used by network operators to prevent overload of radio access
channels under critical conditions. Access Class load shedding may be applied
to a specified localized area and for a specified duration. Invoking access
control does not pre-empt calls in progress.
For priority access to the network, a Service User receives treatment that is
fully compliant with Service Accessibility capabilities with the following
exceptions, extensions, or clarifications:
A call receives end-to-end priority treatment, including priority access to
traffic channels on the originating side, when a Service User initiates a call
using the Priority Service dialling procedure:
*Service Code (SC) + Destination Number.
A generic prefix may be used in place of \"*SC\".
A Service User is assigned Access Class(es) in the range of 11 -- 15 to
receive priority access to the network.
Support of Localized Service Area for Priority Service is not required.
### 4.4.2 Priority radio resource queuing
If a Service User invokes a Priority Service call and a radio traffic channel
is available to serve the call, then call establishment proceeds.
If a Service User invokes a Priority Service call and a radio traffic channel
is not available to serve the call, then the call is queued for the next
available radio traffic channel according to the call's priority level and the
arrival time.
If a Service User invokes a Priority Service call, a radio traffic channel is
not available to serve the call, the queue for the cell is full, and the
call's priority level is greater than the priority level of the lowest
priority request in the queue, then the most recent Priority Service call
request of the lowest priority is removed from the queue and the new Priority
Service call is queued according to the call\'s priority level and arrival
time.
If a Service User invokes a Priority Service call, a radio traffic channel is
not available to serve the call, the queue for the cell is full, and the
call's priority level is less than or equal to the priority level of the
lowest priority request in the queue, then the new Priority Service call
request is denied.
If a radio traffic channel becomes available to serve an originating Priority
Service request and is assigned to the call, then the call is allowed to
proceed.
If a Service User invokes a Priority Service call and the Priority Service
call is queued for a radio traffic channel, but the maximum allowed time in
queue expires before a radio traffic channel becomes available in the cell to
serve the Priority Service call, then the Priority Service call is removed
from the queue and the Priority Service call request is cleared.
The queue is a collection of all queued Priority Service calls in a cell. The
queue is provisionable for a specified maximum number of Priority Service
requests in queue.
The queue has a specified and provisionable maximum time that a Priority
Service call may remain in queue for a radio traffic channel.
### 4.4.3 Directed retry
If no radio resources are available at a cell, the BSS may try to set up a
call on a neighbouring cell if channels are free at that cell. If enabled,
handover with cause \"directed retry\" is attempted if no radio traffic
channel is available in the current cell.
Priority Service does not prevent handover with cause \"directed retry\", if
enabled, from being attempted for non-Priority Service calls. If enabled,
handover with cause \"directed retry\" should be attempted for Priority
Service calls concurrently with radio resource queuing. If directed retry is
not performed concurrently with queuing, handover with cause \"directed
retry\", if enabled, should be attempted for Priority Service calls prior to
radio resource queuing.
Directed retry handover may be attempted from a service provider\'s UMTS
network to the service provider\'s GSM network when a priority call is invoked
by a service user in the UMTS network that cannot assign a radio traffic
channel due to resource congestion in UTRAN.
For a call originated/terminated on the UTRAN that is redirected to GERAN, the
user's priority level is used for subsequent call processing (e.g., priority
service processing on the GERAN).
## 4.5 Call progression
The Priority Service users receive priority call treatment/progression through
the mobile network(s). A Priority Service call is given higher priority over
normal calls in the originating mobile network, to interconnected networks
(including the PSTN) and in the terminating network. Note: The ISDN MLPP
feature may be used for signalling the priority level to other networks.
The term \"call progression\" is used to refer to procedures that are invoked
to set up a call from the originating node, through any transit nodes, and on
to the terminating node.
### 4.5.1 Progression in originating network
The originating Service Provider applies enhanced call-completion capabilities
to increase the probability of successful call setup through the Service
Provider's network and to any interconnecting (transit or terminating)
network.
### 4.5.2 Progression in transit networks
Transit network providers apply enhanced call-completion capabilities to
incoming Priority Service calls to increase the probability of successful call
setup through the transit network. Transit network providers pass the Service
User's priority level, if available, to any interconnecting (transit or
terminating) network.
### 4.5.3 Progression in terminating networks
The terminating Service Provider passes the Service User's priority level
through the Service Provider's network toward the destination node serving the
called party.
### 4.5.4 Enhanced call-completion capabilities
To achieve end-to-end priority treatment, Priority Service introduces special
call-progression capabilities in the Service Provider's network and also
within transit networks. General (service-level) capabilities are highlighted
in this section. Some of the call-progression procedures are intended to
increase the probability of Priority Service call completion through network
transit nodes. They are herein referred to as \"enhanced call-completion
capabilities\".
#### 4.5.4.1 Exemption from certain restrictive Network Management Controls
(NMCs)
Priority Service calls may be exempted from certain restrictive NMCs (code
controls, manual cancel-to controls, Automatic Congestion Control, Trunk
Reservation control) to further increase the probability of completion of the
call during severe congestion.
#### 4.5.4.2 Trunk queuing
The MSC performs trunk queuing for Priority Service calls to increase the
probability of completion of the call. The MSC allows Priority Service calls
to be queued on an ISUP or MF trunk group that is marked for trunk queuing
only if at least one trunk within the trunk group is in an in-service state.
The trunk queuing feature provides the capability to place a Priority Service
call that has experienced a No Circuit (NC) condition into a queue associated
with a trunk group until a trunk becomes idle or a maximum queuing time has
expired. After the first check of all trunk groups in a routing chain, if an
idle trunk is not found in a trunk group on which trunk queuing has been
provisioned, the call is entered into a queue. The MSC recognizes Priority
Service calls and separates them from all other calls. All non-Priority
Service calls that overflow to a busy trunk group on which Priority Service
trunk queuing is active are sent to the next call treatment. A Priority
Service call held in queue seizes the first trunk that becomes idle or, if the
maximum queuing time interval expires, is sent to the next call treatment.
Trunk queuing can be provided on network routable trunk types served by the
MSC. For those trunk groups on which trunk queuing is provided, the following
processes occur:
The MSC first searches in sequence all the trunk groups in a routing chain to
determine if there is an idle trunk.
• If an idle trunk is found, the trunk is seized and used for call routing.
• Otherwise, if there was at least one trunk group in the routing chain marked
for trunk queuing, then the MSC performs a second search of the routing chain.
• For the second search of the routing chain, the MSC returns to the first
trunk group in the routing chain and will look for an idle trunk.
• If no idle trunk is found in the trunk group and the trunk group is marked
for trunk queuing, then the MSC queues the call for trunk queuing; that is the
MSC places the call in a first in first out (FIFO) queue for that trunk group
and start the trunk queuing timer.
• If no trunk is seized from the first trunk group (i.e., the queuing timer
times out or the trunk group is not marked for queuing), then the MSC proceeds
to search the next trunk group in the routing chain.
During the second search of the routing chain, the MSC can skip all busy trunk
groups that are not marked for trunk queuing and directly proceed to search
the first trunk group in the chain marked for queuing.
Only Priority Service calls enter into Priority Service trunk queues. During
the time that one or more Priority Service calls are held in a trunk queue for
a particular trunk group, the MSC advances all non-Priority Service calls
attempting to use that trunk group to the next call treatment. That is, the
trunk group with the trunk queuing feature, on which one or more Priority
Service calls are held in a trunk queue, is considered busy for all non-
Priority Service calls.
If any trunk becomes available in a trunk group with queued calls, then the
first Priority Service call in queue is removed from the queue, routed on that
trunk, and the trunk queuing timer is stopped for that call.
If a Priority Service call times out in a trunk queue and there are remaining
trunk groups in the routing chain, then the MSC removes the call request from
the queue and continues searching the remaining trunk groups in the routing
chain to find an idle trunk. If a Priority Service call cannot be placed in a
trunk queue because the trunk queue is full and there are remaining trunk
groups in the routing chain, then the MSC continues searching the remaining
trunk groups in the routing chain to find an idle trunk. The MSC provides the
capability for trunk queuing to be enabled/disabled office wide and, if
enabled office wide, to be disabled/re-enabled on any trunk group. The maximum
number of Priority Service calls that may be simultaneously held in any trunk
queue is provisionable. The maximum time that a Priority Service call may be
held in a trunk queue is also provisionable.
If the calling party abandons the originating Priority Service call by
pressing the END key or the system determines that radio contact with the
calling party's MS is lost while a Priority Service call request is in a trunk
queue, then the MSC/VLR takes the following actions:
• Stop the trunk queuing timer,
• Remove that Priority Service call request from the trunk queue,
• Clear the call according to normal call clearing procedures.
#### 4.5.4.3 Treatment of glare conditions
Glare (dual seizure) occurs when switches at both ends of a two-way trunk try
to seize the trunk for outgoing calls simultaneously.
With the activation of Trunk Queuing for Priority Service calls on a trunk
group, the probability of glare occurring for Priority Service calls
increases. This is particularly true when Trunk Queuing is activated on both
ends of a trunk group. Normal glare procedures [12, 14] are applied for each
trunk group during the first search of the routing chain, as well as during
the second search of the routing chain for each trunk group that does not have
Trunk Queuing activated.
During either the first or second search of the routing chain, if a Priority
Service call encounters glare for the first time in a particular trunk group
and yields, then the MSC/VLR attempts to seize an idle trunk on the same trunk
group. If glare is encountered twice on the same trunk group during any single
search of the routing chain, and
> • this is the first search, then the MSC/VLR advances the call to the next
> call treatment,
>
> • this is the second search and Trunk Queuing is not active on the trunk
> group, then the MSC/VLR advances the call to the next call treatment.
>
> • this is the second search and Trunk Queuing is active on the trunk group,
> then the MSC/VLR attempts to seize an idle trunk on the same trunk group.
#### 4.5.4.4 Relationship of NMCs to trunk queuing
Pre-hunt trunk group controls are processed before trunk queuing when they are
active on the same trunk group. Trunk queuing is processed before post-hunt
trunk group controls when they are active on the same trunk group.
## 4.6 Call termination
The terminating Service Provider applies enhanced call-completion capabilities
to incoming Priority Service calls to increase the probability of successful
call setup through the Service Provider's terminating network. Additionally,
the terminating Service Provider passes the Service User's priority level
through the Service Provider's network toward the destination node serving the
called party.
A Priority Service call receives priority treatment (priority access traffic
channels) on the terminating side, based on either the calling party priority
level information received or default priority level. The default priority
level is used only if the calling party priority level information is not
received. If an MS provides specific radio channel preferences (e.g., dual
rate, half rate, AMR) to the network during the call termination attempt and a
radio traffic channel preferred by the MS is not available, the network
attempts to allocate a radio traffic channel acceptable to the MS before
queuing the Priority Service call request.
If an incoming Priority Service call terminates to a Service Provider network
and a radio traffic channel is available to serve the call, then call
establishment proceeds.
If an incoming Priority Service call terminates to a Service Provider network
and a radio traffic channel is not available to serve the call, then the call
is queued for the next available radio traffic channel according to the call's
(received or default) priority level and the arrival time.
If an incoming Priority Service call terminates to a Service Provider network,
a radio traffic channel is not available to serve the call, the queue for the
cell is full, and the call's priority level is greater than the priority level
of the lowest priority request in the queue, then the most recent Priority
Service request of the lowest priority is removed from the queue and the new
Priority Service call is queued according to the call's priority level and
arrival time.
If an incoming Priority Service call terminates to a Service Provider network,
a radio traffic channel is not available to serve the call, the queue for the
cell is full, and the call's priority level is less than or equal to the
priority level of the lowest priority request in the queue, then the new
Priority Service call request is given the same treatment as appropriate for
non-Priority Service calls that do not get a radio traffic channel.
If an incoming Priority Service call terminates to a Service Provider network
and the Priority Service call is queued for a radio traffic channel, but the
maximum allowed time in queue expires before a radio traffic channel becomes
available in the cell to serve the Priority Service call, then the Priority
Service call is removed from the queue and the Priority Service call request
is given the same treatment as appropriate for non-Priority Service calls that
do not get a radio traffic channel.
See subclause 4.4.2 for additional information on radio resource queuing.
## 4.7 Handover
Priority Service is supported during intra-BSC and intra-MSC handover.
Established Priority Service calls follow standard handover procedures as for
normal calls. Queued Priority Service calls follow standard intra-MSC Stand-
alone Dedicated Control Channel (SDCCH) handover procedures.
If a system invokes intra-MSC SDCCH handover procedures (e.g., when the
Service User moves to a new cell served by the same BSC or another BSC on the
same MSC) while the Service User's originating Priority Service call request
is queued for a radio traffic channel, the system re-queues the request based
on call priority level and call arrival time in the new cell if no radio
traffic channels are available in the new cell. The queue timer is restarted
in the new cell. This allows queue management in the new cell to handle the
call.
Inter-MSC handover does not apply to Priority Service requests in queue.
Inter-MSC SDCCH handover for queued Priority Service calls is not supported.
SDCCH handovers of queued Priority Service requests to new cells, when no
radio traffic channels are available in the new cell should only take place
when no other suitable radio traffic channels are available in the current
cell. In such a situation, the priority level should be used to determine the
place in the queue on the new cell.
## 4.8 Feature interactions
This clause is intended to describe Priority Service interactions with other
features.
### 4.8.1 eMLPP
As a Service Provider option, it should be possible to offer Priority Service
and eMLPP within the same network, but not to the same user. See Annex B for
Use Cases.
Priority Service is a subscription-based service, based on eMLPP service. If
eMLPP is provisioned in the network, the lowest eMLPP priority level (4) is
the default for non-Priority Service users and does not involve any priority
treatment. For priority treatment, a Service User receives treatment that is
compliant with eMLPP service capabilities with the following exceptions,
extensions, or clarifications:
• Support for an MS that is not eMLPP compatible is required.
• Support for the eMLPP Automatic Answering capability is not required.
• Support for Voice Broadcast Calls (VBS) and Voice Group Calls (VGCS) is not
required.
• Priority Service applies to the Service Provider's entire permanent public
GSM network.
• Support for Fast Call Set Up is not required.
• Support for Automatic invocation on call set up is not required.
• Service Users are able to invoke only their assigned priority level.
Priority Service call attempt overrides any eMLPP priority levels received
from eMLPP capable mobile phones. That is Priority Service users are able to
only invoke their assigned priority level, even if a Service User has
indicated an eMLPP priority level when attempting a Priority Service call with
an eMLPP capable phone.
The TS 48.008 priority levels of Priority Service users are higher than the
priority levels of any other eMLPP users.
It should be noted that eMLPP also provides a priority level \"A\" that is
intended for use internally by Service Provider technicians engaged in
sustaining service availability. Priority level A is not intended for
subscription and is not considered part of Priority Service. Such Service
Provider technicians, when using eMLPP priority level \"A\", are viewed as
part of Service Provider operations.
There is no impact on the functionality offered neither to eMLPP subscribers
in an eMLPP only network nor to Priority Service subscribers in a Priority
Service only network.
### 4.8.2 Call forwarding and call redirection / deflection
Service Users are not allowed to invoke Priority Service calls through call
forwarding or re-direction (e.g., \"*SC + termination address\" as a
forwarded-to number, or Priority Service invocation through other re-direction
services, such as IN DP12 Redirection etc.).
If a Service User attempts to register \"*SC + Destination Number\" as a
forwarded to number, the registration attempt fails.
An incoming Priority Service call is forwarded to the Call Forwarding
Unconditional (CFU) number if CFU is active. The calling Service User's
priority level is passed during the forwarding process.
An incoming Priority Service call is forwarded to the Call Forwarding Busy
(CFB) number if CFB is active and if the called party's MS is busy. The
calling Service User's priority level is passed during the forwarding process.
An incoming Priority Service call is forwarded to the Call Forwarding No Reply
(CFNRy) number if CFNRy is active and if the incoming call is not answered.
The calling Service User's priority level is passed during the forwarding
process.
An incoming Priority Service call is forwarded to the Call Forwarding Not
Reachable (CFNRc) number if CRNRc is active and if the called party's MS is
not reachable. The calling Service User's priority level is passed during the
forwarding process.
If the called party has invoked Call Deflection (CD), an incoming Priority
Service call is deflected to the deflected-to number. The calling Service
User's priority level is passed during the deflection process.
An incoming Priority Service call is forwarded to the Forward-to number if the
call is forwarded by a CAMEL-based feature. The calling Service User's
priority level is passed during the forwarding process.
### 4.8.3 Call waiting
Priority Service call users do not receive an incoming call indication while
the call is being queued. Call Waiting applies only to active calls. No
special interaction is applicable between Priority Service and Call Waiting;
thus a Service User with an originating Priority Service call in queue is not
informed of an incoming call while queued.
### 4.8.4 Emergency calls
There is no interaction between Priority Service and emergency calls.
If a service user dials *SC + [emergency call number], the call either
receives radio traffic channel priority access treatment based on the service
user's priority level or the call is denied. If a non-service user dials *SC +
[emergency call number], the call is denied.
### 4.8.5 Alternate Line Service (ALS)
There is no interaction with ALS. This document assumes that Priority Service
calls are made on the user's primary line, but they may also be made on the
user's alternate line, subject to ALS restrictions, if the alternate line has
the Priority Service subscription.
### 4.8.6 Asynchronous data
There is no interaction between Priority Service and asynchronous data calls.
### 4.8.7 Customized Applications for Mobile Enhanced Logic (CAMEL) and
Intelligent Network (IN)
It is recognized that Priority Service call processing may be modified by
interactions with CAMEL and IN-based features.
### 4.8.8 Call Origination restrictions
Barring of Outgoing Calls (BAOC), Barring of outgoing International Calls
(BOIC) and Barring of Outgoing International Calls except to Home PLMN Country
(BOIC-exHC) are subscription-based features and take precedence over Priority
Service.
### 4.8.9 Call transfer
There is no interaction between Priority Service and Call Transfer.
### 4.8.10 Multi-Party supplementary service (MPTY)
For MPTY calling, the manner in which the initial call is processed is based
on how the call was initiated (e.g., as a normal call or a Priority Service
call). If a Service User, after establishing an initial (either normal or
Priority Service) call, initiates a MPTY call by dialling (*SC + Destination
Number), the call is treated as a Priority Service call and is routed to the
Destination Number. The calling Service User's priority level is passed during
the process.
### 4.8.11 Prepaid service
Priority Service applies only to post-paid calls. Users are not allowed to
subscribe to Priority Service and Prepaid.
If a Priority Service call is placed to a terminating Prepaid subscriber, the
call may be released if the called party's account balance is insufficient to
accept the incoming call, or the call may be dropped during the conversation
if the balance is exhausted.
### 4.8.12 Short Message Service (SMS)
Priority Service is not applicable to SMS transmissions.
### 4.8.13 Other supplementary services
No interactions with other supplementary services described in TS 22.004 have
been identified.
## 4.9 Interworking considerations
### 4.9.1 ISDN Multiple Level Precedence and Pre-emption (MLPP)
The call set-up signalling between networks must be such that it can guarantee
correct handling in transit networks and in the terminating network. This
means that the signalling has to be able to distinguish between Priority
Service and eMLPP service offerings, by indicating the type of priority
service and the priority level, as well as indicate whether pre-emption is
allowed in transit nodes (if not implicitly indicated by the priority service
type and priority level.)
The only information that can be transferred between networks is as specified
in the inter-network signalling systems. For this purpose, the 3GPP eMLPP
specification states that interworking shall be done with the ISDN MLPP
service.
The signalling for the ISDN MLPP service, as specified in ISDN User Part
(ISUP) and in Bearer Independent Call Control (BICC), is not designed to
differentiate between these two types of priority services, i.e. between the
Priority Service and eMLPP, and this seems not possible to solve with the
current ISUP and BICC specifications as the parameters for the MLPP service
are not sufficient to cope with both services.
Examples of possible ways to solve this in ISUP and BICC would be to either
expand the existing MLPP parameter to cope with both services, or to introduce
a new parameter for the Priority Service, or reuse an existing parameter
(e.g., ISUP Calling Party's Category, MLPP Service Domain). This work is
outside the scope of 3GPP.
### 4.9.2 Roaming interactions
Support of Priority Service while roaming is primarily controlled through
roaming agreements between Service Providers, but a Service Provider may also
apply restrictions on the ability of incoming international roamers to invoke
Priority Service.
The Service Provider may configure the network such that Priority Service call
invocation by international roamers is prevented (e.g., based on the Mobile
Country Code (MCC) in the International Mobile Subscriber Identity (IMSI)).
The Service Provider sends the Service User's eMLPP subscription information
as applicable to Priority Service unaltered when sending subscriber data to
the visited network with which there is a mutual business agreement covering
Priority Service. The Service Provider is not required to send the Service
User eMLPP subscription information to a visited network to which there is no
mutual business agreement.
Roaming is possible between an eMLPP only network and a Priority Service only
network, i.e., between a) a network supporting eMLPP but not Priority Service
and b) a network supporting Priority Service but not eMLPP. Service Users are
not treated as being eMLPP subscribers when roaming into an eMLPP only network
(i.e., treated like a non-eMLPP subscriber). eMLPP subscribers are not treated
as being Service Users when roaming into a Priority Service only network
(i.e., treated like a non-Priority Service subscriber). Roaming is intended to
be backwards compatible with eMLPP specifications.
See Annex B for applicable Use Cases.
# 5 Call flows
This clause is intended to facilitate understanding of Priority Service and
paraphrases information that is detailed in 3GPP specifications. This clause
provides an illustration of a possible way the capabilities described in this
document may be implemented to support Priority Service.
This clause describes various call flows that illustrate how Priority Service
calls can be processed. Messages between the MSC and VLR are not shown in the
figures nor described in the text following the figures since the MSC-VLR
interface is not standardized. Required timers are not shown in the figures
but are described in the text. The call flows assume that MS support of eMLPP
is not required (i.e., eMLPP compatible handsets are not required). The call
flows also assume that queuing due to the lack of radio resources or resources
between the BSS and MSC is done at the BSS.
Standard 3GPP authentication and ciphering procedures are applicable to all
call flows but are not depicted.
The following call flows are illustrated:
1 Priority Service Call Origination -- Radio Resources Available, Call Not
Queued,
2 Priority Service Call Termination -- Radio Resources Available, Call Not
Queued,
3 Priority Service Call Origination -- Radio Resources Unavailable, Call
Queued,
4 Priority Service Call Termination -- Radio Resources Unavailable, Call
Queued,
5 Priority Service Call Origination -- Radio Resources Unavailable and Queue
Full,
6 Priority Service Call Termination -- Radio Resources Unavailable and Queue
Full,
7 Priority Service Call Origination -- Radio Resources Unavailable and Queue
Timeout,
8 Priority Service Call Termination -- Radio Resources Unavailable and Queue
Timeout,
9 Priority Service Call Origination -- Radio Resources Unavailable, Queue
Full, but Higher Priority,
10 Priority Service Call Termination -- Radio Resources Unavailable, Queue
Full, but Higher Priority,
11 Priority Service Call Progression -- MSC -- Outgoing Trunk Queuing,
12 Priority Service Call Progression -- MSC -- Outgoing Trunk Queuing --
Timeout,
13 Priority Service Call Attempt by a Non-Service User -- Priority Service
Denied.
## 5.1 Priority service call origination -- radio resources available, call
not queued
This clause illustrates a Mobile Originated (MO) Priority Service call
establishment with early radio traffic channel assignment for a Service User.
In this scenario, radio traffic channels **_are_** available when the Priority
Service call is attempted. With the early assignment option, the PLMN
allocates a traffic channel to the MS before the PLMN initiates call setup to
the PSTN.
{width="5.998611111111111in" height="4.303472222222222in"}
{width="5.998611111111111in" height="4.29375in"}
Figure 5.1: Priority Service Mobile Originated -- Call Not Queued
**Step 1: Immediate Assignment Procedure (Establish a Radio Resource (RR)
connection between the MS and the BSS)**
A The Service user dials the Priority Service prefix (e.g., *272) +
Destination Number. The MS sends a _Channel Request_ message to the BSS on the
Random Access Channel (RACH) channel. Having sent M + 1 _Channel Request_
messages, the MS starts RR timer T3126. M is the value of the parameter \"max
retrans\" broadcast on the Broadcast Control Channel (BCCH).
B The BSS allocates a dedicated channel to the MS by sending an _Immediate
Assignment_ message on the same Common Control Channel (CCCH) timeslot on
which it has received the _Channel Request_. The BSS starts RR timer T3101.
**Step 2: Service Request and Contention Resolution Procedure (Establish the
main signalling link between the MS and the BSS)**
C The MS stops RR timer T3126 on receipt of an _Immediate Assignment_ message
corresponding to one of its three last _Channel Request_ messages. The MS
stops sending _Channel Request_ messages, sets the channel mode to signalling
only, and activates the assigned channels. The MS sends a _CM Service Request_
message to the MSC/VLR. The MS starts Mobility Management (MM) Timer T3230 and
Call Control (CC) Timer T303.
\- The initial service request _CM Service Request_ message is sent by the MS
to the BSS piggybacked in a Layer 2 (L2) Set Asynchronous Balance Mode (SABM)
frame to establish the main signalling link. The BSS stops RR timer T3101 when
the main signalling link is established. Contention resolution is achieved by
the BSS by including the same _CM Service Request_ message, received in the L2
SABM frame, in a L2 Unnumbered Acknowledgement (UA) frame.
\- The initial Layer 3 (L3) _CM Service Request_ message is passed to the
MSC/VLR by the BSS using a C _omplete Layer 3 Information_ message.
D If the MSC/VLR omits authentication and ciphering, it sends a _CM Service
Accept_ message to the MS. Otherwise; the MSC/VLR starts the authentication
procedure. (Authentication procedures are not illustrated in the call flow).
**Step 3: Mobile Originating Call Establishment Procedure**
E The MS sends the _Setup_ message after sending the _Ciphering Mode Complete_
message to the BSS or after receiving the _CM Service Accept_ message from the
MSC/VLR. The _Setup_ message includes the called address (e.g., *SC +
Destination Number).
F The MSC/VLR detects the dialled Priority Service prefix (e.g., *SC) in the
dialled digit string and queries the user's profile to verify that the user is
subscribed to Priority Service and to obtain the Service User's priority
level. The MSC/VLR returns a _Call Proceeding_ message towards the MS to
indicate a positive outcome for the call setup procedure. On receipt of the
_Call Proceeding_ message, the MS stops CC timer T303 and starts CC timer
T310.
**Step 4: Traffic Channel Assignment (Early Assignment)**
G The MSC/VLR sends an _Assignment Request_ message to the BSS, which includes
the call priority level and the queuing allowed indicator.
H As an idle radio traffic channel is available, the BSS initiates the channel
assignment procedure by sending an _Assignment Command_ message to the MS on
the main signalling link and starts BSS Management Application Part (BSSMAP)
timer T10 and RR timer T3107.
I On receipt of the _Assignment Command_ message, the MS initiates the
activation of the channels, their connection, and the establishment of the
main signalling links. After the main signalling link is successfully
established, the MS returns an _Assignment Complete_ message, specifying cause
\"normal event\", to the network on the main Dedicated Control Channel (DCCH)
J On receipt of the _Assignment Complete_ message, the BSS releases the
previously allocated resources, stops RR timer T3107, and stops BSSMAP timer
T10. On successful assignment of the required channels, the BSS returns an
_Assignment Complete_ message to the MSC/VLR.
**Step 5: Alerting Procedure**
K On receipt of the _Assignment Complete_ message, the MSC/VLR sends an ISDN
User Part (ISUP) _Initial Address Message_ _(IAM)_ to the succeeding switch
and starts ISUP _IAM_ timer T7. The ISUP _IAM_ message includes the Calling
Party's Category parameter set to the International Emergency Preference
Scheme (IEPS) call marking for preferential call set up and the Precedence
parameter set based on the Calling Party's priority level.
L The destination returns an ISUP _Address Complete Message_ _(ACM)_.
M On receipt of the ISUP _ACM_ message, the MSC/VLR stops ISUP timer T7 and
sends an _Alerting_ message to the calling MS. On receipt of the _Alerting_
message, the MS stops timer CC T310.
**Step 6: Call Connect Procedures**
N The destination returns an ISUP _ANswer Message_ _(ANM)_.
O On receipt of the ISUP _ANM_ message, the MSC/VLR sends a _Connect_ message
to the calling MS, and starts CC timer T313.
P On receipt of a _Connect_ message, the MS attaches the user connection,
returns a _Connect Acknowledge_ message to the MSC/VLR, and stops any locally
generated alerting indication (if applied). Upon receipt of a _Connect
Acknowledge_ message, the MSC/VLR stops all CC timers.
## 5.2 Priority service call termination -- radio resources available, call
not queued
This clause illustrates a Mobile Terminated (MT) Priority Service call
establishment with early assignment when the incoming Priority Service call to
a wireless called party is received at a terminating MSC. In this scenario,
radio traffic channels are available when the incoming call is received. With
the early assignment option, the PLMN initiates the assignment of a traffic
channel upon receiving the _Call Confirmed_ message from the MS.
{width="6.002083333333333in" height="4.141666666666667in"}
Figure 5.2: Priority Service Mobile Terminated -- Call Not Queued
**Step 1: Immediate Assignment Procedure (Establish a Radio Resource (RR)
connection between the MS and the BSS)**
A The MSC/VLR receives an ISUP _IAM_ message from the PSTN which includes the
Calling Party's Category parameter set to the IEPS call marking for
preferential call set up and may include the Precedence parameter.
NOTE: In this call flow, the serving MSC/VLR is the Gateway MSC (GMSC).
Furthermore, HLR query procedures are not illustrated.
B On receipt of the ISUP _IAM_ message, the MSC/VLR sends a _Paging_ message
to the BSS.
C The BSS initiates the paging procedure to trigger RR connection
establishment by broadcasting a _Paging Request_ message on the appropriate
paging subchannel on CCCH. The BSS starts RR timer T3113.
D On receipt of the _Paging Request_ message from the BSS, the MS sends a
_Channel Request_ message, which includes the establishment cause \"answer to
paging\", to the BSS on the RACH channel. Having sent M + 1 _Channel Request_
messages, the MS starts RR timer T3126. M is the value of the parameter \"max
retrans\" broadcast on the BCCH.
E The BSS allocates a dedicated channel to the MS by sending an _Immediate
Assignment_ message on the same CCCH timeslot on which it has received the
_Channel Request_ message. The BSS starts RR timer T3101.
**Step 2: Service Request and Contention Resolution Procedure (Establish the
main signalling link between the MS and the BSS)**
F The MS stops RR timer T3126 on receipt of an _Immediate Assignment_ message
corresponding to one of its three last _Channel Request_ messages. The MS
stops sending _Channel Request_ messages, sets the channel mode to signalling
only, and activates the assigned channels.
\- The _Paging Response_ message is sent by the MS to the BSS piggybacked in a
L2 SABM frame to establish the main signalling link. The BSS stops RR timer
T3101 when the main signalling link is established. The BSS stops RR timer
T3113 on receipt of the _Paging Response_ message. Contention resolution is
achieved by the BSS by including the same _Paging Response_ message, received
in the L2 SABM frame, in a L2 UA frame and sending it to the MS.
G On receipt of the _Paging Response_ message, the BSS passes the L3 _Paging
Response_ message to the MSC/VLR using a _Complete Layer 3 Information_
message.
**Step 3: Mobile Terminating Call Establishment Procedure**
H The MSC/VLR sends a _Setup_ message to the MS after receiving the _Paging
Response_ message from the MS. The MSC/VLR starts CC timer T303.
I The MS acknowledges the receipt of the _Setup_ message by returning a _Call
Confirmed_ message to the MSC/VLR. On receipt of the _Call Confirmed_ message,
the MSC/VLR stops CC timer T303 and starts CC timer T310.
**Step 4: Traffic Channel Assignment (Early Assignment)**
J The MSC/VLR sends an _Assignment Request_ message to the BSS, which includes
the call priority level and the queuing allowed indicator.
\- When the Calling Party's Category parameter set to the IEPS call marking
for preferential call set up and the Precedence parameter are received in the
ISUP _IAM_ message, the call priority level is based on the value received in
the Precedence parameter.
\- When the Calling Party's Category parameter set to the IEPS call marking
for preferential call set up is received in the ISUP _IAM_ message and the
Precedence parameter is not received in the ISUP _IAM_ message, the call
priority level is based on a default value in the MSC/VLR.
K As an idle radio traffic channel is available, the BSS initiates the channel
assignment procedure by sending an _Assignment Command_ message to the MS on
the main signalling link and starts BSS Management Application Part (BSSMAP)
timer T10 and RR timer T3107.
L On receipt of the _Assignment Command_ message, the MS initiates the
activation of the channels, their connection, and the establishment of the
main signalling links. After the main signalling link is successfully
established, the MS returns an _Assignment Complete_ message, specifying cause
\"normal event\", to the network on the main DCCH.
M On receipt of the _Assignment Complete_ message, the BSS releases the
previously allocated resources, stops RR timer T3107, and stops BSSMAP timer
T10. On successful assignment of the required channels, the BSS returns an
_Assignment Complete_ message to the MSC/VLR.
**Step 5: Alerting Procedure**
N The MS initiates user alerting by generating an appropriate tone or
indication at the MS and by sending an _Alerting_ message to the MSC/VLR.
O On receipt of the _Alerting_ message, the MSC/VLR stops CC timer T310,
starts CC timer T301, and sends an ISUP _ACM_ message to the calling party.
**Step 6: Call Connect Procedures**
P The MS indicates acceptance of a mobile terminating call by sending a
_Connect_ message to the MSC/VLR. The MS starts CC timer T313.
Q On receipt of the _Connect_ message, the MSC/VLR sends an ISUP _ANM_ message
to the calling party.
R On receipt of a _Connect_ message, the MSC/VLR connects the traffic channel,
stops CC timers T310, T303 or T301 (if running), and returns a _Connect
Acknowledge_ message to the MS. Upon receipt of a _Connect Acknowledge_
message, the MS stops CC timer T313
## 5.3 Priority service call origination -- radio resources unavailable, call
queued
This clause illustrates a MO Priority Service call establishment with early
assignment for a Service User. In this scenario, radio traffic channels **_are
not_** available when the Priority Service call is attempted, the Priority
Service request is queued, and call establishment proceeds when a radio
traffic channel becomes available.
{width="5.998611111111111in" height="2.76875in"}
Figure 5.3: Priority Service Mobile Originated -- Call Queued
A-G. Same as described in steps A-G of Clause 5.1.
H As no radio traffic channel is available on receipt of the _Assignment
Request_ , the BSS places the _Assignment Request_ in a queue based on the
Service User's priority level and call initiation time at the cell. The BSS
returns a _Queuing Indication_ message to the MSC/VLR and starts BSSMAP timer
T11. The BSSMAP timer T11 specifies the allowed queuing delay for the call and
is determined by the Service Provider.
I On receipt of the _Queuing Indication_ message, the MSC/VLR sends a
_Progress_ message to the MS. The _Progress_ message includes the progress
indicator information element with progress description set to #64
\"Queuing\". On receipt of the _Progress_ message, the MS stops all CC timers
related to the call, including CC timer T310.
J When an idle radio traffic channel becomes available before BSSMAP timer T11
expires, the BSS stops timer T11, sends an _Assignment Command_ message to the
MS on the main signalling link, and starts BSSMAP timer T10 and RR timer
T3107.
K-R. Same as described in steps I-P of Clause 5.1.
## 5.4 Priority service call termination -- radio resources unavailable, call
queued
This clause illustrates a MT Priority Service call establishment with early
assignment when an incoming Priority Service call to a wireless called party
is received at a terminating MSC. In this scenario, radio traffic channels
**_are not_** available when the Priority Service call is attempted, the
Priority Service request is queued, and call establishment proceeds when a
radio traffic channel becomes available.
{width="5.997222222222222in" height="3.877083333333333in"}
Figure 5.4: Priority Service Mobile Terminated -- Call Queued
A-J. Same as described in steps A-J of Clause 5.2.
K As no radio traffic channel is available on receipt of the _Assignment
Request_ message, the BSS places the incoming call request in a queue based on
the call priority and arrival time. The BSS returns a _Queuing Indication_
message to the MSC/VLR and starts BSSMAP timer T11. The BSSMAP timer T11
specifies the allowed queuing delay for the call and is determined by the
Service Provider.
L On receipt of the _Queuing Indication_ message, the MSC/VLR stops CC timer
T310 and sends an ISUP _ACM_ message to the calling party with Called Party's
Status Indicator set to \"excessive delay\".
M In the sub-case of mobile originated calls, on receipt of this ISUP _ACM_
message with Called Party's Status Indicator set to \"excessive delay\", the
originating MSC/VLR stops ISUP IAM timer (T7) and sends a _Progress_ message
to the calling MS (MS-A). The _Progress_ message includes the progress
indicator information element with progress description set to #64
\"Queuing\". On receipt of the _Progress_ message, MS-A stops all CC timers
related to the call, including CC timer T310.
N When an idle radio traffic channel becomes available before BSSMAP timer T11
expires, the BSS stops timer T11, sends an _Assignment Command_ message to
MS-B on the main signalling link, and starts BSSMAP timer T10 and RR timer
T3107.
O On receipt of the _Assignment Command_ message, MS-B initiates the
activation of the channels, their connection, and the establishment of the
main signalling links. After the main signalling link is successfully
established, MS-B returns an _Assignment Complete_ message, specifying cause
\"normal event\", to the network on the main DCCH.
P On receipt of the _Assignment Complete_ message, the BSS releases the
previously allocated resources, stops RR timer T3107, and stops BSSMAP timer
T10. On successful assignment of the required channels, the BSS returns an
_Assignment Complete_ message to the MSC/VLR.
Q The MS initiates user alerting by generating an appropriate tone or
indication at the MS and by sending an _Alerting_ message to the MSC/VLR.
R On receipt of the _Alerting_ message, the MSC/VLR starts CC timer T301 and
sends an ISUP _Call Progress (CPG)_ message to the calling party with an event
indicator set to \"alerting\" in the Event Information parameter.
S In the sub-case of mobile originated calls, on receipt of the ISUP _CPG_
message with an event indicator set to \"alerting\", the originating MSC/VLR
sends an _Alerting_ message to the calling MS (MS-A). The required steps that
follow at the calling party are the same as described in steps N-P in Clause
5.1.
T MS-B indicates acceptance of a mobile terminating call by sending a
_Connect_ message to the MSC/VLR. MS-B starts CC timer T313.
U-V. Same as described in steps Q-R of Clause 5.2.
## 5.5 Priority service call origination -- radio resources unavailable and
queue full
This clause illustrates a MO Priority Service call establishment with early
assignment for a Service User. In this scenario, radio traffic channels are
not available when the Priority Service call is attempted, and the Priority
Service request cannot be queued because the queue for the cell is full and
the Service User's Priority Service priority is less than or equal to all the
Priority Service requests already in the queue.
{width="5.998611111111111in" height="3.542361111111111in"}
Figure 5.5: Priority Service Mobile Originated -- Queue Full
A-G. Same as described in steps A-G of Clause 5.1.
H As no idle radio traffic channel is available on receipt of the _Assignment
Request_ , the queue for the cell is full, and the Service User's Priority
Service priority is less than or equal to all the Priority Service requests
already in the queue, the call origination request is denied. The BSS returns
an _Assignment Failure_ message to the MSC/VLR with cause \"No Radio Resource
Available\".
I The MSC/VLR initiates call clearing by stopping all running CC timers,
sending a _Disconnect_ message to the MS with cause #34 \"no circuit/channel
available\", and starting CC timer T305.
J On receipt of the _Disconnect_ message, the MS stops all running CC timers,
sends a _Release_ message to the MSC/VLR, and starts CC timer T308.
K On receipt of the _Release_ message, the MSC/VLR stops all running CC
timers, sends a _Release Complete_ message to the MS, and releases the MM
connection.
L On receipt of the _Release Complete_ message, the MS stops all running CC
timers and releases the MM connection. The MSC/VLR indicates that the radio
resource(s) should be released by sending a _Clear Command_ message to the BSS
with cause \"No Radio Resource Available\".
M On receipt of _Clear Command_ message, the BSS sends a _Channel Release_
message to the MS and starts RR timer T3109. When the main signalling link is
disconnected, the BSS stops RR timer T3109 and starts RR timer T3111. When
timer RR T3111 times out, the BSS deactivates the channels. On receipt of the
_Channel Release_ message, the MS disconnects the main signalling link and
start RR timer T3110. When timer RR T3110 expires or the disconnection is
confirmed, the MS deactivates all channels, considers the RR connection
released, and returns to idle mode.
N Once the radio channel has been released, the BSS returns a _Clear Complete_
message to the MSC/VLR.
## 5.6 Priority service call termination -- radio resources unavailable and
queue full
This clause illustrates a MT Priority Service call establishment with early
assignment when the incoming Priority Service call to a wireless called party
is received at a terminating MSC. In this scenario, radio traffic channels are
not available when the incoming Priority Service call is attempted, and the
Priority Service request cannot be queued because the queue for the cell is
full and the Service User's Priority Service priority is less than or equal to
all the Priority Service requests already in the queue.
{width="6.002083333333333in" height="4.402777777777778in"}
Figure 5.6: Priority Service Mobile Terminated -- Queue Full
A-J. Same as described in steps A-J of Clause 5.2.
K As no idle radio traffic channel is available on receipt of the _Assignment
Request_ message, the queue for the cell is full, and the call priority is
less than or equal to all the Priority Service requests already in the queue,
the call termination request is denied. The BSS returns an _Assignment
Failure_ message to the MSC/VLR with cause \"No Radio Resource Available\".
L The MSC/VLR initiates call clearing by stopping all running CC timers,
sending a _Disconnect_ message to the MS with cause #34 \"no circuit/channel
available\", and starting CC timer T305.
M The MSC/VLR returns an ISUP _Release (REL)_ message to the calling party
with cause \"no circuit/channel available\". Normal ISUP timers apply.
N On receipt of the _Disconnect_ message, the MS stops all running CC timers,
sends a _Release_ message to the MSC/VLR, and starts CC timer T308.
O On receipt of the _Release_ message, the MSC/VLR stops all running CC
timers, sends a _Release Complete_ message to the MS, and releases the MM
connection. On receipt of the _Release Complete_ message, the MS stops all
running CC timers and releases the MM connection.
P The MSC/VLR indicates that the radio resource(s) should be released by
sending a _Clear Command_ message to the BSS with cause \"No Radio Resource
Available\".
Q On receipt of _Clear Command_ message, the BSS sends a _Channel Release_
message to the MS and starts RR timer T3109. When the main signalling link is
disconnected, the BSS stops RR timer T3109 and starts RR timer T3111. When
timer RR T3111 times out, the BSS deactivates the channels. On receipt of the
_Channel Release_ message, the MS disconnects the main signalling link and
start RR timer T3110. When timer RR T3110 expires or the disconnection is
confirmed, the MS deactivates all channels, considers the RR connection
released, and returns to idle mode.
R Once the radio signalling channel has been released, the BSS returns a
_Clear Complete_ message to the MSC/VLR.
S The MSC/VLR receives an ISUP _Release Complete (RLC)_ message from the
calling party.
## 5.7 Priority service call origination -- radio resources unavailable and
queue timeout
This clause illustrates a MO Priority Service call setup with early assignment
for Service User. In this scenario, radio traffic channels are not available
when the Priority Service call is attempted, and the Priority Service request
has been queued but the queuing timer has timed-out.
Figure 5.7: Priority Service Mobile Originated -- Queue Time-Out
A-I. Same as described in steps A-I of Clause 5.3.
J If timer T11 expires before an idle radio traffic channel becomes available,
the _Assignment Request_ message is removed from the queue and a _Clear
Request_ message is sent to the MSC/VLR with cause \"No Radio Resource
Available\".
K The MSC/VLR indicates that the radio resource(s) should be released by
sending a _Clear Command_ message to the BSS with cause \"No Radio Resource
Available\".
L-M. Same as described in steps M-N of Clause 5.5.
## 5.8 Priority service call termination -- radio resources unavailable and
queue timeout
This clause illustrates a MT Priority Service call setup with early assignment
when the incoming Priority Service call to a wireless called party is received
at a terminating MSC. In this scenario, radio traffic channels are not
available when the incoming Priority Service call is attempted, and the
Priority Service request has been queued but the queuing timer has timed-out.
Figure 5.8: Priority Service Mobile Terminated -- Queue Time-Out
A-M. Same as described in steps A-M of Clause 5.4.
N If timer T11 expires before an idle radio traffic channel becomes available,
the _Assignment Request_ message is removed from the queue and a _Clear
Request_ message is sent to the MSC/VLR with cause \"No Radio Resource
Available\".
O Same as described in step M of Clause 5.6.
P-S Same as described in steps P-S of Clause 5.6
## 5.9 Priority service call origination -- radio resources unavailable and
queue full, but higher priority
This clause illustrates a MO Priority Service call establishment with early
assignment for a Service User. In this scenario, radio traffic channels are
not available when the Priority Service call is attempted, the queue for the
cell is full, but the Service User's Priority Service priority is greater than
one or more Priority Service requests already in the queue.
{width="5.998611111111111in" height="2.5541666666666667in"}
Figure 5.9: Priority Service Mobile Originated -- Queue Full, but Higher
Priority
A-G. Same as described in steps A-G of Clause 5.1.
H As no idle radio traffic channel is available on receipt of the _Assignment
Request_ , the queue for the cell is full, and the Service User's Priority
Service priority is greater than one or more of the Priority Service requests
already in the queue, then the lowest priority, most recent request in the
queue is removed from the queue. The new _Assignment Request_ message is
placed in the queue in accordance with the Service User's priority and call
request arrival time at the cell.
\- The BSS returns a _Queuing Indication_ message to the MSC/VLR for the
request that was just queued (User 1 in Figure 5.9) and starts BSSMAP timer
T11. The required steps that follow are the same as described in steps I-R of
Clause 5.3 if an idle radio traffic channel is available before the BSSMAP
timer T11 expires or in steps I-P of Clause 5.7 if the BSSMAP timer T11
expires before an idle radio traffic channel becomes available.
I The BSS initiates the clearing procedure, stops timer T11, and returns an
_Assignment Failure_ message to the MSC/VLR with cause \"No Radio Resource
Available\" for the request that was removed from the queue (User 2 in Figure
5.9). The required steps that follow are the same as described in steps I-N of
Clause 5.5.
## 5.10 Priority service call termination -- radio resources unavailable and
queue full, but higher priority
This clause illustrates a MT Priority Service call establishment with early
assignment when the incoming Priority Service call to a wireless called party
is received at a terminating MSC. In this scenario, radio traffic channels are
not available when the incoming Priority Service call is received, the queue
for the cell is full, but the call priority is greater than one or more
Priority Service requests already in the queue.
{width="5.995833333333334in" height="3.126388888888889in"}
Figure 5.10: Priority Service Mobile Terminated -- Queue Full, but Higher
Priority
A-J. Same as described in steps A-J of Clause 5.2.
K As no idle radio traffic channel is available on receipt of the _Assignment
Request_ message, the queue for the cell is full, but the call\'s priority
level is greater than one or more Priority Service requests already in the
queue, then the call with the lowest priority, most recent request in the
queue is removed from the queue. The new call is placed in the queue in
accordance with the call priority and arrival time.
\- The BSS returns a _Queuing Indication_ message to the MSC/VLR for the
request that was just queued (User 1 in Figure 5.10) and starts BSSMAP timer
T11. The required steps that follow are the same as described in steps L-V of
Clause 5.4 if an idle radio traffic channel is available before the BSSMAP
timer T11 expires or in steps L-V of Clause 5.8 if the BSSMAP timer T11
expires before an idle radio traffic channel becomes available.
L The BSS initiates the clearing procedure, stops timer T11, and returns an
_Assignment Failure_ message to the MSC/VLR with cause \"No Radio Resource
Available\" for the request that was removed from the queue (User 2 in Figure
5.10). The required steps that follow are the same as described in steps L-S
of Clause 5.6.
## 5.11 Priority service call progression -- MSC -- outgoing trunk queuing
This clause illustrates the call flow for call progression for a Priority
Service call with trunk queuing at the originating MSC.
{width="5.988194444444445in" height="3.5708333333333333in"}
Figure 5.11: Call Progression -- MSC -- Outgoing Trunk Queuing
A-J. Same as described in steps A-J of Clause 5.1.
K On receipt of the _Assignment Complete_ message, the MSC/VLR scans through
all trunk groups in the route list for an idle trunk. As no idle outgoing
trunk is available on receipt of the _Assignment Complete_ message, the
MSC/VLR places the call in an outgoing trunk queue based on a First-In, First-
Out basis and starts the trunk queuing timer. The MSC/VLR then sends a
_Progress_ message to the MS. The _Progress_ message includes the progress
indicator information element with progress description set to #64
\"Queuing\". On receipt of the _Progress_ message, the MS stops all CC timers
related to the call, including CC timer T310.
L When an idle outgoing trunk becomes available before the trunk queuing timer
expires, the MSC/VLR removes the call from the outgoing trunk queue, stops the
trunk queuing timer, and sends an ISUP _IAM_ message to the succeeding switch.
The MSC/VLR starts ISUP IAM timer T7. The ISUP _IAM_ message includes the
Calling Party's Category parameter set to the IEPS call marking for
preferential call set up and the Precedence parameter set based on the
initiating Service User\'s priority level.
> The required steps that follow are the same as described in steps L-P of
> Clause 5.1.
## 5.12 Priority service call progression -- MSC -- outgoing trunk queuing --
timeout
This clause illustrates the call flow for call progression for a Priority
Service call with trunk queuing at the originating MSC but the Priority
Service request times out of the trunk queue before a trunk becomes available.
{width="5.988888888888889in" height="4.365277777777778in"}
Figure 5.12: Call Progression -- MSC -- Outgoing Trunk Queuing -- Timeout
A-K. Same as described in steps A-K of Clause 5.11.
L If the trunk queuing timer expires before an idle trunk becomes available,
the MSC/VLR removes the call from the outgoing trunk queue. The MSC/VLR then
initiates call clearing by stopping all running CC timers, sending a
_Disconnect_ message to the MS with cause #34 \"no circuit/channel
available\", and starting CC timer T305.
M-N. Same as described in steps J-K of Clause 5.5.
O On receipt of the _Release Complete_ message, the MS stops all running CC
timers and releases the MM connection. The MSC/VLR indicates that the radio
resource(s) should be released by sending a _Clear Command_ message to the BSS
with cause \"Requested terrestrial resource unavailable\".
P-Q. Same as described in steps M-N of Clause 5.5.
## 5.13 Priority service call attempt by a non-service-user -- Priority
service denied
This clause illustrates the call setup of a non-Priority Service user
attempting a Priority Service call. In this scenario, the user is not
subscribed to Priority Service and call setup is not allowed to proceed.
{width="5.998611111111111in" height="2.509027777777778in"}
Figure 5.13: Non-Priority Service user -- Denied
A A non-Service User dials the Priority Service prefix (e.g., *272) +
Destination Number. The MS sends a _Channel Request_ message to the BSS on the
RACH channel. Having sent M + 1 _Channel Request_ messages, the MS starts RR
timer T3126. M is the value of the parameter \"max retrans\" broadcast on the
BCCH.
B-E. Same as described in steps A-E of Clause 5.1.
F The MSC/VLR detects the Priority Service prefix (e.g., *272) in the dialled
digit string. The MSC/VLR determines from the caller's profile that the caller
is not a Service User and rejects the request by stopping all running CC
timers, responding with a Release Complete message to the MS with cause #63
\"Service or option not available, unspecified\", and releasing the MM
connection.
G On receipt of the Release Complete message, the MS stops all running CC
timers and releases the MM connection. The MSC/VLR indicates that the radio
resource(s) should be released by sending a Clear Command message to the BSS
with cause \"Response to MSC invocation\".
H-I. Same as described in steps M-N of Clause 5.5.
# 6 Operations, administration, maintenance, and provisioning
This clause specifies the network management and operational aspects of a
Priority Service implementation.
## 6.1 Priority level assignment
A national or regional authority determines who is authorized for Priority
Service and assigns Priority Service level(s), if applicable. There should be
a uniform assignment of the following values within the national/regional
networks.
\- Service User Priority Level Assignment [1...n]
\- TS 22.011 Access Class
\- TS 22.067 eMLPP Priority Level
\- TS 48.008 queuing allowed (qa) Value
\- Precedence Level in the ISUP Precedence Parameter
## 6.2 Subscription management
Priority Service is a subscription-based service. Depending on the
national/regional process for authorizing Priority Service, a clearly defined
working relationship should exist between the subscriber (i.e., Service User),
the authorizing entity/entities, and the Service Provider(s) to ensure that as
changes to the Priority Service subscriptions occur (for example,
approval/assignment/changes to priority level, revocation of Priority Service
authorization, etc.) the subscription information in the HLR is updated.
## 6.3 Accounting / charging
As Priority Service is a subscription-based service, the subscription
information should be sent from a Service Provider's ordering/billing
operations support system for provisioning in the HLR.
The Service Provider is responsible for collecting charging information and
billing the Service User for Priority Service. Billing could be in the form of
a flat fee and/or per call or per minute fees, however this is agreed between
the Service Provider and the appropriate national authority.
The Service Provider should be capable of providing a summary account to the
national authority, or designated representative, providing Priority Service
information. This report might be the bill detailing all the non-recurring
charges, if any, incurred for Priority Service for the reporting period, for
example, a one-time charge for the establishment of a new Priority Service
user.
The report may also contain the following type(s) of information:
\- MSISDN
\- Service System Identification Number/Billing Identification Number
\- Home SID/BID
\- Number Dialled
\- Destination Location of Call (city, state, country)
\- Date of Call
\- Start Time
\- End Time
\- Minutes of Use
\- Premium Charge per Minute
\- Total Call Charge
The Call Detail Record (CDR) for the Service User should be able to
differentiate between normal (non-Priority Service) and Priority Service
calls.
## 6.4 Service provider responsibility
In addition to responsibilities outlined elsewhere in this document and in TR
22.950, Service Providers have the following responsibilities.
\- Provide Priority Service in accordance with the national and regional
instructions and laws, and adhere to uniform operating access procedures.
\- As feasible, provide Priority Service to authorized roaming Service Users.
## 6.5 Service user responsibility
Priority Service subscribers (i.e., Service Users) are expected to invoke
Priority Service during times of emergency and network congestion. If multiple
levels are available, they are expected to be assigned and use the lowest
level of priority applicable, and to identify their need for Priority Service
in a planned method. This means that they try, to the best extent possible, to
identify the need for subscription prior to an emergency occurring.
###### ### Annex A: Region specific aspects
This Annex describes region specific aspects of Priority Service.
# A.1 U.S.A. specific aspects
This subclause describes U.S.A region specific aspects of Priority Service.
## A.1.1 Priority level assignment
The sequence of events involved in receiving a Priority Service priority level
assignment is as follows:
\- A Service User submits a request to their Authorizing Agent for the lowest
applicable priority level necessary.
\- The Authorizing Agent forwards the request with a recommendation for
approval or denial to the national designated authority.
\- The National Designated Authority returns the final priority level
assignment to the Authorizing Agent as well as provides the Service User
information (including assigned priority level) to the Service Provider.
\- The Authorizing Agent forwards the final priority assignment information to
the Service User to complete the feedback loop.
See [13] for descriptions of Authorizing Agent and National Designated
Authority.
## A.1.2 Call origination / invocation
Within U.S. networks, a Priority Service call is invoked by dialling *SC +
Destination Number, with a Service Code (SC) of \"272\".
Within U.S. networks, a Service User is assigned one or more Access Classes in
the range of 12 -- 14 to receive priority access to the network, in addition
to an assigned Access Class in the range of 0-9.
## A.1.3 Mapping of priority indicators
Within the U.S., there are five Priority Service priority levels. Table A-1
indicates the relationship among Service User Priority Assignment, TS 22.011
Access Classes, TS 22.067 eMLPP Priority Level, TS 48.008 Priority Level, TS
48.008 queuing allowed (qa) Value, and Precedence Level in the ISUP Precedence
Parameter for Priority Service.
Table A.1: Mapping of Priority Indicators
* * *
Service User Priority Assignment Access Class(es) eMLPP Priority Level 48.008
Priority Level 48.008 qa Value Precedence Level in ISUP Precedence Parameter 1
(highest) 14 and 13 and 12 B 2 1 0 2 14 and 13 and 12 0 3 1 1 3 13 and 12 1 4
1 2 4 13 and 12 2 5 1 3 5 (lowest) 12 3 6 1 4 0-10 4 Implementation dependent,
in the range of 7-14 Implementation Dependent
* * *
Notes:
a Access Classes 11 and 15 may be used for network internal use.
b eMLPP Priority Level A may be used for network internal use.
c TS 48.008 Priority Level 1 may be used for network internal use.
## A.1.4 Signalling of priority indicators
Priority assignment for ISUP messages is specified in ANSI T1.111.5, Annex A
[10]. For a Priority Service call, MTP message priority of 1 is used for ISUP
IAM messages signalled to establish the call.
A Priority Service call invokes the High Probability of Completion (HPC)
Network Capability as described in T1.631[11]. The HPC Network Capability sets
Calling Party's Category parameter to \"NS/EP call\" in the ISUP IAM message
to indicate that the call has been authorized to receive priority treatment.
In the U.S., Service Providers use the "NS/EP call" value and not the IEPS
value. For a Priority Service call, the Calling Party's Category parameter
value of \"NS/EP call\" is propagated through the network and signalled to any
interconnected network.
Service Provider transit nodes are expected to receive and pass the ISUP IAM
message unaltered for all Priority Service calls. This explicitly includes the
Calling Party's Category (CPC) parameter, the MTP Priority of the ISUP IAM
message, and the ISDN MLPP Precedence Parameter.
For a Priority Service call, the ISUP Precedence parameter is encoded as
indicated in Table A.2.
Table A.2: ISUP Precedence Parameter Encoding
+---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Field | Description | Value | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Look Ahead for Busy | Indicates whether | Binary \"10\" (Look | | | look ahead for busy | Ahead for Busy not | | | is allowed or | allowed) | | | whether the path has | | | | been reserved | | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Precedence Level | Calling Party's | Binary, 4 bits | | | Priority Level | \"0000\" through | | | | \"0100\", based on | | | | Calling Party's | | | | Priority Level, as | | | | assigned to the | | | | Service User: | | | | | | | | Service User | | | | priority 1 = | | | | Precedence Level 0 | | | | (highest priority) | | | | | | | | Service User | | | | priority 2 = | | | | Precedence Level 1 | | | | | | | | Service User | | | | priority 3 = | | | | Precedence Level 2 | | | | | | | | Service User | | | | priority 4 = | | | | Precedence Level 3 | | | | | | | | Service User | | | | priority 5 = | | | | Precedence Level 4 | | | | (lowest priority) | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Network Identity | Telephone Country | Binary Coded | | | Code of the | Decimal, 4 digits, | | | originating network | \"0100\" (indicating | | | | networks in the | | | | U.S.A.) | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | MLPP Service Domain | Priority Service | Binary, 3 octets: | | | Domain | | | | | NCS Wireless | | | | Priority Service-1 | | | | (Decimal 4194891) | | | | | | | | Binary: | | | | | | | | 0100 0000 | | | | | | | | 0000 0010 | | | | | | | | 0100 1011 | | | | | | | | NCS Wireless | | | | Priority Service-2 | | | | (Decimal 4194892) | | | | | | | | Binary: | | | | | | | | 0100 0000 | | | | | | | | 0000 0010 | | | | | | | | 0100 1100 | | | | | | | | NCS Wireless | | | | Priority Service-3 | | | | (Decimal 4194893) | | | | | | | | Binary: | | | | | | | | 0100 0000 | | | | | | | | 0000 0010 | | | | | | | | 0100 1101 | | | | | | | | NCS Wireless | | | | Priority Service-4 | | | | (Decimal 4194894) | | | | | | | | Binary: | | | | | | | | 0100 0000 | | | | | | | | 0000 0010 | | | | | | | | 0100 1110 | | | | | | | | NCS Wireless | | | | Priority Service-5 | | | | (Decimal 4194895) | | | | | | | | Binary: | | | | | | | | 0100 0000 | | | | | | | | 0000 0010 | | | | | | | | 0100 1111 | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
The Precedence parameter includes the Look Ahead for Busy field to indicate
whether a TCAP message may be sent prior to call setup to determine whether
the called party's line is busy. Recognizing the call setup may be delayed,
Priority Service does not support this functionality and the Precedence
parameter is encoded accordingly.
The Network Identity (NI) field identifies the network or country which
administers the service, not the country from which the call originates. Each
digit is coded in binary coded decimal representation from 0 to 9. The first
digit of this field is coded 0. The TCC (Telephone Country Code) follows in
the second to fourth NI digits (the most significant TCC digit is in the 2nd
NI digit). If the TCC is one or two digits long, the excess digit(s) is
inserted with the code for the Recognized Operating Agency (ROA) or network
identification, if necessary. If the 3rd and 4th NI digits are not required,
they are coded all zeros.
The MLPP Service Domain is a 3-octet subfield that carries a code expressing
in binary representation the number allocated to an MLPP Service Domain. These
numbers are allocated in accordance with the procedures in Annex B, T1.113.3
[12]. The MLPP Service Domain values assigned to the National Communications
System (NCS), the National Designated Authority as named in [13], correspond
to Service User priority, i.e., NCS Wireless Priority Service-1 is used for a
Service User priority of 1, etc. Therefore, there is no MLPP service
interaction among the various levels of Service User priority nor between
Priority Service and other services using the Precedence parameter.
For a Priority Service call, it is desirable that all TCAP messages sent
during initial call setup associated with the Priority Service call are sent
with MTP message priority 2.
## A.1.5 Feature interactions
### A.1.5.1 eMLPP
For priority treatment, a Service User receives treatment that is compliant
with eMLPP service capabilities with the following exceptions, extensions, or
clarifications:
\- Support for the eMLPP Pre-emption capability is not required and is not
supported for Priority Service.
## A.1.6 Software access control
Priority Service in the U.S. and U.S. territories is restricted to authorized
individuals. Therefore, Service Providers do not implement Priority Service in
their networks without an arrangement with the National Designated Authority.
To support this restriction, the MSC/VLR should provide the capability to
control access to, and activation of, the Priority Services software in the
GSM BSS, MSC/VLR and HLR.
###### ### Annex B: Use cases
Regarding transfer of priority level information between networks, it is
useful to highlight the case of networks having different degrees of service
support and different phases of service implementation, such as \"a new
network supporting both Priority Service and eMLPP\", \"a new network
supporting Priority Service only\" and \"an old network supporting eMLPP
only\" respectively. The following parameters are used in use cases.
Types of subscribers
a) Priority Service subscribers (i.e., Service Users)
b) eMLPP subscribers
c) \"Normal subscribers\", having none of those services
Degrees of service support in networks
a) Priority Service only networks
b) eMLPP only networks
c) Priority Service + eMLPP networks
d) Networks supporting none of these services
Phases of network implementation
a) \"New\" networks supporting the 3GPP standards release where Priority
Service + eMLPP is specified
b) \"Old\" networks not supporting the 3GPP standards release where Priority
Service + eMLPP is specified
Networks involved
a) Calls within one network
b) Calls between neighbouring 3GPP networks
c) Calls passing through intermediate 3GPP networks
d) Calls passing through intermediate non-3GPP networks
Roaming
a) Subscribers being in the home network
b) Subscribers roaming in a visited network
In the following uses cases, to differentiate between Priority Service
priority levels and eMLPP priority (precedence) levels respectively, these
priority levels are called Priority Service1 -- Priority Service5 and eMLPP1
-- eMLPP7.
# B.1 Priority service call to Priority service subscriber in Priority service
+ eMLPP network
This use case is intended to illustrate that the new Priority Service + eMLPP
functionality fulfils the Priority Service requirements.
Figure B.1: Priority Service call to Priority Service subscriber in Priority
Service + eMLPP network
Use case 1:
\- Two Service Users (Priority Service subscribers), each with an assigned
Priority Service priority level in the range of Priority Service1 -- Priority
Service5, belong to two different new networks (A and D) supporting both
Priority Service and eMLPP or Priority Service only.
\- The Service User roam to two different new networks (the Priority Service
subscriber in network A roams to network B and the Priority Service subscriber
in network D roams to network C) supporting both Priority Service and eMLPP.
\- The Service User who roamed from network A to network B sets up a Priority
Service priority call towards the Service User who roamed from network D to
network C.
\- The call is routed via an intermediate non-3GPP network.
In this use case, the call receives Priority Service treatment (priority
access to traffic channels) on the terminating side in (C) according to the
Priority Service level Priority Service1 -- Priority Service5 as assigned to
the Service User calling from (B). Since the end-to-end Priority Service is
based on the Priority Service subscription of the calling party, this use case
also applies to a called party without Priority Service subscription.
Priority Service calls should not be pre-empted by eMLPP calls.
# B.2 eMLPP call to eMLPP subscriber in Priority service + eMLPP network
This use case is intended to illustrate the new Priority Service + eMLPP
functionality fulfils the eMLPP requirements.
Figure B.2: eMLPP call to eMLPP subscriber in Priority Service + eMLPP network
Use case 2:
\- Two eMLPP subscribers, each with assigned maximum and default priority
(precedence) levels in the range of eMLPP1 -- eMLPP7 belong to two different
new networks (A and D) supporting both Priority Service and eMLPP or eMLPP
only.
\- The eMLPP subscribers roam to two different new networks (B and C)
supporting both Priority Service and eMLPP where they will have priority
(precedence) levels in the range of eMLPP3 -- eMLPP7.
\- The eMLPP subscriber in (B) sets up an eMLPP priority call towards the
eMLPP subscriber in (C.)
\- The call is routed via an intermediate non-3GPP network.
In this use case, the call terminating in (C) is treated as a terminating
eMLPP call with the priority level either as requested by the calling
subscriber at the call set-up in (B) or, if not requested at call set-up,
according to the default priority level assigned to the calling eMLPP
subscriber. Since eMLPP Service is based on the eMLPP subscription of the
calling party, this use case also applies to a called party without eMLPP
subscription.
Priority Service calls should not be pre-empted by eMLPP calls.
# B.3 Priority service call to eMLPP subscriber in Priority service only
network
This use case is intended to illustrate that Priority Service is not disturbed
by eMLPP for terminating Priority Service calls.
Figure B.3: Priority Service call to eMLPP subscriber in Priority Service only
network
Use case 3:
\- A Service User with an assigned Priority Service level in the range of
Priority Service1 -- Priority Service5 belongs to a new network (A) supporting
Priority Service only,
\- The Service User roams to a new network (B) supporting both Priority
Service and eMLPP.
\- An eMLPP subscriber with assigned maximum and default priority (precedence)
levels in the range of eMLPP1 -- eMLPP7 belongs to a new network (D)
supporting both Priority Service and eMLPP.
\- The eMLPP subscriber roams to a new network (C) supporting Priority Service
only.
\- The Service User in (B) sets up a Priority Service call towards the eMLPP
subscriber in (C).
\- The call is routed via an intermediate non-3GPP network.
In this use case, the call receives Priority Service treatment (priority
access to traffic channels) on the terminating side in (C) according to the
Priority Service level assigned to the calling Service User. The eMLPP
subscriber roaming from (D) to (C) is treated as a normal subscriber in (C).
# B.4 Normal call to eMLPP subscriber in Priority service only network
This use case is intended to illustrate that Priority Service is not disturbed
by eMLPP for normal calls.
Figure B.4: Normal call to eMLPP subscriber in Priority Service only network
This use case is identical to use case 3, except that here the Priority
Service subscriber in (B) initiates a normal call instead of a Priority
Service call.
Use case 4:
\- A Service User with an assigned Priority Service level in the range of
Priority Service1 -- Priority Service5 belongs to a new network (A) supporting
Priority Service only,
\- The Service User roams to a new network (B) supporting both Priority
Service and eMLPP.
\- An eMLPP subscriber with assigned maximum and default priority (precedence)
levels in the range of eMLPP1 -- eMLPP7 belongs to a new network (D)
supporting both Priority Service and eMLPP.
\- The eMLPP subscriber roams to a new network (C) supporting Priority Service
only.
\- The Service User in (B) sets up a normal call towards the eMLPP subscriber
in (C).
\- The call is routed via an intermediate non-3GPP network.
In this use case, the call does not receive any priority treatment, neither on
the originating side in (B) nor on the terminating side in (C). The eMLPP
subscriber roaming from (D) to (C) is treated as a normal subscriber in (C).
# B.5 eMLPP call to Priority service subscriber in Priority service + eMLPP
network
This use case is intended to illustrate that Priority Service is not disturbed
by eMLPP for eMLPP calls.
Figure B.5: eMLPP call to Priority Service subscriber in Priority Service +
eMLPP network
Use case 5:
\- An eMLPP subscriber with assigned maximum and default priority (precedence)
levels in the range of eMLPP1 -- eMLPP7 belongs to a new network (A)
supporting both Priority Service and eMLPP or eMLPP only.
\- The eMLPP subscriber roams to a new network (B) supporting both Priority
Service and eMLPP where she will have priority (precedence) levels in the
range of eMLPP3 -- eMLPP7.
\- A Service User with an assigned Priority Service level in the range of
Priority Service1 -- Priority Service5 belongs to a new network (D) supporting
Priority Service + eMLPP or Priority Service only.
\- The Service User roams to a new network (C) supporting both Priority
Service and eMLPP.
\- The eMLPP subscriber in (B) sets up an eMLPP call towards the Service User
in (C).
\- The call is routed via an intermediate non-3GPP network.
In this use case, the call terminating in (C) is treated as a terminating
eMLPP call with the priority level either as requested by the calling
subscriber at the call set-up in (B) or, if not requested at call set-up,
according to the default priority level assigned to the calling eMLPP
subscriber. Priority Service calls should not be pre-empted by eMLPP calls.
# B.6 eMLPP call to eMLPP subscriber in Priority service + eMLPP network
This use case is intended to illustrate that today's existing eMLPP networks
are not disturbed by the new Priority Service + eMLPP functionality.
Figure B.6: eMLPP call to eMLPP subscriber in Priority Service + eMLPP network
Use case 6:
• Two eMLPP subscribers each with assigned maximum and default priority
(precedence) levels in the range of eMLPP1 - eMLPP7 belong to two different
old networks (A and D) supporting eMLPP only.
• The eMLPP subscribers roam to two different new networks supporting both
Priority Service and eMLPP (B and C) where they will have priority
(precedence) levels in the range of eMLPP3 -- eMLPP7.
• The eMLPP subscriber in (B) sets up an eMLPP call towards the eMLPP
subscriber in (C).
• The call is routed via an intermediate non-3GPP network.
In this use case, the call terminating in (C) is treated as a terminating
eMLPP call with the priority level either as requested by the calling
subscriber at the call set-up in (B) or, if not requested at call set-up,
according to the default priority level assigned to the calling eMLPP
subscriber. Priority Service calls should not be pre-empted by eMLPP calls.
# B.7 Normal call to normal subscriber in Priority service + eMLPP network
This use case is intended to illustrate the normal case for a basic call as a
reference and for completeness.
Figure B.7: Normal call to normal subscriber in Priority Service + eMLPP
network
Use case 7:
• Two normal subscribers belong to two different new networks (A and D)
supporting both Priority Service and eMLPP.
• The subscribers roam to two different new networks (B and C) supporting both
Priority Service and eMLPP.
• The subscriber in (B) sets up a normal call towards the subscriber in (C).
• The call is routed via an intermediate non-3GPP network.
In this use case, the call is treated as a normal call in all networks.
# B.8 An eMLPP subscriber roams to a Priority service + eMLPP network and
initiates a call with the Priority service service code
This use case is intended to illustrate that eMLPP subscribers are not able to
initiate Priority Service calls.
Figure B.8: An eMLPP subscriber roams to a Priority Service + eMLPP network
and initiates a call with the Priority Service service code
Use case 8:
\- An eMLPP subscriber belongs to a new network (A) supporting both Priority
Service and eMLPP.
\- The eMLPP subscriber roams to a new network (B) supporting both Priority
Service and eMLPP.
\- The eMLPP subscriber in (B) tries to initiate a Priority Service call using
the Priority Service service code.
\- The call set-up is rejected by network (B).
In this use case, the attempted call set-up attempt in (B) is denied as the
eMLPP subscriber is not allowed to initiate Priority Service calls.
# B.9 Priority call to a subscriber in an eMLPP only network
This use case intended to illustrate how Priority Service calls are treated in
a terminating eMLPP network.
Figure B.9: Priority Service call terminating to an eMLPP network
The Service User in (B) initiates a Priority Service call to a subscriber in
an eMLPP network (C).
Use case 9:
\- A Service User with an assigned Priority Service level in the range of
Priority Service1 to Priority Service5 belongs to network (A) supporting
Priority Service only,
\- The Service User roams to network (B) supporting Priority Service only.
\- The subscriber belonging to network (D) roams to network (C) supporting
eMLPP only.
\- The Service User in (B) sets up a Priority Service call towards the called
subscriber in (C).
\- The call is routed via an intermediate non-3GPP network.
In this use case, the call receives Priority Service treatment in (B) and
eMLPP treatment in (C). The call is treated based on the MLPP precedence
parameter in (C), as specified in [4].
Note: In network (C) the priority service call may have higher priority level
than some of the eMLPP calls. However, an incoming eMLPP call to a Priority
Service network will not receive any priority treatment since the CPC value
would not be set for Priority Service.
###### ### Annex C: Distinguishing Priority Service users and eMLPP users
As a Service Provider option, it is proposed that the following mechanism be
used for distinguishing Priority Service users and eMLPP users.
Networks (HLR's/MSC's/VLR's) that support the hybrid service (eMLPP and
Priority Service) are enhanced to support the prioritySubscription parameter
in the EMLPP-Info parameter of the Insert Subscriber Data (ISD) message. The
prioritySubscription parameter must be included for Priority Service data. For
eMLPP data this parameter is not needed.
eMLPP or Priority Service only networks and/or networks that do not support
eMLPP or Priority Service do not need to be changed to support the new
prioritySubscription parameter in the ISD message. That is, network operators
that do not want to offer the hybrid service (eMLPP and Priority Service) do
not have to upgrade their networks.
For outbound roamers (roamers from hybrid networks), the hybrid HLR would make
the determination on whether data should be sent to the MSC/VLR. For example,
if an eMLPP subscriber defined in the hybrid HLR roams to a Priority Service
MSC/VLR, the HLR would not send the EMLPP-Info parameter to the MSC/VLR.
For inbound roamers (roamers to hybrid networks), the hybrid MSC/VLR would
make the determination of how to treat the EMLPP-Info parameter if received in
the ISD message.
When the MSC/VLR is operating in hybrid mode (i.e., supporting both services),
the MSC would need to map eMLPP priorities B -- 4 to 48.008 priorities 8-13
respectively as shown in Table C-1.
Table C-1: eMLPP Priority Levels Mapping
* * *
eMLPP Priority Levels (in HLR) 48.008 Priority Levels A 1 (used for Service
Technicians) B 8 (used for Service Technicians) 0 9 1 10 2 11 3 12 4 13
* * *
TS 29.002 (ASN.1):
**EMLPP-Info** ::= SEQUENCE {
maximumentitledPriority EMLPP-Priority,
defaultPriority EMLPP-Priority,
extensionContainer ExtensionContainer OPTIONAL,
... **,**
**prioritySubscription [0] NULL OPTIONAL**}
{width="5.997916666666667in" height="1.9340277777777777in"}
Figure C.2: Hybrid HLR
The following table summarizes the roaming scenarios of a Service User from a
hybrid network.
Table C-2: Priority Service user Roaming from a Hybrid Network
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | MSC/VLR capability | ISD with | Comments | | | PrioritySubscription | | | | parameter | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Hybrid | Yes | When a Service User | | | | roams from one | | | | hybrid to another | | | | hybrid network, the | | | | HLR includes the | | | | PrioritySubscription | | | | parameter with the | | | | subscriber's | | | | priority service | | | | profile. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Priority Service | Yes | When a Service User | | only | | roams from a hybrid | | | | to a Priority | | | | Service only | | | | network, the HLR may | | | | include the | | | | PrioritySubscription | | | | parameter with the | | | | Service User\'s | | | | profile, but this | | | | parameter is ignored | | | | by the Priority | | | | Service only MSC/VLR | | | | as it does not | | | | recognize it. | | | | | | | | Alternatively the | | | | hybrid HLR may | | | | (through screening) | | | | block the inclusion | | | | of the | | | | PrioritySubscription | | | | parameter in the ISD | | | | message as it knows | | | | through datafill | | | | that it is | | | | communicating with a | | | | Priority Service | | | | only MSC/VLR. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | eMLPP only | No | When a Service User | | | | roams from a hybrid | | | | to a eMLPP only | | | | network, the HLR | | | | does not send the | | | | Service User\'s | | | | profile as through | | | | datafill it knows | | | | that it is | | | | communicating with | | | | an eMLPP only | | | | MSC/VLR. | | | | | | | | The roamer will be | | | | treated as a normal | | | | (non-priority | | | | service) user. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
{width="6.0in" height="0.7944444444444444in"}
Figure C.3: Non-Hybrid HLR
The following table summarizes the roaming scenario of a Service User roaming
to a Hybrid network.
Table C-3: Priority Service user Roaming to a Hybrid Network
+--------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | MSC/VLR capability | ISD with | Comments | | | PrioritySubscription | | | | parameter | | +--------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Hybrid | Not Applicable | When a Service User | | | | roams from a Priority | | | | Service only network | | | | to a hybrid network, | | | | the Priority Service | | | | only HLR sends the | | | | Service User\'s | | | | profile without the | | | | PrioritySubscription | | | | parameter as it does | | | | not support it. | | | | | | | | The hybrid MSC/VLR | | | | knows through | | | | datafill that it is | | | | communicating with a | | | | Priority Service only | | | | HLR and treats the | | | | roamer as a Service | | | | User. | +--------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
The following table summarizes the roaming scenarios of an eMLPP user from a
hybrid network.
Table C-4: eMLPP User Roaming from a Hybrid Network
* * *
MSC/VLR capability ISD with PrioritySubscription parameter Comments Hybrid Not
Applicable When an eMLPP user roams from one hybrid to another hybrid network,
the HLR sends the subscriber's eMLPP profile without the PrioritySubscription
parameter as its not needed. Priority Service only Not Applicable When an
eMLPP user roams from a hybrid network to a Priority Service only network the
HLR will not send the subscriber's eMLPP profile. The roamer will be treated
as a normal (non-priority service) user. eMLPP only Not Applicable When an
eMLPP user roams from a hybrid network to an eMLPP only network the HLR sends
the subscriber's eMLPP profile without the PrioritySubscription parameter as
its not needed.
* * *
The following table summarizes the roaming scenarios of an eMLPP user to a
hybrid network.
Table C-5: eMLPP User Roaming to a Hybrid Network
+--------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | MSC/VLR capability | ISD with | Comments | | | PrioritySubscription | | | | parameter | | +--------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Hybrid | Not Applicable | When an eMLPP user | | | | roams from eMLPP only | | | | network to a Hybrid | | | | network, the eMLPP | | | | only HLR sends the | | | | subscriber's eMLPP | | | | profile. | | | | | | | | The hybrid MSC/VLR | | | | knows through | | | | datafill that it is | | | | communicating with an | | | | eMLPP only HLR and | | | | treats the roamer as | | | | an eMLPP roamer. | +--------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
###### ### Annex D (informative): UTRAN to GERAN Redirection
The following Use Cases apply to circuit-switched voice priority call that is
redirected from UTRAN to GERAN:
# D.1 MO UTRAN to MT UTRAN call
A Service User originates a Priority Service call on UTRAN by dialling *SC +
DN. The call completes (MT) to a UTRAN user served by the same 3G_MSC.
Sufficient UTRAN resources are available for MO and MT. No handover/reversion
occurs.
# D.2 MO UTRAN to MT (UTRAN to GERAN reversion) call
A Service User originates a Priority Service call on UTRAN by dialling *SC +
DN. Sufficient UTRAN resources are available for MO. Call completion is
attempted to a UTRAN user served by the same 3G_MSC; however, UTRAN resource
congestion occurs at MT, and the call reverts (handover with cause value
\"Directed Retry\") to GERAN. For MT, the destination user has a dual-mode
(UTRAN, GERAN) UE with subscription to both UTRAN and GERAN.
# D.3 MO UTRAN to Trunk call
A Service User originates a Priority Service call on UTRAN by dialling *SC +
DN. Sufficient UTRAN resources are available for MO. The call is routed on a
trunk for a destination not served by the 3G_MSC. No handover/reversion
occurs.
# D.4 MO (UTRAN to GERAN reversion) to MT UTRAN call
A Service User originates a Priority Service call on UTRAN by dialling *SC +
DN. UTRAN resource congestion occurs for MO, and the call reverts (handover
with cause value \"Directed Retry\") to GERAN. Sufficient UTRAN resources are
available for MT, and the call completes to a UTRAN user served by the same
3G_MSC.
# D.5 MO (UTRAN to GERAN reversion) to MT (UTRAN to GERAN reversion) call
A Service User originates a Priority Service call on UTRAN by dialling *SC +
DN. UTRAN resource congestion occurs for MO and the call reverts (handover
with cause value \"Directed Retry\") to GERAN. Call completion is attempted to
a UTRAN user served by the same 3G_MSC; however, UTRAN resource congestion
occurs for MT, and the call reverts (handover with cause value \"Directed
Retry\") to GERAN. For MT, the destination user has a dual-mode (UTRAN, GERAN)
UE with subscription to both UTRAN and GERAN.
# D.6 MO (UTRAN to GERAN reversion) to Trunk call
A Service User originates a Priority Service call on UTRAN by dialling *SC +
DN. UTRAN resource congestion occurs for MO, and the call reverts (handover
with cause value \"Directed Retry\") to GERAN. The call is routed on a trunk
for a destination not served by the 3G_MSC.
# D.7 Incoming NS/EP (trunk) to MT UTRAN call
The 3G MSC receives an incoming NS/EP call on a trunk with ISUP signalling.
Sufficient UTRAN resources are available for MT, and the call completes to a
UTRAN user served by the same 3G_MSC.
# D.8 Incoming NS/EP (trunk) to MT (UTRAN to GERAN reversion) call
The 3G_MSC receives an incoming NS/EP call on a trunk with ISUP signalling.
Call completion is attempted to a UTRAN user served by the same 3G_MSC;
however, UTRAN resource congestion occurs for MT, and the call reverts
(handover with cause value \"Directed Retry\") to GERAN. For MT, the
destination user has a dual-mode (UTRAN, GERAN) UE with subscription to both
UTRAN and GERAN.
# D.9 MO UTRAN to MT (UTRAN to GERAN reversion) call, exception UE single mode
A Service User originates a Priority Service call on UTRAN by dialling *SC +
DN. Sufficient UTRAN resources are available for MO. Call completion is
attempted to a UTRAN user served by the same 3G_MSC; however, UTRAN resource
congestion occurs for MT, and the call reverts (handover with cause value
\"Directed Retry\") to GERAN. For MT, the destination user has a single-mode
(UTRAN) UE, hence the handover fails.
# D.10 MO UTRAN to MT (UTRAN to GERAN reversion) call, exception only UTRAN
Subscription
A Service User originates a Priority Service call on UTRAN by dialling *SC +
DN. Sufficient UTRAN resources are available for MO. Call completion is
attempted to a UTRAN user served by the same 3G_MSC; however, UTRAN resource
congestion occurs for MT, and the call reverts (handover with cause value
\"Directed Retry\") to GERAN. For MT, the destination user has a dual-mode
(UTRAN, GERAN) UE with subscription only to UTRAN, hence the handover fails.
#