# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
This 3GPP TS provides the Protocol Implementation Conformance Statement (PICS)
proforma for Mobile Stations (MSs), operating in the 400 MHz, 700 MHz, 850
MHz, 900 MHz, 1 800 MHz and 1 900 MHz frequency band (GSM 400, GSM 700, GSM
850, GSM 900, DCS 1 800 and PCS 1 900) within the digital cellular
telecommunications system.
The present document is part 2 of a multi-part deliverable covering the
Digital cellular telecommunications system (GSM Phase2 and Phase 2+ Releases
1996, 1997, 1998, 1999, 3GPP Release 4, 3GPP Release 5, 3GPP Release 6 and
3GPP Release 7); Mobile Station (MS) conformance specification, as identified
below:
Part 1: Conformance specification
Reference: 3GPP TS 51.010‑1.
**Part 2: Protocol Implementation Conformance Statement (PICS) proforma
specification.**
**Reference: 3GPP TS 51.010‑2.**
Part 3: Layer 3 (L3) Abstract Test Suite (ATS).
Reference: 3GPP TS 51.010‑3.
Part 4: SIM Application Toolkit conformance specification
Reference: 3GPP TS 11.10‑4.
Part 5: Inter-RAT (GERAN to UTRAN) Abstract Test Suite (ATS)\ Reference: 3GPP
TS 51.010‑5.
Part 7: Location Services (LCS) test scenarios and assistance data.\
Reference: 3GPP TS 51.010‑7.
# Introduction
To evaluate conformance of a particular implementation, it is necessary to
have a statement of which capabilities and options have been implemented for a
telecommunication specification. Such a statement is called an Implementation
Conformance Statement (ICS).
# 1 Scope
The present document provides the Protocol Implementation Conformance
Statement (PICS) proforma for Global System for Mobile Stations (MSs),
operating in the 450 MHz, 480 MHz, 700 MHz, 750 MHz, 850 MHz, 900 MHz, 1 800
MHz and 1 900 MHz frequency band (GSM 400, GSM 700, GSM 750, GSM 850, GSM 900,
DCS 1 800 and PCS 1 900) within the European digital cellular
telecommunications system, in compliance with the relevant requirements, and
in accordance with the relevant guidance given in ISO/IEC 9646‑7 [3] and ETS
300 406 [1].
The present document is valid for MS implemented according to GSM Phase2 or
Phase2+ R96, or R97, or R98, or R99 or 3GPP Release 4 or 3GPP Release 5 or
3GPP Release 6 or 3GPP Release 7.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
```{=html}
``` \- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the
relevant Release_.
\- For a GSM Phase 2+ Release 7 MS, references to GSM documents are to version
7.x.y, when available.
\- For a GSM Phase 2+ Release 6 MS, references to GSM documents are to version
6.x.y, when available.
\- For a GSM Phase 2+ Release 5 MS, references to GSM documents are to version
5.x.y, when available.
\- For a GSM Phase 2+ Release 4 MS, references to GSM documents are to version
4.x.y, when available.
\- For a GSM Phase 2+ Release 1999 MS, references to GSM documents are to
version 8.x.y (for 01.-series to 12.-series) or (3.x.y for 21.-series to
35.-series), when available.
\- For a GSM Phase 2+ Release 1998 MS, references to GSM documents are to
version 7.x.y, when available.
\- For a GSM Phase 2+ Release 1997 MS, references to GSM documents are to
version 6.x.y, when available.
\- For a GSM Phase 2+ Release 1996 MS, references to GSM documents are to
version 5.x.y, when available.
\- For a GSM Phase 2 MS, references to GSM documents are to version 4.x.y.
NOTE: References to 3GPP Technical Specifications and Technical Reports
throughout this document shall be interpreted according to the Release shown
in the formal reference in this clause, based upon the Release of the
implementation under test.
Example 1: References for a Ph2 MS shall be interpreted as:
[1] 3GPP TS 01.04 Ph2
[2] 3GPP TS 02.02 Ph2
etc
Example 2: References for a Rel-4 MS shall be interpreted as:
[1] 3GPP TS 21.905 Rel-4
[2] 3GPP TS 22.002 Rel-4
etc
[1] to [97] (void)
[98] 3GPP TS 51.010-2 Release 12: \" Mobile Station (MS) conformance
specification; Part 2: Protocol Implementation Conformance Statement (PICS)
proforma specification"
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
Void
# 4 Conformance to this PICS proforma specification
The requirements of the present document are provided in 3GPP TS 51.010-2
Release 12 [98].
###### ## Annex A to D: Void
#