# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document describes the test procedure for the radiated
performances measurements of the 3G/2G user equipment/mobile stations (UE/MS)
in active mode in both the uplink and the downlink. The FDD UE test procedure
is based on the test method developed as a result of COST 273 Sub-Working
Group (SWG) 2.2 members' contributions. Background work has also been made in
the former COST259 project. The TDD UE test procedure is based on the test
method developed as a result of CCSA TC9 WG1 members' contributions.
Background work has been made in the former CCSA TC9 project.
The measurement procedure explained in this document applies to UE/MS used
under the "speech mode" conditions that correspond to predefined positions for
voice application when the handset is held close to the user's head. This
method is also applicable to free space measurements for UE/MS devices. The
data transfer position (free space) explained in this document applies when
the UE is used away from the user's head. For LME and LEE devices free space
configuration without head and hand phantoms is applicable. Free space
measurements are applicable to devices used in the data transfer position that
consist of the laptop mounted equipment (LME) plug-in UEs and laptop embedded
equipment (LEE) UEs.
The tests apply to UEs and laptops using single or multiple receive antennas.
For GSM technology this is applicable to all MSs and for 3G technology this is
applicable to "one antenna" UEs and "RxDiversity" UEs.
The testing methodology applies to any single or multi-mode (GSM / UMTS / TD-
SCDMA) terminals.
The radio tests considered here are:
1\. The measurement of the Total Radiated Power (TRP)
2\. The measurement of the Total Radiated Sensitivity (TRS)
The test procedure described in this document measures the performance of the
transmitter and the receiver, including the antenna and also the effects of
the user.
The major parts of this test procedure are based on the 3-D pattern
measurement method. It has been considered necessary to define some items and
components in the test procedure in detail, such as test channels and phantom
set-ups, in order to make the testing in different laboratories harmonized.
The procedure is, however, not limited to some specific antenna chambers or
positioners.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
• References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
• For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
• For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
> [1] to [13] (void)
[14] 3GPP TS 34.114 Release 12: \"User Equipment (UE) / Mobile Station (MS)
Over The Air (OTA) antenna performance; Conformance testing\"
# 3 Definitions, symbols, abbreviations and equations
Void
# 4 General
The requirements of the present document are provided in 3GPP TS 34.114
Release 12 [14].
# 5 to 6 Void
###### ## Annex A to I: Void
#