# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
To evaluate conformance of a particular implementation, it is necessary to
have a statement of which capabilities and options have been implemented for a
telecommunication specification. Such a statement is called an Implementation
Conformance Statement (ICS).
The present document is part 2 of a multi-part conformance test specification
for UE.
3GPP TS 34.123-1 [49]: \"User Equipment (UE) conformance specification; Part
1: Protocol conformance specification\".
**3GPP TS 34.123-2: \"User Equipment (UE) conformance specification; Part 2:
Implementation Conformance Statement (ICS) proforma specification\". (the
current document)**
3GPP TS 34.123-3 [50]: \"Abstract Test Suite (ATS)\".
# 1 Scope
The present document provides the Implementation Conformance Statement (ICS)
proforma for 3^rd^ Generation User Equipment (UE), in compliance with the
relevant requirements, and in accordance with the relevant guidance given in
ISO/IEC 9646-7 [2] and ETS 300 406 [3].
The present document also specifies a recommended applicability statement for
the test cases included in TS 34.123-1. These applicability statements are
based on the features implemented in the UE.
Special conformance testing functions can be found in 3GPP TS 34.109 [45] and
the common test environments are included in 3GPP TS 34.108 [44].
The present document is valid for UE implemented according to 3GPP releases
starting from Release 1999 up to the Release indicated on the cover page of
the present document.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document in the same Release as the present document.
\- For a Release 1999 UE, references to 3GPP documents are to version 3.x.y,
when available.
\- For a Release 4 UE, references to 3GPP documents are to version 4.x.y, when
available.
\- For a Release 5 UE, references to 3GPP documents are to version 5.x.y, when
available.
\- For a Release 6 UE, references to 3GPP documents are to version 6.x.y, when
available.
\- For a Release 7 UE, references to 3GPP documents are to version 7.x.y, when
available.
\- For a Release 8 UE, references to 3GPP documents are to version 8.x.y, when
available.
> [1] to [69] (void)
[70] 3GPP TS 34.123-2 Release 12: \" User Equipment (UE) conformance
specification; Part 2: Implementation Conformance Statement (ICS) proforma
specification\"
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
Void
# 4 Recommended test case applicability
The requirements of the present document are provided in 3GPP TS 34.123-2
Release 12 [70].
###### ## Annex A to C: Void
#