# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
To evaluate conformance of a particular implementation, it is necessary to
have a statement of which capabilities and options have been implemented for a
telecommunication specification. Such a statement is called an Implementation
Conformance Statement (ICS).
The present document is 2^rd^ part of a multi-part conformance test
specification for UE and is _valid for 3GPP Release 5_. The specification
contains the UE IMS CC capability and the applicability of the UE IMS CC
conformance test cases.
3GPP TS 34.229-1 [5]: Internet Protocol (IP) multimedia call control protocol
based on Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) and Session Description Protocol
(SDP); User Equipment (UE) conformance specification; Part 1: Protocol
conformance specification.
**3GPP TS 34.229-2 (the present document): \"Internet Protocol (IP) multimedia
call control protocol based on Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) and Session
Description Protocol (SDP); User Equipment (UE) conformance specification;
Part 2: Implementation Conformance Statement (ICS) proforma specification\" -
current document.**
3GPP TS 34.229-3 [6]: \"Internet Protocol (IP) multimedia call control
protocol based on Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) and Session Description
Protocol (SDP); User Equipment (UE) conformance specification; Part 3:
Abstract Test Suites (ATS)\".
Note: For conformance testing of the UTRAN requirements refer to 3GPP TS
34.123 Parts 1 to 3 [2] [3] [4].
# 1 Scope
The present document provides the Implementation Conformance Statement (ICS)
proforma for 3^rd^ Generation User Equipment (UE) supporting the Internet
Protocol (IP) multimedia call control protocol based on Session Initiation
Protocol (SIP) and Session Description Protocol (SDP), in compliance with the
relevant requirements, and in accordance with the relevant guidance given in
ISO/IEC 9646-7 [8] and ETS 300 406 [9].
The present document also specifies a recommended applicability statement for
the test cases included in TS 34.229-1 [5]. These applicability statements are
based on the features implemented in the UE.
The present document is valid for UE implemented according to 3GPP releases
starting from Release 5 up to the Release indicated on the cover page of the
present document.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document in the same Release as the present document.
\- For a Release 5 UE, references to 3GPP documents are to version 5.x.y, when
available
\- For a Release 6 UE, references to 3GPP documents are to version 6.x.y, when
available
\- For a Release 7 UE, references to 3GPP documents are to version 7.x.y, when
available
\- For a Release 8 UE, references to 3GPP documents are to version 8.x.y, when
available.
\- For a Release 9 UE, references to 3GPP documents are to version 9.x.y, when
available.
> [1] to [80] (void)
[81] 3GPP TS 34.229-2 Release 12: \"Internet Protocol (IP) multimedia call
control protocol based on Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) and Session
Description Protocol (SDP); User Equipment (UE) conformance specification;
Part 2: Implementation Conformance Statement (ICS) specification\"
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
Void
# 4 Recommended test case applicability
The requirements of the present document are provided in 3GPP TS 34.229-2
Release 12 [81].
###### ## Annex A: Void
#