# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part 1 of a multi-parts TS:
**3GPP TS 34.121-1: User Equipment (UE) conformance specification; Radio
transmission and reception (FDD); Part 1: Conformance specification.**
3GPP TS 34.121-2 [32]: User Equipment (UE) conformance specification; Radio
transmission and reception (FDD); Part 2: Implementation Conformance Statement
(ICS).
NOTE: TS 34.121 has been converted to multipart TS with version 7.0.0.
Previous versions are a single part standard 34.121.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the UTRA measurement procedures for the
conformance test of the user equipment (UE) that contain transmitting
characteristics, receiving characteristics and performance requirements in
addition to requirements for support of RRM (Radio Resource Management) in FDD
mode. In addition it specifies conformance testing of RRM requirements for
support of E-UTRA when the UE operates in UTRA mode.
NOTE: Conformance testing of RRM requirements for support of UTRA when the UE
operates in E-UTRA mode are specified in TS 36.521-3 [38].
The requirements are listed in different clauses only if the corresponding
parameters deviate. More generally, tests are only applicable to those mobiles
that are intended to support the appropriate functionality. To indicate the
circumstances in which tests apply, this is noted in the \"_definition and
applicability_ \" part of the test.
For example only Release 5 and later UE declared to support HSDPA shall be
tested for this functionality. In the event that for some tests different
conditions apply for different releases, this is indicated within the text of
the test itself.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document.
\- For a Release 1999 UE, references to 3GPP documents are to version 3.x.y.
\- For a Release 4 UE, references to 3GPP documents are to version 4.x.y.
\- For a Release 5 UE, references to 3GPP documents are to version 5.x.y.
\- For a Release 6 UE, references to 3GPP documents are to version 6.x.y.
\- For a Release 7 UE, references to 3GPP documents are to version 7.x.y.
\- For a Release 8 UE, references to 3GPP documents are to version 8.x.y.
\- For a Release 9 UE, references to 3GPP documents are to version 9.x.y.
[1] to [38] (void)
[39] 3GPP TS 34.121-1 Release 11: \"User Equipment (UE) conformance
specification; Radio transmission and reception (FDD); Part 1: Conformance
specification\"
# 3 Definitions, symbols, abbreviations and equations
Void
# 4 Frequency bands and channel arrangement
## 4.1 General
The requirements of the present document are provided in 3GPP TS 34.121-1
Release 11 [39].
# 5 to 11 Void
###### ## Annex A to K: Void
#