# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the measurement procedures for the conformance
test of the minimum performance requirements for FDD mode of UTRA user
equipment (UE) that supports Assisted Global Navigation Satellite Systems
(A-GNSS). It includes the measurement procedures for the conformance test of
both UE‑based and UE‑assisted A‑GNSS. It excludes performance requirements for
UEs where the only A-GNSS supported is A-GPS L1C/A which are specified in TS
34.171 [26].
Tests are only applicable to those mobiles that are intended to support the
appropriate functionality. To indicate the circumstances in which tests apply,
this is noted in the \"_definition and applicability_ \" part of the test.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
\- For a Release 1999 UE, references to 3GPP documents are to version 3.x.y.
\- For a Release 4 UE, references to 3GPP documents are to version 4.x.y.
\- For a Release 5 UE, references to 3GPP documents are to version 5.x.y.
\- For a Release 6 UE, references to 3GPP documents are to version 6.x.y.
\- For a Release 7 UE, references to 3GPP documents are to version 7.x.y.
\- For a Release 8 UE, references to 3GPP documents are to version 8.x.y.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 25.990: \"Vocabulary for UTRAN\".
[3] to [25] Void
[26] 3GPP TS 34.171: \"Terminal conformance specification; Assisted Global
Positioning System (A-GPS); Frequency Division Duplex (FDD)\".
[27] 3GPP TS 37.571-1: \"User Equipment (UE) conformance specification for UE
positioning; Part 1: Conformance test specification\".
[28] 3GPP TS 37.571-3: \"User Equipment (UE) conformance specification for UE
positioning; Part 3: Implementation Conformance Statement (ICS)\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purpose of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1], 3GPP TR 25.990 [2] and the following apply:
**L1:** L band GPS transmission frequency of 1575.42 MHz.
## 3.2 Symbols
Void
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purpose of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1], 3GPP TR 25.990 [2] and the following apply:
A-GANSS Assisted‑Galileo and Additional Navigation Satellite Systems
A‑GNSS Assisted‑GNSS
A-GPS Assisted - Global Positioning System
C/A Coarse/Acquisition
GNSS Global Navigation Satellite System
GPS Global Positioning System
# 4 General
The technical content (except for Annex G) of the present document is provided
in 3GPP TS 37.571-1 [27].
The mapping of the technical content of the test cases provided in the
previous version of the present document to the test cases currently provided
in 3GPP TS 37.571-1 [27] is given in table 4.1.
Table 4.1: Mapping of the test cases from TS 34.172 to TS 37.571-1
* * *
Test Case Name Clause number in TS 34.172 Clause number in TS 37.571-1
Sensitivity Coarse Time Assistance 5.2.1 6.2.1 Sensitivity Fine Time
Assistance 5.2.2 6.2.2 Nominal Accuracy 5.3 6.3 Dynamic Range 5.4 6.4 Multi-
path Performance 5.5 6.5 Moving Scenario and Periodic Update Performance 5.6
6.6
* * *
The technical content of Annex G (Test case applicability and ICS proforma) of
the present document is provided in 3GPP TS 37.571-3 [28].
# 5 Void
###### ## Annex A to G: Void
#