# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document establishes the minimum RF characteristics and minimum
performance requirements of E-UTRA Base Station (BS).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] ITU-R Recommendation SM.329: \"Unwanted emissions in the spurious
domain\".
[3] ITU-R Recommendation M.1545: \"Measurement uncertainty as it applies to
test limits for the terrestrial component of International Mobile
Telecommunications-2000\".
[4] 3GPP TS 36.141: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Base Station (BS) conformance testing\".
[5] ITU-R recommendation SM.328: \"Spectra and bandwidth of emissions\".
[6] 3GPP TS 25.104: \"Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception
(FDD)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 25.105: \"Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception
(TDD)\".
[8] 3GPP TR 25.942: \"RF system scenarios\".
[9] 3GPP TR 36.942: \"E-UTRA RF system scenarios\".
[10] 3GPP TS 36.211: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Physical Channels and Modulation\".
[11] 3GPP TS 36.213: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Physical layer procedures\".
[12] IEC 60721-3-3 (2002): \"Classification of environmental conditions - Part
3: Classification of groups of environmental parameters and their severities -
Section 3: Stationary use at weather protected locations\".
[13] IEC 60721-3-4 (1995): \"Classification of environmental conditions - Part
3: Classification of groups of environmental parameters and their severities -
Section 4: Stationary use at non-weather protected locations\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Base station receive period:** The time during which the base station is
receiving data subframes or UpPTS.
**Carrier: The modulated waveform conveying the E-UTRA or UTRA physical
channels**
**Channel bandwidth:** The RF bandwidth supporting a single E-UTRA RF carrier
with the transmission bandwidth configured in the uplink or downlink of a
cell. The channel bandwidth is measured in MHz and is used as a reference for
transmitter and receiver RF requirements.
**Channel edge:** The lowest and highest frequency of the E-UTRA carrier,
separated by the channel bandwidth.
**DL RS power:** The resource element power of Downlink Reference Symbol.
**Downlink operating band:** The part of the operating band designated for
downlink.
**Maximum output Power:** The mean power level per carrier of the base station
measured at the antenna connector in a specified reference condition.
**Maximum throughput: The maximum achievable throughput for a reference
measurement channel.**
**Mean power:** When applied to E-UTRA transmission this is the power measured
in the channel bandwidth of the carrier. The period of measurement shall be at
least one subframe (1ms), unless otherwise stated.
**Measurement bandwidth** : The bandwidth in which an emission level is
specified.
**Multi-carrier transmission configuration:** A set of one or more contiguous
carriers that a BS is able to transmit simultaneously according to the
manufacturer's specification.
**Occupied bandwidth:** The width of a frequency band such that, below the
lower and above the upper frequency limits, the mean powers emitted are each
equal to a specified percentage β/2 of the total mean power of a given
emission.
**Operating band:** A frequency range in which E-UTRA operates (paired or
unpaired), that is defined with a specific set of technical requirements**.**
NOTE: The operating band(s) for an E-UTRA BS is declared by the manufacturer
according to the designations in table 5.5-1.
**Output power:** The mean power of one carrier of the base station, delivered
to a load with resistance equal to the nominal load impedance of the
transmitter.
**Rated output power:** Rated output power of the base station is the mean
power level per carrier that the manufacturer has declared to be available at
the antenna connector during the transmitter ON period.
**RE power control dynamic range:** The difference between the power of a RE
and the average RE power for a BS at maximum output power for a specified
reference condition.
**RRC filtered mean power:** The mean power of a UTRA carrier as measured
through a root raised cosine filter with roll-off factor α and a bandwidth
equal to the chip rate of the radio access mode.
NOTE 1: The RRC filtered mean power of a perfectly modulated UTRA signal is
0.246 dB lower than the mean power of the same signal.
**Throughput: The number of payload bits successfully received per second for
a reference measurement channel in a specified reference condition.**
**Total power dynamic range:** The difference between the maximum and the
minimum transmit power of an OFDM symbol for a specified reference condition.
**Transmission bandwidth:** Bandwidth of an instantaneous transmission from a
UE or BS, measured in Resource Block units.
**Transmission bandwidth configuration:** The highest transmission bandwidth
allowed for uplink or downlink in a given channel bandwidth, measured in
Resource Block units.
**Transmitter ON period:** The time period during which the BS transmitter is
transmitting data and/or reference symbols, i.e. data subframes or DwPTS.
**Transmitter OFF period:** The time period during which the BS transmitter is
not allowed to transmit.
**Transmitter transient period:** The time period during which the transmitter
is changing from the OFF period to the ON period or vice versa.
**Uplink operating band:** The part of the operating band designated for
uplink.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
α Roll-off factor
β Percentage of the mean transmitted power emitted outside the occupied
bandwidth on the assigned channel
BW~Channel~ Channel bandwidth
BW~Config~ Transmission bandwidth configuration, expressed in MHz, where
BW~Config~ = _N_ ~RB~ x 180 kHz in the uplink and BW~Config~ = 15 kHz + _N_
~RB~ x 180 kHz in the downlink.
f Frequency
∆f Separation between the channel edge frequency and the nominal -3dB point of
the measuring filter closest to the carrier frequency
∆f~max~ The largest value of ∆f used for defining the requirement
F~C~ Carrier centre frequency
f_offset Separation between the channel edge frequency and the centre of the
measuring filter
f_offset~max~ The maximum value of f_offset used for defining the requirement
F~DL_low~ The lowest frequency of the downlink operating band
F~DL_high~ The highest frequency of the downlink operating band
F~UL_low~ The lowest frequency of the uplink operating band
F~UL_high~ The highest frequency of the uplink operating band
N~DL~ Downlink EARFCN
N~Offs-DL~ Offset used for calculating downlink EARFCN
N~Offs-UL~ Offset used for calculating uplink EARFCN
_N~CS~_ Number of Cyclic shifts for preamble generation in PRACH
N~RB~ Transmission bandwidth configuration, expressed in units of resource
blocks
N~UL~ Uplink EARFCN
Pmax Maximum output Power
Pout Output power
P~REFSENS~ Reference Sensitivity power level
T~A~ Timing advance command, as defined in [11]
$T_{s}$ Basic time unit, as defined in [10]
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
ACLR Adjacent Channel Leakage Ratio
ACK Acknowledgement (in HARQ protocols)
ACS Adjacent Channel Selectivity
AWGN Additive White Gaussian Noise
BS Base Station
CP Cyclic prefix
CRC Cyclic Redundancy Check
CW Continuous Wave
DC Direct Current
DFT Discrete Fourier Transformation
DTX Discontinuous Transmission
DwPTS Downlink part of the special subframe (for TDD operation)
EARFCN E-UTRA Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number
EPA Extended Pedestrian A model
ETU Extended Typical Urban model
E-UTRA Evolved UTRA
EVA Extended Vehicular A model
EVM Error Vector Magnitude
FDD Frequency Division Duplex
FFT Fast Fourier Transformation
FRC Fixed Reference Channel
GP Guard Period (for TDD operation)
HARQ Hybrid Automatic Repeat Request
ICS In-Channel Selectivity
ITU‑R Radiocommunication Sector of the ITU
LNA Low Noise Amplifier
MCS Modulation and Coding Scheme
OFDM Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplex
OOB Out-of-band
PA Power Amplifier
PBCH Physical Broadcast Channel
PDCCH Physical Downlink Control Channel
PDSCH Physical Downlink Shared Channel
PUSCH Physical Uplink Shared Channel
PUCCH Physical Uplink Control Channel
PRACH Physical Random Access Channel
QAM Quadrature Amplitude Modulation
QPSK Quadrature Phase-Shift Keying
RB Resource Block
RE Resource Element
RF Radio Frequency
RMS Root Mean Square (value)
RS Reference Symbol
RX Receiver
RRC Root Raised Cosine
SNR Signal-to-Noise Ratio
TA Timing Advance
TDD Time Division Duplex
TX Transmitter
UE User Equipment
# 4 General
## 4.1 Relationship between minimum requirements and test requirements
The Minimum Requirements given in this specification make no allowance for
measurement uncertainty. The test specification TS 36.141 [4] Annex G defines
Test Tolerances. These Test Tolerances are individually calculated for each
test. The Test Tolerances are used to relax the Minimum Requirements in this
specification to create Test Requirements.
The measurement results returned by the Test System are compared - without any
modification - against the Test Requirements as defined by the shared risk
principle.
The Shared Risk principle is defined in ITU-R M.1545 [3].
## 4.2 Base station classes
The requirements in this specification apply to Base Stations intended for
general-purpose applications.
Other base station classes are for further study. The requirements for these
may be different than for general-purpose applications.
## 4.3 Regional requirements
Some requirements in the present document may only apply in certain regions
either as optional requirements or set by local and regional regulation as
mandatory requirements. It is normally not stated in the 3GPP specifications
under what exact circumstances that the requirements apply, since this is
defined by local or regional regulation.
Table 4.3-1 lists all requirements that may be applied differently in
different regions.
Table 4.3-1: List of regional requirements
* * *
Clause number Requirement Comments 5.5 Operating bands Some bands may be
applied regionally. 5.6 Channel bandwidth Some channel bandwidths may be
applied regionally. 5.7 Channel arrangement The requirement is applied
according to what operating bands in clause 5.5 that are supported by the BS.
6.2 Base station maximum output power In certain regions, the minimum
requirement for normal conditions may apply also for some conditions outside
the range of conditions defined as normal. 6.2.2 Additional requirement
(regional) For Band 34 operation in certain regions, the rated output power
declared by the manufacturer shall be less than or equal to the values
specified in Table 6.2.2-1. 6.6.3.1 Operating band unwanted emissions
(Category A) This requirement is mandatory for regions where Category A limits
for spurious emissions, as defined in ITU-R Recommendation SM.329 [2] apply.
6.6.3.2 Operating band unwanted emissions (Category B) This requirement is
mandatory for regions where Category B limits for spurious emissions, as
defined in ITU-R Recommendation SM.329 [2], apply. 6.6.3.3 Additional
requirements These requirements may apply in certain regions as additional
Operating band unwanted emission limits. 6.6.4.1.1 Spurious emissions
(Category A) This requirement is mandatory for regions where Category A limits
for spurious emissions, as defined in ITU-R Recommendation SM.329 [2] apply.
6.6.4.1.2 Spurious emissions (Category B) This requirement is mandatory for
regions where Category B limits for spurious emissions, as defined in ITU-R
Recommendation SM.329 [2], apply. 6.6.4.3 Additional spurious emission
requirements These requirements may be applied for the protection of system
operating in frequency ranges other than the E-UTRA BS operating band. 6.6.4.4
Co-location with other base stations These requirements may be applied for the
protection of other BS receivers when a BS operating in another frequency band
is co-located with an E-UTRA BS. 7.6.2 Co-location with other base stations
These requirements may be applied for the protection of the BS receiver when a
BS operating in another frequency band is co-located with an E‑UTRA BS.
* * *
# 5 Operating bands and channel arrangement
## 5.1 General
The channel arrangements presented in this clause are based on the operating
bands and channel bandwidths defined in the present release of specifications.
NOTE: Other operating bands and channel bandwidths may be considered in future
releases.
## 5.2 Void
## 5.3 Void
## 5.4 Void
## 5.5 Operating bands
E-UTRA is designed to operate in the operating bands defined in Table 5.5-1.
Table 5.5-1 E-UTRA frequency bands
* * *
E‑UTRA Operating Band Uplink (UL) operating band\ Downlink (DL) operating
band\ Duplex Mode  
BS receive\ BS transmit\  
UE transmit UE receive
                          F~UL\_low~ -- F~UL\_high~     F~DL\_low~ -- F~DL\_high~
1 1920 MHz -- 1980 MHz 2110 MHz -- 2170 MHz FDD
2 1850 MHz -- 1910 MHz 1930 MHz -- 1990 MHz FDD
3 1710 MHz -- 1785 MHz 1805 MHz -- 1880 MHz FDD
4 1710 MHz -- 1755 MHz 2110 MHz -- 2155 MHz FDD
5 824 MHz -- 849 MHz 869 MHz -- 894MHz FDD
6 830 MHz -- 840 MHz 875 MHz -- 885 MHz FDD
7 2500 MHz -- 2570 MHz 2620 MHz -- 2690 MHz FDD
8 880 MHz -- 915 MHz 925 MHz -- 960 MHz FDD
9 1749.9 MHz -- 1784.9 MHz 1844.9 MHz -- 1879.9 MHz FDD
10 1710 MHz -- 1770 MHz 2110 MHz -- 2170 MHz FDD
11 1427.9 MHz -- 1447.9 MHz 1475.9 MHz -- 1495.9 MHz FDD
12 699 MHz -- 716 MHz 729 MHz -- 746 MHz FDD
13 777 MHz -- 787 MHz 746 MHz -- 756 MHz FDD
14 788 MHz -- 798 MHz 758 MHz -- 768 MHz FDD
...
17 704 MHz -- 716 MHz 734 MHz -- 746 MHz FDD
...
33 1900 MHz -- 1920 MHz 1900 MHz -- 1920 MHz TDD
34 2010 MHz -- 2025 MHz 2010 MHz -- 2025 MHz TDD
35 1850 MHz -- 1910 MHz 1850 MHz -- 1910 MHz TDD
36 1930 MHz -- 1990 MHz 1930 MHz -- 1990 MHz TDD
37 1910 MHz -- 1930 MHz 1910 MHz -- 1930 MHz TDD
38 2570 MHz -- 2620 MHz 2570 MHz -- 2620 MHz TDD
39 1880 MHz -- 1920 MHz 1880 MHz -- 1920 MHz TDD
40 2300 MHz -- 2400 MHz 2300 MHz -- 2400 MHz TDD
* * *
## 5.6 Channel bandwidth
Requirements in present document are specified for the channel bandwidths
listed in Table 5.6-1.
Table 5.6-1 Transmission bandwidth configuration _N_ ~RB~ in E-UTRA channel
bandwidths
* * *
Channel bandwidth BW~Channel~ [MHz] 1.4 3 5 10 15 20 Transmission bandwidth
configuration _N_ ~RB~ 6 15 25 50 75 100
* * *
Figure 5.6-1 shows the relation between the Channel bandwidth (BW~Channel~)
and the Transmission bandwidth configuration (N~RB~). The channel edges are
defined as the lowest and highest frequencies of the carrier separated by the
channel bandwidth, i.e. at F~C~ +/- BW~Channel~ /2.
{width="6.695138888888889in" height="3.375in"}
Figure 5.6-1 Definition of Channel Bandwidth and Transmission Bandwidth
Configuration for one E‑UTRA carrier
## 5.7 Channel arrangement
### 5.7.1 Channel spacing
The spacing between carriers will depend on the deployment scenario, the size
of the frequency block available and the channel bandwidths. The nominal
channel spacing between two adjacent E-UTRA carriers is defined as following:
Nominal Channel spacing = (BW~Channel(1)~ + BW~Channel(2)~)/2
where BW~Channel(1)~ and BW~Channel(2)~ are the channel bandwidths of the two
respective E-UTRA carriers. The channel spacing can be adjusted to optimize
performance in a particular deployment scenario.
### 5.7.2 Channel raster
The channel raster is 100 kHz for all bands, which means that the carrier
centre frequency must be an integer multiple of 100 kHz.
### 5.7.3 Carrier frequency and EARFCN
The carrier frequency in the uplink and downlink is designated by the E-UTRA
Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number (EARFCN) in the range 0 - 65535\. The
relation between EARFCN and the carrier frequency in MHz for the downlink is
given by the following equation, where F~DL_low~ and N~Offs-DL~ are given in
table 5.7.3-1 and N~DL~ is the downlink EARFCN.
F~DL~ = F~DL_low~ + 0.1(N~DL~ -- N~Offs-DL~)
The relation between EARFCN and the carrier frequency in MHz for the uplink is
given by the following equation where F~UL_low~ and N~Offs-UL~ are given in
table 5.7.3-1 and N~UL~ is the uplink EARFCN.
F~UL~ = F~UL_low~ + 0.1(N~UL~ -- N~Offs-UL~)
Table 5.7.3-1 E-UTRA channel numbers
* * *
E-UTRA Operating Band Downlink Uplink  
F~DL_low~ [MHz] N~Offs-DL~ Range of N~DL~ F~UL_low~ [MHz] N~Offs-UL~ Range of
N~UL~ 1 2110 0 0 -- 599 1920 18000 18000 -- 18599 2 1930 600 600 − 1199 1850
18600 18600 -- 19199 3 1805 1200 1200 -- 1949 1710 19200 19200 -- 19949 4 2110
1950 1950 -- 2399 1710 19950 19950 -- 20399 5 869 2400 2400 -- 2649 824 20400
20400 -- 20649 6 875 2650 2650 -- 2749 830 20650 20650 -- 20749 7 2620 2750
2750 -- 3449 2500 20750 20750 -- 21449 8 925 3450 3450 -- 3799 880 21450 21450
-- 21799 9 1844.9 3800 3800 -- 4149 1749.9 21800 21800 -- 22149 10 2110 4150
4150 -- 4749 1710 22150 22150 -- 22749 11 1475.9 4750 4750 -- 4949 1427.9
22750 22750 -- 22949 12 729 5010 5010 -- 5179 699 23010 23010 -- 23179 13 746
5180 5180 -- 5279 777 23180 23180 -- 23279 14 758 5280 5280 -- 5379 788 23280
23280 -- 23379 ...  
17 734 5730 5730 -- 5849 704 23730 23730 -- 23849 ...  
33 1900 36000 36000 -- 36199 1900 36000 36000 -- 36199 34 2010 36200 36200 --
36349 2010 36200 36200 -- 36349 35 1850 36350 36350 -- 36949 1850 36350 36350
-- 36949 36 1930 36950 36950 -- 37549 1930 36950 36950 -- 37549 37 1910 37550
37550 -- 37749 1910 37550 37550 -- 37749 38 2570 37750 37750 -- 38249 2570
37750 37750 -- 38249 39 1880 38250 38250 -- 38649 1880 38250 38250 -- 38649 40
2300 38650 38650 -- 39649 2300 38650 38650 -- 39649 NOTE: The channel numbers
that designate carrier frequencies so close to the operating band edges that
the carrier extends beyond the operating band edge shall not be used. This
implies that the first 7, 15, 25, 50, 75 and 100 channel numbers at the lower
operating band edge and the last 6, 14, 24, 49, 74 and 99 channel numbers at
the upper operating band edge shall not be used for channel bandwidths of 1.4,
3, 5, 10, 15 and 20 MHz respectively.
* * *
# 6 Transmitter characteristics
## 6.1 General
Unless otherwise stated, the requirements in clause 6 are expressed for a
single transmitter antenna connector. In case of transmit diversity or MIMO
transmission, the requirements apply for each transmitter antenna connector.
Unless otherwise stated, the transmitter characteristics are specified at the
BS antenna connector (test port A) with a full complement of transceivers for
the configuration in normal operating conditions. If any external apparatus
such as a TX amplifier, a filter or the combination of such devices is used,
requirements apply at the far end antenna connector (port B).
Unless otherwise stated the requirements in clause 6 applies at all times,
i.e. during the Transmitter ON period, the Transmitter OFF period and the
Transmitter transient period.
{width="6.114583333333333in" height="1.75in"}
Figure 6.1-1: Transmitter test ports
## 6.2 Base station output power
Output power, Pout, of the base station is the mean power of one carrier
delivered to a load with resistance equal to the nominal load impedance of the
transmitter.
Maximum output power, Pmax, of the base station is the mean power level per
carrier measured at the antenna connector during the transmitter ON period in
a specified reference condition.
### 6.2.1 Minimum requirement
In normal conditions, the base station maximum output power shall remain
within +2 dB and -2 dB of the rated output power declared by the manufacturer.
In extreme conditions, the base station maximum output power shall remain
within +2.5 dB and -2.5 dB of the rated output power declared by the
manufacturer.
In certain regions, the minimum requirement for normal conditions may apply
also for some conditions outside the range of conditions defined as normal.
### 6.2.2 Additional requirement (regional)
For Band 34 operation in Japan, the rated output power declared by the
manufacturer.shall be less than or equal to the values specified in Table
6.2.2-1.
Table 6.2.2-1: Regional requirements for Band 34 for rated output power
declared by the manufacturer.
* * *
Channel bandwidth BW~Channel~ [MHz] 1.4 3 5 10 15 20 Maximum output power [W]
N/A N/A 20 40 60 N/A
* * *
[]{.underline}
## 6.3 Output power dynamics
The requirements in subclause 6.3 apply during the transmitter ON period.
Transmit signal quality (as specified in subclause 6.5) shall be maintained
for the output power dynamics requirements of this Clause.
Power control is used to limit the interference level.
### 6.3.1 RE Power control dynamic range
The RE power control dynamic range is the difference between the power of an
RE and the average RE power for a BS at maximum output power for a specified
reference condition.
#### 6.3.1.1 Minimum requirements
RE power control dynamic range:
Table 6.3.1.1-1 E-UTRA BS RE power control dynamic range
* * *
Modulation scheme used on the RE RE power control dynamic range (dB)  
(down) (up) QPSK (PDCCH) -6 +4 QPSK (PDSCH) -6 +3 16QAM (PDSCH) -3 +3 64QAM
(PDSCH) 0 0 NOTE 1: Total TX power shall always be less or equal to maximum BS
output power.
* * *
### 6.3.2 Total power dynamic range
The total power dynamic range is the difference between the maximum and the
minimum transmit power of an OFDM symbol for a specified reference condition.
NOTE: The upper limit of the dynamic range is the OFDM symbol power for a BS
at maximum output power. The lower limit of the dynamic range is the OFDM
symbol power for a BS when one resource block is transmitted. The OFDM symbol
shall carry PDSCH and not contain RS, PBCH or synchronisation signals.
#### 6.3.2.1 Minimum requirements
The downlink (DL) total power dynamic range shall be larger than or equal to
the level in Table 6.3.2.1-1.
Table 6.3.2.1-1 E-UTRA BS total power dynamic range
+-------------------------+--------------------------------+ | E-UTRA | Total power dynamic range (dB) | | | | | channel bandwidth (MHz) | | +-------------------------+--------------------------------+ | 1.4 | 7.7 | +-------------------------+--------------------------------+ | 3 | 11.7 | +-------------------------+--------------------------------+ | 5 | 13.9 | +-------------------------+--------------------------------+ | 10 | 16.9 | +-------------------------+--------------------------------+ | 15 | 18.7 | +-------------------------+--------------------------------+ | 20 | 20 | +-------------------------+--------------------------------+
## 6.4 Transmit ON/OFF power
The requirements in subclause 6.4 are only applied for E-UTRA TDD BS.
### 6.4.1 Transmitter OFF power
Transmitter OFF power is defined as the mean power measured over 70 us
filtered with a square filter of bandwidth equal to the transmission bandwidth
configuration of the BS (BW~Config~) centred on the assigned channel frequency
during the transmitter OFF period.
#### 6.4.1.1 Minimum Requirement
The transmitter OFF power spectral density shall be less than -85dBm/MHz.
### 6.4.2 Transmitter transient period
The transmitter transient period is the time period during which the
transmitter is changing from the OFF period to the ON period or vice versa.
The transmitter transient period is illustrated in Figure 6.4.2-1.
{width="6.684722222222222in" height="3.560416666666667in"}
Figure 6.4.2-1 Illustration of the relations of transmitter ON period,
transmitter OFF period and transmitter transient period.
#### 6.4.2.1 Minimum requirements
The transmitter transient period shall be shorter than the values listed in
Table 6.4.2.1-1.
Table 6.4.2.1-1 Minimum requirements for the transmitter transient period
* * *
Transition Transient period length [us] OFF to ON 17 ON to OFF 17
* * *
## 6.5 Transmitted signal quality
The requirements in subclause 6.5 apply to the transmitter ON period.
### 6.5.1 Frequency error
Frequency error is the measure of the difference between the actual BS
transmit frequency and the assigned frequency. The same source shall be used
for RF frequency and data clock generation.
#### 6.5.1.1 Minimum requirement
The modulated carrier frequency of the BS shall be accurate to within ±0.05
ppm observed over a period of one subframe (1ms).
Table 6.5.1-1: Void
### 6.5.2 Error Vector Magnitude
The Error Vector Magnitude is a measure of the difference between the ideal
symbols and the measured symbols after the equalization. This difference is
called the error vector. The equaliser parameters are estimated as defined in
Annex E. The EVM result is defined as the square root of the ratio of the mean
error vector power to the mean reference power expressed in percent.
For all bandwidths, the EVM measurement shall be performed over all allocated
resource blocks and downlink subframes within 10ms measurement periods. The
boundaries of the EVM measurement periods need not be aligned with radio frame
boundaries. The EVM value is then calculated as the mean square root of the
measured values. The EVM for different modulation schemes on PDSCH shall be
better than the limits in table 6.5.2-1:
Table 6.5.2-1 EVM requirements
* * *
Modulation scheme for PDSCH Required EVM [%] QPSK 17.5 % 16QAM 12.5 % 64QAM 8
%
* * *
### 6.5.3 Time alignment between transmitter branches
In Tx Diversity and spatial multiplexing, signals are transmitted from two or
more antennas. These signals shall be aligned. The time alignment error in Tx
Diversity and spatial multiplexing transmission is specified as the delay
between the signals from two antennas at the antenna ports.
#### 6.5.3.1 Minimum Requirement
The time alignment error in Tx Diversity or spatial multiplexing for any
possible configuration of two transmit antennas shall not exceed 65 ns.
### 6.5.4 DL RS power
DL RS power is the resource element power of the Downlink Reference Symbol.
The absolute DL RS power is indicated on the DL-SCH. The absolute accuracy is
defined as the maximum deviation between the DL RS power indicated on the DL-
SCH and the DL RS power at the BS antenna connector.
#### 6.5.4.1 Minimum requirements
DL RS power shall be within ± 2.1 dB of the DL RS power indicated on the DL-
SCH
## 6.6 Unwanted emissions
Unwanted emissions consist of out-of-band emissions and spurious emissions
[2]. Out of band emissions are unwanted emissions immediately outside the
channel bandwidth resulting from the modulation process and non-linearity in
the transmitter but excluding spurious emissions. Spurious emissions are
emissions which are caused by unwanted transmitter effects such as harmonics
emission, parasitic emission, intermodulation products and frequency
conversion products, but exclude out of band emissions.
The out-of-band emissions requirement for the BS transmitter is specified both
in terms of Adjacent Channel Leakage power Ratio (ACLR) and Operating band
unwanted emissions. The Operating band unwanted emissions define all unwanted
emissions in the downlink operating band plus the frequency ranges 10 MHz
above and 10 MHz below the band. Unwanted emissions outside of this frequency
range are limited by a spurious emissions requirement.
There is in addition a requirement for occupied bandwidth.
### 6.6.1 Occupied bandwidth
The occupied bandwidth is the width of a frequency band such that, below the
lower and above the upper frequency limits, the mean powers emitted are each
equal to a specified percentage β/2 of the total mean transmitted power. See
also ITU-R Recommendation SM.328 [5].
The value of β/2 shall be taken as 0.5%.
The requirement applies during the transmitter ON period.
#### 6.6.1.1 Minimum requirement
The occupied bandwidth shall be less than the channel bandwidth as defined in
Table 5.6-1.
### 6.6.2 Adjacent Channel Leakage power Ratio (ACLR)
Adjacent Channel Leakage power Ratio (ACLR) is the ratio of the filtered mean
power centred on the assigned channel frequency to the filtered mean power
centred on an adjacent channel frequency.
The requirements shall apply whatever the type of transmitter considered
(single carrier or multi-carrier). It applies for all transmission modes
foreseen by the manufacturer\'s specification. For a multi-carrier BS, the
requirement applies for the adjacent channel frequencies below the lowest
carrier frequency transmitted by the BS and above the highest carrier
frequency transmitted by the BS for each supported multi-carrier transmission
configuration. The requirement applies during the transmitter ON period.
#### 6.6.2.1 Minimum requirement
The ACLR is defined with a square filter of bandwidth equal to the
transmission bandwidth configuration of the transmitted signal (BW~Config~)
centred on the assigned channel frequency and a filter centred on the adjacent
channel frequency according to the tables below.
For Category A, either the ACLR limits in the tables below or the absolute
limit of -13dBm/MHz apply, whichever is less stringent.
For Category B, either the ACLR limits in the tables below or the absolute
limit of -15dBm/MHz apply, whichever is less stringent.
For operation in paired spectrum, the ACLR shall be higher than the value
specified in Table 6.6.2.1‑1.
Table 6.6.2.1-1: Base Station ACLR in paired spectrum
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | E-UTRA | BS adjacent | Assumed | Filter on | ACLR limit | | transmitted | channel | adjacent | the | | | signal | centre | channel | adjacent | | | channel | frequency | carrier | channel | | | bandwidth | offset | (i | frequency | | | BW~Channel~ | below the | nformative) | and | | | [MHz] | first or | | co | | | | above the | | rresponding | | | | last | | filter | | | | carrier | | bandwidth | | | | centre | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | transmitted | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | 1.4, 3.0, | BW~Channel~ | E-UTRA of | Square | 45 dB | | 5, 10, 15, | | same BW | ( | | | 20 | | | BW~Config~) | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | | 2 x | E-UTRA of | Square | 45 dB | | | BW~Channel~ | same BW | ( | | | | | | BW~Config~) | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | | BW~Channel~ | 3.84 Mcps | RRC (3.84 | 45 dB | | | /2 + 2.5 | UTRA | Mcps) | | | | MHz | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | | BW~Channel~ | 3.84 Mcps | RRC (3.84 | 45 dB | | | /2 + 7.5 | UTRA | Mcps) | | | | MHz | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | BW~Channel~ | | | | | | and | | | | | | BW~Config~ | | | | | | are the | | | | | | channel | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | and | | | | | | t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | co | | | | | | nfiguration | | | | | | of the | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | transmitted | | | | | | signal on | | | | | | the | | | | | | assigned | | | | | | channel | | | | | | frequency. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The | | | | | | RRC filter | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | equivalent | | | | | | to the | | | | | | transmit | | | | | | pulse shape | | | | | | filter | | | | | | defined in | | | | | | TS 25.104 | | | | | | [6], with | | | | | | a chip rate | | | | | | as defined | | | | | | in this | | | | | | table. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+
For operation in unpaired spectrum, the ACLR shall be higher than the value
specified in Table 6.6.2.1‑2.
Table 6.6.2.1-2: Base Station ACLR in unpaired spectrum with synchronized
operation
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | E-UTRA | BS adjacent | Assumed | Filter on | ACLR limit | | transmitted | channel | adjacent | the | | | signal | centre | channel | adjacent | | | channel | frequency | carrier | channel | | | bandwidth | offset | (i | frequency | | | BW~Channel~ | below the | nformative) | and | | | [MHz] | first or | | co | | | | above the | | rresponding | | | | last | | filter | | | | carrier | | bandwidth | | | | centre | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | transmitted | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | 1.4, 3 | BW~Channel~ | E-UTRA of | Square | 45 dB | | | | same BW | ( | | | | | | BW~Config~) | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | | 2 x | E-UTRA of | Square | 45 dB | | | BW~Channel~ | same BW | ( | | | | | | BW~Config~) | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | | BW~Channel~ | 1.28 Mcps | RRC (1.28 | 45 dB | | | /2 + 0.8 | UTRA | Mcps) | | | | MHz | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | | BW~Channel~ | 1.28 Mcps | RRC (1.28 | 45 dB | | | /2 + 2.4 | UTRA | Mcps) | | | | MHz | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | 5, 10, 15, | BW~Channel~ | E-UTRA of | Square | 45 dB | | 20 | | same BW | ( | | | | | | BW~Config~) | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | | 2 x | E-UTRA of | Square | 45 dB | | | BW~Channel~ | same BW | ( | | | | | | BW~Config~) | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | | BW~Channel~ | 1.28 Mcps | RRC (1.28 | 45 dB | | | /2 + 0.8 | UTRA | Mcps) | | | | MHz | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | | BW~Channel~ | 1.28 Mcps | RRC (1.28 | 45 dB | | | /2 + 2.4 | UTRA | Mcps) | | | | MHz | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | | BW~Channel~ | 3.84 Mcps | RRC (3.84 | 45 dB | | | /2 + 2.5 | UTRA | Mcps) | | | | MHz | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | | BW~Channel~ | 3.84 Mcps | RRC (3.84 | 45 dB | | | /2 + 7.5 | UTRA | Mcps) | | | | MHz | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | | BW~Channel~ | 7.68 Mcps | RRC (7.68 | 45 dB | | | /2 + 5 MHz | UTRA | Mcps) | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | | BW~Channel~ | 7.68 Mcps | RRC (7.68 | 45 dB | | | /2 + 15 MHz | UTRA | Mcps) | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | BW~Channel~ | | | | | | and | | | | | | BW~Config~ | | | | | | are the | | | | | | channel | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | and | | | | | | t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | co | | | | | | nfiguration | | | | | | of the | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | transmitted | | | | | | signal on | | | | | | the | | | | | | assigned | | | | | | channel | | | | | | frequency. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The | | | | | | RRC filter | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | equivalent | | | | | | to the | | | | | | transmit | | | | | | pulse shape | | | | | | filter | | | | | | defined in | | | | | | TS 25.105 | | | | | | [7], with | | | | | | a chip rate | | | | | | as defined | | | | | | in this | | | | | | table. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+------------+
### 6.6.3 Operating band unwanted emissions
The Operating band unwanted emission limits are defined from 10 MHz below the
lowest frequency of the downlink operating band up to 10 MHz above the highest
frequency of the downlink operating band.
The requirements shall apply whatever the type of transmitter considered
(single carrier or multi-carrier) and for all transmission modes foreseen by
the manufacturer\'s specification.
The unwanted emission limits in the part of the downlink operating band that
falls in the spurious domain are consistent with ITU-R Recommendation SM.329
[2].
Emissions shall not exceed the maximum levels specified in the tables below,
where:
\- ∆f is the separation between the channel edge frequency and the nominal
-3dB point of the measuring filter closest to the carrier frequency.
\- f_offset is the separation between the channel edge frequency and the
centre of the measuring filter.
\- f_offset~max~ is the offset to the frequency 10 MHz outside the downlink
operating band.
\- ∆f~max~ is equal to f_offset~max~ minus half of the bandwidth of the
measuring filter.
For a multicarrier E-UTRA BS the definitions above apply to the lower edge of
the carrier transmitted at the lowest carrier frequency and the higher edge of
the carrier transmitted at the highest carrier frequency.
The requirements of either subclause 6.6.3.1 (Category A limits) or subclause
6.6.3.2 (Category B limits) shall apply. The application of either Category A
or Category B limits shall be the same as for Transmitter spurious emissions
(Mandatory Requirements) in subclause 6.6.4.1.
#### 6.6.3.1 Minimum requirements (Category A)
For E-UTRA BS operating in Bands 5, 6, 8, 12, 13, 14, 17 emissions shall not
exceed the maximum levels specified in Tables 6.6.3.1‑1 to 6.6.3.1-3.
Table 6.6.3.1-1: General operating band unwanted emission limits for 1.4 MHz
channel bandwidth (E‑UTRA bands \1GHz) for Category A
* * *
Frequency offset of measurement filter ‑3dB point, ∆f Frequency offset of
measurement filter centre frequency, f_offset Minimum requirement Measurement
bandwidth (Note 1) 0 MHz ≤ ∆f \1GHz) for Category A
* * *
Frequency offset of measurement filter ‑3dB point, ∆f Frequency offset of
measurement filter centre frequency, f_offset Minimum requirement Measurement
bandwidth (Note 1) 0 MHz ≤ ∆f \1GHz) for Category A
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Frequency | Frequency | Minimum | Measurement | | offset of | offset of | requirement | bandwidth | | measurement | measurement | | (Note 1) | | filter ‑3dB | filter centre | | | | point, ∆f | frequency, | | | | | f_offset | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 0 MHz ≤ ∆f \1GHz) for Category B
* * *
Frequency offset of measurement filter ‑3dB point, ∆f Frequency offset of
measurement filter centre frequency, f_offset Minimum requirement Measurement
bandwidth (Note 1) 0 MHz ≤ ∆f \1GHz) for Category B
* * *
Frequency offset of measurement filter ‑3dB point, ∆f Frequency offset of
measurement filter centre frequency, f_offset Minimum requirement Measurement
bandwidth (Note 1) 0 MHz ≤ ∆f \1GHz) for Category B
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Frequency | Frequency | Minimum | Measurement | | offset of | offset of | requirement | bandwidth | | measurement | measurement | | (Note 1) | | filter ‑3dB | filter centre | | | | point, ∆f | frequency, | | | | | f_offset | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 0 MHz ≤ ∆f \1GHz
* * *
Channel bandwidth Frequency offset of measurement filter ‑3dB point, ∆f
Frequency offset of measurement filter centre frequency, f_offset Minimum
requirement Measurement bandwidth (Note 3) 1.4 MHz 0 MHz ≤ ∆f \ NOTE: The | | | | | > frequency range | | | | | > between | | | | | > | | | | | 2.5 * BW~Channel~ | | | | | > below the first | | | | | > carrier frequency | | | | | > and | | | | | > | | | | | 2.5 * BW~Channel~ | | | | | > above the last | | | | | > carrier frequency | | | | | > transmitted by | | | | | > the BS, where | | | | | > BW~Channel~ is | | | | | > the channel | | | | | > bandwidth | | | | | > according to | | | | | > Table 5.6‑1, may | | | | | > be excluded from | | | | | > the requirement. | | | | | > However, | | | | | > frequencies that | | | | | > are more than 10 | | | | | > MHz below the | | | | | > lowest frequency | | | | | > of the BS | | | | | > downlink | | | | | > operating band or | | | | | > more than 10 MHz | | | | | > above the highest | | | | | > frequency of the | | | | | > BS downlink | | | | | > operating band | | | | | > shall not be | | | | | > excluded from the | | | | | > requirement. | | | | +---------------------+---------------+---------------------+------+
In addition to the requirements in Table 7.7.1-1, the power of any spurious
emission shall not exceed the levels specified for Protection of the E-UTRA
FDD BS receiver of own or different BS in subclause 6.6.4.2 and for Co-
existence with other systems in the same geographical area in subclause
6.6.4.3. In addition, the co-existence requirements for co-located base
stations specified in subclause 6.6.4.4 may also be applied.
## 7.8 Receiver intermodulation
Third and higher order mixing of the two interfering RF signals can produce an
interfering signal in the band of the desired channel. Intermodulation
response rejection is a measure of the capability of the receiver to receive a
wanted signal on its assigned channel frequency in the presence of two
interfering signals which have a specific frequency relationship to the wanted
signal. Interfering signals shall be a CW signal and an E-UTRA signal as
specified in Annex C.
### 7.8.1 Minimum requirement
The throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum throughput of the reference
measurement channel, with a wanted signal at the assigned channel frequency
and two interfering signals coupled to the BS antenna input, with the
conditions specified in Tables 7.8.1-1 and 7.8.1-2 for intermodulation
performance and in Table 7.8.1-3 for narrowband intermodulation performance.
The reference measurement channel for the wanted signal is identified in Table
7.2.1-1 for each channel bandwidth and further specified in Annex A.
Table 7.8.1-1: Intermodulation performance requirement
* * *
Wanted signal mean power [dBm] Interfering signal mean power [dBm] Type of
interfering signal P~REFSENS~ + 6dB* -52 See Table 7.8.1-2 Note*: P~REFSENS~
depends on the channel bandwidth as specified in Table 7.2.1-1.
* * *
Table 7.8.1-2: Interfering signal for Intermodulation performance requirement
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | E-UTRA | Interfering signal | Type of interfering | | | centre frequency | signal | | channel bandwidth | offset from the | | | [MHz] | channel edge of the | | | | wanted signal | | | | [MHz] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 1.4 | 2.1 | CW | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | 4.9 | 1.4MHz E-UTRA signal | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 3 | 4.5 | CW | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | 10.5 | 3MHz E-UTRA signal | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 5 | 7.5 | CW | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | 17.5 | 5MHz E-UTRA signal | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 10 | 7.5 | CW | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | 17.7 | 5MHz E-UTRA signal | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 15 | 7.5 | CW | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | 18 | 5MHz E-UTRA signal | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 20 | 7.5 | CW | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | 18.2 | 5MHz E-UTRA signal | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
Table 7.8.1-3: Narrowband intermodulation performance requirement
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA | Wanted | Interfering | Interfering | Type of | | | signal mean | signal mean | RB centre | interfering | | channel | power | power | frequency | signal | | bandwidth | [dBm] | [dBm] | offset from | | | [MHz] | | | the channel | | | | | | edge of the | | | | | | wanted | | | | | | signal | | | | | | [kHz] | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1.4 | P~REFSENS~ | -52 | 270 | CW | | | + 6dB* | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | -52 | 790 | 1.4 MHz | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | signal, 1 | | | | | | RB** | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 3 | P~REFSENS~ | -52 | 275 | CW | | | + 6dB* | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | -52 | 790 | 3.0 MHz | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | signal, 1 | | | | | | RB** | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 5 | P~REFSENS~ | -52 | 360 | CW | | | + 6dB* | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | -52 | 1060 | 5 MHz | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | signal, 1 | | | | | | RB** | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 10 | P~REFSENS~ | -52 | 415 | CW | | | + 6dB* | | | | | | | | | | | | (***) | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | -52 | 1420 | 5 MHz | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | signal, 1 | | | | | | RB** | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 15 | P~REFSENS~ | -52 | 380 | CW | | | + 6dB* | | | | | | | | | | | | (***) | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | -52 | 1600 | 5MHz E-UTRA | | | | | | signal, 1 | | | | | | RB** | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 20 | P~REFSENS~ | -52 | 345 | CW | | | + 6dB* | | | | | | | | | | | | (***) | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | -52 | 1780 | 5MHz E-UTRA | | | | | | signal, 1 | | | | | | RB** | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Note*: | | | | | | P~REFSENS~ | | | | | | is related | | | | | | to the | | | | | | channel | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | as | | | | | | specified | | | | | | in | | | | | | Tab | | | | | | le 7.2.1-1. | | | | | | | | | | | | Note**: | | | | | | Interfering | | | | | | signal | | | | | | consisting | | | | | | of one | | | | | | resource | | | | | | block | | | | | | positioned | | | | | | at the | | | | | | stated | | | | | | offset. | | | | | | | | | | | | Note***: | | | | | | This | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | shall apply | | | | | | only for a | | | | | | FRC A1-3 | | | | | | mapped to | | | | | | the | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | range at | | | | | | the channel | | | | | | edge | | | | | | adjacent to | | | | | | the | | | | | | interfering | | | | | | signals | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
# 8 Performance requirement
## 8.1 General
Performance requirements for the BS are specified for the fixed reference
channels defined in Annex A and the propagation conditions in Annex B. Zero
correlation is assumed at the base station receiver and so no correlation
matrices are defined in Annex B. The requirements only apply to those FRCs
that are supported by the base station.
The SNR used in this clause is defined as:
> SNR = S / N
Where:
S is the total signal energy in the subframe on a single antenna port.
> N is the noise energy in a bandwidth corresponding to the transmission
> bandwidth over the duration of a subframe.
## 8.2 Performance requirements for PUSCH
### 8.2.1 Requirements in multipath fading propagation conditions
The performance requirement of PUSCH is determined by a minimum required
throughput for a given SNR. The required throughput is expressed as a fraction
of maximum throughput for the FRCs listed in Annex A. The performance
requirements assume HARQ retransmissions.
Table 8.2.1-1 Test parameters for testing PUSCH
* * *
Parameter Value Maximum number of HARQ transmissions 4 RV sequence 0, 2, 3, 1,
0, 2, 3, 1 Uplink-downlink allocation for TDD Configuration 1 (2:2)
* * *
#### 8.2.1.1 Minimum requirements
The throughput shall be equal to or larger than the fraction of maximum
throughput stated in the tables 8.2.1.1-1 to 8.2.1.1-6 at the given SNR.
Table 8.2.1.1-1 Minimum requirements for PUSCH, 1.4 MHz Channel Bandwidth
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | Number | Cyclic | Pro | FRC\ | Fraction | SNR | | of RX | prefix | pagation | (Annex | of | | | antennas | | co | A) | maximum | [dB] | | | | nditions | | th | | | | | (Annex | | roughput | | | | | B) | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | 2 | Normal | EPA 5Hz | A3-2 | 30% | -4.1 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | 0.1 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | A4-3 | 70% | 10.6 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | A5-2 | 70% | 17.7 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | EVA 5Hz | A3-1 | 30% | -2.7 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | 1.8 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | A4-1 | 30% | 4.4 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | 11.3 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | A5-1 | 70% | 18.6 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | EVA 70Hz | A3-2 | 30% | -3.9 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | 0.7 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | A4-3 | 30% | 4.0 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | 11.9 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | ETU 70Hz | A3-1 | 30% | -2.4 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | 2.4 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | ETU | A3-1 | 30% | -2.2 | | | | 300Hz | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | 2.9 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | Extended | ETU 70Hz | A4-2 | 30% | 4.8 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | 13.5 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | 4 | Normal | EPA 5Hz | A3-2 | 30% | -6.6 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | -3.1 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | A4-3 | 70% | 7.1 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | A5-2 | 70% | 14.4 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | EVA 5Hz | A3-1 | 30% | -5.0 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | -1.3 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | A4-1 | 30% | 1.3 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | 7.8 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | A5-1 | 70% | 15.4 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | EVA 70Hz | A3-2 | 30% | -6.3 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | -2.7 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | A4-3 | 30% | 0.8 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | 8.3 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | ETU 70Hz | A3-1 | 30% | -4.8 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | -1.0 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | ETU | A3-1 | 30% | -4.6 | | | | 300Hz | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | -0.6 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | Extended | ETU 70Hz | A4-2 | 30% | 1.6 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | 9.9 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+
Table 8.2.1.1-2 Minimum requirements for PUSCH, 3 MHz Channel Bandwidth
* * *
Number of RX antennas Cyclic prefix Propagation conditions (Annex B) FRC\
Fraction of maximum throughput SNR\ (Annex A) [dB]
2 Normal EPA 5Hz A3-3 30% -4.1
                                                                                         70%                              0.1
                                                                             A4-4        70%                              10.9
                                                                             A5-3        70%                              18.1
                                          EVA 5Hz                            A3-1        30%                              -2.8
                                                                                         70%                              1.8
                                                                             A4-1        30%                              4.3
                                                                                         70%                              11.5
                                                                             A5-1        70%                              18.8
                                          EVA 70Hz                           A3-3        30%                              -4.0
                                                                                         70%                              0.6
                                                                             A4-4        30%                              4.7
                                                                                         70%                              12.5
                                          ETU 70Hz                           A3-1        30%                              -2.5
                                                                                         70%                              2.4
                                          ETU 300Hz                          A3-1        30%                              -2.2
                                                                                         70%                              2.9
                          Extended        ETU 70Hz                           A4-2        30%                              4.7
                                                                                         70%                              13.5
4 Normal EPA 5Hz A3-3 30% -6.8
                                                                                         70%                              -3.4
                                                                             A4-4        70%                              7.7
                                                                             A5-3        70%                              14.4
                                          EVA 5Hz                            A3-1        30%                              -5.0
                                                                                         70%                              -1.3
                                                                             A4-1        30%                              1.2
                                                                                         70%                              7.8
                                                                             A5-1        70%                              15.4
                                          EVA 70Hz                           A3-3        30%                              -6.5
                                                                                         70%                              -2.9
                                                                             A4-4        30%                              1.6
                                                                                         70%                              8.7
                                          ETU 70Hz                           A3-1        30%                              -4.8
                                                                                         70%                              -0.9
                                          ETU 300Hz                          A3-1        30%                              -4.6
                                                                                         70%                              -0.6
                          Extended        ETU 70Hz                           A4-2        30%                              1.5
                                                                                         70%                              9.9
* * *
Table 8.2.1.1-3 Minimum requirements for PUSCH, 5 MHz Channel Bandwidth
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | Number | Cyclic | Pro | FRC\ | Fraction | SNR | | of RX | prefix | pagation | (Annex | of | | | antennas | | co | A) | maximum | [dB] | | | | nditions | | th | | | | | (Annex | | roughput | | | | | B) | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | 2 | Normal | EPA 5Hz | A3-4 | 30% | -4.7 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | -0.7 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | A4-5 | 70% | 10.4 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | A5-4 | 70% | 18.0 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | EVA 5Hz | A3-1 | 30% | -2.7 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | 1.8 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | A4-1 | 30% | 4.3 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | 11.5 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | A5-1 | 70% | 18.6 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | EVA 70Hz | A3-4 | 30% | -4.5 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | -0.1 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | A4-5 | 30% | 4.3 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | 12.3 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | ETU 70Hz | A3-1 | 30% | -2.5 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | 2.4 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | ETU | A3-1 | 30% | -2.2 | | | | 300Hz | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | 2.9 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | Extended | ETU 70Hz | A4-2 | 30% | 4.8 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | 13.5 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | 4 | Normal | EPA 5Hz | A3-4 | 30% | -7.1 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | -3.8 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | A4-5 | 70% | 7.6 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | A5-4 | 70% | 14.4 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | EVA 5Hz | A3-1 | 30% | -5.1 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | -1.4 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | A4-1 | 30% | 1.2 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | 7.9 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | A5-1 | 70% | 15.5 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | EVA 70Hz | A3-4 | 30% | -6.9 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | -3.3 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | A4-5 | 30% | 1.2 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | 8.3 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | ETU 70Hz | A3-1 | 30% | -4.8 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | -0.9 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | ETU | A3-1 | 30% | -4.6 | | | | 300Hz | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | -0.6 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | Extended | ETU 70Hz | A4-2 | 30% | 1.6 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | 9.9 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+
Table 8.2.1.1-4 Minimum requirements for PUSCH, 10 MHz Channel Bandwidth
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | Number | Cyclic | Pro | FRC\ | Fraction | SNR | | of RX | prefix | pagation | (Annex | of | | | antennas | | co | A) | maximum | [dB] | | | | nditions | | th | | | | | (Annex | | roughput | | | | | B) | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | 2 | Normal | EPA 5Hz | A3-5 | 30% | -4.2 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | -0.4 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | A4-6 | 70% | 10.8 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | A5-5 | 70% | 18.3 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | EVA 5Hz | A3-1 | 30% | -2.7 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | 1.9 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | A4-1 | 30% | 4.3 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | 11.4 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | A5-1 | 70% | 18.8 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | EVA 70Hz | A3-5 | 30% | -4.1 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | 0.1 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | A4-6 | 30% | 4.5 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | 12.6 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | ETU 70Hz | A3-1 | 30% | -2.5 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | 2.4 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | ETU | A3-1 | 30% | -2.2 | | | | 300Hz | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | 2.9 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | Extended | ETU 70Hz | A4-2 | 30% | 4.8 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | 13.6 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | 4 | Normal | EPA 5Hz | A3-5 | 30% | -6.8 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | -3.5 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | A4-6 | 70% | 7.5 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | A5-5 | 70% | 14.7 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | EVA 5Hz | A3-1 | 30% | -5.0 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | -1.2 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | A4-1 | 30% | 1.2 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | 7.9 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | A5-1 | 70% | 15.5 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | EVA 70Hz | A3-5 | 30% | -6.7 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | -2.9 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | A4-6 | 30% | 0.7 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | 8.0 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | ETU 70Hz | A3-1 | 30% | -4.8 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | -0.9 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | ETU | A3-1 | 30% | -4.6 | | | | 300Hz | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | -0.6 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | Extended | ETU 70Hz | A4-2 | 30% | 1.7 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | 10.3 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+
Table 8.2.1.1-5 Minimum requirements for PUSCH, 15 MHz Channel Bandwidth
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | Number | Cyclic | Pro | FRC\ | Fraction | SNR | | of RX | prefix | pagation | (Annex | of | | | antennas | | co | A) | maximum | [dB] | | | | nditions | | th | | | | | (Annex | | roughput | | | | | B) | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | 2 | Normal | EPA 5Hz | A3-6 | 30% | -4.5 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | -0.8 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | A4-7 | 70% | 11.3 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | A5-6 | 70% | 18.8 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | EVA 5Hz | A3-1 | 30% | -2.8 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | 1.8 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | A4-1 | 30% | 4.2 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | 11.4 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | A5-1 | 70% | 18.7 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | EVA 70Hz | A3-6 | 30% | -4.5 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | -0.3 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | A4-7 | 30% | 4.2 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | 12.9 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | ETU 70Hz | A3-1 | 30% | -2.5 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | 2.4 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | ETU | A3-1 | 30% | -2.2 | | | | 300Hz | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | 2.9 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | Extended | ETU 70Hz | A4-2 | 30% | 4.9 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | 13.6 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | 4 | Normal | EPA 5Hz | A3-6 | 30% | -7.2 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | -3.8 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | A4-7 | 70% | 7.6 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | A5-6 | 70% | 15.0 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | EVA 5Hz | A3-1 | 30% | -5.0 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | -1.2 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | A4-1 | 30% | 1.2 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | 7.9 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | A5-1 | 70% | 15.7 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | EVA 70Hz | A3-6 | 30% | -7.0 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | -3.3 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | A4-7 | 30% | 0.7 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | 8.5 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | ETU 70Hz | A3-1 | 30% | -4.8 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | -1.0 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | ETU | A3-1 | 30% | -4.6 | | | | 300Hz | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | -0.6 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | Extended | ETU 70Hz | A4-2 | 30% | 1.6 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | 10.1 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+
Table 8.2.1.1-6 Minimum requirements for PUSCH, 20 MHz Channel Bandwidth
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | Number | Cyclic | Pro | FRC\ | Fraction | SNR | | of RX | prefix | pagation | (Annex | of | | | antennas | | co | A) | maximum | [dB] | | | | nditions | | th | | | | | (Annex | | roughput | | | | | B) | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | 2 | Normal | EPA 5Hz | A3-7 | 30% | -4.2 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | -0.4 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | A4-8 | 70% | 11.5 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | A5-7 | 70% | 19.7 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | EVA 5Hz | A3-1 | 30% | -2.7 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | 1.8 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | A4-1 | 30% | 4.3 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | 11.5 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | A5-1 | 70% | 18.7 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | EVA 70Hz | A3-7 | 30% | -4.1 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | 0.2 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | A4-8 | 30% | 4.2 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | 13.0 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | ETU 70Hz | A3-1 | 30% | -2.4 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | 2.4 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | ETU | A3-1 | 30% | -2.1 | | | | 300Hz | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | 2.9 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | Extended | ETU 70Hz | A4-2 | 30% | 4.7 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | 13.6 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | 4 | Normal | EPA 5Hz | A3-7 | 30% | -6.8 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | -3.5 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | A4-8 | 70% | 7.5 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | A5-7 | 70% | 15.9 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | EVA 5Hz | A3-1 | 30% | -5.1 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | -1.3 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | A4-1 | 30% | 1.2 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | 7.9 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | A5-1 | 70% | 15.6 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | EVA 70Hz | A3-7 | 30% | -6.7 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | -2.9 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | A4-8 | 30% | 0.7 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | 8.6 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | ETU 70Hz | A3-1 | 30% | -4.4 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | -0.9 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | ETU | A3-1 | 30% | -4.6 | | | | 300Hz | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | -0.7 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | Extended | ETU 70Hz | A4-2 | 30% | 1.6 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | | 70% | 10.0 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+
### 8.2.2 Requirements for UL timing adjustment
The performance requirement of UL timing adjustment is determined by a minimum
required throughput for the moving UE at given SNR. The performance
requirements assume HARQ retransmissions. The performance requirements for UL
timing adjustment scenario 2 defined in Annex B.4 are optional.
In the tests for UL timing adjustment, two signals are configured, one being
transmitted by a moving UE and the other being transmitted by a stationary UE.
The transmission of SRS from UE is optional. FRC parameters in Table A.7-1 and
Table A.8-1 are applied for both UEs. The received power for both UEs is the
same. The resource blocks allocated for both UEs are consecutive. In Scenario
2, Doppler shift is not taken into account.
Table 8.2.2-1 Test parameters for testing UL timing adjustment
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameter | Value | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Maximum number of HARQ | 4 | | transmissions | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | RV sequence | 0, 2, 3, 1, 0, 2, 3, 1 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Uplink-downlink allocation for | Configuration 1 (2:2) | | TDD | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Subframes in which PUSCH is | For FDD: subframe #0, #2, #4, | | transmitted | #6, and #8 in radio frames | | | | | | For TDD: subframe #2, #3, #7 | | | and #8 in radio frames | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Subframes in which sounding RS | For FDD: subframe #1 in radio | | is transmitted | frames | | | | | (Note 1) | For TDD: UpPTS in subframe #1 | | | in radio frames | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Note 1. The transmission of SRS | | | is optional. | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
#### 8.2.2.1 Minimum requirements
The throughput shall be ≥ 70% of the maximum throughput of the reference
measurement channel as specified in Annex A for the moving UE at the SNR given
in table 8.2.2.1-1.
Table 8.2.2.1-1 Minimum requirements for UL timing adjustment
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | Number | Cyclic | Channel | Moving | FRC\ | SNR | | of RX | prefix | B | pro | (Annex | | | antennas | | andwidth | pagation | A) | [dB] | | | | [MHz] | co | | | | | | | nditions | | | | | | | (Annex | | | | | | | B) | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | 2 | Normal | 1.4 | Scenario | A7-1 | 13.1 | | | | | 1 | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | Scenario | A8-1 | -1.9 | | | | | 2 | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | 3 | Scenario | A7-2 | 13.4 | | | | | 1 | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | Scenario | A8-2 | -1.5 | | | | | 2 | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | 5 | Scenario | A7-3 | 13.2 | | | | | 1 | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | Scenario | A8-3 | -1.6 | | | | | 2 | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | 10 | Scenario | A7-4 | 13.8 | | | | | 1 | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | Scenario | A8-4 | -1.8 | | | | | 2 | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | 15 | Scenario | A7-5 | 14.0 | | | | | 1 | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | Scenario | A8-5 | -1.8 | | | | | 2 | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | 20 | Scenario | A7-6 | 13.9 | | | | | 1 | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+ | | | | Scenario | A8-6 | -1.8 | | | | | 2 | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------+
### 8.2.3 Requirements for high speed train
The performance requirement of PUSCH for high speed train is determined by a
minimum required throughput for a given SNR. The required throughput is
expressed as a fraction of maximum throughput for the FRCs listed in Annex A.
The performance requirements assume HARQ retransmissions. The performance
requirements for high speed train are optional.
Table 8.2.3-1 Test parameters for high speed train
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameter | Value | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Maximum number of HARQ | 4 | | transmissions | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | RV sequence | 0, 2, 3, 1, 0, 2, 3, 1 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Uplink-downlink allocation for | Configuration 1 (2:2) | | TDD | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Subframes in which PUSCH is | For FDD: | | transmitted | | | | subframe #0 and #8 in radio | | | frames for which SFN mod 4 = 0 | | | | | | subframe #6 in radio frames for | | | which SFN mod 4 = 1 | | | | | | subframe #4 in radio frames for | | | which SFN mod 4 = 2 | | | | | | subframe #2 in radio frames for | | | which SFN mod 4 = 3 | | | | | | For TDD: | | | | | | subframe #2 in each radio frame | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Subframes in which PUCCH is | For FDD: | | transmitted (Note1, Note 2) | | | | subframe #5 in radio frames | | | | | | For TDD: | | | | | | subframe #3 in each radio frame | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Note 1. The configuration of | | | PUCCH (format 2) is | | | optional.Note 2. The SNR values | | | per antenna shall be set to -4.5 | | | dB and -1.5 dB for Scenario 1 | | | and 3, respectively. | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
#### 8.2.3.1 Minimum requirements
The throughput shall be equal to or larger than the fraction of maximum
throughput stated in table 8.2.3.1-1 at the given SNR.
Table 8.2.3.1-1 Minimum requirements of PUSCH for high speed train
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | Channel | Cyclic | FRC\ | Number | Prop | F | SNR | | Ba | prefix | (Annex | of RX | agation | raction | | | ndwidth | | A) | a | con | of | [dB] | | [MHz] | | | ntennas | ditions | maximum | | | | | | | (Annex | thr | | | | | | | B) | oughput | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | 1.4 | Normal | A3-2 | 1 | HST | 30% | -1.5 | | | | | | S | | | | | | | | cenario | | | | | | | | 3 | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | | | | | 70% | 1.9 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | | | 2 | HST | 30% | -3.9 | | | | | | S | | | | | | | | cenario | | | | | | | | 1 | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | | | | | 70% | -0.6 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | 3 | Normal | A3-3 | 1 | HST | 30% | -2.1 | | | | | | S | | | | | | | | cenario | | | | | | | | 3 | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | | | | | 70% | 1.6 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | | | 2 | HST | 30% | -4.5 | | | | | | S | | | | | | | | cenario | | | | | | | | 1 | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | | | | | 70% | -1.0 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | 5 | Normal | A3-4 | 1 | HST | 30% | -2.6 | | | | | | S | | | | | | | | cenario | | | | | | | | 3 | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | | | | | 70% | 1.3 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | | | 2 | HST | 30% | -5.1 | | | | | | S | | | | | | | | cenario | | | | | | | | 1 | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | | | | | 70% | -1.4 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | 10 | Normal | A3-5 | 1 | HST | 30% | -2.7 | | | | | | S | | | | | | | | cenario | | | | | | | | 3 | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | | | | | 70% | 1.2 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | | | 2 | HST | 30% | -5.4 | | | | | | S | | | | | | | | cenario | | | | | | | | 1 | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | | | | | 70% | -1.5 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | 15 | Normal | A3-6 | 1 | HST | 30% | -2.7 | | | | | | S | | | | | | | | cenario | | | | | | | | 3 | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | | | | | 70% | 1.2 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | | | 2 | HST | 30% | -5.2 | | | | | | S | | | | | | | | cenario | | | | | | | | 1 | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | | | | | 70% | -1.4 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | 20 | Normal | A3-7 | 1 | HST | 30% | -2.7 | | | | | | S | | | | | | | | cenario | | | | | | | | 3 | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | | | | | 70% | 1.2 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | | | 2 | HST | 30% | -5.3 | | | | | | S | | | | | | | | cenario | | | | | | | | 1 | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | | | | | 70% | -1.4 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+
### 8.2.4 Requirements for HARQ-ACK multiplexed on PUSCH
Two performance requirements are defined for HARQ-ACK multiplexed on PUSCH:
ACK false detection and ACK missed detection requirements.
The ACK false detection probability for PUSCH is the probability that ACK is
detected when data only is sent on symbols where HARQ-ACK information can be
allocated (i.e. by puncturing data).
The ACK missed detection probability for HARQ-ACK multiplexed on PUSCH is the
conditional probability of not detecting an ACK when it was sent on PUSCH
resources.
In the tests for ACK missed detection on PUSCH, data is punctured by the
control information (i.e. ACK/NAK) in both slots within subframe on symbols as
specified in 36.212.
In both tests none of CQI, RI nor SRS is transmitted. Tests are to be
performed for one bit HARQ-ACK information (O = 1).
#### 8.2.4.1 Minimum requirement
The ACK false detection probability as well as the ACK missed detection
probability for HARQ-ACK multiplexed on PUSCH shall not exceed 1% at PUSCH
power settings presented in table 8.2.4.1-1.
Table 8.2.4.1-1 Minimum requirements for HARQ-ACK multiplexed on PUSCH
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Number | Cyclic | Prop | Channel | FRC | { | | | a | | ditions | [MHz] | | width=" | | | ntennas | | | | | 0.67708 | | | | | (Annex | | | 3333333 | | | | | B) | | | 3334in" | | | | | | | | heigh | | | | | | | | t="0.28 | | | | | | | | 125in"} | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 2 | Normal | ETU70 | 1.4 | A.3-1 | 8 | 6.6 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | | | A.4-3 | 5 | 13.8 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | | 3 | A.3-1 | 8 | 6.6 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | | | A.4-4 | 5 | 12.9 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | | 5 | A.3-1 | 8 | 6.5 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | | | A.4-5 | 5 | 12.5 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | | 10 | A.3-1 | 8 | 6.6 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | | | A.4-6 | 5 | 12.3 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | | 15 | A.3-1 | 8 | 6.7 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | | | A.4-7 | 5 | 12.1 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | | 20 | A.3-1 | 8 | 6.5 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | | | A.4-8 | 5 | 12 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
## 8.3 Performance requirements for PUCCH
### 8.3.1 DTX to ACK performance
The DTX to ACK requirement is valid for any number of receive antennas, for
all frame structures and for any channel bandwidth.
The DTX to ACK probability for multi user PUCCH case denotes the probability
that ACK is detected when nothing is sent on the wanted signal and the
interfering signals are present.
#### 8.3.1.1 Minimum requirement
The DTX to ACK probability, i.e. the probability that ACK is detected when
nothing is sent, shall not exceed 1%.
### 8.3.2 ACK missed detection requirements for single user PUCCH format 1a
The ACK missed detection probability is the probability of not detecting an
ACK when an ACK was sent.
ACK/NAK repetitions are disabled for PUCCH transmission.
#### 8.3.2.1 Minimum requirements
The ACK missed detection probability shall not exceed 1% at the SNR given in
table 8.3.2.1-1.
Table 8.3.2.1-1 Minimum requirements for single user PUCCH format 1a
* * *
Number of RX antennas Cyclic Prefix Propagation Conditions (Annex B) Channel
Bandwidth / SNR [dB]  
1.4 MHz 3 MHz 5 MHz 10 MHz 15 MHz 20 MHz 2 Normal EPA 5 -2.5 -3.9 -4.8 -5.4
-5.3 -5.1 EVA 5 -4.5 -5.1 -5.1 -5.0 -5.1 -5.1 EVA 70 -4.9 -5.2 -5.2 -5.1 -5.2
-5.1 ETU 300 -5.0 -5.1 -4.9 -5.0 -5.2 -5.2 Extended ETU 70 -4.2 -4.3 -4.1 -4.3
-4.2 -4.3 4 Normal EPA 5 -7.9 -8.4 -8.7 -8.9 -8.9 -9.0 EVA 5 -8.8 -9.1 -9.1
-8.8 -8.9 -8.9 EVA 70 -8.9 -9.0 -9.0 -8.8 -9.0 -8.8 ETU 300 -8.7 -8.9 -8.7
-8.7 -8.9 -8.8 Extended ETU 70 -7.9 -8.1 -7.9 -8.1 -8.0 -8.0
* * *
### 8.3.3 CQI performance requirements for PUCCH format 2
The CQI block error probability (BLER) is defined as the conditional
probability of incorrectly decoding the CQI information when the CQI
information is sent. All CQI information shall be decoded (no exclusion due to
DTX).
The CQI information bit payload per sub-frame is equal to 4 bits.
#### 8.3.3.1 Minimum requirements
The CQI block error probability shall not exceed 1% at the SNR given in table
8.3.3.1-1.
Table 8.3.3.1-1 Minimum requirements for PUCCH format 2
* * *
Number of RX antennas Cyclic Prefix Propagation Conditions (Annex B) Channel
Bandwidth / SNR [dB]  
1.4 MHz 3 MHz 5 MHz 10 MHz 15 MHz 20 MHz **2** **Normal** **ETU 70** **-3.9**
**-4.4** **-4.2** **-4.4** **-4.4** **-4.4**
* * *
### 8.3.4 ACK missed detection requirements for multi user PUCCH format 1a
The ACK missed detection probability is the conditional probability of not
detecting an ACK on the wanted signal in the presence of the wanted signal and
the interfering signals.
Test parameters for multi user PUCCH case are presented in Annex A.9.
ACK/NAK repetitions are disabled for PUCCH transmission.
#### 8.3.4.1 Minimum requirement
The ACK missed detection probability for multi user PUCCH case shall not
exceed 1% at the SNR given in table 8.3.4.1‑1.
Table 8.3.4.1-1 Minimum requirements for multi user PUCCH case
* * *
Number of RX antennas Cyclic Prefix Propagation Conditions (Annex B) Channel
Bandwidth / SNR [dB]  
1.4 MHz 3 MHz 5 MHz 10 MHz 15 MHz 20 MHz 2 Normal ETU 70 -4.1 -4.4 -4.4 -4.6
-4.6 -4.4
* * *
## 8.4 Performance requirements for PRACH
### 8.4.1 PRACH False alarm probability
The false alarm requirement is valid for any number of receive antennas, for
all frame structures and for any channel bandwidth.
The false alarm probability is the conditional total probability of erroneous
detection of the preamble (i.e. erroneous detection from any detector) when
input is only noise.
#### 8.4.1.1 Minimum requirement
The false alarm probability shall be less than or equal to 0.1%.
### 8.4.2 PRACH detection requirements
The probability of detection is the conditional probability of correct
detection of the preamble when the signal is present. There are several error
cases -- detecting different preamble than the one that was sent, not
detecting a preamble at all or correct preamble detection but with the wrong
timing estimation. For AWGN, a timing estimation error occurs if the
estimation error of the timing of the strongest path is larger than 1.04us.
For ETU70, a timing estimation error occurs if the estimation error of the
timing of the strongest path is larger than 2.08us. The strongest path for the
timing estimation error refers to the strongest path (i.e. average of the
delay of all paths having the same highest gain = 310ns for ETU) in the power
delay profile.
The test preambles for normal mode are listed in table A.6-1 and the test
preambles for high speed mode are listed in A.6-2.
#### 8.4.2.1 Minimum requirements
The probability of detection shall be equal to or exceed 99% for the SNR
levels listed in table 8.4.2.1-1 and 8.4.2.1-2.
The requirements for Burst format 4 are optional and only valid for base
stations supporting TDD. The requirements for high speed mode (table
8.4.2.1-2) are only valid for the base stations supporting high speed mode.
Table 8.4.2.1-1 PRACH missed detection requirements for Normal Mode
* * *
Number of RX antennas Propagation conditions (Annex B) Frequency offset SNR
[dB]  
Burst format 0 Burst format 1 Burst format 2 Burst format 3 Burst format 4 2
AWGN 0 -14.2 -14.2 -16.4 -16.5 -7.2 ETU 70 270 Hz -8.0 -7.8 -10.0 -10.1 -0.1 4
AWGN 0 -16.9 -16.7 -19.0 -18.8 -9.8 ETU 70 270 Hz -12.1 -11.7 -14.1 -13.9 -5.1
* * *
Table 8.4.2.1-2 PRACH missed detection requirements for High speed Mode
* * *
Number of RX antennas Propagation conditions (Annex B) Frequency offset SNR
[dB]  
Burst format 0 Burst format 1 Burst format 2 Burst format 3 2 AWGN 0 -14.1
-14.2 -16.3 -16.6 ETU 70 270 Hz -7.4 -7.3 -9.3 -9.5 AWGN 625 Hz -12.4 -12.3
-14.4 -14.4 AWGN 1340 Hz -13.4 -13.5 -15.5 -15.7 4 AWGN 0 -16.9 -16.6 -18.9
-18.8 ETU 70 270 Hz -11.8 -11.4 -13.7 -13.7 AWGN 625 Hz -14.9 -14.6 -16.8
-16.8 AWGN 1340 Hz -15.9 -15.5 -17.8 -17.8
* * *
###### ## Annex A (normative): Reference measurement channels
The parameters for the reference measurement channels are specified in clause
A.1 for reference sensitivity and in-channel selectivity and in clause A.2 for
dynamic range.
A schematic overview of the encoding process for the reference measurement
channels is provided in Figure A-1.
Receiver requirements in the present document are defined with a throughput
stated relative to the Maximum throughput of the FRC. The Maximum throughput
for an FRC equals the Payload size * the Number of uplink subframes per
second. For FDD, 1000 uplink sub-frames per second are used.
Figure A-1. Schematic overview of the encoding process
# A.1 Fixed Reference Channels for reference sensitivity and in-channel
selectivity (QPSK, R=1/3)
The parameters for the reference measurement channels are specified in Table
A.1-1 for reference sensitivity and in-channel selectivity.
Table A.1-1 FRC parameters for reference sensitivity and in-channel
selectivity
* * *
Reference channel A1-1 A1-2 A1-3 A1-4 A1-5 Allocated resource blocks 6 15 25 3
9 DFT-OFDM Symbols per subframe 12 12 12 12 12 Modulation QPSK QPSK QPSK QPSK
QPSK Code rate 1/3 1/3 1/3 1/3 1/3 Payload size (bits) 600 1544 2216 256 936
Transport block CRC (bits) 24 24 24 24 24 Code block CRC size (bits) 0 0 0 0 0
Number of code blocks - C 1 1 1 1 1 Coded block size including 12bits trellis
termination (bits) 1884 4716 6732 852 2892 Total number of bits per sub-frame
1728 4320 7200 864 2592 Total symbols per sub-frame 864 2160 3600 432 1296
* * *
# A.2 Fixed Reference Channels for dynamic range (16QAM, R=2/3)
The parameters for the reference measurement channels are specified in Table
A.2-1 for dynamic range.
Table A.2-1 FRC parameters for dynamic range
* * *
Reference channel A2-1 A2-2 A2-3 Allocated resource blocks 6 15 25 DFT-OFDM
Symbols per subframe 12 12 12 Modulation 16QAM 16QAM 16QAM Code rate 2/3 2/3
2/3 Payload size (bits) 2344 5992 9912 Transport block CRC (bits) 24 24 24
Code block CRC size (bits) 0 0 24 Number of code blocks - C 1 1 2 Coded block
size including 12bits trellis termination (bits) 7116 18060 14988 Total number
of bits per sub-frame 3456 8640 14400 Total symbols per sub-frame 864 2160
3600
* * *
# A.3 Fixed Reference Channels for performance requirements (QPSK 1/3)
Table A.3-1 FRC parameters for performance requirements (QPSK 1/3)
* * *
Reference channel A3-1 A3-2 A3-3 A3-4 A3-5 A3-6 A3-7 Allocated resource blocks
1 6 15 25 50 75 100 DFT-OFDM Symbols per subframe 12 12 12 12 12 12 12
Modulation QPSK QPSK QPSK QPSK QPSK QPSK QPSK Code rate 1/3 1/3 1/3 1/3 1/3
1/3 1/3 Payload size (bits) 104 600 1544 2216 5160 6712 10296 Transport block
CRC (bits) 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 Code block CRC size (bits) 0 0 0 0 0 24 24
Number of code blocks - C 1 1 1 1 1 2 2 Coded block size including 12bits
trellis termination (bits) 396 1884 4716 6732 15564 10188 15564 Total number
of bits per sub-frame 288 1728 4320 7200 14400 21600 28800 Total symbols per
sub-frame 144 864 2160 3600 7200 10800 14400
* * *
# A.4 Fixed Reference Channels for performance requirements (16QAM 3/4)
Table A.4-1 FRC parameters for performance requirements (16QAM 3/4)
* * *
Reference channel A4-1 A4-2 A4-3 A4-4 A4-5 A4-6 A4-7 A4-8 Allocated resource
blocks 1 1 6 15 25 50 75 100 DFT-OFDM Symbols per subframe 12 10 12 12 12 12
12 12 Modulation 16QAM 16QAM 16QAM 16QAM 16QAM 16QAM 16QAM 16QAM Code rate 3/4
3/4 3/4 3/4 3/4 3/4 3/4 3/4 Payload size (bits) 408 376 2600 6456 10680 21384
32856 43816 Transport block CRC (bits) 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 Code block CRC
size (bits) 0 0 0 24 24 24 24 24 Number of code blocks - C 1 1 1 2 2 4 6 8
Coded block size including 12bits trellis termination (bits) 1308 1212 7884
9804 16140 16140 16524 16524 Total number of bits per sub-frame 576 480 3456
8640 14400 28800 43200 57600 Total symbols per sub-frame 144 120 864 2160 3600
7200 10800 14400
* * *
# A.5 Fixed Reference Channels for performance requirements (64QAM 5/6)
Table A.5-1 FRC parameters for performance requirements (64QAM 5/6)
* * *
Reference channel A5-1 A5-2 A5-3 A5-4 A5-5 A5-6 A5-7 Allocated resource blocks
1 6 15 25 50 75 100 DFT-OFDM Symbols per subframe 12 12 12 12 12 12 12
Modulation 64QAM 64QAM 64QAM 64QAM 64QAM 64QAM 64QAM Code rate 5/6 5/6 5/6 5/6
5/6 5/6 5/6 Payload size (bits) 712 4392 11064 18336 36696 55056 75376
Transport block CRC (bits) 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 Code block CRC size (bits) 0 0
24 24 24 24 24 Number of code blocks - C 1 1 2 3 6 9 13 Coded block size
including 12bits trellis termination (bits) 2220 13260 16716 18444 18444 18444
17484 Total number of bits per sub-frame 864 5184 12960 21600 43200 64800
86400 Total symbols per sub-frame 144 864 2160 3600 7200 10800 14400
* * *
# A.6 PRACH Test preambles
Table A.6-1 Test preambles for Normal Mode
* * *
Burst format Ncs Logical sequence index v 0 13 22 32 1 167 22 2 2 167 22 0 3 0
22 0 4 10 0 0
* * *
Table A.6-2 Test preambles for High speed Mode
* * *
Burst format Ncs Logical sequence index v 0 15 384 0 1 202 384 0 2 202 384 0 3
237 384 0
* * *
# A.7 Fixed Reference Channels for UL timing adjustment (Scenario 1)
Table A.7-1 FRC parameters for UL timing adjustment (Scenario 1)
+---------------------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Reference channel | A7-1 | A7-2 | A7-3 | A7-4 | A7-5 | A7-6 | +---------------------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Allocated resource | 3 | 6 | 12 | 25 | 25 | 25 | | blocks | | | | | | | +---------------------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | DFT-OFDM Symbols | 12 | 12 | 12 | 12 | 12 | 12 | | per subframe | | | | | | | +---------------------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Modulation | 16QAM | 16QAM | 16QAM | 16QAM | 16QAM | 16QAM | +---------------------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Code rate | 3/4 | 3/4 | 3/4 | 3/4 | 3/4 | 3/4 | +---------------------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Payload size (bits) | 1288 | 2600 | 5160 | 10680 | 10680 | 10680 | +---------------------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Transport block CRC | 24 | 24 | 24 | 24 | 24 | 24 | | (bits) | | | | | | | +---------------------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Code block CRC size | 0 | 0 | 0 | 24 | 24 | 24 | | (bits) | | | | | | | +---------------------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Number of code | 1 | 1 | 1 | 2 | 2 | 2 | | blocks - C | | | | | | | +---------------------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Coded block size | 3948 | 7884 | 15564 | 16140 | 16140 | 16140 | | including 12bits | | | | | | | | trellis termination | | | | | | | | (bits) | | | | | | | +---------------------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Total number of | 1728 | 3456 | 6912 | 14400 | 14400 | 14400 | | bits per sub-frame | | | | | | | +---------------------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Total symbols per | 432 | 864 | 1728 | 3600 | 3600 | 3600 | | sub-frame | | | | | | | +---------------------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | SRS bandwidth | 7 | 5 | 3 | 2 | 5 | 2 | | configuration (See | | | | | | | | TS 36.211, 5.5.3) | | | | | | | | (Note 1) | | | | | | | +---------------------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | SRS-Bandwidth b | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 1 | | (See TS 36.211, | | | | | | | | 5.5.3) (Note 1, 2) | | | | | | | +---------------------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE 1. The | | | | | | | | transmission of SRS | | | | | | | | is optional | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2. PUSCH | | | | | | | | resource blocks | | | | | | | | shall be included | | | | | | | | in SRS resource | | | | | | | | blocks | | | | | | | +---------------------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
# A.8 Fixed Reference Channels for UL timing adjustment (Scenario 2)
Table A.8-1 FRC parameters for UL timing adjustment (Scenario 2)
+---------------------------+------+------+------+------+------+------+ | Reference channel | A8-1 | A8-2 | A8-3 | A8-4 | A8-5 | A8-6 | +---------------------------+------+------+------+------+------+------+ | Allocated resource blocks | 3 | 6 | 12 | 25 | 25 | 25 | +---------------------------+------+------+------+------+------+------+ | DFT-OFDM Symbols per | 12 | 12 | 12 | 12 | 12 | 12 | | subframe | | | | | | | +---------------------------+------+------+------+------+------+------+ | Modulation | QPSK | QPSK | QPSK | QPSK | QPSK | QPSK | +---------------------------+------+------+------+------+------+------+ | Code rate | 1/3 | 1/3 | 1/3 | 1/3 | 1/3 | 1/3 | +---------------------------+------+------+------+------+------+------+ | Payload size (bits) | 256 | 600 | 1224 | 2216 | 2216 | 2216 | +---------------------------+------+------+------+------+------+------+ | Transport block CRC | 24 | 24 | 24 | 24 | 24 | 24 | | (bits) | | | | | | | +---------------------------+------+------+------+------+------+------+ | Code block CRC size | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | | (bits) | | | | | | | +---------------------------+------+------+------+------+------+------+ | Number of code blocks - C | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | +---------------------------+------+------+------+------+------+------+ | Coded block size | 852 | 1884 | 3756 | 6732 | 6732 | 6732 | | including 12bits trellis | | | | | | | | termination (bits) | | | | | | | +---------------------------+------+------+------+------+------+------+ | Total number of bits per | 864 | 1728 | 3456 | 7200 | 7200 | 7200 | | sub-frame | | | | | | | +---------------------------+------+------+------+------+------+------+ | Total symbols per | 432 | 864 | 1728 | 3600 | 3600 | 3600 | | sub-frame | | | | | | | +---------------------------+------+------+------+------+------+------+ | SRS bandwidth | 7 | 5 | 3 | 2 | 5 | 2 | | configuration (See TS | | | | | | | | 36.211, 5.5.3) (Note 1) | | | | | | | +---------------------------+------+------+------+------+------+------+ | SRS-Bandwidth b (See TS | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 1 | | 36.211, 5.5.3) (Note 1, | | | | | | | | 2) | | | | | | | +---------------------------+------+------+------+------+------+------+ | NOTE 1. The transmission | | | | | | | | of SRS is optional | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2. PUSCH resource | | | | | | | | blocks shall be included | | | | | | | | in SRS resource blocks | | | | | | | +---------------------------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
# A.9 Multi user PUCCH test
Table A.9-1 Test parameters for multi user PUCCH case
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | Resource index | Relative power | Relative | | | for | | timing | | | | [dB] | | | | PUCCH formats | | [ns] | | | 1/1a/1b | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Tested signal | 2 | - | - | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Interferer 1 | 1 | 0 | 0 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Interferer 2 | 7 | -3 | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Interferer 3 | 14 | 3 | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | NOTE1: The | | | | | following | | | | | parameters | | | | | shall be used | | | | | $ | | | | | N_{\text{ID}}^ | | | | | {\text{cell}} | | | | | = \text{150}$, | | | | | $N_{\text{c | | | | | s}}^{(1)} = 0$ | | | | | and | | | | | $ | | | | | \Delta_{\text{ | | | | | shift}}^{\text | | | | | {PUCCH}} = 2$. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE2: All | | | | | above listed | | | | | signals are | | | | | transmitted on | | | | | the same PUCCH | | | | | resource | | | | | block, with | | | | | different | | | | | PUCCH resource | | | | | indices as | | | | | presented | | | | | above. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
###### ## Annex B (normative): Propagation conditions
# B.1 Static propagation condition
The propagation for the static performance measurement is an Additive White
Gaussian Noise (AWGN) environment. No fading or multi-paths exist for this
propagation model.
# B.2 Multi-path fading propagation conditions
Tables B.2-1 -- B.2-3 show multi-path delay profiles that are used for the
performance measurements in multi-path fading environment. All taps have
classical Doppler spectrum, defined as:
(CLASS) {width="1.78125in" height="0.25in"} for _f_ ∈ -_fD_ , _fD_.
Table B.2-1 Extended Pedestrian A model (EPA)
* * *
Excess tap delay [ns] Relative power\ [dB]
0 0.0
30 -1.0
70 -2.0
90 -3.0
110 -8.0
190 -17.2
410 -20.8
* * *
Table B.2-2 Extended Vehicular A model (EVA)
* * *
Excess tap delay [ns] Relative power [dB] 0 0.0 30 -1.5 150 -1.4 310 -3.6 370
-0.6 710 -9.1 1090 -7.0 1730 -12.0 2510 -16.9
* * *
Table B.2-3 Extended Typical Urban model (ETU)
* * *
Excess tap delay [ns] Relative power [dB] 0 -1.0 50 -1.0 120 -1.0 200 0.0 230
0.0 500 0.0 1600 -3.0 2300 -5.0 5000 -7.0
* * *
A multipath fading propagation condition is defined by a combination of a
multi-path delay profile and a maximum Doppler frequency _f~D~_ which is
either 5, 70 or 300 Hz. In addidion, 200 Hz Doppler frequency is specified for
UL timing adjustment performance requirement.
# B.3 High speed train condition
High speed train conditions are as follows:
> Scenario 1: Open space
>
> Scenario 3: Tunnel for multi-antennas
The high speed train conditions for the test of the baseband performance are
two non-fading propagation channels in both scenarios. For BS with Rx
diversity defined in scenario 1, the Doppler shift variation is the same
between antennas.
Doppler shift for both scenarios is given by:
$f_{s}\left( t \right) = f_{d}\text{cos}\theta\left( t \right)$ (B.3.1)
where $f_{s}\left( t \right)$ is the Doppler shift and $f_{d}$ is the maximum
Doppler frequency. The cosine of angle $\theta\left( t \right)$is given by:
$\text{cos}\theta\left( t \right) = \frac{D_{s}/2 -
\text{vt}}{\sqrt{D_{\text{min}^{2}} + \left( D_{s}/2 - \text{vt}
\right)^{2}}}$, $0 \leq t \leq D_{s}/v$ (B.3.2)
$\text{cos}\theta\left( t \right) = \frac{- 1\text{.}5D_{s} +
\text{vt}}{\sqrt{D_{\text{min}^{2}} + \left( - 1\text{.}5D_{s} + \text{vt}
\right)^{2}}}$, $D_{s}/v  2D_{s}/v$ (B.3.4)
where $D_{s}/2$ is the initial distance of the train from BS, and
$D_{\text{min}}$ is BS-Railway track distance, both in meters; $v$ is the
velocity of the train in m/s, $t$ is time in seconds.
Doppler shift and cosine angle is given by equation B.3.1 and B.3.2-B.3.4
respectively, where the required input parameters listed in table B.3-1 and
the resulting Doppler shift shown in Figure B.3-1 and B.3-2 are applied for
all frequency bands.
Table B.3-1: Parameters for high speed train conditions
* * *
Parameter Value  
Scenario 1 Scenario 3 1000 m 300 m 50 m 2 m 350 km/h 300 km/h 1340 Hz 1150 Hz
* * *
NOTE1: Parameters for HST conditions in table B.3-1 including $f_{d}$ and
Doppler shift trajectories presented on figures B.3-1 and B.3-2 were derived
for Band1.
{width="5.075in" height="3.1590277777777778in"}
Figure B.3-1: Doppler shift trajectory for scenario 1
{width="5.075in" height="3.1590277777777778in"}
Figure B.3-2: Doppler shift trajectory for scenario 3
# B.4 Moving propagation conditions
Figure B.4-1 illustrates the moving propagation conditions for the test of the
UL timing adjustment performance. The time difference between the reference
timing and the first tap is according Equation (B.4-1). The timing difference
between moving UE and stationary UE is equal to Δτ - (_T~A~_ −31)×16 _T~s~_.
The relative timing among all taps is fixed. The parameters for the moving
propagation conditions are shown in Table B.4-1.
Figure B.4-1: Moving propagation conditions
$\text{Δτ} = \frac{A}{2} \cdot \text{sin}(\text{Δω} \cdot t)$ (B.4-1)
Table B.4-1: Parameters for UL timing adjustment
* * *
Parameter Scenario 1 Scenario 2 Channel model ETU200 AWGN UE speed 120 km/h
350 km/h CP length Normal Normal A 10 μs 10 μs ∆ω 0.04 s^-1^ 0.13 s^-1^
* * *
NOTE 1: Multipath fading propagation conditions for Scenario 1 were derived
for Band 1 with additional rounding applied to the Doppler frequency
calculated for the specified UE speed.
NOTE 2: In Scenario 2, Doppler shift is not taken into account.
###### ## Annex C (normative): Characteristics of the interfering signals
The interfering signal shall be a PUSCH containing data and reference symbols.
Normal cyclic prefix is used. The data content shall be uncorrelated to the
wanted signal and modulated according to clause 5 of TS36.211. Mapping of
PUSCH modulation to receiver requirement are specified in table C-1.1.
Table C-1: Modulation of the interfering signal
* * *
Receiver requirement Modulation In-channel selectivity 16QAM Adjacent channel
selectivity and narrow-band blocking QPSK Blocking QPSK Receiver
intermodulation QPSK
* * *
###### ## Annex D (normative): Environmental requirements for the BS equipment
The BS equipment shall fulfil all the requirements in the full range of
environmental conditions for the relevant environmental class from the
relevant IEC specifications listed below
60 721-3-3 \"Stationary use at weather protected locations\" [12];
60 721-3-4 \"Stationary use at non weather protected locations\" [13].
Normally it should be sufficient for all tests to be conducted using normal
test conditions except where otherwise stated. For guidance on the use of test
conditions to be used in order to show compliance refer to TS 36.141.
###### ## Annex E (normative): Error Vector Magnitude
# E.1 Reference point for measurement
The EVM shall be measured at the point after the FFT and a zero-forcing (ZF)
equalizer in the receiver, as depicted in Figure E.1-1 below.
Figure E.1-1: Reference point for EVM measurement
# E.2 Basic unit of measurement
The basic unit of EVM measurement is defined over one subframe (1ms) in the
time domain and $N_{\text{BW}}^{\text{RB}}$ subcarriers (180kHz) in the
frequency domain:
where
$T$ is the set of symbols with the considered modulation scheme being active
within the subframe,
$F(t)$is the set of subcarriers within the $N_{\text{BW}}^{\text{RB}}$
subcarriers with the considered modulation scheme being active in symbol _t_ ,
$I(t,f)$ _is_ the ideal signal reconstructed by the measurement equipment in
accordance with relevant Tx models,
$Z'(t,f)$ is the modified signal under test defined in E.3.
Note: Although the basic unit of measurement is one subframe, the equalizer is
calculated over 10 subframe measurement periods to reduce the impact of noise
in the reference symbols. The boundaries of the 10 subframe measurement
periods need not be aligned with radio frame boundaries.
# E.3 Modified signal under test
Implicit in the definition of EVM is an assumption that the receiver is able
to compensate a number of transmitter impairments. The signal under test is
equalised and decoded according to:
where
$z(v)$ is the time domain samples of the signal under test.
$\Delta\overset{\sim}{t}$ is the sample timing difference between the FFT
processing window in relation to nominal timing of the ideal signal. Note that
two timing offsets are determined, the corresponding EVM is measured and the
maximum used as described in E.7.
$\Delta\overset{\sim}{f}$ is the RF frequency offset.
$\overset{\sim}{\phi}(t,f)$ is the phase response of the TX chain.
$\overset{\sim}{a}(t,f)$ is the amplitude response of the TX chain.
# E.4 Estimation of frequency offset
The observation period for determining the frequency offset
$\Delta\overset{\sim}{f}$ shall be 1 ms.
# E.5 Estimation of time offset
The observation period for determining the sample timing difference
$\Delta\overset{\sim}{t}$shall be 1 ms.
In the following $\Delta\overset{\sim}{c}$ represents the middle sample of the
EVM window of length $W$ (defined in E.5.1) or the last sample of the first
window half if $W$is even.
$\Delta\overset{\sim}{c}$is estimated so that the EVM window of length $W$ is
centred on the measured cyclic prefix of the considered OFDM symbol. To
minimize the estimation error the timing shall be based on the primary
synchronization signal and reference signals. To limit time distortion of any
transmit filter the reference signals in the 1 outer RBs are not taken into
account in the timing estimation
Two values for $\Delta\overset{\sim}{t}$ are determined:
$\Delta{\overset{\sim}{t}}_{l} = \Delta\overset{\sim}{c} + \alpha -
\left\lfloor \frac{W}{2} \right\rfloor$ and
$\Delta{\overset{\sim}{t}}_{h} = \Delta\overset{\sim}{c} + \left\lfloor
\frac{W}{2} \right\rfloor$ where $\alpha = 0$ if $W$ is odd and $\alpha = 1$
if $W$is even.
When the cyclic prefix length varies from symbol to symbol (e.g. time
multiplexed MBMS and unicast) then $T$ shall be further restricted to the
subset of symbols with the considered modulation scheme being active and with
the considered cyclic prefix length type.
## E.5.1 Window length
Table E.5.1-1 below specifies EVM window length (W) for normal CP, the cyclic
prefix length $N_{\text{cp}}$ is 160 for symbols 0 and 144 for symbols 1-6.
Table E.5.1-2 specifies the EVM window length (W) for extended CP, the cyclic
prefix length $N_{\text{cp}}$ is 512.
Table E.5.1-1 EVM window length for normal CP
* * *
Channel\ FFT size Cyclic prefix length for symbols 0 in FFT samples Cyclic
prefix length for symbols 1‑6 in FFT samples EVM window length _W_ Ratio of
_W_ to total CP for symbols 1‑6* [%] Bandwidth MHz
1.4 128 10 9 5 55.6
3 256 20 18 12 66.7
5 512 40 36 32 88.9
10 1024 80 72 66 91.7
15 1536 120 108 102 94.4
20 2048 160 144 136 94.4
* Note: These percentages are informative and apply to symbols 1 through 6. Symbol 0 has a longer CP and therefore a lower percentage. 
* * *
Table E.5.1-2 EVM window length for extended CP
* * *
Channel Bandwidth [MHz] FFT size Cyclic prefix in FFT samples EVM window
length _W_ Ratio of _W_ to total CP *\ [%]
1.4 128 32 28 87.5
3 256 64 58 90.6
5 512 128 124 96.9
10 1024 256 250 97.7
15 1536 384 378 98.4
20 2048 512 504 98.4
* Note: These percentages are informative. 
* * *
# E.6 Estimation of TX chain amplitude and frequency response parameters
The equalizer coefficients $\overset{\sim}{a}(t,f)$and
$\overset{\sim}{\phi}(t,f)$ are determined as follows:
1\. time averaging at each reference signal subcarrier of the amplitude and
phase of the reference symbols, the time-averaging length is 10 subframes This
process creates an average amplitude and phase for each reference signal
subcarrier (i.e. every third subcarrier with the exception of the reference
subcarrier spacing across the DC subcarrier).
2\. The equalizer coefficients for amplitude and phase $\hat{a}(t,f)$ and
$\hat{\phi}(t,f)$ at the reference signal subcarriers are obtained by
computing the moving average in the frequency domain of the time-averaged
reference signal subcarriers, i.e. every third subcarrier. The moving average
window size is 19. For reference subcarriers at or near the edge of the
channel the window size is reduced accordingly as per figure E.6-1.
3\. performing linear interpolation from the equalizer coefficients
$\hat{a}(t,f)$ and $\hat{\phi}(t,f)$ to compute coefficients
$\overset{\sim}{a}(t,f)$, $\overset{\sim}{\phi}(t,f)$ for each subcarrier.
Figure E.6-1: Reference subcarrier smoothing in the frequency domain
# E.7 Averaged EVM
EVM is averaged over all allocated downlink resource blocks with the
considered modulation scheme in the frequency domain, and a minimum of 10
downlink subframes:
For FDD the averaging in the time domain equals the 10 subframe duration of
the 10 subframes measurement period from the equalizer estimation step.
For TDD the averaging in the time domain can be calculated from subframes of
different frames and should have a minimum of 10 subframes averaging length.
TDD special fields (DwPTS and GP) are not included in the averaging.
_Where Ni_ is the number of resource blocks with the considered modulation
scheme in subframe _i_ and _N~dl~_ is the number of allocated downlink
subframes in one frame.
The EVM requirements shall be tested against the maximum of the RMS average at
the window W extremities of the EVM measurements:
Thus ${\overline{\text{EVM}}}_{\text{frame,\ l}}$ is calculated using
$\Delta\overset{\sim}{t} = \Delta{\overset{\sim}{t}}_{l}$in the expressions
above and ${\overline{\text{EVM}}}_{\text{frame},h}$is calculated using
$\Delta\overset{\sim}{t} = \Delta{\overset{\sim}{t}}_{h}$ in the
$\overline{\text{EVM}_{\text{frame}}}$ calculation.
Thus we get:
The averaged EVM with the minimum averaging length of at least 10 subframes is
then achieved by further averaging of the $\text{EVM}_{\text{frame}}$ results
$\overline{\text{EVM}} = \sqrt{\frac{1}{N_{\text{frame}}}\sum_{k =
1}^{N_{\text{frame}}}\text{EVM}_{\text{frame},k}^{2}}$, $N_{\text{frame}} =
\left\lceil \frac{\text{10}}{N_{\text{dl}}} \right\rceil$
###### ## Annex F (Informative): Unwanted emission requirements for multi-
carrier BS
# F.1 General
In subclause 6.6, unwanted emission requirements for single carrier or multi-
carrier BS are specified. This multi-carrier BS corresponds to a multi-carrier
BS of the same channel bandwidth for E-UTRA. The following two pragmatic
scenarios are considered in this annex:
\- multi-carrier BS of different E-UTRA channel bandwidths, covering only 5
MHz and higher channel bandwidths
\- multi-carrier BS of E-UTRA and UTRA, covering only 5 MHz and higher E-UTRA
channel bandwidths.
All scenarios for channel bandwidths less than 5 MHz are for further study.
The guidelines below assumes that the power spectral density of the multiple
carriers is the same. All other combinations of multiple carriers are ffs.
Note 1: Further information and analysis for these scenarios can be found in
TR 36.942 [9].
# F.2 Multi-carrier BS of different E-UTRA channel bandwidths
For a multi-carrier E-UTRA BS transmitting a group of carriers of different
channel bandwidths (≥5 MHz), the channel bandwidth of the outermost carriers
should be considered for ACLR and Operating band unwanted emission
requirements. That is, the corresponding requirements for the channel
bandwidth of each of the outermost carriers should be applied at the
respective side of the group of transmitted carriers.
# F.3 Multi-carrier BS of E-UTRA and UTRA
For a multi-carrier BS transmitting a group of carriers of E-UTRA and UTRA
(channel bandwidth(s) ≥5 MHz), the RAT being used on the outermost carriers
should be considered for ACLR and Operating band unwanted emission
requirements. That is, the corresponding requirements for the RAT being used
on each of the outermost carriers should be applied at the respective side of
the group of transmitted carriers.
#