# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document establishes the minimum RF characteristics of E-UTRA FDD
Repeater.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] ITU-R Recommendation SM.329, \"Unwanted emissions in the spurious
domain\".
[3] ITU-R Recommendation M.1545: "Measurement uncertainty as it applies to
test limits for the terrestrial component of International Mobile
Telecommunications-2000".
[4] 3GPP TS 36.143: "Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA); FDD
Repeater conformance testing"
[5] 3GPP TR 25.942: \"RF system scenarios\".
[6] 3GPP TS.36.104: \"E-UTRA Base Station (BS) radio transmission and
reception\".
[7] IEC 60721-3-3 (2002): \"Classification of environmental conditions \- Part
3: Classification of groups of environmental parameters and their severities -
Section 3: Stationary use at weather protected locations\".
[8] IEC 60721-3-4 (1995): \"Classification of environmental conditions \- Part
3: Classification of groups of environmental parameters and their severities -
Section 4: Stationary use at non-weather protected locations\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Carrier: The modulated waveform conveying the E-UTRA or UTRA physical
channels**
**Channel bandwidth:** The RF bandwidth supporting a single E-UTRA RF carrier
with the transmission bandwidth configured in the uplink or downlink of a
cell. The channel bandwidth is measured in MHz and is used as a reference for
transmitter and receiver RF requirements.
**Channel edge:** The lowest and highest frequency of the E-UTRA carrier,
separated by the channel bandwidth.
**Donor coupling loss:** is the coupling loss between the repeater and the
donor base station.
**Downlink** : Signal path where base station transmits and mobile receives.
**Downlink operating band:** The part of the operating band designated for
downlink.
**Maximum output power, Pmax:** This is the mean power level per carrier
measured at the antenna connector of the Repeater in specified reference
condition.
**Operating band:** A frequency range in which E-UTRA operates (paired or
unpaired), that is defined with a specific set of technical requirements**.**
NOTE1: The operating band(s) for an E-UTRA Repeater is declared by the
manufacturer according to the designations in clause 5.5 table 5.5-1.
NOTE2: Unless specified, operating band refers to the uplink operating band
and downlink operating band.
**Output power, Pout:** This is the mean power of one carrier at maximum
repeater gain delivered to a load with resistance equal to the nominal load
impedance of the transmitter.
**Pass band:** The repeater can have one or several pass bands. The pass band
is the frequency range that the repeater operates in with operational
configuration. This frequency range can correspond to one or several
consecutive nominal channels. If they are not consecutive each subset of
channels shall be considered as an individual pass band.
**Rated output power:** Rated output power of the repeater is the mean power
level per carrier that the manufacturer has declared to be available at the
antenna connector.
**Repeater:** A device that receives, amplifies and transmits the radiated or
conducted RF carrier both in the downlink direction (from the base station to
the mobile area) and in the uplink direction (from the mobile to the base
station)
**Transmission bandwidth:** Bandwidth of an instantaneous transmission from a
UE or BS, measured in Resource Block units.
**Transmission bandwidth configuration:** The highest transmission bandwidth
allowed for uplink or downlink in a given channel bandwidth, measured in
Resource Block units.
**Uplink:** Signal path where mobile transmits and base station receives.
**Uplink operating band:** The part of the operating band designated for
uplink.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
BW~Channel~ Channel bandwidth
BW~Config~ Transmission bandwidth configuration, expressed in MHz, where
BW~Config~ = _N_ ~RB~ x 180 kHz in the uplink and BW~Config~ = 15 kHz + _N_
~RB~ x 180 kHz in the downlink.
BW~Meas~ Measurement bandwidth
BW~Signal~ Bandwidth of the repeater input signal filling the repeater pass
band
F~DL_low~ The lowest frequency of the downlink operating band
F~DL_high~ The highest frequency of the downlink operating band
F~UL_low~ The lowest frequency of the uplink operating band
F~UL_high~ The highest frequency of the uplink operating band
f_offset_PB Distance from the channel edge frequency of the first or last
channel in the pass band
N~DL~ Downlink EARFCN
N~Offs-DL~ Offset used for calculating downlink EARFCN
N~Offs-UL~ Offset used for calculating uplink EARFCN
N~RB~ Transmission bandwidth configuration, expressed in units of resource
blocks
N~UL~ Uplink EARFCN
Pmax Maximum output power
Pout Output power
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
ACRR Adjacent Channel Rejection Ratio
BS Base Station
EARFCN E-UTRA Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number
EVM Error Vector Magnitude
IDFT Inverse Discrete Fourier Transform
PB Pass Band
TBD To Be Defined
# 4 General
## 4.1 Relationship between Minimum Requirements and Test Requirements
The Minimum Requirements given in this specification make no allowance for
measurement uncertainty. The test specification TS 36.143 [4] Annex B defines
Test Tolerances. These Test Tolerances are individually calculated for each
test. The Test Tolerances are used to relax the Minimum Requirements in this
specification to create Test Requirements.
The measurement results returned by the Test System are compared - without any
modification - against the Test Requirements as defined by the shared risk
principle.
The Shared Risk principle is defined in ITU-R M.1545 [3].
## 4.2 Regional requirements
Some requirements in the present document may only apply in certain regions
either as optional requirements or set by local and regional regulation as
mandatory requirements. It is normally not stated in the 3GPP specifications
under what exact circumstances that the requirements apply, since this is
defined by local or regional regulation.
Table 4.2-1 lists all requirements that may be applied differently in
different regions.
Table 4.2-1: List of regional requirements
* * *
Clause number Requirement Comments 5.5 Operating bands Some bands may be
applied regionally. 5.6 Channel bandwidth Some channel bandwidths may be
applied regionally. 5.7 Channel arrangement The requirement is applied
according to what operating bands in clause 5.5 that are supported by the
Repeater. 6.1 Maximum output power In certain regions, the minimum requirement
for normal conditions may apply also for some conditions outside the range of
conditions defined as normal. 9.1.1.1 Operating band unwanted emissions
(Category A) This requirement is mandatory for regions where Category A limits
for spurious emissions, as defined in ITU-R Recommendation SM.329 [2] apply.
9.1.1.2 Operating band unwanted emissions (Category B) This requirement is
mandatory for regions where Category B limits for spurious emissions, as
defined in ITU-R Recommendation SM.329 [2], apply. 9.1.3 Operating band
unwanted emissions : Additional requirements These requirements may be applied
regionally for some operating bands. 9.2.1.1 Spurious emissions (Category A)
This requirement is mandatory for regions where Category A limits for spurious
emissions, as defined in ITU-R Recommendation SM.329 [2] apply. 9.2.1.2
Spurious emissions (Category B) This requirement is mandatory for regions
where Category B limits for spurious emissions, as defined in ITU-R
Recommendation SM.329 [2], apply. 9.2.2 Co-existence with other systems in the
same geographical area These requirements may apply in geographic areas in
which both E-UTRA --FDD repeater and a system operating in another frequency
band are deployed. 9.2.3 Co-location with base stations These requirements may
be applied for the protection of other BS receivers when a BS operating in
another frequency band is co-located with an E-UTRA-FDD repeater. 11.2 Input
Intermodulation: Co-location with other systems These requirements may be
applied for the protection of FDD Repeater input when GSM900, DCS1800,
PCS1900, GSM850, UTRA FDD, UTRA TDD and/or E-UTRA BS are co-located with an
E-UTRA FDD Repeater. 11.3 Input Intermodulation: Co-existence with other
systems These requirements may be applied when GSM900, DCS1800, PCS1900,
GSM850, UTRA FDD, UTRA TDD and/or E-UTRA BS operating in another frequency
band co-exist with an E-UTRA FDD Repeater
* * *
# 5 Operating bands and channel arrangement
## 5.1 General
The channel arrangements presented in this clause are based on the operating
bands and channel bandwidths defined in the present release of specifications.
NOTE: Other operating bands and channel bandwidths may be considered in future
releases.
## 5.2 Void
## 5.3 Void
## 5.4 Void
## 5.5 Operating bands
E-UTRA FDD is designed to operate in the operating bands defined in Table
5.5-1.
Table 5.5-1 E-UTRA operating bands
* * *
E‑UTRA operating band Uplink (UL)\ Downlink (DL)\ Duplex Mode  
operating band operating band
                          F~UL\_low~ -- F~UL\_high~   F~DL\_low~ -- F~DL\_high~
1 1920 MHz -- 1980 MHz 2110 MHz -- 2170 MHz FDD
2 1850 MHz -- 1910 MHz 1930 MHz -- 1990 MHz FDD
3 1710 MHz -- 1785 MHz 1805 MHz -- 1880 MHz FDD
4 1710 MHz -- 1755 MHz 2110 MHz -- 2155 MHz FDD
5 824 MHz -- 849 MHz 869 MHz -- 894MHz FDD
6 830 MHz -- 840 MHz 875 MHz -- 885 MHz FDD
7 2500 MHz -- 2570 MHz 2620 MHz -- 2690 MHz FDD
8 880 MHz -- 915 MHz 925 MHz -- 960 MHz FDD
9 1749.9 MHz -- 1784.9 MHz 1844.9 MHz -- 1879.9 MHz FDD
10 1710 MHz -- 1770 MHz 2110 MHz -- 2170 MHz FDD
11 1427.9 MHz -- 1452.9 MHz 1475.9 MHz -- 1500.9 MHz FDD
12 698 MHz -- 716 MHz 728 MHz -- 746 MHz FDD
13 777 MHz -- 787 MHz 746 MHz -- 756 MHz FDD
14 788 MHz -- 798 MHz 758 MHz -- 768 MHz FDD
...
17 704 MHz -- 716 MHz 734 MHz -- 746 MHz FDD
* * *
## 5.6 Channel bandwidth
Requirements in present document are specified for the channel bandwidths
listed in Table 5.6-1.
Table 5.6-1 Transmission bandwidth configuration _N_ ~RB~ in E-UTRA channel
bandwidths
* * *
Channel bandwidth BW~Channel~ [MHz] 1.4 3 5 10 15 20 Transmission bandwidth
configuration _N_ ~RB~ 6 15 25 50 75 100
* * *
Figure 5.6-1 shows the relation between the Channel bandwidth (BW~Channel~)
and the Transmission bandwidth configuration (N~RB~). The channel edges are
defined as the lowest and highest frequencies of the carrier separated by the
channel bandwidth, i.e. at F~C~ +/- BW~Channel~ /2.
{width="6.694444444444445in" height="2.948611111111111in"}
Figure 5.6-1 Definition of Channel Bandwidth and Transmission Bandwidth
Configuration for one E‑UTRA carrier
## 5.7 Channel arrangement
### 5.7.1 Channel spacing
The spacing between carriers will depend on the deployment scenario, the size
of the frequency block available and the channel bandwidths. The nominal
channel spacing between two adjacent E-UTRA carriers is defined as following:
Nominal Channel spacing = (BW~Channel(1)~ + BW~Channel(2)~)/2
where BW~Channel(1)~ and BW~Channel(2)~ are the channel bandwidths of the two
respective E-UTRA carriers. The channel spacing can be adjusted to optimize
performance in a particular deployment scenario.
### 5.7.2 Channel raster
The channel raster is 100 kHz for all bands, which means that the carrier
centre frequency must be an integer multiple of 100 kHz.
### 5.7.3 Carrier frequency and EARFCN
The carrier frequency in the uplink and downlink is designated by the E-UTRA
Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number (EARFCN) in the range 0 - 65535\. The
relation between EARFCN and the carrier frequency in MHz for the downlink is
given by the following equation, where F~DL_low~ and N~Offs-DL~ are given in
table 5.7.3-1 and N~DL~ is the downlink EARFCN.
F~DL~ = F~DL_low~ + 0.1(N~DL~ -- N~Offs-DL~)
The relation between EARFCN and the carrier frequency in MHz for the uplink is
given by the following equation where F~UL_low~ and N~Offs-UL~ are given in
table 5.7.3-1 and N~UL~ is the uplink EARFCN.
F~UL~ = F~UL_low~ + 0.1(N~UL~ -- N~Offs-UL~)
Table 5.7.3-1 E-UTRA channel numbers
* * *
E‑UTRA operating band Downlink Uplink  
F~DL_low~ [MHz] N~Offs-DL~ Range of N~DL~ F~UL_low~ [MHz] N~Offs-UL~ Range of
N~UL~ 1 2110 0 0 -- 599 1920 18000 18000 -- 18599 2 1930 600 600 − 1199 1850
18600 18600 -- 19199 3 1805 1200 1200 -- 1949 1710 19200 19200 -- 19949 4 2110
1950 1950 -- 2399 1710 19950 19950 -- 20399 5 869 2400 2400 -- 2649 824 20400
20400 -- 20649 6 875 2650 2650 -- 2749 830 20650 20650 -- 20749 7 2620 2750
2750 -- 3449 2500 20750 20750 -- 21449 8 925 3450 3450 -- 3799 880 21450 21450
-- 21799 9 1844.9 3800 3800 -- 4149 1749.9 21800 21800 -- 22149 10 2110 4150
4150 -- 4749 1710 22150 22150 -- 22749 11 1475.9 4750 4750 -- 4999 1427.9
22750 22750 -- 22999 12 728 5000 5000 -- 5179 698 23000 23000 -- 23179 13 746
5180 5180 -- 5279 777 23180 23180 -- 23279 14 758 5280 5280 -- 5379 788 23280
23280 -- 23379 ...  
17 734 5730 5730 -- 5849 704 23730 23730 -- 23849 NOTE: The channel numbers
that designate carrier frequencies so close to the operating band edges that
the carrier extends beyond the operating band edge shall not be used. This
implies that the first 7, 15, 25, 50, 75 and 100 channel numbers at the lower
operating band edge and the last 6, 14, 24, 49, 74 and 99 channel numbers at
the upper operating band edge shall not be used for channel bandwidths of 1.4,
3, 5, 10, 15 and 20 MHz respectively.
* * *
# 6 Output power
Output power, Pout, of the repeater is the mean power of one carrier at
maximum repeater gain delivered to a load with resistance equal to the nominal
load impedance of the transmitter.
Maximum output power, Pmax, of the repeater is the mean power level per
carrier measured at the antenna connector in a specified reference condition.
## 6.1 Minimum requirement
The requirements shall apply at maximum gain, with E-UTRA signals in the pass
band of the repeater, at levels that produce the maximum rated output power
per channel.
When the power of all signals is increased by 10 dB, compared to the power
level that produce the maximum rated output power, the requirements shall
still be met.
In normal conditions, the Repeater maximum output power shall remain within
limits specified in Table 6.1-1 relative to the manufacturer\'s rated output
power.
Table 6.1-1: Repeater output power; normal conditions
* * *
Rated output power Limit P ≥ 31 dBm +2 dB and -2 dB P \1GHz) for Category A
* * *
Frequency offset of measurement filter ‑3dB point, ∆f Frequency offset of
measurement filter centre frequency, f_offset Minimum requirement Measure-ment
bandwidth
0 MHz ≤ ∆f \1GHz) for Category A
* * *
Frequency offset of measurement filter ‑3dB point, ∆f Frequency offset of
measurement filter centre frequency, f_offset Minimum requirement Measurement
bandwidth (Note 1) 0 MHz ≤ ∆f \1GHz) for
Category B
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Frequency | Frequency | Minimum | Measure-ment | | offset of | offset of | requirement | bandwidth | | measurement | measurement | | | | filter ‑3dB | filter centre | | | | point, ∆f | frequency, | | | | | f_offset | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 0 MHz ≤ ∆f \1GHz) for Category
B
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Frequency | Frequency | Minimum | Measurement | | offset of | offset of | requirement | bandwidth | | measurement | measurement | | (Note 1) | | filter ‑3dB | filter centre | | | | point, ∆f | frequency, | | | | | f_offset | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 0 MHz ≤ ∆f \1GHz
* * *
Input signal bandwidth Frequency offset of measurement filter ‑3dB point, ∆f
Frequency offset of measurement filter centre frequency, f_offset Minimum
requirement Measurement bandwidth (Note 1) 1.4 MHz 0 MHz ≤ ∆f \ NOTE 3: The protection of R-GSM is for further study.
## 9.2 Spurious emissions
The spurious emission limits apply from 9 kHz to 12.75 GHz, excluding the
frequency range from 10 MHz below the lowest frequency of the repeaters
operating band up to 10 MHz above the highest frequency of the repeaters
operating band. Exceptions are the requirement in Table 9.2.2.1-2 and
9.2.2.1-3 that apply also closer than 10 MHz from repeaters operating band.
The requirements shall apply whatever the type of repeater considered (one or
several pass bands). It applies for all configurations foreseen by the
manufacturer\'s specification.
Unless otherwise stated, all requirements are measured as mean power (RMS).
### 9.2.1 Mandatory requirements
The requirements of either subclause 9.2.1.1 (Category A limits) or subclause
9.2.1.2 (Category B limits) shall apply. The application of either Category A
or Category B limits shall be the same as for Operating band unwanted
emissions in subclause 9.1.
The requirements of either subclause 9.2.1.1 or subclause 9.2.1.2 apply to the
uplink and downlink of the repeater, at maximum gain, and with the following
input signals:
\- without E‑UTRA input signal
\- with E‑UTRA input signals in the pass band of the repeater, at levels that
produce the maximum rated power output per channel
\- with 10 dB increased E‑UTRA input signals in all channels in the pass band,
compared to the input level producing the maximum rated output power.
#### 9.2.1.1 Spurious emissions (Category A)
##### 9.2.1.1.1 Minimum Requirement
The power of any spurious emission shall not exceed the limits in Table
9.2.1.1.1-1.
Table 9.2.1.1.1-1: Spurious emission limits, Category A
+--------------------+---------------+--------------------+--------+ | Frequency range | Maximum level | Measurement | Note | | | | Bandwidth | | +--------------------+---------------+--------------------+--------+ | 9kHz ‑ 150kHz | -13 dBm | 1 kHz | Note 1 | +--------------------+---------------+--------------------+--------+ | 150kHz ‑ 30MHz | | 10 kHz | Note 1 | +--------------------+---------------+--------------------+--------+ | 30MHz ‑ 1GHz | | 100 kHz | Note 1 | +--------------------+---------------+--------------------+--------+ | 1GHz ‑ 12.75 GHz | | 1 MHz | Note 2 | +--------------------+---------------+--------------------+--------+ | NOTE 1: Bandwidth | | | | | as in ITU-R SM.329 | | | | | [2], s4.1 | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Bandwidth | | | | | as in ITU-R SM.329 | | | | | [2], s4.1. Upper | | | | | frequency as in | | | | | ITU-R SM.329 | | | | | [2], s2.5 | | | | | table 1 | | | | +--------------------+---------------+--------------------+--------+
#### 9.2.1.2 Spurious emissions (Category B)
##### 9.2.1.2.1 Minimum Requirement
The power of any spurious emission shall not exceed the limits in Table
9.2.1.2.1-1.
Table 9.2.1.2.1-1: Spurious emissions limits, Category B
+--------------------+---------------+--------------------+--------+ | Frequency range | Maximum Level | Measurement | Note | | | | Bandwidth | | +--------------------+---------------+--------------------+--------+ | 9 kHz ↔ 150 kHz | -36 dBm | 1 kHz | Note 1 | +--------------------+---------------+--------------------+--------+ | 150 kHz ↔ 30 MHz | -36 dBm | 10 kHz | Note 1 | +--------------------+---------------+--------------------+--------+ | 30 MHz ↔ 1 GHz | -36 dBm | 100 kHz | Note 1 | +--------------------+---------------+--------------------+--------+ | 1 GHz ↔ 12.75 GHz | -30 dBm | 1 MHz | Note 2 | +--------------------+---------------+--------------------+--------+ | NOTE 1: Bandwidth | | | | | as in ITU-R SM.329 | | | | | [2], s4.1 | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Bandwidth | | | | | as in ITU-R SM.329 | | | | | [2], s4.1. Upper | | | | | frequency as in | | | | | ITU-R SM.329 | | | | | [2], s2.5 table | | | | | 1 | | | | +--------------------+---------------+--------------------+--------+
### 9.2.2 Co-existence with other systems in the same geographical area
These requirements may be applied for the protection of system operating in
frequency ranges other than the E-UTRA Repeater operating band. The limits may
apply as an optional protection of such systems that are deployed in the same
geographical area as the E-UTRA Repeater, or they may be set by local or
regional regulation as a mandatory requirement for an E-UTRA operating band.
It is in some cases not stated in the present document whether a requirement
is mandatory or under what exact circumstances that a limit applies, since
this is set by local or regional regulation. An overview of regional
requirements in the present document is given in Clause 4.2.
Some requirements may apply for the protection of specific equipment (UE, MS
and/or BS) or equipment operating in specific systems (GSM, UTRA, E-UTRA,
etc.) as listed below.
#### 9.2.2.1 Minimum requirement
Unless otherwise stated this requirement applies to the uplink and downlink of
the repeater, at maximum gain.
The power of any spurious emission shall not exceed the limits of Table
9.2.2.1-1 for an E-UTRA Repeater where requirements for co-existence with the
system listed in the first column apply.
Table 9.2.2.1-1: Spurious emissions limits for E-UTRA-FDD repeater in
geographic coverage area of systems operating in other frequency bands
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | System type | Frequency | Maximum | Measurement | Note | | operating | range for | Level | Bandwidth | | | in the same | c | | | | | g | o-existence | | | | | eographical | requirement | | | | | area | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | GSM900 | 921 ‑ 960 | -57 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | E-UTRA FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 8. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 876 - 915 | -61 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | the uplink | | | | | | of E-UTRA | | | | | | FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 8, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 9.1.4 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | DCS1800 | 1805 ‑ 1880 | -47 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | E-UTRA FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 3. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 1710 - 1785 | -61 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | the uplink | | | | | | of E-UTRA | | | | | | FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 3, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 9.1.4. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | PCS1900 | 1930 ‑ 1990 | -47 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | E-UTRA FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 2 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 1850 ‑ 1910 | -61 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | the uplink | | | | | | of E-UTRA | | | | | | FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 2, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 9.1.4. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | GSM850 or | 869 - 894 | -57 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | CDMA850 | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | E-UTRA FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 5 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 824 ‑ 849 | -61 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | the uplink | | | | | | of E-UTRA | | | | | | FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 5, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 9.1.4. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 2110 - 2170 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band I or\ | MHz | | | requirement | | E-UTRA Band | | | | does not | | 1 | | | | apply to | | | | | | E-UTRA FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 1, | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 1920 - 1980 | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | the uplink | | | | | | of E-UTRA | | | | | | FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 1, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 9.1.4. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 1930 - 1990 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band II or\ | MHz | | | requirement | | E-UTRA Band | | | | does not | | 2 | | | | apply to | | | | | | E-UTRA FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 2. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 1850 - 1910 | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | the uplink | | | | | | of E-UTRA | | | | | | FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 2, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 9.1.4 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 1805 - 1880 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band III | MHz | | | requirement | | or\ | | | | does not | | E-UTRA Band | | | | apply to | | 3 | | | | E-UTRA FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 3. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 1710 - 1785 | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | the uplink | | | | | | of E-UTRA | | | | | | FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 3, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 9.1.4. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 2110 - 2155 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band IV or\ | MHz | | | requirement | | E-UTRA Band | | | | does not | | 4 | | | | apply to | | | | | | E-UTRA FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 4 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 1710 - 1755 | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | the uplink | | | | | | of E-UTRA | | | | | | FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 4, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 9.1.4. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 869 -- 894 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band V or\ | MHz | | | requirement | | E-UTRA Band | | | | does not | | 5 | | | | apply to | | | | | | E-UTRA FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 5 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 824 -- 849 | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | the uplink | | | | | | of E-UTRA | | | | | | FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 5, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 9.1.4. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 860 -- 895 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band VI or\ | MHz | | | requirement | | E-UTRA Band | | | | does not | | 6 | | | | apply to | | | | | | E-UTRA FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 6 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 815 -- 850 | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | the uplink | | | | | | of E-UTRA | | | | | | FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 6, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 9.1.4. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 2620 - 2690 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band VII | MHz | | | requirement | | or\ | | | | does not | | E-UTRA Band | | | | apply to | | 7 | | | | E-UTRA FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 7. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 2500 - 2570 | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | the uplink | | | | | | of E-UTRA | | | | | | FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 7, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 9.1.4. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 925 -- 960 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band VIII | MHz | | | requirement | | or\ | | | | does not | | E-UTRA Band | | | | apply to | | 8 | | | | E-UTRA FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 8. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 880 -- 915 | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | the uplink | | | | | | of E-UTRA | | | | | | FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 8, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 9.1.4. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 1844.9 - | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band IX or\ | 1879.9 MHz | | | requirement | | E-UTRA Band | | | | does not | | 9 | | | | apply to | | | | | | E-UTRA FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 9. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 1749.9 - | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | 1784.9 MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | the uplink | | | | | | of E-UTRA | | | | | | FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 9, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 9.1.4. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 2110 - 2170 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band X or\ | MHz | | | requirement | | E-UTRA Band | | | | does not | | 10 | | | | apply to | | | | | | E-UTRA FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 10 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 1710 - 1770 | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | the uplink | | | | | | of E-UTRA | | | | | | FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 10, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 9.1.4. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 1475.9 - | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band XI or\ | 1500.9 MHz | | | requirement | | E-UTRA Band | | | | does not | | 11 | | | | apply to | | | | | | E-UTRA FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 11 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 1427.9 - | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | 1452.9 MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | the uplink | | | | | | of E-UTRA | | | | | | FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 11, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 9.1.4. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 728 - 746 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band XII | MHz | | | requirement | | or\ | | | | does not | | E-UTRA Band | | | | apply to | | 12 | | | | E-UTRA FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 12. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 698 - 716 | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | the uplink | | | | | | of E-UTRA | | | | | | FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 12, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 9.1.4. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 746 - 756 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band XIII | MHz | | | requirement | | or\ | | | | does not | | E-UTRA Band | | | | apply to | | 13 | | | | E-UTRA FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 13. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 777 - 787 | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | the uplink | | | | | | of E-UTRA | | | | | | FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 13, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 9.1.4. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 758 - 768 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band XIV | MHz | | | requirement | | or\ | | | | does not | | E-UTRA Band | | | | apply to | | 14 | | | | E-UTRA FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 14. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 788 - 798 | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | the uplink | | | | | | of E-UTRA | | | | | | FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 14, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 9.1.4. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA Band | 734 -- 746 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | 17 | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | E-UTRA FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 17. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 704 - 716 | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | the uplink | | | | | | of E-UTRA | | | | | | FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 17, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 9.1.4. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA TDD in | 1900 - 1920 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band a) or\ | MHz | | | requirement | | E-UTRA Band | | | | does not | | 33 | | | | apply to | | | | | | the uplink | | | | | | of E-UTRA | | | | | | FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 1. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | -53 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | is applied | | | | | | only to the | | | | | | uplink of | | | | | | E-UTRA FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 1. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA TDD in | 2010 - 2025 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | | | Band a) or\ | MHz | | | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 34 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA TDD in | 1850 -- | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band b) or\ | 1910 MHz | | | requirement | | E-UTRA Band | | | | does not | | 35 | | | | apply to | | | | | | the uplink | | | | | | of E-UTRA | | | | | | FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 2. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | -53 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | is applied | | | | | | only to the | | | | | | uplink of | | | | | | E-UTRA FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 2. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA TDD in | 1930 - 1990 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band b) or\ | MHz | | | requirement | | E-UTRA Band | | | | does not | | 36 | | | | apply to | | | | | | the | | | | | | downlink of | | | | | | E-UTRA FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 2. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA TDD in | 1910 - 1930 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band c) or\ | MHz | | | requirement | | E-UTRA Band | | | | does not | | 37 | | | | apply to | | | | | | the uplink | | | | | | of E-UTRA | | | | | | FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 2 | | | | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | unpaired | | | | | | band is | | | | | | defined in | | | | | | ITU-R | | | | | | M.1036, but | | | | | | is pending | | | | | | any future | | | | | | deployment. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | -53 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | is applied | | | | | | only to the | | | | | | uplink of | | | | | | E-UTRA FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 2. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA TDD in | 2570 -- | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band d) or\ | 2620 MHz | | | requirement | | E-UTRA Band | | | | does not | | 38 | | | | apply to | | | | | | the uplink | | | | | | of E-UTRA | | | | | | FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 7. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | -53 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | is applied | | | | | | only to the | | | | | | uplink of | | | | | | E-UTRA FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 7. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA Band | 1880 -- | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | 39 | 1920 MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | the uplink | | | | | | of E-UTRA | | | | | | FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 1. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | -53 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | is applied | | | | | | only to the | | | | | | uplink of | | | | | | E-UTRA FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 1. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA Band | 2300 -- | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | | | 40 | 2400 MHz | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
NOTE 1: As defined in the scope for spurious emissions in this clause, the co-
existence requirements in Table 9.2.2.1-1 do not apply for the 10 MHz
frequency range immediately outside the repeaters operating band frequency
range of an operating band (see Table 5.5-1). This is also the case when the
repeaters operating band frequency range is adjacent to the band for the co-
existence requirement in the Table 9.2.2.1-1. Emission limits for this
excluded frequency range may also be covered by local or regional
requirements.
NOTE 2: The Table 9.2.2.1-1 assumes that two operating bands, where the
frequency ranges in Table 5.5-1 would be overlapping, are not deployed in the
same geographical area. For such a case of operation with overlapping
frequency arrangements in the same geographical area, special co-existence
requirements may apply that are not covered by the 3GPP specifications.
NOTE 3: The requirements of -53dBm/100kHz in Table 9.2.2.1-1 for the up link
direction of the Repeater reflect what can be achieved with present state of
the art technology and are based on a coupling loss of 73 dB between a
Repeater and a UTRA TDD BS receiver.
NOTE 4: The requirements of -53dBm/100kHz in Table 9.2.2.1-1 shall be
reconsidered when the state of the art technology progresses.
The following requirement may be applied for the protection of PHS in
geographic areas in which both PHS and E-UTRA-FDD repeaters are deployed. This
requirement is also applicable at specified frequencies falling between 10 MHz
below the lowest frequency of the repeaters operating band and 10 MHz above
the highest frequency of the repeaters operating band.
Unless otherwise stated this requirement applies to the uplink and downlink of
the repeater, at maximum gain.
The power of any spurious emission shall not exceed:
Table 9.2.2.1-2: Spurious emissions limits for E-UTRA-FDD repeater in
geographic coverage area of PHS
* * *
Frequency range Maximum Level Measurement Bandwidth Note 1884.5 ‑ 1915.7 MHz
-41 dBm 300 kHz Applicable when co-existence with PHS system operating in
1884.5 -1915.7MHz
* * *
The following requirement shall be applied to E-UTRA-FDD repeaters operating
in Bands 13 and 14 to ensure that appropriate interference protection is
provided to 700 MHz public safety operations. This requirement is also
applicable at specified frequencies falling between 10 MHz below the lowest
frequency of the repeaters operating band and 10 MHz above the highest
frequency of the repeaters operating band
Unless otherwise stated this requirement applies to the uplink and downlink of
the repeater, at maximum gain.
The power of any spurious emission shall not exceed:
Table 9.2.2.1-3: Spurious emissions limits for E-UTRA-FDD repeater for
protection of public safety operations
* * *
Operating Band Frequency range Maximum Level Measurement Bandwidth Note 13 763
- 775 MHz -46 dBm 6.25 kHz  
13 793 - 805 MHz -46 dBm 6.25 kHz  
14 769 - 775 MHz -46 dBm 6.25 kHz  
14 799 - 805 MHz -46 dBm 6.25 kHz
* * *
### 9.2.3 Co-location with base stations
These requirements may be applied for the protection of other BS receivers
when GSM900, DCS1800, PCS1900, GSM850 UTRA FDD, UTRA TDD and/or E-UTRA BS are
co-located with an E-UTRA FDD Repeater.
Unless otherwise stated the requirements assume a 30 dB coupling loss between
transmitter and receiver.
NOTE: For co-location with UTRA, the requirements are based on co-location
with Wide Area UTRA FDD or TDD base stations
#### 9.2.3.1 Minimum Requirements
Unless otherwise stated this requirement applies to the uplink and downlink of
the repeater, at maximum gain.
The power of any spurious emission shall not exceed the limits of Table
9.2.3.1-1 for an E-UTRA FDD Repeater where requirements for co-location with a
Base Station listed in the first column apply.
Table 9.2.3.1-1: Spurious emissions limits for E-UTRA-FDD Repeater co-located
with Base Stations
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Type of | Frequency | Maximum | Measurement | Note | | co-located | range for | Level | Bandwidth | | | Base | co-location | | | | | Station | requirement | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | GSM900 | 876 - 915 | -98 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | the uplink | | | | | | of UTRA FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 8, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 9.1.4, but | | | | | | requires a | | | | | | 75dB | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | loss | | | | | | between | | | | | | base | | | | | | station and | | | | | | the | | | | | | repeater UL | | | | | | transmit | | | | | | port. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | DCS1800 | 1710 - 1785 | -98 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | the uplink | | | | | | of UTRA FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 3, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 9.1.4, but | | | | | | requires a | | | | | | 75dB | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | loss | | | | | | between | | | | | | base | | | | | | station and | | | | | | the | | | | | | repeater UL | | | | | | transmit | | | | | | port. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | PCS1900 | 1850 - 1910 | -98 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | the uplink | | | | | | of UTRA FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 2, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 9.1.4, but | | | | | | requires a | | | | | | 75dB | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | loss | | | | | | between | | | | | | base | | | | | | station and | | | | | | the | | | | | | repeater UL | | | | | | transmit | | | | | | port. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | GSM850 or | 824 - 849 | -98 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | CDMA850 | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | the uplink | | | | | | of UTRA FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 5, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 9.1.4, but | | | | | | requires a | | | | | | 75dB | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | loss | | | | | | between | | | | | | base | | | | | | station and | | | | | | the | | | | | | repeater UL | | | | | | transmit | | | | | | port. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 1920 - 1980 | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | Band I or\ | MHz | | | requirement | | E-UTRA Band | | | | does not | | 1 | | | | apply to | | | | | | the uplink | | | | | | of UTRA FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 1, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 9.1.4, but | | | | | | requires a | | | | | | 73dB | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | loss | | | | | | between | | | | | | base | | | | | | station and | | | | | | the | | | | | | repeater UL | | | | | | transmit | | | | | | port. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 1850 - 1910 | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | Band II or\ | MHz | | | requirement | | E-UTRA Band | | | | does not | | 2 | | | | apply to | | | | | | the uplink | | | | | | of UTRA FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 2, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 9.1.4, but | | | | | | requires a | | | | | | 73dB | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | loss | | | | | | between | | | | | | base | | | | | | station and | | | | | | the | | | | | | repeater UL | | | | | | transmit | | | | | | port. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 1710 - 1785 | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | Band III | MHz | | | requirement | | or\ | | | | does not | | E-UTRA Band | | | | apply to | | 3 | | | | the uplink | | | | | | of UTRA FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 3, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 9.1.4, but | | | | | | requires a | | | | | | 73dB | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | loss | | | | | | between | | | | | | base | | | | | | station and | | | | | | the | | | | | | repeater UL | | | | | | transmit | | | | | | port. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 1710 - 1755 | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | Band IV or\ | MHz | | | requirement | | E-UTRA Band | | | | does not | | 4 | | | | apply to | | | | | | the uplink | | | | | | of UTRA FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 4, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 9.1.4, but | | | | | | requires a | | | | | | 73dB | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | loss | | | | | | between | | | | | | base | | | | | | station and | | | | | | the | | | | | | repeater UL | | | | | | transmit | | | | | | port. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 824 - 849 | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | Band V or\ | MHz | | | requirement | | E-UTRA Band | | | | does not | | 5 | | | | apply to | | | | | | the uplink | | | | | | of UTRA FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 5, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 9.1.4, but | | | | | | requires a | | | | | | 73dB | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | loss | | | | | | between | | | | | | base | | | | | | station and | | | | | | the | | | | | | repeater UL | | | | | | transmit | | | | | | port. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 815 - 850 | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | Band VI or\ | MHz | | | requirement | | E-UTRA Band | | | | does not | | 6 | | | | apply to | | | | | | the uplink | | | | | | of UTRA FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 6, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 9.1.4, but | | | | | | requires a | | | | | | 73dB | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | loss | | | | | | between | | | | | | base | | | | | | station and | | | | | | the | | | | | | repeater UL | | | | | | transmit | | | | | | port. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 2500 - 2570 | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | Band VII | MHz | | | requirement | | or\ | | | | does not | | E-UTRA Band | | | | apply to | | 7 | | | | the uplink | | | | | | of UTRA FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 7, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 9.1.4, but | | | | | | requires a | | | | | | 73dB | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | loss | | | | | | between | | | | | | base | | | | | | station and | | | | | | the | | | | | | repeater UL | | | | | | transmit | | | | | | port. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 880 - 915 | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | Band VIII | MHz | | | requirement | | or\ | | | | does not | | E-UTRA Band | | | | apply to | | 8 | | | | the uplink | | | | | | of UTRA FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 8, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 9.1.4, but | | | | | | requires a | | | | | | 73dB | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | loss | | | | | | between | | | | | | base | | | | | | station and | | | | | | the | | | | | | repeater UL | | | | | | transmit | | | | | | port. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 1749.9 - | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | Band IX or\ | 1784.9 MHz | | | requirement | | E-UTRA Band | | | | does not | | 9 | | | | apply to | | | | | | the uplink | | | | | | of UTRA FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 9, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 9.1.4, but | | | | | | requires a | | | | | | 73dB | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | loss | | | | | | between | | | | | | base | | | | | | station and | | | | | | the | | | | | | repeater UL | | | | | | transmit | | | | | | port. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 1710 - 1770 | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | Band X or\ | MHz | | | requirement | | E-UTRA Band | | | | does not | | 10 | | | | apply to | | | | | | the uplink | | | | | | of UTRA FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 10, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 9.1.4, but | | | | | | requires a | | | | | | 73dB | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | loss | | | | | | between | | | | | | base | | | | | | station and | | | | | | the | | | | | | repeater UL | | | | | | transmit | | | | | | port. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 1427.9 - | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | Band XI or\ | 1452.9 MHz | | | requirement | | E-UTRA Band | | | | does not | | 11 | | | | apply to | | | | | | the uplink | | | | | | of UTRA FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 11, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 9.1.4, but | | | | | | requires a | | | | | | 73dB | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | loss | | | | | | between | | | | | | base | | | | | | station and | | | | | | the | | | | | | repeater UL | | | | | | transmit | | | | | | port. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 698 - 716 | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | Band XII | MHz | | | requirement | | or\ | | | | does not | | E-UTRA Band | | | | apply to | | 12 | | | | the uplink | | | | | | of UTRA FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 12, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 9.1.4, but | | | | | | requires a | | | | | | 73dB | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | loss | | | | | | between | | | | | | base | | | | | | station and | | | | | | the | | | | | | repeater UL | | | | | | transmit | | | | | | port. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 777 - 787 | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | Band XIII | MHz | | | requirement | | or\ | | | | does not | | E-UTRA Band | | | | apply to | | 13 | | | | the uplink | | | | | | of UTRA FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 13, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 9.1.4, but | | | | | | requires a | | | | | | 73dB | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | loss | | | | | | between | | | | | | base | | | | | | station and | | | | | | the | | | | | | repeater UL | | | | | | transmit | | | | | | port. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 788 - 798 | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | Band XIV | MHz | | | requirement | | or\ | | | | does not | | E-UTRA Band | | | | apply to | | 14 | | | | the uplink | | | | | | of UTRA FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 14, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 9.1.4, but | | | | | | requires a | | | | | | 73dB | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | loss | | | | | | between | | | | | | base | | | | | | station and | | | | | | the | | | | | | repeater UL | | | | | | transmit | | | | | | port. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA Band | 704 - 716 | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | 17 | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | the uplink | | | | | | of UTRA FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 17, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 9.1.4, but | | | | | | requires a | | | | | | 73dB | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | loss | | | | | | between | | | | | | base | | | | | | station and | | | | | | the | | | | | | repeater UL | | | | | | transmit | | | | | | port. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA TDD in | 1900 - 1920 | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | Band a) or\ | MHz | | | requirement | | E-UTRA Band | | | | does not | | 33 | | | | apply to | | | | | | the uplink | | | | | | of E-UTRA | | | | | | FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 1. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | -53 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | is applied | | | | | | only to the | | | | | | uplink of | | | | | | E-UTRA FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 1. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA TDD in | 2010 - 2025 | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | Band a) or\ | MHz | | | requirement | | E-UTRA Band | | | | does not | | 34 | | | | apply to | | | | | | the uplink | | | | | | of E-UTRA | | | | | | FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 1. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | -83 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | is applied | | | | | | only to the | | | | | | uplink of | | | | | | E-UTRA FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 1. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA TDD in | 1850 -- | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | Band b) or\ | 1910 MHz | | | requirement | | E-UTRA Band | | | | does not | | 35 | | | | apply to | | | | | | the uplink | | | | | | of E-UTRA | | | | | | FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 2. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | -53 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | is applied | | | | | | only to the | | | | | | uplink of | | | | | | E-UTRA FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 2. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA TDD in | 1930 -- | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | This is not | | Band b) or\ | 1990 MHz | | | applicable | | E-UTRA Band | | | | to the | | 36 | | | | downlink of | | | | | | E-UTRA-FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 2. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA TDD in | 1910 - 1930 | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | Band c) or\ | MHz | | | requirement | | E-UTRA Band | | | | does not | | 37 | | | | apply to | | | | | | the uplink | | | | | | of E-UTRA | | | | | | FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 2 | | | | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | unpaired | | | | | | band is | | | | | | defined in | | | | | | ITU-R | | | | | | M.1036, but | | | | | | is pending | | | | | | any future | | | | | | deployment. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | -53 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | is applied | | | | | | only to the | | | | | | uplink of | | | | | | E-UTRA FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 2. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA TDD in | 2570 -- | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | Band d) or\ | 2620 MHz | | | requirement | | E-UTRA Band | | | | does not | | 38 | | | | apply to | | | | | | the uplink | | | | | | of E-UTRA | | | | | | FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 7. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | -53 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | is applied | | | | | | only to the | | | | | | uplink of | | | | | | E-UTRA FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 7. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA Band | 1880 -- | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | 39 | 1920 MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | the uplink | | | | | | of E-UTRA | | | | | | FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 1. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | -53 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | is applied | | | | | | only to the | | | | | | uplink of | | | | | | E-UTRA FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 1. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA Band | 2300 -- | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | | | 40 | 2400 MHz | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
NOTE 1: As defined in the scope for spurious emissions in this clause, the co-
location requirements in Table 9.2.3.1-1 do not apply for the 10 MHz frequency
range immediately outside the repeaters operating band frequency range of an
operating band (see Table 5.5-1). This is also the case when the repeaters
operating band frequency range is adjacent to the frequency range of the co-
location requirement in the Table 9.2.3.1-1. The current state-of-the-art
technology does not allow a single generic solution for co-location with other
system on adjacent frequencies for 30dB Repeater-BS minimum coupling loss.
However, there are certain site-engineering solutions that can be used. These
techniques are addressed in TR 25.942 [5].
NOTE 2: The Table 9.2.3.1-1 assumes that two operating bands, where the
corresponding eNode B transmit and receive frequency ranges in Table 5.5-1
would be overlapping, are not deployed in the same geographical area. For such
a case of operation with overlapping frequency arrangements in the same
geographical area, special co-location requirements may apply that are not
covered by the 3GPP specifications.
NOTE 3: The requirements of -53dBm/100kHz in Table 9.2.3.1-1 for the up link
direction of the Repeater reflect what can be achieved with present state of
the art technology and are based on a coupling loss of 73 dB between a
Repeater and a UTRA TDD BS receiver.
NOTE 4: The requirements of -83dBm/100kHz in Table 9.2.3.1-1 for the up link
direction of the Repeater reflect what can be achieved with present state of
the art technology and are based on a coupling loss of 43 dB between a
Repeater and a UTRA TDD BS receiver.
NOTE 5: The requirements of -53dBm/100kHz and -83dBm/100kHz in Table
9.2.3.1-1shall be reconsidered when the state of the art technology
progresses.
# 10 Error Vector Magnitude
## 10.1 Downlink Error Vector Magnitude
The Error Vector Magnitude is a measure of the difference between the ideal
symbols and the measured symbols after the equalization. This difference is
called the error vector. The equaliser parameters are estimated as defined in
TS36.104 [6] Annex E. The EVM result is defined as the square root of the
ratio of the mean error vector power to the mean reference power expressed in
percent.
### 10.1.1 Minimum requirement
For all E-UTRA channel bandwidths, as defined in sub-clause 5.6, applicable to
the repeater, the EVM measurement shall be performed over all allocated
resource blocks and subframes within a frame. The EVM value is then calculated
as the mean square root of the measured values.
For the downlink of the repeater the Error Vector Magnitude shall not be worse
than 8 %.
## 10.2 Uplink Error Vector Magnitude
The Error Vector Magnitude is a measure of the difference between the
reference waveform and the measured waveform. This difference is called the
error vector. Before calculating the EVM the measured waveform is corrected by
the sample timing offset and RF frequency offset. Then the IQ origin offset
shall be removed from the measured waveform before calculating the EVM.
The measured waveform is further modified by selecting the absolute phase and
absolute amplitude of the Tx chain. The EVM result is defined after the front-
end IDFT as the square root of the ratio of the mean error vector power to the
mean reference power expressed as a %. The basic EVM measurement interval is
one slot in the time domain.
### 10.2.1 Minimum requirement
For the uplink of the repeater the RMS average of the basic EVM measurements
for 10 consecutive sub-frames for the different modulations schemes shall not
exceed 8 %.
# 11 Input Intermodulation
The input intermodulation is a measure of the capability of the repeater to
inhibit the generation of interference in the pass band, in the presence of
interfering signals on frequencies other than the pass band.
## 11.1 General requirement
The following requirement applies for interfering signals in the operating
bands defined in sub-clause 5.5, depending on the repeaters pass band.
This requirement applies to the uplink and downlink of the repeater, at
maximum gain.
### 11.1.1 Minimum requirement
For the parameters specified in table 11.1.1-1, the power in the pass band
shall not increase with more than 10 dB at the output of the repeater as
measured in the centre of the pass band, compared to the level obtained
without interfering signals applied.
The frequency separation between the two interfering signals shall be adjusted
so that the 3^rd^ order intermodulation product is positioned in the centre of
the pass band.
Table 11.1.1-1 specifies the parameters for two interfering signals, where:
\- f~1~ offset is the offset from the channel edge frequency of the first or
last channel in the pass band of the closer carrier.
Table 11.1.1-1: Input intermodulation requirement
* * *
f~1~ offset Interfering Signal Levels Type of signals Measurement bandwidth
1,0 MHz -40 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz
* * *
## 11.2 Co-location with BS in other systems
This additional input intermodulation requirement may be applied for the
protection of E-UTRA FDD Repeater input when GSM900, DCS1800, PCS1900, GSM850,
UTRA FDD, UTRA TDD and/or E-UTRA BS are co-located with an E-UTRA FDD
Repeater.
Unless otherwise stated this requirement applies to the uplink and downlink of
the repeater, at maximum gain.
### 11.2.1 Minimum requirement
For the parameters specified in table 11.2.1-1, the power in the pass band
shall not increase with more than 10 dB at the output of the repeater as
measured in the centre of the pass band, compared to the level obtained
without interfering signals applied.
The frequency separation between the two interfering signals shall be adjusted
so that the lowest order intermodulation product is positioned in the centre
of the pass band.
NOTE 1: The lowest intermodulation products correspond to the 4^th^ and 3^rd^
order for the GSM 900 and DCS 1800 bands, respectively.
Table 11.2.1-1: Input intermodulation requirements for interfering signals in
co-located other systems
* * *
**Co-located other systems** **Frequency of interfering signals**
**Interfering Signal Levels** **Type of signals** **Measurement bandwidth**
**Note**
GSM900 921 ‑ 960 MHz +16 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz This requirement does not
apply to E-UTRA FDD Repeater operating in band 8, since it is already covered
by the requirement in sub-clause 11.1, but requires a 86dB coupling loss
between base station and the repeater DL receive port.
DCS1800 1805 ‑ 1880 MHz +16 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz This requirement does not
apply to E-UTRA FDD Repeater operating in band 3, since it is already covered
by the requirement in sub-clause 11.1, but requires a 86dB coupling loss
between base station and the repeater DL receive port.
PCS1900 1930 - 1990 MHz +16 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz This requirement does not
apply to E-UTRA FDD Repeater operating in band 2, since it is already covered
by the requirement in sub-clause 11.1, but requires a 86dB coupling loss
between base station and the repeater DL receive port.
GSM850 or CDMA850 869 - 894 MHz +16 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz This requirement
does not apply to E-UTRA FDD Repeater operating in band 5, since it is already
covered by the requirement in sub-clause 11.1, but requires a 86dB coupling
loss between base station and the repeater DL receive port.
UTRA-FDD Band I or\ 2110 - 2170 MHz +16 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz This
requirement does not apply to E-UTRA FDD Repeater operating in band 1, since
it is already covered by the requirement in sub-clause 11.1, but requires a
86dB coupling loss between base station and the repeater DL receive port.
E-UTRA Band 1
UTRA-FDD Band II or\ 1930 - 1990 MHz +16 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz This
requirement does not apply to E-UTRA FDD Repeater operating in band 2, since
it is already covered by the requirement in sub-clause 11.1, but requires a
86dB coupling loss between base station and the repeater DL receive port.
E-UTRA Band 2
UTRA-FDD Band III or\ 1805 - 1880 MHz +16 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz This
requirement does not apply to E-UTRA FDD Repeater operating in band 3, since
it is already covered by the requirement in sub-clause 11.1, but requires a
86dB coupling loss between base station and the repeater DL receive port.
E-UTRA Band 3
UTRA-FDD Band IV or\ 2110 - 2155 MHz +16 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz This
requirement does not apply to E-UTRA FDD Repeater operating in band 4, since
it is already covered by the requirement in sub-clause 11.1, but requires a
86dB coupling loss between base station and the repeater DL receive port.
E-UTRA Band 4
UTRA-FDD Band V or\ 869 - 894 MHz +16 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz This requirement
does not apply to E-UTRA FDD Repeater operating in band 5, since it is already
covered by the requirement in sub-clause 11.1, but requires a 86dB coupling
loss between base station and the repeater DL receive port. E-UTRA Band 5
UTRA-FDD Band VI or\ 875 - 885 MHz +16 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz This
requirement does not apply to E-UTRA FDD Repeater operating in band 6, since
it is already covered by the requirement in sub-clause 11.1, but requires a
86dB coupling loss between base station and the repeater DL receive port.
E-UTRA Band 6
UTRA-FDD Band VII or\ 2620 - 2690 MHz +16 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz This
requirement does not apply to E-UTRA FDD Repeater operating in band 7, since
it is already covered by the requirement in sub-clause 11.1, but requires a
86dB coupling loss between base station and the repeater DL receive port.
E-UTRA Band 7
UTRA-FDD Band VIII or\ 925 - 960 MHz +16 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz This
requirement does not apply to E-UTRA FDD Repeater operating in band 8, since
it is already covered by the requirement in sub-clause 11.1, but requires a
86dB coupling loss between base station and the repeater DL receive port.
E-UTRA Band 8
UTRA-FDD Band IX or\ 1844.9 - 1879.9 MHz +16 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz This
requirement does not apply to E-UTRA FDD Repeater operating in band 9, since
it is already covered by the requirement in sub-clause 11.1, but requires a
86dB coupling loss between base station and the repeater DL receive port.
E-UTRA Band 9
UTRA-FDD Band X or\ 2110 - 2170 MHz +16 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz This
requirement does not apply to E-UTRA FDD Repeater operating in band 10, since
it is already covered by the requirement in sub-clause 11.1, but requires a
86dB coupling loss between base station and the repeater DL receive port.
E-UTRA Band 10
UTRA-FDD Band XI or\ 1475.9 - 1500.9 MHz +16 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz This
requirement does not apply to E-UTRA FDD Repeater operating in band 11, since
it is already covered by the requirement in sub-clause 11.1, but requires a
86dB coupling loss between base station and the repeater DL receive port.
E-UTRA Band 11
UTRA FDD Band XII or\ 728 - 746 MHz +16 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz This
requirement does not apply to E-UTRA FDD Repeater operating in band 12, since
it is already covered by the requirement in sub-clause 11.1, but requires a
86dB coupling loss between base station and the repeater DL receive port.
E-UTRA Band 12
UTRA FDD Band XIII or\ 746 - 756 MHz +16 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz This
requirement does not apply to E-UTRA FDD Repeater operating in band 13, since
it is already covered by the requirement in sub-clause 11.1, but requires a
86dB coupling loss between base station and the repeater DL receive port.
E-UTRA Band 13
UTRA FDD Band XIV or\ 758 - 768 MHz +16 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz This
requirement does not apply to E-UTRA FDD Repeater operating in band 14, since
it is already covered by the requirement in sub-clause 11.1, but requires a
86dB coupling loss between base station and the repeater DL receive port.
E-UTRA Band 14
E-UTRA Band 17 734 - 746 MHz +16 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz This requirement does
not apply to E-UTRA FDD Repeater operating in band 17, since it is already
covered by the requirement in sub-clause 11.1, but requires a 86dB coupling
loss between base station and the repeater DL receive port.
UTRA TDD in Band a) or\ 1900 - 1920 MHz +16 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz  
E-UTRA Band 33
UTRA TDD in Band a) or\ 2010 - 2025 MHz +16 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz  
E-UTRA Band 34
UTRA TDD in Band b) or\ 1850 -- 1910 MHz +16 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz  
E-UTRA Band 35
UTRA TDD in Band b) or\ 1930 -- 1990 MHz +16 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz This
requirement does not apply to the downlink of E-UTRA FDD Repeater operating in
band 2. E-UTRA Band 36
UTRA TDD in Band c) or\ 1910 - 1930 MHz +16 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz This
unpaired band is defined in ITU-R M.1036, but is pending any future
deployment. E-UTRA Band 37
UTRA TDD in Band d) or\ 2570 -- 2620 MHz +16 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz  
E-UTRA Band 38
E-UTRA Band 39 1880 -- 1920 MHz +16 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz
E-UTRA Band 40 2300 -- 2400 MHz +16 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz
* * *
NOTE 1: The co-location requirements in Table 11.2.1-1 do not apply when the
repeaters pass band frequency range is adjacent to the frequency range of the
co-location requirement in the Table 11.2.1-1. The current state-of-the-art
technology does not allow a single generic solution for co-location with other
system on adjacent frequencies for 30dB Repeater-BS minimum coupling loss.
However, there are certain site-engineering solutions that can be used. These
techniques are addressed in TR 25.942 [5].
NOTE 2: The Table 11.2.1-1 assumes that two operating bands, where the
corresponding eNode B transmit and receive frequency ranges in Table 5.5-1
would be overlapping, are not deployed in the same geographical area. For such
a case of operation with overlapping frequency arrangements in the same
geographical area, special co-location requirements may apply that are not
covered by the 3GPP specifications.
## 11.3 Co-existence with other systems
This additional input intermodulation requirement may be applied when GSM900,
DCS1800, PCS1900, GSM850, UTRA FDD, UTRA TDD and/or E-UTRA BS operating in
another frequency band co-exist with an E-UTRA FDD Repeater.
Unless otherwise stated this requirement applies to the uplink and downlink of
the repeater, at maximum gain.
### 11.3.1 Minimum requirement
For the parameters specified in table 11.3.1-1, the power in the pass band
shall not increase with more than 10 dB at the output of the repeater as
measured in the centre of the pass band, compared to the level obtained
without interfering signals applied.
The frequency separation between the two interfering signals shall be adjusted
so that the lowest order intermodulation product is positioned in the centre
of the pass band.
NOTE 1: The lowest intermodulation products correspond to the 4^th^ and 3^rd^
order for the GSM 900 and DCS 1800 bands, respectively.
Table 11.3.1-1: Input intermodulation requirements for interfering signals in
co-existing other systems
* * *
Co-existence with other systems Frequency of interfering signals Interfering
Signal Levels Type of signals Measurement bandwidth Note
GSM900 876 - 915 MHz -15 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz This requirement does not
apply to E-UTRA FDD Repeater operating in band 8, since it is already covered
by the requirement in sub-clause 11.1.
DCS1800 1710 ‑ 1785 MHz -15 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz This requirement does not
apply to E-UTRA FDD Repeater operating in band 3, since it is already covered
by the requirement in sub-clause 11.1.
PCS1900 1850 ‑ 1910 MHz -15 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz This requirement does not
apply to E-UTRA FDD Repeater operating in band 2, since it is already covered
by the requirement in sub-clause 11.1.
GSM850 or CDMA850 824 ‑ 849 MHz -15 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz This requirement
does not apply to E-UTRA FDD Repeater operating in band 5, since it is already
covered by the requirement in sub-clause 11.1.
UTRA FDD Band I or\ 1920 - 1980 MHz -15 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz This
requirement does not apply to E-UTRA FDD Repeater operating in band 1, since
it is already covered by the requirement in sub-clause 11.1. E-UTRA Band 1
UTRA FDD Band II or\ 1850 - 1910 MHz -15 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz This
requirement does not apply to E-UTRA FDD Repeater operating in band 2, since
it is already covered by the requirement in sub-clause 11.1. E-UTRA Band 2
UTRA FDD Band III or\ 1710 - 1785 MHz -15 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz This
requirement does not apply to E-UTRA FDD Repeater operating in band 3, since
it is already covered by the requirement in sub-clause 11.1. E-UTRA Band 3
UTRA FDD Band IV or\ 1710 - 1755 MHz -15 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz This
requirement does not apply to E-UTRA FDD Repeater operating in band 4, since
it is already covered by the requirement in sub-clause 11.1. E-UTRA Band 4
UTRA FDD Band V or\ 824 - 849 MHz -15 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz This requirement
does not apply to E-UTRA FDD Repeater operating in band 5, since it is already
covered by the requirement in sub-clause 11.1. E-UTRA Band 5
UTRA FDD Band VI or\ 815 - 850 MHz -15 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz This
requirement does not apply to E-UTRA FDD Repeater operating in band 6, since
it is already covered by the requirement in sub-clause 11.1. E-UTRA Band 6
UTRA FDD Band VII or\ 2500 - 2570 MHz -15 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz This
requirement does not apply to E-UTRA FDD Repeater operating in band 7, since
it is already covered by the requirement in sub-clause 11.1. E-UTRA Band 7
UTRA FDD Band VIII or\ 880 - 915 MHz -15 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz This
requirement does not apply to E-UTRA FDD Repeater operating in band 8, since
it is already covered by the requirement in sub-clause 11.1. E-UTRA Band 8
UTRA FDD Band IX or\ 1749.9 - 1784.9 MHz -15 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz This
requirement does not apply to E-UTRA FDD Repeater operating in band 9, since
it is already covered by the requirement in sub-clause 11.1. E-UTRA Band 9
UTRA FDD Band X or\ 1710 - 1770 MHz -15 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz This
requirement does not apply to E-UTRA FDD Repeater operating in band 10, since
it is already covered by the requirement in sub-clause 11.1. E-UTRA Band 10
UTRA FDD Band XI or\ 1427.9 - 1452.9 MHz -15 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz This
requirement does not apply to E-UTRA FDD Repeater operating in band 11, since
it is already covered by the requirement in sub-clause 11.1. E-UTRA Band 11
UTRA FDD Band XII or\ 698 - 716 MHz -15 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz This
requirement does not apply to E-UTRA FDD Repeater operating in band 12, since
it is already covered by the requirement in sub-clause 11.1. E-UTRA Band 12
UTRA FDD Band XIII or\ 777 - 787 MHz -15 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz This
requirement does not apply to E-UTRA FDD Repeater operating in band 13, since
it is already covered by the requirement in sub-clause 11.1. E-UTRA Band 13
UTRA FDD Band XIV or\ 788 - 798 MHz -15 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz This
requirement does not apply to E-UTRA FDD Repeater operating in band 14, since
it is already covered by the requirement in sub-clause 11.1. E-UTRA Band 14
E-UTRA Band 17 704 - 716 MHz -15 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz This requirement does
not apply to E-UTRA FDD Repeater operating in band 17, since it is already
covered by the requirement in sub-clause 11.1.
UTRA TDD in Band a) or\ 1900 - 1920 MHz -15 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz  
E-UTRA Band 33
UTRA TDD in Band a) or\ 2010 - 2025 MHz -15 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz  
E-UTRA Band 34
UTRA TDD in Band b) or\ 1850 -- 1910 MHz -15 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz  
E-UTRA Band 35
UTRA TDD in Band b) or\ 1930 -- 1990 MHz -15 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz This
requirement does not apply to the downlink of E-UTRA FDD Repeater operating in
band 2. E-UTRA Band 36
UTRA TDD in Band c) or\ 1910 - 1930 MHz -15 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz This
unpaired band is defined in ITU-R M.1036, but is pending any future
deployment. E-UTRA Band 37
UTRA TDD in Band d) or\ 2570 -- 2620 MHz -15 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz  
E-UTRA Band 38
E-UTRA Band 39 1880 -- 1920 MHz -15 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz
E-UTRA Band 40 2300 -- 2400 MHz -15 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz
* * *
NOTE 1: The co-existence requirements in Table 11.3.1-1 do not apply when the
repeaters pass band frequency range is adjacent to the frequency range of the
co-existence requirement in the Table 11.3.1-1. The current state-of-the-art
technology does not allow a single generic solution for co-existence.
NOTE 2: The Table 11.3.1-1 assumes that two operating bands, where the
frequency ranges in Table 5.5-1 would be overlapping, are not deployed in the
same geographical area. For such a case of operation with overlapping
frequency arrangements in the same geographical area, special co-existence
requirements may apply that are not covered by the 3GPP specifications.
# 12 Output intermodulation
The output intermodulation requirement is a measure of the ability of the
repeater to inhibit the generation of intermodulation products signals created
by the presence of an interfering signal reaching the repeater via the output
port.
The requirement shall apply to the downlink of the Repeater.
## 12.1 Minimum requirement
The output intermodulation level is the power of the intermodulation products
when an interfering signal is injected into the output port. The wanted signal
channel bandwidth BW~Channel~ shall be the maximum bandwidth supported by the
repeater. The offset of the interfering signal from the wanted signal shall be
as in Table 12.1‑1.
Table 12.1-1 Interfering and wanted signals for the output intermodulation
requirement
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameter | Value | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Wanted signal | E-UTRA signal of maximum channel | | | bandwidth BW~Channel~ | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Interfering signal type | E-UTRA signal of channel | | | bandwidth 5 MHz | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Interfering signal level | Mean power level 30 dB below the | | | mean power of the wanted signal | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Interfering signal centre | -BW~Channel~ /2 - 12.5 MHz | | frequency offset from wanted | | | signal carrier centre frequency | -BW~Channel~ /2 - 7.5 MHz | | | | | | -BW~Channel~ /2 - 2.5 MHz | | | | | | BW~Channel~ /2 + 2.5 MHz | | | | | | BW~Channel~ /2 + 7.5 MHz | | | | | | BW~Channel~ /2 + 12.5 MHz | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | NOTE: Interfering signal | | | positions that are partially or | | | completely outside of the | | | downlink operating band of the | | | repeater are excluded from the | | | requirement. | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
The output intermodulation level shall not exceed the unwanted emission limits
in clause 9 in the presence of an interfering signal according to Table
12.1‑1. The measurement may be limited to frequencies on which third and fifth
order intermodulation products appear, considering the width of these
products.
# 13 Adjacent Channel Rejection Ratio (ACRR)
## 13.1 Definitions and applicability
Adjacent Channel Rejection Ratio (ACRR) is the ratio of the RRC weighted gain
per carrier of the repeater in the pass band to the RRC weighted gain of the
repeater on an adjacent channel outside the repeater pass band. The carrier in
the pass band and in the adjacent channel shall be of the same type (reference
carrier).
The requirement shall apply to the uplink and downlink of the Repeater, at
maximum gain, where the donor link is maintained via antennas (over the air
Repeater).
### 13.1.1 Minimum Requirements
There is no minimum requirement for E-UTRA signals.
## 13.2 Co-existence with UTRA
This requirement shall be applied for the protection of UTRA signals in
geographic areas in which E-UTRA-FDD Repeater and UTRA BS are deployed so that
they serve adjacent channels. The reference carrier is a UTRA-FDD carrier.
### 13.2.1. Minimum Requirements
In normal conditions the ACRR shall be higher than the value specified in the
Table 13.2.1-1.
Table 13.2.1-1: Repeater ACRR
* * *
Co-existence with other systems Repeater maximum output power Channel offset
from the centre frequency of the first or last 5MHz channel within the pass
band. ACRR limit UTRA P ≥ 31 dBm 5 MHz 33dB P ≥ 31 dBm 10 MHz 33dB P \< 31 dBm
5 MHz 20dB P \< 31 dBm 10 MHz 20dB
* * *
Note1: Repeater maximum output power as defined in TS25.143 clause 9.1.1.
Note2: For co-existence with TDD, a narrow band requirement is for further
study.
###### ## Annex A (normative): Environmental requirements for the Repeater
equipment
The Repeater equipment shall fulfil all the requirements in the full range of
environmental conditions for the relevant environmental class from the
relevant IEC specifications listed below
60 721-3-3 \"Stationary use at weather protected locations\" [7];
60 721-3-4 \"Stationary use at non weather protected locations\" [8].
Normally it is sufficient for all tests to be conducted using normal test
conditions except where otherwise stated. For guidance on the use of test
conditions to be used in order to show compliance refer to TS 36.143.
#