# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
Y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document contains the description and definition of the
measurements done at the UE and network in order to support operation in idle
mode and connected mode.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: "Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications".
[2] 3GPP TS 36.201: "Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Physical Layer -- General Description ".
[3] 3GPP TS 36.211: "Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Physical channels and modulation".
[4] 3GPP TS 36.212: "Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Multiplexing and channel coding ".
[5] 3GPP TS 36.213: "Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Physical layer procedures ".
[6] 3GPP TS 36.321: "Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Medium Access Control (MAC) protocol specification".
[7] 3GPP TS 36.331: "Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol specification ".
[8] 3GPP2 CS.0005-D v1.0 "Upper Layer (Layer 3) Signaling Standard for
CDMA2000 Spread Spectrum Systems Release D".
[9] 3GPP2 CS.0024-A v3.0 "cdma2000 High Rate Packet Data Air Interface
Specification"
[10] 3GPP TS 36.104: "Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception ".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
Ec/No Received energy per chip divided by the power density in the band
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
1x RTT CDMA2000 1x Radio Transmission Technology
CPICH Common Pilot Channel
E-UTRA Evolved UTRA
E-UTRAN Evolved UTRAN
FDD Frequency Division Duplex
GSM Global System for Mobile communication
HRPD CDMA2000 High Rate Packet Data
P-CCPCH Primary Common Control Physical Channel
RSCP Received Signal Code Power
RSRP Reference Signal Received Power
RSRQ Reference Signal Received Quality
RSSI Received Signal Strength Indicator
TDD Time Division Duplex
UTRA Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
UTRAN Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
# 4 Control of UE/E-UTRAN measurements
In this chapter the general measurement control concept of the higher layers
is briefly described to provide an understanding on how L1 measurements are
initiated and controlled by higher layers.
With the measurement specifications L1 provides measurement capabilities for
the UE and E-UTRAN. These measurements can be classified in different reported
measurement types: intra-frequency, inter-frequency, inter-system, traffic
volume, quality and UE internal measurements (see the RRC Protocol [7]).
In the L1 measurement definitions, see chapter 5, the measurements are
categorised as measurements in the UE (the messages for these will be
described in the MAC Protocol [6] or RRC Protocol [7]) or measurements in the
E-UTRAN (the messages for these will be described in the Frame Protocol).
To initiate a specific measurement, the E-UTRAN transmits a 'RRC connection
reconfiguration message\' to the UE including a measurement ID and type, a
command (setup, modify, release), the measurement objects, the measurement
quantity, the reporting quantities and the reporting criteria
(periodical/event-triggered), see [7].
When the reporting criteria are fulfilled the UE shall answer with a
\'measurement report message\' to the E-UTRAN including the measurement ID and
the results.
For idle mode, the measurement information elements are broadcast in the
System Information.
# 5 Measurement capabilities for E-UTRA
In this chapter the physical layer measurements reported to higher layers are
defined.
## 5.1 UE measurement capabilities
The structure of the table defining a UE measurement quantity is shown below.
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Column field** | Comment | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Definition** | Contains the definition of the measurement. | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Applicable for** | States in which state(s) it shall be possible | | | to perform this measurement. The following | | | terms are used in the tables: | | | | | | > RRC_IDLE; | | | > | | | > RRC_CONNECTED; | | | | | | Intra-frequency appended to the RRC state: | | | | | | > Shall be possible to perform in the | | | > corresponding RRC state on an | | | > intra-frequency cell; | | | | | | Inter-frequency appended to the RRC state: | | | | | | > Shall be possible to perform in the | | | > corresponding RRC state on an | | | > inter-frequency cell | | | | | | Inter-RAT appended to the RRC state: | | | | | | > Shall be possible to perform in the | | | > corresponding RRC state on an inter-RAT | | | > cell. | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
### 5.1.1 Reference Signal Received Power (RSRP)
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Definition** | Reference signal received power (RSRP), is | | | defined as the linear average over the power | | | contributions (in [W]) of the resource | | | elements that carry cell-specific reference | | | signals within the considered measurement | | | frequency bandwidth. | | | | | | For RSRP determination the cell-specific | | | reference signals R~0~ according TS 36.211 | | | [3] shall be used. If the UE can reliably | | | detect that R~1~ is available it may use R~1~ | | | in addition to R~0~ to determine RSRP. | | | | | | The reference point for the RSRP shall be the | | | antenna connector of the UE. | | | | | | If receiver diversity is in use by the UE, the | | | reported value shall not be lower than the | | | corresponding RSRP of any of the individual | | | diversity branches. | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Applicable for** | RRC_IDLE intra-frequency, | | | | | | RRC_IDLE inter-frequency, | | | | | | RRC_CONNECTED intra-frequency, | | | | | | RRC_CONNECTED inter-frequency | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
Note1: The number of resource elements within the considered measurement
frequency bandwidth and within the measurement period that are used by the UE
to determine RSRP is left up to the UE implementation with the limitation that
corresponding measurement accuracy requirements have to be fulfilled.
Note 2: The power per resource element is determined from the energy received
during the useful part of the symbol, excluding the CP.
### 5.1.2 Void
### 5.1.3 Reference Signal Received Quality (RSRQ)
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Definition** | Reference Signal Received Quality (RSRQ) is | | | defined as the ratio _N_ ×RSRP/(E-UTRA carrier | | | RSSI), where _N_ is the number of RB's of the | | | E-UTRA carrier RSSI measurement bandwidth. The | | | measurements in the numerator and denominator | | | shall be made over the same set of resource | | | blocks. | | | | | | E-UTRA Carrier Received Signal Strength | | | Indicator (RSSI), comprises the linear average | | | of the total received power (in [W]) | | | observed only in OFDM symbols containing | | | reference symbols for antenna port 0, in the | | | measurement bandwidth, over _N_ number of | | | resource blocks by the UE from all sources, | | | including co-channel serving and non-serving | | | cells, adjacent channel interference, thermal | | | noise etc. | | | | | | The reference point for the RSRQ shall be the | | | antenna connector of the UE. | | | | | | If receiver diversity is in use by the UE, the | | | reported value shall not be lower than the | | | corresponding RSRQ of any of the individual | | | diversity branches. | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Applicable for** | RRC_CONNECTED intra-frequency, | | | | | | RRC_CONNECTED inter-frequency | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
### 5.1.4 UTRA FDD CPICH RSCP
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Definition** | Received Signal Code Power, the received power | | | on one code measured on the Primary CPICH. The | | | reference point for the RSCP shall be the | | | antenna connector of the UE. If Tx diversity | | | is applied on the Primary CPICH the received | | | code power from each antenna shall be | | | separately measured and summed together in | | | [W] to a total received code power on the | | | Primary CPICH. If receiver diversity is in use | | | by the UE, the reported value shall not be | | | lower than the corresponding CPICH RSCP of any | | | of the individual receive antenna branches. | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Applicable for** | RRC_IDLE inter-RAT, | | | | | | RRC_CONNECTED inter-RAT | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
### 5.1.5 UTRA FDD carrier RSSI
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Definition** | _The received wide band power, including | | | thermal noise and noise generated in the | | | receiver, within the bandwidth defined by the | | | receiver pulse shaping filter. The reference | | | point for the measurement shall be the antenna | | | connector of the UE_. If receiver diversity is | | | in use by the UE, the reported value shall not | | | be lower than the corresponding UTRA carrier | | | RSSI of any of the individual receive antenna | | | branches. | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Applicable for** | RRC_IDLE inter-RAT, | | | | | | RRC_CONNECTED inter-RAT | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
### 5.1.6 UTRA FDD CPICH Ec/No
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Definition** | The received energy per chip divided by the | | | power density in the band. If receiver | | | diversity is not in use by the UE, t _he CPICH | | | Ec/No is identical to CPICH RSCP/UTRA Carrier | | | RSSI_. Measurement shall be performed on the | | | Primary CPICH. The reference point for the | | | CPICH Ec/No shall be the antenna connector of | | | the UE. If Tx diversity is applied on the | | | Primary CPICH the received energy per chip | | | (Ec) from each antenna shall be separately | | | measured and summed together in [Ws] to a | | | total received chip energy per chip on the | | | Primary CPICH, before calculating the Ec/No. | | | If receiver diversity is in use by the UE, the | | | measured CPICH Ec/No value shall not be lower | | | than the corresponding CPICH RSCP _~i~_ /UTRA | | | Carrier RSSI _~i~_ of receive antenna branch | | | _i_ . | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Applicable for** | RRC_IDLE inter-RAT, | | | | | | RRC_CONNECTED inter-RAT | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
### 5.1.7 GSM carrier RSSI
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Definition** | Received Signal Strength Indicator, the | | | wide-band received power within the relevant | | | channel bandwidth. Measurement shall be | | | performed on a GSM BCCH carrier. The reference | | | point for the RSSI shall be the antenna | | | connector of the UE. | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Applicable for** | RRC_IDLE inter-RAT, | | | | | | RRC_CONNECTED inter-RAT | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
### 5.1.8 UTRA TDD carrier RSSI
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Definition** | The received wide band power, including | | | thermal noise and noise generated in the | | | receiver, within the bandwidth defined by the | | | receiver pulse shaping filter, for TDD within | | | a specified timeslot. The reference point for | | | the measurement shall be the antenna connector | | | of the UE. | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Applicable for** | RRC_IDLE inter-RAT, | | | | | | RRC_CONNECTED inter-RAT | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
### 5.1.9 UTRA TDD P-CCPCH RSCP
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Definition** | Received Signal Code Power, the received power | | | on P-CCPCH of a neighbour UTRA TDD cell. The | | | reference point for the RSCP shall be the | | | antenna connector of the UE. | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Applicable for** | RRC_IDLE inter-RAT, | | | | | | RRC_CONNECTED inter-RAT | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
### 5.1.10 CDMA2000 1x RTT Pilot Strength
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Definition** | CDMA2000 1x RTT Pilot Strength measurement is | | | defined in section 2.6.6.2.2 of [8] | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Applicable for** | RRC_IDLE inter-RAT, | | | | | | RRC_CONNECTED inter-RAT | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
### 5.1.11 CDMA2000 HRPD Pilot Strength
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Definition** | CDMA2000 HRPD Pilot Strength Measurement is | | | defined in section 8.7.6.1.2.3 of [9] | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Applicable for** | RRC_IDLE inter-RAT, | | | | | | RRC_CONNECTED inter-RAT | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
## 5.2 E-UTRAN measurement abilities
The structure of the table defining a E-UTRAN measurement quantity is shown
below.
* * *
**Column field** Comment **Definition** Contains the definition of the
measurement.
* * *
The term \"antenna connector\" used in this sub-clause to define the reference
point for the E-UTRAN measurements refers to the \"BS antenna connector\" test
port A and test port B as described in [10]. The term \"antenna connector\"
refers to Rx or Tx antenna connector as described in the respective
measurement definitions.
### 5.2.1 DL RS TX power
+----------------+----------------------------------------------------+ | **Definition** | Downlink reference signal transmit power is | | | determined for a considered cell as the linear | | | average over the power contributions (in [W]) of | | | the resource elements that carry cell-specific | | | reference signals which are transmitted by the | | | eNode B within its operating system bandwidth. | | | | | | For DL RS TX power determination the cell-specific | | | reference signals R~0~ and if available R~1~ | | | according TS 36.211 [3] can be used. | | | | | | The reference point for the DL RS TX power | | | measurement shall be the TX antenna connector. | +----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
### 5.2.2 Received Interference Power
* * *
**Definition** The uplink received interference power, including thermal
noise, within one physical resource block's bandwidth of
$N_{\text{sc}}^{\text{RB}}$resource elements as defined in TS 36.211 [3]. The
reported value shall contain a set of Received Interference Powers of physical
resource blocks $n_{\text{PRB}} =
0,\text{.}\text{.}\text{.},N_{\text{RB}}^{\text{UL}} - 1$ as defined in TS
36.211 [3]. The reference point for the measurement shall be the RX antenna
connector. In case of receiver diversity, the reported value shall be linear
average of the power in the diversity branches.
* * *
### 5.2.3 Thermal noise power
* * *
**Definition** The uplink thermal noise power within the UL system bandwidth
consisting of $N_{\text{RB}}^{\text{UL}}$ resource blocks as defined in [3].
It is defined as (N~o~ x _W_), where N~o~ denotes the white noise power
spectral density on the uplink carrier frequency and $W =
N_{\text{RB}}^{\text{UL}} \cdot N_{\text{sc}}^{\text{RB}} \cdot \text{Δf}$
denotes the UL system bandwidth. The measurement is optionally reported
together with the Received Interference Power measurement, it shall be
determined over the same time period as the Received Interference Power
measurement, The reference point for the measurement shall be the RX antenna
connector. In case of receiver diversity, the reported value shall be linear
average of the power in the diversity branches.
* * *
###
#