# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies requirements for Rel-8 UEs supporting release
independent features like:
\- additional E-UTRA operating frequency bands on top of Rel-8 of TS 36.101
[2] and TS 36.133 [3].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
• References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
• For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
• For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 36.101: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) Radio Transmission and Reception\".
NOTE: The considered release is given in the text of the present document that
uses [2].
[3] 3GPP TS 36.133: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Requirements for Support of Radio Resource Management\".
NOTE: The considered release is given in the text of the present document that
uses [3].
[4] 3GPP TS 36.306: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) radio access capabilities\".
NOTE: The considered release is given in the text of the present document that
uses [4].
[5] Void.
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**release independent** : applicable to some frozen releases, starting from a
certain release Rel-M
NOTE 1: Normally, a feature is introduced only in the latest open release
Rel-N and future releases are based on the previous one so that future
releases inherit the requirements of this feature. Introducing a feature \"in
a release independent way from Rel-M onwards\" (M\<N) means it was decided by
TSG RAN that this feature would be also beneficial in previous, already frozen
releases starting with Rel-M until Rel-(N-1). In order to avoid touching TS
36.101 [2] or TS 36.133 [3] of these frozen releases, the corresponding
requirements are captured in TS 36.307 via pointers to [2] or [3] of the
release in which the feature was introduced.
NOTE 2: Release independent does not mean applicable to all releases.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
FDD Frequency Division Duplex
RRC Radio Resource Control
RRM Radio Resource Management
TDD Time Division Duplex
UE User Equipment
## 3.3 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
N Release in which a feature is introduced into TS 36.101 [2] or TS 36.133 [3]
M Release from which onwards (including release M) a feature is release
independent
# 3A Release independent features
## 3A.0 General
TSG-RAN has agreed for certain features (see the following clauses) to
introduce them in a \"release independent way\".
This means for each feature:
\- it is \"introduced\" in a release N, i.e. TS 36.101 [2] and TS 36.133 [3]
of release N define certain UE requirements for this feature; the feature is
indicated in the tables of the following clauses;
\- it is \"release independent\" starting from a release M (M\<N); M for the
given feature is provided in the tables of the following clauses;
\- UEs supporting this feature have to fulfill additional requirements in
release M or higher which are specified in one or more Annexes of TS 36.307 of
release N; the applicable Annexes for a given feature are provided in the
tables of the following clauses.
The applicable UE Categories are specified in TS 36.306 [4] according to the
release to which the UE conforms.
## 3A.1 Additional E-UTRA operating bands
Requirements for a Rel-8 UE for additional E-UTRA operating bands compared to
TS 36.101 Rel-8 [2] are introduced via this clause.
Table 3A.1-1: E-UTRA operating bands and UE power class
+-----------------+-------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Feature | Duplex-mode | Release | Requirements to | | | | | be fulfilled | | | | independent | | | | | from | (see TS 36.307 | | | | | of the release | | | | | in which the | | | | | band was | | | | | introduced) | +-----------------+-------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Operating | FDD, TDD | Rel-8 | Table B.2.1-1, | | bands, band | | | Table B.4.1-1 | | number \<= 64, | | | | | Power Class 3 | | | | +-----------------+-------------+-----------------+-----------------+
For example, Band 19 was introduced in the Release 9 specifications. In order
to implement a UE conforming to Release 8 but supporting Band 19, it is
necessary for the UE to additionally conform to some parts of the Release 9
specifications (see corresponding Annexes of TS 36.307 Rel-9 which will point
to the requirements in the Rel-9 of TS 36.101 [2] or TS 36.133 [3] to be
fulfilled), such as the radio frequency and radio resource management
requirements for the Band 19.
# 4 -- 209 Void
###### ## Annex A (informative): Frequency arrangement for overlapping
operating bands
The following information is provided in order to assist a UE derive the DL
EARFCN and UL EARFCN in a multi-band environment, in which multiple
overlapping operating bands may be indicated in the fields _freqBandIndicator_
and _multiBandInfoList_ of SIB1.
The overlapping bands, independent of release, which may be indicated in a
cell are shown in Table A-1 for applicable E-UTRA bands. The DL EARFCN and UL
EARFCN are derived according to TS 36.101 Rel-8 [2].
Table A-1: Overlapping bands (multi-band environments) for each E-UTRA band
* * *
E-UTRA Operating Band Overlapping E-UTRA operating bands Duplex Mode 2 25 FDD
3 9 FDD 4 10 FDD 5 18, 19, 26 FDD 9 3 FDD 10 4 FDD 12 17 FDD 17 12 FDD 18 5,
26, 27 FDD 19 5, 26 FDD 25 2 FDD 26 5, 18, 19, 27 FDD 27 18, 26 FDD 33 39 TDD
38 41 TDD 39 33 TDD 41 38 TDD
* * *
#