# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document defines the E-UTRA UE Radio Access Capability Parameters.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 36.323: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA)
Packet Data Convergence Protocol (PDCP) specification\".
[3] 3GPP TS 36.322: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA)
Radio Link Control (RLC) specification\".
[4] 3GPP TS 36.321: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA)
Medium Access Control (MAC) specification\".
[5] 3GPP TS 36.331: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA)
Radio Resource Control (RRC) specification\".
[6] 3GPP TS 36.101: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA)
radio transmission and reception\".
[7] IETF RFC 4995: \"The RObust Header Compression (ROHC) Framework\".
[8] IETF RFC 4996: \"RObust Header Compression (ROHC): A Profile for TCP/IP
(ROHC-TCP)\".
[9] IETF RFC 3095: \"RObust Header Compression (RoHC): Framework and four
profiles: RTP, UDP, ESP and uncompressed\".
[10] IETF RFC 3843: \"RObust Header Compression (RoHC): A Compression Profile
for IP\".
[11] IETF RFC 4815: \"RObust Header Compression (ROHC): Corrections and
Clarifications to RFC 3095\".
[12] IETF RFC 5225: \"RObust Header Compression (ROHC) Version 2: Profiles for
RTP, UDP, IP, ESP and UDP Lite".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**\ **: \.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
1xRTT CDMA2000 1x Radio Transmission Technology
BCCH Broadcast Control Channel
DL-SCH Downlink Shared Channel
E-UTRA Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
E-UTRAN Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
FDD Frequency Division Duplex
GERAN GSM/EDGE Radio Access Network
HARQ Hybrid Automatic Repeat Request
HRPD High Rate Packet Data
MAC Medium Access Control
PDCP Packet Data Convergence Protocol
RAT Radio Access Technology
RLC Radio Link Control
ROHC RObust Header Compression
RRC Radio Resource Control
TDD Time Division Duplex
TTI Transmission Time Interval
UE User Equipment
UL-SCH Uplink Shared Channel
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System
UTRA UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access
# 4 UE radio access capability parameters
The following subclauses define the UE radio access capability parameters.
Only parameters for which there is the possibility for UEs to signal different
values are considered as UE radio access capability parameters. Therefore,
mandatory capabilities that are the same for all UEs are not listed here. Also
capabilities which are optional for UEs to implement but do not have UE radio
access capability parameter are listed in this specification.
E-UTRAN needs to respect the signalled UE radio access capability parameters
when configuring the UE and when scheduling the UE.
All parameters shown in italics are signalled and correspond to a field
defined in TS 36.331 [5].
## 4.1 _ue-Category_
The field _ue-Category_ defines a combined uplink and downlink capability. The
parameters set by the UE Category are defined in subclause 4.2. Tables 4.1-1
and 4.1-2 define the downlink and, respectively, uplink physical layer
parameter values for each UE Category.
Table 4.1-1: Downlink physical layer parameter values set by the field _ue-
Category_
* * *
UE Category Maximum number of DL-SCH transport block bits received within a
TTI Maximum number of bits of a DL-SCH transport block received within a TTI
Total number of soft channel bits Maximum number of supported layers for
spatial multiplexing in DL Category 1 10296 10296 250368 1 Category 2 51024
51024 1237248 2 Category 3 102048 75376 1237248 2 Category 4 150752 75376
1827072 2 Category 5 299552 149776 3667200 4
* * *
Table 4.1-2: Uplink physical layer parameter values set by the field _ue-
Category_
* * *
UE Category Maximum number of bits of an UL-SCH transport block transmitted
within a TTI Support for 64QAM in UL Category 1 5160 No Category 2 25456 No
Category 3 51024 No Category 4 51024 No Category 5 75376 Yes
* * *
Table 4.1-3: Total layer 2 buffer sizes set by the field _ue-Category_
* * *
UE Category Total layer 2 buffer size [bytes] Category 1 150 000 Category 2
700 000 Category 3 1 400 000 Category 4 1 900 000 Category 5 3 500 000
* * *
## 4.2 Parameters set by the field _ue-Category_
### 4.2.1 Transport channel parameters in downlink
#### 4.2.1.1 Maximum number of DL-SCH transport block bits received within a
TTI
Defines the maximum number of DL-SCH transport blocks bits that the UE is
capable of receiving within a DL-SCH TTI.
In case of spatial multiplexing, this is the sum of the number of bits
delivered in each of the two transport blocks.
This number does not include the bits of a DL-SCH transport block carrying
BCCH in the same subframe.
#### 4.2.1.2 Maximum number of bits of a DL-SCH transport block received
within a TTI
Defines the maximum number of DL-SCH transport block bits that the UE is
capable of receiving in a single transport block within a DL-SCH TTI.
#### 4.2.1.3 Total number of DL-SCH soft channel bits
Defines the total number of soft channel bits available for HARQ processing.
### 4.2.2 Transport channel parameters in uplink
#### 4.2.2.1 Maximum number of bits of an UL-SCH transport block transmitted
within a TTI
Defines the maximum number of bits of UL-SCH transport block transmitted
within an UL-SCH TTI.
### 4.2.3 Physical channel parameters in downlink (DL)
#### 4.2.3.1 Maximum number of supported layers for spatial multiplexing in DL
Defines the maximum number of supported layers for spatial multiplexing per
UE.
### 4.2.4 Physical channel parameters in uplink (UL)
#### 4.2.4.1 Support for 64QAM in UL
Defines if 64QAM is supported in UL.
### 4.2.5 Total layer 2 buffer size
This parameter defines the total layer 2 buffer size. The total layer 2 buffer
size is defined as the sum of the number of bytes that the UE is capable of
storing in the RLC transmission windows and RLC reception and reordering
windows for all radio bearers.
## 4.3 Parameters independent of the field _ue-Category_
### 4.3.1 PDCP Parameters
#### 4.3.1.1 _supportedROHC-Profiles_
This field defines which ROHC profiles from the list below are supported by
the UE.
\- 0x0000 ROHC uncompressed (RFC 4995)
\- 0x0001 ROHC RTP (RFC 3095, RFC 4815)
\- 0x0002 ROHC UDP (RFC 3095, RFC 4815)
\- 0x0003 ROHC ESP (RFC 3095, RFC 4815)
\- 0x0004 ROHC IP (RFC 3843, RFC 4815)
\- 0x0006 ROHC TCP (RFC 4996)
\- 0x0101 ROHCv2 RTP (RFC 5225)
\- 0x0102 ROHCv2 UDP (RFC 5225)
\- 0x0103 ROHCv2 ESP (RFC 5225)
\- 0x0104 ROHCv2 IP (RFC 5225)
A UE that supports one or more of the listed ROHC profiles shall support ROHC
profile 0x0000 ROHC uncompressed (RFC 4995).
\'IMS capable UEs supporting voice\' shall support ROHC profiles 0x0000,
0x0001, 0x0002 and be able to compress and decompress headers of PDCP SDUs at
a PDCP SDU rate corresponding to supported IMS voice codecs.
#### 4.3.1.2 _maxNumberROHC-ContextSessions_
This field defines the maximum number of header compression context sessions
supported by the UE, excluding context sessions that leave all headers
uncompressed.
### 4.3.2 RLC parameters
#### 4.3.2.1 Void
### 4.3.3 Void
### 4.3.4 Physical layer parameters
#### 4.3.4.1 _ue-TxAntennaSelectionSupported_
This field defines whether the UE supports transmit antenna selection.
#### 4.3.4.2 _ue-SpecificRefSigsSupported_
This field defines whether the UE supports PDSCH transmission mode 7 for FDD.
#### 4.3.4.3 Void
### 4.3.5 RF parameters
#### 4.3.5.1 _supportedBandListEUTRA_
This field defines which E-UTRA radio frequency bands [6] are supported by the
UE. For each band, support for either only half duplex operation, or full
duplex operation is indicated. For TDD, the half duplex indication is not
applicable.
### 4.3.6 Measurement parameters
#### 4.3.6.1 _interFreqNeedForGaps_ and _interRAT-NeedForGaps_
These fields define for each supported E-UTRA band whether measurement gaps
are required to perform measurements on each other supported E-UTRA radio
frequency band and on each supported RAT/band combination.
### 4.3.7 Inter-RAT parameters
#### 4.3.7.1 Support of UTRA FDD
This parameter defines whether the UE supports UTRA FDD.
A UE that supports UTRAN FDD shall support inter-RAT PS handover to UTRAN.
#### 4.3.7.2 _supportedBandListUTRA-FDD_
Only applicable if the UE supports UTRA FDD. This field defines which UTRA FDD
radio frequency bands are supported by the UE.
#### 4.3.7.3 Support of UTRA TDD 1.28 Mcps
This parameter defines whether the UE supports UTRA TDD 1.28 Mcps.
A UE that supports UTRAN TDD 1.28 Mcps shall support inter-RAT PS handover to
UTRAN.
#### 4.3.7.4 _supportedBandListUTRA-TDD128_
Only applicable if the UE supports UTRA TDD 1.28 Mcps. This field defines
which UTRA TDD 1.28 Mcps radio frequency bands are supported by the UE.
#### 4.3.7.5 Support of UTRA TDD 3.84 Mcps
This parameter defines whether the UE supports UTRA TDD 3.84 Mcps.
A UE that supports UTRAN TDD 3.84 Mcps shall support inter-RAT PS handover to
UTRAN.
#### 4.3.7.6 _supportedBandListUTRA-TDD384_
Only applicable if the UE supports UTRA TDD 3.84 Mcps. This field defines
which UTRA TDD 3.84 Mcps radio frequency bands are supported by the UE.
#### 4.3.7.7 Support of UTRA TDD 7.68 Mcps
This parameter defines whether the UE supports UTRA TDD 7.68 Mcps.
A UE that supports UTRAN TDD 7.68 Mcps shall support inter-RAT PS handover to
UTRAN.
#### 4.3.7.8 _supportedBandListUTRA-TDD768_
Only applicable if the UE supports UTRA TDD 7.68 Mcps. This field defines
which UTRA TDD 7.68 Mcps radio frequency bands are supported by the UE.
#### 4.3.7.9 Support of GERAN
This parameter defines whether the UE supports GERAN.
#### 4.3.7.10 _supportedBandListGERAN_
Only applicable if the UE supports GERAN. This field defines which GERAN radio
frequency bands are supported by the UE.
#### 4.3.7.11 interRAT-PS-HO-ToGERAN
Only applicable if the UE supports GERAN. This field defines whether the UE
supports inter-RAT PS handover to GERAN.
#### 4.3.7.12 Support of HRPD
This parameter defines whether the UE supports HRPD.
#### 4.3.7.13 _supportedBandListHRPD_
Only applicable if the UE supports HRPD. This field defines which HRPD radio
frequency bands are supported by the UE.
#### 4.3.7.14 _tx-ConfigHRPD_
Only applicable if the UE supports HRPD. This field defines whether the UE
supports single or dual transmitter. With dual transmitter, UE can transmit
simultaneously on both E-UTRAN and HRPD.
#### 4.3.7.15 _rx-ConfigHRPD_
Only applicable if the UE supports HRPD. This field defines whether the UE
supports single or dual receiver. With dual receiver, UE can receive
simultaneously on both E-UTRAN and HRPD.
#### 4.3.7.16 Support of 1xRTT
This parameter defines whether the UE supports 1xRTT.
#### 4.3.7.17 _supportedBandList1XRTT_
Only applicable if the UE supports 1xRTT. This field defines which 1xRTT radio
frequency bands are supported by the UE.
#### 4.3.7.18 _tx-Config1XRTT_
Only applicable if the UE supports 1xRTT. This field defines whether the UE
supports single or dual transmitter. With dual transmitter, UE can transmit
simultaneously on both E-UTRAN and 1xRTT.
#### 4.3.7.19 _rx-Config1XRTT_
Only applicable if the UE supports 1xRTT. This field defines whether the UE
supports single or dual receiver. With dual receiver, UE can receive
simultaneously on both E-UTRAN and 1xRTT.
### 4.3.8 General parameters
#### 4.3.8.1 _accessStratumRelease_
This field defines the release of the E-UTRA layer 1, 2, and 3 specifications
supported by the UE e.g. Rel-8, Rel-9, etc.
### 4.3.9 Void
# 5 Void
# 6 Optional features without UE radio access capability parameters
The following subclauses list the optional UE features not having UE radio
access capability.
## 6.1 CSG features
It is optional for UE to support some parts of CSG reselection features as
specified in [5, B.2].
## 6.2 PWS features
### 6.2.1 ETWS
It is optional for UE to support ETWS reception as specified in [5].
## 6.3 Void
## 6.4 Void
## 6.5 Void
## 6.6 Void
## 6.7 Void
## 6.8 Void
## 6.9 Physical layer features
### 6.9.1 PDSCH transmission mode 5
It is optional for UE to support _transmissionMode tm5_ as specified in [5].
###### ## Annex A (informative): Guideline on maximum number of DL PDCP SDUs
per TTI
In order to help the dimensioning of the UE design, values for the maximum
number of DL PDCP SDUs per TTI from Table A-1 may be used.
Note: Due to the need for the network buffer data for efficient scheduling,
values for Category 1 and 2 are same. It is not expected that category 1 UE
has to sustain the same rate of PDCP SDUs per TTI as category 2 for prolonged
period of time.
Table A-1: Maximum values for DL PDCP SDUs per TTI
* * *
UE Category Maximum number of PDCP SDUs per TTI Category 1 10 Category 2 10
Category 3 20 Category 4 30 Category 5 50
* * *
#