# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical specification of the services provided by
the physical layer of E-UTRA to upper layers.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 41.101: \"Technical Specifications and Technical Reports for a
GERAN-based 3GPP system\".
Support Team note: The reference above is not used in the present document.
[2] 3GPP TR 21 912 (V3.1.0): \"Example 2, using fixed text\".
Support Team note: The reference above is invalid (there is no such spec) and
not used in the present document.
[3] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[4] 3GPP TR 25.913: \"Requirements for Evolved UTRA (E-UTRA) and Evolved UTRAN
(E-UTRAN)\".
Support Team note: The reference above is not used in the present document.
[5] 3GPP TR 25.814, Physical aspects for Evolved UTRA
Support Team note: The reference above is not used in the present document,
and is anyway illegal since 25.814 is not published by the OPs.
[6] 3GPP TS 36.300: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRAN); Overall description;
Stage 2\".
Support Team note: The reference above is not used in the present document.
[7] 3GPP TS 36.201: "Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Physical layer; General description".
Support Team note: The reference above is not used in the present document.
[8] 3GPP TS 36.211: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Physical channels and modulation\".
[9] 3GPP TS 36.212: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Multiplexing and channel coding\".
[10] 3GPP TS 36.213: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Physical layer procedures\".
Support Team note: The reference above is not used in the present document.
[11] 3GPP TS 36.214: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Physical layer; Measurements\".
Support Team note: The reference above is not used in the present document.
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [3] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[3].
**Carrier frequency** center frequency of the cell.
**Frequency layer:** set of cells with the same carrier frequency.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[3] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [3].
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
ACK Acknowledgement
ACLR Adjacent Channel Leakage Ratio
aGW Access Gateway
AM Acknowledge Mode
ARQ Automatic Repeat Request
AS Access Stratum
BCCH Broadcast Control Channel
BCH Broadcast Channel
C/I Carrier-to-Interference Power Ratio
CAZAC Constant Amplitude Zero Auto-Correlation
CMC Connection Mobility Control
CP Cyclic Prefix
C-plane Control Plane
CQI Channel Quality Indicator
CRC Cyclic Redundancy Check
DCCH Dedicated Control Channel
DL Downlink
DRX Discontinuous Reception
DTCH Dedicated Traffic Channel
DTX Discontinuous Transmission
eNB E-UTRAN NodeB
EPC Evolved Packet Core
E-UTRA Evolved UTRA
E-UTRAN Evolved UTRAN
FDD Frequency Division Duplex
FDM Frequency Division Multiplexing
GERAN GSM EDGE Radio Access Network
GNSS Global Navigation Satellite System
GSM Global System for Mobile communication
HARQ Hybrid ARQ
HO Handover
HSDPA High Speed Downlink Packet Access
ICIC Inter-Cell Interference Coordination
IP Internet Protocol
LB Load Balancing
LCR Low Chip Rate
LTE Long Term Evolution
MAC Medium Access Control
MBMS Multimedia Broadcast Multicast Service
MCCH Multicast Control Channel
MCS Modulation and Coding Scheme
MIMO Multiple Input Multiple Output
MME Mobility Management Entity
MTCH MBMS Traffic Channel
NACK Non-Acknowledgement
NAS Non-Access Stratum
OFDM Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing
OFDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiple Access
PA Power Amplifier
PAPR Peak-to-Average Power Ratio
PCCH Paging Control Channel
PDCP Packet Data Convergence Protocol
PDU Packet Data Unit
PHY Physical layer
PLMN Public Land Mobile Network
PRB Physical Resource Block
PSC Packet Scheduling
QAM Quadrature Amplitude Modulation
QoS Quality of Service
RAC Radio Admission Control
RACH Random Access Channel
RAT Radio Access Technology
RB Radio Bearer
RBC Radio Bearer Control
RF Radio Frequency
RLC Radio Link Control
RNL Radio Network Layer
ROHC Robust Header Compression
RRC Radio Resource Control
RRM Radio Resource Management
RU Resource Unit
S1-C S1-Control plane
S1-U S1-User plane
SAE System Architecture Evolution
SAP Service Access Point
SC-FDMA Single Carrier -- Frequency Division Multiple Access
SCH Synchronization Channel
SDMA Spatial Division Multiple Access
SDU Service Data Unit
SFN Single Frequency Network
TA Tracking Area
TB Transport Block
TCP Transmission Control Protocol
TDD Time Division Duplex
TM Transparent Mode
TNL Transport Network Layer
TTI Transmission Time Interval
UE User Equipment
UL Uplink
UM Un-acknowledge Mode
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunication System
UPE User Plane Entity
U-plane User plane
UTRA Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
UTRAN Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
VRB Virtual Resource Block
X2-C X2-Control plane
X2-U X2-User plane
# 4 Interfaces to the physical layer
## 4.1 Interface to MAC
## 4.2 Interface to RRC
# 5 Services and functions of the physical layer
## 5.1 General
The physical layer offers data transport services to higher layers.
The access to these services is through the use of transport channels via the
MAC sub-layer.
A transport block is defined as the data delivered by MAC layer to the
physical layer and vice versa. Transport blocks are delivered once every TTI.
## 5.2 Overview of L1 functions
The physical layer offers data transport services to higher layers. The access
to these services is through the use of a transport channel via the MAC sub-
layer. The physical layer is expected to perform the following functions in
order to provide the data transport service:
> \- Error detection on the transport channel and indication to higher layers
>
> \- FEC encoding/decoding of the transport channel
>
> \- Hybrid ARQ soft-combining
>
> \- Rate matching of the coded transport channel to physical channels
\- Mapping of the coded transport channel onto physical channels
\- Power weighting of physical channels
\- Modulation and demodulation of physical channels
\- Frequency and time synchronisation
\- Radio characteristics measurements and indication to higher layers
\- Multiple Input Multiple Output (MIMO) antenna processing
\- Transmit Diversity (TX diversity)
\- Beamforming
\- RF processing. (Note: RF processing aspects are specified in the TS 36.100)
L1 functions are modelled for each transport channel in subclauses 6.1 and
6.2.
## 5.3 L1 interactions with MAC retransmission functionality
# 6 Model of physical layer of the UE
The E-UTRA physical-layer model captures those characteristics of the E-UTRA
physical-layer that are relevant from the point-of-view of higher layers. More
specifically, the physical-layer model captures:
\- The structure of higher-layer data being passed down to or up from the
physical layer;
\- The means by which higher layers can configure the physical layer;
\- The different indications (error indications, channel-quality indications,
etc.) that are provided by the physical layer to higher layers;
\- Other (non-transport-channel-based) higher-layer peer-to-peer signalling
supported by the physical layer.
## 6.1 Uplink model
### 6.1.1 Uplink Shared Channel
The physical-layer model for Uplink Shared Channel transmission is described
based on the corresponding physical-layer-processing chain, see Figure 6.1.1.
Processing steps that are relevant for the physical-layer model, e.g. in the
sense that they are configurable by higher layers, are highlighted in blue. It
should be noted that, in case PUSCH, the scheduling decision is partly made at
the network side, if there is no blind decoding it is fully done at the
network side. The uplink transmission control in the UE then configures the
uplink physical-layer processing, based on uplink transport-format and
resource-assignment information received on the downlink.
\- **Higher-layer data passed to/from the physical layer**
\- One transport block of dynamic size delivered to the physical layer once
every TTI.
\- **CRC and transport-block-error indication**
\- Transport-block-error indication delivered to higher layers.
\- **FEC and rate _matching_**
\- Channel coding rate is implicitly given by the combination of transport
block size, modulation scheme and resource assignment;
\- Physical layer model support of HARQ: in case of Incremental Redundancy,
the corresponding Layer 2 Hybrid-ARQ process controls what redundancy version
is to be used for the physical layer transmission for each TTI.
\- **Interleaving**
\- No control of interleaving by higher layers.
\- **Data modulation**
\- Modulation scheme is decided by MAC Scheduler (QPSK, 16QAM and 64QAM).
\- **Mapping to physical resource**
\- L2-controlled resource assignment.
\- **Multi-antenna processing**
\- MAC Scheduler partly configures mapping from assigned resource blocks to
the available number of antenna ports.
\- **Support of L1 control signalling**
\- Transmission of ACK/NAK and CQI feedback related to DL data transmission
The model of Figure 6.1.1 also captures
\- Transport via physical layer of Hybrid-ARQ related information (exact info
is FFS) associated with the PUSCH, to the peer HARQ process at the receiver
side;
\- Transport via physical layer of corresponding HARQ acknowledgements to
PUSCH transmitter side.
Figure 6.1.1-1: Physical-layer model for UL-SCH transmission
### 6.1.2 Random-access Channel
## 6.2 Downlink model
### 6.2.1 Downlink-Shared Channel
The physical-layer model for Downlink Shared Channel transmission model is
described based on the corresponding PDSCH physical-layer-processing chain,
see Figure 6.2.1. Processing steps that are relevant for the physical-layer
model, e.g. in the sense that they are configurable by higher layers, are
highlighted in blue on the figure.
\- **Higher-layer data passed to/from the physical layer**
\- N (up to two) transport blocks of dynamic size delivered to the physical
layer once every TTI.
\- **CRC and transport-block-error indication**
\- Transport-block-error indication delivered to higher layers.
\- **FEC and rate _matching_**
\- Channel coding rate is implicitly given by the combination of transport
block size, modulation scheme and resource assignment;
\- Physical layer model support of HARQ: in case of Incremental Redundancy,
the corresponding Layer 2 Hybrid-ARQ process controls what redundancy version
is to be used for the physical layer transmission for each TTI.
\- **Data modulation**
\- Modulation scheme is decided by MAC Scheduler (QPSK, 16QAM and 64 QAM).
**Multi-antenna processing**
\- MAC Scheduler partly configures mapping from modulated code words (for each
stream) to the available number of antenna ports.
\- **Mapping to physical resource**
\- L2-controlled resource assignment.
\- **Support of L1 control signalling**
\- Transmission of scheduler related control signals.
\- **Support for Hybrid-ARQ-related signalling**
The model of Figure 6.2.1 also captures:
\- Transport via physical layer of Hybrid-ARQ related information associated
with the PDSCH, to the peer HARQ process at the receiver side;
\- Transport via physical layer of corresponding HARQ acknowledgements to
PDSCH transmitter side.
NOTE: The signalling of transport-format and resource-allocation is not
captured in the physical-layer model. At the transmitter side, this
information can be directly derived from the configuration of the physical
layer. The physical layer then transports this information over the radio
interface to its peer physical layer, presumably multiplexed in one way or
another with the HARQ-related information. On the receiver side, this
information is, in contrast to the HARQ-related information, used directly
within the physical layer for PDSCH demodulation, decoding etc., without
passing through higher layers.
Figure 6.2.1-1: Physical-layer model for DL-SCH transmission
### 6.2.2 Broadcast Channel
The physical-layer model for BCH transmission is characterized by a fixed pre-
defined transport format. The TTI (repetition rate) of the BCH is 40 ms. The
BCH physical-layer model is described based on the corresponding BCH physical-
layer-processing chain, see Figure 6.2.2:
\- **Higher-layer data passed to/from the physical layer**
\- A single (fixed-size) transport block per TTI.
\- **CRC and transport-block-error indication**
\- Transport-block-error indication delivered to higher layers.
\- **FEC and rate _matching_**
\- Channel coding rate is implicitly given by the combination of transport
block size, modulation scheme and resource assignment;
\- No BCH Hybrid ARQ, i.e. no higher-layer control of redundancy version.
\- **Data modulation**
\- Fixed modulation scheme (QPSK), i.e. not higher-layer control.
\- **Mapping to physical resource**
\- Fixed pre-determined transport format and resource allocation, i.e. no
higher-layer control.
**\- Multi-antenna processing**
  * Fixed pre-determined processing, i.e. no higher-layer control.
\- **Support for Hybrid-ARQ-related signalling**
\- No Hybrid ARQ.
Figure 6.2.2-1: Physical-layer model for BCH transmission
### 6.2.3 Paging Channel
The physical-layer model for PCH transmission is described based on the
corresponding PCH physical-layer-processing chain, see Figure 6.2.3.
Processing steps that are relevant for the physical-layer model, e.g. in the
sense that they are configurable by higher layers, are highlighted in blue on
the figure.
\- **Higher-layer data passed to/from the physical layer**
\- A single transport block per TTI.
\- **CRC and transport-block-error indication**
\- Transport-block-error indication delivered to higher layers.
\- **FEC and rate _matching_**
\- Channel coding rate is implicitly given by the combination of transport
block size, modulation scheme and resource assignment;
\- No PCH Hybrid ARQ, i.e. no higher-layer control of redundancy version.
\- **Data modulation**
\- Modulation scheme is decided by MAC Scheduler.
\- **Mapping to physical resource**
\- L2 controlled resource assignment;
\- Possible support of dynamic transport format and resource allocation.
**\- Multi-antenna processing**
\- MAC Scheduler partly configures mapping from assigned resource blocks to
the available number of antenna ports.
\- **Support for Hybrid-ARQ-related signalling**
No Hybrid ARQ.
Figure 6.2.3-1: Physical-layer model for PCH transmission
### 6.2.4 Multicast Channel
The physical-layer model for MCH transmission is characterized by the support
for multi-cell reception at the UE (a.k.a. "SFN" transmission). This implies
that only semi-static configuration of the MCH transport format and resource
assignment is possible. The MCH physical-layer model is described based on the
corresponding PCH physical-layer-processing chain, see Figure 6.2.4.
Processing steps that are relevant for the physical-layer model, e.g. in the
sense that they are configurable by higher layers, are highlighted in blue.
\- **Higher-layer data passed to/from the physical layer**
\- One transport block delivered to physical layer once every TTI.
\- **CRC and transport-block-error indication**
\- Transport-block-error indication delivered to higher layers.
\- **FEC and rate _matching_**
\- Channel coding rate is implicitly given by the combination of transport
block size, modulation scheme and resource assignment;
\- No MCH Hybrid ARQ, i.e. no higher-layer control of redundancy version.
\- **Data modulation**
\- Modulation scheme is decided by MAC Scheduler.
\- **Mapping to physical resource**
\- L2 controlled semi--static resource assignment.
\- **Multi-antenna processing**
\- MAC Scheduler partly configures mapping from assigned resource blocks (for
each stream) to the available number of antenna ports.
\- **Support for Hybrid-ARQ-related signalling**
\- No Hybrid ARQ.
{width="6.0465277777777775in" height="3.247916666666667in"}
Figure 6.2.4-1: Physical-layer model for MCH transmission
# 7 Formats and configurations for L1 data transfer
FFS.
# 8 Parallel transmission of simultaneous Physical Channels
This clause describes the requirements from the UE to send and receive on
multiple Physical and Transport Channels simultaneously depending on the
service capabilities and requirements.
## 8.1 Uplink
The table describes the possible combinations of physical channels that can be
sent in parallel in the uplink in the same TTI by one UE.
Table 8.1-1: Uplink
+---+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+ | | Physical | Transport | Mandatory | Comment | | | Channel | Channel | dependent on | | | | Combination | Combination | UE radio | | | | | | access | | | | | | capabilities | | +---+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+ | 1 | > PUSCH | UL-SCH | > Mandatory | | +---+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+ | 2 | PRACH | > RACH | > Mandatory | | +---+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+ | 3 | PUCCH | > FFS | > Mandatory | CQI and | | | | | | Scheduling | | | | | | Requests are | | | | | | provided to | | | | | | Layer 2. | +---+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+
## 8.2 Downlink
The table describes the possible combinations of physical channels that can be
received in parallel in the downlink in the same TTI by one UE. In one
subframe, the UE shall be able to receive all TBs according to the indication
on PDCCH.
Table 8.2-1: Downlink \"Reception Types\"
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | \"Reception | Physical | Monitored\ | Associated\ | | Type\" | Channel(s) | RNTI | Transport | | | | | Channel | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | A | PBCH | N/A | BCH | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | B | PDCCH+PDSCH | SI-RNTI | DL-SCH | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | C | PDCCH+PDSCH | P-RNTI | PCH | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | D | PDCCH+PDSCH | RA-RNTI (Note | DL-SCH | | | | 3) | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | Temporary | DL-SCH | | | | C-RNTI (Note | | | | | 3) (Note 4) | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | C-RNTI and | DL-SCH | | | | S | | | | | emi-Persistent | | | | | Scheduling | | | | | C-RNTI | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | E | PDCCH (Note 1) | C-RNTI | N/A | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | F | PDCCH | Temporary | **UL-** SCH | | | | C-RNTI (Note | | | | | 5) | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | C-RNTI and | **UL-SCH** | | | | S | | | | | emi-Persistent | | | | | Scheduling | | | | | C-RNTI | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | G | PDCCH | TPC-PUCCH-RNTI | N/A | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | H | PDCCH | TPC-PUSCH-RNTI | N/A | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | I | PDCCH | S | N/A | | | | emi-Persistent | | | | | Scheduling | | | | | C-RNTI (Note | | | | | 6) | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | J | PDCCH | S | N/A | | | | emi-Persistent | | | | | Scheduling | | | | | C-RNTI (Note | | | | | 7) | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Note 1: PDCCH | | | | | is used to | | | | | convey PDCCH | | | | | order for | | | | | Random Access. | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: Void. | | | | | | | | | | Note 3: | | | | | RA-RNTI and | | | | | Temporary | | | | | C-RNTI are | | | | | mutually | | | | | exclusive and | | | | | only | | | | | applicable | | | | | during Random | | | | | Access | | | | | procedure. | | | | | | | | | | Note 4: | | | | | Temporary | | | | | C-RNTI is only | | | | | applicable | | | | | when no valid | | | | | C-RNTI is | | | | | available. | | | | | | | | | | Note 5: | | | | | Temporary | | | | | C-RNTI is only | | | | | applicable | | | | | during | | | | | co | | | | | ntention-based | | | | | Random Access | | | | | procedure. | | | | | | | | | | Note 6: | | | | | S | | | | | emi-Persistent | | | | | Scheduling | | | | | C-RNTI is used | | | | | for DL | | | | | S | | | | | emi-Persistent | | | | | Scheduling | | | | | release. | | | | | | | | | | Note 7: | | | | | S | | | | | emi-Persistent | | | | | Scheduling | | | | | C-RNTI is used | | | | | for UL | | | | | S | | | | | emi-Persistent | | | | | Scheduling | | | | | release. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
Table 8.2-2: Downlink \"Reception Type\" Combinations
+-------------------------+-------------------------+----------------+ | Combination | Mandatory/Optional | Comment | +-------------------------+-------------------------+----------------+ | 1xA + 1xB + 1xC | Mandatory | RRC_IDLE | +-------------------------+-------------------------+----------------+ | 1xA + 1xB + 1x(D or E | Mandatory | RRC_CONNECTED | | or G or I) + 1x(F or H | | | | or J) | | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+----------------+ | 1xA + 1xB + 1x(D or E | Mandatory for UEs | RRC_CONNECTED | | or G or I) + 1x(F or H | supporting FS2 | | | or J) + 1xF | | (Note 1) | +-------------------------+-------------------------+----------------+ | 1xA + 1xB + 1xC + 1x(D | Mandatory for ETWS UEs | RRC_CONNECTED | | or E or G or I) + 1x(F | | | | or H or J) | Optional for all other | | | | UEs | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+----------------+ | 1xA + 1xB + 1xC + 1x(D | Mandatory for ETWS UEs | RRC_CONNECTED | | or E or G or I) + 1x(F | supporting FS2 | | | or H or J) + 1xF | | (Note 1) | | | Optional for all other | | | | UEs | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+----------------+ | Note 1: For TDD UL/DL | | | | configuration 0, two | | | | PDCCHs can be received | | | | in the same subframe | | | | for UL-SCH in two | | | | different uplink | | | | subframes. | | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+----------------+
NOTE: Any subset of the combinations specified in table 8.2-2 is also
supported.
# 9 Measurements provided by the physical layer
## 9.1 Model of physical layer measurements
## 9.2 UE Measurements
UE measurement: **E-UTRA carrier RSSI** : E-UTRA Carrier Received Signal
Strength Indicator, comprises the total received wideband power observed by
the UE from all sources, including co-channel serving and non-serving cells,
adjacent channel interference, thermal noise etc.
UE measurement: **Reference signal received power (RSRP)** : Reference signal
received power (RSRP) is determined for a considered cell as the linear
average over the power contributions (in [W]) of the resource elements that
carry cell-specific reference signals within the considered measurement
frequency bandwidth. For RSRP determination the cell-specific reference
signals R~0~ and if available R~1~ according to [8] can be used.
If receiver diversity is in use by the UE, the reported value shall be
equivalent to the linear average of the power values of all diversity
branches.
UE measurement: **Reference Signal Received Quality (RSRQ)** : Reference
Signal Received Quality (RSRQ) is defined as the ratio _N_ ×RSRP / (E-UTRA
carrier RSSI), where _N_ is the number of RB's of the E-UTRA carrier RSSI
measurement bandwidth. The measurements in the numerator and denominator shall
be made over the same set of resource blocks.
UE measurement: **UTRA CPICH RSCP** : Received Signal Code Power, the received
power on one code measured on the Primary CPICH.
UE measurement: **UTRA FDD carrier RSSI** : _received wide band power,
including thermal noise and noise generated in the receiver, within the
bandwidth defined by the receiver pulse shaping filter._
UE measurement: **UTRA FDD CPICH Ec/No** : received energy per chip divided by
the power density in the band. _The CPICH Ec/No is identical to CPICH
RSCP/UTRA Carrier RSSI_. Measurement is performed on the Primary CPICH.
UE measurement: **GSM carrier RSSI** : Received Signal Strength Indicator, the
wide-band received power within the relevant channel bandwidth. Measurement is
performed on a GSM BCCH carrier.
UE measurement: **UTRA TDD carrier RSSI** : The received wide band power,
including thermal noise and noise generated in the receiver, within the
bandwidth defined by the receiver pulse shaping filter, for TDD within a
specified timeslot.
UE measurement: **UTRA TDD P-CCPCH RSCP** : Received Signal Code Power, the
received power on P-CCPCH of a neighbour UTRA TDD cell.
## 9.3 E-UTRAN Measurements
The detailed E-UTRAN measurements definition is provided in [9]:
eNode B measurement: **DL RS TX power** : Downlink reference signal transmit
power is determined for a considered cell as the linear average over the power
contributions (in [W]) of the resource elements that carry cell-specific
reference signals which are transmitted by the eNode B within its operating
system bandwidth.
For DL RS TX power determination the cell-specific reference signals R~0~ and
if available R~1~ according to [8] can be used.
The reference point for the DL RS TX power measurement shall be the TX antenna
connector.
#