# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document contains the description and definition of the
measurements performed by E-UTRAN that are transferred over the standardised
interfaces in order to support E-UTRA radio link operations, radio resource
management (RRM), network operations and maintenance (OAM), and self-
organising networks (SON).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 36.321: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA)
Medium Access Control (MAC) protocol specification \".
[3] 3GPP TS 36.322: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA)
Radio Link Control (RLC) protocol specification\".
[4] 3GPP TS 36.323: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Packet Data Convergence Protocol (PDCP) specification\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, symbols apply locally in the
subclause where they are defined.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
BCCH Broadcast Control Channel
DRB Data Radio bearer
DCCH Dedicated Control Channel
DTCH Dediicated Traffic Channel
HARQ Hybrid Acknowledge Request
PCCH Paging Control Channel
PRB Physical Resource Block
QCI Quality of service Class Identifier.
SRB Signalling Radio Bearer.
TTI Time Transmission Interval
# 4 Layer 2 measurements
## 4.1 E-UTRAN measurements
### 4.1.1 PRB usage
The objective of the PRB usage measurements is to measure usage of time and
frequency resources. A use case is cell load balancing, where PRB usage is
used for information signalled across the X2 interface. Another use-case is
OAM performance observability.
#### 4.1.1.1 Total PRB usage
Protocol Layer: MAC
+----------------+----------------------------------------------------+ | **Definition** | Total PRB usage is calculated in the | | | time-frequency domain only. The reference point is | | | the Service Access Point between MAC and L1. The | | | measurement is done separately for: | | | | | | - DL | | | | | | - UL | | | | | | Detailed Definitions: | | | | | | $M(T) = \left\lfloor | | | \frac{M1(T)}{P(T)} \ast \text{100} \right\rfloor$ | | | , where explanations can be found in the table | | | 4.1.1.1-1 below. | +----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
Table 4.1.1.1-1
+---+-----------------------------------------------------------------+ | | Total PRB usage. Percentage of PRBs used, averaged during time | | | period $T$. Value range: 0-100% | +---+-----------------------------------------------------------------+ | | A count of full physical resource blocks. | | | | | | For the DL, all PRBs used for transmission shall be included. | | | | | | For the UL, all PRBs allocated for transmission shall be | | | included. | +---+-----------------------------------------------------------------+ | | Total number of PRBs available during time period $T$. | +---+-----------------------------------------------------------------+ | | The time period during which the measurement is performed. | +---+-----------------------------------------------------------------+
#### 4.1.1.2 PRB usage per traffic class
Protocol Layer: MAC
+----------------+----------------------------------------------------+ | **Definition** | PRB usage per traffic class. This measurement is | | | an aggregate for all UEs in a cell, and is | | | applicable to Dedicated Traffic Channels (DTCH). | | | The reference point is the Service Access Point | | | between MAC and L1. The measurement is done | | | separately for: | | | | | | - DL DTCH, for each QCI. | | | | | | - UL DTCH, for each QCI | | | | | | Detailed Definitions: | | | | | | {width="3.0416666666666665in" | | | height="0.4722222222222222in"}, where | | | | | | explanations can be found in the table 4.1.1.2-1 | | | below. | | | | | | $M(\text{qci}) = \left\lfloor \frac{M1(\ | | | text{qci},T)}{P(T)} \ast \text{100} \right\rfloor$ | | | , where | | | | | | explanations can be found in the table 4.1.1.2-2 | | | below. | +----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
Table 4.1.1.2-1
* * *
                                                                                      Absolute PRB usage per traffic class. A count of full or partial physical resource blocks.
                                                                                      The time period during which the measurement is performed (in TTIs)
                                                                                      A transport block in time period $T$that contain DTCH data. Initial transmissions and HARQ retransmissions shall be counted.
{width="0.3194444444444444in" height="0.2222222222222222in"} The set of
physical resource blocks used for transmission of transport block $t$.
{width="0.4305555555555556in" height="0.2222222222222222in"} The number of
transport blocks that are currently sharing PRB $p$. $B(t,\text{qci}$) The
total number of DTCH bits for DTCHs with QCI =$\text{qci}$, carried in
transport block $t$ The total number of DTCH and DCCH bits carried in
transport block $t$. If multiplexing is taken into account: $X(t) = 1$ always.
If multiplexing is not taken into account:$X(t) = 1$ if transport block $t$
carries data corresponding to only one QCI and: $X(t) = 0$otherwise. It is up
to implementation if to take multiplexing into account or not.
* * *
Table 4.1.1.2-2
* * *
     PRB usage per traffic class. Percentage of PRBs used for a certain qci, averaged during time period $T$. Value range: 0-100%
     Total number of PRBs available during time period $T$.
* * *
#### 4.1.1.3 Void
#### 4.1.1.4 Void
#### 4.1.1.5 Void
### 4.1.2 Received Random Access Preambles
A use case for this measurement is RACH configuration optimization, where
Received Random Access Preambles is signaled across an OAM interface.
Protocol Layer: MAC
+----------------+----------------------------------------------------+ | **Definition** | Received Random Access Preambles. This measurement | | | is applicable to PRACH. The reference point is the | | | Service Access Point between MAC and L1. The | | | measured quantity is the number of received Random | | | Access preambles during a time period over all | | | PRACHs configured in a cell. The measurement is | | | done separately for: | | | | | | - Dedicated preambles | | | | | | - Randomly selected preambles in the low range | | | | | | - Randomly selected preambles in the high range. | | | | | | The unit of the measured value is [/s]. | +----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
### 4.1.3 Number of active UEs
The objective of the measurement is to measure number of active UEs per QCI
for OAM performance observability. It is intended to be part of a calculation
to determine the bitrate UEs achieve when they are active, i.e. when
applications are transmitting and receiving data.
#### 4.1.3.1 Number of Active UEs in the DL per QCI
Protocol Layer: MAC, RLC, PDCP
+----------------+----------------------------------------------------+ | **Definition** | Number of Active UEs in the DL per QCI. This | | | measurement refers to UEs for which there is | | | buffered data for the DL for DRBs. The measurement | | | is done separately per QCI. | | | | | | Detailed Definition: | | | | | | $M(T,\ | | | text{qci},p) = \left\lfloor \frac{\sum_{\forall i} | | | ^{}{N(i,\text{qci})}}{I(T,p)} \right\rfloor$,where | | | | | | explanations can be found in the table 4.1.3.1-1 | | | below. | +----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
Table 4.1.3.1-1
+---+-----------------------------------------------------------------+ | | Number of Active UEs in the DL per QCI, averaged during time | | | period $T$. Unit: Integer. | +---+-----------------------------------------------------------------+ | | Number of UEs for which there is buffered data for the DL in | | | MAC, RLC or PDCP protocol layers for a Data Radio Bearer of | | | traffic class with QCI = $\text{qci}$ at sampling occasion$i$. | | | | | | In RLC and PDCP layers, buffered data corresponds to _data | | | available for transmission_ according to the definitions in TS | | | 36.322 and TS 36.323. | | | | | | Buffered data includes data for which HARQ transmission has not | | | yet terminated. | +---+-----------------------------------------------------------------+ | | Sampling occasion during time period$T$. A sampling occasion | | | shall occur once every $p$ seconds. | +---+-----------------------------------------------------------------+ | | Sampling period length. Unit: second. The sampling period shall | | | be at most 0.1 s. | +---+-----------------------------------------------------------------+ | | Total number of sampling occasions during time period $T$. | +---+-----------------------------------------------------------------+ | | Time Period during which the measurement is performed, Unit: | | | second. | +---+-----------------------------------------------------------------+
#### 4.1.3.2 Number of Active UEs in the UL per QCI
Protocol Layer: MAC
+----------------+----------------------------------------------------+ | **Definition** | Number of Active UEs in the UL per QCI. This | | | measurement refers to UEs for which there is | | | buffered data for the UL for DRBs. The measurement | | | is done separately per QCI. | | | | | | Detailed Definition: | | | | | | $M(T, | | | \text{qci},p) = \left\lfloor \frac{\sum_{\forall i | | | }^{}{N(i,\text{qci})}}{I(T,p)} \right\rfloor$where | | | | | | explanations can be found in the table 4.1.3.2-1 | | | below. | +----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
NOTE: For this measurement, the expected accuracy is dependent on application
scenario, cell load UE configuration and how DRBs are distributed over logical
channel groups.
Table 4.1.3.2-1
+---+-----------------------------------------------------------------+ | | Number of Active UEs in the UL per QCI, averaged during time | | | period $T$. Unit: Integer. | +---+-----------------------------------------------------------------+ | | Number of UEs for which there is buffered data for the UL in | | | MAC, RLC or PDCP protocol layers for a Data Radio Bearer of | | | traffic class with QCI = $\text{qci}$ at sampling occasion.$i$ | | | | | | This is a Node B estimation that is expected to be based on | | | Buffer Status Reporting, provided semi-persistent grants and | | | progress of ongoing HARQ transmissions (by including buffered | | | data for which HARQ transmission has not yet terminated in | | | buffered data). | | | | | | In addition, the eNB can use the analysis of received data in | | | the estimation. In such case, when QCI cannot be determined at | | | the time of the sampling occasion, eNB can determine QCI after | | | successful reception of data. | +---+-----------------------------------------------------------------+ | | Sampling occasion during time period$T$. A sampling occasion | | | shall occur once every $p$ seconds. | +---+-----------------------------------------------------------------+ | | Sampling period length. Unit: second. The sampling period shall | | | be at most 0.1 s. | +---+-----------------------------------------------------------------+ | | Total number of sampling occasions during time period $T$. | +---+-----------------------------------------------------------------+ | | Time Period during which the measurement is performed, Unit: | | | second. | +---+-----------------------------------------------------------------+
### 4.1.4 Packet Delay
#### 4.1.4.1 Packet Delay in the DL per QCI
The objective of this measurement is to measure L2 Packet Delay for OAM
performance observability.
Protocol Layer: MAC, RLC, PDCP
+----------------+----------------------------------------------------+ | **Definition** | Packet Delay in the DL per QCI. This measurement | | | refers to packet delay for DRBs. For arrival of | | | packets the reference point is PDCP upper SAP. For | | | successful reception the reference point is MAC | | | lower SAP. The measurement is done separately per | | | QCI. | | | | | | Detailed Definition: | | | | | | $M(T,\text{qci}) = \ | | | left\lfloor \frac{\sum_{\forall i}^{}{\text{tAck}( | | | i) - \text{tArriv}(i)}}{I(T)} \right\rfloor$,where | | | | | | explanations can be found in the table 4.1.4.1-1 | | | below. | +----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
Table 4.1.4.1-1
* * *
     Packet Delay in the DL per QCI, averaged during time period $T$. Unit: Integer ms.
     The point in time when PDCP SDU $i$ arrives.
     The point in time when the last piece of PDCP SDU *i* was received by the UE according to received HARQ feedback information.
     A PDCP SDU that arrives at the PDCP upper SAP during time period $T$. PDCP SDU for which HARQ acknowledgement is not received for all parts shall not be included in the calculation.
     Total number of PDCP SDUs $i$ .
     Time Period during which the measurement is performed
* * *
### 4.1.5 Data Loss
#### 4.1.5.1 Packet Discard Rate in the DL per QCI
The objective of this measurement is to measure packets that are dropped due
to congestion, traffic management etc, for OAM performance observability.
Protocol Layer: MAC, RLC, PDCP
+----------------+----------------------------------------------------+ | **Definition** | Packet Discard Rate in the DL per QCI. This | | | measurement refers to discard for DRBs. One packet | | | corresponds to one PDCP SDU. The reference point | | | is PDCP upper SAP. The measurement is done | | | separately per QCI. | | | | | | Detailed Definition: | | | | | | $M(T,\text{qci}) = \lef | | | t\lfloor \frac{\text{Ddisc}(T,\text{qci}) \ast \te | | | xt{1000000}}{N(T,\text{qci})} \right\rfloor$,where | | | | | | explanations can be found in the table 4.1.5.1-1 | | | below. | +----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
NOTE: Packet loss is expected to be small or very small The statistical
accuracy of an individual discard rate measurement result is dependent on how
many packets has been received, and thus the time for the measurement.
Table 4.1.5.1-1
* * *
     Packet Discard Rate in the DL per QCI, averaged during time period $T$. Unit: number of discarded packets per received packets \* 10^6^, Integer.
     Number of DL packets, for which no part has been transmitted over the air, of a data radio bearer with QCI = $\text{qci}$ , that are discarded during time period $T$ in the PDCP, RLC or MAC layers due to reasons other than hand-over.
     Number of DL packets of bearer with QCI = $\text{qci}$ that has entered PDCP upper SAP during time period $T$ (NOTE).
     Time Period during which the measurement is performed, Unit: minutes (NOTE).
* * *
#### 4.1.5.2 Packet Uu Loss Rate in the DL per QCI
The objective of this measurement is to measure packets that are lost at Uu
transmission, for OAM performance observability.
Protocol Layer: MAC, RLC, PDCP
+----------------+----------------------------------------------------+ | **Definition** | Packet Uu Loss Rate in the DL per QCI. This | | | measurement refers to packet loss for DRBs. One | | | packet corresponds to one PDCP SDU. The | | | measurement is done separately per QCI. | | | | | | Detailed Definition: | | | | | | $M(T,\text{qci}) = \left\lfloor \frac{\text{Dlo | | | ss}(T,\text{qci}) \ast \text{1000000}}{N(T,\text{q | | | ci}) + \text{Dloss}(T,\text{qci})} \right\rfloor$, | | | where | | | | | | explanations can be found in the table 4.1.5.2-1 | | | below. | +----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
NOTE: Packet loss is expected to be upper bounded by the PELR of the QCI which
takes values between 10^-6^ and 10^-2^. The statistical accuracy of an
individual packet loss rate measurement result is dependent on how many
packets have been received, and thus the time for the measurement.
Table 4.1.5.2-1
* * *
     Packet Uu Loss Rate in the DL per QCI. Unit: number of lost packets per transmitted packets \* 10^6^, Integer.
     Number of DL packets, of a data radio bearer with QCI = $\text{qci}$, for which at least a part has been transmitted over the air but not positively acknowledged, and it was decided during time period $T$ that no more transmission attempts will be done. If transmission of a packet might continue in another cell, it shall not be included in this count.
     Number of DL packets, of a data radio bearer with QCI = $\text{qci}$, which has been transmitted over the air and positively acknowledged during time period $T$.
     Time Period during which the measurement is performed, Unit: minutes (NOTE).
* * *
#### 4.1.5.3 Packet Loss Rate in the UL per QCI
The objective of this measurement is to measure packets that are lost in the
UL, for OAM performance observability.
Protocol Layer: PDCP
+----------------+----------------------------------------------------+ | **Definition** | Packet Loss Rate in the UL per QCI. This | | | measurement refers to packet loss for DRBs. One | | | packet corresponds to one PDCP SDU. Reference | | | point is the PDCP upper SAP. The measurement is | | | done separately per QCI. | | | | | | Detailed Definition: | | | | | | $M(T,\text{qci}) = | | | \left\lfloor \frac{\text{Dloss}(T,\text{qci}) \as | | | t \text{1000000}}{N(T,\text{qci})} \right\rfloor$, | | | where | | | | | | explanations can be found in the table 4.1.5.3-1 | | | below. | +----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
NOTE: Packet loss is expected to be upper bounded by the PELR of the QCI which
takes values between 10^-6^ and 10^-2^. The statistical accuracy of an
individual packet loss rate measurement result is dependent on how many
packets have been received, and thus the time for the measurement.
Table 4.1.5.3-1
* * *
     Packet Loss Rate in the UL per QCI. Unit: number of lost packets per transmitted packets \* 10^6^, Integer.
     Number of missing UL PDCP sequence numbers, representing packets that are not delivered to higher layers, of a data radio bearer with QCI = $\text{qci}$during time period $T$. If transmission of a packet might continue in another cell, it shall not be included in this count.
     Total number of UL PDCP sequence numbers (also including missing sequence numbers) of a bearer with QCI = $\text{qci}$, starting from the sequence number of the first packet delivered by PDCP upper SAP to higher layers until the sequence number of the last packet during time period $T$.
     Time Period during which the measurement is performed, Unit: minutes (NOTE).
* * *
#