# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document describes the overall architecture of the E-UTRAN,
including internal interfaces and assumptions on the radio, S1 and X2
interfaces.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 36.300: \" Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) Overall
description Stage 2\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.401: \" GPRS enhancements for E-UTRAN access\".
[4] 3GPP TS 36.414: \" Evolved Universal Terrestrial Access Network (E-UTRAN);
S1 data transport\".
[5] 3GPP TS 36.424: \" Evolved Universal Terrestrial Access Network (E-UTRAN);
X2 data transport\".
[6] 3GPP TS 36.440: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
(E-UTRAN); General aspects and principles for interfaces supporting Multimedia
Broadcast Multicast Service (MBMS) within E-UTRAN\".
[7] ITU-T Recommendation G.823 (3/00): \"The control of jitter and wander
within digital networks which are based on the 2048 kbit/s hierarchy\".
[8] ITU-T Recommendation G.824 (3/00): \"The control of jitter and wander
within digital networks which are based on the 1544 kbit/s hierarchy\".
[9] ITU-T Recommendation G.825 (8/01): \"The control of jitter and wander
within digital networks which are based on the synchronous digital hierarchy
(SDH)\".
[10] ITU-T Recommendation G.8261/Y.1361 (2/08): \"Timing and Synchronization
aspects in Packet networks\".
[11] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification\".
[12] 3GPP TR 44.901: \"External Network Assisted Cell Change\".
[13] 3GPP TS 48.018: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); BSS GPRS Protocol
(BSSGP)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply:
**E-RAB: An E-RAB uniquely identifies** the concatenation of an S1 Bearer and
the corresponding Data Radio Bearer. When an E-RAB exists, there is a one-to-
one mapping between this E-RAB and an EPS bearer of the Non Access Stratum as
defined in [3].
**S1:** interface between an eNB and an EPC, providing an interconnection
point between the E-UTRAN and the EPC. It is also considered as a reference
point.
**X2:** logical interface between two eNBs. Whilst logically representing a
point to point link between eNBs, the physical realization need not be a point
to point link.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
AP Application Protocol
C-RNTI Cell RNTI
ECGI E-UTRAN Cell Global Identifier
ECM EPS Connection Management
EEC Ethernet Equipment Clock
eNB E-UTRAN Node B
EMM EPS Mobility Management
E-RAB E-UTRAN Radio Access Bearer
ESM EPS Session Management
ETWS Earthquake and Tsunami Warning System
EPC Evolved Packet Core
EPS Evolved Packet System
E-UTRA Evolved UTRA
E-UTRAN Evolved UTRAN
FDD Frequency Division Duplex
GUMMEI Globally Unique MME Identifier
ID Identity
IP Internet Protocol
LTE Long Term Evolution
MBMS Multimedia Broadcast Multicast Service
MBSFN Multimedia Broadcast multicast service Single Frequency Network
NDS Network Domain Security
MME Mobility Management Entity
NAS Non Access Stratum
PLMN Public Land Mobile Network
RA-RNTI Random Access RNTI
RET Remote Electrical Tilting
RIM RAN Information Management
RNL Radio Network Layer
RNTI Radio Network Temporary Identifier
RRC Radio Resource Control
RTP Real-time Transport Protocol
QoS Quality of Service
SFN System Frame Number
S-GW Serving Gateway
S-TMSI S-Temporary Mobile Subscriber Identity
TCP Transmission Control Protocol
TDD Time Division Duplex
TDM Time Division Multiplexing
TMA Tower Mounted Amplifier
TNL Transport Network Layer
UDP User Datagram Protocol
UE User Equipment
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunication System
# 4 General principles
The general principles guiding the definition of E-UTRAN Architecture as well
as the E-UTRAN interfaces are the following:
\- Logical separation of signalling and data transport networks.
\- E-UTRAN and EPC functions are fully separated from transport functions.
Addressing scheme used in E-UTRAN and EPC shall not be tied to the addressing
schemes of transport functions. The fact that some E-UTRAN or EPC functions
reside in the same equipment as some transport functions does not make the
transport functions part of the E-UTRAN or the EPC.
\- Mobility for RRC connection is fully controlled by the E-UTRAN.
\- When defining the E-UTRAN interfaces the following principles were
followed: the functional division across the interfaces shall have as few
options as possible.
\- Interfaces should be based on a logical model of the entity controlled
through this interface.
\- One physical network element can implement multiple logical nodes.
# 5 General architecture
## 5.1 General
The protocols over Uu and S1 interfaces are divided into two structures:
**\- User plane protocols\** These are the protocols implementing the actual
E-RAB service, i.e. carrying user data through the access stratum.
**\- Control plane protocols\** These are the protocols for controlling the
E-RABs and the connection between the UE and the network from different
aspects (including requesting the service, controlling different transmission
resources, handover etc.). Also a mechanism for transparent transfer of NAS
messages is included.
## 5.2 User plane
The E-RAB service is offered from SAP to SAP by the Access Stratum. Figure
5.2-1 shows the protocols on the Uu and S1 interfaces that linked together
provide this E-RAB service.
(1) The radio interface protocols are defined in documents TS 36.2xx and TS
36.3xx.
(2) The S1 interface protocols are defined in documents TS 36.41x.
Figure 5.2-1: S1 and Uu user plane
## 5.3 Control plane
Figure 5.3-1 shows the control plane (signalling) protocol stacks on S1 and Uu
interfaces.
(1) The radio interface protocols are defined in documents TS 36.2xx and TS
36.3xx.
(2) The protocol is defined in documents TS 36.41x. (Description of S1
interface).
(3) **EMM, ESM:** This exemplifies a set of NAS control protocols between UE
and EPC. The evolution of the protocol architecture for these protocols is
outside the scope of the present document.
Figure 5.3-1: S1 and Uu control plane
NOTE: Both the Radio protocols and the S1 protocols contain a mechanism to
transparently transfer NAS messages.
# 6 E-UTRAN architecture
## 6.1 Overview
Figure 6.1-1 Overall architecture
The LTE architecture can be further described as follow:
The E-UTRAN consists of set of eNBs connected to the EPC through the S1.
An eNB can support FDD mode, TDD mode or dual mode operation.
eNBs can be interconnected through the X2.
S1 and X2 are logical interfaces.
The E-UTRAN is layered into a Radio Network Layer (RNL) and a Transport
Network Layer (TNL).
The E-UTRAN Architecture, i.e. the E-UTRAN logical nodes and interfaces
between them, is defined as part of the Radio Network Layer.
For each E-UTRAN interface (S1, X2) the related transport network layer
protocol and functionality is specified. The transport network layer provides
services for user plane transport, signalling transport.
In S1-Flex configuration, each eNB is connected to all EPC nodes within a pool
area. The pool area is defined in [3].
If Security protection for control plane and user plane data on transport
network layer of E-UTRAN interfaces has to be supported, NDS/IP [33.210 and
(TS successor of) 33.821] shall be applied.
The eMBMS architecture is defined as in TS 36.440[6].
## 6.2 E-UTRAN Identifiers
This subclause shows those identifiers that are used in E-UTRAN.
### 6.2.1 The principle of handling of Application Protocol Identities
An Application Protocol Identity (AP ID) is allocated when a new UE-associated
logical connection is created in either an eNB or an MME. An AP ID shall
uniquely identify a logical connection associated to a UE over the S1
interface or X2 interface within a node (eNB or MME). Upon receipt of a
message that has a new AP ID from the sending node, the receiving node shall
store the AP ID of the sending node for the duration of the logical
connection. The receiving node shall assign the AP ID to be used to identify
the logical connection associated to the UE and include it as well as the
previously received new AP ID from the sending node, in the first returned
message to the sending node. In all subsequent messages to and from sending
node, both AP IDs of sending node and receiving node shall be included.
The definitions of AP IDs as used on S1 interface or X2 interface are shown
below:
**eNB UE S1AP ID:**
A eNB UE S1AP ID shall be allocated so as to uniquely identify the UE over the
S1 interface within an eNB. When an MME receives an eNB UE S1AP ID it shall
store it for the duration of the UE-associated logical S1-connection for this
UE. Once known to an MME this IE is included in all UE associated S1-AP
signalling. The eNB UE S1AP ID shall be unique within the eNB logical node.
**MME UE S1AP ID:**
A MME UE S1AP ID shall be allocated so as to uniquely identify the UE over the
S1 interface within the MME. When an eNB receives MME UE S1AP ID it shall
store it for the duration of the UE-associated logical S1-connection for this
UE. Once known to an eNB this IE is included in all UE associated S1-AP
signalling. The MME UE S1AP ID shall be unique within the MME logical node.
**Old eNB UE X2AP ID:**
An Old eNB UE X2AP ID shall be allocated so as to uniquely identify the UE
over the X2 interface within a source eNB. When a target eNB receives an Old
eNB UE X2AP ID it shall store it for the duration of the UE-associated logical
X2-connection for this UE. Once known to a target eNB this IE is included in
all UE associated X2-AP signalling. The Old eNB UE X2AP ID shall be unique
within the eNB logical node.
**New eNB UE X2AP ID:**
An New eNB UE X2AP ID shall be allocated so as to uniquely identify the UE
over the X2 interface within a target eNB. When a source eNB receives a New
eNB UE X2AP ID it shall store it for the duration of the UE-associated logical
X2-connection for this UE. Once known to source eNB this IE is included in all
UE associated X2-AP signalling. The New eNB UE X2AP ID shall be unique within
the eNB logical node.
**eNB1 Measurement ID:**
An eNB1 Measurement ID shall be allocated so as to uniquely identify the
measurement configuration over the X2 interface within the eNB that requests
the measurement. The eNB1 Measurement ID shall be unique within the eNB
logical node.
**eNB2 Measurement ID:**
> An eNB2 Measurement ID shall be allocated so as to uniquely identify the
> measurement configuration over the X2 interface within the eNB that performs
> the measurement. The eNB2 Measurement ID shall be unique within the eNB
> logical node.
### 6.2.2 PLMN Identity
A Public Land Mobile Network is uniquely identified by its PLMN Identity.
### 6.2.3 Globally Unique MME Identifier (GUMMEI)
The Globally Unique MME Identifier consists of a PLMN Identity, a MME Group
Identity and a MME Code, as defined in [11].
An MME logical node may be associated with one or more GUMMEI, but each GUMMEI
uniquely identifies an MME logical node [11].
### 6.2.4 Global eNB ID
The Global eNB ID, used to globally identify an eNB, is defined in [2].
### 6.2.5 E-UTRAN Cell Global Identifier (ECGI)
The ECGI, used to globally identify a cell, is defined in [2].
### 6.2.6 Tracking Area Identity
_This is the identity used to identify tracking areas._
### 6.2.7 E-RAB ID
An E-RAB ID uniquely identifies an E-RAB for one UE accessing via E-UTRAN.
### 6.2.8 UE Identifiers
#### 6.2.8.1 RNTI
Radio Network Temporary Identifiers (RNTI) are used as UE identifiers within
E-UTRAN and in signalling messages between UE and E-UTRAN. Some types of RNTI
exist:
1) C-RNTI
The C-RNTI provides a unique UE identification at the cell level identifying
RRC Connection
2) RA-RNTI
The RA-RNTI is used during some transient states, the UE is temporarily
identified with a random value for contention resolution purposes
#### 6.2.8.2 S-Temporary Mobile Subscriber Identity (S-TMSI)
The S-TMSI is a temporary UE identity in order to support the subscriber
identity confidentiality. This S-TMSI is allocated by MME.
## 6.3 Transport Addresses
The transport layer address parameter is transported in the radio network
application signalling procedures that result in establishment of transport
bearer connections.
The transport layer address parameter shall not be interpreted in the radio
network application protocols and reveal the addressing format used in the
transport layer.
The formats of the transport layer addresses are further described in [4],
[5].
## 6.4 UE associations in eNB
There are several types of UE associations needed in the eNB: the \"eNB UE
Context\" used to store all information needed for a UE in active state and
the associations between the UE and the logical S1 and X2 connections used for
S1/X2-AP UE associated messages.
**Definitions:**
**[eNB UE context:]{.underline}**
An eNB UE context is a block of information in an eNB associated to one active
UE. The block of information contains the necessary information required to
maintain the E-UTRAN services towards the active UE. At least UE state
information, security information, UE capability information and the
identities of the UE-associated logical S1-connection shall be included in the
eNB UE context. An eNB UE context is established when the transition to active
state for a UE is completed or in target eNB after completion of handover
resource allocation during handover preparation.
**[UE-associated logical S1-connection/ UE-associated logical
X2-connection:]{.underline}**
On the logical S1 or X2 connection, control plane messages (S1AP, X2AP)
associated with the UE are sent. This connection is established during the
first S1/X2AP message exchange between the S1/X2 peer nodes. The connection is
maintained as long as UE associated S1/X2AP messages need to be exchanged over
S1/X2. The UE-associated logical S1-connection uses the identities MME UE S1AP
ID and eNB UE S1AP ID. The UE-associated logical X2-connection uses the
identities Old eNB UE X2AP ID and New eNB UE X2AP ID. When a node (MME or eNB)
receives a UE associated S1/X2AP message the node retrieves the associated UE
based on the S1/X2AP ID.
**[UE-associated signalling:]{.underline}**
UE-associated signalling is an exchange of S1/X2-AP messages associated with
one UE over the UE-associated logical S1/X2-connection.
NOTE: The UE-associated logical S1-connection may exist before the eNB UE
context is setup in eNB. The UE-associated logical X2-connection may exist
before the eNB UE context is setup in the target eNB.
# 7 E-UTRAN functions description
## 7.1 List of functions
\- Transfer of user data
\- Radio channel ciphering and deciphering
\- Integrity protection
\- Header compression
\- Mobility control functions:
\- Handover
\- Paging
\- Positioning
\- Inter-cell interference coordination
\- Connection setup and release
\- Load Balancing
\- Distribution function for NAS messages
\- NAS node selection function
\- Synchronization
\- Radio access network sharing
\- MBMS function
\- Subscriber and equipment trace
\- RAN Information Management
\- Delivery of Warning messages
## 7.2 Functions description
### 7.2.1 Transfer of user data
This function provides user data transfer capability across the E-UTRAN
between the S1 and Uu interfaces.
### 7.2.2 Radio channel ciphering and deciphering
This function is a pure computation function whereby the radio transmitted
data can be protected against a non-authorized third-party. Ciphering and
deciphering may be based on the usage of a session-dependent key, derived
through signalling and/or session dependent information.
### 7.2.3 Integrity protection
This function is a pure computation function whereby the transmitted data can
be protected against a non-authorised third-party from alteration.
### 7.2.4 Header compression
This function provides a header compression specifically to the particular
network layer, transport layer or upper layer protocol combination e.g. TCP/IP
and RTP/UDP/IP.
### 7.2.5 Mobility control functions
#### 7.2.5.1 Handover
This function manages the mobility of the radio interface. It is based on
radio measurements and it is used to maintain the Quality of Service requested
by the EPC. It contains the function of transferring context data between
source node and target node.
Handover may be directed to/from another system (e.g. LTE to UMTS handover).
The handover preparation is done in the target network side and final handover
decision is done in the source network side.
#### 7.2.5.2 void
#### 7.2.5.3 Positioning
This function provides the capability to determine the EUTRAN CGI a UE is
currently located.
### 7.2.6 Inter-cell interference coordination
This function is to manage radio resources (i.e. the radio resource blocks)
such that inter-cell interference is kept under control. This function is a
multi-cell RRM function that needs to take into account information (e.g. the
resource usage status and traffic load situation) from multiple cells.
### 7.2.7 Connection setup and release
This function is responsible for the control of connection element set-up and
release in the E-UTRAN. The purpose of this function is:
1) to participate in the processing of the end-to-end connection set-up and
release; and
2) to manage and maintain the element of the end-to-end connection which is
located in the E-UTRAN.
In the former case, this function will be activated by request from other
functional entities at call set-up/release. In the latter case, i.e. when the
end-to-end connection has already been established, this function may also be
invoked to cater for in-call service modification or at handover execution.
### 7.2.8 Load balancing
Load balancing has the task of handling uneven distribution of the traffic
load over multiple cells. The purpose of load balancing is thus to influence
the load distribution in such a manner that radio resources remain highly
utilized and the QoS of in-progress sessions is maintained to the greatest
extent possible and call dropping probabilities are kept sufficiently small.
Load balancing algorithms may result in handover or cell reselection decisions
with the purpose of redistributing traffic from highly loaded cells to under-
utilized cells.
### 7.2.9 Distribution function for NAS messages
In the RRC protocol and the S1AP, messages from the NAS shall be transparently
transferred within the Access Stratum.
### 7.2.10 NAS node selection function
The interconnection of E-UTRAN to multiple MME / S-GWs is supported in the
E-UTRAN architecture. Therefore a NAS node selection function is located in
the E-UTRAN to determine the MME association of the UE, based on the UE's
temporary identifier, which was assigned to the UE by the MME.
### 7.2.11 Synchronization
The network synchronization is to maintain the synchronization of the timing
between different nodes within the network. As no single method can cover all
E-UTRAN applications a logical port at eNB may be used for reception of timing
input independent of synchronization method chosen.
### 7.2.12 Radio access network sharing
This function is to enable multiple PLMNs to share a radio access network.
This function has mechanisms to direct the UE to the appropriate PLMN at the
network sharing border and to restrict UE measurement and reselection to cells
that are entitled to access. The E-UTRAN can broadcast multiple PLMN-IDs in
the radio interface. The UE can choose one amongst the broadcasted PLMN-IDs.
An eNB is allowed to handover a UE to a target cell with multiple PLMN
identities if at least one of the target cell PLMN identities is listed as
allowed in the area restriction information for the UE, i.e. listed as Serving
PLMN or an equivalent PLMN.
### 7.2.13 MBMS function
This function enables the E-UTRAN to transmit the same data to multiple
recipients and allows network and radio resources to be shared.
The support of MBMS is out of scope of this Release.
### 7.2.14 Subscriber and equipment trace
Support for subscriber and equipment trace for LTE and EPS shall be as
specified in 3GPP specifications 32.421, 32.422, 32.423 and 3GPP Trace IRP
32.441, 32.442 and 32.443.
All traces are initiated by the core network, even if the trace is to be
carried out in the radio network.
A trace setup in the radio network will be propagated on the X2 interface at
handover and on the S1 interface if the handover is carried out between MMEs.
### 7.2.15 RAN Information Management
The RAN Information Management (RIM) function is a generic mechanism that
allows the request and transfer of information (e.g. GERAN System information)
between two RAN nodes via the core network as described in [12] and [13].
### 7.2.16 Paging
This function provides the capability to request an UE to contact the E-UTRAN
when UE is in ECM_IDLE state or to be addressed of an incoming warning message
(ETWS) when UE is in ECM_CONNECTED state.
### 7.2.17 Delivery of Warning messages
This function provides the capability to schedule and broadcast warning
notification messages to UEs related to alerts (earthquake, tsunami, etc..) to
meet regional regulatory requirements. ETWS is the E-UTRAN service related to
warning deliveries.
In ETWS one warning message at a time is delivered over the radio.
ETWS includes the scheduling and transmission of a primary warning
notification subject to stringent delay that may be followed by a secondary
notification providing complementary information about the threat.
# 8 Mobility management
## 8.1 Signalling connection
The UE may either have or not have a UE associated logical S1connection:
1) When a UE associated logical S1 connection exists the EPC can reach the UE
by the UE associated logical S1 connection on the EPC side, and the E-UTRAN
has a context with the UE and EPC for this particular connection. This context
is erased when the connection is released. The UE associated logical S1
connection can be initiated from the UE only.
2) When a UE associated logical S1 connection does not exist, the EPC must
reach the UE via the common procedure. The message sent to the UE can be a
request to the UE to establish a UE associated logical S1 connection. The UE
is addressed with a user/terminal identity within a tracking area.
## 8.2 Consequences for mobility handling
In general, the radio access specific procedures should be handled within
E-UTRAN. This means that all cell level mobility should be handled within
E-UTRAN.
When there exists a dedicated connection to the UE, the E-UTRAN handles the
radio interface mobility of the UE. This includes the Handover procedure in
the ECM_CONNECTED state.
When a dedicated connection between the E-UTRAN and the UE does not exist, no
UE context information is stored in E-UTRAN. Therefore, the mobility is
handled directly between UE and EPC outside access stratum (e.g. by means of
registration procedures). When paging the UE, the EPC indicates a
\'geographical area\' that is translated within E-UTRAN to the actual cells
that shall be paged. A \'geographical area\' could be a tracking area or a
list of tracking areas.
Thus, the E-UTRAN does not contain any permanent \'location registers\' for
the UE, but only temporary UE contexts information for the duration of the
dedicated connection.
# 9 Synchronization
## 9.1 eNB Synchronisation
The eNB shall support a logical synchronization port for phase-, time- and/or
frequency synchronisation.
Logical synchronisation port for phase- and time-synchronisation shall provide
1) accuracy that allows to meet the eNB requirements on maximum relative phase
difference for all eNBs in synchronised TDD-unicast area and FDD/TDD-multicast
MBSFN synchronisation area;
1) continuous time without leap seconds traceable to common time reference for
all eNBs in synchronised TDD-unicast area and FDD/TDD-multicast MBSFN
synchronisation area;
Furthermore common SFN initialisation time shall be provided for all eNBs in
synchronised TDD-unicast area and FDD/TDD-multicast MBSFN synchronisation
area.
Based on this information, the eNB may derive the SFN according to the
following formula
$\text{SFN} = \left{ \text{time} \right}\text{mod}\left{ \text{period}\left(
\text{SFN} \right) \right}$,
where
Time time adjusted by the common SFN initialisation time, in units of 10ms to
match the length of radio frame and accuracy accordingly;
period(SFN) SFN period.
NOTE: When eNB is connected via TDM interfaces, these could be used to
synchronize frequency the eNB. The characteristics of these interfaces are
described in 25.411.
In case eNB is connected via TDM interface, it **may be used to synchronize
frequency the eNB.** The characteristics of the clock in the eNB shall be
designed taking into account that the jitter and wander performance
requirements on the interface are in accordance with network limits for output
wander at traffic interfaces of either Reference [7], [8] or network limits
for the maximum output jitter and wander at any hierarchical interface of
Reference [9], whichever is applicable.
In case eNB is connected via Ethernet interface and the network supports
Synchronous Ethernet, the eNB may use this interface to get frequency
synchronization. In this case the design of the eNB clock should be done
considering the jitter and wander performance requirements on the interface
are as specified for output jitter and wander at EEC interfaces of Reference
[10], defined in section 9.2.1/G.8261. Further considerations on Synchronous
Ethernet recommendations and architectural aspects are defined in clause
12.2.1 and Annex A of G.8261.
A configurable LTE TDD-offset of start frame shall be supported by all eNBs in
synchronized TDD-unicast areas and/or TDD-multicasst MBSFN synchronization
areas in order to achieve interoperability in coexistence scenarios.
# 10 void
# 11 E-UTRAN interfaces
## 11.1 General protocol model for E-UTRAN interfaces
The general protocol model for E-UTRAN interfaces is depicted in figure
11.1-1, and described in detail in the following subclauses. The structure is
based on the principle that the layers and planes are logically independent of
each other. Therefore, as and when required, the standardization body can
easily alter protocol stacks and planes to fit future requirements.
Figure 11.1-1: General protocol model for E-UTRAN interfaces
### 11.1.1 Radio Network Layer and Transport Network Layer
The protocol structure consists of two main layers, Radio Network Layer, and
Transport Network Layer. E-UTRAN functions are realized in the Radio Network
Layer, and the Transport Network Layer represents standard transport
technology that is selected to be used for E-UTRAN.
### 11.1.2 Control plane
The control plane includes the Application Protocol, i.e. S1AP and X2AP and
the Signalling Bearer for transporting the Application Protocol messages.
The Application Protocol is used e.g. for setting up bearers (i.e. E-RAB) in
the Radio Network Layer. The bearer parameters in the Application Protocol are
not directly tied to the User Plane technology, but are rather general bearer
parameters.
### 11.1.3 User plane
The user plane includes the data bearer(s) for the data stream(s). The data
stream(s) is characterized by a tunnelling protocol in the Transport Network
Layer.
## 11.2 Iuant Interface - general principles
The Iuant interface for the control of RET antennas or TMAs is a logical part
of the eNB.
#