# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the standards for user data transport protocols
and related signalling protocols to establish user plane transport bearers
over the X2 interface.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 29.281: \"General Packet Radio System (GPRS) Tunnelling Protocol
User Plane (GTPv1-U)\".
[3] IETF RFC 768 (August 1980): \"User Datagram Protocol\".
[4] IETF RFC 2474 (December 1998): \"Definition of the Differentiated Services
Field (DS Field) in the Ipv4 and Ipv6 Headers\".
[5] IETF RFC 2460 (December 1998): \"Internet Protocol, Version 6 (IPv6)
Specification\".
[6] IETF RFC 791 (September 1981): \"Internet Protocol\".
[7] 3GPP TS 36.401: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
(E-UTRAN); Architecture Description\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
below apply. Terms and definitions not defined below can be found in [1].
**E-RAB: D** efined in [7].
**X2:** logical interface between two eNBs. Whilst logically representing a
point to point link between eNBs, the physical realisation need not be a point
to point link.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
eNB E-UTRAN Node B
EPC Evolved Packet Core
E-RAB E-UTRAN Radio Access Bearer
E-UTRA Evolved UTRA
E-UTRAN Evolved UTRAN
GTP GPRS Tunnelling Protocol
IP Internet Protocol
MME Mobility Management Entity
TEID Tunnel Endpoint Identifier
UDP User Datagram Protocol
UPE User Plane Entity
# 4 Data link layer
Any data link protocol that fulfils the requirements toward the upper layer
may be used.
# 5 X2 interface user plane protocol
## 5.1 General
The transport layer for data streams over X2 is an IP based Transport. The
following figure shows the transport protocol stacks over X2.
Figure 6.1: Transport network layer for data streams over X2
The GTP-U [2] protocol over UDP over IP shall be supported as the transport
for data streams on the X2 interface. The data link layer is as specified in
clause 4.
There may be zero or one UL data stream and zero or one DL data stream per
E-RAB at the X2 interface.
\- The DL data stream is used for DL data forwarding from the source eNB to
the target eNB.
\- The UL data stream is used for UL data forwarding from the source eNB to
the target eNB.
Each data stream is carried on a dedicated transport bearer.
The identity of a transport bearer signalled in the RNL control plane consists
of the IP address and the TEID of the corresponding GTP tunnel, allocated by
the target eNB (see [2]).
## 5.2 GTP-U
The GTP-U [2] protocol shall be used over the X2 interface between two eNBs.
## 5.3 UDP/IP
The path protocol used shall be UDP [3].
The UDP port number for GTP-U shall be as defined in [2].
The eNBs over the X2 interface shall support fragmentation and assembly of GTP
packets at the IP layer.
The eNB shall support IPv6 [5] and/or IPv4 [6].
There may be one or several IP addresses in the both eNBs. The packet
processing function in the source eNB shall send downstream packets of a given
**E-RAB** to the target eNB IP address (received in X2AP) associated to the DL
transport bearer of that particular **E-RAB**. The packet processing function
in the source eNB shall send upstream packets of a given **E-RAB** to the
target eNB IP address (received in X2AP) associated to the UL transport bearer
of that particular **E-RAB**.
The Transport Layer Address signalled in X2AP messages is a bit string of
a) 32 bits in case of IPv4 address according to [6]; and
b) 128 bits in case of IPv6 address according to [5].
## 5.4 Diffserv code point marking
IP Differentiated Services code point marking [4] shall be supported. The
mapping between traffic categories and Diffserv code points shall be
configurable by O&M for based on QoS Class Identifier (QCI)/ Label
Characteristics and others E-UTRAN traffic parameters. Traffic categories are
implementation-specific and may be determined from the application parameters.
#