# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies a general method used to derive Test Tolerances
for Radio Resource Management tests, and establishes a system for relating the
Test Tolerances to the measurement uncertainties of the Test System.
The test cases which have been analysed to determine Test Tolerances are
included as .zip files.
The present document is applicable from Release 8 up to the release indicated
on the front page of the present Terminal conformance specifications.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[\] \ \[ ([up to and
including]{yyyy[-mm]\|V\}[onwards])]: \"\\".
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] ETSI ETR 273-1-2: \"Improvement of radiated methods of measurement (using
test sites) and evaluation of the corresponding measurement uncertainties;
Part 1: Uncertainties in the measurement of mobile radio equipment
characteristics; Sub-part 2: Examples and annexes\".
[3] 3GPP TS 34.121-1: \"Terminal conformance specification, Radio transmission
and reception (FDD), Release 8\".
[4] 3GPP TS 36.521-1: \"User Equipment (UE) conformance specification, Radio
transmission and reception Part 1: conformance testing, Release 8\".
[5] 3GPP TS 36.521-3: \"User Equipment (UE) conformance specification, Radio
transmission and reception Part 3: Radio Resource Management (RRM) conformance
testing, Release 8\".
[6] 3GPP TS 36.141: \"E-UTRA Base Station (BS) conformance testing, Release
8\"
[7] 3GPP TS 36.211: \"E-UTRA Physical Channels and Modulation, Release 8\"
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence
over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
Other definitions used in the present document are listed in 3GPP TS 36.521-3
[5] or 3GPP TS 36.141 [6].
## 3.2 Symbols
Symbols used in the present document are listed in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1], 3GPP TS
36.521-3 [5] or 3GPP TS 36.141 [6].
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document takes precedence
over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
Other abbreviations used in the present document are listed in 3GPP TS
36.521-3 [5] or 3GPP TS 36.141 [6].
# 4 General Principles
## 4.1 Principle of Superposition
For multi-cell tests there are several cells each generating various Physical
channels. In general cells are combined along with AWGN, so the signal and
noise seen by the UE may be determined by more than one cell.
Since several cells may contribute towards the overall power applied to the
UE, a number of test system uncertainties affect the signal and noise seen by
the UE. The aim of the superposition method is to vary each controllable
parameter of the test system separately, and to establish its effect on the
critical parameters as seen by the UE receiver. The superposition principle
then allows the effect of each test system uncertainty to be added, to
calculate the overall effect.
The contributing test system uncertainties shall form a minimum set for the
superposition principle to be applicable.
## 4.2 Sensitivity analysis
A change in any one channel level or channel ratio generated at source does
not necessarily have a 1:1 effect at the UE. The effect of each controllable
parameter of the test system on the critical parameters as seen by the UE
receiver shall therefore be established. As a consequence of the sensitivity
scaling factors not necessarily being unity, the test system uncertainties
cannot be directly applied as test tolerances to the critical parameters as
seen by the UE.
EXAMPLE: In many of the tests described, the Ês / I~ot~ is one of the critical
parameters at the UE. Scaling factors are used to model the sensitivity of the
Ês / I~ot~ to each test system uncertainty. When the scaling factors have been
determined, the superposition principle then allows the effect of each test
system uncertainty to be added, to give the overall variability in the
critical parameters as seen at the UE.
There are often constraints on several parameters at the UE. The aim of the
sensitivity analysis, together with the acceptable test system uncertainties,
is to ensure that the variability in each of these parameters is controlled
within the limits necessary for the specification to apply. The test has then
been conducted under valid conditions.
## 4.3 Statistical combination of uncertainties
The acceptable uncertainties of the test system are specified as the
measurement uncertainty tolerance interval for a specific measurement that
contains 95 % of the performance of a population of test equipment, in
accordance with 3GPP TS 36.521-3 [5] clause F.1. In the RRM tests covered by
the present document, the Test System shall enable the stimulus signals in the
test case to be adjusted to within the specified range, with an uncertainty
not exceeding the specified values.
The method given in the present document combines the acceptable uncertainties
of the test system, to give the overall variability in the critical parameters
as seen at the UE. Since the process does not add any new uncertainties, the
method of combination should be chosen to maintain the same tolerance interval
for the combined uncertainty as is already specified for the contributing test
system uncertainties.
The basic principle for combining uncertainties is in accordance with ETR
273-1-2 [2]. In summary, the process requires 3 steps:
a) Express the value of each contributing uncertainty as a one standard
deviation figure, from knowledge of its numeric value and its distribution.
b) Combine all the one standard deviation figures as root-sum-squares, to give
the one standard deviation value for the combined uncertainty.
c) Expand the combined uncertainty by a coverage factor, according to the
tolerance interval required.
Provided that the contributing uncertainties have already been obtained using
this method, using a coverage factor of 2, further stages of combination can
be achieved by performing step b) alone, since steps a) and c) simply divide
by 2 and multiply by 2 respectively.
The root-sum-squares method is therefore used to maintain the same tolerance
interval for the combined uncertainty as is already specified for the
contributing test system uncertainties. In some cases where correlation
between contributing uncertainties has an adverse effect, the method is
modified in accordance with clause 4.4.5 of the present document.
In each analysis, the uncertainties are assumed to be uncorrelated, and are
added result root-sum-square unless otherwise stated.
The combination of uncertainties is performed using dB values for simplicity.
It has been shown that using dB uncertainty values gives a slightly worse
combined uncertainty result than using linear values for the uncertainties.
The analysis method therefore errs on the safe side.
## 4.4 Correlation between uncertainties
The statistical (root-sum-square) addition of uncertainties is based on the
assumption that the uncertainties are independent of each other. For
realisable test systems, the uncertainties may not be fully independent. The
validity of the method used to add uncertainties depends on both the type of
correlation and on the way in which the uncertainties affect the test
requirements.
Clauses 4.4.1 to 4.4.3 give examples to illustrate different types of
correlation.
Clauses 4.4.4 to 4.4.7 show how the scenarios applicable to multi-cell RRM
tests are treated.
### 4.4.1 Uncorrelated uncertainties
The graph shows an example of two test system uncertainties, A and B, which
affect a test requirement. Each sample from a population of test systems has a
specific value of error in parameter A, and a specific value of error in
parameter B. Each dot on the graph represents a sample from a population of
test systems, and is plotted according to its error values for parameters A
and B.
Figure 4.4.1.1: Example of two test system uncertainties affecting a test
requirement
It can be seen that a positive value of error in parameter A, for example, is
equally likely to occur with either a positive or a negative value of error in
parameter B. This is expected when two parameters are uncorrelated, such as
two uncertainties which arise from different and unrelated parts of the test
system.
### 4.4.2 Positively correlated uncertainties
The graph shows an example of two test system uncertainties, A and B, which
affect a test requirement. Each sample from a population of test systems has a
specific value of error in parameter A, and a specific value of error in
parameter B. Each dot on the graph represents a sample from a population of
test systems, and is plotted according to its error values for parameters A
and B.
Figure 4.4.2.1: Example of two test system uncertainties affecting a test
requirement
It can be seen that a positive value of error in parameter A, for example, is
more likely to occur with a positive value of error in parameter B and less
likely to occur with a negative value of error in parameter B. This can occur
when the two uncertainties arise from similar parts of the test system, or
when one component of the uncertainty affects both parameters in a similar
way.
In an extreme case, if the error in parameter A and the error in parameter B
came from the same sources of uncertainty, and no others, the dots would lie
on a straight line of slope +1.
### 4.4.3 Negatively correlated uncertainties
The graph shows an example of two test system uncertainties, A and B, which
affect a test condition. Each sample from a population of test systems has a
specific value of error in parameter A, and a specific value of error in
parameter B. Each dot on the graph represents a sample from a population of
test systems, and is plotted according to its error values for parameters A
and B.
Figure 4.4.3.1: Example of two test system uncertainties affecting a test
condition
It can be seen that a positive value of error in parameter A, for example, is
more likely to occur with a negative value of error in parameter B and less
likely to occur with a positive value of error in parameter B. This effect can
theoretically occur, and is included for completeness, but is unlikely in a
practical test system.
### 4.4.4 Treatment of uncorrelated uncertainties
If two uncertainties are uncorrelated, they are added statistically in the
analysis. Provided that each uncertainty is already expressed as an expanded
uncertainty with coverage factor 2, the contributing uncertainties are added
root-sum-squares to give a combined uncertainty which also has coverage factor
2, and the 95% tolerance interval is maintained.
This is the default assumption.
### 4.4.5 Treatment of positively correlated uncertainties with adverse effect
If two test system uncertainties are positively correlated, and if they affect
the value of a critical parameter in the same direction, the combined effect
may be greater than predicted by adding the contributing uncertainties root-
sum-squares.
In this scenario the two uncertainties are added worst-case in the analysis.
Provided that each uncertainty is already expressed as an expanded uncertainty
with coverage factor 2, the combined uncertainty will cover a 95% tolerance
interval even when the two contributing uncertainties are fully correlated. If
the two contributing uncertainties are less than fully correlated, the
combined uncertainty will cover a tolerance interval greater than 95%.
### 4.4.6 Treatment of positively correlated uncertainties with beneficial
effect
If two test system uncertainties are positively correlated, and if they affect
the value of a critical parameter in opposite directions, the combined effect
will be less than predicted by adding the contributing uncertainties root-sum-
squares.
In this scenario the two uncertainties are added statistically in the
analysis. Provided that each uncertainty is already expressed as an expanded
uncertainty with coverage factor 2, the combined uncertainty will cover a 95%
tolerance interval when the two contributing uncertainties are uncorrelated.
If the two contributing uncertainties are positively correlated, the combined
uncertainty will cover a tolerance interval greater than 95%.
### 4.4.7 Treatment of negatively correlated uncertainties
Negatively correlated uncertainties are excluded by the assumptions. This has
been agreed as an acceptable restriction on practical test systems, as the
mechanisms which produce correlation generally arise from similarities between
two parts of the test system, and therefore produce positive correlation.
# 5 Grouping of test cases
The Test cases are grouped from the viewpoint of efficiently defining the
uncertainties and test tolerances. Tests in the same group generally have the
same type of uncertainties, given in more detail in Annex B.
A group of test cases having significant differences from those already
listed, in respect of uncertainties and test tolerance analysis, will require
a new row in the Table.
Table 5-1: Test case groups for test tolerance analysis
+-------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+----------+ | Group | E-UTRA | E-UTRA | E-UTRA | I | | Comments | | | FDD | TDD | FDD/TDD | nter-RAT | | | +-------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+----------+ | A | 4.2.1 | 4.2.2 | | | | Two cell | | | | | | | | LTE | | | 5.1.1 | 5.1.2 | | | | intra | | | | | | | | | | | 6.1.1 | 8.2.1 | | | | 2 or 3 | | | | | | | | time | | | 8.1.1 | 8.2.2 | | | | periods | | | | | | | | | | | 8.1.2 | | | | | Various | | | | | | | | number | | | 8.1.3 | | | | | of | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | ub-tests | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Some | | | | | | | | tests | | | | | | | | have | | | | | | | | fading | +-------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+----------+ | B | 4.2.3 | 4.2.6 | | | | Two cell | | | | | | | | LTE | | | 5.1.3 | 5.1.4 | | | | inter | | | | | | | | | | | 6.1.2 | 5.1.6 | | | | 2 or 3 | | | | | | | | time | | | 8.3.1 | 8.4.1 | | | | periods | | | | | | | | | | | 8.3.2 | 8.4.2 | | | | Some | | | | | | | | tests | | | 5.1.5 | 8.11.2 | | | | have | | | | | | | | fading | | | 8.3.3 | | | | | | +-------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+----------+ | C | 9.1.1.1 | 9.1.2.1 | | | | Two cell | | | | | | | | LTE | | | 9.1.1.2 | 9.1.2.2 | | | | intra | | | | | | | | | | | 9.2.1.1 | 9.2.2.1 | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | b-tests | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | RSRP, | | | | | | | | RSRQ | +-------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+----------+ | D | 9.1.3.1 | 9.1.4.1 | | | | Two cell | | | | | | | | LTE | | | 9.1.3.2 | 9.1.4.2 | | | | inter | | | | | | | | | | | 9.2.3.1 | 9.2.4.1 | | | | 2 or 3 | | | | | | | | su | | | 9.2.3.2 | 9.2.4.2 | | | | b-tests | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | RSRP, | | | | | | | | RSRQ | +-------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+----------+ | E | 6.2.1 | 6.2.3 | | | | One cell | | | | | | | | LTE | | | 6.2.2 | 6.2.4 | | | | | | | | | | | | 1 time | | | | | | | | period | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Various | | | | | | | | number | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | ub-tests | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Level, | | | | | | | | timing | +-------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+----------+ | F | 7.1.1 | 7.1.2 | | | | One cell | | | | | | | | LTE | | | 7.2.1 | 7.2.2 | | | | | | | | | | | | Various | | | | | | | | number | | | | | | | | of time | | | | | | | | periods | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Various | | | | | | | | number | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | ub-tests | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Timing | | | | | | | | only | +-------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+----------+ | G | 7.3.1 | 7.3.3 | | | | One cell | | | | | | | | LTE | | | 7.3.2 | 7.3.4 | | | | | | | | | | | | Various | | | 7.3.5 | 7.3.7 | | | | number | | | | | | | | of time | | | 7.3.6 | 7.3.8 | | | | periods | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Various | | | | | | | | number | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | ub-tests | +-------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+----------+
# 6 Determination of Test System Uncertainties
## 6.1 General
The uncertainty of a test system when making measurements reduces the ability
of the test system to distinguish between conformant and non-conformant test
subjects. The aim is therefore to minimise uncertainty, subject to a number of
practical constraints:
a) A vendor's test system should be reproducible in the required quantities.
b) A choice of test systems should be available from different vendors.
c) The uncertainties should allow reasonable freedom of test system
implementation
d) The test system can be run automatically
e) The test system may include several radio access technologies
f) It should be possible to maintain calibration of deployed test systems over
reasonable spans of time and environmental conditions
In practice therefore within 3GPP the acceptable uncertainty of the test
system is the smallest value that can be agreed between the test system
vendors represented, consistent with the above constraints. The uncertainty
will not therefore be as low as could be achieved, for example, by a national
standards laboratory.
## 6.2 Uncertainty figures
The actual figures for the acceptable uncertainty of a test system are defined
in Annex F of 36.521-3 [5]. To avoid maintenance issues with figures in
separate specifications, the uncertainties are not formally defined within the
present document, but informative guidelines are provided in Annex B.
In many cases the default uncertainties in Annex B of the present document are
the same as used for UTRA in TS 34.121-1 [3] to allow similar calibration
methods to be used. Where E-UTRA has different requirements, or parameters are
specified in a different way, the uncertainties may differ.
In some cases the default uncertainties in Annex B of the present document are
the same as used for equivalent base station test specifications, which have
sometimes been agreed earlier than the UE test specifications.
# 7 Determination of Test Tolerances
## 7.1 General
The general principles given in the present document are applied to each test
case, according to the applicable uncertainties and requirements to obtain a
correct verdict.
The test cases which have been analysed to determine Test Tolerances are
included the present document as .zip files. The name of the zip file
indicates the test cases covered.
Annex A gives the rationale for their inclusion.
###### ### Annex A: Derivation documents
The documents (and spreadsheets where applicable) used to derive the test
tolerances for each test case are included in the present document as zip
files.
The aim is to provide a reference to completed test cases, so that test
tolerances for similar test cases can be derived on a common basis. The
information on test case grouping in section 5 can be used to identify
similarities.
###### ### Annex B: Default uncertainties
This annex contains suggested uncertainties, grouped according to types of
test case. The aim is to provide a consistent set of uncertainties across
similar test cases to allow efficient implementation.
This Annex is informative only, as the acceptable uncertainties of a test
system are defined in Annex F of 36.521-3 [5].
# B.0 AWGN and Fading
The following uncertainties and parameters are suggested for E-UTRA AWGN and
Fading:
Table B.0-1: Parameters for E-UTRA AWGN and Fading
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | AWGN Bandwidth | ≥ 1.08MHz, 2.7MHz, 4.5MHz, 9MHz, | | | 13.5MHz, 18MHz; | | | | | | N~RB~ x 180kHz according to | | | BW~Config~ | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | AWGN absolute power uncertainty | Test-specific | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | AWGN flatness and signal | ±2 dB | | flatness, max deviation for any | | | Resource Block, relative to | | | average over BW~Config~ | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | AWGN peak to average ratio | ≥10 dB \@0.001% | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Signal-to noise ratio | Test-specific | | uncertainty | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Fading profile power uncertainty | ±0.5 dB | | | | | - For 1 Tx antenna: | ±0.7 dB | | | | | - For 2 Tx antenna | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Fading profile delay | ±5 ns (excludes absolute errors | | uncertainty, relative to frame | related to baseband timing) | | timing | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
Values are chosen to be the same as the performance tests in section 8 of TS
36.521-1 [4].
# B.1 Group A: E-UTRA Intra-frequency mobility
The following uncertainties and parameters are suggested for E-UTRA Intra-
frequency mobility tests:
Table B.1-1: Maximum Test System Uncertainty for E-UTRA Intra-frequency
mobility
+-----------------------------------------------------------+---------+ | N~oc~ averaged over BW~Config~ | ±1.0 dB | +-----------------------------------------------------------+---------+ | Ês~1~ / N~oc~ averaged over BW~Config~ | ±0.3 dB | +-----------------------------------------------------------+---------+ | Ês~2~ / N~oc~ averaged over BW~Config~ | ±0.3 dB | +-----------------------------------------------------------+---------+ | Note: | | | | | | Ês~1~ / N~oc~ is the ratio of cell 1 signal / AWGN | | | | | | Ês~2~ / N~oc~ is the ratio of cell 2 signal / AWGN | | | | | | For tests that use fading, the fading uncertainties are | | | given in Table B.0.1 | | +-----------------------------------------------------------+---------+
Values are chosen to be the same as equivalent parameters for UTRA in TS
34.121-1 [3].
This choice forms a minimum set, so the superposition principle can be
applied.
# B.2 Group B: E-UTRA Inter-frequency mobility
The following uncertainties and parameters are suggested for E-UTRA Inter-
frequency mobility tests:
Table B.2-1: Maximum Test System Uncertainty for E-UTRA Inter-frequency
mobility
+-----------------------------------------------------------+---------+ | N~oc1~ averaged over BW~Config~ | ±0.7 dB | +-----------------------------------------------------------+---------+ | Ês~1~ / N~oc1~ averaged over BW~Config~ | ±0.3 dB | +-----------------------------------------------------------+---------+ | N~oc2~ averaged over BW~Config~ | ±0.7 dB | +-----------------------------------------------------------+---------+ | Ês~2~ / N~oc2~ averaged over BW~Config~ | ±0.3 dB | +-----------------------------------------------------------+---------+ | Note: | | | | | | N~oc1~ is the AWGN on cell 1 frequency | | | | | | Ês~1~ / N~oc1~ is the ratio of cell 1 signal / AWGN | | | | | | N~oc2~ is the AWGN on cell 2 frequency | | | | | | Ês~2~ / N~oc2~ is the ratio of cell 2 signal / AWGN | | | | | | For tests that use fading, the fading uncertainties are | | | given in Table B.0.1 | | +-----------------------------------------------------------+---------+
N~oc~ values are chosen to be the same as the smallest existing downlink
signal uncertainty in TS 36.521-1 [4].
Ês / N~oc~ values are chosen to be the same as intra-frequency in B.1.
This choice forms a minimum set, so the superposition principle can be
applied.
# B.3 Group C: E-UTRA Intra-frequency UE reporting accuracy
The following uncertainties and parameters are suggested for E-UTRA Intra-
frequency UE reporting accuracy tests:
Table B.3-1: Maximum Test System Uncertainty for E-UTRA Intra-frequency UE
reporting accuracy
+-------------------------------------------------------+---------+ | N~oc~ averaged over BW~Config~ | ±0.7 dB | +-------------------------------------------------------+---------+ | N~oc~ for PRBs #22-27 | ±1.0 dB | +-------------------------------------------------------+---------+ | Ês~1~ / N~oc~, Ês~2~ / N~oc~ averaged over BW~Config~ | ±0.3 dB | +-------------------------------------------------------+---------+ | Ês~1~ / N~oc~, Ês~2~ / N~oc~ for PRBs #22-27 | ±0.8 dB | +-------------------------------------------------------+---------+ | Note: | | | | | | Ês~1~ / N~oc~ is the ratio of cell 1 signal / AWGN | | | | | | Ês~2~ / N~oc~ is the ratio of cell 2 signal / AWGN | | +-------------------------------------------------------+---------+
In these tests the UE measures the power of Cells over specific Physical
Resource Block (PRB) numbers #22 to #27. The generic AWGN parameters values
similar to those used in performance tests are therefore unsuitable, because
the AWGN flatness specification would allow a large deviation for the power in
PRBs #22 to #27.
In addition, these tests have separate constraints on the RSRP or RSRQ
reported values (derived from UE measurements over PRBs #22 to #27), and on
the overall power Io, specified over BW~Config~.
Two sets of parameters are therefore given. The set averaged over the
configured bandwidth have similar values to those already proposed for other
tests. The set averaged over PRBs #22 to #27 have wider values, but
constraining the deviation enough not to widen the RSRP or RSRQ reporting
range too much.
The N~oc~ value averaged over BW~Config~ is chosen to be the same as the
smallest existing downlink signal uncertainty in TS 36.521-1 [4].
The N~oc~ value for PRBs #22-27 is chosen to allow some deviation for these
specific PRBs compared to the "averaged over BW~Config~" figure, but
reasonably small compared to the UE reporting accuracy.
The Ês / N~oc~ values averaged over BW~Config~ are chosen to be the same as
intra-frequency in B.1.
The Ês / N~oc~ values for PRBs #22-27 are chosen to allow some deviation for
these specific PRBs compared to the "averaged over BW~Config~" figure, but
reasonably small compared to the UE reporting accuracy.
This choice forms a minimum set (separately for PRBs #22-27, and for "averaged
over BW~Config~"), so the superposition principle can be applied.
# B.4 Group D: E-UTRA Inter-frequency UE reporting accuracy
The following uncertainties and parameters are suggested for E-UTRA Inter-
frequency UE reporting accuracy tests:
Table B.4-1: Maximum Test System Uncertainty for E-UTRA Inter-frequency UE
reporting accuracy
+---------------------------------------------------------+---------+ | N~oc1~, N~oc2~ averaged over BW~Config~ | ±0.7 dB | +---------------------------------------------------------+---------+ | N~oc1~, N~oc2~ for PRBs #22-27 | ±1.0 dB | +---------------------------------------------------------+---------+ | Ês~1~ / N~oc1~, Ês~2~ / N~oc2~ averaged over BW~Config~ | ±0.3 dB | +---------------------------------------------------------+---------+ | Ês~1~ / N~oc1~, Ês~2~ / N~oc2~ for PRBs #22-27 | ±0.8 dB | +---------------------------------------------------------+---------+ | Note: | | | | | | N~oc1~ is the AWGN on cell 1 frequency | | | | | | Ês~1~ / N~oc1~ is the ratio of cell 1 signal / AWGN | | | | | | N~oc2~ is the AWGN on cell 2 frequency | | | | | | Ês~2~ / N~oc2~ is the ratio of cell 2 signal / AWGN | | +---------------------------------------------------------+---------+
In these tests the UE measures the power of Cells over specific Physical
Resource Block (PRB) numbers #22 to #27. The generic AWGN parameters values
similar to those used in performance tests are therefore unsuitable, because
the AWGN flatness specification would allow a large deviation for the power in
PRBs #22 to #27.
In addition, these tests have separate constraints on the RSRP or RSRQ
reported values (derived from UE measurements over PRBs #22 to #27), and on
the overall power Io, specified over BW~Config~.
Two sets of parameters are therefore given. The set averaged over the
configured bandwidth have similar values to those already proposed for other
tests. The set averaged over PRBs #22 to #27 have wider values, but
constraining the deviation enough not to widen the RSRP or RSRQ reporting
range too much.
The N~oc~ value averaged over BW~Config~ is chosen to be the same as the
smallest existing downlink signal uncertainty in TS 36.521-1 [4].
The N~oc~ value for PRBs #22-27 is chosen to allow some deviation for these
specific PRBs compared to the "averaged over BW~Config~" figure, but
reasonably small compared to the UE reporting accuracy.
The Ês / N~oc~ values averaged over BW~Config~ are chosen to be the same as
inter-frequency in B.2.
The Ês / N~oc~ values for PRBs #22-27 are chosen to allow some deviation for
these specific PRBs compared to the "averaged over BW~Config~" figure, but
reasonably small compared to the UE reporting accuracy.
This choice forms a minimum set (separately for PRBs #22-27, and for "averaged
over BW~Config~"), so the superposition principle can be applied.
# B.5 Group E: E-UTRA Random Access
The following uncertainties and parameters are suggested for E-UTRA Random
Access tests:
Table B.5-1: Maximum Test System Uncertainty for E-UTRA Random Access
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Downlink signal: | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | N~oc~ averaged over BW~Config~ | ±0.7 dB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Ês / N~oc~ averaged over | ±0.3 dB | | BW~Config~ | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Uplink signal: | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Absolute power measurement | ±0.7 dB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Power step relative measurement | ±0.7 dB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Uplink signal transmit timing | ±3Ts | | relative to downlink | | | | T~S~ = 1/(15000 x 2048) seconds, | | | the basic timing unit defined in | | | TS 36.211 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
The downlink N~oc~ and Ês / N~oc~ values are chosen to be the same as intra-
frequency in B.3. The downlink signal uncertainties are critical for random
access tests because the UE uses RSRP to calculate path loss, and hence to set
the uplink power to the desired value.
The uplink power absolute signal measurement uncertainty value is chosen to be
the same as the Maximum Output Power test 6.2.2 in Annex F of TS 36.521-1 [4].
The uplink power relative signal measurement uncertainty value is chosen to be
the same as the Relative Power control test 6.3.5.2 in Annex F of TS 36.521-1
[4].
The uncertainty for uplink signal transmit timing relative to downlink
measurement was derived by taking 25% of the tightest UE core requirement,
which is 12 * T~s~ for ≥3 MHz Channel bandwidth, giving a ±3*Ts uncertainty.
The timing uncertainty is expressed in units of T~S~ = 1/(15000 x 2048)
seconds, the basic timing unit defined in TS 36.211 [7].
These choices form a minimum set, so the superposition principle can be
applied.
# B.6 Group F: E-UTRA Transmit timing and Timing advance
The following uncertainties and parameters are suggested for E-UTRA Transmit
timing and Timing advance tests:
Table B.6-1: Maximum Test System Uncertainty for E-UTRA Transmit timing and
Timing advance
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Downlink signal: | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | N~oc~ averaged over BW~Config~ | ±3.0 dB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Ês / N~oc~ averaged over | ±0.3 dB | | BW~Config~ | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Uplink signal: | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Uplink signal transmit timing | ±3Ts | | relative to downlink | | | | T~S~ = 1/(15000 x 2048) seconds, | | | the basic timing unit defined in | | | TS 36.211 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Relative UE timing adjustment | ±0.5Ts | | | | | | T~S~ = 1/(15000 x 2048) seconds, | | | the basic timing unit defined in | | | TS 36.211 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
The downlink uncertainty values are chosen to be the same as the performance
tests in section 8 of TS 36.521-1 [4]. For Transmit timing and Timing advance
tests, neither the absolute level of Noc nor the signal to noise ratio is
critical.
The uncertainty for uplink signal transmit timing relative to downlink
measurement was derived by taking 25% of the tightest UE core requirement,
which is 12 * T~s~ for ≥3 MHz Channel bandwidth, giving a ±3*Ts uncertainty.
The uncertainty for relative UE timing adjustment was derived by taking 25% of
the tightest UE core requirement, which is 2 * T~s~ for ≥10 MHz Channel
bandwidth, giving a ±0.5 * T~s~ uncertainty.
Both timing uncertainties are expressed in units of T~S~ = 1/(15000 x 2048)
seconds, the basic timing unit defined in TS 36.211 [7].
These choices form a minimum set, so the superposition principle can be
applied.
# B.7 Group G: E-UTRA In-sync and Out-of-sync
The following uncertainties and parameters are suggested for E-UTRA In-sync
and Out-of-sync tests:
Table B.7-1: Maximum Test System Uncertainty for E-UTRA In-sync and Out-of-
sync
+-----------------------------------------------------------+---------+ | Downlink signal: | | +-----------------------------------------------------------+---------+ | N~oc~ averaged over BW~Config~ | ±3.0 dB | +-----------------------------------------------------------+---------+ | Ês / N~oc~ averaged over BW~Config~ | ±0.3 dB | +-----------------------------------------------------------+---------+ | Note: | | | | | | For tests that use fading, the fading uncertainties are | | | given in Table B.0.1 | | +-----------------------------------------------------------+---------+
Values are chosen to be the same as the performance tests in section 8 of TS
36.521-1 [4]. For In-sync and Out-of-sync tests, as with performance tests,
the absolute level of Noc is not critical, but the signal to noise ratio is
critical.
This choice forms a minimum set, so the superposition principle can be
applied.
#