# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
Reduction of operational efforts and complexity are key drivers for RAN Long
Term Evolution. One of the important aspects to this is that the system
operability is improved under multi vendor environment. It is of importance
that measurements and performance data of different vendors share the same
"language." Such alignment is easing ease network performance analyses and
problem finding, and reduces efforts in maintaining the network at a properly
working state.
It is also of interest to minimise operational effort by introducing self
configuring and self optimising mechanisms. A self optimising function shall
increase network performance and quality reacting to dynamic processes in the
network.
Especially in the early deployment phase, the efforts to set up and optimise
are significant and traditionally lead to lengthy periods of getting an
optimum and stable system setup. It is thus essential to have the necessary
set of self configuration and self optimisation mechanisms already available
when initial deployment starts.
As such, standardisation is asked to define the necessary measurements,
procedures and open interfaces to support better operability under multi
vendor environment. Such standardised functions shall also facilitate self
configuration and self optimisation under multi vendor environment. Especially
the interaction between self configuring/optimizing networks and O&M has to be
considered.
[]{#__RefHeading___Toc209843796 .anchor}1 Scope
The present document provides descriptions of agreed use cases and solutions
with regards to self configuring and self optimizing networks.
The scope of the self configuring and self optimizing functionality is defined
in [2].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 36.300: \"Radio Access (E-UTRAN); Overall description; Stage 2\".
[3] 3GPP TS 36.211: "Radio Access (E-UTRA); Physical Channels and Modulation"
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
DRX Discontinuous Reception
ICIC Inter-cell Interference Coordination
OFDM Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing
PRB Physical Resource Block
RACH Random Access CHannel
RAT Radio Access Technology
RRM Radio Resource Management
SC-FDMA Single Carrier Frequency Division Multiple Access
# 4 Description of envisioned self configuring and self optimizing
functionality, Use cases
## 4.1 Coverage and capacity optimization
A typical operational task is to optimize the network according to coverage
and capacity. Planning tools support this task based on theoretical models but
for both problems measurements must be derived in the network. Call drop rates
give a first indication for areas with insufficient coverage, traffic counters
identify capacity problems.
### 4.1.1 Use Case description
Objective:
Optimization of network coverage
Maximize the system capacity
Expected results:
Continuous coverage
Increased capacity of the system
Interference reduction
Controlled cell edge performance
Savings on drive tests
Minimized human intervention in network management and optimization tasks
Self-healing in case of equipment (e.g. eNB) failure by automatic
reconfiguration of surrounding eNBs,
### 4.1.2 Solution Description
#### 4.1.2.1 Input data, definition of Measurements or Performance data
#### 4.1.2.2 Output, influenced entities and parameter
#### 4.1.2.3 Impacted specifications, procedure interactions and interfaces
## 4.2 Energy Savings
A typical critical cost for the operator is the energy expenses. Cuts on
energy expenses could be realized if the capacity offered by the network would
match the needed traffic demand at any point of time as close as possible.
### 4.2.1 Use Case description
Objective:
Energy savings based on e.g. cell switch on/off.
Expected outcome:
Cuts on operational expenses through energy savings.
### 4.2.2 Solution Description
#### 4.2.2.1 Input data, definition of Measurements or Performance data
#### 4.2.2.2 Output, influenced entities and parameter
#### 4.2.2.3 Impacted specifications, procedure interactions and interfaces
## 4.3 Interference Reduction
Capacity could be improved through interference reduction by switching off
those cells which are not needed for traffic at some point of time, in
particular home eNodeBs when the user is not at home.
### 4.3.1 Use Case description
Objective:
Interference reduction based on cell switch on/off.
Expected outcome:
Increased capacity through interference reduction.
Increased quality through interference reduction.
### 4.3.2 Solution Description
#### 4.3.2.1 Input data, definition of Measurements or Performance data
#### 4.3.2.2 Output, influenced entities and parameter
#### 4.3.2.3 Impacted specifications, procedure interactions and interfaces
## 4.4 Automated Configuration of Physical Cell Identity
### 4.4.1 Use Case description
Objective:
Automatic configuration of the Physical ID of an eNB's radio cell
The proposed SON use case provides an automated configuration of a newly
introduced cell's physical ID (L1 cell identifier [2]).
{width="6.6409722222222225in" height="3.061111111111111in"}
Figure 4.4.1: Deployment Illustration
The physical cell identity, or L1 identity (Phy_ID in this document), is an
essential configuration parameter of a radio cell, it corresponds to a unique
combination of one orthogonal sequence and one pseudo-random sequence, and 504
unique Phy_IDs are supported --leading to unavoidable reuse of the Phy_ID in
different cells [3].
When a new eNodeB is brought into the field, a Phy_ID needs to be selected for
each of its supported cells, avoiding collision with respective neighbouring
cells (the use of identical Phy_ID by two cells results in interference
conditions hindering the identification and use of any of them where otherwise
both would have coverage). Traditionally, the proper Phy_ID is derived from
radio network planning and is part of the initial configuration of the node.
The Phy_ID assignment shall fulfil following conditions,
"collision-free": the Phy_ID is unique in the area that the cell covers
"confusion-free": a cell shall not have neighbouring cells with identical
Phy_ID
### 4.4.2 Solution Description
Self-configuration case applied during initial cell configuration
Functionality: selection of a Physical ID for a newly deployed radio cell
Actions:
FFS
Expected outcome:
Selection of Phy_ID without conflicts.
#### 4.4.2.1 Input data, definition of Measurements or Performance data
(FFS)
#### 4.4.2.1 Output, influenced entities and parameter
Output parameters from the SON function are:
Self-configuration of Phy_ID
#### 4.4.2.3 Impacted specifications and interfaces
There may be an impact related to the method to be used for obtaining existing
configuration at neighbours that is FFS.
## 4.5 Mobility robustness optimisation
### 4.5.1 Use Case description
Manual setting of HO parameters in current 2G/3G systems is a time consuming
task. In many cases, it is considered too costly to update the mobility
parameters after the initial deployment.
For some cases, RRM in one eNB can detect problems and adjust the mobility
parameters, but there are also examples where RRM in one eNB can not resolve
problems:
Identifying and avoid using non-suitable neighbours.
> The eNB for the source cell can not always detect when a handover was
> performed to a non-suitable cell. One example of this is radio link failures
> occurring shortly after the UE has connected to the target cell.
Identifying problematic settings of cell selection/reselection parameters.
Minimize handovers immediately after initial RRC connection establishment.
> If the idle and active mode mobility parameters are not well aligned, this
> may result in a large number of handover shortly after the UE has transited
> from idle to active mode. For the scenarios where this behaviour is not
> intended, or where the number of handover exceeds an acceptable level it
> would be beneficial to be able to detect and control this behaviour.
### 4.5.2 Solution Description
#### 4.5.2.1 Input data, definition of Measurements or Performance data
#### 4.5.2.1 Output, influenced entities and parameter
#### 4.5.2.3 Impacted specifications and interfaces
## 4.6 Mobility Load balancing optimisation
### 4.6.1 Use Case description
Objective:
Optimisation of cell reselection/handover parameters to cope with the unequal
traffic load and minimize the number of handovers and redirections needed to
achieve the load balancing.
Self-optimisation of the intra-LTE and inter-RAT mobility parameters to the
current load in the cell and in the adjacent cells can improve the system
capacity compared to static/non-optimised cell reselection/handover parameters
and can minimize human intervention in the network management and optimization
tasks.
The load balancing shall not affect the user QoS negatively in addition to
what a user would experience at normal mobility without load-balancing.
Service capabilities of RATs must be taken into account, and solutions should
take into account network deployments with overlay of high-capacity and low-
capacity layers where high-capacity layer can have spotty coverage.
### 4.6.2 Solution Description
General features of the solution are as follows:
Functionality: an algorithm decides to distribute the UEs camping and/or delay
or advance handing of the UEs over between cells and thus to balance the
traffic load between cells.
Actions:
An eNB monitors the load in the controlled cell and exchanges related
information over X2 with node(s) residing the algorithm for load balancing.
The exchange of the load information over another interface instead of X2 is
FFS.
An algorithm identifies the need to distribute the load of the cell towards
adjacent cells, e.g. by comparing the load among the cells, the type of
ongoing services, the cell configuration, etc.
The handover margins and/or cell reselection parameters between the cell
controlled by the eNB and one or more neighbouring cells are modified in a
coordinated manner in both cells to avoid any problems with for example ping-
pong.
Expected results:
According to the cell reselection and handover mechanisms, part of the UEs at
the cell border reselect or hand over to the less congested cell;
In the new situation the cell load is balanced.
Increased capacity of the system.
Minimized human intervention in network management and optimization tasks.
#### 4.6.2.1 Input data, definition of Measurements or Performance data
#### 4.6.2.2 Output, influenced entities and parameter
#### 4.6.2.3 Impacted specifications and interfaces
## 4.7 RACH Optimisation
### 4.7.1 Use Case description
The RACH configuration has critical impacts to system performance:
The RACH collision probability is significantly affected by the RACH
configuration, making this a critical factor for call setup delays, data
resuming delays from the UL unsynchronized state, and handover delays. It also
affects the call setup success rate and handover success rate;
Since UL resource units need to be reserved exclusively for RACH, the amount
of reserved resources have impacts on the system capacity.
The optimum RACH configuration of a cell depends on a number of factors,
including at least:
Population under the cell coverage;
Call arrival rate;
Incoming handover rate;
Whether the cell is at the edge of a tracking area;
Traffic pattern, as it affects the DRX and UL synchronization states, and
hence the need to use RACH.
Since these are affected by network configuration (e.g., antenna tilting,
transmission power settings and handover thresholds), any change in these
configurations would also affect the optimum RACH configuration. For example,
if the antenna tilting of a cell is changed, the coverage of cells in the
vicinity will be changed, consequently affecting the call arrival rate and
handover rate at each cell. This will affect the amount of RACHs in each cell,
including the usage per range of preambles. Then, the operator will have to
check the RACH performance/usage in each cell and detect any problems on RACH
associated with the applied changes. If required, it may further trigger some
adjustments in RACH configuration. Measurements on the RACH performance/usage
are needed to be collected at a SON entity.
Objective:
The objective of this use case is to optimize the RACH configuration,
including:
RACH resource unit allocation;
RACH preamble split (among dedicated, random-high, random-low);
RACH persistence level and backoff control;
RACH transmission power control.
Expected results:
Reduction on RACH collision probability, which results into:
small call setup delays
small data resuming delays from UL unsynchronized state
small handover delays
high call setup success rate
high handover success rate
Optimisation on the amount of UL resource unit reserved for RACH which brings
a positive System Capacity impact.
### 4.7.2 Solution Description
#### 4.7.2.1 Input data, definition of Measurements or Performance data
The following input data is to be measured at the eNB
Number of received RACH preambles
The definition of [Number of received RACH preambles]:
The number of received RACH preambles in a cell in a time interval. It is
measured per preamble range (dedicated, random-low, random-high), and averaged
over the PRACHs configured in a cell.
Note: Other measurements, including UE measurements are FFS.
#### 4.7.2.2 Output, influenced entities and parameter
The output parameters are:
RACH resource unit allocation;
RACH preamble split (among dedicated, random-high, random-low);
RACH persistence level and backoff control parameters;
RACH transmission power control parameters.
#### 4.7.2.3 Impacted specifications, procedure interactions and interfaces
The measurements listed in 4.7.2.1 are reported to a central SON entity
Note: It is FFS whether the SON entity is central or not. The SON
architecture(Reference Model) for this use case is to be clarified once it is
studied and finalised in SA5.
## 4.8 Automatic Neighbour Relation Function
This use case allows an eNB to build and maintain neighbour relationships as
described in [2].
## 4.9 Inter-cell Interference Coordination
In reuse one cellular networks mutual interference between cells occurs.
Within the OFDM and SC-FDMA based LTE system interference has to be
coordinated on the basis of the physical resource blocks (PRBs). Such
interference can be reduced or avoided in uplink and downlink by a coordinated
usage of the available resources (PRBs) in the related cells which leads to
improved SIR and corresponding throughput. This coordination is realized by
restriction and preference for the resource usage in the different cells. This
can be achieved by means of ICIC related RRM mechanisms employing signalling
of e.g. HII, OI and DL TX Power indicator.
ICIC RRM might be configured by ICIC related configuration parameters like
reporting thresholds/periods and preferred/prioritized resources. Then these
have to be set by the operator for each cell. Setting and updating these
parameters automatically is the task of a SON mechanism.
### 4.9.1 Use Case description
Objective:
The objective is the self-configuration and self-optimization of control
parameters of RRM ICIC schemes for UL and DL. By means of ICIC related
Performance Measurements (PM) analysis the SON function may properly tune ICIC
configuration parameters like reporting thresholds/periods and resource
preference configuration settings in order to make the ICIC schemes effective
with respect to Operator's requirements.
This shall allow an advantageous RRM resource usage by means of preferences
with respect to the e.g. available time/frequency resources, neighbourhood
relations of the cells and QoS requirements targeted by the operator.
Expected results:
Automatic configuration or adaptation, with respect to cell topology, of
ICIC reporting thresholds/periods
resource preferences in eNBs
RSRP threshold for ICIC
Minimized human intervention in network management and optimization tasks
Optimised capacity in terms of satisfied users
### 4.9.2 Solution Description for self-configuration of UL/DL Interference
Coordination
Self configuration of ICIC may involve ICIC configurations parameters like
e.g.:
ICIC schemes. reporting threshold/period for OI and DL TX Power
Self-configuration of power restrictions or preferred PRBs for cells in a
multi-cell area.
An interworking with other SON functions (e.g. the automatic neighbourhood
relation function, coverage and capacity optimisation, etc.) should be
established.
#### 4.9.2.1 Input data, definition of Measurements or Performance data
FFS
#### 4.9.2.2 Output, influenced entities and parameter
FFS
#### 4.9.2.3 Impacted specifications, procedure interactions and interfaces
FFS
### 4.9.3 Solution Description for self-optimisation of UL/DL Interference
Coordination
Self Optimisation of ICIC control parameters is required since they might need
be adopted over time based on ICIC related PM.
#### 4.9.3.1 Input data, definition of Measurements or Performance data
FFS
#### 4.9.3.2 Output, influenced entities and parameter
FFS
#### 4.9.3.3 Impacted specifications and interfaces
FFS
#