# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
During the E-UTRA standards development, the physical layer parameters will be
decided using system scenarios, together with implementation issues,
reflecting the environments that E-UTRA will be designed to operate in.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 25.896, "Feasibility Study for Enhanced Uplink for UTRA FDD"
[2] 3GPP TR 25.816, "UMTS 900 MHz Work Item Technical Report"
[3] 3GPP TR 25.942, "Radio Frequency (RF) system scenarios"
[4] 3GPP TR 25.814, "Physical Layer Aspects for Evolved UTRA"
[5] 3GPP TR 30.03, "Selection procedures for the choice of radio transmission
technologies of the UMTS"
[6] R4-051146, "Some operators' requirements for prioritization of performance
requirements work in RAN WG4", RAN4#37
[7] 3GPP TR 25.951, "FDD Base Station (BS) classification"
[8] 3GPP TR 25.895, "Analysis of higher chip rates for UTRA TDD evolution."
[9] R4-070235, "Analysis of co-existence simulation results", RAN4#42
[10] R4-070084, "Coexistence Simulation Results for 5MHz E-UTRA -> UTRA FDD
Uplink with Revised Simulation Assumptions", RAN4#42
[11] R4-070034, "Additional simulation results on 5 MHz LTE to WCDMA FDD UL
co-existence studies", RAN4#42
[12] R4-070262, "Simulation results on 5 MHz LTE to WCDMA FDD UL co-existence
studies with revised simulation assumptions", RAN4#42
[13] R4-070263, "Proposal on LTE ACLR requirements for UE", RAN4#42
[14] R4-061288, "Downlink LTE 900 (Rural Macro) with Downlink GSM900 (Rural
Macro) Co-existence Simulation Results", RAN4#41
[15] R4-070391, "LTE 900 - GSM 900 Downlink Coexistence", RAN4#42bis
[16] R4-061304, "LTE 900 - GSM 900 Uplink Simulation Results", RAN4#41
[17] R4-070390, "LTE 900 - GSM 900 Uplink Simulation Results", RAN4#42bis
[18] R4-070392 "LTE-LTE Coexistence with asymmetrical bandwidth", RAN4#42bis
[19] 3GPP TS 36.104, "Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception"
[20] 3GPP TS 25.104, "Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception
(FDD)"
[21] 3GPP TS 36.141, "Base Station (BS) conformance testing"
[22] Recommendation ITU-R SM.329-10, "Unwanted emissions in the spurious
domain"
[23] "International Telecommunications Union Radio Regulations", Edition 2004,
Volume 1 -- Articles, ITU, December 2004.
[24] "Adjacent Band Compatibility between UMTS and Other Services in the 2 GHz
Band", ERC Report 65, Menton, May 1999, revised in Helsinki, November 1999.
[25] "Title 47 of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR)", Federal
Communications Commission.
[26] R4-070337, \"Impact of second adjacent channel ACLR/ACS on ACIR\" (Nokia
Siemens Networks).
[27] R4-070430, \"UE ACS and BS ACLRs\" (Fujitsu ).
[28] R4-070264, \"Proposal on LTE ACLR requirements for Node B\" (NTT DoCoMo).
[29] Recommendation ITU-R M.1580-1, "Generic unwanted emission characteristics
of base stations using the terrestrial radio interfaces of IMT-2000".
[30] Report ITU-R M.2039, "Characteristics of terrestrial IMT-2000 systems for
frequency sharing/interference analyses".
[31] ETSI EN 301 908-3 V2.2.1 (2003-10), "Electromagnetic compatibility and
Radio spectrum Matters (ERM); Base Stations (BS), Repeaters and User Equipment
(UE) for IMT-2000 Third-Generation cellular networks; Part 3: Harmonized EN
for IMT-2000, CDMA Direct Spread (UTRA FDD) (BS) covering essential
requirements of article 3.2 of the R&TTE Directive".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
## 3.2 Symbols
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
ACIR Adjacent Channel Interference Ratio
ACLR Adjacent Channel Leakage power Ratio
ACS Adjacent Channel Selectivity
AMC Adaptive Modulation and Coding
AWGN Additive White Gaussian Noise
BS Base Station
CDF Cumulative Distribution Function
DL Downlink
FDD Frequency Division Duplex
MC Monte-Carlo
MCL Minimum Coupling Loss
MCS Modulation and Coding Scheme
PC Power Control
PSD Power Spectral Density
RX Receiver
TDD Time Division Duplex
TX Transmitter
UE User Equipment
UL Uplink
# 4 General assumptions
The present document discusses system scenarios for E-UTRA operation primarily
with respect to the radio transmission and reception including the RRM
aspects. To develop the E-UTRA standard, all the relevant scenarios need to be
considered for the various aspects of operation and the most critical cases
identified. The process may then be iterated to arrive at final parameters
that meet both service and implementation requirements.
The E-UTRA system is intended to be operated in the same frequency bands
specified for UTRA. In order to limit the number of frequency bands to be
simulated in the various simulation scenarios a mapping of frequency bands to
two simulation frequencies (900 MHz and 2000 MHz) is applied. When using the
macro cell propagation model of TR25.942 [3], the frequency contributes to the
path loss by 21*log10(f). The maximum path loss difference between the
lowest/highest frequencies per E-UTRA frequency band and corresponding
simulation frequency is shown in tables 4.1 and 4.2.
Table 4.1: Simulation frequencies for FDD mode E-UTRA frequency bands
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+ | E | UL | DL | Simul | Path | | | | | -UTRA | f | f | ation | loss | | | | | Band | reque | reque | freq | diffe | | | | | | ncies | ncies | uency | rence | | | | | | (MHz) | (MHz) | | (dB) | | | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+ | | l | hi | l | hi | | l | hi | | | owest | ghest | owest | ghest | | owest | ghest | | | | | | | | UL | DL | | | | | | | | freq | freq | | | | | | | | uency | uency | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+ | 1 | 1920 | 1980 | 2110 | 2170 | 2000 | 0.37 | 0.74 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+ | 2 | 1850 | 1910 | 1930 | 1990 | 2000 | 0.71 | 0.05 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+ | 3 | 1710 | 1785 | 1805 | 1880 | 2000 | 1.43 | 0.56 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+ | 4 | 1710 | 1755 | 2110 | 2155 | 2000 | 1.43 | 0.68 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+ | 5 | 824 | 849 | 869 | 894 | 900 | 0.80 | 0.06 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+ | 6 | 830 | 840 | 875 | 885 | 900 | 0.74 | 0.15 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+ | 7 | 2500 | 2570 | 2620 | 2690 | 2000 | 2.04 | 2.70 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+ | 8 | 880 | 915 | 925 | 960 | 900 | 0.20 | 0.59 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+ | 9 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 2000 | 1.22 | 0.56 | | | 749.9 | 784.9 | 844.9 | 879.9 | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+ | 10 | 1710 | 1770 | 2110 | 2170 | 2000 | 1.43 | 0.74 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+ | 11 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 2000 | 3.07 | 2.62 | | | 427.9 | 452.9 | 475.9 | 500.9 | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+
Table 4.2: Simulation frequencies for TDD mode E-UTRA frequency bands
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | E-UTRA | UL/DL | Si | Path | | | | band | fre | mulation | loss | | | | | quencies | f | di | | | | | (MHz) | requency | fference | | | | | | | (dB) | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | lowest | highest | | lowest | highest | | | | | | f | f | | | | | | requency | requency | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 33 | 1900 | 1920 | 2000 | 0.47 | 0.37 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 34 | 2010 | 2025 | 2000 | 0.05 | 0.11 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 35 | 1850 | 1910 | 2000 | 0.71 | 0.42 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 36 | 1930 | 1990 | 2000 | 0.32 | 0.05 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 37 | 1910 | 1930 | 2000 | 0.42 | 0.32 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 38 | 2570 | 2620 | 2000 | 2.29 | 2.46 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
It can be observed that the difference of path loss between simulation
frequency and operating frequency (except bands 7, 11 and 38) is in the worst
case less than 0.8 dB for the downlink and less the 1,5 dB for the uplink.
Hence the mapping of operating frequency to simulation frequency will provide
valid results.
The validity of simulations performed at 2 GHz for the 2.6 GHz bands 7 and 38
was already analyzed in TR 25.810. Considering the expected higher antenna
gain in the 2.6 GHz band the difference in path loss is in the order of 1 dB
what is comparable to the other frequency bands.
## 4.1 Interference scenarios
This chapter should cover how the interference scenarios could occur e.g. BS-
BS, UE-BS etc.
## 4.2 Antenna Models
This chapter contains the various antenna models for BS and UE
### 4.2.1 BS antennas
#### 4.2.1.1 BS antenna radiation pattern
The BS antenna radiation pattern to be used for each sector in 3-sector cell
sites is plotted in Figure 4.1. The pattern is identical to those defined in
[1], [2] and [4]:
,
$\theta_{3\text{dB}}$ is the 3dB beam width which corresponds to 65 degrees,
and $A_{m} = \text{20}\text{dB}$ is the maximum attenuation
Figure 4.1: Antenna Pattern for 3-Sector Cells
#### 4.2.1.2 BS antenna heights and antenna gains for macro cells
Antenna heights and gains for macro cells are given in table 4.3.
Table 4.3: Antenna height and gain for Macro Cells
* * *
                                                  Rural Area   Urban Area   
                                                  900 MHz      2000 MHz     900 MHz
BS antenna gain (dBi) (including feeder loss) 15 15 12 BS antenna height (m)
45 30 30
* * *
### 4.2.2 UE antennas
For UE antennas, a omni-directional radiation pattern with antenna gain 0dBi
is assumed [2], [3], [4].
### 4.2.3 MIMO antenna Characteristics
xxxx
## 4.3 Cell definitions
This chapter contain the cell properties e.g. cell range, cell type (omni,
sector), MIMO cell definitions etc.
## 4.4 Cell layouts
This chapter contains different cell layouts in form of e.g. single operator,
multi-operator and multi layer cell layouts (e.g. macro-micro etc).
### 4.4.1 Single operator cell layouts
#### 4.4.1.1 Macro cellular deployment
Base stations with 3 sectors per site are placed on a hexagonal grid with
distance of 3*R, where R is the cell radius (see Figure 4.2), with wrap
around. The number of sites shall be equal to or higher than 19. [2] [4].
{width="4.522916666666666in" height="3.438888888888889in"}
Figure 4.2: Single operator cell layout
### 4.4.2 Multi operator / Multi layer cell layouts
#### 4.4.2.1 Uncoordinated macro cellular deployment
For uncoordinated network simulations, identical cell layouts for each network
shall be applied, with worst case shift between sites. Second network's sites
are located at the first network's cell edge, as shown in Figure 4.3 [2].
{width="4.522916666666666in" height="3.932638888888889in"}
Figure 4.3: Multi operator cell layout - uncoordinated operation
#### 4.4.2.2 Coordinated macro cellular deployment
For coordinated network simulations, co-location of sites is assumed; hence
identical cell layouts for each network shall be applied [2].
{width="4.522916666666666in" height="3.438888888888889in"}
Figure 4.4: Multi operator cell layout - coordinated operation
## 4.5 Propagation conditions and channel models
This chapter contains the definition of channel models, propagation conditions
for various environments e.g. urban, suburban etc.
For each environment a propagation model is used to evaluate the propagation
pathloss due to the distance. Propagation models are adopted from [3] and [4]
and presented in the following clauses.
### 4.5.1 Received signal
An important parameter to be defined is the minimum coupling loss (MCL). MCL
is the parameter describing the minimum loss in signal between BS and UE or UE
and UE in the worst case and is defined as the minimum distance loss including
antenna gains measured between antenna connectors. MCL values are adopted from
[3] and [7] as follows:
Table 4.4: Minimum Coupling Losses
* * *
Environment Scenario MCL Macro cell Urban Area BS ↔ UE 70 dB Macro cell Rural
Area BS ↔ UE 80 dB
* * *
With the above definition, the received power in downlink and uplink can be
expressed as [3]:
RX_PWR = TX_PWR -- Max (pathloss -- G_TX -- G_RX, MCL)
where:
RX_PWR is the received signal power
TX_PWR is the transmitted signal power
G_TX is the transmitter antenna gain
G_RX is the receiver antenna gain
### 4.5.2 Macro cell propagation model -- Urban Area
Macro cell propagation model for urban area is applicable for scenarios in
urban and suburban areas outside the high rise core where the buildings are of
nearly uniform height [3]:
where:
R is the base station-UE separation in kilometres
f is the carrier frequency in MHz
Dhb is the base station antenna height in metres, measured from the average
rooftop level
Considering a carrier frequency of 900MHz and a base station antenna height of
15 metres above average rooftop level, the propagation model is given by the
following formula [4]:
where:
R is the base station-UE separation in kilometres
Considering a carrier frequency of 2000MHz and a base station antenna height
of 15 metres above average rooftop level, the propagation model is given by
the following formula:
where:
R is the base station-UE separation in kilometres
After L is calculated, log-normally distributed shadowing (LogF) with standard
deviation of 10dB should be added [2], [3]. A Shadowing correlation factor of
0.5 for the shadowing between sites (regardless aggressing or victim system)
and of 1 between sectors of the same site shall be used The pathloss is given
by the following formula:
NOTE 1: L shall in no circumstances be less than free space loss. This model
is valid for NLOS case only and describes worse case propagation
NOTE 2: The pathloss model is valid for a range of Dhb from 0 to 50 metres.
NOTE 3: This model is designed mainly for distance from few hundred meters to
kilometres. This model is not very accurate for short distances.
NOTE 4: The mean building height is equal to the sum of mobile antenna height
(1,5m) and $\text{Δh}_{m} = \text{10,5m}$ [5].
NOTE 5: Some downlink simulations in this TR were performed without shadowing
correlation, however it was reported this has a negligible impact on the
simulation results.
### 4.5.3 Macro cell propagation model -- Rural Area
For rural area, the Hata model was used in the work item UMTS900[2], this
model can be reused:
L (R)= 69.55 +26.16log~10~(f)--13.82log~10~(Hb)+[44.9-6.55log~10~(Hb)]log(R)
-- 4.78(Log~10~ (f))^2^+18.33 log~10~ (f) -40.94
where:
R is the base station-UE separation in kilometres
f is the carrier frequency in MHz
Hb is the base station antenna height above ground in metres
Considering a carrier frequency of 900MHz and a base station antenna height of
45 meters above ground the propagation model is given by the following
formula:
where:
R is the base station-UE separation in kilometres
After L is calculated, log-normally distributed shadowing (LogF) with standard
deviation of 10dB should be added [2], [3]. A Shadowing correlation factor of
0.5 for the shadowing between sites (regardless aggressing or victim system)
and of 1 between sectors of the same site shall be used. The pathloss is given
by the following formula:
NOTE 1: L shall in no circumstances be less than free space loss. This model
is valid for NLOS case only and describes worse case propagation
NOTE 2: This model is designed mainly for distance from few hundred meters to
kilometres. This model is not very accurate for short distances.
## 4.6 Base-station model
This chapter covers the fundamental BS properties e.g. output power, dynamic
range, noise floor etc.
Reference UTRA FDD base station parameters are given in Table 4.5.
Table 4.5: UTRA FDD reference base station parameters
* * *
Parameter Value Note Maximum BS power 43dBm [2], [3] Maximum power per DL
traffic channel 30dBm [2], [3] Minimum BS power per user 15dBm [2] Total CCH
power 33dBm [2] Noise Figure 5dB [3]
* * *
Reference base station parameters for UTRA 1.28Mcps TDD are given in Table
4.5a.
Table 4.5a: Reference base station for UTRA 1.28Mcps TDD
* * *
Parameter Value Note Maximum BS power 34dBm  
Maximum power per DL traffic channel 22dBm 34-10*log10(16)=22dBm power control
dynamic 30dB  
Noise Figure 7dB  
Noise power -106dBm  
Reference sensitivity -110dBm  
Target CIR for 12.2kbps voice -2.5 dB
* * *
Reference UTRA 3.84 Mcps TDD base station parameters are given in Table 4.5b.
Table 4.5b: Reference base station for UTRA 3.84Mcps TDD
* * *
Parameter Value Note Maximum BS Power 43 dBm  
Max power per DL traffic channel Up to the maximum base station transmit power
may be assigned to each timeslot and users may be multiplexed between
timeslots  
Noise Figure 5 dB
* * *
Reference E-UTRA FDD and E-UTRA TDD base station parameters are given in Table
4.6.
Table 4.6: E-UTRA FDD and E-UTRA TDD reference base station parameters
+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | Parameter | Value | Note | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | Maximum BS power | 43dBm for 1.25, 2.5 and | [4] | | | 5MHz carrier | | | | | | | | 46dBm for 10, 15 and 20MHz | | | | carrier | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | Maximum power per DL | 32dBm | | | traffic channel | | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | Noise Figure | 5dB | [4] | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+
Reference base station parameters for E-UTRA TDD (LCR TDD frame structure
based) are given in Table 4.6a.
Table 4.6a: Reference base station for E-UTRA TDD (LCR TDD frame structure
based)
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Parameter | Value | Note | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Maximum BS power | 43dBm for bandwidth | | | | ≤ 5MHz | | | | | | | | 46dBm for 10, 15 and | | | | 20MHz bandwidth | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Maximum power per RB | Maximum BS power/ | 375kHz RB size* | | | Nr. of available | | | | RB's | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Noise Figure | 6dB | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Noise power | Varies with system | Noise power should | | | BW | be calculated based | | | | on different BW | | | | option. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
NOTE: * When there is new decision in RAN1, new RB size for 1.6MHz should be
reconsidered.
## 4.7 UE model
This chapter covers the fundamental UE properties e.g. output power, dynamic
range, noise floor etc.
Reference UTRA FDD parameters are given in Table 4.7.
Table 4.7: UTRA FDD reference UE parameters
* * *
Parameter Value Note Maximum UE power 21dBm [2], [3] Minimum UE power -50dBm
[2] Noise Figure* 9dB [3]
* * *
NOTE: * UTRA TDD UE will have a relatively lower Noise Figure since it does
not have a duplexer. However, for simulation alignment purpose, a Noise Figure
of 9 dB will be used.
Reference UTRA 1.28 Mcps TDD parameters are given in Table 4.7a
Table 4.7a: Reference UE for UTRA 1.28 Mcps TDD
* * *
Parameter Value Note Maximum UE power 21dBm  
Minimum UE power -49dBm  
Noise Figure 9dB  
Antenna model 0dBi  
Noise power -104dBm  
Reference sensitivity -108dBm  
Target CIR -2.5 dB
* * *
Reference UTRA 3.84 Mcps TDD UE parameters are given in Table 4.7b.
Table 4.7b: UTRA 3.84 Mcps TDD reference UE parameters
* * *
Parameter Value Note Maximum UE power 24dBm [2], [3] Minimum UE power -50dBm
[2] Noise Figure* 9dB [3]
* * *
NOTE: * UTRA TDD UE will have a relatively lower Noise Figure since it does
not have a duplexer. However, for simulation alignment purpose, a Noise Figure
of 9 dB will be used.
Reference E-UTRA FDD and E-UTRA TDD UE parameters are given in Table 4.8.
Table 4.8: E-UTRA FDD and E-UTRA TDD reference UE parameters
* * *
Parameter Value Note Maximum UE power 24dBm [6] Minimum UE power -30dBm [3]
Noise Figure* 9dB [4]
* * *
NOTE: * E-UTRA TDD UE will have a relatively lower Noise Figure since it does
not have a duplexer. However, for simulation alignment purpose, a Noise Figure
of 9 dB will be used.
Reference E-UTRA TDD UE (LCR TDD frame structure based) parameters are given
in Table 4.8a.
Table 4.8a: Reference UE for EUTRA TDD (LCR TDD frame structure based)
* * *
Parameter Value Note Maximum UE power 24dBm  
Minimum UE power -30dBm  
Noise Figure 9dB  
Noise power Varies with the total RB's allocated for a UE
* * *
## 4.8 RRM models
This chapter contains models that are necessary to study the RRM aspects e.g.
### 4.8.1 Measurement models
xxxx
### 4.8.2 Modelling of the functions
xxxx
## 4.9 Link level simulation assumptions
This chapter covers Layer 1 aspects and assumptions (e.g. number of HARQ
retransmissions) etc.
## 4.10 System simulation assumptions
This chapter contains system simulation assumptions e.g. Eb/No values for
different services, activity factor for voice, power control steps,
performance measures (system throughput, grade of service), confidence
interval etc.
### 4.10.1 System loading
xxxx
# 5 Methodology description
This chapter describes the methods used for various study items e.g.
deterministic analysis for BS-BS interference, Monte-Carlo simulations and
dynamic type of simulations for RRM.
## 5.1 Methodology for co-existence simulations
Simulations to investigate the mutual interference impact of E-UTRA, UTRA and
GERAN are based on snapshots were users are randomly placed in a predefined
deployment scenario (Monte-Carlo approach). Assumptions or E-UTRA in this
chapter are based on the physical layer (OFDMA DL and SC-FDMA UL) as described
in the E-UTRA study item report [4]. It must be noted that actual E-UTRA
physical layer specification of frequency resource block is different
regarding number of sub-carriers per resource block (12 instead of 25
specified in [4]) and regarding the size of a resource block (180 kHz instead
of 375 kHz in [4]). However, this has no impact on the results and conclusions
of the present document.
### 5.1.1 Simulation assumptions for co-existence simulations
#### 5.1.1.1 Scheduler
For initial E-UTRA coexistence simulations Round Robin scheduler shall be
used.
#### 5.1.1.2 Simulated services
When using Round Robin scheduler, full buffer traffic shall be simulated. For
E-UTRA downlink, one frequency resource block for one user shall be used. The
E-UTRA system shall be maximum loaded, i.e. 24 frequency resource blocks in 10
MHz bandwidth and 12 frequency resource blocks in 5 MHz bandwidth
respectively. For E-UTRA uplink, the number of allocated frequency resource
blocks for one user is 4 for 5 MHz bandwidth and 8 for 10 MHz bandwidth
respectively.
For the 5 MHz TDD UTRA victim using 3.84 Mcps TDD, Enhanced Uplink providing
data service shall be used where 1 UE shall occupy 1 Resource Unit (code x
timeslot). Here the number of UE per timeslot is set to 3 UEs/timeslot.
Other services, e.g. constant bit rate services are FFS.
#### 5.1.1.3 ACIR value and granularity
For downlink a common ACIR for all frequency resource blocks to calculate
inter-system shall be used. Frequency resource block specific ACIR is FFS.
For uplink it is assumed that the ACIR is dominated by the UE ACLR. The ACLR
model is described in table 5.1 and table 5.2
Table 5.1: ACLR model for 5MHz E-UTRA interferer and UTRA victim, 4 RBs per UE
* * *
Location of aggressor 4RBs (bandwidth = 4*375 kHz) Adjacent to victim channel
edge at least 4 RBs away from channel edge ACLR dBc/3.84MHz 30 + X 43+X X
serves as the step size for simulations, X = ... -10, -5, 0, 5, 10... dB
* * *
Table 5.2: ACLR model for E-UTRA interferer and 10MHz E-UTRA victim
* * *
E-UTRA Number of RBs per UE Bandwidth (B~Aggressor~) ACLR dB/ B~Aggressor~  
Adjacent to edge of victim RBs Non Adjacent to edge of victim RBs 5 MHz 4 4 RB
(4 × 375 kHz) 30 + X (less than 4 RBs away) 43 + X (more than 4 RBs away) 10
MHz 8 8 RB (8 × 375 kHz) 30 + X (less than 8 RBs away) 43 + X (more than 8 RBs
away) 15 MHz 12 12 RB (12 × 375 kHz) 30 + X (less than 12 RBs away) 43 + X
(more than 12 RBs away) 20 MHz 16 16 RB (16 × 375 kHz) 30 + X (less than 16
RBs away) 43 + X (more than 16 RBs away) X serves as the step size for
simulations, X = ... -10, -5, 0, 5, 10... dB
* * *
Note: This ACLR models are agreed for the purpose of co-existence simulations.
ACLR/ACS requirements need to be discussed separately.
##### 5.1.1.4.1 Uplink Asymmetrical Bandwidths ACIR (Aggressor with larger
bandwidth)
Since the uplink ACLR of the aggressor is measured in the aggressor's
bandwidth, for uplink asymmetrical bandwidth coexistence, a victim UE with a
smaller bandwidth than that of the aggressor will receive a fraction of the
interference power caused by the aggressor's ACLR. For two victim UEs falling
within the 1st ACLR of the aggressor, the victim UE closer in frequency to the
aggressor will experience higher interference than one that is further away in
frequency. The difference in interference depends on the power spectral
density (PSD) within the aggressor's 1st ACLR bandwidth. For simplicity, it is
assumed that the PSD is flat across the aggressor's ACLR bandwidth. Hence, the
ACLR can be adjusted by the factor, F~ACLR~:
F~ACLR~ = 10 × LOG~10~(B~victim~/B~Aggressor~)
Where, B~Aggressor~ and B~Victim~ are the E-UTRA aggressor and victim
bandwidths respectively.
Figure 5.1: 20 MHz E-UTRA UE aggressor to 5 MHz E-UTRA UE victims
Figure 5.2: 20 MHz E-UTRA UE aggressor to 10 MHz E-UTRA UE victims
In Table 5.2, the aggressor UE that is non adjacent to the victim UE, the
victim UE will experience an interference due to an ACLR of 43 + X \--
F~ACLR~. For the case where the aggressor UE is adjacent to the victim UEs,
consider the scenarios in Figure 5.1, 5.2 and 5.3, where a 20 MHz E-UTRA
aggressor is adjacent to 3 victim UEs of 5 MHz, 10 MHz and 15 MHz E-UTRA
systems respectively.
In Figure 5.1, all the UEs in the 5 MHz E-UTRA system will be affected by an
ACLR of 30 + X - F~ACLR~. For the 10 MHz E-UTRA victims in Figure 5.2, two UEs
will be affected by an ACLR of 30 + X - F~ACLR~ whilst 1 UE will be affected
by a less severe ACLR of 43 + X- F~ACLR~ . In the 15 MHz E-UTRA victim as
shown in Figure 5.3, the UE next to the band edge will be affected by an ACLR
of 30 + X - F~ACLR~ whilst the UE farthest from the band edge will be affected
by an ACLR of 43 + X - F~ACLR~. The victim UE of the 15 MHz E-UTRA occupying
the centre RB (2nd from band edge) is affected by 1/3 ACLR of 30 + X - F~ACLR~
and 2/3 ACLR of 43 + X \- F~ACLR~. This gives an ACLR of 34 + X - F~ACLR~.
Using a similar approach for 15 MHz, 10 MHz and 5 MHz aggressor with a victim
of smaller system bandwidth, the ACLR affecting each of the 3 victim UEs can
be determined. This is summarised in Table 5.2A. Here the value Y is defined
for victim UE, where ACLR = Y + X - F~ACLR~. UE1 is the UE adjacent to the
aggressor, UE2 is located at the centre and UE3 is furthest away from the
aggressor.
Figure 5.3: 20 MHz E-UTRA UE aggressor to 15 MHz E-UTRA UE victims
Table 5.2A: Value Y (ACLR = Y + X - F~ACLR~) for larger aggressor bandwidth
* * *
Aggressor Victim: Value Y (dB): ACLR = (Y + X - F~ACLR~)  
15 MHz 10 MHz 5 MHz 1.6 MHz  
UE1 UE2 UE3 UE1 UE2 UE3 UE1 UE2 UE3 UE1 UE2 UE3 20 MHz 30 34 43 30 30 43 30 30
30 30 30 30 15 MHz 30 32 43 30 30 30 30 30 30 10 MHz 30 30 43 30 30 30 5 MHz
30 30 30
* * *
The victims in 10 MHz system under a 20 MHz aggressor experience slightly
worse interference than the victims in 15 MHz system under a 20 MHz aggressor
and therefore, we only need to consider the worst of the two cases. Hence,
from Table 5.2A, the total number of asymmetrical bandwidth coexistences can
be reduced to 3 scenarios and they are summarised in Table 5.2B. The
performance of the other scenarios can be derived from these 3 base scenarios
by factoring in the FACLR factor in the ACLR.
Table 5.2B: Base scenarios (F~ACLR~ = 0 dB)
* * *
Scenario System Bandwidth (MHz) Value Y (dB), ACLR = Y + X  
Aggressor Victim UE1 UE2 UE3 1 15 10 30 32 43 2 20 10 30 30 43 3 20 5 30 30 30
* * *
An additional factor will be required to cater for the differences in UE
transmit powers, which are dependent upon the power control scheme used in
Table 5.3. Given the power control scheme, a UE with higher bandwidth will
transmit at higher overall power (note: max UE transmit power remains the
same). Thus, an aggressor with higher transmit power than the aggressor in the
base scenario needs to increase its ACLR. On the other hand, for an
interference limited environment, a victim with higher transmit power can
overcome higher level of interference and hence demands a relaxed ACLR from
its aggressor. The differences in transmit powers are given in the power
control factor, P~ACLR~ and it is dependent upon the CLx-ile of the aggressors
and victims. P~ACLR~ is given as:
P~ACLR~ (dB) = (CLx-ile~BaseAggressor~ - CLx-ile~Aggressor~) + (CLx-
ile~Victim~ - CLx-ile~BaseVictim~)
Where, CLx-ile~BaseAggressor~ and CLx-ile~BaseVictim~ are the CLx-ile used by
the aggressor and the victim respectively in the base scenario in Table 5.2B.
CLx-ile~Aggressor~ and CLx-ile~Victim~ are the CLx-ile of the aggressor and
victim of interest respectively. For example, using Power Control Set 1, for
the scenario 10 MHz (aggressor) to 5 MHz (victim), CLx-ile~Aggressor~ = 112
and CLx-ile~Victim~ = 115 dB. The base scenario used is Scenario 2 of Table
5.2B (20 MHz (aggressor) to 10 MHz (victim)). Hence, in this example, CLx-
ile~BaseAggressor~ = 109 dB and CLx-ile~BaseVictim~ = 112 dB. Therefore, PACLR
= (109 -- 112) + (115 \-- 112) = 0 dB.
The final ACLR as reference by the victim's bandwidth is hence:
ACLR = Y + X -- F~ACLR~ + P~ACLR~
##### 5.1.1.4.2 Uplink Asymmetrical Bandwidths ACIR (Aggressor with smaller
bandwidth)
Consider the scenario in Figure 5.4, the interference experienced by UE1 is
affected by 25% ACLR of 30 + X - F~ACLR~ and 75% ACLR of 43 + X - F~ACLR~.
Since the victim bandwidth is larger than the aggressor, the interference
experienced by UE1 will caused by a mixture of ACLR 30 + X \- F~ACLR~ and ACLR
43 + X - F~ACLR~. For victim UE2 and UE3, the interference is caused by ACLR
43 + X -- F~ALCR~. The effective interference onto UE1 is dependent upon the
aggressor and victim bandwidths. If we take this level of interference and
assumed that it is caused by an aggressor of the same bandwidth (i.e.
normalising the ACLR to the victim bandwidth) we have the normalised ACLR in
Table 5.2C.
Figure 5.4: 5 MHz E-UTRA aggressor to 20 MHz E-UTRA victim
Table 5.2.C: Value Y (normalised ACLR = Y + X - FALCR) for victim UE1
* * *
Aggressor Bandwidth (MHz) Victim: Value Y (dB): ACLR = (Y + X - F~ACLR~)
measured over _B_ ~Victim~  
20 MHz 15 MHz 10 MHz 5 MHz 15 MHz 29.93 - - - 10 MHz 29.79 29.89 - - 5 MHz
29.39 29.59 29.79 - 1.6 MHz 28.02 28.48 28.99 29.56
* * *
The ACLR of the aggressor is likely to be larger than 43 + X dB after the 2nd
ACLR and hence it is reasonable to assume that the Y value of the normalised
ACLR in Table 5.2C onto victim UE1 is close to 30 dB. This is similar to the
symmetrical bandwidth coexistence scenario where the first UE is affected by
an ACLR of 30 + X dB. For victim UE2 and UE3, the ACLR 43 + X is unrealistic.
For scenario where the aggressor bandwidth is much smaller than the victim
bandwidth, the ACLR into UE2 and UE3 is going to be much larger than 43 + X.
For example for 1.6 MHz E-UTRA aggressor and 20 MHz E-UTRA victim, the
interference into UE2 and UE3 is caused by the 13th ACLR (of 1.6 MHz
aggressor) and above and this will likely be lower than the noise floor of the
victim UE. Hence, the interference experienced by UE2 and UE3 from an
aggressor with a smaller bandwidth will not be worse than that from an
aggressor with a symmetrical bandwidth. Therefore, the ACLR value for
coexistence between E-UTRA systems with symmetrical bandwidth is sufficient
for coexistence where the aggressor bandwidth is smaller than that of the
victim.
#### 5.1.1.4 Frequency re-use and interference mitigation schemes for E-UTRA
For initial simulations, 1/1 frequency re-use shall be used.
#### 5.1.1.5 CQI estimation
It is assumed that the CQI including external system interference is available
before the scheduling process. This assumption is valid for the victim system
only.
#### 5.1.1.6 Power control modelling for E-UTRA and 3.84 Mcps TDD UTRA
No power control in downlink, fixed power per frequency resource block is
assumed.
The following power control equation shall be used for the initial uplink (for
E-UTRA and 3.84 Mcps TDD UTRA employing Enhanced UL) coexistence simulations:
where _P_ ~max~ is the maximum transmit power, _R_ ~min~ is the minimum power
reduction ratio to prevent UEs with good channels to transmit at very low
power level, _CL_ is the coupling loss defined as max{path loss-G_Tx-G_Rx,
MCL}, where path loss is propagation loss plus shadowfading, G_TX is the
transmitter antenna gain in the direction of the receiver, G_RX is the
receiver antenna gain in the direction of the transmitter and _CL~x-~_ ~ile~
is the _x_ -percentile _CL_ value. With this power control equation, the _x_
percent of UEs that have the highest coupling loss will transmit at _P_ ~max~.
Finally, 0\ metric (i.e. randomly for Round Robin)
      * Pick 4 RB among the "not scheduled" ones and mark it as > "scheduled"
      * Set UE transmit power to > $P_{t} = P_{\text{max}} \times \text{min}\left{ 1,\ \text{max}\left\lbrack R_{\text{min}},\ \left( \frac{\text{CL}}{\text{CL}_{x - \text{ile}}} \right)^{\gamma} \right\rbrack \right}$
3 Run UTRA snapshot simulator procedure [3]. All E-UTRA terminals are
considered as a source of other system interference (Iother). Iother = sum
over all other system terminals (interference power into UTRA bandwidth
including ACIR).
4 Collect statistics.
For UTRA 3.84 Mcps TDD victim using Enhanced Uplink, the system TDD victim
shall be synchronised and simulation procedure shall be the same as that in
Section 5.1.2.4 (Uplink E-UTRA interferer E-UTRA victim).
#### 5.1.2.4 Uplink E-UTRA interferer E-UTRA victim
For i=1:# of snapshots
1\. Distribute terminals randomly throughout the system area such that to each
cell within the HO margin of 3 dB the same number K of users is allocated.
2\. Perform PS operation for all cells:
  * Loop over all cells
    * Loop over all UE attached to the cell
      * Select the next UE to be scheduled based on the scheduling > metric (i.e. randomly for Round Robin)
      * Pick 8 RB among the "not scheduled" ones and mark it as > "scheduled"
      * Set UE transmit power to > $P_{t} = P_{\text{max}} \times \text{min}\left{ 1,\ \text{max}\left\lbrack R_{\text{min}},\ \left( \frac{\text{CL}}{\text{CL}_{x - \text{ile}}} \right)^{\gamma} \right\rbrack \right}$
3\. Calculate actual intra/inter system interference to get the actual C/(I+N)
and bit rates for each UE.
  * Use the actual C/(I+N) to throughput mapping as specified in Annex A > to determine the obtained throughput for the UE.
4\. Collect statistics.
# 6 System scenarios
This chapter contains the system scenarios defined based upon the models
described above designed for the interference studies, RRM studies etc
## 6.1 Co-existence scenarios
Table 6.1 summarizes the proposed initial simulation scenarios. This list is
tentative and represents the actual status of the discussion. The list will be
reviewed when the work on the simulation scenarios progresses. Uncoordinated
deployment is assumed for all these simulation scenarios.
Table 6.1; Summary of simulation scenarios
* * *
Aggressor system Victim system Simulation frequency Environment Cell Range
Priority 10 MHz E-UTRA 10 MHz E-UTRA 2000 MHz Urban Area 500 m high 5 MHz
E-UTRA 20 MHz E-UTRA 2000 MHz Urban Area 500 m lower 5 MHz E-UTRA UTRA 2000
MHz Urban Area 500 m high [1.25] MHz E-UTRA GERAN 900 MHz Rural Area 2000 m
lower 20 MHz E-UTRA UTRA 2000 MHz Urban Area 500 m lower 1.6 MHz E-UTRA UTRA
1.6MHz 2000 MHz Urban Area 500 m high
* * *
For high priority simulation scenarios, it was decided to simulate scenarios
with the following priority:
  * 5MHz E-UTRA -- UTRA (victim), downlink
  * 10MHz E-UTRA -- 10MHz E-UTRA (victim), downlink
  * 10MHz E-UTRA -- 10MHz E-UTRA (victim), uplink
  * 5MHz E-UTRA -- UTRA (victim), uplink
  * 1.6MHz E-UTRA --UTRA 1.6MHz (victim), downlink
  * 1.6MHz E-UTRA --UTRA 1.6MHz (victim), uplink
# 7 Results
## 7.1 Radio reception and transmission
### 7.1.1 FDD coexistence simulation results
#### 7.1.1.1 ACIR downlink 5MHz E-UTRA interferer -- UTRA victim
Simulations are based on the following assumptions:
Aggressor system: 5 MHz E-UTRA
Victim system: UTRA FDD
Simulation frequency: 2000 MHz
Environment: Macro Cell, Urban Area, uncoordinated deployment
Cell Range 500 m
Simulation results are presented in table 7.1 and figure 7.1.
Table 7.1: UTRA FDD downlink capacity loss
ACIR (dB) | Nokia (R4-060375) | Siemens (R4-060379) | Huawai (R4-060448) | Motorola (R4-060461) | Ericsson (R4-060592) | Lucent (R4-061134) | DoCoMo (R4-060967) | Qualcomm (R4-070036 | averaged  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
25 | 7,5 % | 11,30 % | 4,78 % | 17,5 % | 8 % | 6,7 % | 12,6 % | 10,18 % | 9,82 %  
30 | 3,2 % | 5,40 % | 1,43 % | 7 % | 3 % | 2,3 % | 5,7 % | 3,84 % | 3,98 %  
35 | 1,8 % | 2,51 % | 0,16 % | 2,5 % | 1,2 % | 0,7 % | 2,2 % | 1,31 % | 1,55 %  
40 | 0,8 % | 1,07 % | 0,08 % | 1 % | 0,5 % | 0,1 % | 0,7 % | 0,39 % | 0,58 %  
45 | 0,5 % |  | 0 % | 0,5 % | 0,4 % |  |  |  | 0,35 %  
{width="6.692361111111111in" height="3.691666666666667in"}Figure 7.1: UTRA FDD
capacity loss
#### 7.1.1.2 ACIR downlink 10MHz E-UTRA interferer -- 10MHz E-UTRA victim
Simulations are based on the following assumptions:
Aggressor system: 10 MHz E-UTRA
Victim system: 10 MHz E-UTRA
Simulation frequency: 2000 MHz
Environment: Macro Cell, Urban Area, uncoordinated deployment
Cell Range 500 m
Simulation results for average E-UTRA downlink throughput loss are presented
in table 7.2 and figure 7.2. Simulation results for 5% CDF throughput E-UTRA
throughput loss are presented in table 7.3 and figure 7.3.
Table 7.2: Average E-UTRA downlink throughput loss
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ACIR | Si | H | Mot | Eri | D | L | Qua | ave | | (dB) | emens | uawai | orola | csson | oCoMo | ucent | lcomm | raged | | | | | | | ( | ( | ( | | | | ( | ( | ( | ( | R4-06 | R4-06 | R4-06 | | | | R4-06 | R4-06 | R4-06 | R4-06 | 0967) | 1134) | 1342) | | | | 0748) | 1003) | 0462) | 1071) | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 15 | 12,29 | 12,63 | | 12,56 | | 13,67 | | 12,79 | | | % | % | | % | | % | | % | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | 6,31 | 6,51 | 7 % | 6,66 | 6,6 % | 7,32 | 6,50 | 6,73 | | | % | % | | % | | % | % | % | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 25 | 3,1 % | 3,17 | 3,5 % | 3,28 | 3,2 % | 3,65 | 3,10 | 3,32 | | | | % | | % | | % | % | % | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 30 | 1,51 | 1,34 | 1,5 % | 1,49 | 1,4 % | 1,68 | 1,40 | 1,49 | | | % | % | | % | | % | % | % | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 35 | 0,67 | 0,46 | 0,5 % | 0,62 | 0,6 % | 0,7 % | 0,50 | 0,59 | | | % | % | | % | | | % | % | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 40 | 0,30 | 0,11 | 0,25 | 0,24 | 0,2 % | 0,25 | 0,20 | 0,23 | | | % | % | % | % | | % | % | % | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 45 | 0,11 | | 0,1 % | 0,08 | | 0,07 | | 0,09 | | | % | | | % | | % | | % | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 50 | 0,03 | | 0 % | 0,03 | | 0 % | | 0,02 | | | % | | | % | | | | % | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
{width="5.916666666666667in" height="3.71875in"}
Figure 7.2: average E-UTRA downlink throughput loss
Table 7.3: 5% CDF E-UTRA downlink throughput loss
* * *
ACIR (dB) Siemens (R4-060749) Huawei (R4-061003) Motorola Ericsson (R4-061071)
DoCoMo (R4-060967) Lucent (R4-061134) Qualcomm (R4-061342) (5% CDF) averaged
15 58,3 % 100 % 58,61 % 99,99 % 79,23 % 20 35,08 % 66,86 % 22,64 % 30,91 %
28,3 % 36,75 % 27,50 % 36,76 % 25 20,15 % 17,76 % 2,52 % 14,14 % 13,4 % 17,41
% 13,00 % 14,23 % 30 11,62 % 6,18 % 0,84 % 6,11 % 5,8 % 7,03 % 5,60 % 6,26 %
35 5,56 % 2,64 % 0,28 % 2,24 % 2,4 % 2,57 % 2,10 % 2,62 % 40 1,92 % 2,24 %
0,01 % 0,95 % 0,8 % 0,78 % 0,70 % 1,12 % 45 0,53 % 0,23 % 0,27 % 0,34 % 50
0,12 % 0,07 % 0 % 0,06 %
* * *
{width="6.689583333333333in" height="3.673611111111111in"}
Figure 7.3: 5% CDF E-UTRA downlink throughput loss
#### 7.1.1.3 ACIR uplink 5MHz E-UTRA interferer -- UTRA victim
Simulations are based on the following assumptions:
Aggressor system: 5 MHz E-UTRA
Victim system: UTRA FDD
Simulation frequency: 2000 MHz
Environment: Macro Cell, Urban Area, uncoordinated deployment
Cell Range 500 m
Simulation results are presented in table 7.3a and figure 7.3a for power
control parameter set 1 and in table 7.3b and figure 7.3b for E-UTRA power
control parameter set 2 respectively. E-UTRA power control parameter sets are
specified in section 5.1.1.6.
Table 7.3a: UTRA FDD uplink capacity loss for E-UTRA power control set 1
* * *
ACIR offset (dB) NTT DoCoMo (R4-061145) Motorola (R4-061230) Ericsson
(R4-061319) Panasonic (R4-061197) Siemens (R4-061303) Qualcomm (R4-070036)
Alcatel-Lucent (R4-070096) Nokia (R4-070235) PC set 1 averaged -15  
-10 100 % 100% -5 75,80 % 100,00 % 78,90 % 100,00 % 82,00 % 87,34 % 0 39,50 % 20,30 % 42,90 % 17,50 % 35,29 % 49,00 % 45,30 % 29,00 % 34,85 % 5 12,60 % 5,90 % 13,60 % 6,60 % 12,37 % 14,20 % 14,40 % 13,00 % 11,58 % 10 3,3 % 2 % 4,3 % 1,1 % 3,35 % 4,9 % 4,4 % 6,0 % 3,67 % 15 1,4 % 1,11 % 1,8 % 1,3 % 3,0 % 1,72 % 20 0,32 % 0,4 % 0,36 %
* * *
{width="6.692361111111111in" height="3.691666666666667in"}Figure 7.3a: UTRA
FDD uplink capacity loss for E-UTRA power control set 1
Table 7.3b: UTRA FDD uplink capacity loss for E-UTRA power control set 2
* * *
ACIR offset (dB) NTT DoCoMo (R4-061145) Motorola (R4-061230) Ericsson
(R4-061319 Panasonic (R4-061197) Siemens (R4-061303) Qualcomm (R4-070036)
Alcatel-Lucent (R4-070096) Nokia (R4-070235) PC set 2 averaged -15 100,00 %
89,10 % 57,00 % 82,03 % -10 22,90 % 13,90 % 34,30 % 21,50 % 23,11 % 30,90 %
34,80 % 20,00 % 25,18 % -5 7,50 % 4,40 % 10,90 % 5,20 % 7,46 % 9,80 % 8,80 %
8,00 % 7,76 % 0 2,40 % 1,10 % 3,40 % 1,92 % 2,34 % 3,30 % 3,00 % 4,00 % 2,68 %
5 0,80 % 0,40 % 1,10 % 0,72 % 0,86 % 1,20 % 0,90 % 1,00 % 0,87 % 10 0,3 % 0,3
% 0,21 % 0,27 % 0,2 % 0,3 % 0,26 % 15 0,1 % 0,09 % 0 % 0,2 % 0,10% 20 0,04 % 0
% 0,02 %
* * *
{width="6.692361111111111in" height="3.691666666666667in"}
Figure 7.3b: UTRA FDD uplink capacity loss for E-UTRA power control set 2
#### 7.1.1.4 ACIR uplink 10MHz E-UTRA interferer -- 10MHz E-UTRA victim
Simulations are based on the following assumptions:
Aggressor system: 10 MHz E-UTRA
Victim system: 10 MHz E-UTRA
Simulation frequency: 2000 MHz
Environment: Macro Cell, Urban Area, uncoordinated deployment
Cell Range 500 m
Simulation results for average E-UTRA uplink throughput loss are presented in
table 7.3c and figure 7.3c for power control parameter set 1 and in table 7.3d
and figure 7.3d for E-UTRA power control parameter set 2 respectively.
Simulation results for 5% CDF throughput E-UTRA throughput loss are presented
in table 7.3e and figure 7.3e for power control parameter set 1 and in table
7.3f and figure 7.3f for E-UTRA power control parameter set 2 respectively.
E-UTRA power control parameter sets are specified in section 5.1.1.6.
Table 7.3c: Average E-UTRA uplink throughput loss for power control set 1
* * *
ACIR offset (dB) NTT DoCoMo (R4-061146) Motorola (R4-061231) Siemens
(R4-061349) Ericsson (R4-061319 Panasonic (R4-061197) Fujitsu (R4-061259)
Nokia (R4-061306) Qualcomm (R4-061343) Alcatel-Lucent (R4-070096) PC set 1
averaged -15 19,00 % 18,03 % 18,10 % 18,80 % 16,40 % 17,32 % 17,94 % -10 10,20
% 9,40 % 9,9 % 9,60 % 11,26 % 10,10 % 9,60 % 10,30 % 9,55 % 9,99 % -5 5,00 %
4,50 % 4,67 % 4,70 % 5,41 % 4,90 % 5,10 % 5,00 % 4,69 % 4,89 % 0 2,30 % 1,90 %
1,98 % 2,00 % 2,47 % 2,20 % 2,50 % 2,10 % 2,08 % 2,17 % 5 1,00 % 0,80 % 0,66 %
0,80 % 1,02 % 0,90 % 1,10 % 0,90 % 0,84 % 0,89 % 10 0,40 % 0,30 % 0,20 % 0,39
% 0,30 % 0,40 % 0,40 % 0,31 % 0,34 % 15 0,10 % 0,00 % 0,14 % 0,11 % 0,09 % 20
0,05 % 0,04 % 0,05 %
* * *
{width="6.691666666666666in" height="3.272222222222222in"}
Figure 7.3c: Average E-UTRA uplink throughput loss for power control set 1
Table 7.3d: Average E-UTRA uplink throughput loss for power control set 2
* * *
ACIR offset (dB) NTT DoCoMo (R4-061146) Motorola (R4-061231) Siemens
(R4-061349) Ericsson (R4-061319 Panasonic (R4-061197) Fujitsu (R4-061259)
Nokia (R4-061306) Qualcomm (R4-061343) Alcatel-Lucent (R4-070096) PC set 2
averaged -15 14,20 % 12,9 % 12,50 % 15,10 % 11,20 % 13,12 % 13,17 % -10 7,10 %
6,40 % 6,62 % 6,10 % 7,09 % 7,60 % 6,00 % 7,00 % 6,68 % 6,73 % -5 3,20 % 2,80
% 2,97 % 2,70 % 3,14 % 3,50 % 2,90 % 3,00 % 3,03 % 3,03 % 0 1,30 % 1,10 % 1,07
% 1,10 % 1,30 % 1,50 % 1,30 % 1,30 % 1,25 % 1,25 % 5 0,50 % 0,50 % 0,11 % 0,40
% 0,49 % 0,60 % 0,60 % 0,50 % 0,47 % 0,46 % 10 0,20 % 0,20 % 0,10 % 0,17 %
0,20 % 0,20 % 0,20 % 0,17 % 0,18 % 15 0,10 % 0,00 % 0,06 % 0,06 % 0,06 % 20
0,02 % 0,02 % 0,02 %
* * *
{width="6.691666666666666in" height="3.272222222222222in"}
Figure 7.3d: Average E-UTRA uplink throughput loss for power control set 2
Table 7.3e: 5% CDF E-UTRA uplink throughput loss for power control set 1
* * *
ACIR offset (dB) NTT DoCoMo (R4-061146) Motorola (R4-061231) Siemens
(R4-061349) Ericsson (R4-061319 Panasonic (R4-061197) Fujitsu (R4-061259)
Nokia (R4-061306) Qualcomm (R4-061343) Alcatel-Lucent (R4-070096) PC set 1 (5%
CDF) averaged -15 42,20 % 28,86 % 41,40 % 37,80 % 47,00 % 38,51 % 39,30 % -10
17,50 % 15,80 % 10,32 % 17,90 % 29,95 % 17,60 % 21,00 % 17,00 % 15,25 % 18,04
% -5 6,90 % 5,60 % 1,7 % 6,50 % 9,91 % 6,90 % 6,10 % 6,40 % 5,78 % 6,20 % 0
2,00 % 1,10 % 0,11 % 2,80 % 2,58 % 2,10 % 2,20 % 2,10 % 1,80 % 1,87 % 5 0,60 %
0,50 % 0,01 % 1,20 % 0,58 % 0,50 % 0,50 % 0,80 % 0,57 % 0,58 % 10 0,20 % 0,06
% 0,20 % 0.13 % 0,10 % 0,30 % 0,30 % 0,17 % 0,19 % 15 0,10 % 0,00 % 0,03 %
0,04 % 0,04 % 20 0,01 % 0,02 % 0,02 %
* * *
{width="6.689583333333333in" height="3.2756944444444445in"}
Figure 7.3e: 5% CDF E-UTRA uplink throughput loss for power control set 1
Table 7.3f: 5% CDF E-UTRA uplink throughput loss for power control set 2
* * *
ACIR offset (dB) NTT DoCoMo (R4-061146) Motorola (R4-061231) Siemens
(R4-061349) Ericsson (R4-061319 Panasonic (R4-061197) Fujitsu (R4-061259)
Nokia (R4-061306) Qualcomm (R4-061343) Alcatel-Lucent (R4-070096) PC set 2 (5%
CDF) averaged -15 34,40 % 34,11 % 30,70 % 32,60 % 29,30 % 29,16 % 31,71 % -10
15,30 % 11,80 % 17,19 % 13,10 % 18,52 % 14,30 % 13,40 % 15,10 % 12,09 % 14,53
% -5 5,80 % 4,40 % 5,05 % 4,70 % 5,68 % 5,20 % 7,20 % 5,60 % 4,50 % 5,35 % 0
1,70 % 1,30 % 1,62 % 1,10 % 1,14 % 1,40 % 2,20 % 1,80 % 1,19 % 1,49 % 5 0,70 %
0,40 % 0,08 % 0,40 % 0,24 % 0,30 % 0,50 % 0,60 % 0,40 % 0,40 % 10 0,20 % 0,10
% 0,20 % 0,09 % 0,05 % 0,10 % 0,09 % 0,14 % 15 0,00 % 0,00 % 0,02 % 0,00 %
0,01 % 20 0,01 % 0,00 % 0,01 %
* * *
{width="6.689583333333333in" height="3.2756944444444445in"}
Figure 7.3f: 5% CDF E-UTRA uplink throughput loss for power control set 2
### 7.1.2 TDD coexistence simulation results
#### 7.1.2.1 ACIR downlink 5MHz E-UTRA interferer -- UTRA 3.84 Mcps TDD victim
Simulations are based on the following assumptions:
Aggressor system: 5 MHz E-UTRA
Victim system: UTRA 3,84 Mcps TDD using HSDPA
Simulation frequency: 2000 MHz
Environment: Macro Cell, Urban Area, uncoordinated deployment
Cell Range 500 m
Simulation results for average UTRA 3,84Mcps TDD downlink throughput loss are
presented in table 7.4 and figure 7.4. Simulation results for 5% CDF UTRA
3,84Mcps TDD downlink throughput loss are presented in table 7.5 and figure
7.5.
Table 7.4: average UTRA 3,84Mcps TDD downlink throughput loss
* * *
ACIR (dB) IP Wireless (R4-060813) Ericsson (R4-061071) 15 12,56 % 20 6,66 % 25
5,2 % 3,28 % 30 2,8 % 1,49 % 35 1,3 % 0,62 % 40 0,7 % 0,24 % 45 0 % 0,08 % 50
0,03 %
* * *
{width="6.689583333333333in" height="3.6944444444444446in"}
Figure 7.4: average UTRA 3,84Mcps TDD downlink throughput loss
Table 7.5: 5% CDF UTRA 3,84Mcps TDD downlink throughput loss
* * *
ACIR (dB) IP Wireless (R4-060813) Ericsson (R4-061071) 15 58,61 % 20 30,91 %
25 20,3 % 14,14 % 30 10,8 % 6,11 % 35 5,4 % 2,24 % 40 2,6 % 0,95 % 45 0,85 %
0,23 % 50 0,07 %
* * *
{width="6.6930555555555555in" height="3.7006944444444443in"}
Figure 7.5: 5% CDF UTRA 3,84Mcps TDD downlink throughput loss
#### 7.1.2.2 ACIR downlink 10MHz E-UTRA interferer -- 10MHz E-UTRA TDD victim
Simulations are based on the following assumptions:
Aggressor system: 10 MHz E-UTRA
Victim system: 10 MHz E-UTRA
Simulation frequency: 2000 MHz
Environment: Macro Cell, Urban Area, uncoordinated deployment
Cell Range 500 m
Simulation results for average E-UTRA TDD downlink throughput loss are
presented in table 7.6 and figure 7.6. Simulation results for 5% CDF E-UTRA
TDD downlink throughput loss are presented in table 7.7 and figure 7.7.
Table 7.6: average E-UTRA TDD downlink throughput loss
* * *
ACIR (dB) IP Wireless (R4-060813) Ericsson (R4-061071) 15 12,56 % 20 6,66 % 25
5,3 % 3,28 % 30 2,8 % 1,49 % 35 1,4 % 0,62 % 40 0,7 % 0,24 % 45 0,2 % 0,08 %
50 0,03 %
* * *
{width="6.689583333333333in" height="3.6944444444444446in"}
Figure 7.6: average E-UTRA TDD downlink throughput loss
Table 7.7: 5% CDF E-UTRA TDD downlink throughput loss
* * *
ACIR (dB) IP Wireless (R4-060813) Ericsson (R4-060880) 15 58,61 % 20 30,91 %
25 20,3 % 14,14 % 30 10,8 % 6,11 % 35 5,4 % 2,24 % 40 2,6 % 0,95 % 45 0,85 %
0,23 % 50 0,07 %
* * *
{width="6.6930555555555555in" height="3.7006944444444443in"}
Figure 7.7: 5% CDF E-UTRA TDD downlink throughput loss
#### 7.1.2.3 ACIR downlink 1.6 MHz E-UTRA interferer -- UTRA 1.28 Mcps TDD
victim
Simulations are based on the following assumptions:
> Aggressor system: 1.6 MHz E-UTRA (LCR TDD frame structure based) using 4 RB,
> BS output power 35dBm and 43dBm
Victim system: UTRA 1.28 Mcps TDD using smart antennas as specified in Annex B
Simulation frequency: 2000 MHz
Environment: Macro Cell, Urban Area, coordinated and uncoordinated deployment
Cell Range 500 m
Simulation results are presented in figure 7.8, figure 7.8a, figure 7.9 and
figure 7.9a. Co-existence requirements derived from these results require
smart antennas at the UTRA 1.28 Mcps TDD system.
{width="5.763194444444444in" height="4.322222222222222in"}
Figure 7.8: Capacity loss of UTRA 1.28 Mcps TDD DL with 1.6MHz E-UTRA DL
aggressor, 35dBm BS output power, coordinated deployment
{width="5.25in" height="3.9375in"}
Figure 7.8a: Capacity loss of UTRA 1.28 Mcps TDD DL with 1.6MHz E-UTRA DL
aggressor, 43dBm BS output power, coordinated deployment
{width="5.763194444444444in" height="4.322222222222222in"}
Figure 7.9: Capacity loss of UTRA 1.28 Mcps TDD DL with 1.6MHz E-UTRA DL
aggressor, 35dBm BS output power, uncoordinated deployment
{width="5.25in" height="3.9in"}
Figure 7.9a: Capacity loss of UTRA 1.28 Mcps TDD DL with 1.6MHz E-UTRA DL
aggressor, 43dBm BS output power, uncoordinated deployment
#### 7.1.2.4 ACIR uplink 5MHz E-UTRA interferer -- UTRA 3.84 Mcps TDD victim
Simulations are based on the following assumptions:
Aggressor system: 5 MHz E-UTRA
Victim system: UTRA 3,84 Mcps TDD using Enhanced Uplink
Simulation frequency: 2000 MHz
Environment: Macro Cell, Urban Area, uncoordinated deployment
Cell Range 500 m
Simulation results for UTRA 3,84Mcps TDD uplink throughput loss are presented
in table 7.8 (Power Control Parameter Set 1) and table 7.9 (Power Control
Parameter Set 2). The results are also plotted in figure 7.10 (Average
Throughput Loss) and figure 7.11 (5% CDF Throughput Loss).
Editors Note: Results where presented at RAN4#41 but need to be verified.
Blank tables and figure titles are included here to keep consistent numbering.
Table 7.8: UTRA 3,84 Mcps TDD uplink throughput loss (average & 5% CDF) for
Parameter Set 1
* * *
X (dB) ACIR = 30 + X (dB) Throughput Loss (%) -- Parameter Set 1 (Gamma=1,
CLx-ile=115)  
IPWireless (R4-070037) Ericsson (R4-061340)  
Average 5% CDF Average 5% CDF -15 15 13.6 51.8 16.7 53.4 -10 20 7.3 20.8 8.6
21.4 -5 25 3.6 7.2 4.1 8.2 0 30 1.7 2.5 1.7 2.7 5 35 0.6 0.8 0.6 0.7 10 40 0.2
0 0.2 0 15 45 0 0 0 0 20 50 0 0 0 0
* * *
Table 7.9: UTRA 3,84 Mcps TDD uplink throughput loss (average & 5% CDF) for
Parameter Set 2
* * *
X (dB) ACIR = 30 + X (dB) Throughput Loss (%) - Parameter Set 2 (Gamma=0.8,
CLx-ile=133)  
IPWireless (R4-070037) Ericsson (R4-061340)  
Average 5% CDF Average 5% CDF -15 15 12.2 33.4 13 35.1 -10 20 5.7 13.8 6.4
15.5 -5 25 2.5 4.4 2.8 5.6 0 30 1.1 1.0 1.1 1.9 5 35 0.3 0.2 0.4 0.5 10 40 0 0
0.1 0.2 15 45 0 0 0 0 20 50 0 0 0 0
* * *
{width="6.520833333333333in" height="4.239583333333333in"}
Figure 7.10: average UTRA 3,84 Mcps TDD uplink throughput loss
{width="6.510416666666667in" height="4.239583333333333in"}
Figure 7.11: 5% CDF UTRA 3,84 Mcps TDD uplink throughput loss
#### 7.1.2.5 ACIR uplink 10MHz E-UTRA interferer -- 10MHz E-UTRA TDD victim
Simulations are based on the following assumptions:
Aggressor system: 10 MHz E-UTRA
Victim system: 10 MHz E-UTRA
Simulation frequency: 2000 MHz
Environment: Macro Cell, Urban Area, uncoordinated deployment
Cell Range 500 m
Simulation results for average E-UTRA TDD uplink throughput loss are presented
in table 7.10 (Power Control Parameter Set 1) and table 7.11 (Power Control
Parameter Set 2). The results are also plotted in figure 7.12 (average
throughput loss) and figure 7.13 (5% CDF throughput loss).
Table 7.10: E-UTRA TDD uplink throughput loss (average & 5% CDF) -- Parameter
Set 1
* * *
X (dB) ACIR = 30 + X (dB) Throughput Loss (%) - Parameter Set 1 (Gamma=1, CLx-
ile=112)  
IPWireless (R4-061312) Ericsson (R4-061319)  
Average 5% CDF Average 5% CDF -15 15 18.1 41.4 -10 20 12 20 9.6 17.9 -5 25 6.9
12 4.7 6.5 0 30 3.6 5.8 2.0 2.8 5 35 1.8 2.6 0.8 1.2 10 40 0.8 1.1 0.2 0.2 15
45 0.3 0.4 0.0 0.0 20 50 0.1 0.2 0.0 0.0
* * *
Table 7.11: E-UTRA TDD uplink throughput loss (average & 5% CDF) -- Parameter
Set 2
* * *
X (dB) ACIR = 30 + X (dB) Throughput Loss (%) - Parameter Set 2 (Gamma=0.8,
CLx-ile=129)  
IPWireless (R4-061312) Ericsson (R4-061319)  
Average 5% CDF Average 5% CDF -15 15 12.5 30.7 -10 20 10.2 14 6.1 13.1 -5 25
5.6 7.8 2.7 4.7 0 30 2.7 3.9 1.1 1.1 5 35 1.4 2.1 0.4 0.4 10 40 0.7 1.1 0.1
0.2 15 45 0.3 0.6 0.0 0.0 20 50 0.2 0.2 0.0 0.0
* * *
{width="6.53125in" height="4.604166666666667in"}
Figure 7.12: average E-UTRA TDD uplink throughput loss
{width="6.541666666666667in" height="4.614583333333333in"}
Figure 7.13: 5% CDF E-UTRA TDD uplink throughput loss
#### 7.1.2.6 ACIR uplink 10MHz E-UTRA interferer -- 10MHz E-UTRA TDD victim
(LCR frame structure based)
Simulations are based on the following assumptions:
Aggressor system: 10 MHz E-UTRA (LCR TDD frame structure based)
Victim system: 10 MHz E-UTRA (LCR TDD frame structure based)
Simulation frequency: 2000 MHz
Environment: Macro Cell, Urban Area, uncoordinated deployment
Cell Range 500 m
Link level performance is specified in Annex A.4. Simulation results for
average E-UTRA uplink throughput loss are presented in figure 7.14. Simulation
results for 5% CDF E-UTRA uplink throughput loss are presented in figure 7.15.
{width="4.946527777777778in" height="3.713888888888889in"}
Figure 7.14: average E-UTRA TDD uplink throughput loss
{width="4.946527777777778in" height="3.713888888888889in"}
Figure 7.15: 5% CDF E-UTRA TDD uplink throughput loss
#### 7.1.2.7 ACIR downlink 10MHz E-UTRA interferer -- 10MHz E-UTRA TDD victim
(LCR frame structure based)
Simulations are based on the following assumptions:
Aggressor system: 10 MHz E-UTRA (LCR TDD frame structure based)
Victim system: 10 MHz E-UTRA (LCR TDD frame structure based)
Simulation frequency: 2000 MHz
Environment: Macro Cell, Urban Area
Cell Range 500 m
Link level performance is specified in Annex A.4. Simulation results for
average E-UTRA downlink throughput loss are presented in figure 7.16.
Simulation results for 5% CDF E-UTRA downlink throughput loss are presented in
figure 7.17.
{width="5.763194444444444in" height="4.322222222222222in"}
Figure 7.16: average E-UTRA TDD downlink throughput loss, uncoordinated
deployment
{width="5.436111111111111in" height="3.8756944444444446in"}
Figure 7.17: 5% CDF E-UTRA TDD downlink throughput loss, coordinated and
uncoordinated deployment
### 7.1.3 Additional coexistence simulation results
In this section, additional co-existence simulation results are collected.
Assumptions for these simulations may differ from those described in section 5
of the present document.
#### 7.1.3.1 ACIR downlink E-UTRA interferer -- GSM victim
The key simulation parameters are summarized in table 7.12. The E-UTRA and
system scenario parameters are as described in section 5 of the present
document for rural macro cell environment with un-coordinated base-station
deployment, and the GSM parameters are taken from [2] (Scenario_2: UMTS
(macro)-GSM (macro) in rural area). Different to the simulation assumptions in
[2], no correction of LTE BS ACLR according to a spectrum mask was applied and
the interference was assumed "flat" across all GSM carriers. The GSM ACS was
set such that the resulting ACIR was dominated by the E-UTRA BS ACLR. For each
ACIR value, E-UTRA base-stations transmit at maximum power (in order to
produce maximum adjacent channel interference) and GSM UE are continuously
added until the system is fully loaded. The success/failure status of a GSM UE
is determined at a threshold of 0.5dB less than the required SINR target [2].
Simulation results [14] are presented in figure 7.18
Table 7.12: Simulation parameters
* * *
Parameters E-UTRA GSM Notes Uplink carrier frequency band 900 MHz  
Uplink System Bandwidth 1.25MHz 24 x 200kHz  
Number of carriers 1 4 cells/12 frequencies reuse, 2 carriers/sector  
Environment Macro- Rural  
Cell radius 1km cell range = 2 x radius = 2km  
Base-stations Un-coordinated distributed Offset located at the edge of cell.  
Transmission power max. of 43dBm Power controlled with UE and max. of 43dBm  
Network layout 36 cells (6x6), 108 sectors with wrap-around
* * *
{width="6.692361111111111in" height="3.691666666666667in"}
Figure 7.19: GSM downlink outage
An analytical investigation of E-UTRA-GSM downlink coexistence is provided in
[15]. In the [2] the aggressing UTRA influence on GSM is modelled as constant
ACIR over the whole GSM system bandwidth. The UTRA system load is according to
[2], i.e. 5% outage.
For an E-UTRA system the interference generated to the GSM system can be
modelled in the same way. Thus for a 5 MHz E-UTRA system the interference to
the adjacent channel can be considered to be constant over the whole 5 MHz
adjacent carrier. The other component of the ACIR in this case is the ACS of a
GSM MS. In [2] this has been assumed to be significantly larger than the ACLR
of the UTRA system and thus the main contribution to the ACIR is the ACLR. For
coexistence with an E-UTRA aggressor and a UTRA victim the ACLR for EUTRA
should be of the same order as for UTRA. In [2] the ACLR for UTRA is assumed
to be 50 dB.
Table 7.13: ACIR limit for 5% outage degradation in the GSM system for
relevant system scenarios. Numbers from [2]
* * *
Scenario 1 UMTS(macro) GSM(macro) Urban 500m cell radius, Uncoordinated 27-31
dB Scenario 2 UMTS(macro) GSM(macro) Rural 5000m cell radius, Uncoordinated
26-29 dB Scenario 5 UMTS(macro) GSM(micro) Urban, Uncoordinated 26-40 dB
* * *
The ACIR values obtained in [2] for which 5% outage degradation occurs are
listed in Table 7.13.
The difference between a UTRA and E-UTRA system is that for coexistence
studies the E-UTRA system is assumed to use full power. However since the UTRA
system has a reasonably high outage it will also use close to maximum power
and the difference between E-UTRA and UTRA should only be a few dB.
In summary: For E-UTRA requirements on ACLR for the eNodeB similar to the
requirements on UTRA, i.e. around 50 dB, the performance degradation on a GSM
system is less than 5% outage degradation. This is also confirmed by the
simulation results in figure 7.19. Thus the present coexistence scenario is
not more constraining than the E-UTRA to E-UTRA and E-UTRA to UTRA scenarios
considered so far and need not be considered when setting E-UTRA requirements.
In addition there are a number of factors that make the assumptions above
slightly pessimistic:
  * The interference in the neighboring channel has been assumed to be flat. In practical systems however it falls off, which makes the GSM carriers distant from the E-UTRA carrier less interfered. This will reduce the outage degradation.
  * The E-UTRA system has been assumed to transmit at full power at all times. However this is rarely the case in practical systems. Thus the interference is lower and the outage degradation less.
For E-UTRA systems with narrower bandwidth than 5 MHz, e.g. 1.6 MHz the power
spectral density in the interfering region is higher if we assume that the
output power of an E-UTRA eNodeB is the same as for the 5 MHz system. The
increase is 5 dB which would increase the requirements in table 7.13 with 5
dB. The interference will affect fewer GSM channels though since the fall off
previously mentioned is steeper for a 1.6 MHz system.
#### 7.1.3.2 ACIR uplink E-UTRA interferer -- GSM victim
The key simulation parameters are summarized in table 7.14. The E-UTRA and
system scenario parameters are as described in section 5 of the present
document for rural macro cell environment with un-coordinated base-station
deployment, and the GSM parameters are taken from [2] (Scenario_2: UMTS
(macro)-GSM (macro) in rural area). Simulations for two scenarios have been
presented, (a) in [16] and (b) in [17]. Different to the simulation
assumptions in [2], no correction of LTE UE ACLR according to a spectrum mask
was applied and the interference was assumed "flat" across all GSM carriers.
Consequently, the ACIR has been modelled as flat as well. The ACIR is here
expressed in dBc/1x375kHz (a) and dBc/4x375kHz (b) For each ACIR value, E-UTRA
UEs are firstly added to the system until it is fully loaded with 3
UEs/sector. Subsequently, GSM UEs are continuously added until the system is
fully loaded. The success/failure status of a GSM UE is determined at the
threshold of 0.5dB less than the required SINR target [2]. Simulation results
[16, 17] are presented in figure 7.19
Table 7.14: Simulation parameters
+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+ | Parameters | E-UTRA | GSM | Notes | +-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+ | Uplink carrier | 900 MHz | | | | frequency band | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+ | Uplink System | (a) 1.25MHz (3 | (a) 24 x 200kHz | | | Bandwidth | frequency RBs | | | | | with 1RB/UE = 3 | (b) 12 x 200kHz | | | | UE/sector) | | | | | | | | | | (b) 5MHz (12 | | | | | frequency RBs | | | | | with 4RB/UE = 3 | | | | | UE/sector) | | | +-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+ | Number of | 1 | (a) 4 cells/12 | | | carriers | | frequencies | | | | | reuse, 2 | | | | | carriers/sector | | | | | | | | | | (b) 4 cells/12 | | | | | frequencies | | | | | reuse, 1 | | | | | carrier/sector | | +-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+ | Environment | Macro- Rural | | | +-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+ | Cell radius | 1km | cell range = 2 x | | | | | radius = 2km | | +-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+ | Base-stations | Un-coordinated | Offset located at | | | | distributed | the edge of cell. | | +-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+ | Transmission | max. of 24dBm,\ | max. of 33dBm,\ | | | power | min. of -30dBm | min. of 5dBm | | +-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+ | Network layout | 36 cells (6x6), | | | | | 108 sectors with | | | | | wrap-around | | | +-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+ | Power control | PC set 1 as in | as in [2] | | | | section 5.1.1.6 | | | | | | | | | | $\text{PL}_{x - | | | | | \text{ile}}$**=** | | | | | 121dB | | | | | | | | | | $ | | | | | {}^{\gamma}$**=** | | | | | 1 | | | +-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
{width="6.688888888888889in" height="3.2125in"}
Figure 7.19: GSM uplink outage
The results show that the outage increase in both cases (a) and (b)is
negligible even for flat ACLR/ACS and very low levels of ACIR.
#### 7.1.3.3 Asymmetric coexistence 20 MHz and 5 MHz E-UTRA
Simulations are based on the following assumptions:
Aggressor system: 20 MHz E-UTRA
Victim system: 5 MHz E-UTRA
Simulation frequency: 2000 MHz
Environment: Macro Cell, Urban Area, uncoordinated deployment
Cell Range 500 m
Generalising from 5 MHz and 10MHz to the 20MHz bandwidth we make the following
assumptions:
  * 3 UEs per carrier for aggressor and victim
  * The ACLR is expressed in dBc per bandwidth B occupied by the aggressing UE
  * A 13dB ACLR improvement is assumed for frequency separations larger than B from the edge of the UE occupied bandwidth.
The simulation results are given in Figure 7.20 and the numerical data are
presented in Table 7.15.
{width="4.460416666666666in" height="3.247916666666667in"}
Figure 7.20: Loss in 5%-ile throughput versus ACIR [18]
Table 7.15: Numerical values [18]
* * *
ACIR (dB) loss in 5%-ile throughput (%)  
20MHz -> 5MHz 20MHz -> 20MHz 15 67.1% 42.3% 20 33.1% 17.8% 25 12.8% 6.2% 30
4.4% 2.5% 35 1.3% 0.7% 40 0.3% 0.2% 45 0.1% 0.1%
* * *
We also note some effects when a 5 MHz E-UTRA system aggresses a 20 MHz E-UTRA
system. Considering the case where the victim network bandwidth is larger than
the aggressing network bandwidth, the impact of the aggressing UEs to the
victim BS is lower than for the case of symmetric bandwidth, because the
\"shoulder\" of the ACLR of the immediately adjacent aggressing UE will cover
a smaller bandwidth of the victim network. This case is therefore uncritical.
#### 7.1.3.4 Impact of cell range and simulation frequency on ACIR
The impact of cell range and simulation frequency is analysed by comparing
downlink scenarios with simulation frequency of 900MHz (1.25MHz system
bandwidth) and 2GHz (10MHz system bandwidth) and cell ranges of 500m, 2000m
and 5000m in urban and rural area environment.
For the 2GHz rural environment case 18dBi antenna gain and 45m antenna height
were assumed. Propagation model for the 2GHz rural environment case is
according to section 4.5.3 modified for 2GHz and 45m antenna height with the
following formula:
Where:
R is the base station-UE separation in kilometres
Figure 7.21 presents average system throughput loss in percent relative to the
reference throughput without external system interference. Figure 7.22
presents 5% CDF user throughput loss in percent relative to the reference
throughput without external system interference. {width="6.691666666666666in"
height="4.585416666666666in"}
Figure 7.21: Average system throughput loss in downlink
{width="6.691666666666666in" height="4.585416666666666in"}
Figure 7.22: 5% CDF user throughput loss in downlink
On the basis of the simulation results it can be assumed that the worst case
scenario is 2GHz, urban environment, 500m cell range.
#### 7.1.3.5 Uplink Asymmetric coexistence TDD E-UTRA to TDD E-UTRA
Simulations are based on the base scenarios in Table 5.2B with following
assumptions in Table 7.16:
Table 7.16: Simulation assumptions based on 3 base secnarios
* * *
Parameter Scenario 1 Scenario 2 Scenario 3 Aggressor's Bandwidth 15 MHz 20 MHz
20 MHz Victim's Bandwidth 10 MHz 10 MHz 5 MHz Frequency 2000 MHz  
Environment Macro Cell, Urban Area, uncoordinated deployment  
Cell range 500 m  
FACLR 0 dB
* * *
Simulation results are presented in Table 7.17 and plotted in Figure 7.23 and
7.24 for the average throughput loss and 5% CDF throughput loss for Power
Control Parameter Set 1. The symmetrical results of 10 MHz TDD E-UTRA to 10
MHz TDD E-UTRA are also plotted for reference.
Table 7.17: Simulation results for Power Control Set 1 (_F~ACLR~_ = 0,
_P~ACLR~_ = 0)
* * *
ACIR (dB) Average Throughput Loss (%) 5% CDF Throughput Loss (%)  
_X_ 30 + _X_ Scenario 1 Scenario 2 Scenario 3 Scenario 1 Scenario 2 Scenario 3
-15 15 26.0 31.5 47.9 64.3 73.5 89.1 -10 20 15.0 18.0 30.8 30.4 40.9 72.3 -5
25 6.9 10.1 18.2 11.0 16.0 38.5 0 30 3.3 4.9 9.1 4.1 5.8 13.3 5 35 1.4 2.3 4.6
1.0 1.7 5.5 10 40 0.2 1.2 2.4 0.7 0.5 1.7 15 45 0.0 0.5 0.6 0.4 0.2 0.3 20 50
0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
* * *
{width="6.53125in" height="4.125in"}
Figure 7.23: Average throughput loss (PC Set 1)
{width="6.541666666666667in" height="4.135416666666667in"}
Figure 7.24: 5% CDF throughput loss (PC Set 1)
### 7.1.4 Base station blocking simulation results
Figure 7.25 and Figure 7.26 show the CDF curves of the total received power
level in 10MHz bandwidth at the own system base stations in other system
operating frequency (blocking scenario) from all other system terminals, using
power control parameter set 1 and set 2, respectively. The signal from all own
system terminals was decreased by 49dB (assuming terminal noise floor of
-30dBm/1MHz it is 49dBc/3MHz for a 24dBm terminal). The same simulator and
simulation assumptions were used as for coexistence studies in uplink for the
E-UTRA system in 10MHz system bandwidth.
{width="6.0125in" height="4.517361111111111in"}
Figure 7.25: CDF of the total received power level at the own system base
stations (10MHz) from all other system terminals, PC set 1
{width="5.9in" height="4.420833333333333in"}
Figure 7.26: CDF of the total received power level at the own system base
stations (10MHz) from all other system terminals, PC set 2
Total received power level was assumed here for simplicity, however it should
be noted that this may be pessimistic as the most relevant RX impairments are
a nonlinear function of the blocker received power levels present at the
receiver input.
It is proposed the mean power of the interfering signal is equal to -43dBm
which is a compromise between the 30dBm Maximum Output Power terminals defined
in TR 36.803 and the 24dBm assumption in TR 36.942 under worst case MCL
conditions.
## 7.2 RRM
# 8 Rationales for co-existence requirements
## 8.1 BS and UE ACLR
The metric for the degradation of a victim system by the presence of an
interfering system on adjacent channel in the present document is the capacity
loss (for UTRA as victim) or throughput loss (for E-UTRA as victim) in
dependence of Adjacent Channel Interference Ratio (ACIR). ACIR is defined as
{width="1.5965277777777778in" height="0.6527777777777778in"}
ACLR is the Adjacent Channel Leakage power Ratio of the interfering systems
transmitter (specified as the ratio of the mean power centred on the assigned
channel frequency to the mean power centred on an adjacent channel frequency)
and ACS is the corresponding receiver requirement on Adjacent Channel
Selectivity of the victim system receiver.
It is assumed that the capacity or throughput loss of the victim system shall
not exceed 5%. It is also assumed that ACIR is dominated by the UE ACLR.
### 8.1.1 Requirements for E-UTRA -- UTRA co-existence
In this case UTRA sets some constraints as ACLR and ACS as E-UTRA would need
to be deployed adjacent to both UTRA and E-UTRA. The two scenarios are shown
in figure 8.1
Figure 8.1: E-UTRA deployment scenarios
BS ACLR can be obtained from downlink simulation results presented in section
7.1.1.1. For 5% UTRA capacity loss an E-UTRA BS ACLR of at least 33dB is
required. Assuming the legacy UTRA ACLR of 45dB for E-UTRA BS will result in
less than 3% UTRA capacity loss.
UE ACLR can be obtained from uplink simulation results presented in section
7.1.1.3. It must be noted that the simulation assumptions represent a multiple
worst case scenario which is unlikely to for real network deployments. The
simulation results for power control set 1 and set 2 represent therefore the
upper and lower boundary for the required ACIR. It was demonstrated in [9]
that the more aggressive power control set 1 does not improve the throughput
in some scenarios. Moreover, additional improvements by more advanced
schedulers demonstrated in [10], [11], [12], have not been taken into account
for the simulations. Considering in addition UE implementation constraints, a
UE ACLR of 33dB represents a balanced approach of system performance and UE
complexity which is discussed in [13].
### 8.1.2 Requirements for E-UTRA -- E-UTRA co-existence
UE ACLR can be obtained from downlink simulation results presented in section
7.1.1.4. With an E-UTRA UE ACLR of 30dB the mean and cell edge user throughput
degradation is less than 3% for both power control set 1 and power control set
2 and not taking into account the additional improvements by more advanced
scheduler mentioned previously.
# 9 Deployment aspects
E-UTRA provides a significant number of features which can be exploited to
support operation in diverse frequency bands. The purpose of this section is
to provide informative description how these features can be augment in a
practical deployment
## 9.1 UE power distribution
Three scenarios have been considered, with the simulation assumptions listed
in Table 9.1. Note for scenario 3, the propagation model is adopted from
TR25.814 [4], where the penetration loss is included in the propagation model.
Table 9.1: simulation assumptions
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | **Simu |** CF**|** ISD**|** MCL**|** Pro | **BS | | lation** | | | | pagation | antenna | | | | | | model**| pattern | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | gain** | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | * | * | **(m |**(dB)**|**(dB)**| | | *Cases** | _(GHz)__| eters)__| | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 1 | 2.0 | 750 | 70 | 12 | 15dBi | | | | | | 8.1+37.6 | | | | | urban | | log(R),\ |_ θ~3dB~_| | | | ma | | R in | = 65 | | | | cro-cell | | ki | degrees, | | | | size in | | lometers |_ A~m~_= | | | | 36.942 | | | 20 dB | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 2 | 2.0 | 1732 | 70 | 12 | 15dBi | | | | | | 8.1+37.6 | | | | | ma | | log(R),\ |_ θ~3dB~_| | | | cro-cell | | R in | = 65 | | | | size in | | ki | degrees, | | | | 25.814 | | lometers |_ A~m~_= | | | | | | | 20 dB | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 3 | 2.0 | 130 | 53 | ** | [6 dBi | | | | | | (Outdoor | for | | | | mi | | to | micro | | | | cro-cell | | indoor, | cell | | | | size in | | pen | case | | | | 25.814 | | etration | with | | | | | | inc | om | | | | | | luded)_ * | ni-anten | | | | | | | nas]{.un | | | | | | | derline} | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
As for LTE UL power control, each LTE UE's power is adjusted according to the
following power control scheme:
where P~max~ = 24dBm, R~min~ = -54dB if UE minimum power is -30dBm (or R~min~
= -64dB if UE minimum power is -40dBm), CL~x-ile~ and γ are set according to
Table 9.2:
Table 9.2: Power control algorithm parameter
* * *
**Parameter set** **Gamma** **CLx-ile**  
10MHz bandwidth 5 MHz bandwidth Set 1 1 112 115 Set 2 0.8 129 133
* * *
### 9.1.1 Simulation results
Fig. 9.1 shows the UE transmit power distribution for different scenarios when
different PC parameters are used. Several observations are made for the as
follows:
  * For each scenario, the CDF curves for Pmin = -30dBm and Pmin = -40dBm almost overlap with each other except for the power region where UEs transmit around minimum power.
  * Generally speaking, UE transmit power for case 2 is greater than that for case 1 for the power region where UEs transmit at high power. This is because case 2 has larger cell size and results in higher UE power for UEs located close to cell border. This is also confirmed in Table 9.3 that presents UE mean and 95% CDF power for different scenarios.
  * For case 3 where a micro cell size is simulated, UE transmit power is not always lower than that for case 1 or 2. The reason is that the pathloss model as shown in Table 9.1 includes penetration loss. As a result, the pathloss is not necessarily smaller than that in case 1 or 2, where no penetration loss is considered. Since the PC scheme is based on UE pathloss, the resulting UE power is not necessarily lower either. However, as shown in Table 9.3, the UE mean and 95% CDF power is significantly lower than their counterparts in case 1 or 2.
{width="5.6in" height="4.2in"}
Figure 9.1: LTE UE transmit power CDF (PC set 2)
{width="5.6in" height="4.2in"}
Figure 9.2: LTE UE transmit power CDF (PC set 1)
Fig. 9.2 shows the UE transmit power distribution for different scenarios when
different PC parameters are used. Similar observations as mentioned for Fig.
9.1 can be made except for the fact that UEs transmit at a lower power than
when PC set 1 is used, which is expected.
Table 9.3: UE mean and 95% CDF power for PC set 1 and set 2
{width="6.706944444444445in" height="1.5784722222222223in"}
# 10 Multi-carrier BS requirements
The purpose of this section is to provide **guidance how to interpret
transmitter and receiver requirements for multi-carrier BS.**
## 10.1 Unwanted emission requirements for multi-carrier BS
### 10.1.1 General
In section 6.6 of TS 36.104 [19], unwanted emission requirements for single
carrier or multi-carrier BS are specified. This multi-carrier BS corresponds
to the multi-carrier BS of the same channel bandwidth for E-UTRA. The
following two pragmatic scenarios can be considered.
\- multi-carrier BS of different E-UTRA channel bandwidths
\- multi-carrier BS of E-UTRA and UTRA
Different LTE channel bandwidths have different operating band unwanted
emissions requirement. Only 5 MHz and higher channel bandwidths have the same
requirement. E-UTRA and UTRA have different mask requirements. In section
10.1.2 and 10.1.3, unwanted emission requirements for BS with different
channel bandwidths and in case of E-UTRA and UTRA with following limited
scenarios are introduced as a guideline.
\- multi-carrier BS of different E-UTRA channel bandwidths covering only 5 MHz
and higher channel bandwidths\ (less than 5 MHz is FFS)
> As an example, we can assume an operation such as the channel bandwidth of
> 10 MHz for the 1st carrier and that of 5 MHz for the adjacent carrier as
> shown in Figure 10.1.
{width="2.6486111111111112in" height="0.5868055555555556in"}
**Figure 10.1: multi-carrier BS of different E-UTRA channel bandwidths**
\- multi-carrier BS of different E-UTRA and UTRA covering only 5 MHz and
higher E-UTRA channel bandwidths\ (less than 5 MHz is FFS)
> As an example, we can assume an operation such as E-UTRA with channel
> bandwidth of 5 MHz for 1st carrier and UTRA for adjacent carrier as shown in
> Figure 10.2.
{width="2.198611111111111in" height="0.5833333333333334in"}
**Figure 10.2: multi-carrier BS of E-UTRA and UTRA**
\- only multi-carrier BS with contiguous carriers are considered.
\- the guidelines below assumes that the power spectral density of the
multiple carriers is the same.
All other combinations of multiple carriers are ffs.
### 10.1.2 Multi-carrier BS of different E-UTRA channel bandwidths
Among the unwanted emissions, the transmitter spurious emissions requirements
in [19] should be applied irrespective of channel bandwidth. Therefore, ACLR
and Operating band unwanted emissions requirements for such a scenario of
different channel bandwidths should be specified as follows:
> For multi-carrier E-UTRA BS of different channel bandwidths (≥5 MHz), the
> channel bandwidth of the outer most carrier in the operating band should be
> considered. That is, the corresponding requirements for the channel
> bandwidth of the outer most carrier should be applied at either side of the
> operating band as shown in Figure 10.3.
From a co-existence point of view, this guideline means that multi-carrier BS
should not cause larger interference to adjacent systems than single carrier
BS. From the specification's complexity point of view, this concept seems
reasonable.
{width="6.027777777777778in" height="1.3541666666666667in"}
**Figure 10.3: Unwanted emissions requirements for multi-carrier BS of
different E-UTRA channel bandwidths**
### 10.1.3 Multi-carrier BS of E-UTRA and UTRA
Among the unwanted emissions, the transmitter spurious emissions requirements
in [19] should be applied for E-UTRA at frequencies within the specified
frequency ranges, which are
\- more than 10 MHz below the lowest frequency of the BS transmitter operating
band if E-UTRA is the lowest carrier or
\- more than 10 MHz above the highest frequency of the BS transmitter
operating band if E-UTRA is the highest carrier.
Exceptions are the requirement in Table 6.6.4.3-2 and 6.6.4.3-3 of [19] that
apply also closer than 10 MHz from operating band.
For UTRA, the transmitter spurious emissions requirements in [20] should be
applied at frequencies within the specified frequency ranges, which are
\- more than 12.5MHz below the first carrier used if UTRA is the lowest
carrier or
\- more than 12.5 MHz above the last carrier frequency used if UTRA is the
highest carrier.
Exceptions are the requirement in Clause 6.6.3.5 and 6.6.3.8 of [20] that
apply also closer than 12.5 MHz from the outermost carrier frequency used.
Furthermore, Spectrum emission mask (SEM) applies to a UTRA BS transmitting on
single RF carrier [20]. Thus SEM should not be applied to multi-carrier BS of
different RATs. Therefore, ACLR and Operating band unwanted emissions
requirements for such a scenario with E-UTRA and UTRA should be specified as
follows:
> For multi-carrier BS of E-UTRA (channel bandwidth(s) ≥5 MHz) and UTRA, the
> RAT being used at the edge of the operating band should be considered. That
> is, the corresponding requirements for the RAT being used on the outer most
> carrier should be applied at either side of the operating band as shown in
> Figure 10.4.
From a co-existence point of view, this guideline means that multi-carrier BS
should not cause larger interference to adjacent systems than single carrier
BS. From the specification's complexity point of view, this concept seems
reasonable.
{width="5.261805555555555in" height="1.363888888888889in"}
**Figure 10.4: Unwanted emissions requirements for multi-carrier BS of E-UTRA
and UTRA**
## 10.2 Receiver requirements for multi-carrier BS
### 10.2.1 General
In a multi-carrier receiver, it is possible to set the processing bandwidth
(i.e. used receiver BW) wider than a single E-UTRA channel bandwidth. Both TX
and RX requirements in [19] are specified at the BS antenna connector. From
this perspective there is a fundamental difference between a multi-carrier
transmitter and a multi-carrier receiver. At the antenna connector, the
"lowest carrier frequency used" and the "highest carrier frequency used" can
be recognized via the emitted spectrum on the TX path. Therefore the same test
set-up can be used for a single-carrier and a multi-carrier transmitter.
However, on the RX path, as long as a test is performed with a single wanted
carrier, it is impossible to identify at the antenna connector the lowest and
the highest carrier frequency where _simultaneously_ a certain performance is
achieved. A multi-carrier receiver should therefore be tested with a multi-
carrier wanted signal.
With a multi-carrier wanted signal, the same principles applied to multi-
carrier TX testing can also be applied to RX testing. The manufacturer
declares which frequency range and multi-carrier bandwidths that are
supported. The lowest and the highest supported bandwidth are tested as
specified in section 4.7 of TS 36.141[21]. A wanted signal is applied at the
lower edge of the tested multi-carrier bandwidth. Another wanted signal is
applied at the upper edge of the tested multi-carrier bandwidth. It is not
deemed necessary to apply wanted signals between the outer carriers, because
usually the worst performance is obtained at the outer channels. In the
Reference sensitivity measurement only the two wanted signals are applied. In
the ACS, blocking and intermodulation measurements interferers are applied at
frequencies outside the tested multi-carrier bandwidth, with spacing as
defined for each requirement in relation to the closest wanted signal
respectively. Following the TX testing approach, no requirements are specified
for interferers between the wanted channels.
Current specification allows the desensitization of the wanted signals in the
presence of an interfering signal e.g., in the ACS test. It is FFS whether
this desensitization should be consider further for multi-carrier case.
Regarding Dynamic range and In-channel selectivity, a similar approach as for
the Reference sensitivity level can be adopted, i.e. two simultaneous wanted
signals, one at the lowest assigned channel frequency and one at the highest
assigned channel frequency are chosen, together with their corresponding in-
channel interfering signals. That is to say, that the currently specified
single carrier requirements should be simultaneously fulfilled at the lowest
and highest assigned E-UTRA channel frequency.
### 10.2.2 Test principles for a multi-carrier BS of equal or different E-UTRA
channel bandwidths
The following principles are proposed for receiver requirements in case of
multi-carrier BS. Only 5 MHz and higher channel bandwidths are considered
(less than 5 MHz is FFS):
  * In a receiver that can receive multiple contiguous carrier over a declared multi-carrier bandwidth, two wanted carriers are tested simultaneously, at both edges of the multi-carrier bandwidth.
  * There are no requirements for interfering signals between the wanted carriers.
  * Only the highest and the lowest supported multi-carrier bandwidth are tested.
  * The same set of interfering signals is used as in the equivalent single-carrier test. E.g. in a blocking test there is only one blocker at a time, even though two simultaneous wanted signals are used.
  * The test is repeated for the lower and upper wanted signals, with the interfering signals below the lower and above the higher wanted signal respectively. The properties of the interferer(s) are chosen according to the requirements of the closest wanted signal.
  * For the receiver tests the desensitization for the wanted signals should be the same as for the single carrier case.
# 11 Rationale for unwanted emission specifications
Unwanted emissions are divided into "Out-of-band emission" and "Spurious
emissions" in 3GPP RF specifications. This notation is in line with ITU-R
recommendations such as SM.329 ‎‎[22] and the Radio Regulations ‎[23]. ITU
defines:
**Out-of-band emission** = Emission on a frequency or frequencies immediately
outside the necessary bandwidth which results from the modulation process, but
excluding spurious emissions.
**Spurious emission** = Emission on a frequency, or frequencies, which are
outside the necessary bandwidth and the level of which may be reduced without
affecting the corresponding transmission of information. Spurious emissions
include harmonic emissions, parasitic emissions, intermodulation products and
frequency conversion products but exclude out-of-band emissions.
**Unwanted emissions** = Consist of spurious emissions and out-of-band
emissions.
Some requirements in [19] may only apply in certain regions either as optional
requirements or set by local and regional regulation as mandatory
requirements. It is normally not stated in the 3GPP specifications under what
exact circumstances the requirements apply, since this is defined by local or
regional regulation.
All requirements that may be applied differently in different regions are
listed in [19] Clause 4.3.
## 11.1 Out of band Emissions
### 11.1.1 Operating band unwanted emission requirements for E-UTRA BS
(spectrum emission mask)
E-UTRA should have a operating band unwanted emissions (spectrum emissions
mask, SEM) requirements defined, based on the following prerequisites.
\- SEM should be defined with a reference bandwidth of 100 kHz..
\- The SEM limit should also be set to allow some variations due to varying
power allocation between resource blocks.
\- FCC requirements [25] which apply mainly in Region 2 should be defined
separately as an absolute limit and may need a smaller reference bandwidth in
some cases.
\- In UTRA, the spectrum emissions mask is not only defined in the OOB domain,
but also across the spurious domain inside the operating band. This can also
be the case for the E-UTRA mask, as long as the limits in the spurious domain
are consistent with recommended spurious limits in SM.329 [22]. The "unified"
in-band OOB + spurious emissions for E-UTRA can be named _"unwanted
emissions"_ which is the agreed terminology [25] that encompasses both OOB and
spurious emissions.
\- The SEM limit should apply for both single and multi-carrier BS.
\- FCC requirements as defined in [25] apply for bands 2, 4, 5, 10, 12, 13,
14, 17, 35 and 36 as additional limits.
The Operating band unwanted emission limits are defined as a "mask" that
stretches from 10 MHz below the lowest frequency of the BS transmitter
operating band up to 10 MHz above the highest frequency of the BS transmitter
operating band, as shown in Figure 11.1. Parts of the mask will be in the out-
of-band domain (within +/-2.5 times the necessary bandwidth of the carrier)
and parts will be in the spurious domain..
The unwanted emission limit in the part of the operating band that falls in
the spurious domain must be consistent with SM.329 [22]. Based on the Category
B spurious emission limits in [22] a level of -25 dBm in 100 kHz (-15 dBm in 1
MHz) is selected as the lower bound for the unwanted emission limits. This is
consistent with the level used for UTRA as spurious emission limit inside the
operating band. Further details on the spurious emission limits and their
interpretation for UTRA (and E-UTRA) are given in TR 25.942 [3], clause 14.2.
For E-UTRA Bands 2, 4, 5, 10, 12, 13, 14, 17, 35, 36, an additional Unwanted
emission limit is derived from FCC Title 47 [25] Parts 22, 24 and 27. The
requirement stated in [25] is interpreted as -13 dBm in a measurement
bandwidth defined as 1% of the \"-26 dB modulation bandwidth\". For the E-UTRA
channel bandwidths, the following additional requirements are defined:
**\- 1.4 MHz channel bandwidth** : -14 dBm in 10 kHz, which assumes that the
\"-26 dB modulation bandwidth\" is \ \text{\ SNIR}_{\text{MAX}} \ \end{matrix}$
Where: S(SNIR) is the Shannon bound: S(SNIR) = log~2~(1+SNIR) bps/Hz
> α Attenuation factor, representing implementation losses\ SNR~MIN~ Minimum
> SNIR of the codeset, dB\ Thr~MAX~ Maximum throughput of the codeset, bps/Hz\
> SNIR~MAX~ SNIR at which max throughput is reached S^-1^(Thr~MAX~), dB
The parameters α, SNR~MIN~ and THR~MAX~ can be chosen to represent different
modem implementations and link conditions. The parameters proposed in table 1
represent a baseline case, which assumes:
  * 1:2 antenna configurations
  * Typical Urban fast fading channel model (10kmph DL, 3kmph UL)
  * Link Adaptation (see table 1 for details of highest and lowest rate > codes)
  * Channel prediction
  * HARQ
Table A.1 Parameters describing baseline Link Level performance for E-UTRA Co-
existence simulations
* * *
Parameter DL UL Notes α, attenuation 0.6 0.4 Represents implementation losses
SNIR~MIN~, dB -10 -10 Based on QPSK, 1/8 rate (DL) & 1/5 rate (UL) Thru~MAX~,
bps/Hz 4.4 2.0 Based on 64QAM 4/5 (DL) & 16QAM 3/4 (UL)
* * *
Table A.1 shows parameters proposed for the baseline E-UTRA DL and UL. Table
A.2 shows the resulting look up table, which is plotted in Figure A.1. Table
A.2 gives throughput in terms of spectral efficiency (bps per Hz), and per
375khz Resource Block (RB), in kbps.
{width="5.889583333333333in" height="2.202777777777778in"}
Figure A.1 Throughput vs SNR for Baseline E-UTRA Coexistence Studies
Table A.2 Look-Up-Table of UL and DL Throughput vs. SNIR for Baseline E-UTRA
Coexistence Studies
* * *
Throughput Throughput  
SNIR bps/Hz kbps per 375kHz RB SNIR bps/Hz kbps per 375kHz RB  
dB DL UL DL UL dB DL UL DL UL -15 0 0 0 0 6 1.39 0.93 521 347 -14 0 0 0 0 7
1.55 1.04 582 388 -13 0 0 0 0 8 1.72 1.15 646 430 -12 0 0 0 0 9 1.90 1.26 711
474 -11 0 0 0 0 10 2.08 1.38 778 519 -10 0.08 0.06 31 21 11 2.26 1.51 847 565
-9 0.10 0.07 38 26 12 2.44 1.63 917 611 -8 0.13 0.08 48 32 13 2.63 1.76 988
658 -7 0.16 0.10 59 39 14 2.82 1.88 1059 706 -6 0.19 0.13 73 48 15 3.02 2.00
1131 750 -5 0.24 0.16 89 59 16 3.21 2.00 1204 750 -4 0.29 0.19 109 73 17 3.41
2.00 1277 750 -3 0.35 0.23 132 88 18 3.60 2.00 1350 750 -2 0.42 0.28 159 106
19 3.80 2.00 1424 750 -1 0.51 0.34 190 127 20 3.99 2.00 1498 750 0 0.60 0.40
225 150 21 4.19 2.00 1572 750 1 0.71 0.47 265 176 22 4.39 2.00 1646 750 2 0.82
0.55 308 206 23 4.40 2.00 1650 750 3 0.95 0.63 356 237 24 4.40 2.00 1650 750 4
1.09 0.72 408 272 25 4.40 2.00 1650 750 5 1.23 0.82 463 309
* * *
## A.2 Modelling of Link Adaptation
{width="6.758333333333334in" height="1.3715277777777777in"}
Figure A.3 Coding and Modulation for Transmission of data over a radio link
Figure A.3 shows a radio transmitter and receiver. The throughput over a radio
link is the number of data bits that can be successfully transmitted per
modulation symbol. Coding (more specifically, Forward Error Correction) adds
redundant bits to the data bits which can correct errors in the received bits.
The degree of coding is determined by its _rate_ , the proportion of data bits
to coded bits. This typically varies from 1/8^th^ to 4/5^ths^. Coded bits are
then converted into modulation symbols. The order of the modulation determines
the number coded bits that can be transmitted per modulation symbol. Typical
examples are QPSK and 16 QAM, which have 2 and 4 bits per modulation symbol,
respectively.
The maximum throughput of a given MCS (Modulation and Coding Scheme) is the
product of the rate and the number of bits per modulation symbol. Throughput
has units of data bits per modulation symbol. This is commonly normalised to a
channel of unity bandwidth, which carries one symbol per second. The units of
throughput then become bits per second, per Hz.
A given MCS requires a certain SNIR (measured at the rx antenna) to operate
with an acceptably low BER (Bit Error Rate) in the output data. An MCS with a
higher throughput needs a higher SNIR to operate. AMC (Adaptive Modulation and
Coding) works by measuring and feeding back the channel SNIR to the
transmitter, which then chooses a suitable MCS from a 'codeset' to maximise
throughput at that SNIR. A codeset contains many MCS's and is designed to
cover a range of SNRs. An example of a codeset is shown in Figure A.4. Each
MCS in the codeset has the highest throughput for a 1-2dB range of SNIR.
{width="6.770833333333333in" height="3.782638888888889in"}
Figure A.4 Throughput of a set of Coding and Modulation Combinations, AWGN
channels assumed
Figure A.4 also shows the Shannon bound, which represents the maximum
theoretical throughput that can be achieved over an AWGN channel with a given
SNR. The example AMC system achieves around 0.75x the throughput of the
Shannon bound, over the range of SNR which it operates. We can approximate the
performance of AMC with an attenuated and truncated form of the Shannon bound
as shown in Figure A.5.
{width="6.44375in" height="3.74375in"}
Figure A.5 Approximating AMC With an Attenuated and Truncated form of the
Shannon Bound
The following equations approximate the throughput over a channel with a given
SNR, when using AMC:
$\text{Throughput},\text{Thr} = \begin{matrix} |\text{Thr} = \text{0\ \ \ \ \
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ for\ SNIR\ }  \text{\
SNIR}_{\text{MAX}} \ \end{matrix}$
Where:
> S(SNIR) is the Shannon bound: S(SNIR) = log~2~(1+SNIR)
>
> α Attenuation factor (0.75 for the example codeset)\ SNR~MIN~ Minimum SNIR
> of the codeset (-6.5dB for the example codeset)\ Thr~MAX~ Maximum throughput
> (4.8 bit/sec/Hz for the example codeset)\ SNIR~MAX~ SNIR at which max
> throughput is reached S^-1^(Thr~MAX~) (17dB for the example codeset)
## A.3 UTRA 3.84 Mcps TDD HSDPA Link Level Performance
The throughput is derived from the HSDPA link level results of [8] and is
found to match a truncated Shannon bound with an attenuation of 0.5. The HSDPA
UTRA 3.84 Mcps TDD throughput is normalised to 15 timeslots and the spectral
efficiency is found assuming a bandwidth of 5MHz. The spectral efficiency in
table A.3 is presented as a function of the SINR in a timeslot. Figure A.6
shows the UTRA 3.84 Mcps TDD spectral efficiency as a function of SINR in a
timeslot and the attenuated Shannon approximation. NOTE: RX Diversity is not
employed.
Table A.3 SINR in a timeslot to spectral efficiency mapping
* * *
_SINR_ in timeslot (dB) spectral efficiency (bps / Hz) -6.5 0.11 -3.5 0.22
-0.5 0.44 1.8 0.66 5.0 0.99 7.0 1.32 11.2 1.99 14.2 2.38
* * *
{width="6.447916666666667in" height="4.15625in"}
Figure A.6 Throughput per DL Channel vs. SINR for Downlink UTRA 3.84 Mcps TDD
(HSDPA)
The attenuated Shannon approximation to UTRA 3.84 Mcps TDD spectral efficiency
is based on the approach used for E-UTRA. The maximum spectral efficiency is
derived assuming a code rate of 0.9 and 16QAM modulation. The Shannon
approximation to UTRA 3.84 Mcps TDD spectral efficiency is:
where the following parameters are applied:
Table A.4 Parameters describing baseline UTRA 3.84 Mcps TDD performance Look-
Up-table
* * *
Parameter DL Notes α, attenuation 0.5 Represents implementation losses
SNIR~MIN~, dB -10 Based on QPSK, 1/12 rate (DL) without Rx Diversity
Thru~MAX~, bps/Hz 2.38 Based on 16QAM rate 0.9 (DL) SNIR~MAX~, dB 14.20
* * *
## A.4 Link Level Performance for E-UTRA TDD (LCR TDD frame structure based)
The throughput of a modem with link adaptation can be approximated by an
attenuated and truncated form of the Shannon bound. (The Shannon bound
represents the maximum theoretical throughput than can be achieved over an
AWGN channel for a given SNR). The following equations approximate the
throughput over a channel with a given SNR, when using link adaptation:
Where:
> S(SNIR) Shannon bound, S(SNIR) =log~2~(1+SNIR) bps/Hz
>
> α Attenuation factor, representing implementation losses\ SNR~MIN~ Minimum
> SNIR of the codeset, dB\ Thr~MAX~ Maximum throughput of the codeset, bps/Hz\
> SNIR~MAX~ SNIR at which max throughput is reached S^-1^(Thr~MAX~), dB
The parameters α, SNR~MIN~ and THR~MAX~ can be chosen to represent different
modem implementations and link conditions. The parameters proposed in table 1
represent a baseline case, which assumes:
  * 1:1 antenna configurations
  * AWGN channel model
  * Link Adaptation (see table A.X for details of highest and lowest rate codes)
  * No HARQ
Table A.5 Parameters describing baseline Link Level performance for E-UTRA TDD
Co-existence simulations
* * *
Parameter UL DL Notes α, attenuation 0.55 0.6 Represents implementation losses
SNIR~MIN~, dB -4.9 -0.45 Based on BPSK, 1/7 rate for UL and QPSK 1/8 for DL
SNIR~MAX~, dB 11.45 16.72 Based on16QAM, 4/5 rate Thru~MAX~, bps/Hz 2.15 3.4
Based on 16QAM, 4/5 rate
* * *
Throughput vs. SNR curves are plotted in Figure A.7 for uplink and Figure A.8
for downlink. Table A.6 and table A.7 present throughput in terms of spectral
efficiency (bps/Hz), and per 375kHz Resource Block (RB), in kbps.
{width="4.946527777777778in" height="3.713888888888889in"}
Figure A.7 Throughput vs SNR for Baseline E-UTRA Coexistence Studies for
uplink
{width="5.115277777777778in" height="3.8409722222222222in"}
Figure A.8 Throughput vs SNR for Baseline E-UTRA Coexistence Studies for
downlink
Table A.6 Look-Up-Table of UL Throughput vs SNIR for Baseline E-UTRA-TDD
Coexistence Studies
* * *
             Throughput                        Throughput
SNIR(dB) bps/Hz kbps per 375kHz RB SNIR(dB) bps/Hz kbps per 375kHz RB -6 0 0 5
1.13 424.33 -5 0 0 6 1.27 477.77 -4 0.27 99.72 7 1.42 533.74 -3 0.32 120.88 8
1.58 591.89 -2 0.39 145.55 9 1.74 651.92 -1 0.46 173.96 10 1.90 713.51 0 0.55
206.25 11 2.07 776.41 1 0.65 242.48 12 2.15 805.07 2 0.75 282.58 13 2.15
805.07 3 0.87 326.43 14 2.15 805.07 4 1.00 373.78 15 2.15 805.07
* * *
Table A.7 Look-Up-Table of DL Throughput vs SNIR for Baseline E-UTRA-TDD
Coexistence Studies
* * *
             Throughput                        Throughput
SNIR(dB) bps/Hz kbps per 375kHz RB SNIR(dB) bps/Hz kbps per 375kHz RB -7 0 0 7
1.6 584.3 -6 0 0 8 1.7 647.9 -5 0 0 9 1.9 713.6 -4 0.3 109.3 10 2.1 781.0 -3
0.4 132.3 11 2.3 849.9 -2 0.4 159.3 12 2.5 919.9 -1 0.5 190.4 13 2.6 990.9 0
0.6 225.8 14 2.8 1062.7 1 0.7 265.4 15 3.0 1135.1 2 0.8 309.3 16 3.2 1208.1 3
1.0 357.3 17 3.4 1260.9 4 1.1 409.2 18 3.4 1260.9 6 1.2 464.5 19 3.4 1260.9 7
1.4 523.0 20 3.4 1260.9
* * *
###### ## Annex B (informative): Smart Antenna Model for UTRA 1.28 Mcps TDD
## B.1 Description
Considering beam forming function of smart antenna, the following five basic
beam forming pattern is provided with their main beam pointing to
0°,30°,45°,60° and 70° respectively. The beam patterns pointing to
-30°,-45°,-60° and -70° can be derived through the image of the above beam
patterns. Thus, we can get nine angles beamforming radioation pattern. The
gain of blow -90 and above 90 is assumed as -∞ by using the ideal isolation.
In the simulation each UE will select the most adjacent (in angle) beam
pattern for signal strength and interference calculation accroding the the
angle calculated from the UE position and BS sector antenna direction. For
example if a UE 's angle to the direction of the sector is 25^0^, the 30^0^
beam pattern will be selected. Then the selected beam pattern will be shifted
-5^0^, by which the main beam will pointing the UE. The signal strengh and
interference from different direction will be calculated based on the shifted
pattern. The shifted angle out of [-90°,90°] will be transfered inside
[-90°,90°] by horizontal imaging.
{width="4.725in" height="3.15in"}
Figure B.1: 0° beam forming pattern
{width="4.725in" height="3.142361111111111in"}
Figure B.2: 30° beam forming pattern
{width="4.725in" height="3.15in"}
Figure B.3: 45° beam forming pattern
{width="4.725in" height="3.15in"}
Figure B.4: 60° beam forming pattern
{width="4.725in" height="3.15in"}
Figure B.5: 70° beam forming pattern
#