# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3GPP.
The present document describes the operation of the Adaptive Multi Rate speech
codec during Source Controlled Rate (SCR) operation within the 3GPP system.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of this TS, it will be re-released by the TSG with an identifying
change of release date and an increase in version number as follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the specification;
# 1 Scope
This document describes the Source Controlled Rate (SCR)operation of the
Adaptive Multi-Rate speech Codec in Codec Types UMTS_AMR and UMTS_AMR2 for the
UMTS system. The implementation of this SCR operation is mandatory in all UMTS
equipment.
The description is structured according to the block diagram in figure 1\.
This structure of distributing the various functions between system entities
is not mandatory for implementation, as long as the operation on the speech
decoder output remains the same.
Annex A describes the Discontinuous Transmission (DTX) operation of the
Adaptive Multi-Rate speech Codec in Codec Types FR_AMR, HR_AMR and OHR_AMR for
GERAN. This annex is the former GSM 06.93 (Release 98).
Annexes B to E describe the SCR operation of the Adaptive Multi-Rate speech
Codec in Codec Types GSM_EFR, TDMA_EFR, TDMA_US1 and PDC_EFR for the UMTS
system.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 26.071 : \"AMR Speech Codec; General description\".
[2] 3GPP TS 26.073 : \"AMR Speech Codec; ANSI‑C code\".
[3] 3GPP TS 26.074 : \"AMR Speech Codec; Test sequences\".
[4] 3GPP TS 26.090 : \"AMR Speech Codec; Transcoding functions\".
[5] 3GPP TS 26.091 : \"AMR Speech Codec; Error concealment of lost frames\".
[6] 3GPP TS 26.092 : \"AMR Speech Codec; Comfort noise aspects\".
[7] 3GPP TS 26.094 : \"AMR Speech Codec; Voice Activity Detector (VAD)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 26.101 : "AMR Speech Codec; Frame structure\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purpose of this document, the following definitions apply.
**frame** : Time interval of 20 ms, corresponding to the time segmentation of
the Adaptive Multi Rate speech Codec, also used as a short term for a traffic
frame.
**traffic frame:** Block of 95..244 information bits transmitted on the speech
traffic channels.
**SID frame:** Frame that conveys information about the acoustic background
noise.
**speech frame:** Traffic frame that has been classified as SPEECH_GOOD or
SPEECH_BAD frame.
**VAD flag:** Boolean flag, generated by the VAD algorithm indicating the
presence (\"1\") or the absence (\"0\") of a speech frame.
**RX_TYPE:** classifies the received frame.
**TX_TYPE:** classifies the frame to be transmitted.
**hangover period:** A period of frames added at the end of a speech burst in
which VAD flag =\"0\" and TX_TYPE is =\"SPEECH_GOOD\", this period provides
the encoder with an extra window to derive the Comfort Noise parameters .
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purpose of this document, the following symbols apply.
Nelapsed Number of elapsed frames since the last updated SID frame.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purpose of this document , the following abbreviations apply.
AN Access Network
SCR Source Controlled Rate operation
TS Telecommunication Standard, Technical Specification
GSM Global System for Mobile Telecommunication
GSM-EFR GSM Enhanced Full Rate speech Codec
UE User Equipment
PDC-EFR ARIB PDC-EFR 6.7 kBit/s speech Codec
RAN Radio Access Network
RX Receive
SID Silence Descriptor
TDMA-EFR TIA IS-641 Enhanced speech Codec
TDMA-US1 TIA TDMA-US1 (12.2 kBit/s Codec, similar to GSM-EFR)
TX Transmit
VAD Voice Activity Detector
# 4 General
Source Controlled Rate operation (SCR) is a mechanism for the AMR Speech
Codec, which allows to encode the input signal at a lower average rate by
taking speech inactivity into account. The SCR scheme may be used for the
following purposes:
\- to save power in the User Equipment;
\- to reduce the overall interference and load in the networks.
SCR in the transmitting path (uplink) shall be in operation in UEs, if
commanded so by the network. Note that for UMTS AMR and UMTS AMR2 codec types,
the uplink SCR operation shall always be activated. The UE shall handle SCR in
the receiving path (downlink) at any time, regardless, whether SCR in the
transmitting path is enabled or not.
## 4.1 General organisation
The default SCR mechanism described in this document requires the following
functions:
\- a Voice Activity Detector (VAD) on the transmit (TX) side;
\- evaluation of the background acoustic noise on the transmit (TX) side, in
order to transmit characteristic parameters to the receive (RX) side;
\- generation on the receive (RX) side of a similar noise, called comfort
noise, during periods where the transmission is switched off.
The Voice Activity Detector (VAD) is defined in [7] and the AMR-mode comfort
noise functions in [6]. Both are based partly on the speech Codec and its
internal variables, defined in [4].
In addition to these functions, if the parameters arriving at the RX side are
detected to be seriously corrupted by errors, the speech or comfort noise must
be generated from substituted data in order to avoid seriously annoying
effects for the listener. These functions are defined in [5].
An overall description of the speech processing parts can be found in [1]. An
overview of one link SCR operation is shown in Figure 1.
{width="6.4527777777777775in" height="2.1041666666666665in"}
Figure 1: Block diagram of one link SCR operation
# 5 AMR SCR operation
## 5.1 Transmit (TX) side
A block diagram of the transmit side SCR functions is shown in Figure 2.
{width="5.625in" height="2.09375in"}
Figure 2: Block diagram of SCR functions at the TX side
### 5.1.1 General operation
The TX SCR handler passes traffic frames, individually marked by TX_TYPE, to
the Framing unit. Each frame consists of bit fields containing the information
bits, the codec mode indication, and the TX_TYPE. TX_TYPE shall be used to
specify the contents of the frame. The table below provides an overview of the
different TX_TYPEs used and explains the required contents in the information
bit and the mode indication bit fields.
Table 1: SCR TX_TYPE identifiers for UMTS_AMR and UMTS_AMR2
* * *
**TX_TYPE** **Information Bits** **Mode Indication** SPEECH_GOOD Speech frame,
size 95..244 bits, depending on codec mode Current codec mode SPEECH_BAD
Corrupt speech frame (bad CRC), size 95..244 bits, depending on codec mode
Current codec mode SID_FIRST Marker for the end of talkspurt, no further
information, all 35 comfort noise bits set to "0" The codec mode that would
have been used if TX_TYPE had been "SPEECH_GOOD" SID_UPDATE 35 comfort noise
bits The codec mode that would have been used if TX_TYPE had been
"SPEECH_GOOD" SID_BAD Corrupt SID update frame (bad CRC) The codec mode that
would have been used if TX_TYPE had been "SPEECH_GOOD" NO_DATA No useful
information, nothing to be transmitted No useful information
* * *
TX_TYPE = "NO_DATA" indicates that the Information Bit and Codec Mode fields
do not contain any useful data (and should not be transmitted over AN). The
purpose of this TX_TYPE is to provide the option to save network transmission
between the transcoder and AN. Note, the TX_TYPEs "SPEECH_BAD" and "SID_BAD"
may occur in TFO and TrFO situations.
The scheduling of the frames for transmission on the Access Network is
controlled by the TX SCR handler by the use of the TX_TYPE field.
### 5.1.2 Functions of the TX SCR handler
If TX SCR operation is disabled, the TX SCR handler continuously generates
speech frames, i.e. frames marked with TX_TYPE="SPEECH_GOOD".
If the TX SCR operation is enabled, the VAD flag controls the TX SCR handler
operation as described in the following paragraphs.
Note that the TX SCR operation is always enabled on the UE side for UMTS AMR
and UMTS AMR2 codec types.
#### 5.1.2.1 AMR SCR Timing procedures
To allow an exact verification of the TX SCR handler functions, all frames
before the reset of the system are treated as if there were speech frames of
an infinitely long time. Therefore, and in order to ensure the correct
estimation of comfort noise parameters at RX SCR side, the first 7 frames
after the reset or after enabling the SCR operation shall always be marked
with TX_TYPE= \"SPEECH_GOOD\", even if VAD flag =\"0\" (hangover period, see
figure 3).
The Voice Activity Detector (VAD) shall operate all the time in order to
assess whether the input signal contains speech or not. The output is a binary
flag (VAD flag =\"1\" or VAD flag =\"0\", respectively) on a frame by frame
basis (see [7]).
The VAD flag controls indirectly, via the TX SCR handler operations described
below, the overall SCR operation on the transmit side.
Whenever VAD flag =\"1\", the speech encoder output frame along with mode
information shall be passed directly to the AN, marked with TX_TYPE =\"
SPEECH_GOOD \"
At the end of a speech burst (transition VAD flag =\"1\" to VAD flag =\"0\"),
it takes eight consecutive frames to make a new updated SID analysis available
(see [6]). Normally, the first seven speech encoder output frames after the
end of the speech burst shall therefore be passed directly to the AN, marked
with TX_TYPE =\" SPEECH_GOOD \" (\"hangover period\").
The end of the speech is then indicated by passing frame eight after the end
of the speech burst to the AN, marked with TX_TYPE = "SID_FIRST" (see figure
3). SID_FIRST frames do not contain data.
{width="6.325in" height="3.1597222222222223in"}
Figure 3: Normal hangover procedure for AMR (Nelapsed > 23)
If, however, at the end of the speech burst, less than 24 frames have elapsed
since the last SID_UPDATE frame was computed, then this last analysed
SID_UPDATE frame should be passed to the AN whenever a SID_UPDATE frame is to
be produced, until a new updated SID analysis is available (8 consecutive
frames marked with VAD flag =\"0\").This reduces the load on the network in
cases where short background noise spikes are taken for speech, by avoiding
the \"hangover\" waiting for the SID frame computation.
Once the SID_FIRST frame has been passed to the AN, the TX SCR handler shall
at regular intervals compute and pass updated SID_UPDATE (Comfort Noise)
frames to the AN as long as VAD flag = \"0\". SID_UPDATE frames shall be
generated every 8^th^ frame. The first SID_UPDATE shall be sent as the third
frame after the SID_FIRST frame.
The speech encoder is operated in full speech modality if TX_TYPE = \"
SPEECH_GOOD \" and otherwise in a simplified mode, because not all encoder
functions are required for the evaluation of comfort noise parameters and
because comfort noise parameters are only to be generated at certain times.
### 5.1.3 The TX part of the AN
The TX part of the AN has the following overall functionality. The
transmission is cut after the transmission of a SID_FIRST frame when the
speaker stops talking. During speech pauses the transmission is resumed at
regular intervals for transmission of one SID_UPDATE frame, in order to update
the generated comfort noise on the RX side. The operation of
the TX part of the AN is controlled by the TX SCR handler via the TX_TYPE.
All frames, marked with SPEECH_GOOD, SID_FIRST or SID_UPDATE shall be
transmitted by the TX part of the AN.
## 5.2 Receive (RX) side
A block diagram of the receive side SCR functions is shown in Figure 4 below.
{width="5.625in" height="2.1041666666666665in"}
Figure 4: Block diagram of the receive side SCR functions
### 5.2.1 General operation
The AN passes all the received traffic frames to the RX SCR handler,
classified with RX_TYPE, as described in Table 2 (see TS 26.102). The RX SCR
handles the frame accordingly.
Table 2: RX_TYPE identifiers for UMTS_AMR and UMTS_AMR2
* * *
**RX_TYPE** **Information Bits** **SPEECH_GOOD** Speech frame without detected
errors. **SPEECH_BAD** (likely) speech frame with bad CRC (or estimated to be
very bad by the RX part of the AN ) **SID_FIRST** This SID-frame marks the
beginning of a comfort noise period. **SID_UPDATE** Correct SID update frame
**SID_BAD** Corrupt SID update frame (bad CRC; applicable only for SID_UPDATE
frames) **NO_DATA** Nothing useable was received. The synthesis mode of the
previous frame type is used.
* * *
### 5.2.3 Demands on the RX SCR handler
The RX SCR handler is responsible for the overall SCR operation on the RX
side. It consists of two main modes: SPEECH and COMFORT_NOISE. The initial
mode shall be SPEECH.
The SCR operation on the RX side shall be as follows:
  * The RX SCR handler shall enter mode SPEECH, when a frame classified as SPEECH_GOOD is received.
whenever a frame classified as SPEECH_GOOD is received the RX SCR handler
shall pass it directly on to the speech decoder;
\- if the RX SCR handler is in mode SPEECH, then frames classified as
SPEECH_BAD or NO_DATA shall be substituted and muted as defined in [5]. Frames
classified as NO_DATA shall be handled like SPEECH_BAD frames without valid
speech information;
\- frames classified as SID_FIRST, SID_UPDATE or SID_BAD shall bring the RX
SCR handler into mode COMFORT_NOISE and shall result in comfort noise
generation, as defined in [6]. SID_BAD frames shall be substituted and muted
as defined in [5];;
\- in mode COMFORT_NOISE the RX SCR handler shall ignore all unusable frames
(NO_DATA, SPEECH_BAD); comfort noise generation shall continue, until timeout
may apply ([5]).
## 5.3 AMR SID Information format
The SID_UPDATE frame format is according to [5]. This is the default and only
mandatory operating mode of the SCR handler.
###### ## Annex A (normative): AMR DTX handler for the GSM system
(corresponding to GSM 06.93)
# A.1 Scope
The present document gives a description of the general baseband operation of
Adaptive Multi-Rate speech traffic channels in the transmitter and in the
receiver of GSM Mobile Stations (MS)s and Base Station Systems (BSS)s during
Discontinuous Transmission (DTX).
For clarity, the description is structured according to the block diagrams in
figures 1 and 3. Except in the case described next, this structure of
distributing the various functions between system entities is not mandatory
for implementation, as long as the operation on the air interface and on the
speech decoder output remains the same.
In the case of BSSs where the speech transcoder is located remote from the
Base Transceiver Station (BTS), the implementation of the interfaces between
the DTX handlers and the Radio Sub System (RSS) as described in the present
document together with all their flags is mandatory, being part of the A‑bis
interface as described in GSM 08.60 and GSM 08.61.
The DTX functions described in this technical specification are mandatory for
implementation in the GSM MSs. The receiver requirements are mandatory for
implementation in all GSM BSSs, the transmitter requirements only for those
where downlink DTX or Tandem Free Operation will be used.
# A.2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905:"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications".
[2] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Digital cellular telecommunication system (Phase 2+);
Mobile radio interface layer 3 specification\".
[3] 3GPP TS 45.003: \"Digital cellular telecommunication system (Phase 2+);
Channel coding\".
[4] 3GPP TS 45.005: \"Digital cellular telecommunication system (Phase 2+);
Radio transmission and reception\".
[5] 3GPP TS 45.008: \"Digital cellular telecommunication system (Phase 2+);
Radio subsystem link control\".
[6] 3GPP TS 45.009: \"Digital cellular telecommunication system (Phase 2+);
Link adaptation\".
[7] 3GPP TS 26.071: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Adaptive Multi-Rate (AMR) speech processing functions; General description\".
[8] 3GPP TS 26.073: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
ANSI‑C code for the GSM Adaptive Multi-Rate speech codec\".
[9] 3GPP TS 26.074: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2);
Test vectors for the GSM Adaptive Multi-Rate speech codec\".
[10] 3GPP TS 26.090: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Adaptive Multi-Rate speech transcoding\".
[11] 3GPP TS 26.091: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Substitution and muting of lost frame for Adaptive Multi-Rate speech traffic
channels\".
[12] 3GPP TS 26.092: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Comfort noise aspects for Adaptive Multi-Rate speech traffic channels\".
[13] 3GPP TS 26.094: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Voice Activity Detector (VAD) for Adaptive Multi-Rate speech traffic
channels\".
[14] 3GPP TS 28.060: \"Digital cellular telecommunication system (Phase 2+);
Inband control of remote transcoders and rate adaptors for Full Rate traffic
channels\".
[15] 3GPP TS 28.061: \"Digital cellular telecommunication system (Phase 2+);
Inband Control of Remote Transcoders and Rate Adaptors for Half Rate traffic
channels\".
[16] 3GPP TS 28.062: \" Digital cellular telecommunications system; Inband
Tandem Free Operation (TFO) of Speech Codecs\".
# A.3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## A.3.1 Definitions
For the purpose of the present document, the following definitions apply.
**frame:** Time interval of 20 ms, corresponding to the time segmentation of
the Adaptive Multi Rate speech transcoder (3GPP TS 26.090 [9]), also used as a
short term for a traffic frame.
**traffic frame:** Block of 95..244 information bits transmitted on the
TCH/AFS or TCH/AHS speech traffic channels.
**SID frame:** Frame characterised by the SID (Silence Descriptor) gross bit
patterns. It may convey information on the acoustic background noise.
**speech frame:** Traffic frame that has been classified as a SPEECH frame.
**VAD flag:** Boolean flag, generated by the VAD algorithm defined in 3GPP TS
26.094 indicating the presence (\"1\") or the absence (\"0\") of a speech
frame.
**RX_TYPE:** flag with eight values, generated by the RX radio subsystem,
indicating to the RX DTX handler the type of data in the current frame. Refer
to Table 2.
**TX_TYPE:** flag with eight values, generated by the TX DTX handler,
indicating to the TX radio subsystem the type of data in the current frame.
Refer to Table 1.
**hangover period:** A period of 7 frames added at the end of a speech burst
in which VAD flag =\"0\" and TX_TYPE is \"SPEECH\".
## A.3.2 Symbols
For the purpose of the present document, the following symbols apply.
Nelapsed Number of elapsed frames since the last updated SID frame.
## A.3.3 Abbreviations
For the purpose of the present document, the following abbreviations apply.
BSC Base Station Controller
BSS Base Station System
BTS Base Transceiver Station
CHD Channel Decoder
CHE Channel Encoder
DTX Discontinuous Transmission
ETS European Telecommunication Standard
FACCH Fast Associated Control CHannel
GSM Global System for Mobile Telecommunications
MS Mobile Station
RATSCCH Robust Amr Traffic Synchronised Control CHannel
RSS Radio Sub System
RX Receive
SACCH Slow Associated Control CHannel
SID SIlence Descriptor
TX Transmit
VAD Voice Activity Detector
For abbreviations not given in this subclause, see 3GPP TS 21.004.
# A.4 General
Discontinuous Transmission (DTX) is a mechanism, which allows the radio
transmitter to be switched off most of the time during speech pauses for the
following two purposes:
to save power in the Mobile Station (MS);
to reduce the overall interference level over the air interface.
DTX in uplink shall be in operation within the GSM MS, if commanded so by the
network, see 3GPP TS 204.08. The MS shall handle DTX in downlink at any time,
regardless, whether DTX in uplink is commanded or not.
## A.4.1 General organisation
The overall DTX mechanism described in the present document requires the
following functions:
a Voice Activity Detector (VAD) on the transmit (TX) side;
evaluation of the background acoustic noise on the transmit (TX) side, in
order to transmit characteristic parameters to the receive (RX) side;
generation on the receive (RX) side of a similar noise, called comfort noise,
during periods where the radio transmission is switched off.
The Voice Activity Detector (VAD) is defined in 3GPP TS 26.094 and the comfort
noise functions in 3GPP TS 26.092. Both are based partly on the speech
transcoder and its internal variables, defined in 3GPP TS 26.090.
In addition to these functions, if the parameters arriving at the RX side are
detected to be seriously corrupted by errors, the speech or comfort noise must
be generated from substituted data in order to avoid seriously annoying
effects for the listener. This function is defined in 3GPP TS 26.091.
An overall description of the speech processing parts can be found in 3GPP TS
26.071.
The description for Tandem Free Operation is given in 3GPP TS 28.062.
# A.5 Transmit (TX) side
A block diagram of the transmit side DTX functions is shown in figure 5.
{width="3.8652777777777776in" height="2.084722222222222in"}
Figure 5: Block diagram of the transmit side DTX functions
## A.5.1 General operation
The TX DTX handler passes traffic frames, individually marked by TX_TYPE, to
the Radio Subsystem (RSS). Each frame passed to the RSS consists of bit fields
containing the information bits, the codec mode indication, and the TX_TYPE.
TX_TYPE is used to specify the contents of the frame. The table below provides
an overview of the different TX_TYPEs used and explains the required contents
in the information bit and the mode indication bit fields. In case of ongoing
Tandem Free Operation (see 3GPP TS 28.062) frames with errors may arrive in
downlink in the BTS.
Table 3: TX TYPE identifiers
* * *
TX_TYPE Legend Information Bits Mode Indication
**SPEECH_GOOD\ speech frame, size 95..244 bits depending on codec mode;\
current code mode ** no errors known.
**SPEECH_DEGRADED** \ Speech frame, size 95..244 bits, depending on codec
mode;\ current codec mode (only in downlink in TFO) there might be errors in
class 2 bits.
**SPEECH_BAD** \ Speech frame, size 95..244 bits, depending on codec mode;\
current codec mode (only in downlink in TFO) there are errors in class 1 bits.
**SID_FIRST** marks the end of a talkspurt, respectively the beginning of a
speech pause; does not contain information bits. the codec mode that would
have been used if TX_TYPE had been SPEECH
**SID_UPDATE** comfort noise, 35 bits;\ the codec mode that would have been
used if TX_TYPE had been SPEECH no errors known
**SID_BAD** \ comfort noise, 35 bits;\ the codec mode that would have been
used if TX_TYPE had been SPEECH (only in downlink in TFO) errors detected,
parameters unusable
**ONSET** \ announces the beginning of a speech burst; does not contain
information bits the codec mode of the following speech frame (only in
downlink in TFO)
**NO_DATA** no useful information no useful information
* * *
TX_TYPE = "NO_DATA" indicates that the Information Bit and Codec Mode fields
do not contain any useful data (and shall not be transmitted over the air
interface). The purpose of this TX_TYPE is to provide the option to save
transmission between the transcoder and the radio base station if a packet
oriented transmission is used.
The scheduling of the frames for transmission on the air interface is
controlled by the TX DTX handler by the use of the TX_TYPE field.
### A.5.1.1 Functions of the TX DTX handler
To allow an exact verification of the TX DTX handler functions, all frames
before the reset of the system are treated as if there were speech frames of
an infinitely long time. Therefore, and in order to ensure the correct
estimation of comfort noise parameters at RX DTX side, the first 7 frames
after the reset or after enabling the DTX operation shall always be marked
with TX_TYPE= \" SPEECH_GOOD \", even if VAD flag =\"0\" (hangover period, see
figure 2).
The Voice Activity Detector (VAD) shall operate all the time in order to
assess whether the input signal contains speech or not. The output is a binary
flag (VAD flag =\"1\" or VAD flag =\"0\", respectively) on a frame by frame
basis (see 3GPP TS 26.094).
The VAD flag controls indirectly, via the TX DTX handler operations described
below, the overall DTX operation on the transmit side.
Whenever VAD flag =\"1\", the speech encoder output frame along with mode
information shall be passed directly to the radio subsystem (RSS), marked with
TX_TYPE =\" SPEECH_GOOD \"
At the end of a speech burst (transition VAD flag =\"1\" to VAD flag =\"0\"),
it takes 8 consecutive frames to make a new updated SID analysis available at
receiver side (see 3GPP TS 26.092). Normally, the first 7 speech encoder
output frames after the end of the speech burst shall therefore be passed
directly to the RSS, marked with TX_TYPE =\" SPEECH_GOOD \" (\"hangover
period\"). The end of the speech is then indicated by passing frame 8 after
the end of the speech burst to the RSS, marked with TX_TYPE = "SID_FIRST" (see
figure 2).
{width="6.325in" height="3.1597222222222223in"}
Figure 6: Normal hangover procedure (Nelapsed > 23)
If, however, at the end of the speech burst, less than 24 frames have elapsed
since the last SID_UPDATE frame was computed and passed to the RSS, then this
last analysed SID_UPDATE frame shall repeatedly be passed to the RSS whenever
a SID_UPDATE frame is to be produced, until a new updated SID analysis is
available (8 consecutive frames marked with VAD flag =\"0\").This reduces the
activity on the air in cases where short background noise spikes are taken for
speech, by avoiding the \"hangover\" waiting for the SID frame computation.
Once the first SID analysis after the end of a speech burst has been computed
and the SID_FIRST frame has been passed to the Radio Subsystem, the TX DTX
handler shall at regular intervals compute and pass updated SID_UPDATE
(Comfort Noise) frames to the Radio Subsystem (RSS) as long as VAD flag =
\"0\". SID_UPDATE frames shall be generated every 8^th^ frame. The first
SID_UPDATE shall be sent as the third frame after the SID_FIRST frame.
The speech encoder is operated in full speech modality if TX_TYPE = \"
SPEECH_GOOD \" and otherwise in a simplified mode, because not all encoder
functions are required for the evaluation of comfort noise parameters and
because comfort noise parameters are only to be generated at certain times.
In order to ensure TX/RX DTX handler synchronisation at handover, the uplink
TX DTX handler in the MS shall accept messages from TX RSS with control
parameter NSYNC, resulting in the following operation during a period of the
next NSYNC frames:
\- The TX DTX handler shall send SID_UPDATE instead of NO_DATA frames to the
TX RSS.
\- If, however, during this period of NSYNC frames, VAD flag is equal to 1 at
least for one speech frame, TX DTX handler shall send SPEECH frames for the
rest of the period of the NSYNC frames. Note the TX DTX handler shall send
SPEECH frames at least for the duration of the hangover period.
### A.5.1.2 Functions of the TX Radio Subsystem
The TX Radio Subsystem has the following overall functionality. The radio
transmission is cut after the transmission of a SID_FIRST frame when the
speaker stops talking. During speech pauses the transmission is resumed at
regular intervals for transmission of one SID_UPDATE frame, in order to update
the generated comfort noise on the RX side (and to improve the measurement of
the link quality by the RSS). Note that the transcoder knows what frames to
send. In the case when nothing is to be transmitted it outputs frames marked
with TX_TYPE = "NO_DATA".
Within the TX Radio Subsystem the TX_TYPE Monitoring unit controls the
operation of the Channel Encoder (as specified in 3GPP TS 25.003) and the
Transmission of the frame. Control input to the TX_TYPE Monitoring unit is the
TX_TYPE. Control output and input to the Channel Encoder are indicators
specifying the frame format. These frame format indicators are defined in 3GPP
TS 25.003, they are different for TCH/AFS and TCH/AHS.
#### A.5.1.2.1 Functions of the TX Radio Subsystem for TCH/AFS
The TX Radio Subsystem operates in the following way regarding DTX (without
TFO):
\- all frames marked with TX_TYPE = \" SPEECH_GOOD \" are scheduled for normal
channel coding and transmission. The frame format for CHE operation shall be
SPEECH. If, however, the previous frame was not of TX_TYPE = "SPEECH_GOOD", an
ONSET frame format followed by SPEECH_GOOD shall be signalled to the CHE;
\- for frames marked with TX_TYPE = "SID_FIRST" a SID_FIRST frame format is
signalled to the CHE;
\- frames marked with TX_TYPE = "SID_UPDATE" are scheduled for SID_UPDATE
frame channel coding and transmission. The frame format signalled to CHE is
SID_UPDATE;
\- for frames marked with TX_TYPE = "NO_DATA" no processing or transmission is
carried out.
If a FACCH needs to be sent during a speech pause, and:
\- if the frame preceding the FACCH is not of TX_TYPE="SPEECH_GOOD", then an
ONSET frame shall be signalled to the CHE, followed by the FACCH frame(s);
\- if the frame following the FACCH frame is not of TX_TYPE="SPEECH_GOOD",
then a SID_FIRST shall be signalled to the CHE.
A stolen SID_UPDATE should be rescheduled on the frame subsequent to the
SID_FIRST marker that follows the FACCH frame(s) (when that marker exists),
unless that rescheduling would steal a frame of TX_TYPE=\"SPEECH_GOOD\", or if
a frame of TX_TYPE=\"SID_UPDATE\" has been received before the rescheduling
could take place. This rescheduling shall not affect the timing of subsequent
SID_UPDATE frames.
Note: a SID_UPDATE frame is considered as stolen when this frame must be
replaced by a FACCH frame.
At handover, TX/RX DTX handler synchronisation shall be initiated. At the time
instant before the MS starts sending to the new base station, a message shall
be sent to the uplink TX DTX handler with the parameter NSYNC = 12.
#### A.5.1.2.2 Functions of the TX Radio Subsystem for TCH/AHS
The TX Radio Subsystem operates in the following way regarding DTX:
all frames marked with TX_TYPE = \" SPEECH_GOOD \" are scheduled for normal
channel coding and transmission. The frame format for CHE operation shall be
SPEECH. However, if the previous frame was of TX_TYPE = "SID_FIRST", a
SID_FIRST_INH frame format followed by SPEECH_GOOD shall be signalled to the
CHE. If the previous frame was of TX_TYPE = "SID_UPDATE", a SID_UPDATE_INH
frame format followed by SPEECH_GOOD shall be signalled to the CHE. If the
previous frame was of TX_TYPE "NO_DATA", an ONSET frame format followed by
SPEECH_GOOD shall be signalled to the CHE;
for frames marked with TX_TYPE = "SID_FIRST" a SID_FIRST_P1 frame format is
signalled to the CHE. Note: All 4 TDMA frames carrying the bits of this frame
shall be transmitted. The Mode Indication received with the frame is stored
for potential use in the next frame;
for frames marked with TX_TYPE = "SID_UPDATE" a SID_UPDATE frame format is
signalled to the CHE. All 4 TDMA frames carrying the bits of this frame shall
be transmitted;
for frames marked with TX_TYPE = "NO_DATA", no processing or transmission is
carried out. However, if the preceding frame was marked with TX_TYPE =
"SID_FIRST", a SID_FIRST_P2 frame format is signalled to CHE. Note: The 2 TDMA
frames carrying bits of this frame shall be transmitted. If, depending on the
current frame number, the Mode Indication is to be transmitted with these TDMA
frames, the Mode Indication shall be used that was stored during the
processing of the preceding SID_FIRST frame.
If a FACCH needs to be sent during a speech pause, and:
> if the frame preceding the FACCH is of TX_TYPE="SID_FIRST", then a
> SID_FIRST_INH frame format followed by the FACCH shall be signalled to the
> CHE;
>
> if the frame preceding the FACCH [ ]{.underline} is of TX_TYPE="SID_UPDATE",
> then a SID_UPDATE_INH frame format followed by the FACCH shall be signalled
> to the CHE;
>
> if the frame preceding the FACCH [ ]{.underline} is of TX_TYPE="NO_DATA",
> then an ONSET frame format followed by the FACCH shall be signalled to the
> CHE;
if the frame following the FACCH [ ]{.underline} is not of
TX_TYPE="SPEECH_GOOD", then a SID_FIRST shall be signalled to the CHE. Both
SID_FIRST_P1 and SID_FIRST_P2 frame formats shall be consecutively signalled
to CHE.
A stolen SID_UPDATE should be rescheduled on the frame subsequent to the
SID_FIRST_P1 and SID_FIRST_P2 markers that follow the FACCH frame(s) (when
these markers exist), unless that rescheduling would steal a frame of
TX_TYPE=\"SPEECH_GOOD\", or if a frame of TX_TYPE=\"SID_UPDATE\" has been
received before the rescheduling could take place. This rescheduling shall not
affect the timing of subsequent SID_UPDATE frames.
Note: a SID_UPDATE frame is considered as stolen when this frame must be
replaced by a FACCH frame.
At handover, TX/RX DTX handler synchronisation shall be initiated. At the time
instant before the MS starts sending to the new base station, a message shall
be sent to the uplink TX DTX handler with the parameter NSYNC = 12.
#### A.5.1.2.3 Functions of the Downlink TX Radio Subsystem for TFO
The TX Radio Subsystem in the BTS shall in addition operate in the following
way regarding DTX, if TFO is ongoing (see 3GPP TS 28.062):
\- Frames with TX_TYPE = SPEECH_GOOD, SID_FIRST and SID_UPDATE shall be
handled as usual in DTX, regardless whether DTX in downlink is requested or
not. Also NO_DATA shall be handled as usual, if DTX is requested.
\- Frames with TX_TYPE = NO_DATA shall be replaced by SID_FILLER frames, if
DTX in downlink is not requested. By this the radio transmission continues in
downlink, although no parameters are transmitted in speech pauses on the Abis
interface. The MS generates Comfort Noise in these speech pauses.
\- Frames with TX_TYPE = SPEECH_DEGRADED shall be handled exactly like
SPEECH_GOOD frames.
\- For frame with TX_TYPE = SPEECH_BAD and SID_BAD the CHE shall perform its
regular processing, but then shall invert the six, respectively 14 CRC bits
before convolutional encoding and transmitting the frames on the air
interface. By this the error concealment mechanism in the MS is triggered to
handle these corrupted frames.
\- ONSET frames may be ignored by the TX Radio Subsystem and need not to be
processed.
**Definition:** SID_FILLER frames are like SID_BAD frames, but with all
information bits set to "1". The 14 CRC bits shall artificially be inverted by
the CHE before convolutional encoding and transmission.
#### A.5.1.2.4 Functions of the TX Radio Subsystem for RATSCCH
During regular speech transmission (in the middle of a speech burst) RATSCCH
replaces (steals) one (TCH/AFS) respectively two (TCH/AHS) speech frames (see
3GPP TS 25.009). Also in all non speech cases the RATSCCH shall be handled
like speech. The respective RATSCCH frame formats (RATSCCH in case of TCH/AFS,
respectively RATSCCH_MARKER and RATSCCH_DATA in case of TCH/AHS) shall be
signalled to the CHE.
RATSCCH should be handled in the same way as a FACCH.
# A.6 Receive (RX) side
A block diagram of the receive side DTX functions is shown in figure 7.
{width="3.8645833333333335in" height="2.0833333333333335in"}
Figure 7: Block diagram of the receive side DTX functions
## A.6.1 General operation
Whatever their context (speech, SID, FACCH or none), the RSS continuously
passes the received traffic frames to the RX DTX handler, individually marked
by various pre‑processing functions with RX_TYPE as described in subclause
6.1.1 and table 2, which serves to classify the traffic frame. This
classification allows the RX DTX handler to determine in a simple way how the
received frame is to be handled.
Table 4: RX_TYPE identifiers
* * *
RX_TYPE Legend Description **SPEECH_GOOD** Speech frame with CRC OK, Channel
Decoder soft values also OK **SPEECH_DEGRADED** Speech frame with CRC OK, but
1B bits and class2 bits may be corrupted **SPEECH_BAD** (likely) speech frame,
bad CRC (or very bad Channel Decoder measures) **SID_FIRST** first SID marks
the beginning of a comfort noise period **SID_UPDATE** SID update frame (with
correct CRC) **SID_BAD** Corrupt SID update frame (bad CRC; applicable only
for SID_UPDATE frames) **ONSET** ONSET frames precede the first speech frame
of a speech burst **NO_DATA** Nothing useable (for the speech decoder) was
received. This applies for the cases of no received frames (DTX) or received
FACCH or RATSCCH or SID_FILLER signalling frames.
* * *
### A.6.1.1 Functions of the RX radio subsystem
The RX radio subsystem uses a combination of gross-bit markers, receiver
measurements, and CRC checks to classify each received frame. The basic
operation for each frame is outlined below:
the receiver first searches for the RATSCCH, SID_UPDATE, SID_FIRST or ONSET
gross bit markers.
> If the RATSCCH signalling is detected, then the RATSCCH frame (TCH/AFS)
> respectively the RATSCCH_MARKER and RATSCCH_DATA frames (TCH/AHS) shall be
> decoded and handled as described in 3GPP TS 25.009. They shall be passed to
> the RX DTX handler as a NO_DATA frame(s).
If the SID_FIRST marker is detected the frame is passed to the RX DTX handler
as a SID_FIRST frame.
If the SID_UPDATE marker is detected, then the frame shall be decoded and
passed to the RX DTX handler as a SID_UPDATE or a SID_BAD or a NO_DATA frame,
depending on the CRC and the information bits, along with the comfort noise
parameters, if applicable. A NO_DATA frame shall be passed on, if all
information bits of a SID_UPDATE frame are set to "1" and the CRC is bad (see
SID_FILLER in subclause 5.1.2.3).
  * If the ONSET marker is detected, then an ONSET frame shall be passed to the RX DTX handler.
if neither SID_UPDATE nor SID_FIRST markers are detected, the frame shall be
channel decoded assuming it to be a speech frame. Depending on the CRC for
speech frame channel decoding along with other receiver measurements the frame
shall then be passed to the RX DTX handler marked as either SPEECH_GOOD,
SPEECH_ DEGRADED, SPEECH_BAD or NO_DATA frame.
### A.6.1.2 Functions of the RX DTX handler
The RX DTX handler is responsible for the overall DTX operation on the RX
side. It consists of two main modes: SPEECH and COMFORT_NOISE. The initial
mode shall be SPEECH.
The DTX operation on the RX side shall be as follows:
The RX DTX handler shall enter mode SPEECH, when a frame classified as
SPEECH_GOOD or SPEECH_DEGRADED is received. ONSET frames may be taken into
account to identify the beginning of a speech burst;
whenever a frame classified as SPEECH_GOOD is received the RX DTX handler
shall pass it directly on to the speech decoder;
if the RX DTX handler is in mode SPEECH, then frames classified as
SPEECH_DEGRADED, SPEECH_BAD or NO_DATA shall be substituted and muted as
defined in 3GPP TS 26.091. Frames classified as NO_DATA shall be handled like
SPEECH_BAD frames without valid speech information;
frames classified as SID_FIRST, SID_UPDATE or SID_BAD shall bring the RX DTX
handler into mode COMFORT_NOISE and shall result in comfort noise generation,
as defined in 3GPP TS 26.092. SID_BAD frames shall be substituted and muted as
defined in 3GPP TS 26.091. In mode COMFORT_NOISE the RX DTX handler shall
ignore all unusable frames (NO_DATA, SPEECH_BAD) delivered by the RSS; comfort
noise generation shall continue, until timeout may apply (see 3GPP TS 26.091).
###### ## Annex B (normative): ETSI GSM-EFR SCR handler
The interworking operation of AMR (only 12.2 kbit/s mode) with GSM-EFR is
F.F.S. This annex provides the basis for the AMR operation under this
condition.
# B.1 Transmit (TX) side
Speech coding internetworking aspects with ETSI-EFR are described in [TBD].
## B.1.1 General operation
The TX SCR handler passes traffic frames, individually marked by TX_TYPE, to
the TX Framing Unit part of the Access Network. Each frame passed to the AN
consists of bit fields containing the information bits, the codec mode
indication, and the TX_TYPE. TX_TYPE shall be used to specify the contents of
the frame. The table below provides an overview of the different TX_TYPEs used
and explains the required contents in the information bit and the mode
indication bit fields.
Table 5: TX TYPE identifiers for GSM-EFR
* * *
**TX_TYPE** **Legend** **Information Bits** **Mode Indication** 00 SPEECH
speech frame, size depending on codec mode current codec mode 10 SID_UPDATE
comfort noise information , information bits the codec mode that would have
been used if TX_TYPE had been 00 (SPEECH) 11 NO_DATA no useful information no
useful information
* * *
TX_TYPE = "NO_DATA" indicates that the Information Bit and Codec Mode fields
do not contain any useful data (and should not be transmitted over AN). The
purpose of this TX_TYPE is to provide the option to save network transmission
between the transcoder and AN.
The scheduling of the frames for transmission on the Access Network is
controlled by the TX SCR handler by the use of the TX_TYPE field and the given
SCR operation mode.
## B.1.2 Functions of the TX SCR handler
### B.1.2.1 GSM-EFR SCR Timing procedures
To allow an exact verification of the TX SCR handler functions, all frames
before the reset of the system are treated as if there were speech frames of
an infinitely long time.
The SID_UPDATE timing is according to ETSI GSM 06.81.
## B.1.3 The TX part of the AN
### B.1.3.1 Demands on the TX part of the Access Network
The TX part of the AN operates in the following way regarding SCR:
\- frames marked with TX_TYPE = (SPEECH) are scheduled for transmission.
\- frames marked with TX_TYPE = (SID_UPDATE) are scheduled for transmission
\- for frames marked with TX_TYPE = (NO_DATA) no processing or transmission is
carried out.
SPEECH frames shall override other frames in these exceptional cases.
# B.2 Receive (RX) side
Whatever their context (speech, SID, or none), the deframing unit after AN
continuously passes the received traffic frames to the RX SCR handler,
individually marked by various pre‑processing functions with a 3 bit type
indicator RX_TYPE described in Table 4, which serve to classify the traffic
frame. This classification allows the RX SCR handler to determine in a simple
way how the received frame is to be handled.
Table 6: RX_TYPE identifiers for GSM-EFR
* * *
**RX_TYPE** **Legend** **Description** 000 **SPEECH_GOOD** Speech frame with
CRC OK, soft values in the RX part of AN also OK 001 **SPARE** Spare 010
**SPEECH_BAD** (likely) speech frame, bad CRC (or estimated to be very bad by
the RX part of the AN ) 011 **SPARE** Spare 100 **SPARE** Spare 101
**SID_UPDATE** Correct SID update frame 110 **SID_BAD** Corrupt SID update
frame (bad CRC ; applicable only for SID_UPDATE frames) 111 **NO_DATA**
Nothing useable was received. The synthesis mode of the previous frame type is
used.
* * *
# B.3 SID Information format
When the TX SCR handler is ordered by the network to operate in ETSI GSM-EFR
mode with SCR operation turned on the SID_UPDATE frame format is according to
ETSI GSM 06.62. (38 +5 bits ).
###### ## Annex C (normative): TIA IS-641 SCR Handler
The interworking operation of AMR (only 7.4 kbit/s mode) with IS-641 (TDMA-
EFR) is F.F.S. This annex provides the basis for the AMR operation under this
condition.
# C.1 TX-side
F.F.S
# C.2 RX-side
F.F.S
# C.3 SID Information format
When the TX SCR handler is ordered by the network to operate in IS-641 mode
with SCR operation turned on the SID_UPDATE frame format is according to
IS-641-A Chapter 6 The SID_UPDATE timing is according to IS 641-A.
Speech coding internetworking aspects with IS-641 are described in [TBD].
###### ## Annex D (normative): TIA TDMA-US1 SCR Handler
The interworking operation of AMR (only 12.2 kbit/s mode) with TDMA-US1 is
F.F.S. This annex provides the basis for the AMR operation under this
condition.
# D.1 TX-side
F.F.S
# D.2 RX-side
F.F.S
# D.3 SID Information format
F.F.S.
###### ## Annex E (normative): ARIB PDC-EFR SCR Handler
The interworking operation of AMR (only 6.7 kbit/s mode) with PDC-EFR-6.7 is
F.F.S. This annex provides the basis for the AMR operation under this
condition.
# E.1 Transmit (TX) side
## E.1.1 General operation
The TX SCR handler passes traffic frames, individually marked by TX_TYPE, to
the TX Framing Unit part of the Access Network. Each frame passed to the AN
consists of bit fields containing the information bits, the codec mode
indication, and the TX_TYPE. TX_TYPE shall be used to specify the contents of
the frame. The table below provides an overview of the different TX_TYPEs used
and explains the required contents in the information bit and the mode
indication bit fields.
Table 7: TX TYPE identifiers for PDC_EFR
+--------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | **TX_TYPE** | **Legend** | **Information |** Mode | | | | Bits**| Indication** | +--------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 000 | SPEECH | speech frame, | current code | | | | size depending | mode | | | | on codec mode | | +--------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 010 | POST1 | comfort noise | the codec mode | | | | information, | that would | | | | information | have been used | | | | bits | if TX_TYPE | | | | | had been 00 | | | | | (SPEECH) | +--------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 011 | NO_DATA | no useful | no useful | | | | information | information | +--------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 001 | POST0 | no useful | the codec mode | | | | information | that would | | | (end of speech | | have been used | | | marker, start | | if TX_TYPE | | | of CN | | had been 00 | | | generation ) | | (SPEECH) | +--------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 100 | PRE | no useful | the codec mode | | | | information | that would | | | (end of CN | | have been used | | | marker, start | | if TX_TYPE | | | of speech | | had been 00 | | | generation ) | | (SPEECH) | +--------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
TX_TYPE = "NO_DATA" indicates that the Information Bit and Codec Mode fields
do not contain any useful data (and should not be transmitted over AN). The
purpose of this TX_TYPE is to provide the option to save network transmission
between the transcoder and AN.
The scheduling of the frames for transmission on the Access Network is
controlled by the TX SCR handler by the use of the TX_TYPE field and the given
SCR operation mode.
Speech coding internetworking aspects with PDC-EFR are described in
XX.YY.D.[TBD]
## E.1.2 Functions of the TX SCR handler
### E.1.2.1 PDC_EFR SCR Timing procedures
To allow an exact verification of the TX SCR handler functions, all frames
before the reset of the system are treated as if there were speech frames of
an infinitely long time.
SID-frame timing is according to ARIB XXX.
## E.1.3 The TX part of the AN
### E.1.3.1 Demands on the TX part of the Access Network
The TX part of the AN operates in the following way regarding SCR:
\- frames marked with TX_TYPE = (SPEECH) are scheduled for transmission.
\- frames marked with TX_TYPE = (POST0) are scheduled for transmission.
  * frames marked with TX_TYPE = (POST1) are scheduled for transmission
\- frames marked with TX_TYPE = (PRE) are scheduled for transmission
\- for frames marked with TX_TYPE = (NO_DATA) no processing or transmission is
carried out.
SPEECH frames shall override other frames in these exceptional cases.
# E.2 Receive (RX) side
Whatever their context (speech, SID, or none), the deframing unit after AN
continuously passes the received traffic frames to the RX SCR handler,
individually marked by various pre‑processing functions with a 3 bit type
indicator RX_TYPE described in Table 6, which serve to classify the traffic
frame. This classification allows the RX SCR handler to determine in a simple
way how the received frame is to be handled.
Table 8: RX_TYPE identifiers for PDC_EFR
* * *
**RX_TYPE** **Legend** **Description** 000 **SPEECH_GOOD** Speech frame with
CRC OK, soft values in the RX part of AN also OK 001 **PRE** Next frame should
be a Speech frame 010 **SPEECH_BAD** (likely) speech frame, bad CRC (or
estimated to be very bad by the RX part of the AN ) 011 **SPARE** Spare 100
**POST0** This SID-frame marks the beginning of a comfort noise period. 101
**POST1** Correct SID update frame 110 **POST1_BAD** Corrupt SID update frame
(bad CRC; applicable only for POST1 frames) 111 **NO_DATA** Nothing useable
was received. The synthesis mode of the previous frame type is used.
* * *
# E.3 SID information format
When the TX SCR Handler is ordered by the network to operate in PDC-EFR mode
with SCR turned on the SID_UPDATE frame format is according to ARIB TBD (134
bits).
#