# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present Technical Specification outlines the Codec Lists in 3GPP including
both systems, GSM and UMTS, to be used by the Out of Band Transcoder Control
(OoBTC) protocol to set up a call or modify a call in **Tr** anscoder **F**
ree **O** peration (TrFO) and in \"transcoder at the edge\" scenarios.
The TS also specifies the SDP description of 3GPP Codecs to be used within a
SIP-I -based circuit switched core network as specifies in 3GPP TS 23.231
[14].
The TS further specifies the coding of the Supported Codec List Information
Elements for the UMTS radio access technology.
The TS further reserves the Code Point for the CSData (dummy) Codec Type for
the negotiation of A-Interface Type and the RTP redundancy for CS Data and Fax
services, see 3GPP TS 48.008 [23].
The Supported Codec List IE includes Codec_Types from the TDMA and PDC
systems, to support TFO or TrFO between UMTS and TDMA, or UMTS and PDC.
# 2 Normative references
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 26.090: \"AMR Speech Codec; Speech Transcoding Functions\".
[2] 3GPP TS 26.093: \"AMR Speech Codec; Source Controlled Rate Operation\".
[3] 3GPP TS 26.101: \"Mandatory Speech Codec Speech Processing Functions; AMR
Speech Codec Frame Structure\".
[4] 3GPP 46.0xx: \"Enhanced Full Rate Codec Recommendations\".
[5] 3GPP 26.0xx: \"Adaptive Multi-Rate Codec Recommendations\".
[6] \"ITU Q.765.5: \"Use of Application Transport Mechanism for Bearer
Independent Call Control\"
[7] 3GPP TS 28.062: \"In-band Tandem Free Operation (TFO) of Speech Codecs,
Stage 3 - Service Description\".
[8] 3GPP TS 23.153: \"Out of Band Transcoder Control - Stage 2\".
[9] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 specifications, Core
Network Protocols\"
[10] 3GPP TS 26.190: \"AMR Wideband Speech Codec; Speech Transcoding
Functions\".
[11] 3GPP TS 26.193: \"AMR Wideband Speech Codec; Source Controlled Rate
Operation\".
[12] 3GPP TS 26.201: \"Mandatory Speech Codec Speech Processing Functions; AMR
Wideband Speech Codec Frame Structure\".
[13] 3GPP TS 23.172: \"CS multimedia service UDI/RDI fallback and service
modification; Stage 2\".
[14] 3GPP TS 23.231: \"SIP-I based circuit-switched core network; Stage 2\".
[15] 3GPP TS 29.007: \"General requirements on interworking between the Public
Land Mobile Network (PLMN) and the Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN)
or Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN)\".
[16] IETF RFC 3264 (2002): \"An Offer/Answer Model with the Session
Description Protocol (SDP)\", J. Rosenberg and H. Schulzrinne.
[17] IETF RFC 3551 (2003): \"RTP Profile for Audio and Video Conferences with
Minimal Control\", H. Schulzrinne and S. Casner.
[18] void
[19] IETF RFC 4566 (2006): \"SDP: Session Description Protocol\", M. Handley,
V. Jacobson and C. Perkins.
[20] IETF RFC 4733 (2006): \"RTP Payload for DTMF Digits, Telephony Tones, and
Telephony Signals\", H. Schulzrinne and T.Taylor.
[21] IETF RFC 4867 (2007): \"RTP Payload Format and File Storage Format for
the Adaptive Multi-Rate (AMR) and Adaptive Multi-Rate Wideband (AMR-WB) Audio
Codecs\", J. Sjoberg, M. Westerlund, A. Lakaniemi and Q. Xie.
[22] IETF RFC 5993 (2010) \"RTP Payload Format for Global System for Mobile
Communications Half Rate (GSM-HR)\".
[23] 3GPP TS 48.008: \"Mobile Switching Centre - Base Station System (MSC-BSS)
interface\".
[24] 3GPP TS 26.102: \"Adaptive Multi-Rate (AMR) speech codec; Interface to
Iu, Uu and Nb\".\".
[25] 3GPP TS 26.441: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); General
overview\".
[26] 3GPP TS 26.442: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); ANSI C code
(fixed-point)\".
[27] 3GPP TS 26.443: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); ANSI C code
(floating-point)\".
[28] 3GPP TS 26.444: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Test
Sequences\".
[29] 3GPP TS 26.445: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Detailed
algorithmic description\".
[30] 3GPP TS 26.446: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Adaptive
Multi-Rate - Wideband (AMR-WB) backward compatible functions\".
[31] 3GPP TS 26.447: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Error
concealment of lost packets\".
[32] 3GPP TS 26.448: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Jitter buffer
management\".
[33] 3GPP TS 26.449: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Comfort Noise
Generation (CNG) aspects\".
[34] 3GPP TS 26.450: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Discontinuous
Transmission (DTX)\".
[35] 3GPP TS 26.451: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Voice Activity
Detection (VAD)\".
[36] 3GPP TR 26.952: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Performance
Characterization\".
[37] 3GPP TS 26.453: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Speech codec
frame structure\".
[38] 3GPP TS 26.454: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Interface to
Iu, Uu, Nb and Mb\".
[39] 3GPP TS 29.163: \"Interworking between the IP Multimedia (IM) Core
Network (CN) subsystem and Circuit Switched (CS) networks\".
# 3 Definitions and Abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
**Codec Type** : defines a specific type of a speech Coding algorithm, applied
on a specific radio access technology (e.g. GSM FR, (GSM) FR AMR).
**Codec Mode** : defines a specific mode of a Codec Type (e.g. 12,2 kBit/s
Mode of the (GSM) FR AMR).
**Codec Configuration:** defines a specific set of attributes to a certain
Codec Type (e.g. the combination of ACS and DTX=\"on\" for (GSM) FR AMR).
**Organisation Identifier (OID):** Identifies the standard organisation (e.g.
3GPP) producing a specification for a Codec List. ITU-T is responsible for
maintaining the list of Organisation Identifiers.
**System Identifier (SysID)** : Identifies the radio access technology (e.g.
GSM or UMTS) for which the supported Codec List is defined.
Other definitions are given in TS 23.153 [8].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
ACS Active Codec (mode) Set
AoIP A-Interface User Plane over IP
BWM BandWidth Multiplier
CMR Codec Mode Request (for AMR and AMR-WB)
CoID Codec IDentifier
CS Circuit Switched
CSData Circuit Switched Data and Fax dummy Codec
DTX Discontinuous Transmission (of speech and audio signals, synonym to SCR)
EVS Enhanced Voice Services
EVS-CMR Codec Mode Request for EVS
FB Fullband (audio bandwidth)
GSM Global System for Mobile communication
MuMe Multi-Media
NB Narrowband (audio bandwidth)
NboIP Nb-Interface User Plane transport over IP in a SIP-I -based network
OID Organisation IDentifier (e.g. ITU-T, 3GPP)
OoBTC Out of Band Transcoder Control
PDC Personal Digital Communication (synonym for ...)
RX Receive
SCR Source Controlled Rate operation (synonym to DTX )
SID Silence Descriptor
SWB Super Wideband (audio bandwidth)
SysID System Identifier
TDMA Time Division Multiple Access (synonym for ...)
TFO **T** andem **F** ree **O** peration\ (also sometimes called \"Transcoder-
Through\" or \"Codec-Bypass\")
TrFO **Tr** anscoder **F** ree **O** peration
TX Transmit
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System
WB Wideband (audio bandwidth)
# 4 General
The present Technical Specification (TS) outlines the 3GPP internal Codec
Lists for both, GSM and UMTS, to be used by the Out of Band Transcoder Control
(OoBTC) protocol a BICC-based Circuit Switched Core Network to set up a call
or modify a call in Transcoder Free Operation (TrFO). The Codec List is also
used in the Codec Negotiation for the A-Interface User Plane over IP (AoIP),
see 3GPP TS 48.008 [23].
The TS specifies the SDP parameters for the 3GPP Codecs for OoBTC in a SIP-I
-based Circuit Switched Core Network, see 3GPP TS 23.231 [14].
The TS further specifies the coding of the Supported Codec List Information
Elements as defined in 3GPP TS 24.008 for the UMTS radio access technology.
Transcoder Free Operation allows the transport of speech signals in the coded
domain from one user equipment (UE) to the other user equipment through the
radio access network (RAN) and core network (CN), possibly through a transit
network (TN). This enables high speech quality, low transmission costs and
high flexibility.
The necessary Codec Type selection and resource allocation are negotiated out
of band [before]{.underline} and after call setup. Possible Codec
(re-)configuration, Rate Control and DTX signalling may be performed after
call setup by additional inband signalling or a combination of inband and out-
of-band signalling.
Up to release \'99 GSM does not support Transcoder Free Operation, but
specifies the Tandem Free Operation (TFO).\ Tandem Free Operation enables
similar advantages, but is based on pure inband signalling [after]{.underline}
call setup.\ The parameters defined in this Technical Specification allow
interaction between TrFO and TFO. They further provide an evolutionary path
for GSM towards Transcoder Free Operation.
The GERAN and UTRAN standards define fourteen different Speech Codec Types,
see table 4.1.
In addition to these Speech Codec Types some \"dummy\" Codec Types are defined
to support the negotiation for data, fax and multimedia applications.
Table 4.1: Support of Codec Types in Radio Access Technologies
* * *
              TDMA EFR      UMTS\               UMTS AMR              (GSM)\        (GSM)\        GSM EFR       GSM\          GSM\
                            AMR 2                                     HR AMR        FR AMR                      HR            FR
CoID 0x07 0x06 0x05 0x04 0x03 0x02 0x01 0x00
**GERAN\ not defined not possible not possible yes,\ yes,\ yes yes yes GMSK**
1..4 modi 1..4 modi
**GERAN\ not defined not possible not possible not defined not defined not
defined not defined not defined 8PSK**
**UTRAN** not defined yes,\ R99, UTRAN-only UEs not defined not defined not
defined not defined not defined 1..8 modi\  
1..4 modi recomm.
* * *
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Codec | UM | OHR\ | OFR\ | OHR\ | UMTS\ | FR\ | PDC | | | Exte | TSEVS | A | A | AMR | A | A | EFR | | | nsion | | MR-WB | MR-WB | | MR-WB | MR-WB | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | CoID | 0x0F | 0x0E | 0X0D | 0x0C | 0x0B | 0x0A | 0x09 | 0x08 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **G | res | not | not | not | not | not | yes3 | not | | ERAN\ | erved | de | de | de | de | pos | modi | de | | G | | fined | fined | fined | fined | sible | | fined | | MSK** | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **G | res | not |** y | **y | ** | not | not | not | | ERAN\ | erved | de | es,** | es,**| yes,\ | pos | de | de | | 8 | | fined | | | 1..4 | sible | fined | fined | | PSK** | | | **3 |** 3 | m | | | | | | | | m | m | odi**| | | | | | | | odi** | odi**| | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ |** UT | res | yes | not | not | not | yes\ | not | not | | RAN** | erved | | de | de | de | 3..4 | de | de | | | | | fined | fined | fined | modi | fined | fined | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
CoID is reprinted here in hexadecimal notation. It is defined in section 5.
Up to date the following Code Points are defined:
Table 4.2. Defined Code Points
* * *
Hexadecimal Notation Binary\ Codec Name Remark Notation
0x00h 0x0000.0000 GSM_FR
0x01h 0x0000.0001 GSM_HR
0x02h 0x0000.0010 GSM_EFR
0x03h 0x0000.0011 (GSM) FR_AMR
0x04h 0x0000.0100 (GSM) HR_AMR
0x05h 0x0000.0101 UMTS_AMR
0x06h 0x0000.0110 UMTS_AMR2
0x07h 0x0000.0111 TDMA_EFR
0x08h 0x0000.1000 PDC_EFR
0x09h 0x0000.1001 (GSM) FR_AMR-WB
0x0Ah 0x0000.1010 UMTS_AMR-WB
0x0Bh 0x0000.1011 OHR_AMR
0x0Ch 0x0000.1100 OFR_AMR-WB
0x0Dh 0x0000.1101 OHR_AMR-WB
0x0Eh 0x0000.1110 UMTS_EVS
0x0Fh 0x0000.1111 Codec Extension For AoIP and TFO
0x10h ... 0xFCh 0x0001.0000 ...\ Spare, for future use  
0x1111.1100
0xFDh 0x1111.1101 CSData For AoIP only
0xFEh 0x1111.1110 MuMe2 For OoBTC only
0xFFh 0x1111.1111 MuMe For OoBTC only
* * *
# 5 3GPP Codec List for OoBTC in a BICC-based Circuit Switched Core Network
and for AoIP
The definition of the common Codec List for Out of Band Transcoder Control
(3GPP TS 23.153, [8]) in 3GPP for GSM and UMTS follows the specifications
given in ITU Q.765.5: The most preferred Codec Type is listed first, followed
by the second preferred one, and so on. An informative example for a codec
list for UMTS can be found in Annex A.
The Codec IDentification codes (CoIDs) are specified in two versions: the long
form (8 bits) for the use in OoBTC and the short form (the 4 LSBs of the long
form) for the use in TFO and AoIP.
## 5.1 GSM Full Rate Codec Type (GSM FR)
The Codec IDentification (CoID) code is defined to be: FR_CoID := 0x0000.0000.
The GSM Full Rate Codec Type has no additional parameters.
[For information]{.underline} (for exact details see GSM Recommendations):
The GSM Full Rate Codec Type supports one fixed Codec Mode with 13.0 kBit/s.
DTX may be enabled in uplink and in downlink independently of each other. DTX
on or off is defined by the network on a cell basis and can not be negotiated
at call setup or during the call. The DTX scheme uses one SID frame to mark
the end of a speech burst and to start Comfort Noise Generation. Identical SID
frames for comfort noise updates are sent in speech pauses about every 480 ms,
aligned with the cell\'s TDMA frame structure. The defined Tandem Free
Operation allows the reception of GSM FR DTX information for the downlink
direction in all cases. The TFO respectively TrFO partner is prepared to
receive DTX information as well.
## 5.2 GSM Half Rate Codec Type (GSM HR)
The Codec IDentification (CoID) code is defined to be: HR_CoID := 0x0000.0001.
The GSM Half Rate Codec Type has no additional parameters.
[For information]{.underline} (for exact details see GSM Recommendations):
The GSM Half Rate Codec Type supports one fixed Codec Mode with 5.60 kBit/s.
DTX may be enabled in uplink and in downlink independently of each other. DTX
on or off is defined by the network on a cell basis and can not be negotiated
at call setup or during the call. The DTX scheme uses one SID frame to mark
the end of a speech burst and to start Comfort Noise Generation. Identical SID
frames for comfort noise updates are sent in speech pauses about every 480 ms,
aligned with the cell\'s TDMA frame structure. The defined Tandem Free
Operation allows the reception of GSM HR DTX information for the downlink
direction in all cases. The TFO respectively TrFO partner shall be prepared to
receive DTX information as well.
## 5.3 GSM Enhanced Full Rate Codec Type (GSM EFR)
The Codec IDentification (CoID) code is defined to be: EFR_CoID :=
0x0000.0010.
The GSM Enhanced Full Rate Codec Type has no additional parameters.
[For information]{.underline} (for exact details see GSM Recommendations):
The GSM Enhanced Full Rate Codec Type supports one fixed Codec Mode with 12.2
kBit/s.
DTX may be enabled in uplink and in downlink independently of each other. DTX
on or off is defined by the network on a cell basis and can not be negotiated
at call setup or during the call. The DTX scheme uses one SID frame to mark
the end of a speech burst and to start Comfort Noise Generation. It is
important to note that the Comfort Noise parameters for this start of the
comfort noise generation are calculated at transmitter side from the previous
eight speech frames. A DTX hangover period needs to be applied therefore at
transmitter side before sending the first SID frame. SID frames with
incremental information for comfort noise updates are sent in speech pauses
about every 480 ms, aligned with the cell\'s TDMA frame structure. The defined
Tandem Free Operation allows the reception of GSM EFR DTX information for the
downlink direction in all cases. The TFO respectively TrFO partner shall be
prepared to receive DTX information as well.
## 5.4 Five Adaptive Multi-Rate Codec Types (FR AMR, HR AMR, UMTS AMR, UMTS
AMR2, OHR AMR)
The Adaptive Multi-Rate Codec algorithm is applied in GERAN-GMSK, GERAN-8PSK
and UTRAN in five different Codec Types.\ The Codec IDentification (CoID)
codes are defined to be:\ FR_AMR_CoID := 0x0000.0011.
HR_AMR_CoID := 0x0000.0100.
UMTS_AMR_CoID := 0x0000.0101.
UMTS_AMR_2_CoID := 0x0000.0110.
OHR_AMR_CoID := 0x0000.1011.
The AMR Codec Types can be used in conversational speech telephony services in
a number of different configurations. The set of preferred configurations is
defined in TS 28.062, Table 7.11.3.1.3-2. One of these preferred
configurations, Config-NB-Code 1, is recommended for TFO-TrFO harmonisation
between GSM and UMTS networks, it is mandatory for an AoIP-supporting BSS, see
3GPP TS 48.008 [23], an AoIP-supporting BICC-based Circuit Switched Core
Network and for any SIP-I -based Circuit Switched Core Network .
The Single Codec Information Element for AMR Codec Types may have several
additional parameters. These parameters are optional in the Supported Codec
List (BICC) and in the Available Codec List (BICC), but these parameters shall
specify exactly one AMR Configuration for the Selected Codec (BICC), see [8].
**Active Codec Set, ACS:** eight bits.\ Each bit corresponds to one AMR Mode.
Setting the bit to \"1\" means the mode is included, setting the bit to \"0\"
means the mode is not included in the ACS.\ Note: Except for HR_AMR all eight
AMR modes may be selected, for the HR_AMR only the six lower modes.
**Supported Codec Set, SCS:** eight bits.\ Each bit corresponds to one AMR
Mode, as in the ACS. Setting the bit to \"1\" means the mode is supported,
setting the bit to \"0\" means the mode is not supported. The SCS shall at
least contain all modes of the ACS.
**Maximal number of codec modes in the ACS, MACS:** three bits.\ MACS shall be
used in the Supported Codec List (BICC) and the Available Codec List (BICC),
when it is necessary to restrict the maximum number of modes for the (future)
Selected Codec (BICC).
For FR AMR, HR AMR and OHR AMR one up to four, for the UMTS AMR and UMTS AMR2
one up to eight Codec Modes are allowed.
Coding: \"001\": one, \"010\": two, ... \"111\": seven, \"000\": eight Codec
Modes allowed.
**Optimisation Mode for ACS, OM:** one bit.\ OM indicates, whether the sending
side supports the modification (optimisation) of its offered ACS for the needs
of the distant side.\ Coding: \"0\": Optimisation of the ACS not supported,
\"1\": Optimisation of the ACS supported.\ If OM is specified as
\"Optimisation of the ACS not supported\", then SCS and MACS have no meaning
for this Single Codec Information Element; then the SCS shall at least contain
all modes of the offered ACS; MACS shall be equal to or larger than the number
of modes in the offered ACS.
**Usage of this Single Codec Information Element in OoBTC.**
In the Single Codec Information Element for the [Selected Codec
(BICC)]{.underline} the ACS shall be specified exactly.
For FR AMR, HR_AMR and OHR AMR at least one, but not more than four modes
shall be included.\ For UMTS AMR and UMTS AMR2 at least one, but not more than
four modes should be included.\ OM shall be set to \"Optimisation of the ACS
not supported\".
In the Single Codec Information Element for the Supported Codec List (BICC)
and the Available Codec List (BICC) one of the following codings shall be used
  * either all parameters (ACS, SCS, MACS and OM) are omitted.\ Then per default all possible AMR modes shall be treated as included in ACS and SCS, MACS shall be treated as set to its allowed maximum and OM shall be treated as set to \"Optimisation of the ACS supported\".
  * or only the ACS is specified:\ Then per default all possible AMR modes shall be treated as included in the SCS, MACS shall be treated as set to its allowed maximum and OM shall be treated as set to \"Optimisation of the ACS supported\".
  * or ACS and SCS are specified.\ Then per default MACS shall be treated as set to its allowed maximum and OM shall be treated as set to \"Optimisation of the ACS supported\".
  * or all parameters (ACS, SCS, MACS and OM) are specified.
**Procedures in OoBTC\** The procedures for handling of these Single Codec
Information Element in the originating, intermediate and terminating nodes are
specified in TS 23.153 [8].
The \"Single Codec\" information element consists of 5 to 8 octets in case of
the AMR Codec Types (table 5.4):
Table 5.4: Coding of \"Single Codec\" for the Adaptive Multi-Rate Codec Types
* * *
Octet Parameter MSB 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 LSB 1 m Single Codec Single Codec (see
ITU-T Q.765.5)  
2 m Length Indication 3, 4, 5, 6  
3 m Compat. Info Compatibility Information  
4 m OID ETSI OID (See ITU-T Q.765.5 [6])  
5 m CoID FR_AMR_CoID, HR_AMR_CoID, UMTS_AMR_CoID, UMTS_AMR_2_CoID, OHR_AMR-
CoID  
6 o ACS 12.2 10.2 7.95 7.40 6.70 5.90 5.15 4.75 7 o SCS 12.2 10.2 7.95 7.40
6.70 5.90 5.15 4.75 8 o OM, MACS (spare) (spare) (spare) (spare) OM MACS
* * *
[ with \"m\" = mandatory and \"o\" = optional]{.underline}
[For information]{.underline} on GSM procedures (for exact details see GSM
Recommendations):
The GSM AMR Codec Types comprise eight (Full Rate), respectively six (Half
Rate) different Codec Modes:\ 12,2 ... 4,75 kBit/s.
The active Codec Mode is selected from the Active Codec Set (ACS) by the
network (Codec Mode Command) with assistance by the mobile station (Codec Mode
Request). This Codec Mode Adaptation, also termed Rate Control, can be
performed every 40 ms by going one Codec Mode up or down within the ACS. The
Codec Modes in uplink and downlink at one radio leg may be different. In
Tandem Free Operation both radio legs (A and B) are considered for the optimal
selection of the active Codec Mode in each direction (uplink A and then
downlink B, respectively vice versa) by the \"Distributed Rate Decision\"
algorithm. The worst of both radio legs determines the highest allowed Codec
Mode, respectively the maximally allowed rate (\"Maximum Rate Control\"). All
rate control commands are transmitted inband: on the radio interface, the BTS-
TRAU interface and the TRAU-TRAU interface.
The Active Codec Set is configured at call setup or reconfigured during the
call. It consists of one up to maximally four Codec Modes (MACS) at a given
time, selected from the Supported Codec Set. The maximal number of Codec Modes
and the Supported Codec Set may be constrained by the network to consider
resources and radio conditions.\ The Active Codec Sets in uplink and downlink
are identical.\ First, at start up of Tandem Free Operation, Active Codec
Sets, the Supported Codec Sets, the MACSs and the OMs are taken into account
to determine the optimal common Active Codec Set. In a later phase the Codec
Lists of both radio legs may be taken into account to find the optimum
configuration. For exact details see 3GPP TS 28.062. All configuration data
and update protocols are transmitted inband.
The DTX scheme of the Adaptive Multi-Rate Codec Type marks with a specific
SID_FIRST frame the end of a speech burst. SID_FIRST does not contain Comfort
Noise parameters. This SID_FIRST starts the comfort noise generation with
parameters that are calculated at receiver side (!) from the latest received
seven speech frames. A DTX hangover period needs to be applied therefore at
transmitter side before sending of this SID_FIRST.\ [Absolutely
coded]{.underline} SID_UPDATE frames follow about every eighth frame (160 ms)
in speech pauses. SID_UPDATE frames are sent independently of the cell\'s TDMA
frame structure and are related only to the source signal.\ An ONSET frame
(typically) precedes in uplink direction the beginning of a new speech burst.
DTX on or off is defined by the network on a cell basis. The defined Tandem
Free Operation allows the reception of GSM-AMR DTX information for the
downlink direction in all cases.
Note: The DTX scheme of the Enhanced Full Rate Codec Type is not compatible
with the DTX scheme of the Adaptive Multi-Rate Codec Type in Codec Mode 12.2
kBit/s, although the speech modes of these two Codec Types are bit exact
identical.
**[Informative]{.underline} for** **terminals of R99 that support only UTRAN
access** (**[\"UTRAN-only\" terminals]{.underline}**):\ UTRAN-only terminals
of R99 may either use UMTS AMR or UMTS AMR2 as default speech version in UTRAN
access.
**[Normative]{.underline} for** **terminals that support GSM and UTRAN radio
access** (\"**[dual-mode\" terminals]{.underline}**):\ Dual-mode terminals of
R99 and onwards shall use the UMTS AMR2 as the default speech version in UTRAN
access.\ They need not to support the UMTS AMR, because the UMTS AMR2 in
terminals is a fully compatible replacement.
**[Normative for all UMTS terminals of REL-4 and onwards:]{.underline} The U**
MTS AMR2 shall be the default speech version in UTRAN access in all terminals,
UTRAN-only and dual-mode (GSM and UTRAN) of REL-4 and onwards.
[For information]{.underline} on [UMTS]{.underline} procedures (for exact
details see 3GPP TS 28.062 (TFO) and 3GPP TS 23.153 (TrFO)):
The active Codec Mode is selected from the Active Codec Set (ACS) by the
network. This Codec Mode Adaptation, also termed Rate Control, can be
performed for the UMTS AMR every 20 ms by going to another Codec Mode within
the ACS. For the UMTS AMR 2 this Codec Mode Adaptation can be performed every
20ms for the downlink traffic channel, but only every 40ms for the uplink
radio channel. The UE selects at call setup one of the two possible phases for
Codec Mode Adaptation (odd or even frames). During the call changes of the
Codec Mode in uplink direction are only allowed in this selected phase. Rate
Control commands received in downlink direction are considered at the next
possible phase.
By this definition the UMTS AMR 2 Codec Type is TFO and TrFO compatible to the
FR AMR, HR AMR, OHR AMR and UMTS AMR 2 Codec Types. In any multi-mode
configuration the UMTS_AMR shall be regarded as only compatible to itself, not
to any other AMR codec Type, to avoid incompatibilities in TFO-TrFO-TFO
interworking scenarios. In single mode configuration, UMTS AMR and UMTS AMR 2
are compatible, when both codec types use the same single rate ACS.
The Codec Modes in uplink and downlink at one radio leg may be different. In
Tandem Free Operation or Transcoder Free Operation both radio legs (A and B)
are considered for the optimal selection of the active Codec Mode in each
direction (uplink A and then downlink B, respectively vice versa) by a
\"Distributed Rate Decision\" algorithm. The worst of both radio legs
determine the highest allowed Codec Mode, respectively the maximally allowed
rate. All rate control commands are transmitted inband on the Iu and Nb
interfaces and out of band on the radio interface.
The Active Codec Set is configured at call setup or reconfigured during the
call. It consists of one up to maximally eight Codec Modes (MACS) at a given
time, selected from the Supported Codec Set. The maximal number of Codec Modes
and the Supported Codec Set may be constrained by the network to consider
resources and radio conditions.\ The Active Codec Sets in uplink and downlink
are typically identical.\ At call setup the Originating Side sends the AMR
parameter set (included in the Codec List). The Terminating side then selects
a suitable ACS from the given information and sends it back. In case the
terminating side does not support TrFO a transcoder is allocated in the path
at a suitable position, preferably as close as possible to the terminating
side. This transcoder may by inband signalling install a Tandem Free Operation
after call setup. Then, at start up of Tandem Free Operation, both Active
Codec Sets, the Supported Codec Sets, the MACSs and the OMs are taken into
account to determine the optimal common Active Codec Set. In a later phase the
Codec Lists of both radio legs may be taken into account to find the optimum
configuration. All configuration data and update protocols are transmitted
inband on the TFO interface, but out of band within the UMTS network. For
information on Tandem Free Operation see 3GPP TS 28.062 and on Transcoder Free
Operation see 3GPP TS 23.153.
The SCR scheme of the Adaptive Multi-Rate Codec Types mark with a specific
SID_FIRST frame the end of a speech burst. SID_FIRST does not contain Comfort
Noise parameters. This SID_FIRST starts the comfort noise generation with
parameters that are calculated at receiver side (!) from the latest received
seven speech frames. A DTX hangover period needs to be applied therefore at
transmitter side before sending of this SID_FIRST.\ [Absolutely
coded]{.underline} SID_UPDATE frames follow about every eighth frame (160 ms)
in speech pauses. SID_UPDATE frames are sent independently of the cell\'s
timing structure and are related only to the source signal.\ An ONSET frame
does (typically) not exist in UMTS networks, but may be received in TFO from
the distant partner. It marks the beginning of a speech burst. The uplink SCR
operation is always activated for UMTS AMR and UMTS AMR2 codec types. The
defined Tandem Free Operation and Transcoder Free Operation allows the
reception of AMR SCR information for the downlink direction in all cases.
The SCR scheme of the UMTS AMR2 Codec Type is fully compatible to the SCR
scheme of the UMTS AMR in UMTS and the DTX schemes of the FR AMR, HR AMR and
OHR AMR Codec Types.
## 5.5 TDMA Enhanced Full Rate Codec Type (TDMA EFR)
The Codec IDentification (CoID) code is defined to be: TDMA_EFR_CoID :=
0x0000.0111.
The TDMA Enhanced Full Rate Codec Type has no additional parameters.
[For information]{.underline} (for exact details see TDMA Recommendations):
The TDMA Enhanced Full Rate Codec Type supports one fixed Codec Mode with 7.4
kBit/s. This codec mode is bit exact identical with AMR codec mode at 7.4
kBit/s.
In a TDMA system DTX may be enabled in uplink, but not in downlink. The DTX
scheme uses one SID frame to mark the end of a speech burst and to start or
continue Comfort Noise Generation.
The defined Tandem Free Operation allows the reception of TDMA EFR DTX
information for the downlink direction in all cases. In TDMA systems the
transcoder has to generate comfort noise in speech like frames to be sent
downlink.\ In UMTS the downlink DTX shall always be supported and the
transcoder can therefore stay transparently in TFO.
## 5.6 PDC Enhanced Full Rate Codec Type (PDC_EFR)
The Codec IDentification (CoID) code is defined to be: TDMA_EFR_CoID :=
0x0000.1000.
The PDC Enhanced Full Rate Codec Type has no additional parameters.
[For information]{.underline} (for exact details see PDC Recommendations):
The PDC Enhanced Full Rate Codec Type supports one fixed Codec Mode with 6.7
kBit/s. This codec mode is bit exact identical with AMR codec mode at 6.7
kBit/s.
In a PDC system DTX may be enabled in uplink, but not in downlink. The DTX
scheme uses one SID frame to mark the end of a speech burst and to start or
continue Comfort Noise Generation.
The Tandem Free Operation allows the reception of PDC EFR DTX information for
the downlink direction in all cases. In PDC systems the transcoder has to
generate comfort noise in speech like frames to be sent downlink.\ In UMTS the
downlink DTX shall always be supported and the transcoder can therefore stay
transparently in TFO.
## 5.7 Four Adaptive Multi-Rate Wideband Codec Types (FR AMR-WB, UMTS AMR-WB,
OFR AMR-WB, OHR AMR-WB)
The Adaptive Multi-Rate - WideBand Codec algorithm is applied in GERAN-GMSK,
GERAN-8PSK and UTRAN in four different Codec Types.\ The Codec IDentification
(CoID) codes are defined to be:\ FR_AMR-WB_CoID := 0x0000.1001.\ UMTS_AMR-
WB_CoID := 0x0000.1010.\ OFR_AMR-WB_CoID := 0x0000.1100.\ OHR_AMR-WB_CoID :=
0x0000.1101.
The AMR-WB Codec Types can be used in conversational speech telephony services
in a number of different configurations. The set of allowed configurations is
defined in Table 5.7-1.
Table 5.7-1: Allowed Configurations for the Adaptive Multi-Rate -- Wideband
Codec Types
* * *
**Configuration →\** \ **\** \ **\** \ **\** \ **\** \ **\** \ **\** \ **\** \
**\ (Config-WB-Code)\ 0** 1**2** 3**4** 5**6** 7**8** 9**10** 11**12**
13**14** 15**\  
↓ Codec Mode**
**23,85** **1** **1**
**15,85** **1** **1**
**12,65** **1** **1** **1** **1** **1** **1**
**8,85** **1** **1** **1** **1** **1** **1**
**6,60** **1** **1** **1** **1** **1** **1**
**OM** **F** **A** **F** **A** **F** **A**
**FR_AMR-WB,\** \  
OHR_AMR-WB**Y**
**OFR_AMR-WB, UMTS_AMR-WB** **\** \ **\** \ **\** \  
Y**Y** Y**Y** Y**Y**
* * *
The \"1\" in the table indicates that the Codec Mode is included in the Active
Codec Set of the Configuration.\ \ The parameters \"OM\" (Optimisation Mode)
define whether the indicated Configuration can be changed to any of the other
[A]{.underline}llowed ones (OM == A) or if the change is
[F]{.underline}orbidden (OM == F).
The \"Y\" in the table indicates, which Configuration is defined for which
Codec Type.
Please note that Configurations 0 to 5 are immediately fully compatible with
respect to TFO/TrFO due to the specification of Maximum Rate Control.
Table 5.7-2 defines the Coding of the \"Single Codec\" information element for
the AMR-WB Codec Types.
Table 5.7-2: Coding of \"Single Codec\" for the Adaptive Multi-Rate - WideBand
Codec Types
* * *
Octet Parameter MSB 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 LSB
1 m Single Codec Single Codec (see ITU-T Q.765.5)
2 m Length Indication 4
3 m Compat. Info Compatibility Information
4 m OID ETSI OID (See ITU-T Q.765.5 [6])
5 m CoID FR_AMR-WB_CoID or UMTS_AMR-WB_CoID or\  
OHR_AMR-WB_CoID or OFR_AMR-WB_CoID
6 m Config-WB (spare) (spare) (spare) (spare) Config-WB-Code
* * *
[with \"m\" = mandatory]{.underline}
An AMR-WB speech telephony service is only possible when the whole path allows
a digitally transparent transport of the AMR-WB speech parameters end to end.
[Normative for GERAN]{.underline} terminals for FR_AMR-WB, OHR_AMR-WB and
OFR_AMR-WB.\ If a GERAN terminal offers one of these Codec Types in the
capability list, then all AMR-WB Configurations that are defined for the
offered Codec Type shall be supported by this terminal.
[Normative for GERAN]{.underline} infrastructure for FR_AMR-WB, OHR_AMR-WB and
OFR_AMR-WB.\ If a GERAN infrastructure supports one of these Codec Types, then
at least AMR-WB Configuration 0 shall be supported. The other AMR-WB
Configurations are not normative, but optional for OFR_AMR-WB.
[For information]{.underline} on [GERAN]{.underline} A/Gb mode procedures for
FR_AMR-WB, OHR_AMR-WB and OFR_AMR-WB (for exact details see GSM
Recommendations):
The active Codec Mode is selected from the Active Codec Set (ACS) by the
network (Codec Mode Command) with assistance by the mobile station (Codec Mode
Request). This Codec Mode Adaptation, also termed Rate Control, can be
performed every 40 ms by going one Codec Mode up or down within the ACS. The
Codec Modes in uplink and downlink at one radio leg may be different. In
Tandem Free Operation both radio legs (A and B) are considered for the optimal
selection of the active Codec Mode in each direction (uplink A and then
downlink B, respectively vice versa) by the \"Distributed Rate Decision\"
algorithm. The worst of both radio legs determines the highest allowed Codec
Mode, respectively the maximally allowed rate (\"Maximum Rate Control\"). All
rate control commands are transmitted inband: on the radio interface, the BTS-
TRAU interface and the TRAU-TRAU interface.
The Active Codec Set is configured at call setup or reconfigured during the
call. It consists of three or four Codec Modes at a given time, selected from
the set of allowed Configurations. The selection of the Configuration may be
constrained by the network to consider resources and radio conditions.\ The
configurations (Active Codec Sets) in uplink and downlink are identical.
First, at start up of Tandem Free Operation both Active Codec Sets are taken
into account to determine the common Active Codec Set. The set of allowed AMR-
WB configurations guarantees that WB-TFO is always possible. In a later phase
the Codec Lists of both radio legs may be taken into account to find the
optimum configuration. For exact details see 3GPP TS 28.062. All configuration
data and update protocols are transmitted inband.
The DTX scheme of the Adaptive Multi-Rate Wideband Codec Type marks with a
specific SID_FIRST frame the end of a speech burst. SID_FIRST does not contain
Comfort Noise parameters. This SID_FIRST starts the comfort noise generation
with parameters that are calculated at receiver side from the latest received
seven speech frames. A DTX hangover period needs to be applied therefore at
transmitter side before sending of this SID_FIRST.\ [Absolutely
coded]{.underline} SID_UPDATE frames follow about every eighth frame (160 ms)
in speech pauses. SID_UPDATE frames are sent independently of the cell\'s TDMA
frame structure and are related only to the source signal.\ An ONSET frame
(typically) precedes in uplink direction the beginning of a new speech burst.
DTX on or off is defined by the network on a cell basis. The defined Tandem
Free Operation allows the reception of FR AMR-WB DTX information for the
downlink direction in all cases.
[Normative for UTRAN]{.underline} terminals for UMTS_AMR-WB.\ If an UTRAN
terminal offers Codec Type UMTS_AMR-WB in the capability list, then all
allowed AMR-WB Configurations shall be supported by this terminal.
[Normative for UTRAN]{.underline} infrastructures for UMTS_AMR-WB.\ If an
UTRAN infrastructure supports Codec Type UMTS_AMR-WB, then at least AMR-WB
Configuration 0 shall be supported. The other AMR-WB Configurations are not
normative, but optional.
[For information]{.underline} on [UMTS]{.underline} procedures for UMTS_AMR-WB
(for exact details see 3GPP TS 28.062 (TFO) and 3GPP TS 23.153 (TrFO):
The active Codec Mode is selected from the Active Codec Set (ACS) by the
network. This Codec Mode Adaptation, also termed Rate Control, can be
performed for the UMTS AMR-WB every 20 ms for the downlink traffic channel,
but only every 40ms for the uplink traffic channel by going to another Codec
Mode within the ACS. The UE selects at call setup one of the two possible
phases for Codec Mode Adaptation (odd or even frames). During the call changes
of the Codec Mode in uplink direction are only allowed in this selected phase.
Rate Control commands received in downlink direction are considered at the
next possible phase. By this definition the UMTS AMR-WB Codec Type is TFO and
TrFO compatible to the FR AMR-WB, the OHR_AMR-WB and OFR AMR-WB and the UMTS
AMR-WB Codec Types.
The Codec Modes in uplink and downlink at one radio leg may be different. In
Tandem Free Operation or Transcoder Free Operation both radio legs (A and B)
are considered for the optimal selection of the active Codec Mode in each
direction (uplink A and then downlink B, respectively vice versa) by a
\"Distributed Rate Decision\" algorithm. The worst of both radio legs
determine the highest allowed Codec Mode, respectively the maximally allowed
rate. All rate control commands are transmitted inband on the Iu and Nb
interfaces and out of band on the radio interface.
The Active Codec Set is selected at call setup or reselected during the call.
It consists of three or four Codec Modes at a given time, selected from the
allowed configurations. The selection of the configuration may be constrained
by the network to consider resources and radio conditions.\ The Active Codec
Sets in uplink and downlink are typically identical.
At call setup with TrFO negotiation the Originating Side sends its preferred
AMR-WB configuration and indicates whether it allows a change of this
preferred configuration or not (included in the Codec List). The Terminating
side then selects a suitable configuration from the given information and
sends it back. In case the terminating side does not support TrFO a transcoder
is allocated in the path at a suitable position, preferably as close as
possible to the terminating side. This transcoder may by inband signalling
install a Tandem Free Operation after call setup. The set of allowed AMR-WB
configurations guarantees that WB-TFO is always possible. In a later phase the
Codec Lists of both radio legs may be taken into account to find the optimum
configuration. All configuration data and update protocols are transmitted
inband on the TFO interface, but out of band within the UMTS network. For
information on Tandem Free Operation see 3GPP TS 28.062 and on Transcoder Free
Operation see 3GPP TS 23.153.
The SCR scheme of the Adaptive Multi-Rate WideBand Codec Types mark with a
specific SID_FIRST frame the end of a speech burst. SID_FIRST does not contain
Comfort Noise parameters. This SID_FIRST starts the comfort noise generation
with parameters that are calculated at receiver side from the latest received
seven speech frames. A DTX hangover period needs to be applied therefore at
transmitter side before sending of this SID_FIRST.\ [Absolutely
coded]{.underline} SID_UPDATE frames follow about every eighth frame (160 ms)
in speech pauses. SID_UPDATE frames are sent independently of the cell\'s
timing structure and are related only to the source signal.\ An ONSET frame
does (typically) not exist in UMTS networks, but may be received in TFO from
the distant partner. It marks the beginning of a speech burst. \"SCR on\" is
always defined by the network. The defined Tandem Free Operation and
Transcoder Free Operation allows the reception of AMR-WB SCR information for
the downlink direction in all cases.
The SCR scheme of the UMTS AMR-WB Codec Type is fully compatible to the DTX
schemes of FR AMR-WB, OHR AMR-WB and OFR AMR-WB.
The exact details of these Codec Types and their related procedures (DTX, Rate
Control, etc) are described in the respective standard documentation.
## 5.7A EVS Codec Type (UMTS_EVS)
The UMTS_EVS Codec Type [25]...[38] is applied in UTRAN and the CS core
network with the Codec IDentification (CoID) code as follows:\ UMTS_EVS_CoID
:= 0x0000.1110.
The UMTS_EVS Codec Type can be used in conversational speech telephony
services in a number of different configurations. These allowed configurations
for CS networks are defined in Table 5.7A-1.
The combination of the UMTS_EVS Codec Type with one of these allowed
configurations for CS networks is abbreviated with \"UMTS_EVS (Set x)\", e.g.
UMTS_EVS (Set 1).
Table 5.7A-1: Allowed Configurations for the UMTS_EVS Codec Type
* * *
Configuration→\ 0 1 2 3 (Config-EVS-Code or Set)\  
\  
↓Codec Rate (kbps)
Typical SF on downlink 256 128 64 128
EVS Primary 24.4 nb-fb
EVS Primary 16.4 nb-fb
EVS Primary 13.2 nb-swb nb-swb swb
EVS Primary 9.6 nb-swb nb-swb swb
EVS Primary 8 nb-wb nb-wb nb-wb
EVS Primary 7.2 nb-wb nb-wb nb-wb
EVS Primary 5.9VBR (NOTE 2) nb-wb nb-wb nb-wb
EVS Primary SID nb-wb nb-swb nb-fb swb
EVS AMR-WB IO 12.65 wb wb wb
EVS AMR-WB IO 8.85 wb wb wb
EVS AMR-WB IO 6.60 wb wb wb wb
EVS AMR-WB IO SID (NOTE 3) wb wb wb wb
* * *
NOTE 1: Every Speech or SID payload field is complemented by appending the
7-bit EVS-CMR field for Maximum Rate and Bandwidth Control. For details, see
TS 26.454 [38].
NOTE 2: From a transmission point of view, the EVS Primary 5.9 VBR mode of
operation includes three bit rates of 2.8, 7.2 and 8.0 kb/s to achieve the 5.9
kb/s average bit rate in active speech segments. Together with EVS Primary SID
in speech pauses and the EVS-CMR appended in every Speech and SID frame, the
total average net bit rate, assuming 40% speech pause and 60% active speech is
in the order of 4.4 kb/s.
Table 5.7A-2 defines the coding of the \"Single Codec\" information element
for the UMTS_EVS Codec Type in a BICC-based CS core network.
Table 5.7A-2: Coding of \"Single Codec\" for the UMTS_EVS Codec Type
* * *
Octet Parameter MSB 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 LSB 1 m Single Codec Single Codec (see
ITU-T Q.765.5)  
2 m Length Indication 4 or 5  
3 m Compat. Info Compatibility Information  
4 m OID ETSI OID (See ITU-T Q.765.5 [6])  
5 m CoID UMTS_EVS_CoID  
6 m Config-EVS (spare) (spare) (spare) (spare) Config-EVS-Code  
7 o Config-EVS2 (spare) (spare) (spare) (spare) Config-EVS-Code 2
* * *
m = mandatory; o = optional in the OoBTC Offer, not allowed in the OoBTC
Answer.
Config-EVS-Code has the following allowed values: 0, 1, 2, 3. Config-EVS-Code
2 has the following allowed values: 0, 1, 2. All other values are reserved for
future use.
If the originating MSC includes UMTS_EVS in the \"Supported Codec List\" of
the OoBTC Offer, see TS 23.153 [8], then it shall at least include one Bottom
Up Configuration (i.e. Set 2 or Set 1 or Set 0) and it may also include the
EVS-SWB Configuration (i.e. Set 3), as follows:
  * if only one EVS Configuration is included, it shall be a Bottom Up Configuration in octet Config-EVS1 and octet Config-EVS2 is not used;
  * if two EVS Configurations are included, the EVS-SWB Configuration shall be on first place (in octet Config-EVS1) and the Bottom Up Configuration on second place (in octet Config-EVS2).
The offered EVS Configuration(s) should reflect the wanted maximum rate at the
originating side.
An intermediate MSC (network), if present, may reduce the index of the Bottom
Up Configuration to a lower value, but shall not increase it to a higher one.
It shall not change the order of Configurations unless it removes the EVS-SWB
Configuration, because it cannot support the bit rates. The forwarded EVS
Configuration(s) should reflect the wanted maximum rate at the intermediate
node.
NOTE 3: An intermediate node may remove the UMTS_EVS completely.
If the terminating MSC (or terminating network) selects UMTS_EVS, then it
shall select and return exactly one Config-EVS-Code value in the OoBTC Answer
in octet Config-EVS1. The selected EVS Configuration should reflect the wanted
maximum rate at the originating (and intermediate, if present) and terminating
side.
The following Table 5.7A-3 defines the selection rules for the UMTS_EVS
Configuration.
Table 5.7A-3: Selection Rules for the UMTS_EVS Configuration
* * *
**UMTS_EVS Configuration** **Config-EVS-Code 1 + Config-EVS-Code 2\  
supported in the terminating MSC**
Config-EVS-Code 1 + Config-EVS-Code 2\ 2 3 + 2 1 3 + 1 0 3 + 0 received from
the originating side
2 2 2 1 1 0 0
3 + 2 2 3 1 3 0 3
1 1 1 1 1 0 0
3 + 1 1 3 1 3 0 3
0 0 0 0 0 0 0
3 + 0 0 3 0 3 0 3
* * *
The preference among the three Bottom Up Configurations (0, 1, 2) and the EVS-
SWB Configuration (3) is subject to operator policy.
**Example 1:** \ Operator 1 presets MSC 1 with UMTS_EVS (Set 3) + UMTS_EVS
(Set 1).\ Operator 2 presets MSC 2 with UMTS_EVS (Set 3) + UMTS_EVS (Set 2).\
The originating MSC 1 sends the offer UMTS_EVS (Set 3) + UMTS_EVS (Set 1).\
The intermediate nodes do not change that, so the received EVS Offer is the
same.\ The terminating MSC 2 determines the Selected Codec as UMTS_EVS (Set
3).\ In case the call is originated in MSC 2, the result is exactly the same.
**Example 2:** \ Operator 1 presets MSC 1 with UMTS_EVS (Set 2).\ Operator 2
presets MSC 2 with UMTS_EVS (Set 3) + UMTS_EVS (Set 2).\ The originating MSC 1
sends the offer UMTS_EVS (Set 2).\ The intermediate node changes Set 2 into
Set 1.\ The terminating MSC 2 determines the Selected Codec as UMTS_EVS (Set
1).\ In case the call is originated in MSC 2, the result is exactly the same.
NOTE 4: Assuming intermediate nodes are not present or do not modify the OoBTC
offer:\ if one or both MSCs prefer a Bottom Up Configuration (i.e. Set 2 or
Set 1 or Set 0), then the smaller of both Bottom Up Configurations is selected
end-to-end;\ if both MSCs prefer the EVS-SWB Configuration, then the EVS-SWB
Configuration is selected end-to-end.\ \ Transcoding between any of the Bottom
Up Configurations and the EVS-SWB Configuration would result in lower quality,
than the same Bottom Up Configuration end-to-end.\ \ This procedure guarantees
best possible voice quality without transcoding under the given constraints.
The call setup direction has no influence on the selected EVS Configuration.\
The procedure avoids overprovisioning as far as possible at call setup.
[]{.underline}
**Mandatory for UTRAN terminals supporting UMTS_EVS:** \ If an UTRAN terminal
offers Codec Type UMTS_EVS in the _Supported Codec List_ Information Element,
then all allowed EVS Configurations for CS networks shall be supported by this
UTRAN terminal. The UTRAN terminal shall always apply Discontinuous
Transmission (DTX) in uplink direction and shall accept in downlink direction
all received EVS Codec Modes and DTX.
NOTE 5: Mandatory EVS configurations for UTRAN and CS core network
infrastructures for UMTS_EVS are for further study.
NOTE 6: The rules for interworking on user plane between the allowed EVS
Configurations for CS networks and the other EVS Configurations (e.g. for
MTSI) are defined in TS 26.454 [38]. Also the rules for Maximum Rate and
Bandwidth Control in CS networks are defined in TS 26.454 [38].
## 5.8 MuMe Dummy Codec (3G.324M)
The Codec Identification (CoID) code is defined to be: MuMe_CoID:=
0x1111.1111.
The MuMe codec has one additional mandatory parameter:
**B/W Multiplier, BWM** : eight bits.
This defines the required bandwidth for the bearer; the value is a factor of
64K b/s when not equal to 0. When equal to zero then a 32k b/s.
The \"Single Codec\" information element consists of 6 octets in case of the
MuMe Dummy Codec (table 5.8):
Table 5.8: Coding of \"Single Codec\" for the MuMe Dummy Codec Type
* * *
Octet Parameter MSB 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 LSB 1 m Single Codec Single Codec (see
ITU-T Q.765.5)  
2 m Length Indication 4  
3 m Compat. Info Compatibility Information  
4 m OID ETSI OID (See ITU-T Q.765.5 [6])  
5 m CoID MuMe_CoID  
6 m BWM BandWidth Multiplier -- see note1
* * *
[with \"m\" = mandatory]{.underline}
**Note 1:**
BWM == 0 => 32Kb/s
BWM == 1-255 => factor n (multiplier of 64Kb/s)
The procedures for use of this codec are defined in TS 23.172 [13].
This MuMe Dummy codec type is only for use in Core Network OoBTC procedures it
shall NOT be used across the radio interface.
The MuMe Dummy codec indicates that an Unrestricted multimedia path (UDI) is
required, subsequent codec negotiation may occur within this path using MuMe
protocols, e.g. H.324M. There are no encoding properties or codec
specifications associated to this codec type; it is purely an indication for a
MuMe pipe.
## 5.9 MuMe2 Dummy Codec (3G.324M2)
The Codec Identification (CoID) code is defined to be: MuMe2_CoID:=
0x1111.1110. Otherwise, the Coding is identical to the MuME Dummy Codec
described in Clause 5.8.
The Procedural description provided for MuME Dummy Codec in Clause 5.8 is also
applicable for the MuMe2 Dummy Codec. The MuMe2 Dummy Codec is used in core
network procedures to indicate that a service change to multimedia was
indicated by the network. The procedures for use of this codec are defined in
TS 23.172 [13].
## 5.10 Codec Extension
The Codec Identification (CoID) code is defined to be: Codec_Extension_CoID:=
0x0000.1111 in the \"long form\" and 0x1111 = 0xFh in the \"short form\".
In TFO, see 3GPP TS 28.062 [7] and in AoIP, see 3GPP TS 48.008 [23] the Codec
Lists use in general the short form (4 bits) for the Codec Identifier. In
order to allow future extensions of this Codec Lists beyond 16 Codec Types the
\"Codec_Extension\" is defined. These Codec Lists may contain a certain CoID
in the range [0x0h, 0xEh] or they may contain the so called
\"Codec_Extension\" (0xFh), in which case the real Codec Type follows in the
next octet in its long form (8 bits).
## 5.11 CSData Dummy Codec (AoIP)
The Codec Identification (CoID) code is defined to be: CSData_CoID:=
0x1111.1101.
The CSData Dummy Codec has one mandatory parameter of one octet length, for
details see TS 48.008 [23].
[]{.underline}
# 6 Codec List for the Call Control Protocol
For call control on the air interface the Codec Lists need to be specified for
each radio access technology separately, because it can not be expected that
an UE supports the same Codec Types in different radio access technologies.
_3GPP TS 24.008_ [9] _defines the call control signalling and how to use the
\"Supported Codec List_ Information Element\" (IE). It contains Codec Lists
(in form of Codec Bitmaps) for each supported radio access technology
(identified by a SysID).
The coding of this is IE is given here. It is also used for TFO in 3GPP TS
28.062 [7].
## 6.1 System Identifiers for GSM and UMTS
The system identifiers for the radio access technologies supported by this
specification are:
SysID for GSM: 0x0000.0000 (bit 8 .. bit 1)
SysID for UMTS: 0x0000.0100 (bit 8 .. bit 1)
These values are selected in accordance with [7] (3GPP TS 28.062).
## 6.2 Codec Bitmap
The Codec Types are coded in the first and second octet of the Codec List
Bitmap as follows:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 bit 1  
TDMA EFR UMTS AMR 2 UMTS AMR HR AMR FR AMR GSM EFR GSM HR GSM FR Octet 1
* * *
* * *
bit 16 15 14 13 12 11 10 bit 9
(reserved) UMTS EVS OHR AMR-WB OFR AMR-WB OHR AMR UMTS AMR-WB FR\ PDC EFR
Octet 2 AMR-WB
* * *
A Codec Type is supported, if the corresponding bit is set to \"1\". All
reserved bits shall be set to \"0\".
## 6.3 Selected Codec Type
The Selected Codec Type in a BICC-based OoBTC negotiation is coded as shown in
Table 6.3-1. The same coding is used also in 3GPP TS 28.062 [7].
NOTE: UMTS_EVS codec type is not supported in TS 28.062 [7].
Table 6.3-1: Coding of the selected Codec_Type (long form)
+------------------+----------------------------+--------------------+ | **Bit 8...Bit 1\ |** Codec_Type**|** Name**| | CoID** | | | +------------------+----------------------------+--------------------+ | 0000.0000 | GSM Full Rate (13.0 | GSM FR | | | kBit/s) | | +------------------+----------------------------+--------------------+ | 0000.0001 | GSM Half Rate (5.6 kBit/s) | GSM HR | +------------------+----------------------------+--------------------+ | 0000.0010 | GSM Enhanced Full Rate | GSM EFR | | | (12.2 kBit/s) | | +------------------+----------------------------+--------------------+ | 0000.0011 | Full Rate Adaptive | FR AMR | | | Multi-Rate | | +------------------+----------------------------+--------------------+ | 0000.0100 | Half Rate Adaptive | HR AMR | | | Multi-Rate | | +------------------+----------------------------+--------------------+ | 0000.0101 | UMTS Adaptive Multi-Rate | UMTS AMR | +------------------+----------------------------+--------------------+ | 0000.0110 | UMTS Adaptive Multi-Rate 2 | UMTS AMR 2 | +------------------+----------------------------+--------------------+ | 0000.0111 | TDMA Enhanced Full Rate | TDMA EFR | | | (7.4 kBit/s) | | +------------------+----------------------------+--------------------+ | 0000.1000 | PDC Enhanced Full Rate | PDC EFR | | | (6.7 kBit/s) | | +------------------+----------------------------+--------------------+ | 0000.1001 | Full Rate Adaptive | FR AMR-WB | | | Multi-Rate WideBand | | +------------------+----------------------------+--------------------+ | 0000.1010 | UMTS Adaptive Multi-Rate | UMTS AMR-WB | | | WideBand | | +------------------+----------------------------+--------------------+ | 0000.1011 | 8PSK Half Rate Adaptive | OHR AMR | | | Multi-Rate | | +------------------+----------------------------+--------------------+ | 0000.1100 | 8PSK Full Rate Adaptive | OFR AMR-WB | | | Multi-Rate WideBand | | +------------------+----------------------------+--------------------+ | 0000.1101 | 8PSK Half Rate Adaptive | OHR AMR-WB | | | Multi-Rate WideBand | | +------------------+----------------------------+--------------------+ | 0000.1110 | UMTS Enhanced Voice | UMTS EVS | | | Services | | +------------------+----------------------------+--------------------+ | 0000.1111 | Reserved for | for AoIP and TFO,\ | | | Codec_Extension | not for OoBTC | +------------------+----------------------------+--------------------+ | Up to 1111.1100 | spare for future use | | +------------------+----------------------------+--------------------+ | 1111.1101 | Reserved for CSData dummy | for AoIP,\ | | | Codec Type | not for OoBTC | +------------------+----------------------------+--------------------+ | 1111.1110 | Reserved forMuMe2 dummy | MuMe2 | | | Codec Type | | | | | | | | NOTE: codec not to be used | | | | across radio interface. | | +------------------+----------------------------+--------------------+ | 1111.1111 | Reserved forMuMe dummy | MuMe | | | Codec Type | | | | | | | | NOTE: codec not to be used | | | | across radio interface. | | +------------------+----------------------------+--------------------+
# 7 3GPP Codecs for OoBTC in a SIP-I -based Circuit Switched Core Network
## 7.1 Overview
In a SIP-I -based Circuit Switched Core Network, as specified in 3GPP TS
23.231 [14], SDP (IETF RFC 4566 [19]) and SDP offer-answer procedures (IETF
RFC 3264 [16]) are applied for Out of Band Transcoder Control as specified in
3GPP TS 23.153 [8].
Table 7.1.1 lists the supported 3GPP Speech Codecs for a SIP-I -based Circuit
Switched Core Network.
Table 7.1.1 Supported 3GPP Codecs in a SIP-I -based Circuit Switched Core
Network
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | **Payload Type |** References**|** Remarks**|** Support**| | Name** | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | audio/AMR | IETF RFC 4867 | Applicable for | Mandatory. | | | [21] | FR_AMR, | | | | | HR_AMR, | Not all AMR | | | | OHR_AMR, | configurations | | | | UMTS_AMR and | are mandatory. | | | | UMTS_AMR2 | Some | | | | | configurations | | | | | are preferred, | | | | | see below. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | audio/AMR-WB | IETF RFC 4867 | Applicable for | Optional.\ | | | [21] | FR_AMR-WB, | AMR-WB is | | | | OHR_AMR-WB, | Mandatory if | | | | OFR_AMR-WB, | WB speech is | | | | UMTS_AMR-WB | supported. | | | | | | | | | | Not all WB | | | | | configurations | | | | | are mandatory, | | | | | see below | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | audio/EVS | TS 26.445 | Applicable for | Optional.\ | | | [29] | UMTS_EVS | UMTS_EVS is | | | | | Mandatory, if | | | | | SWB or even FB | | | | | speech is | | | | | supported. | | | | | | | | | | Not all | | | | | UMTS_EVS | | | | | configurations | | | | | are mandatory | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | audio/GSM-EFR | IETF RFC 3551 | Useful if an | Optional | | | [17] | A-interface | | | | | over IP is | | | | | attached or | | | | | TFO is used. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | audio/GSM-FR | IETF RFC 3551 | Useful if an | Optional | | | [17] | A-interface | | | | | over IP is | | | | | attached or | | | | | TFO is used. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | audio/GSM-HR | IETF RFC 5993 | Useful if an | Optional | | | [22] | A-interface | | | | | over IP is | | | | | attached. or | | | | | TFO is used | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | audio/PCMA | IETF RFC 3551 | ITU-TG.711, | Mandatory | | | [17] | Alaw | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | audio/PCMU | IETF RFC 3551 | ITU-T G.711, | Mandatory | | | [17] | ulaw | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | audio/t | IETF RFC 4733 | Used to | Mandatory | | elephone-event | [20] | transport DTMF | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
## 7.2 AMR
AMR (FR_AMR, HR_AMR, OHR_AMR, UMTS_AMR and UMTS_AMR2) shall be encoded in SDP
according to the MIME registration in IETF RFC 4867 [21]. The SDP offer-answer
related rules in this RFC apply.
The bandwidth efficient mode of RFC 4867 shall be used. To offer the
bandwidth-efficient mode, the octet-align parameter should be omitted in SDP.
The AMR Codec Types can be used in conversational speech telephony services in
a number of different configurations. Configuration related procedures in
Clause 5.4 shall be applied also within a SIP-I based CS CN. The set of
preferred configurations is defined in TS 28.062 [7], Table 7.11.3.1.3-2. The
configuration is encoded in SDP in the mode-set parameter.
One of these preferred configurations, **Config-NB-Code 1** , is recommended
for TFO-TrFO harmonisation between GSM and UMTS networks. This configuration
shall be supported in a SIP-I based circuit switched core network to ensure
interoperability with an AoIP-based BSS.
However, it is recommended that nodes in the core network (MSC-S and MGW)
support all AMR modes for maximum interoperability.
To offer the AMR codec in different configurations, the AMR codec may be
included several times with different configurations in an SDP m-line.
A core network node performing a transcoding free interworking towards an
A-Interface (TFO towards any A-Interface or TrFO towards an IP-based
A-Interface) shall provide the parameters \"mode-change-period=2\" and \"mode-
change-neighbour=1\" in offer or answer. The parameter \"mode-change-
capability=2\" shall be included by all other CS CN nodes in the offer to
ensure interoperability unless they received an offer from other nodes without
this parameter and do not transcode.
## 7.3 AMR-WB
AMR-WB (FR_AMR-WB, OHR_AMR-WB, OFR_AMR-WB, UMTS_AMR-WB) shall be encoded in
SDP according to the MIME registration in IETF RFC 4867 [21]. The SDP offer-
answer related rules in this RFC apply.
The bandwidth efficient mode of RFC 4867 shall be used. To offer the bandwith-
efficient mode, the octet-align parameter should be omitted in SDP.
The AMR-WB Codec Types can be used in conversational speech telephony services
in a number of different configurations. Configuration related procedures in
Clause 5.7 shall be applied also within a SIP-I based CS CN. The set of
configurations is defined in Table 5.7-1. The configuration is encoded in SDP
in the mode-set parameter.
One of these configurations, **Config-WB-Code** 0, shall be supported by all
nodes supporting the AMR-WB codec in a circuit switched core network to ensure
interoperability.
However, it is recommended that a node in the core network supports all AMR-WB
modes for maximum interoperability.
To offer the AMR-WB codec in different configurations, the AMR-WB codec may be
included several times with different configurations in an SDP m-line.
A core network node performing a transcoding free interworking towards an
A-Interface (TFO towards any A-Interface or TrFO towards an IP-based
A-Interface) shall provide the parameters \"mode-change-period=2\" and \"mode-
change-neighbour=1\" in offer or answer. The parameter \"mode-change-
capability=2\" shall be included by all other CS CN nodes in the offer to
ensure interoperability unless they received an offer from other nodes without
this parameter and do not transcode
## 7.4 GSM_EFR
GSM_EFR shall be encoded in SDP using either the fixed payload type assigned
in IETF RFC 3551 [17] or a dynamic payload type described according to the
MIME registration in IETF RFC 3551 [17
The GSM_EFR standard comprises a DTX scheme with VAD, SID frames and Comfort
Noise generation that is automatically included in this SDP negotiation. For
User Plane details see 3GPP TS 26.102 [24]. No other DTX scheme shall be
negotiated in SDP for GSM_EFR.].
## 7.5 GSM_FR
GSM_FR shall be encoded in SDP using either the fixed payload type assigned in
IETF RFC 3551 [17] or a dynamic payload type described according to the MIME
registration in IETF RFC 3551 [17
The GSM_FR standard comprises a DTX scheme with VAD, SID frames and Comfort
Noise generation that is automatically included in this SDP negotiation. For
User Plane details see 3GPP TS 26.102 [24]. No other DTX scheme shall be
negotiated in SDP for GSM_FR.].
## 7.6 GSM_HR
GSM_HR shall be encoded in SDP according to the MIME registration in [22].
GSM_HR shall be encoded in SDP using a dynamic payload type described
according to the MIME registration in [22].The options specified in [22] are
not applied inside the Circuit Switched Core Network and not across the
A-Interface, but set to pre-defined values as follows: a single frame (Speech
or SID) shall be included in one RTP packet, FEC and Interleaving (redundancy)
shall not be used, Encryption shall not be used, a packetization time of 20ms
shall be applied.
The GSM_HR standard comprises a DTX scheme with VAD, SID frames and Comfort
Noise generation that is automatically included in this SDP negotiation. For
User Plane details see [22] and 3GPP TS 26.102 [24]. No other DTX scheme shall
be negotiated in SDP for GSM_HR.
## 7.7 PCM
PCMU and PCMA shall be encoded in SDP using either the fixed payload type
assigned in IETF RFC 3551 [ee] or a dynamic payload type described according
to the MIME registration in IETF RFC 3551 [ee].
## 7.8 Telephone-Event
Telephony-Event shall be encoded in SDP according to the MIME registration in
IETF RFC 4733 [20].
The MIME type audio/telephone-event in IETF RFC 4733 [20] with default events
and default rate shall be used to encode DTMF. Therefore, the rate and event
parameters do not need to be supplied.
## 7.9 EVS
The UMTS_EVS Codec Type can be used in conversational speech telephony
services in various configurations. The allowed configurations are defined in
Table 5.7A-1.
EVS (UMTS_EVS) shall be encoded in SIP-I with SDP parameters according to the
MIME registration in TS 26.445 [29]. The SDP offer-answer related rules in TS
26.445 apply. Only the SDP parameters corresponding to the allowed UMTS_EVS
configurations (set 0 to 3, see Table 5.7A-1) are allowed in a SIP-I based
Core Network.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Example Supported Codec List for UMTS
This Annex gives some informative examples how the Codec List for UMTS may
look like for the OoBTC protocol in a BICC-based Circuit Switched Core
Network.\ .\ In this first example the UMTS Circuit Switched Core Network does
support: UMTS AMR2(set1), (GSM) FR AMR(set1) and (GSM) HR AMR(set1) and GSM
EFR. It supports PCM, i.e. ITU-T G.711, here in the Alaw version, with
transcoding. It may support also UMTS_AMR(set7), GSM FR, and GSM_HR (not
included in the list).
One \"Supported Codec List\" (with arbitrarily selected Codec Type preference)
could look at Originating side like:
Table A-1 Supported Codec List: Example 1
* * *
Octet Parameter MSB 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 LSB 1 Codec List Codec List (see ITU-T
Q.765.5)  
2 Length Indication (LI) 35  
3 Compat. Info Compatibility Information  
4 Single Codec Single Codec (see ITU-T Q.765.5)  
5 LI 6  
6 Compat. Info Compatibility Information  
7 OID ETSI OID (See ITU-T Q.765.5 [6])  
8 CoID UMTS_AMR2_CoID  
9 ACS (set1) 12.2(1) 10.2(0) 7.95(0) 7.40(1) 6.70(0) 5.90(1) 5.15(0) 4.75(1)
10 SCS (set1) 12.2(1) 10.2(0) 7.95(0) 7.40(1) 6.70(0) 5.90(1) 5.15(0) 4.75(1)
11 MACS (spare) (spare) (spare) (spare) OM(0) MACS(4)  
12 Single Codec Single Codec (see ITU-T Q.765.5)  
13 LI 3  
14 Compat. Info Compatibility Information  
15 OID ITU-T OID (See ITU-T Q.765.5 [6])  
16 CoID Codec Identifier for PCM Alaw 64kbps  
17 Single Codec Single Codec (see ITU-T Q.765.5)  
18 LI 6  
19 Compat. Info Compatibility Information  
20 OID ETSI OID (See ITU-T Q.765.5 [6])  
21 CoID FR_AMR_CoID  
22 ACS (set1) 12.2(1) 10.2(0) 7.95(0) 7.40(1) 6.70(0) 5.90(1) 5.15(0) 4.75(1)
23 SCS (set1) 12.2(1) 10.2(0) 7.95(0) 7.40(1) 6.70(0) 5.90(1) 5.15(0) 4.75(1)
24 MACS (spare) (spare) (spare) (spare) OM(0) MACS(4)  
25 Single Codec Single Codec (see ITU-T Q.765.5)  
26 LI 6  
27 Compat. Info Compatibility Information  
28 OID ETSI OID (See ITU-T Q.765.5 [6])  
29 CoID HR_AMR_CoID  
30 ACS (set1) (spare) (spare) 7.95(0) 7.40(1) 6.70(0) 5.90(1) 5.15(0) 4.75(1)
31 SCS (set1) (spare) (spare) 7.95(0) 7.40(1) 6.70(0) 5.90(1) 5.15(0) 4.75(1)
32 MACS (spare) (spare) (spare) (spare) OM(0) MACS(3)  
33 Single Codec Single Codec (see ITU-T Q.765.5)  
34 LI 3  
35 Compat. Info Compatibility Information  
36 OID ETSI OID (See ITU-T Q.765.5 [6])  
37 CoID EFR_CoID
* * *
The Terminating Side selects one of the Codec Types and returns it, together
with the selected codec attributes.
The AMR Codec Types may have very similar, if not identical codec attributes
at Originating side. The UMTS as Originating side can, however, already
decide, which configuration would be preferred in case the Terminating side is
UMTS or GSM. A GSM Circuit Switched Core Network as Originating side can not
offer UMTS AMR (unless it provides local transcoding) and the Codec attributes
for FR AMR and HR AMR may be quite different.
In the following second example, the BICC-based CS core network offers:
UMTS_EVS (set 2), UMTS_AMR-WB (set 0), UMTS_AMR2 (set 1) and PCM, i.e. ITU-T
G.711, here in the Alaw version, with transcoding, as last resort.
Table A-2 Supported Codec List: Example 2
* * *
**Octet** **Parameter** **MSB 8** **7** **6** **5** **4** **3** **2** **1
LSB** **1** Codec List **Codec List (see ITU-T Q.765.5)**  
**2** Length Indication (LI) 26  
**3** Compat. Info Compatibility Information  
**4** Single Codec **Single Codec (see ITU-T Q.765.5)**  
**5** LI 4  
**6** Compat. Info Compatibility Information  
**7** OID ETSI OID (See ITU-T Q.765.5 [6])  
**8** CoID UMTS_EVS_CoID = 0000.1110  
**9** EVS (set 1) (spare) (spare) (spare) (spare) Config-EVS-Code = 0010 = set
2  
**10** Single Codec **Single Codec (see ITU-T Q.765.5)**  
**11** LI 4  
**12** Compat. Info Compatibility Information  
**13** OID ETSI OID (See ITU-T Q.765.5 [6])  
**14** CoID UMTS_AMR-WB_CoID = 0000.1010  
**15** AMR-WB (set0) (spare) (spare) (spare) (spare) Config-WB-Code = 0000 =
set 0  
**16** Single Codec **Single Codec (see ITU-T Q.765.5)**  
**1** 7 LI 6  
**18** Compat. Info Compatibility Information  
**19** OID ETSI OID (See ITU-T Q.765.5 [6])  
**20** CoID UMTS_AMR2_CoID = 0000.0110.  
**21** ACS (set1) 12.2(1) 10.2(0) 7.95(0) 7.40(1) 6.70(0) 5.90(1) 5.15(0)
4.75(1) **22** SCS (set1) 12.2(1) 10.2(0) 7.95(0) 7.40(1) 6.70(0) 5.90(1)
5.15(0) 4.75(1) **23** MACS (spare) (spare) (spare) (spare) OM(0) MACS(4)  
**24** Single Codec **Single Codec (see ITU-T Q.765.5)**  
**25** LI 3  
**26** Compat. Info Compatibility Information  
**27** OID ITU-T OID (See ITU-T Q.765.5 [6])  
**28** CoID Codec Identifier for PCM Alaw 64kbps
* * *
The terminating side selects one of the offered Codec Types together with a
Codec Configuration and returns this combination as \"Selected Codec\".
In this second example, the Codec Type UMTS_EVS could be returned with one of
three different Codec Configurations: either with set 2, as offered, or with
set 1 or set 0. All these three Codec Configurations are TrFO-compatible and
the offered EVS (set 2) for UMTS_EVS allows this freedom. For details, see TS
26.445 [29].
#