# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
The 3GPP transparent end-to-end packet-switched streaming service (PSS)
specification consists of five 3GPP TSs: 3GPP TS 22.233 [1], 3GPP TS 26.233
[2], 3GPP TS 26.234 [3], 3GPP TS 26.244 [4], 3GPP TS 26.245 [5], and the
present document.
The TS 22.233 contains the service requirements for the PSS. The TS 26.233
provides an overview of the PSS. The TS 26.234 provides the details of
protocol and codecs used by the PSS. The TS 26.244 defines the 3GPP file
format (3GP) used by the PPS and MMS services. TS 26.245 defines the Timed
Text format used by the PSS.
The TS 26.244, TS 26.245, and Ts 26.246 (present document) start with Release
6. Earlier releases of the 3GPP file format, the Timed text format, and the
3GPP SMIL Language Profile can be found in TS 26.234.
# 1 Scope
The present document includes the specification of the 3GPP SMIL Language
Profile. The 3GPP SMIL Language Profile is also referred to as \"3GPP PSS SMIL
Language Profile\" [3] and also just \"3GPP SMIL\".
The 3GPP SMIL Language Profile is based on SMIL 2.0 Basic [7] and SMIL
Scalability Framework. It is a clean subset of SMIL 2.0 Full profile [7], and
a clear superset of SMIL 2.0 Basic [7].
The 3GPP SMIL Language Profile is used by the PSS [2][3] and MMS [6] services.
The 3GPP SMIL Language Profile is in no way restricted to be used with only
these services, but can also be used for other services.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 22.233: \"Transparent End-to-End Packet-switched Streaming
Service; Service aspects; Stage 1\".
[2] 3GPP TS 26.233: \"Transparent end-to-end Packet-switched Streaming Service
(PSS); General description\".
[3] 3GPP TS 26.234: \"Transparent end-to-end Packet-switched Streaming Service
(PSS); Protocols and codecs\".
[4] 3GPP TS 26.244: \"Transparent end-to-end Packet-switched Streaming Service
(PSS); 3GPP file format (3GP)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 26.245: \"Transparent end-to-end Packet-switched Streaming Service
(PSS); Timed-text format\".
[6] 3GPP TS 26.140: \"Multimedia Messaging Service (MMS); Media formats and
codecs\".
[7] W3C Recommendation: \"Synchronized Multimedia Integration Language (SMIL
2.0)-[Second Edition]\", http://www.w3.org/TR/2005/REC-SMIL2-20050107/,
January 2005.
[8] W3C Recommendation: \"Cascading Style Sheets, level 2, CSS2 Specification,
http://www.w3.org/TR/1998/REC-CSS2-19980512, 12.05.1998
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply:
**continuous media:** media with an inherent notion of time. In the present
document speech, audio, video and timed text
**discrete media:** media that itself does not contain an element of time.In
the present document all media not defined as continuous media
**PSS client:** client for the 3GPP packet switched streaming service based on
the IETF RTSP/SDP and/or HTTP standards, with possible additional 3GPP
requirements according to the present document
**PSS server:** server for the 3GPP packet switched streaming service based on
the IETF RTSP/SDP and/or HTTP standards, with possible additional 3GPP
requirements according to the present document
**scene description:** description of the spatial layout and temporal
behaviour of a presentation. It can also contain hyperlinks
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [3] and the following apply.
HTML Hyper Text Markup Language
MIME Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions
MMS Multimedia Messaging Service
PSS Packet-switched Streaming Service
SMIL Synchronised Multimedia Integration Language
UCS-2 Universal Character Set (the two octet form)
UTF-8 Unicode Transformation Format (the 8-bit form)
UTF-16 Unicode Transformation Format (the 16-bit form)
W3C WWW Consortium
XHTML eXtensible Hyper Text Markup Language
XML eXtensible Markup Language
# 4 3GPP SMIL Language Profile Outline
3GPP SMIL is a markup language based on SMIL Basic [7] and SMIL Scalability
Framework.
3GPP SMIL consists of the modules required by SMIL Basic Profile (and SMIL 2.0
Host Language Conformance) and additional MediaAccessibility,
MediaDescription, MediaClipping, MetaInformation, PrefetchControl, EventTiming
and BasicTransitions modules. All of the following modules are included:
\- SMIL 2.0 Content Control Modules -- BasicContentControl, SkipContentControl
and PrefetchControl
\- SMIL 2.0 Layout Module -- BasicLayout
\- SMIL 2.0 Linking Module -- BasicLinking, LinkingAttributes
\- SMIL 2.0 Media Object Modules -- BasicMedia, MediaClipping, MediaParameter,
MediaAccessibility and MediaDescription
\- SMIL 2.0 Metainformation Module -- Metainformation
\- SMIL 2.0 Structure Module -- Structure
\- SMIL 2.0 Timing and Synchronization Modules -- BasicInlineTiming,
MinMaxTiming, BasicTimeContainers, RepeatTiming and EventTiming
\- SMIL 2.0 Transition Effects Module -- BasicTransitions
# 5 Document Conformance
A conforming 3GPP SMIL document shall be a conforming SMIL 2.0 document.
All 3GPP SMIL documents use SMIL 2.0 namespace.
\
3GPP SMIL documents may declare requirements using systemRequired attribute:
EXAMPLE 1: \
\- Namespace URI http://www.3gpp.org/SMIL20/PSS4/ identifies the version of
the 3GPP SMIL profile defined in Release 4 of [3].
\- Namespace URI http://www.3gpp.org/SMIL20/PSS5/ identifies the version of
the 3GPP SMIL profile defined in Release 5 of [3].
\- Namespace URI http://www.3gpp.org/SMIL20/PSS6/ identifies the version of
the 3GPP SMIL profile defined in Release 6 in the present document.
Authors may use these URIs to indicate requirement for exact 3GPP SMIL
semantics for a document or a subpart of a document:
EXAMPLE 2: \
The content authors should generally not include the PSS requirement in the
document unless the SMIL document relies on PSS specific semantics that are
not part of the W3C SMIL. The reason for this is that SMIL players that are
not conforming 3GPP PSS user agents may not recognize the PSS URI and thus
refuse to play the document.
# 6 User Agent Conformance
A conforming 3GPP SMIL user agent shall be a conforming SMIL Basic User Agent.
A conforming user agent shall implement the semantics 3GPP SMIL as described
in clauses 7 and 8 (including subclauses).
A conforming user agent shall recognise
\- the URIs of all included SMIL 2.0 modules;
\- the URI http://www.3gpp.org/SMIL20/PSS6/ as referring to all modules and
semantics of the version of the 3GPP SMIL profile described in Release 6 in
the present document;
\- the URI http://www.3gpp.org/SMIL20/PSS5/ as referring to all modules and
semantics of the version of the 3GPP SMIL profile described in Release 5 of
document [3];
\- the URI http://www.3gpp.org/SMIL20/PSS4/ as referring to all modules and
semantics of the 3GPP SMIL profile defined in Release 4 of document [3].
NOTE: The difference between release 4 and release 5 is that the
BasicTransitions module has been added in release 5. Releases 4 and 5 are
defined in [3].
NOTE: The difference between release 5 and release 6 is that the
MediaParameter module and additional specification on the ContentControl
module systemComponent test attribute have been added in release 6. Release 5
is defined in [3].
# 7 3GPP SMIL Language Profile definition
3GPP SMIL is based on SMIL 2.0 Basic language profile [7]. This chapter
defines the content model and integration semantics of the included modules
where they differ from those defined by SMIL Basic.
## 7.1 Content Control Modules
3GPP SMIL includes the content control functionality of the
BasicContentControl, SkipContentControl and PrefetchControl modules of SMIL
2.0. PrefetchControl is not part of SMIL Basic and is an additional module in
this profile.
All BasicContentControl attributes listed in the module specification shall be
supported. Annex B extends the SMIL 2.0 BasicContentControl specification [7]
by additional definitions on the **systemComponent** test attribute.
Note: The SMIL specification [7] defines that all functionality of
PrefetchControl module is optional. This mean that even although
PrefetchControl is mandatory user agents may implement semantics of
PrefetchControl module only partially or not to implement them at all.
PrefetchControl module adds the **prefetch** element to the content model of
SMIL Basic **body, switch, par** and **seq** elements. The **prefetch**
element has the attributes defined by the PrefetchControl module (**mediaSize,
mediaTime and bandwidth**), the **src** attribute, the BasicContentControl
attributes and the **skip-content** attribute.
## 7.2 Layout Module
3GPP SMIL includes the BasicLayout module of SMIL 2.0 for spatial layout. The
module is part of SMIL Basic.
Default values of the width and height attributes for root-layout shall be the
dimensions of the device display area.
## 7.3 Linking Module
3GPP SMIL includes the SMIL 2.0 BasicLinking and LinkingAttributes modules for
providing hyperlinks between documents and document fragments. The
BasicLinking module is from SMIL Basic.
When linking to destinations outside the current document, implementations may
ignore values \"play\" and \"pause\" of the \'sourcePlaystate\' attribute and
values \"new\" and \"pause\" of the \'show\' attribute, instead using the
semantics of values \"stop\" and \"replace\" respectively. When the values of
\'sourcePlaystate\' and \'show\' are ignored the player may also ignore the
\'sourceLevel\' attribute since it is of no use then
## 7.4 Media Object Modules
3GPP SMIL includes the media elements from the SMIL 2.0 BasicMedia module and
attributes from the MediaAccessibility, MediaDescription and MediaClipping
modules. MediaAccessibility, MediaDescription and MediaClipping modules are
additions in this profile to the SMIL Basic.
MediaClipping module adds to the profile the ability to address sub-clips of
continuous media. MediaClipping module adds \'**clipBegin** \' and
\'**clipEnd** ´(and for compatibility \'**clip-begin** \' and \'**clip-end**
\') attributes to all media elements.
MediaAccessibility module provides basic accessibility support for media
elements. New attributes \'**alt** \', \'**longdesc** \' and \'**readIndex**
\' are added to all media elements by this module. MediaDescription module is
included by the MediaAccessibility module and adds \'**abstract** \',
\'**author** \' and \'**copyright** \' attributes to media elements.
MediaParameter module allows passing additional parameters to the rendering of
a media object. This specification extends the SMIL 2.0 specification [7] by
defining some values for the \'**name\'** and \'**value** _\'_ attributes of
MediaParameter module and the expected behaviour of a 3GPP SMIL player when
these are used:
A 3GPP SMIL player should render the content as specified whenever one of the
following name value pairs are encoded as a parameter to a media object of one
of the listed MIME types:
NOTE: The behaviour of the 3GPP SMIL player is undefined for all other cases.
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | **MIME type of |** value of the | **value of the |** Intended | | the media | \'name\' | \'value\' | rendering of | | object**| attribute** | attribute**| the media | | | | | content.** | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | app | color | Any legal | The text | | lication/text, | | value for the | document is | | applicat | or | CSS2 color | rendered with | | ion/xhtml+xml, | | attribute | the given | | a | fo | [8] (eg. | (default) | | pplication/vnd | reground-color | "#ff000", | color. | | .wap.xhtml+xml | | "red") | | | | | | Note: | | | | | Attribute | | | | | name=\"fore | | | | | ground-color\" | | | | | is included | | | | | for | | | | | compatibility. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | app | font-size | Any legal | The text | | lication/text, | | value for the | document is | | applicat | or | CSS2 font-size | rendered with | | ion/xhtml+xml, | | attribute | the given | | a | textsize | [8] (e.g. | (default) text | | pplication/vnd | | "medium", | size. The size | | .wap.xhtml+xml | | "12pt") | values are | | | | | interpreted as | | | | | in CSS2 [8], | | | | | | | | | | Note: | | | | | Attribute | | | | | nam | | | | | e=\"fontsize\" | | | | | is included | | | | | for | | | | | compatibility. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
## 7.5 Metainformation Module
The MetaInformation module of SMIL 2.0 is included to the profile. This module
is addition in this profile to the SMIL Basic and provides a way to include
descriptive information about the document content into the document.
This module adds **meta** and **metadata** elements to the content model of
SMIL Basic **head** element.
## 7.6 Structure Module
The Structure module defines the top-level structure of the document. It is
included by SMIL Basic.
## 7.7 Timing and Synchronization modules
The timing modules included in the 3GPP SMIL are BasicInlineTiming,
MinMaxTiming, BasicTimeContainers, RepeatTiming and EventTiming. The
EventTiming module is an addition in this profile to the SMIL Basic.
For \'begin\' and \'end\' attributes either single offset-value or single
event-value shall be allowed. Offsets shall not be supported with event-
values.
Event timing attributes that reference invalid IDs (for example elements that
have been removed by the content control) shall be treated as being
indefinite.
Supported event names and semantics shall be as defined by the SMIL 2.0
Language Profile. All user agents shall be able to raise the following event
types:
\- activateEvent;
\- beginEvent;
\- endEvent.
The following SMIL 2.0 Language event types should be supported:
\- focusInEvent;
\- focusOutEvent;
> \- inBoundsEvent;
>
> \- outOfBoundsEvent;
>
> \- repeatEvent.
User agents shall ignore unknown event types and not treat them as errors.
Events do not bubble and shall be delivered to the associated media or timed
elements only.
When using delivery mechanisms such as streaming, the setup time, connection
time and buffering time shall be excluded from the computation of the simple
duration.
## 7.8 Transition Effects Module
3GPP SMIL profile includes the SMIL 2.0 BasicTransitions module to provide a
framework for describing transitions between media elements.
Note: The SMIL specification [7] defines that all functionality of
BasicTransitions module is optional: \"Transitions are hints to the
presentation. Implementations must be able to ignore transitions if they so
desire and still play the media of the presentation\". This mean that even
although the BasicTransitions module is mandatory user agents may implement
semantics of the BasicTransitions module only partially or not to implement
them at all. Content authors should use transitions in their SMIL presentation
where this appears useful. User agents that fully support the semantics of the
Basic Transitions module will render the presentation with the specified
transitions. All other user agents will leave out the transitions but present
the media content correctly.
User agents that implement the semantics of this module should implement at
least the following transition effects described in SMIL 2.0 specification
[7]:
\- barWipe;
\- irisWipe;
\- clockWipe;
\- snakeWipe;
\- pushWipe;
\- slideWipe;
\- fade;
A user agent should implement the default subtype of these transition effects.
A user agent that implements the semantics of this module shall at least
support transition effects for non-animated image media elements. For purposes
of the Transition Effects modules, two media elements are considered
overlapping when they occupy the same region.
BasicTransitions module adds attributes \'transIn\' and \'transOut\' to the
media elements of the Media Objects modules, and value \"transition\" to the
set of legal values for the \'fill\' attribute of the media elements. It also
adds transition element to the content model of the head element.
# 8 Content Model
This table shows the full content model and attributes of the 3GPP SMIL
profile. The attribute collections used are defined by SMIL Basic ([7], SMIL
Host Language Conformance requirements, chapter 2.4). Changes to SMIL Basic
are shown in **bold**.
Table 1: Content model for the 3GPP SMIL profile
* * *
Element  
Elements Attributes smil head, body COMMON-ATTRS, CONTCTRL-ATTRS, xmlns head
layout, switch, **meta** , **metadata, transition** COMMON-ATTRS body TIMING-
ELMS, MEDIA-ELMS, switch, a, **prefetch** COMMON-ATTRS layout root-layout,
region COMMON-ATTRS, CONTCTRL-ATTRS, type root-layout EMPTY COMMON-ATTRS,
backgroundColor, height, width, skip-content region EMPTY COMMON-ATTRS,
backgroundColor, bottom, fit, height, left, right, showBackground, top, width,
z-index, skip-content, regionName ref, animation, audio, img, video, text,
textstream area, **param** COMMON-ATTRS, CONTCTRL-ATTRS, TIMING-ATTRS, repeat,
region, MEDIA-ATTRS, **clipBegin(clip-begin), clipEnd(clip-end), alt,
longDesc, readIndex, abstract** , **author** , **copyright, transIn,
transOut** **param** EMPTY **name, value** a MEDIA-ELMS COMMON-ATTRS, LINKING-
ATTRS area EMPTY COMMON-ATTRS, LINKING-ATTRS, TIMING-ATTRS, repeat, shape,
coords, nohref par, seq TIMING-ELMS, MEDIA-ELMS, switch, a, **prefetch**
COMMON-ATTRS, CONTCTRL-ATTRS, TIMING-ATTRS, repeat switch TIMING-ELMS, MEDIA-
ELMS, layout, a, **prefetch** COMMON-ATTRS, CONTCTRL-ATTRS **prefetch**
**EMPTY** **COMMON-ATTRS, CONTCTRL-ATTRS, mediaSize, mediaTime, bandwidth,
src, skip-content** **meta** **EMPTY** **COMMON-ATTRS, content, name, skip-
content** **metadata** **EMPTY** **COMMON-ATTRS, skip-content** **transition**
**EMPTY** **COMMON-ATTRS, CONTCTRL-ATTRS, type, subtype, startProgress,
endProgress, direction, fadeColor. skip-content, dur**
* * *
###### ## Annex A (informative): SMIL authoring guidelines
# A.1 General
This is an informative annex for SMIL presentation authors. Authors can expect
that PSS clients can handle the SMIL module collection defined in this
document, with the restrictions defined in this Annex. When creating SMIL
documents the author is recommended to consider that terminals may have small
displays and simple input devices. The media types and their encoding included
in the presentation should be restricted to what is described in clause 7 of
the present document. Considering that many mobile devices may have limited
software and hardware capabilities, the number of media to be played
simultaneous should be limited. For example, many devices will not be able to
handle more than one video sequence at the time.
# A.2 BasicLinking
The Linking Modules define elements and attributes for navigational
hyperlinking, either through user interaction or through temporal events. The
BasicLinking module defines the \"a\" and \"area\" elements for basic linking:
> a Similar to the \"a\" element in HTML it provides a link from a media
> object through the href attribute (which contains the URI of the link\'s
> destination). The \"a\" element includes a number of attributes for defining
> the behaviour of the presentation when the link is followed.
>
> area Whereas the a element only allows a link to be associated with a
> complete media object, the area element allows links to be associated with
> spatial and/or temporal portions of a media object.
The area element may be useful for enabling services that rely on
interactivity where the display size is not big enough to allow the display of
links alongside a media (e.g. QCIF video) window. Instead, the user could, for
example, click on a watermark logo displayed in the video window to visit the
company website.
Even if the area element may be useful some mobile terminals will not be able
to handle area elements that include multiple selectable regions within an
area element. One reason for this could be that the terminals do not have the
appropriate user interface. Such area elements should therefore be avoided.
Instead it is recommended that the \"a\" element be used. If the \"area\"
element is used, the SMIL presentation should also include alternative links
to navigate through the presentation; i.e. the author should not create
presentations that rely on that the player can handle \"area\" elements.
# A.3 BasicLayout
When defining the layout of a SMIL presentation, a content author needs to be
aware that the targeted devices might have diverse properties that effect how
the content can be rendered. The different sizes of the display area that can
be used to render content on the targeted devices should be considered for
defining the layout of the SMIL presentation. The root-layout window might
represent the entire display or only parts of it.
Content authors are encouraged to create SMIL presentations that will work
well with different resolutions of the rendering area. As mentioned in the
SMIL2 recommendation content authors should use SMIL ContentControl
functionality for defining multiple layouts for their SMIL presentation that
are tailored to the specific needs of the whole range of targeted devices.
Furthermore, authors should include a default layout (i.e. a layout determined
by the SMIL player) that will be used when none of the author-defined layouts
can be used.
Using relative position and size attributes in the definition of a region is
also helpful for making SMIL presentations more portable across different
display sizes; these features should also be used.
A 3GPP SMIL player should use the layout definition of a SMIL presentation for
presenting the content whenever possible. When the SMIL player fails to use
the layout information defined by the author it is free to present the content
using a layout it determines by itself.
The \"fit\" attribute defines how different media should be fitted into their
respective display regions.
The rendering and layout of some objects on a small display might be difficult
and all mobile devices may not support features such as scroll bars. Therefore
\"fit=scroll\" should not be used except for text content.
Due to hardware restrictions in mobile devices, operations such that scaling
of a video sequence, or even images, may be very difficult to achieve.
According to the SMIL 2.0 specification SMIL players may in these situations
clip the content instead. To be sure of that the presentation is displayed as
the author intended, video content should be encoded in a size suitable for
the targeted terminals and it is recommended to use \"fit=hidden\".
# A.4 EventTiming
The two attributes \"endEvent\" and \"repeatEvent\" in the EventTiming module
may cause problems for a mobile SMIL player. The end of a media element
triggers the \"endEvent\". In the same way the \"repeatEvent\" occurs when the
second and subsequent iterations of a repeated element begin playback. Both
these events rely on that the SMIL player receives information about that the
media element has ended. One example could be when the end of a video sequence
initiates the event. If the player has not received explicit information about
the duration of the video sequence, e.g. by the \"dur\" attribute in SMIL or
by some external source as the \"a=range\" field in SDP. The player will have
to rely on the RTCP BYE message to decide when the video sequence ends. If the
RTCP BYE message is lost, the player will have problems initiate the event.
For these reasons is recommended that the \"endEvent\" and \"repeatEvent\"
attributes are used with care, and if used the player should be provided with
some additional information about the duration of the media element that
triggers the event. This additional information could e.g. be the \"dur\"
attribute in SMIL or the \"a=range\" field in SDP.
The \"inBoundsEvent\" and \"outOfBoundsEvent\" attributes assume that the
terminal has a pointer device for moving the focus to within a window (i.e.
clicking within a window). Not all terminals will support this functionality
since they do not have the appropriate user interface. Hence care should be
taken in using these particular event triggers.
# A.5 MetaInformation
Authors are encouraged to make use of meta data whenever providing such
information to the mobile terminal appears to be useful. However, they should
keep in mind that some mobile terminals will parse but not process the meta
data.
Furthermore, authors should keep in mind that excessive use of meta data will
substantially increase the file size of the SMIL presentation that needs to be
transferred to the mobile terminal. This may result in longer set-up times.
# A.6 XML entities
Entities are a mechanism to insert XML fragments inside an XML document.
Entities can be internal, essentially a macro expansion, or external. Use of
XML entities in SMIL presentations is not recommended, as many current XML
parsers do not fully support them.
# A.7 XHTML Mobile Profile
When rendering texts in a SMIL presentation, authors are able to use XHTML
Mobile Profile [47] that contains thirteen modules. However, some of the
modules include non-text information. When referring to an XHTML Mobile
Profile document from a SMIL document, authors should use only the required
XHTML Host Language modules : Structure Module, Text Module, Hypertext Module
and List Module. The use of the Image Module, in particular, should not be
used. Images and other non-text contents should be included in the SMIL
document.
NOTE: An XHTML file including a module which is not part of the XHTML Host
Language modules may not be shown as intended. Also, an XHTML file which uses
elements or attributes from the required XHTML Host Language modules and which
uses elements or attributes that are not included in XHTML Basic Profile [28],
may not render correctly on legacy handsets which implement only XHTML Basic.
These are:
\- The start attribute on the \'ol\' element in the List module
\- The value attribute on the \'li\' element in the List module
> \- The \'b\' element in the Presentation module
>
> \- The \'big\' element in the Presentation module
>
> \- The \'hr\' element in the Presentation module
>
> \- The \'i\' element in the Presentation module
\- The \'small\' element in the Presentation module
###### ## Annex B (normative): Additional specification on the systemComponent
Test Attribute
## B.1 General
This annex includes additional normative specification on the encoding of the
SMIL 2.0 BasicContentControl Module **systemComponent** test attribute value.
The purpose is to allow a SMIL presentation to test if a 3GPP SMIL player
supports a media type.
## B.2 Definition of Attribute Encoding
To test support for a certain media type the value of the **systemComponent**
attribute must be encoded as a URI as follows:
systemComponentAttrValue --> \"ContentType:\" _mimeMediaTypeName_ \"/\"
_mimeSubTypeName_ _options_?
options --> \"?\" _parameters_
where
  * \"ContentType:\" is a static pre-fix that must always be encoded,
  * _\'mimeMediaTypeName_ \' and \'_mimeSubtypeName_ \' are a MIME type and subtype. These two must be encoded and must be separated by a dash ( \"/\" ), and
  * encoding _\'options\'_ is optional.
  * \'_parameters_ \' stands for any parameter to the MIME type that can optionally be encoded. When encoded, parameters must be separated from the MIME type and sub-type names by a question mark ( \"?\" ).
For all content formats mandated by [3] the _\'mime-media-type-name_ \' and
\'_mime-subtype-name_ \' must be encoded as defined in section 5.4 of [3]. For
all other content types established MIME types must be used.
NOTE: This specification intentionally does not define a format for
parameters.
## B.3 Behaviour of a 3GPP SMIL Player
For any **systemComponent** test attribute value that is prefixed with the
string \'ContentType:\' a 3GPP SMIL player is required to evaluate the
**systemComponent** test attribute based on _\'mimeMediaTypeName_ \' and
\'_mimeSubtypeName_ \' as follows.
  * evaluation of the test attribute returns true whenever the 3GPP SMIL player supports rendering media content of this MIME type,
  * in all other cases the evaluation returns false.
A 3GPP SMIL player must be able to ignore any encoded parameters for
performing this evaluation. A 3GPP SMIL player is allowed but not required to
also include parameters into the evaluation.
NOTE: The specification on parameters makes a 3GPP SMIL player forward
compatible with any future version of the specification that will possibly
define how to encode MIME type parameters and how to evaluate the
systemComponent test attribute when parameters are included into its value.
NOTE: This specification intentionally leaves it open how those
systemComponent test attribute values evaluate that are not prefixed with the
string \"ContentType:\". Again, this makes a 3GPP SMIL player forward
compatible with any future version of the specification that will possible
define other URI schemes for the systemComponent attribute value.
#