# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
This document provides information on obtaining reference software for the
3GPP File Format.
# 1 Scope
The present document serves as a \"cover note\" for the source code of the
3GPP file format.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 26.244: \"Transparent end-to-end Packet-switched Streaming Service
(PSS); 3GPP file format (3GP)\".
[2] ISO/IEC 14496-12:2004 \"Information technology -- Coding of audio-visual
objects -- Part 12: ISO base media file format\".
[3] ISO/IEC 14496-5:2001 \"Information technology -- Coding of audio-visual
objects --\ Part 5: Reference software\".
[4] MP4 REG
NOTE: See http://www.mp4ra.org/
[5] ISO/IEC 15444: \"Information technology - JPEG 2000 image coding system -
Part 12: ISO base media file format\".
# 3 Source code
The definition of the 3GPP file format [1] is derived from the ISO Base Media
File Format, as published by ISO/IEC in ISO/IEC 14496-12 (technically
identical to 15444-12) [2]. The reference software for the file format is also
therefore maintained by ISO/IEC, as part of the overall reference software
[3]. However, that reference software was \"frozen\" some time ago, and more
recent versions may be available from the registration authority for the file
format, called (for historical reasons) MP4 REG[4].
For convenience, a compiled copy of the library and appropriate headers, for
Windows, are included here. The library can be built for other operating
systems platforms also, from the source.
#