# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The MCVideo service supports video media communication between users (i.e.
group call), where each user has the ability to gain access to the permission
to stream video in an arbitrated manner. The MCVideo service also supports
private calls between two users.
The MCVideo architecture is based on the functional architecture for mission
critical communication services defined in 3GPP TS 23.280 [4] and 3GPP TS
23.281 [5].
# 1 Scope
The present document describes the enhancements of MBMS for MCVideo service
support. Codec(s) and media handling to enable delivery of MCVideo are
documented.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.280: \"Mission Critical Services Common Requirements\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.281 (V14.2.0): \"Mission Critical Video Services over LTE\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.280: \"Common functional architecture to support mission
critical services; Stage 2\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.281: \"Functional architecture and information flows for
mission critical video; Stage 2\".
[6] 3GPP TS 23.468: \"Group Communication System Enablers for LTE (GCSE_LTE);
Stage 2\".
[7] 3GPP TR 23.780: \"Study on Multimedia Broadcast and Multicast Service
(MBMS) usage for mission critical communication services\".
[8] 3GPP TS 26.346: \"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service (MBMS); Protocols
and codecs\".
[9] 3GPP TS 33.179: \"Security of Mission Critical Push To Talk (MCPTT) over
LTE\".
[10] 3GPP TR 33.880: \"Study on Mission Critical Security Enhancements\".
[11] 3GPP TS 26.179: \"Mission Critical Push To Talk (MCPTT); Codecs and media
handling\".
[12] IETF RFC 6184: \"RTP Payload Format for H.264 Video\".
[13] 3GPP TS 26.906: \"Evaluation of High Efficiency Video Coding (HEVC) for
3GPP services.\"
[14] IETF RFC 3550: \"RTP: A Transport Protocol for Real-Time Applications\".
# 3 Definitions and Abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**MCVideo client:** The MCVideo client functional entity acts as the user
agent for all MCVideo application transactions.
**MCVideo Service:** A video communication service supporting applications for
mission critical organizations and mission critical applications for other
businesses and organizations (e.g., utilities, railways) with strong security,
high availability, reliability and priority handling.
**MCVideo UE:** An MC service UE that can be used to participate in MCVideo
services.
**MCVideo User:** An MC service user who is authorized to MCVideo services via
an MCVideo UE.
**Mission Critical:** Quality or characteristic of a communication activity,
application, service or device, that requires low setup and transfer latency,
high availability and reliability, ability to handle large numbers of users
and devices, strong security and priority and pre-emption handling.
**Mission Critical Applications:** Generic communication applications with
mission critical characteristics, traditionally encompassing push-to-talk
voice (MCPTT), real-time video (MCVideo) and real-time data (MCData).
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
AVC Advanced Video Coding
BC BroadCast
BM-SC Broadcast-Multicast - Service Centre
CHP Constrained High Profile
FEC Forward Error Correction
fps frames per second
GCS Group Communication Service
HEVC High Efficiency Video Coding
MBMS Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service
MBSFN Multimedia Broadcast Single Frequency Network
MC Mission Critical
MCPTT Mission Critical Push-To-Talk
MCVideo Mission Critical Video
RTCP Real-Time Transport Control Protocol
RTP Real-Time Transport Protocol
SRTCP Secure Real-Time Transport Control Protocol
SRTP Secure Real-Time Transport Protocol
TMGI Temporary Mobile Group Identity
UC UniCast
# 4 Reference Model
Figure 1 shows a reference model of the MCVideo server and MCVideo UE support
over unicast (UC) and multicast (MBMS). The MCVideo server interacts with
MCVideo UE over the MCVideo-1 interface for application signalling. The
MCVideo server determines whether to deliver the video over UC or MBMS.
MCVideo media content is transmitted via LTE bearers, which are communication
pipes with one end in the MCVideo server and the other end in the MCVideo UE.
The **red** line represents the video delivered over UC path. The **green**
line represents the video delivered over the MBMS path.
Figure 1: MCVideo support Reference Model
# 5 Key Issues for Supporting MCVideo Service
## 5.1 Key Issue 1: Video codec support for MCVideo
### 5.1.1 Description
TS 22.281 [3] states that \"In general, an MCVideo UE can support several
video codecs (or video codec operating modes) of which some could be optional,
some could be locally/regionally mandated via regulation, and one is globally
mandated via 3GPP implicit (by reference) or explicit (by detailed
specification) standardization as the mandatory universal interoperability
video codec. If MCVideo UEs participate in a video session, they may need to
negotiate or rely on defaults or other rules to establish a common video codec
for the video session. Transcoding is not desirable on grounds of complexity
and efficiency and in order to enable end-to-end ciphering.\"
In the present document the relevant codecs for MCVideo services with their
recommendation status are identified by examining the other requirements in TS
22.281 [3].
### 5.1.2 Recommended Requirements
MCVideo requirements are defined in 3GPP TS 22.280 [2] and 3GPP TS 22.281 [3].
### 5.1.3 Gap Analysis and Evaluation
The H.264 codec is widely available with a positive in-field track record of
availability, reliability, quality and responsiveness acquired over a
substantive period of time as stated in the TS 22.281 requirements [3]. The
H.264 also meets rendering and other relevant requirements as stated in [3].
### 5.1.4 Assumptions
It is assumed that the MCVideo service will reuse the mission critical
functional architecture as defined in 3GPP TS 23.280 [4] and 3GPP TS 23.281
[5].
### 5.1.5 Solution
MCVideo clients will provide mandatory support for encoding and decoding H.264
(AVC) Constrained High Profile (CHP) Level 3.1 with:
\- encoding at resolutions within a range of 320x240 up to 1280x720 and frame
rates within a range of 10 to 30 fps,
\- decoding of any bitstream up to the maximum capability of the level.
MCVideo clients will be recommended to additionally support decoding H.264
(AVC) Constrained High Profile (CHP) Level 4 bitstreams of resolutions up to
1080p and framerate up to 30 fps.
Further, it is recommended that, based on operator / MCVideo service provider
policy, the MCVideo service can optionally and additionally support the H.265
(HEVC) codec.
If MCVideo services support the H.265 (HEVC) codec then MCVideo clients are
recommended to additionally support encoding and decoding H.265 (HEVC).
If H.265 (HEVC) is supported by MCVideo clients then:
\- encoding of H.265 (HEVC) Main Profile, Main Tier, Level 3.1 will be
supported at a minimum resolution of 1280x720 and minimum frame rate of 30
fps, and it is recommended that encoding be supported at a minimum resolution
of 1280x720 and minimum frame rate of 30 fps.
\- decoding of H.265 (HEVC) Main Profile, Main Tier, Level 4 with resolutions
up to 1080p and framerate up to 30fps is also recommended.
\- encoding and decoding in lossless mode is also recommended.
Note 1: Transmitting only MCVideo clients are not required to support video
decoding. Receiving only MCVideo clients are not required to support video
encoding.
Note 2: If a codec is supported at a certain level, then all (hierarchically)
lower levels will be supported as well.
## 5.2 Key Issue 2: Media Handling Aspects of MCVideo
### 5.2.1 Description
Clause 5 of TS 22.281 describes various MCVideo service requirements on video
surveillance for different usages, e.g., video remote control, camera
discovery, robots, drones, etc. including capabilities around video
conferencing, streaming and storage.
### 5.2.2 Recommended Requirements
#### 5.2.2.1 MCVideo service requirements by SA1
TS 22.281 [3] specifies video content transmission copied below:
[R-5.1.1.1-008]: _\"Subject to capability, capacity and configuration, it
should be possible for MCVideo UEs to support the generation, storage,
transmission and rendering of uncompressed video information or of video
information losslessly compressed_.\"
[R-5.1.1.1-018]: _\"The MCVideo service shall support separate handling of
video and audio information, including the ability to cipher, transport, store
and deliver video and audio separately._ \"
The video content can be real-time encoded by the MCVideo UE or pre-captured
and stored locally in a surveillance camera attached with a 3GPP UE.
### 5.2.3 Assumptions
It is assumed that the MCVideo service will reuse the mission critical
functional architecture as defined in 3GPP TS 23.280 [4] and 3GPP TS 23.281
[5].
### 5.2.4 Solution
It is recommended that MCVideo service supports the RTP/RTCP protocol for
clear (i.e., unencrypted) media content transportation as described in
Reference [12]. References [9] and [10] further recommend that the MCVideo
service supports the SRTP/SRTCP protocol for the integrity and confidentiality
protection of MCVideo communications.
## 5.3 Key Issue 3: Speech/audio codec for MCVideo
### 5.3.1 Description
TS 22.281 [3] states that the MCVideo service supports both combined (for
efficiency and synchronization) and separate (for cases when the video
component cannot or will not be received) handling of video and audio streams.
Therefore, audio/speech codec and media transport also needs to be specified
for MCVideo.
### 5.3.2 Recommended requirements
TS 22.281 [3] states that \"_Transcoding is not desirable on grounds of
complexity and efficiency and in order to enable end-to-end ciphering_ \".
Also \"_MCVideo might be operated in a combined way with MCPTT_ \". Therefore
it is recommended to re-use MCPTT speech/audio codecs.
### 5.3.3 GAP Analysis and Evaluation
One gap is the lack of specified codecs for speech/audio for MCVideo service.
Another gap is the description of RTP media transport for handling the
interruption of video while speech/audio continues.
### 5.3.4 Assumptions
It is assumed that the MCVideo service will reuse the mission critical
functional architecture as defined in 3GPP TS 23.280 [4] and 3GPP TS 23.281
[5].
### 5.3.5 Solution
For speech/audio codecs the solution is to recommend the same codecs as for
MCPTT as specified in TS 26.179 [11].
For transport the solution is to:
\- Set one RTP for unencrypted speech/audio and one RTP for unencrypted video.
Set one SRTP for encrypted speech/audio and one SRTP for encrypted video.
\- Use RTCP SR/RR (SR without any receiver report part for MBMS) for
synchronization of speech/audio and video.
\- If needed, the bearer carrying video RTP can be turndown for a subset of
users during the session. The compliant RTP receiver will stop forwarding
video packets to the MCVideo client but will continue forward of speech/audio
packets. The MCVideo client will be able to continue rendering speech/audio.
In case the bearer carrying video RTP is re-established, the compliant RTP
receiver will use SR to resync and forward video packets to the MCVideo
client. For a consistent UE behavior handling in case of a total lack of
received RTP video packets is \"freeze\" per default, with a few exceptions:
1) If receiving RTCP BYE for the video, the video display window is closed.
Note: If video display window is closed due to RTCP BYE, any RTP packets
received with same SSRC as in RTCP BYE within a time period equal to the RTP
session timeout (RFC 3550) from receiving RTCP BYE will not cause the video
window to re-open.
2) If RTP session timeout (as defined by RFC 3550), the video display window
is closed.
3) If video bearer is lost/closed (even if no RTCP BYE received), the video
display window is closed.
As soon as video RTP packets are received again, the video display window is
re-opened when video bearer is established or when receiving RTP with at least
a full _intra_ frame.
###### ### Annex A: Review of key Stage 1 requirements for video codec
specification
# A.1 Review of key Stage 1 requirements for video codec specification
Requirements for the Mission Critical Video (MCVideo) application are defined
in TS 22.281 [3]. For each key requirement described, an evaluation of
corresponding video codec requirements is added.
##### 5.1.1.1 Operational recommendations and requirements for video codecs
for the MCVideo service {#operational-recommendations-and-requirements-for-
video-codecs-for-the-mcvideo-service .H6}
_[R-5.1.1.1-001] The video codecs for the MCVideo service should be able to
compress/record variable (from very low to very high) resolution video
information acquired in real-time:_
_\- in conditions of varied mobility (from static to highly mobile); and_
_\- in conditions of optical and thermal illuminations varying from dimly lit
to glare and high brightness._
Evaluation: this requires variable rate encoding from low to high resolutions.
Encoding at 240p is not sufficient. This requirement is fulfilled by H.264
(AVC) Constrained High Profile (CHP) Level 3.1 up to 1280x720\@30fps, encoding
of H.265 (HEVC) Main Profile, Main Tier, Level 3.1 up to 1280x720\@25fps and
encoding H.265 (HEVC) Main Profile, Main Tier, Level 3.1 in lossless mode.
_[R-5.1.1.1-002] The MCVideo service shall use video coding and decoding that
enables license plate reading, facial and fingerprint recognition and overview
of scenes._
Evaluation: although applying to the service and not the clients, this
requirement impacts the minimum resolution of images. For the case of
fingerprints, law enforcement level scanners are required to have a 500dpi+
resolution
[http://nextbiometrics.com/security/resolution___gray_scale_levels/]. Assuming
a 1.0x1.0 square inches\' size scanner, that is an image size of 500x500
pixels. For the case of facial and license plate reading the distance as well
as the camera optical zoom capability and lens quality will impact the
resolution of the area of interest and it is obvious that the higher the
resolution the better. _However, the current baseline of 240p does not seem to
fulfil the requirements_.
This requirement is fulfilled by encoding/decoding of H.264 (AVC) Constrained
High Profile (CHP) Level 3.1 up to 1280x720\@30fps, encoding/decoding of H.265
(HEVC) Main Profile, Main Tier, Level 3.1 up to 1280x720\@25fps and
encoding/decoding of H.265 (HEVC) Main Profile, Main Tier, Level 3.1 in
lossless mode.
_[R-5.1.1.1-002a] The MCVideo service shall support MCVideo UEs that are
capable of only receiving videos (e.g. do not have a camera)._
Evaluation: receiving only MCVideo clients are not required to support video
encoding. A category of receiving only MCVideo client needs to be defined in
the requirements.
_[R-5.1.1.1-002b] The MCVideo service shall support MCVideo UEs that are
capable of only transmitting videos (e.g. traffic camera)._
Evaluation: transmitting only MCVideo clients are not required to support
video decoding and rendering. A category of transmitting only MCVideo client
needs to be defined in the requirements.
_[R-5.1.1.1-002c] The MCVideo service shall support MCVideo UEs that are
capable of transmitting and receiving videos._
Evaluation: transmitting and receiving MCVideo clients are required to support
video encoding and decoding.
_[R-5.1.1.1-002d] The MCVideo service shall support transportation of all 3GPP
mandated video frame rates and resolutions._
Evaluation: this requirement is not directly applicable to MCVideo clients
video encoding/decoding capabilities other than the need to specify a
corresponding transport format for the selected video codecs.
_[R-5.1.1.1-003] The video codecs for the MCVideo service should be able to
work effectively in an environment that allows for the transfer of stored or
just acquired video information or both, including the capability of rapidly
trading image resolution and chromaticity for transfer latency and bandwidth._
Evaluation: both H.264 and H.265 encoders implementations typically support
this requirement. However, the requirement is unspecific as to which encoding
parameters should be traded.
_[R-5.1.1.1-004] MCVideo UEs should support rendering of video clips in
industry-standard widely-used formats._
Evaluation: both H.264 and H.265 are industry standards and are deployed.
H.264 Main Profile, High Profile or Progressive Profile are widely used
formats for many years.
_[R-5.1.1.1-005] The video codecs for the MCVideo service should be able to
decompress video information, in a manner that enables detail-oriented
intelligibility of the information._
Evaluation: this requirement calls for high frame rate and resolutions with
high accuracy. Both H.264 CHP and H.265 Main are capable of this.
_[R-5.1.1.1-006] The video encoders for the MCVideo service should provide
both automatic adaptive and manual setting of its working parameters across
wide ranges of values and be able to immediately and predictably reflect the
changes in values._
Evaluation: both H.264 and H.265 encoders implementations typically support
this requirement. However, the requirement is unspecific as to which encoding
parameters should be immediate applied after a change.
_[R-5.1.1.1-007] The video codecs for the MCVideo service should provide video
compression ratios and quality at least comparable to what it is customarily
and reasonably expected from H.264 [6] compliant video codec implementations._
Evaluation: ignoring particular profile aspects, H.264 fulfils this
requirement while H.265 surpasses it significantly. See 3GPP TR 26.906 [13]
for more on H.265/HEVC performance evaluations.
_[R-5.1.1.1-008] Subject to capability, capacity and configuration, it should
be possible for MCVideo UEs to support the generation, storage, transmission
and rendering of uncompressed video information or of video information
losslessly compressed._
Evaluation: H.264 does not support lossless coding. H.265 supports a lossless
mode (referred to here as encoding/decoding of H.265 (HEVC) Main Profile, Main
Tier, Level 3.1 in lossless mode).
_[R-5.1.1.1-009] The MCVideo service shall provide a mechanism for an
authorised MCVideo User or MCVideo Administrator to configure and to
temporarily reconfigure the preferred video codec, default video resolution
and default video frame rate for an MCVideo Group._
Evaluation: This requirement applies to media handling and session description
and not to the particular video codec support.
_[R-5.1.1.1-010] The MCVideo service shall provide a mechanism for an
authorised MCVideo User or MCVideo Administrator to configure, in preference
order, the allowed sets of video codec(s), corresponding video resolution(s)
and video frame rate(s) for an MCVideo Group._
Evaluation: This requirement applies to media handling and session description
and not to the particular video codec support.
_[R-5.1.1.1-011] The MCVideo service shall provide a mechanism for automatic
negotiation between MCVideo UEs for the establishment of a common video codec,
corresponding video resolution(s) and video frame rate(s) for the duration of
an MCVideo communication._
Evaluation: This requirement applies to media handling and session description
and not to the particular video codec support.
_[R-5.1.1.1-012] The MCVideo service shall support video resolution at least
from 320 x 240 at 10 frames per second up to and beyond 1280 x 720 at 30
frames per second._
Evaluation: this requirement does not apply directly to MCVideo clients but
sets expected min and max operating resolutions and frame rates.
_[R-5.1.1.1-012a] An MCVideo UE that is able to transmit video may support a
video resolution from 320 x 240 at 10 frames per second up to and beyond 1280
x 720 at 30 frames per second._
Evaluation: this allows MCVideo client to support at least encoding from
240p\@10fps up to 720p\@30fps.
_[R-5.1.1.1-012b] An MCVideo UE that is able to receive videos shall support
as a minimum, the reception, decoding and rendering of all 3GPP mandated video
frame rates and resolutions._
Evaluation: this sets a requirement that the MCVideo client specification
aligns requirements between encoding such that decoding is required for at
least the mandated encoding frame rate and resolutions.
_[R-5.1.1.1-013] The MCVideo service should enable high definition rendering
of the video information with quality at least corresponding to video format
1080p (1920 × 1080 pixels HDTV resolution)._
Evaluation: this requirement applies to the service and not directly to
MCVideo clients. However it recommends 1080p playback.
_[R-5.1.1.1-014] The MCVideo service should support the video capturing and
storing of video information for objects moving at speeds of up to 150 km/h,
with the ability to extract images of quality necessary for license plate
reading._
Evaluation: this requirement is mostly related to camera capability, like size
of optics and shutter speed, but to some extent also to encoding framerate,
where both H.264 and H.265 can meet the requirement, and would necessitate
specific testing for the case described.
_[R-5.1.1.1-015] The MCVideo service shall support mutual adaptation between
the video codecs and the video information carrying bearer in terms of video
resolution, frame rate and QoS characteristics (e.g. bandwidth, error rate)._
Evaluation: This requirement applies to media handling and session description
and not to the particular video codec support.
_[R-5.1.1.1-016] The MCVideo service shall support UE entering the video
communication late to identify the video resolution and frame rate being used
and be able to start video capture, storage, encoding, transmission,
reception, decoding and rendering with minimal delay upon entering the video
communication._
Evaluation: This requirement applies to media handling and session description
and not to the particular video codec support.
_[R-5.1.1.1-017] The MCVideo service should support combined handling of video
and audio information._
Evaluation: This requirement applies to media handling and session description
and not to the particular video codec support.
_[R-5.1.1.1-018] The MCVideo service shall support separate handling of video
and audio information, including the ability to cipher, transport, store and
deliver video and audio separately._
Evaluation: This requirement applies to media handling and session description
and not to the particular video codec support.
_[R-5.1.1.1-019] The MCVideo service shall enable uploaded images to be
integrity protected on a per-frame basis and inter-frame basis._
Evaluation: This requirement applies to media handling and session description
and not to the particular video codec support.
##### 5.1.1.2 End-user criteria and requirements for the selection of a video
codec for MCVideo service {#end-user-criteria-and-requirements-for-the-
selection-of-a-video-codec-for-mcvideo-service .H6}
_[R-5.1.1.2-001] A single video codec for global interoperability shall be
specified as mandatory. Other video codecs may be specified as optional where
benefits over the global interoperability video codec are identified._
NOTE: This requirement refers to 3GPP action**.** Local, national and regional
authorities can make additional video codecs mandatory within their
jurisdiction.
Evaluation: This requirement sets the framework for the specification text to
mandate a single video codec and to specify optional video codecs providing
benefits over the mandatory codec.
_[R-5.1.1.2-002] The global interoperability video codec shall be widely
available and have a good in-field track record of availability, reliability,
quality and responsiveness acquired over a substantive period of time of
actual use as prescribed._
Evaluation: both H.264 and H.265 are globally available industry standards and
fulfil the requirement.
_[R-5.1.1.2-003] The global interoperability video codec shall have been
extensively tested in all the potentially deployable operation modes._
Evaluation: both H.264 and H.265 are globally available industry standards and
fulfil the requirement.
_[R-5.1.1.2-004] The complexity, processing power and energy consumption of
the global interoperability video codec should be in the \"small\" range for
the specific task at hand, when other video codecs are used for comparison._
Evaluation: H.264 implementations have evolved over time towards very low
processing power and energy consumption.
_[R-5.1.1.2-005] Based on the capabilities of the active UE(s) in possession
of a user, each media component of a transmission received by the user shall
be playable on at least one of the active UEs._
Evaluation: This requirement applies to media handling and session description
and not to the particular video codec support.
# A.2 Summary of MCVideo Client video codec requirements
Recommended to become mandatory:
\- Encoding and decoding from 240p to 720p
\- Transmitting capable MCVideo clients to support video encoding
\- Encoder: H.264 (AVC) Constrained High Profile (CHP) Level 3.1 up to
1280x720\@30fps
\- Receiving capable MCVideo clients to support video decoding
\- Decoder: H.264 (AVC) Constrained High Profile (CHP) Level 3.1
Recommended
\- Variable rate video encoding from 10fps to 30fps and 240p to 1080p
\- H.264 decoding in all receiving capable MCVideo clients
\- H.264 (AVC) Constrained High Profile (CHP) Level 4 with resolutions up to
1080p and framerate up to 30 fps
\- H.265 decoding in all receiving capable MCVideo clients for higher
efficiency benefits
\- decoding of H.265 (HEVC) Main Profile, Main Tier, Level 4 with resolutions
up to 1080p and framerate up to 30fps
\- H.265 decoding in lossless mode
\- H.265 encoding in all transmitting capable MCVideo clients for higher
efficiency benefits
\- encoding of H.265 (HEVC) Main Profile, Main Tier, Level 3.1 up to
1280x720\@30fps
\- H.265 encoding in lossless mode
#