# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
In the 3GPP context, service interactivity refers to a class of features that
enables user engagement during the consumption of a streaming or downloaded
service/content on the UE, distributed over broadcast or unicast bearers.
Examples of services/contents which may offer interactivity capabilities
include linear/live TV services, video-on-demand programs, and pre-downloaded
media content which a user can consume later on, in a time-shifted manner. For
video content, for example a TV program or an advertisement, service
interactivity facilitates active watching (as opposed to passive viewing) by
allowing the end-user to actively interact and participate with the presented
content. In the context of services delivered over PSS or MBMS, different
forms of service interactivity may be possible, for example:
\- Voting for a favourite performer,
\- Dynamic quizzes, surveys, elections,
\- Rating of a live event during a program,
\- Web access to additional information related to main content,
\- Online chats about actors in TV episode or movie,
\- Interactive advertisements,
\- eCommerce and online shopping,
and many others**.**
Personalized and interactive service capabilities in 3GPP streaming and
download services, via unicast and/or broadcast delivery, can drive higher
end-user satisfaction and loyalty to the service operator, i.e., create
greater \"stickiness\" of the operator\'s service offerings such as linear TV
programs, live sports events and downloadable multimedia content. It could
also enable the operator to further monetize streaming services (especially
when distributed over MBMS) by, for example:
\- Increasing the subscriber base through premium contextual service
offerings.
\- Supporting on-demand information or targeted advertising via simple user
interaction such as click-to-call, click-to-SMS, or click-to-Web access.
\- Driving greater cellular airtime or data volume usage associated with end-
user initiated traffic pertaining to interactivity, the fees for which may be
borne by a 3^rd^-party entity such as an advertiser or content provider, as
opposed to the subscriber.
Service interactivity in 3GPP streaming and download service comprises
application/presentation layer functionality, pertaining to user interface and
user experience afforded by the interactivity feature, as well as a
transport/signaling component, responsible for the discovery, synchronization
and delivery of application and media content that define the interactivity
experience. While the definition of the former, application/presentation layer
aspects is largely outside the scope of 3GPP specification, delivery and
signaling functions for enabling interactivity are fully within 3GPP\'s
domain. Many of the tools required to signal and deliver functional components
of interactive services may already exist in 3GPP PSS and MBMS specifications,
but need to be clearly understood, leveraged, and possibly extended to fully
support service interactivity.
The present document examines major use cases for service interactivity in
3GPP streaming and download services, and associated requirements and
potential gaps in existing PSS and MBMS service layer specifications for
interactivity support. It surveys service interactivity functionality
specified in broadcast TV standards, as a reference point for potential
emulation by, or differentiation from, 3GPP-defined mechanisms. It concludes
by identifying functional gaps in MBMS and PSS specifications to support the
identified recommended requirements regarding interactivity, and summarizes
the necessary capabilities to fulfill those gaps.
# 1 Scope
The present document covers the study of interactivity support for 3GPP-based
streaming and download services, in the context of services delivery over MBMS
and PSS. Topical areas addressed include the following:
\- Use cases and associated assumptions, recommended requirements and gap
analyses on the operation of and means to support interactivity capabilities
in streaming and download services.
\- End-to-end architecture and functional component models, with emphasis on
unicast and broadcast DASH services.
\- Differentiation between application/presentation level and
transport/service layer functions in support of interactive services.
\- Overview of service interactivity mechanisms in terrestrial broadcast TV
services, as defined in DVB and ATSC specifications.
\- Notification mechanisms to activate interactive events, either pre-
scheduled or to occur dynamically and unpredictably, at precise times during
consumption of a main service or program.
\- Functional gaps in current MBMS and PSS application/service layer
specifications to support desired interactivity functions.
\- Measurement and reporting of the consumption of interactive features.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] ETSI TS 102 796 (V1.2.1): \"Hybrid Broadcast Broadband TV\", November
2012.
> [3] ETSI TS 102 809 (V1.2.1): \"Digital Video Broadcasting (DVB); Signalling
> and carriage of interactive applications and services in hybrid
> broadcast/broadband environments\", July 2013.
>
> [4] ETSI TS 102 796 (V1.4.1): \"Hybrid Broadcast Broadband TV\", August
> 2016.
>
> [5] DVB Blue Book A168; DVB-DASH, available at:
> https://www.dvb.org/standards/dvb-iptv
>
> [6] ATSC Candidate Standard: \"Application Signaling\" (A/337), 20 December
> 2016.
[7] ATSC Candidate Standard: \"ATSC 3.0 Interactive Content\" (A/344), 29
December 2016.
[8] ATSC Candidate Standard, \"Signaling, Delivery, Synchronization, and Error
Protection\", 21 September 2016.
> [9] ISO/IEC 23009-1:2014: \"Information technology -- Dynamic adaptive
> streaming over HTTP (DASH) -- Part 1: Media presentation description and
> segment formats\".
>
> [10] 3GPP TS 26.247: \"Transparent end-to-end Packet-switched Streaming
> Service (PSS); Progressive Download and Dynamic Adaptive Streaming over HTTP
> (3GP-DASH).
>
> [11] W3C Recommendation 28 October 2014, HTML5: \"A vocabulary and
> associated APIs for HTML and XHTML\", http://www.w3.org/TR/html5/.
>
> [12] Piesing, Jon, \"Liaison Letter on Mapping MPEG DASH Events to HTML5
> Text Tracks and Cues\", http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-
> html/2013Dec/0015.html.
>
> [13] IETF RFC 5261, \"An Extensible Markup Language (XML) Patch Operations
> Framework Utilizing XML Path Language (XPath) Selectors\", September 2008,
> https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5261.
>
> [14] DASH Industry Forum, \"Guidelines for Implementation: DASH-IF
> Interoperability Points\", Version 4.0, December 12, 2016,
> http://dashif.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/12/DASH-IF-IOP-v4.0-clean.pdf.
>
> [15] 3GPP TR 26.848: \"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service (MBMS);
> Enhanced MBMS Operation\".
>
> [16] W3C Recommendation 27 June 2001: \"XML Linking Language (XLink)\"
> Version 1.0.
>
> [17] ISO/IEC 23008-11: \"MPEG Composition Information\".
>
> [18] 3GPP TS 26.346: \"MBMS Multicast/Broadcast Service; Protocols and
> codecs\".
>
> [19] 3GPP TS 26.347: \"MBMS URLs and APIs\".
>
> [20] 3GPP TR 26.907: \"HTML5 for a new presentation layer in 3GPP
> services\".
>
> [21] 3GPP TS 26.142: \"Dynamic and Interactive Multimedia Scenes (DIMS)\".
>
> [22] 3GPP TS 26.234: \"Transparent end-to-end Packet-switched Streaming
> Service (PSS), Protocols and codecs\".
>
> [23] 3GPP TS 33.246: \"3G Security; Security of Multimedia
> Broadcast/Multicast Service (MBMS)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Event:** Timed notification to UE software or to an application, indicating
that some action is to be taken.
**Hybrid application/app:** A web application wrapped inside a native
application. In the context of MBMS, hybrid apps comprise a category of MBMS
applications (\"MBMS application\" is defined in TS 26.346 [18]).
**Interactive service:** An MBMS or PSS service characterized by the ability
of users to interact with the content/program in one or both of the following
ways: 1) by changing the presented content (e.g. via access to auxiliary
information, change of camera angle, supplementary media content overlaid on
main program, concurrent display of text with the main video, etc.); 2) by
returning end-user-supplied information or -initiated action to the service
provider or content provider through the unicast channel (for example to vote
for a particular choice, order a product, or participate in an on-screen
quiz).
**Interactivity experience:** The end-user experience that result from the
occurrence of one or more interactivity events during the presentation of an
interactive service.
**Interactive media:** Media content, as part of an interactive service,
presented to an end-user to prompt explicit action by the user, and/or in
response to user input.
**Native application/app:** An application developed specifically for a
particular mobile device/operating system and is installed directly onto that
device. Users of native apps typically download them via
[app](http://mobiledevices.about.com/od/
**Web application/app:** An Internet-enabled, client-server software
application, typically written in HTML, Javascript and CSS, for which the
client (or user interface) runs in the web browser. In the context of MBMS,
web apps comprise a category of MBMS applications.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
ACR Automatic Content Recognition
AIT Application Information Table
API Application Programming Interface
ATSC Advanced Television Systems Committee
AVC Advanced Video Coding
CENC Common Encryption
CSS Cascading Style Sheet
DAE Declarative Application Environment
DO Declarative Object
DOM Document Object Mode
DSM-CC Digital Storage Media -- Command and Control
DTV Digital TeleVision
DTVCC DTV Closed Caption
DVB Digital Video Broadcasting
EBU-TT European Broadcasting Union Timed Text
FP FingerPrinting
HbbTV Hybrid Broadcast Broadband TV
HTML HyperText Markup Language
HTTP HyperText Transfer Protocol
MPEG Motion Picture Experts Group
IDTV Integrated digital television (receiver)
ISOBMFF International Organization for Standards, Base Media File Format
NRT Non Real Time
OIPF Open IPTV Forum
PVR Persona Video Recorder
SMT Service Map Table
STB Set-Top Box
TDO Triggered Declarative Object
TPT TDO Parameters Table
UDO Unbound Declarative Object
VoD Video on Demand
WM WaterMark or WaterMarking
XHTML Extensible HyperText Markup Language
> XML EXtensible Markup Language
# 4 Interactivity Support for 3GPP-Based Streaming and Download Services (IS3)
## 4.1 Introduction
The sub-clauses in this section describe a set of service interactivity
specific use cases and related analysis for several of them with regards to
scene updates, working assumptions, recommended requirements, and gap analysis
pertaining to those recommended requirements.
## 4.2 Use Cases, Working Assumptions, Recommended Requirements and Gap
Analysis
### 4.2.1 Use Cases
#### 4.2.1.1 Use Case #1: Mobile TV with Auxiliary Data and User Interactivity
Frank is watching a TV talent show program \"America\'s Top Singers\" on his
UE. Delivered along with the broadcast content is auxiliary data content
including web links to access additional information on the performer\'s
background and competition status, on-screen display for real-time user
feedback opportunities and results. The auxiliary contents are synchronized
with the A/V stream and rendered as a side-bar along with the main program by
the client application on the UE. The auxiliary data is updated at different
times during the main program for user engagement, such as display of buttons
and links that can be selected by the user to obtain additional multimedia
information on the chosen singer. After the performances for the program have
completed, audience participation via \"vote buttons\" alongside the
performer\'s names are displayed to enable viewer selection of their favourite
performer among the competitors. The user\'s choice is sent to the program\'s
vote compilation server, and during the voting period, tallied results are
displayed in real-time. After the allowed time period for user interaction has
elapsed, and upon the show host announcement of the evening\'s results, the
final vote results are displayed to indicate the 1^st^, 2^nd^ and 3^rd^ place
performers of the evening. The winner, Beyondme, walks up to the podium in
tears of joy as the audience wildly applauses, and the host makes the
obligatory congratulatory remarks and reiterates that \"America\'s Top
Singers\" is the top-rated TV talent show in the country.
#### 4.2.1.2 Use Case #2: Click for Info
The viewer of the \"My European Vacation with Tom\" video service is able to
interact with the content by clicking on a combination of pop-up buttons and
web links. Some of these buttons and links are statically displayed alongside
the main display throughput the program, while others appear and later
disappear dynamically, at specific times during the travelogue program to
obtain more information related to the specific cities and tourist sites
featured during the program segment. The returned information may contain
advertisements on cruises and vacation packages.
#### 4.2.1.3 Use Case #3: Dynamic Interactive Ads During Live Sports Event
Live streaming of the 2020 Superior Bowl football game is offered by mobile
operator Horizon. The game features the Patriots with 42 year-old quarterback
T. Bradley and the Broncos with 43-year old quarterback P. Manny. Early in the
1^st^ quarter, a vicious sack of Manny leaves him unconscious on the field. As
a time-out is called, an interactive wine commercial is displayed to viewers
with an on-screen link that enables user access to more information on the
wines produced by the sponsor, along with a chance to enter a drawing to win a
winery tour. Later in the game, with 20 sec remaining in the 4^th^ quarter,
with the score tied at 20-20 tie, the Patriots have the ball and Bradley goes
for an unexpected quarterback sneak and scores the winning touchdown. The fans
go crazy, and as the field is swamped with players and fans, the service
provider decides to interrupt the broadcast with another interactive ad.
#### 4.2.1.4 Use Case #4: Dynamic and Personalized Interactive Ads During Live
Sports Event
Jack and Jill are watching the same football game as described in the previous
use case. During the aforementioned injury timeout in the 1^st^ quarter, a
personalized interactive ad is displayed on Jack\'s screen inviting him to
view a sport car commercial at the end of which he is asked to answer three
questions and is notified that he will be entered in a drawing to win that
car. At the same time, a different customized ad is presented on Jill\'s
screen on women\'s couture, for which she is invited to pick her favourite
dresses among those displayed and submit her vote online. During the second
aforementioned game interruption, another set of personalized and interactive
ads are presented on Jack\'s and Jill\'s UEs.
#### 4.2.1.5 Use Case #5: Measurement and Reporting of Interactivity Usage
The MBMS operator \"Colossus Wireless\" offers a number of MBMS User Services
which are associated with service interactivity, such as the display of
targeted ads for user engagement during timeouts or other dynamic and
unscheduled times of live sports events, interactive voting of a favourite
performer during talent show programs, opportunities for interactive
purchasing of merchandise during the main program, display of links to
external content related to the current portion of the main program, etc.
_Colossus Wireless_ itself, and/or on behalf of a 3^rd^-party entity, wishes
to obtain information, in a secure manner, regarding end-user usage of and
engagement with the interactivity-related display content, or other forms of
user engagement during the interactivity event, subject to meeting service
subscription related terms and/or regulatory requirements pertaining to user
privacy. _Colossus Wireless_ would like to implement an interactivity usage
measurement and reporting solution that will enable simple device logging
functionality, i.e. the chosen UEs for reporting will simply log sequences of
raw event data, while a network server can perform offline processing of
reported data to correlate these events and extract usage statistics, thereby
minimizing the device complexity. In addition, the MBMS operator intends to
specify the time occurrences of interactivity usage reporting to coincide with
off-peak network times, to minimize the impact of unicast network load from
such reporting. _Colossus Wireless_ will define the specific interactivity-
related usage metrics to be logged, and control the user device population
which will generate the reports. For the latter purpose, it intends for the
reporting to involve either random selection of user devices, or it will
define a specific group of devices from which the reports will be sent.
### 4.2.2 Working Assumptions
> NOTE: The tentatively agreed working assumptions as shown below are for
> further study, with the intent to represent the operational environment of
> service interactivity as described by the use cases in clause 2, as opposed
> to solution framework. Additional working assumptions are expected to be
> added to this clause.
The following working assumptions are applicable to the use cases in this
clause:
\- Auxiliary data components associated with the interactive main
service/program are carried over one or more delivery sessions (e.g. MBMS
download sessions, PSS sessions).
\- Information about the user, such as a profile, can be used to enable a
personalized interactivity experience, for example personalized offers or ads
displayed during the main program.
\- Interactivity usage information is expected to be useful to, and/or
required by the 3GPP service provider or a 3^rd^-party entity, for the
following purposes (non-exhaustive list):
\- deriving statistics on the amount of viewing of interactive advertisements;
\- determining time durations users spent/engaged with interactive content;
\- measuring the number of click-throughs of embedded links in the displayed
interactivity content;
\- counting the number of purchases and possible deriving the monetary value
of these purchases, associated with the interactivity event;
\- associating user demographic information with the interactivity usage, in
accordance to user-privacy related subscription terms or regulatory
requirements.
\- Interactivity usage information may affect advertisement revenues for the
3GPP service operator or 3^rd^ party content provider. It could also assist
determination of the popularity of an interactive advertisement or other
interactivity display content associated with the main program or MBMS
service, as well as provide an indication of the effectiveness of an
interactive application.
\- The 3GPP service operator has specific objectives for the interactivity
usage measurement and reporting solution regarding simplification of device
logging functionality, occurrence time and duration of interactivity usage
reporting sessions, and the device population from which the reports are to be
collected.
\- UE collection and reporting of interactivity usage data, and the use of
that data by the 3GPP service provider or 3^rd^-party entity, are restricted
to the MBMS User Service to which the interactivity events pertain, and
assumes that the user has explicitly opted in to such interactivity usage
collection and reporting.
\- The 3GPP operator, and on behalf of the end user, wishes to ensure the
secure storage of interactivity usage information on the user device, and
secure transmission of that information to the network.
### 4.2.3 Use Case Analysis
#### 4.2.3.1 Scene Update Processing
In the following discussion on the use of scene updates to support
interactivity use cases, MPEG Composition Information (CI) [17] is cited as an
example format for describing scene updates. The MPEG CI document will require
processing by a Javascript or a native CI engine. In the latter case, the CI
engine is then a separate processor from the web runtime engine. In the former
case, the Javascript for processing the CI documents is delivered as part of
the presentation (just as is the case for the DASH MPD processor). The use of
other formats for describing scene updates, including proprietary formats such
as a Javascript Framework, may also be used for this purpose.
#### 4.2.3.2 Use Case #1: Mobile TV with Auxiliary Data and User Interactivity
In this use case, a composite scene with a main video and side content is
used. The side content is updated throughout the lifetime of the program.
Interactivity in form of voting is offered at specific points of the
presentation.
The following HTML5 document provides an example of such presentation when
authored in HTML5.
+------------------------------------------+ | **\ ** | | | | **\ ** | | | | **\ ** | | | | **\ ** | | | | **\ ** | | | | **\ \** | | | | **\ ** | | | | **\ ** | | | | **\ ** | | | | **\ ** | | | | **\ ** | | | | **\ ** | +------------------------------------------+
Interactivity with the server is performed using HTML input elements and
events and is transmitted to through HTTP using XmlHttpRequest API.
Scene updates are delivered separately. The format of scene update
information/document may either be proprietary or an existing standard such as
MPEG CI [17] may be used for the purpose.
If MPEG CI is used as scene update format, the scene update to address the
current use case might look as follows:
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | **\ ** | | | | **\ ** | | | | **\ ** | | | | **\ ** | | | | **\ ** | | | | **\ ** | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
The example shows how the side content is first shown and then hidden after 30
minutes. That side content element may contain all the interactivity
information, e.g. to perform voting and to display side information about the
main show.
#### 4.2.3.3 Use Case #2: Click for Info
Similar to the above example, this use cases can be addressed through timing
the appearance and hiding of content in \" \"div\" elements of the HTML5. The
scene update information will provide CSS attribute modifications to be
applied to the referenced \"div\"
#### 4.2.3.4 Use Case #3: Dynamic Interactive Ads During Live Sports Event
This use cases is about unpredicted events that initiate customized ad
insertion. This use case can be addressed by issuing a scene update and
delivering the scene update document to the receivers over MBMS, with clear
identification to accelerate retrieval and processing at the UE.
Upon reception of the scene update, the document will contain information to
change the video source to an ad by pointing to the MPD of the ad. The
resolution of the MPD URL may be used to serve custom ads.
If MPEG CI is used as a scene update format, the scene update document might
look as follows:
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | **\ ** | | | | **\ ** | | | | **\ ** | | | | **\ ** | | | | **\ http://www.example.com/ad.mpd\** | | | | **\ ** | | | | **\ ** | | | | **\ ** | | | | **\ ** | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
#### 4.2.3.5 Use Case #4: Dynamic and Personalized Interactive Ads During Live
Sports Event
This use case is about customized ads based on user profiles. HTML5 can build
this logic into scripting or address resolution.
### 4.2.4 Recommended Requirements
The following recommended requirements from the service and transport layers
perspective are derived from the interactivity use cases as described in the
present document and summarized above in clause 2.1.
#### 4.2.4.1 General
The following recommended requirements are not specific to any use case, but
are applicable to all of them in order to support service interactivity:
\- An interactive service experience will be available to the user while
consuming either a live streaming, on-demand streaming, or non-real-time (NRT)
service or program delivered via unicast or broadcast transport.
\- It ought to be possible for an interactivity application, whose logic is
executed by the interactivity agent, to be implemented as any of the following
types:
\- a _native application_ , written for a certain mobile device or platform,
\- a _web application_ , written in HTML/Javascript/CSS, downloaded from a web
site, and runs in the device\'s web browser, or
\- a _hybrid application_ in the form of a web app wrapped inside a native
container which provides access to native platform features.
\- It is possible for the downloaded interactivity content to be cached in the
UE, to be activated or displayed later on, during the presentation of the
service or program for which interactivity is enabled.
\- There is a means to uniquely identify an interactivity application, as one
of the content components of an interactivity-enabled User Service associated
with a specific interactivity use case, from other content files associated
with interactivity support.
\- Similar to the interactivity application, it is possible to uniquely
identify among interactivity content other interactivity related files such as
application data and interactivity media such as video clips, images or text
files, to be played out during the interactivity event.
\- It is expected that a signaling mechanism will be available to launch the
execution or display of interactivity related content, in synchrony with
interactivity events in the main program whose occurrence(s) may be scheduled
or unscheduled.
\- It ought to be possible for the 3GPP service provider to obtain reports of
interactivity event-related usage information from user devices, during
interactivity usage reporting sessions as defined by the 3GPP service
provider.
\- It ought to be possible for the 3GPP service provider to specify the
parameters to be contained in the interactivity usage reports sent by user
devices.
\- It ought to be possible for the 3GPP service provider to control the
occurrence times of interactivity usage reporting by user devices.
\- It ought to be possible for user-privacy requirements, including explicit
opt-in by the user and anonymity of user identity, to be fulfilled in the
collection and reporting of service interactivity related usage.
\- It ought to be possible for interactivity usage information to be securely
stored on the user device, and to be securely transmitted from the user device
to the network.
#### 4.2.4.2 Use Case Specific Recommended Requirements
The following recommended requirements pertaining to interactivity support are
derived from the existing use cases.
\- From \"Mobile TV with Auxiliary Data and User Interactivity\":
\- Content intended for real-time and program-synchronized interactive display
is assumed to be available to be downloaded and cached in the MBMS receiver
for rendering later on during the main program at the appropriate time
instances.
\- From \"Click for Info\":
\- It is possible for service interactivity to be supported for NRT broadcast
services.
\- Service interactivity experiences associated with NRT service/content
presentation is capable of being personalized for different users.
\- From \"Interactive Ads in Live Events\", both with and without
personalization:
\- It is possible for service interactivity to occur in advertisements, as a
form of content, to be presented during rendering of live services/programs,
and whose time of incidence can be precisely synchronized with dynamic and
unscheduled occurrences during the live service/program, for example, an
injury time-out during a football game.
\- It is expected that personalization of the interactivity experience
associated with an interactive ad can be provided to the user.
\- From \"Measurement and Reporting of Interactivity Usage\":
\- It ought to be possible for the 3GPP service provider to define the
following parameters contained in the interactivity usage reports: amount of
viewing of interactive advertisements, time duration of user engagement with
the interactivity content, number of click-throughs by the user of embedded
links in the displayed interactivity content, number of purchases (and
possibly associated monetary value of those purchases) associated with
interactivity events, user demographic information associated with
interactivity usage reports (subject to fulfilling user opt-in requirements),
etc.
\- It ought to be possible for the 3GPP service provider, in the interactivity
usage reporting sessions it defines, to specify a) the reporting time
window(s) during which user devices are expected to upload interactivity usage
information, b) the specific interactivity events to be reported, and c)
selection criteria for reporting devices.
\- It ought to be possible for the 3GPP service provider to specify two types
of interactivity usage reporting sessions:
a) _Randomly-sampled session_. In this type of reporting session, the > device
decides via a random sampling method whether or not it > ought to participate
in the reporting of interactivity usage. For > example, the 3GPP service
provider may include a \"sample > percentage\" value in service announcement
signaling, similar to > such parameter in the Associated Delivery Procedure
Description > (ADPD) fragment in MBMS, to effectively specify the target >
percentage of UEs to perform interactivity usage reporting.
b) _Targeted group session_. In this type of reporting session, it is >
assumed that demographic information of each end-user of the > device is known
to the service operator. The method to collect > such user data is not
expected to rely on the user providing this > information outside of the
application or service that intends to > make use of the data. For example,
each user may be associated > with a certain identifier, such as a Group ID
which may pertain to > age, race, sex, education, income, residential
community type, > etc. (subject to meeting service subscription related terms
and/or > regulatory requirements on user privacy). Indication of the Group >
ID affiliated with a device may be provided inside the application > or the
service, or via a notification mechanism (e.g. SMS), or > through unicast
interaction between the UE and a network server. > Only those devices whose
local Group ID matches the Group ID value > contained in service
discovery/announcement information, for > example the MBMS USD, will be
required to report > interactivity-related usage.
### 4.2.5 Gap Analysis and Evaluation
The text below in clause 2.1 identifies and evaluates potential deficiencies
in TS 26.247 and TS 26.346 for supporting the recommended requirements listed
in clause 4.2.4 of TS 26.953.
#### 4.2.5.1 Gap Analysis of Interactivity Use Cases and Derived Requirements
##### 4.2.5.1.1 Notification of Interactivity Incidences
The use cases in clause 4.2 describe the appearance of an overlaid or adjacent
display, relative to the main content, which contains interactive user
interface (UI) elements, such as buttons, links, icons or forms. Such
rendering of auxiliary media (e.g., a banner ad, image or video clip) with
embedded UI elements are intended to occur at precise times during the
presentation of the main content. For example, for a pre-recorded content item
such as a TV episode, the interactivity related display is expected to appear
at designated time slots during the program, such as at 10 or 15-minute
intervals often associated with an ad break, or at other pre-designated times
during the main content. For a live event such as a football game, car race,
or talent competition show, interactive display/UI elements are expected to
occur dynamically and at unpredicted times during the main program, for
example during the incidence of a player injury, auto crash, or live voting
for a favourite performer. Tight synchronization between the main content and
the auxiliary, interactivity content will be possible. In TS 26.346 [18],
there is no definition of a notification mechanism that could dynamically
cause the interactivity-enabled MBMS application to perform application-
specific interactivity tasks at those specific times. For DASH-over-MBMS
services, it may be possible to use DASH Events defined in TS 26.247 [10] as
the interactivity notification mechanism. However, at this time, there is no
defined API exposed by the DASH client, to enable an interactivity-enabled
application or its user agent to register for callbacks, in order to obtain
scheme-specific Event streams pertaining to interactivity notification
messages.
##### 4.2.5.1.2 Personalization of Interactive User Experience
The use case \"Dynamic and Personalized Interactive Ads during Live Sports
Event\", as specified in clause 4.2.1.4 of the present document, describes the
presentation of interactive advertisements at arbitrary, non-scheduled times
during a live sports event. The derived requirement from this use case is that
it\'s possible not only for the ad itself, but also the interactivity UI and
experience associated with the ad, to be personalizable for a specific user or
user class. The working assumption in clause 4.2.2, applicable to this use
case, is that information about the user, such as a profile, can be used to
enable a personalized interactivity experience. TS 26.346 [18] specifies
certain capabilities for targeted content reception, such as by the user\'s
location or group affiliation. However, it\'s unclear whether and how such
general-purpose targeting or personalization of broadcast content reception
capability can lead to or enable the occurrence of a personalized
interactivity experience. It ought to be further studied whether MBMS or PSS
service layer mechanisms might be defined to enable personalized interactivity
in the strictly one-way, broadcast service delivery context. For example, in
the case of broadcast DASH, whether the interactivity notification mechanism
conveyed by DASH Event messages can be further leveraged to support
personalization of the interactivity occurrences.
##### 4.2.5.1.3 Differentiating Contents in Bundled Delivery of Application
Content
As indicated in the general recommended requirements in clause 4.2.4.1, the
interactivity application itself, for example a Javascript document for Web
app-based interactivity application, may be bundled for delivery along with
other contents associated with the interactivity app, such as media files to
be rendered during the interactivity event. There ought to be a means to
uniquely identify the interactivity app from other interactivity content
items, so that it can be launched in the UE upon reception, to in turn execute
the interactivity tasks for which it was designed, such as acquiring and
rendering interactivity media asset at specific times. For file delivery,
although multipart MIME is defined as the method for bundling related files,
there is no explicit mechanism defined on identifying the interactivity
application among the bundled content items. A means ought to be defined on
explicit signaling or implicit identification of the interactivity application
in the delivery package comprising multiple interactivity-related content
items.
##### 4.2.5.1.4 Measurement and Reporting of Interactivity Usage
There is no specification of interactivity-related usage measurement and
reporting functionality in the existing MBMS and PSS service layer
specifications. The closest functionality to such interactivity usage
measurement and reporting are the Reception Reporting and Consumption
Reporting mechanisms defined in the MBMS USD, in TS 26.346 [18], in
conjunction with the related signaling information contained in the ADPD.
However, those measurement and reporting procedures pertain to the MBMS User
Service itself, and not to auxiliary, service interactivity-related content
associated with the main service or program. Signaling will need to be
provided to the user device to support interactivity usage measurement and
reporting. Such signaling is expected to specify the parameters of
interactivity events and their usage to be collected by user devices, syntax
and semantics of interactivity usage reports to be sent to the network, and
metadata to control the reporting by the entirety or a subset of user devices.
Signaling of those devices to perform reporting might indicate random
sampling, or explicit designation, and will define the occurrence time and
duration of the reporting sessions.
Towards meeting service subscription terms and/or regulatory requirements
regarding user privacy, there ought be a means for ensuring that interactivity
usage data can be securely stored on the user device.
##### 4.2.5.1.5 Gap Analysis Summary
In summary, the following potential gaps in the MBMS and PSS service layer
specifications are identified:
\- There is need for a notification mechanism to signal the impending
occurrence of either a scheduled or unscheduled event upon which time an
interactivity experience is expected to be provided to the user.
\- In relation to the notification mechanism, a means ought to be devised for
an interactivity-aware application to be informed about the impending
occurrence of, and obtain relevant information for, a service interactivity
event, in order to provide the appropriate interactivity experience to the
user during the interactivity event.
\- A signaling mechanism ought to be provided to enable
customized/personalized interactivity experiences to be delivered to different
users, in a pure broadcast service/content delivery context, i.e., without
requiring unicast transactions between the interactivity application and a
network server.
\- A method should be defined, in the case of bundled delivery of
interactivity-related content items, to identify the interactivity application
from interactivity assets contained in the bundle.
\- A method ought to be defined in the PSS and MBMS user layer specifications,
for example TS 26.234 [22] and TS 26.346 [18], to support service
interactivity usage reporting.
\- _The protocol and message format for exchanging interactivity usage reports
and their acknowledgments ought to be defined._
\- The information to be provided to UEs on such reporting is expected to
include (non-exhaustive list):
> \- Parameters associated with interactivity events and their usage to be
> collected by UEs;
>
> \- Syntax and semantics of the interactivity usage reports to be sent by the
> UE to the network;
>
> \- Metadata to control actual interactivity usage reporting, by target
> percentage of devices to perform reporting;
>
> \- Parameters on random sampling or explicit designation of devices for
> sending reports during each reporting session;
>
> \- Indication of occurrence time and duration of interactivity usage
> reporting sessions.
\- A means ought be provided to inform the user of the service provider\'s
intention to collect and report his/her interactive engagement with the user
service, and to enable explicit user opt-in to such data collection and
reporting.
\- A means ought be defined to enable secure storage of interactivity usage
data on the user device.
# 5 Architecture Models for 3GPP Service Interactivity
## 5.1 DASH Service Delivery
### 5.1.1 General
The reference architectures for service interactivity are specific to unicast
and broadcast delivery of DASH-formatted streaming services. Emphasis of these
architecture is on the transport and signaling functionality at the service
layer in support of interactivity. In particular, DASH Events, as defined in
the MPEG DASH standard, ISO/ISC 23009-1 [9] could serve as an appropriate form
of dynamic notification mechanism to initiate the execution of service
application logic pertaining to service interactivity, and is assumed as the
interactivity event notification mechanism in the architecture and interaction
diagrams in clauses 5.1.2 and 5.1.3. Examples of service interactivity are
captured in the use case descriptions in clause 4.2.
The architecture models below are exemplary in depicting interactivity in the
context of DASH service delivery and assumes the use of DASH Events as the
interactivity notification. Other reference architecture models and event
notification mechanisms are not precluded.
### 5.1.2 Unicast DASH
Figure 5.1 depicts the proposed system architecture and high level sequence
flow for unicast/HTTP delivery of DASH streaming services with interactivity
support. Optional message steps are shown by dashed lines, and optional
functionality in support of interactivity are shown inside dashed boxes. The
Multimedia Framework is a software framework in the UE that handles media
delivered through a network. It may provide built-in software-based codecs for
popular media formats, and may also support integration with hardware codecs.
The Multimedia Framework may support session management, time-synchronized
rendering, transport control, and DRM. An example is the multimedia framework
provided by the Android operating system. The Interactivity System
collectively represents the network-side functionality that enables the
desired interactive service experience by communicating with, and delivering
interactivity application data and interactivity media to, the UE.
Figure 5.1: Service Interactivity Architecture for Unicast DASH
A high-level message sequence for interactivity event occurrence during a
unicast streaming program, assuming the use of DASH Events as the
interactivity event notification mechanism, is as follows:
1) Detection of an occurrence of a program-specific event, such as an injury
time-out during a live football game, provides indication to the Interactivity
System in the network that an interactivity notification and related event
data are to be sent to the interactivity agent function of the service
application in the UE.
2) The Interactivity System will produce related interactivity event data and
pass that information to the DASH Encoder/Segmenter.
3) and 4) The DASH Segmenter/Encoder will create one or more DASH Event >
messages as defined in ISO/IEC 23009-1 [9], and send those > either as MPD
Events, or inband event messages together with the > Segments (in the Event
Message box \'emsg\') to the DASH client, > via the HTTP Server.
> 5a) or 5b) The DASH client delivers the Event message to the Interactivity
> Agent function residing either in the Multimedia Framework or in the Service
> Application.
>
> 6a) or 6b) (Optional) The Interactivity Agent (in the Multimedia Framework
> or in the Service Application) may fetch additional interactivity event data
> from the Interactivity System to execute the interactivity application
> logic, in turn creating the interactivity experience provided to the end
> user.
The required synchronization for the display of interactivity-related media
information to the user, relative to the main program, is handled by the
Interactivity Agent in the device in conjunction with the Interactivity
System. The start of the interactivity event and the sequence of scenes
displayed in the interactivity experience are supported by the dynamic, real-
time delivery of the associated DASH Event messages to the Interactivity
Agent. The DASH client is not involved in the processing of the Event messages
pertaining to interactivity, and merely transfers that data as an opaque
object to the Agent. The timing information and message data carried in DASH
Event messages enable the Interactivity Agent to execute the interactivity
logic and to display interactivity media at precisely the right times.
### 5.1.3 Broadcast DASH
Figure 5.2 depicts the proposed system architecture and high level sequence
flow for broadcast delivery of DASH streaming services with interactivity
support. Optional message steps are shown by dashed lines, and optional
functionality in support of interactivity are shown inside dashed boxes.
Figure 5.2: Service Interactivity Architecture for Broadcast DASH
A high level message sequence for the interactivity event occurrence during a
broadcast streaming program, assuming the use of DASH Events as the
interactivity event notification mechanism, is as follows:
1) and 2) Same as steps 1 and 2 in previous call flow.
```{=html}
``` 3) and 4) The DASH Segmenter/Encoder will create one or more DASH Event >
messages as defined in ISO/IEC 23009-1 [9], and send those > either as MPD
Events, or inband event messages together with the > Segments (in the Event
Message box \'emsg\') to the DASH client, > via the BM-SC.
```{=html}
``` 5) The DASH client retrieves MPD and Segments from the local HTTP
proxy/cache in the UE.
> 6a) or 6b) The DASH client delivers the Event message to the Interactivity
> Agent function residing in either the MBMS Application or in the Multimedia
> Framework, whereupon the interactivity application logic may be executed by
> the Interactivity Agent in producing the interactivity experience for the
> end user.
>
> 7a) or 7b) (Optional) The Interactivity Agent in the MBMS Application or
> Multimedia Framework may fetch additional interactivity event data from the
> Middleware to execute the interactivity application logic, in turn producing
> the interactivity experience for the end user.
# 6 Interactivity Mechanisms in Broadcast and Broadband TV
## 6.0 General
This clause contains descriptions of interactive service framework and
mechanisms as defined in DVB/HbbTV and ATSC specifications
## 6.1 The HbbTV / DVB Interactive Environment
### 6.1.1 Introduction
The HbbTV® specification, ETSI TS 102 796 [4] provides a platform for
signalling, transport, and presentation of enhanced and interactive
applications designed to run on hybrid terminals that include both a DVB
compliant broadcast connection and a broadband connection. The HbbTV platform
is open and is not based on a single controlling authority or aggregator; so
services and content from many different and independent providers are
accessible by the same terminal. Figure 1 in TS 102 796 [4] provides the
system overview of HbbTV.
Standard functions of the terminal are available to all applications;
sensitive functions of the terminal are available only to trusted
applications. HbbTV is applicable to various types of terminals, including
IDTVs, STBs and PVRs. Services and content may be protected. Both broadcast-
related and broadcast-independent applications are supported. Broadcast
applications can be presented on terminals which are not connected to
broadband.
In the context of HbbTV, the main uses of the broadcast connection are the
following:
\- Transmission of broadcast TV, radio and data services;
\- Signalling of broadcast-related applications;
\- Transport of broadcast-related applications and associated data;
\- Synchronization of applications and TV/radio/data services.
The main uses of the broadband connection are the following:
\- Carriage of both on-demand and live content;
\- Transport of broadcast-related and broadcast-independent applications and
associated data;
\- Exchange of information between applications and application servers.
### 6.1.2 DVB Signalling and Carriage of Interactive Applications
The DVB specification for application signaling and carriage, ETSI TS 102 809
[3] provides a framework for the signalling and carriage of interactive
applications or services in both broadcast and broadband networks, covering
the following aspects:
\- Signalling of interactive applications or services:
\- This includes how the receiver identifies the applications associated with
a service and finds the locations from which to retrieve them. Signalling is
included that enables the broadcast service provider to manage the lifecycles
of applications, and that enables the receiver to identify the sources of
broadcast data required by the applications of a service. All application
signalling is carried in the Application Information Table (AIT), which is
carried in the PMT of the broadcast stream, in an elementary stream of private
sections. All application signalling is carried in the Application Information
Table (AIT), which is carried in the PMT of the broadcast stream, in an
elementary stream of private sections. The XML form of the AIT is used for
application signalling on broadband networks.
\- Distributing the file resources of interactive applications or services:
\- Carriage of file resources is specified for two cases: MPEG-2 DSM-CC Object
Carousel for broadcast carriage, and HTTP 1.1 for carriage on broadband
networks.
\- Synchronizing interactive applications or services to video or audio
content
Synchronization is carried out by the use of DSMCC stream events, which can
comprise either \"do-it-now\" events for immediate activation, or stream
events according to DVB timeline, for better timing accuracy. An XML
equivalent of DSMCC stream event is defined, for usage on broadband networks.
\- Referencing video, audio or subtitle content from interactive applications
or services
> The URL form \"dvb:\" has been defined for referencing DVB services. The DVB
> application signalling specification is independent of any particular
> technology for interactive applications or services. It enables a wide range
> of different application models depending on which of the optional features
> are selected for the respective application environment.
### 6.1.3 HbbTV Platform Characteristics
Figure 2 of TS 102 796 [4] provides an overview of the functional components
of the HbbTV terminal. HbbTV applications are presented by an HTML/JavaScript
browser. The terminal browser environment is based on:
\- OIPF Release 2:
\- Volume 5 - Declarative Application Environment
\- Volume 7 -- Authentication, service protection and content protection
\- TV functionality JavaScript API (OIPF Volume 5)
\- CE-HTML (CEA-2014) (via OIPF Volume 5)
\- W3C DOM2, CSS2, XHTML (via OIPF Volume 5 and CEA-2014)
The supported media formats are summarized by:
\- OIPF Release 2, Volume 2 -- Media formats, which mandates support for
H.264/AVC video and HE-AAC audio, with many more optional formats defined;
\- MPEG-DASH and --CENC;
\- ISOBMFF live profile (applied to both on-demand and live content).
### 6.1.4 HbbTV Specification Evolution
The first version (V1.1.1) of the HbbTV specification was published in June
2010. The specification was revised in November 2012 and published by ETSI as
TS 102 796 [2] V1.2.1. This version is also commonly referred to as \"HbbTV
1.5\", and it is the basis for all current HbbTV deployments. A further
revision was published recently by HbbTV in February 2015, and is commonly
known as \"HbbTV 2.0\", with the latest version represented by TS 102 796
V1.4.1 [4]. The corresponding ETSI specification revision is under way.
The major new features of HbbTV V2.0 are:
\- Support for companion screens (tablets or phones) and their synchronization
to broadcast delivered content;
\- Privacy, based on W3C \"do not track\";
\- Subtitles for broadband delivered content, based on EBU-TT-D;
\- Interoperation with CI Plus V1.4;
\- Push VoD;
\- Technology updates, in particular:
\- HTML5;
\- Addition of HEVC video content;
\- MPEG-DASH delivered content according to DVB-DASH [5] (ETSI equivalent
expected to be published soon).
HbbTV 2.0 compliant receivers are expected to start appearing in the market in
2016.
## 6.2 ATSC Service Interactivity
### 6.2.1 Introduction to ATSC
ATSC, or Advanced Television Systems Committee, Inc., is an international,
non-profit organization which develops standards for digital television
transmission over terrestrial, cable, and satellite networks. It was formed in
1982 by the member organizations of the Joint Committee on InterSociety
Coordination (JCIC): the Electronic Industries Association (EIA), the
Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers (IEEE), the National
Association of Broadcasters (NAB), the National Cable Telecommunications
Association (NCTA), and the Society of Motion Picture and Television Engineers
(SMPTE). Its current member organizations represent the broadcast, broadcast
equipment, motion picture, consumer electronics, computer, cable, satellite,
and semiconductor industries.
ATSC is developing ATSC 3.0 as the next generation ATSC Broadcast TV
transmission standard for use over terrestrial broadcast, cable and satellite
networks. At the time of completion of this Technical report, it is expected
that ATSC 3.0 systems will be deployed in South Korea in 2017, within several
years in the USA after the FCC incentive spectrum auction and subsequent
channel re-packing, and further on in the future in other major North American
countries such as Canada and Mexico. ATSC 3.0 comprises a family of 19
individual specifications which include physical layer, IP-based transport
protocols, service and application level signaling, content formats for
carriage of streaming media services, security and content protection, and a
W3C-compliant and Web application based runtime environment.
### 6.2.2 ATSC Service Interactivity Enabling Functionality
#### 6.2.2.0 General
Service interactivity related functionality, or more precisely, service
interactivity _enablers_ , are defined in two separate ATSC 3.0 standards:
A/337 \"Application Signaling\" [6] and A/344 \"ATSC 3.0 Interactive Content\"
[7].
A/337 [6] defines signaling of the delivery method and properties of
broadcaster applications bound to linear services (e.g., linear TV), and
synchronization of application-initiated actions to the underlying audio/video
content. Broadcaster applications are Web/HTML5 applications provided by TV
broadcasters and associated with TV programs transmitted by those broadcasters
for providing interactive features to the end-user \-- for example,
synchronized interactive displays and targeted interactive advertising.
Application-initiated actions refer to time-specific functionality defined by
the broadcaster application logic \-- for example, the display of certain
media files or advertisements, the incidents of which may be pre-scheduled or
occur dynamically and unexpectedly in time. The occurrences of these actions
are triggered by notifications referred to as \"Events\".
A/344 [7] defines the details of a W3C-compliant User Agent (i.e., web
browser) based execution environment that enables a broadcaster applications
to run. Such application may employ graphical capabilities of the ATSC 3.0
receiver to render the user interface or access certain resources or
information related to service interactivity and provided by the receiver.
Those resources/information may comprise application launch pages and, for
example, corresponding Javascript, CSS and XML documents which provide the
logic, mark-up and display control of the broadcaster application and/or media
files for rendering under application control. Such resources may be delivered
to the receiver via broadcast, or fetched from a network server by the
application via broadband/Internet access. If a broadcaster application
requires access to broadcast-delivered resources from the receiver, or if the
application requires the receiver to perform specific actions not defined by
the User Agent APIs, it can request that resource from a built-in WebSocket
server in the receiver via a set of ATSC-defined JSON-RPC messages as
specified in A/344 [7].
#### 6.2.2.1 Application Signaling
A/337 [6] defines application signaling in the form of an XML-based Service
Layer Signaling metadata fragment called HELD (HTML Entry pages Location
Description). This metadata fragment specifies the properties and other
information of files belonging to broadcaster application(s) associated with
ATSC 3.0 linear service(s). Those properties/information include:
\- the delivery method (broadcast, broadband or via both transports) of
application files,
\- whether a file associated with the file URI (\'Content-Location\' of the
extended FDT describing that file) is an individual launch page for the
application, or a package of files (aggregated using multipart MIME) which
includes the launch page,
\- the TSI value of the LCT session/channel for broadcast delivery of
application files using the ROUTE (Real-time Object delivery over
Unidirectional Transport) protocol as defined in the ATSC A/331 standard [8],
\- time intervals during which application content such as media files are
broadcast prior to their use by the application.
The XML schema of the HELD is shown in figure 6.1.
{width="5.247222222222222in" height="5.863194444444445in"}
Figure 6.1: XML Schema of the HELD
Notifications of actions to be taken by broadcaster applications, or Events,
may be delivered by broadcast or broadband. For a broadcast streaming service
associated with a broadcast application and delivered by the ROUTE protocol
(i.e., corresponding to a DASH-formatted streaming service), the DASH Event
mechanism is used for the notification delivery. DASH Events may be delivered
using either of the two mechanisms for Event delivery as defined in the MPEG
DASH specification [9]:
\- via EventStream element(s) appearing in a **Period** element of the MPD;
\- as Event(s) carried in \'emsg\' box(es) appearing in Media Segments, with
their presence signaled by one or more InbandEventStream elements of the
**Representation** element in the MPD.
These two delivery mechanisms may be mixed in the carriage of an Event. A
single Event stream may include some Events delivered via an **EventStream**
element and others delivered via emsg boxes.
When delivered via broadcast in an MMT-based system, Events may be delivered
in an XML document called an Application Event Information (AEI) document,
whose syntax and semantics are very similar to that of DASH Events.
#### 6.2.2.2 Interactivity Content
From the service interactivity perspective, A/344 [7] defines the interactions
between one or more service interactivity specific broadcaster applications,
running in the ATSC 3.0 receiver, and the receiver platform/middleware. As
indicated in clause 6.2.2, A/344 specifies a W3C-compliant User Agent/browser
environment within which broadcaster applications are run. The application
provides the user with enhanced functionality linked to the main service or
programs, such as interactivity features. An interactivity application may
include additional assets such as JavaScript files, images and multimedia
files which provide, for example, user interface and interactivity display
control functions. If the interactivity application requires access to
broadcast-delivered resources from the receiver, or if the application
requires the receiver to perform specific actions not defined by the User
Agent APIs, it can request that resource from a built-in WebSocket server in
the receiver, via a set of ATSC-defined JSON-RPC messages. These JSON-RPC
messages allow the application to a) query information that was gathered or
collected in the receiver, b) receive notifications via broadcast signaling,
and c) request the receiver to perform actions that are not otherwise
available via the standard JavaScript APIs. As described in clause 6.2.2.1,
the received notifications may comprise DASH Event messages which trigger
certain UI functionality or media assets to be presented to the user at
specific times during the playout of the main program.
Figure 6.2 below depicts a logical representation of the functional components
in the ATSC 3.0 receiver.
Figure 6.2: Logical Architecture of ATSC 3.0 Receiver
The interactivity application is launched after the receiver obtains
application signaling information (as described in clause 6.2.2.1) and
forwards the launch URL to the User Agent, which, in turn, loads the entry
application document from the URL. Once the interactive application is
running, it may request content from various local or external URLs. Any
content received over broadcast via ROUTE file delivery will be saved into a
local receiver cache associated with and accessed from the receiver\'s local
web server.
# 7 Interactivity Support for Streaming and Download Services
## 7.1 Component Model for Interactivity
Figure 7.1 depicts the proposed component model for service interactivity in
the context of live streaming service delivery. It is not a network
architecture, but represents how interactivity signaling and data components
as shown enable the launch and execution of the interactivity service logic in
providing the interactivity experience to end users. The model is applicable
to either unicast or broadcast/MBMS transport mode for the service.
Figure 7.1: Component Model for 3GPP Service Interactivity -- Live Streaming
Service Delivery
In this component model, the event notification mechanism provides dynamic
indication of the occurrence of interactivity events. Event notifications may
contain or reference application data, as well as references interactivity
media that are used and displayed by the interactivity application which is
executed by the interactivity agent. The execution of the interactivity
application results in the scene display of scenes associated with the
interactivity sequence.
These building blocks of the component model are further described as follows.
_\- Event Notifications._ Event notifications provide the dynamic indications
of interactivity events and their timing during a content segment (main
content or advertisement) to an interactivity-aware service application. The
presentation of interactivity events to the end user involves the display of
interactivity-specific media content, and may include explicit user engagement
with that content. The event notification may be tied to a non-deterministic
and real-time event such as a time-out called during a live football game. A
potential event notification mechanism for interactivity event notification is
DASH Events as defined in MPEG DASH standard [9].
_\- Interactivity Media._ These correspond to interactivity media content,
such as video clips, images or text files, to be played out during the
interactivity occurrences launched by event notifications.
_\- Application Data._ Application data pertains to the description of scene
information for an interactive sequence. It may include display icons, layout
information, or the text of display buttons or announcements to be overlaid
on, or presented in line with, the interactivity media. Application data is
referenced by, or could be directly carried in, the event notifications (e.g.
in the usage of DASH Events, corresponding to the **Event** \@messageData
attribute, or the message_data field of \'emsg\' box).
_\- Interactivity Sequence._ This comprises a set of one or more interactivity
scenes to be rendered during an interactivity event. For example, an ad which
includes sidebar display of a hyperlink for additional information on a sports
car, and which when clicked by the user, may lead to an offer for entering
sweepstakes drawing to win that car. The contents making up those scenes may
consist of a combination of interactivity media s as described above, and
application data.
_\- Interactivity Application._ An interactivity application is a component of
the service application that contains the logic associated with a specific
interactivity use case (i.e. separate logic pertaining to \"Click for Info\"
vs. \"Voting\" use cases). It may be delivered as a file to the device to be
stored in advance of the interactivity event occurrence.
_\- Interactivity Agent._ The interactivity agent is another component of the
service application. It executes the interactive application logic and
provides rendering capabilities of scenes to be displayed during an
interactivity sequence. It may also implement a pre-determined overall layout
for a given interactivity use case, for example, indicating where on the
screen the interactivity content will be displayed relative to the main
program. In one possible implementation, the Interactivity Application takes
the form of a Web application (HTML/Javascript) and the Interactivity Agent is
the web runtime engine required for interpreting and executing the app.
## 7.2 Interactivity Event Notification Functions
### 7.2.0 General
The main functionality of the Interactivity event notification mechanism are
described in clause 7.1, and in the case of DASH service delivery, in the
interactive service architecture and related message flows indicated in clause
as well in clause 5.1 of the present document. In addition, interactivity
notification functionality is described in clauses 6.1 and 6.2 for DVB and
ATSC 2.0 interactive applications/services, respectively.
Interactivity event notifications provide dynamic indications of the
occurrence of interactivity events, and related timing information. The event
notification may be tied to a non-deterministic and real-time event such as a
time-out called during a live football game. Interactivity event notifications
may contain or reference application data, as well as references interactivity
media that are used and displayed by the interactivity application.
Interactivity event notifications and their associated message contents are
delivered to the UE, and are typically forwarded to and processed by the
responsible application entity, for example the Interactivity Agent as
described in clause 7.1 and as shown in figure 7.1. In the case of DASH
services delivered over the unicast or MBMS bearers, and assuming the use of
DASH Events to convey the interactivity event notifications, DASH Events, in
the form of an Event Stream, are produced by the DASH Segmenter/MD Generator.
The DASH Event Stream is then sent to the DASH client by the HTTP Server or
BM-SC, via unicast or broadcast service delivery, respectively, to be in turn
forwarded to the Interactivity Agent as shown in figures 5.1 and 5.2.
### 7.2.1 DASH Events
A potential event notification mechanism for interactivity event notification
is DASH Events as defined in MPEG DASH standard [9], and referenced in the
Rel-13 3GP-DASH specification, TS 26.247 [10]. DASH Events are logically
generic notification messages that can be contained either in the MPD or
inband to the Representation, to signal aperiodic information to the DASH
client or to an application. More details on the use of DASH Events as
interactivity event mechanism are provided in clause 9.1.1.
### 7.2.2 HTML5 Text Track
This interactivity event mechanism is specific to the use of Web applications
as the service application and/or interactivity agent which executes the
interactive application logic pertaining to the scenes to be displayed during
an interactivity event. It might not be applicable to a service
application/interactivity agent implemented as a native application, i.e.,
written for a certain mobile device or platform. As defined in the W3C HTML5
standard [11], a media element (e.g. audio, video) can have a group of
associated _text tracks_ , known as the media element\'s list of text tracks.
The text tracks corresponding to the \ element children of the media
element. The \ element and its associated text tracks provide a
standardized mechanism to add subtitles, captions, screen reader descriptions,
chapters and metadata to video and audio, via the attribute kind, which can be
subtitles, captions, descriptions, chapters or metadata. Each text track has a
corresponding TextTrack object. The track element\'s _src_ attribute points to
a text file that holds data for timed track _cues_ , which can potentially be
in any format a browser can parse.
The ability to carry structured data in cues enables flexible use of the track
element. For example, for interactivity support, the type (i.e., kind) of cue
data may be set to metadata, for use by Javascript. Such cue data could convey
interactivity notifications to which an interactivity-enabled Web application
can listen for as cue events, extract the text of each cue as it fires, parse
the data, and then use the results to make DOM changes for presentation of the
interactivity display, synchronized with media playback. One the other hand,
when cue data is not of a form such as captioning or subtitles, which can be
handled directly by the media player, the application is then responsible for
handling it. There can be issues, however, in the timing of how the
application receives this event data, which has been identified by the HbbTV
Association [12]. In particular, interactivity events of duration less than
250 msec may be missed by the application.
# 8 Summary of Working Assumptions, Recommended Requirements and Potential
Solution for Service Interactivity at the Application, Service and Transport
Levels
## 8.1 Application-Level Assumptions, Needs and Solutions
The working assumptions, recommended requirements, and potential solution
frameworks at the application level for supporting service interactivity are
as follows:
\- Interactivity applications types to be supported include mobile TV with
auxiliary data and user interactivity, click-for-information, broadcast
delivery of live events with dynamic and interactive ad insertion which can be
personalized.
\- It ought to be possible for an interactivity application, whose logic is
executed by the interactivity agent, to be implemented as any of the following
types:
\- a _native application_ , written for a certain mobile device or platform,
\- a _web application_ , written in HTML/Javascript/CSS, downloaded from a web
site, and runs in the device\'s web browser, or
\- a _hybrid application_ in the form of a web app wrapped inside a native
container which provides access to native platform features
\- Interactivity application related content can be distinguished among the
following types: application software/code, scene update information, and
media asset files
\- For live DASH services and whereby DASH Events carry interactivity event
notifications, the DASH client will expose an API to the interactivity-enabled
application via the interactivity agent to register for callbacks, in order to
obtain interactivity event notifications.
\- The DASH client could be implemented as middleware in the multimedia
subsystem of the device\'s OS, or included as a component of the interactivity
application logic.
\- It is possible to use the DASH Event messages to provide interactivity
related information including start time of the interactivity event occurrence
and its duration, and application-specific data associated with that
interactivity event.
\- For a web-based interactivity application, the interactivity event
notification mechanism could be implemented as DASH Events, as timed track
cues carried in the HTML5 \ element, or via the use of WebSockets
for server-push of event notifications to the client application.
\- There ought to be a means for the interactivity application to offer a
personalized interactivity user experience to the end user, for example, via
access to user profile or preference information contained in the device or
obtained from the network.
## 8.2 Service-Level Assumptions, Needs and Solutions
The working assumptions, recommended requirements, and potential solution
frameworks at the service level for supporting service interactivity are as
follows:
\- Service signaling, for example via the MBMS USD, can uniquely identify an
interactivity application data file, containing interactivity application
logic, as one of the content components of an interactivity-enabled User
Service and associated with a specific interactivity use case, from other
content files associated with interactivity support, such as media assets such
as video clips, images or text files, to be played out during the
interactivity event.
\- Service signaling will indicate the transport mode, and in the case of
broadcast delivery, the delivery schedule of interactivity application content
files.
\- Content intended for program-synchronized interactive display can be cached
in the UE for subsequent rendering, at specific times associated with
interactivity events, alongside with or in replacement of the main program.
\- It is possible to utilize MBMS User Service Discovery/Announcement to
provide a notification mechanism whose occurrences are well-known/fixed or
unpredictable/dynamic, to inform a service interactivity application in the UE
about impending interactivity event occurrences.
\- Depending on whether the interactivity application is native or web-based,
the interactivity event notification mechanism may be implemented in different
ways -- for example, as DASH Events carried inband to Representations or out-
of-band in the MPD, as timed track cues carried in the HTML \
element, or via WebSocket delivery from a local or network-based server to the
client application.
\- The service signaling mechanism can support customized/personalized
interactivity experiences to be provided among users in a pure broadcast
service/content delivery context, i.e., without requiring unicast transactions
between the interactivity application and a network server.
It is possible to employ a dedicated MBMS User Service for delivering common
files shared by one or more interactivity applications associated with
multiple MBMS User Services. As an example, all live football games
broadcasted by an MBMS service provider might use same template for
interactivity events.
## 8.3 Transport-Level Assumptions, Needs and Solutions
The working assumptions, recommended requirements, and potential solution
frameworks at the Transport level for supporting service interactivity are as
follows.
\- Content intended for program-synchronized interactive display can be
delivered to the UE for subsequent rendering, at specific times associated
with interactivity events, alongside or in replacement of the main program.
\- In the case of live DASH services and depending on the interactivity
application type (native or web based), interactivity event notifications can
be:
\- Carried as DASH Events, either inband to Representations by Event Message
boxes (\'emsg\'), or inside the MPD;
\- Transmitted as timed track cues in the HTML5 \ element;
\- Delivered via WebSockets-based server push
\- Sent via broadcast or unicast delivery
# 9 Utilization of Existing Tools in MBMS and DASH
## 9.1 Interactivity Event Notification Mechanism
### 9.1.1 DASH Events
As discussed previously in clause 7.2.1, DASH Events as defined in the MPEG
DASH standard [9], and referenced by TS 26.247 [10]. The characteristics of
DASH Events are as follows:
\- Events are timed -- the validity of an Event is defined by a specific media
presentation time, and each Event typically has a duration.
\- An Event pertains to one of two types of notifications: 1) DASH-specific,
or 2) application-specific. In the latter category, an appropriate scheme
identifier is used to reference the application to which the DASH client will
forward the Event.
\- Events of the same type are clustered in Event streams, i.e., a sequence of
Event messages of the same type. A DASH client may subscribe to an Event
Stream of interest and ignore all other, non-relevant Event Streams.
\- Each Event message with the Event stream may contain a message body, whose
syntax and semantics is defined by the owner of the scheme identified by the
scheme identifier.
\- Three types of DASH-specific Events are defined in the MPEG DASH standard
[9]:
\- An Event message conveying the impending expiration of the current MPD;
\- An Event message conveying the impending expiration of the current MPD, and
in addition, the Event message includes an MPD _Patch_ , which complies to the
XML Patch Operations framework as defined in IETF RFC 5261 [13];
\- An Event message conveying the impending expiration of the current MPD, and
in addition, the Events message encapsulates a complete (and valid) instance
of an MPD that updates the to-be-expired MPD
For application-specific Events (i.e., non DASH-specific Events as described
immediately above, the MPEG DASH standard [3] does not define the usage of
Events. Instead the related semantics and syntax are left to the owner of the
Event scheme and associated application, in the form of a \@schemeIdUri
attribute that provides a URI to identify the Event scheme and an optional
attribute \@value defining the value space of that scheme. Such usage of
\@schemeIdUri and \@value is in accordance to the use of MPD descriptors.
The use of MPD Events (Events signaled in the MPD) is indicated by the
presence of one or more **Period.EventStream** elements, each instance
denoting Events of a common type. The use of inband Events is signaled in the
MPD by one or more **InbandEventStream** elements in the **AdaptationSet** or
**Representation** element of the MPD. The functionality of an application-
specific Event message is the same regardless of whether it\'s carried in the
MPD or inband to a Representation.
The semantics of the **Period.EventStream** element is shown in figure 9.1
below.
Figure 9.1: Semantics of the EventStream element in the MPD
#### 9.1.1.1 DASH Events for Interactivity Notifications
DASH Events, either delivered in the MPD or inband to Segment, fulfil the
majority of the necessary functions for initiating the occurrences of service
interactivity. A key salient feature of DASH Events, given its definition at
the DASH/ISOBMFF level, is that it can be used as the interactivity event
notification mechanism for both interactivity-enabled Web applications and
native applications. Each Event conveys the start time of the associated
interactivity event (as presentation time of the event relative to the start
of the Period) and may optionally indicate the validity interval of the
interactivity event. In addition, the payload of the Event message, via either
the Period.EventStream.Event\@messageData attribute of MPD Events, or the
message_data [ ] field of the Event Message box \'emsg\' for inband Events,
can convey the necessary data related to the interactivity event and
application. For example, the message may include an Event identifier,
application data pertaining to the layout of the interactive display, location
where the interactivity media assets to be rendered during the interactivity
event can be obtained, information on retiming of the occurrence of the
interactivity event, etc.
Another potentially salient feature of the DASH Events mechanism for use as
interactivity event notifications is its basic built-in support for
personalization of the interactivity experience for the end user. Similar to
the \@xlink:href attribute in the **Period** element, the **EventStream**
element in the MPD may optionally include \@xlink:href. As described in the
DASH-IF Interoperability Points guidelines [14], as well as in TR 26.848 [15]
on targeted advertising functionality, there can be various ways to provide
the DASH client a customized remote element entity via XLink [16] resolution.
In this case, similar to returning a customized remote **Period** element
pertaining to a personalized Ad Period, a customized external **EventStream**
element may be returned by the XLink resolver, pertaining to personalized
interactivity event notification messages. Different collections of
interactivity event notifications whose components are timed to fire at
different times, and which may reference different interactivity application
or media data, can result in customized interactivity experiences depending on
the targeted end users. More recently, the MPEG DASH is undergoing amendments
to add support for advanced and generalized HTTP feedback information\". Here,
the changes to the DASH spec pertain to client-side insertion of custom
parameters into HTTP GET requests, to enable customized content to be returned
to the HTTP response. In particular, the use of query template in the XLink
URL is specified.
The suitability of the DASH Events mechanism as interactivity event
notifications may depend on how close in time the interactivity event messages
will match the corresponding program incident that initiated the delivery of
the Event. The interactivity event signaled by an instance of the DASH Event
message is defined to start at a specific media presentation time (relative to
the start of the containing Period). For example, should **_the media content
be played out from the time-shift buffer, then the execution of the
interactivity event will be delayed by the amount of time shift in the actual
play-back of content. Therefore, DASH Events may be unsuitable as
interactivity event notifications for launching interactivity features
associated with emergency alerts, for which the related interactivity
experience will be rendered very close in real time to the occurrence of the
alert. On the other hand, for live programs such as a football game or a car
race, the program_** content is typically consumed at the live edge, allowing
the time-shift buffer depth to be set to a small enough value such that
**_media time and the real-time are sufficiently close to each another to meet
the requirement of the service/content provider delivering the interactivity
experience._**
# 10 Summary of Functional Gaps in MBMS and PSS Service Layer Specifications
on Interactivity Support
## 10.1 Introduction
Based on the analysis in clause 4.2.5, there are three areas where MBMS and
PSS service layer functionality do not fully support the recommended
requirements for service interactivity. These are:
  * Notification of Interactivity Incidences;
  * Personalization of Interactive User Experience;
  * Differentiating Contents in Bundled Delivery of Application Content.
These are individually described in sub-clauses 10.2, 10.3 and 10.4, and a
summary is given in sub-clause 10.5.
## 10.2 Notification of Interactivity Occurrence
In 3GP-DASH, the DASH Event Stream mechanism as defined in TS 26.247 [10], and
which in turn references ISO/IEC 23009-1 [9], can serve as the means for
providing notification messages, in either a static/pre-defined or
dynamic/non-predictable manner, to an interactivity-enabled PSS application to
perform application-specific interactivity tasks at specific times. For MBMS,
there is no generic definition in TS 26.346 [18] of a notification mechanism
to cause interactivity-enabled MBMS applications to perform application-
specific interactivity tasks at specific times. However, for DASH-over-MBMS
services, it might be possible to use the same DASH Events defined for PSS in
TS 26.247 [10] as the interactivity notification mechanism. However, in
neither PSS nor MBMS is there a defined API or protocol interface between the
DASH client and service application, for the configuration of the DASH client
and the service application residing in separate software modules or physical
devices. Such API/protocol interface is necessary to enable an interactivity-
enabled application or its user agent to asynchronously obtain interactivity
event notifications. For example, such API may require the application to
register with the DASH client for callbacks, in order to obtain scheme-
specific Event streams pertaining to interactivity notification messages. An
alternative implementation of such interface may be via the use of a WebSocket
connection between the two entities, whereby the DASH client is able to push
interactivity-specific Event Stream messages to the application as they are
received by the DASH client.
## 10.3 Personalization of Service Interactivity
There is a use case and derived recommended requirement for providing a
personalized interactivity user interface and experience associated with an
inserted ad, which itself may either be personalized for individual users, or
is generic/common to all recipients. In principle, information about the user,
such as a profile or preference list, can be used to enable a personalized
interactivity experience. TS 26.346 [18] specifies certain capabilities for
targeted content reception, such as by the user\'s location or group
affiliation. However, it\'s unclear whether and how such general-purpose
targeting or personalization of broadcast content reception capability can
lead to or enable the occurrence of personalized interactivity events. On the
other hand, it ought to be further studied whether MBMS or PSS service layer
mechanisms might be defined to enable personalized interactivity in the
strictly one-way, broadcast service delivery context. For example, in the case
of broadcast DASH, it might be worth considering whether the interactivity
notification mechanism conveyed by DASH Event messages can be further
leveraged to support personalization of the interactivity occurrences. For
example, the Events signaled in the MPD, i.e. the **EventStream** element may
contain the attribute \@xlink:href for obtaining, upon XLink resolution, the
Event Stream messages from a remote source. The XLink resolution process could
conceivably be designed to enable, for example, via the use of templating and
parameter substitution, to allow customized, remote Event messages to be
returned based on the end user or user class identification.
## 10.4 Differentiating Interactivity Content Types
The interactivity application, for example a Javascript document for a Web
app-based interactivity application, may be bundled for delivery along with
other contents associated with the interactivity application, such as media
files to be rendered during the interactivity event. There ought to be a means
to uniquely identify the interactivity app from other interactivity content
items, so that it can be launched in the UE upon reception, to in turn execute
the interactivity tasks for which it was designed, including the acquisition
and rendering of interactivity media files at specific times. In NRT file
delivery, although multipart MIME is defined as the method for bundling
related files, there are no explicitly defined rules on the means to identify
the interactivity application among the bundled content items.
10.5 Measurement and Reporting of Interactivity Usage
Details of the interactivity usage measurement and reporting can be found in
clause 4.2.5.1.5. In summary, the main deficits in existing MBMS and PSS
specification for interactivity support pertain to the following aspects:
_\- Signaling_. Additional signaling will need to be defined to enable the
service/content provider to inform the UE of the specific parameters (and
associated syntax) to be collected that pertain to interactivity usage, when
that information ought to be reported by the device to the network, and the
protocol/mechanism associated with such reporting. Such signaling will enable
the network to indicate and control the reporting such as by percentage of
devices to send reports, designation of random sampling or by targeted devices
to provide interactivity consumption reports, and the times to perform the
reporting.
_\- Opt-in._ There ought to be a means for the service provider\'s intention
to collect a user\'s interactive engagement with the main service/program to
be made known to the user, and allow explicit user opt-in to such data
collection and reporting.
_\- Secure storage._ A means ought to be defined to ensure that interactivity
usage data measured by the UE will be securely stored on the device, and in
the network.
## 10.6 Gap Analysis Summary
In summary, the following potential gaps in the MBMS and PSS service layer
specifications are identified:
\- There is need for a notification mechanism to signal the impending
occurrence of either a scheduled or unscheduled event upon which time an
interactivity experience could be provided to the user.
\- In relation to the notification mechanism, a means ought to be devised for
an interactivity-aware application to be informed about the impending
occurrence of, and obtain relevant information for, a service interactivity
event, in order to provide the appropriate interactivity experience to the
user during the interactivity event.
\- A signaling mechanism ought to be provided to enable
customized/personalized interactivity experiences to be delivered to different
users, in a pure broadcast service/content delivery context, i.e., without
requiring unicast transactions between the interactivity application and a
network server.
\- A method ought to be defined, in the case of bundled delivery of
interactivity-related content items, to identify the interactivity application
from interactivity assets contained in the bundle.
# 11 Application/Presentation vs. Transport/Service Layer Functions on
Interactivity
## 11.1 Application and Presentation Level Functionality for Interactivity
Support
Application software are computer programs designed to perform a set of
coordinated tasks or activities for the benefit of an end user. Application
software based services, or application services, make use of service enabling
functions defined by 3GPP specifications (e.g., signaling, transport, QoS
management, security, codecs, and logical and physical channels) to deliver
purpose-built functionality to subscribers of those services. Application
functionality is largely outside the scope of 3GPP specifications, but are the
purview of software developers and providers of application or content
services. Similarly, applications which provide the interactivity user
experience and user interface are outside the domain of 3GPP application and
service layer specifications. However, these interactive applications might be
able to leverage functionality offered or referenced by 3GPP specifications
such as APIs offered by the UE for access to MBMS User Services, defined as
part of the TRAPI work item and in TS 26.347 [19].
The presentation layer contains the components that implement and display the
user interface and manage user interaction. This layer includes controls for
user input and rendering, and components that organize user interaction, and
is an essential functionality in interactive services. The presentation layer
typically includes the following functionality:
**_\- User Interface components_** , as the application\'s visual elements
used to display information to the user and accept user input.
**_\- Presentation Logic components_** , comprising the application code that
defines the logical behavior and structure of the application in a way that is
independent of any specific user interface implementation.
Handling of user input, events, and personalization information can be
additional functional components of the presentation logic.
3GPP has several specifications pertaining to the presentation layer that
could be used to support interactive applications:
\- HTML5, Javascript and CSS and various APIs to support media
synchronization, SVG animation, scene updates, etc., for use by web app-based
interactive apps, as described in TR 26.907 [20].
\- DIMS (Dynamic and Interactive Multimedia Scenes) as defined in TS 26.142
[21] enables display and interactive control of multimedia content
functionality that could be used by for native interactive applications.
\- SMIL (**Synchronized Multimedia Integration Language**) based scene
description for a multimedia presentation, as defined in TS 26.234 [22], and
usable by web app-based interactive apps.
NOTE: References to DIMS and SMIL are for informational purposes, as these
specifications are no longer maintained and promoted by 3GPP. The preferred
3GPP presentation layer document is TR 26.907 [20].
## 11.2 Service Layer Functionality for Interactivity Support
### 11.2.0 General
Service layer features defined in 3GPP MBMS and PSS specifications and might
be considered relevant for interactivity support comprise the following
functional areas: transport, signaling, and general \"service management\"
such as security and reporting of interactivity usage.
### 11.2.1 Transport and Signaling Functions
Interactive applications required for interactivity services could be pre-
installed or either carried by a download delivery method via broadcast, or
retrieved using the unicast bearer along with associated auxiliary data.
Interactivity media could be similarly delivered via broadcast or unicast
bearers. The application and associated assets including interactivity media
and auxiliary data can be carried together as an aggregate document, for
example in a multipart MIME file. When the MBMS download delivery method is
used, separate FLUTE sessions, each referenced by an instance of the
_deliveryMethod_ element, could be used to carry them. Properties of each
FLUTE session that carry interactivity-related content are provided by a
Session Description instance documents, or SDP file, similar to the use of SDP
files to describe the FLUTE sessions that carry the main service contents. The
interface between interactive applications and PSS or MBMS clients could
enable interactive application to access its associated assets delivered via
broadcast or unicast delivery, so that the associated assets can be presented
or consumed by the application.
In broadcast delivery of interactivity apps and associated assets, signaling
functionality is expected to provide a mechanism to distinguish between the
interactivity applications from associated assets. The signaling functionality
might include the version of the interactivity app, to enable the UE to
determine whether it is capable of supporting the user interface or media
presentation capabilities corresponding to that version of the app. Multiple
versions of an interactive app and associated media contents could be
delivered, to allow the UE to download the version that it can process. The
signaling functionality could also indicate when an interactive application is
needed to be loaded or launched so that the interactivity app can initiate the
interactivity tasks it is designed for and at the appropriate time. The
signaling functionality could also indicate when an interactive application
needs to be unloaded or terminated so that the interactivity app can be
stopped at the appropriate time for reasons such as for displaying an inserted
targeted advertisement, or switching to another application. Unloading or
termination could be performed by the application\'s own logic.
Another important signaling function in support of interactivity is to provide
notification of impending occurrences of either scheduled or unscheduled
events, upon which time an interactivity experience is expected to be provided
to the user, as described in clauses 4.2.4.1 and 4.2.5 of the present
document.
### 11.2.2 Service Management Functions
Service management functions in support of interactivity might include the
measurement and reporting of interactivity consumption, [as described in
clause 12]. In the case of MBMS, associated delivery procedures such as file
repair and reception/QoE reporting could be applicable in the delivery of
interactivity-related content components, similar to the delivery of content
components of the main service with which the interactivity is associated.
Another MBMS service management function that might be used in a common way
between the delivery of interactivity-related content components and user
service components is service protection of download data as described in
clause 6.6.3 of TS 33.246 [23].
# 12 Measurement and Reporting of Interactivity Consumption
The use case and associated discussion and analysis regarding the measurement
and reporting of service interactivity are presented in the sections of
related sub-clauses under clause 4.2. It indicates the value or importance to
the service or content provider supplying service interactivity functionality,
typically associated with a main service or program, to know, at a
quantitative level, the usage, e.g., the number of click-throughs, views of
interactive content, or other forms of user engagement with interactivity
features. Such knowledge could be used by the service/content provider to
increase the effectiveness of auxiliary contents or services, associated with
main programs, offered to end users, possibly in a targeted or personalized
manner, as well as potentially increase service revenue, e.g., via additional
advertisement, increased cellular data usage, or e-commerce related to
interactive services. At the same time, towards the protection of user
privacy, it is expected that the usage of the reported interactivity usage is
restricted to the MBMS User Service to which the interactivity events pertain,
and assumes that the user has explicitly opted in to such interactivity usage
collection and reporting. In addition, the 3GPP operator, on behalf of the end
user, may wish to ensure that interactivity usage information is maintained in
secure storage on the user device, and that transmission of that information
to the network is secure. It ought to be possible for the 3GPP service
provider to configure or manage parameters of interactivity measurement and
reporting. It ought to also be possible for the 3GPP service provider to
specify two types of interactivity usage reporting sessions: by randomly-
sampling and by specifically-targeted user groups.
From the gap analysis perspective, there is no specification of interactivity-
related usage measurement and reporting functionality in the existing MBMS and
PSS service layer specifications. Additional signaling functionality will need
to be defined in support of interactivity usage measurement and reporting.
Such signaling might include specifying the parameters of interactivity events
and their usage to be collected by user devices, syntax and semantics of
interactivity usage reports to be sent to the network, and metadata to control
the reporting by the entirety or a subset of user devices.
# 13 Summary and Recommendations
This Technical Report presents the findings of the FS_IS3 study item,
\"Interactivity Support for 3GPP-based Streaming and Download Services\". It
describes the potential value of service interactivity associated with 3GPP
MBMS and PSS services for service/content providers and end users. The report
reviews the technical procedures and necessary enablers to support
interactivity features and provides an example end-to-end network
architectures in the delivery of DASH streaming services, via unicast and
broadcast bearers, to which interactivity mechanisms are associated. It also
includes overviews of interactive service mechanisms defined in the ATSC 3.0
and DVB digital broadcast TV standards. The document then provides an analysis
on the available, necessary and missing functionality in existing MBMS and PSS
specifications for supporting service interactivity. The overall discussion on
service interactivity is based on use case descriptions and includes the
associated working assumptions, recommended requirements and gap analysis.
In the evaluation of functional gaps in MBMS and PSS \"service layer\"
specifications, specifically TS 26.346 [18] and TS 26.247 [10], the following
deficits are identified, along with a brief discussion on the potential
solution framework:
_1) Notification of interactivity occurrence_. There needs to be defined
notification mechanism(s), appropriate for the different types of services
provided by MBMS and PSS, to dynamically trigger interactivity-enabled
applications to perform the interactivity-specific tasks for which they are
designed, at specific times. For broadcast or unicast DASH services, DASH
Events as described in clause 9 may represent a suitable solution. However,
similar interactivity event notification mechanism ought to be available in
the delivery of other service types such as RTP-based streaming or NRT file
delivery service.
_2) Personalization of service interactivity_. There needs to be a specified
method to enable personalization of the user interface/user experience during
an incidence of an interactive event. Such personalization might make use of
information regarding the user/associated device, such as user
profile/preference information, or his/her current location.
_3) Differentiating interactivity content types_. There needs to be a defined
means to uniquely identify an interactivity application from other
interactivity-related content items, such as media files for display under
application control, during an interactivity event, when these files are
bundled for delivery -- for example as a multipart MIME aggregate document.
_4) Measurement and reporting of interactivity usage_. A signaling mechanism
will need to be defined to enable and manage the device in the collection and
reporting of the usage or engagement by the user of interactivity features,
including the capability to selectively control the user/device population to
perform the reporting. Also pertaining to the measurement and reporting of
interactivity usage is the need to define a service framework to ensure the
protection of user identity and privacy, which ought to include the secure
storage of collected interactivity usage data in the device.
For the above identified functional gaps and potential solution frameworks, it
is recommended to investigate extensions to the existing capabilities defined
in the 3GPP MBMS and PSS service layer specifications necessary to fulfil the
gaps. Such extensions will likely require future, stage 3 work which is beyond
the scope of the FS_IS3 study item and of the present document.
#