# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
SA1 has collected service requirements in TS 22.101 [13], clause 32 for TV
Enhancements.
According to TS 22.101 [13], clause 32.1, \"3GPP enhancement for TV service
support is a feature whereby 3GPP networks can provide unicast and broadcast
transport, referred to as \"TV transport services\", to support distribution
of TV programs. TV transport services can support the three types of TV
services -- Free-to-air (FTA), Free-to-view (FTV), and Subscribed services.
Each type of TV service has different requirements in order to meet regulatory
obligations and public service and commercial broadcaster\'s requirements
regarding content distribution, hence many requirements captured below are
optional to implement depending on the type of TV transport services an MNO
chooses to offer.\"
There is interest for the TV industry to be able to deliver broadcast
television (TV services) to connected consumer devices (smartphones, tablets
and TVs) anywhere, by using cellular networks.
Audio/Video content is already a significant and growing traffic type. There
is an opportunity to leverage the support for this content, and 3GPP delivery
methods such as eMBMS, to provide TV broadcast and on-the-go TV/video
services:
\- There is an interest from Over-the-top (OTT) TV/video service providers to
be able to reach their customers regardless of location, and available access
technology, particularly when the consumers have cellular access but not
access to a broadcast TV signal (if that signal exists at all).
\- There may be opportunities in the near future for LTE-based cellular TV
broadcast services, in particular, the free-to-air TV service in some regions
of Europe.
# 1 Scope
The present document collects use cases, recommended requirements,
architectural considerations, gaps, and optimization potentials for PSS and
MBMS User Services in order to enable Television Services on top of PSS/MBMS
User Services and MBMS bearer services. The document also provides conclusions
and recommendations for normative work.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] ETSI EN 300 468, \"Digital Video Broadcasting (DVB); Specification for
Service Information (SI) in DVB systems\", V1.15.1 (2016-03).
[3] ISO/IEC 13818-1:2015, \"Information technology -- Generic coding of moving
pictures and associated audio information -- Part 1: Systems\", 2015-07-01.
[4] ATSC A/331, \"ATSC Candidate Standard: Signaling, Delivery,
Synchronization and Error Protection\", Candidate Standard.
[5] ETSI TS 101 211, \"Digital Video Broadcasting (DVB); Guidelines on
implementation and usage of Service Information (SI), V1.12.1 (2013-12).
[6] OMA: \"Service Guide for Mobile Broadcast Services,\" Version 1.1,
document OMA-TS-BCAST_Service_Guide-V1_1-20131029-A, Open Mobile Alliance, 29
October 2013.
[7] ATSC A/332, \"ATSC Candidate Standard: Service Announcement\", Candidate
Standard.
[8] ISO/IEC 23008-1, \"Information technology -- High efficiency coding and
media delivery in heterogeneous environments -- Part 1: MPEG media transport
(MMT), 2nd Edition.
[9] DASH IF: \"Guidelines for Implementation: DASH-IF Interoperability Points
for ATSC 3.0\", Version 1.0,\" DASH Interoperability Forum.
[10] ISO/IEC 23009-1, \"Information technology -- Dynamic adaptive streaming
over HTTP (DASH) -- Part 1: Media presentation description and segment
formats\", 3rd Edition.
[11] IEEE 1588™-2008, \"IEEE Standard for a Precision Clock Synchronization
Protocol for Networked Measurement and Control Systems\".
[12] OASIS: \"Common Alerting Protocol\", Version 1.2, 1 July 2010.
[13] 3GPP TS 22.101: \"Service aspects; Service principles\".
[14] 3GPP TS 26.346: \"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service (MBMS);
Protocols and codecs\".
[15] 3GPP TR 22.816: \"3GPP enhancement for TV service\".
[16] 3GPP TR 23.746: \" Study on System Architecture Enhancements to eMBMS for
Television Video Service\".
[17] ETSI TS 101 154, \"Specification for the use of Video and Audio Coding in
Broadcasting Applications based on the MPEG-2 Transport Stream, V2.2.1
(2015-06).
[18] 3GPP TS 23.468: \"Group Communication System Enablers for LTE (GCSE_LTE);
Stage 2\".
[19] W3C Recommendations, \"TTML Profiles for Internet Media Subtitles and
Captions 1.0 (IMSC1),\" April 2016.
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
AL-FEC Application Layer Forward Error Correction
ATSC Advanced Television Systems Committee
APD Associated Procedure Description
BAT Bouquet Association Table
CAP Common Alerting Protocol
CAT Conditional Access Table
DASH Dynamic Adaptive Streaming over HTTP
DVB Digital Video Broadcasting
DVB-T/T2 DVB Terrestrial/Terrestrial version 2
EA Emergency Alert
EIT Event Information Table
ESG Electronic Service Guide
FDT File Delivery Table
IRD Integrated Receiver Decoder
LLS Lower Layer Signaling
MMT MPEG Media Transport
MMTP MPEG Media Transport Protocol
MPD Media Presentation Description
MPU Media Processing Unit
NIT Network Information Table
PAT Program Association Table
PMT Program Map Table
PSI Program Specific Information
PTP Precision Time Protocol
RRT Rating Region Table
ROUTE Real-time Object delivery over Unidirectional TransfEr
RST Running Status Table
S-TSID Service-based Transport Session Instance Description
SDO Standard Defining Organization
SDT Service Description Table
SLS Service Layer Signaling
SLT Service List Table
SI Service Information
ST Stuffing Table
TAI International Atomic Time
TDT Time and Date Table
TOT Time Offset Table
TS Transport Stream
TSDT Transport Stream Description Table
TV TeleVision
UI User Interface
USBD User Service Bundle Description
USD User Service Description
UTC Coordinated Universal Time
XML eXtensible Markup Language
# 4 Context and Motivation
## 4.1 3GPP enhancement for TV service
**The Technical Report TR 22.816 [15] describes use cases, proposes
assumptions and potential requirements and analyses the gap in order to
enhance 3GPP systems for TV service support. The supported TV service
includes** linear TV, Live, Video on Demand, smart TV, and Over The Top (OTT)
content.
The Technical Report includes 20 use cases that are related to enhancements of
the 3GPP system for TV services. The use cases of specific relevance for
service layer, protocols and codecs are:
  * Use Case 1: UHD content delivery
```{=html}
``` \- Ultra-High Definition (UHD) content (3840 x 2160 resolutions) has been
widely supported by OTT providers and TV makers. The highest display
resolution supported by smart phone in the market is Quad HD (QHD, 2560 x 1440
resolutions). It is expected that display resolution of smart phone will keep
evolving and support UHD resolution in the future. It is also expected that 4K
TV can consume the UHD content from OTT providers via a UE.
  * UHD content delivery requires 8Mbps-20Mbps bandwidth in current deployed fixed network(e.g. using H.265 @ 60fps).
  * UHD content delivery is expected to be supported by 3GPP network. The recommended data rate for UHD content delivery is [8Mbps-20Mbps].
```{=html}
``` \- Use Case 2: Concurrent UHD content delivery
```{=html}
``` \- Considering each OTT provider provides several live UHD 4K TV programs
concurrently, there are many OTT providers offering live UHD 4K TV programs at
the same time. User accesses to each live UHD 4K TV program per user\'s
preference/interest. Within a geographic region, several concurrent live UHD
4K TV programs are consumed by different user groups in parallel. To improve
user experience and use network capacity efficiently, it is expected to
deliver concurrent live UHD 4K TV programs using broadcast delivery method as
much as possible by 3GPP network.
  * In the broadcast industry, the number of concurrent broadcast channel in the air is around 10 to 24 with HD (High Definition,720p) or SD (Standard Definition,480i or 576i) resolution. The higher number of concurrent channel is also foreseen. The exact concurrent channel number is subject to content resolution, network capacity and user\'s watching behaviour.
```{=html}
``` \- Use Case 13: Service Layer Function and Codec Support
```{=html}
``` \- A TV Content Provider partners with an MNO to distribute a subset of
the channels offered on its DTT service.
  * Rather than re-encode all existing encoded content for mobile distribution as per the profiles set out in the pre-Release 14 MBMS service layer, the broadcaster partners with an MNO that enables a formats, codecs and service layer functions suitable and necessary for the rebroadcast of existing content which can comply with the regulatory requirements of the region.
```{=html}
``` \- Use Case 16: Decoupled eMBMS content, service and transport
```{=html}
``` \- A content provider partners with a MNO to distribute as subset of its
video/TV services offered by the content provider.
  * Rather than re-encode all existing encoded content for 3GPP-based distribution as per the profiles set out in the MBMS service layer, and transpose the service initialization metadata to the format provided by the MBMS service layer, the content provider requests to be able to access only the MBMS transport.
  * As a result, the MNO provides the facility for the content provider to feed metadata and streamed content into the MNO core network for transport to a population maintained by the content provider.
```{=html}
``` \- Use Case 19: Fixed Reception of TV Program
```{=html}
``` \- An MNO provides a TV service over an LTE network. A TV service consists
of one or more TV programmes and associated programme information. The TV
service may be a linear TV service, an on-demand TV service or a complementary
offer of both types. The MNO wants to make available these TV services by
means of stationary roof-top antennas in order to exploit the higher received
signal level achievable by such an antenna. For linear TV services, at least
until today fixed roof-top reception constitutes the bulk of service
consumption in many countries.
```{=html}
``` \- Use Case 20: Hybrid TV Delivery
```{=html}
``` \- A TV content provider provides hybrid TV delivery over a digital
terrestrial TV (DTT) network and a 3GPP network run by an MNO. The most
popular TV content is delivered over the DTT network using the technology
available (e.g. DVB-T). This DTT delivery is primarily targeting fixed
installations but can also be made available to mobile devices through for
instance WiFi access points. The on demand and long tail of less popular
scheduled or live content is delivered using unicast in the 3GPP network
targeting all kind of devices, while the most popular content reaching mobile
phones will be delivered in a separate broadcast in the MNO network.
  * The purpose with Hybrid delivery is to optimize for cost and spectral efficiency, by configuring the networks so that broadcast is used only when viewing volumes motivates it. The target is to ensure highly specialised streams for each situation that are more efficient than a combined, compromised stream.
**Other use cases may also partially affect** service layer, protocols and
codecs.
## 4.2 Stage-1 Service Requirements
**Based on the use cases collected in TR 22.816 [15] a set of stage-1 service
requirements are documented in TS 22.101 [14], clause 32. The use cases and
requirements encourage work on the different aspects of the 3GPP system,
including the radio access network, the service architecture as well as on the
service layer, protocol and codecs.**
## 4.3 Service Architecture Enhancements
The key requirements with primary focus to Service Layer, Protocol and Codecs
are summarized below. From the service requirements, the following
functionalities are expected to be supported by the 3GPP network and UE:
1) content delivery up to UHD resolution
2) mechanisms to restrict the reception of some or all Subscribed TV services
to groups of subscribers (e.g. based on the recipients of the services are
subscribers of the MNO, roaming subscribers of other MNOs, or not subscribed
to any MNO)
3) combinations of SD, FHD and UHD resolution TV transport services.
4) flexible change between broadcast and unicast per traffic demand over the
same carrier.
5) support network broadcast geographic area coverage management considering
following criteria:
    -   OTT provider request (including the potential coverage
        information of TV service information)
    -   available network unicast/broadcast capacity of 3GPP network
    -   number of users under broadcast network coverage
    -   The location information of UE
6) abililty to deliver media content via unicast and broadcast in an efficient
manner.
7) capability of ensuring the timing sequence of different media content
received by different UEs at the same location, even via different transport
path, aligning with the timing sequence of TV service of the OTT provider in
order to maintain synchronism.
8) support audio and video formats typically supported by TV Content Providers
for SD and HD TV transport services and UHD TV transport services.
9) support codecs typically supported by TV Content Providers for HD TV
services and UHD TV services.
10) support accessibility functions typically supported by TV Content
Providers (e.g. subtitling, closed captioning, audio descriptions, anonymous
reception, reporting to support ratings, reporting enforcement, etc.).
11) regulatory mandates typically supported by TV Content Providers
(blackouts, emergency alerts, etc.).
12) interactivity functions typically supported by TV Content Providers
(interactive services, second screen, personalization, etc.).
13) ad insertion use cases typically supported by TV Content Providers
(targeted ad insertion, ad replacement, etc.),
14) encryption, security and conditional access functions typically supported
by TV Content Providers.
15) concurrent delivery of multiple application components (TV service
application signalling, statistical multiplexing, etc.).
16) random access and channel change times comparable to existing HD TV
services.
17) TV service content delivery over broadcast only, unicast only and
combinations of the two.
18) delivery of real-time and non-real-time content.
19) enable extensibility and forward-compatibility to new requirements,
formats, codecs and other functions to the extent possible.
20) ability to transport TV streams formatted not compliant to 3GPP standards.
21) Ability to access an eMBMS transport session with the support of only
transport metadata.
22) Ability to be initiated by a UE with sufficient metadata provided by a
mechanism other than User Service Description for non 3GPP transport services.
## 4.4 Radio Access Network Enhancements
Editor\'s Note:
  * **During RAN#71, a RAN1 work item was approved in RP-160675 to > address the relevant RAN enhancements in 3GPP.**
**Summarize the work**
## 4.5 Objective of this report
In order to address the use cases and service requirements, also taking into
account the context of other 3GPP system aspects, this technical report
addresses:
  * Functionalities that are fulfilled by existing service layers and > essential service layer functions that need to be provided by 3GPP > systems in clause 5
  * Relevant service layer centric use cases in order to prioritize the > work and address relevant gaps and optimization potentials in > clause 6. In addition also working assumptions, recommended > requirements and potential solutions are discussed for each use > case.
  * Architectural considerations, taking into account the existing > service architecture and any enhancements done in the context of > the service requirements documented in TS 22.101 [14] in > clause 7.
  * A gap analysis and proposed solutions wrt to the stage 1 service requirements in clause 8.
\- Conclusions and recommendations for potentially normative work in clause 9.
# 5 Existing TV Service Layers and Essential Functionalities for TV Services
## 5.1 Introduction
In order to replicate functionalities provided by existing TV Service Layers,
this clause collects the service model and functionalities of existing and
deployed TV services in clause 5.2. Based on this, essential TV service layer
functionalities are extracted and summarized in clause 5.3.
## 5.2 Existing Service Layer Functions
### 5.2.1 Introduction
This clause provides an overview of broadcast TV service layer functionality
as defined in DVB and ATSC, with focus on service level signaling. Broadcast
TV service layer functionality described in this document are defined by two
different organizations/SDOs:
1) DVB/ETSI, in the form of _Service Information_ (SI) associated with TV
services delivery over DVB-T/T2 systems (as well as via satellite and cable
network distribution), and
2) ATSC, via _Service Signaling_ for TV services delivery over ATSC 3.0
defined transport.
### 5.2.2 Broadcast TV Service Signaling
With some functional similarity to MBMS User Service Announcement/Discovery
metadata [14], DVB has defined Service Information (SI) that is carried in the
broadcast bitstreams. A portion of the SI contains information to assist end
user selection of services and/or programs within the bitstream, and is
specified in ETSI EN 300 468 [2]. Another portion of the SI enables automatic
configuration of the TV receiver (referred to as an Integrated Receiver
Decoder, or IRD) for reception of the selected service, and is mostly
specified in ISO/IEC 13818-1 [3] as Program Specific Information (PSI).
Similar to the DVB SI, ATSC, in A/331 [4] has defined service signaling, in
two functional tiers. The lower layer, referred to as _Low Level Signaling_
(LLS), enables rapid acquisition of basic service information by the receiver,
and provides auxiliary metadata to the receiver such as system time, content
rating, and emergency alert related information. The upper layer signaling,
referred to as _Service Layer Signaling_ (SLS) contains basic information for
the user to perform service selection, as well as provides various transport
and content level information for the receiver to download and process content
components of the selected service. There is considerable similarities between
SLS metadata fragments and the MBMS User Service Announcement/Discovery
fragments, as described below in clause 4.
### 5.2.3 DVB
#### 5.2.3.1 General Description
DVB\'s generic service delivery model, which depicts service distribution not
only over terrestrial broadcast TV networks, but also via satellite and cable
systems, is shown in Figure 1 below:
> Figure 1: DVB Service Delivery Model
In DVB, a network consists of one or more Transport Streams that are broadcast
by the same entity. A Transport Stream (TS) is an MPEG-2 stream containing
several services, and each service is a TV channel, comprising a series of
events one after the other. In DVB standards, the term \"service\" is
synonymous to a TV channel. Each event is a single TV show, and consists of a
number of elementary streams, where each elementary stream is a packetized
MPEG-2 stream containing MPEG-2 encoded audio, video or binary data. The SI is
one type of binary data carried in the TS. Multiple services, possibly from
several different Transport Streams, can be grouped together logically in a
_bouquet_. Every service in a DVB network can be uniquely identified by three
values. These values are the _original network ID_ (the ID of the network that
originally broadcast the service), the _Transport Stream ID_ (to identify a
particular TS from that network) and the _service ID_ to identify a service
within that TS. The structure of a DVB Transport Stream is shown in Figure 2.
> Figure 2: DVB Service Delivery Model
#### 5.2.3.2 DVB SI
DVB SI, as specified in ETSI TS 101 211 [5], is a set of binary-coded
signaling tables which describe the delivery system, and the content and
scheduling/timing of services and events. It includes some of the MPEG-2
Program Specific Information (PSI) as defined in ISO/IEC 13818-1 [3], along
with DVB-defined extensions which, collectively, describe the contents of
Transport Stream packets for the purpose of the multiplexing and presentation
of programs. The overall structure of the DVB SI tables is shown below in
Figure 3.
> Figure 3: Structure of DVB Service Information
The full names of the DVB SI Tables as given by their abbreviations in Figure
3 are listed below, and described in clause 3.2:
  * PAT -- Program Association Table
  * PMT -- Program Map Table
  * CAT -- Conditional Access Table
  * TSDT -- Transport Stream Description Table
  * NIT -- Network Information Table
  * TDT -- Time and Date Table
  * SDT -- Service Description Table
  * EIT -- Event Information Table
  * TOT -- Time Offset Table
  * BAT -- Bouquet Association Table
  * RST -- Running Status Table
  * ST -- Stuffing Table
Since DVB SI tables can sometimes be quite large, they are split to fit inside
a transport packet. Each such segment of data is known as a _section_ , which
may be variable in length, and can be used to hold any type of binary data,
not just SI tables. The section number, an 8-bit field, is incremented each
time a new table section is sent. The maximum number of sections per table is
256. The section length for all tables is 1021 bytes, except for the EIT
(Event Information Table) which is 4096\. Each section is uniquely identified
by the combination of
  * table_id,
  * table_id_extension,
  * section_number,
  * version_number, and
  * current_next_indicator.
Sections that contain data and not audio or video streams are typically known
as _private sections_ , even when the data format is publicly known. These
sections mostly follow a standard format. Each SI table section may contain
one or more _descriptors_ to provide extended information. Each descriptor
will include an 8-bit _descriptor_tag_ field identifying the descriptor, and
an 8-bit _descriptor_length_ field specifying the total size of the data
portion of the descriptor following this field. The complete set of DVB SI
descriptors, and in which SI tables these may be included, is shown in Table
12 in clause 6.1 of ETSI EN 300 468 [2].
Four of these SI tables, namely the Program Association Table (PAT), Program
Map Table (PMT), Conditional Access Table (CAT), and the Transport Stream
Description Table (TSDT), originate from and are identical to the Program
Specific Information (PSI) tables with the same names as specified in ISO/IEC
13818-1 [3]. As shown in Figure 3, the mandatory SI tables in DVB system
implementations are the PAT, PMT, NIT (Network Information Table) for the
current network, TDT (Time and Data Table) and the SDT (Service Description
Table) for the present document.
### 5.2.4 ATSC 3.0
#### 5.2.4.1 General Description
ATSC 3.0 service delivery model is based on service signaling and IP-based
delivery of a variety of ATSC 3.0 services and contents to ATSC 3.0-capable
receivers over broadcast, broadband and hybrid broadcast/broadband networks.
Service signaling corresponds to the data formats and information components
necessary to discover and acquire:
  * Linear services -- (e.g., linear TV or radio services).
  * Application-based service -- non-linear services based on applications that provide the User Interface (UI) and functionality of the service, e.g., Video on-Demand (VoD) content items such as catch-up TV episodes.
  * Data services -- services for which the primary content consists of discrete or continuous content items that might be delivered via broadcast and locally cached for time-shifted consumption, or retrieved via unicast for immediate consumption.
ATSC 3.0 service signaling is used for service discovery and acquisition, and
in particular, its Service Layer Signaling (SLS) component is functionally
equivalent to the user service announcement/discovery functionality and
metadata as defined for MBMS. ATSC 3.0 also defines an electronic service
guide (ESG), referred to as \"Service Announcement\" in ATSC terminology, and
is based on the OMA BCAST Service Guide [6] with certain restrictions and
extensions. The ATSC 3.0 ESG data model is described in the A/332 standard
[7]. The ESG, as an application layer function, is mainly intended for
consumption by the end user, whereas service signaling is for use by the
receiver device to discover the location and acquire the content components of
the user-selected service in the broadcast stream. Despite the logical
separation between ATSC 3.0\'s service signaling and service guide metadata,
there is a core linkage between them in the form of a globally-unique service
identifier, present in both types of metadata for each of the ATSC 3.0
services available to the end user. Because 3GPP\'s interest is primarily on
the service signaling function of the broadcast TV service layer, the ESG will
not be further discussed in the present document.
The IP-based delivery functionality specifies two application transport
protocols for the carriage of media content and service signaling data over
broadcast and/or broadband networks to receivers: MMTP (MPEG Media Transport
Protocol) as defined in ISO/IEC 23008-1 [8] and profiled in ATSC A/331 [4],
and ROUTE (**Real-Time Object Delivery over Unidirectional Transport) as
specified in** A/331 [4]. The delivery functionality also includes mechanisms
for the synchronization of media components delivered on the same or different
transport networks, and application-layer forward error correction methods
that enable error-free reception and consumption of media streams or discrete
file objects.
As indicated, a primary difference between ATSC 3.0 and DVB-T/T2 service
delivery operation is the native use in ATSC 3.0 of IP for the packetization
and transport of service contents over the broadcast channel, vs. the use of
MPEG-2 TS based encapsulation and delivery of service contents over the
broadcast network in DVB-T/T2.
The ATSC 3.0 protocol stack model is shown in Figure 4.
> Figure 4: Conceptual Protocol Stack Model of ATSC 3.0
Service Signaling in ATSC 3.0 provides service discovery and description
information, and comprises two main functional components: Low Level Signaling
(LLS) providing bootstrap information for fast channel acquisition, and
Service Layer Signaling (SLS) providing detailed service discovery and
acquisition information for the ATSC 3.0 receiver device. Five basic types of
ATSC 3.0 services are defined:
1) Linear Audio/Video Service.
2) Linear Audio-Only Service
3) App-Based Service.
4) ESG (Electronic Service Guide) Service.
5) EA (Emergency Alert) Service.
Linear services may be carried by the ROUTE or MMTP protocol, whereas app-
based services, the ESG service, and the EA service are strictly delivered
using the ROUTE protocol.
Each ROUTE session comprises one or more LCT channels which carry as a whole,
or in part, the content components that make up the ATSC 3.0 service. In
streaming services delivery, an LCT channel may carry an individual component
of a user service such as an audio, video or closed caption stream. Streaming
media as DASH Segments is formatted per the DASH/ATSC profile [9] of MPEG DASH
[10], produced by the DASH-IF, as DASH Segments. Each MMTP session comprises
one or more MMTP packet flows which carry MMT signaling messages or as a
whole, or in part, the content component. An MMTP packet flow may carry MMT
signaling messages or components formatted per ISO/IEC 23008-1 [8] as MPUs.
Figure 5 illustrates the types of services and their constituent content
components as defined for ATSC 3.0:
> Figure 5: Conceptual model of ATSC 3.0 Services and Constituent Content
> Components
#### 5.2.4.2 Service Signaling
##### 5.2.4.2.1 Introduction
The combination of the ATSC 3.0 LLS and SLS metadata will be considered in the
functional comparison with/mapping to MBMS User Service Announcement
information (the \'USD\').
##### 5.2.4.2.2 Lower Layer Signaling
The LLS represents service signaling information which supports rapid channel
scans and bootstrapping of service acquisition by the receiver. There are four
types of LLS information, each carried in the form of a LLS Table:
  * **Service List Table (SLT)**. The SLT supports a rapid channel scan which allows a receiver to build a list of all the services it can receive, with their channel name, channel number, etc., and provides bootstrap information to enable the receiver to discover the SLS for each service. For ROUTE/DASH-delivered services, the bootstrap information includes the destination IP address and destination port of the LCT channel that carries the SLS.
  * **Rating Region Table (RRT).** The RRT is an XML instance document, one or more of which may be contained in the broadcast emission for a given ATSC 3.0 service, each corresponding to a particular identified value of a _Rating Region_ (for example, United States, Canada, Mexico, Korea). Each RRT instance contains content advisory rating information, in the form of both an integer value and human-readable string, according to one or more _dimensions_ (\"violence\", \"comedy\", etc.), with each dimension comprising one more levels.
  * **SystemTime fragment.** The System Time fragment is an XML document that carries auxiliary, time-related information with respect to the system time delivered in the ATSC 3.0 PHY layer (a 32-bit count of the number of seconds and a 10-bit fraction of a second (in units of milliseconds) since January 1, 1970 00:00:00, International Atomic Time (TAI), which is the Precision Time Protocol (PTP) epoch as defined in IEEE 1588 [11]). The auxiliary data carried in this fragment includes time offset between the TAI and UTC, time offset between UTC and the time zone of the originating broadcast station, leap second information, and Daylight Savings Time status. The System Time fragment is functionally similar to the combination of the TDT and TOT in the DVB SI.
  * **Common Alerting Protocol (CAP) message**. An XML document that describes an ATSC 3.0 Emergency Alert (EA) service that delivers rich media resources, based on version 1.2 of the CAP specification [12], with ATSC-defined extensions.
##### 5.2.4.2.3 Service Layer Signaling
SLS provides information for discovery and acquisition of ATSC 3.0 services
and their content components. Taking for example the use of ROUTE as the
application transport protocols for broadband and unicast delivery of ATSC 3.0
services, and DASH as the streaming media format, the SLS for the
ROUTE/HTTP/DASH system (\"ROUTE/DASH\" for short) includes the User Service
Bundle Description (USBD), the S-TSID (Service-based Transport Session
Instance Description), the DASH Media Presentation Description (MPD), and
optionally the Associated Procedure Description (APD). Similar to the MBMS
USD, each of these SLS fragments is instantiated as an XML document. The data
model of the ROUTE SLS information is shown in Figure 6:
> Figure 6: SLS Data Model for ROUTE/DASH
Notice the similarities between the ROUTE/DASH SLS and that of the MBMS USD
data models. Substantial effort was undertaken in the development of A/331 [4]
to align with MBMS service signaling where possible and practical. Table 1
provides a brief description for each of the SLS fragments for ROUTE/DASH.
Table 1: Summary Descriptions of ROUTE/DASH SLS Fragments in ATSC 3.0
* * *
SLS Fragment Name Functional Description Comments USBD \"Entry point\" SLS
fragment, providing basic information for a single ATSC 3.0 service, such as
service ID, name, language and status (active/inactive), references to
additional SLS fragments including the S-TSID, MPD and APD, and identifies the
delivery method(s) for the service Based on MBMS\' USBD, but contains fewer
parameters. Information in the ATSC USBD are assumed to be generally static.
S-TSID A sort of aggregated Service Description Fragment for the multiple
content components of the ATSC 3.0 service described by the USBD, and in which
the ATSC 3.0\'s File Delivery Table, referred to as \'EFDT\', or Extended FDT,
may be either embedded or referenced. Centralized as opposed to the
distributed SDPs as employed in the MBMS USD for describing the transport and
AL-FEC information for the different content components. Another key
difference is to enable out-of-band and advanced delivery of FDT Instance
parameters prior to the delivery session of the content the FDT describes MPD
In the case of DASH-formatted services, the DASH MPD, delivered as a metadata
fragment, to be forwarded by the receiver platform/middleware to the DASH
client in the receiver Identical function as the Media Presentation
Description fragment in MBMS USD APD Optional metadata fragment in support of
file repair Only file repair functionality is specified at this time in the
ATSC 3.0 APD (i.e., it does not contain reception reporting or consumption
reporting signaling)
* * *
## 5.3 Essential Functionalities for TV Services
tbd
# 6 Use Cases
## 6.1 Introduction
This clause collects a set of use cases that are, beyond those defined in
**TR22.816 [15] and documented** in clause 4.1, emphasize service layer
aspects.
## 6.2 TV Service Delivery over eMBMS
### 6.2.1 Description
A broadcast TV service provider \'ZZZZ\', i.e., TV broadcaster, wishes to
enable reception of its DTT (Digital Terrestrial TV) services on eMBMS UEs.
These UEs are assumed to contain both the eMBMS radio receiver/modem and the
eMBMS client or middleware functions. Examples of such UEs are LTE Broadcast
capable handsets or tablets which already contain the MBMS client, as well as
fixed TV sets which contain both eMBMS radio receiver and eMBMS client
functions. ZZZZ wishes for certain native DTT service layer syntax and
semantics employed in DTT networks such as DVB-T or DVB-T2 to be employed in
service delivery over the eMBMS network to UEs. These may include, for
example:
  * DTT identifier formats of service bundles, individual services, and programs within a service;
  * Country-based service availability control;
  * End-user specific description of services and programs (i.e., EPG functionality);
  * Identification of media components of a service or program;
  * Time-shifting characteristics of Near Video-On-Demand (NVOD) service offerings;
  * Parental rating information;
  * Signaling of interactive applications associated with a DTT service.
The TV broadcaster realizes that because the receiving device will utilize
MBMS service layer functions for reception of the DTT services, some form of
translation will be required from native DTT service layer functionality to
that of the MBMS service layer, for the associated service delivery over an
eMBMS system. It also realizes that native DTT media encoding and
encapsulation formats will need to be converted to 3GPP media encoding and
encapsulation formats.
### 6.2.2 Working Assumptions
The following set of working assumptions are applicable to this use case:
  * DTT services will be delivered over the eMBMS system as MBMS User Services, and carried over MBMS bearers.
  * The method of DTT service delivery over eMBMS in this case is also referred to as \"MBMS Service Type 2: Full MBMS service mode\", as described in TR 23.746 [16].
  * Targeted devices for reception of such DTT-over-eMBMS service delivery will contain at minimum the eMBMS radio receiver and the eMBMS client.
  * The MBMS service layer, for example MBMS USD functionality, may need to be extended to support certain native DTT service capabilities not currently defined by 3GPP, in TS 26.346.
  * Transcoding of native DTT media encoding format to 3GPP media encoding format may need to be performed for DTT-over-eMBMS service delivery.
  * Conversion via de-capsulation and re-encapsulation of native DTT transport formats to 3GPP transport formats may need to be performed for DTT-over-eMBMS service delivery.
  * Implementation mechanisms and network location of where media transcoding and re-formatting, and service layer translation functionality occur may depend on the details of a standardized network interface between the TV broadcaster and the eMBMS network operator.
  * An example network architecture showing the media encoding and format conversion as well as service layer translation from DTT Service Information to MBMS USD could be as represented by Figure 7 below:
> Figure 7: Example DTT-over-eMBMS Service Delivery Network Architecture
### 6.2.3 Available Enablers and Gap Analysis
A tabulation of the functions potentially provided by the DVB SI tables BAT
(Bouquet Association Table), SDT (Service Description Table) and EIT (Event
Information Table), which will be shown later in this section to be among the
key DVB SI tables whose functionality are missing in the MBMS USD is provided
in Table 2. The set of _descriptors_ , or distinct service signaling
functional components, which may reside in these tables (some of which are
mandatory and others optional to implement by DVB broadcasters) is shown in
Table 2. These descriptors, as described in ETSI EN 300 468 [2], provide the
basis for the gap analysis whose results are given in Table 3.
Table 2: Descriptor (service signalling components)
{width="4.043055555555555in" height="5.759027777777778in"}
Table 3 below contains descriptions of all the DVB SI tables. These include
the signaling tables as defined in ETSI EN 300 468 [2] and associated with
classical, receive-only linear TV services, as well as the Application
Information Table which signal interactive applications associated with TV
services/programs consumed on hybrid broadcast/broadband TV sets. For each DVB
SI table, Table 6.2 provides:
  * Identification of the MBMS User Service Discovery/Announcement, or collective \"USD\" metadata and other related MBMS service layer mechanisms, that provides similar functionality to that SI table;
  * Indication of whether the SI table functionality is necessary to enable acquisition by the receiver and consumption by the user, and in accordance to rules/requirements set by the broadcaster, content provider, or regulatory organizations, of the nominal TV service content when delivered by eMBMS as opposed to DVB-T/T2 as the broadcast technology;
  * Determination of existing gaps in MBMS service signaling relative to the DVB SI functionality considered essential for supporting broadcast TV services delivery.
NOTE: Portions of DVB SI\'s BAT, SDT and EIT convey EPG functionality for
display to the end-user. The MBMS USD primarily conveys transport signaling
for use by the MBMS receiver to acquire service contents. It is not designed
to contain, and for the MBMS client to process, application service specific
information such as EPG metadata.
Table 3: Comparison between DVB SI and MBMS USD Functionality
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Table Name | Functional | Similar or | Relevant | Gaps in | | | Description | Equivalent | Metadata to | 3GPP/MBMS | | | | Function in | Provide in | Service | | | | 3GPP/MBMS | 3GPP/MBMS | Layer? | | | | Service | Service | | | | | Layer | Layer? | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | PAT | Provides | NONE | NO -- | NO | | (Program | Packet ID | | represents | | | Association | (PID) | (not | component | (n/a for | | Table) | values of | applicable) | of service | eMBMS) | | | TS packets | | discovery | | | | carrying | | bootstrap | | | | the PMT | | mechanism | | | | (Program | | used in | | | | Map Table) | | MPEG-2 TS | | | | | | which is | | | | | | completely | | | | | | different | | | | | | from | | | | | | bo | | | | | | otstrapping | | | | | | in native | | | | | | IP service | | | | | | delivery | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | PMT | Identifies | NONE | same as | NO | | (Program | and | | above | | | Map Table) | indicates | (not | | (n/a for | | | the | applicable) | | eMBMS) | | | locations | | | | | | (PID | | | | | | values) of | | | | | | Transport | | | | | | Streams | | | | | | that make | | | | | | up each | | | | | | service and | | | | | | the | | | | | | location of | | | | | | the Program | | | | | | Clock | | | | | | Reference | | | | | | fields for | | | | | | a service | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Conditional | Provides | USD\'s | YES -- for | YES -- if | | Access | info on the | Security | content | CA-based | | Table (CAT) | CA systems | Description | protection | content | | | used in the | supports | of | protection | | | multiplex | service | broadcast | will be | | | | protection; | TV services | supported | | | | reference | carried | | | | | to MPEG | over eMBMS | NO -- if | | | | Common | | DRM-based | | | | Encryption | | content | | | | (ISO/IEC | | protection | | | | 23001-7) | | via CENC | | | | [4] for | | would | | | | DAS | | suffice | | | | H-over-MBMS | | | | | | service | | Note: | | | | supports | | DVB\'s | | | | content | | registered | | | | protection; | | CA system | | | | absence of | | IDs, as | | | | any | | shown in | | | | metadata | | http://w | | | | that | | ww.dvbservi | | | | identifies | | ces.com/ide | | | | CA systems | | ntifiers/ca | | | | as defined | | _system_id | | | | in DVB | | include: | | | | | | | | | | | | OMA BCAST | | | | | | 1.0 (U)SIM | | | | | | Smartcard | | | | | | Profile | | | | | | using 3GPP | | | | | | GBA_U, and | | | | | | | | | | | | OMA BCAST | | | | | | 1.0 (U)SIM | | | | | | Smartcard | | | | | | Profile | | | | | | using 3GPP | | | | | | GBA_ME | | | | | | | | | | | | If these | | | | | | GBA-based | | | | | | CA systems | | | | | | are | | | | | | acceptable | | | | | | by DVB | | | | | | br | | | | | | oadcasters, | | | | | | MBMS | | | | | | service | | | | | | layer and | | | | | | security, | | | | | | with | | | | | | associated | | | | | | e | | | | | | nhancements | | | | | | (i.e. | | | | | | support for | | | | | | OMA BCAST | | | | | | [5] | | | | | | defined | | | | | | LTKM and | | | | | | STKM as | | | | | | extension | | | | | | to MSK and | | | | | | MTK | | | | | | messages in | | | | | | MBMS | | | | | | security | | | | | | per TS | | | | | | 33.246 | | | | | | [6] would | | | | | | suffice in | | | | | | supporting | | | | | | DVB CA. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Network | Provide | NONE | NO -- | NO | | Information | information | | totally | | | Table (NIT) | about the | (not | different | (n/a for | | | physical | applicable) | PHY layers | eMBMS) | | | network, | | and | | | | incl. | | co | | | | syntax and | | rresponding | | | | semantics | | parameters | | | | | | between | | | | | | DVB-T and | | | | | | eMBMS | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Time and | Provides | BM-SC | YES -- | NO | | Date Table | present UTC | offers SNTP | existing | | | (TDT) | time and | time server | MBMS | (capability | | | date info, | for use by | service | already | | | which may | the MBMS | layer | exists) | | | be used to | UEs to | capability | | | | synchronize | synchronize | to support | | | | the | its clock | accurate | | | | receiver\'s | with the | sync | | | | internal | BM-SC | hronization | | | | clock. The | | of | | | | receiver | | receiver\'s | | | | displays | | clock to | | | | the time | | that of | | | | based on | | BM-SC, | | | | the | | necessary | | | | information | | for service | | | | of this | | reception | | | | table. | | and | | | | | | rendering | | | | | | to user | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Bouquet | Listing and | USBD | YES -- it | YES | | Association | description | fragment, | should be | | | Table (BAT) | of a group | for which | possible to | USBD | | | of | the service | indicate a | currently | | | services, | bundle may | TV service | lacks | | | which may | comprise a | offering to | service | | | be carried | single or | the end | pac | | | in multiple | multiple | user as a | kage/bundle | | | TSs and | services | bundle of | level | | | which could | | multiple TV | information | | | be carried | | servic | as provided | | | in multiple | | es/channels | by the BAT | | | networks, | | | | | | that a | | | It should | | | receiver | | | be further | | | presents as | | | studied | | | a single | | | whether and | | | service | | | how MBMS | | | package to | | | service | | | a user | | | layer | | | | | | should be | | | | | | enhanced to | | | | | | support EPG | | | | | | fu | | | | | | nctionality | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Service | Describe | USBD | YES -- it | YES | | Description | services | fragment, | may be | | | Table (SDT) | that are | which | desirabl | USBD | | | contained | provides | e/necessary | currently | | | within a | basic MBMS | to provide | lacks those | | | particular | User | such | additional | | | TS, | Service | additional | se | | | including | information | info to | rvice-level | | | the service | such as | enable | information | | | name, | service ID, | receiver | as provided | | | service | name and | acquisition | by the SDT | | | provider, | language, | and user | | | | service | but lacks | selection | It should | | | running | support for | of services | be further | | | status, and | carrying | without | studied | | | whether the | co | requiring | whether and | | | service is | mprehensive | the use of | how MBMS | | | encrypted, | info | a | service | | | whether EIT | available | prog | layer | | | (Event | in SDT | ram/service | should be | | | Information | (e.g. | guide | enhanced to | | | Table) | service | | support EPG | | | schedule is | type, | | fu | | | present in | textual | | nctionality | | | the present | service | | | | | document | identifier, | | | | | | service | | | | | | provider | | | | | | name, | | | | | | alerts, | | | | | | component | | | | | | d | | | | | | escription, | | | | | | tim | | | | | | e-shifting, | | | | | | CA system | | | | | | ID, country | | | | | | av | | | | | | ailability, | | | | | | linkage to | | | | | | other info | | | | | | about | | | | | | current | | | | | | service, | | | | | | etc. | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Event | Contains | Essentially | YES -- it | YES | | Information | schedule | NONE, | may be | | | Table (EIT) | info about | although | desirabl | MBMS USD | | | events | scheduling | e/necessary | metadata | | | (i.e. TV | info in EIT | to provide | fragments | | | programs) | is in part | such | currently | | | in a | provided by | additional | does not | | | service, | the USD\'s | info to | include | | | such as | Schedule | enable | pr | | | event ID, | Description | receiver | ogram-level | | | start time, | fragment | acquisition | information | | | duration, | | and user | as provided | | | running | | selection | by the EIT | | | status, | | of programs | | | | scrambling | | without | It should | | | indication, | | separate | be further | | | etc. A | | delivery of | studied | | | large set | | a | whether and | | | of | | prog | how MBMS | | | additional | | ram/service | service | | | information | | guide | layer | | | on each | | | should be | | | event can | | | enhanced to | | | be provided | | | support EPG | | | by | | | fu | | | descriptors | | | nctionality | | | included in | | | | | | the EIT, | | | | | | such as | | | | | | event name | | | | | | and textual | | | | | | d | | | | | | escription, | | | | | | genre/clas | | | | | | sification, | | | | | | component | | | | | | and content | | | | | | de | | | | | | scriptions, | | | | | | linkage to | | | | | | additional | | | | | | info about | | | | | | the event, | | | | | | parental | | | | | | rating, | | | | | | tim | | | | | | e-shifting, | | | | | | etc. | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Time Offset | Provides | NONE | MAYBE, | MAYBE | | Table (TOT) | information | | should this | | | | relating to | | information | If time | | | the present | | be deemed | offset info | | | time and | | important | is | | | date and | | and | necessary | | | local time | | typically | to be | | | offset | | carried in | provided | | | | | DVB SI | for DVB | | | | | | broadcast | | | | | | TV services | | | | | | delivery | | | | | | over eMBMS | | | | | | | | | | | | Needs | | | | | | further | | | | | | study. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Running | Provides | NONE | YES -- to | YES | | Status | accurate | | announce | | | Table (RST) | and rapid | | dynamic | It should | | | updating of | | schedule | be possible | | | the timing | | changes in | for USD | | | status of | | airing of | metadata to | | | one or more | | programs | indicate | | | events in a | | | dynamic | | | service, | | | temporal | | | i.e., | | | changes in | | | running, | | | the | | | not | | | delivery of | | | running, | | | broadcast | | | starts in a | | | programs | | | few | | | | | | seconds, | | | | | | pausing, | | | | | | service is | | | | | | off-air). | | | | | | RST may be | | | | | | necessary | | | | | | for events | | | | | | which start | | | | | | early or | | | | | | late due to | | | | | | scheduling | | | | | | changes. | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Stuffing | Provides | Inband | YES -- to | NO | | Table (ST) | the means | delivery of | enable | | | | to replace | USD | dynamic | Fu | | | or | fragments | updating of | nctionality | | | invalidate | to | service | is already | | | either | dynamically | signaling | supported | | | sub-tables | update an | information | by inband | | | or complete | existing | | USD | | | SI tables | fragment, | | metadata | | | | in case the | | fragment | | | | nominal | | delivery | | | | validity | | | | | | time of the | | | | | | current | | | | | | fragment, | | | | | | as given in | | | | | | the | | | | | | metadata | | | | | | envelope | | | | | | has not yet | | | | | | expired | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Application | Provides | No | YES -- MBMS | YES | | Information | information | explicitly | service | | | Table (AIT) | about | defined | layer | It should | | | interactive | functional | should | be possible | | | application | counterpart | support the | for USD | | | associated | in MBMS USD | DVB and | metadata to | | | with the | to the AIT. | HbbTV model | support the | | | broadcast | | of | signaling | | | TV service | | discovery, | of | | | | | acquisition | interactive | | | | | and life | application | | | | | cycle | associated | | | | | control of | with DTT | | | | | TV | services | | | | | se | and | | | | | rvice-bound | programs | | | | | application | contained | | | | | services | within each | | | | | | service | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
### 6.2.4 Optimization Potentials
As shown in Table 6.1, the functionality of a number of DVB SI tables are not
applicable for the delivery of DTT services as MBMS User Services over eMBMS.
Certain SI information, for example, as contained in the NIT (Network
Information Table), are specific to DVB physical and network layer mechanisms
and irrelevant in the carriage of broadcast TV service contents over LTE
Broadcast systems, with different physical, link and network layer
definitions. Also, since the encapsulation format of streaming media content
carried over MBMS bearers will be converted from MPEG-2 Transport Stream to
DASH, SI tables associated with the discovery and identification of media
content and service signaling components carried in MPEG-2 Transport Streams
are not applicable due to native IP transport of user and control plane data
in MBMS. Certain DVB system functions indicated in the SI can be mapped to
similar MBMS service layer capabilities, such as support for time
synchronization between the network and the device, as well as the means for
the network to update or invalidate service signaling information. For these
functions, no specific gaps are present.
On the other hand, there are numerous DVB SI functionality that have no
clearly similar or equivalent counterparts in the MBMS service layer/USD.
**_Transport signaling related_**. There are DVB-defined identifiers, such as
Conditional Access (CA) system identification for services or programs that
are content protected by CA technology (see
http://www.dvbservices.com/identifiers/index.php). Similarly, there may be use
of identifiers associated with the DVB \"ecosystem\", such as authority and
content identifiers defined by the (now inactive) TV-Anytime Forum
(http://www.tv-anytime.org/). In addition, DVB SI allocates 16-bit service and
event (i.e. \"program\") IDs to be assigned by DVB broadcasters, which will
need to be supported by the MBMS USD. There are also functional concepts
unique DVB which have no equivalent in the MBMS USD. For example, due to the
possibility that a given broadcaster may offers DTT services in multiple,
neighboring countries, _country_availability_ indication may be signaled in
various SI tables (e.g. BAT, SDT, and EIT). Another broadcast TV specific
function is that of _FTA_content_management_ which enables certain control by
the broadcaster on the usage and/or remote distribution of content items
delivered in free-to-air (FTA) services -- for example, a) without
restriction, b) only within a managed domain, c) only after a certain time has
elapsed since the original program airing, etc.
**_Application signaling related_**. The DVB SI, mainly via the EIT, but also
including functionality of the BAT and SDT, contain EPG metadata that enables
an EPG application built into the DVB receiver to produce a program guide for
the end user. Such application service and related signaling functionality is
outside the scope of the MBMS USD, and the current MBMS client, as recipient
of the USD metadata, does not perform application service specific
functionality, such as producing an EPG with associated UI and application
logic to enable program guide display to and interaction with the user. In
fact, application signaling metadata such as the Media Presentation
Description metadata fragment simply serves as a container for the MPD created
by the DASH service provider, to be passed transparently by the MBMS client to
the DASH player, the latter entity acting as an application client. Whether
and how such EPG metadata should be handled as part of the service layer
conversion from DVB SI to MBMS USD is an area for further study and
discussion.
### 6.2.5 Working Assumptions
### 6.2.6 Recommended Requirements
### 6.2.7 Potential Solutions
#### 6.2.7.1 General
It is understood that the MBMS USD currently defines only transport-level
service signaling, to enable the MBMS receiver to identify the available MBMS
User Services, which are defined as transport services, and the means to
acquire the constituent content components of a given service. Auxiliary
mechanism associated with the transport signaling include the means to ensure
reliability of service reception, such as AL-FEC and/or file repair
configuration information, and the reporting of reception statistics for QoE
measurement, or the determination of service popularity, by the network. The
DVB SI, as defined in ETSI EN 300 468 [3], contains not only such transport
signaling, but also application-level, EPG metadata, to enable the receiver
which is assumed to contain an EPG application client, to process that
metadata in the creation of a service/program guide for display to the user.
Although not defined in the DVB SI [3], the EPG application may include end-
user navigation and selection capabilities via additional UI function and
associated application logic. A key question to be addressed in the analysis
of possible solution frameworks is whether and/or how the MBMS USD should be
extended to support EPG-like functionality.
#### 6.2.7.2 Option 1: Extend USD with DTT Transport Signaling and EPG
In Option 1, the MBMS USD will be enhanced to provide both the necessary
broadcast TV specific transport signaling (identifiers of CA system, service
package, service and program, country of service availability, identification
of constituent media components, content management rules, etc.) and EPG
metadata as defined by the DTT system. To do so, it is anticipated that the
following changes to the MBMS USD data structure will be necessary:
1) Extension of existing metadata fragments, especially the USBD fragment
which includes both service bundle (or package) and service level semantics,
by introducing new elements or attributes to carry additional service and
service package related information.
2) Definition of new metadata fragments to carry DVB SI information not
supported by, or inappropriate to functionally extend, existing MBMS USD
metadata fragments. These pertain to metadata intended either for processing
by the MBMS receiver, or display to the end user. Examples include program-
level descriptions, identification of media components contained in a service
or individual program, parental rating metadata, and signaling of applications
associated with a service or program (e.g. targeted ads, interactive quiz,
voting of favourite performer).
#### 6.2.7.3 Option 2: EPG Metadata Carried in Application Service Description
In Option 2, the Application Service Description, as a \"container\" USD
metadata fragment for entry point information of an application service, will
carry all EPG metadata associated with the DTT service. In other words, the
application service client or \"consumer\" of this Application Service
Description is the EPG application. TS 26.346 indicates that the application
service type is defined by the Internet Media (i.e. MIME) type given by the
attribute _mimeType_ of _r12:appService_ , and the associated Application
Service Description could be a Media Presentation Description fragment
corresponding to a unified MPD, or an HTML page representing the home page of
an HTML application service. In this method, transport signaling and
application service specific metadata are separated for containment in
different USD metadata fragments. DTT service specific transport signaling
will be carried in existing USD fragments and/or in newly-defined fragments
that strictly contain transport signaling, while EPG metadata will be carried
in the associated Application Service Description.
It is for further discussion whether the data structure of the Application
Service Description for carrying EPG metadata should be standardized by 3GPP,
or left undefined and implementation-specific. While requiring additional work
effort, the former approach should reduce device complexity and enhance
interoperability. If the EPG-based Application Service Description data
structure is proprietary, UEs may have to support multiple EPG clients in
order to interwork with different translations of DVB EPG metadata formats as
supplied by various eMBMS operators, to be carried inside the Application
Service Description fragment.
#### 6.2.7.4 Option 3: EPG Data Delivery as Standalone MBMS User Service
In Option 3, Broadcast TV EPG information is delivered as the contents of an
individual MBMS User Service. All DTT service specific transport signaling
will be carried in existing USD fragments and/or in newly-defined fragments
that strictly contain transport signaling, as in Option 2. There are two
possible ways of bootstrapping the discovery and selection of the main TV
service using the EPG service. In the first, the Service ID (attribute
_serviceId_ of the _userServiceDescription_ element) is only known by the EPG
application, which will request that MBMS User Service from the MBMS client
upon registration, via the registration API as defined in TRAPI [4].
Alternatively, the EPG service has a pre-configured Service ID or Service
Class value in the MBMS client, which will automatically download and provide
the contents of this service to the EPG application upon registration of that
application with the MBMS client.
#### 6.2.7.5 Pros and Cons of the Alternative Methods
Option 1 may be considered as offering the benefit of ensuring full 3GPP
control of MBMS USD definition to support DTT services delivery over the MBMS
system as MBMS User Services. However, it is not a clean approach in mixing
transport signaling and application service metadata in the same metadata
fragment. In particular, the MBMS client has been designed to only support
transport signaling to enable reliable service/content reception. Should EPG
semantics be added to existing USD metadata fragments and/or in newly-defined
fragments, it would essentially require the MBMS client to act additionally as
an EPG application, in constructing a program guide for end-user display and
possibly user manipulation via a graphical and interactive user interface,
along with application logic to support the user interface. Furthermore, the
EPG application may need to interact with a backend server of the TV
broadcaster for service subscription and charging/payment functions.
Supporting such EPG application could significantly increase the complexity of
the MBMS client, and potentially delay the practical introduction of DTT
service delivery over eMBMS via reuse of the MBMS service layer.
Option 2 may be attractive in offering cleaner separation of transport and
application service related signaling functionality in the service layer. It
leverages the intended role of the existing Application Service Description
for carrying EPG-related information as an application service entry point
document, which in turn would be forwarded by the MBMS client to a local EPG
application client for processing. In the meantime, the required extension to
the remaining MBMS USD would be limited to strictly new parameters added to
existing metadata fragments, or introduction of new fragments, that pertain
strictly to DTT service specific transport signaling. This method will likely
impose considerably less burden on the MBMS client than Option 1, since it
continues to process only transport signaling associated with DTT service
reception on UEs. As such, it might also accelerate the timeframe that mobile
operators can practically offer full service layer reused based eMBMS delivery
of DTT services to capable receiving devices. The tradeoffs between whether or
not to standardize the data structure of such EPG-based Application Service
Description were discussed in clause 6.2.7.3.
Option 3 would represent the simplest approach to supporting the delivery of
DTT service EPG metadata. Similar to Option 2, it maintains clean separation
of transport signaling from application service specific signaling in the MBMS
service layer for DTT service delivery support. It would also avoid the debate
on whether the EPG-specific Application Service Description should be defined
by 3GPP. One downside of this approach is that it is not fully aligned with
USD design/operating principle that entry point info for any MBMS-aware
application should be contained in Application Service Description, which is
the mechanism adopted in Option 2. Also, it may potentially impose
implementation complexity for the BM-SC to have to parse the service and
signaling information provided by the DTT broadcaster across the XMB
interface, to create and provision an individual MBMS User Service containing
EPG metadata, as compared to sending the EPG information in the MBMS USD.
(_This last point needs verification by infrastructure vendors._)
A summary of the three alternatives is shown in Table 4.
Table 4: Comparison of Options 1, 2 and 3 for Translating DVB SI to MBMS
Service Layer Signaling
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Method | Description | Pros | Cons | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Mixed | \"Horizontal\" | Full 3GPP | - Not a | | transport and | extension of | control of | clean | | EPG metadata | MBMS USD | MBMS USD | approach | | in USD | fragments | definition to | by mixing | | fragments | (existing and | supporting | transport | | | newly-added) | DTT-over-eMBMS | signaling | | | to carry both | as MBMS User | with | | | transport and | Service | | | | application | | application | | | service | | service | | | signaling | | metadata | | | | | | | | | | - Imposes | | | | | | | | | | significant | | | | | complexity | | | | | on MBMS | | | | | client to | | | | | support | | | | | EPG | | | | | | | | | | application, | | | | | including | | | | | UI and | | | | | | | | | | application | | | | | logic, and | | | | | | | | | | interaction | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | | broadcasters\' | | | | | | | | | | provisioning | | | | | and | | | | | billing | | | | | systems | | | | | | | | | | - May delay | | | | | launch of | | | | | | | | | | DTT-over-eMBMS | | | | | via MBMS | | | | | service | | | | | layer | | | | | reuse | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | EPG carriage | Separation of | - Cleaner | None in | | in Application | transport and | separation | particular | | Service | application | between | | | Description | service | transport | Open question | | | signaling in | and | on whether the | | | MBMS service | | data format of | | | -- all EPG | application | such EPG-based | | | metadata | service | Application | | | carried in | signaling | Service | | | Application | in MBMS | Description | | | Service | service | fragment | | | Description | layer | should be | | | | | standardized | | | | - Leverages | | | | | intended | | | | | role of | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | Application | | | | | Service | | | | | | | | | | Description | | | | | for | | | | | carrying | | | | | EPG info | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | | application | | | | | service | | | | | entry | | | | | point | | | | | document | | | | | | | | | | - Imposes | | | | | | | | | | considerably | | | | | less | | | | | burden on | | | | | MBMS | | | | | client | | | | | than | | | | | Option 1, | | | | | by only | | | | | having to | | | | | process | | | | | transport | | | | | signaling | | | | | associated | | | | | with DTT | | | | | service | | | | | reception | | | | | | | | | | - May | | | | | accelerate | | | | | launch of | | | | | | | | | | DTT-over-eMBMS | | | | | via MBMS | | | | | service | | | | | layer | | | | | reuse | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | EPG carriage | Separation of | - Simplest | - Diverges | | as standalone | transport and | approach | from USD | | MBMS User | application | to | de | | Service | service | supporting | sign/operating | | | signaling in | delivery | principle | | | MBMS service | of DTT | that entry | | | -- EPG | service | point info | | | metadata | EPG | for any | | | carried as | metadata | MBMS-aware | | | standalone | | | | | MBMS User | | application | | | Service | | should be | | | | | contained | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | Application | | | | | Service | | | | | | | | | | Description | | | | | | | | | | - (_requires | | | | | | | | | | verification_) | | | | | May be | | | | | more | | | | | | | | | | operationally | | | | | complex | | | | | than | | | | | Options 1 | | | | | and 2 for | | | | | the mobile | | | | | operator | | | | | | | | | | infrastructure | | | | | as it has | | | | | to parse | | | | | service | | | | | signaling, | | | | | i.e. DVB | | | | | SI, | | | | | provided | | | | | by DTT | | | | | | | | | | broadcaster | | | | | over XMB | | | | | interface | | | | | to extract | | | | | EPG | | | | | metadata, | | | | | and | | | | | provision | | | | | a unique | | | | | MBMS User | | | | | Service | | | | | pertaining | | | | | to EPG | | | | | info, | | | | | including | | | | | | | | | | pre-defining | | | | | unique | | | | | serviceId | | | | | and/or | | | | | service | | | | | class | | | | | values for | | | | | that | | | | | service | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
## 6.3 IP-Based Broadcast
### 6.3.1 Description
A broadcaster that has TV services over IP-based broadcast (such as ATSC 3.0
or ARIB) is interested in extending its reach to mobile devices and in
improving the in-door reception for the fixed receivers. The broadcaster
reaches an agreement with a mobile operator to distribute some of the TV
channels over mobile broadcast using eMBMS. However, the broadcaster wants to
maintain control over the content components and workflow and reuse existing
players for the playback of the content. It also needs to maintain the service
aspects that are related to regulatory commitments of the broadcaster.
### 6.3.2 Working Assumptions
Based on the previous use case and requirements, the following working
assumptions are determined:
  * The BM-SC will forward the IP-based broadcast stream as is as user plane multicast data over the XMB interface.
  * The BM-SC creates a minimal service announcement that serves the purpose of bootstrapping.
  * The MBMS API offers access to the raw IP-based broadcast stream.
  * The BM-SC may offer additional functionality to support delivery over MBMS. The technical and commercial viability of these features will be studied on case by case basis.
### 6.3.3 Recommended Requirements
  * An eMBMS transport layer should be able to transport TV streams formatted not compliant to 3GPP standards.
  * It is possible to deliver IP-based terrestrial broadcast streams without modifications to the contents of the stream.
### 6.3.4 Available Enablers in 3GPP
The group communication delivery method as defined in 8A of TS26.346 may
enable functionalities in this context.
### 6.3.5 Gap Analysis
The group communication is primarily defined for the group communication
application service as defined in 3GPP TS23.468 [18]. In addition, the group
communication relies session description of GC1.
In addition, the service may be constant bitrate or variable bitrate. Both
modes are expected to be supported.
## 6.4 FTA Linear TV to Mobiles
### 6.4.1 Description
A linear TV service is accessible for mobiles through a 3GPP cellular
infrastructure in order to provide Public Media Services also broadly to
mobile phones and other 3GPP-connected devices.
A linear service is the traditional way of offering TV services where the
content is organised in a sequence that may consist of e.g. news, shows,
drama, movies, or documentaries. That sequence is distributed as a stream of
programmes that reach the viewer according to a pre-defined schedule. The
viewer can tune in to a programme but cannot alter the schedule. Linear TV is
the most common way of delivering live content (e.g. sport events, concerts,
news). The Linear TV Service is considered Free-to-Air (FTA), i.e. no
subscription is required with a TV service provider and that the service is
also characterised by no content encryption and is made available at no
additional cost to the end user as defined in TS 22.101.
The TV service may be made available regionally or nationally.
The TV service may include SD, HD and UHD services.
The TV service may include audio in different languages.
The TV service may include subtitles.
Access services may have to be supported.
Different type of ad insertion models are preferably supported.
### 6.4.2 Working Assumptions
There is no reason that the image formats in TS 26.116 are not used.
The required audio formats include stereo. Loudness control[^1] is expected to
be supported. Multiple audio tracks may be present, for example for different
languages. There may be services that require support for multiple languages
where the language is pre-mixed with music and effects.
A sufficient set of audio and video codecs are required to allow for encoding
and distribution of legacy and new formats in an efficient manner. If legacy
content is expected to be distributed (e.g. MPEG-2 video or audio
technologies), they may be transcoded prior distribution.
Subtitling formats may include both textual and graphical ones.
Access services may include subtitling, signing, audio descriptions and audio
subtitling.
Ad insertion solutions may include splicing in a live stream, as well as a
targeted stream requested by the user device, or from a local storage on the
device.
### 6.4.3 Recommended Requirements
The following enablers need to be provided:
  * Video Formats and Codecs for SD, HD and UHD formats
  * Stereo Audio Formats and Codecs
  * Loudness control
  * Multiple language support
  * Subtitling formats for text and graphics
  * Signalling for access services
  * Splicing of content in network and on the device
### 6.4.4 Available Enablers in 3GPP, Gap Analysis and Optimization Potentials
If the transport-only mode is used, then codecs and service layer aspects are
outside of the control of 3GPP.
If the MBMS service layer mode is used, then the following enablers exist and
gaps and optimization potentials are identified:
  * Video Formats and Codecs for SD, HD and UHD formats
    * Available Enablers:
      * According to TS26.346 [14], clause 10.5.5: "If the 3GPP MBMS client supports Television (TV) over 3GPP Services, it shall comply with the 720p H.264 (AVC) Operation Point Receiver requirements and should comply with the Full HD H.264 (AVC), 720p H.265 (HEVC), FullHD H.265 (HEVC) and UHD H.265 (HEVC) Operation Points Receiver requirements as specified in TS 26.116 [120]."
      * 3GPP supports the relevant video codecs and formats
    * Optimization: UHD has other dimensions than 4K, including High Dynamic Range (HDR) and High Frame Rate (HFR).
  * Stereo Audio Formats and Codecs
    * Available Enablers:
      * According to TS26.346 [14], clause 10.5.5: "If audio is supported, then the following two audio decoders should be supported:
        * Enhanced aacPlus, as specified in 3GPP TS 26.401 [28], 3GPP TS 26.410 [29] and 3GPP TS 26.411 [30].
        * Extended AMR-WB, as specified in 3GPP TS 26.290 [24], 3GPP TS 26.304 [25] and 3GPP TS 26.273 [26]."
      * Both codecs support stereo formats.
  * Loudness control
    * Gap: Loudness control is not supported in 3GPP
  * Multiple language support
    * Available enablers:
      * 3GP-DASH supports late binding, so language can be distributed independently of the video.
      * 3GP-DASH supports signalling multiple languages by using the \@lang attribute with Adaptation Sets. The mixing of the music and effects and the language track is done at the sender.
    * Optimizations:
      * Distribution of objects (e.g. music&effects, different languages) separately in order to combine at the receiver.
  * Subtitling formats for text and graphics
    * Available Enablers:
      * According to TS26.346 [14], clause 10.10: "If timed text is supported, MBMS clients shall support 3GPP TS 26.245 [72]. Timed text may be transported over RTP or downloaded contained in 3GP files using Basic profile."
    * Gap:
      * No streaming support for TS 26.245, i.e. it is not supported for fragmentation.
      * Alternative richer formats such as IMSC1 text or IMSC1 with images [29].
  * Signaling for access services
    * Available Enablers:
      * 3GP-DASH supports signaling using the Accessibility descriptor and using the MPEG DASH Role scheme.
    * Optimization:
      * Consistent signaling of the Accessibility functions.
      * Consistent receiver behavior to select the Adaptation Sets related to accessibility.
Splicing of content in network and on the device
  * 3GP-DASH supports multi-Period content.
  * Optimizations:
    * Consistent use of multi-Period content for splicing
### Consistent use of multi-Period content for splicing.
## 6.5 FTA Linear TV to Stationary TVs
### 6.5.1 Description
Linear FTA broadcast TV to stationary TV sets is generally enabled via
traditional broadcast networks. However, there is no reason to not explore the
possibility of replicating this use case in a 3GPP environment.
A linear TV service is accessible for stationary TV sets through a 3GPP
cellular infrastructure in order to provide Public Media Services to
stationary TV sets.
Conventional TVs do not have the uplink capability but connected TVs do
(either integrated in a TV set or in a set-top box). The existing TV sets are
capable of connecting to the Internet, usually via a home gateway. This means
that uplink capability may be present to enhance the service, but cannot be
assumed for any type of device.
The TV service may be made available regionally or nationally.
For TV centric services, the audio and video formats defined in TS 101 154
[17] (DVB codec specification) are expected to be used.
Subtitling formats may be required.
Access services may be required.
Different type of ad insertion models are preferably supported. Note that not
all ad insertion models may be supported by all end devices, for example
depending on the uplink capabilities.
### 6.5.2 Working Assumptions
For video this includes SD, HD and UHD formats according to TS 101 154 [17].
The required audio formats include stereo and multi-channel audio, but also
next generation object- and scene-based audio systems may be enabled as well.
Loudness control is expected to be supported. Multiple audio tracks may be
present, for example for different languages. There may be services that
require support for multiple languages where the language is pre-mixed with
the music and effects.
A sufficient set of audio and video codecs are required to allow for encoding
and distribution of legacy and new formats in an efficient manner. There is a
benefit of aligning with ETSI TS 101 154 [17]. If legacy content is expected
to be distributed (e.g. MPEG-2 video or audio technologies), this may be
transcoded prior to distribution.
Subtitling formats may be required, including both textual and graphical ones.
Access services may have to be supported that include subtitling, signing,
audio descriptions and audio subtitling.
Ad insertion includes splicing in a live stream, as well as a targeted stream
requested by the user device, or from a local storage on the device.
### 6.5.3 Recommended Requirements
The following enablers need to be provided:
  * Video Formats and Codecs following TS 101 154 [17].
  * Audio Formats and Codecs following TS 101 154 [17].
  * Loudness control.
  * Multiple language support.
  * Subtitling formats for text and graphics.
  * Signalling for access services.
  * Splicing of content in network and on the device with the ability to provide fallback for UE that do not support an uplink.
### 6.5.4 Available Enablers in 3GPP, Gap Analysis and Optimization Potentials
If the transport-only mode is used, then codecs and service layer aspects are
outside of the control of 3GPP.
If the MBMS service layer mode is used, then the following enablers exist and
gaps and optimization potentials are identified:
  * Video Formats and Codecs following TS 101 154 [17]
    * Available Enablers:
      * According to TS26.346 [14], clause 10.5.5: "If the 3GPP MBMS client supports Television (TV) over 3GPP Services, it shall comply with the 720p H.264 (AVC) Operation Point Receiver requirements and should comply with the Full HD H.264 (AVC), 720p H.265 (HEVC), FullHD H.265 (HEVC) and UHD H.265 (HEVC) Operation Points Receiver requirements as specified in TS 26.116 [120]."
      * There is significant overlap between 3GPP and DVB codecs.
    * OPTIMIZATION: UHD has other dimensions than 4K, including High Dynamic Range (HDR) and High Frame Rate (HFR).
  * Audio Formats and Codecs following TS 101 154 [17]
    * Available Enablers:
      * According to TS26.346 [14], clause 10.5.5: Enhanced aacPlus, as specified in 3GPP TS 26.401 [28], 3GPP TS 26.410 [29] and 3GPP TS 26.411 [30].
      * For stereo, enhanced aacPlus and HE-AACv2 are basically identical
    * Gaps:
      * The differences between enhanced aacPlus and HE-AACv2 need to be checked.
      * No support for any other codecs in TS 101 154 in 3GPP.
  * Loudness control
    * Gap: Loudness control is not supported in 3GPP
  * Multiple language support
    * Available Enablers:
      * 3GP-DASH supports late binding, so language can be distributed independently of the video.
      * 3GP-DASH supports signalling multiple languages by using the \@lang attribute with Adaptation Sets. The mixing of the music and effects and the language track is done at the sender.
    * Optimizations:
      * Distribution of objects (e.g.g, music&effects, different languages) separately in order to combine at the receiver.
  * Subtitling formats for text and graphics
    * According to TS26.346 [14], clause 10.10: "If timed text is supported, MBMS clients shall support 3GPP TS 26.245 [72]. Timed text may be transported over RTP or downloaded contained in 3GP files using Basic profile."
    * Gaps:
      * No streaming support for TS 26.245, i.e. it is not supported for fragmentation.
      * Alternative richer formats such as IMSC1 text or IMSC1 with graphics [XX].
  * Signaling for access services
    * 3GP-DASH supports signaling using the Accessibility descriptor and using the MPEG DASH Role scheme.
    * Optimization:
      * Consistent signaling of the Accessibility functions.
      * Consistent receiver behavior to select the Adaptation Sets related to accessibility.
Splicing of content in network and on the device with the ability to provide
fallback for UE that do not support an uplink
  * 3GP-DASH supports multi-Period content and resolve to zero xlink.
  * Optimizations:
    * Consistent use of multi-Period content for splicing.
    * Consistent use of device-based ad insertion.
## 6.6 FTA Linear TV to Stationary TV and Mobiles
### 6.6.1 Description
A broadcaster may provide an FTA Linear TV service to Mobiles and Stationary
TVs according to the scenarios in use in clause 6.4 and 6.5 in a cost- and
spectrum efficient manner.
### 6.6.2 Working Assumptions
Simulcasting of services is considered not being cost and spectrum efficient.
The service may be targeted for mobile coverage or for stationary coverage.
### 6.6.3 Recommended Requirements
It is possible to distribute the same signal over the 3GPP bearer service for
both type of receptions.
It is possible to distribute encapsulation, media formats and codecs supported
by both type of end devices. stationary TVs and mobiles.
### 6.6.4 Realization Options
#### 6.6.4.1 Objective
In order to fulfill this use case, service layer architecture is necessary
that can distribute content to both, stationary TV as well as mobile devices.
This is shown in Figure 8. Different architecture may now be considered to
fulfill the use case.
Two realization options are considered.
#### 6.6.4.2 DVB Service Layer Reuse
Figure 9 provides an architecture, for which the MPEG-2 TS based service layer
is reused. In this case the MPEG-2 TS is carried over the eMBMS network. The
reuse enables that the stationary TV set can reuse the existing service layer
and only the physical layer is replaced. However, such an architecture
provides challenges in terms of support on mobile devices as 3GPP
specifications do not support the DVB service layer as defined.
It is assumed that the MPEG-2 TS is carried over an MBMS bearer.
Within the above concept, yet two additional option are worthwhile to be
considered:
1) The service access information, including the MBMS radio parameters for
each service, are carried inband of the MPEG-2 TS.
2) There is a dedicated service announcement channel that distributions the
network information for each service and enables bootstrapping.
Note that the MPEG-2 TS may be a single program stream or a multi program
stream, i.e. multiple programs are multiplexed.
There are three options on this architecture:
1) 3GPP excludes this architecture entirely.
2) 3GPP fully defines an MPEG-2 TS based service layer and hopes that it
aligns with DVB service layer.
3) 3GPP defines the minimum bootstrapping parameters for service discovery and
access, but leaves the inclusion of those to the organization that owns the
service layer.
It is recommended to only address option 3, i.e. enable the feature, but leave
definition to outside world.
#### 6.6.4.3 MBMS Service Layer
Figure 10 provides an architecture that is centric to the reuse of the MBMS
Service Layer for TV distribution. In this case the broadcaster-centric
services, typically available in MPEG-2 TS (see some discussion clause 5.2),
need to be converted to MBMS Service Layer. This may include issues such as
  * enabling of the service information to the MBMS USD
  * provide suitable encapsulation
  * transcoding of media to 3GPP codecs
  * new multiplexing, etc.
The MBMS User Services should support all required features that permit to
replicate an existing service.
It may be the case that broadcasters already produce content for mobiles or
for DASH Linear TV services. It may well be that no transcoding is necessary,
only a mapping to the MBS service.
### 6.6.5 Gap Analysis
#### 6.6.5.1 DVB Service Layer Reuse
Following the recommendation, in order to enable this architecture, at least
the following aspects need to be considered:
  * Necessary information for accessing an MBMS bearer.
  * Interface from content provider to BMSC to carry such information.
  * Interface from BMSC to content provider to provide the information on an MBMS bearer. The actual encoding is done by the one that generates the service layer.
  * Interfaces in the device for TRAPI to provide these generic functionalities.
  * Possibly others.
For more details, refer to generic gap analysis in clause 7.1.
#### 6.6.5.2 MBMS Service Layer Reuse
In order to enable this architecture, at least the following aspects need to
be considered:
  * Understanding all existing functionalities of existing service layers including codecs, etc.
  * Provide a mapping of these functions to MBMS user service functions.
  * If gaps are identified, those gaps are expected to be fulfilled as part of any normative work.
  * Interfaces in the device for TRAPI to provide TV service centric APIs.
  * Necessary exchange between content provided and BMSC, addressed by MI-TV.
A key issue is that stationary TV sets will not support the 3GPP MBMS Service
Layer yet. Hence, all necessary functions and tools need to be provided to
support integration of the service layer to stationary TV sets. It is
considered that DASH can be the converging format.
For more details, refer to generic gap analysis in clause 7.2.
## 6.7 Extensibility
### 6.7.1 Description
In the year 2020, a broadcaster runs linear TV Broadcast Services using the
3GPP Service layer The broadcaster wants to introduce a Virtual reality
broadcast service running over the same radio network. The service can be
targeted to new devices that implement the new services, whereas legacy
devices ignore the service and provide a service with similar content, but
less good performance.
### 6.7.2 Working Assumptions
  * The same service announcement is used to describe the services.
  * The broadcaster may provide services for different device types, possibly implementing different Releases of the 3GPP TV Service Layer.
  * The broadcaster may simulcast services for different device types. However, the broadcaster typically wants to reduce the amount of simulcast options for different device types.
  * The broadcaster wants to avoid that a service is accessed if the device does not support the capabilities to consume the service.
  * The broadcaster wants to provide services which are only supported by a subset of devices.
### 6.7.3 Recommended Requirements
  * The service signalling provides sufficient information such that the device can accept and consume or ignore the service.
  * The service layer defines service profiles that match receiver profiles, i.e. a service profile can be consumed by a receiver supporting a specific set of profiles.
  * The amount of receiver profiles is small in order to avoid extensive simulcasting.
  * Receiver profiles that fully support multiple service profiles, are beneficial.
### 6.7.4 Available Enablers in 3GPP
### 6.7.5 Gap Analysis
### 6.7.6 Optimization Potentials
## 6.8 TV Service Delivery over Full MBMS Service Mode
### 6.8.1 Description
A mobile network operator wants to offer TV services from one or more TV
content providers using Full MBMS Service Mode (Service Type 2). A TV content
provider may provide the data for one or more TV channels. It is assumed that
the TV Content Provider creates a continuous, linear content stream, which is
composed out of a sequence of individual programs, advertisements and other
components. The TV Content Provider may distribute the same continuous stream
as TV service over traditional TV distribution paths or may adjust the
services (in terms of programs and content) to other paths. The mobile
operator wants to offer the service in the full network coverage, either using
MBMS bearers or using unicast bearers. Note, the full network coverage can be
larger than the MBMS services area, but limited by national borders or other
constraints. Based on agreement with the TV content provider, either broadcast
areas are defined statically or broadcast areas are created dynamically e.g.
based on current usage.
The mobile network operator wants to offer similar functions like a
traditional DTT (Digital Terrestrial TV) platform through the Full MBMS
Service Mode. In particular:
  * Information to identify individual TV services.
  * Description of available programs for instance by providing an Electronic Program Guide (EPG).
  * Multiple Media components such as audio and video.
  * The TV receiver in this context is a full 3GPP device.
  * Upon request from the TV content provider, the mobile operator offers (anonymized) reception statistics and (anonymized) quality feedback to the TV content provider.
### 6.8.2 Working Assumptions
The following set of working assumptions is applicable to this use case:
  * TV services utilize MBMS User Services features as defined in TS 26.346, in particular MBMS bearer and unicast delivery. This corresponds to the Full MBMS Service Mode, which is Service Type 2 in TR 23.746.
  * 3GPP Devices in context of this use-case are capable of MBMS reception and unicast reception. The 3GPP UE functions may be integrated into Smartphone or other devices like TV Sets or Set-top Boxes.
  * Devices support at least Service Continuity, i.e. switch between Unicast and MBMS bearer usage. Devices may also support MBMS operations on Demand (MooD), i.e. allow the network to measure the current interest in the service.
  * Needed service and program information are offered to the MBMS aware application.
  * The mobile operator provides in collaboration with the TV content providers the application.
  * The TV content provider provides TV related media in 3GPP encoding format. Optionally, the mobile network operator offers a transcoding service, which converts the streams to a 3GPP encoding format.
  * The Application is provided by or in collaboration with the content provider. The Application can be installed by the user or may be pre-installed on the device.
### 6.8.3 Recommended Requirements
  * The 3GPP System can offer all components of the TV service via unicast and MBMS bearers.
  * The MBMS aware application handles TV service and program related information.
# 7 Architectural Considerations
## 7.1 MBMS Service Type 1: Transport only mode
### 7.1.1 Architecture and Interfaces
Based on the analysis and use cases in clause 6 and taking into account the
service modes in Figure 7.1.1-1 provides an end to end architecture more for
the transport-only mode. This includes that the service is provided from the
content provider and there is an ability to pass-through a content provider
user plane service on the XMB, referred to as XMB-U to the application through
a TRAPI user plane interface, referred to TRAPI-U. This user service is
transparently maintained end to end in order to reuse existing service layers
provided by the content provider and existing service layer consumption
modules in the application.
In addition to the user plane, the appropriate control interfaces need to be
defined in order to enable the end to end delivery.
{width="6.684027777777778in" height="1.3895833333333334in"}
Figure 7.1.1-1 Architecture for Transport-only Mode
One of the main properties of the Transport-only mode is the ability to reuse
existing service and media engines and feed those through the TRAPI-U
interface as shown in Figure 7.1.1-2.
{width="6.702083333333333in" height="1.2159722222222222in"}
Figure 7.1.1-2 APIs and interfaces on Content Provider and Receiver.
### 7.1.2 User Plane Modes
Based on the use cases in clause 6, the following modes for the user plane may
deliver the following content on XMB-U and TRAPI-U:
1) Circuit-switched MPEG-2 Transport stream with constant bitrate. The stream
may contain a single TV service, typically referred to as Single Program
Transport Stream (SPTS) or may be a multiplex of multiple TV Services,
typically referred to as Multi-Program Transport Stream (MPTS).
2) A service with IP encapsulation with constant bitrate. The stream may
contain a single TV service, or may be a multiplex of multiple TV Services.
3) A service with IP encapsulation with a capped variable bitrate. The stream
may contain a single TV service, or may be a multiplex of multiple TV
Services.
In all cases the streams may be encrypted or non-encrypted.
In order for receivers and applications functioning properly in call cases the
stream needs to be provided with certain properties to the application,
similar as defined the Hypothetical FEC Receiver in TS26.346 for Streaming
Delivery Mode. Details on the requirements on bitrates and other properties
require additional discussions.
The Content provider may in addition assign other required QoS parameters, for
example maximum tolerated loss rate, maximum service access time or maximum
end-to-end delay of the service.
### 7.1.3 Control Plane for Receive-Only Mode
In order to enable the delivery of such a pass-through mode, there needs to be
an end-to-end call flow in place. Figure 7.1.3-1 shows an example for the case
of mode 1 from above, i.e. a constant bitrate delivery is provided and no
additional
Figure 7.1.3-1 Procedures for Control Plane in Receive-only mode for Circuit-
Switched Case
1) The content provider has an SLA in place with the eMBMS operator and gets
assigned a set of pre-allocated TMGIs and bitrates.
2) The Content Provider announces the pre-allocated TMGIs to the Application,
out-of-band. These may be statically assigned forever or may be dynamic, but
the dynamic updates is in control of the Content Provider.
3) The Content Provider delivers the services to the BMSC and the BMSC relays
the services to the E-UTRAN. The service runs continuously.
4) An Application is installed and scans for all TV services
5) An Application is turned on and registers with the MBMS client.
6) A program is selected and the application uses the Service Announcement to
select a specific service by activating the TMGI.
7) The Application informs the MBMS client through TRAPI on the selected TMGI.
The MBMS client selects that service and provides it through TRAPI-U to the
Application
8) The Application may switch program which results in selecting a new TMGI.
9) The Application may terminate the reception of the of the TV service.
For the IP-based mode, the BMSC should also provide the IP delivery
information to the content provider in order for the content provider to do
the proper service announcement.
### Working Assumptions
#### 7.1.4.1 General
  * The delivery supports the following modes:
    * Circuit-switched MPEG-2 Transport stream with constant bitrate
    * A service with IP encapsulation with constant bitrate
    * A service with IP encapsulation with a capped variable bitrate
  * The streams may be encrypted or non-encrypted.
#### 7.1.4.2 XMB Interface
  * The XMB interface for these modes provides a control and user plane interface
  * The content provider delivers the service over XMB-U using a protocol that provides sufficient information in order for the BMSC and MBMS network to enable recovery of the relevant stream properties on TRAPI-U interface.
  * The content provider may provide some quality-of-service parameters for the service, such as maximum loss rate, start-up latency or BMSC-to-MBMS client delay.
  * The streams may include markers for modifications, such as SCTE-35 messages. However, the use of such markers for example for targeted ad insertion, content splicing, content replacement, black-outs and so on is outside the scope of the specification.
#### 7.1.4.3 BMSC to MBMS Client delivery
  * The delivery is IP-based
  * The delivery is not the group communication delivery
  * The delivery does not require any changes for the core and radio network interfaces
#### 7.1.4.4 MBMS client to E-UTRAN
  * The MBMS client can select the service by information provided from the Application through the TRAPI control interface, typically the TMGI and possibly some IP address or filtering.
#### 7.1.4.5 Service Announcement
  * The TV service announcement is done by the application.
#### 7.1.4.6 TRAPI
  * The API provides a control and user plane interface
    1. ### Gap Analysis
#### 7.1.5.1 XMB
  * User plane mode to deliver the three identified type of streams from the Content Provider to the BMSC
  * Delivery of information on the stream properties that need to be recovered at the TRAPI-U interface
  * Resource allocation request
  * Resource allocation confirmation and provisioning of Service access parameters
#### 7.1.5.2 BMSC to MBMS Client delivery
  * BMSC delivery mode with IP (need some fixed parameters), similar to the Group Communication delivery enabler
  * BMSC delivery mode for circuit-switched, similar to the Group Communication delivery enabler, but requiring an IP encapsulation for BMSC to MBMS client delivery
  * Basic service announcement may be necessary for certain modes, likely SDP information
#### 7.1.5.3 TRAPI
  * TRAPI control plane API for service selection, service switching and service deselection including different types of error handling
  * TRAPI user plane API for service handling in order to feed data into regular Protocol stack
    1. ### Optimization Potentials
#### 7.1.6.1 BMSC to MBMS Client delivery
  * Basis FEC framework to enable improved QoS if delay permits based on Streaming Delivery FEC Framework in TS26.346
  * Addition of unicast modes to the delivery
  * Addition of MBMS-on-Demand modes
## 7.2 MBMS Service Type 2: Full MBMS service mode
### 7.2.1 Architecture and Interfaces
Based on the analysis and use cases in clause 6 and taking into account the
service modes in Figure 7.1.1-1 provides an end to end architecture more for
the full service layer mode.
{width="6.7347222222222225in" height="1.167361111111111in"}
Figure 7.2.1-1 Architecture for Transport-only Mode
One of the main properties of the Transport-only mode is the ability to reuse
existing service and media engines and feed those through the TRAPI-U
interface as shown in Figure 7.1.1-2.
{width="6.696527777777778in" height="1.2152777777777777in"}
Figure 7.2.1-2 APIs and interfaces on Content Provider and Receiver.
### 7.2.2 User Plane Modes
### 7.2.3 Control Plane
# 8 Summary on Addressing Stage-1 Service Requirements
Editor\'s Note: check how the SA1 service requirements
# 9 Conclusions and Recommendations
TBA
#