# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
The present document is part 1 of a multi-part deliverable covering the
Digital cellular telecommunications system (GSM Phase2 and Phase 2+ Releases
1996, 1997, 1998, 1999, 3GPP Release 4, 3GPP Release 5, 3GPP Release 6, 3GPP
Release 7, 3GPP Release 8 and 3GPP Release 9); Mobile Station (MS) conformance
specification, as identified below:
Part 1: Conformance specification
Reference: 3GPP TS 51.010‑1.
Part 2: Protocol Implementation Conformance Statement (PICS) proforma
specification.
Reference: 3GPP TS 51.010‑2.
Part 3: Layer 3 (L3) Abstract Test Suite (ATS).
Reference: 3GPP TS 51.010‑3.
Part 4: SIM Application Toolkit conformance specification.
Reference: 3GPP TS 11.10-4.
Part 5: Inter-RAT (GERAN to UTRAN) Abstract Test Suite (ATS)\ Reference: 3GPP
TS 51.010‑5.
**Part 7: Location Services (LCS) test scenarios and assistance data.\
Reference: 3GPP TS 51.010‑7.**
# 1 Scope
The present document contains the orbital model information, the assistance
data and the assistance data files that shall be used for all LCS Assisted GPS
and Assisted GNSS test cases defined in subclause 70 of TS 51.010-1 [4].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 41.001: \"GSM Release specifications\".
[3] 3GPP TR 21 912 (V3.1.0): \"Example 2, using fixed text\".
[4] 3GPP TS 51.010-1: \"Mobile Station (MS) conformance specification; Part 1:
Conformance specification\".
[5] 3GPP TS 44.031: \"Location Services (LCS); Mobile Station (MS) - Serving
Mobile Location Centre (SMLC), Radio Resource LCS Protocol (RRLP)\".
[6] STANAG 4294: NATO STANAG 4294. Navstar Global Positioning System (GPS)
System Characteristics.
[7] 3GPP TS 23.032: \"Universal Geographical Area Description (GAD)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 45.005: \"Reference needed\".
# 3 Abbreviations
## 3.1 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
A-GNSS Assisted - Global Navigation Satellite System
A-GPS Assisted - Global Positioning System
FFS For Further Study
GNSS Global Navigation Satellite System
GPS Global Positioning System
LCS Location Services
SS Satellite Simulator
SV Space Vehicle
SV ID Space Vehicle Identification
# 4 Orbital model information, assistance data and assistance data files
## 4.1 General
The following subclauses define the GPS and GNSS orbital model information,
the assistance data and the assistance data files for the test cases defined
in TS 51.010-1 [4] subclauses 70.7 to 70.9 for A-GPS Signalling test cases,
subclauses 70.13 to 70.15 for A-GNSS Signalling test cases, subclause 70.11
for A-GPS Minimum Performance test cases and subclause 70.16 for A-GNSS
Minimum Performance test cases.
The orbital model information is defined and where appropriate is given in
Yuma format in .txt files for each scenario in the appropriate data file
defined in Annex A or Annex B.
Where the assistance data is fixed or is not required on a per-satellite
basis, then it is defined in the following subclauses. Where assistance data
is required on a per-satellite basis, or where the values of the data also
vary with time then it is specified in comma-separated-variable files in the
appropriate data file defined in Annex A or Annex B. These files specify the
values to be used for each satellite, indexed by satellite PRN or SV ID, and,
where applicable, the values to be used indexed by both time and satellite PRN
or SV ID.
All the Assistance Data information elements are given with reference to TS
44.031 [5], where the details are defined.
# 5 GPS information
## 5.1 GPS Scenario and Assistance data for Assisted GPS signalling tests
### 5.1.1 General
This subclause defines the GPS scenario and the associated assistance data
that shall be used for all Assisted GPS signalling tests defined in TS
51.010-1 [4] subclauses 70.7 to 70.9.
The satellite simulator (SS) shall generate the six satellite signals defined
in subclause 5.1.2 and shall provide assistance data as defined in subclauses
5.1.3 to 5.1.8.
Where assistance data is required on a per-satellite basis, or where the
values of the data also varies with time it is specified in comma-separated-
variable files in the GPS_data.zip file defined in Annex A. These files
specify the values to be used for each satellite, indexed by satellite PRN,
and, where applicable, the values to be used indexed by both time and
satellite PRN.
Assistance data that is marked as \"time varying\" and the GPS TOW field are
only specified and used in 0.96 second increments. Interpolation between these
values shall not be used.
The accuracy of the GPS TOW and assistance data that is marked as \"time
varying\" in the provided assistance data shall be within +/- 2 s relative to
the GPS time in the system simulator.
Assistance data Information Elements and fields that are not specified shall
not be used.
### 5.1.2 GPS Scenario
The following GPS scenario shall be used. The assistance data specified in the
following subclauses is consistent with this GPS scenario:
\- Yuma Almanac data: see file Sig Tokyo_Yuma.txt in the GPS_data.zip file
defined in Annex A
\- MS location and Reference location: static at latitude: 35 degrees 40
minutes north, longitude: 139 degrees 45 minutes east, (Tokyo) height: = 50m
\- Start time: 12th September 2003 21:30:00
\- Visible satellites simulated: PRNs: 4, 6, 9, 10, 13, 22.
Ionospheric model: see values in subclause 5.1.6
\- The levels of the simulated satellites shall all be at -125dBm +/- 6dB
### 5.1.3 Assistance Data Reference Time
Table 5.1.3.1: Reference Time (Fields occurring once per message)
+-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | Parameter | Units | Value/remark | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | GPS Week | weeks | 211 | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | GPS TOW | Sec | 509400 | | | | | | | | Start time. Add integer | | | | number of 0.96 seconds as | | | | required. (Note) | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | Note: GPS TOW | | | | | | | | This is the value of GPS | | | | TOW in seconds when the GPS | | | | scenario is started in the | | | | GPS simulator. The value of | | | | GPS TOW to be used in the | | | | Reference Time IE shall be | | | | calculated at the time the | | | | IE is required by adding | | | | the elapsed time since the | | | | time the scenario was | | | | started in the GPS | | | | simulator to this value, | | | | rounded up to the next 0.96 | | | | second interval. This | | | | \"current GPS TOW\" is then | | | | also used to determine the | | | | value of any other | | | | parameters marked as \"Time | | | | varying\" in subclause 5.1 | | | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+
### 5.1.3a Assistance Data GPS Reference Time Extension
Table 5.1.3a.1: GPS Reference Time Extension (Fields occurring once per
message)
* * *
Parameter Units Value/remark Release GPS Week Cycle Number 1024 weeks 1 Rel-10
onwards
* * *
### 5.1.4 Assistance Data Reference Location
Table 5.1.4.1: Reference Location
* * *
Parameter Units Value/remark Type of Shape Bit field Ellipsoid point with
altitude and uncertainty Ellipsoid Degrees of latitude degrees
+3.56666666666667 10E1 Degrees of longitude degrees +1.39750000000000 10E2
Altitude m +50 Uncertainty semi-major m 3000 Uncertainty semi-minor m 3000
Orientation of major axis degrees 0 Uncertainty altitude m 500 Confidence \%
68
* * *
### 5.1.5 Assistance Data Navigation Model
Table 5.1.5.1: Navigation Model (Fields occurring once per message)
* * *
Parameter Units Value/remark Num_Sats_Total 6
* * *
Table 5.1.5.2: Navigation Model (Fields occurring once per satellite)
* * *
Parameter Units Value/remark SatID PRNs: 4, 6, 9, 10, 13, 22. Satellite Status
See file: Sig Navigation_model.csv C/A or P on L2 See file: Sig
Navigation_model.csv URA Index See file: Sig Navigation_model.csv SV Health
See file: Sig Navigation_model.csv IODC See file: Sig Navigation_model.csv L2
P Data Flag See file: Sig Navigation_model.csv SF 1 Reserved See file: Sig
Navigation_model.csv T~GD~ sec See file: Sig Navigation_model.csv t~oc~ sec
See file: Sig Navigation_model.csv af~2~ sec/sec^2^ See file: Sig
Navigation_model.csv af~1~ sec/sec See file: Sig Navigation_model.csv af~0~
sec See file: Sig Navigation_model.csv C~rs~ meters See file: Sig
Navigation_model.csv ∆n semi-circles/sec See file: Sig Navigation_model.csv
M~0~ semi-circles See file: Sig Navigation_model.csv C~uc~ radians See file:
Sig Navigation_model.csv e See file: Sig Navigation_model.csv C~us~ radians
See file: Sig Navigation_model.csv (A)^1/2^ meters^1/2^ See file: Sig
Navigation_model.csv t~oe~ sec See file: Sig Navigation_model.csv Fit Interval
Flag See file: Sig Navigation_model.csv AODO sec See file: Sig
Navigation_model.csv C~ic~ radians See file: Sig Navigation_model.csv OMEGA~0~
semi-circles See file: Sig Navigation_model.csv C~is~ radians See file: Sig
Navigation_model.csv i~0~ semi-circles See file: Sig Navigation_model.csv
C~rc~ meters See file: Sig Navigation_model.csv ω semi-circles See file: Sig
Navigation_model.csv OMEGAdot semi-circles/sec See file: Sig
Navigation_model.csv Idot semi-circles/sec See file: Sig Navigation_model.csv
* * *
### 5.1.6 Assistance Data Ionospheric Model
Table 5.1.6.1: Assistance Data Ionospheric Model
* * *
Parameter Units Value/remark α~0~ seconds 4.6566129 10E-9 α~1~ sec/semi-circle
1.4901161 10E-8 α~2~ sec/(semi-circle)^2^ -5.96046 10E-8 α~3~ sec/(semi-
circle)^3^ -5.96046 10E-8 β~0~ seconds 79872 β~1~ sec/semi-circle 65536 β~2~
sec/(semi-circle)^2^ -65536 β~3~ sec/(semi-circle)^3^ -393216
* * *
### 5.1.7 Assistance Data Almanac
Table 5.1.7.1: Almanac (Fields occurring once per message)
* * *
Parameter Units Value/remark Num_Sats_Total 24 WN~a~ weeks 212
* * *
Table 5.1.7.2: Almanac (Fields occurring once per satellite)
* * *
Parameter Units Value/remark SatID PRNs: 1 to 24 E dimensionless See file: Sig
Almanac.csv t~oa~ sec See file: Sig Almanac.csv δi semi-circles See file: Sig
Almanac.csv OMEGADOT semi-circles/sec See file: Sig Almanac.csv SV Health See
file: Sig Almanac.csv A^1/2^ meters^1/2^ See file: Sig Almanac.csv OMEGA~0~
semi-circles See file: Sig Almanac.csv ω semi-circles See file: Sig
Almanac.csv M~0~ semi-circles See file: Sig Almanac.csv af~0~ seconds See
file: Sig Almanac.csv af~1~ sec/sec See file: Sig Almanac.csv
* * *
### 5.1.7a Assistance Data GPS Almanac Extension
Table 5.1.7a.1: GPS Almanac Extension (Fields occurring once per message)
* * *
Parameter Units Value/remark Release Complete Almanac Provided 1 (TRUE) Rel-10
onwards
* * *
### 5.1.8 Assistance Data Acquisition Assistance
Table 5.1.8.1: GPS Acquisition Assistance - Parameters appearing once per
message
+-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | Parameter | Units | Value/remark | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | Number of Satellites | | 6 | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | GPS TOW | sec | 509400 | | | | | | | | Start time. Add integer | | | | number of 0.96 seconds as | | | | required. (Note) | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | Note: GPS TOW | | | | | | | | This is the value of GPS | | | | TOW in seconds when the GPS | | | | scenario is started in the | | | | GPS simulator. The value of | | | | GPS TOW to be used in the | | | | Acquisition Assistance IE | | | | shall be calculated at the | | | | time the IE is required by | | | | adding the elapsed time | | | | since the time the scenario | | | | was started in the GPS | | | | simulator to this value, | | | | rounded up to the next 0.96 | | | | second interval. | | | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+
Table 5.1.8.2: GPS Acquisition Assistance - Parameters appearing [number of
satellites] times per message
+-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Parameter | Units | Value/remark | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | SVID/PRNID | | PRNs: 4, 6, 9, 10, 13, 22. | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Doppler (0^th^ order term) | Hz | Time varying. See file: Sig | | | | Acquisition_assist.csv | | | | (Note) | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Doppler (1^st^ order term) | Hz/sec | Time varying. See file: Sig | | | | Acquisition_assist.csv | | | | (Note) | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Doppler Uncertainty | Hz | Time varying. See file: Sig | | | | Acquisition_assist.csv | | | | (Note) | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Code Phase | chips | Time varying. See file: Sig | | | | Acquisition_assist.csv | | | | (Note) | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Integer Code Phase | | Time varying. See file: Sig | | | | Acquisition_assist.csv | | | | (Note) | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | GPS Bit number | | Time varying. See file: Sig | | | | Acquisition_assist.csv | | | | (Note) | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Code Phase Search Window | chips | Time varying. See file: Sig | | | | Acquisition_assist.csv | | | | (Note) | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Azimuth | deg | Time varying. See file: Sig | | | | Acquisition_assist.csv | | | | (Note) | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Elevation | deg | Time varying. See file: Sig | | | | Acquisition_assist.csv | | | | (Note) | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Note: | | | | Ac | | | | quisition_assistparameters | | | | | | | | This field is \"Time | | | | varying\" and its value | | | | depends on the \"current | | | | GPS TOW\" as described in | | | | subclause 5.1.3. The value | | | | of this field to be used | | | | shall be determined by | | | | taking the \"current GPS | | | | TOW\" value and selecting | | | | the field value in the Sig | | | | Acquisition_assist.csv | | | | file corresponding to the | | | | value of \"current GPS | | | | TOW\". | | | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+
### 5.1.8a Assistance Data GPS Acquisition Assistance Extension
Table 5.1.8a.1: GPS Acquisition Assistance Extension - Parameters appearing
once per message
* * *
Parameter Units Value/remark Release N_SAT 6 Rel-10 onwards
* * *
Table 5.1.8a.2: GPS Acquisition Assistance Extension - Parameters appearing
[number of satellites] times per message
* * *
Parameter Units Value/remark Release SatID PRNs: 4, 6, 9, 10, 13, 22. Rel-10
onwards Azimuth LSB degrees Time varying. Calculated from Azimuth, see file:
Sig Acquisition_assist.csv (Note) Rel-10 onwards Elevation LSB degrees Time
varying. Calculated from Elevation, see file: Sig Acquisition_assist.csv
(Note) Rel-10 onwards Note: This field is \"Time varying\" and its value
depends on the \"current GPS TOW\" as described in subclause 5.1.3. The value
of this field to be used shall be determined by taking the \"current GPS TOW\"
value and selecting the field value in the Sig Acquisition_assist.csv file
corresponding to the value of \"current GPS TOW\".
* * *
## 5.2 GPS Scenarios and Assistance Data for Assisted GPS Minimum Performance
tests
### 5.2.1 General
#### 5.2.1.0 Introduction
This subclause defines the GPS scenarios and assistance data IEs which shall
be available for use as specified in all A-GPS Minimum Performance test cases
defined in TS 51.010-1 [4] subclause 70.11.
The information elements are given with reference to TS 44.031 [5], where the
details are defined.
Subclauses 5.2.2 and 5.2.3 list the assistance data IEs required for
performance testing of MS-based mode, and subclauses 5.2.4 and 5.2.5 list the
assistance data available for performance testing of MS-assisted mode.
Subclause 5.2.6 lists the values of the assistance data IE fields for all
performance testing.
The A-GPS minimum performance requirements are defined by assuming that all
relevant and valid assistance data is received by the MS in order to perform
GPS measurements and/or position calculation. This subclause does not include
nor consider delays occurring in the various signalling interfaces of the
network.
#### 5.2.1.1 Satellite constellations and assistance data for performance
testing
The satellite constellations for performance testing shall consist of 24
satellites. Almanac assistance data shall be available for all these 24
satellites. At least 9 of the satellites shall be visible to the MS (that is
above 5 degrees elevation with respect to the MS). Other assistance data shall
be available for 9 of these visible satellites. In each test, signals are
generated for only a subset of these satellites for which other assistance
data is available. The number of satellites in this subset is specified in the
test. The satellites in this subset shall all be above 15 degrees elevation
with respect to the MS. The HDOP for the test shall be calculated using this
subset of satellites. The selection of satellites for this subset shall be
random and consistent with achieving the required HDOP for the test.
#### 5.2.1.2 GPS Scenarios for performance testing
##### 5.2.1.2.0 General
This subclause defines the GPS scenarios that shall be used for all Assisted
GPS performance tests defined in subclause TS 51.010-1 [4] subclause 70.11.
The GPS scenarios achieve the required HDOP for the Test Cases as defined in
the Requirements specification TS 45.005 [8]. They also satisfy the
requirement that for each test instance the reference location shall change
sufficiently such that the MS shall have to use the new assistance data.
The satellites to be simulated in each test case are specified in subclause
5.2.1.2.5.
The viable running time during which the scenario maintains the required HDOP
or HDOPs is given. Once this time has been reached the scenario shall be
restarted from its nominal start time.
##### 5.2.1.2.1 GPS Scenario #1
The following GPS scenario #1 shall be used during the TTFF tests defined in
TS 51.010-1 [4] subclause 70.11. The assistance data specified in the
following subclauses for GPS scenario #1 is consistent with this GPS scenario.
Yuma Almanac data: see file Perf GPS_1_Yuma.txt in the GPS_data_perf.zip file
defined in Annex A.
MS location: the MS location is calculated as a random offset from the
reference location using the method described in subclause 5.2.1.2.4. The
reference location is: latitude: 33 degrees 45 minutes 0.019 seconds north,
longitude: 84 degrees 23 minutes 0.011 seconds west, (Atlanta USA), height: =
300m.
Nominal start time: 22nd January 2005 (Saturday) 00:08:00.
Viable running time to maintain specified HDOP values: 19 minutes.
Visible satellites available for simulation and for which Assistance Data
(other than Almanac) shall be generated: PRNs: 2, 6, 10, 17, 18, 21, 26, 29,
30.
Ionospheric model: see values in subclause 5.2.6.6.
Tropospheric model: STANAG with SRI equal to 324.8, as defined in STANAG 4294
[6].
##### 5.2.1.2.2 GPS Scenario #2
The following GPS scenario #2 shall be used during the TTFF tests defined in
TS 51.010-1 [4] subclause 70.11. The assistance data specified in the
following subclauses for GPS scenario #2 is consistent with this GPS scenario.
Yuma Almanac data: see file Perf GPS_2_Yuma.txt in the GPS_data_perf.zip file
defined in Annex A.
MS location: the MS location is calculated as a random offset from the
reference location using the method described in subclause 5.2.1.2.4. The
reference location is: latitude: 37 degrees 48 minutes 59.988 seconds south,
longitude: 144 degrees 58 minutes 0.013 seconds east, (Melbourne Australia),
height: = 100m.
Nominal start time: 22nd January 2004 (Thursday) 00:08:00.
Viable running time to maintain specified HDOP values: 19 minutes.
Visible satellites available for simulation and for which Assistance Data
(other than Almanac) shall be generated: PRNs: 3, 11, 14, 15, 18, 22, 23, 25,
31.
Ionospheric model: see values in subclause 5.2.6.6.
Tropospheric model: STANAG with SRI equal to 324.8, as defined in STANAG 4294
[6].
##### 5.2.1.2.3 GPS Scenario #3
The following GPS scenario #3 shall be used during the Moving Scenario and
Periodic Location test case defined in TS 51.010-1 [4] subclause 70.11. The
assistance data specified in the following subclauses for GPS scenario #3 is
consistent with this GPS scenario.
Yuma Almanac data: see file Perf GPS_3_Yuma.txt in the GPS_data_perf.zip file
defined in Annex A.
MS location: the MS location is given as a trajectory as shown in Figure
70.11.9.1 of TS 51.010-1 [4] subclause 70.11. The reference location is at the
centre of the trajectory and is at: latitude: 37 degrees 48 minutes 59.988
seconds south, longitude: 144 degrees 58 minutes 0.013 seconds east,
(Melbourne Australia), height: = 100m.
Start time: 22nd January 2004 (Thursday) 00:08:00.
Start location: at the point between l~11~ and l~12~ in Figure 70.11.9.1 of TS
51.010-1 [4] subclause 70.11, going in a clock-wise direction.
Visible satellites available for simulation and for which Assistance Data
(other than Almanac) shall be generated: PRNs: 3, 11, 14, 15, 18, 22, 23, 25,
31.
Viable running time to maintain specified HDOP values: 19 minutes.
Ionospheric model: see values in subclause 5.2.6.6.
Tropospheric model: STANAG with SRI equal to 324.8, as defined in STANAG 4294
[6].
##### 5.2.1.2.4 MS Location for TTFF test cases
###### 5.2.1.2.4.0 General
This subclause defines the method for generating the random MS locations that
are required to be used for the TTFF tests defined in TS 51.010-1 [4]
subclause 70.11.
For every Test Instance in each TTFF test case, the MS location shall be
randomly selected to be within 3 km of the Reference Location. The Altitude of
the MS shall be randomly selected between 0 m to 500 m above WGS‑84 reference
ellipsoid. These values shall have uniform random distributions.
The MS location is calculated as an offset from the Reference Location.
###### 5.2.1.2.4.1 MS Location Offset
The MS location offset shall be calculated by selecting the next pair of
random numbers, representing a pair of latitude and longitude offsets in
degrees, from a standard uniform random number generator, with the following
properties:
The ranges of the latitude and longitude offsets values shall be such that
when translated onto the surface of the earth they shall lie within a 3km
radius circle, centred on the Reference location specified for the GPS
scenario under consideration. For the purposes of this calculation make the
following assumptions:
a) Over the 3km radius circle at the Reference location the earth is flat and
the meridians and parallels form a rectangular grid
b) The earth is spherical with a radius of 6371141m (equal to the WGS 84 value
at 35 degrees latitude)
The resolution used for the latitude and longitude offsets values shall be
90/2E23 for the latitude offset values and 360/2E24 for the longitude offset
values, representing the coding resolution in degrees specified in 3GPP TS
23.032 [7].
###### 5.2.1.2.4.2 MS Altitude
The MS altitude value shall be calculated by selecting the next random number
from a standard uniform random number generator, in the range 0 to 500,
representing meters. The resolution used for the random number shall be 1,
representing 1 meter.
##### 5.2.1.2.5 Satellites to be simulated in each test case
The satellites to be simulated in each test case have been selected in order
to achieve the required HDOP for that test case.
Table 5.2.1.2.5.1: Satellites to be simulated
* * *
Test case PRNs GPS #1 PRNs GPS #2 PRNs GPS #3 Sensitivity Coarse Time
Assistance 2, 6, 10, 17, 18, 21, 26, 29 3, 11, 14, 15, 22, 23, 25, 31  
Sensitivity Fine Time Assistance 2, 6, 10, 17, 18, 21, 26, 29 3, 11, 14, 15,
22, 23, 25, 31  
Nominal Accuracy 2, 6, 10, 17, 18, 21, 26, 29 3, 11, 14, 15, 22, 23, 25, 31  
Dynamic Range 2, 6, 10, 17, 26, 29 3, 14, 15, 22, 25, 31  
Multi-Path scenario 2, 6, 17, 21, 26 3, 14, 15, 22, 25  
Moving Scenario and Periodic location 3, 14, 15, 22, 25
* * *
### 5.2.2 Information elements required for normal MS based testing
The following A-GPS assistance data IEs and fields shall be present for each
test. Fields not specified shall not be present. The values of the fields are
specified in subclause 5.2.6.
**a) Reference Time IE.** This information element is defined in subclause
A.4.2.4 of TS 44.031 [5].
* * *
Fields of the IE GPS Week GPS TOW GPS TOW Assist SatID TLM Message Anti-Spoof
Alert TLM Reserved
* * *
**aa) GPS Reference Time Extension IE.** This information element is defined
in subclause A.4.2.4c of TS 44.031 [5].
* * *
Fields of the IE Release GPS Week Cycle Number Rel-10 onwards
* * *
**b) Reference Location IE.** This information element is defined in subclause
A.4.2.4 of TS 44.031 [5].
* * *
Fields of the IE Ellipsoid point with Altitude and uncertainty ellipsoid
* * *
**c) Navigation Model IE**. This information element is defined in subclause
A.4.2.4 of TS 44.031 [5].
* * *
Fields of the IE All satellite information
* * *
**d) Ionospheric Model IE.** This information element is defined in subclause
A.4.2.4 of TS 44.031 [5].
* * *
Fields of the IE All
* * *
### 5.2.3 Information elements required for MS based Sensitivity Fine Time
Assistance test case
The A-GPS assistance data IEs and fields that shall be present for the
Sensitivity Fine Time Assistance test case shall be those specified in
subclause 5.2.2 with the following exception. Fields not specified shall not
be present. The values of the fields are specified in subclause 5.2.6.
**Reference Time IE.** This information element is defined in subclause
A.4.2.4 of TS 44.031 [5].
* * *
Fields of the IE GPS Week GPS TOW BCCH Carrier BSIC FNm TN BN GPS TOW Assist
SatID TLM Message Anti-Spoof Alert TLM Reserved
* * *
### 5.2.4 Information elements available for normal MS assisted testing
The following A-GPS assistance data IEs and fields shall be available for use
in each test. Fields not specified shall not be present. The values of the
fields are specified in subclause 5.2.6.
**a) Reference Time IE.** This information element is defined in subclause
A.4.2.4 of TS 44.031 [5].
* * *
Fields of the IE GPS Week GPS TOW GPS TOW Assist SatID TLM Message Anti-Spoof
Alert TLM Reserved
* * *
**aa) GPS Reference Time Extension IE.** This information element is defined
in subclause A.4.2.4c of TS 44.031 [5].
* * *
Fields of the IE Release GPS Week Cycle Number Rel-10 onwards
* * *
**b) Reference Location IE.** This information element is defined in subclause
A.4.2.4 of TS 44.031 [5].
* * *
Fields of the IE Ellipsoid point with Altitude and uncertainty ellipsoid
* * *
**c) Almanac IE.** This information element is defined in subclause A.4.2.4 of
TS 44.031 [5].
* * *
Fields of the IE Almanac Reference Week All Satellite information
* * *
**ca) GPS Almanac Extension IE.** This information element is defined in
subclause A.4.2.4c of TS 44.031 [5].
* * *
Fields of the IE Release Complete Almanac Provided Rel-10 onwards
* * *
**d) Navigation Model IE.** This information element is defined in subclause
A.4.2.4 of TS 44.031 [5].
* * *
Fields of the IE All satellite information
* * *
**e) Acquisition Assistance IE.** This information element is defined in
subclause A.4.2.4 of TS 44.031 [5].
* * *
Fields of the IE GPS TOW Satellite information SVID/PRNID Doppler (0th order
term) Doppler (1st order term) Doppler Uncertainty Code Phase Integer Code
Phase GPS Bit number Code Phase Search Window Azimuth Elevation
* * *
**f) GPS Acquisition Assistance Extension IE.** This information element is
defined in subclause A.4.2.4c of TS 44.031 [5].
* * *
Fields of the IE Release N_SAT Rel-10 onwards SatID Rel-10 onwards Azimuth LSB
Rel-10 onwards Elevation LSB Rel-10 onwards
* * *
### 5.2.5 Information elements available for MS assisted Sensitivity Fine Time
Assistance test case
The A-GPS assistance data IEs and fields that shall be available for use for
the Sensitivity Fine Time Assistance test case shall be those specified in
subclause 5.2.4 with the following exceptions. Fields not specified shall not
be present. The values of the fields are specified in subclause 5.2.6.
**a) Reference Time IE.** This information element is defined in subclause
A.4.2.4 of TS 44.031 [5].
* * *
Fields of the IE GPS Week GPS TOW BCCH Carrier BSIC FNm TN BN GPS TOW Assist
SatID TLM Message Anti-Spoof Alert TLM Reserved
* * *
**b) Acquisition Assistance IE.** This information element is defined in
subclause A.4.2.4 of TS 44.031 [5].
* * *
Fields of the IE GPS TOW BCCH Carrier BSIC Frame # Timeslots # Bit #
SVID/PRNID Doppler (0th order term) Doppler (1st order term) Doppler
Uncertainty Code Phase Integer Code Phase GPS Bit number Code Phase Search
Window Azimuth Elevation
* * *
### 5.2.6 Contents of Information elements for Minimum performance testing
#### 5.2.6.1 General
This subclause defines the assistance data values that shall be used for all
Assisted GPS performance tests defined in TS 51.010-1 [4] subclause 70.11. It
is given for GPS scenarios #1, #2 and #3 where it is different for each
scenario; otherwise it is marked \"All\" where the same value is used for all
scenarios.
Where assistance data is required on a per-satellite basis, or where the
values of the data also varies with time it is specified in comma-separated-
variable files with suffixes XX in the GPS_data_perf.zip file defined in Annex
A, where XX is 01, 02 and 03 for GPS scenarios #1, #2 and #3 respectively.
These files specify the values to be used for each satellite, indexed by
satellite PRN, and, where applicable, the values to be used indexed by both
time and satellite PRN.
Assistance data that is marked as \"time varying\" is specified and used in 80
ms increments. Interpolation between these values shall not be used.
Assistance data Information Elements and fields that are not specified shall
not be used.
#### 5.2.6.2 IE Random Offset Values
##### 5.2.6.2.0 Introduction
This subclause defines the methods for generating the random offsets that are
required to be applied to one or two assistance data IEs for certain tests
defined in TS 51.010-1 [4] subclause 70.11.
##### 5.2.6.2.1 GPS TOW
For every Test Instance in each TTFF test case, the IE GPS TOW shall have a
random offset, relative to GPS system time, within the allowed error range of
Coarse Time Assistance defined in the test case. This offset value shall have
a uniform random distribution.
Note: For the Moving Scenario and Periodic Update Test Case the value of the
IE GPS TOW shall be set to the nominal value, i.e. no offset shall be used.
The offset value shall be calculated by selecting the next random number from
a standard uniform random number generator, in the range specified for the GPS
Coarse Time assistance error range in the Test Requirements, Test parameters
table for the test under consideration. The resolution used for the random
number shall be 0.01, representing 10ms.
##### 5.2.6.2.2 GPS bit number (BN or Bit #)
In addition, for every Fine Time Assistance Test Instance the IE BN or Bit #
shall have a random offset, relative to the true value of the relationship
between the two time references, within the allowed error range of Fine Time
Assistance defined in the test case. This offset value shall have a uniform
random distribution.
The offset value shall be calculated by selecting the next random number from
a standard uniform random number generator with the following properties:
The range shall be the number of GSM bits whose duration is less than the
range specified for the GPS Fine Time assistance error range in the Test
Requirements, Test parameters table for the test under consideration.
The resolution used for the random number shall be 1, representing 1 GSM bit.
#### 5.2.6.3 Assistance Data Reference Time
##### Contents of Reference Time IE {#contents-of-reference-time-ie .H6}
Table 5.2.6.3.1: Reference Time (Fields occurring once per message)
+--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | Parameter | Units | Value/remark | Value/remark | Value/remark | | | | GPS #1 | GPS #2 | GPS #3 | +--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | GPS Week | weeks | 282 | 230 | 230 | +--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | GPS TOW | ms | 518880000 | 346080000 | 346080000 | | | | | | | | | | Start time. | Start time. | Start time. | | | | Add number | Add number | Add number | | | | of 80ms as | of 80ms as | of 80ms as | | | | required. | required. | required. | | | | (Note 1) | (Note 1) | (Note 1) | +--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | BCCH Carrier | | ARFCN of | ARFCN of | | | | | serving BCCH | serving BCCH | | | | | | | | | | | Present for | Present for | | | | | Sensitivity | Sensitivity | | | | | Fine Time | Fine Time | | | | | Assistance | Assistance | | | | | test case. | test case. | | | | | Absent | Absent | | | | | otherwise. | otherwise. | | +--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | BSIC | | BSIC of | BSIC of | | | | | serving BCCH | serving BCCH | | | | | | | | | | | Present for | Present for | | | | | Sensitivity | Sensitivity | | | | | Fine Time | Fine Time | | | | | Assistance | Assistance | | | | | test case. | test case. | | | | | Absent | Absent | | | | | otherwise. | otherwise. | | +--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | FNm | | Present for | Present for | | | | | Sensitivity | Sensitivity | | | | | Fine Time | Fine Time | | | | | Assistance | Assistance | | | | | test case. | test case. | | | | | Absent | Absent | | | | | otherwise. | otherwise. | | | | | Note 2 | Note 2 | | +--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | TN | | Present for | Present for | | | | | Sensitivity | Sensitivity | | | | | Fine Time | Fine Time | | | | | Assistance | Assistance | | | | | test case. | test case. | | | | | Absent | Absent | | | | | otherwise. | otherwise. | | | | | Note 2 | Note 2 | | +--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | BN | | Present for | Present for | | | | | Sensitivity | Sensitivity | | | | | Fine Time | Fine Time | | | | | Assistance | Assistance | | | | | test case. | test case. | | | | | Absent | Absent | | | | | otherwise. | otherwise. | | | | | Note 2 | Note 2 | | +--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | Note 1: GPS | | | | | | TOW\ | | | | | | This is the | | | | | | value in ms | | | | | | of GPS TOW | | | | | | when the GPS | | | | | | scenario is | | | | | | initially | | | | | | started in | | | | | | the GPS | | | | | | simulator. | | | | | | For all TTFF | | | | | | test cases, | | | | | | each time a | | | | | | GPS scenario | | | | | | is used, the | | | | | | GPS start | | | | | | time shall | | | | | | be advanced | | | | | | by 120 | | | | | | seconds from | | | | | | the value | | | | | | last used so | | | | | | that, at the | | | | | | time the fix | | | | | | is made, it | | | | | | is at least | | | | | | 2 minutes | | | | | | later than | | | | | | the previous | | | | | | fix made | | | | | | with that | | | | | | scenario.\ | | | | | | The actual | | | | | | value of GPS | | | | | | TOW to be | | | | | | used in the | | | | | | Reference | | | | | | Time IE | | | | | | (before the | | | | | | addition of | | | | | | the random | | | | | | offset, if | | | | | | applicable) | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | calculated | | | | | | at the time | | | | | | the IE is | | | | | | required by | | | | | | adding the | | | | | | elapsed time | | | | | | since the | | | | | | time the | | | | | | scenario was | | | | | | started in | | | | | | the GPS | | | | | | simulator to | | | | | | this value. | | | | | | The accuracy | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | such that | | | | | | the Maximum | | | | | | Test System | | | | | | Uncertainty | | | | | | for Coarse | | | | | | Time | | | | | | Assistance, | | | | | | specified in | | | | | | Table A5.5.1 | | | | | | of TS | | | | | | 51.010-1 | | | | | | [4] , | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | met.\ | | | | | | For all TTFF | | | | | | test cases a | | | | | | random | | | | | | offset is | | | | | | then added | | | | | | to the value | | | | | | of GPS TOW | | | | | | as described | | | | | | in subclause | | | | | | 5.2.6.2 | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: GSM | | | | | | Frame Number | | | | | | (FNm), | | | | | | Timeslot | | | | | | Number (TN) | | | | | | and Bit | | | | | | Number (BN)\ | | | | | | The values | | | | | | of the IEs | | | | | | FNm, TN and | | | | | | BN (before | | | | | | the addition | | | | | | of the | | | | | | random | | | | | | offset) | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | calculated | | | | | | at the time | | | | | | the IE is | | | | | | required. | | | | | | The accuracy | | | | | | of the | | | | | | relationship | | | | | | between the | | | | | | two time | | | | | | references | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | such that | | | | | | the Maximum | | | | | | Test System | | | | | | Uncertainty | | | | | | for Fine | | | | | | Time | | | | | | Assistance, | | | | | | specified in | | | | | | Table A5.5.1 | | | | | | of TS | | | | | | 51.010-1 | | | | | | [4] , | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | met.\ | | | | | | A random | | | | | | offset is | | | | | | then added | | | | | | to the value | | | | | | of BN as | | | | | | described in | | | | | | subclause | | | | | | 5.2.6.2 | | | | | +--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+
Table 5.2.6.3.2: Satellite Information
* * *
Parameter Units Value/remark GPS All Number of satellites 9
* * *
Table 5.2.6.3.3: Reference Time - GPS TOW Assist (Fields occurring once per
satellite)
* * *
**Parameter** **Units** **Value/remark GPS #1** **Value/remark GPS #2**
**Value/remark GPS #3** SatID PRNs: 2, 6, 10, 17, 18, 21, 26, 29, 30 PRNs: 3,
11, 14, 15, 18, 22, 23, 25, 31 PRNs: 3, 11, 14, 15, 18, 22, 23, 25, 31
* * *
Table 5.2.6.3.4: Reference Time - GPS TOW Assist (Fields occurring once per
satellite)
* * *
**Parameter** **Units** **Value/remark GPS All** TLM Message Bit string 10922
Anti-Spoof Bit string 1 Alert 0 TLM Reserved 2
* * *
#### 5.2.6.3a Assistance Data GPS Reference Time Extension
##### Contents of GPS Reference Time Extension IE {#contents-of-gps-reference-
time-extension-ie .H6}
Table 5.2.6.3a.1: GPS Reference Time Extension (Fields occurring once per
message)
* * *
Parameter Units Value/remark GPS All Release GPS Week Cycle Number 1024 weeks
1 Rel-10 onwards
* * *
#### 5.2.6.4 Assistance Data Reference Location
##### Contents of Reference Location IE {#contents-of-reference-location-ie
.H6}
The uncertainty of the semi-major axis is 3 km. The uncertainty of the semi-
minor axis is 3 km. The orientation of the major axis is 0 degrees. The
uncertainty of the altitude information is 500 m. The confidence factor is
68%.
Table 5.2.6.4.1: Reference Location
* * *
Parameter Units Value/remark GPS #1 Value/remark GPS #2 Value/remark GPS #3
Type of Shape Bit field Ellipsoid point with altitude and uncertainty
Ellipsoid Ellipsoid point with altitude and uncertainty Ellipsoid Ellipsoid
point with altitude and uncertainty Ellipsoid Degrees of latitude degrees
33.750005 -37.816663 -37.816663 Degrees of longitude degrees -84.383336
144.966670 144.966670 Altitude m +300 +100 +100 Uncertainty semi-major m 3000
3000 3000 Uncertainty semi-minor m 3000 3000 3000 Orientation of major axis
degrees 0 0 0 Uncertainty altitude m 500 500 500 Confidence \% 68 68 68
* * *
#### 5.2.6.5 Assistance Data Navigation Model
##### Contents of Navigation Model IE {#contents-of-navigation-model-ie .H6}
Table 5.2.6.5.1: Satellite Information
* * *
Parameter Units Value/remark GPS All Number of satellites 9
* * *
Table 5.2.6.5.2: Navigation Model (Fields occurring once per satellite)
* * *
Parameter Units Value/remark GPS #1 Value/remark GPS #2 Value/remark GPS #3
SatID PRNs: 2, 6, 10, 17, 18, 21, 26, 29, 30 PRNs: 3, 11, 14, 15, 18, 22, 23,
25, 31 PRNs: 3, 11, 14, 15, 18, 22, 23, 25, 31 Satellite Status 0 (Note) 0
(Note) 0 (Note) Note: For consistency Satellite Status is also given in file:
Perf Navigation_model_XX.csv
* * *
Table 5.2.6.5.3: Ephemeris and Clock Correction parameters (Fields occurring
once per satellite)
* * *
Parameter Units Value/remark GPS All C/A or P on L2 See file: Perf
Navigation_model_XX.csv URA Index See file: Perf Navigation_model_XX.csv SV
Health See file: Perf Navigation_model_XX.csv IODC See file: Perf
Navigation_model_XX.csv L2 P Data Flag See file: Perf Navigation_model_XX.csv
SF 1 Reserved See file: Perf Navigation_model_XX.csv T~GD~ sec See file: Perf
Navigation_model_XX.csv t~oc~ sec See file: Perf Navigation_model_XX.csv af~2~
sec/sec^2^ See file: Perf Navigation_model_XX.csv af~1~ sec/sec See file: Perf
Navigation_model_XX.csv af~0~ sec See file: Perf Navigation_model_XX.csv C~rs~
meters See file: Perf Navigation_model_XX.csv ∆n semi-circles/sec See file:
Perf Navigation_model_XX.csv M~0~ semi-circles See file: Perf
Navigation_model_XX.csv C~uc~ radians See file: Perf Navigation_model_XX.csv e
See file: Perf Navigation_model_XX.csv C~us~ radians See file: Perf
Navigation_model_XX.csv (A)^1/2^ meters^1/2^ See file: Perf
Navigation_model_XX.csv t~oe~ sec See file: Perf Navigation_model_XX.csv Fit
Interval Flag See file: Perf Navigation_model_XX.csv AODO sec See file: Perf
Navigation_model_XX.csv C~ic~ radians See file: Perf Navigation_model_XX.csv
OMEGA~0~ semi-circles See file: Perf Navigation_model_XX.csv C~is~ radians See
file: Perf Navigation_model_XX.csv i~0~ semi-circles See file: Perf
Navigation_model_XX.csv C~rc~ meters See file: Perf Navigation_model_XX.csv ω
semi-circles See file: Perf Navigation_model_XX.csv OMEGAdot semi-circles/sec
See file: Perf Navigation_model_XX.csv Idot semi-circles/sec See file: Perf
Navigation_model_XX.csv
* * *
#### 5.2.6.6 Assistance Data Ionospheric Model
##### Contents of Ionospheric Model IE {#contents-of-ionospheric-model-ie .H6}
Table 5.2.6.6.1: Ionospheric Model
* * *
Parameter Units Value/remark GPS All α~0~ seconds 4.6566129 10E-9 α~1~
sec/semi-circle 1.4901161 10E-8 α~2~ sec/(semi-circle)^2^ -5.96046 10E-8 α~3~
sec/(semi-circle)^3^ -5.96046 10E-8 β~0~ seconds 79872 β~1~ sec/semi-circle
65536 β~2~ sec/(semi-circle)^2^ -65536 β~3~ sec/(semi-circle)^3^ -393216
* * *
#### 5.2.6.7 Assistance Data Almanac
##### Contents of Almanac {#contents-of-almanac .H6}
Table 5.2.6.7.1: Almanac (Field occurring once per message)
* * *
Parameter Units Value/remark GPS #1 Value/remark GPS #2 Value/remark GPS #3
WN~a~ weeks 27 230 230
* * *
Table 5.2.6.7.2: Satellite Information
* * *
Parameter Units Value/remark GPS All Number of satellites 24
* * *
Table 5.2.6.7.3: Almanac (Fields occurring once per satellite)
* * *
Parameter Units Value/remark GPS #1 Value/remark GPS #2 Value/remark GPS #3
SatID PRNs: 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10, 11, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22,
24, 25, 26, 27, 29, 30 PRNs: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 11, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17,
18, 20, 21, 22, 23, 25, 27, 28, 30, 31 PRNs: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 11, 13,
14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 20, 21, 22, 23, 25, 27, 28, 30, 31
* * *
Table 5.2.6.7.4: Almanac (Fields occurring once per satellite)
* * *
Parameter Units Value/remark GPS All e dimensionless See file: Perf
Almanac_XX.csv t~oa~ sec See file: Perf Almanac_XX.csv δi semi-circles See
file: Perf Almanac_XX.csv OMEGADOT semi-circles/sec See file: Perf
Almanac_XX.csv SV Health See file: Perf Almanac_XX.csv A^1/2^ meters^1/2^ See
file: Perf Almanac_XX.csv OMEGA~0~ semi-circles See file: Perf Almanac_XX.csv
ω semi-circles See file: Perf Almanac_XX.csv M~0~ semi-circles See file: Perf
Almanac_XX.csv af~0~ seconds See file: Perf Almanac_XX.csv af~1~ sec/sec See
file: Perf Almanac_XX.csv
* * *
#### 5.2.6.7a Assistance Data GPS Almanac Extension
##### Contents of GPS Almanac Extension IE {#contents-of-gps-almanac-
extension-ie .H6}
Table 5.2.6.7a.1: GPS Almanac Extension (Fields occurring once per message)
* * *
Parameter Units Value/remark GPS All Release Complete Almanac Provided 1
(TRUE) Rel-10 onwards
* * *
#### 5.2.6.8 Assistance Data Acquisition Assistance
##### Contents of Acquisition Assistance IE {#contents-of-acquisition-
assistance-ie .H6}
Table 5.2.6.8.1: GPS Acquisition Assistance (Fields occurring once per
message)
+--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | Parameter | Units | Value/remark | Value/remark | Value/remark | | | | GPS #1 | GPS #2 | GPS #3 | +--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | GPS TOW | ms | 51888000 | 346080000 | 346080000 | | | | | | | | | | Start time. | Start time. | Start time. | | | | Add number | Add number | Add number | | | | of 80ms as | of 80ms as | of 80ms as | | | | required. | required. | required. | | | | (Note 1) | (Note 1) | (Note 1) | +--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | BCCH Carrier | | ARFCN of | ARFCN of | Absent | | | | serving BCCH | serving BCCH | | | | | | | | | | | Present for | Present for | | | | | Sensitivity | Sensitivity | | | | | Fine Time | Fine Time | | | | | Assistance | Assistance | | | | | test case. | test case. | | | | | Absent | Absent | | | | | otherwise. | otherwise. | | +--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | BSIC | | BSIC of | BSIC of | | | | | serving BCCH | serving BCCH | | | | | | | | | | | Present for | Present for | | | | | Sensitivity | Sensitivity | | | | | Fine Time | Fine Time | | | | | Assistance | Assistance | | | | | test case. | test case. | | | | | Absent | Absent | | | | | otherwise. | otherwise. | | +--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | Frame # | | Present for | Present for | | | | | Sensitivity | Sensitivity | | | | | Fine Time | Fine Time | | | | | Assistance | Assistance | | | | | test case. | test case. | | | | | Absent | Absent | | | | | otherwise. | otherwise. | | | | | Note 2 | Note 2 | | +--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | Timeslots # | | Present for | Present for | | | | | Sensitivity | Sensitivity | | | | | Fine Time | Fine Time | | | | | Assistance | Assistance | | | | | test case. | test case. | | | | | Absent | Absent | | | | | otherwise. | otherwise. | | | | | Note 2 | Note 2 | | +--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | Bit # | | Present for | Present for | | | | | Sensitivity | Sensitivity | | | | | Fine Time | Fine Time | | | | | Assistance | Assistance | | | | | test case. | test case. | | | | | Absent | Absent | | | | | otherwise. | otherwise. | | | | | Note 2 | Note 2 | | +--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | Note 1: GPS | | | | | | TOW\ | | | | | | This is the | | | | | | value in ms | | | | | | of GPS TOW | | | | | | when the GPS | | | | | | scenario is | | | | | | initially | | | | | | started in | | | | | | the GPS | | | | | | simulator. | | | | | | For all TTFF | | | | | | test cases, | | | | | | each time a | | | | | | GPS scenario | | | | | | is used, the | | | | | | GPS start | | | | | | time shall | | | | | | be advanced | | | | | | by 120 | | | | | | seconds from | | | | | | the value | | | | | | last used so | | | | | | that, at the | | | | | | time the fix | | | | | | is made, it | | | | | | is at least | | | | | | 2 minutes | | | | | | later than | | | | | | the previous | | | | | | fix made | | | | | | with that | | | | | | scenario.\ | | | | | | The actual | | | | | | value of GPS | | | | | | TOW to be | | | | | | used in the | | | | | | Acquisition | | | | | | Assistance | | | | | | IE (before | | | | | | the addition | | | | | | of the | | | | | | random | | | | | | offset, if | | | | | | applicable) | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | calculated | | | | | | at the time | | | | | | the IE is | | | | | | required by | | | | | | adding the | | | | | | elapsed time | | | | | | since the | | | | | | time the | | | | | | scenario was | | | | | | started in | | | | | | the GPS | | | | | | simulator to | | | | | | this value. | | | | | | The accuracy | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | such that | | | | | | the Maximum | | | | | | Test System | | | | | | Uncertainty | | | | | | for Coarse | | | | | | Time | | | | | | Assistance, | | | | | | specified in | | | | | | Table A5.5.1 | | | | | | of TS | | | | | | 51.010-1 | | | | | | [4] , | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | met.\ | | | | | | For all TTFF | | | | | | test cases a | | | | | | random | | | | | | offset is | | | | | | then added | | | | | | to the value | | | | | | of GPS TOW | | | | | | as described | | | | | | in subclause | | | | | | 5.2.6.2\ | | | | | | This \"final | | | | | | GPS TOW\" | | | | | | value is | | | | | | then also | | | | | | used to | | | | | | determine | | | | | | the value of | | | | | | the | | | | | | Acquisition | | | | | | Assistance | | | | | | parameters | | | | | | marked as | | | | | | \"Time | | | | | | varying\" in | | | | | | subclause | | | | | | 5.2.6.8 | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: GSM | | | | | | Frame Number | | | | | | (Frame #), | | | | | | Timeslot | | | | | | Number | | | | | | (Timeslots | | | | | | #) and Bit | | | | | | Number (Bit | | | | | | #)\ | | | | | | The values | | | | | | of the IEs | | | | | | Frame #, | | | | | | Timeslots # | | | | | | and Bit # | | | | | | (before the | | | | | | addition of | | | | | | the random | | | | | | offset) | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | calculated | | | | | | at the time | | | | | | the IE is | | | | | | required. | | | | | | The accuracy | | | | | | of the | | | | | | relationship | | | | | | between the | | | | | | two time | | | | | | references | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | such that | | | | | | the Maximum | | | | | | Test System | | | | | | Uncertainty | | | | | | for Fine | | | | | | Time | | | | | | Assistance, | | | | | | specified in | | | | | | Table A5.5.1 | | | | | | of TS | | | | | | 51.010-1 | | | | | | [4] , | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | met.\ | | | | | | A random | | | | | | offset is | | | | | | then added | | | | | | to the value | | | | | | of Bit # as | | | | | | described in | | | | | | subclause | | | | | | 5.2.6.2 | | | | | +--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+
Table 5.2.6.8.2: Satellite Information
* * *
Parameter Units Value/remark GPS All Number of satellites 9
* * *
Table 5.2.6.8.3: GPS Acquisition Assistance (Fields occurring once per
satellite)
* * *
Parameter Units Value/remark GPS #1 Value/remark GPS #2 Value/remark GPS #3
SVID/PRNID PRNs: 2, 6, 10, 17, 18, 21, 26, 29, 30 PRNs: 3, 11, 14, 15, 18, 22,
23, 25, 31 PRNs: 3, 11, 14, 15, 18, 22, 23, 25, 31
* * *
Table 5.2.6.8.4: GPS Acquisition Assistance (Fields occurring once per
satellite)
* * *
Parameter Units Value/remark GPS All
Doppler (0^th^ order term) Hz Time varying. See file: Perf
Acquisition_assistXX.csv (Note)
Doppler (1^st^ order term) Hz/sec Time varying. See file: Perf
Acquisition_assistXX.csv (Note)
Doppler Uncertainty Hz Time varying. See file: Perf Acquisition_assistXX.csv
(Note)
Code Phase chips Time varying. See file: Perf Acquisition_assistXX.csv (Note)
Integer Code Phase Time varying. See file: Perf Acquisition_assistXX.csv
(Note)
GPS Bit number Time varying. See file: Perf Acquisition_assistXX.csv (Note)
Code Phase Search Window chips Time varying. See file: Perf
Acquisition_assistXX.csv (Note)
Azimuth deg Time varying. See file: Perf Acquisition_assistXX.csv (Note)
Elevation deg Time varying. See file: Perf Acquisition_assistXX.csv (Note)
Note: Acquisition Assistance parameters\  
This field is \"Time varying\" and its value depends on the \"final GPS TOW\"
as described in subclause 5.2.6.8. The value of this field to be used shall be
determined by taking the \"final GPS TOW\" value and selecting the nearest
field value in the Perf Acquisition_assistXX.csv file corresponding to the
value of \"final current GPS TOW\".
* * *
#### 5.2.6.8a Assistance Data GPS Acquisition Assistance Extension
##### Contents of GPS Acquisition Assistance Extension IE {#contents-of-gps-
acquisition-assistance-extension-ie .H6}
Table 5.2.6.8a.1: GPS Acquisition Assistance Extension (Fields occurring once
per message)
* * *
Parameter Units Value/remark GPS All Release N_SAT 9 Rel-10 onwards
* * *
Table 5.2.6.8a.2: GPS Acquisition Assistance Extension (Fields occurring once
per satellite)
* * *
Parameter Units Value/remark GPS All Release SatID See SVID/PRNID values in
Table 5.2.6.8.3 Rel-10 onwards Azimuth LSB degrees Time varying. Calculated
from Azimuth, see file: Perf Acquisition_assistXX.csv (Note) Rel-10 onwards
Elevation LSB degrees Time varying. Calculated from Elevation, see file: Perf
Acquisition_assistXX.csv (Note) Rel-10 onwards Note: This field is \"Time
varying\" and its value depends on the \"current GPS TOW\" as described in
subclause 5.1.3. The value of this field to be used shall be determined by
taking the \"current GPS TOW\" value and selecting the field value in the Perf
Acquisition_assistXX.csv file corresponding to the value of \"current GPS
TOW\".
* * *
# 6 GNSS information
## 6.1 GNSS Scenarios and Assistance Data for Assisted GNSS signalling tests
### 6.1.1 General
This subclause defines the GNSS scenario and the associated assistance data
that shall be used for all Assisted GNSS signalling tests defined in TS
51.010-1 [4] subclauses 70.12 to 70.15.
The satellite simulator (SS) shall generate all the MS supported GNSS
satellite signals defined in subclause 6.1.2 and shall provide assistance data
dependent on the MS capabilities defined in subclause 6.1.3.
Where assistance data is required on a per-satellite basis, or where the
values of the data also varies with time it is specified in comma-separated-
variable files in the GNSS_data.zip file defined in Annex B. These files
specify the values to be used for each satellite, indexed by satellite SV ID,
and, where applicable, the values to be used indexed by both time and
satellite SV ID.
Assistance data that is marked as \"time varying\" and the GNSS TOW and GANSS
TOD fields are only specified and used in 0.96 or 1 second increments.
Interpolation between these values shall not be used.
The accuracy of the GNSS TOW and GANSS TOD and assistance data that is marked
as \"time varying\" in the provided assistance data shall be within +/- 2 s
relative to the GNSS time in the system simulator.
Assistance data Information Elements and fields that are not specified shall
not be used.
The A-GNSS signalling test cases may include several sub-test cases dependent
on the GNSS supported by the MS. Each sub-test case is identified by a Sub-
Test Case Number as defined in Table 6.1.1-1. The detailed assistance data
content defined in subclause 6.1.3 depends on the particular sub-test case.
The term SV ID used in this subclause is defined as the satellite PRN for GPS
and Galileo, and as the satellite Slot Number for GLONASS.
Most data for Galileo is for further study [FFS]
Table 6.1.1.1: Sub-Test Case Number Definition
* * *
Sub-Test Case Number Supported GNSS 1 MS supporting A-GLONASS only 2 MS
supporting A-Galileo only 3 MS supporting A-GPS and Modernized GPS only 4 MS
supporting A-GPS and A-GLONASS only
* * *
### 6.1.2 GNSS Scenario
The following GNSS scenario shall be used. The assistance data specified in
the following subclauses is consistent with this GNSS scenario:
\- Yuma Almanac data: the required file(s) in the GNSS_data_sig.zip file
specified in Annex B are given below.
Table 6.1.2.1: Yuma Almanac data files for TS 51.010-1 subclause 70.12 to
70.15
* * *
Sub-Test Case Number Yuma file(s) 1 Sig_GNSS_1-1_Yuma.txt 2
Sig_GNSS_1-2_Yuma.txt 3 Sig_GNSS_1-3_Yuma.txt 4 Sig_GNSS_1-1_Yuma.txt and
Sig_GNSS_1-3_Yuma.txt
* * *
\- MS location and Reference location: static at latitude: 35 degrees 44
minutes 39.432 seconds north, longitude: 139 degrees 40 minutes 48.633 seconds
east, (Tokyo Japan 2012), height: 300m
\- Start time: 1st January 2012 00:31:00 (GPS time)
\- Visible satellites simulated are given below
Table 6.1.2.2: Satellites to be simulated for TS 51.010-1 subclause 70.12 to
70.15
* * *
Sub-Test Case Number SV IDs of Satellites to be simulated 1 3, 4, 9, 10, 18,
20 2 [FFS] 3 1, 11, 17, 20, 23, 28 (Note) 4 GPS: 1, 17, 20, 28. GLONASS: 3,
10, 18, 20 NOTE: For this sub-test the satellite simulator shall generate all
the GPS signals supported by the MS for all the simulated satellites.
* * *
\- Ionospheric model: see values in subclause 6.1.3
\- The levels of the simulated satellites shall all be at -125dBm +/- 6dB
### 6.1.3 Default Assistance Data Elements to be provided by the SS
The assistance data listed in subclause 6.1.3 are the assistance data elements
to be pushed by the SS in some of the tests defined in TS 51.010-1 [4]
subclause 70.12 to 70.15. After the reception of an RRLP MEASURE POSITION
REQUEST message, the MS may request additional assistance data. In this case
the SS shall provide the requested assistance data only if it is available as
defined in subclause 6.1.4.
Table 6.1.3.1: GNSS assistance data to be provided to the MS
* * *
**GNSS Assistance Data IE to be provided to the MS** **Mode used in test
case**  
**MS-based** **MS-assisted** GPS Reference Time Yes for sub-tests 3, 4 Yes for
sub-tests 3, 4 GPS Reference Time Extension (Rel-10 onwards) Yes for sub-tests
3, 4 Yes for sub-tests 3, 4 GPS Reference Location Yes for sub-tests 3, 4 No
GPS Navigation Model Yes for sub-tests 3, 4 No GPS Ionospheric Model Yes for
sub-tests 3, 4 No GPS UTC Model Yes for sub-test 4 Yes for sub-test 4 GPS
Acquisition Assistance No Yes for sub-tests 3, 4 GPS Acquisition Assistance
Extension (Rel-10 onwards) No Yes for sub-tests 3, 4 GANSS Reference Time Yes
for sub-tests 1, 2 Yes for sub-tests 1, 2 GANSS Reference Location Yes for
sub-tests 1, 2 No GANSS Ionospheric Model Yes for sub-test 2 No GANSS
Additional Ionospheric Model Yes for sub-test 1 No GANSS Time Model Yes for
sub-test 4 No GANSS Time Model Extension (Rel-10 onwards) Yes for sub-test 4
No GANSS Navigation Model Yes for sub-tests 1, 2, 4 No GANSS Reference
Measurement Information No Yes for sub-tests 1, 2, 4 GANSS Reference
Measurement Extension (Rel-10 onwards) No Yes for sub-tests 1, 2, 4 GANSS
Auxiliary Information Yes for sub-tests 1, 3, 4. Note. Yes for sub-tests 1, 3,
4. Note. Note: Also if MS supports multiple signals per GNSS
* * *
### 6.1.4 Assistance Data values
##### Satellite SV IDs to be used {#satellite-sv-ids-to-be-used .H6}
For assistance data IEs which contain the field SatID or SVID/PRNID, and where
the values for these fields are not given below, then the following values
shall be used.
Table 6.1.4.1: Satellite SV IDs to be used for SatID or SVID/PRNID
* * *
Sub-Test Case Number SV IDs of Satellites to be used 1 3, 4, 9, 10, 18, 20 2
[FFS] 3 1, 11, 17, 20, 23, 28 4 GPS: 1, 17, 20, 28. GLONASS: 3, 10, 18, 20
* * *
##### Assistance Data GPS Reference Time {#assistance-data-gps-reference-time
.H6}
Table 6.1.4.2: GPS Reference Time (Fields occurring once per message)
+-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | Information Element | Units | Value/remark | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | GPS Week | weeks | 1669 | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | GPS TOW | sec | 1860 | | | | | | | | Start time. Add integer | | | | number of 0.96 seconds as | | | | required. (Note) | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | **Note: GPS TOW** | | | | | | | | This is the value of GPS | | | | TOW in seconds when the | | | | GNSS scenario is started in | | | | the GNSS simulator. The | | | | value of GPS TOW to be used | | | | in the Reference Time IE | | | | shall be calculated at the | | | | time the IE is required by | | | | adding the elapsed time | | | | since the time the scenario | | | | was started in the GNSS | | | | simulator to this value, | | | | rounded up to the next 0.96 | | | | second interval. This | | | | \"current GPS TOW\" is then | | | | also used to determine the | | | | value of any other | | | | Information Elements marked | | | | as \"Time varying\" in | | | | subclause 6.1.4. | | | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+
##### Assistance Data GPS Reference Time Extension {#assistance-data-gps-
reference-time-extension .H6}
Table 6.1.4.2a: GPS Reference Time Extension (Fields occurring once per
message)
* * *
Information Element Units Value/remark Release GPS Week Cycle Number 1024
weeks 1 Rel-10 onwards
* * *
##### Assistance Data GPS Reference Location {#assistance-data-gps-reference-
location .H6}
Table 6.1.4.3: GPS Reference Location
* * *
Information Element Units Value/remark Latitude sign 0 Degrees Of Latitude
degrees 35.744287 Degrees Of Longitude degrees 139.680176 Altitude Direction 0
Altitude m 300 Uncertainty semi-major m 3000 Uncertainty semi-minor m 3000
Orientation of major axis degrees 0 Uncertainty Altitude m 500 Confidence \%
68
* * *
##### Assistance Data GPS Navigation Model {#assistance-data-gps-navigation-
model .H6}
Table 6.1.4.4: Satellite Information
* * *
Information Element Units Value/remark Num_Sats_Total 6
* * *
Table 6.1.4.5: GPS Navigation Model (Fields occurring once per satellite)
* * *
Information Element Units Value/remark SatID See Table 6.1.4-1 Satellite
Status 0 (see note) NOTE: For consistency Satellite Status is also given in
file: Sig_GPS_Navigation_model.csv
* * *
Table 6.1.4.6: GPS Ephemeris and Clock correction Information Elements (Fields
occurring once per satellite)
* * *
Information Element Units Value/remark C/A or P on L2 See file:
Sig_GPS_Navigation_model.csv URA Index See file: Sig_GPS_Navigation_model.csv
SV Health See file: Sig_GPS_Navigation_model.csv IODC See file:
Sig_GPS_Navigation_model.csv L2 P Data Flag See file:
Sig_GPS_Navigation_model.csv SF 1 Reserved See file:
Sig_GPS_Navigation_model.csv SF 2 Reserved See file:
Sig_GPS_Navigation_model.csv SF 3 Reserved See file:
Sig_GPS_Navigation_model.csv SF 4 Reserved See file:
Sig_GPS_Navigation_model.csv T~GD~ sec See file: Sig_GPS_Navigation_model.csv
t~oc~ sec See file: Sig_GPS_Navigation_model.csv af~2~ sec/sec^2^ See file:
Sig_GPS_Navigation_model.csv af~1~ sec/sec See file:
Sig_GPS_Navigation_model.csv af~0~ sec See file: Sig_GPS_Navigation_model.csv
C~rs~ meters See file: Sig_GPS_Navigation_model.csv ∆n semi-circles/sec See
file: Sig_GPS_Navigation_model.csv M~0~ semi-circles See file:
Sig_GPS_Navigation_model.csv C~uc~ radians See file:
Sig_GPS_Navigation_model.csv e See file: Sig_GPS_Navigation_model.csv C~us~
radians See file: Sig_GPS_Navigation_model.csv (A)^1/2^ meters^1/2^ See file:
Sig_GPS_Navigation_model.csv t~oe~ sec See file: Sig_GPS_Navigation_model.csv
Fit Interval Flag See file: Sig_GPS_Navigation_model.csv AODO sec See file:
Sig_GPS_Navigation_model.csv C~ic~ radians See file:
Sig_GPS_Navigation_model.csv OMEGA~0~ semi-circles See file:
Sig_GPS_Navigation_model.csv C~is~ radians See file:
Sig_GPS_Navigation_model.csv i~0~ semi-circles See file:
Sig_GPS_Navigation_model.csv C~rc~ meters See file:
Sig_GPS_Navigation_model.csv ω semi-circles See file:
Sig_GPS_Navigation_model.csv OMEGAdot semi-circles/sec See file:
Sig_GPS_Navigation_model.csv Idot semi-circles/sec See file:
Sig_GPS_Navigation_model.csv
* * *
##### Assistance Data GPS Ionospheric Model {#assistance-data-gps-ionospheric-
model .H6}
Table 6.1.4.7: GPS Ionospheric Model
* * *
Information Element Units Value/remark α~0~ seconds 4.6566129 10E-9 α~1~
sec/semi-circle 1.4901161 10E-8 α~2~ sec/(semi-circle)^2^ -5.96046 10E-8 α~3~
sec/(semi-circle)^3^ -5.96046 10E-8 β~0~ seconds 79872 β~1~ sec/semi-circle
65536 β~2~ sec/(semi-circle)^2^ -65536 β~3~ sec/(semi-circle)^3^ -393216
* * *
##### Assistance Data GPS UTC Model {#assistance-data-gps-utc-model .H6}
Table 6.1.4.8: GPS UTC Model
* * *
Information Element Units Value/remark A~1~ sec/sec 0 A~0~ seconds 0 t~ot~
seconds 249856 WN~t~ weeks 133 ∆t~LS~ seconds 15 WN~LSF~ weeks 158 DN days 7
∆t~LSF~ seconds 16
* * *
##### Assistance Data GPS Almanac {#assistance-data-gps-almanac .H6}
Table 6.1.4.9: GPS Almanac (Fields occurring once per message)
* * *
Information Element Units Value/remark Num_Sats_Total 31 WN~a~ weeks 1669
* * *
Table 6.1.4.10: GPS Almanac (Fields occurring once per satellite)
* * *
Information Element Units Value/remark SatID PRNs: 1, 2, 3...21, 22, 23, 25,
26, 27...30, 31, 32 e dimensionless See file: Sig_GPS_Almanac.csv t~oa~ sec
See file: Sig_GPS_Almanac.csv δi semi-circles See file: Sig_GPS_Almanac.csv
OMEGADOT semi-circles/sec See file: Sig_GPS_Almanac.csv SV Health See file:
Sig_GPS_Almanac.csv A^1/2^ meters^1/2^ See file: Sig_GPS_Almanac.csv OMEGA~0~
semi-circles See file: Sig_GPS_Almanac.csv ω semi-circles See file:
Sig_GPS_Almanac.csv M~0~ semi-circles See file: Sig_GPS_Almanac.csv af~0~
seconds See file: Sig_GPS_Almanac.csv af~1~ sec/sec See file:
Sig_GPS_Almanac.csv
* * *
### Assistance Data GPS Almanac Extension
Table 6.1.4.10a: GPS Almanac Extension (Fields occurring once per message)
* * *
Information Element Units Value/remark Release Complete Almanac Provided 1
(TRUE) Rel-10 onwards
* * *
##### Assistance Data GPS Acquisition Assistance {#assistance-data-gps-
acquisition-assistance .H6}
Table 6.1.4.11: GPS Acquisition Assistance - Information Elements appearing
once per message
+-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | Information Element | Units | Value/remark | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | Number of Satellites | | 6 | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | GPS TOW | | 1860 s | | | | | | | | Start time. Add integer | | | | number of 0.96 seconds as | | | | required. (Note) | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | Note: GPS TOW\ | | | | This is the value of GPS | | | | TOW in seconds when the | | | | GNSS scenario is started in | | | | the GNSS simulator. The | | | | value of GPS TOW to be used | | | | in the Acquisition | | | | Assistance IE shall be | | | | calculated at the time the | | | | IE is required by adding | | | | the elapsed time since the | | | | time the scenario was | | | | started in the GNSS | | | | simulator to this value, | | | | rounded up to the next 0.96 | | | | second interval. | | | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+
Table 6.1.4.12: GPS Acquisition Assistance - Information Elements appearing
once per satellite
* * *
Information Element Units Value/remark SVID/PRNID See Table 6.1.4-1 Doppler
(0^th^ order term) Hz Time varying. See file: Sig_GPS_Acquisition_assist.csv
(Note) Doppler (1^st^ order term) Hz/sec Time varying. See file:
Sig_GPS_Acquisition_assist.csv (Note) Doppler Uncertainty Hz Time varying. See
file: Sig_GPS_Acquisition_assist.csv (Note) Code Phase chips Time varying. See
file: Sig_GPS_Acquisition_assist.csv (Note) Integer Code Phase Time varying.
See file: Sig_GPS_Acquisition_assist.csv (Note) GPS Bit number Time varying.
See file: Sig_GPS_Acquisition_assist.csv (Note) Code Phase Search Window chips
Time varying. See file: Sig_GPS_Acquisition_assist.csv (Note) Azimuth deg Time
varying. See file: Sig_GPS_Acquisition_assist.csv (Note) Elevation deg Time
varying. See file: Sig_GPS_Acquisition_assist.csv (Note) Note: This field is
\"Time varying\" and its value depends on the \"current GPS TOW\". The value
of this field to be used shall be determined by taking the \"current GPS TOW\"
value and selecting the field value in the Sig_GPS_Acquisition_assist.csv file
corresponding to the value of \"current GPS TOW \".
* * *
### Assistance Data GPS Acquisition Assistance Extension
Table 6.1.4.12a: GPS Acquisition Assistance Extension - Information Elements
appearing once per message
* * *
Information Element Units Value/remark Release N_SAT 6 Rel-10 onwards
* * *
Table 6.1.4.12b: GPS Acquisition Assistance Extension - Information Elements
appearing once per satellite
* * *
Information Element Units Value/remark Release SatID See Table 6.1.4-1 Rel-10
onwards Azimuth LSB degrees Time varying. Calculated from Azimuth, see file:
Sig_GPS_Acquisition_assist.csv (Note) Rel-10 onwards Elevation LSB degrees
Time varying. Calculated from Elevation, see file:
Sig_GPS_Acquisition_assist.csv (Note) Rel-10 onwards Note: This field is
\"Time varying\" and its value depends on the \"current GPS TOW\" as described
in subclause 5.1.3. The value of this field to be used shall be determined by
taking the \"current GPS TOW\" value and selecting the field value in the
Sig_GPS_Acquisition_assist.csv file corresponding to the value of \"current
GPS TOW\".
* * *
##### Assistance Data GANSS Reference Time {#assistance-data-ganss-reference-
time .H6}
Table 6.1.4.13: Assistance Data GANSS Reference Time: sub-test 1
+----------------------------+---------+----------------------------+ | Information Element | Units | Value/remark | +----------------------------+---------+----------------------------+ | GANSS Day | | 5845 | +----------------------------+---------+----------------------------+ | GANSS TOD | seconds | 12645 s | | | | | | | | Start time. Add integer | | | | number of 1 seconds as | | | | required. (Note) | +----------------------------+---------+----------------------------+ | GANSS TOD Uncertainty | | 125 (2.127 seconds) | +----------------------------+---------+----------------------------+ | GANSS Time ID | | 2 (GLONASS) | +----------------------------+---------+----------------------------+ | **Note: GANSS TOD** | | | | | | | | This is the value of GANSS | | | | TOD when the GNSS scenario | | | | is started in the GNSS | | | | simulator. The value of | | | | GANSS TOD to be used in | | | | the Reference Time IE | | | | shall be calculated at the | | | | time the IE is required by | | | | adding the elapsed time | | | | since the time the | | | | scenario was started in | | | | the GNSS simulator to this | | | | value, rounded up to the | | | | next 1 second interval. | | | | This \"current GANSS TOD\" | | | | is then also used to | | | | determine the value of any | | | | other Information Elements | | | | marked as \"Time varying\" | | | | in subclause 6.1.4 | | | +----------------------------+---------+----------------------------+
Table 6.1.4.14: Assistance Data GANSS Reference Time: sub-test 2
+----------------------------+---------+----------------------------+ | Information Element | Units | Value/remark | +----------------------------+---------+----------------------------+ | GANSS Day | | FFS | +----------------------------+---------+----------------------------+ | GANSS TOD | seconds | FFS | | | | | | | | Start time. Add integer | | | | number of 1 seconds as | | | | required. (Note) | +----------------------------+---------+----------------------------+ | GANSS TOD Uncertainty | | 125 (2.127 seconds) | +----------------------------+---------+----------------------------+ | GANSS Time ID | | Not present (Galileo) | +----------------------------+---------+----------------------------+ | **Note: GANSS TOD** | | | | | | | | This is the value of GANSS | | | | TOD when the GNSS scenario | | | | is started in the GNSS | | | | simulator. The value of | | | | GANSS TOD to be used in | | | | the Reference Time IE | | | | shall be calculated at the | | | | time the IE is required by | | | | adding the elapsed time | | | | since the time the | | | | scenario was started in | | | | the GNSS simulator to this | | | | value, rounded up to the | | | | next 1 second interval. | | | | This \"current GANSS TOD\" | | | | is then also used to | | | | determine the value of any | | | | other Information Elements | | | | marked as \"Time varying\" | | | | in subclause 6.1.4 | | | +----------------------------+---------+----------------------------+
##### Assistance Data GANSS Reference Location {#assistance-data-ganss-
reference-location .H6}
Table 6.1.4.15: Assistance Data GANSS Reference Location
* * *
Information Element Units Value/remark Latitude sign 0 Degrees Of Latitude
degrees 35.744287 Degrees Of Longitude degrees 139.680176 Altitude Direction 0
Altitude m 300 Uncertainty semi-major m 3000 Uncertainty semi-minor m 3000
Orientation of major axis degrees 0 Uncertainty Altitude m 500 Confidence \%
68
* * *
##### Assistance Data GANSS Ionospheric Model {#assistance-data-ganss-
ionospheric-model .H6}
Table 6.1.4.16: GANSS Ionospheric Model
* * *
Information Element Units Value/remark a~i0~ FFS a~i1~ FFS a~i2~ FFS Storm
Flag 1 0 Storm Flag 2 0 Storm Flag 3 0 Storm Flag 4 0 Storm Flag 5 0
* * *
##### Assistance Data GANSS Additional Ionospheric Model {#assistance-data-
ganss-additional-ionospheric-model .H6}
Table 6.1.4.16a: GANSS Additional Ionospheric Model
* * *
Information Element Units Value/remark Data Id 00 α~0~ Seconds 4.6566129 10E-9
α~1~ sec/semi-circle 1.4901161 10E-8 α~2~ sec/(semi-circle)^2^ -5.96046 10E-8
α~3~ sec/(semi-circle)^3^ -5.96046 10E-8 β~0~ Seconds 79872 β~1~ sec/semi-
circle 65536 β~2~ sec/(semi-circle)^2^ -65536 β~3~ sec/(semi-circle)^3^
-393216
* * *
##### Assistance Data GANSS ID {#assistance-data-ganss-id .H6}
Table 6.1.4.16b: GANSS ID: sub-test 1, 4
* * *
Information Element Units Value/remark GANSS ID 3 (GLONASS)
* * *
Table 6.1.4.16c: GANSS ID: sub-test 2
* * *
Information Element Units Value/remark GANSS ID Not present (Galileo)
* * *
Table 6.1.4.16d: GANSS ID: sub-test 3
* * *
Information Element Units Value/remark GANSS ID 1 (Modernized GPS)
* * *
##### Assistance Data GANSS Time Model {#assistance-data-ganss-time-model .H6}
Table 6.1.4.17: GANSS time Model
* * *
Information Element Units Value/remark GANSS Time Model Reference Time 1860 s
T~A0~ Seconds 0 GNSS_TO_ID 0 (GPS)
* * *
### Assistance Data GANSS Time Model Extension
Table 6.1.4.17a: GANSS Time Model Extension
* * *
Information Element Units Value/remark Release GNSS_TOD_ID 0 (GPS) Rel-10
onwards Delta T Seconds 15 Rel-10 onwards
* * *
##### Assistance Data GANSS Navigation Model {#assistance-data-ganss-
navigation-model .H6}
Table 6.1.4.18: Void
Table 6.1.4.19: GANSS Navigation Model: sub-test 1, 4
* * *
Information Element Units Value/remark Num_Sat 6 Non-Broadcast Indication 0
* * *
Table 6.1.4.20: Satellite Information (Fields occurring once per satellite):
sub-test 1, 4
* * *
Information Element Units Value/remark SatID See Table 6.1.4-1 SV Health 01111
(Note) IOD 225 (Note) Note: For consistency SV Health and IOD are also given
in file: Sig_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest1_4.csv
* * *
Table 6.1.4.21: GANSS Clock Model (Fields occurring once per satellite): sub-
test 1, 4
* * *
Information Element Units Value/remark GLONASS Satellite Clock Model  
**τ~n~(t~b~)** seconds See file: Sig_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest1_4.csv
**γ~n~(t~b~)** See file: Sig_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest1_4.csv **∆τ~n~**
seconds See file: Sig_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest1_4.csv
* * *
Table 6.1.4.22: GANSS Orbit Model (Fields occurring once per satellite): sub-
test 1, 4
* * *
Information Element Units Value/remark GLONASS Earth-Centered, Earth-fixed
Parameters  
E~n~ days See file: Sig_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest1_4.csv P1 minutes See
file: Sig_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest1_4.csv P2 See file:
Sig_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest1_4.csv M See file:
Sig_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest1_4.csv kilometers See file:
Sig_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest1_4.csv kilometers/sec See file:
Sig_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest1_4.csv kilometers/sec^2^ See file:
Sig_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest1_4.csv kilometers See file:
Sig_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest1_4.csv kilometers/sec See file:
Sig_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest1_4.csv kilometers/sec^2^ See file:
Sig_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest1_4.csv kilometers See file:
Sig_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest1_4.csv kilometers/sec See file:
Sig_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest1_4.csv kilometers/sec^2^ See file:
Sig_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest1_4.csv
* * *
Table 6.1.4.23: Void
Table 6.1.4.24: GANSS Navigation Model: sub-test 2
* * *
Information Element Units Value/remark Num_Sat 6 Non-Broadcast Indication 0
* * *
Table 6.1.4.25: Satellite Information (Fields occurring once per satellite):
sub-test 2
* * *
Information Element Units Value/remark SatID See Table 6.1.4-1 SV Health 0
(Note) IOD [FFS] (Note) Note: For consistency SV Health and IOD are also given
in file: See file: Sig_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest2.csv.
* * *
Table 6.1.4.26: GANSS Clock Model (Fields occurring once per satellite): sub-
test 2
* * *
Information Element Units Value/remark Standard Satellite clock model  
t~oc~ seconds See file: Sig_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest2.csv a~f2~
sec/sec^2^ See file: Sig_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest2.csv a~f1~ sec/sec See
file: Sig_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest2.csv a~f0~ sec See file:
Sig_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest2.csv T~GD~ sec See file:
Sig_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest2.csv Model ID See file:
Sig_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest2.csv
* * *
Table 6.1.4.27: GANSS Orbit Model (Fields occurring once per satellite): sub-
test 2
* * *
Information Element Units Value/remark Satellite Navigation Model Using
Keplerian Parameters  
toe seconds See file: Sig_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest2.csv ω semi-circles
See file: Sig_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest2.csv ∆n semi-circles/sec See
file: Sig_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest2.csv M0 semi-circles See file:
Sig_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest2.csv OMEGAdot semi-circles/sec See file:
Sig_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest2.csv e See file:
Sig_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest2.csv Idot semi-circles/sec See file:
Sig_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest2.csv sqrtA meters1/2 See file:
Sig_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest2.csv i0 semi-circles See file:
Sig_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest2.csv OMEGA0 semi-circles See file:
Sig_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest2.csv Crs meters See file:
Sig_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest2.csv Cis radians See file:
Sig_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest2.csv Cus radians See file:
Sig_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest2.csv Crc meters See file:
Sig_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest2.csv Cic radians See file:
Sig_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest2.csv Cuc radians See file:
Sig_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest2.csv
* * *
##### Assistance Data GANSS Reference Measurement Information {#assistance-
data-ganss-reference-measurement-information .H6}
Table 6.1.4.28: Void
Table 6.1.4.29: GANSS reference measurement information: sub-test 1, 4 (Fields
occurring once per message)
* * *
Information Element Units Value/remark GANSS Signal ID 0 (G1)
* * *
Table 6.1.4.30: GANSS Reference Measurement Information: sub-test 1, 4 (Fields
occurring once per satellite)
+-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | Information Element | Units | Value/remark | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | SVID | | See Table 6.1.4-1 | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | Doppler (0^th^ order term) | m/s | Time varying. See file: | | | | Sig_GANSS | | | | _reference_measurement_i | | | | nformation_subtest1_4.csv | | | | (Note) | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | Doppler (1^st^ order term) | m/s/s | Time varying. See file: | | | | Sig_GANSS | | | | _reference_measurement_i | | | | nformation_subtest1_4.csv | | | | (Note) | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | Doppler Uncertainty | m/s | Time varying. See file: | | | | Sig_GANSS | | | | _reference_measurement_i | | | | nformation_subtest1_4.csv | | | | (Note) | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | Code Phase | ms | Time varying. See file: | | | | Sig_GANSS | | | | _reference_measurement_i | | | | nformation_subtest1_4.csv | | | | (Note) | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | Integer Code Phase | ms | Time varying. See file: | | | | Sig_GANSS | | | | _reference_measurement_i | | | | nformation_subtest1_4.csv | | | | (Note) | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | Code Phase Search Window | | Time varying. See file: | | | | Sig_GANSS | | | | _reference_measurement_i | | | | nformation_subtest1_4.csv | | | | (Note) | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | Azimuth | deg | Time varying. See file: | | | | Sig_GANSS | | | | _reference_measurement_i | | | | nformation_subtest1_4.csv | | | | (Note) | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | Elevation | deg | Time varying. See file: | | | | Sig_GANSS | | | | _reference_measurement_i | | | | nformation_subtest1_4.csv | | | | (Note) | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | Note: | | | | | | | | For sub-test 1: this field | | | | is \"Time varying\" and its | | | | value depends on the | | | | \"current GANSS TOD\". The | | | | value of this field to be | | | | used shall be determined by | | | | taking the \"current GANSS | | | | TOD\" value and selecting | | | | the field value in the | | | | Sig_GANSS | | | | _reference_measurement_i | | | | nformation_subtest1_4.csv | | | | file corresponding to the | | | | value of \"current GANSS | | | | TOD\". | | | | | | | | For sub-test 4: this field | | | | is \"Time varying\" and its | | | | value depends on the | | | | \"current GPS TOW\". The | | | | value of this field to be | | | | used shall be determined by | | | | taking the \"current GPS | | | | TOW\" value and selecting | | | | the field value in the | | | | Sig_GANSS | | | | _reference_measurement_i | | | | nformation_subtest1_4.csv | | | | file corresponding to the | | | | value of \"current GPS | | | | TOW\". | | | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+
Table 6.1.4.31: Void
Table 6.1.4.32: GANSS Reference Measurement Information: sub-test 2 (Fields
occurring once per message)
* * *
Information Element Units Value/remark GANSS Signal ID 0 (E1)
* * *
Table 6.1.4.33: GANSS Reference Measurement Information: sub-test 2 (Fields
occurring once per satellite)
* * *
Information Element Units Value/remark SVID See Table 6.1.4-1 Doppler (0^th^
order term) m/s Time varying. See file:
Sig_GANSS_reference_measurement_information_subtest2.csv (Note) Doppler (1^st^
order term) m/s/s Time varying. See file:
Sig_GANSS_reference_measurement_information_subtest2.csv (Note) Doppler
Uncertainty m/s Time varying. See file:
Sig_GANSS_reference_measurement_information_subtest2.csv (Note) Code Phase ms
Time varying. See file:
Sig_GANSS_reference_measurement_information_subtest2.csv (Note) Integer Code
Phase ms Time varying. See file:
Sig_GANSS_reference_measurement_information_subtest2.csv (Note) Code Phase
Search Window Time varying. See file:
Sig_GANSS_reference_measurement_information_subtest2.csv (Note) Azimuth deg
Time varying. See file:
Sig_GANSS_reference_measurement_information_subtest2.csv (Note) Elevation deg
Time varying. See file:
Sig_GANSS_reference_measurement_information_subtest2.csv (Note) Note: This
field is \"Time varying\" and its value depends on the \"current GANSS TOD\".
The value of this field to be used shall be determined by taking the \"current
GANSS TOD\" value and selecting the field value in the
Sig_GANSS_reference_measurement_information_subtest2.csv file corresponding to
the value of \"current GANSS TOD\".
* * *
### Assistance Data GANSS Reference Measurement Extension
Table 6.1.4.33a: GANSS Reference Measurement Extension: sub-test 1, 4 (Fields
occurring once per message)
* * *
Information Element Units Value/remark Release Num_Sat 6 Rel-10 onwards
* * *
Table 6.1.4.33b: GANSS Reference Measurement Extension: sub-test 1, 4 (Fields
occurring once per satellite)
+------------------+---------+------------------+----------------+ | Information | Units | Value/remark | Release | | Element | | | | +------------------+---------+------------------+----------------+ | SV_ID | | See Table | Rel-10 onwards | | | | 6.1.4-1 | | +------------------+---------+------------------+----------------+ | Azimuth LSB | degrees | Time varying. | Rel-10 onwards | | | | Calculated from | | | | | Azimuth, see | | | | | file: | | | | | Sig_GANSS_refe | | | | | rence_measureme | | | | | nt_information\ | | | | | _subtest1_4.csv | | | | | (Note) | | +------------------+---------+------------------+----------------+ | Elevation LSB | degrees | Time varying. | Rel-10 onwards | | | | Calculated from | | | | | Elevation, see | | | | | file: | | | | | Sig_GANSS_refe | | | | | rence_measureme | | | | | nt_information\ | | | | | _subtest1_4.csv | | | | | (Note) | | +------------------+---------+------------------+----------------+ | Note: | | | | | | | | | | For sub-test 1: | | | | | this field is | | | | | \"Time varying\" | | | | | and its value | | | | | depends on the | | | | | \"current GANSS | | | | | TOD\". The value | | | | | of this field to | | | | | be used shall be | | | | | determined by | | | | | taking the | | | | | \"current GANSS | | | | | TOD\" value and | | | | | selecting the | | | | | field value in | | | | | the | | | | | Sig_GANSS_refe | | | | | rence_measureme | | | | | nt_information\ | | | | | _subtest1_4.csv | | | | | file | | | | | corresponding to | | | | | the value of | | | | | \"current GANSS | | | | | TOD\". | | | | | | | | | | For sub-test 4: | | | | | this field is | | | | | \"Time varying\" | | | | | and its value | | | | | depends on the | | | | | \"current GPS | | | | | TOW\". The value | | | | | of this field to | | | | | be used shall be | | | | | determined by | | | | | taking the | | | | | \"current GPS | | | | | TOW\" value and | | | | | selecting the | | | | | field value in | | | | | the | | | | | Sig_GANSS_refe | | | | | rence_measureme | | | | | nt_information\ | | | | | _subtest1_4.csv | | | | | file | | | | | corresponding to | | | | | the value of | | | | | \"current GPS | | | | | TOW\". | | | | +------------------+---------+------------------+----------------+
Table 6.1.4.33c: GANSS Reference Measurement Extension: sub-test 2 (Fields
occurring once per message)
* * *
Information Element Units Value/remark Release Num_Sat 6 Rel-10 onwards
* * *
Table 6.1.4.33d: GANSS Reference Measurement Extension: sub-test 2 (Fields
occurring once per satellite)
* * *
Information Element Units Value/remark Release SV_ID See Table 6.1.4-1 Rel-10
onwards Azimuth LSB degrees Time varying. Calculated from Azimuth, see file:
Sig_GANSS_reference_measurement_information_subtest2.csv (Note) Rel-10 onwards
Elevation LSB degrees Time varying. Calculated from Elevation, see file:
Sig_GANSS_reference_measurement_information_subtest2.csv (Note) Rel-10 onwards
Note: This field is \"Time varying\" and its value depends on the \"current
GANSS TOD\". The value of this field to be used shall be determined by taking
the \"current GANSS TOD\" value and selecting the field value in the
Sig_GANSS_reference_measurement_information_subtest2.csv file corresponding to
the value of \"current GANSS TOD\".
* * *
##### Assistance Data GANSS almanac {#assistance-data-ganss-almanac .H6}
Table 6.1.4.34: Void
Table 6.1.4.35: GANSS almanac: sub-test 1, 4 (Fields occurring once per
message)
* * *
Information Element Units Value/remark Num Sats Total 24 Week Number Any value
* * *
Table 6.1.4.35a: Void
Table 6.1.4.35b: GANSS almanac: sub-test 1, 4 (Fields occurring once per
satellite)
* * *
Information Element Units Value/remark GLONASS Keplerian Parameters  
N^A^ days See file: Sig_GANSS_Almanac_subtest1_4.csv n^A^ Slot Numbers: 1, 2,
3 .... 22, 23, 24 H~n~^A^ See file: Sig_GANSS_Almanac_subtest1_4.csv λ~n~^A^
semi-circles See file: Sig_GANSS_Almanac_subtest1_4.csv t~λn~^A^ seconds See
file: Sig_GANSS_Almanac_subtest1_4.csv ∆i~n~^A^ semi-circles See file:
Sig_GANSS_Almanac_subtest1_4.csv ∆T~n~^A^ sec/orbit period See file:
Sig_GANSS_Almanac_subtest1_4.csv ∆T_DOT~n~^A^ sec/orbit period^2^ See file:
Sig_GANSS_Almanac_subtest1_4.csv ε~n~^A^ See file:
Sig_GANSS_Almanac_subtest1_4.csv ω~n~^A^ semi-circles See file:
Sig_GANSS_Almanac_subtest1_4.csv τ~n~^A^ seconds See file:
Sig_GANSS_Almanac_subtest1_4.csv C~n~^A^ See file:
Sig_GANSS_Almanac_subtest1_4.csv M~n~^A^ See file:
Sig_GANSS_Almanac_subtest1_4.csv
* * *
Table 6.1.4.36: Void
Table 6.1.4.37: GANSS almanac: sub-test 2 (Fields occurring once per message)
* * *
Information Element Units Value/remark Num Sats Total 24 Week Number FFS
* * *
Table 6.1.4.38: GANSS almanac: sub-test 2 (Fields occurring once per
satellite)
* * *
Information Element Units Value/remark Keplerian parameters  
SVID SV IDs: [FFS] E See file: Sig_GANSS_Almanac_subtest2.csv δi semi-circles
See file: Sig_GANSS_Almanac_subtest2.csv OMEGADOT semi-circles/sec See file:
Sig_GANSS_Almanac_subtest2.csv SV Health KP See file:
Sig_GANSS_Almanac_subtest2.csv delta A^1/2^ meters1/2 See file:
Sig_GANSS_Almanac_subtest2.csv OMEGA~0~ semi-circles See file:
Sig_GANSS_Almanac_subtest2.csv M~0~ semi-circles See file:
Sig_GANSS_Almanac_subtest2.csv ω semi-circles See file:
Sig_GANSS_Almanac_subtest2.csv af~0~ Seconds See file:
Sig_GANSS_Almanac_subtest2.csv af~1~ sec/sec See file:
Sig_GANSS_Almanac_subtest2.csv
* * *
##### Assistance Data GANSS Almanac Model Extension {#assistance-data-ganss-
almanac-model-extension .H6}
Table 6.1.4.38a: GANSS Almanac Model Extension: sub-test 1, 4 (Fields
occurring once per message)
* * *
Information Element Units Value/remark Release Complete Almanac Provided 1
(TRUE) Rel-10 onwards
* * *
Table 6.1.4.38b: GANSS Almanac Model Extension: sub-test 2 (Fields occurring
once per message)
* * *
Information Element Units Value/remark Release Complete Almanac Provided 1
(TRUE) Rel-10 onwards
* * *
##### Assistance Data GANSS Auxiliary Information {#assistance-data-ganss-
auxiliary-information .H6}
Table 6.1.4.39: Void
Table 6.1.4.40: GANSS Auxiliary Information: sub-test 1, 4 (Fields occurring
once per satellite)
* * *
Information Element Units Value/remark SVID Slot Number s: See Table 6.1.4-1
Signals Available G1 Channel Number 5, 6, -2, -7, -3, 2
* * *
Table 6.1.4.41: Void
Table 6.1.4.42: GANSS Auxiliary Information: sub-test 3 (Fields occurring once
per satellite)
* * *
Information Element Units Value/remark SVID PRNs: See Table 6.1.4-1 Signals
Available L1C and others as supported by the MS
* * *
## 6.2 GNSS Scenarios and Assistance Data for Assisted GNSS Minimum
Performance tests
### 6.2.1 General
#### 6.2.1.0 Introduction
This subclause defines the GNSS scenarios and assistance data IEs which shall
be available for use as specified in all A-GNSS Minimum Performance test cases
defined in TS 51.010-1 [4] subclause 70.16.
The information elements are given with reference to TS 44.031 [5], where the
details are defined.
Subclauses 6.2.2 and 6.2.3 list the assistance data IEs required for
performance testing of MS-based mode, and subclauses 6.2.4 and 6.2.5 list the
assistance data available for performance testing of MS-assisted mode.
Subclause 6.2.6 lists the values of the assistance data IE fields for all
performance testing.
The A-GNSS minimum performance requirements are defined by assuming that all
relevant and valid assistance data is received by the MS in order to perform
GNSS measurements and/or position calculation. This subclause does not include
nor consider delays occurring in the various signalling interfaces of the
network.
The term SV ID used in this subclause is defined as the satellite PRN for GPS
and Galileo, and as the satellite Slot Number for GLONASS.
Most data for Galileo is for further study [FFS].
#### 6.2.1.1 Satellite constellations and assistance data for A-GNSS
performance testing
The satellite constellation shall consist of 24 satellites for GLONASS; 27
satellites for GPS, Modernized GPS and Galileo; 3 satellites for QZSS; and 2
satellites for SBAS. Almanac assistance data shall be available for all these
satellites. At least 7 of the satellites per GPS, Modernized GPS, Galileo or
GLONASS constellation shall be visible to the MS (that is, above 15 degrees
elevation with respect to the MS). At least 1 of the satellites for QZSS shall
be within 15 degrees of zenith; and at least 1 of the satellites for SBAS
shall be visible to the MS. All other satellite specific assistance data shall
be available for all visible satellites. In each test, signals are generated
for only 6 satellites (or 7 if SBAS is included). The HDOP for the test shall
be calculated using these satellites. The simulated satellites for GPS,
Modernized GPS, Galileo and GLONASS shall be selected from the visible
satellites for each constellation, consistent with achieving the required HDOP
for the test.
#### 6.2.1.2 GNSS Scenarios for A-GNSS performance testing
##### 6.2.1.2.0 Introduction
This subclause defines the GNSS scenarios that shall be used for all Assisted
GNSS performance tests defined in TS 51.010-1 [4] subclause 70.16.
The GNSS scenarios achieve the required HDOP for the Test Cases as defined in
the Requirements specification TS 45.005 [8]. They also satisfy the
requirement that for each test instance the reference location shall change
sufficiently such that the MS shall have to use the new assistance data.
The viable running time during which the scenario maintains the required HDOP
or HDOPs is given. Once this time has been reached the scenario shall be
restarted from its nominal start time.
The test cases include sub-test cases dependent on the GNSS supported by the
MS. Each sub-test case is identified by a Sub-Test Case Number as defined in
Table 6.2.1.2.1. For each GNSS scenario the parameters that vary with the sub-
test are given for each sub-test.
Table 6.2.1.2.0.1: Sub-Test Case Number Definition
* * *
Sub-Test Case Number Supported GNSS 1 MS supporting A-GLONASS only 2 MS
supporting A-Galileo only 3 MS supporting A-GPS and Modernized GPS only 4 MS
supporting A-GPS and A-GLONASS only
* * *
##### 6.2.1.2.1 GNSS Scenario #1
The following GNSS scenario #1 shall be used during the TTFF tests defined in
TS 51.010-1 [4] subclause 70.16 with the exception of the Nominal Accuracy
test. The assistance data specified in the following subclauses for GNSS
scenario #1 is consistent with this GNSS scenario.
Yuma Almanac data: the required file(s) in the GNSS_data_perf.zip file defined
in Annex B are given in Table 6.2.1.2.1.1.
Table 6.2.1.2.1.1: Yuma Almanac data files
* * *
Sub-Test Case Number Yuma file(s) 1 Perf_GNSS_1-1_Yuma.txt 2
Perf_GNSS_1-2_Yuma.txt 3 Perf_GNSS_1-3_Yuma.txt 4 Perf_GNSS_1-1_Yuma.txt and
Perf_GNSS_1-3_Yuma.txt
* * *
MS location: the MS location is calculated as a random offset from the
reference location using the method described in subclause 6.2.1.2.5. The
reference location is: latitude: 35 degrees 44 minutes 39.432 seconds north,
longitude: 139 degrees 40 minutes 48.633 seconds east, (Tokyo Japan 2012),
height: = 300m.
Nominal start time: 1st January 2012 00:31:00 (GPS time).
Viable running time to maintain specified HDOP values: 19 minutes.
Visible satellites available for simulation and for which Assistance Data
(other than Almanac) shall be generated are given in Table 6.2.1.2.1.2
Table 6.2.1.2.1.2: Visible satellites
* * *
Sub-Test Case Number SV IDs of Visible satellites 1 3, 4, 5, 9, 10, 18, 19, 20
2 [FFS] 3 1, 4, 11, 17, 19, 20, 23, 28, 32 4 GPS: 1, 4, 11, 17, 19, 20, 23,
28, 32. GLONASS: 3, 4, 5, 9, 10, 18, 19, 20
* * *
The satellites to be simulated in each test case have been selected in order
to achieve the required HDOP. They are defined in Table 6.2.1.2.1.3.
Table 6.2.1.2.1.3: Satellites to be simulated
* * *
Sub-Test Case Number SV IDs of Satellites to be simulated 1 3, 4, 9, 10, 18,
20 2 [FFS] 3 1, 11, 17, 19, 23, 28 (Note) 4 GPS: 20, 28, 32. GLONASS: 5, 10,
20 NOTE: For this sub-test the satellite simulator shall generate all the GPS
signals supported by the MS for all the simulated satellites.
* * *
Ionospheric model: see values in subclause 6.2.6.6.
Tropospheric model: STANAG with SRI equal to 324.8, as defined in STANAG 4294
[6].
##### 6.2.1.2.2 GNSS Scenario #2
The following GNSS scenario #2 shall be used during the TTFF tests defined in
TS 51.010-1 [4] subclause 70.16 with the exception of the Nominal Accuracy
test. The assistance data specified in the following subclauses for GNSS
scenario #2 is consistent with this GNSS scenario.
Yuma Almanac data: the required file(s) in the GNSS_data_perf.zip file defined
in Annex B are given in Table 6.2.1.2.2.1.
Table 6.2.1.2.2.1: Yuma Almanac data files
* * *
Sub-Test Case Number Yuma file(s) 1 Perf_GNSS_2-1_Yuma.txt 2
Perf_GNSS_2-2_Yuma.txt 3 Perf_GNSS_2-3_Yuma.txt 4 Perf_GNSS_2-1_Yuma.txt and
Perf_GNSS_2-3_Yuma.txt
* * *
MS location: the MS location is calculated as a random offset from the
reference location using the method described in subclause 6.2.1.2.5. The
reference location is: latitude: 37 degrees 24 minutes 53.391 seconds north,
longitude: 122 degrees 1 minute 3.722 seconds west, (Sunnyvale, USA), height:
= 50m.
Nominal start time: 1st June 2012, 00:01:00 (GPS time).
Viable running time to maintain specified HDOP values: 19 minutes.
Visible satellites available for simulation and for which Assistance Data
(other than Almanac) shall be generated are given in Table 6.2.1.2.2.2
Table 6.2.1.2.2.2: Visible satellites
* * *
Sub-Test Case Number SV IDs of Visible satellites 1 1, 8, 9, 10, 16, 19, 20,
21 2 [FFS] 3 1, 7, 8, 11, 15, 17, 26, 27, 28 4 GPS: 1, 7, 8, 11, 15, 17, 26,
27, 28. GLONASS: 1, 8, 9, 10, 16, 19, 20, 21
* * *
The satellites to be simulated in each test case have been selected in order
to achieve the required HDOP. They are defined in Table 6.2.1.2.1.3.
Table 6.2.1.2.1.3: Satellites to be simulated
* * *
Sub-Test Case Number SV IDs of Satellites to be simulated 1 1, 8, 9, 10, 19,
20 2 [FFS] 3 1, 7, 8, 17, 27, 28 (Note) 4 GPS: 1, 8, 26. GLONASS: 8, 10, 20
NOTE: For this sub-test the satellite simulator shall generate all the GPS
signals supported by the MS for all the simulated satellites.
* * *
Ionospheric model: see values in subclause 6.2.6.6.
Tropospheric model: STANAG with SRI equal to 324.8, as defined in STANAG 4294
[6].
##### 6.2.1.2.3 GNSS Scenario #3
###### 6.2.1.2.3.0 Introduction
The following GNSS scenario #3 shall be used during the Nominal Accuracy test
defined in TS 51.010-1 [4] subclause 70.16. The assistance data specified in
the following subclauses for GNSS scenario #3 is consistent with this GNSS
scenario.
The scenario used varies dependent on the SBAS supported by the MS and also
whether QZSS is supported. The scenario to be used is defined in Table
6.2.1.2.3.1. Where more than one SBAS is supported use the scenario for MSAS
if MSAS and QZSS are supported, otherwise use the scenario for the first
supported SBAS in the list.
Table 6.2.1.2.3.0.1: Scenarios used for Scenario #3
* * *
SBAS supported Scenarios used  
MS supports QZSS MS does not support QZSS None GNSS Scenario #1 with QZSS
Scenario #1 GNSS Scenario #1 WAAS [FFS] GNSS Scenario #2 with WAAS EGNOS [FFS]
GNSS Scenario #3A with EGNOS MSAS GNSS Scenario #1 with QZSS Scenario #1 and
MSAS GNSS Scenario #1 with MSAS GAGAN [FFS] GNSS Scenario #3B with GAGAN
* * *
###### 6.2.1.2.3.1 GNSS Scenario #3A
[FFS]
###### 6.2.1.2.3.2 GNSS Scenario #3B
[FFS]
###### 6.2.1.2.3.3 QZSS Scenario #1
Yuma Almanac data: see file Perf_QZSS_1_Yuma.txt in the GNSS_data_perf.zip
file defined in Annex B.
MS location: as for GNSS scenario #1.
Nominal start time: as for GNSS scenario #1.
Viable running time to maintain specified requirements: as for GNSS scenario
#1.
Satellite meeting specified requirements to be used for simulation and for
which Assistance Data (other than Almanac) shall be generated: PRN 193.
###### 6.2.1.2.3.4 WAAS Scenario
Satellite positions: (PRN 135)133.0 degrees west, height: 35786037.417m, (PRN
138)107.3 degrees west, height: 35786037.417m.
MS location: as for related GNSS scenario.
Satellite used for simulation: PRN 135.
###### 6.2.1.2.3.5 EGNOS Scenario
Satellite positions: (PRN 120)15.5 degrees west, height: 35786037.417m, (PRN
124) 21.5 degrees west, height: 35786037.417m.
MS location: as for related GNSS scenario.
Satellite used for simulation: PRN 120.
###### 6.2.1.2.3.6 MSAS Scenario
Satellite positions: (PRN 129)140.0 degrees east, height: 35786037.417m, (PRN
137)145 degrees east, height: 35786037.417m
MS location: as for related GNSS scenario.
Satellite used for simulation: PRN 129.
###### 6.2.1.2.3.7 GAGAN Scenario
[FFS]
##### 6.2.1.2.4 GNSS Scenario #4
###### 6.2.1.2.4.0 Introduction
The following GNSS scenario #4 shall be used during the Nominal Accuracy test
defined in TS 51.010-1 [4] subclause 70.16. The assistance data specified in
the following subclauses for GNSS scenario #4 is consistent with this GNSS
scenario.
The scenario used varies dependent on the SBAS supported by the MS and also
whether QZSS is supported. The scenario to be used is defined in Table
6.2.1.2.4.1. Where more than one SBAS is supported use the scenario for MSAS
if MSAS and QZSS are supported, otherwise use the scenario for the first
supported SBAS in the list.
Table 6.2.1.2.4.0.1: Scenarios used for Scenario #4
* * *
SBAS supported Scenarios used  
MS supports QZSS MS does not support QZSS None GNSS Scenario #4D with QZSS
Scenario #2 GNSS Scenario #2 WAAS [FFS] GNSS Scenario #4C with WAAS EGNOS
[FFS] GNSS Scenario #4A with EGNOS MSAS GNSS Scenario #4D with QZSS Scenario
#2 and MSAS GNSS Scenario #4D with MSAS GAGAN [FFS] GNSS Scenario #4B with
GAGAN
* * *
###### 6.2.1.2.4.1 GNSS Scenario #4A
[FFS]
###### 6.2.1.2.4.2 GNSS Scenario #4B
[FFS]
###### 6.2.1.2.4.3 GNSS Scenario #4C
[FFS]
###### 6.2.1.2.4.4 GNSS Scenario #4D
[FFS]
###### 6.2.1.2.4.5 QZSS Scenario #2
Yuma Almanac data: see file Perf_QZSS_2_Yuma.txt in the GNSS_data_perf.zip
file defined in Annex B.
MS location: as for GNSS scenario #4D.
Nominal start time: as for GNSS scenario #4D.
Viable running time to maintain specified requirements: as for GNSS scenario
#4D.
Satellite meeting specified requirements to be used for simulation and for
which Assistance Data (other than Almanac) shall be generated: PRN [FFS].
###### 6.2.1.2.3.6 WAAS Scenario
Satellite positions: (PRN 135)133.0 degrees west, height: 35786037.417m, (PRN
138)107.3 degrees west, height: 35786037.417m.
MS location: as for related GNSS scenario.
Satellite used for simulation: PRN 138.
###### 6.2.1.2.3.7 EGNOS Scenario
Satellite positions: (PRN 120)15.5 degrees west, height: 35786037.417m, (PRN
124) 21.5 degrees west, height: 35786037.417m.
MS location: as for related GNSS scenario.
Satellite used for simulation: PRN 124.
###### 6.2.1.2.3.8 MSAS Scenario
Satellite positions: (PRN 129)140.0 degrees east, height: 35786037.417m, (PRN
137)145 degrees east, height: 35786037.417m.
MS location: as for related GNSS scenario.
Satellite used for simulation: PRN 137.
###### 6.2.1.2.3.9 GAGAN Scenario
[FFS]
##### 6.2.1.2.5 MS Location for TTFF test cases
###### 6.2.1.2.5.0 Introduction
This subclause defines the method for generating the random MS locations that
are required to be used for the TTFF tests defined in TS 51.010-1 [4]
subclause 70.16.
For every Test Instance in each TTFF test case, the MS location shall be
randomly selected to be within 3 km of the Reference Location. The Altitude of
the MS shall be randomly selected between 0 m to 500 m above WGS‑84 reference
ellipsoid. These values shall have uniform random distributions.
The MS location is calculated as an offset from the Reference Location.
###### 6.2.1.2.5.1 MS Location Offset
The MS location offset shall be calculated by selecting the next pair of
random numbers, representing a pair of latitude and longitude offsets in
degrees, from a standard uniform random number generator, with the following
properties:
The ranges of the latitude and longitude offsets values shall be such that
when translated onto the surface of the earth they shall lie within a 3km
radius circle, centred on the Reference location specified for the GNSS
scenario under consideration. For the purposes of this calculation make the
following assumptions:
a) Over the 3km radius circle at the Reference location the earth is flat and
the meridians and parallels form a rectangular grid
b) The earth is spherical with a radius of 6371141m (equal to the WGS 84 value
at 35 degrees latitude)
The resolution used for the latitude and longitude offsets values shall be
90/2E23 for the latitude offset values and 360/2E24 for the longitude offset
values, representing the coding resolution in degrees specified in 3GPP TS
23.032 [7].
###### 6.2.1.2.5.2 MS Altitude
The MS altitude value shall be calculated by selecting the next random number
from a standard uniform random number generator, in the range 0 to 500,
representing meters. The resolution used for the random number shall be 1,
representing 1 meter.
### 6.2.2 Information elements required for normal MS based testing
The following A-GPS and A-GANSS assistance data IEs and fields shall be
present for each test as appropriate for the GNSS(s) used during the test.
Fields not specified shall not be present. The values of the fields are
specified in subclause 6.2.6.
**a) GPS Reference Time IE.** This information element is defined in subclause
A.4.2.4 of TS 44.031 [5].
* * *
Fields of the IE GPS Week GPS TOW GPS TOW Assist SatID TLM Message Anti-Spoof
Alert TLM Reserved
* * *
**aa) GPS Reference Time Extension IE.** This information element is defined
in subclause A.4.2.4c of TS 44.031 [5].
* * *
Fields of the IE Release GPS Week Cycle Number Rel-10 onwards
* * *
**b) GANSS Reference Time IE.** This information element is defined in
subclause A.4.2.6.1 of TS 44.031 [5].
* * *
Fields of the IE GANSS Day GANSS TOD GANSS TOD Uncertainty GANSS Time ID
* * *
**c) GANSS Time Model IE.** This information element is only required for
multi system tests, and is defined in subclause A.4.2.6.2 of TS 44.031 [5].
+-------------------------------------+ | Fields of the IE | +-------------------------------------+ | GNSS_TOD_ID | | | | For each GNSS included in the test. | +-------------------------------------+
**ca) GANSS Time Model Extension IE.** This information element is only
required for multi system tests, and is defined in subclause A.4.2.6.2 of TS
44.031 [5].
+-------------------------------------+----------------+ | Fields of the IE | Release | +-------------------------------------+----------------+ | GNSS_TOD_ID | Rel-10 onwards | | | | | For each GNSS included in the test. | | +-------------------------------------+----------------+ | Delta T | Rel-10 onwards | +-------------------------------------+----------------+
**d) GPS Reference Location IE.** This information element is defined in
subclause A.4.2.4 of TS 44.031 [5].
* * *
Fields of the IE Ellipsoid point with Altitude and uncertainty ellipsoid
* * *
**e) GANSS Reference Location IE.** This information element is defined in
subclause A.4.2.6.1 of TS 44.031 [5].
* * *
Fields of the IE Ellipsoid point with Altitude and uncertainty ellipsoid
* * *
**f) GPS Navigation Model IE**. This information element is defined in
subclause A.4.2.4 of TS 44.031 [5].
* * *
Fields of the IE All satellite information
* * *
**g) GANSS Navigation Model IE.** This information element is defined in
subclause A.4.2.6.2 of TS 44.031 [5].
* * *
Fields of the IE All satellite information
* * *
* * *
GANSS Clock and Orbit Model Choice Galileo Model-1 Modernized GPS Model-3
GLONASS Model-4 QZSS QZS-L1 Model-2 QZSS QZS-L1C/L2C/L5 Model-3 SBAS Model-5
* * *
**h) GPS Ionospheric Model IE.** This information element is defined in
subclause A.4.2.4 of TS 44.031 [5].
* * *
Fields of the IE All
* * *
**i) GANSS Ionospheric Model IE.** This information element is defined in
subclause A.4.2.6.1 of TS 44.031 [5].
* * *
Fields of the IE All
* * *
**j) GANSS Additional Ionospheric Model IE.** This information element is
defined in subclause A.4.2.6.1 of TS 44.031 [5].
* * *
Fields of the IE All
* * *
**k) GPS UTC Model IE.** This information element is defined in subclause
A.4.2.4 of TS 44.031 [5].
* * *
Fields of the IE All
* * *
**l) Void**
**m) GANSS Auxiliary Information IE.** This information element is defined in
subclause A.4.2.6.2 of TS 44.031 [5].
* * *
Fields of the IE GANSS Auxiliary Information
* * *
### 6.2.3 Information elements required for MS based Sensitivity Fine Time
Assistance test case
The A-GPS and A-GANSS assistance data IEs and fields that shall be present for
the Sensitivity Fine Time Assistance test case shall be those specified in
subclause 6.2.2 with the following exception. Fields not specified shall not
be present. The values of the fields are specified in subclause 6.2.6.
**a) GPS Reference Time IE.** This information element is defined in subclause
A.4.2.4 of TS 44.031 [5].
* * *
Fields of the IE GPS Week GPS TOW BCCH Carrier BSIC FNm TN BN GPS TOW Assist
SatID TLM Message Anti-Spoof Alert TLM Reserved
* * *
**b) GANSS Reference Time IE.** This information element is defined in
subclause A.4.2.6.1 of TS 44.031 [5].
* * *
Fields of the IE GANSS Day GANSS TOD GANSS TOD Uncertainty GANSS Time ID BCCH
Carrier BSIC FNm TN BN
* * *
### 6.2.4 Information elements available for normal MS assisted testing
The following A-GPS and A-GANSS assistance data IEs and fields shall be
available for use in each test as appropriate for the GNSS(s) used during the
test. Fields not specified shall not be present. The values of the fields are
specified in subclause 6.2.6.
**a) GPS Reference Time IE.** This information element is defined in subclause
A.4.2.4 of TS 44.031 [5].
* * *
Fields of the IE GPS Week GPS TOW GPS TOW Assist SatID TLM Message Anti-Spoof
Alert TLM Reserved
* * *
**aa) GPS Reference Time Extension IE.** This information element is defined
in subclause A.4.2.4c of TS 44.031 [5].
* * *
Fields of the IE Release GPS Week Cycle Number Rel-10 onwards
* * *
**b) GANSS Reference Time IE.** This information element is defined in
subclause A.4.2.6.1 of TS 44.031 [5].
* * *
Fields of the IE GANSS Day GANSS TOD GANSS TOD Uncertainty GANSS Time ID
* * *
**c) GANSS Time Model IE.** This information element is only required for
multi system tests, and is defined in subclause A.4.2.6.2 of TS 44.031 [5].
+-------------------------------------+ | Fields of the IE | +-------------------------------------+ | GNSS_TOD_ID | | | | For each GNSS included in the test. | +-------------------------------------+
**ca) GANSS Time Model Extension IE.** This information element is only
required for multi system tests, and is defined in subclause A.4.2.6.2 of TS
44.031 [5].
+-------------------------------------+----------------+ | Fields of the IE | Release | +-------------------------------------+----------------+ | GNSS_TOD_ID | Rel-10 onwards | | | | | For each GNSS included in the test. | | +-------------------------------------+----------------+ | Delta T | Rel-10 onwards | +-------------------------------------+----------------+
**d) GPS Reference Location IE.** This information element is defined in
subclause A.4.2.4 of TS 44.031 [5].
* * *
Fields of the IE Ellipsoid point with Altitude and uncertainty ellipsoid
* * *
**e) GANSS Reference Location IE.** This information element is defined in
subclause A.4.2.6.1 of TS 44.031 [5].
* * *
Fields of the IE Ellipsoid point with Altitude and uncertainty ellipsoid
* * *
**f) GPS Almanac IE**. This information element is defined in subclause
A.4.2.4 of TS 44.031 [5].
* * *
Fields of the IE Almanac Reference Week All Satellite information
* * *
**fa) GPS Almanac Extension IE.** This information element is defined in
subclause A.4.2.4c of TS 44.031 [5].
* * *
Fields of the IE Release Complete Almanac Provided Rel-10 onwards
* * *
**g) GANSS Almanac Model IE.** This information element is defined in
subclause A.4.2.6.2 of TS 44.031 [5].
* * *
Fields of the IE GANSS Almanac Model
* * *
* * *
GANSS Almanac Model Choice Galileo Model-1 Modernized GPS Model-3,4 GLONASS
Model-5 QZSS QZS-L1 Model-2 QZSS QZS-L1C/L2C/L5 Model-3,4 SBAS Model-6
* * *
**ga) GANSS Almanac Model Extension IE.** This information element is defined
in subclause A.4.2.6.2 of TS 44.031 [5].
* * *
Fields of the IE Release Complete Almanac Provided Rel-10 onwards
* * *
**h) GPS Navigation Model IE**. This information element is defined in
subclause A.4.2.4 of TS 44.031 [5].
* * *
Fields of the IE All satellite information
* * *
**i) GANSS Navigation Model IE.** This information element is defined in
subclause A.4.2.6.2 of TS 44.031 [5].
* * *
Fields of the IE All satellite information
* * *
* * *
GANSS Clock and Orbit Model Choice Galileo Model-1 Modernized GPS Model-3
GLONASS Model-4 QZSS QZS-L1 Model-2 QZSS QZS-L1C/L2C/L5 Model-3 SBAS Model-5
* * *
**j) GPS Acquisition Assistance IE.** This information element is defined in
subclause A.4.2.4 of TS 44.031 [5].
* * *
Fields of the IE GPS TOW Satellite information SVID/PRNID Doppler (0th order
term) Doppler (1st order term) Doppler Uncertainty Code Phase Integer Code
Phase GPS Bit number Code Phase Search Window Azimuth Elevation
* * *
**ja) GPS Acquisition Assistance Extension IE.** This information element is
defined in subclause A.4.2.4c of TS 44.031 [5].
* * *
Fields of the IE Release N_SAT Rel-10 onwards SatID Rel-10 onwards Azimuth LSB
Rel-10 onwards Elevation LSB Rel-10 onwards
* * *
**k) GANSS Reference Measurement Information IE.** This information element is
defined in subclause A.4.2.6.2 of TS 44.031 [5].
* * *
Fields of the IE SV_ID Doppler (0^th^ order term) Doppler (1^st^ order term)
Doppler Uncertainty Code Phase Integer Code Phase Code Phase Search Window
Azimuth Elevation
* * *
**ka) GANSS Reference Measurement Extension IE.** This information element is
defined in subclause A.4.2.6.2 of TS 44.031 [5].
* * *
Fields of the IE Release Num_Sat Rel-10 onwards SV_ID Rel-10 onwards Azimuth
LSB Rel-10 onwards Elevation LSB Rel-10 onwards
* * *
**l) GANSS Auxiliary Information IE.** This information element is defined in
subclause A.4.2.6.2 of TS 44.031 [5].
* * *
Fields of the IE GANSS Auxiliary Information
* * *
**m) GPS UTC Model IE.** This information element is defined in subclause
A.4.2.4 of TS 44.031 [5].
* * *
Fields of the IE All
* * *
### 6.2.5 Information elements available for MS assisted Sensitivity Fine Time
Assistance test case
The A-GNSS assistance data IEs and fields that shall be available for use for
the Sensitivity Fine Time Assistance test case shall be those specified in
subclause 6.2.4 with the following exceptions. Fields not specified shall not
be present. The values of the fields are specified in subclause 6.2.6.
**a) GPS Reference Time IE.** This information element is defined in subclause
A.4.2.4 of TS 44.031 [5].
* * *
Fields of the IE GPS Week GPS TOW BCCH Carrier BSIC FNm TN BN GPS TOW Assist
SatID TLM Message Anti-Spoof Alert TLM Reserved
* * *
**b) GANSS Reference Time IE.** This information element is defined in
subclause A.4.2.6.1 of TS 44.031 [5].
* * *
Fields of the IE GANSS Day GANSS TOD GANSS TOD Uncertainty GANSS Time ID BCCH
Carrier BSIC FNm TN BN
* * *
**c) GPS Acquisition Assistance IE.** This information element is defined in
subclause A.4.2.4 of TS 44.031 [5].
* * *
Fields of the IE GPS TOW BCCH Carrier BSIC Frame # Timeslots # Bit #
SVID/PRNID Doppler (0th order term) Doppler (1st order term) Doppler
Uncertainty Code Phase Integer Code Phase GPS Bit number Code Phase Search
Window Azimuth Elevation
* * *
### 6.2.6 Contents of Information elements for Minimum performance testing
#### 6.2.6.1 General
This subclause defines the assistance data values that shall be used for all
Assisted GNSS performance tests defined in TS 51.010-1 [4] subclause 70.16. It
is given for GNSS scenarios #1, #2, #3 and #4 and QZSS Scenarios #1 and #2,
where it is different for each scenario; otherwise it is marked \"All\" where
the same value is used for all scenarios.
Where assistance data is required on a per-satellite basis, or where the
values of the data also varies with time it is specified in comma-separated-
variable files in the GNSS_data_perf.zip file defined in Annex B. These files
specify the values to be used for each satellite, indexed by satellite SV ID,
and, where applicable, the values to be used indexed by both time and
satellite SV ID.
Assistance data that is marked as \"time varying\" is specified and used in 80
ms increments. Interpolation between these values shall not be used.
Assistance data Information Elements and fields that are not specified shall
not be used.
#### 6.2.6.2 IE Random Offset Values
##### 6.2.6.2.0 Introduction
This subclause defines the methods for generating the random offsets that are
required to be applied to one or two assistance data IEs for certain tests
defined in TS 51.010-1 [4] subclause 70.16.
##### 6.2.6.2.1 GNSS TOW
For every Test Instance in each TTFF test case, the IE GPS TOW or GANSS TOD
shall have a random offset, relative to GNSS system time, within the allowed
error range of Coarse Time Assistance defined in the test case. This offset
value shall have a uniform random distribution.
The offset value shall be calculated by selecting the next random number from
a standard uniform random number generator, in the range specified for the
GNSS Coarse Time assistance error range in the Test Requirements, Test
parameters table for the test under consideration. The resolution used for the
random number shall be 0.01, representing 10ms.
##### 6.2.6.2.2 GNSS bit number (BN or Bit #)
In addition, for every Fine Time Assistance Test Instance the IE BN or Bit #
shall have a random offset, relative to the true value of the relationship
between the two time references, within the allowed error range of Fine Time
Assistance defined in the test case. This offset value shall have a uniform
random distribution.
The offset value shall be calculated by selecting the next random number from
a standard uniform random number generator with the following properties:
The range shall be the number of GSM bits whose duration is less than the
range specified for the GNSS Fine Time assistance error range in the Test
Requirements, Test parameters table for the test under consideration.
The resolution used for the random number shall be 1, representing 1 GSM bit.
#### 6.2.6.3 Satellite SV IDs to be used
For assistance data IEs which contain the field SatID or SVID/PRNID, and where
the values for these fields are not given below, then the following values
shall be used.
Table 6.2.6.3.1: Satellite SV IDs to be used for SatID or SVID/PRNID
* * *
Sub-Test Case Number GNSS #1 GNSS #2 GNSS #4C 1 3, 4, 5, 9, 10, 18, 19, 20 1,
8, 9, 10, 16, 19, 20, 21 [FFS] 2 [FFS] [FFS] [FFS] 3 1, 4, 11, 17, 19, 20, 23,
28, 32 1, 7, 8, 11, 15, 17, 26, 27, 28 [FFS] 4 GPS: 1, 4, 11, 17, 19, 20, 23,
28, 32. GLONASS: 3, 4, 5, 9, 10, 18, 19, 20 GPS: 1, 7, 8, 11, 15, 17, 26, 27,
28. GLONASS: 1, 8, 9, 10, 16, 19, 20, 21 [FFS]
* * *
#### 6.2.6.4 Assistance Data Contents
##### Assistance Data GPS Reference Time {#assistance-data-gps-reference-
time-1 .H6}
Table 6.2.6.4.1: GPS Reference Time (Fields occurring once per message)
+--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | Information | Units | Value/remark | Value/remark | Value/remark | | Element | | GNSS #1 | GNSS #2 | GNSS #4C | +--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | GPS Week | Weeks | 1669 | 1690 | [FFS] | +--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | GPS TOW | | 1860 s | 432060 s | [FFS] | | | | | | | | | | Start time. | Start time. | | | | | Add number | Add number | | | | | of 80ms as | of 80ms as | | | | | required. | required. | | | | | (Note 1) | (Note 1) | | +--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | BCCH Carrier | | ARFCN of | ARFCN of | - | | | | serving BCCH | serving BCCH | | | | | | | | | | | Present for | Present for | | | | | Sensitivity | Sensitivity | | | | | Fine Time | Fine Time | | | | | Assistance | Assistance | | | | | test case. | test case. | | | | | Absent | Absent | | | | | otherwise. | otherwise. | | +--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | BSIC | | BSIC of | BSIC of | - | | | | serving BCCH | serving BCCH | | | | | | | | | | | Present for | Present for | | | | | Sensitivity | Sensitivity | | | | | Fine Time | Fine Time | | | | | Assistance | Assistance | | | | | test case. | test case. | | | | | Absent | Absent | | | | | otherwise. | otherwise. | | +--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | FNm | | Present for | Present for | - | | | | Sensitivity | Sensitivity | | | | | Fine Time | Fine Time | | | | | Assistance | Assistance | | | | | test case. | test case. | | | | | Absent | Absent | | | | | otherwise. | otherwise. | | | | | Note 2 | Note 2 | | +--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | TN | | Present for | Present for | - | | | | Sensitivity | Sensitivity | | | | | Fine Time | Fine Time | | | | | Assistance | Assistance | | | | | test case. | test case. | | | | | Absent | Absent | | | | | otherwise. | otherwise. | | | | | Note 2 | Note 2 | | +--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | BN | | Present for | Present for | - | | | | Sensitivity | Sensitivity | | | | | Fine Time | Fine Time | | | | | Assistance | Assistance | | | | | test case. | test case. | | | | | Absent | Absent | | | | | otherwise. | otherwise. | | | | | Note 2 | Note 2 | | +--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | Note 1: GPS | | | | | | TOW\ | | | | | | This is the | | | | | | value in ms | | | | | | of GPS TOW | | | | | | when the | | | | | | GNSS | | | | | | scenario is | | | | | | initially | | | | | | started in | | | | | | the GNSS | | | | | | simulator. | | | | | | For all TTFF | | | | | | test cases, | | | | | | each time a | | | | | | GNSS | | | | | | scenario is | | | | | | used, the | | | | | | GPS start | | | | | | time shall | | | | | | be advanced | | | | | | by 120 | | | | | | seconds from | | | | | | the value | | | | | | last used so | | | | | | that, at the | | | | | | time the fix | | | | | | is made, it | | | | | | is at least | | | | | | 2 minutes | | | | | | later than | | | | | | the previous | | | | | | fix made | | | | | | with that | | | | | | scenario.\ | | | | | | The actual | | | | | | value of GPS | | | | | | TOW to be | | | | | | used in the | | | | | | Reference | | | | | | Time IE | | | | | | (before the | | | | | | addition of | | | | | | the random | | | | | | offset, if | | | | | | applicable) | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | calculated | | | | | | at the time | | | | | | the IE is | | | | | | required by | | | | | | adding the | | | | | | elapsed time | | | | | | since the | | | | | | time the | | | | | | scenario was | | | | | | started in | | | | | | the GNSS | | | | | | simulator to | | | | | | this value. | | | | | | The accuracy | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | such that | | | | | | the Maximum | | | | | | Test System | | | | | | Uncertainty | | | | | | for Coarse | | | | | | Time | | | | | | Assistance, | | | | | | specified in | | | | | | Table A5.5.1 | | | | | | of TS | | | | | | 51.010-1 | | | | | | [4] , | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | met.\ | | | | | | For all TTFF | | | | | | test cases a | | | | | | random | | | | | | offset is | | | | | | then added | | | | | | to the value | | | | | | of GPS TOW | | | | | | as described | | | | | | in subclause | | | | | | 6.2.6.2. | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: GSM | | | | | | Frame Number | | | | | | (FNm), | | | | | | Timeslot | | | | | | Number (TN) | | | | | | and Bit | | | | | | Number (BN)\ | | | | | | The values | | | | | | of the IEs | | | | | | FNm, TN and | | | | | | BN (before | | | | | | the addition | | | | | | of the | | | | | | random | | | | | | offset) | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | calculated | | | | | | at the time | | | | | | the IE is | | | | | | required. | | | | | | The accuracy | | | | | | of the | | | | | | relationship | | | | | | between the | | | | | | two time | | | | | | references | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | such that | | | | | | the Maximum | | | | | | Test System | | | | | | Uncertainty | | | | | | for Fine | | | | | | Time | | | | | | Assistance, | | | | | | specified in | | | | | | Table A5.5.1 | | | | | | of TS | | | | | | 51.010-1 | | | | | | [4] , | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | met.\ | | | | | | A random | | | | | | offset is | | | | | | then added | | | | | | to the value | | | | | | of BN as | | | | | | described in | | | | | | subclause | | | | | | 6.2.6.2. | | | | | +--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+
Table 6.2.6.4.2: Satellite Information
* * *
Parameter Units Value/remark GPS All Number of satellites 9
* * *
Table 6.2.6.4.3: Reference Time - GPS TOW Assist (Fields occurring once per
satellite)
* * *
**Parameter** **Units** Value/remark GNSS #1 Value/remark GNSS #2 Value/remark
GNSS #4C SatID See Table 6.2.6.3-1 See Table 6.2.6.3-1 See Table 6.2.6.3-1
* * *
Table 6.2.6.4.4: Reference Time - GPS TOW Assist (Fields occurring once per
satellite)
* * *
**Parameter** **Units** **Value/remark GNSS All** TLM Message Bit string 10922
Anti-Spoof Bit string 1 Alert 0 TLM Reserved 2
* * *
##### Assistance Data GPS Reference Time Extension {#assistance-data-gps-
reference-time-extension-1 .H6}
Table 6.2.6.4.4a: GPS Reference Time Extension (Fields occurring once per
message)
* * *
Parameter Units Value/remark GNSS All Release GPS Week Cycle Number 1024 weeks
1 Rel-10 onwards
* * *
##### Assistance Data GPS Reference Location {#assistance-data-gps-reference-
location-1 .H6}
Table 6.2.6.4.5: GPS Reference Location
* * *
Parameter Units Value/remark GNSS #1 Value/remark GNSS #2 Value/remark GNSS
#4C Latitude sign 0 0 [FFS] Degrees of latitude degrees 35.744287 37.414831
[FFS] Degrees of longitude degrees 139.680176 -122.017701 [FFS] Altitude
Direction 0 0 [FFS] Altitude m 300 50 [FFS] Uncertainty semi-major m 3000 3000
[FFS] Uncertainty semi-minor m 3000 3000 [FFS] Orientation of major axis
degrees 0 0 [FFS] Uncertainty altitude m 500 500 [FFS] Confidence \% 68 68
[FFS]
* * *
##### Assistance Data GPS Navigation Model {#assistance-data-gps-navigation-
model-1 .H6}
Table 6.2.6.4.6: Satellite Information
* * *
Parameter Units Value/remark GNSS #1 Value/remark GNSS #2 Value/remark GNSS
#4C Number of satellites 9 9 [FFS]
* * *
Table 6.2.6.4.7: Navigation Model (Fields occurring once per satellite)
* * *
Parameter Units Value/remark GNSS #1 Value/remark GNSS #2 Value/remark GNSS
#4C SatID See Table 6.2.6.3-1 See Table 6.2.6.3-1 See Table 6.2.6.3-1
Satellite Status 0 (Note) 0 (Note) [FFS] Note: For consistency Satellite
Status is also given in file: Perf_GPS_Navigation_model_XX.csv.
* * *
Table 6.2.6.4.8: Ephemeris and Clock Correction parameters (Fields occurring
once per satellite)
* * *
Parameter Units Value/remark GNSS All C/A or P on L2 See file:
Perf_GPS_Navigation_model_XX.csv URA Index See file:
Perf_GPS_Navigation_model_XX.csv SV Health See file:
Perf_GPS_Navigation_model_XX.csv IODC See file:
Perf_GPS_Navigation_model_XX.csv L2 P Data Flag See file:
Perf_GPS_Navigation_model_XX.csv SF 1 Reserved See file:
Perf_GPS_Navigation_model_XX.csv SF 2 Reserved See file:
Perf_GPS_Navigation_model_XX.csv SF 3 Reserved See file:
Perf_GPS_Navigation_model_XX.csv SF 4 Reserved See file:
Perf_GPS_Navigation_model_XX.csv T~GD~ sec See file:
Perf_GPS_Navigation_model_XX.csv t~oc~ sec See file:
Perf_GPS_Navigation_model_XX.csv af~2~ sec/sec^2^ See file:
Perf_GPS_Navigation_model_XX.csv af~1~ sec/sec See file:
Perf_GPS_Navigation_model_XX.csv af~0~ sec See file:
Perf_GPS_Navigation_model_XX.csv C~rs~ meters See file:
Perf_GPS_Navigation_model_XX.csv ∆n semi-circles/sec See file:
Perf_GPS_Navigation_model_XX.csv M~0~ semi-circles See file:
Perf_GPS_Navigation_model_XX.csv C~uc~ radians See file:
Perf_GPS_Navigation_model_XX.csv e See file: Perf_GPS_Navigation_model_XX.csv
C~us~ radians See file: Perf_GPS_Navigation_model_XX.csv (A)^1/2^ meters^1/2^
See file: Perf_GPS_Navigation_model_XX.csv t~oe~ sec See file:
Perf_GPS_Navigation_model_XX.csv Fit Interval Flag See file:
Perf_GPS_Navigation_model_XX.csv AODO sec See file:
Perf_GPS_Navigation_model_XX.csv C~ic~ radians See file:
Perf_GPS_Navigation_model_XX.csv OMEGA~0~ semi-circles See file:
Perf_GPS_Navigation_model_XX.csv C~is~ radians See file:
Perf_GPS_Navigation_model_XX.csv i~0~ semi-circles See file:
Perf_GPS_Navigation_model_XX.csv C~rc~ meters See file:
Perf_GPS_Navigation_model_XX.csv ω semi-circles See file:
Perf_GPS_Navigation_model_XX.csv OMEGAdot semi-circles/sec See file:
Perf_GPS_Navigation_model_XX.csv Idot semi-circles/sec See file:
Perf_GPS_Navigation_model_XX.csv
* * *
##### Assistance Data GPS Ionospheric Model {#assistance-data-gps-ionospheric-
model-1 .H6}
Table 6.2.6.4.9: GPS Ionospheric Model
* * *
Information Element Units Value/remark GNSS All α~0~ seconds 4.6566129 10E-9
α~1~ sec/semi-circle 1.4901161 10E-8 α~2~ sec/(semi-circle)^2^ -5.96046 10E-8
α~3~ sec/(semi-circle)^3^ -5.96046 10E-8 β~0~ seconds 79872 β~1~ sec/semi-
circle 65536 β~2~ sec/(semi-circle)^2^ -65536 β~3~ sec/(semi-circle)^3^
-393216
* * *
##### Assistance Data GPS UTC Model {#assistance-data-gps-utc-model-1 .H6}
Table 6.2.6.4.10: GPS UTC Model
* * *
Information Element Units Value/remark GNSS #1 Value/remark GNSS #2
Value/remark GNSS #4C A~1~ sec/sec 0 0 FFS A~0~ seconds 0 0 FFS t~ot~ seconds
249856 77824 FFS WN~t~ weeks 133 155 FFS ∆t~LS~ seconds 15 15 FFS WN~LSF~
weeks 158 158 FFS DN days 7 7 FFS ∆t~LSF~ seconds 16 16 FFS
* * *
##### Assistance Data GPS Almanac {#assistance-data-gps-almanac-1 .H6}
Table 6.2.6.4.11: GPS Almanac (Fields occurring once per message)
* * *
Information Element Units Value/remark GNSS All Num_Sats_Total 27
* * *
Table 6.2.6.4.11a: GPS Almanac (Field occurring once per message)
* * *
Parameter Units Value/remark GNSS #1 Value/remark GNSS #2 Value/remark GNSS
#4C WN~a~ weeks 1669 1691 [FFS]
* * *
Table 6.2.6.4.12: GPS Almanac (Fields occurring once per satellite)
* * *
Parameter Units Value/remark GNSS #1 Value/remark GNSS #2 Value/remark GNSS
#4C SatID PRNs: 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20,
21, 22, 23, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 32 PRNs: 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11,
12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 25, 26, 27, 28, 30 [FFS]
* * *
Table 6.2.6.4.13: GPS Almanac (Fields occurring once per satellite)
* * *
Information Element Units Value/remark e dimensionless See file:
Perf_GPS_Almanac_XX.csv t~oa~ sec See file: Perf_GPS_Almanac_XX.csv δi semi-
circles See file: Perf_GPS_Almanac_XX.csv OMEGADOT semi-circles/sec See file:
Perf_GPS_Almanac_XX.csv SV Health See file: Perf_GPS_Almanac_XX.csv A^1/2^
meters^1/2^ See file: Perf_GPS_Almanac_XX.csv OMEGA~0~ semi-circles See file:
Perf_GPS_Almanac_XX.csv ω semi-circles See file: Perf_GPS_Almanac_XX.csv M~0~
semi-circles See file: Perf_GPS_Almanac_XX.csv af~0~ seconds See file:
Perf_GPS_Almanac_XX.csv af~1~ sec/sec See file: Perf_GPS_Almanac_XX.csv
* * *
##### Assistance Data GPS Almanac Extension {#assistance-data-gps-almanac-
extension-1 .H6}
Table 6.2.6.4.13a: GPS Almanac Extension (Fields occurring once per message)
* * *
Parameter Units Value/remark GNSS All Release Complete Almanac Provided 1
(TRUE) Rel-10 onwards
* * *
##### Assistance Data GPS Acquisition Assistance {#assistance-data-gps-
acquisition-assistance-1 .H6}
Table 6.2.6.4.14: GPS Acquisition Assistance (Fields occurring once per
message)
+--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | Parameter | Units | Value/remark | Value/remark | Value/remark | | | | GNSS #1 | GNSS #2 | GNSS #4C | +--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | GPS TOW | | 1860 s | 432060s | [FFS] | | | | | | | | | | Start time. | Start time. | | | | | Add number | Add number | | | | | of 80ms as | of 80ms as | | | | | required. | required. | | | | | (Note 1) | (Note 1) | | +--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | BCCH Carrier | | ARFCN of | ARFCN of | Absent | | | | serving BCCH | serving BCCH | | | | | | | | | | | Present for | Present for | | | | | Sensitivity | Sensitivity | | | | | Fine Time | Fine Time | | | | | Assistance | Assistance | | | | | test case. | test case. | | | | | Absent | Absent | | | | | otherwise. | otherwise. | | +--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | BSIC | | BSIC of | BSIC of | | | | | serving BCCH | serving BCCH | | | | | | | | | | | Present for | Present for | | | | | Sensitivity | Sensitivity | | | | | Fine Time | Fine Time | | | | | Assistance | Assistance | | | | | test case. | test case. | | | | | Absent | Absent | | | | | otherwise. | otherwise. | | +--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | Frame # | | Present for | Present for | | | | | Sensitivity | Sensitivity | | | | | Fine Time | Fine Time | | | | | Assistance | Assistance | | | | | test case. | test case. | | | | | Absent | Absent | | | | | otherwise. | otherwise. | | | | | Note 2 | Note 2 | | +--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | Timeslots # | | Present for | Present for | | | | | Sensitivity | Sensitivity | | | | | Fine Time | Fine Time | | | | | Assistance | Assistance | | | | | test case. | test case. | | | | | Absent | Absent | | | | | otherwise. | otherwise. | | | | | Note 2 | Note 2 | | +--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | Bit # | | Present for | Present for | | | | | Sensitivity | Sensitivity | | | | | Fine Time | Fine Time | | | | | Assistance | Assistance | | | | | test case. | test case. | | | | | Absent | Absent | | | | | otherwise. | otherwise. | | | | | Note 2 | Note 2 | | +--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | Note 1: GPS | | | | | | TOW | | | | | | | | | | | | This is the | | | | | | value in ms | | | | | | of GPS TOW | | | | | | when the | | | | | | GNSS | | | | | | scenario is | | | | | | initially | | | | | | started in | | | | | | the GPS | | | | | | simulator. | | | | | | For all TTFF | | | | | | test cases, | | | | | | each time a | | | | | | GNSS | | | | | | scenario is | | | | | | used, the | | | | | | GPS start | | | | | | time shall | | | | | | be advanced | | | | | | by 120 | | | | | | seconds from | | | | | | the value | | | | | | last used so | | | | | | that, at the | | | | | | time the fix | | | | | | is made, it | | | | | | is at least | | | | | | 2 minutes | | | | | | later than | | | | | | the previous | | | | | | fix made | | | | | | with that | | | | | | scenario.\ | | | | | | The actual | | | | | | value of GPS | | | | | | TOW to be | | | | | | used in the | | | | | | Acquisition | | | | | | Assistance | | | | | | IE (before | | | | | | the addition | | | | | | of the | | | | | | random | | | | | | offset, if | | | | | | applicable) | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | calculated | | | | | | at the time | | | | | | the IE is | | | | | | required by | | | | | | adding the | | | | | | elapsed time | | | | | | since the | | | | | | time the | | | | | | scenario was | | | | | | started in | | | | | | the GNSS | | | | | | simulator to | | | | | | this value. | | | | | | The accuracy | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | such that | | | | | | the Maximum | | | | | | Test System | | | | | | Uncertainty | | | | | | for Coarse | | | | | | Time | | | | | | Assistance, | | | | | | specified in | | | | | | Table A5.5.1 | | | | | | of TS | | | | | | 51.010-1 | | | | | | [4] , | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | met.\ | | | | | | For all TTFF | | | | | | test cases a | | | | | | random | | | | | | offset is | | | | | | then added | | | | | | to the value | | | | | | of GPS TOW | | | | | | as described | | | | | | in subclause | | | | | | 6.2.6.2\ | | | | | | This \"final | | | | | | GPS TOW\" | | | | | | value is | | | | | | then also | | | | | | used to | | | | | | determine | | | | | | the value of | | | | | | the | | | | | | Acquisition | | | | | | Assistance | | | | | | parameters | | | | | | marked as | | | | | | \"Time | | | | | | varying\" in | | | | | | subclause | | | | | | 6.2.6.4 | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: GSM | | | | | | Frame Number | | | | | | (Frame #), | | | | | | Timeslot | | | | | | Number | | | | | | (Timeslots | | | | | | #) and Bit | | | | | | Number (Bit | | | | | | #)\ | | | | | | The values | | | | | | of the IEs | | | | | | Frame #, | | | | | | Timeslots # | | | | | | and Bit # | | | | | | (before the | | | | | | addition of | | | | | | the random | | | | | | offset) | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | calculated | | | | | | at the time | | | | | | the IE is | | | | | | required. | | | | | | The accuracy | | | | | | of the | | | | | | relationship | | | | | | between the | | | | | | two time | | | | | | references | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | such that | | | | | | the Maximum | | | | | | Test System | | | | | | Uncertainty | | | | | | for Fine | | | | | | Time | | | | | | Assistance, | | | | | | specified in | | | | | | Table A5.5.1 | | | | | | of TS | | | | | | 51.010-1 | | | | | | [4] , | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | met.\ | | | | | | A random | | | | | | offset is | | | | | | then added | | | | | | to the value | | | | | | of Bit # as | | | | | | described in | | | | | | subclause | | | | | | 6.2.6.2 | | | | | +--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+
Table 6.2.6.4.15: Satellite Information
* * *
Parameter Units Value/remark GNSS #1 Value/remark GNSS #2 Value/remark GNSS
#4C Number of satellites 9 9 [FFS]
* * *
Table 6.2.6.4.16: GPS Acquisition Assistance (Fields occurring once per
satellite)
* * *
Parameter Units Value/remark GNSS #1 Value/remark GNSS #2 Value/remark GNSS
#4C SVID/PRNID See Table 6.2.6.3-1 See Table 6.2.6.3-1 See Table 6.2.6.3-1
* * *
Table 6.2.6.4.17: GPS Acquisition Assistance (Fields occurring once per
satellite)
+-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Parameter | Units | Value/remark GNSS All | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Doppler (0^th^ order term) | Hz | Time varying. See file: | | | | Perf_GPS_ | | | | Acquisition_assist_XX.csv | | | | (Note) | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Doppler (1^st^ order term) | Hz/sec | Time varying. See file: | | | | Perf_GPS_ | | | | Acquisition_assist_XX.csv | | | | (Note) | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Doppler Uncertainty | Hz | Time varying. See file: | | | | Perf_GPS_ | | | | Acquisition_assist_XX.csv | | | | (Note) | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Code Phase | chips | Time varying. See file: | | | | Perf_GPS_ | | | | Acquisition_assist_XX.csv | | | | (Note) | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Integer Code Phase | | Time varying. See file: | | | | Perf_GPS_ | | | | Acquisition_assist_XX.csv | | | | (Note) | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | GPS Bit number | | Time varying. See file: | | | | Perf_GPS_ | | | | Acquisition_assist_XX.csv | | | | (Note) | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Code Phase Search Window | chips | Time varying. See file: | | | | Perf_GPS_ | | | | Acquisition_assist_XX.csv | | | | (Note) | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Azimuth | deg | Time varying. See file: | | | | Perf_GPS_ | | | | Acquisition_assist_XX.csv | | | | (Note) | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Elevation | deg | Time varying. See file: | | | | Perf_GPS_ | | | | Acquisition_assist_XX.csv | | | | (Note) | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | **Note: Acquisition | | | | Assistance parameters** | | | | | | | | This field is \"Time | | | | varying\" and its value | | | | depends on the \"final GPS | | | | TOW\" as described in | | | | subclause 6.2.6.8. The | | | | value of this field to be | | | | used shall be determined by | | | | taking the \"final GPS | | | | TOW\" value and selecting | | | | the nearest field value in | | | | the | | | | Perf_GPS_ | | | | Acquisition_assist_XX.csv | | | | file corresponding to the | | | | value of \"final current | | | | GPS TOW\". | | | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+
#### Assistance Data GPS Acquisition Assistance Extension
Table 6.2.6.4.17a: GPS Acquisition Assistance Extension (Fields occurring once
per message)
* * *
Parameter Units Value/remark GNSS #1 Value/remark GNSS #2 Value/remark GNSS
#4C Release N_SAT 9 9 [FFS] Rel-10 onwards
* * *
Table 6.2.6.4.17b: GPS Acquisition Assistance Extension (Fields occurring once
per satellite)
* * *
Parameter Units Value/remark GNSS All Release SatID See Table 6.2.6.3-1 Rel-10
onwards Azimuth LSB degrees Time varying. Calculated from Azimuth, see file:
Perf_GPS_Acquisition_assist_XX.csv (Note) Rel-10 onwards Elevation LSB degrees
Time varying. Calculated from Elevation, see file:
Perf_GPS_Acquisition_assist_XX.csv (Note) Rel-10 onwards Note: This field is
\"Time varying\" and its value depends on the \"current GPS TOW\" as described
in subclause 5.1.3. The value of this field to be used shall be determined by
taking the \"current GPS TOW\" value and selecting the field value in the
Perf_GPS_Acquisition_assist_XX.csv file corresponding to the value of
\"current GPS TOW\".
* * *
##### Assistance Data GANSS Reference Time {#assistance-data-ganss-reference-
time-1 .H6}
Table 6.2.6.4.18: Assistance Data GANSS Reference Time: sub-test 1 (Fields
occurring once per message)
+--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | Information | Units | Value/remark | Value/remark | Value/remark | | Element | | GNSS #1 | GNSS #2 | GNSS #4C | +--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | GANSS Day | | 5845 | 5997 | [FFS] | +--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | GANSS TOD | seconds | 12645 s | 10845 | [FFS] | | | | | | | | | | Start time. | Start time. | | | | | Add number | Add number | | | | | of 1 seconds | of 1 seconds | | | | | as required. | as required. | | | | | (Note 1) | (Note 1) | | +--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | GANSS TOD | | 125 (2.127 | 125 (2.127 | 125 (2.127 | | Uncertainty | | seconds) | seconds) | seconds) | +--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | GANSS Time | | 2 (GLONASS) | 2 (GLONASS) | 2 (GLONASS) | | ID | | | | | +--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | BCCH Carrier | | ARFCN of | ARFCN of | | | | | serving BCCH | serving BCCH | | | | | | | | | | | Present for | Present for | | | | | Sensitivity | Sensitivity | | | | | Fine Time | Fine Time | | | | | Assistance | Assistance | | | | | test case. | test case. | | | | | Absent | Absent | | | | | otherwise. | otherwise. | | +--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | BSIC | | BSIC of | BSIC of | | | | | serving BCCH | serving BCCH | | | | | | | | | | | Present for | Present for | | | | | Sensitivity | Sensitivity | | | | | Fine Time | Fine Time | | | | | Assistance | Assistance | | | | | test case. | test case. | | | | | Absent | Absent | | | | | otherwise. | otherwise. | | +--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | FNm | | Present for | Present for | | | | | Sensitivity | Sensitivity | | | | | Fine Time | Fine Time | | | | | Assistance | Assistance | | | | | test case. | test case. | | | | | Absent | Absent | | | | | otherwise. | otherwise. | | | | | Note 2 | Note 2 | | +--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | TN | | Present for | Present for | | | | | Sensitivity | Sensitivity | | | | | Fine Time | Fine Time | | | | | Assistance | Assistance | | | | | test case. | test case. | | | | | Absent | Absent | | | | | otherwise. | otherwise. | | | | | Note 2 | Note 2 | | +--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | BN | | Present for | Present for | | | | | Sensitivity | Sensitivity | | | | | Fine Time | Fine Time | | | | | Assistance | Assistance | | | | | test case. | test case. | | | | | Absent | Absent | | | | | otherwise. | otherwise. | | | | | Note 2 | Note 2 | | +--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | Note 1: | | | | | | GANSS TOD | | | | | | | | | | | | This is the | | | | | | value in | | | | | | seconds of | | | | | | GANSS TOD | | | | | | when the | | | | | | GNSS | | | | | | scenario is | | | | | | initially | | | | | | started in | | | | | | the GNSS | | | | | | simulator. | | | | | | For all TTFF | | | | | | test cases, | | | | | | each time a | | | | | | GNSS | | | | | | scenario is | | | | | | used, the | | | | | | GANSS start | | | | | | time shall | | | | | | be advanced | | | | | | by 120 | | | | | | seconds from | | | | | | the value | | | | | | last used so | | | | | | that, at the | | | | | | time the fix | | | | | | is made, it | | | | | | is at least | | | | | | 2 minutes | | | | | | later than | | | | | | the previous | | | | | | fix made | | | | | | with that | | | | | | scenario.\ | | | | | | The actual | | | | | | value of | | | | | | GANSS TOD to | | | | | | be used in | | | | | | the | | | | | | Reference | | | | | | Time IE | | | | | | (before the | | | | | | addition of | | | | | | the random | | | | | | offset, if | | | | | | applicable) | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | calculated | | | | | | at the time | | | | | | the IE is | | | | | | required by | | | | | | adding the | | | | | | elapsed time | | | | | | since the | | | | | | time the | | | | | | scenario was | | | | | | started in | | | | | | the GNSS | | | | | | simulator to | | | | | | this value. | | | | | | The accuracy | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | such that | | | | | | the Maximum | | | | | | Test System | | | | | | Uncertainty | | | | | | for Coarse | | | | | | Time | | | | | | Assistance, | | | | | | specified in | | | | | | Table A5.5.1 | | | | | | of TS | | | | | | 51.010-1 | | | | | | [4] , | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | met.\ | | | | | | For all TTFF | | | | | | test cases a | | | | | | random | | | | | | offset is | | | | | | then added | | | | | | to the value | | | | | | of GANSS TOD | | | | | | as described | | | | | | in subclause | | | | | | 6.2.6.2 | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: GSM | | | | | | Frame Number | | | | | | (FNm), | | | | | | Timeslot | | | | | | Number (TN) | | | | | | and Bit | | | | | | Number (BN)\ | | | | | | The values | | | | | | of the IEs | | | | | | FNm, TN and | | | | | | BN (before | | | | | | the addition | | | | | | of the | | | | | | random | | | | | | offset) | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | calculated | | | | | | at the time | | | | | | the IE is | | | | | | required. | | | | | | The accuracy | | | | | | of the | | | | | | relationship | | | | | | between the | | | | | | two time | | | | | | references | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | such that | | | | | | the Maximum | | | | | | Test System | | | | | | Uncertainty | | | | | | for Fine | | | | | | Time | | | | | | Assistance, | | | | | | specified in | | | | | | Table A5.5.1 | | | | | | of TS | | | | | | 51.010-1 | | | | | | [4] , | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | met.\ | | | | | | A random | | | | | | offset is | | | | | | then added | | | | | | to the value | | | | | | of BN as | | | | | | described in | | | | | | subclause | | | | | | 6.2.6.2 | | | | | +--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+--------------+
Table 6.2.6.4.19: Assistance Data GANSS Reference Time: sub-test 2 (Fields
occurring once per message)
+--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | Information | Units | Value/remark | Value/remark | Value/remark | | Element | | GNSS #1 | GNSS #2 | GNSS #4C | +--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | GANSS Day | | FFS | FFS | FFS | +--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | GANSS TOD | seconds | FFS | FFS | FFS | | | | | | | | | | Start time. | Start time. | Start time. | | | | Add number | Add number | Add number | | | | of 1 seconds | of 1 seconds | of 1 seconds | | | | as required. | as required. | as required. | | | | (Note 1) | (Note 1) | (Note 1) | +--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | GANSS TOD | | 125 (2.127 | 125 (2.127 | 125 (2.127 | | Uncertainty | | seconds) | seconds) | seconds) | +--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | GANSS Time | | Not present | Not present | Not present | | ID | | (Galileo | (Galileo | (Galileo | +--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | BCCH Carrier | | ARFCN of | ARFCN of | | | | | serving BCCH | serving BCCH | | | | | | | | | | | Present for | Present for | | | | | Sensitivity | Sensitivity | | | | | Fine Time | Fine Time | | | | | Assistance | Assistance | | | | | test case. | test case. | | | | | Absent | Absent | | | | | otherwise. | otherwise. | | +--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | BSIC | | BSIC of | BSIC of | | | | | serving BCCH | serving BCCH | | | | | | | | | | | Present for | Present for | | | | | Sensitivity | Sensitivity | | | | | Fine Time | Fine Time | | | | | Assistance | Assistance | | | | | test case. | test case. | | | | | Absent | Absent | | | | | otherwise. | otherwise. | | +--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | FNm | | Present for | Present for | | | | | Sensitivity | Sensitivity | | | | | Fine Time | Fine Time | | | | | Assistance | Assistance | | | | | test case. | test case. | | | | | Absent | Absent | | | | | otherwise. | otherwise. | | | | | Note 2 | Note 2 | | +--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | TN | | Present for | Present for | | | | | Sensitivity | Sensitivity | | | | | Fine Time | Fine Time | | | | | Assistance | Assistance | | | | | test case. | test case. | | | | | Absent | Absent | | | | | otherwise. | otherwise. | | | | | Note 2 | Note 2 | | +--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | BN | | Present for | Present for | | | | | Sensitivity | Sensitivity | | | | | Fine Time | Fine Time | | | | | Assistance | Assistance | | | | | test case. | test case. | | | | | Absent | Absent | | | | | otherwise. | otherwise. | | | | | Note 2 | Note 2 | | +--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | Note 1: | | | | | | GANSS TOD | | | | | | | | | | | | This is the | | | | | | value in | | | | | | seconds of | | | | | | GANSS TOD | | | | | | when the | | | | | | GNSS | | | | | | scenario is | | | | | | initially | | | | | | started in | | | | | | the GNSS | | | | | | simulator. | | | | | | For all TTFF | | | | | | test cases, | | | | | | each time a | | | | | | GNSS | | | | | | scenario is | | | | | | used, the | | | | | | GANSS start | | | | | | time shall | | | | | | be advanced | | | | | | by 120 | | | | | | seconds from | | | | | | the value | | | | | | last used so | | | | | | that, at the | | | | | | time the fix | | | | | | is made, it | | | | | | is at least | | | | | | 2 minutes | | | | | | later than | | | | | | the previous | | | | | | fix made | | | | | | with that | | | | | | scenario.\ | | | | | | The actual | | | | | | value of | | | | | | GANSS TOD to | | | | | | be used in | | | | | | the | | | | | | Reference | | | | | | Time IE | | | | | | (before the | | | | | | addition of | | | | | | the random | | | | | | offset, if | | | | | | applicable) | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | calculated | | | | | | at the time | | | | | | the IE is | | | | | | required by | | | | | | adding the | | | | | | elapsed time | | | | | | since the | | | | | | time the | | | | | | scenario was | | | | | | started in | | | | | | the GNSS | | | | | | simulator to | | | | | | this value. | | | | | | The accuracy | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | such that | | | | | | the Maximum | | | | | | Test System | | | | | | Uncertainty | | | | | | for Coarse | | | | | | Time | | | | | | Assistance, | | | | | | specified in | | | | | | Table A5.5.1 | | | | | | of TS | | | | | | 51.010-1 | | | | | | [4] , | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | met.\ | | | | | | For all TTFF | | | | | | test cases a | | | | | | random | | | | | | offset is | | | | | | then added | | | | | | to the value | | | | | | of GANSS TOD | | | | | | as described | | | | | | in subclause | | | | | | 6.2.6.2 | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: GSM | | | | | | Frame Number | | | | | | (FNm), | | | | | | Timeslot | | | | | | Number (TN) | | | | | | and Bit | | | | | | Number (BN)\ | | | | | | The values | | | | | | of the IEs | | | | | | FNm, TN and | | | | | | BN (before | | | | | | the addition | | | | | | of the | | | | | | random | | | | | | offset) | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | calculated | | | | | | at the time | | | | | | the IE is | | | | | | required. | | | | | | The accuracy | | | | | | of the | | | | | | relationship | | | | | | between the | | | | | | two time | | | | | | references | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | such that | | | | | | the Maximum | | | | | | Test System | | | | | | Uncertainty | | | | | | for Fine | | | | | | Time | | | | | | Assistance, | | | | | | specified in | | | | | | Table A5.5.1 | | | | | | of TS | | | | | | 51.010-1 | | | | | | [4] , | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | met.\ | | | | | | A random | | | | | | offset is | | | | | | then added | | | | | | to the value | | | | | | of BN as | | | | | | described in | | | | | | subclause | | | | | | 6.2.6.2 | | | | | +--------------+---------+--------------+--------------+--------------+
##### Assistance Data GANSS Reference Location {#assistance-data-ganss-
reference-location-1 .H6}
Table 6.2.6.4.20: Assistance Data GANSS Reference Location
* * *
Parameter Units Value/remark GNSS #1 Value/remark GNSS #2 Value/remark GNSS
#4C Latitude sign 0 0 [FFS] Degrees of latitude degrees 35.744287 37.414831
[FFS] Degrees of longitude degrees 139.680176 -122.017701 [FFS] Altitude
Direction 0 0 [FFS] Altitude m 300 50 [FFS] Uncertainty semi-major m 3000 3000
[FFS] Uncertainty semi-minor m 3000 3000 [FFS] Orientation of major axis
degrees 0 0 [FFS] Uncertainty altitude m 500 500 [FFS] Confidence \% 68 68
[FFS]
* * *
##### Assistance Data GANSS Ionospheric Model {#assistance-data-ganss-
ionospheric-model-1 .H6}
Table 6.2.6.4.21: GANSS Ionospheric Model
* * *
Information Element Units Value/remark GNSS All a~i0~ FFS a~i1~ FFS a~i2~ FFS
Storm Flag 1 0 Storm Flag 2 0 Storm Flag 3 0 Storm Flag 4 0 Storm Flag 5 0
* * *
##### Assistance Data GANSS Additional Ionospheric Model {#assistance-data-
ganss-additional-ionospheric-model-1 .H6}
Table 6.2.6.4.21a: GANSS Additional Ionospheric Model
* * *
Information Element Units Value/remark GNSS All Data Id 00 α~0~ Seconds
4.6566129 10E-9 α~1~ sec/semi-circle 1.4901161 10E-8 α~2~ sec/(semi-circle)^2^
-5.96046 10E-8 α~3~ sec/(semi-circle)^3^ -5.96046 10E-8 β~0~ Seconds 79872
β~1~ sec/semi-circle 65536 β~2~ sec/(semi-circle)^2^ -65536 β~3~ sec/(semi-
circle)^3^ -393216
* * *
##### Assistance Data GANSS ID {#assistance-data-ganss-id-1 .H6}
Table 6.2.6.4.21b: GANSS ID: sub-test 1, 4
* * *
Information Element Units Value/remark GNSS All GANSS ID 3 (GLONASS)
* * *
Table 6.2.6.4.21c: GANSS ID: sub-test 2
* * *
Information Element Units Value/remark GNSS All GANSS ID Not present (Galileo)
* * *
Table 6.2.6.4.21d: GANSS ID: sub-test 3
* * *
Information Element Units Value/remark GNSS All GANSS ID 1 (Modernized GPS)
* * *
##### Assistance Data GANSS Time Model {#assistance-data-ganss-time-model-1
.H6}
Table 6.2.6.4.22: Void
Table 6.2.6.4.23: GANSS time Model
* * *
Information Element Units Value/remark GNSS #1 Value/remark GNSS #2
Value/remark GNSS #4C GANSS Time Model Reference Time 1860 (s) 432060 (s)
[FFS] T~A0~ Seconds 0 0 [FFS] GNSS_TO_ID 0 (GPS) 0 (GPS) 0 (GPS)
* * *
### Assistance Data GANSS Time Model Extension
Table 6.2.6.4.23a: GANSS Time Model Extension
* * *
Information Element Units Value/remark GNSS All Release GNSS_TOD_ID 0 (GPS)
Rel-10 onwards Delta T Seconds 15 Rel-10 onwards
* * *
##### Assistance Data GANSS Navigation Model {#assistance-data-ganss-
navigation-model-1 .H6}
Table 6.2.6.4.24: Void
Table 6.2.6.4.25: GANSS Navigation Model: sub-test 1, 4
* * *
Information Element Units Value/remark GNSS #1 Value/remark GNSS #2
Value/remark GNSS #4C Num_Sat 8 8 [FFS] Non-Broadcast Indication 0 0 [FFS]
* * *
Table 6.2.6.4.26: Satellite Information (Fields occurring once per satellite):
sub-test 1, 4
* * *
Parameter Units Value/remark GNSS #1 Value/remark GNSS #2 Value/remark GNSS
#4C SatID See Table 6.2.6.3-1 See Table 6.2.6.3-1 See Table 6.2.6.3-1 SV
Health 01111 (Note) 01111 (Note) 01111 (Note) IOD 225 (Note) 195 (Note) [FFS]
Note: For consistency SV Health and IOD are also given in file:
Perf_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest1_4_XX.csv.
* * *
Table 6.2.6.4.27: GANSS Clock Model (Fields occurring once per satellite):
sub-test 1, 4
* * *
Information Element Units Value/remark GNSS All GLONASS Satellite Clock Model  
**τ~n~(t~b~)** seconds See file: Perf_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest1_4_XX.csv
**γ~n~(t~b~)** See file: Perf_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest1_4_XX.csv
**∆τ~n~** seconds See file: Perf_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest1_4_XX.csv
* * *
Table 6.2.6.4.28: GANSS Orbit Model (Fields occurring once per satellite):
sub-test 1, 4
* * *
Information Element Units Value/remark GNSS All GLONASS Earth-Centered, Earth-
fixed Parameters  
E~n~ days See file: Perf_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest1_4_XX.csv P1 minutes
See file: Perf_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest1_4_XX.csv P2 See file:
Perf_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest1_4_XX.csv M See file:
Perf_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest1_4_XX.csv kilometers See file:
Perf_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest1_4_XX.csv kilometers/sec See file:
Perf_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest1_4_XX.csv kilometers/sec^2^ See file:
Perf_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest1_4_XX.csv kilometers See file:
Perf_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest1_4_XX.csv kilometers/sec See file:
Perf_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest1_4_XX.csv kilometers/sec^2^ See file:
Perf_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest1_4_XX.csv kilometers See file:
Perf_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest1_4_XX.csv kilometers/sec See file:
Perf_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest1_4_XX.csv kilometers/sec^2^ See file:
Perf_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest1_4_XX.csv
* * *
Table 6.2.6.4.29: Void
Table 6.2.6.4.30: GANSS Navigation Model: sub-test 2
* * *
Information Element Units Value/remark GNSS All Num_Sat 6 Non-Broadcast
Indication 0
* * *
Table 6.2.6.4.31: Satellite Information (Fields occurring once per satellite):
sub-test 2
* * *
Parameter Units Value/remark GNSS #1 Value/remark GNSS #2 Value/remark GNSS
#4C SatID See Table 6.2.6.3-1 See Table 6.2.6.3-1 See Table 6.2.6.3-1 SV
Health 0 (Note) 0 (Note) 0 (Note) IOD [FFS] (Note) [FFS] (Note) [FFS] (Note)
Note: For consistency SV Health and IOD are also given in file: See file:
Perf_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest2_XX.csv.
* * *
Table 6.2.6.4.32: GANSS Clock Model (Fields occurring once per satellite):
sub-test 2
* * *
Information Element Units Value/remark GNSS All Standard Satellite clock model  
t~oc~ seconds See file: Perf_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest2_XX.csv a~f2~
sec/sec^2^ See file: Perf_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest2_XX.csv a~f1~ sec/sec
See file: Perf_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest2_XX.csv a~f0~ sec See file:
Perf_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest2_XX.csv T~GD~ sec See file:
Perf_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest2_XX.csv Model ID See file:
Perf_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest2_XX.csv
* * *
Table 6.2.6.4.33: GANSS Orbit Model (Fields occurring once per satellite):
sub-test 2
* * *
Information Element Units Value/remark GNSS All Satellite Navigation Model
Using Keplerian Parameters  
toe seconds See file: Perf_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest2_XX.csv ω semi-
circles See file: Perf_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest2_XX.csv ∆n semi-
circles/sec See file: Perf_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest2_XX.csv M0 semi-
circles See file: Perf_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest2_XX.csv OMEGAdot semi-
circles/sec See file: Perf_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest2_XX.csv e See file:
Perf_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest2_XX.csv Idot semi-circles/sec See file:
Perf_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest2_XX.csv sqrtA meters1/2 See file:
Perf_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest2_XX.csv i0 semi-circles See file:
Perf_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest2_XX.csv OMEGA0 semi-circles See file:
Perf_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest2_XX.csv Crs meters See file:
Perf_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest2_XX.csv Cis radians See file:
Perf_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest2_XX.csv Cus radians See file:
Perf_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest2_XX.csv Crc meters See file:
Perf_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest2_XX.csv Cic radians See file:
Perf_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest2_XX.csv Cuc radians See file:
Perf_GANSS_Navigation_Model_subtest2_XX.csv
* * *
##### Assistance Data GANSS Reference Measurement Information {#assistance-
data-ganss-reference-measurement-information-1 .H6}
Table 6.2.6.4.34: Void
Table 6.2.6.4.35: GANSS Reference Measurement Information: sub-test 1, 4
(Fields occurring once per message)
* * *
Information Element Units Value/remark GNSS All GANSS Signal ID 0 (G1)
* * *
Table 6.2.6.4.36: GANSS Reference Measurement Information: sub-test 1, 4
(Fields occurring once per satellite)
+-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | Information Element | Units | Value/remark GNSS All | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | SVID | | See Table 6.2.6.3-1 | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | Doppler (0^th^ order term) | m/s | Time varying. See file: | | | | Perf_GANSS_re | | | | ference_measurement_infor | | | | mation_subtest1_4_XX.csv | | | | (Note) | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | Doppler (1^st^ order term) | m/s/s | Time varying. See file: | | | | Perf_GANSS_re | | | | ference_measurement_infor | | | | mation_subtest1_4_XX.csv | | | | (Note) | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | Doppler Uncertainty | m/s | Time varying. See file: | | | | Perf_GANSS_re | | | | ference_measurement_infor | | | | mation_subtest1_4_XX.csv | | | | (Note) | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | Code Phase | ms | Time varying. See file: | | | | Perf_GANSS_re | | | | ference_measurement_infor | | | | mation_subtest1_4_XX.csv | | | | (Note) | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | Integer Code Phase | ms | Time varying. See file: | | | | Perf_GANSS_re | | | | ference_measurement_infor | | | | mation_subtest1_4_XX.csv | | | | (Note) | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | Code Phase Search Window | | Time varying. See file: | | | | Perf_GANSS_re | | | | ference_measurement_infor | | | | mation_subtest1_4_XX.csv | | | | (Note) | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | Azimuth | deg | Time varying. See file: | | | | Perf_GANSS_re | | | | ference_measurement_infor | | | | mation_subtest1_4_XX.csv | | | | (Note) | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | Elevation | deg | Time varying. See file: | | | | Perf_GANSS_re | | | | ference_measurement_infor | | | | mation_subtest1_4_XX.csv | | | | (Note) | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | Note: | | | | | | | | For sub-test 1: this field | | | | is \"Time varying\" and its | | | | value depends on the | | | | \"current GANSS TOD\". The | | | | value of this field to be | | | | used shall be determined by | | | | taking the \"current GANSS | | | | TOD\" value and selecting | | | | the field value in the | | | | Perf_GANSS_re | | | | ference_measurement_infor | | | | mation_subtest1_4_XX.csv | | | | file corresponding to the | | | | value of \"current GANSS | | | | TOD\". | | | | | | | | For sub-test 4: this field | | | | is \"Time varying\" and its | | | | value depends on the | | | | \"current GPS TOW\". The | | | | value of this field to be | | | | used shall be determined by | | | | taking the \"current GPS | | | | TOW\" value and selecting | | | | the field value in the | | | | Perf_GANSS_re | | | | ference_measurement_infor | | | | mation_subtest1_4_XX.csv | | | | file corresponding to the | | | | value of \"current GPS | | | | TOW\". | | | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+
Table 6.2.6.4.37: Void
Table 6.2.6.4.38: GANSS Reference Measurement Information: sub-test 2 (Fields
occurring once per message)
* * *
Information Element Units Value/remark GNSS All GANSS Signal ID 0 (E1)
* * *
Table 6.2.6.4.39: GANSS Reference Measurement Information: sub-test 2 (Fields
occurring once per satellite)
+-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | Information Element | Units | Value/remark GNSS All | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | SVID | | See Table 6.2.6.3-1 | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | Doppler (0^th^ order term) | m/s | Time varying. See file: | | | | Perf_GANSS\ | | | | _reference_measurement_in | | | | formation_subtest2_XX.csv | | | | (Note) | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | Doppler (1^st^ order term) | m/s/s | Time varying. See file: | | | | Perf_GANSS\ | | | | _reference_measurement_in | | | | formation_subtest2_XX.csv | | | | (Note) | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | Doppler Uncertainty | m/s | Time varying. See file: | | | | Perf_GANSS\ | | | | _reference_measurement_in | | | | formation_subtest2_XX.csv | | | | (Note) | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | Code Phase | ms | Time varying. See file: | | | | Perf_GANSS\ | | | | _reference_measurement_in | | | | formation_subtest2_XX.csv | | | | (Note) | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | Integer Code Phase | ms | Time varying. See file: | | | | Perf_GANSS\ | | | | _reference_measurement_in | | | | formation_subtest2_XX.csv | | | | (Note) | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | Code Phase Search Window | | Time varying. See file: | | | | Perf_GANSS\ | | | | _reference_measurement_in | | | | formation_subtest2_XX.csv | | | | (Note) | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | Azimuth | deg | Time varying. See file: | | | | Perf_GANSS\ | | | | _reference_measurement_in | | | | formation_subtest2_XX.csv | | | | (Note) | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | Elevation | deg | Time varying. See file: | | | | Perf_GANSS\ | | | | _reference_measurement_in | | | | formation_subtest2_XX.csv | | | | (Note) | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | Note: | | | | | | | | This field is \"Time | | | | varying\" and its value | | | | depends on the \"current | | | | GANSS TOD\". The value of | | | | this field to be used shall | | | | be determined by taking the | | | | \"current GANSS TOD\" value | | | | and selecting the field | | | | value in the | | | | Perf_GANSS\ | | | | _reference_measurement_in | | | | formation_subtest2_XX.csv | | | | file corresponding to the | | | | value of \"current GANSS | | | | TOD\". | | | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+
### Assistance Data GANSS Reference Measurement Extension
Table 6.2.6.4.39a: GANSS Reference Measurement Extension: sub-test 1, 4
(Fields occurring once per message)
* * *
Information Element Units Value/remark GNSS #1 Value/remark GNSS #2
Value/remark GNSS #4C Release Num_Sat 8 8 [FFS] Rel-10 onwards
* * *
Table 6.2.6.4.39b: GANSS Reference Measurement Extension: sub-test 1, 4
(Fields occurring once per satellite)
+------------------+---------+------------------+----------------+ | Information | Units | Value/remark | Release | | Element | | GNSS All | | +------------------+---------+------------------+----------------+ | SV_ID | | See Table | Rel-10 onwards | | | | 6.2.6.3-1 | | +------------------+---------+------------------+----------------+ | Azimuth LSB | degrees | Time varying. | Rel-10 onwards | | | | Calculated from | | | | | Azimuth, see | | | | | file: | | | | | Perf\ | | | | | _GANSS_referenc | | | | | e_measurement_ | | | | | information_sub | | | | | test1_4_XX.csv | | | | | (Note) | | +------------------+---------+------------------+----------------+ | Elevation LSB | degrees | Time varying. | Rel-10 onwards | | | | Calculated from | | | | | Elevation, see | | | | | file: | | | | | Perf\ | | | | | _GANSS_referenc | | | | | e_measurement_ | | | | | information_sub | | | | | test1_4_XX.csv | | | | | (Note) | | +------------------+---------+------------------+----------------+ | Note: | | | | | | | | | | For sub-test 1: | | | | | this field is | | | | | \"Time varying\" | | | | | and its value | | | | | depends on the | | | | | \"current GANSS | | | | | TOD\". The value | | | | | of this field to | | | | | be used shall be | | | | | determined by | | | | | taking the | | | | | \"current GANSS | | | | | TOD\" value and | | | | | selecting the | | | | | field value in | | | | | the | | | | | Perf\ | | | | | _GANSS_referenc | | | | | e_measurement_ | | | | | information_sub | | | | | test1_4_XX.csv | | | | | file | | | | | corresponding to | | | | | the value of | | | | | \"current GANSS | | | | | TOD\". | | | | | | | | | | For sub-test 4: | | | | | this field is | | | | | \"Time varying\" | | | | | and its value | | | | | depends on the | | | | | \"current GPS | | | | | TOW\". The value | | | | | of this field to | | | | | be used shall be | | | | | determined by | | | | | taking the | | | | | \"current GPS | | | | | TOW\" value and | | | | | selecting the | | | | | field value in | | | | | the | | | | | Perf\ | | | | | _GANSS_referenc | | | | | e_measurement_ | | | | | information_sub | | | | | test1_4_XX.csv | | | | | file | | | | | corresponding to | | | | | the value of | | | | | \"current GPS | | | | | TOW\". | | | | +------------------+---------+------------------+----------------+
Table 6.2.6.4.39c: GANSS Reference Measurement Extension: sub-test 2 (Fields
occurring once per message)
* * *
Information Element Units Value/remark GNSS #1 Value/remark GNSS #2
Value/remark GNSS #4C Release Num_Sat [FFS] [FFS] [FFS] Rel-10 onwards
* * *
Table 6.2.6.4.39d: GANSS Reference Measurement Extension: sub-test 2 (Fields
occurring once per satellite)
* * *
Information Element Units Value/remark GNSS All Release SV_ID See Table
6.2.6.3-1 Rel-10 onwards Azimuth LSB degrees Time varying. Calculated from
Azimuth, see file:
Perf_GANSS_reference_measurement_information_subtest2_XX.csv (Note) Rel-10
onwards Elevation LSB degrees Time varying. Calculated from Elevation, see
file: Perf_GANSS_reference_measurement_information_subtest2_XX.csv (Note)
Rel-10 onwards Note: This field is \"Time varying\" and its value depends on
the \"current GANSS TOD\". The value of this field to be used shall be
determined by taking the \"current GANSS TOD\" value and selecting the field
value in the Perf_GANSS_reference_measurement_information_subtest2_XX.csv file
corresponding to the value of \"current GANSS TOD\".
* * *
##### Assistance Data GANSS Almanac Model {#assistance-data-ganss-almanac-
model .H6}
Table 6.2.6.4.40: Void
Table 6.2.6.4.41: GANSS Almanac Model: sub-test 1, 4 (Fields occurring once
per message)
* * *
Parameter Units Value/remark GNSS #1 Value/remark GNSS #2 Value/remark GNSS
#4C Num Sats Total 24 24 24 Week Number Any value Any value Any value
* * *
Table 6.2.6.4.42: Void
Table 6.2.6.4.42a: GANSS Almanac Model: sub-test 1, 4 (Fields occurring once
per satellite)
* * *
Information Element Units Value/remark GNSS All GLONASS Keplerian Parameters  
N^A^ days See file: Perf_GANSS_Almanac_subtest1_4_XX.csv n^A^ Slot Numbers: 1,
2 , 3 .......22, 23, 24 H~n~^A^ See file: Perf_GANSS_Almanac_subtest1_4_XX.csv
λ~n~^A^ semi-circles See file: Perf_GANSS_Almanac_subtest1_4_XX.csv t~λn~^A^
seconds See file: Perf_GANSS_Almanac_subtest1_4_XX.csv ∆i~n~^A^ semi-circles
See file: Perf_GANSS_Almanac_subtest1_4_XX.csv ∆T~n~^A^ sec/orbit period See
file: Perf_GANSS_Almanac_subtest1_4_XX.csv ∆T_DOT~n~^A^ sec/orbit period^2^
See file: Perf_GANSS_Almanac_subtest1_4_XX.csv ε~n~^A^ See file:
Perf_GANSS_Almanac_subtest1_4_XX.csv ω~n~^A^ semi-circles See file:
Perf_GANSS_Almanac_subtest1_4_XX.csv τ~n~^A^ seconds See file:
Perf_GANSS_Almanac_subtest1_4_XX.csv C~n~^A^ See file:
Perf_GANSS_Almanac_subtest1_4_XX.csv M~n~^A^ See file:
Perf_GANSS_Almanac_subtest1_4_XX.csv
* * *
Table 6.2.6.4.43: Void
Table 6.2.6.4.44: GANSS Almanac Model: sub-test 2 (Fields occurring once per
message)
* * *
Parameter Units Value/remark GNSS #1 Value/remark GNSS #2 Value/remark GNSS
#4C Num Sats Total 24 24 24 Week Number FFS FFS FFS
* * *
Table 6.2.6.4.45: GANSS Almanac Model: sub-test 2 (Fields occurring once per
satellite)
* * *
Parameter Units Value/remark GNSS #1 Value/remark GNSS #2 Value/remark GNSS
#4C Keplerian parameters  
SVID SV IDs: [FFS] SV IDs: [FFS] SV IDs: [FFS]
* * *
Table 6.2.6.4.46: GANSS Almanac Model: sub-test 2 (Fields occurring once per
satellite)
* * *
Information Element Units Value/remark GNSS All e See file:
Perf_GANSS_Almanac_subtest2_XX.csv δi semi-circles See file:
Perf_GANSS_Almanac_subtest2_XX.csv OMEGADOT semi-circles/sec See file:
Perf_GANSS_Almanac_subtest2_XX.csv SV Health KP See file:
Perf_GANSS_Almanac_subtest2_XX.csv delta A^1/2^ meters1/2 See file:
Perf_GANSS_Almanac_subtest2_XX.csv OMEGA~0~ semi-circles See file:
Perf_GANSS_Almanac_subtest2_XX.csv M~0~ semi-circles See file:
Perf_GANSS_Almanac_subtest2_XX.csv ω semi-circles See file:
Perf_GANSS_Almanac_subtest2_XX.csv af~0~ Seconds See file:
Perf_GANSS_Almanac_subtest2_XX.csv af~1~ sec/sec See file:
Perf_GANSS_Almanac_subtest2_XX.csv
* * *
##### Assistance Data GANSS Almanac Model Extension {#assistance-data-ganss-
almanac-model-extension-1 .H6}
Table 6.2.6.4.46a: GANSS Almanac Model Extension: sub-test 1, 4 (Fields
occurring once per message)
* * *
Information Element Units Value/remark GNSS All Release Complete Almanac
Provided 1 (TRUE) Rel-10 onwards
* * *
Table 6.2.6.4.46b: GANSS Almanac Model Extension: sub-test 2 (Fields occurring
once per message)
* * *
Information Element Units Value/remark GNSS All Release Complete Almanac
Provided 1 (TRUE) Rel-10 onwards
* * *
##### Assistance Data GANSS Auxiliary Information {#assistance-data-ganss-
auxiliary-information-1 .H6}
Table 6.2.6.4.47: Void
Table 6.2.6.4.48: GANSS Auxiliary Information: sub-test 1, 4 (Fields occurring
once per satellite)
* * *
Parameter Units Value/remark GNSS #1 Value/remark GNSS #2 Value/remark GNSS
#4C SVID Slot Number s: see Table 6.2.6.3-1 Slot Number s: see Table 6.2.6.3-1
Slot Number s: see Table 6.2.6.3-1 Signals Available G1 G1 G1 Channel Number
5, 6, 1, -2, -7, -3, 3, 2 1, 6, -2, -7, -1, 3, 2, 4 [FFS]
* * *
Table 6.2.6.4.49: Void
Table 6.2.6.4.50: GANSS Auxiliary Information: sub-test 3 (Fields occurring
once per satellite)
* * *
Parameter Units Value/remark GNSS #1 Value/remark GNSS #2 Value/remark GNSS
#4C SVID PRNs: see Table 6.2.6.3-1 PRNs: see Table 6.2.6.3-1 SV IDs: see Table
6.2.6.3-1 Signals Available L1C and others as supported by the MS L1C and
others as supported by the MS L1C and others as supported by the MS
* * *
###### ## Annex A (normative): GPS data files
## A.1 GPS data files for signalling tests
The GPS data files for use in GPS signalling tests are contained in archive
GPS_Data_Sig_V5.zip which accompanies this document.
## A.2 GPS data files for Minimum Performance tests
The GPS data files for use in GPS Minimum Performance tests are contained in
archive GPS_Data_Perf_V4.zip which accompanies this document. The different
scenarios are designated with suffixes XX in the zip file, where XX is 01, 02,
03 for scenarios #1, #2, #3.
###### ## Annex B (normative): GNSS data files
## B.1 GNSS data files for signalling tests
The GNSS data files for use in GNSS signalling tests are contained in archive
GNSS_Data_Sig_V4.zip which accompanies the present document.
## B.2 GNSS data files for Minimum Performance tests
The GNSS data files for use in GNSS Minimum Performance tests are contained in
archive GNSS_Data_Perf_V4.zip which accompanies the present document. The
different scenarios are designated with suffixes XX in the zip file, where XX
is 01, 02, 03 etc. for scenarios #1, #2, #3 etc.
#