# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document captures the results of the feasibility study on Mobile
data applications for GERAN.
# 1 Scope
The present document contains the results from the feasibility study on
efficient support of mobile data applications for human communications in
GERAN.
The following aspects shall be covered in the study:
\- Analysis on relevant traffic profiles from GERAN perspective for the mobile
data applications of human communications
\- Analysis on the impacts on GERAN network based on the identified traffic
profiles
\- GERAN enhancements to alleviate these impacts with regards to: Radio
resource utilization; signalling procedures; RR states and transition between
them and Battery lifetime
\- Common assumptions on simulations and evaluations for candidate solutions
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 41.001: \"GSM Release specifications\".
[3] 3GPP TR 22.801: \"Study on non-MTC Mobile Data Applications impacts\".
[4] 3GPP TR 43.868: "GERAN Improvements for Machine-type Communications".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**example:** text used to clarify abstract rules by applying them literally.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
> CV Countdown Value
>
> DL Downlink
GERANEMDA GERAN Enhancements for Mobile Data Applications
HTTP Hypertext Transfer Protocol
IM Instant Message
LLC Logical Link Control
MDA Mobile Data Applications
MO Mobile Originated
MT Mobile Terminated
MODAI Non-MTC Mobile Data Application Impacts
> MS Mobile Station
>
> OSAP Optimized System Access Procedure
>
> PDU Packet Data Unit
>
> RLC Radio Link Control
>
> TBF Temporary Block Flow
>
> UDD Unconstrained Delay Data bearer service
>
> UL Uplink
>
> WAP Wireless Application Protocol
# 4 Objectives
## 4.1 General
The general objectives of this study is to make the GERAN network better
suited for mobile data applications used on multi-tasking capable mobile
stations, e.g. IM chatting, HTTP/WAP browsing services (including streaming),
social network services, etc , this study aims to consider the following
objectives:
  * Study and identify the relevant traffic profiles from GERAN > perspective for the mobile data application of human > communication, e.g. IM chatting, HTTP/WAP browsing (including > streaming), social network service, etc.
  * Study the impact on GERAN network based on the identified traffic > profiles.
  * Study enhancements to alleviate the impacts from these traffic > patterns on the current GERAN networks (if any)
## 4.2 Performance Objectives
The candidate enhancements aiming at alleviating the identified impacts should
consider the following performance objectives. When evaluating the candidate
enhancements, the relative performance gains should be evaluated by comparing
to the reference scenario for which the common assumptions are described in
section 6.
  * Improve radio resource utilization
  * Reduce signalling procedures
  * Minimize the impact on RR states and reduce the transition between > them
  * Reduce the impact on battery lifetime
## 4.3 Compatibility Objectives
The candidate enhancements aiming at solving the identified problems should
consider the following compatibility objectives:
  * Avoid impacts on existing BTS and BSC hardware:
\- This will enable use of already existing hardware and only require a
software upgrade.
  * Be based on the existing network architecture and minimal impact on > core network:
```{=html}
``` \- This will enable an operator to re-use existing network nodes.
```{=html}
``` \- Minimize the impacts on mobile station.
# 5 Analysis on mobile data applications and their impacts on GERAN system
## 5.1 General
In recent years, mobile networks have experienced a significant increase of
mobile data. Diverse mobile applications are introduced by machine type
communication and human type communication. The increase of mobile data has
introduced new challenges to mobile networks.
As the usage and range of applications used today for human communication, the
total amount of related traffic and signalling is increasing significantly,
the transitions of RR states may happen frequently, and the mobile battery
life may also be impacted.
Sub-section 5 captures the study on the traffic characters for the relevant
mobile data applications with considering the use cases in TR22.801 [3] under
SA1 study item- MODAI, and analyzes the impacts on GERAN system.
## 5.2 Use case
### 5.2.1 Frequent Small Packet Transmission
#### 5.2.1.1 Description and Analysis
As described in sec 5.1 in TR22.801 [3], a typical character of a lot of
popular mobile applications is production of frequent small packets which is
different comparing legacy Web browsing service. And the trend of small
packets is expected to be exacerbated as status messages, location messages,
instant messages, and keep-alive messages etc.
One typical small packet application is IM because IM produces a lot of small
packets and the interval between two packet bursts is short. A traffic model
in section 6.3.2 describes the traffic characteristics analyzed for IM
application.
OSAP in [5.2-1] [5.2-2], Hybrid Packet Channel in [5.2-3], Fast TBF Re-
establishment in [5.2-4] [5.2-5] and related contributions [5.2-6] [5.2-7] are
provided based on the IM + Web traffic models in sec 6.3.2 and 6.3.3, there is
no consensus made on if any solutions are needed for CCCH enhancements.
Control signalling consumption during the whole TBF procedure based on the IM
model defined in section 6.3 is analyzed in [5.2-8].
Usually, for a MO message case, the size of the uplink data part is small,
i.e. less than 80 Bytes with high probability. If MCS-2 (payload is about 30
bytes per radio block) is used for uplink data transmission, the MS only needs
about 3 radio blocks to transmit the UL part of a MO message. It means that
the MS enters the Countdown procedure immediately after it accesses and sends
the first RLC data block. The network sends a response message to the MS
immediately after receiving the UL message which requires establishing a
downlink TBF. The average size of the DL part of the response message is about
150 Bytes. If MCS-2 is used for the downlink data transmission the network
will only need about 5 radio blocks to finish transmitting the response
message.
For a MT message case, similarly one downlink TBF and one uplink TBF should be
established to transmit the DL part and UL part respectively. The size of the
DL part is a little bit larger, i.e. about 250 bytes which needs 9 MCS-2 radio
blocks, while the UL part of the corresponding response message requires about
3 radio blocks.
Following Figure 5.1 shows the TBF procedures for the transmission of a MO and
a MT message where the red lines indicate the PACCH signalling. It can be seen
that the ratio of control signalling is high because each TBF only carries a
small amount of user data but requires a lot of PACCH signalling to establish
and release the TBF. For the MO message case, the control messages consume
about 50% of the radio resources, and for the MT case, the control messages
consume about 30% of the radio resources.
Based on this analysis, improvements to the signalling efficiency on PDCH for
IM traffic are seen to be beneficial.
Figure 5.1 TBF procedures for a MO message (left) and a MT message (right)
#### 5.2.1.2 Aspects of required improvements
Based on the IM + Web traffic models in sec 6.3.2 and 6.3.3 and based on the
simulation assumptions in sec 6.1 as studied in [5.2-1\~ 5.2-7], it is
concluded that no further enhancements are needed on CCCH.
Based on the analysis in [5.2-8], it is concluded that an enhancement that
reduces the amount of PACCH signaling is needed.
#### 5.2.1.3 References
[5.2-1] GP-120623, Optimized System Access Procedure, Ericsson, ST-Ericsson,
GERAN#54
[5.2-2] GP-120624, Detailed OSAP Signalling Procedures, Ericsson, ST-Ericsson,
GERAN#54
[5.2-3] GP-130190, Performance Comparison between HPCH, IPA and Extended CCCH,
Nokia Siemens Networks, GERAN#57
[5.2-4] GP-121331, Fast TBF Re-establishment Simulations, Renesas Mobile
Europe Ltd, GERANP#56
[5.2-5] GP-130143, pCR to 43.802 -- Radio Resource Management and Fast TBF Re-
establishment, Renesas Mobile Europe Ltd, GERANP#57
[5.2-6] GP-130153, Discussion on the impacts of OSAP, Huawei Technologies Co.,
Ltd. GERANP#57
[5.2-7] GP-130154, The Comparison between EPRACH and IPA, Huawei Technologies
Co., Ltd. GERAN#57
[5.2-8] GP-140177, Analysis of signalling efficiency for IM, Huawei
Technologies Co., Ltd. GERAN#61
## 5.3 Conclusion for analysis
Based on the IM + Web traffic models in sec 6.3.2 and 6.3.3 and based on the
simulation assumptions in sec 6.1 as studied in [5.2-1\~ 5.2-7], it is
concluded that no further enhancements are needed on CCCH.
Based on the analysis in [5.2-8], it is concluded that an enhancement that
reduces the amount of PACCH signaling is needed and the proposed enhancement
is described in section 7.
# 6 Common assumptions
## 6.1 Simulation assumptions
### 6.1.1 General
This section defines the reference scenario and parameters required for the
simulations. The simulation assumptions in this study exclude the function,
which means the BSC is not aware of the service or application type. And
evaluation of CS service on the TCH and SDCCH is not required under this
study. The simulator methodology and the simulation parameters shall be
aligned with those defined in section 6.2.1 and 6.2.2 in TR 43.868 [4] for
SIMTC study, except those explicitly listed in the following sections.
### 6.1.2 Simulator methodology
In order to evaluate the impacts introduced by the mobile data applications, a
reference network scenario should be defined for GERANEMDA study. Moreover,
the reference network scenario allows for the comparison of relative
performance gains in regard to this scenario and it is needed for the
evaluation of any enhancements studied as part of GERANEMDA and possibly also
for the objective setting of GERANEMDA.
It should be noted that the reference network scenario does not include any
Rel-7 (e.g. EGPRS-2, LATRED and etc.) or later (e.g. DTR) features. But it is
not intended to exclude these features from GERANEMDA studies. On the
contrary, the relevant Rel-7 and later features should be studied if similar
enhancements are proposed. It is useful for GERANEMDA study to compare the
performance of the network against the proposed reference network scenario.
Simulation parameters for the reference network scenario are defined in
section 6.1.3.
### 6.1.3 Simulation Parameters
This section defines the parameters required for the simulations which may be
required to conduct the study. The parameters are referenced where
appropriate.
> Table 1. Network level simulator parameters
+-----------------+-----------------+----------+-----------------+---+ | **Parameter** | **Value** | **Unit** | **Comment** | | +-----------------+-----------------+----------+-----------------+---+ | Sectors per | 3 | | | | | site | | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+----------+-----------------+---+ | Sector antenna | 65º deg | dBi | 18 dBi antennas | | | pattern | H-plane,\ | | in 900‑band are | | | | max TX gain 15 | | large and not | | | | | | considered to | | | | | | be common in | | | | | | urban areas. | | +-----------------+-----------------+----------+-----------------+---+ | Path loss model | Per 30.03, | dB | In urban areas, | | | | | | 5 m over | | | | Hb = 5 m, | | average roof | | | | | | height is | | | | | | considered more | | | | | | typical than | | | | | | the default | | | | | | value of 15 m | | | | | | in 30.03. | | +-----------------+-----------------+----------+-----------------+---+ | Minimum | 64 | dB | 1800: TR 25.942 | | | coupling loss | | | 2 GHz. | | | | | | | | | | | | 900: assumed 6 | | | | | | dB lower | | +-----------------+-----------------+----------+-----------------+---+ | Interference | Neighbouring | | The | | | model | cells BCCH | | neighbouring | | | | | | cells according | | | | | | to the BCCH | | | | | | frequency reuse | | | | | | pattern are | | | | | | modelled as if | | | | | | they have full | | | | | | traffic. | | +-----------------+-----------------+----------+-----------------+---+ | Log-normal | Standard | 8 | dB | | | fading | deviation | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+----------+-----------------+---+ | | Correlation | 110 | M | | | | distance | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+----------+-----------------+---+ | Channel | See table 4 | | | | | propagation | | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+----------+-----------------+---+ | Output power | 33 | dBm | Excluding | | | | | | backoff | | | - MS | 43 | | | | | | | | | | | - BTS | | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+----------+-----------------+---+ | Backoff | 6 | dB | | | | | | | | | | - MS | | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+----------+-----------------+---+ | - BTS | 4 | dB | 8PSK modulation | | | | | | assumed. | | +-----------------+-----------------+----------+-----------------+---+ | Noise figure | 10 | dB | | | | | | | | | | - MS | | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+----------+-----------------+---+ | - BTS | 8 | dB | | | +-----------------+-----------------+----------+-----------------+---+ | Inter-site | 0 | | Low correlation | | | log-normal | | | in urban | | | correlation | | | scenarios. | | | coefficient | | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+----------+-----------------+---+
> Table 2. Network scenario
* * *
**Parameter** **Value** **Unit** **Comment** Frequency band 900 MHz  
Cell radius 500 M  
Bandwidth 4.2 MHz  
Number of frequency channels 21  
BCCH frequency reuse 4/12  
TCH frequency reuse 3/9  
BCCH or TCH under interest BCCH and TCH No power control and no frequency
hopping on both BCCH carrier and TCH carrier
* * *
> Table 3. Protocol level parameters
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Parameter** | **Value** | **Comment** | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | CCCH assumptions | 20 | These default values | | | | shall be included | | - Tx-integer | 109 | among those | | | | evalutated. | | - S | 4 | | | | | See 3GPP TS 44.018 | | - Max. retrans (M) | 5 sec. | for implementation | | | | details | | - T3142 | (Tx+2S)/217=1.1 sec. | | | | | | | - T3146 | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | BCCH configuration | Non-combined | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | # PDCHs | 8 | Number of PDCHS | | | | availabale data | | | | traffic. 4 PDCHs are | | | | allocated on BCCH | | | | carrier, and 4 PDCHs | | | | are allocated on the | | | | TCH carrier. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | # AGCHs per | 6 | | | 51-multiframe | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | PDCH Resource | MS multislot class | | | Assignment | 12 (BTTI) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Link adaptation | Enabled | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Service type | 1. EGPRS | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | RLC mode of | Acknowledged Mode | | | operation | (AM) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Extended Uplink TBF | Enabled | 2 sec as typical | | mode | | value, other value | | | | is allowed | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Delayed Release of | Enabled | 2 sec as typical | | Downlink TBF | | value, | | | | | | | | other value is | | | | allowed | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
> Table 4. Link specific settings.
* * *
**Parameter** **Value** **Comment** Channel profile TU3  
Receiver type UL MRC  
Incremental redundancy Enabled
* * *
LLC PDU life time is a simulation parameter which defines the maximum time a
downlink LLC PDU can be buffered. This simulation parameter should be reported
with any other parameters not listed in this section and used in simulations.
Delay release timer for uplink TBF is a simulation parameter which defines the
maximum time for maintaining the uplink TBF after receiving the last RLC data
block (CV=0) by the network. Delay release timer for downlink TBF is a
simulation parameter which defines the maximum timer for maintain the downlink
TBF after the supply of downlink data is exhausted at the network. The network
can release the uplink TBF or the downlink TBF before the corresponding timer
expires. Delay release timer for uplink TBF and downlink TBF should be
reported with the simulation results, and typical value 2s should be used for
both uplink TBF and downlink TBF and reported at least.
## 6.2 Evaluation requirements
### 6.2.1 General
In order to evaluate the impacts on GERAN network and compare the GERAN
network performance of different enhancements for different traffic profiles,
network metrics and service metrics should be used to measure GERAN network
performance. The network performance metrics are required and common for all
traffic models, while service performance metrics are defined for each
relevant traffic model separately.
### 6.2.2 Network Metrics
Following network metrics are used to measure the network performance.
  * **Data load** \-- defines how much PDCH resources have been utilized > for data transmissions during a simulation in average in each > direction. The transmissions include blocks on PDTCH and PACCH. > The formula bellow defines the data load per the direction.
> {width="1.8854166666666667in" height="0.34375in"}
>
> Where _DataBLK~Tx~_ is the number of BTTI blocks transmitted during the
> simulation and _DataBLK~Total~_ is the number of all available BTTI blocks.
> _DataBLK~Tx~_ counts all transmitted BTTI blocks on PDCH, i.e. all blocks
> transmitted on PDTCH and PACCH including dummy blocks. _DataBLK~Total~_ can
> be computed from the simulation time _T_ measured in seconds and _N~PDCH~_ ,
> which is the number of PDCHs available for data traffic (i.e. dedicated to
> PS traffic).
>
> {width="1.5729166666666667in" height="0.3333333333333333in"}
>
> It should be noted that the equations above express the data load in the
> downlink direction only. The same equations can be used to calculate the
> data load in the uplink in which case the number of blocks received by the
> network is used.
  * **Control load** \-- defines how much of system resources have been > utilized for signalling on AGCH and PCH during a simulation.
> {width="2.21875in" height="0.34375in"}
>
> Where _ControlBLK~Tx~_ is the number of control blocks transmitted during
> the simulation, excluding L2 fill frames and paging blocks with no MS
> identity, and _ControlBLK~Total~_ is the number of all available AGCH and
> PCH blocks. If (preventive) repetitions of immediate assignment messages and
> repeated paging requests are simulated then those messages should be counted
> in the control load. _ControlBLK~Total~_ can be computed for the proposed
> network configuration in section 6.1.3 as follows
>
> {width="1.75in" height="0.3333333333333333in"}
>
> Because of the multislot structure on CCCH, it is better to define the total
> number of AGCH/PCH blocks per the superframe lasting 6.12 s.
  * **Offered load --** is the data arrival rate to LLC buffers, i.e. > the amount of data generated by traffic models. This metric > represents a load on the network and can be reported in kbps per > cell. The offered load can be reported for uplink and downlink > separately. (Please note that the data load is defined per > direction). The offered load is frequently used in plots of other > metrics as an independent variable on the x-axis.
> {width="2.65625in" height="0.3333333333333333in"}
  * **LLC throughput per cell** \-- is a measure of the amount of LLC > data in octets transmitted in a cell over a simulation in the > uplink respectively downlink direction. It does not take into the > account retransmissions or signalling at RLC.
> {width="2.46875in" height="0.3333333333333333in"}
TBF Blocking rate is not considered as the network metric.
### 6.2.3 Service metrics
Following service metrics are used in estimations of user experience and
satisfaction with the service according to relevant traffic model.
**[IM model]{.underline}**
  * **Message transmission delay** \-- in MO case it is the time measured > from the message generated at the mobile to the reception of this > message at the BSC, and in MT case it is the time measured from > the message arrival at the BSC to the reception of this message at > the mobile.
  * **Loss of login message --** is the ratio between the number of lost > login messages (Login message is considered as lost if either the > UL part or DL part is lost) and the number of total login messages > generated by application layer at the mobile station.
{width="3.988888888888889in" height="0.34375in"}
> Following in Figure 6.1 is an example of how to calculate the Loss of Login
> message. The number of total generated Login message is 5, and the number of
> lost Login message is 2, and the Loss of Login message is 40%.
Figure 6.1 Example of calculation of loss of login message
  * **Loss of ordinary message** \--in MO case it is the ratio between > the number of lost messages and the number of total messages > generated by application layer at the mobile. In MO case, ordinary > messages include login, keep alive, outgoing and logout messages, > and these messages are considered as lost if either the UL part or > DL part is lost. In MT case, it is the ratio between the number of > lost incoming messages (Incoming message is considered as lost if > either UL part or DL part is lost) and the number of total > incoming messages generated by application server and arrived at > the BSC.
{width="4.540972222222222in" height="0.3541666666666667in"}
{width="5.093055555555556in" height="0.3541666666666667in"}
> Following in Figure 6.2 is an example of how to calculate the Loss of
> Ordinary message in MO and MT case. In MO case, the number of total
> generated ordinary message is 6, and the number of lost ordinary message is
> 2, and the Loss of ordinary message is 33.3%. In MT case, the number of
> total ordinary message is 2, and the number of lost ordinary message is 1,
> and the Loss of ordinary message is 50%.
Figure 6.2 Example of calculation of loss of ordinary message in MO and MT
case
**[Web browsing model]{.underline}**
  * **Packet call throughput** \-- is a measurement of throughput > experienced by the user during a packet call in uplink and > downlink direction respectively. The packet call size is the > amount of the LLC data transmitted during a packet call. The > packet call duration is the sum of the time used for transmitting > each message measured from the arrival of this message at the > mobile/BSC until the reception of this message at the BSC/mobile > in the MO/MT case respectively.
{width="2.8430555555555554in" height="0.34375in"}
### 6.2.4 Evaluation methodology
The Instant Messaging traffic model in section 6.3.2 gives that a session
consists of an average of 15 messages and the average message inter arrival
time is 20 s. Hence the average length of a session in time would ideally be
15*20 = 300 seconds. Hence it will take that long time approximately from the
time instance the simulation starts until the total number of users in the
system has saturated, see Figure 6.3. It is proposed that for all evaluations,
no metrics should be started until this time has elapsed from the simulation
start, depicted as t1 in Figure 6.3.
Figure 6.3 Metric collection methodology
## 6.3 Traffic model
### 6.3.1 General
Both single traffic scenario and mixed traffic scenario should be studied. The
following traffic scenarios provide the primary focus for the evaluations.
Performance evaluation of any enhancements under mixed traffic scenario is
required.
Table 5: Single traffic scenarios
+-----------+----------------------+---------------------------+ | **Label** | **Traffic Scenario** | **Description** | +-----------+----------------------+---------------------------+ | A) | Instant Messaging | Analysis and traffic | | | | model parameters see | | | | section 6.3.2. | +-----------+----------------------+---------------------------+ | B) | Web Browsing | Analysis and traffic | | | | model parameters see | | | | section 6.3.3. | | | | | | | | No need to evaluate this | | | | single traffic scenario | | | | in this study. | +-----------+----------------------+---------------------------+
Table 6: Mixed traffic scenarios
* * *
**Label** **Traffic Scenario** **Description** S1 A + B Instant Messaging +
Web Browsing
* * *
### 6.3.2 A) Instant Messaging
Instant messaging traffic comprises a mix of user plane packets conveying the
text data, along with application layer and/or transport layer protocol
signalling to verify message delivery status. Some instant messaging
applications may also display keep-alive behaviours.
This section describes an analytical IM traffic model loosely based on the
network statistic data in Annex A.1. It describes a simple IM session,
considering only login/logout, normal messages and keep-alive traffic.
> {width="5.713888888888889in" height="2.077777777777778in"}
Figure 6.4 IM session structure
Error: Reference source not found6.4 shows an overall structure of one IM
session. In the beginning, the IM application logs in to a server. Then the
user types messages or receives messages from the server (other user) with
randomly distributed length and message inter arrival time. At the same time,
the application sends keep alive messages to the server at regular intervals
no matter the user sends other messages or not. The server replies with ack
and status of user's buddies. At session end, the application sends log out
request to the server, which is acknowledged.
Retransmission of the lost or blocked application message is not considered.
Following is an illustration of the treatment at MS if one login message is
lost. In Figure 6.5, the N+1 login message will trigger the RACH access, and
the RACH accesses are repeated for M times. If no immediate assignment is
received or immediate assignment reject is received after sending M+1 RACH
access, the MS will consider the N+1 login message is lost, and the MS will
discard this message and will not retransmit this N+1 login message, i.e. no
further RACH access will be triggered in order to retransmit the lost N+1
login message.
Figure 6.5 Example of the message discarding
If the login message is lost or blocked, the whole session is considered to be
failed/ dropped, and if the logout message is lost or blocked, the session is
considered to be ended. If one keep alive message irrespective the UL part or
the DL part is lost or blocked, the whole session is considered to be
failed/dropped.
{width="5.9625in" height="2.704861111111111in"}
Figure 6.6 Packet structure in an IM session
Error: Reference source not found6.6 shows that messages, keep alive messages
and login/logout messages consist of blocks of data in DL and UL. Both keep
alive messages and login/logout messages are mobile originated type. Blocks
are then split on RLC layer into packets, creating short bursts of data.
Individual packets on TCP or any higher layer are not modelled explicitly. The
size of data blocks, message inter arrival time and the split between outgoing
(MO) and incoming (MT) messages is randomly generated according to parameters
in Table 7.
Table 7. IM traffic generator parameters
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | **Parameter** | **Distribution |** Mean value**|** Comment**| | | type** | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Session | Poisson | 1, 3 session/s | | | arrival | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Session length | Geom | 15 messages | cut off: 40 | | | | | messages | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Keep alive | Const | 180 s | | | period | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Message inter | negExp | 20 s | cut off: 50s | | arrival time | | | | | | | | Note 1 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | MO message | Const | 139 Byte | | | size | | | | | | | | | | -- DL part | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | MO message | Pareto | 75.3 Byte | α=1.476, | | size | | | k=24.3 | | | | | | | -- UL part | | | cut off: | | | | | 200Byte | | | | | | | | | | Note 2 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | MT message | Pareto | - | α=0.529, | | size | | | k=20.4 | | | | | | | -- DL part | | | cut off: | | | | | 900Byte | | | | | | | | | | Note 2 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | MT message | const | 62 Byte | | | size | | | | | | | | | | -- UL part | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Keep alive | const | 318 Byte | Note 3 | | message size | | | | | DL part | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | -- UL part | const | 282 Byte | Note 3 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Out | uniform | 50/50 | | | going/incoming | | | | | message split | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Login message | const | 1873 Byte | | | DL part | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | -- UL part | const | 2056 Byte | Note 4 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Logout message | const | 201 Byte | | | DL part | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | -- UL part | const | 201 Byte | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | MS reaction | const | 20 ms | | | time | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Network | const | 100 ms | | | reaction time | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
Note 1: Mean value selected for this simulation meets the curve of Packet
Inter arrival of time CDF (DL&UL) Figure A.1 in Annex A.1. Truncated
exponential distribution is used, i.e. if the generated value for the inter
arrival time is greater than the cut off, subtract cut off from it and repeat
until the value is less or equal to the cut off.
Note 2: Mean value, α value and k value for UL and DL selected for this
simulation meet the curve of Packet size CDF in UL and DL respectively in
Figure A.3 in Annex A.4.
Note 3: The size of keep alive messages has been derived from the 5 min idle
traffic in the table A.1 in Annex A.1, row 22. It assumed, that only two keep
alive messages were exchanged (with period 3 min, there could be 2 keep alive
transmissions and corresponding responses from the server).
Note 4: The maximum number of information octets in LLC frame equal to 1520 is
used. The generated messages should be segmented using this limitation, if the
message size exceeds this value. The segments should be transmitted
continuously with no interval between any two continuous segments.
The distribution types have been partially taken from WWW traffic model
[6.3-1], section. B.1.2.2 (negative exponential distribution instead of
geometric) and the distribution means and fixed message sizes are from IM
traffic analysis in Annex A.1. The message sizes listed in Table 7 represent
the amount of data at the LLC layer.
### 6.3.3 B) Web Browsing
A WWW browsing traffic model in [6.3-1] is used and described as follows in
this study. Figure 6.7 depicts a typical WWW browsing **session** , which
consists of a sequence of **packet calls**. We only consider the packets from
a source which may be at either end of the link but not simultaneously. The
user initiates a packet call when requesting an information entity. During a
packet call several **packets** may be generated, which means that the packet
call constitutes of a bursty sequence of packets, see [6.3-2] and [6.3-3].
After receiving its last packet in a packet call the MS should wait for T_fin
period before terminating the packet call. It is very important to take this
phenomenon into account in the traffic model. The burstyness during the packet
call is a characteristic feature of packet transmission in the fixed network.
Figure 6.7 Typical characteristic of a packet service session.
A packet service session contains one or several packet calls depending on the
application. For example in a WWW browsing session a packet call corresponds
the downloading of a WWW document. After the document is entirely arrived to
the terminal, the user is consuming certain amount of time for studying the
information. This time interval is called **reading time**. It is also
possible that the session contains only one packet call. In fact this is the
case for a file transfer (FTP). Hence, the following must be modelled in order
to catch the typical behaviour described in Figure 6.7.
> − Session arrival process
>
> − Number of packet calls per session
>
> − Reading time between packet calls
>
> − Number of packets within a packet call
>
> − Inter arrival time between packets (within a packet call)
>
> − Size of a packet
>
> − Size of Http GET packet, Ack packet, FIN packet, and FIN-ACK packet
> respectively
>
> − Τimer T_fin indicating the waiting period before MS terminating the packet
> call
Note that the session length is modelled implicitly by the number of events
during the session. And Table 8 shows the parameters for the traffic model of
WWW browsing UDD 32 kbit/s.
Table 8 WWW browsing traffic model
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | **Parameter** | **Distribution |** Parameter | **Comment** | | | type**| value** | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Session | Poisson | Mean: 5/hr | | | arrivals | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Number of | Geometric | Mean 5 | Max: 15 | | packet calls | | | | | in session | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Reading time | Geometric | Mean: 425s | Cut off: 600s | | between packet | | | | | calls | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Number of | Geometric | Mean: 25 | Cut off: 40 | | packet in a | | | | | packet call | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Packet size: | Pareto | Mean: 480Byte | alpha = 1.1, k | | | | | = 81.5 | | | | | | | | | | Cut off: 66666 | | | | | Byte | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Packet | Geometric | Mean: 0.125s | Cut off: 0.5s | | inter-arrival | | | | | time | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Http GET | Constant | 350Byte | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Ack packet | Constant | 66 Byte | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | FIN packet | constant | 66Byte | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | FIN-ACK packet | constant | 66Byte | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | T_fin | constant | 6s | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | MS reaction | const | 20 ms | | | time | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Network | const | 100 ms | | | reaction time | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
### 6.3.4 Reference
[6.3-1] 3GPP TR 30.03U: "Selection procedures for the choice of radio
transmission technologies of the UMTS".
[6.3-2] Anderlind Erik and Jens Zander \" A Traffic Model for Non-Real-Time
Data Users in a Wireless Radio Network\" IEEE Communications letters. Vol 1
No. 2 March 1997.
[6.3-3] Miltiades E et al. "A multiuser descriptive traffic source model" IEEE
Transactions on communications, vol 44 no 10, October 1996.
# 7 Recommended enhancements for GERAN system
## 7.1 Implicit TBF Release
### 7.1.1 Concept description
A new concept called Implicit TBF Release [7.1-1] has been proposed in order
to improve the PDCH utilization and to reduce PACCH signalling. The Implicit
TBF Release procedure is realized by introducing timers both in the mobile
station and in the network. Hence for an uplink TBF there is both a mobile
station uplink TBF timer and a corresponding network uplink TBF timer. The
same is proposed for the downlink TBF. If the operational conditions result in
a TBF timer expiring, the corresponding TBF is implicitly released without the
exchange of (legacy) control messages.
Upon establishing a TBF the values of the new TBF release timers (uplink and
downlink TBF release) are provided in the TBF assignment messages sent from
the network to the mobile station (e.g. sent on the AGCH or on the PACCH). The
following paragraphs specify the corresponding downlink and uplink implicit
TBF release procedures in detail.
#### 7.1.1.1 Downlink implicit TBF release procedure
The downlink transmission occurs as per the existing procedure with the
following amendment. Every time the network receives a Packet Downlink
Ack/Nack (PDAN) indicating all RLC data blocks have been received and there
are no new RLC data blocks available for downlink transfer, it starts its
downlink implicit TBF release timer, and every time the mobile station sends
the corresponding PDAN acknowledging all RLC data blocks up to and including
the RLC data block with the highest BSN received so far, it starts its
downlink TBF release timer, see (3) - figure 7.1. Now both the network and
mobile station have entered a so called delayed DL TBF release mode. If the
network transmits a new DL data radio block or the mobile station receives a
new data radio block during this mode they stop and reset their respective
implicit downlink TBF release timers, see (2) -- figure 7.1.
When the implicit downlink TBF release timer on the network side expires the
TBF is regarded as released from the network perspective, and hence the
network proceeds as per existing procedure when a downlink TBF is released
(e.g. releasing TFI identifiers etc). When the implicit downlink TBF release
timer expires on the mobile station side, the mobile station considers the
downlink TBF as released and stops monitoring the assigned PDCHs.
Figure 7.1 Different signalling cases for Implicit TBF Release
#### 7.1.1.2 Uplink implicit TBF release procedure
The uplink transmission occurs as per the existing procedure with the
following amendment. Every time the mobile station receives a Packet Uplink
Ack/Nack (PUAN) indicating all RLC data blocks have been received in the
network it starts its implicit uplink TBF release timer and every time the
network sends the corresponding PUAN acknowledging all RLC data blocks up to
and including the RLC data block with the highest BSN received so far, it
starts its implicit uplink TBF release timer see (4) \-- figure 7.1. Now both
the network and mobile station have entered a so called extended UL TBF mode.
If the mobile station transmits a new UL data radio block and if the network
receives a new UL data radio block during this mode they stop and reset their
respective implicit uplink TBF release timers, see (5) -- figure 7.1.
When the network's implicit uplink TBF timer expires the TBF is considered as
released from the network perspective, and hence the network proceeds as per
existing procedure when an uplink TBF is released (e.g. releasing TFI and USF
identifiers etc). When the mobile station's implicit uplink TBF timer expires
the MS considers the uplink TBF as expired and will stop monitoring the
downlink PDCHs corresponding to its assigned uplink PDCHs for the assigned
USFs.
Implicit TBF Release procedure only optimize the signalling procedures of a
uplink or downlink TBF, which does not impact any physical layer at both MS
side and network side.
7.1.2 Performance gains
#### 7.1.2.1 Simulation parameters
The simulation results are obtained with a system level simulator for Implicit
TBF release. The network parameters are configured according to the
assumptions in section 6.1 with the important network parameters listed in
Table 9.
Table 9 Configurations parameters
* * *
**Parameter** **Value**
Cell configuration Single cell
Available PDCH:s 8 (4 on BCCH carrier)
Immediate Packet Assignment Capable mobile penetration 0 %
Uplink TBF Implicit Release Timer (same value for MS and BSS) Enabled (delay
release timer: 2 seconds)
Downlink TBF Implicit Release Timer (same value for MS and BSS) Enabled (delay
release timer: 2 seconds)
EXT_UTBF_NODATA 1\ (i.e. sending PACKET UPLINK DUMMY CONTROL BLOCKs is
optional)
USF periodicity during Extended Uplink 500 ms
Dummy periodicity 500 ms
Initial MCS MCS-2 for uplink\ Latest MCS for downlink
Link adaptation Enabled
USF number 7/PDCH
Scheduling algorithm Round Robin
Polling Period Approximately 25 Radio Block Periods (i.e. about once every 500
ms)
IM session arrival rate 1 sessions/second and\ 3 sessions/second
Traffic Model EMDA
Channel request after Reject Enabled after prohibit time
Log start 300 sec
Simulation end time 600 sec
* * *
#### 7.1.2.2 Simulation results
Performance under network metric and service metric are as following.
Table 10 Data Load
* * *
                **Data Load**
                **1 session per second**   **3 sessions per second**
                **Legacy TBF Release**     **Implicit\                 **Gain by Implicit Release**   **Legacy TBF Release**   **Implicit\     **Gain by\
                                           TBF Release**                                                                       TBF Release**   Implicit\
                                                                                                                                               Release**
**Uplink\ 42.9 % 39.6 % 7.7 % 74 % 70.4 % 4.9 % (%)**
**Downlink\ 43.1 % 39.7 % 7.9 % 75.5 % 71.4 % 5.4 % (%)**
* * *
Table 11 LLC Throughput
* * *
                        **LLC Throughput**
                        **1 session per second**   **3 sessions per second**
                        **Legacy TBF Release**     **Implicit\                 **Gain by Implicit Release**   **Legacy TBF Release**   **Implicit\     **Gain by\
                                                   TBF Release**                                                                       TBF Release**   Implicit\
                                                                                                                                                       Release**
**Uplink (kbps)** 27.2 28.1 3.3 % 52.3 54.6 4.4 %
**Downlink (kbps)** 35.8 37.6 5 % 73.6 77.2 4.9 %
* * *
Table 12 Message transmission delay
* * *
                       **Message transmission delay**
                       **1 session per second**         **3 sessions per second**
                       **Legacy TBF Release**           **Implicit\                 **Gain by Implicit Release**   **Legacy TBF Release**   **Implicit\     **Gain by\
                                                        TBF Release**                                                                       TBF Release**   Implicit\
                                                                                                                                                            Release**
**Uplink\ 1.5 1.5 0 % 10.7 10.0 6.5 % (sec)**
**Downlink (sec)** 0.6 0.6 0 % 2.0 1.7 15 %
* * *
At low session arrival rates, i.e. 1 session per second, the resource
availability is not a problem thus the performance improvements of Implicit
TBF release is not that significant. At high session arrival rates, i.e. 3
sessions per second, available resources start to become scarce. System level
simulations above show that the Implicit TBF Release procedure improves the
PDCH utilization and reduces the PACCH signalling, which provides gains for
both the network performance metrics, "Data Load" and "LLC Throughput", as
well as for the service metric "Message transmission delay".
### 7.1.3 Impacts to GERAN system
#### 7.1.3.1 Impacts to the Mobile Station
Two timers need to be introduced at the MS side which impacts the procedures
for TBF management.
#### 7.1.3.2 Impacts to the BSS
Two timers need to be introduced at the network side which impacts the
procedures for TBF management
#### 7.1.3.3 Impacts to the specification
The Implicit TBF Release procedure requires the modification of TBF management
procedures currently specified in 3GPP TS 44.060.
Capability indicator of Implicit TBF Release at MS side is needed which
requires the modification of 3GPP TS 24.008.
### 7.1.4 References
[7.1-1] GP-140401, Implicit TBF release -- System level simulations, Ericsson,
GERAN#62
# 8 Summary and conclusions
Based on the analysis in section 5, the GERANEMDA study concludes that there
is a need to focus on improving the PDCH utilization and reducing the PACCH
signalling for IM traffic. One candidate solution called "Implicit TBF
Release" is evaluated as a promising optimization with no physical layer
impacts in [7.1-1]. The network performance and service performance metrics
described in section 6 are improved as reported in section 7.1.2.2 when using
the Implicit TBF Release procedure. The normative work for specifying the
Implicit TBF Release procedure is recommended.
###### ### Annex A: Network trace and statistic information
Network trace and statistic information are shown as following.
## A.1 Network Data for IM application
Statistics of Mobile QQ chatting application from real network:
Table A.1: network data statistic for Mobile QQ
* * *
No Actions LLC traffic UL（byte） RLC traffic UL（byte） LLC traffic DL（byte） RLC
traffic DL（byte） 1 Log on 2056 2478 1873 2549 2 Add friends 310 449 342 651 3
Accept invitation 714 1093 774 1516 4 Delete friends 155 205 139 305 5 Be
added as friends 155 244 139 305 6 Sending message(10 bytes) 280 263 294 527 7
Sending message(10 bytes) 195 285 139 301 8 Sending message(50 bytes) 275 367
139 267 9 Sending message(50 bytes) 275 367 139 301 10 Sending message(100
bytes) 371 491 139 305 11 Sending message(100 bytes) 371 491 139 305 12
receiving message(10 bytes) 62 82 117 581 13 receiving message(10 bytes) 62 82
125 522 14 receiving message(50 bytes) 62 82 205 663 15 receiving message(50
bytes) 68 123 205 331 16 receiving message(100 bytes) 62 82 309 786 17
receiving message(100 bytes) 62 82 309 616 18 Sending picture of 16Kbytes
20360 22605 2369 3059 21 Sending picture of 18Kbytes 967 1394 1205 1671 19
Sending picture of 20Kbytes 24943 27645 2877 3871 20 Sending picture of
24Kbytes 29174 32189 2555 3498 22 Idle test for 5 minutes 564 856 636 1411 23
Log out 201 287 201 425 24 Re Log on 913 1299 990 1438 27 Check friends'
profile 5726 6591 10422 11932 28 Check friends' profile 5194 6223 9778 11147
* * *
Following are the traces statistics of corresponding instant message
applications (Mobile QQ), which is a typical and popular application in China.
  * The trace data are observed and captured on Gb interface in > EDGE/GPRS network
  * Mobile QQ application is based on TCP protocol, and the packet size > do not include the TCP header
  * The captured packets include the background packet (e.g. heart beat > packet) and active (chatty) packet. So our trace statistics can > reflect the characteristics of the whole traffic.
  * The trace data are collected from more than two hundred cells and > thousands of MSs using mobile QQ application. Hence, the OS of the > MSs are possibly different, including e.g Android, iOS and > Symbian.
{width="5.803472222222222in" height="3.4506944444444443in"}
Figure A.1. IM Traffic (Mobile QQ) - Packet Inter arrival of time CDF (DL&UL)
{width="5.988888888888889in" height="3.4506944444444443in"}
Figure A.2. IM Traffic (Mobile QQ) - Packet size CDF (UL&UL)
Figure A.3 and Figure A.4 show the uplink and downlink original data (Shantou
region in China), fitted total cumulative distribution function for the packet
size, respectively.
{width="5.121527777777778in" height="3.827777777777778in"}
Figure A.3 Original and fitted CDF for uplink QQ packet size, Shantou.
{width="4.998611111111111in" height="3.9583333333333335in"}
Figure A.4 Original and fitted CDF for downlink QQ packet size, Shantou.
#