# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the procedures and information coding for the
EPC LCS Protocol (ELP) that is needed to support the location services in
E-UTRAN, UTRAN and GERAN. The ELP message set is applicable to the SLg
interface between the MME and the GMLC and the Lgd interface between the SGSN
and the GMLC. ELP is developed in accordance to the general principles stated
in 3GPP TS 23.271 [2].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.271: \"Functional stage 2 description of Location Services
(LCS)\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.032: \"Universal Geographical Area Description (GAD)\".
[4] Void.
[5] IETF RFC 2234: \"Augmented BNF for syntax specifications\".
[6] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification\".
[7] 3GPP TS 29.171: \"LCS Application Protocol (LCS-AP) between the MME and
E-SMLC\".
[8] 3GPP TS 29.274: \"Evolved General Packet Radio Service (GPRS) Tunnelling
Protocol for Control plane (GTPv2-C)\".
[9] Void
[10] 3GPP TS 32.299: \"Charging management; Diameter charging applications\".
[11] 3GPP TS 29.272: \"Evolved Packet System; MME and SGSN Related Interfaces
Based on Diameter Protocol\".
[12] 3GPP TS 29.329: \"Sh Interface based on the Diameter protocol\".
[13] 3GPP TS 33.210: \"3G Security; Network Domain Security; IP Network Layer
Security\".
[14] IETF RFC 4960: \"Stream Control Transmission Protocol\".
[15] 3GPP TS 22.071: \"Location Services (LCS); Service description\".
[16] IETF RFC 5778: \"Diameter Mobile IPv6: Support for Home Agent to Diameter
Server Interaction\".
[17] 3GPP TS 29.229: \"Cx and Dx Interfaces based on the Diameter protocol;
protocol details\".
[18] 3GPP TS 29.173: \"Location Services; Diameter-based SLh interface for
Control Plane LCS\".
[19] 3GPP TS 29.002: \"Mobile Application Part (MAP) specification\".
[20] 3GPP TS 49.031: \"Location Services (LCS) -- Base Station System
Application Part LCS Extension -- (BSSAP-LE)\".
[21] 3GPP TS 25.413: \"UTRAN Iu Interface RANAP signalling\".
[22] 3GPP2 A.S0014-D v5.0: \"Interoperability Specification (IOS) for cdma2000
Access Network Interfaces -- Part 4 (A1, A1p, A2, and A5 Interfaces) UTRAN Iu
Interface RANAP signalling\".
[23] IETF RFC 6733: \"Diameter Base Protocol\".
[24] 3GPP TS 24.080: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 Supplementary services
specification; Formats and coding\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**EPC-MO-LR:** EPC Mobile Originating Location Request
**EPC-MT-LR:** EPC Mobile Terminating Location Request
**EPC-NI-LR:** EPC Network Induced Location Request
**PS-MO-LR:** Packet Switched Mobile Originating Location Request
**PS-MT-LR:** Packet Switched Mobile Terminating Location Request
**PS-NI-LR:** Packet Switched Network Induced Location Request
**LCS:** LoCation Services
**LCS Client:** software and/or hardware entity that interacts with a LCS
Server (in this case, the GMLC) for the purpose of obtaining location
information for one or more Mobile Stations. LCS Clients subscribe to LCS in
order to obtain location information. LCS Clients may or may not interact with
human users. The LCS Client is responsible for formatting and presenting data
and managing the user interface (dialogue). The LCS Client may reside in the
Mobile Station (UE).
**LCS QoS:** The QoS class determines the degree of adherence to the quality
of service information as required by the source of a location request.
**Target:** UE being positioned
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
> SLg Interface between GMLC and MME
>
> Lgd Interface between GMLC and SGSN
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
GMLC Gateway Mobile Location Centre
EPC Enhanced Packet Core
IMEI International Mobile Equipment Identity
IMS IP Multimedia Subsystem
IMSI International Mobile Subscriber Identity
MME Mobility Management Entity
> TTTP Transfer To Third Party
UE User Equipment, as defined in 3GPP TS 23.032 [3]
# 4 Functional Overview
## 4.1 General
This document defines the EPC LCS Protocol (ELP) used on the SLg interface
between the GMLC and the MME and on the Lgd interface between the GMLC and the
SGSN in the Evolved Packet Core (EPC).
The location of the SLg interface within the LCS logical architecture is shown
in Figure 4.1-1.
Figure 4.1-1 SLg interface in the LCS Architecture
The location of the Lgd interface within the LCS logical architecture is shown
in Figure 4.1-2.
Figure 4.1-2 Lgd interface in the LCS Architecture
The high level functions of the ELP protocol are described in 3GPP TS 23.271
[2].
The main functions of the protocol are:
\- To allow the GMLC to request position estimates for a particular target UE
from the MME or SGSN in order to support the EPC-MT-LR or PS-MT-LR positioning
procedures. This is achieved using the Provide Subscriber Location message;
\- To allow the MME or SGSN to return a position estimate or an error report
to the GMLC in response to a Provide Subscriber Location request as part of an
EPC-MT-LR or PS-MT-LR positioning procedure;
\- To allow the MME to forward an unsolicited position estimate to the GMLC as
part of the EPC-MO-LR or EPC-NI-LR procedures. This is achieved using the
Subscriber Location Report message;
\- To allow the SGSN to forward an unsolicited position estimate to the GMLC
as part of the PS-MO-LR, PS-NI-LR or periodic MO-LR TTTP procedures. This is
achieved using the Subscriber Location Report message;
\- To allow the GMLC to acknowledge receipt of an unsolicited position
estimate as part of the EPC-MO-LR, EPC-NI-LR, PS-MO-LR, PS-NI-LR or periodic
MO-LR TTTP procedures;
\- To allow the GMLC to request position estimates for a particular target UE
from the SGSN or MME as part of the deferred MT-LR procedure. This is achieved
using the Provide Subscriber Location message;
\- To allow the SGSN or MME to acknowledge receipt of position estimate
request to the GMLC as part of a deferred MT-LR procedure;
\- To support the procedures for handover of an IMS emergency call with
EPS/GPRS access.
# 5 ELP Message Transport
## 5.1 General
The ELP protocol is defined as a Vendor Specific diameter application (SLg
application). It reuses the basic mechanisms defined by the Diameter base
protocol as specified in IETF RFC 6733 [23], and it defines a number of
additional commands and AVPs to implement the SLg, Lgd specific procedures.
## 5.2 Use of Diameter base protocol
The Diameter base protocol as specified in IETF RFC 6733 [23] shall apply
except as modified by the defined support of the methods and the defined
support of the commands and AVPs, result and error codes as described in this
specification. Unless otherwise specified, the procedures (including error
handling and unrecognised information handling) shall be used unmodified.
## 5.3 Securing Diameter Messages
For secure transport of Diameter messages, see 3GPP TS 33.210 [13].
## 5.4 Accounting functionality
Accounting functionality (Accounting Session State Machine, related command
codes and AVPs) shall not be used on the SLg, Lgd interfaces.
## 5.5 Use of sessions
Between the MME and the GMLC and between the SGSN and the GMLC, Diameter
sessions shall be implicitly terminated. An implicitly terminated session is
one for which the server does not maintain state information. The client shall
not send any re-authorization or session termination requests to the server.
The Diameter base protocol as specified in IETF RFC 6733 [23] includes the
Auth-Session-State AVP as the mechanism for the implementation of implicitly
terminated sessions.
The client (server) shall include in its requests (responses) the Auth-
Session-State AVP set to the value NO_STATE_MAINTAINED (1), as described in
IETF RFC 6733 [23]. As a consequence, the server shall not maintain any state
information about this session and the client shall not send any session
termination request. Neither the Authorization-Lifetime AVP nor the Session-
Timeout AVP shall be present in requests or responses.
## 5.6 Transport protocol
Diameter messages over the SLg and Lgd interfaces shall make use of SCTP (see
IETF RFC 4960 [14]).
## 5.7 Routing considerations
This clause specifies the use of the Diameter routing AVPs Destination-Realm
and Destination-Host.
Destination-Realm AVP shall always be included in all diameter requests, and
therefore is declared as mandatory in the ABNF for all commands.
When a request is initiated by the GMLC, the name of the MME or SGSN shall be
determined by querying the HSS over the SLh interface, and retrieve the
specific MME or SGSN that is currently serving the UE. Therefore, Destination-
Host AVP shall always be included in the commands originated at the GMLC, and
is declared as mandatory in the ABNF.
When a request is initiated by the MME or SGSN, the name of the GMLC may be
either locally configured in the MME/SGSN (e.g., in the intra-domain scenario,
when the GMLC belongs to the same PLMN as the MME/SGSN), or it is known from a
previously received location procedure initiated at the GMLC. Therefore, the
Destination-Host AVP is declared as mandatory in the ABNF of the commands
originated at the MME or SGSN.
If the Vendor-Specific-Application-ID AVP is received in any of the commands
defined in this specification, it shall be ignored by the receiving node, and
it shall not be used for routing purposes.
## 5.8 Advertising Application Support
The MME, SGSN and GMLC shall advertise support of the Diameter SLg Application
by including the value of the application identifier in the Auth-Application-
Id AVP within the Vendor-Specific-Application-Id grouped AVP of the
Capabilities-Exchange-Request and Capabilities-Exchange-Answer commands.
The vendor identifier value of 3GPP (10415) shall be included in the
Supported-Vendor-Id AVP of the Capabilities-Exchange-Request and Capabilities-
Exchange-Answer commands, and in the Vendor-Id AVP within the Vendor-Specific-
Application-Id grouped AVP of the Capabilities-Exchange-Request and
Capabilities-Exchange-Answer commands.
The Vendor-Id AVP included in Capabilities-Exchange-Request and Capabilities-
Exchange-Answer commands that is not included in the Vendor-Specific-
Application-Id AVPs as described above shall indicate the manufacturer of the
Diameter node as per IETF RFC 6733 [23].
# 6 ELP Procedures
## 6.1 General
The ELP procedures, between the GMLC and the MME over SLg interface and
between GMLC and SGSN over Lgd interface, are used to exchange messages
related to location services. The ELP can be divided into the following sub-
procedures.
\- Provide Subscriber Location
\- Subscriber Location Report
## 6.2 Provide Subscriber Location
### 6.2.1 General
The Provide Subscriber Location operation is used by a GMLC to request the
location of a target UE from the MME or SGSN at any time, as part of EPC-MT-LR
or PS-MT-LR positioning procedures. The response contains a location estimate
of the target UE and other additional information.
The Provide Subscriber Location operation is also used by a GMLC to request
the location of the target UE from the SGSN or MME at any time, as part of
deferred MT-LR procedure. The response contains the acknowledgment of the
receipt of the request and other additional information.
### 6.2.2 Successful Operation
> Figure 6.2.2-1: Provide Subscriber Location procedure. Successful operation.
The GMLC initiates the procedure by sending a PROVIDE SUBSCRIBER LOCATION
REQUEST message to the MME or SGSN. This message carries the type of location
information requested (e.g. current location and optionally, velocity), the UE
subscriber\'s IMSI, LCS QoS information (e.g. accuracy, response time), an
indication of whether the LCS client has the override capability, and an
indication of whether delayed location reporting for UEs transiently not
reachable (e.g. UEs in extended idle mode DRX or Power Saving Mode) is
supported as specified in clauses 9.1.6 and 9.1.15 of 3GPP TS 23.271 [2]. The
message also carries an LCS reference number, if delayed location reporting is
supported. For deferred MT-LR procedure, additionally, the message carries
Deferred location type, LCS reference number, H-GMLC address, periodic LDR
info, triggered LDR info, etc.
Upon reception of PROVIDE SUBSCRIBER LOCATION REQUEST message, the MME or SGSN
shall perform authentication privacy verification on the location request.
After that, for EPC-MT-LR or PS-MT-LR procedures the MME or SGSN shall
retrieve the location information of the target UE from E-UTRAN or UTRAN/GERAN
according to the procedures described in 3GPP TS 23.271 [2]. For a deferred
EPC-MT-LR procedure, the MME shall wait until the UE becomes reachable before
performing authentication privacy verification on the location request and
instigating periodic or triggered location in the UE.
The MME or SGSN returns a PROVIDE SUBSCRIBER LOCATION RESPONSE to the GMLC.
For EPC-MT-LR or PS-MT-LR procedures, if the target UE is transiently not
reachable and delayed location reporting for UEs transiently not reachable is
supported, the message shall contain an indication that the UE is transiently
not reachable; otherwise the message shall contain the location estimate, its
age and obtained accuracy. If the MME or SGSN failed to get the current
location and the LCS client is requesting the current or last known location,
the MME or SGSN may return the last known location of the target UE if this is
known.
For a deferred EPC-MT-LR procedure for periodic or triggered location, the MME
returns a PROVIDE SUBSCRIBER LOCATION RESPONSE to the GMLC to indicate that
the MME is able and willing to support the procedure. After the MME has
performed successful authentication privacy verification on the location
request and successfully instigated periodic or triggered location in the UE,
the MME returns a SUBSCRIBER LOCATION REPORT to the GMLC to indicate that
periodic or triggered location has been activated in the UE. The MME (or a
different MME) returns additional SUBSCRIBER LOCATION REPORT messages to the
GMLC (or possibly to a different GMLC if not the HGMLC) for each periodic or
triggered location event detected by the UE. For details, refer to 3GPP TS
23.271 [2].
If the GMLC has received indication from the HSS indicating the combined
MME/SGSN node supporting the optimized LCS procedure (see 3GPP TS 29.173 [18]
clause 5.2.1.2) and if the GMLC also supports optimized LCS procedure, the
GMLC shall set the \"Optimized-LCS-Proc-Req\" bit within the PLR-Flags of the
PROVIDE SUBSCRIBER LOCATION REQUEST message during EPC-MT-LR and/or PS-MT-LR
procedures. When the combined MME/SGSN receives this message with \"Optimized-
LCS-Proc-Req\" bit within the PLR-Flags set, the combined MME/SGSN shall
perform EPC-MT-LR or PS-MT-LR procedure depending upon the knowledge of the
current RAT type of the UE. E.g. if the UE is in active mode in E-UTRAN, the
combined MME/SGSN shall perform only EPC-MT-LR procedure; if the ISR activated
UE is in idle mode, the combined MME/SGSN shall perform the paging followed by
either EPC-MT-LR or PS-MT-LR procedure (depending upon the RAT where the UE is
active). Hence, the combined MME/SGSN shall perform optimized LCS procedure to
retrieve the location information of the target UE from either E-UTRAN or
UTRAN/GERAN.
The combined MME/SGSN shall return a PROVIDE SUBSCRIBER LOCATION RESPONSE to
the GMLC. If the target UE is transiently not reachable and delayed location
reporting for UEs transiently not reachable is supported, the message shall
contain an indication that the UE is transiently not reachable; otherwise the
message shall contain the location estimate, its age and obtained accuracy. If
the combined MME/SGSN failed to get the current location and the LCS client is
requesting the current or last known location, the combined MME/SGSN should
return the latest of the last known EPS or UTRAN/GERAN location of the target
UE if this is known. In both the cases, the combined MME/SGSN may set
\"Optimized-LCS-Proc-Performed\" bit within PLA-Flags, if it has performed
optimized LCS procedure.
This procedure is mapped to the commands Provide-Location-Request/Answer in
the Diameter application specified in clauses 7.3.1 and 7.3.2.
Table 6.2.2-1: Provide Subscriber Location Request
+-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Information | Mapping to | Cat. | Description | | element name | Diameter AVP | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Location Type | SLg-Location-Type | M | This Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain the type | | | | | of location | | | | | measurement | | | | | requested, such | | | | | as current | | | | | location, initial | | | | | location, last | | | | | known location, | | | | | etc. (see 3GPP TS | | | | | 22.071 [15]). | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | IMSI | User-Name | C | If present, this | | | | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain the IMSI | | | | | of the user whose | | | | | UE is to be | | | | | positioned (see | | | | | Note 1). | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | MSISDN | MSISDN | C | If present, this | | | | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain the | | | | | MSISDN of the | | | | | user whose UE is | | | | | to be positioned | | | | | (see Note 1). | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | IMEI | IMEI | C | If present, this | | | | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain the IMEI | | | | | of the UE to be | | | | | positioned (see | | | | | Note 1). | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Client Name | LC | M | This Information | | | S-EPS-Client-Name | | Element shall | | | | | contain the name | | | | | of the LCS client | | | | | issuing the | | | | | positioning | | | | | request. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Client Type | LCS-Client-Type | M | This Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain the type | | | | | of LCS client | | | | | (Emergency, | | | | | Lawful | | | | | Interception ...) | | | | | issuing the | | | | | positioning | | | | | request (see 3GPP | | | | | TS 23.271 [2] | | | | | and 3GPP TS | | | | | 32.299 [10]). | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Requestor Name | L | O | If present, this | | | CS-Requestor-Name | | Information | | | | | Element contains | | | | | the identity of | | | | | the originating | | | | | entity which has | | | | | requested the | | | | | location of the | | | | | target UE from | | | | | the LCS Client. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Priority | LCS-Priority | O | If present, this | | | | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain the | | | | | priority of the | | | | | LCS client | | | | | issuing the | | | | | positioning | | | | | request. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | QoS | LCS-QoS | O | If present, this | | | | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain the | | | | | quality of | | | | | service | | | | | requested, such | | | | | as the accuracy | | | | | of the | | | | | positioning | | | | | measurement and | | | | | the response time | | | | | of the | | | | | positioning | | | | | operation. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Velocity | V | O | If present, this | | Requested | elocity-Requested | | information | | | | | element shall | | | | | contain an | | | | | indication of | | | | | whether or not | | | | | the Velocity of | | | | | the target UE is | | | | | requested. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Supported GAD | LCS-Sup | O | If present, this | | Shapes | ported-GAD-Shapes | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain the list | | | | | of supported GAD | | | | | shapes by the LCS | | | | | client. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Service Type ID | LC | O | If present, this | | | S-Service-Type-ID | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain the | | | | | service type | | | | | associated for | | | | | the particular | | | | | positioning | | | | | request (the | | | | | meaning of the | | | | | different service | | | | | types is defined | | | | | in 3GPP TS 22.071 | | | | | [15]). | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Codeword | LCS-Codeword | O | If present, this | | | | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain the | | | | | Codeword to be | | | | | used between an | | | | | LCS client and a | | | | | target UE in | | | | | order to check | | | | | and accept or | | | | | reject the | | | | | positioning | | | | | request. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | APN | Service-Selection | C | If present, this | | | | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain the | | | | | Access Point Name | | | | | (APN) Network | | | | | Identifier of the | | | | | LCS client, as | | | | | used by the | | | | | target UE. It | | | | | shall only be | | | | | included in | | | | | session-related | | | | | location | | | | | requests. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Session-Related | LCS-Priv | O | If present, this | | Privacy Check | acy-Check-Session | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain an | | | | | indication of how | | | | | the positioning | | | | | operation should | | | | | proceed in the | | | | | relation to the | | | | | checking of the | | | | | session-related | | | | | privacy settings | | | | | of the user. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | No | LCS-Privacy- | O | If present, this | | n-Session-Related | Check-Non-Session | | Information | | Privacy Check | | | Element shall | | | | | contain an | | | | | indication of how | | | | | the positioning | | | | | operation should | | | | | proceed in the | | | | | relation to the | | | | | checking of the | | | | | no | | | | | n-session-related | | | | | privacy settings | | | | | of the user. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Deferred Location | Defer | O | If present, this | | Type | red-Location-Type | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain the type | | | | | of the event | | | | | until when the | | | | | location | | | | | estimation is | | | | | deferred. | | | | | Applicable event | | | | | types are: UE | | | | | available, UE | | | | | entering or | | | | | leaving or being | | | | | in a pre-defined | | | | | geographical | | | | | area, periodic | | | | | location, UE | | | | | moving by more | | | | | than a minimum | | | | | linear distance | | | | | (NOTE). This | | | | | Information | | | | | Element is | | | | | applicable only | | | | | for the deferred | | | | | MT-LR procedure. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE: this value | | | | | is only | | | | | applicable to a | | | | | deferred | | | | | EPC-MT-LR. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | LCS-Reference | LCS | O | If present, this | | Number | -Reference-Number | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain the | | | | | reference number | | | | | identifying the | | | | | deferred location | | | | | request or | | | | | identifying the | | | | | request for which | | | | | delayed location | | | | | reporting for UEs | | | | | transiently not | | | | | reachable is | | | | | supported. This | | | | | Information | | | | | Element is | | | | | applicable only | | | | | when: | | | | | | | | | | - the deferred | | | | | MT-LR procedure | | | | | is initiated; or | | | | | | | | | | - an EPC-MT-LR | | | | | or PS-MT-LR | | | | | procedure is | | | | | initiated and the | | | | | message includes | | | | | the indication | | | | | that delayed | | | | | location | | | | | reporting for UEs | | | | | transiently not | | | | | reachable is | | | | | supported. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Area Event Info | Area-Event-Info | O | If present, this | | | | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain area | | | | | definition, type | | | | | of area event, | | | | | occurrence info | | | | | and minimum | | | | | interval time. | | | | | For a deferred | | | | | EPC-MT-LR, this | | | | | Information | | | | | Element may also | | | | | contain the | | | | | duration of event | | | | | reporting, the | | | | | maximum time | | | | | interval between | | | | | event reports, | | | | | the maximum event | | | | | sampling | | | | | interval, and | | | | | whether location | | | | | estimates shall | | | | | be included in | | | | | event reports. | | | | | This Information | | | | | Element is | | | | | applicable only | | | | | when the deferred | | | | | MT-LR is | | | | | initiated for the | | | | | area event (UE | | | | | entering or | | | | | leaving or being | | | | | in a pre-defined | | | | | geographical | | | | | area). | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | H-GMLC Address | GMLC-Address | O | If present, this | | | | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain the | | | | | address | | | | | identifying the | | | | | H-GMLC which | | | | | initiated the | | | | | deferred MT-LR | | | | | procedure. This | | | | | Information | | | | | Element is | | | | | applicable only | | | | | when the deferred | | | | | MT-LR procedure | | | | | is performed. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | PLR Flags | PLR-Flags | O | This Information | | | | | Element contains | | | | | a bit mask. See | | | | | 7.4.52 for the | | | | | meaning of the | | | | | bits. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Periodic LDR | Periodi | O | If present, this | | Information | c-LDR-Information | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain reporting | | | | | amount and | | | | | reporting | | | | | interval of | | | | | deferred periodic | | | | | location. This | | | | | Information | | | | | Element is | | | | | applicable only | | | | | when the deferred | | | | | MT-LR procedure | | | | | is initiated for | | | | | the periodic | | | | | location event. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Reporting PLMN | Re | O | If present, this | | List | porting-PLMN-List | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain a list of | | | | | PLMNs in which | | | | | the subsequent | | | | | location | | | | | estimates must be | | | | | obtained, or the | | | | | subsequent | | | | | triggered or | | | | | periodic events | | | | | must be reported, | | | | | by the UE as part | | | | | of a periodic | | | | | MO-LR TTTP or | | | | | periodic MT-LR | | | | | procedure. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Supported | S | O | If present, this | | Features | upported-Features | | information | | | | | element shall | | (See 3GPP TS | | | contain the list | | 29.229 [17]) | | | of features | | | | | supported by the | | | | | origin host. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Motion Event Info | Motion-Event-Info | O | If present, this | | | | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain | | | | | information for | | | | | motion event | | | | | reporting. This | | | | | information | | | | | includes the | | | | | minimum linear | | | | | distance for a | | | | | motion event | | | | | report, the | | | | | duration of event | | | | | reporting, the | | | | | minimum and | | | | | maximum time | | | | | intervals between | | | | | event reports, | | | | | the maximum event | | | | | sampling | | | | | interval, whether | | | | | location | | | | | estimates shall | | | | | be included in | | | | | event reports, | | | | | and whether only | | | | | one location | | | | | report is | | | | | required or more | | | | | than one. This | | | | | Information | | | | | Element is | | | | | applicable only | | | | | for a deferred | | | | | EPC-MT-LR. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | NOTE 1: At least | | | | | one of these IEs | | | | | shall be present | | | | | in the message. | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+
Table 6.2.2-2: Provide Subscriber Location Answer
+------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | **Information |** Mapping to | **Cat.** | **Description** | | element name**| Diameter AVP** | | | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Result | Result-Code / | M | This Information | | | Exp | | Element shall | | | erimental-Result | | contain the | | | | | result of the | | | | | operation. | | | | | | | | | | The Result-Code | | | | | AVP shall be | | | | | used to indicate | | | | | success / errors | | | | | as defined in | | | | | the Diameter | | | | | base protocol | | | | | (see | | | | | IETF R | | | | | FC 6733 [23]). | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | Exp | | | | | erimental-Result | | | | | AVP shall be | | | | | used for ELP | | | | | errors. This is | | | | | a grouped AVP | | | | | which shall | | | | | contain the 3GPP | | | | | Vendor ID in the | | | | | Vendor-Id AVP, | | | | | and the error | | | | | code in the | | | | | Experime | | | | | ntal-Result-Code | | | | | AVP. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Location | L | O | If present, this | | Estimate | ocation-Estimate | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain an | | | | | estimate of the | | | | | location of the | | | | | UE in universal | | | | | coordinates and | | | | | the accuracy of | | | | | the estimate. | | | | | | | | | | This Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | not be included | | | | | if the PLA Flags | | | | | Information | | | | | Element is | | | | | present and if | | | | | the bit | | | | | corresponding to | | | | | the | | | | | \"UE-Trans | | | | | iently-Not-Reach | | | | | able-Indicator\" | | | | | is set. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Accuracy | Accuracy-Fulf | O | If present, this | | Fulfilment | ilment-Indicator | | Information | | Indicator | | | Element shall | | | | | contain an | | | | | indication of | | | | | whether the | | | | | requested | | | | | accuracy (as | | | | | indicated in the | | | | | LCS-QoS IE in | | | | | the request | | | | | message) was | | | | | fulfilled or | | | | | not. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Age of Location | Age-of-L | O | If present, this | | Estimate | ocation-Estimate | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain an | | | | | indication of | | | | | how long ago the | | | | | location | | | | | estimate was | | | | | obtained. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Velocity | V | O | If present, this | | Estimate | elocity-Estimate | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain an | | | | | estimate of the | | | | | velocity of the | | | | | target UE, | | | | | composed by | | | | | horizontal | | | | | speed, vertical | | | | | speed, and their | | | | | respective | | | | | uncertainty (see | | | | | 3GPP TS 23.032 | | | | | [3]). | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | EUTRAN | EUTRAN- | O | If present, this | | Positioning Data | Positioning-Data | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | indicate the | | | | | usage of each | | | | | positioning | | | | | method that was | | | | | attempted to | | | | | determine the | | | | | location | | | | | estimate, either | | | | | successfully or | | | | | unsuccessfully. | | | | | The internal | | | | | structure and | | | | | encoding is | | | | | defined in 3GPP | | | | | TS 29.171 [7]. | | | | | This Information | | | | | Element is | | | | | applicable only | | | | | when the UE is | | | | | attached to | | | | | E-UTRAN access | | | | | and when the | | | | | message is sent | | | | | by the MME or | | | | | the combined | | | | | MME/SGSN. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | ECGI | ECGI | O | If present, this | | | | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain the | | | | | current cell | | | | | location of the | | | | | target UE as | | | | | delivered by the | | | | | eNB to the MME. | | | | | The E-UTRAN Cell | | | | | Global | | | | | Identifier | | | | | (ECGI) is used | | | | | to globally | | | | | identify a cell. | | | | | This Information | | | | | Element is | | | | | applicable only | | | | | when the UE is | | | | | attached to | | | | | E-UTRAN access | | | | | and when the | | | | | message is sent | | | | | by the MME or | | | | | combined | | | | | MME/SGSN. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | GERAN | GERAN- | O | If present, this | | Positioning Info | Positioning-Info | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | indicate the | | | | | usage of each | | | | | positioning | | | | | method that was | | | | | attempted to | | | | | determine the | | | | | location | | | | | estimate, either | | | | | successfully or | | | | | unsuccessfully. | | | | | This Information | | | | | Element is | | | | | applicable only | | | | | when the UE is | | | | | attached to | | | | | GERAN access and | | | | | when the message | | | | | is sent by the | | | | | SGSN or combined | | | | | MME/SGSN. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | CGI | Cell | O | If present, this | | | -Global-Identity | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain the | | | | | current cell | | | | | location of the | | | | | target UE. The | | | | | Cell Global | | | | | Identifier (CGI) | | | | | is used to | | | | | globally | | | | | identify a cell. | | | | | This Information | | | | | Element is | | | | | applicable only | | | | | when the UE is | | | | | attached to | | | | | GERAN access and | | | | | when the message | | | | | is sent by the | | | | | SGSN or combined | | | | | MME/SGSN. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | UTRAN | UTRAN- | O | If present, this | | Positioning Info | Positioning-Info | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | indicate the | | | | | usage of each | | | | | positioning | | | | | method that was | | | | | attempted to | | | | | determine the | | | | | location | | | | | estimate, either | | | | | successfully or | | | | | unsuccessfully. | | | | | This Information | | | | | Element is | | | | | applicable only | | | | | when the UE is | | | | | attached to | | | | | UTRAN access and | | | | | when the message | | | | | is sent by the | | | | | SGSN or combined | | | | | MME/SGSN. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | SAI | Servi | O | If present, this | | | ce-Area-Identity | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain the | | | | | current service | | | | | area of the | | | | | target UE. The | | | | | Service Area | | | | | Identifier (SAI) | | | | | is used to | | | | | globally | | | | | identify a | | | | | service area. | | | | | This Information | | | | | Element is | | | | | applicable only | | | | | when the UE is | | | | | attached to | | | | | UTRAN access and | | | | | when the message | | | | | is sent by the | | | | | SGSN or combined | | | | | MME/SGSN. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Target Serving | Serving-Node | O | If present, this | | Node Identity | | | information | | | | | element shall | | | | | contain the | | | | | address of the | | | | | target side | | | | | serving node for | | | | | handover of an | | | | | IMS Emergency | | | | | Call. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | PLA Flags | PLA-Flags | O | This Information | | | | | Element contains | | | | | a bit mask. See | | | | | 7.4.53 for the | | | | | meaning of the | | | | | bits. | | | | | | | | | | If this | | | | | Information | | | | | Element is | | | | | present and if | | | | | it the bit | | | | | corresponding to | | | | | the | | | | | \"Def | | | | | erred-MT-LR-Resp | | | | | onse-Indicator\" | | | | | is set, the | | | | | \"Loc | | | | | ation-Estimate\" | | | | | Information | | | | | Element is | | | | | ignored in this | | | | | message. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | E-SMLC provided | ESMLC-Cell-Info | O | If present, this | | Cell Info | | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain the | | | | | current cell | | | | | information of | | | | | the target UE as | | | | | known by E-SMLC. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Civic Address | Civic-Address | O | If present, this | | | | | Information | | | | | Element contains | | | | | a location | | | | | estimate for the | | | | | target UE | | | | | expressed as a | | | | | Civic address. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Barometric | Bar | O | If present, this | | Pressure | ometric-Pressure | | Information | | | | | Element contains | | | | | the barometric | | | | | pressure | | | | | measurement as | | | | | reported by the | | | | | target UE. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Supported | Su | O | If present, this | | Features | pported-Features | | information | | | | | element shall | | (See 3GPP TS | | | contain the list | | 29.229 [17]) | | | of features | | | | | supported by the | | | | | origin host. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+
### 6.2.3 Unsuccessful Operation
On receipt of a PROVIDE SUBSCRIBER LOCATION RESPONSE with a Result-Code or
Experimental-Result AVP indicating failure the GMLC considers the positioning
request as failed.
If the GMLC receives \"Optimized-LCS-Proc-Performed\" bit within PLA-Flags
set, it shall assume that the combined MME/SGSN has either performed EPC-MT-LR
or PS-MT-LR procedure to retrieve the location of the target UE. And hence, it
need not send another PROVIDE SUBSCRIBER LOCATION REQUEST message to the
combined MME/SGSN.
## 6.3 Subscriber Location Report
### 6.3.1 General
The Subscriber Location Report operation is used by an MME or SGSN to provide
the location of a target UE to a GMLC, when a request for location has been
implicitly issued or when a Delayed Location Reporting is triggered after
receipt of a request for location for a UE transiently not reachable.
### 6.3.2 Successful Operation
> Figure 6.3.2-1: Subscriber Location Report procedure. Successful operation.
The MME or SGSN initiates the procedure by sending a SUBSCRIBER LOCATION
REPORT message to the GMLC. The message may carry the identity of the UE, the
location estimate and its age, and the event causing the location report.
Upon reception of SUBSCRIBER LOCATION REPORT message, the GMLC shall return a
SUBSCRIBER LOCATION REPORT ACK to the MME or SGSN and process the location
report accordingly, e.g. transfer of the location estimate to an external LCS
Client according to procedure described in 3GPP TS 23.271 [2].
If the Location-Event indicates a DEFERRED_LR_RESPONSE then the Location-
Estimate shall not be sent if the LCS-Supported-GAD-Shapes had been received
in Provide Subscriber Location request and the shape encoded in Location-
Estimate was not marked as supported in LCS-Supported-GAD-Shapes. In such a
case Termination-Cause in Deferred-MT-LR-Data shall be present with value
SHAPE_OF_LOCATION_ESTIMATE_NOT_SUPPORTED.
This procedure is mapped to the commands Location-Report-Request/Answer in the
Diameter application specified in clauses 7.3.3 and 7.3.4.
Table 6.3.2-1: Subscriber Location Report
+------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | **Information |** Mapping to | **Cat.** | **Description** | | element name**| Diameter AVP** | | | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Location Event | Location-Event | M | This Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain the type | | | | | of event that | | | | | caused the | | | | | location | | | | | procedure to be | | | | | initiated. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | IMSI | User-Name | C | If present, this | | | | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain the IMSI | | | | | of the user | | | | | whose UE is to | | | | | be positioned | | | | | (see Note 1). | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | MSISDN | MSISDN | C | If present, this | | | | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain the | | | | | MSISDN of the | | | | | user whose UE is | | | | | to be positioned | | | | | (see Note 1). | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | IMEI | IMEI | C | If present, this | | | | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain the IMEI | | | | | of the UE to be | | | | | positioned (see | | | | | Note 1). | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Client Name | LCS | O | If present, this | | | -EPS-Client-Name | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain the name | | | | | of the LCS | | | | | client where the | | | | | result of the | | | | | positioning | | | | | operation should | | | | | be sent. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Location | L | O | If present, this | | Estimate | ocation-Estimate | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain an | | | | | estimate of the | | | | | location of the | | | | | UE in universal | | | | | coordinates and | | | | | the accuracy of | | | | | the estimate. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Accuracy | Accuracy-Fulf | O | If present, this | | Fulfilment | ilment-Indicator | | Information | | Indicator | | | Element shall | | | | | contain an | | | | | indication of | | | | | whether the | | | | | requested | | | | | accuracy was | | | | | fulfilled or | | | | | not. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Age of Location | Age-of-L | O | If present, this | | Estimate | ocation-Estimate | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain an | | | | | indication of | | | | | how long ago the | | | | | location | | | | | estimate was | | | | | obtained. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Velocity | V | O | If present, this | | Estimate | elocity-Estimate | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain an | | | | | estimate of the | | | | | velocity of the | | | | | UE, composed by | | | | | horizontal | | | | | speed, vertical | | | | | speed, and their | | | | | respective | | | | | uncertainty (see | | | | | 3GPP TS 23.032 | | | | | [3]). | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | EUTRAN | EUTRAN- | O | If present, this | | Positioning Data | Positioning-Data | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | indicate the | | | | | usage of each | | | | | positioning | | | | | method that was | | | | | attempted to | | | | | determine the | | | | | location | | | | | estimate, either | | | | | successfully or | | | | | unsuccessfully. | | | | | The internal | | | | | structure and | | | | | encoding is | | | | | defined in 3GPP | | | | | TS 29.171 [7]. | | | | | This Information | | | | | Element is | | | | | applicable only | | | | | when the UE is | | | | | attached to | | | | | E-UTRAN access | | | | | and when the | | | | | message is sent | | | | | by the MME or | | | | | the MME part of | | | | | the combined | | | | | MME/SGSN. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | ECGI | ECGI | O | If present, this | | | | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain the | | | | | current cell | | | | | location of the | | | | | target UE as | | | | | delivered by the | | | | | eNB to the MME. | | | | | The E-UTRAN Cell | | | | | Global | | | | | Identifier | | | | | (ECGI) is used | | | | | to globally | | | | | identify a cell. | | | | | This Information | | | | | Element is | | | | | applicable only | | | | | when the UE is | | | | | attached to | | | | | E-UTRAN access | | | | | and when the | | | | | message is sent | | | | | by the MME or | | | | | the MME part of | | | | | the combined | | | | | MME/SGSN. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | GERAN | GERAN- | O | If present, this | | Positioning Info | Positioning-Info | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | indicate the | | | | | usage of each | | | | | positioning | | | | | method that was | | | | | attempted to | | | | | determine the | | | | | location | | | | | estimate, either | | | | | successfully or | | | | | unsuccessfully. | | | | | This Information | | | | | Element is | | | | | applicable only | | | | | when the UE is | | | | | attached to | | | | | GERAN access and | | | | | when the message | | | | | is sent by the | | | | | SGSN or the SGSN | | | | | part of the | | | | | combined | | | | | MME/SGSN. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | CGI | Cell | O | If present, this | | | -Global-Identity | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain the | | | | | current cell | | | | | location of the | | | | | target UE. The | | | | | Cell Global | | | | | Identifier (CGI) | | | | | is used to | | | | | globally | | | | | identify a cell. | | | | | This Information | | | | | Element is | | | | | applicable only | | | | | when the UE is | | | | | attached to | | | | | GERAN access and | | | | | when the message | | | | | is sent by the | | | | | SGSN or the SGSN | | | | | part of the | | | | | combined | | | | | MME/SGSN. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | UTRAN | UTRAN- | O | If present, this | | Positioning Info | Positioning-Info | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | indicate the | | | | | usage of each | | | | | positioning | | | | | method that was | | | | | attempted to | | | | | determine the | | | | | location | | | | | estimate, either | | | | | successfully or | | | | | unsuccessfully. | | | | | This Information | | | | | Element is | | | | | applicable only | | | | | when the UE is | | | | | attached to | | | | | UTRAN access and | | | | | when the message | | | | | is sent by the | | | | | SGSN or the SGSN | | | | | part of the | | | | | combined | | | | | MME/SGSN. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | SAI | Servi | O | If present, this | | | ce-Area-Identity | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain the | | | | | current service | | | | | area of the | | | | | target UE. The | | | | | Service Area | | | | | Identifier (SAI) | | | | | is used to | | | | | globally | | | | | identify a | | | | | service area. | | | | | This Information | | | | | Element is | | | | | applicable only | | | | | when the UE is | | | | | attached to | | | | | UTRAN access and | | | | | when the message | | | | | is sent by the | | | | | SGSN or the SGSN | | | | | part of the | | | | | combined | | | | | MME/SGSN. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Service Type ID | LCS | O | If present, this | | | -Service-Type-ID | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain the | | | | | service type | | | | | associated for | | | | | the particular | | | | | positioning | | | | | report | | | | | identifying the | | | | | service at the | | | | | receiving LCS | | | | | Client (the | | | | | meaning of the | | | | | different | | | | | service types is | | | | | defined in 3GPP | | | | | TS 22.071 | | | | | [15]). | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Pseudonym | Pse | O | If present, this | | Indicator | udonym-Indicator | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain an | | | | | indication of | | | | | whether or not a | | | | | pseudonym must | | | | | be allocated by | | | | | the network and | | | | | transferred to | | | | | the LCS client | | | | | as the identity | | | | | of the UE. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Supported | Su | O | If present, this | | Features | pported-Features | | information | | | | | element shall | | (See 3GPP TS | | | contain the list | | 29.229 [17]) | | | of features | | | | | supported by the | | | | | origin host. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | LCS QoS Class | LCS-QoS-Class | O | If present, this | | | | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain the | | | | | LCS-QoS-Class | | | | | requested by the | | | | | target UE. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Target Serving | Serving-Node | O | If present, this | | Node Identity | | | information | | | | | element shall | | | | | contain the | | | | | address of the | | | | | target side | | | | | serving node for | | | | | handover of an | | | | | IMS Emergency | | | | | Call. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | LRR Flags | LRR-Flags | C | This Information | | | | | Element contains | | (See 7.4.35) | | | a bit mask. See | | | | | 7.4.35 for the | | | | | meaning of the | | | | | bits. | | | | | | | | | | It shall be | | | | | present when the | | | | | message is sent | | | | | over Lgd | | | | | interface. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | LCS-Reference | LCS- | O | If present, this | | Number | Reference-Number | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain the | | | | | reference number | | | | | identifying the | | | | | deferred | | | | | location request | | | | | or identifying | | | | | the request for | | | | | which Delayed | | | | | Location | | | | | Reporting is | | | | | triggered. This | | | | | is same as the | | | | | reference number | | | | | included in the | | | | | Provide | | | | | Subscriber | | | | | Location request | | | | | for the deferred | | | | | MT-LR procedure | | | | | or for the | | | | | EPC-MT-LR or | | | | | PS-MT-LR with | | | | | the | | | | | De | | | | | layed-Location-R | | | | | eporting-Support | | | | | indication, or | | | | | the reference | | | | | number included | | | | | in the | | | | | Subscriber | | | | | Location Report | | | | | Ack for periodic | | | | | MO-LR TTTP | | | | | procedure. This | | | | | Information | | | | | Element shall be | | | | | included if the | | | | | Location-Event | | | | | is set to: | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | \"DEFERRED_MT\ | | | | | _LR_RESPONSE\"; | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | \ | | | | | "DELAYED_LOCATI | | | | | ON_REPORTING\". | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Deferred MT-LR | Def | O | If present, this | | Data | erred-MT-LR-Data | | Information | | | | | Element is used | | | | | to report the | | | | | deferred | | | | | location event | | | | | type, the | | | | | location | | | | | information and | | | | | optionally a | | | | | reason why the | | | | | serving node or | | | | | UE aborted | | | | | monitoring the | | | | | event to the | | | | | GMLC. The | | | | | deferred | | | | | location event | | | | | type may | | | | | correspond to | | | | | the location | | | | | event type | | | | | requested in the | | | | | Provide | | | | | Subscriber | | | | | Location | | | | | Request. For a | | | | | deferred | | | | | EPC-MT-LR, the | | | | | deferred | | | | | location event | | | | | type may also | | | | | indicate LDR | | | | | activation in | | | | | the UE or | | | | | expiration of | | | | | the maximum time | | | | | interval between | | | | | event reports. | | | | | This Information | | | | | Element shall be | | | | | included when | | | | | the | | | | | Location-Event | | | | | is set to | | | | | \"DEFERRED_MT\ | | | | | _LR_RESPONSE\". | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | H-GMLC Address | GMLC-Address | O | If present, this | | | | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain the | | | | | address | | | | | identifying the | | | | | H-GMLC which | | | | | should receive | | | | | location | | | | | estimates. This | | | | | is the same as | | | | | the H-GMLC | | | | | address included | | | | | in the Provide | | | | | Subscriber | | | | | Location request | | | | | for the deferred | | | | | MT-LR procedure | | | | | or the H-GMLC | | | | | address included | | | | | in the | | | | | Subscriber | | | | | Location Report | | | | | Ack for periodic | | | | | MO-LR TTTP | | | | | procedure. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Sequence Number | Reporting-Amount | O | If present, this | | | | | parameter | | | | | contains the | | | | | number of the | | | | | periodic | | | | | location reports | | | | | completed. The | | | | | sequence number | | | | | would be set to | | | | | 1 in the first | | | | | location report | | | | | and increment by | | | | | 1 for each new | | | | | report. When the | | | | | number reaches | | | | | the reporting | | | | | amount value, | | | | | the H-GMLC (for | | | | | a periodic MT-LR | | | | | or a periodic | | | | | MO-LR TTTP) will | | | | | know the | | | | | procedure is | | | | | complete. This | | | | | Information | | | | | Element is | | | | | applicable only | | | | | when the message | | | | | is sent by the | | | | | SGSN or the SGSN | | | | | part of the | | | | | combined | | | | | MME/SGSN. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Periodic LDR | Periodic | O | If present, this | | Information | -LDR-Information | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain the UE | | | | | requested | | | | | reporting amount | | | | | and reporting | | | | | interval of | | | | | deferred | | | | | periodic | | | | | location | | | | | reporting. This | | | | | Information | | | | | Element is | | | | | applicable only | | | | | when the | | | | | periodic MO-LR | | | | | TTTP procedure | | | | | is initiated by | | | | | the UE and when | | | | | the message is | | | | | sent by the SGSN | | | | | or the SGSN part | | | | | of the combined | | | | | MME/SGSN. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | E-SMLC provided | ESMLC-Cell-Info | O | If present, this | | Cell Info | | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain the | | | | | current cell | | | | | information of | | | | | the target UE as | | | | | known by E-SMLC. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | 1xRTT Reference | 1xRTT-RCID | O | If present, this | | Cell ID | | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain the | | | | | 1xRTT Reference | | | | | Cell ID uniquely | | | | | identifying of | | | | | the target cell | | | | | location for | | | | | handover of an | | | | | IMS ermergency | | | | | call. This | | | | | Information | | | | | Element is | | | | | applicable only | | | | | when the UE is | | | | | making handover | | | | | toa cdma2000 | | | | | 1xRTT access and | | | | | when the message | | | | | is sent by the | | | | | MME or the MME | | | | | part of the | | | | | combined | | | | | MME/SGSN. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Delayed Location | Delayed-Locatio | O | If present, this | | Reporting Data | n-Reporting-Data | | Information | | | | | Element is used | | | | | to report to the | | | | | GMLC the reason | | | | | why the serving | | | | | node ended an | | | | | earlier | | | | | EPC-MT-LR or | | | | | PS-MT-LR with | | | | | the | | | | | De | | | | | layed-Location-R | | | | | eporting-Support | | | | | indication | | | | | received for a | | | | | UE transiently | | | | | not reachable. | | | | | | | | | | This Information | | | | | Element shall be | | | | | included when | | | | | the | | | | | Location-Event | | | | | is set to | | | | | \ | | | | | "DELAYED_LOCATI | | | | | ON_REPORTING\". | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Civic Address | Civic-Address | O | If present, this | | | | | Information | | | | | Element contains | | | | | a location | | | | | estimate for the | | | | | target UE | | | | | expressed as a | | | | | Civic address. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Barometric | Bar | O | If present, this | | Pressure | ometric-Pressure | | Information | | | | | Element contains | | | | | the barometric | | | | | pressure | | | | | measurement as | | | | | reported by the | | | | | target UE. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | NOTE 1: At least | | | | | one of these IEs | | | | | shall be present | | | | | in the message. | | | | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+
Table 6.3.2-2: Subscriber Location Report Ack
+------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | **Information |** Mapping to | **Cat.** | **Description** | | element name**| Diameter AVP** | | | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Result | Result-Code / | M | This Information | | | Exp | | Element shall | | | erimental-Result | | contain the | | | | | result of the | | | | | operation. | | | | | | | | | | The Result-Code | | | | | AVP shall be | | | | | used to indicate | | | | | success / errors | | | | | as defined in | | | | | the Diameter | | | | | base protocol | | | | | (see | | | | | IETF R | | | | | FC 6733 [23]). | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | Exp | | | | | erimental-Result | | | | | AVP shall be | | | | | used for ELP | | | | | errors. This is | | | | | a grouped AVP | | | | | which shall | | | | | contain the 3GPP | | | | | Vendor ID in the | | | | | Vendor-Id AVP, | | | | | and the error | | | | | code in the | | | | | Experime | | | | | ntal-Result-Code | | | | | AVP. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | H-GMLC Address | GMLC-Address | O | If present, this | | | | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain the | | | | | address | | | | | identifying the | | | | | H-GMLC which | | | | | should receive | | | | | location | | | | | estimates as | | | | | part of periodic | | | | | MO-LR TTTP | | | | | procedure. This | | | | | Information | | | | | Element is | | | | | applicable only | | | | | when the message | | | | | is sent towards | | | | | the SGSN or the | | | | | SGSN part of the | | | | | combined | | | | | MME/SGSN. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | LRA Flags | LRA-Flags | O | This Information | | | | | Element contains | | | | | a bit mask. See | | | | | 7.4.56 for the | | | | | meaning of the | | | | | bits. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Reporting PLMN | Rep | O | If present, this | | List | orting-PLMN-List | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain a list | | | | | of PLMNs in | | | | | which the | | | | | subsequent | | | | | location | | | | | estimates must | | | | | be obtained as | | | | | part of periodic | | | | | MO-LR TTTP | | | | | procedure. This | | | | | Information | | | | | Element is | | | | | applicable only | | | | | when the message | | | | | is sent towards | | | | | the SGSN or the | | | | | SGSN part of the | | | | | combined | | | | | MME/SGSN. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | LCS Reference | LCS- | O | If present, this | | Number | Reference-Number | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain the | | | | | reference number | | | | | identifying the | | | | | deferred | | | | | location request | | | | | or identifying | | | | | the request for | | | | | which Delayed | | | | | Location | | | | | Reporting was | | | | | triggered. This | | | | | Information | | | | | Element is | | | | | applicable only | | | | | when the message | | | | | is sent towards | | | | | the SGSN or the | | | | | SGSN part of the | | | | | combined | | | | | MME/SGSN. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Supported | Su | O | If present, this | | Features | pported-Features | | information | | | | | element shall | | (See 3GPP TS | | | contain the list | | 29.229 [17]) | | | of features | | | | | supported by the | | | | | origin host. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+
### 6.3.3 Unsuccessful Operation
If for some reason the GMLC does not accept the SUBSCRIBER LOCATION REPORT
APDU, the GMLC shall send a SUBSCRIBER LOCATION REPORT ACK message with a
Result-Code or Experimental-Result AVP indicating failure.
# 7 ELP Messages and Message Formats
## 7.1 General
The Diameter base protocol as specified in IETF RFC 6733 [23] shall apply
except as modified by the defined support of the methods and the defined
support of the commands and AVPs, result and error codes as specified in this
specification. Unless otherwise specified, the procedures (including error
handling and unrecognised information handling) shall be used unmodified.
This clause specifies a Diameter application that allows a Diameter server and
a Diameter client:
\- to retrieve the location information of a target UE
\- to report the location information of a target UE
The SLg/Lgd interface protocol is defined as an IETF vendor specific Diameter
application, where the vendor is 3GPP. The vendor identifier assigned by IANA
to 3GPP (http://www.iana.org/assignments/enterprise-numbers) is 10415.
The Diameter application identifier assigned to the SLg interface application
is 16777255 (allocated by IANA).
The Lgd interface uses the Diameter application identifier defined for the SLg
interface application.
## 7.2 Message Formats
This clause defines Command-Code values for the SLg interface application.
These Command-Code values are applicable for the SLg and Lgd interfaces.
Every command is defined by means of the ABNF syntax IETF RFC 2234 [5],
according to the Command Code Format (CCF) specification defined in IETF RFC
6733 [23]. If the definition and use of an AVP is not specified in this
document, the guidelines IETF RFC 6733 [23] shall apply.
For these commands, the Application-ID field shall be set to16777255
(application identifier of the SLg interface application).
The Vendor-Specific-Application-Id AVP shall not be included in any command
sent by Diameter nodes supporting applications defined in this specification.
If the Vendor-Specific-Application-Id AVP is received in any of the commands
defined in this specification, it shall be ignored by the receiving node.
NOTE: The Vendor-Specific-Application-Id is included as an optional AVP in all
Command Code Format specifications defined in this specification in order to
overcome potential interoperability issues with intermediate Diameter agents
non-compliant with IETF RFC 6733 [23].
The following Command Codes are defined in this specification:
Table 7.2-1: Command-Code values
* * *
Command-Name Abbreviation Code Clause Provide-Location-Request PLR 8388620
7.3.1 Provide-Location -Answer PLA 8388620 7.3.2 Location-Report-Request LRR
8388621 7.3.3 Location-Report-Answer LRA 8388621 7.3.4
* * *
## 7.3 ELP Messages
### 7.3.1 Provide-Location-Request (PLR) Command
The Provide-Location-Request (PLR) command, indicated by the Command-Code
field set to 8388620 and the \'R\' bit set in the Command Flags field, is sent
by the GMLC in order to request subscriber location to the MME or SGSN.
Message Format
> \ ::= \ 16777255 >
>
> \
>
> [ Vendor-Specific-Application-Id ]
>
> { Auth-Session-State }
>
> { Origin-Host }
>
> { Origin-Realm }
>
> { Destination-Host }
>
> { Destination-Realm }
>
> **{** SLg-Location-Type **}**
>
> **[ User-Name ]**
>
> **[ MSISDN ]**
>
> **[ IMEI ]**
>
> **{ LCS-EPS-Client-Name }**
>
> **{ LCS-Client-Type }**
>
> **[ LCS-Requestor-Name ]**
>
> **[ LCS-Priority ]**
>
> **[ LCS-QoS ]**
>
> **[** Velocity-Requested **]**
>
> **[ LCS-Supported-GAD-Shapes ]**
>
> **[ LCS-Service-Type-ID ]**
>
> **[ LCS-Codeword ]**
>
> **[ LCS-Privacy-Check-Non-Session ]**
>
> **[ LCS-Privacy-Check-Session ]**
>
> **[ Service-Selection ]**
>
> **[ Deferred-Location-Type ]**
>
> **[ LCS-Reference-Number ]**
>
> **[ Area-Event-Info ]**
>
> **[ GMLC-Address ]**
>
> **[ PLR-Flags ]**
>
> **[ Periodic-LDR-Information ]**
>
> **[ Reporting-PLMN-List ]**
>
> **[ Motion-Event-Info ]**
>
> ***[ Supported-Features ]**
>
> *[ AVP ]
>
> *[ Proxy-Info ]
>
> *[ Route-Record ]
### 7.3.2 Provide-Location-Answer (PLA) Command
The Provide-Location-Answer (PLA) command, indicated by the Command-Code field
set to 8388620 and the \'R\' bit cleared in the Command Flags field, is sent
by the MME or SGSN to the GMLC in response to the Provide-Location-Request
command.
Message Format
> \ ::= \ >
>
> \
>
> [ Vendor-Specific-Application-Id ]
>
> [ Result-Code ]
>
> [ Experimental-Result ]
>
> { Auth-Session-State }
>
> { Origin-Host }
>
> { Origin-Realm }
>
> **[ Location-Estimate ]**
>
> **[ Accuracy-Fulfilment-Indicator ]**
>
> **[ Age-Of-Location-Estimate]**
>
> **[ Velocity-Estimate ]**
>
> **[ EUTRAN-Positioning-Data]**
>
> **[ ECGI ]**
>
> **[ GERAN-Positioning-Info ]**
>
> **[ Cell-Global-Identity ]**
>
> **[ UTRAN-Positioning-Info ]**
>
> **[ Service-Area-Identity ]**
>
> **[ Serving-Node ]**
>
> **[ PLA-Flags ]**
>
> **[ ESMLC-Cell-Info ]**
>
> **[ Civic-Address ]**
>
> **[ Barometric-Pressure ]**
>
> ***[ Supported-Features ]**
>
> *[ AVP ]
>
> [ Failed-AVP ]
>
> *[ Proxy-Info ]
>
> *[ Route-Record ]
### 7.3.3 Location-Report-Request (LRR) Command
The Location-Report-Request (LRR) command, indicated by the Command-Code field
set to 8388621 and the \'R\' bit set in the Command Flags field, is sent by
the MME or SGSN in order to provide subscriber location data to the GMLC.
Message Format
> \ ::= \ 16777255 >
>
> \
>
> [ Vendor-Specific-Application-Id ]
>
> { Auth-Session-State }
>
> { Origin-Host }
>
> { Origin-Realm }
>
> { Destination-Host }
>
> { Destination-Realm }
>
> **{ Location-Event }**
>
> **[ LCS-EPS-Client-Name ]**
>
> **[ User-Name ]**
>
> **[ MSISDN]**
>
> **[ IMEI ]**
>
> **[ Location-Estimate ]**
>
> **[ Accuracy-Fulfilment-Indicator ]**
>
> **[ Age-Of-Location-Estimate ]**
>
> **[ Velocity-Estimate ]**
>
> **[ EUTRAN-Positioning-Data ]**
>
> **[ ECGI]**
>
> **[ GERAN-** Positioning-Info ]
>
> **[ Cell-Global-Identity ]**
>
> **[ UTRAN-** Positioning-Info ]
>
> **[ Service-Area-Identity ]**
>
> **[ LCS-Service-Type-ID ]**
>
> [ Pseudonym-Indicator ]
>
> [ LCS-QoS-Class ]
>
> [ Serving-Node ]
>
> [ LRR-Flags ]
>
> **[ LC** S-Reference-Number ]
>
> [ Deferred-MT-LR-Data]
>
> [ GMLC-Address ]
>
> [ Reporting-Amount ]
>
> [ Periodic-LDR-Information ]
>
> [ ESMLC-Cell-Info ]
>
> [ 1xRTT-RCID ] ]
>
> [ Delayed-Location-Reporting-Data ]
>
> [ Civic-Address ]
>
> [ Barometric-Pressure ]
>
> ***[ Supported-Features ]**
>
> *[ AVP ]
>
> *[ Proxy-Info ]
>
> *[ Route-Record ]
### 7.3.4 Location-Report-Answer (LRA) Command
The Location-Report-Answer (LRA) command, indicated by the Command-Code field
set to 8388621 and the \'R\' bit cleared in the Command Flags field, is sent
by the GMLC to the MME or SGSN in response to the Location-Report-Request
command.
Message Format
> \ ::= \
>
> \
>
> [ Vendor-Specific-Application-Id ]
>
> [ Result-Code ]
>
> [ Experimental-Result ]
>
> { Auth-Session-State }
>
> { Origin-Host }
>
> { Origin-Realm }
>
> **[ GMLC-Address ]**
>
> **[ LRA-Flags ]**
>
> **[ Reporting-PLMN-List ]**
>
> **[ LCS-Reference-Number ]**
>
> ***[ Supported-Features ]**
>
> *[ AVP ]
>
> [ Failed-AVP ]
>
> *[ Proxy-Info ]
>
> *[ Route-Record ]
## 7.4 Information Elements
### 7.4.1 General
The following table describes the Diameter AVPs defined for the SLg interface
protocol, their AVP Code values, types, possible flag values and whether the
AVP may or not be encrypted.
For all AVPs which contain bit masks and are of the type Unsigned32, bit 0
shall be the least significant bit. For example, to get the value of bit 0, a
bit mask of 0x00000001 should be used.
Table 7.4.1-1: Diameter ELP Application AVPs
* * *
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AVP Flag rules
Attribute Name AVP Code Clause defined Value Type Must May Should not Must not
May Encrypt
SLg-Location-Type 2500 7.4.2 Enumerated M, V No
LCS-EPS-Client-Name 2501 7.4.3 Grouped M, V No
LCS-Requestor-Name 2502 7.4.4 Grouped M, V No
LCS-Priority 2503 7.4.5 Unsigned32 M, V No
LCS-QoS 2504 7.4.6 Grouped M, V No
Horizontal-Accuracy 2505 7.4.7 Unsigned32 M, V No
Vertical-Accuracy 2506 7.4.8 Unsigned32 M, V No
Vertical-Requested 2507 7.4.9 Enumerated M, V No
Velocity-Requested 2508 7.4.10 Enumerated M, V No
Response-Time 2509 7.4.11 Enumerated M, V No
Supported-GAD-Shapes 2510 7.4.12 Unsigned32 M, V No
LCS-Codeword 2511 7.4.13 UTF8String M, V No
LCS-Privacy-Check 2512 7.4.14 Enumerated M, V No
Accuracy-Fulfilment-Indicator 2513 7.4.15 Enumerated M, V No
Age-Of-Location-Estimate 2514 7.4.16 Unsigned32 M, V No
Velocity-Estimate 2515 7.4.17 OctetString M, V No
EUTRAN-Positioning-Data 2516 7.4.18 OctetString M, V No
ECGI 2517 7.4.19 OctetString M, V No
Location-Event 2518 7.4.20 Enumerated M, V No
Pseudonym-Indicator 2519 7.4.21 Enumerated M, V No
LCS-Service-Type-ID 2520 7.4.22 Unsigned32 M, V No
LCS-Privacy-Check-Non-Session 2521 7.4.23 Grouped M, V No
LCS-Privacy-Check-Session 2522 7.4.24 Grouped M, V No
LCS-QoS-Class 2523 7.4.27 Enumerated M, V No
GERAN-Positioning-Info 2524 7.4.29 Grouped V M No
GERAN-Positioning-Data 2525 7.4.30 OctetString V M No
GERAN-GANSS-Positioning-Data 2526 7.4.31 OctetString V M No
UTRAN-Positioning-Info 2527 7.4.32 Grouped V M No
UTRAN-Positioning-Data 2528 7.4.33 OctetString V M No
UTRAN-GANSS-Positioning-Data 2529 7.4.34 OctetString V M No
LRR-Flags 2530 7.4.35 Unsigned32 V M No
LCS-Reference-Number 2531 7.4.37 OctetString V M No
Deferred-Location-Type 2532 7.4.36 Unsigned32 V M No
Area-Event-Info 2533 7.4.38 Grouped V M No
Area-Definition 2534 7.4.39 Grouped V M No
Area 2535 7.4.40 Grouped V M No
Area-Type 2536 7.4.41 Unsigned32 V M No
Area-Identification 2537 7.4.42 Grouped V M No
Occurrence-Info 2538 7.4.43 Enumerated V M No
Interval-Time 2539 7.4.44 Unsigned32 V M No
Periodic-LDR-Information 2540 7.4.45 Grouped V M No
Reporting-Amount 2541 7.4.46 Unsigned32 V M No
Reporting-Interval 2542 7.4.47 Unsigned32 V M No
Reporting-PLMN-List 2543 7.4.48 Grouped V M No
PLMN-ID-List 2544 7.4.49 Grouped V M No
PLR-Flags 2545 7.4.52 Unsigned32 V M No
PLA-Flags 2546 7.4.53 Unsigned32 V M No
Deferred-MT-LR-Data 2547 7.4.54 Grouped V M No
Termination-Cause 2548 7.4.55 Unsigned32 V M No
LRA-Flags 2549 7.4.56 Unsigned32 V M No
Periodic-Location-Support-Indicator 2550 7.4.50 Enumerated V M No
Prioritized-List-Indicator 2551 7.4.51 Enumerated V M No
ESMLC-Cell-Info 2552 7.4.57 Grouped V M No
Cell-Portion-ID 2553 7.4.58 Unsigned32 V M No
1xRTT-RCID 2554 7.4.59 OctetString V M No
Delayed-Location-Reporting-Data 2555 7.4.60 Grouped V M No
Civic-Address 2556 7.4.61 UTF8String V M No
Barometric-Pressure 2557 7.4.62 Unsigned32 V M No
UTRAN-Additional-Positioning-Data 2558 7.4.63 OctetString V M No
Motion-Event-Info 2559 7.4.64 Grouped V M No
Linear-Distance 2560 7.4.65 Unsigned32 V M No
Maximum-Interval 2561 7.4.66 Unsigned32 V M No
Sampling-Interval 2562 7.4.67 Unsigned32 V M No
Reporting-Duration 2563 7.4.68 Unsigned32 V M No
Reporting-Location-Requirements 2564 7.4.69 Unsigned32 V M No
Additional-Area 2565 7.4.70 Grouped V M No
Note: The AVP header bit denoted as \'M\', indicates whether support of the
AVP is required. The AVP header bit denoted as \'V\', indicates whether the
optional Vendor-ID field is present in the AVP header.\  
For further details, see IETF RFC 6733 [23].
* * *
Table 7.4.1-2: Diameter ELP Application reused AVPs
+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Attribute | AVP Code | Reference | Value Type | Comment | | Name | | | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | LCS-Forma | 1237 | 3GPP TS | Enumerated | | | t-Indicator | | 32.299 | | | | | | [10] | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | LCS- | 1238 | 3GPP TS | UTF8String | | | Name-String | | 32.299 | | | | | | [10] | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | LCS- | 1241 | 3GPP TS | Enumerated | | | Client-Type | | 32.299 | | | | | | [10] | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | L | 1240 | 3GPP TS | UTF8String | | | CS-Requesto | | 32.299 | | | | r-Id-String | | [10] | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Locati | 1242 | 3GPP TS | OctetString | | | on-Estimate | | 32.299 | | | | | | [10] | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | IMEI | 1402 | 3GPP TS | UTF8String | | | | | 29.272 | | | | | | [11] | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | MSISDN | 701 | 3GPP TS | OctetString | | | | | 29.329 | | | | | | [12] | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Servic | 493 | 3GPP TS | UTF8String | It is used | | e-Selection | | 29.272 | | to define | | | | [11], | | the APN | | | | | | | | | | IETF RFC | | | | | | 5778 [16] | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | User-Name | 1 | IETF RFC | UTF8String | It is used | | | | 6733 [23] | | to include | | | | | | the user\'s | | | | | | IMSI | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Support | 628 | 3GPP TS | Grouped | | | ed-Features | | 29.229 | | | | | | [17] | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Feat | 629 | 3GPP TS | Unsigned32 | See clause | | ure-List-ID | | 29.229 | | 7.4.25 | | | | [17] | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | F | 630 | 3GPP TS | Unsigned32 | See clause | | eature-List | | 29.229 | | 7.4.26 | | | | [17] | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | S | 2401 | 3GPP TS | Grouped | See clause | | erving-Node | | 29.173 | | 6.4.3 | | | | [18] | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Cell-Glob | 1604 | 3GPP TS | OctetString | See clause | | al-Identity | | 29.272 | | 7.3.119 | | | | [11] | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Service-Ar | 1607 | 3GPP TS | OctetString | See clause | | ea-Identity | | 29.272 | | 7.3.122 | | | | [11] | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | G | 2405 | 3GPP TS | Address | See clause | | MLC-Address | | 29.173 | | 6.4.7 | | | | [18] | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Visi | 1407 | 3GPP TS | OctetString | See clause | | ted-PLMN-Id | | 29.272 | | 7.3.9 | | | | [11] | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
### 7.4.2 SLg-Location-Type
The SLg-Location-Type AVP is of type Enumerated. The following values are
defined:
CURRENT_LOCATION (0)
CURRENT_OR_LAST_KNOWN_LOCATION (1)
INITIAL_LOCATION (2)
ACTIVATE_DEFERRED_LOCATION (3)
CANCEL_DEFERRED_LOCATION (4)
NOTIFICATION_VERIFICATION_ONLY (5)
### 7.4.3 LCS-EPS-Client-Name
The LCS-EPS-Client-Name AVP is of type Grouped.
AVP format:
> LCS-EPS-Client-Name ::= \
>
> [ LCS-Name-String ]\ [ LCS-Format-Indicator ]
The details of the LCS-Name-String AVP and the LCS-Format-Indicator AVP are
described in 3GPP TS 32.299 [10].
### 7.4.4 LCS-Requestor-Name
The LCS-Requestor-Name AVP is of type Grouped.
AVP format:
> LCS-Requestor-Name ::= \
>
> [ LCS-Requestor-Id-String ]\ [ LCS-Format-Indicator ]
The details of the LCS-Requestor-Id-String AVP and the LCS-Format-Indicator
AVP are described in 3GPP TS 32.299 [10].
### 7.4.5 LCS-Priority
The LCS-Priority AVP is of type Unsigned32. It indicates the priority of the
location request. The value 0 shall indicate the highest priority, and the
value 1 shall indicate normal priority. All other values shall be treated as 1
(normal priority). For details, refer to 3GPP TS 22.071 [15].
### 7.4.6 LCS-QoS
The LCS-QoS AVP is of type Grouped.
AVP format:
> LCS-QoS ::= \
>
> [ LCS-QoS-Class ]\ [ Horizontal-Accuracy ]\ [ Vertical-Accuracy ]\ [
> Vertical-Requested ]\ [ Response-Time]
### 7.4.7 Horizontal-Accuracy
The Horizontal-Accuracy AVP is of type Unsigned32. Bits 6-0 corresponds to
Uncertainty Code defined in 3GPP TS 23.032 [3]. The horizontal location error
should be less than the error indicated by the uncertainty code with 67%
confidence. Bits 7 to 31 shall be ignored.
### 7.4.8 Vertical-Accuracy
The Vertical-Accuracy AVP is of type Unsigned32. Bits 6-0 corresponds to
Uncertainty Code defined in 3GPP TS 23.032 [3]. The vertical location error
should be less than the error indicated by the uncertainty code with 67%
confidence. Bits 7 to 31 shall be ignored.
### 7.4.9 Vertical-Requested
The Vertical-Requested AVP is of type Enumerated. The following values are
defined:
VERTICAL_COORDINATE_IS_NOT REQUESTED (0)
VERTICAL_COORDINATE_IS_REQUESTED (1)
Default value if AVP is not present is: VERTICAL_COORDINATE_IS_NOT_REQUESTED
(0).
### 7.4.10 Velocity-Requested
The Velocity-Requested AVP is of type Enumerated. The following values are
defined:
VELOCITY_IS_NOT_REQUESTED (0)
VELOCITY_IS_REQUESTED (1)
Default value if AVP is not present is: VELOCITY_IS_NOT_REQUESTED (0).
### 7.4.11 Response-Time
The Response-Time AVP is of type Enumerated. The following values are defined:
LOW_DELAY (0)
DELAY_TOLERANT (1)
### 7.4.12 Supported-GAD-Shapes
The Supported-GAD-Shapes AVP is of type Unsigned32 and it shall contain a
bitmask.
A node shall mark in the BIT STRING all Shapes defined in 3GPP TS 23.032 [3]
it supports.
Bits 6-0 in shall indicate the supported Shapes defined in 3GPP TS 23.032 [3].
Bits 7 to 31 shall be ignored.
ellipsoidPoint (0)
ellipsoidPointWithUncertaintyCircle (1)
ellipsoidPointWithUncertaintyEllipse (2)
polygon (3)
ellipsoidPointWithAltitude (4)
ellipsoidPointWithAltitudeAndUncertaintyElipsoid (5)
ellipsoidArc (6)
### 7.4.13 LCS-Codeword
The LCS-Codeword AVP is of type UTF8String. It indicates the potential
codeword string to send in a notification message to the UE.
### 7.4.14 LCS-Privacy-Check
The LCS-Privacy-Check AVP is of type Enumerated. The following values are
defined:
ALLOWED_WITHOUT_NOTIFICATION (0)
ALLOWED_WITH_NOTIFICATION (1)
ALLOWED_IF_NO_RESPONSE (2)
RESTRICTED_IF_NO_RESPONSE (3)
NOT_ALLOWED (4)
Default value if AVP is not present is: ALLOWED_WITHOUT_NOTIFICATION (0).
### 7.4.15 Accuracy-Fulfilment-Indicator
The Accuracy-Fulfilment-Indicator AVP is of type Enumerated. The following
values are defined:
REQUESTED_ACCURACY_FULFILLED (0)
REQUESTED_ACCURACY_NOT_FULFILLED (1)
### 7.4.16 Age-Of-Location-Estimate
The Age-Of-Location-Estimate AVP is of type Unsigned32. It indicates how long
ago the location estimate was obtained in minutes, as indicated in 3GPP TS
29.002 [19].
### 7.4.17 Velocity-Estimate
The Velocity-Estimate AVP is of type OctetString. It is composed of 4 or more
octets with an internal structure according to 3GPP TS 23.032 [3].
### 7.4.18 EUTRAN-Positioning-Data
The EUTRAN-Positioning-Data AVP is of type OctetString. It shall contain the
encoded content of the \"Positioning-Data\" Information Element as defined in
3GPP TS 29.171 [7].
### 7.4.19 ECGI
The ECGI AVP is of type OctetString. It indicates the E-UTRAN Cell Global
Identifier. It is coded according to clause 8.21.5, in 3GPP TS 29.274 [8].
### 7.4.20 Location-Event
The Location-Event AVP is of type Enumerated. The following values are
defined:
> EMERGENCY_CALL_ORIGINATION (0)
>
> EMERGENCY_CALL_RELEASE (1)
>
> MO_LR (2)
>
> EMERGENCY_CALL_HANDOVER (3)
>
> DEFERRED_MT_LR_RESPONSE (4)
>
> DEFERRED_MO_LR_TTTP_INITIATION (5)
>
> DELAYED_LOCATION_REPORTING (6)
DEFERRED_MT_LR_RESPONSE is applicable to the delivery of an event report
and/or a location estimate for an LDR initiated earlier by either the network
(via an MT-LR activate deferred location) or the UE (via a periodic MO-LR TTTP
initiation for a UE with UTRAN access).
DELAYED_LOCATION_REPORTING is applicable to the delivery of a location
estimate for an EPC-MT-LR or PS-MT-LR initiated earlier by the network for a
UE which was transiently not reachable.
### 7.4.21 Pseudonym-Indicator
The Pseudonym-Indicator AVP is of type Enumerated. It defines if a pseudonym
is requested. The following values are defined:
PSEUDONYM_NOT_REQUESTED (0)
PSEUDONYM_REQUESTED (1)
Default value if AVP is not present is: PSEUDONYM_NOT_REQUESTED (0).
### 7.4.22 LCS-Service-Type-ID
The LCS-Service-Type-ID is of type Unsigned32. It defines the identifier
associated to one of the Service Types for which the LCS client is allowed to
locate the particular UE.
### 7.4.23 LCS-Privacy-Check-Non-Session
The LCS-Privacy-Check-Non-Session AVP is of type Grouped.
AVP format:
> LCS-Privacy-Check-Non-Session ::= \
>
> { LCS-Privacy-Check }
Default value if AVP is not present is that AVP LCS-Privacy-Check take value:
ALLOWED_WITHOUT_NOTIFICATION (0).
### 7.4.24 LCS-Privacy-Check-Session
The LCS-Privacy-Check-Session AVP is of type Grouped.
AVP format:
> LCS-Privacy-Check-Session ::= \
>
> { LCS-Privacy-Check }
Default value if AVP is not present is that AVP LCS-Privacy-Check take value:
NOT_ALLOWED (4).
### 7.4.25 Feature-List-ID
The syntax of this AVP is defined in 3GPP TS 29.229 [17]. For this release,
the Feature-List-ID AVP value shall be set to 1.
### 7.4.26 Feature-List
The syntax of this AVP is defined in 3GPP TS 29.229 [17]. A null value
indicates that there is no feature used by the application.
NOTE: There are no features defined for this release.
### 7.4.27 LCS-QoS-Class
The LCS-QoS-Class AVP is of the type Enumerated. The following values are
defined.
ASSURED (0)
BEST EFFORT (1)
### 7.4.28 Serving-Node
The Serving-Node AVP is of type Grouped. This AVP shall contain the
information about the network node serving the targeted user.
### 7.4.29 GERAN-Positioning-Info
The GERAN-Positioning-Info AVP is of type Grouped.
AVP format:
> GERAN-Positioning-Info ::= \
>
> [ GERAN-Positioning-Data ]
>
> [ GERAN-GANSS-Positioning-Data ]
>
> *[ AVP ]
### 7.4.30 GERAN-Positioning-Data
The GERAN-Positioning-Data AVP is of type OctetString. It shall contain the
encoded content of the \"Positioning Data\" Information Element as defined in
3GPP TS 49.031 [20].
### 7.4.31 GERAN-GANSS-Positioning-Data
The GERAN-GANSS-Positioning-Data AVP is of type OctetString. It shall contain
the encoded content of the \"GANSS Positioning Data\" Information Element as
defined in 3GPP TS 49.031 [20].
### 7.4.32 UTRAN-Positioning-Info
The UTRAN-Positioning-Info AVP is of type Grouped.
AVP format:
> UTRAN-Positioning-Info ::= \
>
> [ UTRAN-Positioning-Data ]
>
> [ UTRAN-GANSS-Positioning-Data ]
>
> [ UTRAN-Additional-Positioning-Data ]
>
> *[ AVP ]
### 7.4.33 UTRAN-Positioning-Data
The UTRAN-Positioning-Data AVP is of type OctetString. It shall contain the
encoded content of the \"positioningDataDiscriminator\" and the
\"positioningDataSet\" included in the \"positionData\" Information Element as
defined in 3GPP TS 25.413 [21].
### 7.4.34 UTRAN-GANSS-Positioning-Data
The UTRAN-GANSS-Positioning-Data AVP is of type OctetString. It shall contain
the encoded content of the \"GANSS-PositioningDataSet\" only, included in the
\"positionData\" Information Element as defined in 3GPP TS 25.413 [21].
### 7.4.35 LRR-Flags
The LRR-Flags AVP is of type Unsigned32 and it shall contain a bit mask. The
meaning of the bits shall be as defined in table 7.4.35/1:
Table 7.4.35/1: LRR-Flags
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Bit** | **Name** | **Description** | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 0 | Lgd/SLg-Indicator | This bit, when set, | | | | indicates that the | | | | Location Report | | | | Request message is | | | | sent on the Lgd | | | | interface, i.e. the | | | | source node is an | | | | SGSN (or a combined | | | | MME/SGSN to which | | | | the UE is attached | | | | via UTRAN or GERAN). | | | | | | | | This bit, when | | | | cleared, indicates | | | | that the Location | | | | Report Request | | | | message is sent on | | | | the SLg interface, | | | | i.e. the source node | | | | is an MME (or a | | | | combined MME/SGSN to | | | | which the UE is | | | | attached via | | | | E-UTRAN). | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 1 | MO-LR-Sh | This bit, when set, | | | ortCircuit-Indicator | indicates that the | | | | MO-LR short circuit | | | | feature is used by | | | | the UE for location | | | | estimate. This bit | | | | is applicable only | | | | when for deferred | | | | MT-LR procedure and | | | | when the message is | | | | sent over Lgd | | | | interface. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 2 | MO-LR-Sh | This bit, when set, | | | ortCircuit-Requested | indicates that the | | | | UE is requesting to | | | | use MO-LR short | | | | circuit feature for | | | | location estimate. | | | | This bit is | | | | applicable only when | | | | periodic MO-LR TTTP | | | | procedure is | | | | initiated by the UE | | | | and when the message | | | | is sent over Lgd | | | | interface. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NOTE1: Bits not | | | | defined in this | | | | table shall be | | | | cleared by the | | | | sending MME or SGSN | | | | and discarded by the | | | | receiving GMLC. | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
7.4.36 Deferred-Location-Type
The Deferred-Location-Type AVP is of type Unsigned32 and it shall contain a
bit mask. Each bit indicates a type of event, until when the location
estimation is deferred. For details, please refer to 3GPP TS 23.271 [3] clause
4.4.2. The meaning of the bits shall be as defined in table 7.4.36/1:
Table 7.4.36/1: Deferred-Location-Type
* * *
**Bit** **Event Type** **Description** 0 UE-Available Any event in which the
SGSN has established a contact with the UE. 1 Entering-Into-Area An event
where the UE enters a pre-defined geographical area. 2 Leaving-From-Area An
event where the UE leaves a pre-defined geographical area. 3 Being-Inside-Area
An event where the UE is currently within the pre-defined geographical area. 4
Periodic-LDR An event where a defined periodic timer expires in the UE and
activates a location report or a location request. 5 Motion-Event An event
where the UE moves by more than a minimum linear distance. This event is
applicable to a deferred EPC-MT-LR only. 6 LDR-Activated An event where
deferred location reporting has been activated in the UE. This event is
applicable to a deferred EPC-MT-LR only. 7 Maximum-Interval-Expiration An
event where the maximum reporting interval has expired. This event is
applicable to a deferred EPC-MT-LR only.
* * *
### 7.4.37 LCS-Reference-Number
The LCS-Reference-Number AVP is of type OctetString of length 1. It shall
contain the reference number identifying the deferred location request.
### 7.4.38 Area-Event-Info
The Area-Event-Info AVP is of type Grouped.
AVP format:
> Area-Event-Info ::= \
>
> { Area-Definition }
>
> [ Occurrence-Info ]
>
> [ Interval-Time ]
>
> [ Maximum-Interval ]
>
> [ Sampling-Interval ]
>
> [ Reporting-Duration ]
>
> [ Reporting-Location-Requirements ]
>
> *[ AVP ]
If not included, the default value of Occurrence-Info shall be considered as
\"ONE_TIME_EVENT\" (0). Interval-Time and Maximum-Interval AVPs are only
applicable when the Occurrence-Info is set to \"MULTIPLE_TIME_EVENT\" (1). If
not included, the default value of Interval-Time shall be considered as one
and the default values of Maximum-Interval, Sampling-Interval and Reporting-
Duration shall each be considered as the maximum value.
### 7.4.39 Area-Definition
The Area-Definition AVP is of type Grouped.
AVP format:
> Area-Definition ::= \
>
> 1*10{ Area }
>
> *240[ Additional-Area ]
>
> *[ AVP ]
For a PS-MT-LR over the Lgd interface, the Additional-Area AVP shall not be
included.
### 7.4.40 Area
The Area AVP is of type Grouped.
AVP format:
> Area ::= \
>
> { Area-Type }
>
> { Area-Identification }
>
> *[ AVP ]
### 7.4.41 Area-Type
The Area-Type AVP is of type Unsigned32. The following values are defined:
\"Country Code\" 0
\"PLMN ID\" 1
\"Location Area ID\" 2
\"Routing Area ID\" 3
\"Cell Global ID\" 4
\"UTRAN Cell ID\" 5
\"Tracking Area ID\" 6
\"E-UTRAN Cell Global ID\" 7
### 7.4.42 Area-Identification
The Area-Identification AVP is of type OctetString and shall contain the
identification of the area applicable for the change of area event based
deferred location reporting. For Area-Type 0 to 5, octets are coded as
described in 3GPP TS 29.002 [24]. For Area-Type 6, octets are coded as defined
for the Tracking Area Identity area identification in 3GPP TS 24.080 [24]. For
Area-Type 7, octets are coded as defined for the ECGI area identification in
3GPP TS 24.080 [24]. For a deferred EPC-MT-LR for the area event, only Area-
Type 6 and 7 are applicable.
### 7.4.43 Occurrence-Info
The Occurrence-Info AVP is of type Enumerated. The following values are
defined:
ONE_TIME_EVENT (0)
MULTIPLE_TIME_EVENT (1)
### 7.4.44 Interval-Time
The Interval-Time AVP is of type Unsigned32 and it contains the minimum time
interval between area reports or motion reports, in seconds. The minimum value
shall be 1 second and the maximum value 32767 seconds.
### 7.4.45 Periodic-LDR-Info
The Periodic-LDR-Info AVP is of type Grouped.
AVP format:
> Periodic-LDR-Info ::= \
>
> { Reporting-Amount }
>
> { Reporting-Interval }
>
> *[ AVP ]
Reporting-Interval x Rreporting-Amount shall not exceed 8639999 (99 days, 23
hours, 59 minutes and 59 seconds) for compatibility with OMA MLP and RLP.
### 7.4.46 Reporting-Amount
The Reporting-Amount AVP is of type Unsigned32 and it contains reporting
frequency. Its minimum value shall be 1 and maximum value shall be 8639999.
### 7.4.47 Reporting-Interval
The Interval-Time AVP is of type Unsigned32 and it contains reporting interval
in seconds. Its minimum value shall be 1 and maximum value shall be 8639999.
### 7.4.48 Reporting-PLMN-List
The Reporting-PLMN-List AVP is of type Grouped.
AVP format:
> Reporting-PLMN-List ::= \
>
> 1*20{ PLMN-ID-List }
>
> [ Prioritized-List-Indicator ]
>
> *[ AVP ]
If not included, the default value of Prioritized-List-Indicator shall be
considered as \"NOT_PRIORITIZED\" (0).
### 7.4.49 PLMN-ID-List
The PLMN-ID-List AVP is of type Grouped.
AVP format:
> PLMN-ID-List ::= \
>
> { Visited-PLMN-Id }
>
> [ Periodic-Location-Support-Indicator ]
>
> *[ AVP ]
If not included, the default value of Periodic-Location-Support-Indicator
shall be considered as \"NOT_SUPPORTED\" (0).
7.4.50 Periodic-Location-Support-Indicator
The Periodic-Location-Support-Indicator AVP is of type Enumerated and it
indicates if the given PLMN-ID (indicated by Visited-PLMN-Id) supports
periodic location or not. The following values are defined:
> NOT_SUPPORTED (0)
>
> SUPPORTED (1)
7.4.51 Prioritized-List-Indicator
The Prioritized-List-Indicator AVP is of type Enumerated and it indicates if
the PLMN-ID-List is provided in prioritized order or not. The following values
are defined:
> NOT_PRIORITIZED (0)
>
> PRIORITIZED (1)
7.4.52 PLR-Flags
The PLR-Flags AVP is of type Unsigned32 and it shall contain a bit mask. The
meaning of the bits shall be as defined in table 7.4.52/1:
Table 7.4.52/1: PLR-Flags
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Bit** | **Name** | **Description** | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 0 | MO-LR-Sh | This bit, when set, | | | ortCircuit-Indicator | indicates that the | | | | MO-LR short circuit | | | | feature is requested | | | | for the periodic | | | | location. This bit | | | | is applicable only | | | | when the deferred | | | | MT-LR procedure is | | | | initiated for a | | | | periodic location | | | | event and when the | | | | message is sent over | | | | Lgd interface. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 1 | Op | This bit, when set, | | | timized-LCS-Proc-Req | indicates that the | | | | GMLC is requesting | | | | the optimized LCS | | | | procedure for the | | | | combined MME/SGSN. | | | | This bit is | | | | applicable only when | | | | the MT-LR procedure | | | | is initiated by the | | | | GMLC over the Lgd | | | | interface. The GMLC | | | | shall set this bit | | | | only when the HSS | | | | indicates the | | | | combined MME/SGSN | | | | node supporting the | | | | optimized LCS | | | | procedure. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 2 | Dela | This bit, when set, | | | yed-Location-Reporti | indicates that the | | | ng-Support-Indicator | GMLC supports | | | | delayed location | | | | reporting for UEs | | | | transiently not | | | | reachable (e.g. UEs | | | | in extended idle | | | | mode DRX or Power | | | | Saving Mode) as | | | | specified in clauses | | | | 9.1.6 and 9.1.15 of | | | | 3GPP TS 23.271 | | | | [2], i.e. that the | | | | GMLC supports | | | | | | | | - receiving a | | | | PROVIDE SUBSCRIBER | | | | LOCATION RESPONSE | | | | with the | | | | UE-Transiently-Not | | | | -Reachable-Indicator | | | | set in the PLA-Flags | | | | IE; and | | | | | | | | - receiving the | | | | location information | | | | in a subsequent | | | | SUBSCRIBER LOCATION | | | | REPORT when the UE | | | | becomes reachable. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NOTE1: Bits not | | | | defined in this | | | | table shall be | | | | cleared by the | | | | sending GMLC and | | | | discarded by the | | | | receiving MME or | | | | SGSN. | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
7.4.53 PLA-Flags
The PLA-Flags AVP is of type Unsigned32 and it shall contain a bit mask. The
meaning of the bits shall be as defined in table 7.4.53/1:
Table 7.4.53/1: PLA-Flags
* * *
**Bit** **Name** **Description** 0 Deferred-MT-LR-Response-Indicator This bit,
when set, indicates that the message is sent in response to the deferred-MT
location request. 1 MO-LR-ShortCircuit-Indicator This bit, when set, indicates
that the MO-LR short circuit feature is accepted by the UE, for periodic
location reporting. This bit is applicable only when the message is sent over
Lgd interface. 2 Optimized-LCS-Proc-Performed This bit, when set, indicates
that the combined MME/SGSN has performed the optimized LCS procedure to
retrieve the location of the target UE. This bit is applicable only when the
message is sent for the MT-LR procedure over the Lgd interface. 3 UE-
Transiently-Not-Reachable-Indicator This bit, when set, indicates that the UE
is transiently not reachable due to power saving (e.g. UE is in extended idle
mode DRX or in Power Saving Mode), and that the location information will be
returned in a subsequent Subscriber Location Report when the UE becomes
reachable. NOTE1: Bits not defined in this table shall be cleared by the
sending MME or SGSN and discarded by the receiving GMLC.
* * *
### 7.4.54 Deferred-MT-LR-Data
The Deferred-MT-LR-Data AVP is of type Grouped.
AVP format:
> Deferred-MT-LR-Data ::= \
>
> { Deferred-Location-Type }
>
> [ Termination-Cause ]
>
> [ Serving-Node ]
>
> *[ AVP ]
Serving-Node may be included only when the Termination-Cause is present
indicating MT_LR_RESTART.
The Serving-Node refers to the node where the UE has moved to and shall be
included, if available.
### 7.4.55 Termination-Cause
The Termination-Cause AVP is of type Unsigned32. The following values are
defined:
\"Normal\" 0
\"Error Undefined\" 1
\"Internal Timeout\" 2
\"Congestion\" 3
\"MT_LR_Restart\" 4
\"Privacy Violation\" 5
\"Shape of Location Estimate Not Supported\" 6
\"Subscriber Termination\" 7
\"UE Termination\" 8
\"Network Termination\" 9
\"MT_LR_Restart\" cause code shall be used to trigger the GMLC to restart the
location procedure, either because the sending node knows that the terminal
has moved under coverage of another SGSN or MME, or because the subscriber has
been deregistered due to a Cancel Location received from HSS.
Any unrecognized value of Termination-Cause shall be treated the same as value
1 (\"Error Undefined\").
7.4.56 LRA-Flags
The LRA-Flags AVP is of type Unsigned32 and it shall contain a bit mask. The
meaning of the bits shall be as defined in table 7.4.56/1:
Table 7.4.56/1: LRA-Flags
* * *
**Bit** **Name** **Description** 0 MO-LR-ShortCircuit-Indicator This bit, when
set, indicates that the MO-LR short circuit feature is used for obtaining
location estimate. This bit is applicable only when the message is sent over
Lgd interface. NOTE1: Bits not defined in this table shall be cleared by the
sending GMLC and discarded by the receiving MME or SGSN.
* * *
### 7.4.57 ESMLC-Cell-Info
The ESMLC-Cell-Info AVP is of type Grouped.
AVP format:
> ESMLC-Cell-Info ::= \
>
> [ ECGI ]\ [ Cell-Portion-ID ]\ *[ AVP ]
### 7.4.58 Cell-Portion-ID
The Cell-Portion-ID AVP is of type Unsigned32. It indicates the current Cell
Portion location of the target UE as provided by the E-SMLC. It shall contain
the value of the \"Cell Portion ID\" Information Element as defined in 3GPP TS
29.171 [7].
### 7.4.59 1xRTT-RCID
The 1xRTT-RCID AVP is of type OctetString. It indicates the 1xRTT Reference
Cell Id that consists of a Cell Identification Discriminator and a Cell
Identification and shall be formatted according to octets 3 through the end of
the Cell Identifier element defined in clause 4.2.17 in 3GPP2 A.S0014-D [22].
The allowable cell discriminator values are \"0000 0010\", and \"0000 0111\".
### 7.4.60 Delayed-Location-Reporting-Data
The Delayed-Location-Reporting-Data AVP is of type Grouped.
AVP format:
> Delayed-Location-Reporting-Data ::= \
>
> [ Termination-Cause ]
>
> [ Serving-Node ]
>
> *[ AVP ]
Serving-Node may be included only when the Termination-Cause is present
indicating MT_LR_RESTART.
The Serving-Node refers to the node where the UE has moved to and shall be
included, if available.
### 7.4.61 Civic-Address
The Civic-Address AVP is of type UTF8String. It contains the XML document
carried in the \"Civic Address\" Information Element as defined in 3GPP TS
29.171 [7].
### 7.4.62 Barometric-Pressure
The Barometric-Pressure AVP is of type Unsigned32. It contains the
\"Barometric Pressure\" Information Element as defined in 3GPP TS 29.171 [7].
### 7.4.63 UTRAN-Additional-Positioning-Data
The UTRAN-Additional-Positioning-Data AVP is of type OctetString. It contains
the \"UTRAN Additional Positioning Data\" Information Element as defined in
3GPP 25.413 [21].
7.4.64 Motion-Event-Info
The Motion-Event-Info AVP is of type Grouped.
AVP format:
> Motion-Event-Info ::= \
>
> { Linear-Distance }
>
> [ Occurrence-Info ]
>
> [ Interval-Time ]
>
> [ Maximum-Interval ]
>
> [ Sampling-Interval ]
>
> [ Reporting-Duration ]
>
> [ Reporting-Location-Requirements ]
>
> *[ AVP ]
If not included, the default value of Occurrence-Info shall be considered as
\"ONE_TIME_EVENT\" (0). Interval-Time and Maximum-Interval AVPs are only
applicable when the Occurrence-Info is set to \"MULTIPLE_TIME_EVENT\" (1). If
not included, the default value of Interval-Time shall be considered as one
and the default values of Maximum-Interval, Sampling-Interval and Reporting-
Duration shall each be considered as the maximum value. The Motion-Event-Info
AVP is only applicable to a deferred EPC-MT-LR.
### 7.4.65 Linear-Distance
The Linear-Distance AVP is of type Unsigned32 and it contains the minimum
linear (straight line) distance for motion event reports, in meters. The
minimum value shall be 1 and maximum value shall be 10,000. The Linear-
Distance AVP is only applicable to a deferred EPC-MT-LR.
### 7.4.66 Maximum-Interval
The Maximum-Interval AVP is of type Unsigned32 and it contains the maximum
time interval between consecutive event reports, in seconds. The minimum value
shall be 1 second and the maximum value 86400 seconds. The Maximum-Interval
AVP is only applicable to a deferred EPC-MT-LR.
### 7.4.67 Sampling-Interval
The Sampling-Interval AVP is of type Unsigned32 and it contains the maximum
time interval between consecutive evaluations by a UE of an area event or
motion event, in seconds. The minimum value shall be 1 second and the maximum
value 3600 seconds. The Sampling-Interval AVP is only applicable to a deferred
EPC-MT-LR.
### 7.4.68 Reporting-Duration
The Reporting-Duration AVP is of type Unsigned32 and it contains the maximum
duration of event reporting, in seconds. Its minimum value shall be 1 and
maximum value shall be 8640000. The Reporting-Duration AVP is only applicable
to a deferred EPC-MT-LR.
### 7.4.69 Reporting-Location-Requirements
The Reporting-Location-Requirements AVP is of type Unsigned32 and it shall
contain a bit string indicating requirements on location provision for a
deferred EPC-MT-LR. When a bit is set to one, the corresponding requirement is
present. When a bit is set to zero or when the AVP is omitted, the
corresponding requirement is not present. For support of backward
compatibility, a receiver shall ignore any bits that are set to one but are
not supported
The meaning of the bits shall be as defined in table 7.4.69/1:
Table 7.4.69/1: Reporting-Location-Requirements
* * *
**Bit** **Requirement** **Description** 0 Location-Estimate A location
estimate is required for each area event, motion event report or expiration of
the maximum time interval between event reports. 1-31 None Spare
* * *
### 7.4.70 Additional-Area
The Additional-Area AVP is of type Grouped.
AVP format:
> Additional-Area ::= \
>
> { Area-Type }
>
> { Area-Identification }
>
> *[ AVP ]
## 7.5 Result-Code AVP and Experimental-Result AVP Values
### 7.5.1 General
This clause defines result code values that shall be supported by all Diameter
implementations that conform to this specification.
### 7.5.2 Success
Result codes that fall within the Success category shall be used to inform a
peer that a request has been successfully completed. The Result-Code AVP
values defined in the Diameter base protocol specified in IETF RFC 6733 [23]
shall be applied.
### 7.5.3 Permanent Failures
Errors that fall within the Permanent Failures category shall be used to
inform the peer that the request has failed, and should not be attempted
again. The Result-Code AVP values defined in the Diameter base protocol
specified in IETF RFC 6733 [23]shall be applied. When one of the result codes
defined here is included in a response, it shall be inside an Experimental-
Result AVP and the Result-Code AVP shall be absent.
#### 7.5.3.1 DIAMETER_ERROR_USER_UNKNOWN (5001)
This result code shall be sent by the MME/SGSN to indicate that the user is
unknown. This error code is defined in 3GPP TS 29.229 [17]
#### 7.5.3.2 DIAMETER_ERROR_UNAUTHORIZED_REQUESTING_NETWORK (5490)
This result code shall be sent by the MME/SGSN to indicate that the requesting
GMLC\'s network is not authorized to request UE location information. This
error code is defined in 3GPP TS 29.173 [18]
### 7.5.4 Transient Failures
Errors that fall within the transient failures category are those used to
inform a peer that the request could not be satisfied at the time that it was
received. The request may be able to be satisfied in the future.
#### 7.5.4.1 DIAMETER_ERROR_UNREACHABLE_USER (4221)
This result code shall be sent by the MME/SGSN to indicate that the user could
not be reached in order to perform positioning procedure.
#### 7.5.4.2 DIAMETER_ERROR_SUSPENDED_USER (4222)
This result code shall be sent by the MME/SGSN to indicate that the user is
suspended in the MME.
#### 7.5.4.3 DIAMETER_ERROR_DETACHED_USER (4223)
This result code shall be sent by the MME/SGSN to indicate that the user is
detached in the MME.
#### 7.5.4.4 DIAMETER_ERROR_POSITIONING_DENIED (4224)
This result code shall be sent by the MME/SGSN to indicate that the
positioning procedure was denied.
#### 7.5.4.5 DIAMETER_ERROR_POSITIONING_FAILED (4225)
This result code shall be sent by the MME/SGSN to indicate that the
positioning procedure failed.
#### 7.5.4.6 DIAMETER_ERROR_UNKNOWN_UNREACHABLE LCS_CLIENT (4226)
This result code shall be sent by the GMLC to indicate that the LCS Client was
not known or could not be reached.
#