# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the stage 3 of the MIPv4 Based Mobility
Protocol used over the S2a reference point defined in 3GPP TS 23.402 [3], and
is thus applicable to the PDN Gateway and Trusted Non-3GPP Access. Protocol
specification is compliant with relevant IETF RFCs.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.401: \"GPRS enhancements for E-UTRAN access\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.402: \"Architecture Enhancements for non-3GPP accesses\".
[4] 3GPP TS 33.402: \"3GPP System Architecture Evolution (SAE); Security
aspects of non-3GPP accesses\".
[5] IETF Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-mip4-rfc3344bis-06.txt (March 2008): \"IP
Mobility Support for IPv4, revised\".
Editor\'s note: The above document cannot be formally referenced until it is
published as an RFC.
[6] IANA Assigned Numbers Online Database, \"Private Enterprise Numbers\",
\.
[7] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile radio interface Layer 3 specification; Core
network protocols\".
[8] 3GPP TS 24.304: \"Mobility management based on Mobile IPv4; User Equipment
(UE) - Foreign Agent interface\".
[9] IETF RFC 3543 (August 2003): \"Registration Revocation in Mobile IPv4\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**Evolved Packet Core:** the successor to the 3GPP Release 7 packet-switched
core network, developed by 3GPP within the framework of the 3GPP System
Architecture Evolution (SAE).
**Foreign agent:** a router on a visited network which provide mobile IPv4
routing services to the UE while registered as described in draft-ietf-
mipv4-rfc3344bis [5].
**Foreign agent care-of address:** an address of a foreign agent with which
the UE is registered as described in draft-ietf-mipv4-rfc3344bis [5]
**Home agent:** a mobile IPv4 router on a UE's home network which tunnels
datagrams for delivery to the UE while it is registered on a visited network
as described in draft-ietf-mipv4-rfc3344bis [5]. According to 3GPP TS 23.402
[3], the home agent functionality is implemented in the PDN Gateway.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
EPC Evolved Packet Core
FA Foreign Agent
FACoA Foreign Agent Care-of Address
PDN GW Packet Data Network Gateway
HA Home Agent
MIPv4 Mobile IPv4
RRP Registration Reply
RRQ Registration Request
# 4 MIPv4 Mobility Management Registration Procedures
## 4.1 General
The MIPv4 Registration Request (RRQ) and Registration Reply (RRP) messages are
used during the following registration procedures with MIPv4 FACoA on s2a:
\- Initial attach
\- UE-initiated detach.
\- UE initiated Connectivity to Additional PDN
Trusted Non-3G Access shall follow the FA procedure as described in draft-
ietf-mip4-rfc3344bis [5] and PDN-GW shall follow the HA procedure as described
in draft-ietf-mip4-rfc3344bis [5].
### 4.1.1 MIPV4 Registration Request (RRQ)
After receiving an RRQ from the UE, the FA shall process it and relay the RRQ
message to the HA as described in draft-ietf-mip4-rfc3344bis-06.txt [5], and
3GPP TS 24.304 [8] .
The RRQ message shall be protected between the FA and the HA according to TS
33.402 [4].
#### 4.1.2 MIPv4 Registration Reply (RRP)
After receiving an RRQ from the FA, the HA shall process the message, and
shall assign an IPv4 address for the UE, if requested by the UE, and send an
RRP message to the FA, as described in draft-ietf-mip4-rfc3344bis-06.txt [5],
and 3GPP TS 24.304 [8]
The RRP message shall be protected between the FA and the HA according to 3GPP
TS 33.402 [4].
# 5 MIPv4 Mobility Management Revocation Procedures
## 5.1 General
The MIPv4 Registration Revocation and Registration Revocation Ack messages are
used during the following registration revocation procedures with MIPv4 FACoA
on s2a.
\- **Network Initiated Detach:** Trusted Non-3G Access follows the FA
procedure as described in IETF RFC 3543 [9] and PDN-GW follows the HA
procedure as described in IETF RFC 3543 [9], for 'FA initiated revocation'
procedure.
\- **HSS/AAA Initiated Detach:** Trusted Non-3G Access follows the FA
procedure as described in IETF RFC 3543 [9] and PDN-GW follows the HA
procedure as described in IETF RFC 3543 [9], for 'FA initiated revocation'
procedure.
\- **PDN-GW Initiated Resource Allocation Deactivation:** Trusted Non-3G
Access follows the FA procedure as described in IETF RFC 3543 [9] and PDN-GW
follows the HA procedure as described in IETF RFC 3543 [9], for 'HA initiated
revocation' procedure.
The MIPv4 registration revocation procedure can be initiated by a node acting
as FA or HA to revoke the binding of a mobile node with an HA.
### 5.1.1 Extensions to RRQ and RRP
The following extension has to be present in the RRQ message sent from the FA
and the RRP message sent from HA to support Revocation Procedure. They must
follow the Negotiation of Revocation Support as explained in IETF RFC 3543
[9].
Table 5.1.1-1:
* * *
Information element IE Description Reference Revocation support extension To
indicate the node supports registration revocation and can receive revocation
messages. IETF RFC 3543 [9]
* * *
## 5.2 MIPv4 Registration Revocation
The MIPv4 Registration Revocation message is sent from the FA to the HA as
part of the FA initiated revocation procedure, or from the PDN GW (HA) to the
FA as part of the HA Initiated revocation procedure.
In case of FA Initiated Revocation procedure, the FA must send a Registration
Revocation message and follow the \"Foreign Agent Responsibilities\" in
\"Foreign Domain Revoking\" as described in IETF RFC 3543 [9]. The HA must
process the received Revocation Request as described in IETF RFC 3543 [9].
In case of HA Initiated Revocation procedure, the FA must process received
Revocation Request as described in IETF RFC 3543 [9].
In both cases the FA may notify UE by as described in IETF RFC 3543 [9],
however this is outside the scope of this document.
## 5.3 MIPv4 Registration Revocation Ack
The MIPv4 Registration Revocation Ack message is sent from the HA to the FA as
part of the FA initiated revocation procedure, or from the FA to the HA as
part of the HA initiated revocation procedure procedure.
In case of FA Initiated Revocation Procedure, the HA shall reply with a
Registration Revocation Acknowledge message and follow the \"Home Agent
responsibilities\" in \"Foreign Domain Revoking\" as described in IETF RFC
3543 [9].
In case of HA Initiated Revocation Procedure, the FA shall reply with a
Registration Revocation Acknowledge message and follow \"Foreign Agent
responsibilities\" in \"Home Domain Revoking\" as described in IETF RFC 3543
[9].
#