# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the stage 3 of the Evolved Packet System S102
interface between the MME and the 1x CS IWS to relay the 1xCS signalling
messages documented in 3GPP TS 23.216 [2] and 3GPP TS 23.272 [4]. 1x CS
signalling messages are those messages that are defined for A21 interface as
described in 3GPP2 A.S0008-D [3] and 3GPP2 A.S0009-D [6]. The S102 interface
messages shall be based on A21 messages.
The S102 interface is used to support UEs that do not transmit and receive on
both the LTE and 1x radio interfaces simultaneously. S102 protocol aspects for
SRVCC from E-UTRAN access to 3GPP2 1xCS is covered in this specification.
Handling of non-voice component and protocol aspects for SRVCC from 3GPP2 1xCS
to E-UTRAN direction is not specified in this release.
The S102 interface is also used to support CS fallback to 1xRTT procedures
from E-UTRAN access to CDMA 1x RTT CS domain and to support SMS over S102 with
the CDMA 1xRTT CS domain through support of registration over EPS procedures
as specified in 3GPP TS 23.272[4].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.216: \"Single Radio Voice Call Continuity (SRVCC)\".
[3] 3GPP2 A.S0008-D v1.0: \"Interoperability Specification (IOS) for High Rate
Packet Data (HRPD) Radio Access Network Interfaces with Session Control in the
Access Network\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.272:\" Circuit Switched Fallback in Evolved Packet System\".
[5] 3GPP TS 36.413: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA); S1
Application Protocol (S1AP)\".
[6] 3GPP2 A.S0009-D v1.0: \"Interoperability Specification (IOS) for High Rate
Packet Data (HRPD) Radio Access Network Interfaces with Session Control in the
Packet Control Function\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
1xCS IWS 1xCS Interworking Solution function for 3GPP2 1xCS
GCSNA Generic Circuit Services Notification Application
IMSI International Mobile Station Identity
IP Internet Protocol
MEID Mobile Equipment Identity
MME Mobility Management Entity
PDU Protocol Data Unit
SRVCC Single Radio Voice Call Continuity
UDP User Datagram Protocol
# 4 General
## 4.1 Introduction
The S102 application is based on UDP/IP transport medium.
S102 (MME-to-IWS) /udp/23272 - This is the registered destination UDP port
number to be used for signalling interconnection between an MME and an IWS for
the S102 application.
## 4.2 S102 Requirements
There are no additional requirments to those defined in 3GPP TS 23.216 [2] and
3GPP2 A.S0008-D [3] and 3GPP2 A.S0009-D [6].
# 5 S102 Header
The S102 message header shall be a fixed length header. The S102 header shall
be at least 7 octets long. Octet 1 consists of A21 Message type and Octets 2-7
contain the Correlation Identifier.
Detailed information about the coding and format of the header fields of the
A21 messages is specified in 3GPP2 A.S0008-D [3] and 3GPP2 A.S0009-D [6].
# 6 S102 Messages and Message Formats
## 6.1 Introduction
The S102 application defines a set of messages between the MME and 1xCS IWS to
provide SR VCC and CSFB. The messages to be used are described in the
following sections.
The S102 messages shall be based on A21 messages. The following A21 messages
shall be used to support interworking and CS fallback to 1x RTT procedures
between MME and 1xCS IWS.
## 6.1 Message Formats
## 6.2 S102 Messages
### 6.2.1 A21-1x Air Interface Signalling message
This message is A21-1x air interface signalling message specified in 3GPP2
A.S0008-D [3] and 3GPP2 A.S0009-D [6]. This message shall be sent from an MME
or 1xCS IWS to transport 1x air interface message to the peer 1xCS IWS or MME.
The MME shall be provisioned to be able to reach a 1XCS IWS over the S102
interface. The IWS shall then decide which MSC to contact. The MME selects the
1XCS IWS based on the Reference Cell ID that it receives via the eNodeB.
This message shall be used by the MME or 1xCS IWS during Registration, paging,
handover (SRVCC) procedures, and mobile originated and mobile terminated SMS
procedures.
When the MME receives a 1x air interface message from the UE that is to be
sent to 1xCS IWS, the MME encapsulates the 1x air interface message in a
A21-1x air interface signalling message and sends it to the 1xCS IWS via the
S102 interface. To support CS fallback to 1xRTT registration procedures, it
contains the CDMA 2000 sector ID.
When sent from the 1xCS IWS to the MME, the 1xCS IWS encapsulates the 1x
handoff direction message or 1xRTT CS paging request (after successful
registration for CS fallback to 1xRTT) into A21-1x air interface signalling
message.
Details about Information Element contents of A21-1x Air Interface signalling
messages are found in 3GPP2 A.S0008-D [3] section 5.1.6.1.
### 6.2.2 A21-Ack message
This message is A21-Ack message specified in 3GPP2 A.S0008-D [3] and 3GPP2
A.S0009-D [6]. This message shall be sent from an MME or 1xCS IWS to
acknowledge receipt of some A21 message to the peer 1xCS IWS or MME.
The Correlation ID in a A21-Ack message shall be copied from the request
message that the MME or 1xCS IWS is replying to.
Details about Information Element contents of S102-Ack message are found in
3GPP2 A.S0008-D [3] section 5.1.6.2.
### 6.2.3 A21-Event Notification
This message is A21-Event Notification message specified in 3GPP2 A.S0008-D
[3] and 3GPP2 A.S0009-D [6]. This message shall be sent by either MME or 1xCS
IWS to notify the peer node of a specific event.
To support S102 tunnel redirection in case of MME relocation, \"S102
Redirection\" value shall be used.
To support notifying the 1xCS IWS, specifically if the UE switches off or if
the MME changes the UE EMM state to EMM-DEREGISTERED, i.e. if the UE becomes
unreachable, the \"Power Down/Connection Closed Event\" value shall be used.
Details about Information Element contents of S102-Event Notification message
are found in 3GPP2 A.S0008-D [3] section 5.1.6.4.
## 6.3 Reliable Delivery of Signalling Messages
The A21 messages are transmitted using best-effort service.
## 6.4 Information Elements
### 6.4.1 Information Element Assignments
An A21 message may contain several information elements. Detailed information
about the contents of the A21 messages is specified in 3GPP2 A.S0008-D [3] and
3GPP2 A.S0009-D [6]. The following sections highlight the relevant S102
specific parameters.
#### 6.4.1.1 A21 Message Type
This IE is used to indicate the type of message on S102 interface. Typical
values of this IE are as follows:
Table 6.4.1.1-1: A21 Message Type on S102 interface
* * *
Message Type A21 Message Name 01H A21-1x Air Interface Signalling message 02H
A21-Ack message 04H A21-Event Notification message
* * *
#### 6.4.1.2 Correlation ID
This IE is used to correlate the A21 messages transported across the S102
interface. Details of format and content of this IE are specified in 3GPP2
A.S0008-D [3] and 3GPP2 A.S0009-D [6].
#### 6.4.1.3 Mobile Identity
This IE is used to identify the UE's identity. Details of format of this IE
are specified in 3GPP2 A.S0008-D [3] and 3GPP2 A.S0009-D [6]. Typical values
of this IE relevant for S102 are as follows.
Table 6.4.1.3-1: Mobile identity
+-------------------------------+-------+ | Binary | MN-Id | | | | | Values | | +-------------------------------+-------+ | '001' | MEID | +-------------------------------+-------+ | '110' | IMSI | +-------------------------------+-------+ | All other values are reserved | | +-------------------------------+-------+
ESN value shall not be used for S102 messages.
#### 6.4.1.4 Void
#### 6.4.1.5 Authentication Challenge Parameter (RAND)
This IE contains information used for authentication over S102 interface.
Details of format and contents of this IE are specified in 3GPP2 A.S0008-D [3]
and 3GPP2 A.S0009-D [6].
#### 6.4.1.6 A21 Mobile Subscription Information
This IE includes mobile subscription information records. Details of format
and contents of this IE are specified in 3GPP2 A.S0008-D [3] and 3GPP2
A.S0009-D [6].
#### 6.4.1.7 Cause
The Cause IE shall be included in the response message only if the request is
not accepted and shall be set to a value that describes the problem
encountered. Typical values of IE relevant for S102 are as follows:
Table 6.4.1.7: Cause values for the corresponding request
* * *
Values Cause value meaning 00H Unknown mobile 01H Unknown cell identifier(s)
02H Tunnelling of 1x messages not available 03H Resources not available 07H
Unspecified 08H Rejection 0AH Abort handoff from LTE to 1x 0BH Version not
supported All other values are reserved
* * *
#### 6.4.1.8 A21-Event
This IE contains the value used to indicate the event that has occurred.
Typical values of IE relevant for S102 are as follows:
6.4.1.8-1: A21-Event values
* * *
Values Cause value meaning 03H UE Power Down/Connection Closed 04H Handoff
Rejected 0BH S102 Redirection All other values are reserved
* * *
#### 6.4.1.9 GCSNA PDU
This IE contains the GCSNA header and GCSNA information, which can be 1x LAC
encapsulated PDU or any other GCSNA information including 3G1x parameters, to
be transported over the S102 interface. The IE is passed transparently for the
MME. Details of inclusion rules, format and contents of this IE are specified
in 3GPP2 A.S0008-D [3] and 3GPP2 A.S0009-D [6].
#### 6.4.1.10 GCSNA Status
This IE contains the GCSNA status information to be transported over the S102
interface. The MME maps the Status field values (Handoff successful, Handoff
failure) from the GCSNA Status IE to the CDMA2000 HO Status IE (enumeration
values HO Success and HO Failure, as defined in 3GPP TS 36.413 [5]). Details
of inclusion rules, format and contents of this IE are specified in 3GPP2
A.S0008-D [3] and 3GPP2 A.S0009-D [6].
The Activity Type field in the 1x IWS to MME direction provides information to
the MME regarding the activity (i.e. SMS or CSFB) being undertaken as a result
of processing of the GCSNA PDU at the UE. The MME may use the Activity Type
indication received from the 1x IWS in order to control the paging based on
operator policy, such as:
\- paging retransmission strategies;
\- determining whether to send the Paging message to the eNodeBs during
certain MME high load conditions.
The Call Priority field in the 1x IWS to MME direction indicates the priority
of the activity being undertaken for CSFB Priority Call Handling (see 3GPP TS
23.272 Annex B).
The Global Emergency Call field in the MME to 1x IWS direction indicates
whether the call is an emergency call.
#### 6.4.1.11 Reference Cell ID
This IE contains the CDMA2000 Sector ID received from S1AP and passed to the
MME from the eNB. Details of inclusion rules, format and contents of this IE
are specified in 3GPP2 A.S0008-D [3] and 3GPP2 A.S0009-D [6].
#### 6.4.1.12 Pilot List
This IE contains the 1xRTT Pilot List passed to the MME from the eNodeB. It is
included by the MME whenever the MME receives the 1xRTT Pilot List from the
eNodeB. Details of format and contents of this IE are specified in 3GPP2
A.S0008-D [3] and 3GPP2 A.S0009-D [6].
#### 6.4.1.13 Void
# 7 Error Handling
## 7.1 Protocol Errors
A protocol error is defined as a message with unknown, unforeseen or erroneous
content. When the Tack timer expires, the sender may resend the request to the
receiver and restart the Tack timer a configurable number of times. A cause
value of \"Unspecified\" as indicated in section 6.4.1.7 shall be included in
the response message to indicate protocol errors.
Detailed error handling procedures specific to each A21 message are found in
3GPP2 A.S0008-D [3] section 2.8.2 and 3GPP2 A.S0009-D [6].
## 7.2 Restoration and Recovery
There are no new specific Restoration and recovery requirements to be
supported over S102 interface.
# 8 Security provided to Communication over the S102 Interface
Protection of A21 communication over S102 interface shall be provided
according to security mechanisms defined in 3GPP2 A.S0008-D [3] and 3GPP2
A.S0009-D [6].
# 9 S102 Parameters
## 9.1 Timers
### 9.1.1 Introduction
The parameters defined here and their recommended values shall not be fixed,
but shall be possible to configure as described in section \"Reliable delivery
of messages\".
The method used for retry sending of messages on S102 shall be based on the
A21 retry method. In 3GPP2 A.S0008-D [3] section 2.8.2 and 3GPP2 A.S0009-D
[6], the procedures for each of the A21 messages have a \"Failure Operation\"
section where there are references to the use of timers and retries. In
addition, there are flows in section 4.6 provided.
### 9.1.2 Acknowledgement Timer (Tack)
This timer is started when the MME or 1xCS IWS sends an A21-1x Air interface
signalling message or a A21 Event Notification message and is stopped when the
corresponding A21-Ack message is received from the peer 1xCS IWS or MME.
Further details about recommended timer values and specifics are found in
3GPP2 A.S0008-D [3] section 5.3 and 3GPP2 A.S0009-D [6].
#