# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document describes the Diameter-based interfaces between the
Proximity Services (ProSe) Function in the HPLMN and the ProSe Function in a
local PLMN (PC6 interface) or between the Proximity Services (ProSe) Function
in the HPLMN and the ProSe Function in a visited PLMN (PC7 interface).
This specification defines the Diameter application for PC6/PC7 reference
points between the ProSe Functions. The interactions between the ProSe
Functions are specified.
The stage 2 description for Proximity Services (ProSe) features in EPS is
specified in 3GPP TS 23.303 [2].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23 303: \"Proximity-based services (ProSe); Stage 2\".
[3] 3GPP TS 29 228: \"IP Multimedia (IM) Subsystem Cx and Dx Interfaces;
Signalling flows and message contents\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification\".
[5] 3GPP TS 29.329: \"Sh interface based on the Diameter protocol; Protocol
details\".
[6] 3GPP TS 23.032: \"Universal Geographical Area Description (GAD)\".
[7] Void.
[8] 3GPP TS 33.210: \"3G security; Network Domain Security (NDS); IP network
layer security\".
[9] IETF RFC 4960: \"Stream Control Transport Protocol\".
[10] 3GPP TS 29.229: \"Cx and Dx interfaces based on the Diameter protocol;
protocol details\".
[11] IETF RFC 5234: \"Augmented BNF for Syntax Specifications: ABNF\".
[12] IETF RFC 4072: \"Diameter Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP)
Application\".
[13] 3GPP TS 32.299: \"Charging management; Diameter charging applications\".
[14] 3GPP TS 29.344: \"Proximity-services (Prose) Function to Home Subscriber
Server (HSS) aspects (PC4); Stage 3\".
[15] 3GPP TS 29.273: \"Evolved Packet System (EPS); 3GPP EPS AAA interfaces\".
[16] 3GPP TS 29.272: \"Evolved Packet System (EPS); Mobility Management Entity
(MME) and Serving GPRS Support Node (SGSN) related interfaces based on
Diameter protocol\".
[17] Wi-Fi Alliance Technical Committee P2P Task Group, \"Wi-Fi Peer-to-Peer
(P2P) Technical Specification\", Version 1.1.
[18] 3GPP TS 29.336: \"Home Subscriber Server (HSS) diameter interfaces for
interworking with packet data networks and applications\".
[19] ITU-T Recommendation E.164: \"The international public telecommunication
numbering plan\".
[20] IEEE Std 802.11-2012: \"IEEE Standard for Information technology \-
Telecommunications and information exchange between systems - Local and
metropolitan area networks - Specific requirements - Part 11: Wireless LAN
Medium Access Control (MAC) and Physical Layer (PHY) Specifications\".
[21] IETF RFC 7683: \"Diameter Overload Indication Conveyance\".
[22] 3GPP TS 24.334: \"Proximity-services (ProSe) User Equipment (UE) to ProSe
function protocol aspects; Stage 3\".
[23] 3GPP TS 33.303: \"Proximity-based Services (ProSe); Security aspects\".
[24] 3GPP TS 23.271: \"Functional stage 2 description of Location Services
(LCS)\".
[25] Open Mobile Alliance, OMA AD SUPL: \"Secure User Plane Location
Architecture\", (http://www.openmobilealliance.org).
[26] 3GPP TS 24.333: \"Proximity-services (ProSe) Management Objects (MO)\".
[27] IETF RFC 7944: \"Diameter Routing Message Priority\".
[28] IETF RFC 8583: \"Diameter Load Information Conveyance\".
[29] IETF RFC 6733: \"Diameter Base Protocol\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
given in 3GPP TS 23.303 [2] apply:
**Local PLMN**
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
ALUID Application Layer User ID
DRMP Diameter Routing Message Priority
DSCP Differentiated Services Code Point
DUCK Discovery User Confidentiality Key
DUIK Discovery User Integrity Key
DUSK Discovery User Scrambling Key
EPUID EPC ProSe User ID
MIC Message Integrity Check
PDUID ProSe Discovery UE ID
ProSe Proximity-based Services
RPAUID Restricted ProSe Application User ID
UTC Universal Time Coordinated
WLLID WLAN Link Layer ID
# 4 General Description
## 4.1 Introduction
The PC6 reference point is defined between a ProSe Function in the HPLMN and a
ProSe Function in a local PLMN.
The PC7 reference point is defined between ProSe Function in the HPLMN and a
ProSe Function in a visited PLMN.
The definition of the PC6/PC7 reference points and related functionalities are
given in 3GPP TS 23.303 [2].
As defined in 3GPP TS 23.303 [2], the PC6/PC7 reference points are used for:
\- HPLMN control of service authorization for ProSe;
\- Authorization of ProSe Direct Discovery requests;
\- Retrieval of Discovery Filter(s) corresponding ProSe Application ID
name(s);
\- Translation of ProSe Application Code(s) to the associated ProSe
Application Name.
# 5 Procedures Description
## 5.1 introduction
This clause describes the Diameter-based PC6 and PC7 interfaces related
procedures and Information elements exchanged between functional entities.
In the tables that describe the Information Elements transported by each
Diameter command, each Information Element is marked as (M) Mandatory, (C)
Conditional or (O) Optional in the \"Cat.\" column. For the correct handling
of the Information Element according to the category type, see the description
detailed in clause 6 of the 3GPP TS 29.228 [3].
## 5.2 ProSe Service Authorization
### 5.2.1 General
The ProSe Service Authorization Procedure shall be used between the ProSe
Function in the HPLMN and the ProSe Function in Local PLMN or VPLMN to obtain
service authorization information for ProSe Direct Discovery, ProSe Direct
Communication or both. The procedure shall be invoked by the ProSe Function in
the HPLMN by the UE and is used:
\- to request service authorization information for ProSe related to the UE
from the ProSe Function in the local PLMN or VPLMN;
\- to provide the ProSe Function in the local PLMN or VPLMN with the UE
identity (IMSI or MSISDN) in order to allow to perform charging:
This procedure is mapped to the commands ProSe-Authorization-Request/Answer
(PAR/PAA) in the Diameter application specified in clause 6.
Table 5.2.1-1 specifies the involved information elements for the request.
Table 5.2.1-2 specifies the involved information elements for the answer.
Table 5.2.1-1: ProSe Service Authorization Request
+-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Information | Mapping to | Cat. | Description | | element name | Diameter AVP | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | UE Identity | User-Identifier | M | This information | | | | | element shall | | (See 6.3.28) | | | contain either | | | | | the user IMSI, | | | | | formatted | | | | | according to | | | | | 3GPP | | | | | TS 23.003 [4], | | | | | clause 2.2, or | | | | | the user MSISDN, | | | | | formatted | | | | | according to | | | | | 3GPP | | | | | TS 29.329 [5]. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | PLMN Id | Visited-PLMN-Id | M | This IE shall | | | | | contain the | | (See 6.3.29) | | | PLMN-Id | | | | | (3GPP | | | | | TS 23.003 [4]) | | | | | of the network in | | | | | which the ProSe | | | | | Function is | | | | | located. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Supported | S | O | If present, this | | Features | upported-Features | | information | | | | | element shall | | (See 6.3.24) | | | contain the list | | | | | of features | | | | | supported by the | | | | | origin host. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+
Table 5.2.1-2: ProSe Service Authorization Answer
+-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Information | Mapping to | Cat. | Description | | element name | Diameter AVP | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Supported | S | O | If present, this | | Features | upported-Features | | information | | | | | element shall | | (See 6.3.24) | | | contain the list | | | | | of features | | | | | supported by the | | | | | origin host. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Result | Result-Code / | M | This IE shall | | | Ex | | contain the | | (See 6.4) | perimental-Result | | result of the | | | | | operation. | | | | | | | | | | The Result-Code | | | | | AVP shall be used | | | | | to indicate | | | | | success / errors | | | | | as defined in the | | | | | Diameter Base | | | | | Protocol. | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | Ex | | | | | perimental-Result | | | | | AVP shall be used | | | | | for PC6/PC7 | | | | | errors. This is a | | | | | grouped AVP which | | | | | shall contain the | | | | | 3GPP Vendor ID in | | | | | the Vendor-Id | | | | | AVP, and the | | | | | error code in the | | | | | Experim | | | | | ental-Result-Code | | | | | AVP. | | | | | | | | | | The following | | | | | errors are | | | | | applicable: | | | | | | | | | | - User Unknown | | | | | | | | | | - Unauthorized | | | | | Service | | | | | | | | | | - Unauthorized | | | | | Service in this | | | | | PLMN | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | ProSe Direct | Pro | C | This Information | | Allowed | Se-Direct-Allowed | | Element shall | | | | | contain the ProSe | | (See 6.3.42) | | | authorization | | | | | information of | | | | | the user. It | | | | | shall be present | | | | | if success is | | | | | reported. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Validity Time of | Valid | C | This Information | | Announcing | ity-Time-Announce | | Element shall | | (see.6.3.36) | | | contain the | | | | | validity time for | | | | | a UE | | | | | authorization to | | | | | perform ProSe | | | | | direct discovery | | | | | announcing in | | | | | this PLMN. It | | | | | shall be present | | | | | if success is | | | | | reported. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Validity Time of | Vali | C | This Information | | Monitoring | dity-Time-Monitor | | Element shall | | (see.6.3.37) | | | contain the | | | | | validity time for | | | | | a UE | | | | | authorization to | | | | | perform ProSe | | | | | direct discovery | | | | | monitoring in | | | | | this PLMN. It | | | | | shall be present | | | | | if success is | | | | | reported. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Validity Time of | Validity-T | C | This Information | | Communication | ime-Communication | | Element shall | | (see.6.3.38) | | | contain the | | | | | validity time for | | | | | a UE | | | | | authorization to | | | | | perform ProSe | | | | | direct | | | | | communication in | | | | | this PLMN. It | | | | | shall be present | | | | | if success is | | | | | reported. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Authorized | Authorize | C | This information | | Discovery Range | d-Discovery-Range | | element shall | | | | | contain the | | (See 3GPP TS | | | authorised range | | 29.344 [14]) | | | (s | | | | | hort/medium/long) | | | | | at which the UE | | | | | is allowed to | | | | | announce in the | | | | | given PLMN | | | | | according to the | | | | | defined | | | | | announcing | | | | | authorisation | | | | | policy for this | | | | | UE. It shall be | | | | | present if the | | | | | discovery | | | | | authorization | | | | | type is for | | | | | announcing. | | | | | Otherwise it | | | | | shall be absent. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+
### 5.2.2 Detailed behaviour of the ProSe Function in the HPLMN
The ProSe Function in the HPLMN shall make use of this procedure to request
service authorization information for ProSe related to the UE from the ProSe
Function in local PLMN or VPLMN. The ProSe Function shall include in the
request the UE identity (IMSI or MSISDN) and the PLMN-Id identifying the PLMN
of the requesting ProSe Function.
When receiving a ProSe Service Authorization response from the ProSe Function
in the local PLMN or VPLMN, the ProSe Function in the HPLMN shall check the
result code. If it indicates SUCCESS, the ProSe Function shall merge with its
own policy.
### 5.2.3 Detailed behaviour of the ProSe Function in the Local PLMN or VPLMN
When receiving a ProSe Service Authorization request, the ProSe Function in
the local PLMN or VPLMN shall, in the following order:
1\. Check whether the UE Identity (IMSI or MSISDN) exists. If not, a Result
Code of DIAMETER_ERROR_USER_UNKNOWN shall be returned.
2\. Check whether ProSe is authorized for this UE Identity. If not, a Result
Code of DIAMETER_ERROR_UNAUTHORIZED_SERVICE shall be returned.
If there is an error in any of the above steps then the ProSe Function shall
stop processing the request and shall return the error code specified in the
respective step.
If the ProSe Function cannot fulfil the received request for reasons not
stated in the above steps, e.g. due to a database error or any of the required
actions cannot be performed, it shall stop processing the request and set the
Result Code to \"DIAMETER_UNABLE_TO_COMPLY\".
Otherwise, when the UE is authorized to use ProSe Direct Discovery or ProSe
Direct Communication in this PLMN, the ProSe Function shall return the
authorization data in the response, according to the supported/unsupported
features of the ProSe Function in the Local PLMN or VPLMN, and the authorised
announcing range (short/medium/long) at which and if the UE is allowed to
announce in the VPLMN according to the defined announcing authorisation policy
for this UE (see 3GPP TS 24.333 [26] for the possible values of the range) and
shall set the Result Code to \"DIAMETER_SUCCESS\".
## 5.3 ProSe Direct Discovery Authorization
### 5.3.1 General
The ProSe Direct Discovery Authorization Procedure shall be used between the
ProSe Function in the HPLMN and the ProSe Function in a Local PLMN or VPLMN to
obtain authorization for access to the discovery resources and perform ProSe
Direct Discovery. The procedure shall be invoked by the ProSe Function in the
HPLMN and is used:
\- to request the ProSe Function in the VPLMN or Local PLMN for the
authorization for ProSe Direct Discovery announcing when the announcing UE is
roaming in the VPLMN or announcing in a Local PLMN;
\- to perform the resolution ProSe Application ID Name to ProSe Application
Code and/or ProSe Application Mask when the ProSe Application ID has PLMN-
specific scope for open ProSe Direct discovery;
\- to notify the ProSe Function in Local PLMN that the previously allocated
ProSe Discovery Filter for a ProSe Application ID which has PLMN-specific
scope is no longer monitored by a monitoring UE of the HPLMN;
\- to perform the resolution of a target RPAUID to a ProSe Restricted Code or
ProSe Restricted Code Prefix for restricted ProSe Direct Discovery;
\- to provide the ProSe Function in the Local PLMN or VPLMN with the
application identity in order to allow it to perform charging;
\- to provide the ProSe Function in the Local PLMN or VPLMN with the UE
identity (i.e. IMSI or MSISDN) in order to allow to perform charging;
\- to provide the ProSe Function in VPLMN with the allocated ProSe Application
Code, ProSe Restricted Code or ProSe Restricted Code Prefix/Suffix Pool, and
the corresponding validity timer, or a notification of the termination or
change of the allocated ProSe-related codes, in order to allow to perform
charging.
\- to provide the ProSe Function in VPLMN with the allocated ProSe Query Code
or ProSe Response Code and the corresponding validity timer when such a code
is announced in restricted ProSe Direct Discovery model B procedure, in order
to allow to perform charging.
\- to provide the ProSe Function in VPLMN/Local PLMN with the allocated ProSe
Query Code, ProSe Response Code and associated validity timer for a given
RPAUID using restricted ProSe Direct Discovery model B.
This procedure is mapped to the commands ProSe-Discovery-Request/Answer
(PDR/PDA) in the Diameter application specified in clause 6.
Table 5.3.1-1 specifies the involved information elements for the request.
Table 5.3.1-2 specifies the involved information elements for the answer.
Table 5.3.1-1: ProSe Direct Discovery Authorization Request
+-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Information | Mapping to | Cat. | Description | | element name | Diameter AVP | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Discovery | Disco | M | This information | | Authorization | very-Auth-Request | | element shall | | Request | | | contain the | | | | | information | | (See 6.3.53) | | | elements used in | | | | | discovery | | | | | authorization | | | | | request. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Supported | S | O | If present, this | | Features | upported-Features | | information | | | | | element shall | | (See 6.3.24) | | | contain the list | | | | | of features | | | | | supported by the | | | | | origin host. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Discovery Entry | D | C | This Information | | ID | iscovery-Entry-ID | | Element contains | | | | | the discovery | | (See 6.3.59) | | | entry ID used by | | | | | the sending ProSe | | | | | Function to | | | | | identify the | | | | | discovery entry | | | | | related to this | | | | | request. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+
Table 5.3.1-2: ProSe Direct Discovery Authorization Answer
+-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Information | Mapping to | Cat. | Description | | element name | Diameter AVP | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Supported | S | O | If present, this | | Features | upported-Features | | information | | | | | element shall | | (See 6.3.24) | | | contain the list | | | | | of features | | | | | supported by the | | | | | origin host. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Result | Result-Code / | M | This IE shall | | | Ex | | contain the | | (See 6.4) | perimental-Result | | result of the | | | | | operation. | | | | | | | | | | The Result-Code | | | | | AVP shall be used | | | | | to indicate | | | | | success / errors | | | | | as defined in the | | | | | Diameter Base | | | | | Protocol. | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | Ex | | | | | perimental-Result | | | | | AVP shall be used | | | | | for PC6/PC7 | | | | | errors. This is a | | | | | grouped AVP which | | | | | shall contain the | | | | | 3GPP Vendor ID in | | | | | the Vendor-Id | | | | | AVP, and the | | | | | error code in the | | | | | Experim | | | | | ental-Result-Code | | | | | AVP. | | | | | | | | | | The following | | | | | errors are | | | | | applicable: | | | | | | | | | | - Announcing Not | | | | | Authorized | | | | | | | | | | - No Associated | | | | | Discovery Filter | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Discovery | Discov | C | This information | | Authorization | ery-Auth-Response | | element shall | | Response | | | contain the | | | | | information | | (See 6.3.53) | | | elements used in | | | | | discovery | | | | | authorization | | | | | response. This | | | | | information | | | | | element shall be | | | | | present if the | | | | | Result Code AVP | | | | | is | | | | | D | | | | | IAMETER_SUCCESS. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Discovery Entry | D | C | This Information | | ID | iscovery-Entry-ID | | Element contains | | | | | the discovery | | (See 6.3.59) | | | entry ID used by | | | | | the sending ProSe | | | | | Function to | | | | | identify the | | | | | discovery entry | | | | | related to this | | | | | request. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+
### 5.3.2 Detailed behaviour of the HPLMN ProSe Function
The ProSe Function in the HPLMN shall make use of this procedure to request
the ProSe Function in VPLMN or a PLMN other than the HPLMN/VPLMN for ProSe
Direct Discovery announcing authorisation for an announcing UE roaming in the
VPLMN or announcing in a Local PLMN.
\- For open ProSe Direct Discovery, the HPLMN ProSe Function shall include in
the request the Discovery Entry ID and shall include in the Discovery
Authorization Request the Discovery Type set to
\"ANNOUNCING_REQUEST_FOR_OPEN_PROSE_DIRECT_DISCOVERY\", the ProSe Application
ID corresponding to the request from the announcing UE and the ProSe
Application Code or ProSe Application Code Prefix/Suffix(es) assigned for this
request. The Discovery Authorization Request shall include the UE identity
(i.e., IMSI or MSISDN) and the ProSe Validity Timer corresponding to ProSe
Application Code in order to allow the ProSe Function in VPLMN or the Local
PLMN to perform charging. If the announcing UE\'s original announce request is
for updating the metadata, the updated metadata shall also be included. If the
announcing UE\'s original announce request is for stopping the announcing
operation, the ProSe Function shall not include any ProSe Application Code(s)
or ProSe Validity Timer.
\- For restricted ProSe Direct Discovery, the HPLMN ProSe Function shall
include in the Discovery Authorization Request the Discovery Entry ID and the
Discovery Type set to
\"ANNOUNCING_REQUEST_FOR_RESTRICTED_PROSE_DIRECT_DISCOVERY\", the application
identity, RPAUID corresponding to the announcing UE, the ProSe Restricted Code
assigned for this request. The Discovery Authorization Request shall also
include the UE identity (i.e., IMSI or MSISDN) and the ProSe Validity Timer
corresponding to ProSe Restricted Code in order to allow the ProSe Function in
VPLMN or the Local PLMN to perform charging. For restricted ProSe Direct
Discovery using application-controlled extension, the ProSe Function shall
include a ProSe Restricted Code Prefix and one or more ProSe Restricted Code
Suffix Range in the Discovery Authorization Request. If the announcing UE\'s
original announce request is for stopping the announcing operation, the ProSe
Function shall not include any ProSe Restricted Code or ProSe Restricted Code
Prefix or ProSe Restricted Code Suffix Range(s), or ProSe Validity Timer.
\- For restricted ProSe Direct Discovery model B discoverer operation, the
HPLMN ProSe Function shall include in the Discovery Authorization Request the
Discovery Entry ID and the Discovery Type set to
\"DISCOVERER_ANNOUNCING_REQUEST_FOR_RESTRICTED_PROSE_DIRECT_DISCOVERY\", the
application identity, RPAUID corresponding to the discoverer UE as well as the
ProSe Query Code assigned for this request. The Discovery Authorization
Request shall also include the UE identity (i.e., IMSI or MSISDN) and the
ProSe Validity Timer corresponding to ProSe Query Code in order to allow the
ProSe Function in VPLMN or the Local PLMN to perform charging
\- For restricted ProSe Direct Discovery model B discoveree operation, the
HPLMN ProSe Function shall include in the Discovery Authorization Request the
Discovery Entry ID and the Discovery Type set to
\"DISCOVEREE_REQUEST_FOR_RESTRICTED_PROSE_DIRECT_DISCOVERY\", the application
identity, RPAUID corresponding to the discoverer UE as well as the ProSe
Response Code assigned for this request. The Discovery Authorization Request
shall also include the UE identity (i.e., IMSI or MSISDN) and the ProSe
Validity Timer corresponding to ProSe Query Code in order to allow the ProSe
Function in VPLMN or the Local PLMN to perform charging.
The ProSe Function in the HPLMN shall make use of this procedure to retrieve
from the ProSe Function in the Local PLMN the Discovery Filter for monitoring
in open ProSe Direct Discovery or to retrieve parameters needed to create a
Restricted Discovery Filter, or ProSe Response Filter associated with the
monitored/queried application-layer identity for restricted ProSe Direct
Discovery.
\- For open ProSe Direct Discovery, the HPLMN ProSe Function shall include in
the request the Discovery Entry ID and shall include in the Discovery
Authorization Request the Discovery Type set to
\"MONITORING_REQUEST_FOR_OPEN_PROSE_DIRECT_DISCOVERY\", the ProSe Application
ID name corresponding to the request from the monitoring UE. The Discovery
Authorization Request shall also include the UE identity (i.e., IMSI or
MSISDN) in order to allow the ProSe Function in Local PLMN to perform
charging. If the monitoring UE\'s original announce request is for stopping
the monitoring operation or the allocated Discovery Filter has been revoked by
the ProSe Function, the ProSe Function shall not include the ProSe Application
ID name.
\- For restricted ProSe Direct Discovery, the HPLMN ProSe Function shall
include in the Discovery Authorization Request the Discovery Entry ID and the
Discovery Type set to
\"MONITORING_REQUEST_FOR_RESTRICTED_PROSE_DIRECT_DISCOVERY, the application
identity, the requesting RPAUID, target RPAUID and target PDUID of a
monitoring target. The Discovery Authorization Request shall also include the
UE identity (i.e., IMSI or MSISDN) in order to allow the ProSe Function in
Local PLMN to perform charging.
\- For restricted ProSe Direct Discovery model B discoveree operation, the
HPLMN ProSe Function shall include in the Discovery Authorization Request the
Discovery Entry ID and the Discovery Type set to the indicate
\"DISCOVERER_REQUEST_FOR_RESTRICTED_PROSE_DIRECT_DISCOVERY\", the application
identity, the requesting RPAUID, target RPAUID and target PDUID of a
monitoring target. The request shall include the UE identity (IMSI or MSISDN)
and the Discovery Entry ID in order to allow the ProSe Function in Local PLMN
to perform charging.
When receiving the ProSe Direct Discovery Authorization response with the
Result Code set to \"DIAMETER_SUCCESS\" for a request with the Discovery Type
set to \"MONITORING_REQUEST_FOR_OPEN_PROSE_DIRECT_DISCOVERY\", the HPLMN ProSe
Function shall check whether a ProSe Discovery Filter is received for each
ProSe Application ID Name sent in the request. If a ProSe Discovery Filter is
missing for one ProSe Application ID Name, the ProSe Function shall consider
that there is no valid ProSe Discovery Filter the ProSe associated with this
ProSe Application ID Name in the ProSe Function in the Local PLMN or VPLMN.
When receiving the ProSe Direct Discovery Authorization response with the
Result Code set to \"DIAMETER_SUCCESS\" for a request with the Discovery Type
set to \"MONITORING_REQUEST_FOR_RESTRICTED_PROSE_DIRECT_DISCOVERY\" or
\"DISCOVERER_REQUEST_FOR_RESTRICTED_PROSE_DIRECT_DISCOVERY\", the HPLMN ProSe
Function shall enclose the information in Code Receiving Security Material
parameter in the discovery filter created for the target RPAUID. If a DUIK
parameter is included in the response message, the ProSe Function shall store
the DUIK in order to verify the MIC field, as specified in 3GPP TS 24.334
[22].
### 5.3.3 Detailed behaviour of the ProSe Function in the Local PLMN or VPLMN
When receiving a ProSe Direct Discovery Authorization request, the ProSe
Function in the Local PLMN or VPLMN shall check the value of the Discovery
Type.
\- If the value is \"ANNOUNCING_REQUEST_FOR_OPEN_PROSE_DIRECT_DISCOVERY\", the
ProSe Function shall check if the UE is authorized to announce in the PLMN.
\- If the UE is not authorized, the experimental result code shall be set to
\"DIAMETER_ERROR_ANNOUNCING_UNAUTHORIZED_IN_PLMN\" in the response sent by the
ProSe Function.
\- If the UE is authorized, the result code shall be set to
\"DIAMETER_SUCCESS\" in the response sent by the ProSe Function. The ProSe
Function shall store the UE identity (i.e., IMSI or MSISDN) in order to
perform charging. In addition, the ProSe Function in the VPLMN or the Local
PLMN shall store the ProSe Validity Timer corresponding to ProSe Application
Code or ProSe Application Code Prefix/Suffix(es) in order to perform charging.
If no ProSe Application Code is included in the request, the ProSe Function
shall remove the discovery entry associated with the Discovery Entry ID for
the requesting UE.
> \- If the value is
> \"ANNOUNCING_REQUEST_FOR_RESTRICTED_PROSE_DIRECT_DISCOVERY\", the ProSe
> Function shall check whether the UE is authorized to announce in the PLMN
> for restricted discovery model A.
\- If the UE is not authorized, the experimental result code shall be set to
\"DIAMETER_ERROR_ANNOUNCING_NOT_AUTHORIZED\" in the response sent by the ProSe
Function.
\- If the UE is authorized, the result code shall be set to
\"DIAMETER_SUCCESS\" in the response sent by the ProSe Function. The ProSe
Function in the VPLMN or the Local PLMN shall store the UE identity (IMSI or
MSISDN) in order to perform charging;
\- ProSe Function in the VPLMN or the Local PLMN shall store the Application
Identity, and the ProSe Validity Timer corresponding to ProSe Restricted Code
or ProSe Restricted Code Prefix and ProSe Restricted Code Suffix(es) in order
to perform charging. If no ProSe Restricted Code or ProSe Restricted Code
Prefix is included in the request, the ProSe Function shall remove the
discovery entry associated with the Discovery Entry ID for the requesting UE.
\- If the value is
\"DISCOVEREE_ANNOUNCING_REQUEST_FOR_RESTRICTED_PROSE_DIRECT_DISCOVERY\", the
ProSe Function shall check whether the UE is authorized to announce in the
PLMN for restricted discovery model B discoveree operation.
\- If the UE is not authorized, the experimental result code shall be set to
\"DIAMETER_ERROR_ANNOUNCING_UNAUTHORIZED_IN_PLMN\" in the response sent by the
ProSe Function.
\- If the UE is authorized, the result code shall be set to
\"DIAMETER_SUCCESS\" in the response sent by the ProSe Function. The ProSe
Function in the VPLMN or the Local PLMN shall store the UE identity (IMSI or
MSISDN) in order to perform charging;
\- ProSe Function in the VPLMN or the Local PLMN shall store the Application
Identity, and the ProSe Validity Timer corresponding to ProSe Response Code in
order to perform charging.
\- If the value is
\"DISCOVERER_ANNOUNCING_REQUEST_FOR_RESTRICTED_PROSE_DIRECT_DISCOVERY\", the
ProSe Function shall check whether the UE is authorized to announce in the
PLMN for restricted discovery model B discoverer operation.
\- If the UE is not authorized, the experimental result code shall be set to
\"DIAMETER_ERROR_ANNOUNCING_UNAUTHORIZED_IN_PLMN\" in the response sent by the
ProSe Function.
\- If the UE is authorized, the result code shall be set to
\"DIAMETER_SUCCESS\" in the response sent by the ProSe Function. The ProSe
Function in the VPLMN or the Local PLMN shall store the UE identity (IMSI or
MSISDN), the Application Identity and the ProSe Validity Timer corresponding
to ProSe Query Code in order to perform charging;
\- If the value is \"MONITORING_REQUEST_FOR_OPEN_PROSE_DIRECT_DISCOVERY\", the
ProSe Function shall check whether one or more Discovery Filter(s) exist for
each ProSe Application ID name received in the request.
\- If there is no valid Discovery Filter associated to the ProSe Application
ID name in the request, the experimental result code shall be set to
\"DIAMETER_ERROR_NO_ASSOCIATED_DISCOVERY_FILTER\" in the response sent by the
ProSe Function.
\- If no ProSe Application ID is included in the request, the ProSe Function
shall remove the discovery entry associated with the Discovery Entry ID for
the requesting UE. If there exists one or more valid Discovery Filters related
to the ProSe Application ID name, the ProSe Function shall return the
Discovery Authorization Response including the Discovery Filter(s) along with
the Discovery Entry ID and set the result code to \"DIAMETER_SUCCESS\" in the
response. If the announcing UE is roaming, the PLMN-Id of the VPLMN shall be
included in the Discovery Authorization Response.
\- If the value is
\"MONITORING_REQUEST_FOR_RESTRICTED_PROSE_DIRECT_DISCOVERY\", the ProSe
Function shall process the request in the following order to check if the
monitoring is authorized.
\- The ProSe function shall check whether the target PDUID is known and
belongs to its own PLMN. If not, the experimental result code shall be set to
\"DIAMETER_ERROR_INVALID_TARGET_PDUID\" in the response sent by the ProSe
Function.
\- The ProSe function may check whether the requesting RPAUID is allowed to
discover the target RPAUID. If not, the experimental result code shall be set
to \"DIAMETER_ERROR_INVALID_TARGET_RPAUID\" in the response sent by the ProSe
Function.
\- The ProSe function shall check whether a valid ProSe Restricted Code or
ProSe Restricted Code Prefix exists for the target RPAUID included in the
request.
\- If not, the experimental result code shall be set to
\"DIAMETER_ERROR_NO_ASSOCIATED_RESTRICTED_CODE\" in the response sent by the
ProSe Function.
\- Otherwise, the ProSe Function shall set the result code to
\"DIAMETER_SUCCESS\" in the response. The ProSe Function shall return the
Discovery Authorization Response including the ProSe Restricted Code or ProSe
Restricted Code Prefix associated with the target RPAUID, and the
corresponding Code Receiving Security Material and optionally a DUIK, and its
corresponding Validity Timer. If the announcing UE is roaming, the PLMN-Id of
the VPLMN shall be also included in the response.
\- If the value is
\"DISCOVERER_REQUEST_FOR_RESTRICTED_PROSE_DIRECT_DISCOVERY\", the ProSe
Function shall process the request in the following order to check whether the
monitoring is authorized.
\- The ProSe function shall check if the target PDUID is known and belongs to
its own PLMN. If not, the experimental result code shall be set to
\"DIAMETER_ERROR_INVALID_TARGET_PDUID\" in the response sent by the ProSe
Function.
\- The ProSe function may check if the requesting RPAUID is allowed to
discovery the target RPAUID. If not, the experimental result code shall be set
to \"DIAMETER_ERROR_INVALID_TARGET_RPAUID\" in the response sent by the ProSe
Function.
\- The ProSe function shall check if both ProSe Query Code and ProSe Response
Code exist for the target RPAUID included in the request.
\- If not, the experimental result code shall be set to
\"DIAMETER_ERROR_NO_ASSOCIATED_RESTRICTED_CODE\" in the response sent by the
ProSe Function.
> \- Otherwise, the ProSe Function shall set the result code to
> \"DIAMETER_SUCCESS\" in the response. The ProSe Function shall return the
> Discovery Authorization Response including the ProSe Query Code and the
> corresponding Code Sending Security Material and ProSe Response Code Code
> associated with the target RPAUID, and the corresponding Code Receiving
> Security Material and optionally a DUIK, and its corresponding Validity
> Timer. If the discoverer UE is roaming or announcing in a Local PLMN, the
> PLMN-Id of the VPLMN or the Local PLMN shall be also included in the
> response.
If the ProSe Function cannot fulfil the received request for reasons not
stated in the above steps, e.g. due to a database error or any of the required
actions cannot be performed, it shall set the Result Code to
\"DIAMETER_UNABLE_TO_COMPLY\".
## 5.4 ProSe Match Report
### 5.4.1 General
The ProSe Match Report Procedure shall be used between the ProSe Function in
the HPLMN and the ProSe Function in the local PLMN identified by the PLMN-Id
contained in the ProSe Application Code(s) discovered by the monitoring UE..
The procedure shall be invoked by the ProSe Function in the HPLMN and is used:
\- to confirm that the ProSe Application Code(s) is authorized to be
transmitted on the monitored PLMN;
\- to retrieve the ProSe Application ID(s), associated validity timer(s) and
associated match report refresh timer(s) corresponding to the ProSe
Application Code(s) as well metadata associated with the ProSe Application ID
if available and requested by the UE; and
\- to provide the ProSe Function in the local PLMN with the identity (IMSI or
MSISDN) of the monitoring UE in order to allow to perform charging.
This procedure is mapped to the commands ProSe-Match-Request/Answer (PMR/PMA)
in the Diameter application specified in clause 6.
Table 5.4.1-1 specifies the involved information elements for the request.
Table 5.4.1-2 specifies the involved information elements for the answer.
Table 5.4.1-1: ProSe Match Report Request
+-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Information | Mapping to | Cat. | Description | | element name | Diameter AVP | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Match Request | Match-Request | M | This information | | | | | element shall | | | | | contain the | | | | | information | | | | | elements used in | | | | | discovery match | | | | | request. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Supported | S | O | If present, this | | Features | upported-Features | | information | | | | | element shall | | (See 6.3.24) | | | contain the list | | | | | of features | | | | | supported by the | | | | | origin host. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | PMR Flags | PMR-Flags | C | This Information | | | | | Element contains | | (See 6.3.57) | | | a bit mask. See | | | | | 6.3.57 for the | | | | | meaning of the | | | | | bits. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+
Table 5.4.1-2: ProSe Match Report Answer
+-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Information | Mapping to | Cat. | Description | | element name | Diameter AVP | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Supported | S | O | If present, this | | Features | upported-Features | | information | | | | | element shall | | (See .6.3.24) | | | contain the list | | | | | of features | | | | | supported by the | | | | | origin host. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Result | Result-Code / | M | This IE shall | | | Ex | | contain the | | (See 6.4) | perimental-Result | | result of the | | | | | operation. | | | | | | | | | | The Result-Code | | | | | AVP shall be used | | | | | to indicate | | | | | success / errors | | | | | as defined in the | | | | | Diameter Base | | | | | Protocol. | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | Ex | | | | | perimental-Result | | | | | AVP shall be used | | | | | for PC6/PC7 | | | | | errors. This is a | | | | | grouped AVP which | | | | | shall contain the | | | | | 3GPP Vendor ID in | | | | | the Vendor-Id | | | | | AVP, and the | | | | | error code in the | | | | | Experim | | | | | ental-Result-Code | | | | | AVP. | | | | | | | | | | The following | | | | | errors are | | | | | applicable: | | | | | | | | | | - Announcing Not | | | | | Authorized in | | | | | PLMN | | | | | | | | | | - Invalid | | | | | Application Code | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Match Report (See | Match-Report | C | This Information | | 6.3.12) | | | Element shall | | | | | contain the | | | | | information | | | | | elements in | | | | | response to the | | | | | discovery match | | | | | request. This | | | | | Information | | | | | Element shall be | | | | | present only when | | | | | the Result-Code | | | | | AVP is | | | | | D | | | | | IAMETER_SUCCESS. | | | | | Multiple | | | | | instances of this | | | | | Information | | | | | Element may be | | | | | present in the | | | | | message. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+
### 5.4.2 Detailed behaviour of the HPLMN ProSe Function
The ProSe Function in the HPLMN shall make use of this procedure to retrieve
from the ProSe Function in the local PLMN (identified by the PLMN-Id contained
in the Prose Application Code) the ProSe Application ID(s) that correspond to
ProSe Application Code(s) discovered by the monitoring UE. The HPLMN ProSe
Function shall include in the Match Request the Discovery Type set to
\"MONITORING_REQUEST_FOR_OPEN_PROSE_DIRECT_DISCOVERY\", the discovered ProSe
Application Code(s) corresponding to the request from the monitoring UE as
well as the MIC and UTC-based counter associated with the discovered ProSe
Application Code. The request shall include the UE identity (i.e. IMSI or
MSISDN) in order to allow the ProSe Function in the local PLMN to perform
charging of the monitoring UE. If the metadata information associated with the
ProSe Application ID is requested by the UE, the flag \"Metadata Requested\"
shall be set in the PMR Flags.
When receiving the ProSe Match Report response from the ProSe Function in the
local PLMN with the Result Code set to \"DIAMETER_SUCCESS\", the HPLMN ProSe
Function shall check whether a Match Report is received for each ProSe
Application Code sent in the request. If a Match Report is missing for one
ProSe Application Code, this ProSe Application Code shall be considered as
invalid by the ProSe Function.
### 5.4.3 Detailed behaviour of the ProSe Function in the local PLMN
When receiving a ProSe Match Report request, the ProSe Function in the local
PLMN shall check the value of the Discovery Type contained in the Match
Request.
\- If the value indicated in the Discovery Type is not supported, the
experimental result code shall be set to
\"DIAMETER_ERROR_INVALID_DISCOVERY_TYPE\" in the response.
\- If the value is \"MONITORING_REQUEST_FOR_OPEN_PROSE_DIRECT_DISCOVERY\", the
ProSe Function shallcheck whether that the ProSe Application Code received is
authorized to be announced in the monitored PLMN.
\- If not, the experimental result code shall be set to
\"DIAMETER_ERROR_ANNOUNCING_UNAUTHORIZED_IN_PLMN\" in the response.
\- If the ProSe Code is authorized to be announced, the ProSe Function shall
check the validity of the ProSe Application Code(s) discovered by the
monitoring UE, i.e. a ProSe Application ID name is associated and the validity
timer has not expired, and the MIC value associated with the ProSe Application
Code is valid when verified based on the associated UTC-based counter as
defined in 3GPP TS 33.303 [23].
\- If none of the ProSe Application Code(s) is valid in the ProSe Function,
i.e. either no ProSe Application Code exists, the validity timer(s) has
expired, or MIC check(s) for the ProSe Application Code(s) has failed, the
experimental result code shall be set to
\"DIAMETER_ERROR_INVALID_APPLICATION_CODE\" in the response sent by the ProSe
Function.
\- Otherwise, when at least one ProSe Application Code is valid, the ProSe
Function shall return the Match Report and set the result code to
\"DIAMETER_SUCCESS\" in the response. For each valid ProSe Application code,
the Match Report shall contain the matched ProSe Application Code, the ProSe
Application ID Name, the validity timer and the match report refresh timer.
The Match Report may include metadata associated with the ProSe Application ID
if requested and available. The ProSe Function may store the monitoring UE
identity (i.e. IMSI or MSISDN) in order to perform charging.
If there is an error in any of the above steps then the ProSe Function shall
stop processing the request and shall return the error code specified in the
respective step.
If the ProSe Function cannot fulfil the received request for reasons not
stated in the above steps, e.g. due to a database error or any of the required
actions cannot be performed, it shall stop processing the request and set the
Result Code to \"DIAMETER_UNABLE_TO_COMPLY\".
If the ProSe Application Code contains a metadata index, a ProSe-Metadata-
Index-Mask AVP shall be provided for this ProSe Application Code.
## 5.5 ProSe Match Report info
### 5.5.1 General
For open discovery, the ProSe Match Report Info Procedure shall be used by the
ProSe Function in the HPLMN of the monitoring UE to provide a match report
information to the ProSe Function of the visited PLMN in which the announcing
UE is roaming. For restricted discovery, the ProSe Match Report Info Procedure
shall also be used by the ProSe Function in the HPLMN of the monitoring UE or
discoverer UE to provide a match report information to the ProSe Function of
the HPLMN of the announcing UE or discoveree UE.
This procedure is mapped to the commands ProSe-Match-Report-Info-
Request/Answer (PIR/PIA) in the Diameter application specified in clause 6.
Table 5.5.1-1 specifies the involved information elements for the request.
Table 5.5.1-2 specifies the involved information elements for the answer.
Table 5.5.1-1: ProSe Match Report Info Request
+-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Information | Mapping to | Cat. | Description | | element name | Diameter AVP | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Match Report | Match-Report-Info | C | This information | | Information | | | element shall | | | | | contain the | | (See 6.3.56) | | | information | | | | | elements used in | | | | | discovery match | | | | | report info | | | | | request. This | | | | | information | | | | | element shall be | | | | | present if the | | | | | Discovery Type is | | | | | MONITO | | | | | RING_REQUEST_FO | | | | | R_OPEN_PROSE_D | | | | | IRECT_DISCOVERY. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Supported | S | O | If present, this | | Features | upported-Features | | information | | | | | element shall | | (See 6.3.24) | | | contain the list | | | | | of features | | | | | supported by the | | | | | origin host. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+
Table 5.5.1-2: ProSe Match Report Info Answer
+-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Information | Mapping to | Cat. | Description | | element name | Diameter AVP | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Supported | S | O | If present, this | | Features | upported-Features | | information | | | | | element shall | | (See 6.3.24) | | | contain the list | | | | | of features | | | | | supported by the | | | | | origin host. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Result | Result-Code / | M | This IE shall | | | Ex | | contain the | | (See 6.4) | perimental-Result | | result of the | | | | | operation. | | | | | | | | | | The Result-Code | | | | | AVP shall be used | | | | | to indicate | | | | | success / errors | | | | | as defined in the | | | | | Diameter Base | | | | | Protocol. | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | Ex | | | | | perimental-Result | | | | | AVP shall be used | | | | | for PC6/PC7 | | | | | errors. This is a | | | | | grouped AVP which | | | | | shall contain the | | | | | 3GPP Vendor ID in | | | | | the Vendor-Id | | | | | AVP, and the | | | | | error code in the | | | | | Experim | | | | | ental-Result-Code | | | | | AVP. | | | | | | | | | | The following | | | | | errors are | | | | | applicable: | | | | | | | | | | - Unknown User | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+
### 5.5.2 Detailed behaviour of the requesting ProSe Function
When the monitored PLMN-Id provided by the monitoring UE during the Match
Report procedure (see clause 5.4) is different from the PLMN-Id contained in
the ProSe Application Code discovered by the monitoring UE, i.e. the
announcing UE is roaming in a visited PLMN, the monitoring UE\'s ProSe
Function in the HPLMN may make use of this procedure to send a match report
information to the ProSe Function in the visited PLMN in which the announcing
UE is roaming.. In such case, the HPLMN ProSe Function shall include in the
Match Report Information the Discovery Type set to
\"MONITORING_REQUEST_FOR_OPEN_PROSE_DIRECT_DISCOVERY\" as well as the ProSe
Application ID and the identity of the monitoring UE (i.e. IMSI or MSISDN).
When the HPLMN ProSe Function of the monitoring UE processes a match report
for a discovered ProSe Restricted Code from the UE, and finds that the target
PDUID for the corresponding discovery entry contains a PLMN-Id different from
the PLMN of the ProSe Function, the monitoring UE\'s ProSe Function in the
HPLMN may make use of this procedure to send a match report information to the
ProSe Function to which the announcing UE belongs. In such case, the HPLMN
ProSe Function shall include in the Match Report Information the Discovery
Type set to \"MONITORING_REQUEST_FOR_RESTRICTED_PROSE_DIRECT_DISCOVERY\", the
ProSe Restricted Code, the RPAUID, the target RPAUID and the identity of the
monitoring UE (i.e. IMSI or MSISDN). The ProSe Function may also include the
timestamp of the match event in the Match Report Information.
When the HPLMN ProSe Function of the discoverer UE processes a match report
for a discovered ProSe Response Code from the discoverer UE, and finds that
the target PDUID for the corresponding discovery entry contains a PLMN-Id
different from the PLMN of the ProSe Function, the discoverer UE\'s ProSe
Function in the HPLMN may make use of this procedure to send a match report
information to the ProSe Function to which the discoveree UE belongs. In such
case, the HPLMN ProSe Function shall include in the Match Report Information
the Discovery Type set to
\"DISCOVERER_REQUEST_FOR_RESTRICTED_PROSE_DIRECT_DISCOVERY\", the ProSe
Response Code, the RPAUID, the target RPAUID and the identity of the
discoverer UE (i.e. IMSI or MSISDN). The ProSe Function may also include the
timestamp of the match event in the Match Report Information.
### 5.5.3 Detailed behaviour of the receiving ProSe Function
When receiving a ProSe Match Report Info request, the ProSe Function shall
check the value of the Discovery Type contained in the Match Report
Information.
\- If the value indicated in the Discovery Type is not supported, the
experimental result code shall be set to
\"DIAMETER_ERROR_INVALID_DISCOVERY_TYPE\" in the response.
\- If the value is \"MONITORING_REQUEST_FOR_OPEN_PROSE_DIRECT_DISCOVERY\",
\"MONITORING_REQUEST_FOR_RESTRICTED_PROSE_DIRECT_DISCOVERY\" or
\"DISCOVERER_REQUEST_FOR_RESTRICTED_PROSE_DIRECT_DISCOVERY\", the ProSe
Function shall check whether the UE Identity (i.e. IMSI or MSISDN) exists.
\- If not, a Result Code of DIAMETER_ERROR_USER_UNKNOWN shall be returned.
\- Otherwise, it shall acknowledge the reception of the Match Report info and
set the Result Code to \"DIAMETER_SUCCESS\" in the response.
If the ProSe Function in the VPLMN cannot fulfil the received request for
reasons not stated in the above steps, e.g. due to a database error or any of
the required actions cannot be performed, it shall stop processing the request
and set the Result Code to \"DIAMETER_UNABLE_TO_COMPLY\" in the response.
## 5.6 ProSe Proximity Request
### 5.6.1 General
The ProSe Proximity Request Procedure shall be used by a ProSe Function in
charge of the requesting UE to request the ProSe Function in charge of another
UE to indicate when two UEs will enter into proximity within a requested time
window.
This procedure is mapped to the commands ProSe-Proximity-Request/Answer
(PRR/PRA) in the Diameter application specified in clause 6.
Table 5.6.1-1 specifies the involved information elements for the request.
Table 5.6.1-2 specifies the involved information elements for the answer.
Table 5.6.1-1: ProSe Proximity Request
+-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Information | Mapping to | Cat. | Description | | element name | Diameter AVP | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Requesting EPUID | Requesting-EPUID | M | This Information | | | | | Element shall | | (See 6.3.23) | | | contain the EPC | | | | | ProSe User ID | | | | | (EPUID) of the UE | | | | | triggering the | | | | | Proximity | | | | | Request. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Targeted EPUID | Targeted-EPUID | M | This Information | | | | | Element shall | | (See 6.3.26) | | | contain the EPC | | | | | ProSe User ID | | | | | (EPUID) of the UE | | | | | targeted by the | | | | | Proximity | | | | | Request. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Time Window | Time-Window | M | This Information | | | | | Element shall | | (See 6.3.27) | | | contain the time | | | | | period during | | | | | which the | | | | | Proximity request | | | | | is valid | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Requesting UE | Location-Estimate | M | This Information | | Location | | | Element shall | | | | | contain the | | (See 6.3.10) | | | current location | | | | | of the requesting | | | | | UE expressed in | | | | | GAD shapes | | | | | defined in | | | | | TS 23.032 [6] | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Location Update | Locati | O | If present, this | | Trigger | on-Update-Trigger | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | (See 6.3.a) | | | contain the | | | | | trigger that will | | | | | cause the | | | | | location updates | | | | | performed by the | | | | | ProSe Function. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Supported | S | O | If present, this | | Features | upported-Features | | information | | | | | element shall | | (See 6.3.24) | | | contain the list | | | | | of features | | | | | supported by the | | | | | origin host. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | PRR Flags | PRR-Flags | M | This Information | | | | | Element contains | | (See 6.3.21) | | | a bit mask. See | | | | | 6.3.21 for the | | | | | meaning of the | | | | | bits. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+
Table 5.6.1/2: ProSe Proximity Answer
+-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Information | Mapping to | Cat. | Description | | element name | Diameter AVP | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Supported | S | O | If present, this | | Features | upported-Features | | information | | | | | element shall | | (See 6.3.24) | | | contain the list | | | | | of features | | | | | supported by the | | | | | origin host. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Result | Result-Code / | M | This IE shall | | | Ex | | contain the | | (See 6.4) | perimental-Result | | result of the | | | | | operation. | | | | | | | | | | The Result-Code | | | | | AVP shall be used | | | | | to indicate | | | | | success / errors | | | | | as defined in the | | | | | Diameter Base | | | | | Protocol. | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | Ex | | | | | perimental-Result | | | | | AVP shall be used | | | | | for PC6/PC7 | | | | | errors. This is a | | | | | grouped AVP which | | | | | shall contain the | | | | | 3GPP Vendor ID in | | | | | the Vendor-Id | | | | | AVP, and the | | | | | error code in the | | | | | Experim | | | | | ental-Result-Code | | | | | AVP. | | | | | | | | | | The following | | | | | errors are | | | | | applicable: | | | | | | | | | | - EPUID unknown | | | | | | | | | | - Proximity | | | | | request rejected | | | | | | | | | | - Proximity | | | | | unauthorized | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Targeted UE | Location-estimate | C | This Information | | Location | | | Element shall | | | | | contain the | | (See 6.3.10) | | | current location | | | | | of the targeted | | | | | UE expressed in | | | | | GAD shapes | | | | | defined in | | | | | TS 23.032 [6]. | | | | | This information | | | | | shall be present | | | | | when the Result | | | | | Code is | | | | | \"DI | | | | | AMETER_SUCCESS\" | | | | | and the location | | | | | of the targeted | | | | | UE is known. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | WLAN Link Layer | W | C | This Information | | ID | LAN-Link-Layer-Id | | shall contain the | | | | | permanent link | | (See 6.3.32) | | | layer identity | | | | | used by the | | | | | targeted UE for | | | | | WLAN direct | | | | | discovery and/or | | | | | WLAN direct | | | | | communication. It | | | | | shall be present | | | | | if the requesting | | | | | UE has requested | | | | | EPC support for | | | | | WLAN direct | | | | | discovery and if | | | | | the targeted UE | | | | | has a permanent | | | | | WLAN Link Layer | | | | | ID for | | | | | communication | | | | | (e.g. permanent | | | | | MAC address). | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+
### 5.6.2 Detailed behaviour of the ProSe Function of the requesting UE
The ProSe Function of the UE triggering the Proximity request shall make use
of this procedure to propagate the Proximity request to the ProSe Function of
the targeted UE. The ProSe Function shall include in the request the EPC ProSe
User Identities of the requesting and targeted UEs, the location of the
requesting UE, the validity period of the Proximity request and, the location
update trigger. If the requesting UE has requested EPC support for WLAN direct
discovery and communication with the targeted UE, the PRR-Flag \"WLAN
Indication\" shall be set.
NOTE: The location update trigger enable the ProSe Function of the targeted UE
to configure SUPL reporting in targeted UE using the \"\"Inside\" trigger with
Repeated Reporting\" mechanism as defined in OMA AD SUPL [25].
When receiving a ProSe Proximity response from the ProSe Function of the
targeted UE, the ProSe Function of the requesting UE shall check the result
code. If it indicates SUCCESS, the ProSe Function shall create and manage a
context associated with the Proximity request, including the EPUIDs of the
UEs, the validity period of this Proximity request and the WLAN indication
received in the Proximity request until the execution of the Proximity Alert
procedure, the Proximity Request Cancellation procedure or until the expiry of
the time window during which the request is valid.
### 5.6.3 Detailed behaviour of the ProSe Function of the targeted UE
When receiving a ProSe Proximity request, the ProSe Function of the targeted
UE, shall, in the following order:
1\. Check whether the EPC ProSe User Identity of the targeted UE exists. If
not, a Result Code of DIAMETER_ERROR_USER_UNKNOWN shall be returned.
2\. Check whether the proximity request is authorized by the user. If not, the
Proximity request is not authorized by the user, a Result Code of
DIAMETER_ERROR_PROXIMITY_UNAUTHORIZED shall be returned.
3\. Check the location of the requesting UE and the time window received in
the request and determine whether UEs are likely to enter into proximity based
the last known location of the targeted UE. If it is unlikely that UEs enter
into proximity for the received time window, a Result Code of
DIAMETER_ERROR_PROXIMITY_REJECTED shall be returned in the response.
If there is an error in any of the above steps then the ProSe Function shall
stop processing the request and shall return the error code specified in the
respective step.
If the ProSe Function cannot fulfil the received request for reasons not
stated in the above steps, e.g. due to a database error or any of the required
actions cannot be performed, it shall stop processing the request and set the
Result Code to \"DIAMETER_UNABLE_TO_COMPLY\".
Otherwise, the ProSe Function shall acknowledge the reception of the Proximity
and set the Result Code to \"DIAMETER_SUCCESS\" in the response. The message
may include the last known location of the targeted UE, if available. The
message may also include the permanent WLAN Link Layer ID (e.g. MAC address)
of the targeted UE if available and if the PRR-Flag \"WLAN Indication\" was
set in the request. The ProSe Function shall create and manage a context
associated with the Proximity request, including the identity of ProSe
Function triggering the Proximity request, the EPUIDs of the UEs, the validity
period of this Proximity request, the WLAN indication, the location update
periodicity and/or location update trigger received in the Proximity request
until the execution of the Proximity Alert procedure, the Proximity Request
Cancellation procedure or until the expiry of the time window during which the
request is valid.
## 5.7 ProSe Location Update
### 5.7.1 General
The ProSe Location Update Procedure shall be used by a ProSe Function to
forward the location of UE to the ProSe Function triggering the Proximity
Request and in charge of determining the proximity of two UEs.
This procedure is mapped to the commands ProSe-Location-Update-Request/Answer
(PLR/PLA) in the Diameter application specified in clause 6.
Table 5.7.1-1 specifies the involved information elements for the request.
Table 5.7.1-2 specifies the involved information elements for the answer.
Table 5.7.1-1: ProSe Location Update Request
+-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Information | Mapping to | Cat. | Description | | element name | Diameter AVP | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Targeted EPUID | Targeted-EPUID | M | This Information | | | | | Element shall | | (See 6.3.26) | | | contain the EPC | | | | | ProSe User ID | | | | | (EPUID) of the UE | | | | | targeted by the | | | | | Proximity | | | | | Request. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Targeted UE | Location-Estimate | M | This Information | | Location | | | Element shall | | | | | contain the | | (See 6.3.10) | | | current location | | | | | of the targeted | | | | | UE expressed in | | | | | GAD shapes | | | | | defined in | | | | | TS 23.032 [6]. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Supported | S | O | If present, this | | Features | upported-Features | | information | | | | | element shall | | (See 6.3.24) | | | contain the list | | | | | of features | | | | | supported by the | | | | | origin host. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+
Table 5.7.1-2: ProSe Location Update Answer
+-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Information | Mapping to | Cat. | Description | | element name | Diameter AVP | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Supported | S | O | If present, this | | Features | upported-Features | | information | | | | | element shall | | (See 6.3.24) | | | contain the list | | | | | of features | | | | | supported by the | | | | | origin host. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Result | Result-Code / | M | This IE shall | | | Ex | | contain the | | (See 6.4) | perimental-Result | | result of the | | | | | operation. | | | | | | | | | | The Result-Code | | | | | AVP shall be used | | | | | to indicate | | | | | success / errors | | | | | as defined in the | | | | | Diameter Base | | | | | Protocol. | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | Ex | | | | | perimental-Result | | | | | AVP shall be used | | | | | for PC6/PC7 | | | | | errors. This is a | | | | | grouped AVP which | | | | | shall contain the | | | | | 3GPP Vendor ID in | | | | | the Vendor-Id | | | | | AVP, and the | | | | | error code in the | | | | | Experim | | | | | ental-Result-Code | | | | | AVP. | | | | | | | | | | The following | | | | | errors are | | | | | applicable: | | | | | | | | | | - User Unknown | | | | | | | | | | - Proximity | | | | | Cancelled | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+
### 5.7.2 Detailed behaviour of the ProSe Function of the requesting UE
The ProSe Function of the UE targeted by the Proximity request shall make use
of this procedure to periodically update the targeted UE\'s location in the
ProSe Function in charge of Proximity request. The ProSe Function shall
include in the request the EPC ProSe User Identity and the location of the
targeted UE.
### 5.7.3 Detailed behaviour of the ProSe Function of the targeted UE
When receiving a ProSe Location Update request, the ProSe Function in charge
of the Proximity request shall, in the following order:
1\. Check whether a proximity request exists for the EPC ProSe User Identity
received in the request. If there is no pending Proximity request for this
EPUID, a Result Code of DIAMETER_ERROR_USER_UNKNOWN shall be returned.
2\. Check the location of the requesting UE and the time window indicated by
the requesting UE and determine whether UEs are likely to enter into proximity
based the last known location of the targeted UE. If it is unlikely that UEs
enter into proximity for the received time window, a Result Code of
DIAMETER_ERROR_PROXIMITY_CANCELLED shall be returned in the response.
If there is an error in any of the above steps then the ProSe Function shall
stop processing the request and shall return the error code specified in the
respective step.
If the ProSe Function cannot fulfil the received request for reasons not
stated in the above steps, e.g. due to a database error or any of the required
actions cannot be performed, it shall stop processing the request and set the
Result Code to \"DIAMETER_UNABLE_TO_COMPLY\".
Otherwise, the ProSe Function shall acknowledge the reception of the ProSe
Location Update and set the Result Code to \"DIAMETER_SUCCESS\" in the
response.
## 5.8 ProSe Cancellation
### 5.8.1 General
The ProSe Cancellation Procedure shall be used between the ProSe Function in
the HPLMN and the ProSe Function in the local/visited PLMN. The procedure
shall be invoked by the ProSe Function in HPLMN and is used:
\- to indicate that the service authorization for ProSe Direct Discovery and
ProSe Direct Communication is revoked for this UE.
\- to indicate that the Proximity Request sent earlier is cancelled.
This procedure is mapped to the commands ProSe-Cancellation-Request/Answer
(PCR/PCA) in the Diameter application specified in clause 6.
Table 5.8.1-1 specifies the involved information elements for the request.
Table 5.8.1-2 specifies the involved information elements for the answer.
Table 5.8.1-1: ProSe Cancellation Request
+-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Information | Mapping to | Cat. | Description | | element name | Diameter AVP | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Requesting EPUID | Requesting-EPUID | M | This Information | | | | | Element shall | | (See 6.3.23) | | | contain the EPC | | | | | ProSe User ID | | | | | (EPUID) of the UE | | | | | triggering the | | | | | Proximity | | | | | Request. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Targeted EPUID | Targeted-EPUID | M | This Information | | | | | Element shall | | (See 6.3.26) | | | contain the EPC | | | | | ProSe User ID | | | | | (EPUID) of the UE | | | | | targeted by the | | | | | Proximity | | | | | Request. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Supported | S | O | If present, this | | Features | upported-Features | | information | | | | | element shall | | (See 6.3.24) | | | contain the list | | | | | of features | | | | | supported by the | | | | | origin host. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+
Table 5.8.1-2: ProSe Cancellation Answer
+-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Information | Mapping to | Cat. | Description | | element name | Diameter AVP | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Supported | S | O | If present, this | | Features | upported-Features | | information | | | | | element shall | | (See 6.3.24) | | | contain the list | | | | | of features | | | | | supported by the | | | | | origin host. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Result | Result-Code / | M | This IE shall | | | Ex | | contain the | | (See 6.4) | perimental-Result | | result of the | | | | | operation. | | | | | | | | | | The Result-Code | | | | | AVP shall be used | | | | | to indicate | | | | | success / errors | | | | | as defined in the | | | | | Diameter Base | | | | | Protocol. | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | Ex | | | | | perimental-Result | | | | | AVP shall be used | | | | | for PC6/PC7 | | | | | errors. This is a | | | | | grouped AVP which | | | | | shall contain the | | | | | 3GPP Vendor ID in | | | | | the Vendor-Id | | | | | AVP, and the | | | | | error code in the | | | | | Experim | | | | | ental-Result-Code | | | | | AVP. | | | | | | | | | | The following | | | | | errors are | | | | | applicable: | | | | | | | | | | - No proximity | | | | | request | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+
### 5.8.2 Detailed behaviour of the ProSe Function of the requesting UE
The ProSe Function of the requesting UE shall make use of this procedure to
cancel a Proximity Request sent earlier to the ProSe Function in charge of the
targeted UE (e.g. due to change in the location of one of the UEs, termination
of corresponding application or due to completion of certain event). The ProSe
Function shall include in the request the EPC ProSe User Identities of the
requesting and targeted UEs.
### 5.8.3 Detailed behaviour of the ProSe Function of the targeted UE
When receiving a ProSe Cancellation request, the ProSe Function of the
targeted UE shall check whether there is a context associated with EPC ProSe
User Identities included in the request. If not, the Result Code of
DIAMETER_ERROR_NO_PROXIMITY_REQUEST shall be returned. Otherwise, the ProSe
Function shall cancel the Proximity request and set the Result Code to
\"DIAMETER_SUCCESS\" in the response
If the ProSe Function cannot fulfil the received request for reasons not
stated in the above steps, e.g. due to a database error or any of the required
actions cannot be performed, it shall set the Result Code to
\"DIAMETER_UNABLE_TO_COMPLY\".
## 5.9 ProSe Proximity Alert
### 5.9.1 General
The ProSe Proximity Alert Procedure shall be used by a ProSe Function in
charge of Proximity request to indicate to the ProSe Function of the UE
targeted by the Proximity request that UEs enter into proximity and that a
Proximity Alert should be sent to the targeted UE.
This procedure is mapped to the commands ProSe-Alert-Request/Answer (ALR/ALA)
in the Diameter application specified in clause 6.
Table 5.9.1-1 specifies the involved information elements for the request.
Table 5.9.1-2 specifies the involved information elements for the answer.
Table 5.9.1-1: ProSe Proximity Alert Request
+-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Information | Mapping to | Cat. | Description | | element name | Diameter AVP | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Application Layer | Applicat | M | This Information | | User ID | ion-Layer-User-Id | | Element shall | | | | | contain the | | (See 6.3.2) | | | Application Layer | | | | | User ID of the | | | | | requesting UE | | | | | entering into | | | | | proximity. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Targeted EPUID | Targeted-EPUID | M | This Information | | | | | Element shall | | (See 6.3.26) | | | contain the EPC | | | | | ProSe User ID | | | | | (EPUID) of the | | | | | targeted UE to | | | | | which the | | | | | Proximity Alert | | | | | shall be sent. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Assistance | Assistance-Info | O | If present, this | | Information | | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | (See 6.3.3) | | | contain the | | | | | assistance | | | | | information for | | | | | WLAN direct | | | | | discovery and | | | | | communications if | | | | | required. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Supported | S | O | If present, this | | Features | upported-Features | | information | | | | | element shall | | (See 6.3.24) | | | contain the list | | | | | of features | | | | | supported by the | | | | | origin host. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+
Table 5.9.1-2: ProSe Proximity Alert Answer
+-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Information | Mapping to | Cat. | Description | | element name | Diameter AVP | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Supported | S | O | If present, this | | Features | upported-Features | | information | | | | | element shall | | (See 6.3.24) | | | contain the list | | | | | of features | | | | | supported by the | | | | | origin host. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Result | Result-Code / | M | This IE shall | | | Ex | | contain the | | (See 6.4) | perimental-Result | | result of the | | | | | operation. | | | | | | | | | | The Result-Code | | | | | AVP shall be used | | | | | to indicate | | | | | success / errors | | | | | as defined in the | | | | | Diameter Base | | | | | Protocol. | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | Ex | | | | | perimental-Result | | | | | AVP shall be used | | | | | for PC6/PC7 | | | | | errors. This is a | | | | | grouped AVP which | | | | | shall contain the | | | | | 3GPP Vendor ID in | | | | | the Vendor-Id | | | | | AVP, and the | | | | | error code in the | | | | | Experim | | | | | ental-Result-Code | | | | | AVP. | | | | | | | | | | The following | | | | | errors are | | | | | applicable: | | | | | | | | | | - Announcing Not | | | | | Authorized | | | | | | | | | | - No Discovery | | | | | Filter | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+
### 5.9.2 Detailed behaviour of the ProSe Function of the targeted UE
The ProSe Function in charge of the Proximity request shall make use of this
procedure to indicate to the ProSe Function in charge of the targeted UE that
the UEs enter into proximity and a Proximity Aleter should be sent to the
targeted UE. The ProSe Function shall include in the request the Application
Layer User ID and the EPUID of the requesting UE entering into proximity. It
may include assistance information for WLAN direct discovery and
communications if required the WLAN indication was included in the Proximity
request.
### 5.9.3 Detailed behaviour of the ProSe Function of the requesting UE
When receiving a ProSe Proximity Alert request, the ProSe Function of the
targeted UE, shall, in the following order:
1\. Check whether the EPC ProSe User Identity of the targeted UE exists. If
not, a Result Code of DIAMETER_ERROR_USER_UNKNOWN shall be returned.
2\. Check whether the proximity request is authorized by the user. If not, the
Proximity request is not authorized by the user, a Result Code of
DIAMETER_ERROR_PROXIMITY_UNAUTORIZED shall be returned.
If there is an error in any of the above steps then the ProSe Function shall
stop processing the request and shall return the error code specified in the
respective step.
If the ProSe Function cannot fulfil the received request for reasons not
stated in the above steps, e.g. due to a database error or any of the required
actions cannot be performed, it shall stop processing the request and set the
Result Code to \"DIAMETER_UNABLE_TO_COMPLY\".
Otherwise, the ProSe Function shall acknowledge the reception of the ProSe
Proximity Alert request and shall set the Result Code to \"DIAMETER_SUCCESS\"
in the response. The ProSe Function shall forward the Proximity Alert to the
requesting UE.
## 5.10 ProSe Direct Discovery Authorization Update
### 5.10.1 General
The ProSe Direct Discovery Authorization Update Procedure shall be used
between the ProSe Function in the HPLMN and the ProSe Function in a local PLMN
or VPLMN to update authorization for access to the discovery resources and
perform ProSe Direct Discovery. The procedure shall be invoked by the ProSe
Function in the HPLMN and is used:
\- to provide the ProSe Function in Local PLMN with an update for banned
users.
This procedure is mapped to the commands ProSe-Discovery-Request/Answer
(PDR/PDA) in the Diameter application specified in clause 6.
Table 5.10.1-1 specifies the involved information elements for the request.
Table 5.10.1-2 specifies the involved information elements for the answer.
Table 5.10.1-1: ProSe Direct Discovery Authorization Update Request
+-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Information | Mapping to | Cat. | Description | | element name | Diameter AVP | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Discovery | Disco | M | This information | | Authorization | very-Auth-Request | | element shall | | Request | | | contain the | | | | | information | | (See 6.3.53) | | | elements used in | | | | | discovery | | | | | authorization | | | | | request. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Supported | S | O | If present, this | | Features | upported-Features | | information | | | | | element shall | | (See 6.3.24) | | | contain the list | | | | | of features | | | | | supported by the | | | | | origin host. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Discovery Entry | D | C | This Information | | ID | iscovery-Entry-ID | | Element contains | | | | | the discovery | | (See 6.3.59) | | | entry ID used by | | | | | the sending ProSe | | | | | Function to | | | | | identify the | | | | | discovery entry | | | | | related to this | | | | | request. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+
Table 5.10.1-2: ProSe Direct Discovery Authorization Update Answer
+-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Information | Mapping to | Cat. | Description | | element name | Diameter AVP | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Supported | S | O | If present, this | | Features | upported-Features | | information | | | | | element shall | | (See 6.3.24) | | | contain the list | | | | | of features | | | | | supported by the | | | | | origin host. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Result | Result-Code / | M | This IE shall | | | Ex | | contain the | | (See 6.4) | perimental-Result | | result of the | | | | | operation. | | | | | | | | | | The Result-Code | | | | | AVP shall be used | | | | | to indicate | | | | | success / errors | | | | | as defined in the | | | | | Diameter Base | | | | | Protocol. | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | Ex | | | | | perimental-Result | | | | | AVP shall be used | | | | | for PC6/PC7 | | | | | errors. This is a | | | | | grouped AVP which | | | | | shall contain the | | | | | 3GPP Vendor ID in | | | | | the Vendor-Id | | | | | AVP, and the | | | | | error code in the | | | | | Experim | | | | | ental-Result-Code | | | | | AVP. | | | | | | | | | | The following | | | | | errors are | | | | | applicable: | | | | | | | | | | - Announcing Not | | | | | Authorized | | | | | | | | | | - No Associated | | | | | Discovery Filter | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Discovery | Discov | C | This information | | Authorization | ery-Auth-Response | | element shall | | Response | | | contain the | | | | | information | | (See 6.3.53) | | | elements used in | | | | | discovery | | | | | authorization | | | | | response. This | | | | | information | | | | | element shall be | | | | | present if the | | | | | Result Code AVP | | | | | is | | | | | D | | | | | IAMETER_SUCCESS. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Discovery Entry | D | C | This Information | | ID | iscovery-Entry-ID | | Element contains | | | | | the discovery | | (See 6.3.59) | | | entry ID used by | | | | | the sending ProSe | | | | | Function to | | | | | identify the | | | | | discovery entry | | | | | related to this | | | | | request. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+
### 5.10.2 Detailed behaviour of the HPLMN ProSe Function
The ProSe Function in the HPLMN shall make use of this procedure to revoke
permissions to discover a ProSe Restricted Code given to users served by the
ProSe Function located in a Local PLMN. The HPLMN ProSe Function shall include
in the request the Discovery Entry ID and shall include in the Discovery
Authorization Request the Discovery Type set to
\"MONITORING_UPDATE_FOR_RESTRICTED_PROSE_DIRECT_DISCOVERY\", the application
identity, the ProSe-restricted-Code, Banned RPAUID and Banned PDUID of a
monitoring target.When receiving the ProSe Direct Discovery Authorization
Update response with the Result Code set to \"DIAMETER_SUCCESS\" for a request
with the Discovery Type set to
\"MONITORING_UPDATE_FOR_RESTRICTED_PROSE_DIRECT_DISCOVERY\", the HPLMN ProSe
Function shall start a timer to wait for the ProSe Funciton in Local
PLMN/VPLMN to report the result of the Direct Discovery Authorization Update
procedure for the monitoring operation, i.e., whether the ProSe Discovery
Filter(s) for monitoring this ProSe Restricted Code has been successfully
revoked in the banned UE.
### 5.10.3 Detailed behaviour of the ProSe Function in the local PLMN or VPLMN
When receiving a ProSe Direct Discovery Authorization Update request, the
ProSe Function in the local PLMN or VPLMN shall process the request in the
following order to check whether the monitoring is authorized.
\- The ProSe function shall check if the Banned PDUID belongs to its own PLMN.
\- If not, the experimental result code shall be set to
\"DIAMETER_ERROR_INVALID_TARGET_PDUID\" in the response sent by the ProSe
Function.
\- If the Banned PDUID belongs to its own PLMN, the ProSe function may check
if the requesting RPAUID is allowed to discovery the Banned RPAUID.
\- If not, the experimental result code shall be set to
\"DIAMETER_ERROR_INVALID_TARGET_RPAUID\" in the response sent by the ProSe
Function;
\- Otherwise, the ProSe Function shall set the result code to
\"DIAMETER_SUCCESS\" in the response.
If the ProSe Function cannot fulfil the received request for reasons not
stated in the above steps, e.g. due to a database error or any of the required
actions cannot be performed, it shall set the Result Code to
\"DIAMETER_UNABLE_TO_COMPLY\".
## 5.11 ProSe Direct Discovery Authorization Update Result
### 5.11.1 General
The ProSe Direct Discovery Authorization Update Result Procedure shall be used
between the ProSe Function in the local PLMN and the ProSe Function in the
HPLMN to report the result of ProSe Direct Discovery Authorization Update in
Local PLMN to the the ProSe Function in the HPLMN. In this case the procedure
shall be invoked by the ProSe Function in the local PLMN and is used:
\- to report the result of Direct Discovery Authorization Update procedure
initiated by the ProSe Function in the HPLMN.
This procedure is mapped to the commands ProSe-Discovery-Request/Answer
(PDR/PDA) in the Diameter application specified in clause 6.
Table 5.11.1-1 specifies the involved information elements for the request.
Table 5.11.1-2 specifies the involved information elements for the answer.
Table 5.11.1-1: ProSe Direct Discovery Authorization Update Result Request
+-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Information | Mapping to | Cat. | Description | | element name | Diameter AVP | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Discovery | Disco | M | This information | | Authorization | very-Auth-Request | | element shall | | Request | | | contain the | | | | | information | | (See 6.3.53) | | | elements used in | | | | | discovery | | | | | authorization | | | | | request. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Supported | S | O | If present, this | | Features | upported-Features | | information | | | | | element shall | | (See 6.3.24) | | | contain the list | | | | | of features | | | | | supported by the | | | | | origin host. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Discovery Entry | D | C | This Information | | ID | iscovery-Entry-ID | | Element contains | | | | | the discovery | | (See 6.3.59) | | | entry ID used by | | | | | the sending ProSe | | | | | Function to | | | | | identify the | | | | | discovery entry | | | | | related to this | | | | | request. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+
Table 5.11.1-2: ProSe Direct Discovery Authorization Update Result Answer
+-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Information | Mapping to | Cat. | Description | | element name | Diameter AVP | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Supported | S | O | If present, this | | Features | upported-Features | | information | | | | | element shall | | (See 6.3.24) | | | contain the list | | | | | of features | | | | | supported by the | | | | | origin host. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Result | Result-Code / | M | This IE shall | | | Ex | | contain the | | (See 6.4) | perimental-Result | | result of the | | | | | operation. | | | | | | | | | | The Result-Code | | | | | AVP shall be used | | | | | to indicate | | | | | success / errors | | | | | as defined in the | | | | | Diameter Base | | | | | Protocol. | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | Ex | | | | | perimental-Result | | | | | AVP shall be used | | | | | for PC6/PC7 | | | | | errors. This is a | | | | | grouped AVP which | | | | | shall contain the | | | | | 3GPP Vendor ID in | | | | | the Vendor-Id | | | | | AVP, and the | | | | | error code in the | | | | | Experim | | | | | ental-Result-Code | | | | | AVP. | | | | | | | | | | The following | | | | | errors are | | | | | applicable: | | | | | | | | | | - Announcing Not | | | | | Authorized | | | | | | | | | | - No Associated | | | | | Discovery Filter | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Discovery | Discov | C | This information | | Authorization | ery-Auth-Response | | element shall | | Response | | | contain the | | | | | information | | (See 6.3.53) | | | elements used in | | | | | discovery | | | | | authorization | | | | | response. This | | | | | information | | | | | element shall be | | | | | present if the | | | | | Result Code AVP | | | | | is | | | | | D | | | | | IAMETER_SUCCESS. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Discovery Entry | D | C | This Information | | ID | iscovery-Entry-ID | | Element contains | | | | | the discovery | | (See 6.3.59) | | | entry ID used by | | | | | the sending ProSe | | | | | Function to | | | | | identify the | | | | | discovery entry | | | | | related to this | | | | | request. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+
### 5.11.2 Detailed behaviour of the ProSe Function in the local PLMN
The ProSe Function in the local PLMN shall make use of this procedure to
report to the ProSe Function in HPLMN the result of the ProSe Direct Discovery
Authorization Update for restricted ProSe Direct Discovery. The local PLMN
ProSe Function shall include in the Discovery Authorization Update Result
Request the Discovery Entry ID and the Discovery Type set to
\"MONITORING_RESPONSE_FOR_RESTRICTED_PROSE_DIRECT_DISCOVERY\", the application
identity, the ProSe-Restricted-Code, Banned RPAUID and Banned PDUID of a
monitoring target, result of the monitoring update operation.
### 5.11.3 Detailed behaviour of the HPLMN ProSe Function
When receiving a ProSe Direct Discovery Authorization Update Result request
(Discovery Type set to
\"MONITORING_RESPONSE_FOR_RESTRICTED_PROSE_DIRECT_DISCOVERY\" in the PDR
command), the ProSe Function in the HPLMN shall check whether there exists a
discovery entry matching the Discovery Entry ID included in the request. If
yes, then the ProSe Function shall update the result for the given ProSe
Restricted Code or ProSe Restricted Code Prefix in this entry regarding the
revocation operation for banned RPAUID and banned PDUID indicated in the
request message.
\- If not, the experimental result code shall be set to
\"DIAMETER_ERROR_NO_ASSOCIATED_RESTRICTED_CODE\" in the response sent by the
ProSe Function.
\- If it exists, the ProSe Function shall set the result code to
\"DIAMETER_SUCCESS\" in the Discovery AuthorizationUpdate Result response and
shall store the outcome of the operation provided to be able to forward this
to the UE.
If the ProSe Function cannot fulfil the received request for reasons not
stated in the above steps, e.g. due to a database error or any of the required
actions cannot be performed, it shall set the Result Code to
\"DIAMETER_UNABLE_TO_COMPLY\".
# 6 Protocol Specification and Implementation
## 6.1 Introduction
### 6.1.1 Use of Diameter base protocol
The Diameter Base Protocol as specified in IETF RFC 6733 [29] shall apply
except as modified by the defined support of the methods and the defined
support of the commands and AVPs, result and error codes as specified in this
specification. Unless otherwise specified, the procedures (including error
handling and unrecognised information handling) shall be used unmodified.
### 6.1.2 Securing Diameter Messages
For secure transport of Diameter messages, see 3GPP TS 33.210 [8].
### 6.1.3 Accounting functionality
Accounting functionality (Accounting Session State Machine, related command
codes and AVPs) shall not be used on the PC6/PC7 interfaces.
### 6.1.4 Use of sessions
Between the ProSe Functions, Diameter sessions shall be implicitly terminated.
An implicitly terminated session is one for which the server does not maintain
state information. The client shall not send any re-authorization or session
termination requests to the server.
The Diameter base protocol includes the Auth-Session-State AVP as the
mechanism for the implementation of implicitly terminated sessions.
The client (server) shall include in its requests (responses) the Auth-
Session-State AVP set to the value NO_STATE_MAINTAINED (1), as described in
IETF RFC 6733 [29]. As a consequence, the server shall not maintain any state
information about this session and the client shall not send any session
termination request. Neither the Authorization-Lifetime AVP nor the Session-
Timeout AVP shall be present in requests or responses.
### 6.1.5 Transport protocol
Diameter messages over the PC6/PC7 interfaces shall make use of SCTP IETF RFC
4960 [9].
### 6.1.6 Routing considerations
This clause specifies the use of the Diameter routing AVPs Destination-Realm
and Destination-Host.
The Destination-Realm AVP shall contain the network domain name of the
targeted ProSe Function. The network domain name is either known by the
sending ProSe Function or derived from the PLMN-Id of the targeted ProSe
Function to construct the EPC Home Network Realm/Domain, as indicated in 3GPP
TS 23.003 [4], clause 19.2.
If a ProSe Function knows the address/name of the ProSe Function in charge of
a given UE, and the associated network domain name, both the Destination-Realm
and Destination-Host AVPs shall be present in the request.
If a ProSe Function knows only the network domain name, the Destination-Realm
AVP shall be present and the command shall be routed to the next Diameter
node.
Consequently, the Destination-Realm AVP is declared as mandatory and the
Destination-Host AVP is declared as optional in the ABNF for all requests
initiated by a ProSe Function.
If the Vendor-Specific-Application-ID AVP is received in any of the commands
defined in this specification, it shall be ignored by the receiving node, and
it shall not be used for routing purposes.
### 6.1.7 Advertising Application Support
The ProSe Functions shall advertise support of the Diameter Inter ProSe
Functions Application by including the value of the application identifier in
the Auth-Application-Id AVP within the Vendor-Specific-Application-Id grouped
AVP of the Capabilities-Exchange-Request and Capabilities-Exchange-Answer
commands.
The vendor identifier value of 3GPP (10415) shall be included in the
Supported-Vendor-Id AVP of the Capabilities-Exchange-Request and Capabilities-
Exchange-Answer commands, and in the Vendor-Id AVP within the Vendor-Specific-
Application-Id grouped AVP of the Capabilities-Exchange-Request and
Capabilities-Exchange-Answer commands.
The Vendor-Id AVP included in Capabilities-Exchange-Request and Capabilities-
Exchange-Answer commands that is not included in the Vendor-Specific-
Application-Id AVPs as described above shall indicate the manufacturer of the
Diameter node as per IETF RFC 6733 [29].
### 6.1.8 Diameter Application Identifier
The Diameter Inter ProSe Functions Application protocol shall be defined as an
IETF vendor specific Diameter application, where the vendor is 3GPP. The
vendor identifier assigned by IANA to 3GPP
(http://www.iana.org/assignments/enterprise-numbers) is 10415.
The Diameter application identifier assigned to the Diameter Inter ProSe
Functions application is 16777340 (allocated by IANA). The same Diameter
application identifier is used over the PC6 interface and the PC7 interface.
### 6.1.9 Use of the Supported-Features AVP
When new functionality is introduced on the PC6/PC7 interfaces, it should be
defined as optional. If backwards incompatible changes cannot be avoided, the
new functionality shall be introduced as a new feature and support advertised
with the Supported-Features AVP. The usage of the Supported-Features AVP on
the PC6/PC7 interfaces is consistent with the procedures for the dynamic
discovery of supported features as defined in clause 7.2 of 3GPP TS 29.229
[10].
When extending the application by adding new AVPs for a feature, the new AVPs
shall have the M bit cleared and the AVP shall not be defined mandatory in the
command ABNF.
As defined in 3GPP TS 29.229 [10], the Supported-Features AVP is of type
grouped and contains the Vendor-Id, Feature-List-ID and Feature-List AVPs. On
the all reference points as specified in this specification, the Supported-
Features AVP is used to identify features that have been defined by 3GPP and
hence, for features defined in this document, the Vendor-Id AVP shall contain
the vendor ID of 3GPP (10415). If there are multiple feature lists defined for
the reference point, the Feature-List-ID AVP shall differentiate those lists
from one another.
## 6.2 Commands
### 6.2.1 Introduction
This clause defines the Command code values and related ABNF for each command
described in this specification.
### 6.2.2 Command-Code values
This csublause defines Command-Code values for the Diameter Inter ProSe
Functions application used over the PC6/PC7 interfaces as allocated by IANA.
Every command is defined by means of the ABNF syntax IETF RFC 5234 [11],
according to the Command Code Format (CCF) specification defined in IETF RFC
6733 [29]. In the case, the definition and use of an AVP is not specified in
this document, the guidelines in IETF RFC 6733 [29] shall apply.
The Vendor-Specific-Application-Id AVP shall not be included in any command
sent by Diameter nodes supporting applications defined in this specification.
If the Vendor-Specific-Application-Id AVP is received in any of the commands
defined in this specification, it shall be ignored by the receiving node.
NOTE: The Vendor-Specific-Application-Id is included as an optional AVP in all
Command Code Format specifications defined in this specification in order to
overcome potential interoperability issues with intermediate Diameter agents
non-compliant with IETF RFC 6733 [29].
The following Command Codes are defined in this specification:
Table 6.2.2-1: Command-Code values for Diameter ProSe Inter Functions
Application
* * *
Command-Name Abbreviation Code Clause ProSe-Authorization-Request PAR 8388668
6.2.3 ProSe-Authorization-Answer PAA 8388668 6.2.4 ProSe-Discovery-Request PDR
8388669 6.2.5 ProSe-Discovery-Answer PDA 8388669 6.2.6 ProSe-Match-Request PMR
8388670 6.2.7 ProSe-Match-Answer PMA 8388670 6.2.8 ProSe-Match-Report-Info-
Request PIR 8388671 6.2.9 ProSe-Match-Report-Info-Answer PIA 8388671 6.2.10
ProSe-Proximity-Request PRR 8388672 6.2.11 ProSe-Proximity-Answer PRA 8388672
6.2.12 ProSe-Location-Update-Request PLR 8388673 6.2.13 ProSe-Location-Update-
Answer PLA 8388673 6.2.14 ProSe-Alert-Request ALR 8388674 6.2.15 ProSe-Alert-
Answer ALA 8388674 6.2.16 ProSe-Cancellation-Request PCR 8388675 6.2.17 ProSe-
Cancellation-Answer PCA 8388675 6.2.18
* * *
For these commands, the Application-ID field shall be set to 16777340
(application identifier of the Diameter Inter ProSe Functions interface
application, allocated by IANA).
### 6.2.3 ProSe-Authorization-Request (PAR) Command
The ProSe-Authorization-Request (PAR) Command, indicated by the Command-Code
field set to 8388668 and the \"R\" bit set in the Command Flags field, is sent
from the ProSe Function in the HPLMN to the ProSe Function in Local
PLMN/VPLMN.
Message Format
> \ ::= \ 16777340 >
>
> \
>
> [ DRMP ]
>
> [ Vendor-Specific-Application-Id ]
>
> { Auth-Session-State }
>
> { Origin-Host }
>
> { Origin-Realm }
>
> [ Destination-Host ]
>
> { Destination-Realm }
>
> ***[ Supported-Features ]**
>
> [ OC-Supported-Features ]
>
> { User-Identity }
>
> { Visited-PLMN-Id }
>
> *[ AVP ]
>
> *[ Proxy-Info ]
>
> *[ Route-Record ]
### 6.2.4 ProSe-Authorization-Answer (PAA) Command
The ProSe-Authorization-Answer (PAA) Command, indicated by the Command-Code
field set to 8388668 and the \"R\" bit cleared in the Command Flags field, is
sent from the ProSe Function in Local PLMN/VPLMN to the ProSe Function in the
HPLMN.
Message Format
> \ ::= \ 16777340 >
>
> \
>
> [ DRMP ]
>
> [ Vendor-Specific-Application-Id ]
>
> [ Result-Code ]
>
> [ Experimental-Result ]
>
> { Auth-Session-State }
>
> { Origin-Host }
>
> { Origin-Realm }
>
> ***[ Supported-Features ]**
>
> [ OC-Supported-Features ]
>
> [ OC-OLR ]
>
> *[ Load ]
>
> [ ProSe-Direct-Allowed]
>
> [ Validity-Time-Announce ]
>
> [ Validity-Time-Monitor ]
>
> [ Validity-Time-Communication ]
>
> [ Authorized-Discovery-Range ]
>
> *[ AVP ]
>
> [ Failed-AVP ]
>
> *[ Proxy-Info ]
>
> *[ Route-Record ]
### 6.2.5 ProSe-Discovery-Request (PDR) Command
The ProSe-Discovery-Request (PDR) Command, indicated by the Command-Code field
set to 8388669 and the \"R\" bit set in the Command Flags field, is sent from
the ProSe Function in the HPLMN to the ProSe Function in Local PLMN.
Message Format
> \ ::= \ 16777340 >
>
> \
>
> [ DRMP ]
>
> [ Vendor-Specific-Application-Id ]
>
> { Auth-Session-State }
>
> { Origin-Host }
>
> { Origin-Realm }
>
> [ Destination-Host ]
>
> { Destination-Realm }
>
> ***[ Supported-Features ]**
>
> [ OC-Supported-Features ]
>
> { Discovery-Auth-Request }
>
> [ Discovery-Entry-ID ]
>
> *[ AVP ]
>
> *[ Proxy-Info ]
>
> *[ Route-Record ]
### 6.2.6 ProSe-Discovery-Answer (PDA) Command
The ProSe-Discovery-Answer (PDA) Command, indicated by the Command-Code field
set to 8388669 and the \"R\" bit cleared in the Command Flags field, is sent
from the ProSe Function in Local PLMN to the ProSe Function in the HPLMN.
Message Format
> \ ::= \
>
> \
>
> [ DRMP ]
>
> [ Vendor-Specific-Application-Id ]
>
> [ Result-Code ]
>
> [ Experimental-Result ]
>
> { Auth-Session-State }
>
> { Origin-Host }
>
> { Origin-Realm }
>
> ***[ Supported-Features ]**
>
> [ OC-Supported-Features ]
>
> [ OC-OLR ]
>
> *[ Load ]
>
> [ Discovery-Auth-Response ]
>
> [ Discovery-Entry-ID ]
>
> *[ AVP ]
>
> [ Failed-AVP ]
>
> *[ Proxy-Info ]
>
> *[ Route-Record ]
### 6.2.7 ProSe-Match-Request (PMR) Command
The ProSe-Match-Request (PMR) Command, indicated by the Command-Code field set
to 8388670 and the \"R\" bit set in the Command Flags field, is sent from the
ProSe Function in the HPLMN to the ProSe Function in Local PLMN.
Message Format
> \ ::= \ >
>
> \
>
> [ DRMP ]
>
> [ Vendor-Specific-Application-Id ]
>
> { Auth-Session-State }
>
> { Origin-Host }
>
> { Origin-Realm }
>
> [ Destination-Host ]
>
> { Destination-Realm }
>
> ***[ Supported-Features ]**
>
> [ OC-Supported-Features ]
>
> { Match-Request }
>
> [ PMR-Flags ]
>
> *[ AVP ]
>
> *[ Proxy-Info ]
>
> *[ Route-Record ]
### 6.2.8 ProSe-Match-Answer (PMA) Command
The ProSe-Match-Answer (PMA) Command, indicated by the Command-Code field set
to 8388670 and the \"R\" bit cleared in the Command Flags field, is sent from
the ProSe Function in Local PLMN to the ProSe Function in the HPLMN.
Message Format
> \ ::= \
>
> \
>
> [ DRMP ]
>
> [ Vendor-Specific-Application-Id ]
>
> [ Result-Code ]
>
> [ Experimental-Result ]
>
> { Auth-Session-State }
>
> { Origin-Host }
>
> { Origin-Realm }
>
> ***[ Supported-Features ]**
>
> [ OC-Supported-Features ]
>
> [ OC-OLR ]
>
> *[ Load ]
>
> *[ Match-Report ]
>
> *[ AVP ]
>
> [ Failed-AVP ]
>
> *[ Proxy-Info ]
>
> *[ Route-Record ]
### 6.2.9 ProSe-Match-Report-Info-Request (PIR) Command
The ProSe-Match-Report-Info-Request (PIR) Command, indicated by the Command-
Code field set to 8388671 and the \"R\" bit set in the Command Flags field, is
sent from the ProSe Function in the HPLMN of the monitoring UE to the ProSe
Function of the PLMN in which the announcing UE is roaming.
Message Format
> \ ::= \ PXY, 16777340 >
>
> \
>
> [ DRMP ]
>
> [ Vendor-Specific-Application-Id ]
>
> { Auth-Session-State }
>
> { Origin-Host }
>
> { Origin-Realm }
>
> [ Destination-Host ]
>
> { Destination-Realm }
>
> ***[ Supported-Features ]**
>
> [ OC-Supported-Features ]
>
> { Match-Report-Info }
>
> *[ AVP ]
>
> *[ Proxy-Info ]
>
> *[ Route-Record ]
### 6.2.10 ProSe-Match-Report-Info-Answer (PIA) Command
The ProSe-Match-Report-Info-Answer (PIA) Command, indicated by the Command-
Code field set to 8388671 and the \"R\" bit cleared in the Command Flags
field, is sent from the ProSe Function of the PLMN in which the announcing UE
is roaming to the ProSe Function in the HPLMN of the monitoring UE.
Message Format
> \ ::= \ 16777340 >
>
> \
>
> [ DRMP ]
>
> [ Vendor-Specific-Application-Id ]
>
> [ Result-Code ]
>
> [ Experimental-Result ]
>
> { Auth-Session-State }
>
> { Origin-Host }
>
> { Origin-Realm }
>
> ***[ Supported-Features ]**
>
> [ OC-Supported-Features ]
>
> [ OC-OLR ]
>
> *[ Load ]
>
> *[ AVP ]
>
> [ Failed-AVP ]
>
> *[ Proxy-Info ]
>
> *[ Route-Record ]
### 6.2.11 ProSe-Proximity-Request (PRR) Command
The ProSe-Proximity-Request (PRR) Command, indicated by the Command-Code field
set to 8388672 and the \"R\" bit set in the Command Flags field, is sent from
the ProSe Function in the HPLMN to the ProSe Function of another PLMN.
Message Format
> \ ::= \ 16777340 >
>
> \
>
> [ DRMP ]
>
> [ Vendor-Specific-Application-Id ]
>
> { Auth-Session-State }
>
> { Origin-Host }
>
> { Origin-Realm }
>
> [ Destination-Host ]
>
> { Destination-Realm }
>
> ***[ Supported-Features ]**
>
> [ OC-Supported-Features ]
>
> { PRR-Flags }
>
> { Requesting-EPUID }
>
> { Targeted-EPUID }
>
> { Time-Window }
>
> { Location-Estimate }
>
> [ Location-Update-Trigger ]
>
> *[ AVP ]
>
> *[ Proxy-Info ]
>
> *[ Route-Record ]
### 6.2.12 ProSe-Proximity-Answer (PRA) Command
The ProSe-Proximity-Answer (PRA) Command, indicated by the Command-Code field
set to 8388672 and the \"R\" bit cleared in the Command Flags field, is sent
from the ProSe Function in the HPLMN to the ProSe Function of another PLMN.
Message Format
> \ ::= \
>
> \
>
> [ DRMP ]
>
> [ Vendor-Specific-Application-Id ]
>
> [ Result-Code ]
>
> [ Experimental-Result ]
>
> { Auth-Session-State }
>
> { Origin-Host }
>
> { Origin-Realm }
>
> ***[ Supported-Features ]**
>
> [ OC-Supported-Features ]
>
> [ OC-OLR ]
>
> *[ Load ]
>
> [ Location-Estimate ]
>
> [WLAN-Link-Layer-Id ]
>
> *[ AVP ]
>
> [ Failed-AVP ]
>
> *[ Proxy-Info ]
>
> *[ Route-Record ]
### 6.2.13 ProSe-Location-Update-Request (PLR) Command
The ProSe-Location-Update-Request (PLR) Command, indicated by the Command-Code
field set to 8388673 and the \"R\" bit set in the Command Flags field, is sent
from the ProSe Function in the HPLMN to the ProSe Function of another PLMN.
Message Format
> \ ::= \ PXY, 16777340 >
>
> \
>
> [ DRMP ]
>
> [ Vendor-Specific-Application-Id ]
>
> { Auth-Session-State }
>
> { Origin-Host }
>
> { Origin-Realm }
>
> [ Destination-Host ]
>
> { Destination-Realm }
>
> ***[ Supported-Features ]**
>
> [ OC-Supported-Features ]
>
> { Targeted-EPUID }
>
> { Location-Estimate }
>
> *[ AVP ]
>
> *[ Proxy-Info ]
>
> *[ Route-Record ]
### 6.2.14 ProSe-Location-Update-Answer (PLA) Command
The ProSe-Location-Update-Answer (PLA) Command, indicated by the Command-Code
field set to 8388673 and the \"R\" bit cleared in the Command Flags field, is
sent from the ProSe Function in the HPLMN to the ProSe Function of another
PLMN.
Message Format
> \ ::= \ 16777340 >
>
> \
>
> [ DRMP ]
>
> [ Vendor-Specific-Application-Id ]
>
> [ Result-Code ]
>
> [ Experimental-Result ]
>
> { Auth-Session-State }
>
> { Origin-Host }
>
> { Origin-Realm }
>
> ***[ Supported-Features ]**
>
> [ OC-Supported-Features ]
>
> [ OC-OLR ]
>
> *[ Load ]
>
> *[ AVP ]
>
> [ Failed-AVP ]
>
> *[ Proxy-Info ]
>
> *[ Route-Record ]
### 6.2.15 ProSe-Alert-Request (ALR) Command
The ProSe-Alert-Request (ALR) Command, indicated by the Command-Code field set
to 8388674 and the \"R\" bit set in the Command Flags field, is sent from the
ProSe Function in the HPLMN to the ProSe Function of another PLMN.
Message Format
> \ ::= \ >
>
> \
>
> [ DRMP ]
>
> [ Vendor-Specific-Application-Id ]
>
> { Auth-Session-State }
>
> { Origin-Host }
>
> { Origin-Realm }
>
> [ Destination-Host ]
>
> { Destination-Realm }
>
> ***[ Supported-Features ]**
>
> [ OC-Supported-Features ]
>
> { App-Layer-User-Id }
>
> { Targeted-EPUID }
>
> [ Assistance-Info ]
>
> *[ AVP ]
>
> *[ Proxy-Info ]
>
> *[ Route-Record ]
### 6.2.16 ProSe-Alert-Answer (ALA) Command
The ProSe-Alert-Answer (ALA) Command, indicated by the Command-Code field set
to 8388674 and the \"R\" bit cleared in the Command Flags field, is sent from
the ProSe Function in the HPLMN to the ProSe Function of another PLMN.
Message Format
> \ ::= \
>
> \
>
> [ DRMP ]
>
> [ Vendor-Specific-Application-Id ]
>
> [ Result-Code ]
>
> [ Experimental-Result ]
>
> { Auth-Session-State }
>
> { Origin-Host }
>
> { Origin-Realm }
>
> ***[ Supported-Features ]**
>
> [ OC-Supported-Features ]
>
> [ OC-OLR ]
>
> *[ Load ]
>
> *[ AVP ]
>
> [ Failed-AVP ]
>
> *[ Proxy-Info ]
>
> *[ Route-Record ]
### 6.2.17 ProSe-Cancellation-Request (PCR) Command
The ProSe-Cancellation-Request (PCR) Command, indicated by the Command-Code
field set to 8388675 and the \"R\" bit set in the Command Flags field, is sent
from the ProSe Function in the HPLMN to the ProSe Function in a local/visited
PLMN.
Message Format
> \ ::= \ 16777340 >
>
> \
>
> [ DRMP ]
>
> [ Vendor-Specific-Application-Id ]
>
> { Auth-Session-State }
>
> { Origin-Host }
>
> { Origin-Realm }
>
> [ Destination-Host ]
>
> { Destination-Realm }
>
> ***[ Supported-Features ]**
>
> [ OC-Supported-Features ]
>
> { Requesting-EPUID }
>
> { Targeted-EPUID }
>
> *[ AVP ]
>
> *[ Proxy-Info ]
>
> *[ Route-Record ]
### 6.2.18 ProSe-Cancellation-Answer (PCA) Command
The ProSe-Cancellation-Answer (PCA) Command, indicated by the Command-Code
field set to 8388675 and the \"R\" bit cleared in the Command Flags field, is
sent from the ProSe Function in a local/visited PLMN to the ProSe Function in
the HPLMN.
Message Format
> \ ::= \ 16777340 >
>
> \
>
> [ DRMP ]
>
> [ Vendor-Specific-Application-Id ]
>
> [ Result-Code ]
>
> [ Experimental-Result ]
>
> { Auth-Session-State }
>
> { Origin-Host }
>
> { Origin-Realm }
>
> ***[ Supported-Features ]**
>
> [ OC-Supported-Features ]
>
> [ OC-OLR ]
>
> *[ Load ]
>
> *[ AVP ]
>
> [ Failed-AVP ]
>
> *[ Proxy-Info ]
>
> *[ Route-Record ]
## 6.3 Information Elements
### 6.3.1 General
The following table (table 6.3.1-1) specifies the Diameter AVPs defined for
the PC6/PC7 interfaces, their AVP Code values, types, possible flag values and
whether or not the AVP may be encrypted. The Vendor-ID header of all AVPs
defined in this specification shall be set to 3GPP (10415).
For all AVPs which contain bit masks and are of the type Unsigned32 e.g., PRR-
Flags, bit 0 shall be the least significant bit. For example, to get the value
of bit 0, a bit mask of 0x0001 shall be used.
Table 6.3.1-1: PC6/PC7 specific Diameter AVPs
+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | | AVP | | | | | | | | | | Flag | | | | | | | | | | rules | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Attr | AVP | C | Value | Must | May | S | Must | May | | ibute | Code | lause | Type | | | hould | not | Encr. | | Name | | | | | | not | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Ap | 3801 | 6.3.2 | UTF8S | M, V | | | | No | | p-Lay | | | tring | | | | | | | er-Us | | | | | | | | | | er-Id | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Assis | 3802 | 6.3.3 | Gr | M, V | | | | No | | tance | | | ouped | | | | | | | -info | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Assis | 3803 | 6.3.4 | Unsig | M, V | | | | No | | tance | | | ned32 | | | | | | | -Info | | | | | | | | | | -Vali | | | | | | | | | | dity- | | | | | | | | | | Timer | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Disc | 3804 | 6.3.5 | Unsig | M, V | | | | No | | overy | | | ned32 | | | | | | | -Type | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Filt | 3805 | 6.3.9 | O | M, V | | | | No | | er-Id | | | ctetS | | | | | | | | | | tring | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | M | 3806 | 6 | UTF8S | M, V | | | | No | | AC-Ad | | .3.11 | tring | | | | | | | dress | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Ma | 3807 | 6 | Gr | M, V | | | | No | | tch-R | | .3.12 | ouped | | | | | | | eport | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Op | 3808 | 6 | Unsig | M, V | | | | No | | erati | | .3.14 | ned32 | | | | | | | ng-Ch | | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | P2 | 3809 | 6 | Unsig | M, V | | | | No | | P-Fea | | .3.15 | ned32 | | | | | | | tures | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | ProS | 3810 | 6 | O | M, V | | | | No | | e-App | | .3.16 | ctetS | | | | | | | -Code | | | tring | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Pr | 3811 | 6 | UTF8S | M, V | | | | No | | oSe-A | | .3.17 | tring | | | | | | | pp-Id | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | ProS | 3812 | 6 | O | M, V | | | | No | | e-App | | .3.18 | ctetS | | | | | | | -Mask | | | tring | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Pr | 3813 | 6 | Gr | M, V | | | | No | | oSe-D | | .3.20 | ouped | | | | | | | iscov | | | | | | | | | | ery-F | | | | | | | | | | ilter | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | PRR- | 3814 | 6 | Unsig | M, V | | | | No | | Flags | | .3.21 | ned32 | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | ProSe | 3815 | 6 | Unsig | M, V | | | | No | | -Vali | | .3.22 | ned32 | | | | | | | dity- | | | | | | | | | | Timer | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | R | 3816 | 6 | UTF8S | M, V | | | | No | | eques | | .3.23 | tring | | | | | | | ting- | | | | | | | | | | EPUID | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Targ | 3817 | 6 | UTF8S | M, V | | | | No | | eted- | | .3.26 | tring | | | | | | | EPUID | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | T | 3818 | 6 | Unsig | M, V | | | | No | | ime-W | | .3.27 | ned32 | | | | | | | indow | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | WiFi | 3819 | 6 | Gr | M, V | | | | No | | -P2P- | | .3.30 | ouped | | | | | | | Assis | | | | | | | | | | tance | | | | | | | | | | -Info | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | WLAN- | 3820 | 6 | Gr | M, V | | | | No | | Assis | | .3.31 | ouped | | | | | | | tance | | | | | | | | | | -Info | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | WLA | 3821 | 6 | O | M, V | | | | No | | N-Lin | | .3.32 | ctetS | | | | | | | k-Lay | | | tring | | | | | | | er-Id | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | WLA | 3822 | 6 | Gr | M, V | | | | No | | N-Lin | | .3.33 | ouped | | | | | | | k-Lay | | | | | | | | | | er-Id | | | | | | | | | | -List | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Loc | 3823 | 6 | Gr | M,V | | | | No | | ation | | .3.42 | ouped | | | | | | | -Upda | | | | | | | | | | te-Tr | | | | | | | | | | igger | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | L | 3824 | 6 | Unsig | M,V | | | | No | | ocati | | .3.43 | ned32 | | | | | | | on-Up | | | | | | | | | | date- | | | | | | | | | | Event | | | | | | | | | | -Type | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Chan | 3825 | 6 | Gr | M,V | | | | No | | ge-Of | | .3.44 | ouped | | | | | | | -Area | | | | | | | | | | -Type | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Loca | 3826 | 6 | Unsig | M,V | | | | No | | tion- | | .3.45 | ned32 | | | | | | | Updat | | | | | | | | | | e-Eve | | | | | | | | | | nt-Tr | | | | | | | | | | igger | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Rep | 3827 | 6 | Enume | M,V | | | | No | | ort-C | | .3.46 | rated | | | | | | | ardin | | | | | | | | | | ality | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | M | 3828 | 6 | Unsig | M,V | | | | No | | inimu | | .3.47 | ned32 | | | | | | | m-Int | | | | | | | | | | erval | | | | | | | | | | -Time | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Pe | 3829 | 6 | Gr | M,V | | | | No | | riodi | | .3.48 | ouped | | | | | | | c-Loc | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | -Type | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Loca | 3830 | 6 | Unsig | M,V | | | | No | | tion- | | .3.49 | ned32 | | | | | | | Repor | | | | | | | | | | t-Int | | | | | | | | | | erval | | | | | | | | | | -Time | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Tot | 3831 | 6 | Unsig | M,V | | | | No | | al-Nu | | .3.50 | ned32 | | | | | | | mber- | | | | | | | | | | Of-Re | | | | | | | | | | ports | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Va | 3832 | 6 | Unsig | M, V | | | | No | | lidit | | .3.36 | ned32 | | | | | | | y-Tim | | | | | | | | | | e-Ann | | | | | | | | | | ounce | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | V | 3833 | 6 | Unsig | M, V | | | | No | | alidi | | .3.37 | ned32 | | | | | | | ty-Ti | | | | | | | | | | me-Mo | | | | | | | | | | nitor | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Va | 3834 | 6 | Unsig | M, V | | | | No | | lidit | | .3.38 | ned32 | | | | | | | y-Tim | | | | | | | | | | e-Com | | | | | | | | | | munic | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | ProS | 3835 | 6 | Gr | M. V | | | | No | | e-App | | .3.39 | ouped | | | | | | | -Code | | | | | | | | | | -Info | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | MIC | 3836 | 6 | O | M, V | | | | No | | | | .3.40 | ctetS | | | | | | | | | | tring | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | UT | 3837 | 6 | Unsig | M. V | | | | No | | C-bas | | .3.41 | ned32 | | | | | | | ed-Co | | | | | | | | | | unter | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | ProSe | 3838 | 6 | Unsig | M, V | | | | No | | -Matc | | .3.52 | ned32 | | | | | | | h-Ref | | | | | | | | | | resh- | | | | | | | | | | Timer | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | ProSe | 3839 | 6 | O | V | | | M | No | | -Meta | | .3.60 | ctetS | | | | | | | data- | | | tring | | | | | | | Index | | | | | | | | | | -Mask | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | App- | 3840 | 6 | Group | V | | | M | No | | Ident | | .3.61 | | | | | | | | ifier | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | OS-ID | 3841 | 6 | O | V | | | M | No | | | | .3.62 | ctetS | | | | | | | | | | tring | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | OS-A | 3842 | 6 | UTF8S | V | | | M | No | | pp-ID | | .3.63 | tring | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Re | 3843 | 6 | UTF8S | V | | | M | No | | quest | | .3.64 | tring | | | | | | | ing-R | | | | | | | | | | PAUID | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Tar | 3844 | 6 | UTF8S | V | | | M | No | | get-R | | .3.65 | tring | | | | | | | PAUID | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Ta | 3845 | 6 | O | V | | | M | No | | rget- | | .3.66 | ctetS | | | | | | | PDUID | | | tring | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | P | 3846 | 6 | O | V | | | M | No | | roSe- | | .3.67 | ctetS | | | | | | | Restr | | | tring | | | | | | | icted | | | | | | | | | | -Code | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | ProS | 3847 | 6 | O | V | | | M | No | | e-Res | | .3.68 | ctetS | | | | | | | trict | | | tring | | | | | | | ed-Co | | | | | | | | | | de-Su | | | | | | | | | | ffix- | | | | | | | | | | Range | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | B | 3848 | 6 | O | V | | | M | No | | eginn | | .3.69 | ctetS | | | | | | | ing-S | | | tring | | | | | | | uffix | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | End | 3849 | 6 | O | V | | | M | No | | ing-S | | .3.70 | ctetS | | | | | | | uffix | | | tring | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Dis | 3850 | 6 | Unsig | V | | | M | No | | cover | | .3.59 | ned32 | | | | | | | y-Ent | | | | | | | | | | ry-ID | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Match | 3851 | 6 | Time | V | | | M | No | | -Time | | .3.71 | | | | | | | | stamp | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | PMR- | 3852 | 6 | Unsig | M,V | | | | No | | Flags | | .3.57 | ned32 | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | P | 3853 | 6 | UTF8S | M,V | | | | No | | roSe- | | .3.58 | tring | | | | | | | Appli | | | | | | | | | | catio | | | | | | | | | | n-Met | | | | | | | | | | adata | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Di | 3854 | 6 | Gr | M, V | | | | No | | scove | | .3.53 | ouped | | | | | | | ry-Au | | | | | | | | | | th-Re | | | | | | | | | | quest | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Dis | 3855 | 6 | Gr | M, V | | | | No | | cover | | .3.54 | ouped | | | | | | | y-Aut | | | | | | | | | | h-Res | | | | | | | | | | ponse | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Mat | 3856 | 6 | Gr | M, V | | | | No | | ch-Re | | .3.55 | ouped | | | | | | | quest | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Ma | 3857 | 6 | Gr | M, V | | | | No | | tch-R | | .3.56 | ouped | | | | | | | eport | | | | | | | | | | -Info | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Ban | 3858 | 6 | UTF8S | V | | | M | No | | ned-R | | .3.73 | tring | | | | | | | PAUID | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Ba | 3859 | 6 | O | V | | | M | No | | nned- | | .3.74 | ctetS | | | | | | | PDUID | | | tring | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Co | 3860 | 6 | Gr | V | | | M | No | | de-Re | | .3.75 | ouped | | | | | | | ceivi | | | | | | | | | | ng-Se | | | | | | | | | | curit | | | | | | | | | | y-Mat | | | | | | | | | | erial | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Code- | 3861 | 6 | Gr | V | | | M | No | | Sendi | | .3.76 | ouped | | | | | | | ng-Se | | | | | | | | | | curit | | | | | | | | | | y-Mat | | | | | | | | | | erial | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | DUSK | 3862 | 6 | O | V | | | M | No | | | | .3.77 | ctetS | | | | | | | | | | tring | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | DUIK | 3863 | 6 | O | V | | | M | No | | | | .3.78 | ctetS | | | | | | | | | | tring | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | DUCK | 3864 | 6 | O | V | | | M | No | | | | .3.79 | ctetS | | | | | | | | | | tring | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | MIC- | 3865 | 6 | Unsig | V | | | M | No | | Check | | .3.80 | ned32 | | | | | | | -indi | | | | | | | | | | cator | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | En | 3866 | 6 | O | V | | | M | No | | crypt | | .3.81 | ctetS | | | | | | | ed-Bi | | | tring | | | | | | | tmask | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Pr | 3867 | 6 | O | V | | | M | No | | oSe-A | | .3.82 | ctetS | | | | | | | pp-Co | | | tring | | | | | | | de-Su | | | | | | | | | | ffix- | | | | | | | | | | Range | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | | AVP | | | | | | | | | | h | | | | | | | | | | eader | | | | | | | | | | bit | | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | | noted | | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | | | | "M\", | | | | | | | | | | indi | | | | | | | | | | cates | | | | | | | | | | wh | | | | | | | | | | ether | | | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | | | pport | | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | AVP | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | requ | | | | | | | | | | ired. | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | | AVP | | | | | | | | | | h | | | | | | | | | | eader | | | | | | | | | | bit | | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | | noted | | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | | \"V\" | | | | | | | | | | indi | | | | | | | | | | cates | | | | | | | | | | wh | | | | | | | | | | ether | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | opt | | | | | | | | | | ional | | | | | | | | | | Vend | | | | | | | | | | or-ID | | | | | | | | | | field | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | pr | | | | | | | | | | esent | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | AVP | | | | | | | | | | he | | | | | | | | | | ader. | | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | | fu | | | | | | | | | | rther | | | | | | | | | | det | | | | | | | | | | ails, | | | | | | | | | | see | | | | | | | | | | I | | | | | | | | | | ETF R | | | | | | | | | | FC 67 | | | | | | | | | | 33 [ | | | | | | | | | | 29]. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 2: If | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | M-bit | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | set | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | | AVP | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | rec | | | | | | | | | | eiver | | | | | | | | | | does | | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | | under | | | | | | | | | | stand | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | AVP, | | | | | | | | | | it | | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | | eturn | | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | | rejec | | | | | | | | | | tion. | | | | | | | | | | If | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | M-bit | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | | set | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | | AVP, | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | rec | | | | | | | | | | eiver | | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | | eturn | | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | | rejec | | | | | | | | | | tion, | | | | | | | | | | wh | | | | | | | | | | ether | | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | | it | | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | | nders | | | | | | | | | | tands | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | AVP. | | | | | | | | | | If | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | rec | | | | | | | | | | eiver | | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | | nders | | | | | | | | | | tands | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | AVP | | | | | | | | | | but | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | M-bit | | | | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | | | | does | | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | | match | | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | defin | | | | | | | | | | ition | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | | | able, | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | rec | | | | | | | | | | eiver | | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | | gnore | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | M | | | | | | | | | | -bit. | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+
The following table (table 6.3.1-2) specifies the Diameter AVPs re-used by the
PC6/PC7 interfaces from existing Diameter Applications, including a reference
to their respective specifications and when needed, a short description of
their use within PC6/PC7 interfaces.
Any other AVPs from existing Diameter Applications, except for the AVPs from
Diameter Base Protocol, do not need to be supported. The AVPs from Diameter
Base Protocol are not included in table 6.3.1-2.
Table 6.3.1-2: PC6/PC7 re-used Diameter AVPs
+----------------+----------------+----------------+--------------+ | Attribute Name | Reference | Comments | M-bit | +----------------+----------------+----------------+--------------+ | Supp | 3GPP TS | | | | orted-Features | 29.229 [10] | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+--------------+ | EAP-Mast | IETF R | | | | er-Session-Key | FC 4072 [12] | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+--------------+ | F | 3GPP TS | | | | eature-List-ID | 29.229 [10] | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+--------------+ | Feature-List | 3GPP TS | See clause | | | | 29.229 [10] | 7.3.10 | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+--------------+ | MSISDN | 3GPP T | | | | | S 29.329 [5] | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+--------------+ | User-Name | IETF R | | | | | FC 6733 [29] | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+--------------+ | Loc | 3GPP TS | | | | ation-Estimate | 32.299 [13] | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+--------------+ | ProSe- | 3GPP TS | | | | Direct-Allowed | 29.344 [14] | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+--------------+ | Authorized-D | 3GPP TS | | | | iscovery-Range | 29.344 [14] | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+--------------+ | SSID | 3GPP TS | | | | | 29.273 [15] | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+--------------+ | V | 3GPP TS | | | | isited-PLMN-Id | 29.272 [16] | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+--------------+ | U | 3GPP TS | | | | ser-Identifier | 29.336 [18] | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+--------------+ | OC-Supp | IETF RFC 7683 | See clause | Must set | | orted-Features | [21] | 6.3.34 | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+--------------+ | OC-OLR | IETF RFC 7683 | See clause | Must set | | | [21] | 6.3.35 | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+--------------+ | DRMP | IETF RFC 7944 | see clause | Must not set | | | [27] | 6.3.72 | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+--------------+ | Service-Result | 3GPP TS | | | | | 29.336 [18] | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+--------------+ | Load | IETF R | See clause | Must not set | | | FC 8583 [28] | 6.3.83 | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+--------------+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | | M-bit settings | | | | | for re-used | | | | | AVPs override | | | | | those of the | | | | | defining | | | | | specifications | | | | | that are | | | | | referenced. | | | | | Values | | | | | include: | | | | | \"Must set\", | | | | | \"Must not | | | | | set\". If the | | | | | M-bit setting | | | | | is blank, then | | | | | the defining | | | | | specification | | | | | applies. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: If the | | | | | M-bit is set | | | | | for an AVP and | | | | | the receiver | | | | | does not | | | | | understand the | | | | | AVP, it shall | | | | | return a | | | | | rejection. If | | | | | the M-bit is | | | | | not set for an | | | | | AVP, the | | | | | receiver shall | | | | | not return a | | | | | rejection, | | | | | whether or not | | | | | it understands | | | | | the AVP. If | | | | | the receiver | | | | | understands | | | | | the AVP but | | | | | the M-bit | | | | | value does not | | | | | match with the | | | | | definition in | | | | | this table, | | | | | the receiver | | | | | shall ignore | | | | | the M-bit. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+--------------+
### 6.3.2 App-Layer-User-Id
The App-Layer-User-Id AVP is of type UTF8String. This AVP contains an identity
identifying a user within the context of a specific application (e.g.
alice\@social.net).
### 6.3.3 Assistance-info
The Assistance-Info AVP is of type Grouped. It shall contain the information
for direct discovery and communications between UEs.
The AVP format shall conform to:
Assistance-Info ::= \
> [ WLAN-Assistance-Info ]
>
> *[AVP]
### 6.3.4 Assistance-Info-Validity-Timer
The Assistance-Info-Validity-Timer AVP is of type Unsigned32 and it shall
contain the maximum number of seconds of validity of the provided assistance
information.
### 6.3.5 Discovery-Type
The Discovery-Type AVP is of type Unsigned32 and contains a 32-bit address
space representing types of Direct Discovery Authorization Request. The
following values are defined:
ANNOUNCING_REQUEST_FOR_OPEN_PROSE_DIRECT_DISCOVERY (0)
> This value is used when the Direct Discovery Authorization Request message
> is sent for a UE requesting authorization for announcing in open Prose
> Direct Discovery (Model A).
MONITORING_REQUEST_FOR_OPEN_PROSE_DIRECT_DISCOVERY (1)
> This value is used when the Direct Discovery Authorization Request message
> is sent for a UE requesting authorization for monitoring in open Prose
> Direct Discovery (Model A).
ANNOUNCING_REQUEST_FOR_RESTRICTED_PROSE_DIRECT_DISCOVERY (2)
> This value is used when the Direct Discovery Authorization Request message
> is sent for a UE requesting authorization for announcing in restricted ProSe
> Direct Discovery (Model A).
MONITORING_REQUEST_FOR_RESTRICTED_PROSE_DIRECT_DISCOVERY (3)
> This value is used when the Direct Discovery Authorization Request message
> is sent for a UE requesting authorization for monitoring in restricted ProSe
> Direct Discovery (Model A).
DISCOVEREE_REQUEST_FOR_RESTRICTED_PROSE_DIRECT_DISCOVERY (4)
> This value is used when the Direct Discovery Authorization Request message
> is sent for a discoveree UE requesting authorization for monitoring in
> restricted ProSe Direct Discovery (Model B).
DISCOVERER_REQUEST_FOR_RESTRICTED_PROSE_DIRECT_DISCOVERY (5)
> This value is used when the Direct Discovery Authorization Request message
> is sent to the ProSe Function in local PLMN for a discoverer UE requesting
> authorization for announcing in restricted ProSe Direct Discovery (Model B).
DISCOVERER_ANNOUNCING_REQUEST_FOR_RESTRICTED_PROSE_DIRECT_DISCOVERY (6)
> This value is used when the Direct Discovery Authorization Request message
> is sent to the ProSe Function in the visited PLMN for a discoverer UE
> requesting authorization for announcing in restricted ProSe Direct Discovery
> (Model B).
MONITORING_UPDATE_FOR_RESTRICTED_PROSE_DIRECT_DISCOVERY (7)
> This value is used when the Direct Discovery Authorization Request message
> is sent for the ProSe Function requesting to ban a user of an authorization
> for monitoring in restricted ProSe Direct Discovery (Model A).
MONITORING_RESPONSE_FOR_RESTRICTED_PROSE_DIRECT_DISCOVERY (8)
> This value is used when the Direct Discovery Authorization Request message
> is sent for the ProSe Function reporting the result of an authorization for
> monitoring in restricted ProSe Direct Discovery (Model A).
### 6.3.6 EAP-Master-Session-Key
The EAP-Master-Session-Key AVP is of type OctetString and it shall contains
keying material for protecting the communications between UEs. This AVP is
defined in the IETF RFC 4072 [12]
### 6.3.7 Feature-List-ID AVP
The syntax of this AVP is defined in 3GPP TS 29.229 [10]. For this release,
the Feature-List-ID AVP value shall be set to 1.
### 6.3.8 Feature-List AVP
The syntax of this AVP is defined in 3GPP TS 29.229 [10]. A null value
indicates that there is no feature used by the application.
NOTE: There is no feature defined for this release.
### 6.3.9 Filter-Id
The Filter-Id AVP is of type OctectString. This AVP shall contain the
identifier of a Discovery Filter.
### 6.3.10 Location-Estimate
The _Location-Estimate_ AVP is of type OctetString and it shall contain an
estimate of the location of an MS in universal coordinates and the accuracy of
the estimate. This AVP is defined in the 3GPP TS 32.299 [13].
### 6.3.11 MAC-Address
The MAC-Address AVP is of type UTF8String and it shall contain a 6-octet MAC
address used as link layer identifier for discovery and communication. It
shall be encoded in upper-case ASCII characters with the octet values
separated by dash characters. It shall contain a string of 17 octets. Example:
\"00-10-A4-23-19-C0\".
### 6.3.12 Match-Report
The Match-Report AVP is of type Grouped. It shall contain the information
elements used in ProSe Match Report answer.
The AVP format shall conform to:
Match-Report ::= \
> { Discovery-Type }
>
> [ ProSe-App-Code ]
>
> [ ProSe-Metadata-Index-Mask ]
>
> [ ProSe-App-Id ]
>
> [ ProSe-Validity-Timer ]
>
> [ ProSe-Match-Refresh-Timer ]
>
> [ ProSe-Application-Metadata ]
>
> *[AVP]
The valid value for Discovery-Type for Match-Report AVP is:
\"MONITORING_REQUEST_FOR_OPEN_PROSE_DIRECT_DISCOVERY\",
When the Discovery-Type is set to
\"MONITORING_REQUEST_FOR_OPEN_PROSE_DIRECT_DISCOVERY\", the Match-Report shall
contain a ProSe Application Code, the associated ProSe Application ID Name,
the validity time for which the ProSe Application Code is valid, and the
associated match report refresh timer.
If the ProSe Application Code contains a metadata index, a ProSe-Metadata-
Index-Mask AVP shall be provided for this ProSe Application Code.
### 6.3.13 MSISDN
The MSISDN AVP is of type OctetString. This AVP contains an MSISDN, in
international number format as described in ITU-T Rec E.164 [19]. This AVP is
defined in the 3GPP TS 29.329 [5].
### 6.3.14 Operating-Channel
The Operating-Channel AVP is of type Unsigned32 and it shall contain the
operating channel in MHz on which Wi-Fi P2P discovery and communication should
take place.
### 6.3.15 P2P-Features
The P2P-Features AVP is of type Unsigned32 and it shall contain a bit mask.
The meaning of the bits shall be as defined in table 6.3.15-1:
Table 6.3.15-1: P2P-Features
* * *
Bit Name Description 0 Group Owner Indication This bit, when set, shall
indicate that the UE should implement the Group Owner (GO) functionality
specified in the Wi-Fi P2P specification [17]. When not set, this bit shall
indicate the UE should behave as a Wi-Fi P2P client that attempts to discover
and associate with a GO. NOTE: Bits not defined in this table shall be cleared
by the sending ProSe Function and discarded by the receiving ProSe Function.
* * *
### 6.3.16 ProSe-App-Code
The ProSe-App-Code AVP is of type OctetString. This AVP contains a ProSe
Application Code or ProSe Application Code Prefix (see 3GPP TS 23.003 [4]) is
associated with a ProSe Application ID.
### 6.3.17 ProSe-App-Id
The ProSe-App-Id AVP is of type UTF8String. This AVP contains a ProSe
Application ID (see 3GPP TS 23.003 [4]).
### 6.3.18 ProSe-App-Mask
The ProSe-App-Mask AVP is of type OctetString. This AVP contains a ProSe
Application Mask (see 3GPP TS 24.334 [22]).
### 6.3.19 ProSe-Direct-Allowed
The ProSe-Direct-Allowed AVP is of type Unsigned32 and it shall contain a bit
mask that indicates the permissions for ProSe direct services for the UE in
the PLMN of the responding ProSe Function. This AVP is defined in the 3GPP TS
29.344 [14].
### 6.3.20 ProSe-Discovery-Filter
The ProSe-Discovery-Filter AVP is of type Grouped. It shall contain a Filter
ID, a ProSe Application ID name, a validity timer, a ProSe Application Code
and zero or more ProSe Application Masks.
The AVP format shall conform to:
ProSe-Discovery-Filter ::= \
> { Filter-Id }
>
> { ProSe-App-Id }
>
> { ProSe-Validity-Timer }
>
> { ProSe-App-Code }
>
> *[ ProSe-App-Mask ]
>
> *[AVP]
### 6.3.21 PRR-Flags
The PRR-Flags AVP is of type Unsigned32 and it shall contain a bit mask. The
meaning of the bits shall be as defined in table 6.3.21-1:
Table 6.3.21-1: PRA-Flags
* * *
Bit Name Description 0 WLAN Indication This bit, when set, shall indicate the
UE is requested EPC support for WLAN direct discovery and communication NOTE:
Bits not defined in this table shall be cleared by the sending ProSe Function
and discarded by the receiving ProSe Function.
* * *
### 6.3.22 ProSe-Validity-Timer
The ProSe-Validity-Timer AVP is of type Unsigned32 and it shall contain the
maximum number of seconds of validity of a ProSe Application Code or a ProSe
Discovery Filter.
### 6.3.23 Requesting-EPUID
The Requesting-EPUID AVP is of type UTF8String. This AVP contains an
identifier for EPC-level ProSe Discovery and EPC support for WLAN direct
communication that uniquely identifies a UE registered for ProSe triggering a
Proximity request.
### 6.3.24 Supported-Features
The Supported-Features AVP is of type Grouped and it informs the destination
host about the features that the origin host supports for the application.
This AVP is defined in the 3GPP TS 29.229 [10].
### 6.3.25 SSID
The SSID AVP is of type UTF8String and it shall contain the Service Set
Identifier which identifies a specific 802.11 extended service set (see IEEE
Std 802.11-2012 [20]). This AVP is defined in the 3GPP TS 29.273 [15].
### 6.3.26 Targeted-EPUID
The Targeted-EPUID AVP is of type UTF8String. This AVP contains an identifier
for EPC-level ProSe Discovery and EPC support for WLAN direct communication
that uniquely identifies a UE registered for ProSe targeted by a Proximity
request.
### 6.3.27 Time-Window
The Time-Window AVP is of type Unsigned32 and it shall contain the maximum
number of seconds of validity of the Proximity request.
### 6.3.28 User-Identifier
The User-Identifier AVP is of type Grouped. It shall contain the UE identity
used as identifier of a Proximity-based service subscribed by the user (i.e.
IMSI or MSISDN). This AVP is defined in the 3GPP TS 29.336 [18].
### 6.3.29 Visited-PLMN-Id
The Visited-PLMN-Id AVP is of type OctetString. This AVP shall contain the
concatenation of MCC and MNC. This AVP is defined in the 3GPP TS 29.272 [16].
### 6.3.30 WiFi-P2P-Assistance-Info
The WiFi-P2P-Assistance-Info AVP is of type Grouped. It shall contain
information to assist WLAN direct discovery and communication as required by
the Wi-Fi P2P technology.
The AVP format shall conform to:
WiFi-P2P-Assistance-Info ::= \
> [ SSID ]
>
> [ EAP-Master-Session-Key ]
>
> [ P2P-Features ]
>
> [ WLAN-Link-Layer-Id-List ]
>
> [ WLAN-Link-Layer-Id-List ]
>
> [ Operating-Channel ]
>
> [ Assistance-Info-Validity-Timer ]
>
> *[AVP]
### 6.3.31 WLAN-Assistance-Info
The WLAN-Assistance-Info AVP is of type Grouped. It shall contain information
to assist WLAN direct discovery and communication required for WLAN direct
discovery and communication between UEs.
The AVP format shall conform to:
WLAN-Assistance-Info ::= \
> [ WiFi-P2P-Assistance-Iinfo ]
>
> *[AVP]
### 6.3.32 WLAN-Link-Layer-Id
The WLAN-Link-Layer-Id AVP is of type Grouped. It shall contain a link layer
identity used for WLAN direct discovery and/or WLAN direct communication.
The AVP format shall conform to:
WLAN-Link-Layer-Id ::= \
> [ MAC-Address ]
>
> *AVP
### 6.3.33 WLAN-Link-Layer-Id-List
The WLAN-Link-Layer-Id-List AVP is of type Grouped. It shall contain a list of
WLAN Link Layer IDs provided to a UE implementing the Group Owner
functionality in a Wi-Fi P2P group.
The AVP format shall conform to:
WLAN-Link-Layer-Id-List ::= \
> *[ WLAN-Link-Layer-Id ]
>
> *AVP
### 6.3.34 OC-Supported-Features
The OC-Supported-Features AVP is of type Grouped and it is defined in IETF RFC
7683 [21]. This AVP is used to support Diameter overload control mechanism,
see Annex A for more information.
### 6.3.35 OC-OLR
The OC-OLR AVP is of type Grouped and it is defined in IETF RFC 7683 [21].
This AVP is used to support Diameter overload control mechanism, see Annex A
for more information.
### 6.3.36 Validity-Time-Announce
The Validity-Time-Announce AVP is of type Unsigned32 and it shall contain the
maximum number of seconds of validity of a ProSe announcing authorization
policy.
### 6.3.37 Validity-Time-Monitor
The Validity-Time-Monitor AVP is of type Unsigned32 and it shall contain the
maximum number of seconds of validity of a ProSe monitoring authorization
policy.
### 6.3.38 Validity-Time-Communication
The Validity-Time-Communication AVP is of type Unsigned32 and it shall contain
the maximum number of seconds of validity of a ProSe communication
authorization policy.
### 6.3.39 ProSe-App-Code-Info
The ProSe-App-Code-Info AVP is of type Grouped. It shall contain a ProSe
Application Code, the associated MIC and the associated UTC-based counter.
The AVP format shall conform to:
ProSe-App-Code-Info ::= \
> { ProSe-App-Code }
>
> { MIC }
>
> { UTC-based-Counter }
>
> *[AVP]
### 6.3.40 MIC
The MIC AVP is of type OctetString and shall contain a MIC (Message Integrity
Check) associated with a discovered ProSe Application Code, as defined in 3GPP
TS 33.303 [23].
### 6.3.41 UTC-based-Counter
The UTC-based-Counter AVP is of type Unsigned32 and it shall contain the UTC-
based counter (in seconds) associated with a discovered ProSe Application Code
as defined in 3GPP TS 24.334 [22].
### 6.3.42 Location-Update-Trigger
The Location-Update-Trigger AVP is of type Grouped. It shall contain the type
of event that will trigger a locate update procedure to forward the location
of UE to the ProSe Function initiating the Proximity Request.
The AVP format shall conform to:
Location-Update-Trigger::= \
> { Location-Update-Event-Type }
>
> [ Change-Of-Area-Type ]
>
> [ Periodic-Location-Type ]
>
> *[AVP]
The Change-Of-Area-Type AVP shall be present if the Location-Update-Event-Type
AVP value is set to CHANGE_OR_AREA (1). Otherwise, it shall be absent.
The Periodic-Location-Type AVP shall be present if the Location-Update-Event-
Type AVP value is set to PERIODIC_LOCATION (2). Otherwise, it shall be absent.
### 6.3.43 Location-Update-Event-Type
The Location-Update-Event-Type AVP is of type Unsigned32 and contains an
32-bit address space representing types of events that will trigger a location
update. The following values are defined:
UE_AVAILABLE (0)
This value shall be used to indicate that the location update trigger is any
event in which the MSC/SGSN/MME has established a contact with the UE.
CHANGE_OF_AREA (1)
This value shall be used to indicate that the location update trigger is an
event where the UE enters or leaves a pre-defined geographical area or if the
UE is currently within the pre-defined geographical area.
PERIODIC_LOCATION (2)
This value shall be used to indicate that the location update trigger is an
event where a defined periodic timer expires in the UE and activates a
location report or a location request
The types of event listed above are defined in the clause 4.4.2.1 of the 3GPP
TS 23.271 [24]
### 6.3.44 Change-Of-Area-Type
The Change-Of-Area-Type AVP is of type Grouped. It shall contain the
information related to the type of event that will trigger a locate update
procedure to forward the location of UE to the ProSe Function initiating the
Proximity Request.
The AVP format shall conform to:
Change-Of-Area-Type::= \
> { Location-Update-Event-Trigger }
>
> { Report-Cardinality }
>
> [ Minimum-Interval-Time ]
>
> *[AVP]
The Minimum-Interval-Time AVP may be present only if the Report-Cardinality
AVP value is set to MULTIPLE (1).
### 6.3.45 Location-Update-Event-Trigger
The Location-Update-Event-Type AVP is of type Unsigned32 and contains a 32-bit
address space representing the possible change of area events i.e. UE enters,
leaves or is within requested target area. The following values are defined:
UE_ENTRY (0)
This value shall be used to indicate the event trigger is the UE entering a
pre-defined geographical area.
UE_EXIT (1)
This value shall be used to indicate the event trigger is the UE leaving a
pre-defined geographical area
UE_PRESENCE (2)
This value shall be used to indicate the event trigger is the current presence
of the UE within a pre-defined geographical area.
The types of change of area event listed above are defined in the clause
4.4.2.1 of the 3GPP TS 23.271 [24].
### 6.3.46 Report-Cardinality
The Report-Cardinality AVP is of type Enumerated. The following values are
defined:
SINGLE (0)
This value shall be used to indicate the change of area event shall be
reported one time only.
MULTIPLE (1)
This value shall be used to indicate the change of area event may be reported
several times.
### 6.3.47 Minimum-Interval-Time
The Minimum-Interval-Time AVP is of type Unsigned32 and shall contain the
minimum number of seconds between area event reports.
### 6.3.48 Periodic-Location-Type
The Periodic-Location-Type AVP is of type Grouped. It shall contain the time
interval between successive location reports and the total number of reports.
The AVP format shall conform to:
Periodic-Location-Type::= \
> { Location-Report-Interval-Time }
>
> { Total-Number-Of-Reports }
>
> *[AVP]
### 6.3.49 Location-Report-Interval-Time
The Location-Report-Interval-Time AVP is of type Unsigned32 and shall contain
the number of seconds between successive location reports.
### 6.3.50 Total-Number-Of-Reports
The Total-Number-Of-Reports AVP is of type Unsigned32 and shall indicate the
maximum number of requested location reports.
### 6.3.51 Authorized-Discovery-Range
The Authorized-Discovery-Range AVP is of type Unsigned32 and it shall contain
a value that indicates the authorised announcing range (short/medium/long) at
which the UE is allowed to announce in the given PLMN according to the defined
announcing authorisation policy for this UE. This AVP is defined in the 3GPP
TS 29.344 [14].
### 6.3.52 ProSe-Match-Refresh-Timer
The ProSe-Match-Refresh-Timer AVP is of type Unsigned32 and it shall contain
the number of seconds indicating how long the UE shall wait before sending a
new Match Report for the associated ProSe Application Code.
### 6.3.53 Discovery-Auth-Request
The Discovery-Auth-Request is of type Grouped. It shall contain the
information elements used in ProSe direct discovery authorization request.
The AVP format shall conform to:
Discovery-Auth-Request ::= \
> { Discovery-Type }
>
> [ User-Identity ]
>
> [ ProSe-App-ID ]
>
> [ ProSe-App-Code ]
>
> [ ProSe-App-Code-Suffix-Range ]
>
> [ ProSe-Validity-Timer ]
>
> [ App-Identifier ]
>
> [ Requesting-RPAUID ]
>
> [ Target-RPAUID ]
>
> [ Target-PDUID ]
>
> [ ProSe-Restricted-Code ]
>
> [ ProSe-Query-Code ]
>
> [ ProSe-Response-Code ]
>
> *[ ProSe-Restricted-Code-Suffix-Range ]
>
> [ Banned-RPAUID ]
>
> [ Banned-PDUID ]
>
> [ Service-Result ]
>
> *[AVP]
When the Discovery-Type is set to
\"ANNOUNCING_REQUEST_FOR_OPEN_PROSE_DIRECT_DISCOVERY\", the Discovery-Auth-
Request shall contain a UE identity, a ProSe Application ID, a ProSe
Application Code and optionally one or more ProSe Restricted Code Suffix-
Range, and a ProSe Validity Timer.
When the Discovery-Type is set to
\"MONITORING_REQUEST_FOR_OPEN_PROSE_DIRECT_DISCOVERY\", the Discovery-Auth-
Request shall contain a UE identity and a ProSe Application ID.
When the Discovery-Type is set to
\"ANNOUNCING_REQUEST_FOR_RESTRICTED_PROSE_DIRECT_DISCOVERY\", the Discovery-
Auth-Request shall contain a UE identity, an Application Identifier, the
Requesting RPAUID, ProSe Restricted Code and optionally one or more ProSe
Restricted Code SuffixRange, and a ProSe Validity Timer.
When the Discovery-Type is set to
\"MONITORING_REQUEST_FOR_RESTRICTED_PROSE_DIRECT_DISCOVERY\", the Discovery-
Auth-Request shall contain a UE identity, an Application Identifier,
Requesting RPAUID, Target RPAUID, and Target PDUID.
When the Discovery-Type is set to
\"DISCOVEREE_REQUEST_FOR_RESTRICTED_PROSE_DIRECT_DISCOVERY\", the Discovery-
Auth-Request shall contain a UE identity, an Application Identifier,
Requesting RPAUID and a ProSe Response Code.
When the Discovery-Type is set to
\"DISCOVERER_REQUEST_FOR_RESTRICTED_PROSE_DIRECT_DISCOVERY\", the Discovery-
Auth-Request shall contain a UE identity, an Application Identifier,
Requesting RPAUID, Target RPAUID, and Target PDUID.
When the Discovery-Type is set to
\"DISCOVERER_ANNOUNCING_REQUEST_FOR_RESTRICTED_PROSE_DIRECT_DISCOVERY\", the
Discovery-Auth-Request shall contain a UE identity, an Application Identifier,
Requesting RPAUID and a ProSe Query Code.
When the Discovery-Type is set to
\"MONITORING_UPDATE_FOR_RESTRICTED_PROSE_DIRECT_DISCOVERY\", the Discovery-
Auth-Request shall contain an Application Identifier, a ProSe Restricted Code,
a Banned RPAUID and a Banned PDUID.
When the Discovery-Type is set to
\"MONITORING_RESPONSE_FOR_RESTRICTED_PROSE_DIRECT_DISCOVERY\", the Discovery-
Auth-Request shall contain an Application Identifier, ProSe-Restricted-Code,
Banned RPAUID, Banned PDUID and Result.
### 6.3.54 Discovery-Auth-Response
The Discovery-Auth-Response is of type Grouped. It shall contain the
information elements used in ProSe direct discovery authorization answer.
The AVP format shall conform to:
Discovery-Auth-Response ::= \
> { Discovery-Type }
>
> *[ ProSe-Discovery-Filter ]
>
> [ Visited-PLMN-Id ]
>
> [ ProSe-Restricted-Code ]
>
> [ ProSe-Query-Code ]
>
> [ ProSe-Response-Code ]
>
> [ ProSe-Validity Timer ]
>
> [ Code-Sending-Security-Material ]
>
> [ Code-Receiving-Security-Material ]
>
> [ DUIK ]
>
> *[AVP]
When the Discovery-Type is set to
\"ANNOUNCING_REQUEST_FOR_OPEN_PROSE_DIRECT_DISCOVERY\", the Discovery-Auth-
Response shall contain no other parameters.
When the Discovery-Type is set to
\"MONITORING_REQUEST_FOR_OPEN_PROSE_DIRECT_DISCOVERY\", the Discovery-Auth-
Response shall contain one or more ProSe Discovery Filters, and optionally a
PLMN ID.
When the Discovery-Type is set to
\"MONITORING_REQUEST_FOR_RESTRICTED_PROSE_DIRECT_DISCOVERY\", the Discovery-
Auth-Response shall contain a ProSe Restricted Code, a Code Receiving Security
Material, optionally a DUIK, and a ProSe Validity Timer. The DUIK parameter
shall be included in Discovery-Auth-Response only if the Code-Receiving-
Security-Material contains a MIC Check Indicator set to
MIC_CHECK_BY_PROSE_FUNCTION.
When the Discovery-Type is set to
\"DISCOVERER_REQUEST_FOR_RESTRICTED_PROSE_DIRECT_DISCOVERY\", the Discovery-
Auth-Response shall contain a ProSe Query Code, a Code Sending Security
Material, a ProSe Response Code, a Code Receiving Security Material,
optionally a DUIK, and a ProSe Validity Timer. The DUIK parameter shall be
included in Discovery-Auth-Response only if the Code-Receiving-Security-
Material contains a MIC Check Indicator set to MIC_CHECK_BY_PROSE_FUNCTION.
### 6.3.55 Match-Request
The Match-Request is of type Grouped. It shall contain the information
elements used in ProSe Match Report request.
The AVP format shall conform to:
Match-Request ::= \
> { Discovery-Type }
>
> [ User Identity ]
>
> [ Visited-PLMN-ID ]
>
> *[ ProSe-App-Code-Info ]
>
> *[AVP]
The valid value for Discovery-Type for Match-Report AVP is:
\"MONITORING_REQUEST_FOR_OPEN_PROSE_DIRECT_DISCOVERY\",
When the Discovery-Type is set to
\"MONITORING_REQUEST_FOR_OPEN_PROSE_DIRECT_DISCOVERY\", the Match-Request
shall contain one UE Identity, one Visited PLMN ID, and one or more ProSe App
Code Info.
### 6.3.56 Match-Report-Info
The Match-Report-Info is of type Grouped. It shall contain the information
elements used in ProSe Match Report Info request.
The AVP format shall conform to:
Match-Report-Info ::= \
> { Discovery-Type }
>
> [ User-Identity ]
>
> *[ ProSe-App-ID ]
>
> *[AVP]
The valid value for Discovery-Type for Match-Report-Info AVP is:
\"MONITORING_REQUEST_FOR_OPEN_PROSE_DIRECT_DISCOVERY\",
When the Discovery-Type is set to
\"MONITORING_REQUEST_FOR_OPEN_PROSE_DIRECT_DISCOVERY\", the Match-Report-Info
shall contain one User Identity and one or more ProSe Application IDs.
### 6.3.57 PMR-Flags
The PMR-Flags AVP is of type Unsigned32 and it shall contain a bit mask. The
meaning of the bits shall be as defined in table 6.3.57/1:
Table 6.3.57/1: PMR-Flags
* * *
Bit Name Description 0 Metadata Requested This bit, when set, indicates that
metadata information associated with the ProSe Application ID are requested.
NOTE: Bits not defined in this table shall be cleared by the sending Prose
Function and discarded by the receiving receiving ProSe function.
* * *
### 6.3.58 ProSe-Application-Metadata
The ProSe-Application-Metadata AVP is of type UTF8String. This AVP shall
contain the metadata associated with the ProSe Application ID contained in the
Match Report. As defined in 3GPP TS 24.334 [22], the length and contents of
the metadata formatted as UTF8-encoded string are out of scope of 3GPP.
### 6.3.59 Discovery-Entry-ID
The Discovery-Entry-ID is of type Unsigned32. It shall contain the discovery
Entry ID used to identify the discovery entry in the UE context related to the
discovery authorization request in the requesting ProSe Function.
### 6.3.60 ProSe-Metadata-Index-Mask
The ProSe-Metadata-Index-Mask AVP is of type OctetString. This AVP contains a
ProSe metadata index mask (see 3GPP TS 24.334 [22]).
### 6.3.61 App-Identifier
The App-Identifier AVP is of type Grouped. It shall contain an OS ID and OS
Application ID name.
The AVP format shall conform to:
App-Identifier ::= \
> { OS-ID }
>
> { OS-App-ID }
>
> *[AVP]
### 6.3.62 OS-ID
The OS-ID AVP is of type OctetString. It shall contain an identifier of the
operating system as defined in clause 12.2.2.5 in 3GPP TS 24.334 [22].
### 6.3.63 OS-App-ID
The OS-App-ID AVP is of type UTF8String. It shall contain an OS specific
application as defined in clause 12.2.2.5 in 3GPP TS 24.334 [22].
### 6.3.64 Requesting-RPAUID
The Requesting-RPAUID AVP is of type UTF8String. This AVP contains an
identifier for restricted ProSe direct discovery that uniquely identifies an
application user originating a restricted ProSe direct discovery request.
### 6.3.65 Target-RPAUID
The Target-RPAUID AVP is of type UTF8String. This AVP contains an identifier
for restricted ProSe direct discovery that uniquely identifies an application
user targeted by a restricted ProSe direct discovery request.
### 6.3.66 Target-PDUID
The Target-PDUID AVP is of type OctetString. It shall contain the ProSe
Discovery UE ID which uniquely identifies the UE targeted by a restricted
ProSe direct discovery request.
### 6.3.67 ProSe-Restricted-Code
The ProSe-Restricted-Code AVP is of type OctetString. This AVP contains a
ProSe Restricted Code (see 3GPP TS 23.003 [4]) which is associated with a
RPAUID.
### 6.3.68 ProSe-Restricted-Code-Suffix-Range
The ProSe-Restricted-Code-Suffix-Range AVP is of type Grouped. It contains a
range of consecutive ProSe Restricted Code Suffixes that can be appended to a
ProSe Restricted Code Prefix. It shall contain a Beginning Suffix and may
contain an Ending Suffix. If the Ending Suffix is not present, the only ProSe
Restricted Code Suffix included in the ProSe Restricted Code Suffix Range is
equal to the Beginning Suffix.
The AVP format shall conform to:
ProSe-Restricted-Code-Suffix-Range ::= \
> { Beginning-Suffix}
>
> [ Ending--Suffix ]
>
> *[AVP]
Beginning Sufifx and Ending Suffix shall have the same length.
### 6.3.69 Beginning-Suffix
The Beginning-Suffix AVP is of type OctetString. This AVP shall contain the
lowest ProSe Restricted Code Suffix in a consecutive sequence of ProSe
Restricted Code suffixes, or the lowest ProSe Application Code Suffix in a
consecutive sequence of ProSe Application Code Suffixes. The format of ProSe
Restricted Code Suffix or ProSe Application Code Suffix is defined in 3GPP TS
23.003 [4]. The size of this suffix shall align with octet boundary.
### 6.3.70 Ending-Suffix
The Ending-Suffix AVP is of type OctetString. This AVP shall contain the
highest ProSe Restricted Code Suffix in a consecutive sequence of ProSe
Restricted Code suffixes or the highest ProSe Application Code Suffix in a
consecutive sequence of ProSe Application Code Suffixes. The format of ProSe
Restricted Code Suffix or ProSe Application Code Suffix is defined in 3GPP TS
23.003 [4]. The size of this suffix shall align with octet boundary.
### 6.3.71 Match-Timestamp
The Match-Timestamp AVP is of type Time and it shall contain the UTC time
identifying when the discovery match event occurred.
### 6.3.72 DRMP
The DRMP AVP is of type Enumerated and it is defined in IETF RFC 7944 [27].
This AVP allows the Prose Function to indicate the relative priority of
Diameter messages. The DRMP AVP may be used to set the DSCP marking for
transport of the associated Diameter message.
### 6.3.73 Banned-RPAUID
The Banned-RPAUID AVP is of type UTF8String. This AVP contains an identifier
for restricted ProSe direct discovery that uniquely identifies an application
user banned by a restricted ProSe direct discovery request.
### 6.3.74 Banned-PDUID
The Banned-PDUID AVP is of type OctetString. It shall contain the ProSe
Discovery UE ID which uniquely identifies the UE Banned by a restricted ProSe
direct discovery request.
### 6.3.75 Code-Receiving-Security-Material
The Code-Receiving-Security-Material AVP is of type Grouped. It shall contain
security parameters used to indicate to a UE how a received restricted ProSe
direct discovery message is protected. The Code Receiving Security Material
may contain a DUSK and may contain either a DUIK or an indication whether to
use Match Reports for MIC checking. It may also contain both a DUCK and a
corresponding Encrypted Bitmask.
The AVP format shall conform to:
Code-Receiving-Security-Material ::= \
> [ DUSK ]
>
> [ DUIK ]
>
> [ MIC-Check-Indicator ]
>
> [ DUCK ]
>
> [ Encrypted-Bitmask ]
>
> *[AVP]
### 6.3.76 Code-Sending-Security-Material
The Code-Sending-Security-Material AVP is of type Grouped. It shall contain
security parameters used to indicate to a UE how to protect the transmission
of restricted ProSe direct discovery message. The Code Sending Security
Material may contain a DUSK and may contain a DUIK. It may also contain both a
DUCK and a corresponding Encrypted Bitmask.
The AVP format shall conform to:
Code-Sending-Security-Material ::= \
> [ DUSK ]
>
> [ DUIK ]
>
> [ DUCK ]
>
> [ Encrypted-Bitmask ]
>
> *[AVP]
### 6.3.77 DUSK
The DUSK AVP is of type OctetString. It shall contain the Discovery User
Scrambling Key used to scramble or unscramble the restricted ProSe direct
discovery message containing the ProSe Restricted Code, ProSe Query Code or
ProSe Response Code. The format of the DUSK is defined in 3GPP TS 33.303 [23].
### 6.3.78 DUIK
The DUIK AVP is of type OctetString. It shall contain the Discovery User
Integrity Key used to compute the MIC of the restricted ProSe direct discovery
message containing the ProSe Restricted Code, ProSe Query Code or ProSe
Response Code. The format of the DUIK is defined in 3GPP TS 33.303 [23].
### 6.3.79 DUCK
The DUCK AVP is of type OctetString. It shall contain the Discovery User
Confidentiality Key used to encrypt and decrypt a portion in restricted ProSe
direct discovery message.The format of the DUCK is defined in 3GPP TS 33.303
[23].
### 6.3.80 MIC-Check-Indicator
The MIC-Check-Indicator AVP is of type Unsigned32. It shall contain the
indication of whether the UE shall use the ProSe Function to verify the MIC
field of the received discovery message. The following values are defined:
MIC_CHECK_BY_PROSE_FUNCTION (1)
This value is used when the MIC check is required to be done by the ProSe
Function.
### 6.3.81 Encrypted-Bitmask
The Encrypted-Bitmask AVP is of type OctetString. It shall contain a 184-bit
bitmask which uses bit \"1\" to mark the positions of the bits of a ProSe
Restricted Code, ProSe Query Code or ProSe Response Code, for which the DUCK
encryption is applied.
### 6.3.82 ProSe-App-Code-Suffix-Range
The ProSe-App-Code-Suffix-Range AVP is of type Grouped. It contains a range of
consecutive ProSe Application Code Suffixes that can be appended to a ProSe
Application Code Prefix. It shall contain a Beginning Suffix and may contain
an Ending Suffix. If the Ending Suffix is not present, the only ProSe
Application Code Suffix included in the ProSe Application Code Suffix Range is
equal to the Beginning Suffix.
The AVP format shall conform to:
ProSe-App-Code-Suffix-Range ::= \
> { Beginning-Suffix }
>
> [ Ending--Suffix ]
>
> *[AVP]
Beginning Suffix and Ending Suffix shall have the same length.
### 6.3.83 Load
The Load AVP is of type Grouped and it is defined in IETF RFC 8583 [28]. This
AVP is used to support Diameter load control mechanism, see Annex D for more
information.
## 6.4 Result-Code and Experimental-Result Values
### 6.4.1 General
This clause defines result code values that shall be supported by all Diameter
implementations that conform to this specification.
### 6.4.2 Success
Result codes that fall within the Success category shall be used to inform a
peer that a request has been successfully completed. The Result-Code AVP
values defined in the Diameter base protocol (IETF RFC 6733 [29]) shall be
applied.
### 6.4.3 Permanent Failures
Errors that fall within the Permanent Failures category shall be used to
inform the peer that the request has failed, and should not be attempted
again. The Result-Code AVP values defined in the Diameter base protocol (IETF
RFC 6733 [29]) shall be applied. When one of the result codes defined here is
included in a response, it shall be inside an Experimental-Result AVP and the
Result-Code AVP shall be absent.
#### 6.4.3.1 DIAMETER_ERROR_USER_UNKNOWN (5001)
This result code shall be sent by the ProSe Function in the HPLMN to indicate
that the user identified by the UE identity is unknown
#### 6.4.3.2 DIAMETER_ERROR_UNAUTHORIZED_SERVICE (5511)
This result code shall be sent by the ProSe Function in the HPLMN to indicate
that no ProSe subscription is associated with the UE.
#### 6.4.3.3 DIAMETER_ERROR_NO_ASSOCIATED_DISCOVERY_FILTER (5630)
This result code shall be sent by the ProSe Function in the local/visited PLMN
to indicate that there is no valid Discovery Filter associated to the ProSe
Application ID name received in the request.
#### 6.4.3.4 DIAMETER_ERROR_ANNOUNCING_UNAUTHORIZED_IN_PLMN (5631)
This result code shall be sent by the ProSe Function in the local/visited PLMN
to indicate that the UE is not authorized to announce in this PLMN.
#### 6.4.3.5 DIAMETER_ERROR_INVALID_APPLICATION_CODE (5632)
This result code shall be sent by the ProSe Function in the local PLMN to
indicate that none of the ProSe Application Code(s) received in the request is
valid.
#### 6.4.3.6 DIAMETER_ERROR_PROXIMITY_UNAUTHORIZED (5633)
This result code shall be sent by the ProSe Function in the serving PLMN to
indicate that the Proximity request is not authorized by the user.
#### 6.4.3.7 DIAMETER_ERROR_PROXIMITY_REJECTED (5634)
This result code shall be sent by the ProSe Function in the serving PLMN to
indicate that it is unlikely that UEs enter into proximity for the received
time window.
#### 6.4.3.8 DIAMETER_ERROR_NO_PROXIMITY_REQUEST (5635)
This result code shall be sent by the ProSe Function in the serving PLMN to
indicate that there is no context associated with EPC ProSe User Identities
included in the request.
#### 6.4.3.9 DIAMETER_ERROR_UNAUTHORIZED_SERVICE_IN_THIS_PLMN (5636)
This result code shall be sent by the ProSe Function HPLMN to indicate that
ProSe is not authorized to announce in this PLMN.
#### 6.4.3.10 DIAMETER_ERROR_PROXIMITY_CANCELLED (5637)
This result code shall be sent by the ProSe Function triggering the Proximity
Request to indicate that the cancellation of the Proximity Request procedure
as it determines that the UEs are unlikely to enter proximity within the
requested time window.
#### 6.4.3.11 DIAMETER_ERROR_INVALID_DISCOVERY_TYPE (5641)
This result code shall be sent by the ProSe Function to indicate that the
Discovery Tpe in the request message is not supported.
#### 6.4.3.12 DIAMETER_ERROR_INVALID_TARGET_PDUID (5638)
This result code shall be sent by the ProSe Function to indicate that the
PDUID is not belonging to this ProSe Function.
#### 6.4.3.13 DIAMETER_ERROR_INVALID_TARGET_RPAUID (5639)
This result code shall be sent by the ProSe Function to indicate that the
target RPAUID is not allowed to be discovered.
#### 6.4.3.14 DIAMETER_ERROR_NO_ASSOCIATED_RESTRICTED_CODE (5640)
This result code shall be sent by the ProSe Function to indicate that the
there is no allocated ProSe Restricted Code for the requested target.
#### 6.4.3.15 DIAMETER_ERROR_REVOCATION_FAILURE (56x1)
This value is used to indicate that the ProSe Function was unable to
successfully complete the revocation procedure (in an operator-configured time
period).
#### 6.4.3.16 DIAMETER_ERROR_ALREADY_BANNED (56x2)
This value is used to indicate that the ProSe Function has determined that the
revocation is not necessary because the target RPAUID has already been banned
for discovery.
### 6.4.4 Transient Failures
Result codes that fall within the transient failures category shall be used to
inform a peer that the request could not be satisfied at the time it was
received, but may be able to satisfy the request in the future. The Result-
Code AVP values defined in the Diameter base protocol specified in IETF RFC
6733 [29] shall be applied. When one of the result codes defined here is
included in a response, it shall be inside an Experimental-Result AVP and the
Result-Code AVP shall be absent.
###### ## Annex A (normative): Diameter overload control mechanism
## A.1 General
Diameter overload control mechanism is an optional feature.
IETF RFC 7683 [21] specifies a Diameter overload control mechanism which
includes the definition and the transfer of related AVPs between Diameter
nodes.
It is recommended to make use of IETF RFC 7683 [21] on the PC6/PC7 interface
where, when applied, the requesting ProSe Function shall behave as a reacting
node and the responding ProSe Function as a reporting node.
## A.2 Responding ProSe Function behaviour
The responding ProSe Function requests traffic reduction from requesting ProSe
Function when it is in an overload situation, including OC-OLR AVP in answer
commands as described in IETF RFC 7683 [21].
The ProSe Function identifies that it is in an overload situation by
implementation specific means. For example, the ProSe Function may take into
account the traffic over the PC6/PC7 interfaces or other interfaces, the level
of usage of internal resources (CPU, memory), the access to external
resources, etc.
The ProSe Function determines the specific contents of OC-OLR AVP in overload
reports and the ProSe Function decides when to send OC-OLR AVPs by
implementation specific means.
## A.3 Requesting ProSe Function behaviour
The requesting ProSe Function applies required traffic reduction received in
answer commands to subsequent applicable requests, as per IETF RFC 7683 [21].
Requested traffic reduction is achieved by the requesting ProSe Function by
implementation specific means. For example, it may implement message
throttling with prioritization or a message retaining mechanism for operations
that can be postponed.
As a result of the need to throttle traffic, the requesting ProSe Function may
reject Registration Request, Discovery Request, Match Report Requests
initiated by UEs. The possible related error messages used over PC3 are
described in the 3GPP TS 24.334 [22].
###### ## Annex B (Informative): Diameter overload node behaviour
## B.1 Message prioritization
This clause describes possible behaviours of the requesting ProSe Function
receiving an overload indication from the responding ProSe Function, regarding
message prioritisation in an informative purpose.
The requesting ProSe Function may take the following into account when making
throttling decisions:
\- Identification of the procedures that can be deferred (e.g. Proximity
Requests), so to avoid to drop non deferrable procedures;
\- Prioritisation of certain types of request (e.g. between ProSe-Proximity-
Request (PRR) and ProSe-Location-Update-Request (PLR)) according to the
context of their use, in particular:
\- Higher prioritisation for commands that are related to a registered user
for a service, so to avoid the interruption of the registered service for the
user.
###### ## Annex C (normative):**** Diameter message priority mechanism
## C.1 General
IETF RFC 7944 [27] specifies a Diameter routing message priority mechanism
that allows Diameter nodes to indicate the relative priority of Diameter
messages. With this information, other Diameter nodes may leverage the
relative priority of Diameter messages into routing, resource allocation, set
the DSCP marking for transport of the associated Diameter message, and also
abatement decisions when overload control is applied.
## C.2 PC6/PC7 interfaces
### C.2.1 General
The Diameter message priority mechanism is an optional feature.
It is recommended to make use of IETF RFC 7944 [27] over the PC6/PC7
interfaces of an operator network when the overload control defined in Annex A
is applied on these PC6/7 interfaces.
### C.2.2 ProSe Function behaviour
When the ProSe Function supports the Diameter message priority mechanism over
the PC6 or the PC7 interface, the ProSe Function shall comply with IETF RFC
7944 [27].
The ProSe Function sending a request shall determine the required priority
according to its policies. When priority is required, the ProSe Function shall
include the DRMP AVP indicating the required priority level in the requests it
sends, and shall prioritise the request according to the required priority
level.
When the ProSe Function receives the corresponding response, it shall
prioritise the received response according to the priority level received
within the DRMP AVP if present in the response, otherwise according to the
priority level of the corresponding request.
When the ProSe Function receives a request, it shall handle the request
according to the received DRMP AVP priority level. For the response, the ProSe
Function may modify the priority level received in the DRMP AVP according to
its policies and shall handle the response according to the required priority
level. If the required priority level is different from the priority level
received in the request, it shall include the DRMP AVP in the response.
If:
\- the ProSe Function supports using the Diameter message priority mechanism
for DSCP marking purposes,
\- the transport network utilizes DSCP marking, and
\- message-dependant DSCP marking is possible for the protocol stack
transporting Diameter,
then the ProSe Function shall set the DSCP marking for transport of the
request or response according to the required priority level.
The ProSe Function decisions for a required priority and for the priority
level value are implementation specific.
Diameter requests related to high priority traffic shall contain a DRMP AVP
with a high priority of which the level value is operator dependent.
###### ## Annex D (normative): Diameter load control mechanism
## D.1 General
Diameter load control mechanism is an optional feature.
IETF RFC 8583 [28] specifies a Diameter load control mechanism which includes
the definition and the transfer of related AVPs between Diameter nodes.
It is recommended to make use of IETF RFC 8583 [28] on the PC6/PC7 interface
where, when applied, the requesting ProSe Function shall behave as a reacting
node and the responding ProSe Function as a reporting node.
## D.2 Responding ProSe Function behaviour
The responding ProSe Function may report its current load by including a Load
AVP of type HOST in answer commands as described in IETF RFC 8583 [28].
The responding ProSe Function calculates its current load by implementation
specific means. For example, the responding ProSe Function may take into
account the traffic over the PC6/PC7 interface or other interfaces, the level
of usage of internal resources (e.g. CPU, memory), the access to external
resources, etc.
The responding ProSe Function determines when to send Load AVPs of type HOST
by implementation specific means.
## D.3 Requesting ProSe Function behaviour
When performing next hop Diameter Agent selection for requests that are routed
based on realm, the requesting ProSe Function may take into account load
values from Load AVPs of type PEER received from candidate next hop Diameter
nodes, as per IETF RFC 8583 [28].
#