# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the security aspects of V2X features in LTE,
including security architecture, security requirements on the network entities
that are used to support V2X services, as well as the procedures and solutions
which are provided to meet those requirements.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.185: \"Service requirements for V2X services\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23 285: \"Architecture enhancements for V2X services (Release
14)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 33.210: \"3G security; Network Domain Security (NDS); IP network
layer security\".
[5] 3GPP TS 33.310: \"Network Domain Security (NDS); Authentication Framework
(AF)\".
[6] ETSI TS 102 225: \"Smart Cards; Secured packet structure for UICC based
applications\".
[7] ETSI TS 102 226: \"Smart cards; Remote APDU structure for UICC based
applications\".
[8] 3GPP TS 31.115: \"Secured packet structure for (Universal) Subscriber
Identity Module (U)SIM Toolkit applications\".
[9] 3GPP TS 31.116: \"Remote APDU Structure for (U)SIM Toolkit applications
\".
[10] 3GPP TS 33.303: \"Proximity-based Services (ProSe); Security aspects\".
[11] 3GPP TS 29.368: \"Tsp interface protocol between the MTC Interworking
Function (MTC-IWF) and Service Capability Server (SCS)\".
[12] 3GPP TS 33.401: \"3GPP System Architecture Evolution (SAE): Security
Architecture\".
[13] 3GPP TS 33.223: \"Generic Authentication Architecture (GAA); Generic
Bootstrapping Architecture (GBA) Push function\".
[14] 3GPP TS 23.468: \"Group Communication System Enablers for LTE (GCSE_LTE);
Stage 2\".
[15] 3GPP TS 33.246: \"3G Security; Security of Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast
Service (MBMS)\".
[16] IEEE Std 1609.2-2016: \"IEEE Standard for Wireless Access in Vehicular
Environments (WAVE)---Security Services for Applications and Management
Messages\".
[17] ETSI TS 102 940: \"Intelligent Transport Systems (ITS); Security; ITS
communications security architecture and security management\" (V1.2.1;
2016-11).
[18] 3GPP TS 33.402: \"3GPP System Architecture Evolution; Security aspects of
non-3GPP accesses\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
AS Application Server
BSF Bootstrapping Server Function
GBA Generic Bootstrapping Architecture
GCS Group Communication System
ITS Intelligent Transportation System
LTE-V LTE V2X
NAF Network Application Function
ProSe Proximity-based Services
V2I Vehicle-to-Infrastructure
V2N Vehicle-to-Network
V2P Vehicle-to-Pedestrian
V2V Vehicle-to-Vehicle
V2X Vehicle-to-Everything
VCF V2X Control Function
# 4 V2X security architecture
V2X service contains three types of vehicular communication services V2V
(vehicle to vehicle), V2I (vehicle to infrastructure), V2N (vehicle to
network), and V2P (vehicle to pedestrian) for both safety and non-safety
aspects.
The overall architecture describing LTE enhancements for V2X services is given
in TS 23.285 [3]. Both LTE-Uu based architecture (e.g. eMBMS) and PC5 based
architecture are used for supporting V2X services, but they may be used by a
UE independently for transmission and reception, e.g. a UE can use eMBMS for
reception without using LTE-Uu for transmission.
The security for interfaces given in the overall architecture (TS 23.285 [3])
is provided in clause 6, in detail these are the interfaces between network
entities (clause 6.2), between UE and V2X Control Function (clause 6.3), and
between V2X AS and 3GPP system (clause 6.4). Clause 6.5 discusses security of
V2X application data. Clause 6.6 is providing details to privacy in V2X
services.
Note: The V2 interface is not specified in 3GPP TS 23.285 [3], thus out of
scope also in the present document.
# 5 V2X security requirements
## 5.1 General
The service requirements for V2X services are specified in 3GPP TS 22.185 [2].
This clause contains the security requirements for V2X.
## 5.2 Interfaces between network elements
The V2X network entities shall be able to authenticate the source of the
received data communications.
The transmission of data between V2X network entities shall be integrity
protected.
The transmission of data between V2X network entities shall be confidentiality
protected.
The transmission of data between V2X network entities shall be protected from
replays.
## 5.3 Interface between UE and V2X control function (V3)
The V2X enabled UE and its HPLMN V2X Control Function shall mutually
authenticate each other.
The transmission of configuration data between the V2X Control Function and
the UE shall be integrity protected.
The transmission of configuration data between the V2X Control Function and
the UE shall be confidentiality protected.
The transmission of configuration data between the V2X Control Function and
the UE shall be protected from replays.
The transmission of UE identity should be confidentiality protected on the V3
interface.
## 5.4 Interface between external provider and 3GPP network (MB2)
V2X services use the MB2 interface for GCSE. The requirements to MB2 as listed
in Annex N.1.2 of 3GPP TS 33.246 shall apply.
## 5.5 Security requirements of V2X application data
The V2X system entities should be able to authenticate and verify that the
sender of the received data communications was authorized to send the data.
The transmission of data between different V2X entities in the V2X system
should be integrity protected.
The transmission of data between different V2X entities in the V2X system
should be protected from replays.
The transmission of data between two different V2X entities in the V2X system
should be confidentiality protected if needed for the V2X application.
NOTE: Transmission of data includes but is not limited to multicast,
broadcast, unicast, or geocast.
## 5.6 Privacy related requirements
As specified in 3GPP TS 22.185 [2] the following PC5 privacy related
requirements apply:
Subject to regional regulatory requirements and/or operator policy for a V2X
application, the data sent in the PC5 transmission should not allow UE
identity to be tracked or identified by any other UE or non-V2X entity beyond
a certain short time-period required by the V2X application.
Subject to regional regulatory requirements and/or operator policy for a
V2V/V2I application, the data sent in the PC5 transmission should not allow a
single party (operator or third party) to track a UE identity in that region.
In addition, the following PC5 related requirements are given in the present
specification:
The identifiers in the V2X messages should minimize the risk of leaking the UE
or user permanent identities.
UE pseudonymity should be provided to conceal personal data from attackers.
The application layer UE identity in the V2X messages should be protected from
eavesdropping.
## 5.7 Security requirement for V2X Entities Secure Environment
For V2X services relying on access networks within the scope of TS 33.401
[12], the 3GPP authentication, key agreement, associated subscriber
credentials and associated subscriber identities used to access the network
should reside on USIM within the V2X enabled UE.
For V2X services relying on access networks within the scope of TS 33.402
[18], the 3GPP authentication, key agreement, associated subscriber
credentials and associated subscriber identities used to access the network
should reside on UICC within the V2X enabled UE, except for terminals that do
not support 3GPP access capabilities and where 3GPP does not specify where the
credentials used with EAP-AKA and EAP-AKA\' reside.
# 6 V2X security solutions
## 6.1 General
This clause contains a description of the various security features that are
available for V2X services. All V2X services do not have the same security
requirements and hence may not require the use of all the described features.
It is up to the deployment of the feature to ensure that all the appropriate
security aspects are addressed.
## 6.2 V2X communication between network elements
### 6.2.1 General
V2X uses several interfaces between network entities as described in TS 23.285
[3]. This subclause describes the security for those interfaces.
### 6.2.2 Security procedures
For all interfaces between network elements,
TS 33.210 [4] shall be applied to secure signalling messages on the reference
points unless specified otherwise, and
TS 33.310 [5] may be applied regarding the use of certificates with the
security mechanisms of TS 33.210 [4] unless specified otherwise in the present
document.
NOTE: For the case of an interface between two entities in the same security
domain, TS 33.210 [4] does not mandate the protection of the interface by
means of IPsec.
## 6.3 V2X communication between UE and V2X Control Function (V3)
### 6.3.1 General
The UE has interactions with the V2X Control Function over the V3 in the V2X
services as described in TS 23.285 [3]. The V3 interface can be secured in the
same way as the PC3 interface, as in TS 33.303 [10] clause 5.3.
### 6.3.2 Security procedures for configuration transfer to the UICC
After deployment of the UE the configuration parameters stored in the UICC may
need to be updated to reflect the changes in the configuration applied.
In case that configuration data of V2X-enabled UE are stored in the UICC, the
UICC OTA mechanism (as specified in ETSI TS 102 225 [6] / TS 102 226 [7] and
3GPP TS 31.115 [8] / TS 31.116 [9]) shall be used to secure the transfer of
the configuration data to be updated in the UICC.
### 6.3.3 Security procedures for data transfer to the UE
This subclause describes procedures for protecting data transfer between UE
and V2X Control Function.
Between the UE and network function, for UE initiated messages:
PSK TLS with GBA including the option of the co-located BSF and NAF is used as
specified in TS 33.303 [10] (subclause 5.3.3.2) for UE initiated messages
between the UE and ProSe Function with the V2X Control Function playing the
role of the ProSe Function.
and for network initiated messages one of the following mechanisms shall be
used:
If a PSK TLS connection has been established as a part of a pull message and
is still available, the available PSK TLS session shall be used.
Otherwise, PSK TLS with GBA push based shared key-based mutual authentication
between the UE and the network function shall be used. GBA push is specified
in TS 33.223 [13]. The network function (pushNAF) shall request USSs from the
BSF when requesting a GPI, and the network function shall check in the USS if
the USIM is authorized to be used for V2X services. If the authorization in
the network function fails, then the network function shall refrain from
establishing PSK TLS with GBA push.
NOTE : If a TLS connection is released, it can only be re-established by the
client, i.e. UE, even though the TLS session including security association
would be alive on both sides. TLS connection, in turn, is dependent on the
underlying TCP connection.
## 6.4 Interface between V2X application server and 3GPP network (MB2)
The V2X Application Server acts as GCS AS (TS 23.468 [14]) and uses the
security features as specified in Annex N of TS 33.246 [15].
## 6.5 Security of V2X application data
### 6.5.1 General
V2X application data is sent by vehicle UEs in periodic or event-driven
broadcast messages, and can occur either on the PC5 interface or on the LTE-Uu
interface.
V2X applications aim to improve road safety and travel mobility, by issuing
timely warnings to the driver, or providing information about road hazards and
congestion, emergency vehicles, etc. It is therefore of utmost importance that
the safety messages broadcast by UEs are trusted as having been issued from a
legitimate/well-functioning device.
For the PC5 mode, the recipients of these messages (i.e. vehicle UEs that are
within communication range of the sending UE) are not known in advance to a
transmitting vehicle UE, and hence a priori (e.g., network assisted) security
association establishment between UEs is not feasible to be supported. This is
the nature of this point to multipoint communication within a dynamically
changing set of UEs. Therefore, neither current LTE security nor ProSe one-to-
many communication security is applicable.
NOTE: Establishment of security association in an ad-hoc fashion between UEs
over PC5, which might be needed for other applications and use cases, is not
addressed in this document.
### 6.5.2 Security procedures
Thought the security requirements applicable to V2X communications are all
satisfied by employing application-layer security as defined in other SDOs,
(e.g. IEEE [16] or ETSI ITS [17]), such use of the application-layer security
to secure V2X communications is outside the scope of 3GPP.
For PC5 communication, the data frames inherit the format of the PC5 one-to-
many communication, although no security is applied at this layer. They
contain fields relating to group keys. These fields are all set to zero for
PC5 based V2X communications.
For LTE-Uu communications, the LTE security mechanism for air interface
confidentiality shall be used (see TS 33.401 [12]).
NOTE: In LTE, no ciphering may be selected depending on the network policy.
## 6.6 Privacy in V2X services
### 6.6.1 General
If a UE is using the same identity in several broadcast messages, it is
possible to track the vehicle and compromise its privacy. Whether such privacy
concerns exist for a V2X service will likely depend on regional regulatory
requirements and/or operator policy, hence the PC5 privacy feature is optional
to use. For example, a service that is mandated for use by a regulator may not
provide an \"opt out\" option.
No additional privacy features beyond the regular LTE privacy features (see TS
33.401 [12]) are supported for Uu mode V2X communications.
NOTE 1: The specification does not provide technical solutions to address any
privacy concerns specific to V2X service that require privacy for a UE being
attached to the network, or that due to the data traversing the network in Uu
mode. However, there are general privacy principles applicable outside of 3GPP
scope; data minimization and user consent if privacy impacting data collection
is unavoidable for providing the V2X service.
NOTE 2: Even if out of scope of 3GPP, bilateral agreements between operator,
V2X service provider, and V2X-UE might be able to address regional regulator
privacy concerns.
Privacy may be supported at the application layer by employing identifiers and
credentials that are not linked to long-term UE or user identifiers. These
credentials would be refreshed periodically. The change of application layer
identities and credentials for using the V2X service is out of scope in 3GPP.
### 6.6.2 Privacy procedures related to PC5 transmissions
The UE shall change and randomize the source Layer-2 ID, and the source IP
address (in case of IP-based V2X communication) when indicated by the V2X
application that the application layer identifier has changed. The UE shall
also provide indication to the V2X application layer when the source Layer-2
ID, or/and the source IP address (in case of IP-based V2X communication) are
changed.
#