# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document contains requirements and test cases that are specific to
the PGW network product class. It refers to the Catalogue of General Security
Assurance Requirements and formulates specific adaptions of the requirements
and test cases given there, as well as specifying requirements and test cases
unique to the PGW network product class.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 41.001: \"GSM Release specifications\".
[3] 3GPP TS 33.117: \"Catalogue of General Security Assurance Requirements\".
[4] 3GPP TR 33.916: \"Security assurance scheme for 3GPP network products for
3GPP network product classes\".
[5] 3GPP TS 33.401: \"3GPP System Architecture Evolution (SAE); Security
architecture\".
[6] 3GPP TS 23.401: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS) enhancements for
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) access\".
[7] 3GPP TS 33.102: \"3G security; Security architecture\".
[8] 3GPP TS 32.251: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Packet Switched (PS) domain charging\".
[9] 3GPP TS 23.060: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); Service
description; Stage 2\".
[10] 3GPP TR 33.926: \"Security Assurance Specification (SCAS) threats and
critical assets in 3GPP network product classes\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
# 4 PGW-specific security requirements and related test cases
## 4.1 Introduction
The structure of the present document is aligned with TS 33.117[3] such that
the PGW-specific adaptation of a generic requirement in 33.117[3], clause 4,
can be always found in clause 4 of present document.
The text on pre-requisites for testing in clause 4.1.2 of TS 33.117 [3]
applies also to the present document.
## 4.2 PGW-specific security functional adaptations of requirements and
related test cases
### 4.2.1 Introduction
### 4.2.2 Security functional requirements on the PGW deriving from 3GPP
specifications and related test cases
#### 4.2.2.1 Security functional requirements on the PGW deriving from 3GPP
specifications -- General approach
In addition to the requirements and test cases in TS 33.117[3], clause 4.2.2,
a PGW shall satisfy the following:
It is assumed for the purpose of the present SCAS that a PGW conforms to all
mandatory security-related provisions pertaining to a PGW in:
\- 3GPP TS 33.401[5]: \"EPS security architecture\";
\- other 3GPP specifications that make reference to TS 33.401[5] or are
referred to from TS 33.401[5] (e.g. TS 23.401 [6], TS 23.060[9], etc.);
\- 3GPP TS 32.251[8]: \" Packet Switched (PS) domain charging\".
Since the PDN GW is the gateway which terminates the SGi interface, the
security procedures pertaining to the PGW are typically related to gateway
functions. For example:
\- Per-user based packet filtering (by e.g. deep packet inspection).
\- Every IP-CAN bearer shall be assigned a unique identity number for billing
purposes. (i.e. the Charging Id).
\- The TEID is a unique identifier within one IP address of a logical node.
#### 4.2.2.2 Per-user based packet filtering
_Requirement Name_ : Per-user based packet filtering
_Requirement Reference:_ TS 23.401 [6], clause 4.4.3.3
_Requirement Description_ : This requirement is identical to per-user based
packet filtering (by e.g. deep packet inspection) as specified in TS 23.401,
clause 4.4.3.3.
_Threat References_ : TR 33.926 [10], clause B.2.3.1 Failure to assign unique
TEID or Charging ID for a session.
_Test Case_ :
**Purpose:**
Verify that PGW supports a Per-user based packet filtering.
**Pre-Conditions:**
\- The tester has a privilege to configure the filtering policy on the PGW to
make the PGW can filter the packets per-user
\- Some UE (e.g. UE1 and UE2) are registered on the PGW.
\- The PGW can receive the packets from the UE1 and UE2.
\- A network traffic analyser on the PGW (e.g. tcpdump) is available.
**Execution Steps**
  1. The tester configures the different filtering policy for the UE1and the UE2 on the PGW, e.g. the PGW forwards the packets from the UE1 to SGi and drops the packets from the UE2.
  2. The tester sends the packets from the UE1 to the PGW.
  3. The tester sends the packets from the UE2 to the PGW.
  4. The tester checks the filtered packets using the network traffic analyser.
**Expected Results:**
The PGW can filter the packets per- user according the configured filtering
policy, e.g. the PGW forwards the packets from the UE1 to SGi in the step 2
and drops the packets from the UE2 in the step 3.
**Expected format of evidence:**
Evidence suitable for the interface, e.g. screenshot contains the operation
results, pcap file demonstrating that the UE2\'s packets are correctly
received but unavailable on the SGi interface while the UE1\'s packets are
correctly sent to SGi.
#### 4.2.2.3 Charging ID Uniqueness
Editor\'s Note: Reuse of Charging ID is FFS.
_Requirement Name_ : Charging ID Uniqueness
_Requirement Reference:_ TS 32.251 [8], clause 5.1.1.
_Requirement Description_ : \"Every IP-CAN bearer shall be assigned a unique
identity number for billing purposes. (i.e. the Charging Id)\" as specified in
3GPP TS 32.251 [8], clause 5.1.1.
_Threat References_ : TR 33.926 [10] clause B.2.5.1 Failure to assign unique
TEID or Charging ID for a session.
_Test Case_ :
**Purpose:**
Verify that the Charging ID value set in the Information Element Bearer
Context within a CreateSessionResponse is unique.
**Pre-Conditions:**
Test environment with P-GW and S-GW, PCRF. PCRF and S-GW may be real nodes or
simulated.
The tester is able to trace traffic between the P-GW and the S-GW (real or
simulated)
**Execution Step**
1) The tester intercepts the traffic between the P-GW and the S-GW.
2) The tester trigger more than one (e.g. at least 10000) consecutive
CreateSessionRequest for an Initial UE Attach towards the P-GW (using a real
or a simulated S-GW) in order to setup a new IP-CAN bearer.
3) The P-GW creates a UE/S-GW context and communicates with the PCRF (real or
simulated) for QOS and APN resolve. That procedures shall be successfully in
order to permit to the P-GW to send back to the S-GW a CreateSessionResponse
containing at least :
a) A Success cause.
b) The P-GW\'s F-TEID for control plane
c) The PDN Address Allocation (PAA)
d) A Bearer Contexts Created.
4) The tester verifies that the Charging ID within Bearer Contexts Created in
each generated CreateSessionResponse are different.
**Expected Results:**
The Charging ID assigned to every IP-CAN bearer requested by different
CreateSessionRequest is unique.
**Expected format of evidence:**
Files containing the triggered GTP messages (e.g. pcap trace).
#### 4.2.2.4 TEID UNIQUENESS
Editor\'s Note: Reuse of TEID is FFS.
_Requirement Name_ : TEID Uniqueness
_Requirement Reference:_ TS 23.060 [9], clause 14.6 _Requirement Description_
: \"The TEID is a unique identifier within one IP address of a logical node.\"
as specified in TS 23.060 [9], clause 14.6.
_Threat References_ : TR 33.926 [10], clause B.2.5.1 Failure to assign unique
TEID or Charging ID for a session
_Test Case_ :
**Purpose:**
Verify that the TEID generated for each new GTP tunnel is unique for both
control and user plane.
**Pre-Conditions:**
Test environment with P-GW and S-GW, PCRF. PCRF and S-GW may be real nodes or
simulated.
The tester is able to trace traffic between the P-GW and the S-GW (real or
simulated)
**Execution Step**
1) The tester intercepts the traffic between the P-GW and the S-GW.
2) The tester triggers more than one (e.g. at least 10000) consecutives
CreateSessionRequest e.g. for an Initial UE Attach towards the P-GW (using a
real or a simulated S-GW) with GTP header TEID set to 0 and F-TEID set to
different values.
3) The P-GW creates a UE/S-GW context and communicates with the PCRF (real or
simulated) for QOS and APN resolve. That procedures shall be successfully in
order to permit to the P-GW to send back to the S-GW a CreateSessionResponse
containing at least :
a) A Success cause.
b) The P-GW\'s F-TEID for control plane
c) The PDN Address Allocation (PAA).
d) A Bearer Contexts Created.
4) The tester verifies that the F-TEID created for each generated
CreateSessionResponse is unique.
**Expected Results:**
The F-TEID set into each different CreateSessionResponse is unique.
**Expected format of evidence:**
Files containing the triggered GTP messages (e.g. pcap trace)
### 4.2.3 Technical baseline
#### 4.2.3.1 Introduction
This clause provides baseline technical requirements.
#### 4.2.3.2 Protecting data and information
##### 4.2.3.2.1 Protecting data and information -- general
There are no PGW-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.1 of TS 33.117[3].
##### 4.2.3.2.2 Protecting data and information -- unauthorized viewing
There are no PGW-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.2 of TS 33.117[3].
##### 4.2.3.2.3 Protecting data and information in storage
There are no PGW-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.3 of TS 33.117[3].
##### 4.2.3.2.4 Protecting data and information in transfer
There are no PGW-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.4 of TS 33.117[3].
##### 4.2.3.2.5 Logging access to personal data
There are no PGW-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.5 of TS 33.117[3].
#### 4.2.3.3 Protecting availability and integrity
There are no PGW-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.3 of TS 33.117[3].
#### 4.2.3.4 Authentication and authorization
There are no PGW-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.4 of TS 33.117[3].
#### 4.2.3.5 Protecting sessions
There are no PGW-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.5 of TS 33.117[3].
##### 4.2.3.5.1 Unpredictable GTP TEID
_Requirement Name_ : Unpredictable GTP TEID
_Requirement Description_ :
The TEID created for usage in the GTP-C messages as well as in the GTP-U
messages shall be unpredictable in order to prevent a hacker to inject GTP-U
packets with a spoofed TEID into a user\'s session (causing e.g. overbilling
problems) or to send malicious GTP-C messages to delete an established session
(and causing a DoS).
Threat References: TR 33.926 clause 5.3.7.2 Denial of service: Implementation
Flaw and clause 5.3.4.x Tampering: User Traffic Tampering.
_Security Objective references_ : tba
_Test case:_
**Test Name** : UNPRED_GTP_TEID
**Purpose:**
To verify that the GTP TEID is unpredictable
**Procedure and execution steps:**
> **Pre-Conditions:**
Test environment with P-GW and S-GW, PCRF. PCRF and S-GW may be real nodes or
simulated.
The tester is able to trace traffic between the P-GW and the S-GW (real or
simulated).
**Execution Steps**
  1. The tester intercepts the traffic between the P-GW and the S-GW.
  2. The tester triggers 10 consecutives CreateSessionRequest e.g. for an Initial UE Attach towards the P-GW (using a real or a simulated S-GW) with GTP header TEID set to 0 and F-TEID set to different values.
  3. The tester triggers one CreateSessionRequest, this request shall be for another UE and from another S-GW
  4. The P-GW creates a UE/S-GW context and communicates with the PCRF (real or simulated) for QOS and APN resolve. That procedures shall be successful in order to permit to the P-GW to send back to the S-GW a CreateSessionResponse containing at least :
a. A Success cause.
b. The P-GW\'s F-TEID for control plane
c. The PDN Address Allocation (PAA).
d. A Bearer Contexts Created.
  5. The tester tries to predict the F-TEID created for the final CreateSessionResponse from the initial 10 F-TEIDs.
> **Expected Results:**
>
> The tester cannot predict the F-TEID in the finalCreateSessionResponse.
>
> **Expected format of evidence:**
Files containing the triggered GTP messages (e.g. pcap trace) and, if the
F-TEID is predictable, a detailed description of how the F-TEID can be
predicted.
#### 4.2.3.6 Logging
There are no PGW-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.6 of TS 33.117[3].
### 4.2.4 Operating systems
There are no PGW-specific additions to clause 4.2.4 of TS 33.117.
### 4.2.5 Web servers
There are no PGW-specific additions to clause 4.2.4 of TS 33.117.
### 4.2.6 Network devices
#### 4.2.6.1 Protection of Data and Information
There are no PGW-specific additions to clause 4.2.6.1of TS 33.117.
#### 4.2.6.2 Protecting availability and integrity
There are no PGW-specific additions to clause 4.2.6.2 of TS 33.117.
#### 4.2.6.3 IP Address reallocation interval
_Requirement Name_ : IP Address Reallocation Interval
_Requirement Description_ :
The PGW shall support a mechanism to set an interval between an IP address
reallocation.
_Security Objective references_ : tba.
_Test case_ :
**Test Name:** TC_ IP-ADDRESS_REALLOCATION_INTERVAL
**Purpose:**
Verify that the PGW supports an IP address reallocation interval technique.
**Procedure and execution steps:**
**Pre-Condition:**
\- Documentation describing how to configure an IP address reallocation
interval.
**Execution Steps**
  1. Configure the IP address reallocation interval to T according to the product documentation.
  2. Allocate an IP address IP1 to UE1.
  3. Make UE1 release the IP address IP1.
  4. Within an interval of T after the release of IP1, make the PGW allocate the IP address IP1 to UE2.
  5. Attempt the step 4 in more time than T after the release of IP1.
**Expected Results:**
1) In execution step 4, the reallocation attempt is rejected.
2) In execution step 5, the reallocation attempt is accepted.
**Expected format of evidence:**
A PASS or FAIL.
#### 4.2.6.4 MS/UE-Mutual Access Prevention
_Requirement Name_ : MS/UE-Mutual Access Prevention
_Requirement Description_ :
The PGW shall support a mechanism to prevent MS/UE-mutual access attacks (e.g.
configure a filtering rule to drop all mutual access packets).
_Security Objective references_ : tba.
_Test case_ :
**Test Name:** TC_ MS/UE-MUTUAL_ACCESS_PREVENTION
**Purpose:**
Verify that the Network Product supports a MS/UE-Mutual Access Prevention
technique.
**Procedure and execution steps:**
**Pre-Condition:**
\- The PGW has configured two (or more) IP address segments for UEs named
IPSeg 1 and IPSeg 2 (e.g. 10.40.0.0/16、10.42.0.0/16).
\- The PGW has 2 different logical or physical Ethernet ports and each port is
connected to a host**.**
\- A PGW analyser on the network product (e.g. tcpdump) is available.
\- A packet analyzer on the UEs is available.
**Execution Steps:**
1) The tester configures the PGW to block direct UE to UE traffic according to
product documentation.
2) The tester configures a filtering rule that UEs with IP address in IPSeg
1cannot access to servers with IP address in IPSeg 2 and vice versa.
3) The PGW allocate the IP1 within the IPSeg 1 to UE 1.
4) The PGW allocate the IP2 within the IPSeg 2 to UE 2.
5) The UE1 sends a packet with destination IP Address set to IP3 different
from IP1 within the IPSeg 1.
6) The UE1 sends a packet with destination IP Address set to IP2.
7) The UE2 sends a packet with destination IP Address set to IP4 different
from IP2 within the IPSeg 2.
8) The UE2 sends a packet with destination IP Address set to IP1.
**Expected Results:**
Using the network analyser the tester verifies that the packets are correctly
received and discarded by the PGW. The tester verifies that the packets are
correctly sent by the UE through the packet analyzer on the UEs.
NOTE: The IP address segments allocated to UEs are separate from the IP
address segments of PDN servers.
**Expected format of evidence:**
A log from analyser to show the process.
## 4.3 PGW-specific adaptations of hardening requirements and related test
cases
### 4.3.1 Introduction
### 4.3.2 Technical baseline
There are no PGW-specific additions to clause 4.3.2 of TS 33.117[3].
### 4.3.3 Operating systems
There are no PGW-specific additions to clause 4.3.3 of TS 33.117[3].
### 4.3.4 Web servers
There are no PGW-specific additions to clause 4.3.2 of TS 33.117[3].
### 4.3.5 Network devices
#### 4.3.5.1 Traffic separation
_Requirement Name_ : Traffic Separation
_Requirement Description_ :
The PGW shall support physical or logical separation of O&M and control plane
traffic, O&M and user plane traffic, control plane and user plane traffic
respectively.
Note1: The security requirement in clause 4.3.5.1 of TS 33.117 (i.e. the
physical or logical separation of O&M and control plane traffic) and related
test case also applies to the PGW.
Note2: The requirement that is different from TS 33.117[3], clause 4.3.5.1 is
that the traffic separation of user plane from O&M and control plane which is
considered to be PGW-specific has been take into account in present document.
_Security Objective references_ : tba.
_Test case_ :
**Test Name:** TC_TRAFFIC_SEPARATION
**Purpose:**
To test whether O&M traffic is separated from user plane traffic, control
plane traffic is separated from user plane traffic.
**Procedure and execution steps:**
**Pre-Condition:**
The PGW has at least one separate (logical) interface dedicated to O&M traffic
and at least two (logical) interfaces for control plane traffic and user plane
traffic respectively. The PGW for which the test applies and that fail to meet
this precondition fail the test by definition.
**Execution Steps**
**Execute the following steps:**
1\. The tester checks whether the PGW refuses O&M traffic on all interfaces
meant for user plane traffic.
2\. The tester checks whether the PGW refuses user plane traffic on all O&M
interfaces.
3\. The tester checks whether the PGW refuses control plane traffic on all
interfaces meant for user plane traffic.
4\. The tester checks whether the PGW refuses user plane traffic on all
control plane interfaces.
**Expected Results:**
The six tests should be successful, i.e. the PGW refuses traffic in all of the
four steps.
**Expected format of evidence:**
Evidence suitable for the interface, e.g. screenshot contains the operation
results.
#### 4.3.5.2 User Plane Traffic Differentiation
_Requirement Name_ : User Plane Traffic Differentiation
_Requirement Description_ :
"The EPS shall support simultaneous exchange of IP traffic to **multiple
PDNs** through the use of separate PDN GWs or **single PDN GW** " as specified
in 3GPP TS 23.401 [6], clause 5.10.1. According to this, the PGW shall support
the user plane traffic differentiation (e.g. enterprise, internet, etc) by
setting the specific APNs, and shall support the traffic isolation based on
the APNs (e.g. using VPN).
_Security Objective references_ : tba
_Test case_ :
**Test Name:** TC_USER PLANE TRAFFIC_DIFFERENTIATION
**Purpose:**
1\. To test whether the user plane traffics is differentiated by setting the
specific APNs.
2\. To test whether the traffic is isolated based on the APNs.
**Procedure and execution steps:**
**Pre-Condition:**
The PGW has configured several APNs for the testing, and every APN is
configured to associate with specific VPN (e.g. the VPN can be GRE) for user
plane traffic. For example, APN1\'s traffic is sent and received by VPN1, and
APN2\'s traffic is sent and received by VPN2.
The PGW for which the test applies and that fail to meet this precondition
fail the test by definition.
**Execution Steps**
**Execute the following steps:**
1\. The tester intercepts the VPN packets between the P-GW and PDN, as well as
the GTP-U packets between P-GW and S-GW/UE;
2\. The tester checks triggers APN1\'s traffic with the P-GW, then the tester
verifies that the tunnel id of the VPN packets sent by the P-GW indicates VPN1
as well as the TEID of the GTP-U packets sent by the P-GW indicates APN1;
3\. The tester triggers APN2\'s traffic with the P-GW, then the tester
verifies that the tunnel id of the VPN packets sent by the P-GW indicates VPN2
as well as the TEID of the GTP-U packets sent by the P-GW indicates APN2;;
4\. The tester checks triggers APN1\'s traffic with the P-GW, then the tester
verifies that the tunnel id of the VPN packets sent by the P-GW does not
indicate VPN2 as well as the TEID of the GTP-U packets sent by the P-GW does
not indicate APN2;
5\. The tester triggers APN2\'s traffic with the P-GW, then the tester
verifies that the tunnel id of the VPN packets sent by the P-GW does not
indicate VPN1 as well as the TEID of the GTP-U packets sent by the P-GW does
not indicate APN1.
**Expected Results:**
The four verification should be successful.
**Expected format of evidence:**
The APN traffic is sent and received by the right VPN.
## 4.4 PGW-specific adaptations of basic vulnerability testing requirements
and related test cases
All text from TS 33.117[3], clause 4.4 also applies to the PGW. There are no
PGW-specific adaptations or additions to this text.
#