# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the security aspects of the Proximity Services
(ProSe) features in EPS.\ Based on the common security procedures (clause 5)
for
\- interfaces between network entities (using NDS),
\- configuration of ProSe-enabled UEs, and
\- data transfer between the ProSe Function and a ProSe enabled UE (PC3
interface)
security for the following ProSe features is covered:
\- Open ProSe Direct Discovery in network coverage (clause 6.1);
\- One-to-many ProSe direct communication for ProSe-enabled Public Safety UEs
(clause 6.2);
\- EPC-level Discovery of ProSe-enabled UEs (clause 6.3);
\- EPC support for WLAN Direct Discovery and Communication (clause 6.4) ;
\- One-to-one ProSe direct communication for ProSe-enabled Public Safety UEs
(clause 6.5);
\- Prose Public Safety Discovery (clause 6.6);
\- Prose UE-to-network relays (clause 6.7);
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.303: \"Proximity-based services (ProSe); Stage 2\".
[3] 3GPP TS 33.210: \"3G security; Network Domain Security (NDS); IP network
layer security\".
[4] 3GPP TS 33.310: \"Network Domain Security (NDS); Authentication Framework
(AF)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 33.220: \"Generic Authentication Architecture (GAA); Generic
Bootstrapping Architecture (GBA)\".
[6] ETSI TS 102 225: \"Smart Cards; Secured packet structure for UICC based
applications\".
[7] ETSI TS 102 226: \"Smart cards; Remote APDU structure for UICC based
applications\".
[8] 3GPP TS 31.115: \"Secured packet structure for (Universal) Subscriber
Identity Module (U)SIM Toolkit applications\".
[9] 3GPP TS 31.116: \"Remote APDU Structure for (U)SIM Toolkit applications
\".
[10] Void.
[11] Void.
[12] IETF RFC 6509: \"MIKEY-SAKKE: Sakai-Kasahara Key Encryption in Multimedia
Internet KEYing (MIKEY)\".
[13] IETF RFC 3830: \"MIKEY: Multimedia Internet KEYing\".
[14] IETF RFC 6507: \"Elliptic Curve-Based Certificateless Signatures for
Identity-Based Encryption (ECCSI)\".
[15] NIST FIPS 186-4: \"Digital Signature Standard (DSS)\".
[16] BSI TR-03111: \"Technical Guideline TR-03111; Elliptic Curve
Cryptography\".
[17] IETF RFC 5639: \"Elliptic Curve Cryptography (ECC) Brainpool Standard;
Curves and Curve Generation\".
[18] IETF RFC 3339: \"Date and Time on the Internet: Timestamps\".
[19] IETF RFC 5280: \"Internet X.509 Public Key Infrastructure Certificate and
Certificate Revocation List (CRL) Profile\".
[20] NIST FIPS 180-4: \"Secure Hash Standard (SHS)\".
[21] 3GPP TS 33.401: \"3GPP System Architecture Evolution (SAE); Security
architecture\".
[22] 3GPP TS 33.222: \"Generic Authentication Architecture (GAA); Access to
network application functions using Hypertext Transfer Protocol over Transport
Layer Security (HTTPS)\".
[23] Void.
[24] IETF RFC 6508: \"Sakai-Kasahara Key Encryption (SAKKE)\".
[**25]** Void.
**[26]** Void.
[27] Void.
[28] Void.
[29] Void.
[30] Void.
[31] IETF RFC 5116: \"An Interface and Algorithms for Authenticated
Encryption\".
[32] Void.
[33] Void.
[34] Void.
[35] IETF RFC 4563: \"The Key ID Information Type for the General Extension
Payload in Multimedia Internet KEYing (MIKEY)\".
[36] W3C REC-xmlschema-2-20041028: \"XML Schema Part 2: Datatypes\".
[37] IETF RFC 2616: \"Hypertext Transfer Protocol -- HTTP/1.1\".
[38] 3GPP TS 33.223: \"Generic Authentication Architecture (GAA); Generic
Bootstrapping Architecture (GBA) Push function\".
[39] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification\".
[40] 3GPP TS 36.331: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol specification\".
[41] 3GPP TS 29.368: \"Tsp interface protocol between the MTC Interworking
Function (MTC-IWF) and Service Capability Server (SCS)\".
[42] 3GPP TS 33.102: \"3G Security; Security architecture\".
[43] 3GPP TS 33.179: \"Security of Mission Critical Push-To-Talk (MCPTT)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Application Level Container** : See 3GPP TS 23.303 [2]
**Discovery Filter: See** **[2]**
**Discovery Group ID:** See [2]
**ProSe Application ID** : See [2]
**ProSe Application Code** : See [2]
**ProSe Application Mask:** See [2]
**ProSe Direct Communication** : See [2]
**ProSe Direct Discovery** : See [2]
**ProSe-enabled non-Public Safety UE** : See [2]
**ProSe-enabled Public Safety UE** : See [2]
**ProSe-enabled UE** : See [2]
**ProSe Query Code:** See [2]
**ProSe Response Code:** See [2]
**ProSe Restricted Code** : See [2]
**Relay Service Code:** See [2]
**Restricted ProSe Application User ID** : See [2]
**Validity Timer:** See [2]
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
ADF Accounting Data Forwarding
ALUID Application Layer User ID
AS Application Server
BSF Bootstrapping Server Function
CA Certificate Authority
CTF Charging Trigger Function
DSA Digital Signature Algorithm
ECCSI Elliptic Curve-based Certificateless Signatures for Identity-based
Encryption
ECDSA Elliptic Curve DSA
EPUID EPC Level User ID
GBA Generic Bootstrapping Architecture
GMK Group Master Key
GPS Global Positioning System
GSK Group Session Key
ID Identity
KMS Key Management System
LCID Logical Channel Identifier
MIC Message Integrity Code
MIKEY Multimedia Internet Keying
NAF Network Application Function
NITZ Network Identity and Time Zone
NTP Network Time Protocol
OTA Over The Air
PEK ProSe Encryption Key
PIK ProSe Integrity Key
PFID ProSe Function ID
PGK ProSe Group Key
ProSe Proximity-based Services
PSDK Public Safety Discovery Key
PTK ProSe Traffic Key
RPAUID Restricted ProSe Application User ID
RSC Relay Service Code
RTP Real-Time Transport Protocol
RTCP RTP Control Protocol
SAKKE Sakai-Kasahara Key Encryption
SDP Session Description Protocol
SEG Security Gateway
SRTP Secure Real-Time Transport Protocol
UID User ID
UTC Universal Time Coordinated
# 4 Overview of ProSe security
## 4.1 General
The overall architecture for ProSe is given in TS 23.303 [2]. ProSe includes
several features that may be deployed independently of each other. For this
reason, no overall security architecture is provided and each feature
describes its own architecture.
Although made of several different features, those features share many
procedures, for example, both ProSe Direct Discovery and ProSe Direct
Communication utilize the same procedure for service authorization (see TS
23.303 [2]). Security for this common procedures are described in clause 5 of
the present document, while the overall security of the ProSe features is
described in clause 6 of the present document (which refers back to clause 5
as necessary).
## 4.2 Reference points and Functional Entities
> **PC8** : The reference point between the UE and the ProSe Key Management
> Function. PC8 relies on EPC user plane for transport (i.e. an \"over IP\"
> reference point). It is used to transport security material to UEs for ProSe
> one-to-many communications.
# 5 Common security procedures
## 5.1 General
This clause contains a description of the security procedures that are used by
more than one ProSe feature.
## 5.2 Network domain security
### 5.2.1 General
ProSe uses several interfaces between network entities, e.g. PC4a between the
ProSe Function and the HSS\ (see TS 23.303 [2]). This subclause describes the
security for those interfaces.
### 5.2.2 Security requirements
The ProSe network entities shall be able to authenticate the source of the
received data communications.
The transmission of data between ProSe network entities shall be integrity
protected.
The transmission of data between ProSe network entities shall be
confidentiality protected.
The transmission of data between ProSe network entities shall be protected
from replays.
### 5.2.3 Security procedures
For all interfaces between network elements,
> TS 33.210 [3] shall be applied to secure signalling messages on the
> reference points unless specified otherwise, and
>
> TS 33.310 [4] may be applied regarding the use of certificates with the
> security mechanisms of TS 33.210 [3] unless specified otherwise in the
> present document.
NOTE: For the case of an interface between two entities in the same security
domain, TS 33.210 [3] does not mandate the protection of the interface by
means of IPsec.
## 5.3 Security of UE to ProSe Function interface
### 5.3.1 General
The ProSe-enabled UEs have many interactions with the ProSe Function over the
PC3 in the ProSe features described in TS 23.303 [2].
### 5.3.2 Security requirements
Only the ProSe Function may provide configuration data impacting the ProSe-
related network operations to the ProSe-enabled UE. 3rd parties shall not be
allowed to provide such parameters.
The ProSe-enabled UE and the ProSe Function shall mutually authenticate each
other.
The transmission of configuration data between the ProSe Function and the
ProSe-enabled UE shall be integrity protected.
The transmission of configuration data between the ProSe Function and the
ProSe-enabled UE shall be confidentiality protected.
The transmission of configuration data between the ProSe Function and the
ProSe-enabled UE shall be protected from replays.
The configuration data shall be stored in the UE in a protected way to prevent
modification.
Some configuration data may require to be stored in the UE in a protected way
to prevent eavesdropping.
The transmission of UE identity should be confidentiality protected on PC3
interface.
### 5.3.3 Security procedures
#### 5.3.3.1 Security procedures for configuration transfer to the UICC
After deployment of the ProSe-enabled UE the configuration parameters stored
in the UICC may need to be updated to reflect the changes in the configuration
applied.
In case that configuration data of ProSe-enabled UE are stored in the UICC,
the UICC OTA mechanism (as specified in ETSI TS 102 225 [6] / TS 102 226 [7]
and 3GPP TS 31.115 [8] / TS 31.116 [9]) shall be used to secure the transfer
of the configuration data to be updated in the UICC.
#### 5.3.3.2 Security procedures for data transfer to the UE
This subclause describes procedures for protecting data transfer between UE
and ProSe Function (called the network function in the below
procedures).Between the UE and network function,
for UE initiated messages, the procedures specified by clause 5.4 of TS 33.222
[22] shall be used with the following addition. The network function may
optionally include an indication in the PSK-identity hint in the
ServerKeyExchange message over the Ua interface to inform the UE of the FQDN
of the BSF with which the UE shall run the bootstrapping procedure over the Ub
interface as specified in TS 33.220[5] to provide the key material for
establishment of the TLS tunnel. When performing such bootstrapping with the
indicated BSF, the UE and BSF shall use the provided FQDN as the BSF Identity
in all places, e.g. forming the B-TID. If there is no such indication, the UE
shall perform the bootstrapping with the BSF at the address given in TS 23.003
[39].
The UE may also hold a B-TID, Ks and other associated material from
bootstrapping runs with different BSFs simultaneously.
A network function that implements the NAF functionality (cf Annex F.2 or
Annex F.3) shall request USSs from the BSF when requesting the
Ks_(ext/int)_NAF key and the network function shall check in the USS if the
USIM is authorized to be used for ProSe services. If the authorization in the
network function fails then the network function shall release the PSK-TLS
connection with the UE. Otherwise (cf Annex F.4) the retrieval of
authentication vectors and authorization of the ProSe UE shall be performed
using the PC4a interface instead of the Zh interface. If the ProSe Function
does not have a unused Authentication vector associated with the ProSe UE, the
ProSe Function shall request one Authentication Vector from the HSS over the
PC4a interface. ProSe Function shall always indicate to the UE, in the Ua
message carrying the ServerKeyExchange of the PSK-TLS handshake, that the
Ks_NAF key shall be used to bootstrap the PSK-TLS security on the PC3
interface, by setting the psk_identity_hint field to a static string \"3GPP-
bootstrapping\".
NOTE 1: Annex F describes the possible network options for PC3 security. The
UE behaviour remains the same regardless of the network option used.
NOTE 2: When the termination points of both the Ua and Ub interfaces reside in
the network function then the implementation of the Zn interface is an
operator decision. However, if the operator considers deploying a stand-alone
BSF for use by the network function, then the operator should use the
canonical BSF name from TS 23.003 and the Zn interface should be available in
the network function already from the start although it would only be used
internally to the network function until a stand-alone BSF was deployed.
Otherwise, implementation changes to the network function will become
necessary at the time of introducing the stand-alone BSF.
For network initiated messages one of the following mechanisms shall be used:
\- If a PSK TLS connection has been established as a part of a pull message
and is still available, the available PSK TLS session shall be used.
\- Otherwise, PSK TLS with GBA push based shared key-based mutual
authentication between the UE and the network function shall be used. GBA push
is specified in TS 33.223 [38]. The network function (pushNAF) shall request
USSs from the BSF when requesting a GPI, and the network function shall check
in the USS if the USIM is authorized to be used for ProSe services. If the
authorization in the network function fails then the network function shall
refrain from establish PSK TLS with GBA push.
NOTE 3: If a TLS connection is released, it can only be re-established by the
client, i.e. UE, even though the TLS session including security association
would be alive on both sides. TLS connection, in turn, is dependent on the
underlying TCP connection.
## 5.4 Security of the PC2 reference point
### 5.4.1 Requirements on PC2 reference point
When the the ProSe Application Server is controlled by a 3rd party, then the
PC2 reference point shall fulfil the following requirements:
Integrity protection, replay protection, confidentiality protection and
privacy protection for communication between the ProSe Function and ProSe
Application Server shall be supported;
\- mutual authentication between ProSe Function and ProSe Application Server
shall be supported;
\- integrity protection and replay protection shall be used;
\- confidentiality protection should be used;
\- privacy of the 3GPP user shall be provided (e.g. IMSI shall not be sent
outside the 3GPP operator's domain);
the ProSe Function in the 3GPP network shall be able to determine whether the
ProSe Application Server is authorized to send request messages to the ProSe
Function in the 3GPP network;
### 5.4.2 Security procedures for PC2 reference point
The security procedure defined for the Tsp interface in TS 29.368 [41] shall
be supported and used for the PC2 reference point, where the ProSe Function
takes the role as the MTC-IWF and the ProSe Application Server takes the role
as the SCS.
# 6 Security for ProSe features
## 6.1 ProSe direct discovery
### 6.1.1 Overview of ProSe direct discovery in network coverage
The Direct Discovery in network coverage feature in clause 5.2 and 5.3 of TS
23.303 [2] describes several procedures applicable for open discovery, model
A.\ They are the following:
1\. The **Service Authorization** procedure: The UE contacts the ProSe
Function(s) in the HPLMN in order to obtain authorization to use direct
discovery in the various PLMNs. This step also includes the ability of the
HPLMN to revoke authorization via a push message.
2\. The **Discovery Request** procedure: This allows an announcing or a
monitoring UE to obtain the necessary configuration information to be able to
announce a code or monitor for codes in a particular PLMN. Among other things,
the configuration information includes the ProSe Application Codes to be
announced or Discovery Filters to be monitored for.
3\. The **Discovery** procedure: The ProSe App Code is announced by the
announcing UE and received by the monitoring UE.
> 4\. The **Match Report** procedure: This allows a ProSe App Code received by
> the monitoring UE to be checked and confirmed by the network. As part of
> this procedure the network provides the UE with the ProSe Application Id
> Name of that code and possibly the meta-data corresponding to that ProSe
> Application ID Name.
The same procedures are also used for model A and B restricted discovery (see
TS 23.303 [2] for more details).
### 6.1.2 Security requirements
Procedures 1, 2, and 4 include traffic between the UE and ProSe Function,
between other network entities and over the PC2 reference point, therefore the
requirements in clause 5.3.2, 5.2.2 and 5.4.1 apply to this case.
In addition, for the overall open discovery procedure, the following security
requirement applies:
The system shall support a method to mitigate the replay and impersonation
attacks for ProSe open discovery.
For Restricted Discovery, the following requirements apply:
ProSe Restricted discovery shall allow a UE to discover only other UEs which
it is currently authorized to discover. That is, the identities announced on
the air interface shall be able to be protected from being understood by
currently unauthorized UEs.
The possibility of tracking of UEs based on the content of their discovery
messages over time should be minimized.
The possibility of replay attacks on discovery messages sent over the air
interface should be minimized.
The system shall support the prevention of impersonation attacks.
The system shall support integrity protection and confidentiality protection
of Restricted Discovery ProSe Codes.
NOTE 1: Any structure present in the ProSe Code before any security processing
should be preserved to enable checking for matches. Preserving the structure
needs to be done in a way that does not affect the security.
NOTE 2: These requirements apply to both model A and model B restricted
discovery.
NOTE 3: The restricted discovery system requirements above indicate mandatory
support of the various protection mechanisms. The Prose Function decides which
of these mechanisms are applied to a specific discovery (i.e. it is not
mandatory to apply all the protection mechanisms to each discovery).
### 6.1.3 Security procedures
#### 6.1.3.1 Interface between the UE and ProSe Function
In order to protect the messages between the UE and ProSe Function over PC3,
the UE shall support the procedures for the UE given in subclause 5.3.3.2 and
the ProSe Function shall support the procedures for the network function given
in subclause 5.3.3.2. In order to protect the messages between the UE and
ProSe Function CTF (ADF) (Accounting Data Forwarding function block of the
Charging Trigger Function) over PC3ch, the same communication security shall
apply for PC3ch as is used for PC3.
#### 6.1.3.2 Interfaces between network elements
This uses the procedures described in clause 5.2.3 of the present document,
except the PC2 interface which uses the procedures in clause 5.4.2.
#### 6.1.3.3 Integrity protection and validation of the transmitted code for
open discovery
##### 6.1.3.3.1 Open discovery security flows
The message flows apply when both the UEs are roaming or when one or both are
in their HPLMN.
Note that integrity protection via this Message Integrity Check (MIC)
furthermore enables the ProSe Function to verify that the announcing UE was
indeed authorized to announce this ProSe App Code at that time instance. A
UTC-based counter associated with the discovery slot is used to calculate the
MIC and verify the MIC. To help ensure that the announcing and monitoring UEs
end up with the same value of the UTC-based counter, the announcing UE
includes the 4 least significant bits of its couter value in the discovery
message, which the monitoring UE uses when setting the value of the UTC-based
counter that is passed to the ProSe Function.
Figure: 6.1.3.3.1-1: Integrity protection of the transmitted code
1\. The Announcing UE sends a Discovery Request message containing the ProSe
Application ID to the ProSe Function in its HPLMN in order to be allowed to
announce a code on its serving PLMN (either VPLMN or HPLMN).
2./3. If the announcing UE wants to send announcements while in the VPLMN, it
needs to be authorised from the VPLMN ProSe Function: The ProSe Function in
the HPLMN requests authorization for sending announcements from the VPLMN
ProSe Function by sending Announce Auth.() message. VPLMN ProSe Function
responds with an Announce Auth. Ack () message, if authorization is granted.
There are no changes to these messages for the purpose of protecting the
transmitted code for open discovery. If the Announcing UE is not roaming,
these steps do not take place.
4\. The ProSe Function in HPLMN of the announcing UE returns the ProSe App
Code that the announcing UE can announce and a 128-bit Discovery Key
associated with it. The ProSe Function stores the Discovery Key with the ProSe
App Code. In addition, the ProSe Function provides the UE with a CURRENT_TIME
parameter, which contains the current UTC-based time at the ProSe Function, a
MAX_OFFSET parameter, and a Validity Timer (see TS 23.303 [2]). The UE sets a
clock which is used for ProSe authentication (i.e. ProSe clock) to the value
of CURRENT_TIME and the UE stores the MAX_OFFSET parameter, overwriting any
previous values. The announcing UE obtains a value for a UTC-based counter
associated with a discovery slot based on UTC time. The counter is set to a
value of UTC time in a granularity of seconds. The UE may obtain UTC time from
any sources available, e.g. the RAN via SIB16, NITZ, NTP, GPS, via Ub
interface (in GBA) (depending on which is available).
NOTE 1: The UE may use unprotected time to obtain the UTC-based counter
associated with a discovery slot. This means that the discovery message could
be successfully replayed if a UE is fooled into using a time different to the
current time. The MAX_OFFSET parameter is used to limit the ability of an
attacker to successfully replay discovery messages or obtain correctly MICed
discovery message for later use. This is achieved by using MAX_OFFSET as a
maximum difference between the UTC-based counter associated with the discovery
slot and the ProSe clock held by the UE.
NOTE 2: A discovery slot is the time at which an announcing UE sends the
announcement.
5\. The UE starts announcing, if the difference between UTC-based counter
provided by the system associated with the discovery slot and the UE's ProSe
clock is not greater than the MAX_OFFSET and if the Validity Timer has not
expired (see TS 23.303 [2]).For each discovery slot it uses to announce, the
announcing UE calculates a 32-bit Message Integrity Check (MIC) to include
with the ProSe App Code in the discovery message. Four least significant bits
of UTC-based counter are transmitted along with the discovery message. The MIC
is calculated as described in sub clause A.2 using the Discovery Key and the
UTC-based counter associated with the discovery slot.
6\. The Monitoring UE sends a Discovery Request message containing the ProSe
Application ID to the ProSe Function in its HPLMN in order to get the
Discovery Filters that it wants to listen for.
7/8. The ProSe Functions in the HPLMN of the monitoring UE and HPLMN of the
announcing UEs exchange Monitor Req./Resp. messages. There are no changes to
these messages for the purpose of protecting the transmitted code for open
discovery.
9\. The ProSe Function returns the Discovery Filter containing either the
ProSe App Code(s), the ProSe App Mask(s) or both along with the CURRENT_TIME
and the MAX_OFFSET parameters. The UE sets its ProSe clock to CURRENT_TIME and
stores the MAX_OFFSET parameter, overwriting any previous values. The
monitoring UE obtains a value for a UTC-based counter associated with a
discovery slot based on UTC time. The counter is set to a value of UTC time in
a granularity of seconds. The UE may obtain UTC time from any sources
available, e.g. the RAN via SIB16, NITZ, NTP, GPS (depending on which is
available).
10\. The Monitoring UE listens for a discovery message that satisfies its
Discovery Filter, if the difference between UTC-based counter associated with
that discovery slot and UE's ProSe clock is not greater than the MAX_OFFSET of
the monitoring UE\'s ProSe clock.
11\. On hearing such a discovery message, and if the UE has either not checked
the MIC for the discovered ProSe App Code previously or has checked a MIC for
the ProSe App Code and the associated Match Report refresh timer (see steps 14
and 15 for details of this timer) has expired, or as required based on the
procedures specified in TS 23.303 [2], the Monitoring UE sends a Match Report
message to the ProSe Function in the HPLMN of the monitoring UE. The Match
Report contains the UTC-based counter value with four least significant bits
equal to four least significant bits received along with discovery message and
nearest to the monitoring UE's UTC-based counter associated with the discovery
slot where it heard the announcement, and other discovery message parameters
including the ProSe App Code and MIC.
12\. The ProSe Function in the HPLMN of the monitoring UE passes the discovery
message parameters including the ProSe App Code and MIC and associated counter
parameter to the ProSe Function in the HPLMN of the announcing UE in the Match
Report message.
13\. The ProSe Function in the HPLMN of the announcing UE shall check the MIC
is valid. The relevant Discovery Key is found using the ProSe App Code.
14\. The ProSe Function in the HPLMN of the announcing UE shall acknowledge a
successful check of the MIC to the ProSe Function in the HPLMN of the
monitoring UE in the Match Report Ack message. The ProSe Function in the HPLMN
of the announcing UE shall include a Match Report refresh timer in the Match
Report Ack message. The Match Report refresh timer indicates how long the UE
will wait before sending a new Match Report for the ProSe App Code.
15\. The ProSe Function in the HPLMN of the monitoring UE returns an
acknowledgement that the integrity checked passed to the Monitoring UE. The
ProSe Function returns the parameter ProSe Application ID to the UE.\ It also
provides the CURRENT_TIME parameter, by which the UE (re)sets its ProSe clock
The ProSe Function in the HPLMN of the monitoring UE may optionally modify the
received Match Report refresh timer based on local policy and then shall
include the Match Report refresh timer in the message to the Monitoring UE..
#### 6.1.3.4 Restricted discovery
##### 6.1.3.4.1 General
The security for both models of restricted discovery is similar to that of
open discovery described in subclause 6.1.3.3. Both models also use a UTC-
based counter (see step 9 in clause 6.1.3.3) to provide freshness for the
protection of the restricted discovery message on the PC5 interface. The
parameters CURRENT_TIME and MAX_OFFSET are also provided to the UE from the
ProSe Function in its HPLMN to ensure that the obtained UTC-based counter is
sufficiently close to real time to protect against replays.
The major differences are that restricted discovery requires confidentiality
protection of the discovery messages (e.g. to ensure a UE is not discovered by
unauthorized parties or tracked due to constantly sending the same ProSe
Restricted/Response Code in the clear) and that the MIC checking may be
performed by the receiving UE (if allowed by the ProSe Function).
The security parameter needed by a sending UE to protect a discovery message
(i.e., in model A the announcing UE and in model B the Discoverer UE sending
the ProSe Query Code and the Discoveree UE sending the ProSe Response Code)
are provided in the Code-Sending Security Parameters. Similarly the security
parameters needed by a UE receiving a discovery message (i.e., in model A the
monitoring UE and in model B the Discoverer UE receiving a ProSe Response Code
and the Discoveree receiving a ProSe Query Code) are provided in the Code-
Receiving Security Parameters.
##### 6.1.3.4.2 Security flows
###### 6.1.3.4.2.1 Model A security flows
This subclause contains the message flows for the protection of a model A
restricted discovery. The flows show how a particular discovery is protected.
The exact details of the actual protection to be applied to a discovery
message are given in subclause 6.1.3.4.3. The message flows apply when both
the UEs are roaming or when one or both are in their HPLMN. If either of the
UEs is not roaming some steps in the flows are omitted as detailed in the
flows.
The flows are broken down into 4 boxed stages to better relate to the
procedures given in TS 23.303 [2]. The first, second and fourth stage
correspond to subclause 5.3.3.4A, 5.3.3.5A and 5.3.4.2A of TS 23.303 [2]
respectively. The interaction between the ProSe Function(s) and HSS is omitted
for simplicity.
Figure 6.1.3.4.2.1-1: Flows for securing model A restricted discovery
Steps 1-4 refer to an Announcing UE.
1\. Announcing UE sends a Discovery Request message containing the RPAUID to
the ProSe Function in its HPLMN in order to get the ProSe Code to announce and
to get the associated security material. The command indicates that this is
for announce (Model A) operation, i.e. for an Announcing UE.
2\. The ProSe Function may check for the announce authorization with the ProSe
Application Server depending on ProSe Function configuration.
3\. The ProSe Functions in the HPLMN and VPLMN of the Announcing UE exchange
Announce Auth. messages. If the Announcing UE is not roaming, these steps do
not take place.
4\. The ProSe Function in the HPLMN of the Announcing UE returns the ProSe
Code and the corresponding Code-Sending Security Parameters, along with the
CURRENT_TIME and MAX_OFFSET parameters. The Code-Sending Security Parameters
provide the necessary information for the Announcing UE to protect the
transmission of the ProSe Code (see subclause 6.1.3.4.3.2) and are stored with
the ProSe Code. The Announcing UE takes the same actions with CURRENT_TIME and
MAX_OFFSET as described for the Announcing UE in step 4 of subclause 6.1.3.3.1
of the current specification.
Steps 5-10 refer to a Monitoring UE
5\. The Monitoring UE sends a Discovery Request message containing the RPAUID
to the ProSe Function in its HPLMN in order to be allowed to monitor for one
or more Restricted ProSe Application IDs.
6\. The ProSe Function in the HPLMN of the Monitoring UE sends an
authorization request to the ProSe Application Server. If, based on the
permission settings, the RPAUID is allowed to discover at least one of the
Target RPAUIDs contained in the Application Level Container, the ProSe
Application Server returns an authorization response.
7\. If the Discovery Request is authorized, and the PLMN ID in the Target
RPAUID indicates a different PLMN, the ProSe Function in the HPLMN of the
Monitoring UE contacts the indicated PLMN's ProSe Function i.e. the ProSe
Function in the HPLMN of the Announcing UE, by sending a Monitor Request
message.
8\. The ProSe Function in the HPLMN of the Monitoring UE may exchange
authorization messages with the ProSe Application Server.
9\. The ProSe Function in the HPLMN of the Announcing UE responds to the ProSe
Function in the HPLMN of the Monitoring UE with a Monitor Response message
including the ProSe Code, the corresponding Code-Receiving Security Parameters
(see subclause 6.1.3.4.3.3) and an optional Discovery User Integrity Key
(DUIK). The Code-Receiving Security Parameters provide the information needed
by the Monitoring UE to undo the protection applied by the announcing UE. The
DUIK shall be included as a separate parameter if the Code-Receiving Security
Parameters indicate that the Monitoring UE shall use Match Reports for MIC
checking. The ProSe Function in the HPLMN of the Monitoring UE stores the
ProSe Code and the Discovery User Integrity Key (if it received one outside of
the Code-Receiving Security Parameters).
NOTE 1: There are two configurations possible for integrity checking, namely,
MIC checked by the ProSe Function, and MIC checked at the UE side. Which of
the configuration is used is decided by the ProSe Function that assigned the
ProSe Code being monitored, and signalled to the Monitoring UE in the Code-
Receiving Security Parameters.
10\. The ProSe Function in the HPLMN of the Monitoring UE returns the
Discovery Filter and the Code-Receiving Security Parameters, along with the
CURRENT_TIME and MAX_OFFSET parameters. The Monitoring UE takes the same
actions with CURRENT_TIME and MAX_OFFSET as described for the Monitoring UE in
step 9 of subclause 6.1.3.3.1 of the current specification. The UE stores the
Discovery Filter and Code-Receiving Security Parameters.
Steps 11 and 12 occur over PC5.
11\. The UE starts announcing, if the UTC-based counter provided by the system
associated with the discovery slot is within the MAX_OFFSET of the announcing
UE\'s ProSe clock and if the Validity Timer has not expired. The UE forms the
discovery message and protects it as described in 6.1.3.4.3.2. The four least
significant bits of UTC-based counter are transmitted along with the protected
discovery message.
12\. The Monitoring UE listens for a discovery message that satisfies its
Discovery Filter, if the UTC-based counter associated with that discovery slot
is within the MAX_OFFSET of the monitoring UE\'s ProSe clock. In order to find
such a matching message, it processes the message as described in 6.1.3.4.3.3.
If the Monitoring UE was not asked to send Match Reports for MIC checking, it
stops at this step from a security perspective. Otherwise it proceeds to step
13.
NOTE 2: The UE checking the integrity of the discovery message on its own does
not prevent the UE from sending a Match Report due to requirements in TS 23.
303 [2]. If such a Match Report is sent, then there is no security
functionality involved.
Steps 13-16 refer to a Monitoring UE that has encountered a match.
13\. If the UE has either not had the ProSe Function check the MIC for the
discovered ProSe Code previously or the ProSe Function has checked a MIC for
the ProSe Code and the associated Match Report refresh timer (see step 15 for
details of this timer) has expired, then the Monitoring UE sends a Match
Report message to the ProSe Function in the HPLMN of the monitoring UE. The
Match Report contains the UTC-based counter value with four least significant
bits equal to four least significant bits received along with discovery
message and nearest to the monitoring UE's UTC-based counter associated with
the discovery slot where it heard the announcement, and other discovery
message parameters including the ProSe Code and MIC. The ProSe Function checks
the MIC.
14\. The ProSe Function in the HPLMN of the Monitoring UE may exchange an Auth
Req/Auth Resp with the ProSe App Server to ensure that Monitoring UE is
authorised to discover the Announcing UE.
15\. The ProSe Function in the HPLMN of the monitoring UE returns to the
Monitoring UE an acknowledgement that the integrity check passed. It also
provides the CURRENT_TIME parameter, by which the UE (re)sets its ProSe clock.
The ProSe Function in the HPLMN of the Monitoring UE shall include the Match
Report refresh timer in the message to the Monitoring UE. The Match Report
refresh timer indicates how long the UE will wait before sending a new Match
Report for the ProSe Code.
16\. The Prose Function in the HPLMN of the Monitoring UE may send a Match
Report Info message to the ProSe Function in the HPLMN of the Announcing UE.
###### 6.1.3.4.2.2 Model B security flows
This subclause contains the message flows for the protection of a model B
restricted discovery. The flows show how a particular discovery is protected.
The exact details of the actual protection to be applied to a discovery
message are given in subclause 6.1.3.4.3. The message flows apply when both
the UEs are roaming or when one or both are in their HPLMN. If either of the
UEs is not roaming some steps in the flows are omitted as detailed in the
flows.
The flows are broken down into 4 boxed stages to better to relate to the
procedures given in TS 23.303 [2]. The first, second and fourth stage
correspond to subclause 5.3.3A.3, 5.3.3A.5 and 5.3.4A.2 of TS 23.303 [2]
respectively. The interaction between the ProSe Function(s) and HSS is omitted
for simplicity.
Figure 6.1.3.4.2.2-1: Flows for securing model B restricted discovery
Steps 1-4 refer to a Discoveree UE.
1\. Discoveree UE sends a Discovery Request message containing the RPAUID to
the ProSe Function in its HPLMN in order to get the ProSe Code to announce and
associated security material. The command indicates that this is for ProSe
Response (Model B) operation, i.e. for a Discoveree UE.
2\. The ProSe Function may check for the announce authorization with the ProSe
Application Server depending on ProSe Function configuration.
3\. The ProSe Functions in the HPLMN and VPLMN of the Discoveree UE exchange
Announce Auth. messages. If the Discoveree UE is not roaming, these steps do
not take place.
4\. The ProSe Function in the HPLMN of the Discoveree UE returns the ProSe
Response Code and the Code-Sending Security Parameters, Discovery Query
Filter(s) and their Code-Receiving Security Parameters corresponding to each
discovery filter along with the CURRENT_TIME and MAX_OFFSET parameters. The
Code-Sending Security Parameters provide the necessary information for the
Discoveree UE to protect the transmission of the ProSe Response Code (see
subclause 6.1.3.4.3.2) and are stored with the ProSe Response Code. The Code-
Receiving Security Parameters provide the information needed by the Discoveree
UE to undo the protection applied to the ProSe Query Code by the Discoverer UE
(see subclause 6.1.3.4.3.3). The Code-Receiving Security Parameters shall
indicate a Match Report will not be used for MIC checking. The UE stores each
Discovery Filter with its associated Code-Receiving Security Parameters. The
Discoveree UE takes the same actions with CURRENT_TIME and MAX_OFFSET as
described for the Announcing UE in step 4 of subclause 6.1.3.3.1 of the
current specification.
Steps 5-10 refer to a Discoverer UE
5\. The Discoverer UE sends a Discovery Request message containing the RPAUID
to the ProSe Function in its HPLMN in order to be allowed to discover one or
more Restricted ProSe Application IDs.
6\. The ProSe Function in the HPLMN of the Discoverer UE sends an
authorization request to the ProSe Application Server. If, based on the
permission settings, the RPAUID is allowed to discover at least one of the
Target RPAUIDs contained in the Application Level Container, the ProSe
Application Server returns an authorization response.
7\. If the Discovery Request is authorized, and the PLMN ID in the Target
RPAUID indicates a different PLMN, the ProSe Function in the HPLMN of the
Discoverer UE contacts the indicated PLMN's ProSe Function i.e. the ProSe
Function in the HPLMN of the Discoveree UE, by sending a Discovery Request
message.
8\. The ProSe Function in the HPLMN of the Discoveree UE may exchange
authorization messages with the ProSe Application Server.
9\. The ProSe Function in the HPLMN of the Discoveree UE responds to the ProSe
Function in the HPLMN of the Discoverer UE with a Discovery Response message
including the ProSe Query Code(s) and their associated Code-Sending Security
Parameters, ProSe Response Code and its associated Code-Receiving Security
Parameters (see subclause 6.1.3.4.3.3), and an optional Discovery User
Integrity Key (DUIK) for the ProSe Response Code. The Code-Receiving Security
Parameters provide the information needed by the Discoverer UE to undo the
protection applied by the Discoveree UE. The DUIK shall be included as a
separate parameter if the Code-Receiving Security Parameters indicate that the
Discoverer UE shall use Match Reports for MIC checking. The ProSe Function in
the HPLMN of the Discoverer UE stores the ProSe Response Code and the
Discovery User Integrity Key (if it received one outside of the Code-Receiving
Security Parameters). The Code-Sending Security Parameters provide the
information needed by the Discoverer UE to protect the ProSe Query Code (see
subclause 6.1.3.4.3.2)
NOTE 1: There are two configurations possible for integrity checking, namely,
MIC checked by the ProSe Function, and MIC checked at the UE side; this is
decided by the ProSe Function that assigned the ProSe Code being monitored,
and signalled to the Monitoring UE in the Code-Receiving Security Parameters.
10\. The ProSe Functions in the HPLMN and VPLMN of the Discoverer UE exchange
Announce Auth. messages. If the Discoverer UE is not roaming, these steps do
not take place.
11\. The ProSe Function in the HPLMN of the Discoverer UE returns the
Discovery Response Filter and the Code-Receiving Security Parameters, the
ProSe Query Code and the Code-Sending Security Parameters along with the
CURRENT_TIME and MAX_OFFSET parameters. The Discoverer UE takes the same
actions with CURRENT_TIME and MAX_OFFSET as described for the Monitoring UE in
step 9 of subclause 6.1.3.3.1 of the current specification. The UE stores the
Discovery Response Filter and its Code-Receiving Security Parameters and the
ProSe Query Code and its Code-Sending Security Parameters.
Steps 12 to 14 occur over PC5.
12\. The Discoverer UE sends the ProSe Query Code and also listens for a
response message, if the UTC-based counter provided by the system associated
with the discovery slot is within the MAX_OFFSET of the announcing UE\'s ProSe
clock and if the Validity Timer has not expired. The Discoverer UE forms the
discovery message and protects it as described in 6.1.3.4.3.2. The four least
significant bits of UTC-based counter are transmitted along with the protected
discovery message.
> 13a. The Discoveree UE listens for a discovery message that satisfies its
> Discovery Filter, if the UTC-based counter associated with that discovery
> slot is within the MAX_OFFSET of the Discoverer UE\'s ProSe clock. In order
> to find such a matching message, it processes the message as described in
> 6.1.3.4.3.3.
NOTE 1a: Match Reports are not used for the MIC checking of ProSe Query Codes.
13b. The Discoveree sends the ProSe Response Code associated with the
discovered ProSe Query Code. The Discoveree UE forms the discovery message and
protects it as described in 6.1.3.4.3.2. The four least significant bits of
UTC-based counter are transmitted along with the protected discovery message.
14\. The Discoverer UE listens for a discovery message that satisfies its
Discovery Filter. In order to find such a matching message, it processes the
message as described in 6.1.3.4.3.3. If the Discoverer UE was not asked to
send Match Reports for MIC checking, it stops at this step from a security
perspective. Otherwise it proceeds to step 15.
NOTE 2: The UE checking the integrity of the discovery message on its own does
not prevent the UE from sending a Match Report due to requirements in TS 23.
303 [2]. If such a Match Report is sent, then there is no security
functionality involved.
Steps 15-18 refer to a Discoverer UE that has encountered a match.
15\. If the Discoverer UE has either not had the ProSe Function check the MIC
for the discovered ProSe Response Code previously or the ProSe Function has
checked a MIC for the ProSe Response Code and the associated Match Report
refresh timer (see step 17 for details of this timer) has expired, then the
Discoverer UE sends a Match Report message to the ProSe Function in the HPLMN
of the Discoverer UE. The Match Report contains the UTC-based counter value
with four least significant bits equal to four least significant bits received
along with discovery message and nearest to the monitoring UE's UTC-based
counter associated with the discovery slot where it heard the announcement,
and other discovery message parameters including the ProSe Response Code and
MIC. The ProSe Function checks the MIC.
16\. The ProSe Function in the HPLMN of the Discoverer UE may exchange an Auth
Req/Auth Resp with the ProSe App Server to ensure that Discoverer UE is
authorised to discover the Discoveree UE.
17\. The ProSe Function in the HPLMN of the Discoverer UE returns to the
Discoverer UE an acknowledgement that the integrity check passed. It also
provides the CURRENT_TIME parameter, by which the UE (re)sets its ProSe clock.
The ProSe Function in the HPLMN of the Discoverer UE shall include the Match
Report refresh timer in the message to the Discoverer UE. The Match Report
refresh timer indicates how long the UE will wait before sending a new Match
Report for the ProSe Response Code.
18\. The Prose Function in the HPLMN of the Discoverer UE may send a Match
Report Info message to the ProSe Function in the HPLMN of the Discoveree UE.
##### 6.1.3.4.3 Protection of the discovery messages over the PC5 interface
###### 6.1.3.4.3.1 General
There are three general types of security that are used to protect the
restricted discovery messages as they are transferred over the PC5 interface
between the UEs.
Firstly, integrity protection is provided by appending a MIC as in Open
Discovery (see subclauses 6.1.3.3.1). The MIC is calculated in the sending UE
using a received Discovery User Integrity Key (DUIK) and may either be checked
at the receiving UE using the supplied DUIK or at the ProSe Function using the
DUIK.
Secondly, scrambling protection, which ensures that there is no relationship
between the discovery messages sent by a particular UE, i.e. to prevent
tracking of a UE over time. A scrambling keystream is calculated from the
Discovery User Scrambling Key (DUSK) and the UTC-based counter associated with
the discovery slot (see 6.1.3.4.3.5 for more details on the calculation).
Finally, message-specific confidentiality, which provides confidentiality
protection for part of the discovery message. This is used either when several
UEs use the same DUSK or if it is desired to obfuscate part of the discovery
message from some of the UEs that are allowed to discover the UE. A keystream
is calculated from the Discovery User Confidentility Key (DUCK), the content
of the message and the UTC-based counter associated with the discovery slot
(see 6.1.3.4.3.6 for more details on the calculation).
The security procedures that are applied at the sending and receiving UE are
controlled by the ProSe Function by sending the Code-Sending Security
Parameters and/or Code-Receiving Security Parameters to the appropriate UE
(i.e. the UE shall support all of integrity protection, scrambling and message
specific confidentiality) To achieve integrity protection for a ProSe
restricted discovery message, either a DUSK or a DUIK needs to be provided.
When a DUCK is used to apply message specific confidentiality, a DUIK is
required for integrity protection as more than one message is being protected.
Examples of combinations of Discovery User Keys according to use case type is
provided in Annex G..
At the receiving side, the scrambling protection must be undone before any
matching can be attempted. Given that the operation of undoing message-
specific confidentiality is computationally intense, the matching operation
that precedes it should have a very minimal chance of a false positive. To
this end, the ProSe Function should ensure the number of bits in a discovery
message that can be matched after any scrambling has been undone is at least
16 (leading to a false positive chance of 1 in 65,536 or less).
###### 6.1.3.4.3.2 Message Processing in the sending UE
The UE sending a discovery message receives the Code-Sending Security
Parameters from the ProSe Function (as described in the security flows) to
indicate how to protect the message. The Code-Sending Security Parameters may
contain a DUSK and may contain a DUIK. The Code-Sending Security Parameters
may contain both, a DUCK and an Encrypted_bits_mask.
The UE sending a discovery message does the following steps:
1\. Form Discovery Message (e.g. add Suffix if only Prefix was allocated).
2\. Calculate MIC if a DUIK was provided, otherwise set MIC to all zeros
3\. Add message-specific confidentiality to the message if DUCK was received
4\. Append MIC to the output of step 3.
5\. Add scrambling over the output of step 4 if the DUSK was received.
###### 6.1.3.4.3.3 Protected message processing in the receiving UE
The Code-Receiving Security Parameters received from the ProSe Function (as
described in the security flows) are used to indicate to a UE how a received
discovery message is protected. The Code-Receiving Security Parameters may
contain a DUSK, may contain either a DUIK or an indication whether to use
Match Reports for MIC checking. The Match Reports option is not allowed for
ProSe Query Codes. The Code-Receiving Security Parameters may also contain
both a DUCK and a corresponding Encrypted_bits_mask.
The UE receiving a Discovery Message does the following steps:
1\. Undo scrambling (as in step 5 of sending UE) if a DUSK was received.
2\. Check for match on the bits of the message that are not encrypted using
message specific confidentiality. If no match, then abort.
> NOTE 1: Some bits that the discovery filter indicates to be matched, may be
> encrypted by message-specific confidentiality at this stage. The UE can look
> for a match on the other bits after this step to minimise the amount of
> processing performed before finding a match.
3\. Undo message-specific confidentiality if a DUCK was received (as in step 3
of sending UE)
4\. Check for full match if only a match on non-encrypted bits was found in 3.
If no match then abort
5\. If a MIC check is required, check MIC directly (if a DUIK was given in the
Discovery Filter Security Parameters) or via Match Report if indicated in the
Discovery Filter Security Parameters.
> NOTE 2: Requiring a checking of the MIC (at either the UE or via Match
> Reports) may only be omitted when the scrambling protection provides
> integrity protection of the bits of the message that are of interest to the
> receiving UE. Such integrity protection is only provided when (1) a given
> DUSK protects exactly one ProSe Code that the receiver matches, or (2) when
> message-specific confidentiality is applied to a ProSe Code but the
> receiving UE is not provided with the DUSK to remove the message-specific
> confidentiality and all the non-encrypted bits take a fixed value that the
> receiver matches. In the first case, if an attacker changes any bit of the
> message, the match will fail. In the second case, if an attacker changes a
> non-encrypted bit the match will fail and changing an encrypted does nothing
> as the receiving UE ignores these bits anyway. In latter case, the receiving
> UE could not successfully check the MIC.
###### 6.1.3.4.3.4 Integrity protection description
The sending UE does the following
1\. Compute output bitsequence from DUIK, Message, and UTC-based counter
passed through a MIC calculation function in Annex A.2.
2\. Take the 4 bytes of the output of the function and set that as the value
of the MIC for this Message.
The receiving UE or ProSe Function does the exact same steps but also does a
comparison between the computed MIC and the received MIC.
###### 6.1.3.4.3.5 Scrambling description
The sending UE does the following:
1\. Set the 4 LSBs of the UTC-based counter equal zero, for the purpose of
this scrambling calculation only.
2\. Compute the time-hash-bitsequence from DUSK and the UTC-based
counter(modified as in step 1), passed through a keyed hash function.
3\. XOR the time-hash-bitsequence with the entire Discovery Message (including
MIC) being processed.
The receiving UE does the exact same steps except applied to the received
message being processed.
###### 6.1.3.4.3.6 Message-specific confidentiality description
The sending UE does the following:
1\. Compute _Key_calc_mask_ = (_Encrypted_bits_mask_ XOR 0xFF..FF) \|\|
0xFFFFFFFF
2\. Calculate _Keystream_ = KDF (DUCK, UTC-based counter, (_Key_calc_mas_ k
AND (Message \|\| MIC))).
3\. XOR (_Keystream_ AND _Encrypted_bits_mask_) into the Message.
The receiving UE does the exact same steps except applied to the received
Discovery Message being processed.
## 6.2 Security for One-to-many ProSe direct communication
### 6.2.1 Overview of One-to-many ProSe direct communication
The One-to-many ProSe direct communication consists of the following
procedures based on TS 23.303 [2]:
1\. One-to-many ProSe Direct communication transmission;
2\. One-to-many ProSe Direct communication reception.
The functionality in this clause may only be supported by ProSe-enabled Public
Safety UEs.
Security for one-to-many ProSe direct communication consists of bearer level
security mechanism (specified in subclause 6.2.3).
### 6.2.2 Security requirements
The requirements in clause 5.3.2 apply for the signalling between the UE and
ProSe Function.
For the distribution of the keys, the following requirements apply:
\- The shared keys and session keys shall be protected in integrity and
confidentiality during their distribution.
\- Only authorized Public Safety ProSe-enabled UEs shall receive the shared
keys.
\- It shall be possible for the Public Safety ProSe-enabled UE to authenticate
the network entity distributing the shared keys.
\- The Public Safety ProSe-enabled UE should support authentication of the
group member distributing the session keys.
\- It shall be possible for the Public Safety ProSe-enabled UE to store shared
keys for past and future cryptoperiods.
\- The mechanism for distributing session keys shall support late entry to
group communications.
\- Authorized Public Safety Prose-enabled UEs shall securely store the shared
keys.
For the protection of the data transmission between the UEs, the following
requirements apply
\- The system shall support providing the Public Safety ProSe-enabled UEs with
the all the necessary keying material and chosen algorithms that are used to
protect the data sent between the Public Safety ProSe-enabled UE(s). This
material shall be provided without requiring signalling between the Public
Safety ProSe-enabled UEs.
\- Confidentiality of one-to-many communications should be supported. Its use
would be a configuration option related to network operations and should hence
be under control of the network operator.
\- Security mechanisms shall scale effectively to large groups, and be
compatible with rapid setup of group communications.
\- Security mechanism shall support multiple logical channels between the same
source/destination pair. Security mechanism shall avoid key stream repetition
(COUNTs is about to be re-used with the same key), when multiple PDCP entities
exist in the Public Safety ProSe-enabled UE.
### 6.2.3 Bearer layer security mechanism
#### 6.2.3.1 Security keys and their lifetimes
As part of the TLS protected signalling between the UE and ProSe Key
Management Function, a ProSe MIKEY Key (PMK) may be sent from the ProSe Key
Management Function to the UE. This key is used to protect the MIKEY messages
that are used to carry the PGKs to the UE. The usage of PMK to protect the
MIKEY messages is described in clause 6.2.3.3.2.3. The UE keeps the PMK until
it receives a new one from the ProSe Key Management Function.
A UE needs to have an algorithm identity and a PGK (ProSe Group Key)
provisioned for each group that they belong to. From this key, a UE that
wishes to broadcast data shall first generate a PTK (ProSe Traffic Key). The
parameters used in this generation ensure that PTKs are unique for each UE and
need to be transferred in the header of the user data packet (see below for
more information). The PTK is derived when the first PDCP entity for a group
is created and then PDCP entities created further for the same group shall use
the PTK derived for the group.
From the PTK, a UE derives the needed ProSe Encryption Key (PEK) to be able to
encrypt the data. The UE can protect the data to be sent with the relevant
keys and algorithms at the bearer level (see clause 6.2.3.3 for more
details).\ A receiving UE would need to derive the PTK using the information
in the bearer header and then the PEK used to decrypt the data.
When the PGKs are provided to the UE, they shall be provided with an Expiry
Time. The Expiry Time of the PGK needs to be set such that the keys for later
periods have a longer expiration period. Each PGK for each group shall be
associated with a different Expiry Time value.
When protecting data that is to be sent, the UE uses the PGK that has not
expired and with the earliest expiration time to derive the PTK etc, for that
group. When receiving protected data the UE shall only use a PGK that has not
expired or the PGK that has most recently expired. All other expired PGK(s)
should be deleted.
When a PGK key is deleted in the sending UE and receiving UE, all related keys
as PTK and PEK derived from the expired PGK shall be deleted as well as the
related PGK Identity, PTK Identity and Counter. After releasing all the PDCP
entities of a group, the PTK and PEK derived for the group is deleted.
#### 6.2.3.2 Identities
The ProSe Key Management Function sends to the UE a PMK along with a 64 bit
PMK identity. The UE uses both the PMK identity and the FQDN of the ProSe Key
Management Function to identify the PMKs locally (e.g., PMK_id\@FQDN). The
ProSe Key Management Function shall only allocate currently (and locally)
unused PMK identities.
The PGKs are specific to a particular group and hence have a Group Identity
associated with that group. This Group Identity is referred to as \"ProSe
Layer-2 Group ID\" in TS 23.303 [2] and is 24 bits long. In addition, each PGK
associated with a group has 8-bit PGK Identity to identify it. This allows
several PGKs for a group to be held simultaneously as each can be uniquely
identified. When allocating PGK ID, the ProSe Key Management Function shall
ensure that all allocated PGKs that have not expired shall be uniquely
identifiable by the 5 least significant bits of the PGK ID. This means that
the combination of Group Identity and PGK Identity uniquely identifies a PGK.
The Group Identity is the destination Layer 2 identity of the group. An all
zero PGK Identity is used to signal special cases between the UE and ProSe Key
Management Function, and hence is never used to identify a PGK.
Each member of a group has a unique 24-bit Group Members Identity, identifying
a UE within a group and referred to as \"ProSe UE ID\" in TS 23.303 [2]. This
is used a part of the PTK derivation to ensure each user generates unique PTKs
for protecting the data that they send. The Group Members Identity is the
source Layer 2 identity when the UE sends data.
The PTK identity shall be a 16-bit counter set to a unique value in the
sending UE that has not been previously used together with the same PGK and
PGK identity in the UE. Every time a new PTK needs to be derived, the PTK
Identity counter is incremented.
A PTK is uniquely identified by the combination of Group Identity, PGK
Identity, Group Member Identity of the sending UE and a 16-bit PTK identity.
The PTK Identity is used as part of the derivation of PTK to ensure that all
PTKs are unique. Under a particular PGK, the PTK identities are used in order
starting with 1.
A Logical Channel ID (LCID) associated with the PDCP/RLC entity is used as an
input for ciphering in order to avoid key stream repetition (i.e., to avoid
counter being re-used with the same PEK by one or more PDCP entities
corresponding to a group).
A 16 bit counter is maintained per PDCP entity. Counter and LCID ensures key
stream freshness across the transmission by multiple PDCP entities of the same
group. The counter is same as the PDCP SN in regular LTE.
For each group that the UE is a member of, the ME shall store a value of PTK
ID and counter in either the USIM or non-volatile memory on the ME to prevent
the re-use of the same values with a LCID under a PGK in case the UE
unexpectedly powers down. These stored values shall be associated with the PGK
that is being used to send the data.
After power on but before sending any one-to-many data for a group, the ME
shall handle the PTK ID and counter from the USIM or non-volatile memory of
the ME as follows. The ME shall copy the values PTK ID and counter into
volatile memory.
NOTE 1: The values stored in volatile memory represent the smallest values of
PTK ID and Counter that the UE knows have not been used with currently unused
LCIDs.
For USIM storage of PTK ID and counter, the ME shall also increase the PTK ID
in the USIM by 3 if it is less than 2\^16-4 or to 2\^16 -- 1 otherwise, and
set the value of counter to 2\^16-1 (its maximum value). If storage in non-
volatile memory of the ME is used, the ME shall keep the value of PTK ID in
the non-volatile memory of the ME the same, and set the counter to 2\^16-1.
NOTE 2: The PTK ID on the USIM is set higher than if it was held in non-
volatile memory of the ME to reduce the number of writes to the USIM. It is
not set to the maximal value in both cases as this would invalidate a PGK for
a possibly out of coverage UE.
When a new PDCP entity is created for sending traffic, the UE shall select a
currently unused LCID. If a previously unused PGK is to be used to provide the
keys for protecting this PDCP entity, then the UE acts as below. Otherwise the
ME selects a PTK Identity and counter values to use with the new PDCP entity,
such that no larger PTK ID has been used for this PGK and LCID and no larger
counter values have been used with this PGK, PTK ID and LCID.
NOTE 3: It is enough for the ME to use the values stored in the volatile
memory of the ME to ensure keystream freshness, but more sophisticated methods
may allow more efficient use of PTK ID and counters.
If a previously unused PGK is to be used with the PDCP entity, then for a PGK
already stored on the USIM, the ME sets the PTK identity and counter on the
USIM to 3 and 2\^16-1 respectively and associates them with this PGK. For a
new PGK stored in non-volatile memory in the ME, the ME shall set the PTK
identity and counter in the non-volatile memory of the ME to one and 2\^16-1
respectively and associates them with this PGK. The ME shall set both the PTK
ID and counter in volatile memory to one. The ME shall use the new PGK, a PTK
ID of one and a counter of one to protect the traffic on the PDCP entity.
To encrypt the data for a PDCP entity, the ME shall calculate PTK (as
described in Annex A.3) and then PEK from PTK (as described in Annex A.4). The
ME then uses the PEK, LCID, PTK ID and counter to encrypt the next data packet
as described in subclause 6.2.3.6.1. Immediately after encrypting the data
packet, the ME shall increase the counter associated with the PDCP entity by
one. If this causes the counter to wrap, then the ME shall behave as follows:
\- If PTK ID \ UE_2 then integrity protects the Direct Security Mode Command before sending
> it to UE_1. UE_2 is then ready to receive both signalling and user plane
> traffic protected with the new security context. UE_2 shall form the
> K~D-sess~ ID from the most significant bits it received in message 1 and
> least significant bits it sent in message 3.
4\. On receieving the Direct Security Mode Command, UE_1 shall calculate
K~D-sess~ and the confidentiality and integrity keys in the same way as UE_2.
UE_1 shall check that the returned UE_1 security capabilities are the same as
those it sent in step 1. UE_1 shall also check the integrity protection on the
message. If both these checks pass, then UE_1 is ready to send and receive
signalling and user traffic with the new security context. If most significant
bits of K~D~ ID were included in the Direct Security Mode Command, UE_1 shall
generate the least significant bits of K~D~ ID such that these bits uniquely
identify K~D~ at UE_1 and shall store the complete K~D~ ID with K~D~. UE_1
shall send an integrity protected and confidentiality protected (with the
chosen algorithm which may be the null algorithm) Direct Security Mode
Complete message to UE_2. UE_1 shall include the least significant bits of
K~D~ ID in this message. UE_1 shall form the K~D-sess~ ID from the most
significant bits it sent in message 1 and least significant bits it received
in message 3.
5\. UE_2 checks the integrity protection on the received Direct Security Mode
Complete. If this passes, UE_2 is now ready to send user plane data and
control signalling protected with the new security context. UE_2 deletes any
old security context it has for UE_1. UE_2 shall form the K~D~ ID from the
most significant bits it sent in step 3 and least significant bits it received
in the Direct Security Mode Complete.UE_2 shall store the complete K~D~ ID
with K~D~.
#### 6.5.5.3 Rekeying security
By rekeying, the UEs ensure fresh session keys K~D_sess~ are used. Optionally
the rekeying can also enforce refresh of K~D~. Either UE may rekey the
connection at any time. This shall be done before the counter for a particular
LCID repeats with the current keys. A rekeying operation shall refresh the
K~D-sess~ and PEK and PIK, and may refresh K~D~. A rekeying operation follows
the flows given in figure 6.5.5.3-1.
NOTE 1: The UE that initiates a rekeying does not need to be the same one that
iniated the connection set-up.
Figure 6.5.5.3-1: Security establishment during rekeying
1\. UE_1 sends a Direct Rekey Request to UE_2. This message shall include
Nonce_1 (for session key generation), UE_1 security capabilities (the list of
algorithms that UE_1 will accept for this connection) and the most significant
8-bits of the K~D-sess\ ID~. These bits are chosen such that UE_1 will be able
to locally identify a security context that is created by this procedure. The
message may also include a Re-auth Flag, if UE_1 wants to rekey K~D~. The
message shall also contain the necessary information to establish a K~D~ from
the relevant long terms keys held on the UE (see subclause 6.5.4).
2\. UE_2 may initiate a Direct Auth Key Establish procedure with UE_1. This is
mandatory if UE_1 included the Re-auth Flag and signalling is needed to
establish K~D.~
3\. This step is the same as step 3 in 6.5.5.2 except the most significant
bits of K~D~ ID are included if a fresh K~D~ is generated during this
rekeying.
4\. This step is the same as step 4 in 6.5.5.2.
5\. This step is the same as step 5 in 6.5.5.2.
6\. When UE_1 receives a message integrity protected with the new security
context, it shall delete any old security context is has still stored for
UE_2.
### 6.5.6 Protection of the one-to-one traffic
#### 6.5.6.1 General
Protection for the signalling and user plane databetween the UEs is provided
at the PDCP layer. As the security is not preserved through a drop of the
connection, all signalling messages that need to be sent before security is
established, may be sent with no protection.
Editor's note: This exact message that may be sent without protection are FFS.
All other signalling messages shall be integrity protected and may be
confidentiality protected except the Direct Security Mode Command which is
sent integrity protected only.
The bearer with LCID = 28 shall be used to carry signalling messages that are
not protected.
The bearer with LCID = 29 shall be used for Direct Security Mode Command and
Direct Security Mode Complete.
The bearer with LCID = 30 shall be used for other signalling messages that are
confidentiality and integrity protected.
The bearer with LCID = 1 to 10 may be used for user plane traffic with
confidentiality protection.
#### 6.5.6.2 Integrity protection
ProSe enabled Public Safety UEs shall implement 128-EIA1 and 128-EIA2 and may
implement 128-EIA3 for integrity protection of one-to-one direct link
signalling.
The LTE integrity algorithms (see TS 33.401 [21]) are used with the following
modifications;
\- The key used is PIK;
\- Direction is set to 1 for direct link signalling transmitted by the UE that
sent the Direct Security Mode Command for this security context and 0
otherwise;
\- Bearer[0] to Bearer[4] are set to LCID;
\- COUNT[0] to COUNT[15] are set to K~D-sess~ ID;
\- Counter is input into COUNT[16] to COUNT[31].
The receiving UE shall ensure that received messages are not replayed.
#### 6.5.6.3 Confidentiality protection
ProSe enabled Public Safety UEs shall implement EEA0, 128-EEA1 and 128-EEA2
and may implement 128-EEA3 for ciphering of one-to-one traffic.
The LTE ciphering algorithms (see TS 33.401 [21]) are used with the following
modifications;
\- The key used in PEK;
\- Direction is set as for integrity protection (see 6.5.6.2);
\- Bearer[0] to Bearer[4] are set to LCID;
\- COUNT[0] to COUNT[15] are set to K~D-sess~ ID;
\- Counter is input into COUNT[16] to COUNT[31].
#### 6.5.6.4 Security contents in the PCDP header
The 16-bit K~D-sess~ ID and 16-bit Counter parameters are carried in the PDCP
header, along with any MAC that is needed for integrity protection. This is
illustrated in the Figure 6.5.6.4-1.
Figure 6.5.6.4-1: Security contexts of the PDCP header for one-to-one
communications
If the configuration is not to use confidentiality protection for one-to-one
communication user plane, then the UE shall set the values of the security
information (K~D-sess~ ID and Counter) to zero in the header of the user plane
PDCP packets.
For the signalling messages that are not protected, the K~D-sess~ and Counter
in PDCP format are set to zeros in the header of the PDCP packet.
### 6.5.7 ProSe one-to-one commuication security using ECCSI and SAKKE
#### 6.5.7.1 General
The solution uses the \"Elliptic Curve-based Certificateless Signatures for
Identity-based Encryption\" (ECCSI) signature scheme, as defined in RFC 6507
[14]. And, Sakai-Kasahara Key Encryption (SAKKE), as defined in RFC 6508 [24]
to generate a shared secret that is used as a K~D~ (root key) for establishing
a secure connection between the two UEs.
#### 6.5.7.2 Key and their identities
The UEs are provisioned with the required credentials (as defined in RFC 6507
[14] and RFC 6508[24) in advance, when the UEs have a secure access to their
Key ManagementServer (KMS).
The KMS, common root of trust for the UEs, provisions the UEs with a set of
credentials for ECCSI and SAKKE schemes.
Upon successful provisioning for ECCSI, each UE will be configured with the
public key of the KMS, and a set of credentials associated with the UE's
identity, which are: Secret Signing Key (SSK) and Public Validation Token
(PVT). The UE must act as \"signer\" and \"verifier\". As a signer, the UE
uses its SSK to sign a message, and when acting as a verifier, the UE uses the
public key of the KMS and the signer's PVT to verify the signature.
Upon successful provisioning for SAKKE, each UE will be configured with the
public key of the KMS, and a Receiver Secret Key (RSK) which is associated
with the UE's identity. The sender UE uses the receiver's UE identity
(receiving entity for SAKKE payload) and the public key of the KMS to create
an encrypted SAKKE payload. The receiving UE uses its identity, its Receiver
Secret Key and the public key of the KMS to decrypt SAKKE payload.
The public identity of a UE may be encoded in any format that is compatible
with the guidelines provided in RFC 6509 [12]. For example, the public
identity of a UE may be a concatenation of a fixed part (in the form of IMSI,
SIP URI, TEL URI, other user\@domain types of URI, etc.) and a varying part
(in the form of a timestamp).
### 6.5.7.3 Security flows
#### 6.5.7.3.1 Direct Connection Request
Figure 6.5.7.3.1-1 illustrates the establishment of a secure one-to-one ProSe
Direct communication. It relies on the generic signalling set that is
described in subclause6.5.5. The figure only includes the additional
information in the messages.
Figure 6.5.7.3.1-1: Security establishment at connection setup
1\. UE-1 wishing to engage in one-to-one ProSe Direct Communication with UE-2
sends a Direct Communication Request message including the following
parameters:
\- User of UE-1 Info = upper layer information identifying the user of UE-1.
This information is used to derive the Signer's identifier (used by ECCSI).
\- SIGN -- an ECCSI signature (as defined in RFC 6507 [14]) of the Direct
Communication Request message. The signature is computed over the User of UE-1
Info parameters and the Nonce 1 (see subclause 6.5.5).
Editor's note: The exact format of input parameters to calculation of the
signature is FFS
2\. Upon reception of the Direct Communication Request message, UE-2 verifies
the signature payload SIGN. If the verification test is successful, UE-2
presents the authenticated identity ("User of UE-1 Info") to the user of UE-2.
If user of UE-2 decides to accept the request, UE-2 sends a Direct Security
Mode Command message including the following parameters:
\- User of UE-2 Info = upper layer information identifying the user of UE-2.
This information is used to derive the Signer's identifier (used by ECCSI).
\- SIGN -- an ECCSI signature (as defined in RFC 6507 [14]) of the Direct
Communication Response message. The signature is computed over the User of
UE-2 Info, Nonce 1 and the SAKKE parameters.
Editor's note: The exact parameters of input parameters to calculation of the
signature is FFS
SAKKE -- UE-2 generates a 256-bit key Shared Secret Value (SSV), which is used
as K~D~ (root key), and encodes SSV value into a SAKKE payload according to
the algorithm described in RFC 6508 [24], using the KMS Pubic Key and the
public identity of the user of UE-1.
Upon receipt of the Direct Security Mode message, the UE-1 verifies the
signature payload SIGN. If the verification test is successful, it decrypts
SAKKE payload to extract the SSV which is used as a K~D~ (root key) from which
other keys can be derived.
3\. Upon successful processing of the Direct Security Mode Command message,
UE-1 responds with a Direct Security Mode Complete.
Both UEs shall store their own and the other UE's User Info with the K~D~.
##### 6.5.7.3.2 Direct Rekeying Request
Figure 6.5.7.3.2-1 illustrates rekeying of an existing secure connection when
K~D~ is changed. It relies on the generic signalling set that is described in
subclauses 6.5.5 over an existing secure connection. The figure only includes
the additional information in the messages. When K~D~ is not changed the
rekeying proceeds exactly as described in subclause 6.5.5.3.
Figure 6.5.7.3.2-1: Security establishment when rekeying an existing
connection
1\. UE-1 send a Direct Rekeying Request to UE-2.
2\. UE-2 responds with a Direct Security Mode Command message including the
following parameters:
\- SIGN -- an ECCSI signature (as defined in RFC 6507 [14]) of the Direct
Communication Response message. The signature is computed over the User of
UE-2 Info, Nonce 1 and the SAKKE parameters.
Editor's note: The exact parameters of input parameters to calculation of the
signature is FFS
SAKKE -- UE-2 generates a 256-bit key Shared Secret Value (SSV), which is used
as K~D~ (root key), and encodes SSV value into a SAKKE payload according to
the algorithm described in RFC 6508 [24], using the KMS Pubic Key and the
public identity of the user of UE-1.
Upon receipt of the Direct Security Mode message, the UE-1 verifies the
signature payload SIGN. If the verification test is successful, it decrypts
SAKKE payload to extract the SSV which is used as a K~D~ (root key) from which
other keys can be derived.
3\. Upon successful processing of the Direct Security Mode Command message,
UE-1 responds with a Direct Security Mode Complete.
Both UEs shall store their own and the other UE's User Info with the K~D~.
## 6.6 Security for ProSe Public Safety Discovery
### 6.6.1 General
The ProSe Public Saftey Discovery procedures are described in TS 23.303 [2].
This clause details the security procedures for ProSe Public Safety Discovery.
The functionality in this clause may only be supported by ProSe-enabled Public
Safety UEs.
### 6.6.2 Security Requirements
The requirements in clause 5.3.2 apply for the signalling between the UE and
ProSe Function.
For the distribution of the keys used to protect the discovery message, the
following requirements apply:
\- The keys shall be protected in integrity and confidentiality during their
distribution.
\- Only authorized Public Safety ProSe-enabled UEs shall receive the keys.
\- It shall be possible for the Public Safety ProSe-enabled UE to authenticate
the network entity distributing the keys.
\- It shall be possible for the Public Safety ProSe-enabled UE to store shared
keys for past and future cryptoperiods.
\- Authorized Public Safety Prose-enabled UEs shall securely store the shared
keys.For the discovery messages over the PC5 interface, the following security
requirements apply:
\- The system shall support a method to mitigate the replay attack, source
authenticity verification and integrity protection of public safety discovery
messages.
\- The system should provide a means of minimising the possibility of tracking
of UEs based on the content of their discovery messages over time.
\- The system shall support the confidentiality of information added to the
messages.
### 6.6.3 Overview of ProSe Public Safety Discovery
#### 6.6.3.1 General
There are two types of ProSe Public Safety Discovery described in TS 23.303
[2]: Relay Discovery (including the additonal Discovery messages) and Group
Member Discovery. The security measures for both of these are identical and
are reusing the following aspects:
\- the key provisioning mechanism that ProSe one-to-many commuication uses,
whereby a root key is fetched (the PGK -- see subclause 6.2.3.1 of the present
specification) along with associated security information; and
> \- the mechanisms defined for restricted discovery in terms of protecting
> the discovery messages over the air (see subclause 6.1.3.4.3 of the present
> specification with the needed DUIK, DUCK and DUSKs derived from the root
> key). It is optional to support scrambling for Public Safety Discovery.
Like open and restricted discovery, ProSe Public Safety Discovery also uses a
UTC-based counter (see step 9 in clause 6.1.3.3) to provide freshness for the
protection of the restricted discovery message on the PC5 interface. The
parameters CURRENT_TIME and MAX_OFFSET are also provided to the UE from the
PKMF to ensure that the obtained UTC-based counter is sufficiently close to
real time to protect against replays.
#### 6.6.3.2 Key and their identities
The Public Safety Discovery Key (PSDK) is the root key that is used for the
protection of the Pubic Safet Discovery messages. It is identified by an 8-bit
PSDK ID and each PSDK is assocciated with one or more Relay Service Codes
and/or Discovery Group IDs. This association is achieved by allocating a
24-bit Key Type ID to the Relay Service Codes (RSCs) and Discovery Group IDs
during the Key Request/Key Response procedure. The Key Type ID is also
included in the MIKEY message, so a delivered PSDK can be associated with the
correct RSCs and/or Discovery Group IDs.
NOTE: The allocation of RSC and/or Discovery Group ID to a particular Key Type
ID is specific to a UE and does not need to be common across all UEs.
When the PSDKs are provided to the UE, they shall be provided with an Expiry
Time. The Expiry Time of the PSDK needs to be set such that the keys for later
periods have a longer expiration period. Each PSDKs for each Key Type ID shall
be associated with a different Expiry Time value.
All expired PSDK, except the most recently expired of the PSDK(s), should be
deleted.
Public Safety discovery also uses the PMK and PMK ID for the MIKEY messages as
described in subclauses 6.2.3.1 and 6.2.3.2 of the present specification.
### 6.6.4 Security flows
#### 6.6.4.1 Overview
The configuration of the security material for the protection of direct
discovery messages is shown in the figure 6.6.4.1-1:
{width="6.25in" height="5.0625in"}
Figure 6.6.4.1-1: Configuration of parameters for public safety discovery
0: If needed the UE could be configured with any private keys, associated
certificates or root certificate that may be needed for contacting the ProSe
Key Management Function to allow the keys to be kept secret from the operator.
If none are provided, then the USIM credentials are used to protect that
interface.
1: The UE fetches the Relay Service Codes and Discovery Group IDs from its
HPLMN ProSe Function. Each one of these is associated with the ProSe Key
Management Function address that shall be used to fetch security parameters
for these types of discovery. These parameters may also be pre-configured into
the UE.
2.i: The Key Request and Response message are protected as described in
subclause 6.Y.6. The UE sends the Key Request message to the ProSe Key
Management Function including the relevant Relay Service Codes or the
Discovery Group ID that it wishes to get security material for.
2.ii: The ProSe Key Management Function checks the authorization for the
requested discoveries, and what types of protection to apply to it. The
authorisation check performed by PKMF will be successful only if the Remote UE
has subscribed to the relay service, the UE-to-Network relay is authorised to
act as a relay, or if the requesting UE is in the group identified by the
Discovery Group ID.
2.iii: The ProSe Key Management Function responds with the Key Response
message. If the check of step 2.ii is successful, this message contains the
_security metadata_ associated with the discovery. Such _security metadata_
include information on how to protect the discovery and the Key Type for that
discovery.
2.iv: The ProSe Key Management Function sends the relevant PSDKs to the UE
using MIKEY.
2.v. The UE responds with a MIKEY Verification message if requested by the
PKMF
3\. The UE is now ready to send or receive protected discovery messages.
#### 6.6.4.2 Messages between UE and ProSe Key Management Function
##### 6.6.4.2.1 General
There are two types of messages that are exchanged between the UE and ProSe
Key Management Function. Firstly, there are the Key Request and Response
messages. The UE uses these messages to request and receive the relevant PSDK
and associated security material for the Public Safety Discoveries it wishes
to protect. Secondly, there are the MIKEY messages, which the ProSe Key
Management Function uses to send the PSDKs to the UE. These messages are
detailed in the following subclauses.
##### 6.6.4.2.2 Key Request and Key Response messages
The purpose of these messages is for the UE to request the PSDK from the ProSe
Key Management Function. The UE knows from which ProSe Key Management
Function(s) to get the needed PSDK(S), as the FQDN of the PKMF are either pre-
provisioned or provided by the ProSe Function.
The UE shall not release the PDN connection used to receive MIKEY messages
containing PSDKs until the UE has informed each ProSe Key Management Function
that it no longer requires PSDK(s). This is to ensure that the ProSe Key
Management Function is aware of the correct UE IP address for the purpose of
performing PSDK deliveries as specified in clause 6.6.4.2.3.
If the UE detects that a PDN connection, which is used for receiving PSDKs is
released by the network, the UE should try to send a new Key Request to inform
the ProSe Key Management Function of its new IP address. This is to ensure
that the ProSe Key Management Function becomes aware of the new UE IP address
for the purpose of performing PSDK deliveries. Any new IP address should
override any existing ones of the UE at the ProSe Key Management Function.
When sending a Key Request for a PSDK, the UE shall include all the relevant
details of all types of keys that the UE is expecting to receive form the
PKMF, e.g. any PGKs for one-to-many ProSe communication.
Figure 6.6.4.2.2-1: Key Request/Response message
The protection for the Key Request and Key Response message is described in
subclause 6.6.6.
When sending a Key Request message to request the ProSe Key Management
Function to send PSDKs or to change the Relay Service Codes or Group Discovery
IDs for which it wants to receive keys, the UE shall include the following
information;
\- The UE's public safety discovery security capabilities, which indicate
whether the UE supports scrambling or not;
\- List of Relay Service Codes and Discovery Group IDs for which the UE would
like to receive keys;
\- For each Relay Service Code or Discovery Group ID, the PSDK ID of any keys
for those discovery that the UE holds. If the UE holds no keys for this
discovery, then it sends an all zero PSDK ID;
\- List of Relay Service Codes and Discovery Group IDs for which the UE would
like to stop receiving keys.
The ProSe Key Management Function shall check that the UE is authorised to
receive keys for the requested discoveries. This is done by using the UE
identity that is bound to the keys that established the TLS tunnel in which
the message is sent. If the UE isn't then the ProSe Key Management Function
responds with the appropriate error. The ProSe Key Management Function shall
also check UE's public safety discovery security capabilities to find out
whether UE supports scrambling or not, and responds with an appropriate error
if not. The ProSe Key Management Function shall update the stored set of the
discoveries for which the UE will be sent keys.
The ProSe Key Management Function responds to the UE with a Key Response
message that includes the following parameters:
\- List of the Relay Service Codes and Discovery Group IDs that were included
in the Key Request message;
\- For each discovery (relay or group member) that keys will be supplied for,
the security meta-data that should be used to indicate how to protect the
discovery message and the Key Type ID for the discovery; and
\- for each of the other groups, a status code to indicate why keys will not
be supplied for that group.
\- An optional PMK and PMK Identity.
\- CURRENT_TIME and MAX_OFFSET.
For the groups that the UE will get keys for, the UE shall store the received
information associated with that discovery. If a PMK and PMK identity are
included, the UE shall store these and delete any previously stored ones for
this ProSe Key Management Function. The security meta-data inform the UE
whether it needs to apply scrambling, message specific confidentiality and/or
MIC checking (see subclause 6.1.3.4.3). If message-specific confidentiality is
needed, then the security meta-data includes the Encrypted_bit_mask.
The UE uses CURRENT_TIME and MAX_OFFSET in the same way as from Open
Discovery: the UE may start announcing only if the UTC-based counter provided
by the system associated with the discovery slot is within the MAX_OFFSET of
the announcing UE\'s ProSe clock. The UE's ProSe clock is (re)set based on the
provided CURRENT_TIME.
The ProSe Key Management Function shall initiate the PGK delivery procedures
for the keys that are needed by the UE.
##### 6.6.4.2.3 MIKEY messages
##### 6.6.4.2.3.1 General
MIKEY is used to transport the PSDKs from the ProSe Key Management Function to
the UE. MIKEY is used exactly as in subclause 6.2.3.3.2.3 (which is for
carrying PGKs), except as follows:
\- IDi payload is formed from the Key Type ID \|\| PSDK ID @ FQDN of the ProSe
Key Management Function at the PKMF.
\- The UE recognises that it is receiving a PSDK rather than PGK based on the
Key Type ID in the IDi payload.
\- An all zero PSDK ID is used to trigger the UE to send a Key Request
message.
### 6.6.5 Protection of traffic between UE and ProSe Function
In order to protect the messages between the UE and ProSe Function, the UE
shall support the procedures for the UE given in subclause 5.3.3.2 and the
ProSe Function shall support the procedures for the network function given in
subclause 5.3.3.
### 6.6.6 Protection of traffic between UE and ProSe Key Management Function
In order to protect the UE-initiated messages between the UE and ProSe Key
Management Function, the UE shall support the procedures for the UE given in
subclause 5.3.3.2 and the ProSe Key Management Function shall support the
procedures for the network function given in subclause 5.3.3.2.
The MIKEY messages are protected as described in subclause 6.6.4.2.3.1.
### 6.6.7 Protection of discovery messages between the UEs
The protection of ProSe Public Safety Discovery Message over PC5 is very
similar to that of Restricted Discovery. When sending and receieving a
discovery message, the UE uses the PSDK that has not expired (using the time
in the UTC based counter associated with the discovery slot to check expiry)
and has the earliest expiration time to derive the needed subkeys for the
security of that message.
In order to protect the discovery messages over PC5, the UE first calculates
the necessary (as indicated in the security meta-data) DUSK, DUCK and DUIK for
the particular discovery using the appropriate PSDK. To this end, a KDF is
used to derive each of the keys indicated in the security meta-data, as
follows:
\- If the security meta-data indicates a DUSK should be used, then the UE
derives the DUSK from the PSDK using a KDF as in Annex A.8.
\- If the security meta-data indicates a DUCK should be used, and an
Encrypted_bits_mask is included, then the UE derives the DUCK from the PSDK
using a KDF as in Annex A.8
If the security meta-data indicates a DUIK should be used, then the UE derives
the DUIK from the PSDK using a KDF as in Annex A.8.
A sending UE then follows subclause 6.1.3.4.3.2, while a receiving UE follows
subclause 6.1.3.4.3.3 except that it never sends the discovery message to the
ProSe Function for MIC checking.
## 6.7 Security for ProSe UE-to-network relays
### 6.7.1 General
The ProSe UE-to-network relays procedures are described in TS 23.303 [2]. This
clause details the security procedures for ProSe UE-to-network relays.
The functionality in this clause may only be supported by ProSe-enabled Public
Safety UEs.
### 6.7.2 Security Requirements
The requirements in clause 5.3.2 apply for the signalling between the UE and
ProSe Function.
For the discovery, the security requirement in subclause 6.6.2 apply.
For the distribution of the keys used to protect the relay signalling, the
following requirements apply:
\- The keys shall be protected in integrity and confidentiality during their
distribution.
\- Only authorized Public Safety ProSe-enabled UEs shall receive the keys.
\- It shall be possible for the Public Safety ProSe-enabled UE to authenticate
the network entity distributing the keys.
\- Authorized Public Safety Prose-enabled UEs shall securely store the shared
keys.For the non-discovery communication between the Remote UE and relay, the
requirements on one-to-one communication in subclause 6.5.2 apply except the
one on mutual authentication of out of coverage UEs.
The system shall support mutual authentication between Remote UE and UE-to-
Network Relay.
Both Remote UE and UE-to-Network Relay shall be authorised by the ProSe
Function.
### 6.7.3 Overview of ProSe UE-to-network relay security
#### 6.7.3.1 General
The ProSe UE-to-network relay procedures consist of two distinct phases, i.e.
the discovery of the UE-to-network relay and the communication between the
Remote UE and UE-to-network relay.
The security of the discovery messages uses the procedures provided in the
current specification. The security of the communication between the Remote UE
and UE-to-network relay uses the procedures described in clause 6.5 to
establish the security context and protect the actual communication. The part
of the security establishment that is specific to the UE-to-network relay use
case is the establishment of the shared key K~D~. The procedures for this
operation are described in the next subclause.
Following the general sequence of flows for public safety one to one
communication, a shared key K~D~ needs to be established. This key serves to
derive session keys between the Remote UE and the UE-to-network relay.
In order to generate K~D~, the Remote UE needs a ProSe Relay User Key (PRUK)
and an associated 64-bit PRUK ID from a PKMF. The PRUK ID is used to identify
the PRUK to the PKMF of the UE-to-network relay. The PRUK can be used to
generate K~D~ for any of the relays under a particular PKMF and hence only one
PRUK for each Remote UE is needed from a particular PKMF. This PRUK needs to
the fetched by the Remote UE while it is still in coverage. This implies that
the Remote UE must contact all the PKMFs of any potential relays it wants to
be able to use.
The Remote UE fetches its PRUK from the PKMF using the Key Request/Response
messages or may receive one through GBA PUSH as part of establishing the
communication with the relay. The UE-to-network relay fetches the K~D~ that
will be used to secure the communication by sending to its PKMF the PRUK ID or
IMSI if the Remote UE does not have a PRUK for the relay or the supplied PRUK
has been rejected. At the PKMF side, the corresponding PRUK is retrieved. The
K~D~ is then derived from the PRUK using a K~D~ Freshness Parameter (a locally
generated random number), which the PKMF then passes to the Remote UE via the
UE-to-network Relay, a nonce sent by the Remote UE via the UE-to-network Relay
and the Relay Service Code the Remote UE wishes to access. The UE-to-network
Relay receives the K~D~ and the K~D~ Freshness Parameter, and stores the K~D~.
Having obtained the K~D~ Freshness Parameter enables the Remote UE to derive
the same K~D~ as the PKMF did.
If the Remote UE receives a new PRUK in a Key Response message, it deletes any
previous one for that PKMF. If it receives a new one through a GBA PUSH
message, it shall overwrite any PRUK received through a GBA PUSH message that
has not been successfully used to establish a relay connection. Once a PRUK
received through a GBA PUSH Message has been used to calculate a K~D~ for a
sucessful relay connection establishment, the Remote UE shall delete any
previous PRUKs for this PKMF.
#### 6.7.3.2 Security flows
##### 6.7.3.2.1 Overview
This subclause describes the overall security flows for UE-to-network relays.
These includes the basic attach flows, dealing with re-synchronisation errors
in GPI and the rekeying flows.
###### 6.7.3.2.1.1 Remote UE attaching to a ProSe UE-to-network relay
There are several possible ways that the parameters needed for UE-to-network
relay can be provisioned onto the Remote UE and UE-to-network relay. The flow
described in Figure 6. 7.3.2.1.1-1 is for the case when the general
pararmeters are fetched from the ProSe Function(s). In other cases some of the
steps can be omited if the relevant parameters are already in place. The
figure shows only the parameters that are relevant to the UE-to-network relay
security and not all the parameters carried by each message.
Figure 6.7.3.2.1.1-1: UE-to-network relay security flows
0\. The Remote UE and the UE-to-network relay fetch the parameters necessary
to act as a Remote UE and UE-to-network relay respectively (see TS 23.303[2]),
the PKMF address for accessing the relay and the security parameters required
to protect the relay discovery messages (see subclause 6.6).
NOTE: Part of step 0b may be performed at the same time as step 1a to 1b as
the same messages are used to initiate fetching the keys for protecting relay
discovery.
1a. The Remote UE sends a Key Request message to the PKMF of the UE-to-network
relay. The message indicates that the Remote UE is requesting a ProSe Relay
User Key (PRUK) from the PKMF. If the Remote UE already has a PRUK from this
PKMF, the message shall also contain the PRUK ID of the PRUK.
1b. The ProSe Key Management Function shall check that the Remote UE is
authorised to receive UE-to-network Relay service from one of its relays. This
is done by using the Remote UE identity that is bound to the keys that
established the TLS tunnel in which the message is sent. If the Remote UE is
successfully authorised, the PKMF sends a Key Response message to the Remote
UE that may contain a PRUK and PRUK ID. If a PRUK and PRUK ID are included,
the Remote UE shall store these and delete any previously stored ones for this
ProSe Key Management Function.
2\. The Remote UE discovers the UE-to-network Relay using either model A or
model B discovery.
3\. The Remote UE sends a Direct Communication Request. The Long Term ID shall
contain the PRUK ID of the PRUK that the Remote UE want to use to get relay
connectivity if the Remote UE has a PRUK for this relay and an attempt to
connect to this relay has not been rejected due to the PRUK ID not being
recognised. Otherwise the Remote UE shall use its IMSI in the Long Term ID.
The Direct Communication Request contains the Relay Service Code that the
Remote UE would like to access.
4a. The UE-to-network relay sends a Key Request message to the PKMF. The
message shall contain the PRUK ID or IMSI, the Relay Service Code and Nonce_1
(see subclause 6.5.5.2) provided by the Remote UE. The PKMF identifies the UE
by the PRUK ID or IMSI. The PKMF checks the context of the Remote UE to
confirm whether it can connect to the network via the selected ProSe UE-to-
network Relay for the given Relay Service Code.
4b. If the PKMF confirms the Remote UE can connect to the network via the
selected ProSe UE-to- network Relay, the PKMF decides if it requires a new
PRUK for this UE, i.e. policy in the PKMF decides that PRUK ID needs
refreshing or the relay provided the IMSI of the UE. If so the PKMF proceeds
as follows:
If the PKMF supports the Zpn interface to the BSF of the UE, the PKMF shall
request a GBA Push Info (GPI -- see TS 33.223[38]) for the Remote UE from the
BSF. When requesting the GPI, it includes a non-zero 64-bit PRUK ID in the
P-TID field. On reception of the GPI, the PKMF uses Ks(_ext)_NAF as the PRUK.
If the PKMF support the PC4a interface to the HSS of the UE, then the PKMF
shall request an Authentication Vector (AV) for the UE. On receiving the AV,
the PKMF locally forms the GPI including a non-zero 64-bit PRUK ID in the
P-TID field and sets PRUK as above.
4c. The PKMF generate a random number as the K~D~ Freshness Parameter. The
PKMF uses the PRUK to calculate K~D~ with the Relay Service Code, Nonce_1 and
K~D~ Freshness Parameter as inputs. The PKMF shall send the Remote UE
Identity, K~D~, K~D~ Freshness Parameter and the GPI if used to calculate a
fresh PRUK to the UE-to-network relay.
5a. Using the supplied K~D~ to protect the message, the UE-to-network relay
sends a Direct Security Mode Command message to the Remote UE (see 6.5.2.2).
This message shall contain the K~D~ Freshness Parameter and the GPI if it
received them from the PKMF.
5b. If the Remote UE receives a GPI, it calculates a new PRUK and associated
PRUK ID (see step 4b above). The Remote UE derives K~D~ from its PRUK and the
received K~D~ Freshness Parameter, Nonce_1 and the Relay Service Code (as
described in Annex A.Y). It then processes the Direct Security Mode Command as
described in 6.5.2.2. If this is successful, the Remote UE responds with a
Direct Security Mode Complete message and the Remote UE and UE-to-network
relay may start to exchange user data.
###### 6.7.3.2.1.2 Re-synchronisation in GBA Push authentication
This subclause provides the flows when the UE discovers a synchronisation
failure when processing the authentication challenge that was sent to it as
part of the GPI (for details of synchronisation failures -- see TS
33.102[42]). Synchronisation failures can happen in both the attachment flow
(described in subclause 6.7.3.2.1.1) and the rekeying flow (described in
subclause 6.7.3.1.3). The re-synchronisation flow is shown in figure
6.7.3.2.1.2-1, which only shows the contents of messages that are different
for the synchronisation case.
Figure 6. 7.3.2.1.2-1: Re-synchronisation flows
This steps are the identical to the Attach and rekeying flows up to the Direct
Security Mode Command in these flows
1a. The Direct Security Mode Command contains the same parameters as the
Direct Security Mode Command in the Attach or rekeying flows. On processing
the GPI parameter contained in this message, the ME receives a synchronisation
failure response for the USIM.
1b. The Remote UE send a Direct Security Mode Failure to the relay that
contains the RAND and AUTS parameters
2a. The relay send a Key Request message to the PKMF of the Relay and includes
the RAND and AUTS received from the Remote UE.
2b. If the PKMF supports the Zpn interface to the BSF of the UE, the PKMF
shall request a GBA Push Info (GPI -- see TS 33.223[38]) for the Remote UE
from the BSF and include the RAND and AUTS parameters. When requesting the
GPI, it includes the 64-bit PRUK ID in the P-TID field. On reception of the
GPI, the PKMF uses Ks(_ext)_NAF as the PRUK.
If the PKMF support the PC4a interface to the HSS of the UE, then the PKMF
shall request an Authentication Vector (AV) for the UE and include the RAND
and AUTS parameters. On receiving the AV, the PKMF locally forms the GPI
including the 64-bit PRUK ID in the P-TID field and sets PRUK as above.
2c, 3a and 3b. These messages are identical to the corresponding messages in
the Attach and rekeying flows.
###### 6.7.3.2.1.3 Rekeying procedures
Due to the asymmetric nature of the keying for relays, there are three
rekeying cases that need to be considered. Firstly there is the rekeying that
only changes K~D-Sess~ but not K~D~. Secondly there is the rekeying that is
initiated by the Remote UE that changes K~D~ and finally rekeying that is
initiated by the relay that changes K~D~. Each of these is described in turn.
Rekeying without changing K~D~ happens exactly as described in subclause
6.5.5.3. The Remote UE includes its PRUK ID as the Long Term ID in the Direct
Rekey Request messages, whereas the relay does not include a Long Term Key ID.
A rekeying that changes K~D~ that is triggered by the Remote UE is shown in
figure 6.7.3.2.1.3-1. The steps follow subclause 6.5.5.3 and only message
contents that are specific to this use are included
Figure 6.7.3.2.1.3-1: Rekeying K~D~ when rekeying was initiated by the Remote
UE
1; The Remote UE send a Direct Rekey Request including its PRUK ID to the
Relay.
2a, 2b, 2c, 3a and 3b. The content and handling of these messages are the same
as messages in the Attach flow (subclause 6. 7.3.2.1.1) except the security
contexts are handled as in subclause 6.5.5.3.
A rekeying that changes K~D~ that is initiated by the relay proceeds as
follows. The relay sends a Direct Key Request that does not contain a Long
Term ID. Instead of responding to this message, the Remote UE sends its own
Direct Rekey Request and the procedure continues as for the rekeying that
changes K~D~ that is triggered by the Remote UE.
##### 6.7.3. 2.2 Messages between the Remote UE and ProSe Key Management
Function
###### 6.7.3. 2.2.1 General
Key Request and Response messages are exchanged between the Remote UE and
ProSe Key Management Function. The Remote UE uses these messages to request a
PRUK to use with relays. These messages are detailed in the following
subclauses.
###### 6.7.3. 2.2.2 Key Request and Key Response messages
The purpose of these messages is for the Remote UE to request the PRUK from
the ProSe Key Management Function. The Remote UE knows from which ProSe Key
Management Function(s) to get the needed PRUK(s) as the FQDN(s) of the PKMF(s)
are either pre-provisioned or provided by the ProSe Function in the HPLMN of
the Remote UE.
When sending a Key Request for a PRUK, the Remote UE shall include all the
relevant details of all types of keys that the Remote UE is expecting to
receive from the PKMF, e.g. any PGKs for one-to-many ProSe communication.
Figure 6.7.3. 2.2.2-1: Key Request/Response for Remote UE
The protection for the Key Request and Key Response message is described in
subclause 6.7.3.4.
When sending a Key Request message to request the ProSe Key Management
Function to send to either get a PRUK or ensure its PRUK is upto date, the
Remote UE shall include the following information;
\- An indication of whether the Remote UE wants to receive PRUKs from this
PKMF.
\- PRUK ID (if any) that the Remote UE has for this PKMF. If it has none it
send an all zero PRUK ID.
The ProSe Key Management Function shall check that the Remote UE is authorised
to receive PRUKs. This is done by using the Remote UE identity that is bound
to the keys that established the TLS tunnel in which the message is sent. If
the Remote UE is not authorised, then the ProSe Key Management Function
responds with the appropriate error.
The ProSe Key Management Function responds to the Remote UE with a Key
Response message that includes the following parameters:
\- If the Remote UE is authorised to receive PRUKs, then the message may
include a PRUK and PRUK ID
\- Otherwise, a status code to indicate why PRUKs will not be supplied.
If a PRUK and PRUK ID are included, the Remote UE shall store these and delete
any previously stored ones that were obtained from this ProSe Key Management
Function.
##### 6.7.3. 2.3 Messages between the Relay and ProSe Key Management Function
###### 6.7.3. 2.3.1 General
There are only Key Request/Response messages exchanged between the UE-to-
network Relay and ProSe Key Management Function.
###### 6.7.3. 2.3.2 Key Request and Key Response messages
The purpose of these messages is for the Relay to request the K~D~ from the
ProSe Key Management Function.
Figure 6.7.3. 2.3.2-1: Key Request/Response for Relay
The protection for the Key Request and Key Response message is described in
subclause 6. 7.3.4.
When sending a Key Request message to request the ProSe Key Management
Function to request a K~D~, the UE-to-network relay shall include the
following information;
\- Either the PRUK ID or the IMSI that was provided in the Direct
Communication Request message or Direct Rekey Request;
\- Relay Service Code that the Remote UE requested to use;
\- Nonce_1 that was sent from the Remote UE to the UE-to-network relay in
either the Direct Commuications Request or Direct Rekey Request that triggered
this Key Request; and
\- RAND and AUTS, in the case of a synchronisation failure of the AV in the
GPI.
The ProSe Key Management Function shall check that the Relay is authorised to
serve the identified Remote UE for the supplied Relay Service Code. This is
done by using the Relay's identity that is bound to the keys that established
the TLS tunnel in which the message is sent. If the Relay is not authorised or
the Remote UE can not be identified, then the ProSe Key Management Function
responds with the appropriate error.
If the ProSe Key Management Function decides to provide a K~D~ to the UE-to-
network relay, then it generates a random number that it sends as the K~D~
Freshness parameter to the UE-to-network relay. The ProSe Key Management
Function also calculates the K~D~ (as described in Annex A.Y) from either the
PRUK related to the supplied PRUK ID or the new PRUK if this is to be updated
(see subclause 6.X.3.2.1.1). In addition to these parameter, the ProSe Key
Management Function also provides a Remote UE Identity that the UE-to-network
relay provides to the MME. The Remote UE Identity is either the IMSI, MSISDN
or a 128-bit string.
NOTE: In general, IMSI should not be sent outside of the operator network in
order to protect user privacy. The UE-to-Network Relay cannot be regarded as a
network entity in the traditional sense e.g. as an eNB. On the other hand, the
PKMF may have a sufficient level of trust in a UE-to-Network Relays to provide
the IMSI. Instead of sending the IMSI, the PKMF can send a 128-bit string to
the UE-to-Network Relay instead of the IMSI. The string should be such that
the MME map the character string to a wanted Remote UE identity (e.g. IMSI)
but that the UE-to-Network Relay cannot deduce the Remote UE identity. How
this mapping is done in the MME has not be specified by SA3. The mapping
information needs to be provisioned into the MME.
The ProSe Key Management Function responds to the Relay with a Key Response
message that includes the following parameters:
\- For a successful case,
\- a K~D~;
\- K~D~ Freshness parameter;
\- an optional GPI; and
\- Remote UE Identity.
\- Otherwise, a status code to indicate why K~D~ will not be supplied.
#### 6.7.3.3 Protection of traffic between Remote UE or Relay and ProSe
Function
In order to protect the messages between the Remote UE/UE-to-network Relay and
ProSe Function, the Remote UE/UE-to-network relay shall support the procedures
for the UE given in subclause 5.3.3.2 and the ProSe Function shall support the
procedures for the network function given in subclause 5.3.3.2.
#### 6.7.3.4 Protection of traffic between Remote UE or Relay and ProSe Key
Management Function
In order to protect the messages between the Remote UE/ UE-to-network Relay
and ProSe Key Management Function, the Remote UE/UE-to-network Relay shall
support the procedures for the UE given in subclause 5.3.3.2 and the ProSe Key
Management Function shall support the procedures for the network function
given in subclause 5.3.3.2.
#### 6.7.3.5 Protection of traffic between Remote UE and Relay
The signalling and user plane traffic sent between the Remote UE and UE-to-
network relay are protected as described in subclause 6.5.6
###### ## Annex A (normative): Key derivation functions
# A.1 KDF interface and input parameter construction
## A.1.1 General
This annex specifies the use of the Key Derivation Function (KDF) specified in
TS 33.220 [5] for the current specification. This annex specifies how to
construct the input string, S, to the KDF (which is input together with the
relevant key). For each of the distinct usages of the KDF, the input
parameters S are specified below.
## A.1.2 FC value allocations
The FC number space used is controlled by TS 33.220 [5].
# A.2 Calculation of the MIC value
When calculating a MIC using the Discovery Key for open discovery or the DUIK
for restricted discovery, the following parameters shall be used to form the
input S to the KDF that is specified in Annex B of TS 33.220 [5]:
\- FC = 0x49.
\- P0 = Message Type (see TS 24.334).
\- L0 = length of above (i.e. 0x00 0x01).
\- P1 = ProSe Application Code for open discovery or ProSe Restricted Code for
restricted discovery.
\- L1 = length of above (i.e. 0x00 0x17).
\- P2 = UTC-based counter associated with the discovery slot.
\- L2 = length of above (i.e. 0x00 0x04).
The MIC is set to the 32 least significant bits of the output of the KDF.
The Discovery Key, DUIK, Time parameter and discovery message follow the
encoding also specified in Annex B of TS 33.220 [5].
# A.3 Calculation of PTK
When calculating a PTK from PGK, the following parameters shall be used to
form the input S to the KDF that is specified in Annex B of TS 33.220 [5]:
\- FC = 0x4A.
\- P0 = Group Member Identity (i.e. the Layer 2 source address of the sending
UE).
\- L0 = length of Group Member Identity ( i.e. 0x00 0x03).
\- P1 = PTK Identity.
\- L1 = length of PTK Identity (i.e. 0x00 0x02).
\- P2 = Group Identity.
\- L2 = length of Group Identity (i.e. 0x00 0x03).
The input key shall be the 256-bit PGK.
# A.4 Calculation of keys from PTK and K~D-sess~
When calculating a PIK or PEK from PTK or K~D-sess~, the following parameters
shall be used to form the input S to the KDF that is specified in Annex B of
TS 33.220 [5]:
\- FC = 0x4B
\- P0 = 0x00 if PEK is being derived or 0x01 if PIK is being derived
\- L0 = length of P0 (i.e. 0x00 0x01)
\- P1 = algorithm identity
\- L1 = length of algorithm identity (i.e. 0x00 0x01)
NOTE: Void.
The algorithm identity shall be set as described in TS 33.401 [21].
The input key shall be the 256-bit PTK or the 256-bit K~D-sess~.
For an algorithm key of length n bits, where n is less or equal to 256, the n
least significant bits of the 256 bits of the KDF output shall be used as the
algorithm key.
# A.5 Calculation of scrambling bits for discovery
When calculating the time-hash-bitsequence for discovery, the following
parameters shall be used to form the input S to the KDF that is specified in
Annex B of TS 33.220 [5]:
\- FC = 0x4C
\- P0 = UTC-based counter for scrambling associated with the discovery slot --
see subclause 6.1.3.4.3.5.
\- L2 = length of above (i.e. 0x00 0x04).
The input key shall be the 256-bit DUSK.
The time-hash-bitsequence keystream is set to the 216 least significant bits
of the output of the KDF.
# A.6 Calculation of message-specific confidentiality keystream for discovery
When calculating the message-specific confidentiality keystream for discovery,
the following parameters shall be used to form the input S to the KDF that is
specified in Annex B of TS 33.220 [5]:
\- FC = 0x4D
\- P0 = UTC-based counter associated with the discovery slot -- see subclause
6.1.3.4.3.6.
\- L2 = length of above (i.e. 0x00 0x04).
\- P1 = (Key_calc_mask AND (Message \|\| MIC)) -- see subclause 6.1.3.4.3.6
\- L2 = length of above (i.e. 0x00 0x1B).
The input key shall be the 256-bit DUCK.
The message-specific confidentiality keystream is set to the 184 least
significant bits of the output of the KDF.
# A.7 Calculation of K~D~ for UE-to-network relays
When calculating K~D~ from PRUK, the following parameters shall be used to
form the input S to the KDF that is specified in Annex B of TS 33.220 [5]:
\- FC = 0x48
\- P0 = Relay Service Code
\- L0 = length of Relay Service Code (i.e. 0x00 0x03)
\- P1 = Nonce_1
\- L1 = length of Nonce_1 (i.e. 0x00 0x10)
\- P2 = K~D~ Freshness Parameter
\- L2 = length of Nonce_2 (i.e. 0x00 0x10)
The input key shall be the 256-bit PRUK.
# A.8 Calculation of discovery keys from PSDK
When calculating a DUSK, DUCK or DUIK from the PSDK, the following parameters
shall be used to form the input S to the KDF that is specified in Annex B of
TS 33.220 [5]:
\- FC = 0x4F
\- P0 = 0x00 if DUSK is being derived, 0x01 if DUCK is being derived, or 0x02
if DUIK is being derived
\- L0 = length of P0 (i.e. 0x00 0x01)
\- P1 = algorithm identity
\- L1 = length of algorithm identity (i.e. 0x00 0x01)
The algorithm identity shall be set to 0x00. Later releases may define other
values.
The input key shall be the 256-bit PSDK.
For an algorithm key of length n bits, where n is less or equal to 256, the n
least significant bits of the 256 bits of the KDF output shall be used as the
algorithm key.
A.9 Calculation of K~D-sess~ from K~D~
When calculating K~D-sess~ from K~D~, the following parameters shall be used
to form the input S to the KDF that is specified in Annex B of TS 33.220 [5]:
\- FC = 0x4E
\- P0 = Nonce_1
\- L0 = length of Nonce_1 (i.e. 0x00 0x10)
\- P1 = Nonce_2
\- L1 = length of Nonce_2 (i.e. 0x00 0x10)
The input key shall be the 256-bit K~D~.
###### ## Annex B (informative): Void
###### ## Annex C (informative): Void
###### ## Annex D (informative): Void
###### ## Annex E (Normative): Key Request and Response messages
# E.1 Introduction
This annex defines the Key Request and Key Response procedures between the UE
and the ProSe Key Management Function for ProSe one-to-many communications.
# E.2 Transport protocol for messages between UE and ProSe Key Management
Function
The UE and ProSe Key Management Function shall use HTTP 1.1 as specified in
IETF RFC 2616 [37] as the transport protocol for the messages between the UE
and ProSe Key Management Function. The ProSe messages described here shall be
included in the body of either an HTTP request message or an HTTP response
message. The following rules apply:
\- The UE initiates the transactions with an HTTP request message;
\- The ProSe Key Management Function responds to the requests with an HTTP
response message; and
\- HTTP POST methods are used for the procedures.
# E.3 XML Schema
Implementations in compliance with the present document shall implement the
XML schema defined below for messages used in ProSe key management procedures.
\
\
\
\
Info for ProSe Key Management Messages Syntax
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
An entity receiving the XML body ignores any unknown XML element and any
unknown XML attribute.
# E.4 Semantics
## E.4.1 General
The \ element is the root element of this XML
document and it can be one of the following elements:
\- \;
\- \;
\- \ element containing other ProSe key management message
defined in future releases; or
\- an element from other namespaces defined in future releases.
## E.4.2 Semantics of \
The \ element consists of:
1) \ element which contains the parameter defined in subclause
E.5.2.2.1:
2) zero or one \ element contains the parameter defined in
subclause E.5.2.2.2.
3) zero or more \ element, each of which consists of:
> a) a \ element containing the parameter defined in subclause
> E.5.2.2.3;
b) one or more \ element containing the parameter defined in subclause
E.5.2.2.4;
c) zero or one \ element containing elements defined in future
releases;
d) zero, one or more elements from other namespaces defined in future
releases; and
e) zero, one or more attributes defined in future releases;
4) zero or one \ element containing the parameter defined in subclause
E.5.2.2.10;
5) zero or one \ element, each of which consists of:
a) zero or one \ element containing the parameter defined in subclause
E.5.2.2.10;
b) zero or one \ element containing the parameter defined in subclause
E.5.2.2.12;
c) one \ element containing the parameter defined in
subclause E.5.2.2.13;
d) one \ element containing the parameter defined in subclause
E.5.2.2.15;
e) zero or one \ element containing the parameter defined in subclause
E.5.2.2.16;
f) zero or one \ element containing the parameter defined in subclause
E.5.2.2.17;
g) zero or one \ element containing elements defined in future
releases;
h) zero, one or more elements from other namespaces defined in future
releases; and
i) zero, one or more attributes defined in future releases;
6) zero or more \ element containing the parameter defined in
subclause E.5.2.2.5
7) zero or one \ element contains the
parameter defined in subclause E.5.2.2.22.
8) zero or more \ element, each of which consists
of:
a) a \ element containing the parameter defined in subclause
E.5.2.2.23;
b) one or more \ element containing the parameter defined in subclause
E.5.2.2.24; c) zero, one or more elements defined in future releases; and
d) zero, one or more attributes defined in future releases;
9) zero or more \ element containing the parameter
defined in subclause E.5.2.2.23.
10) zero or more \ element, each of which
consists of:
a) a \ element containing the parameter defined in subclause
E.5.2.2.25;
b) one or more \ element containing the parameter defined in subclause
E.5.2.2.26;
c) zero, one or more elements defined in future releases; and
d) zero, one or more attributes defined in future releases;
11) zero or more \ element containing the
parameter defined in subclause E.5.2.2.25. 10.
12) zero or one \ element containing elements defined in future
releases;
13) zero, one or more elements from other namespaces defined in future
releases; and
14) zero, one or more attributes defined in future releases.
## E.4.3 Semantics of \
The \ element consists of:
1) a \ element which contains the parameter defined in
subclause E.5.2.2.1: and
2) zero or more \ element, each of which consists of :
> a) a \ element containing the parameter defined in subclause
> E.5.2.2.3;
b) a \ element containing the parameter defined in subclause
E.5.2.2.5;
c) zero, one or more elements defined in future releases; and
> d) zero, one or more attributes defined in future releases;
3) zero or more \ element, each of which consists of:
> a) a \ element containing the parameter defined in subclause
> E.5.2.2.3;
>
> b) a \ element containing the parameter defined in subclause
> E.5.2.2.6;
c) a \ element containing the parameter defined in subclause
E.5.2.2.7;
d) zero, one or more elements defined in future releases; and
> e) zero, one or more attributes defined in future releases;
4) zero or one \ element, each of which consists of:
a) a \ element containing the parameter defined in subclause
E.5.2.2.8;
b) a \ element containing the parameter defined in subclause E.5.2.2.9;
c) zero, one or more elements defined in future releases; and
d) zero, one or more attributes defined in future releases;
5) zero or one \ element, each of which consists of:
a) a \ element containing the parameter defined in subclause
E.5.2.2.10;
b) a \ element containing the parameter defined in subclause E.5.2.2.11;
c) zero, one or more elements defined in future releases; and
d) zero, one or more attributes defined in future releases;
6) zero or one \ element element containing the parameter defined
in subclause E.5.2.2.5;
7) zero or one \ element, each of which consists of:
a) a \ element containing the parameter defined in subclause
E.5.2.2.18;
b) a \ element containing the parameter defined in
subclause E.5.2.2.19;
c) zero or one \ element containing the parameter defined in subclause
E.5.2.2.20;
d) zero or one \ element containing the parameter defined in
subclause E.5.2.2.12;
e) zero or one \ element containing the parameter defined in
subclause E.5.2.2.14;
f) zero or one \ element containing the parameter defined in
subclause E.5.2.2.21;
g) zero, one or more elements defined in future releases; and
h) zero, one or more attributes defined in future releases;
8) zero or one \ element element containing the parameter defined in
subclause E.5.2.2.5;
9) zero or more \ element, each of which consists of :
a) a \ element containing the parameter defined in subclause
E.5.2.2.23;
b) a \ element containing the parameter defined in subclause
E.5.2.2.5;
c) zero, one or more elements defined in future releases; and
d) zero, one or more attributes defined in future releases;
10) zero or more \ element, each of which consists of:
a) a \ element containing the parameter defined in subclause
E.5.2.2.23;
b) a \ element containing a parameter defined in subclause
E.5.2.2.28.
c) a \ element containing the parameter defined in
subclause E.5.2.2.26;
d) zero or one \ element containing the parameter defined in
subclause E.5.2.2.27;
e) zero or one \ element containing elements defined in future
releases;
f) zero, one or more elements from other namespaces defined in future
releases; and
g) zero, one or more attributes defined in future releases;
11) zero or more \ element, each of which
consists of :
a) a \ element containing the parameter defined in subclause
E.5.2.2.25;
b) a \ element containing the parameter defined in subclause
E.5.2.2.5;
c) zero, one or more elements defined in future releases; and
d) zero, one or more attributes defined in future releases;
12) zero or more \ element, each of which
consists of:
a) a \ element containing the parameter defined in subclause
E.5.2.2.25;
b) a \ element containing a parameter defined in subclause
E.5.2.2.28.
c) a \ element containing the parameter defined in
subclause E.5.2.2.26;
d) zero or one \ element containing the parameter defined in
subclause E.5.2.2.27;
e) zero or one \ element containing elements defined in future
releases;
f) zero, one or more elements from other namespaces defined in future
releases; and
g) zero, one or more attributes defined in future releases;
13) zero or one \ element contains the parameter defined in
subclause E.5.2.2.29.
14) zero or one \ element contains the parameter defined in
subclause E.5.2.2.30.
15) zero or one \ element containing elements defined in future
releases;
16) zero, one or more elements from other namespaces defined in future
releases; and
17) zero, one or more attributes defined in future releases.
# E.5 General message format and information elements coding
E.5.1 Overview
This clause contains general message format and information elements coding
for the messages used in the procedures described in the present document.
E.5.2 ProSe direct discovery message formats
E.5.2.1 Data types format in XML schema
To exchange structured information over the transport protocol, XML text
format/notation is introduced.
The corresponding XML data types for the data types used in Key Management
messages are provided in table E.5.5.1-1.
Table E.2.5.1-1: Primitive or derived types for ProSe Parameter Type
* * *
ProSe Parameter Type Type in XML Schema Integer decimal String string Boolean
boolean Binary hexBinary Date and Time dateTime
* * *
For complex data types described in subclause E.5.2.2, an XML \"complexType\"
can be used.
Message construction shall be compliant with W3C REC-xmlschema-2-20041028:
\"XML Schema Part 2: Datatypes\" [36]
### E.5.2.2 Parameters in ProSe key management messages
#### E.5.2.2.1 Transaction ID
This parameter is used to uniquely identify a ProSe Key management
transaction. The UE shall set this parameter to a new number for each outgoing
new discovery request. The transaction ID is an integer in the 0-255 range.
#### E.5.2.2.2 Supported Algorithm
This parameter is used to indicate which encryption algorithm the UE supports
for one-to-many commuications. It is a 1 octet long binary parameter encoded
as shown in table E.5.2.2.2-1:
Table E.5.2.2.2-1: UE _encryption algorithm capability_ information element
* * *
EPS encryption algorithms supported (octet 1)
EPS encryption algorithm EEA0 supported (octet 1, bit 8)  
0 EPS encryption algorithm EEA0 not supported 1 EPS encryption algorithm EEA0
supported
EPS encryption algorithm 128-EEA1 supported (octet 1, bit 7)  
0 EPS encryption algorithm 128-EEA1 not supported 1 EPS encryption algorithm
128-EEA1 supported
EPS encryption algorithm 128-EEA2 supported (octet 1, bit 6)  
0 EPS encryption algorithm 128-EEA2 not supported 1 EPS encryption algorithm
128-EEA2 supported
EPS encryption algorithm 128-EEA3 supported (octet 1, bit 5)  
0 EPS encryption algorithm 128-EEA3 not supported 1 EPS encryption algorithm
128-EEA3 supported
EPS encryption algorithm EEA4 supported (octet 1, bit 4)  
0 EPS encryption algorithm EEA4 not supported 1 EPS encryption algorithm EEA4
supported
EPS encryption algorithm EEA5 supported (octet 1, bit 3)  
0 EPS encryption algorithm EEA5 not supported 1 EPS encryption algorithm EEA5
supported
EPS encryption algorithm EEA6 supported (octet 1, bit 2)  
0 EPS encryption algorithm EEA6 not supported 1 EPS encryption algorithm EEA6
supported
EPS encryption algorithm EEA7 supported (octet 1, bit 1)  
0 EPS encryption algorithm EEA7 not supported 1 EPS encryption algorithm EEA7
supported
* * *
#### E.5.2.2.3 Group ID
This parameter is used to indicate the Group that the UE is requesting keys
for. It is an integer in the 0-167777215 range.
#### E.5.2.2.4 PGK ID
This parameter is used to indicate the PGK IDs for a particular group. It is
an integer in the 0-255 range.
#### E.5.2.2.5 Error Code
This parameter is used to indicate the particular reason why the UE will not
be receiving keys for a requested group. It is an integer in the 0-255 range
encoded as follows:
0 Reserved
1 UE does not support the required security algorithms for this one-to-many
communication group or discovery (relay or group member).
2 The ProSe Key Management Function does not supply keys for this one-to-many
communication group or discovery (relay or group member).
3 UE is not authorised to receive keys for this one-to-many communication
group or discovery (relay or group member).
4 UE requested to stop receiving PGKs for this group or PSDKs for this
discovery (relay or group member).
5 UE not authorised to receive PRUKs from this PKMF.
6 PRUK ID or IMSI not recognised.
7 UE-to-network relay not authorised to serve this UE.
8-255 Unused
#### E.5.2.2.6 Group Member ID
This parameter is used as the identity of the UE within a Group. It is an
integer in the 0-167777215 range.
#### E.5.2.2.7 Algorithm Info
The purpose of the Algorithm info is to indicate the confidentilaity
algorithms to be used for ciphering protection of the particular group
traffic. It is a binary parameter of length 1 octet that is encoded as shown
in table E.5.2.2.7-1.
Table E.5.2.2.7-1: Selected security algorithm information element
* * *
Type of ciphering algorithm (octet 1, bit 5 to 7)  
Bits  
**7** **6** **5**  
0 0 0 EPS encryption algorithm EEA0 (null ciphering algorithm) 0 0 1 EPS
encryption algorithm 128-EEA1 0 1 0 EPS encryption algorithm 128-EEA2 0 1 1
EPS encryption algorithm 128-EEA3 1 0 0 EPS encryption algorithm EEA4 1 0 1
EPS encryption algorithm EEA5 1 1 0 EPS encryption algorithm EEA6 1 1 1 EPS
encryption algorithm EEA7
Bits 1- 4 and bit 8 of octet 1 are spare and shall be coded as zero.
* * *
#### E.5.2.2.8 PMK ID
This parameter is used to identify a PMK. It is an 8 octet long binary
parameter.
#### E.5.2.2.9 PMK
This parameter is a key that is used to protect MIKEY messages. It is a 32
octet long binary parameter.
#### E.5.2.2.10 PRUK ID
This parameter is used to identify a PRUK. It is an 8 octet long binary
parameter.
#### E.5.2.2.11 PRUK
This parameter is a key that is shared by the Remote UE and PKMF and is used
to generate keys for protecting Remote UE to UE-to-network relay connections.
It is a 32 octet long binary parameter.
#### E.5.2.2.12 IMSI
This parameter is used to carry the Remote UE\'s IMSI. The coding of IMSI is
defined in 3GPP TS 23.003 [39].
#### E.5.2.2.13 Relay Service Code
This parameter is used to indicate the Relay Service Code for which the UE is
requesting service. It is a 24-bit long string.
#### E.5.2.2.14 MSISDN
This parameter is used to carry the Remote UE\'s MSISDN. The coding of MSISDN
is defined in 3GPP TS 23.003 [39].
#### E.5.2.2.15 Nonce 1
This random number is generetaed by the Remote UE to ensure fresh keys. It is
a 16 octet long binary parameter.
#### E.5.2.2.16 RAND
This parameter is the RAND from the authemtication challenge used in the GBA
PUSH authentication. It is a 16 octet long binary parameter.
#### E.5.2.2.17 AUTS
This parameter is the AUTS that is generated in a synchronisation failure. It
is a 14 octet long binary parameter.
#### E.5.2.2.18 Key K~D~
This parameter is a key that is shared by the Remote UE and UE-to-netwrok
relay and is used to generate keys for protecting Remote UE to UE-to-network
relay connections. It is a 32 octet long binary parameter.
#### E.5.2.2.19 K~D~ Freshness parameter
This random number is generetaed by the PKMF to ensure the K~D~ that it
derives is fresh. It is a 16 octet long binary parameter.
#### E.5.2.2.20 GPI
This is the GPI parameter that is sent to the UE as part of GBA PUSH
proecdures (see TS 33.223[38]). It is a binary parameter.
#### E.5.2.2.21 Remote UE other identity
This parameter is a permanent identity of the Remote UE and is used when the
KMF does not supply an IMSI of the Remote UE (e.g. the PKMF considers it a
privacy issue sending IMSI to non-network elements). It is a 16 octet long
binary parameter.
#### E.5.2.2.22 Public Safety Discovery Security Capabilities
This parameter is used to indicate the UE's security capabilities for
protecting Public Safety Discovery messages. It is a binary parameter of
length 1 octet that is encoded as shown in table E.5.2.2.22-1.
Table E.5.2.2.22-1: Public Safety Discovery Security Capabilities IE
+------------------------------------------------------------+ | | +------------------------------------------------------------+ | Scrambling protection bit (octet 1, bit 8) | | | | 0 Scrambling is not supported | | | | 1 Scrambling is supported | +------------------------------------------------------------+ | | +------------------------------------------------------------+ | Bits 1- 7 of octet 1 are spare and shall be coded as zero. | +------------------------------------------------------------+ | | +------------------------------------------------------------+
#### E.5.2.2.23 Relay Service Code
This parameter is used to indicate the Relay Service Code for which the UE is
requesting keys. It is a 24-bit long string.
#### E.5.2.2.24 PSDK ID
This parameter is used to indicate the PSDK IDs for a particular Relay Service
Code or Discovery Group ID. It is an integer in the 0-255 range.
#### E.5.2.2.25 Discovery Group ID
This parameter is used to indicate the Discovery Group ID for which the UE is
requesting keys. It is a 24-bit long string.
#### E.5.2.2.26 Protection Profile
This parameter is used to indicate which out of scrambling, integrity
protection and message-specific confidentiality will be applied to protect the
discovery. It is a binary parameter of length 1 octet that is encoded as shown
in table E.5.2.2.26-1.
Table E.5.2.2.26-1: Selected security algorithm information element
+-------------------------------------------------------------------+ | Scrambling protection bit (octet 1, bit 8) | | | | 0 Scrambling is not used for this discovery | | | | 1 Scrambling is used for this discovery | | | | Integrity protection bit (octet 1, bit 7) | | | | 0 Integrity protection is not used for this discovery | | | | 1 Integrity protection is used for this discovery | | | | Message specific confidentiality bit (octet 1, bit 6) | | | | 0 Message specific confidentiality is not used for this discovery | | | | 1 Message specific confidentiality is used for this discovery | | | | Bits 1-5 of octet 1 are spare and shall be coded as zero. | +-------------------------------------------------------------------+ | | +-------------------------------------------------------------------+
#### E.5.2.2.27 Encrypted bit mask
This parameter is included if message-specific confidentilaity is to used for
the discovery. It is used to indicate which bits of the message have message
specific confidentiality applied to them. It is a binary parameter of length
23 octets.
#### E.5.2.2.28 Key Type ID
This parameter is used to indicate which discovery (relay or group member) the
key belongs to when it arrives in a MIKEY message. It is a 24-bit long string
parameter.
#### E.5.2.2.29 Current time
This parameter proviodes the UE with the time at the PKMF, and along with the
Max Offset parameter, is used to ensure that the time the UE assoicates with
the discovery slot is reasonably close to the real time. It is of type Date
and Time.
#### E.5.2.2.30 Max Offset
This parameter indicates how close the time associated with the discovery slot
needs to be to the time provided by the PKMF. Max Offset is measured in
seconds. It is an integer in the 1-32 range.
###### ## Annex F (Informative): Network options for PC3 security
# F.1 General
The present annex describes the network options for securing PC3 and PC8
interfaces.
# F.2 Prose Function using standalone BSF
The network option for Prose Function using standalone BSF is described below:
Figure F.2-1: Prose Function using standalone BSF.
This architecture follows the GBA architecture, where the ProSe Function and
the ProSe Key Management Function are acting asa NAF.
# F.3 BSF - Prose Function/NAF colocation
The network option for Prose Function using colocated BSF is described below:
Figure F.3-1: BSF -- Prose Function colocation
In this architecture the BSF is colocated with the ProSe Function and the
ProSe Key Management Function acting as a NAF. Zn interface is present between
BSF and ProSe Function and also between BSF and ProSe Key Management Function.
# F.4 Prose Function with bootstrapping entity
The network option for Prose Function with bootstrapping entity is described
below:
Figure F.4-1: Prose Function with bootstrapping entity
In this architecture the ProSe Function and the ProSe Key Management Function
are enhanced in the way that the subset of BSF and NAF functionality towards
the UE is reused, specifically the protocols defined for Ub and Ua reference
points. Interfaces Zn and Zh are not used. Functionality of retrieving the
authentication vector in order to support the mutually authenticated key
exchange is the responsibility of the PC4a interface between the ProSe
Function and the HSS, or the PC4a* interface between ProSe Key Management
Function and HSS.
###### ## Annex G (Informative): Protection of Restricted Discovery and Public
Safety Discovery messages
# G.1 General
Both Restricted Discovery messages and Public Saftey Discovery message are to
be protected by some combination of scrambling, message-specific
confidentiality and integrity protection (see subclause 6.1.3.4.3). The
particular combinations that may be applied to each of these cases are not
restricted by the standard, but are controlled by the ProSe Function(s) (in
the case of Restricted Discovery) and the PKMF (in the case of Public Safety
Discovery). This control is applied by the ProSe Function or PKMF signalling
the chosen security measures for a particular discovery to the UE. The UE then
applies the requested security to discovery messages that it sends or
receives. This Annex provides information on the security provided by the
combinations of security mechanisms.
# G.2 Different combinations of security mechanisms
Table G.2-1 provides details of the security provided and sample use case(s)
for the various combinations of security mechanisms that are possible for
Restricted Discovery and Public Safety Discovery. This table is provided to
help with the configuration in the ProSe Function or PKMF of the appropriate
security mechanisms for a particular discovery and does not restrict the
combination of security mechansisms that the UE supports for either Restricted
or Public Safety Discovery (for details on UE processing of discovery
messages, see subclauses 6.1.3.4.3.2 and 6.1.3.4.3.3).
Table G.2-1: Impact and example use case for the various combinations of
security mechanisms
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Sending UE | Receiving Side | Security | Comments | | | | provided | and/or example | | | | | use case | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | DUIK | DUIK | Discovery | Relay | | | | message is | Discovery | | | | only integrity | where the | | | | protected. | Relay has no | | | | | requirement | | | | | for tracking | | | | | or | | | | | c | | | | | onfidentiality | | | | | protection. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | DUSK | DUSK | Hiding of the | Restricted | | | | parts of the | discovery | | | | message that | where exactly | | | | identify the | one ProSe code | | | | user (e.g. | is protected | | | | ProSe Code) to | by thisDUSK. | | | | prevent the | | | | | user being | | | | | discovered or | | | | | tracked by | | | | | unauthorised | | | | | users. Note: | | | | | only works if | | | | | there is | | | | | exactly one | | | | | message to be | | | | | protected with | | | | | the DUSK (as | | | | | then the | | | | | scrambling | | | | | provides | | | | | integrity | | | | | protection). | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | DUSK and DUIK | DUSK | As above | As above | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | DUSK and DUIK | Hiding of the | Restricted | | | | parts of the | Discovery when | | | | message that | one user uses | | | | identify the | DUSK to send | | | | user (e.g. | Code with | | | | ProSe Code) to | Application | | | | prevent the | Controlled | | | | user being | Extension bits | | | | discovered or | | | | | tracked by | Restricted | | | | unauthorised | Discovery with | | | | users. | several users | | | | | sending unique | | | | When only one | codes and no | | | | user uses the | Application | | | | DUSK, it | Controlled | | | | prevents | Extension | | | | tracking of | bits. | | | | the user. When | | | | | multiple users | | | | | are using the | | | | | same DUSK, the | | | | | XOR difference | | | | | between the | | | | | unprotected | | | | | discovery | | | | | messages will | | | | | be preserved | | | | | and would | | | | | enable some | | | | | tracking of a | | | | | user. | | | | | | | | | | Integrity | | | | | protection of | | | | | the whole | | | | | message. | | | | | C | | | | | onfidentiality | | | | | protection of | | | | | the whole | | | | | message when | | | | | only one user | | | | | uses the DUSK | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | DUSK, DUIK and | DUSK | Hiding of the | DUSK applies | | DUCK | | parts of the | to exactly one | | | | message that | full code and | | | | identify the | ciphered | | | | user (e.g. | Application | | | | ProSe Code) to | Controlled | | | | prevent the | Extension bits | | | | user being | included in | | | | discovered or | the message | | | | tracked by | but are not | | | | unauthorised | decryptable by | | | | users. | a receiver | | | | | that only gets | | | | Note: only | DUSK, as it | | | | works if there | was not given | | | | is exactly one | DUCK. | | | | message to be | | | | | protected with | | | | | the DUSK (as | | | | | then the | | | | | scrambling | | | | | provides | | | | | integrity | | | | | protection) | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | DUSK, DUIK and | Hiding of the | Restricted | | | DUCK | parts of the | Discovery with | | | | message that | more than one | | | | identify the | sender using | | | | user (e.g. | the same DUSK | | | | ProSe Code) to | and there are | | | | prevent the | Application | | | | user being | Controlled | | | | discovered or | Extensions | | | | tracked by | bits that are | | | | unauthorised | encry | | | | users. When | pted/decrypted | | | | only one user | using DUCK. | | | | uses the DUSK, | | | | | it prevents | | | | | tracking of | | | | | the user. When | | | | | multiple users | | | | | are using the | | | | | same DUSK, the | | | | | XOR difference | | | | | between the | | | | | unprotected | | | | | discovery | | | | | messages will | | | | | be preserved | | | | | and would | | | | | enable some | | | | | tracking of a | | | | | user. | | | | | | | | | | Integrity | | | | | protection of | | | | | the whole | | | | | message, plus | | | | | c | | | | | onfidentiality | | | | | protection of | | | | | part of the | | | | | message. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | DUCK and DUIK | DUCK and DUIK | Integrity | Group Member | | | | protection of | Discovery | | | | the whole | where the | | | | message and | Discovery | | | | c | Group ID is | | | | onfidentiality | sent in the | | | | protection of | clear and the | | | | part of the | rest of the | | | | message. | message is | | | | | protected by | | | | | me | | | | | ssage-specific | | | | | co | | | | | nfidentiality. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
The \"Sending UE\" column describes what keys need to be known to the sending
UE in the case of Restricted Discovery or signalled for use by the PKMF in the
case of Public Safety Discovery. The \"Receiving side\" column shows what keys
need to be sent to the receiving UE for Restricted Discovery, except if ProSe
Function MIC checking is required (when the DUIK is kept at the ProSe Function
in the HPLMN of the receiving UE), or signalled for use by the PKMF. The
\"Security provided\" column details the security that this combination of
security mechanisms provide. The final column provides example use case(s)
where this combination of security mechanisms can be used.
#