# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
In the past, privacy has been taken into account in the design of 3GPP
systems. Examples of this include the use of temporary identities such as the
T-IMSI and confidentiality protection of the user plane traffic. The work with
privacy has been included as a part of the work with defining security for the
3GPP systems and the privacy requirements have been handled as a subset of the
security requirements.
Even though 3GPP has worked with privacy since the start, the responsibility
became more direct in the end of 2011, when the SA3 updated its terms of
reference to explicitly include privacy. There has also been an increased
awareness of privacy related questions in o3GPP. This has led to more
questions regarding privacy when they define new functions. These are reasons
why privacy needs to be treated, not only as a part of security, but as a
topic in its own right to raise the assurance that it is taken care of
properly.
A core part of increasing the assurance around privacy is to establish a
baseline for privacy which ensures that an articulated set of privacy
principles are kept when designing 3GPP systems.
The present document presents privacy principles that should followed in 3GPP
when designating new systems, security architectures and protocols. Not only
will such principles provide guidance on what needs to be considered and to
some extent how, but their mere existence will serve as a constant reminder to
consider privacy the day-to-day work. In addition, some
principles/technologies can be a reference for vendors\' products design.
Also, it can be an aid for operators when working with subscriber data whose
collection and use may not be in scope of the 3GPP specifications.
# 1 Scope
The present document studies the subscriber privacy impact in 3GPP. In
particular, the goals of the present document are:
\- Identify and understand privacy related key issues impacting 3GPP networks.
\- Identify and potentially harmonize privacy requirements, e.g. MDT/SON.
\- Identify existing/ongoing work relevant to 3GPP privacy issues in external
standard bodies, for potential reuse in 3GPP, e.g. IETF RFC 6973 [2].
\- Identify privacy risk mitigation approaches and establish privacy handling
guidelines/principle and/or best practices for 3GPP for future specifications.
It is not an objective of the study to examine all existing 3GPP
specifications in retrospect with respect to privacy.
NOTE: The result of this study is captured in Annex F.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) RFC 6973: \"Privacy Considerations
for Internet Protocols\".
NOTE: http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6973.
[3] OECD privacy principles,
http://www.oecd.org/internet/ieconomy/oecdguidelinesontheprotectionofprivacyandtransborderflowsofpersonaldata.htm#guidelines
[4] 3GPP TR 22.949: \"Study on a generalized privacy capability \"
[5] The 7 foundational principles for Privacy by Design,
http://www.privacybydesign.ca
[6] GSMA Privacy Principles, http://www.gsma.com/publicpolicy/mobile-privacy-
principles
[7] Void
**[8]** 3GPP TS 33.210: \"3G security; Network Domain Security (NDS); IP
network layer security\".
**[9]** 3GPP TS 33.222: \"Generic Authentication Architecture (GAA); Access to
network application functions using Hypertext Transfer Protocol over Transport
Layer Security (HTTPS)\".
**[10] 3GPP TS 33.102:** \"**3G security; Security architecture** \".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Attacker:** entity with malicious intent that compromises the privacy of a
user by obtaining personal data, e.g. user data and traffic data.
NOTE 1: An attacker does not have a legitimate reason to receive this data. An
attacker can be active or passive. A passive attacker is an observer. An
active attacker generates traffic to obtain personal data or has the
possibility to modify communication.
**Authorized:** entity involved in the communication that is acting on behalf
of one of the other entities and this other entity has agreed to this e.g. by
signing a contract or settings etc.
**Communication:** Communication takes place between at least two entities and
is using at least one protocol. It may consist of a series of messages.
NOTE 2: A communication may consist out of different communication phases.
**Communication Initiator:** node (e.g. ME) that initiates the start of a
communication to one or several recipients.
**Communication phase:** group of messages which are part of a communication.
**Data controller:** Natural or legal person, public authority, agency or any
other body which, alone or jointly with others, determines the purposes and
means of the processing of Personal Data.
**Data processor:** Natural or legal person, public authority, agency or any
other body which processes Personal Data on behalf of the Data Controller.
**Data subject:** An identified or identifiable person to whom specific
Personal Data relates. It is someone who can be identified, directly or
indirectly, in particular by reference to an identification number or to one
or more specific factors (physical, physiological, mental, economic, cultural,
social).
**Eavesdropper:** A passive attacker observing with a malicious intent.
**_Home operator_** : The PLMN operator, with whom the user has the
subscription.
**_Identity: Any subset of a user\'s attributes that can uniquely distinguish
the user from others. Users may have multiple identities for use in different
services._**
**_Identifiable: A property in which a users\' identity is capable of being
known to an observer or attacker._**
**Intermediary:** entity where the communication or parts of thereof from the
communication initiator to the recipient is passing through.
NOTE 3: The intermediary may be able modify or have visibility of the
communication or parts of it. Typical intermediaries are base stations,
proxies, caches, relay servers etc. Depending on the protocol used and the
layer, the intermediaries for a communication may differ. Also there might be
different intermediaries for incoming and outgoing communication messages and
in some cases, there may be a series of intermediaries that are traversed.
**Location:** geographical information where the terminal resides. This might
be a GPS coordinate or some other local data (e.g. CellID or country).
**Observer:** entity that observes a communication; this can be for a
legitimate purpose or illegitimate purpose. An observer may only be an
observer for some layers of a communication.
**Operating _administrator and maintenance personal_** : person, who
administrates/maintains privacy information during its whole life time or is
responsible for administration and/or maintenance, may be also responsible for
privacy issues like privacy storage in network element.
**_Personal data: any information relating to an identified or identifiable
natural person (\'data subject\')._**
**_Identifiable person: one who can be identified, directly or indirectly, in
particular by reference to an identifier such as a name, an identification
number, location data, online identifier or to one or more factors specific to
his physical, physiological, genetic, mental, economic, cultural or social
identity of that person._**
NOTE 4: Personal data can be gathered from user data and traffic data.
**Recipient:** The secondary end-point of a communication.
NOTE 5: The recipient might be different for different layers of a
communication protocol.
**Requested Service:** service that the user agreed to potentially use.
NOTE 6: This might be a radio technology e.g. 5G or telco service e.g. IMS or
an application server e.g. visiting a website and signing in to a service. The
user has agreed in some way to potentially use the service, this might be via
visiting a web site or signing a contract.
**Service provider:**
1) 3GPP operator -- home or visited -- (e.g. location services) or a third
party provider acting on behalf of the operator and offering a service to the
user;
2) A third party service provider who use operator\'s network to provide
service (e.g. MTC service provider) and has a co-operation with the visited or
home operator.
3) A third party service provider who just uses the network connectivity to
provide service, but has no business relationship with the operator.
**User:** Data subject with 3GPP subscription
**_Visited operator_** : An operator of a PLMN, which is not the home
operator.
NOTE 7: A visited operator may e.g. be the operator of a 3GPP network, in
which the user currently is roaming.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
CDR Charging Data Record
CHR Call History Records
GPS Global Positioning System
MDT Minimization of Drive Tests
MR Measurement Report
MTC Machine Type Communication
PII Personal Identifiable Information
SIMTC System Improvements for Machine Type Communication
SON Self-Organizing Network
# 4 General description
## 4.1 Communication model
Cellular communication architectures are quite complex. To be able to
investigate them with respect to privacy we focus on protocol entities.
A communication is initiated by an initiator. This initiator might be a user
or acting on behalf of the user. Often the protocol initiator resides in the
terminal, but there are also different cases where some communication protocol
is not triggered by the terminal (e.g. SMS, broadcast).
The communication is directed from the communication initiator towards a
recipient. There might be a single or a multitude of recipients.
The communication consists usually out of several layers of protocols. Those
protocols may traverse through different intermediate nodes and have different
end-points. Some protocol layers may contain personal data; some will not
contain personal data and therefore might not be considered further in a
privacy impact assessment.
A communication often consists out of a set of messages that go forth between
a recipient and an initiator. The communication paths and therefore the
intermediary nodes might not be the same for all messages of one
communication.
The communication may traverse organizational trust boundaries (e.g. roaming).
This may have implications on the responsibility of handling the personal data
correctly. Typical examples would be information that passes between operators
or between an operator and a subcontractor.
Privacy considerations should cover its whole lifetime in the communication
system. A privacy impact assessment may investigate threats where the
assumption is that parts of the communication system are compromised. This
compromise might be investigated on protocol interface level, node level, or
organizational level. This kind of approach is taken, since those represent
typical attack points to obtain personal information (interface attack, virus
infection, insider attack). Not only data that passes trust boundaries should
be protected, but also data inside a trust domain e.g. data under operator
control, should be protected and only be accessible on a need-to-know
principle.
## 4.2 Conceptual view
During the communication process, privacy may be impacted by many sub-
processes. Figure 4-1 below provides a conceptual overview of privacy in 3GPP
and is as such for informative purposes only.
{width="5.997916666666667in" height="2.811111111111111in"}
Figure 4-1: Conceptual view of privacy in 3GPP system
1)UE
\- Storage of identity information (e.g. IMSI, IMEI, TMSI, IP address, SIP
address, etc.).
\- The interaction between UE and network involve personal data collection.
2) RAN & Backbone
\- The personal data (as for UE) intransmit between UE and Core network & OAM.
3) Core network & OAM
\- Personal data (as for UE) used/stored in the core network to accomplish the
communication.
\- Privacy related information maintenance by OAM.
4)Data processing for OAM purposes of user data, e.g. location
data.Internet/SP
\- Operator (data controller) share users\' personal data (under users\'
consent) with the Internet SPs/Application SPs (data processor) to offer
customized service to user.
# 5 Privacy threats - Description of key issues of Subscriber Privacy Impact
(SPI)in 3GPP
## 5.1 Introduction to privacy threat section
This clause is intended to provide an overview of the potential privacy issues
which have impact of subscriber privacy in 3GPP.
## 5.2 Privacy category related
### 5.2.1 Key issue #1-1 - Identify protection scope
#### 5.2.1.1 Issue details
With the evolving of telecommunication network and it\'s innovate application
paradigm developing, more and more systems/protocols involve privacy. In
telecommunication domain, the privacy refers to personal data and user/UE
identity privacy. Since privacy is a dynamic and diverse concept which
contains various information types, not every system/protocol involve same
types of privacy information. Consequently, when designing a new system,
security architectures and protocols, the scope of privacy and the potential
privacy (e.g. use converge information to infer privacy sensitive information)
should be analysed and clarified.
#### 5.2.1.2 Threats
The possibility of combining information collected by an attacker may result
in new interfering of privacy sensitive information. It may bring additional
risks to user\'s information security.
If the scope of involved privacy is not identified in an early stage of
system/protocol design, it may bring extra effort for the late introduction of
privacy supporting system/protocols and applications.
#### 5.2.1.3 Potential privacy requirements
System and security architecture design as well as protocol design should
identify possible personal data in an early stage of the work.
### 5.2.2 Key Issue - personal data
#### 5.2.2.1 Issue details
Personal data is categorized into the following:
\- Personal contact information (e.g. name, address, email, phone number)
\- Personal Identities information (e.g. user ID, Social Security Number,
Passport Number, Identity Card Number)
\- User Equipment information (e.g. IMSI, IMEI, MSISDN)
\- User Communication data (e.g. content of user voice calls, data session,
fax, SMS, voice mail, video, visited websites)
\- Location information (e.g. user GPS coordinates, Cell ID, WLAN AP MAC)
\- Financial information (e.g. user credit card number, bank accounts)
\- Personal sensitive information (e.g. ethnic origin, religion preference,
sexual orientation, health information, criminal records)
\- Personal physical, physiological and genetic characteristics (e.g.
fingerprint, Iris, facial features)
\- Personal social information ( e.g. marital status,the number of
children,income situation, property conditions, social relationship)
When personal data is not handled properly, the information may be used to
perform privacy intrusion of a user.
NOTE: Personal data listed above gives general examples; some of them are not
used in 3GPP specifications.
#### 5.2.2.2 Threats
Personal data can be mishandled during transit, storage, or application if
appropriate guidelines are not followed. Mishandling can be a result of not
implementing personal data handling controls, unauthorized access, or
deliberate. The consequence is the compromise of personal data for the user,
resulting in loss or disclosure of personal and/or financial data.
#### 5.2.2.3 Potential privacy requirements
Handling of personal data should follow widely accepted concepts in order to
comply with national and regional requirements covering these aspects of
personal data handlings:
\- Notice of personal data collection
\- user consent
\- right to be forgotten
\- collection minimization
\- process and use
\- disclosure to third parties
\- transfer of personal data only to authorized entities
\- retention of consent
\- access by user to his personal data
\- accuracy of personal data
\- protection of stored, used and processed personal data
\- openness on information regarding handling of personal data
\- Anonymization of personal data when possible
\- handling of personal data security according to its sensitivity
\- accountability for mishandling personal data
### 5.2.3 Key issue - User and UE identity privacy
#### 5.2.3.1 Issue details
User and UE identities include IMSI, IMEI, MSISDN, an IP address that is bound
to a user, and a MAC address that is tied to an UE. Identities may appear in
many databases and files, such as Call History Records (CHR), Charging Data
Records (CDR), and Measurement Reports (MR). They are used in many 3GPP
network elements, including (e)NB, GGSN, SGSN, MME, HLR, AAA, etc. to provide
services and support network operations. If these identities are not
protected, user privacy may become compromised, either intentionally or
unintentionally, which might result in the accidental or unlawful destruction,
loss, alteration and unauthorised disclosure of, or access to, personal data
transmitted, stored or otherwise processed. As a result for example, user\'s
activities or location being tracked or other personal data being exposed.
#### 5.2.3.2 Threats
Tracing of an user or UE can happen wherever these identities are being used,
transferred, and/or stored by various network nodes, including (e)NB, GGSN,
SGSN, etc. Tracing of a user or UE can also happen when identities are being
used, transferred, and/or stored by unauthorized personnel. The consequences
of these threats to user and UE identities being exposed is that the user\'s
personal data is disclosed (e.g. call details, location information) and
financial losses.
#### 5.2.3.3 Potential privacy requirements
Req1: The UE\'s permanent identities (IMSI, IMEI, MSISDN, IP, MAC) should be
protected against unintended exposure.
Req2: If UE\'s permanent identities need to be used or accessed, they should
be protected using Privacy Enhancing Technology such as anonymization
techniques or temporary identities.
NOTE: Pseudonimization (use of temporary identities) is less efficient than
anonymization.
## 5.3 Personal data management lifecycle
### 5.3.1 Key issue --Collecting privacy related information
#### 5.3.1.1 Issue details
During a communication process personal data may need to be collected to
complete communication task. This raises some questions, e.g. who is
collecting (data collector) and using (data processor) the personal data, what
personal data is being disclosed to whom and for what purposes etc. A key
aspect of ensuring privacy and fostering user\'s confidence/ trust in
communication is to clarify the issue on collection personal data.
#### 5.3.1.2 Threats
An unclear policy on what data is collected by who may bring the risk to
user\'s information disclosure and potential unlawful usage of such
information.
#### 5.3.1.3 Potential privacy requirements
For systems/protocols, that collect personal data, it needs to be clarified:
(1) who (related to privacy role) is collecting and using personal
information;
(2) why is personal information used and collected;
(3) which personal information is being disclosed to whom and for what
purposes.
_The personal data needs to be collected securely to prevent disclosure in the
process of being collected._
### 5.3.2 Key Issue -- Storage of personal data
#### 5.3.2.1 Issue details
In 3GPP system, personal data (e.g. UE identity) are usually stored in the
network elements. If a network element is compromised by an attacker (e.g.
unauthorized internal entities or by being vulnerable to third party attacks),
personal data that is stored unprotected or insufficiently protected, can be
accessed. Further, the attacker can launch further attacks by using personal
data and cause damage to MNO and / or user.
#### 5.3.2.2 Threats
Personal data stored unprotected or insufficiently protected in network
elements may cause the risk of user personal data disclosure and may result in
an attack that may damage the MNO or user.
#### 5.3.2.3 Potential privacy requirements
The personal data should be stored securely to protect against unauthorized
access and modification for example by utilizing appropriate safeguards, which
may include encryption or pseudonymisation.
### 5.3.3 Key issue - Retention of personal data
#### 5.3.3.1 Issue details
In order to enable communication or information services, users\' personal
data may need to be delivered to 3GPP systems or to service providers.
Generally, once the personal data has no further value for the communication
accomplished/serves provided, it should be deleted to avoid the possible risk
of privacy disclosure/compromise. Consequently, when designing new systems,
security architectures and protocols, deletion rules of privacy sensitive data
is an issue that needs to be considered, for example by defining the way and
pre-conditions for personal data deletion.
#### 5.3.3.2 Threats
Keeping no further use-value personal data may bring the risk of user of
unwanted personal data disclosure, and such related attacks.
#### 5.3.3.3 Potential privacy requirements
Personal data should be erased or alternatively anonymized when it is no
longer necessary for providing communication service and related billing and
according to configurable data retention times. Exceptions to this rule may
apply due to local legislations.
### 5.3.4 Key issue - Personal information disclosure in business
collaborations
#### 5.3.4.1 Issue details
With the more and more diverse business in 3GPP system, some businesses need
multiple parts (e.g. operator, the 3^rd^ part service provider) to
collaborate. During this collaboration process, the users\' personal data may
need to be disclosed. For example, to offer a more customized service, the
3^rd^ party service provider may need the operators to discloe the users\'
location with them.
#### 5.3.4.2 Threats
Unauthorized personal information disclosure may violate users\' rights to
privacy.
During the personal data disclosure process, the security of information
transfer/store will face traditional information security risks.
#### 5.3.4.3 Potential privacy requirements
Personal data disclosure with the purpose to accomplish a certain
application/service needs to be under user\'s consent, unless the disclosure
is performed in the legitimate interest of the data subject, e.g. providing a
service.
The disclosed personal data needs be protected by all collaborating parties
during the data's life-time.
The information disclosure needs to be bound to the service the user has
subscribed to in order to delete the user data when the user unsubscribes to
the service.
### 5.3.5 Key issue - User privacy choice
#### 5.3.5.1 Issue details
Some services may allow users to set their privacy settings, such as in which
condition the network/service provider cannot use their personal data (e.g.
location), or in which condition the network should detach the UE to avoid
tracing, or in which condition the group member will not allow to receive
group messages etc. User choice protection is a key requirement to fulfil the
data subject's privacy expectations.
#### 5.3.5.2 Threats
During transfer of the users privacy settings, an attacker may eavesdrop or
change these preference settings.
An attacker may impersonate the legitimate user and change the preference
settings on his behalf.
#### 5.3.5.3 Privacy requirements
The user\'s privacy settings should be integrity and confidentiality protected
when being transferred.
The legitimate user needs to be authenticated and authorised when changing his
privacy preferences.
## 5.4 Privacy operation and maintenance related
### 5.4.1 Key Issue - Privacy vs. system functionality
#### 5.4.1.1 Issue details
One goal of the present document is to collect privacy principles that SA3
should adhere to when designing new systems, security architectures and
protocols. In recent system design, privacy issues appear to be diversified,
for example, the need for user consent to collect measurements in the SON and
MDT work, machine tracking in SIMTC, user privacy in Proximity Service
security, etc. These privacy issues are related to system functionality.
Unless the privacy measures are solved in an appropriate way, the
functionality will be unnecessarily restricted. On the one hand, when 3GPP
designs new systems, security architectures and protocols, potential privacy
mechanisms need to be considered. On the other hand, there should be a balance
between the privacy required and the functionality provided by the system to
provide the user with the ordered service. For example, for SON and MDT to
work, users\' location information may need to be accessible to parts of the
system (even if this implies the need for user consent) to be able to fix the
connectivity problems a user has.
#### 5.4.1.2 Threats
When 3GPP designs new systems, security architectures and protocols and
privacy protection procedures are not defined clearly in an early stage, the
system functionality will be impacted. For example, if the users consent
mechanism is not provided to the user, the functionality of SON and/or MDT
will not be usable.
#### 5.4.1.3 Potential privacy requirements
Systems, security architectures and protocols design and deploy should take
privacy protection as system functionality if personal data is involved in the
system.
The strength of privacy protection should take into account the sensitivity of
data, the potential impacts on the system, and impacts on service provided to
the user and the usability of the system.
NOTE: Privacy protection should be applied according to local regulation
requirements.
### 5.4.2 Key Issue -- Privacy role
#### 5.4.2.1 Issue details
Communication tasks require multiple different entities. When conducting
privacy impact assessment of a system/protocol, the entities involved may take
on different roles (e.g. communication initiator) from a privacy perspective
in the different phases of a communication task. In those cases it might be
helpful to define the roles of the different entities in the different phases
and to define a policy that marks down the actions and obligations with
respect to personal data of these entities.
#### 5.4.2.2 Threats
If the actions that can be taken on personal data (e.g. collect, use, and
share) are not defined for an entity (e.g. user, operator, service provider)
then this lack of a policy may result in the abuse or loss of personal
information. Unclear obligations for the personal data handling may lead to
difficulties when investigating a privacy breach.
#### 5.4.2.3 Potential privacy requirements
The roles (e.g. data collector, data processor) involved and their obligations
with respect to privacy should be specified.
# 6 Solutions / Threat mitigation
## 6.1 Guidance on applicability
This clause describes potential approaches to the threats, key issues and
requirements outlined in clause 5. It follows to a large extend the Standard
Privacy Assessment approach of the International Organization for
Standardization (ISO). The process proposed in this clause are to evaluate and
assess a possible privacy impact of a new 3GPP technical specifications.
Most 3GPP standards focus on the communication protocol(s) of one particular
layer. The outlined process takes into account that the nodes in the
communication model may support more than one layer and therefore potential
aggregation of personal data at the recipient or intermediary may take place.
The proposed process takes into account the privacy principles of the present
document.
A privacy impact assessment should be done when the work on a technical
specification becomes stable or a new major feature is added to an existing
specification and the addition is stable. During the early stage of the work
e.g. when the work item is created, it is often not fully clear, what and if
personal data needs to be handled. On the final stages of the work, larger
adjustments e.g. user consent handling can no longer be introduced without
major architectural impacts.
Thus, the suggested pragmatic approach allows identification of needed
functionality in a stage of the work, where it is still possible to make
adjustments to protect the personal data and to prevent potential expensive
re-designs at a later stage of work. It may require additions or changes to
the specifications or approaches outside of the scope of 3GPP, depending on
the outcome of the screening.
## 6.2 Solution #1 -- Privacy identification process
### 6.2.0 Introduction
This clause describes the basic process to identify the need to take action in
3GPP to protect personal data. This chapter follows to a large extend the
Standard Privacy Assessment approach of ISO.
### 6.2.1 General description
The walk-through to the process might be documented for later usage in the
affected specifications. The following key points are to be checked:
**1) Scope of Personal Identifiable Information Handling**
\- What are the possible personal data of the system/protocol that can be
identified?
\- Will the specification process personal data, including personal
identities?
\- Will the specification generate personal data e.g. location information?
**2) Role of Privacy Handling Entities**
\- Define roles for personal data act (e.g. communication initiator,
intermediary, attacker) for the whole period of the communication session.
\- Identify the association for each communication role e.g. operator
personnel, external, etc.
\- Identify trust boundaries.
**3) Collection and Using of Personal Identifiable Information**
In general, it is assumed that technical specifications are specified in a way
such that only necessary data are processed, stored and collected to fulfil
the functional purpose e.g. providing a certain service to the user. If all
those questions below are answered with no, then the specification is unlikely
to have impacts on the personal information privacy.
Which personal data collection aspects can be identified? I.e.:
\- who (related to privacy role) is collecting and using personal data?
\- why is personal data used (purpose)?
\- what personal data is being disclosed to whom and for what purposes?
\- Will the specification/protocol be deployed in nodes, where personal data
is processed?
\- If yes, then could the node maliciously collect personal data?
\- Will the specification and the data, that the specification processes and
generates, be used across trust boundaries?
\- Is there user consent present for transferring data across trust
boundaries?
**4) Storage of Personal data**
\- Define the needed security level for the storage of personal data
\- Define the required access control for accessing the personal data
**5) Erasure of Personal Identifiable Information**
> Define the way and pre-conditions for personal data to be deleted /
> destroyed. The expected lifetime of personal data should be taken into
> account when designing the protocol that uses these personal data. This also
> enables better usage of storage resources.
### 6.1.2 Implementation
This part gives examples for the privacy protection methodology
implementation.
**SCOPE IDENTIFICATION**
_\- Personal data items:_ list each potential personal data class in the
system/application;
\- Personal data categories:
> NOTE 1: Not all of these categories are in scope of 3GPP.
C1: Personal contact information (e.g. name, address, email, phone number
etc.)
C2: Personal Identities information (e.g. user ID, group ID, Social Security
Number, Passport Number, Identity Card Number etc.)
C3: User Equipment information (e.g. IMSI, IMEI, MSISDN etc.)
C4: User Communication data (e.g. content of user voice calls, data session,
fax, SMS, voice mail, video, visited websites etc.)
C5: Location information (e.g. user GPS coordinates, Cell ID, WLAN AP MAC
etc.)
C6: Financial information (e.g. user credit card number, bank accounts etc.)
C7: Personal sensitive information (e.g. race, religion preference, sexual
orientation, health information, criminal records etc.)
C8: Personal biological characteristics (e.g. fingerprint, Iris, facial
features etc.)
> NOTE 2: There are also data which are not personal data in themselves, but
> could be combined with other data to become personal data.
_\- Relevant network elements:_ describe the relevant network element that
personal data may involve;
\- Network elements:
UE
RAN & Backbone
Core network & OMA
Application server: e.g. GCSE AS, MTC AS
_\- Relevant roles:_ describe the possible roles that personal data may
involve, first list the entities and then mapping them to the relevant roles;
\- Entities:
Subscriber
Operator
Requested Service
Service provider
\- Roles:
Data subject
Data controller
Data processor
_\- Relevant operations:_ describe the operations between relevant roles;
\- Operations:
Request
Submit
Customized setting
Transmit
Storage
Access
Second hand use
Disclose
Deletion
**THREAT AND REQUIREMENT IDENTIFICATION**
_\- Threat analysis:_ analyse and list the potential threat for the personal
data identified in the SCOPE IDENTIFICATION section;
_\- Privacy requirement:_ according to the threat analysis, and also refer to
the local regulations, analyse and list the privacy requirements;
**TECHNOLOGY SCHEME CHOICE**
_\- Privacy life time management:_ identify the principles and details of
personal data life time, which covers collection, use, storage,
delete/destroy;
_\- Privacy mitigation_ : choose privacy mitigation technology (e.g.
anonymity, using temporary identity, access control, additional signal
procedure, encryption procedure) to satisfy the privacy protection
requirements.
## 6.2 Threat mitigation -- Data minimization
If privacy is compromised, personal data gets available to unauthorized
entities. But even if the entity is authorized to receive certain data, the
connection of different sensitive data may also result in a compromise of the
user privacy.
Therefore, as one of the most basic principles to privacy, avoiding that
personal data is generated in the first place and is spread in the second
place and therefore minimizing the possibility of collecting data should
always be taken into account when designing a communication system or a
protocol within such a system. Personal data should only be generated and
collected on a direct need basis.
## 6.3 Threat mitigation- access control
### 6.3.1 Introduction
A framework for system protection is access control, which describes the
access rights of users with respect to objects. In 3GPP system, personal data
(e.g. UE identity) is usually stored in the network elements. For operation
and maintenance on the system, from any support side (operator or vendor), the
usage of access control mechanism can mitigate the risk that an attacker can
access the system and compromise privacy. Only an authorized user should be
able to read or process privacy sensitive information within the system.
### 6.3.2 Use case
Access control technology can be used in:
\- The operation and maintenance domain.
\- The service provider domain when using 3GPP networks to offer services.
The usage of access control can prevent unauthorized access to personal data.
## 6.4 Threat mitigation - anonymity
### 6.4.1 Introduction
Anonymity technology (or anonymization) is a privacy enhancing technology,
which can reduce personal data, and therefore reduces the potential risk for
privacy compromise.
To enable anonymity of an individual, a set of other individuals have to have
the same attribute(s) as this individual. The composition of the anonymity set
depends on the knowledge that is assumed an observer or attacker may have. To
enable anonymity effectively the following steps are seen as relevant.
\- Analyse potential process/communication phase that may expose personal
data.
\- Analyse and select the identifying attribute or combination of attributes
which may bring a risk of personal identification.
\- Describe the risk of privacy intrusion by the identifying attribute.
\- Use anonymized (e.g. randomized or blind) attribute instead of the
identifying attribute.
Anonymization is not obvious process and multiple ways of re-identification
are possible.
Anonymity technology has a limited applicability. Some processes, like
charging, might require that the identity of the user to be charged is known
at some point in time. Also, some information, like location traces might not
benefit from anonymization since the trace itself is sufficient to identify an
end-user. For those cases, other mitigating techniques might be useful. These
cases are identified by the observation that:
\- anonymization is impossible because the real identity is known to the
process,
\- the (combination of) attribute(s) still reveals the identity even if some
degree of anonymization is applied, such as location traces.
### 6.4.2 Use case: UMTS authentication procedure
The UMTS authentication procedure (TS 33.102 [10]) design is an example of how
to fulfil anonymity:
1) Analysis of the authentication process: identity and location of the user
may be exposed.
2) Identify an identifying attribute: _sequence number_ may bring a risk of
personal identification.
3) Risk: The sequence number may expose the identity and thus the location of
the user.
4) Anonymizing technique used: use _Anonymity Key_ in the Authentication Token
to conceal (blind) the _sequence number_.
## 6.5 Threat mitigation- explicit user consent
### 6.5.1 Introduction
To accomplish the communication process or use services, some personal data
may need to be collected. The unauthorized privacy collection will harm
users\' privacy, thus the technology of collection reminder (user consent) can
mitigate privacy threat. The implementations/practices of collection reminder
technology are various and related to UE\'s support and services design. The
key point is for a certain service which needs to collect users\' personal
data to remind, to displayed, and to briefly explain it to the user.
According to explicit user consent, user can choose whether deliver his/her
privacy information to complete a network quality improvement request, or to
suspend it.
### 6.5.2 Use case
In the MDT scenario, the users\' information e.g. locations need to be
collected to achieve drive test. When the operator A request Alice to join in
the MDT which needs to collect Alice\'s information, the explicit user consent
technology is used to remind the user that (example):
\- User might be contacted by the operator e.g. via a message to participate
in MDT. The user consent request and response should be authenticated and
protected in integrity to ensure that it can be contractual.
\- The MDT usage might be part of the user\'s service contract, but consent
needs to be explicit, freely given and informed.
# 7 Privacy guidelines
## 7.0 Introduction
This clause contains privacy guidelines to assist fulfilling the privacy
requirements above.
## 7.1 Impacts and consequences
This clause describes how to handle the results and knowledge gained by
undergoing the process outlined in the Privacy Identification Process in the
previous clause 6.2.
The first goal is to identify who has access to which personal data in the
communication. The following questions may aid the screening:
\- What personal data is released by the Communication Initiator?
\- Are there intermediaries that can read personal data?
\- What personal data is collected and aggregated at the service provider
nodes or MNO nodes?
The next step is to investigate the potential data elements in the personal
data:
Are all those elements required for providing the service offered by the
specification to the user?
Is personal data processed for the purpose of general improvement of the
network?
Does the data have a time to live?
The previous step serves to minimize data and to identify potential data in
the personal data which may require user consent.
Personal identifiable information requires adequate protection. Therefore the
following points should be investigated:
What is the personal identifiable information that potentially can be obtained
by:
\- Eavesdropper
\- Attacker
\- Unauthorized personnel (e.g. is the personal data accessible only by
personnel that needs to know or by all)
What are potential attacks?
Which protection methods are deployed?
With answers to the questions above, potential solutions can be identified.
Solutions might be found in the present document, but also 3GPP offers a wide
range of security services e.g. NDS/IP [8], TS 33.222 [9] etc. In some cases,
the transfer of user consent from one node to another might be necessary and
need to be considered in the progress of the technical work. In case of
transfer of user consent to third party, the user should give his consent for
the transfer.
## 7.2 Guidelines
Operator\'s privacy guidelines:
\- It should be allowed that operators make its own privacy policies according
to national and regional requirements
\- Operator should inform the user and collect the personal data fairly and
legally.
Vendor\'s privacy guidelines:
\- Vendors should provide the privacy policy declaration to operators
following operator and/or regional rules.
\- If operators hand over data to third parties (e.g. subcontractor), then
data protection and user consent rules have to be observed.
\- Vendors should provide security mechanism when personal data is stored in
vendor\'s system.
\- Vendors should provide mechanism to the operator which can delete the
expired personal data in time and the time of keeping personal data can be
configured.
NOTE: Third party service provider guidelines are out of scope in case this
service provider provides a service that is not specified by 3GPP. In case the
third party service provider is an outsourced task of a 3GPP operator, such as
network maintenance or hosting of a virtualized network element, the above
still applies.
# 8 Conclusion
This study has dealt with privacy related key issues impacting 3GPP networks
by identifying privacy risk mitigation approaches and discussing privacy
handling guidelines.
The result of this study is captured in Annex F and focuses exclusively on
guidance for taking into account privacy in writing 3GPP TRs and TSs.
The following references are relevant for future analysis of privacy impact in
3GPP specifications.
The privacy framework described in ISO/IEC 29100 specifies a common privacy
terminology; defines the actors and their roles in processing personally
identifiable information (PII); describes privacy safeguarding considerations;
and provides references to known privacy principles for information
technology. IETF RFC 6973 [2] lists privacy relevant definitions along with
mitigation techniques to privacy threats.
As best practice the usage of the following references is recommended for
3GPP.
The International Organization for Standardization (ISO) has approved the
Standard Privacy Assessment (SPA) as a standing document that guides all its
work on technology standardization. The SPA process provides guidance to
editors of specifications on when to apply SPA and gives guidelines for
creating a Privacy Considerations section within ISO/IEC JTC 1/SC 27/WG5
standards. SPA has already been adopted by other standards organisations, such
as W3C and OASIS.
Furthermore, IETF RFC 6973 [2] guidelines for analyzing and documenting
privacy considerations within IETF specifications that can also be applied to
3GPP.
Both documents allow at an early stage of new specification work to understand
and manage privacy implications and can be helpful in 3GPP standardization
work.
###### ### Annex A: OECD privacy principles
# A.1 OECD privacy principles
## A.1.0 Introduction
This clause contains the OECD privacy principles [3], which are examples of a
commonly used and accepted set of privacy principles. These principles could
serve as relevant guidance.
## A.1.1 Collection limitation principle
There should be limits to the collection of personal data and any such data
should be obtained by lawful and fair means and, where appropriate, with the
knowledge or consent of the data subject.
## A.1.2 Data quality principle
Personal data should be relevant to the purposes for which they are to be
used, and, to the extent necessary for those purposes, should be accurate,
complete and kept up-to-date.
## A.1.3 Purpose specification principle
The purposes for which personal data are collected should be specified not
later than at the time of data collection and the subsequent use limited to
the fulfilment of those purposes or such others as are not incompatible with
those purposes and as are specified on each occasion of change of purpose.
## A.1.4 Use limitation principle
Personal data should not be disclosed, made available or otherwise used for
purposes other than those specified in accordance with clause A.1.3 except:
\- with the consent of the data subject; or
\- by the authority of law.
## A.1.5 Security safeguards principle
Personal data should be protected by reasonable security safeguards against
such risks as loss or unauthorised access, destruction, use, modification or
disclosure of data.
## A.1.6 Openness principle
There should be a general policy of openness about developments, practices and
policies with respect to personal data. Means should be readily available of
establishing the existence and nature of personal data, and the main purposes
of their use, as well as the identity and usual residence of the data
controller.
## A.1.7 Individual participation principle
An individual should have the right:
\- to obtain from a data controller, or otherwise, confirmation of whether or
not the data controller has data relating to him;
\- to have communicated to him, data relating to him within a reasonable time;
> at a charge, if any, that is not excessive;
>
> in a reasonable manner; and
>
> in a form that is readily intelligible to him;
\- to be given reasons if a request made under subparagraphs(a) and (b) is
denied, and to be able to challenge such denial; and
\- to challenge data relating to him and, if the challenge is successful to
have the data erased, rectified, completed or amended.
## A.1.8 Accountability principle
A data controller should be accountable for complying with measures which give
effect to the principles stated above.
###### ### Annex B: Privacy regulations
\- EU Directives 2002/58/EC and 2006/24/EC
\- Germany\'s Federal Data Protection Act
\- France\'s Data Protection Act 78-17
\- UK\'s Data Protection Act 1998
\- US\'s Privacy Act of 1974 and Electronic Communications Privacy Act
\- Australia\'s Privacy Act 1988
\- New Zealand\'s Privacy Act 1993
\- Russia\'s Federal Law N152-FZ on Personal Data
\- Japan\'s Act on the Protection of Personal Information
\- India\'s Information Technology Rules of 2011
\- China\'s Personal Information Protection Act of Telecom and Internet 2013
###### ### Annex C: Definitions of personal data in different countries or
areas
> NOTE: The following definitions are from privacy laws, not from the
> telecommunication laws.
+--------------+------------------------------------------------------+ | Country/area | Definition | +--------------+------------------------------------------------------+ | China | Personal information means any computer data | | | processed by information system, also it is related | | | to specific natural person, and could be used solely | | | or combined with other information to identify a | | | specific natural person. Personal information | | | includes personal sensitive information and general | | | person information. [C1] | +--------------+------------------------------------------------------+ | Europe | Personal data means any information relating to an | | | identified or identifiable natural person (\'data | | | subject\'); an identifiable person is one who can be | | | identified, directly or indirectly, in particular by | | | reference to an identification number or to one or | | | more factors specific to his physical, | | | physiological, mental, economic, cultural or social | | | identity. [C2], [C3] | +--------------+------------------------------------------------------+ | Germany | Personal data shall mean any information concerning | | | the personal or material circumstances of an | | | identified or identifiable natural person ("data | | | subject"). [C4] | +--------------+------------------------------------------------------+ | France | Personal data means any information relating to a | | | natural person who is or can be identified, directly | | | or indirectly, by reference to an identification | | | number or to one or more factors specific to him. In | | | order to determine whether a person is identifiable, | | | all the means that the data controller or any other | | | person uses or may have access to should be taken | | | into consideration. [C5] | | | | | | Sensitive data: "personal data that reveals, | | | directly or indirectly, the racial and ethnic | | | origins, the political, philosophical, religious | | | opinions or trade union affiliation of persons, or | | | related to their health or sexual life" (Article 8 | | | of the DPA Act). [C6] | +--------------+------------------------------------------------------+ | UK | Personal data means data which relate to a living | | | individual who can be identified from those data, or | | | from those data and other information which is in | | | the possession of, or is likely to come into the | | | possession of, the data controller, and includes any | | | expression of opinion about the individual and any | | | indication of the intentions of the data controller | | | or any other person in respect of the individual; | | | [C7], [C8] | +--------------+------------------------------------------------------+ | US | Record means any item, collection, or grouping of | | | information about an individual that is maintained | | | by an agency, including, but not limited to, his | | | education, financial transactions, medical history, | | | and criminal or employment history and that contains | | | his name, or the identifying number, symbol, or | | | other identifying particular assigned to the | | | individual, such as a finger or voice print or a | | | photograph; [D9], [C10], [C11] | +--------------+------------------------------------------------------+ | Canada | Personal information means information about an | | | identifiable individual, but does not include the | | | name, title or business address or telephone number | | | of an employee of an organization. [C12] | +--------------+------------------------------------------------------+ | Australia | Personal information means information or an opinion | | | (including information or an opinion forming part of | | | a database), whether true or not, and whether | | | recorded in a material form or not, about an | | | individual whose identity is apparent, or can | | | reasonably be ascertained, from the information or | | | opinion. | +--------------+------------------------------------------------------+ | New Zealand | Personal information means information about an | | | identifiable individual; and includes information | | | relating to a death that is maintained by the | | | Registrar-General pursuant to the Births, Deaths, | | | Marriages, and Relationships Registration Act 1995, | | | or any former Act [C13] | +--------------+------------------------------------------------------+ | Russia | Personal data -- any information pertaining to a | | | particular or identifiable, on the basis of such | | | information, natural individual (the personal data | | | subject), including his surname, first name, | | | patronymic, year, month, date and place of birth, | | | address, marital, social, property status, | | | education, profession, income, other information; | | | [C14] | +--------------+------------------------------------------------------+ | Japan | The term \"personal information\" as used in this | | | Act shall mean information about a living individual | | | which can identify the specific individual by name, | | | date of birth or other description contained in such | | | information (including such information as will | | | allow easy reference to other information and will | | | thereby enable the identification of the specific | | | individual). [C15] | +--------------+------------------------------------------------------+ | India | \"Personal information\" means any information that | | | relates to a natural person, which, either directly | | | or indirectly, in combination with other information | | | available or likely to be available with a body | | | corporate, is capable of identifying such person. | | | [C16] | +--------------+------------------------------------------------------+
Reference from:
[C1] GB/Z 28828-2012 Information security technology-Guideline for personal
information protection within information system for public and commercial
services, published by Standardization Administration of China.
[C2] DIRECTIVE 2002/58/EC OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL of 12
July 2002；concerning the processing of personal data and the protection of
privacy in the electronic communications sector (Directive on privacy and
electronic communications)。
[C3] DIRECTIVE 2006/24/EC OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL of 15
March 2006 on the retention of data generated or processed in connection with
the provision of publicly available electronic communications services or of
public communications networks and amending Directive 2002/58/EC. [http://eur-
lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=OJ:L:2006:105:0054:0063:EN:PDF]{.underline}
[C4] German Federal Data Protection Act (BDSG);In the version promulgated on
14 January 2003 (Federal Law Gazette I, p. 66),last amended by Article 1 of
the Act of 14 August 2009 (Federal Law Gazette I, p. 2814),in force from 1
September 2009.
[http://www.cnil.fr/fileadmin/documents/en/Guide_Security_of_Personal_Data-2010.pdf]{.underline}
[C5] France Act n°78-17 of 6 January 1978 on Data Processing, Data Files and
Individual Liberties Amended by the Act of 6 August 2004 relating to the
protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data.
[http://www.cnil.fr/fileadmin/documents/en/Act78-17VA.pdf]{.underline}
[C6] France CNIL GUIDE SECURITY OF PERSONAL DATA.
[http://www.cnil.fr/fileadmin/documents/en/Guide_Security_of_Personal_Data-2010.pdf]{.underline}
[C7] UK Data Protection Act 1998.
[http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1998/29/data.pdf]{.underline}
[C8] UK The Telecommunications (Data Protection and Privacy) Regulations 1999.
[http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1999/2093/pdfs/uksi_19992093_en.pdf]{.underline}
[C9] US The Privacy Act of 1974.
[http://transition.usaid.gov/policy/egov/pa_1974.pdf]{.underline}
[C10] US The Electronic Communications Privacy Act (ECPA).
[http://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/text/18/part-I/chapter-119]{.underline}
[C11] US The Stored Communications Act,18 U.S.C. §§ 2701-12
[http://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/text/18/part-I/chapter-121]{.underline}
[C12] Canada Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act
(PIPEDA) [http://laws-lois.justice.gc.ca/PDF/P-8.6.pdf]{.underline}
[C13] New Zealand Privacy Act 1993.
[http://www.legislation.govt.nz/act/public/1993/0028/latest/096be8ed8098cc8b.pdf]{.underline}
[C14] Russian Federal Law on Personal Data.
[https://www.privacyassociation.org/media/pdf/knowledge_center/Russian_Federal_Law_on_Personal_Data.pdf]{.underline}
[C15] Japan Act on the Protection of Personal Information ( Act No. 119 of
2003 (Effective April 1, 2005)).
[www.cas.go.jp/jp/seisaku/hourei/data/APPI.pdf]{.underline}
[C17] India Information Technology ACT 2008.
[http://meghpol.nic.in/acts/central/IT_electronic_service_delivery_rules.pdf]{.underline}
###### ### Annex D: The seven foundational principles in Privacy by
Design(PbD)
The Privacy by Design Principles in this clauses originate from [5].
Proactive not Reactive; Preventative not Remedial
_The Privacy by Design (PbD) approach is characterized by proactive rather
than reactive measures. It anticipates and prevents privacy invasive events
before they happen. PbD does not wait for privacy risks to materialize, nor
does it offer remedies for resolving privacy infractions once they have
occurred --- it aims to prevent them from occurring. In short, Privacy by
Design comes before-the-fact, not after._
Privacy as the Default Setting
_We can all be certain of one thing --- the default rules! Privacy by Design
seeks to deliver the maximum degree of privacy by ensuring that personal data
are automatically protected in any given IT system or business practice. If an
individual does nothing, their privacy still remains intact. No action is
required on the part of the individual to protect their privacy --- it is
built into the system, by default._
Privacy Embedded into Design
_Privacy by Design is embedded into the design and architecture of IT systems
and business practices. It is not bolted on as an add-on, after the fact. The
result is that privacy becomes an essential component of the core
functionality being delivered. Privacy is integral to the system, without
diminishing functionality._
Full Functionality --- Positive-Sum, not Zero-Sum
_Privacy by Design seeks to accommodate all legitimate interests and
objectives in a positive-sum "win-win" manner, not through a dated, zero-sum
approach, where unnecessary trade-offs are made. Privacy by Design avoids the
pretense of false dichotomies, such as privacy vs. security, demonstrating
that it is possible to have both._
End-to-End Security --- Full Lifecycle Protection
_Privacy by Design, having been embedded into the system prior to the first
element of information being collected, extends securely throughout the entire
lifecycle of the data involved --- strong security measures are essential to
privacy, from start to finish. This ensures that all data are securely
retained, and then securely destroyed at the end of the process, in a timely
fashion. Thus, Privacy by Design ensures cradle to grave, secure lifecycle
management of information, end-to-end._
Visibility and Transparency --- Keep it Open
_Privacy by Design seeks to assure all stakeholders that whatever the business
practice or technology involved, it is in fact, operating according to the
stated promises and objectives, subject to independent verification. Its
component parts and operations remain visible and transparent, to users and
providers alike. Remember, trust but verify._
Respect for User Privacy --- Keep it User-Centric
_Above all, Privacy by Design requires architects and operators to keep the
interests of the individual uppermost by offering such measures as strong
privacy defaults, appropriate notice, and empowering user-friendly options.
Keep it user-centric._
###### ### Annex E: GSMA privacy principles
The GSMA privacy principles were taken from [6].
Openness, Transparency and Notice
Responsible persons shall be open and honest with users and will ensure users
are provided with clear, prominent and timely information regarding their
identity and data privacy practices. Users shall be provided with information
about persons collecting personal information about them, the purposes of an
application or service, and about the access, collection, sharing and further
use of a users\' personal information, including to whom their personal
information may be disclosed, enabling users to make informed decisions about
whether to use a mobile application or service.
Purpose and Use
The access, collection, sharing, disclosure and further use of users\'
personal information shall be limited to meeting legitimate business purposes,
such as providing applications or services as requested by users, or to
otherwise meet legal obligations.
User Choice and Control
Users shall be given opportunities to exercise meaningful choice, and control
over their personal information
Data Minimisation and Retention
Only the minimum personal information necessary to meet legitimate business
purposes and to deliver, provision, maintain or develop applications and
services should be collected and otherwise accessed and used. Personal
information shall not be kept for longer than is necessary for those
legitimate business purposes or to meet legal obligations and should
subsequently be deleted or rendered anonymous.
Respect User Rights
Users should be provided with information about, and an easy means to
exercise, their rights over the use of their personal information.
Security
Personal information shall be protected, using reasonable safeguards
appropriate to the sensitivity of the information.
Education
Users should be provided with information about privacy and security issues
and ways to manage and protect their privacy.
It is important that users can understand how best to manage their privacy and
protect their personal information, by providing them with clear and simple
information about privacy options.
Children and Adolescents
An application or service that is directed at children and adolescents should
ensure that the collection, access and use of personal information is
appropriate in all given circumstances and compatible with national law.
Accountability and Enforcement
All responsible persons are accountable for ensuring these principles are met.
For these guidelines to have an impact, they shall apply to all contributors
to the mobile application ecosystem and be built by design into the
application platform. All involved in the development, provision, sale and
supply of applications, who access, collect and use personal information, or
who make it possible for others to access, collect and use personal
information, shall work to create the tools and interfaces that make these
guidelines possible.
###### ### Annex F: Privacy guidelines for writing 3GPP TRs and TSs
# F.1 Scope
This annex focuses exclusively on guidance for taking into account privacy in
writing 3GPP TRs and TSs.
The present document studies the subscriber privacy impact in 3GPP. In
particular, the goals of the present document are:
\- Identify and understand privacy related threats in 3GPP networks
\- Identify privacy risk mitigation approaches
\- Identify privacy identification process
\- Establish privacy handling guidelines for 3GPP future specifications
It is not an objective of the study to examine all existing 3GPP
specifications in retrospect with respect to privacy.
# F.2 Introduction
Privacy considerations should cover its whole lifetime in the communication
system. A privacy impact assessment identifies, whether privacy information is
compromised and investigates threats.
According to the threats, privacy guidelines should list privacy protection
requirements and identify the appropriate privacy enhancing technologies.
# F.3 Threats
Threats to privacy are, but are not limited to, eavesdropping and
surveillance, collection of personal data, traffic analysis, generation of
interest profiles, stored data compromise, correlation, identification,
secondary use, disclosure. In the following some of them are described in the
following. IETF RFC 6973 [2] lists privacy threats in more detail.
\- Eavesdropping and surveillance.
Eavesdropping and surveillance are the unauthorized (or with malicious
intention) action of observing or monitoring of the user\'s communications or
activities.
Tracking.
Tracking of an user or UE can happen wherever an explicit identity or one
obtained by correlation are being used, transferred, and/or stored by various
network nodes, e.g. (e)NB, GGSN, SGSN. Tracking of a user or UE can also
happen when identities are being used, transferred, and/or stored by
unauthorized personnel.
The user\'s personal data (e.g. call details, location information) may be
disclosed through tracking, and it will lead to user and UE identities being
exposed and, potentially worse, financial losses.
Traffic analysis.
The attacker could analysis user\'s traffic and gain details of the user that
may compromise his privacy.
Collecting personal data.
During communication process, personal data may need to be collected to
complete communication task. This information may involve some sensitive data
and raises some questions, e.g. who is collecting (data collector) and using
(data processor) the personal data, what personal data is being shared, with
whom and for what purposes etc.
Without explicit guideline for personal data collecting, it may bring the risk
to user\'s information disclosure and potential illegal usage of such
information. What is more, the violation of collection guidelines actions such
as excessive collecting may cause unauthorized access and compromise of
personal data.
Stored data compromise.
Personal data stored unprotected or insufficiently protected in network
elements may bring risk to user\'s personal data disclosure.
Un-deleted, no further use-value of existing personal data for
communication/service may bring risk to user of unwanted personal data
disclosure, and such related attacks.
Sharing.
Unauthorized personal information sharing may violate users\' rights to
privacy.
During the personal data sharing process, the security of information
transfer/store etc. will face traditional information security risks.
Secondary use.
Secondary use means the use of collected privacy sensitive information about
the user for a purpose different from original collection.
Correlation.
Correlation means the combination of various data related to a subscriber. For
example: when a user uses the same ID across multiple services, this could
allow the observer to correlate all of the communications during user\'s
online time.
The possibility of combining data even without privacy sensitive information
may result in further inferences, and generate user\'s interest profiles.
# F.4 Mitigation techniques
This section lists security and privacy techniques and practices, e.g data
minimization, access control, identity management, anonymization,
pseudonymity, explicit user consent, confidentiality, authentication,
authorisation, untracebility, undetectability. By this the writer of privacy
considerations is provided with tools. It does not claim to be a complete
list.
Anonymity
Anonymity technology (or anonymization) is a privacy enhancing technology. It
allows anonymous access to telecommunication/service, which avoid tracking of
user\'s personal information and user behaviour such as user location,
frequency of a service usage, and so on.
To enable anonymity of an individual, the other individuals in the same set
should have the same attribute(s) as this individual. The composition of the
anonymity set depends on the knowledge that is assumed an observer or attacker
may have.
Pseudonym
Pseudonym technology is a privacy enhancing technology. A pseudonym is an
identity, whose binding to an entity is not known or is known to only a
limited extent, within the context in which it is used.
Data integrity protection
Data integrity protection can guard against manipulation or destruction of
personal data.
Data confidentiality protection
Data confidentiality protection can guard against unauthorized or unlawful
processing of personal data.
Access control
Access control mechanism can mitigate the risk that an attacker can access the
system and compromise privacy. Only an authorized user is able to read or
process privacy sensitive information within the system.
Explicit user consent, choice and collection limitation
Explicit user consent should be given to collect users\' personal data. The
user can be reminded (e.g. by displaying information on the UE) whether
personal data collection is planned and which data is planned to be collected.
Explicit user consent means also to have the choice whether or not to allow
the processing of data, which personal data is handled and how. Furthermore
the user should have the choice to withdraw consent.
Personal data collected should be limited to the minimum at which is necessary
to fulfil the process, for which the collection is needed.
Authorization mechanism
Authorization can guarantee of rights and, based on these rights, the
guarantee of access for the privacy sensitive information. It can ensure the
legal action (e.g. access privacy information), refuse illegal privacy
information actions.
Untraceability protection
Untraceability ensures user and UE identities not being exposed, thus avoid
the user\'s personal data is disclosed (e.g. call details, location
information) and, potentially worse, financial losses. The implementation of
untraceability may use anonymity or pseudonym mechanism.
Undetectability
Undetectability ensures the attacker cannot distinguish the individual users
from the eavesdropped telecommunication traffic. The implementation of
undetectability may use anonymity or pseudonym mechanism.
## F.5 Privacy identification process
The Standard Privacy Assessment (SPA) from ISO is a standing document that
guides all its work on technology standardization. The SPA process provides
guidance to editors of specifications on when to apply SPA and gives
guidelines for creating a Privacy Considerations section within ISO/IEC JTC
1/SC 27/WG5 standards. SPA has already been adopted by other standards
organisations, such as W3C and OASIS. 3GPP can use this guidance to identify
privacy impact in specification.
The process of privacy impact analysis includes:
\- Identify the scope of personal identifiable information;
\- Define roles for personal data action (e.g. communication initiator,
intermediary, attacker) for the whole period of the communication session;
\- Analyze the actions of personal identifiable information, e.g. collection,
storage, deletion;
\- Analyze and list the potential threat for the personal data identified;
\- According to the threat analysis, and also refer to the local regulations,
analyse and list the privacy protection requirements;
\- Identify the principles and details of personal data life time, which
covers collection, use, storage, delete etc..
\- Choose privacy mitigation technology (e.g. anonymity, using temporary
identity, access control, additional signal procedure, encryption procedure)
to satisfy the privacy protection requirements.
## F.6 Guidance for privacy considerations
\- Identify privacy information
\- Analyse the privacy information operations and relevant roles during its
whole lifetime.
\- Analyse and list the potential threats for every operation with considering
the roles.
\- According to threats analysis, list the privacy protection requirements.
\- Identify which privacy enhancing technologies can be applied and also refer
to the local regulations.
#