# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the procedures and the SBc Application Part
(SBc-AP) messages used on the SBc-AP interface between the Mobility Management
Entity (MME) and the Cell Broadcast Centre (CBC).
The present document supports the following functions.
  * Warning Message Transmission function in the EPS.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] IETF RFC 2460 (December 1998): \"Internet Protocol, Version 6 (IPv6)
Specification\".
[3] IETF RFC 791 (September 1981): \"Internet Protocol\".
[4] IETF RFC 4960 (September 2007): \"Stream Control Transmission Protocol\".
[5] Void
[6] Void
[7] 3GPP TS 36.413: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
(E-UTRAN); S1 Application Protocol (S1AP)\"
[8] ITU-T Recommendation X.680 (07/2002): \"Information Technology - Abstract
Syntax Notation One (ASN.1): Specification of basic notation\".
[9] ITU-T Recommendation X.681 (07/2002): \"Information Technology - Abstract
Syntax Notation One (ASN.1): Information object specification\".
[10] ITU-T Recommendation X.691 (07/2002): \"Information Technology - ASN.1
encoding rules - Specification of Packed Encoding Rules (PER)\".
[11] 3GPP TS 29.002: \"Mobile Application Part (MAP) specification\".
[12] 3GPP TS 36.331: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol specification\".
[13] 3GPP TS 22.268: \"Public Warning System (PWS) requirements\".
[14] 3GPP TS 23.041: \"Technical realization of Cell Broadcast Service
(CBS)\".
[15] 3GPP TS 23.401: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS) enhancements for
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) access\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**Elementary Procedure:** SBc-AP consists of Elementary Procedures (EPs). An
Elementary Procedure is a unit of interaction between MME and CBC. These
Elementary Procedures are defined separately and are intended to be used to
build up complete sequences in a flexible manner. If the independence between
some EPs is restricted, it is described under the relevant EP description.
Unless otherwise stated by the restrictions, the EPs may be invoked
independently of each other as stand alone procedures, which can be active in
parallel. Examples on using several SBc-APs together with each other and EPs
from other interfaces can be found in reference [FFS].
An EP consists of an initiating message and possibly a response message. Two
kinds of EPs are used:
\- **Class 1:** Elementary Procedures with response (success and/or failure).
\- **Class 2:** Elementary Procedures without response.
For Class 1 EPs, the types of responses can be as follows:
Successful:
\- A signalling message explicitly indicates that the elementary procedure
successfully completed with the receipt of the response.
Unsuccessful:
\- A signalling message explicitly indicates that the EP failed.
\- On time supervision expiry (i.e. absence of expected response).
Successful and Unsuccessful:
\- One signalling message reports both successful and unsuccessful outcome for
the different included requests. The response message used is the one defined
for successful outcome.
Class 2 EPs are considered always successful.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\
Editor's note: To be completed or section removed.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
CMAS Commercial Mobile Alert System
CBC Cell Broadcast Center
CBS Cell Broadcast Service
EPC Evolved Packet Core
EPS Evolved Packet System
ETWS Earthquake and Tsunami Warning System
MME Mobility Management Entity
PWS Public Warning System
SCTP Stream Control Transmission Protocol
# 4 SBc description
## 4.1 Transport
### 4.1.1 General
This subclause specifies the standards for signalling transport to be used
across SBc-AP interface. SBc-AP interface is a logical interface between the
MME and the CBC. All the SBc-AP messages described in the present document
require an SCTP association between the MME and the CBC.
### 4.1.2 Network layer
The MME and the CBC shall support IPv6 (see IETF RFC 2460 [2]) and/or IPv4
(see IETF RFC 791 [3]).
The IP layer of SBc-AP only supports point-to-point transmission for
delivering SBc-AP messages.
### 4.1.3 Transport layer
SCTP (see IETF RFC 4960 [4]) shall be supported as the transport layer of SBc-
AP messages.
Semi-permanent SCTP associations shall be established between MME and CBC,
i.e. the SCTP associations shall remain up under normal circumstances.
Local multi-homing should be supported. Remote multi-homing shall be
supported.
Multiple local SCTP endpoints may be supported. Multiple remote SCTP endpoints
shall be supported. When multiple local or remote SCTP endpoints are
configured, several simultaneous SCTP associations shall be supported between
MME and CBC.
Checksum calculation for SCTP shall be supported as specified in RFC 4960 [4].
The CBC shall establish the SCTP association.
The registered port number for SBc-AP is 29168.
The registered payload protocol identifier for SBc-AP is 24.
### 4.1.4 Services expected from signalling transport
The signalling connection shall provide in-sequence delivery of SBc-AP
messages. SBc-AP shall be notified if the signalling connection breaks.
### 4.2. SBc-AP functions
### 4.2.1 Function of SBc-AP
SBc-AP has the following function:
  * Warning Message Transmission function:\ This functionality provides the means to start, overwrite and stop the broadcasting of warning message in support of the Public Warning System (PWS) messages as defined in 3GPP TS 22.268 [13] which include Commercial Mobile Warning System (CMAS) and Earthquake and Tsunami (ETWS) messages.
### 4.3 SBc-AP procedure
### 4.3.1 General
This sub-clause describes the parameters and detailed behaviors of different
procedures.
#### 4.3.2 List of SBc-AP elementary procedure
SBc-AP has the following EP defined as a class 1 procedure:
Table 4.3.2-1: Meaning of abbreviations used in SBc-AP messages
* * *
Elementary Procedure Initiating Message Successful Outcome Unsuccessful
Outcome Response message Response message Write-Replace Warning procedure
WRITE-REPLACE WARNING REQUEST WRITE-REPLACE WARNING RESPONSE  
Stop Warning Procedure STOP WARNING REQUEST STOP WARNING RESPONSE
* * *
#### 4.3.3 Write Replace Warning Procedure
##### 4.3.3.1 General
The purpose of Write-Replace Warning procedure is to start, overwrite the
broadcasting of warning message.
##### 4.3.3.2 Successful Operation
Figure 4.3.3.2-1: Write-Replace Warning procedure. Successful operation.
The CBC initiates the procedure by sending a WRITE-REPLACE WARNING REQUEST
message to the MME.
Upon reception of WRITE-REPLACE WARNING REQUEST message, the MME shall forward
the message towards the eNBs belonged to the tracking area as indicated in
_List of TAIs_ IE.
If none of _List of TAIs_ IE is present in WRITE-REPLACE WARNING REQUEST
message, the MME shall forward the message towards all connected eNBs.
The MME shall return a WRITE-REPLACE WARNING RESPONSE to the CBC immediately
after the reception of the WRITE-REPLACE WARNING REQUEST message without
waiting responses from eNBs.
The MME shall set the cause IE to 'Message accepted' in the WRITE-REPLACE
WARNING RESPONSE message.
##### 4.3.3.3 Unsuccessful Operation
Figure 4.3.3.3-1: Write-Replace Warning procedure. Unsuccessful operation.
The CBC initiates the procedure by sending a WRITE-REPLACE WARNING REQUEST
message to the MME.
If MME cannot process the received WRITE-REPLACE WARNING REQUEST message, the
MME shall return a WRITE-REPLACE WARNING RESPONSE message towards the CBC and
the MME shall not forward the message towards the eNBs belonged to the
tracking area as indicated in _List of TAIs_ IE.
The MME shall indicate a reason of failure in the cause IE.
### 4.3.3A Stop Warning Procedure
#### 4.3.3A.1 General
The purpose of Stop Warning Procedure is to stop the broadcasting of warning
message.
#### 4.3.3A.2 Successful Operation
Figure 4.3.3A.2-1: Stop Warning Procedure, Successful Operation.
The CBC initiates the Stop Warning Procedure by sending a STOP WARNING REQUEST
message to the MME.
Upon reception of STOP WARNING REQUEST message, the MME shall forward the
message towards the eNBs belonged to the tracking area as indicated in _List
of TAIs_ IE.
If none of _List of TAIs_ IE is present in STOP WARNING REQUEST message, the
MME shall forward the message towards all connected eNBs.
The MME shall return a STOP WARNING RESPONSE to the CBC immediately after the
reception of the STOP WARNING REQUEST message without waiting responses from
eNBs.
The MME shall set the cause IE to 'Message accepted' in the STOP WARNING
RESPONSE message.
#### 4.3.3A.3 Unsuccessful Operation
Figure 4.3.3A.3-1: Stop Warning procedure, Unsuccessful operation.
The CBC initiates the Stop Warning Procedure by sending a STOP WARNING REQUEST
message to the MME.
If MME cannot process the received STOP WARNING REQUEST message, the MME shall
return a STOP WARNING RESPONSE message towards the CBC and the MME shall not
forward the message towards the eNBs belonged to the tracking area as
indicated in _List of TAIs_ IE.
The MME shall indicate a reason of failure in the cause IE.
#### 4.3.4 Message functional definition and content
#### 4.3.4.1 Message contents
##### 4.3.4.1.1 Presence
All information elements in the message descriptions below are marked
mandatory, optional or conditional according to table 4.3.4.1.1-1.
Table 4.3.4.1.1-1: Meaning of abbreviations used in SBc-AP messages
* * *
Abbreviation Meaning M IEs marked as Mandatory (M) shall always be included in
the message. O IEs marked as Optional (O) may or may not be included in the
message. C IEs marked as Conditional (C) shall be included in a message only
if the condition is satisfied. Otherwise the IE shall not be included.
* * *
##### 4.3.4.1.2 Criticality
Each Information Element or Group of Information Elements may have criticality
information applied to it.\ Following cases are possible:
Table 4.3.4.1.2-1: Meaning of content within \"Criticality\" column
* * *
Abbreviation **Meaning** \-- No criticality information is applied explicitly.
YES Criticality information is applied. This is usable only for non-repeatable
IEs GLOBAL The IE and all its repetitions together have one common criticality
information. This is usable only for repeatable IEs. EACH Each repetition of
the IE has its own criticality information. It is not allowed to assign
different criticality values to the repetitions. This is usable only for
repeatable IEs.
* * *
##### 4.3.4.1.3 Range
The Range column indicates the allowed number of copies of repetitive IEs/IE
groups.
##### 4.3.4.1.4 Assigned Criticality
This column provides the actual criticality information as defined in
subclause 4.5.3.2, if applicable.
#### 4.3.4.2 Warning Message Transmission Messages
##### 4.3.4.2.1 WRITE-REPLACE WARNING REQUEST
This message is sent by the CBC to request start or overwrite of a warning
message broadcast.
Direction: CBC → MME
Table 4.3.4.2.1-1: WRITE-REPLACE WARNING REQUEST message contents
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description
Criticality Assigned Criticality Message Type M 4.3.4.3.1 YES reject **Message
Identifier** M [7] YES reject **Serial Number** M [7] YES reject **List of
TAIs** O YES reject **> TAI List Item** 1 to \  
**> >TAI** M  
**Warning Area List** O [7] YES ignore Repetition Period M [7] YES reject
Extended Repetition Period O [7] YES reject Number of Broadcast Requested M
[7] YES reject Warning Type O [7] YES ignore Warning Security Information O
[7] YES ignore Data Coding Scheme O [7] YES ignore Warning Message Contents O
[7] YES ignore OMC ID O 4.3.4.3.4 YES ignore Concurrent Warning Message
Indicator O [7] YES reject
* * *
Table 4.3.4.2.1-2: RANGE explanation
* * *
Range bound Explanation maxnoofTAI Maximum no. of TAI subject for warning
message broadcast. Value is 65535.
* * *
##### 4.3.4.2.2 WRITE-REPLACE WARNING RESPONSE
This message is sent by the MME to acknowledge the CBC on the start or
overwrite request of a warning message.
Direction: MME → CBC
Table 4.3.4.2.2-1: WRITE-REPLACE WARNING RESPONSE message contents
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description
Criticality Assigned Criticality Message Type M 4.3.4.3.1 YES reject **Message
Identifier** M [7] YES reject Serial Number M [7] YES reject Cause M 4.3.4.3.2
YES ignore Criticality Diagnostics O 4.3.4.3.3 YES ignore
* * *
##### 4.3.4.2.3 STOP WARNING REQUEST
This message is sent by the CBC to stop a warning message broadcast.
Direction: CBC → MME
Table 4.3.4.2.3-1: STOP WARNING REQUEST message contents
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description
Criticality Assigned Criticality Message Type M 4.3.4.3.1 YES reject **Message
Identifier** M [7] YES reject **Serial Number** M [7] YES reject **List of
TAIs** O YES reject **> TAI List Item** 1 to \  
**> >TAI** M  
**Warning Area List** O [7] YES Ignore OMC ID O 4.3.4.3.4 YES ignore
* * *
Table 4.3.4.2.1-2: RANGE explanation
* * *
Range bound Explanation maxnoofTAI Maximum no. of TAI subject for warning
message broadcast. Value is 65535.
* * *
##### 4.3.4.2.4 STOP WARNING RESPONSE
This message is sent by the MME to acknowledge the CBC on the stop request of
a warning message.
Direction: MME → CBC
Table 4.3.4.2.2-1: STOP WARNING RESPONSE message contents
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description
Criticality Assigned Criticality Message Type M 4.3.4.3.1 YES reject **Message
Identifier** M [7] YES reject Serial Number M [7] YES reject Cause M 4.3.4.3.2
YES ignore Criticality Diagnostics O 4.3.4.3.3 YES ignore
* * *
#### 4.3.4.3 Information element definition
##### 4.3.4.3.1 Message Type
The _Message Type_ IE uniquely identifies the message being sent. It is
mandatory for all messages
Table 4.3.4.3.1-1: Message Type information element
+----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and | Semantics | | | | | reference | description | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | **Message | | | | Assumed max no | | Type** | | | | of messages is | | | | | | 256. | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | > >Procedure | M | | (Write-Replace | | | > Code | | | Warning, Stop | | | | | | Warning ...) | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | > >Type of | M | | CHOICE | | | > Message | | | (Initi | | | | | | ating Message, | | | | | | Succe | | | | | | ssful Outcome, | | | | | | Unsucce | | | | | | ssful Outcome, | | | | | | ...) | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+
##### 4.3.4.3.2 Cause
The purpose of the _Cause_ IE is to indicate the reason for a particular event
for the SBc-AP protocol.
Table 4.3.4.3.2-1: Cause information element
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE Type and Reference Semantics Description Cause
M INTEGER (Message accepted, Parameter not recognised, Parameter value
invalid, Valid message not identified, Tracking area not valid, Unrecognised
message, Missing mandatory element, MME capacity exceeded, MME memory
exceeded, Warning broadcast not supported, Warning broadcast not operational,
Message reference already used, Unspecified error, Transfer syntax error,
Semantic error, Message not compatible with receiver state, Abstract syntax
error reject, Abstract syntax error ignore and notify, Abstract syntax error
falsely constructed message, ...)
* * *
##### 4.3.4.3.3 Criticality Diagnostics
The _Criticality Diagnostics_ IE is sent by the MME when parts of a received
message have not been comprehended or were missing, or if the message
contained logical errors. When applicable, it contains information about which
IEs were not comprehended or were missing.
Table 4.3.4.3.3-1: Criticality Diagnostics information element
+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | IE/Group | Presence | Range | IE type and | Semantics | | Name | | | reference | description | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > Procedure | O | | INTEGER | Procedure | | > Code | | | (0..255) | Code is to | | | | | | be used if | | | | | | Criticality | | | | | | Diagnostics | | | | | | is part of | | | | | | Error | | | | | | Indication | | | | | | procedure, | | | | | | and not | | | | | | within the | | | | | | response | | | | | | message of | | | | | | the same | | | | | | procedure | | | | | | that caused | | | | | | the error | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > | O | | ENUMERATED | The | | Triggering | | | (initiating | Triggering | | > Message | | | message, | Message is | | | | | successful | used only | | | | | outcome, | if the | | | | | u | Criticality | | | | | nsuccessful | Diagnostics | | | | | outcome, | is part of | | | | | outcome) | Error | | | | | | Indication | | | | | | procedure. | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > Procedure | O | | ENUMERA | This | | > | | | TED(reject, | Procedure | | Criticality | | | ignore, | Criticality | | | | | notify) | is used for | | | | | | reporting | | | | | | the | | | | | | Criticality | | | | | | of the | | | | | | Triggering | | | | | | message | | | | | | ( | | | | | | Procedure). | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > ** | | 0 to | | | | Information | | \ Element | | errors> | | | | > | | | | | | Criticality | | | | | | > Di | | | | | | agnostics** | | | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > >IE | M | | ENUMERA | The IE | | > | | | TED(reject, | Criticality | | Criticality | | | ignore, | is used for | | | | | notify) | reporting | | | | | | the | | | | | | criticality | | | | | | of the | | | | | | triggering | | | | | | IE. The | | | | | | value | | | | | | \'ignore\' | | | | | | shall not | | | | | | be used. | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > >IE ID | M | | INTEGER | The IE ID | | | | | (0..65535) | of the not | | | | | | understood | | | | | | or missing | | | | | | IE | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > >Type of | M | | ENU | | | > Error | | | MERATED(not | | | | | | understood, | | | | | | missing, | | | | | | ...) | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Table 4.3.4.3.3-2: RANGE explanation
* * *
Range bound Explanation maxnooferrors Maximum no. of IE errors allowed to be
reported with a single message. The value for maxnooferrors is 256.
* * *
##### 4.3.4.3.4 OMC ID
The _OMC_ ID IE indicates the identity of an Operation and Maintenance Centre
to which Trace records shall be sent.
Table 4.3.4.3.x-1: OMC ID information element
+---------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE Type and | Semantics | | | | | Reference | Description | +---------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | OMC ID | O | | OCTET STRING | | | | | | (SIZE (1..20)) | | | | | | | | | | | | Octets are | | | | | | coded | | | | | | according to | | | | | | 3GPP TS 29.002 | | | | | | [xx]. | | +---------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+
## 4.4 Message and information element abstract syntax
### 4.4.1 General
SBC-AP ASN.1 definition conforms with [8] and [9].
The ASN.1 definition specifies the structure and content of SBC-AP messages.
SBC-AP messages can contain any IEs specified in the object set definitions
for that message without the order or number of occurrence being restricted by
ASN.1. However, for this version of the standard, a sending entity shall
construct a SBC-AP message according to the PDU definitions module and with
the following additional rules (Note that in the following IE means an IE in
the object set with an explicit id. If one IE needed to appear more than once
in one object set, then the different occurrences have different IE ids):
\- IEs shall be ordered (in an IE container) in the order they appear in
object set definitions.
\- Object set definitions specify how many times IEs may appear. An IE shall
appear exactly once if the presence field in an object has value
\"mandatory\". An IE may appear at most once if the presence field in an
object has value \"optional\" or \"conditional\". If in a tabular format there
is multiplicity specified for an IE (i.e. an IE list) then in the
corresponding ASN.1 definition the list definition is separated into two
parts. The first part defines an IE container list where the list elements
reside. The second part defines list elements. The IE container list appears
as an IE of its own. For this version of the standard an IE container list may
contain only one kind of list elements.
If a SBC-AP message that is not constructed as defined above is received, this
shall be considered as Abstract Syntax Error, and the message shall be handled
as defined for Abstract Syntax error in subclause 4.5.3.6.
### 4.4.2 Usage of protocol extension mechanism for non-standard use
The protocol extension mechanism for non-standard use may be used:
\- for special operator- (and/or vendor) specific features considered not to
be part of the basic functionality, i.e. the functionality required for a
complete and high-quality specification in order to guarantee multivendor
interoperability.
\- by vendors for research purposes, e.g. to implement and evaluate new
algorithms/features before such features are proposed for standardisation.
The extension mechanism shall not be used for basic functionality. Such
functionality shall be standardised.
### 4.4.3 Elementary procedure definitions
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Elementary Procedure definitions
\--
\-- **************************************************************
SBC-AP-PDU-Descriptions {
itu-t (0) identified-organization (4) etsi (0) mobileDomain (0)
eps-Access (21) modules (3) sbc-AP (3) version1 (1) sbc-AP-PDU-Descriptions
(0)}
DEFINITIONS AUTOMATIC TAGS ::=
BEGIN
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- IE parameter types from other modules.
\--
\-- **************************************************************
IMPORTS
Criticality,
ProcedureCode
FROM SBC-AP-CommonDataTypes
Write-Replace-Warning-Request,
Write-Replace-Warning-Response,
Stop -Warning-Request,
Stop -Warning-Response
FROM SBC-AP-PDU-Contents
id-Write-Replace-Warning,
id- Stop-Warning
FROM SBC-AP-Constants;
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Interface Elementary Procedure Class
\--
\-- **************************************************************
SBC-AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= CLASS {
&InitiatingMessage ,
&SuccessfulOutcome OPTIONAL,
&UnsuccessfulOutcome OPTIONAL,
&procedureCode ProcedureCode UNIQUE,
&criticality Criticality DEFAULT ignore
}
WITH SYNTAX {
INITIATING MESSAGE &InitiatingMessage
[SUCCESSFUL OUTCOME &SuccessfulOutcome]
[UNSUCCESSFUL OUTCOME &UnsuccessfulOutcome]
PROCEDURE CODE &procedureCode
[CRITICALITY &criticality]
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Interface PDU Definition
\--
\-- **************************************************************
SBC-AP-PDU ::= CHOICE {
initiatingMessage InitiatingMessage,
successfulOutcome SuccessfulOutcome,
unsuccessfulOutcome UnsuccessfulOutcome,
...
}
InitiatingMessage ::= SEQUENCE {
procedureCode SBC-AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE.&procedureCode ({SBC-AP-ELEMENTARY-
PROCEDURES}),
criticality SBC-AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE.&criticality ({SBC-AP-ELEMENTARY-
PROCEDURES}{\@procedureCode}),
value SBC-AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE.&InitiatingMessage ({SBC-AP-ELEMENTARY-
PROCEDURES}{\@procedureCode})
}
SuccessfulOutcome ::= SEQUENCE {
procedureCode SBC-AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE.&procedureCode ({SBC-AP-ELEMENTARY-
PROCEDURES}),
criticality SBC-AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE.&criticality ({SBC-AP-ELEMENTARY-
PROCEDURES}{\@procedureCode}),
value SBC-AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE.&SuccessfulOutcome ({SBC-AP-ELEMENTARY-
PROCEDURES}{\@procedureCode})
}
UnsuccessfulOutcome ::= SEQUENCE {
procedureCode SBC-AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE.&procedureCode ({SBC-AP-ELEMENTARY-
PROCEDURES}),
criticality SBC-AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE.&criticality ({SBC-AP-ELEMENTARY-
PROCEDURES}{\@procedureCode}),
value SBC-AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE.&UnsuccessfulOutcome ({SBC-AP-ELEMENTARY-
PROCEDURES}{\@procedureCode})
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Interface Elementary Procedure List
\--
\-- **************************************************************
SBC-AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURES SBC-AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= {
SBC-AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURES-CLASS-1 \|
SBC-AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURES-CLASS-2 ,
...
}
SBC-AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURES-CLASS-1 SBC-AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= {
write-Replace-Warning,
Stop-Warning ,
...
}
SBC-AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURES-CLASS-2 SBC-AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= {
...
}
write-Replace-Warning SBC-AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= {
INITIATING MESSAGE Write-Replace-Warning-Request
SUCCESSFUL OUTCOME Write-Replace-Warning-Response
PROCEDURE CODE id-Write-Replace-Warning
CRITICALITY reject
}
stop-Warning SBC-AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= {
INITIATING MESSAGE Stop-Warning-Request
SUCCESSFUL OUTCOME Stop-Warning-Response
PROCEDURE CODE id-Stop-Warning
CRITICALITY reject
}
END
### 4.4.4 PDU definitions
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- PDU definitions for SBC-AP.
\--
\-- **************************************************************
SBC-AP-PDU-Contents {
itu-t (0) identified-organization (4) etsi (0) mobileDomain (0)
eps-Access (21) modules (3) sbc-AP (3) version1 (1) sbc-AP-PDU-Contents (1)}
DEFINITIONS AUTOMATIC TAGS ::=
BEGIN
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- IE parameter types from other modules.
\--
\-- **************************************************************
IMPORTS
Cause,
Concurrent-Warning-Message-Indicator,
Criticality-Diagnostics,
Data-Coding-Scheme,
Message-Identifier,
Serial-Number,
List-of-TAIs,
Warning-Area-List,
Omc-Id,
Repetition-Period,
Extended-Repetition-Period,
Number-of-Broadcasts-Requested,
Warning-Type,
Warning-Security-Information,
Warning-Message-Content
FROM SBC-AP-IEs
ProtocolExtensionContainer{},
ProtocolIE-Container{},
SBC-AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION,
SBC-AP-PROTOCOL-IES
FROM SBC-AP-Containers
id-Concurrent-Warning-Message-Indicator,
id-Criticality-Diagnostics,
id-Cause,
id-Data-Coding-Scheme,
id-List-of-TAIs,
id-Message-Identifier,
id-Serial-Number,
id-Number-of-Broadcasts-Requested,
id-Omc-Id,
id-Radio-Resource-Loading-List,
id-Recovery-Indication,
id-Repetition-Period,
id-Extended-Repetition-Period,
id-Warning-Area-List,
id-Warning-Message-Content,
id-Warning-Security-Information,
id-Warning-Type
FROM SBC-AP-Constants;
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Write-Replace-Warning-Request
\--
\-- **************************************************************
Write-Replace-Warning-Request ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container { {Write-Replace-Warning-Request-IEs} },
protocolExtensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { {Write-Replace-Warning-
Request-Extensions} } OPTIONAL,
...
}
Write-Replace-Warning-Request-IEs SBC-AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-Message-Identifier CRITICALITY reject TYPE Message-Identifier PRESENCE
mandatory } \|
{ ID id-Serial-Number CRITICALITY reject TYPE Serial-Number PRESENCE mandatory
} \|
{ ID id-List-of-TAIs CRITICALITY reject TYPE List-of-TAIs PRESENCE optional }
\|
{ ID id-Warning-Area-List CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Warning-Area-List PRESENCE
optional } \|
{ ID id-Repetition-Period CRITICALITY reject TYPE Repetition-Period PRESENCE
mandatory } \|
{ ID id-Extended-Repetition-Period CRITICALITY reject TYPE Extended-
Repetition-Period PRESENCE optional } \|
{ ID id-Number-of-Broadcasts-Requested
CRITICALITY reject TYPE Number-of-Broadcasts-Requested PRESENCE mandatory } \|
{ ID id-Warning-Type CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Warning-Type PRESENCE optional }
\|
{ ID id-Warning-Security-Information CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Warning-Security-
Information PRESENCE optional } \|
{ ID id-Data-Coding-Scheme CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Data-Coding-Scheme PRESENCE
optional } \|
{ ID id-Warning-Message-Content
CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Warning-Message-Content PRESENCE optional } \|
{ ID id-Omc-Id CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Omc-Id PRESENCE optional } \|
{ ID id-Concurrent-Warning-Message-Indicator CRITICALITY reject TYPE
Concurrent-Warning-Message-Indicator PRESENCE optional }
...
}
Write-Replace-Warning-Request-Extensions SBC-AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Write-Replace-Warning-Response
\--
\-- **************************************************************
Write-Replace-Warning-Response ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container { {Write-Replace-Warning-Response-IEs} },
protocolExtensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { {Write-Replace-Warning-
Response-Extensions} } OPTIONAL,
...
}
Write-Replace-Warning-Response-IEs SBC-AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-Message-Identifier CRITICALITY reject TYPE Message-Identifier PRESENCE
mandatory } \|
{ ID id-Serial-Number CRITICALITY reject TYPE Serial-Number PRESENCE mandatory
} \|
{ ID id-Cause CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Cause PRESENCE mandatory } \|
{ ID id-Criticality-Diagnostics CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Criticality-
Diagnostics PRESENCE optional },
...
}
Write-Replace-Warning-Response-Extensions SBC-AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
**************************************************************
\--
\-- Stop-Warning-Request
\--
\-- **************************************************************
Stop-Warning-Request ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container { {Stop-Warning-Request-IEs} },
protocolExtensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { {Stop-Warning-Request-
Extensions} } OPTIONAL,
...
}
Stop-Warning-Request-IEs SBC-AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-Message-Identifier CRITICALITY reject TYPE Message-Identifier PRESENCE
mandatory } \|
{ ID id-Serial-Number CRITICALITY reject TYPE Serial-Number PRESENCE mandatory
} \|
{ ID id-List-of-TAIs CRITICALITY reject TYPE List-of-TAIs PRESENCE optional }
\|
{ ID id-Warning-Area-List CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Warning-Area-List PRESENCE
optional }\|
{ ID id-Omc-Id CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Omc-Id PRESENCE optional },
...
Stop-Warning-Request-Extensions SBC-AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Stop-Warning-Response
\--
\-- **************************************************************
Stop-Warning-Response ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container { {Stop-Warning-Response-IEs} },
protocolExtensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { {Stop-Warning-Response-
Extensions} } OPTIONAL,
...
}
Stop-Warning-Response-IEs SBC-AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-Message-Identifier CRITICALITY reject TYPE Message-Identifier PRESENCE
mandatory } \|
{ ID id-Serial-Number CRITICALITY reject TYPE Serial-Number PRESENCE mandatory
} \|
{ ID id-Cause CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Cause PRESENCE mandatory } \|
{ ID id-Criticality-Diagnostics CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Criticality-
Diagnostics PRESENCE optional },
...
}
Stop-Warning-Response-Extensions SBC-AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
END
### 4.4.5 Information element definitions
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Information Element Definitions
\--
\-- **************************************************************
SBC-AP-IEs {
itu-t (0) identified-organization (4) etsi (0) mobileDomain (0)
eps-Access (21) modules (3) sbc-AP (3) version1 (1) sbc-AP-IEs (2)}
DEFINITIONS AUTOMATIC TAGS ::=
BEGIN
IMPORTS
maxNrOfErrors,
maxNrOfTAIs,
maxnoofTAIforWarning,
maxnoofCellID,
maxnoofEmergencyAreaID,
id-TypeOfError
FROM SBC-AP-Constants
Criticality,
ProcedureCode,
TriggeringMessage,
ProtocolIE-ID
FROM SBC-AP-CommonDataTypes
ProtocolExtensionContainer{},
SBC-AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION
FROM SBC-AP-Containers;
\-- A
\-- B
\-- C
Cause ::= INTEGER {
message-accepted (0),
parameter-not-recognised (1),
parameter-value-invalid (2),
valid-message-not-identified (3),
tracking-area-not-valid (4),
unrecognised-message (5),
missing-mandatory-element (6),
mME-capacity-exceeded (7),
mME-memory-exceeded (8),
warning-broadcast-not-supported (9),
warning-broadcast-not-operational (10),
message-reference-already-used (11),
unspecifed-error (12),
transfer-syntax-error (13),
semantic-error (14),
message-not-compatible-with-receiver-state (15),
abstract-syntax-error-reject (16),
abstract-syntax-error-ignore-and-notify (17),
abstract-syntax-error-falsely-constructed-message (18)
} (0..255)
CellIdentity ::= BIT STRING (SIZE (28))
Concurrent-Warning-Message-Indicator ::= Enumerated {true}
Criticality-Diagnostics ::= SEQUENCE {
procedureCode ProcedureCode OPTIONAL,
triggeringMessage TriggeringMessage OPTIONAL,
procedureCriticality Criticality OPTIONAL,
iEsCriticalityDiagnostics CriticalityDiagnostics-IE-List OPTIONAL,
iE-Extensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { {CriticalityDiagnostics-ExtIEs} }
OPTIONAL,
...
}
CriticalityDiagnostics-ExtIEs SBC-AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
CriticalityDiagnostics-IE-List ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrOfErrors)) OF
SEQUENCE {
iECriticality Criticality,
iE-ID ProtocolIE-ID,
typeOfError TypeOfError,
iE-Extensions ProtocolExtensionContainer {{CriticalityDiagnostics-IE-Item-
ExtIEs}} OPTIONAL,
...
}
CriticalityDiagnostics-IE-Item-ExtIEs SBC-AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
\-- D
Data-Coding-Scheme ::= BIT STRING (SIZE (8))
\-- E
ECGIList ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofCellID)) OF EUTRAN-CGI
Emergency-Area-ID-List ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofEmerAreaIDs)) OF
Emergency-Area-ID
Emergency-Area-ID ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (3))
EUTRAN-CGI ::= SEQUENCE {
pLMNidentity PLMNidentity,
cell-ID CellIdentity,
iE-Extensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { {EUTRAN-CGI-ExtIEs} } OPTIONAL,
...
}
EUTRAN-CGI-ExtIEs SBC-AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
Extended-Repetition-Period ::= INTEGER (4096..131071)
\-- F
\-- G
\-- H
\-- I
\-- J
\-- K
\-- L
List-of-TAIs ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrOfTAIs)) OF
SEQUENCE {
tai TAI
}
\-- M
Message-Identifier ::= BIT STRING (SIZE (16))
\-- N
Number-of-Broadcasts-Requested ::= INTEGER (0..65535)
\-- For Number-of-Broadcasts-Requested = 0 and Repetition-Period = 0, then eNB
action is no broadcast
\-- for ETWS and CMAS.
\--
\-- For Number-of-Broadcasts-Requested = 1 and Repetition-Period = 0, then eNB
action is broadcast
\-- only once for ETWS and CMAS.
\--
\-- For Number-of-Broadcasts-Requested = 0 and Repetition-Period > 0, then eNB
action is no broadcast
\-- for the ETWS, and broadcast until further notice for the CMAS.
\--
\-- For Number-of-Broadcasts-Requested > 0 and Repetition-Period > 0, then eNB
action is normal
\-- broadcast.
\-- All other combinations of Number-of-Broadcasts-Requested and Repetition-
Period are considered
\-- invalid.
\-- O
Omc-Id ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (1..20))
\-- P
PLMNidentity ::= TBCD-STRING
\-- Q
\-- R
Repetition-Period ::= INTEGER (0..4096)
\-- 1 to 4096: Each unit represents a repetition of one second to a maximum of
\-- once per 4096 seconds (\~1 hour).
\-- 0: no repetition
\-- A CBC compliant to this version or later of this specification shall not
send a repetition period
\-- greater than 4095.
\-- For backwards compatibility with a CBC compliant to an earlier version of
this specification the
\--- maximum value of the repetition period defined in ASN.1 remains at 4096.
\-- If the value of the _Repetition Period_ IE received in the WRITE-REPLACE
WARNING REQUEST message is
\-- set to 4096, the MME shall set the _Repetition Period IE_ to the maximum
value 4095 supported on
\-- the S1-MME interface as defined in [7] before forwarding to the selected
eNBs.
\-- S
Serial-Number ::= BIT STRING (SIZE (16))
\-- T
TAC ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))
TAI-List-for-Warning ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1.. maxnoofTAIforWarning)) OF TAI
TAI ::= SEQUENCE {
pLMNidentity PLMNidentity,
tAC TAC,
iE-Extensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { {TAI-ExtIEs} } OPTIONAL
}
TAI-ExtIEs SBC-AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
TBCD-STRING ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (3))
TypeOfError ::= ENUMERATED {
not-understood,
missing,
...
}
\-- U
\-- V
\-- W
Warning-Area-List ::= CHOICE {
cell-ID-List ECGIList,
tracking-Area-List-for-Warning TAI-List-for-Warning
emergency-Area-ID-List Emergency-Area-ID-List
...
}
}
Warning-Message-Content ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (1..9600))
Warning-Security-Information ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (50))
Warning-Type ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))
\-- X
\-- Y
END
### 4.4.6 Common definitions
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Common definitions
\--
\-- **************************************************************
SBC-AP-CommonDataTypes {
itu-t (0) identified-organization (4) etsi (0) mobileDomain (0)
eps-Access (21) modules (3) sbc-AP (3) version1 (1) sbc-AP-CommonDataTypes
(3)}
DEFINITIONS AUTOMATIC TAGS ::=
BEGIN
Criticality ::= ENUMERATED { reject, ignore, notify }
Presence ::= ENUMERATED { optional, conditional, mandatory }
ProcedureCode ::= INTEGER (0..255)
ProtocolExtensionID ::= INTEGER (0..65535)
ProtocolIE-ID ::= INTEGER (0..65535)
TriggeringMessage ::= ENUMERATED {initiating-message, successful-outcome,
unsuccessful-outcome, outcome}
END
### 4.4.7 Constant definitions
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Constant definitions
\--
\-- **************************************************************
SBC-AP-Constants {
itu-t (0) identified-organization (4) etsi (0) mobileDomain (0)
eps-Access (21) modules (3) sbc-AP (3) version1 (1) sbc-AP-Constants (4)}
DEFINITIONS AUTOMATIC TAGS ::=
BEGIN
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Elementary Procedures
\--
\-- **************************************************************
id-Write-Replace-Warning INTEGER ::= 0
id- Stop-Warning INTEGER ::= 1
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- IEs
\--
\-- **************************************************************
id-Broadcast-Message-Content INTEGER ::= 0
id-Cause INTEGER ::= 1
id-Criticality-Diagnostics INTEGER ::=2
id-Data-Coding-Scheme INTEGER ::= 3
id-Failure-List INTEGER ::= 4
id-Message-Identifier INTEGER ::= 5
id-Number-of-Broadcasts-Completed-List INTEGER ::= 6
id-Number-of-Broadcasts-Requested INTEGER ::= 7
id-Radio-Resource-Loading-List INTEGER ::= 8
id-Recovery-Indication INTEGER ::= 9
id-Repetition-Period INTEGER ::= 10
id-Serial-Number INTEGER ::= 11
id-Service-Areas-List INTEGER ::= 12
id-TypeOfError INTEGER ::= 13
id-List-of-TAIs INTEGER ::= 14
id-Warning-Area-List INTEGER ::= 15
id-Warning-Message-Content INTEGER ::= 16
id-Warning-Security-Information INTEGER ::= 17
id-Warning-Type INTEGER ::= 18
id-Omc-Id INTEGER ::= 19
id-Concurrent-Warning-Message-Indicator INTEGER ::= 20
id-Extended-Repetition-Period INTEGER ::= 21
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Extension constants
\--
\-- **************************************************************
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Lists
\--
\-- **************************************************************
maxNrOfErrors INTEGER ::= 256
maxnoofCellID INTEGER ::= 65535
maxNrOfTAIs INTEGER ::= 65535
maxnoofgencyEmerAreaID INTEGER ::= 65535
maxnoofTAIforWarning INTEGER ::= 65535
maxProtocolExtensions INTEGER ::= 65535
maxProtocolIEs INTEGER ::= 65535
END
### 4.4.8 Container Definitions
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Container definitions
\--
\-- **************************************************************
SBC-AP-Containers {
itu-t (0) identified-organization (4) etsi (0) mobileDomain (0)
eps-Access (21) modules (3) sbc-AP (3) version1 (1) sbc-AP-Containers (5)}
DEFINITIONS AUTOMATIC TAGS ::=
BEGIN
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- IE parameter types from other modules.
\--
\-- **************************************************************
IMPORTS
Criticality,
Presence,
ProtocolExtensionID,
ProtocolIE-ID
FROM SBC-AP-CommonDataTypes
maxProtocolExtensions,
maxProtocolIEs
FROM SBC-AP-Constants;
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Class Definition for Protocol IEs
\--
\-- **************************************************************
SBC-AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= CLASS {
&id ProtocolIE-ID UNIQUE,
&criticality Criticality DEFAULT ignore,
&Value,
&presence Presence
}
WITH SYNTAX {
ID &id
CRITICALITY &criticality
TYPE &Value
PRESENCE &presence
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Class Definition for Protocol Extensions
\--
\-- **************************************************************
SBC-AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= CLASS {
&id ProtocolExtensionID UNIQUE,
&criticality Criticality DEFAULT ignore,
&Extension,
&presence Presence
}
WITH SYNTAX {
ID &id
CRITICALITY &criticality
EXTENSION &Extension
PRESENCE &presence
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Container for Protocol IEs
\--
\-- **************************************************************
ProtocolIE-Container {SBC-AP-PROTOCOL-IES : IEsSetParam} ::=
SEQUENCE (SIZE (0..maxProtocolIEs)) OF
ProtocolIE-Field {{IEsSetParam}}
ProtocolIE-Field {SBC-AP-PROTOCOL-IES : IEsSetParam} ::= SEQUENCE {
id SBC-AP-PROTOCOL-IES.&id ({IEsSetParam}),
criticality SBC-AP-PROTOCOL-IES.&criticality ({IEsSetParam}{\@id}),
value SBC-AP-PROTOCOL-IES.&Value ({IEsSetParam}{\@id})
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Container Lists for Protocol IE Containers
\--
\-- **************************************************************
ProtocolIE-ContainerList {INTEGER : lowerBound, INTEGER : upperBound, SBC-AP-
PROTOCOL-IES : IEsSetParam} ::=
SEQUENCE (SIZE (lowerBound..upperBound)) OF
ProtocolIE-Container {{IEsSetParam}}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Container for Protocol Extensions
\--
\-- **************************************************************
ProtocolExtensionContainer {SBC-AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION : ExtensionSetParam} ::=
SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxProtocolExtensions)) OF
ProtocolExtensionField {{ExtensionSetParam}}
ProtocolExtensionField {SBC-AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION : ExtensionSetParam} ::=
SEQUENCE {
id SBC-AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION.&id ({ExtensionSetParam}),
criticality SBC-AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION.&criticality
({ExtensionSetParam}{\@id}),
extensionValue SBC-AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION.&Extension
({ExtensionSetParam}{\@id})
}
END
## 4.4.9 Message sransfer syntax
SBC-AP shall use the ASN.1 Basic Packed Encoding Rules (BASIC-PER) Aligned
Variant as transfer syntax as specified in ref. [10].
## 4.5 Handling of unknown, unforeseen or erroneous protocol data
## 4.5.1 General
Protocol Error cases can be divided into three classes:
• Transfer Syntax Error;
• Abstract Syntax Error;
• Logical Error.
Protocol errors can occur in the following functions within a receiving node:
Figure 4.5.1-1: Protocol Errors in SBc-AP
The information stated in subclauses 4.5.2, 4.5.3 and 4.5.4, to be included in
the message used when reporting an error, is what at minimum shall be
included. Other optional information elements within the message may also be
included, if available. This is also valid for the case when the reporting is
done with a response message.
## 4.5.2 Transfer Syntax Error
A Transfer Syntax Error occurs when the receiver is not able to decode the
received physical message Transfer syntax errors are always detected in the
process of ASN.1 decoding. If a Transfer Syntax Error occurs, the receiver
should initiate Error Indication procedure with appropriate cause value for
the Transfer Syntax protocol error.
## 4.5.3 Abstract Syntax Error
### 4.5.3.1 General
An Abstract Syntax Error occurs when the receiving functional SBc-AP entity:
1\. receives IEs or IE groups that cannot be understood (unknown IE id);
2\. receives IEs for which the logical range is violated (e.g.: ASN.1
definition: 0 to 15, the logical range is 0 to 10 (values 11 to 15 are
undefined), and 12 will be received; this case will be handled as an abstract
syntax error using criticality information sent by the originator of the
message);
3\. does not receive IEs or IE groups but according to the specified presence
of the concerning object, the IEs or IE groups should have been present in the
received message;
> 4\. receives IEs or IE groups that are defined to be part of that message in
> wrong order or with too many occurrences of the same IE or IE group;
5\. receives IEs or IE groups but according to the conditional presence of the
concerning object and the specified condition, the IEs or IE groups should not
have been present in the received message.
Cases 1 and 2 (not comprehended IE/IE group) are handled based on received
Criticality information. Case 3 (missing IE/IE group) is handled based on
Criticality information and Presence information for the missing IE/IE group
specified in the version of the specification used by the receiver. Case 4
(IEs or IE groups in wrong order or with too many occurrences) and Case 5
(erroneously present conditional IEs or IE groups) result in rejecting the
procedure.
If an Abstract Syntax Error occurs, the receiver shall read the remaining
message and shall then for each detected Abstract Syntax Error act according
to the Criticality Information and Presence Information for the IE/IE group
due to which Abstract Syntax Error occurred in accordance with subclauses
4.5.3.4 and 4.5.3.5. The handling of cases 4 and 5 is specified in subclause
4.5.3.6.
### 4.5.3.2 Criticality information
In the SBc-AP messages there is criticality information set for individual IEs
and/or IE groups. This criticality information instructs the receiver how to
act when receiving an IE or an IE group that is not comprehended i.e. the
entire item (IE or IE group) which is not (fully or partially) comprehended
shall be treated in accordance with its own criticality information as
specified in subclause 4.5.3.4.
In addition, the criticality information is used in case of the missing IE/IE
group abstract syntax error (see subclause 4.5.3.5).
The receiving node shall take different actions depending on the value of the
Criticality Information. The three possible values of the Criticality
Information for an IE/IE group are:
\- Reject IE;
\- Ignore IE and Notify Sender;
\- Ignore IE.
The following rules restrict when a receiving entity may consider an IE, an IE
group or an EP not comprehended (not implemented), and when action based on
criticality information is applicable:
1\. IE or IE group: When one new or modified IE or IE group is implemented for
one EP from a standard version, then other new or modified IEs or IE groups
specified for that EP in that standard version shall be considered
comprehended by the receiving entity (some may still remain unsupported).
2\. EP: The comprehension of different EPs within a standard version or
between different standard versions is not mandated. Any EP that is not
supported may be considered not comprehended, even if another EP from that
standard version is comprehended, and action based on criticality shall be
applied.
### 4.5.3.3 Presence information
For many IEs/IE groups which are optional according to the ASN.1 transfer
syntax, SBc-AP specifies separately if the presence of these IEs/IE groups is
optional or mandatory with respect to MME/CBC application.
The presence field of the indicated classes supports three values:
1\. Optional;
2\. Conditional;
3\. Mandatory.
If an IE/IE group is not included in a received message and the presence of
the IE/IE group is mandatory or the presence is conditional and the condition
is true according to the version of the specification used by the receiver, an
abstract syntax error occurs due to a missing IE/IE group.
### 4.5.3.4 Not comprehended IE/IE group
#### 4.5.3.4.1 Procedure code
The receiving node shall treat the different types of received criticality
information of the _Procedure Code_ according to the following:
Reject IE:
\- If a message is received with a _Procedure Code_ marked with \"_Reject IE_
\" which the receiving node does not comprehend, the receiving node shall
reject the procedure using the Error Indication procedure.
Ignore IE and Notify Sender:
\- If a message is received with a _Procedure Code_ marked with \"_Ignore IE
and Notify Sender_ \" which the receiving node does not comprehend, the
receiving node shall ignore the procedure and initiate the Error Indication
procedure.
Ignore IE:
\- If a message is received with a _Procedure Code_ marked with \"_Ignore IE_
\" which the receiving node does not comprehend, the receiving node shall
ignore the procedure.
When using the Error Indication procedure to reject a procedure or to report
an ignored procedure it shall include the _Procedure Code_ IE, the _Triggering
Message_ IE, and the _Procedure Criticality_ IE in the _Criticality
Diagnostics_ IE.
#### 4.5.3.4.2 Type of Message
When the receiving node cannot decode the _Type of Message_ IE, the Error
Indication procedure shall be initiated with an appropriate cause value.
#### 4.5.3.4.3 IEs other than the Procedure Code and Type of Message
The receiving node shall treat the different types of received criticality
information of an IE/IE group other than the _Procedure Code_ IE and _Type of
Message_ IE according to the following:
**Reject IE:**
\- If a message _initiating_ a procedure is received containing one or more
IEs/IE groups marked with \"_Reject IE_ \" which the receiving node does not
comprehend; none of the functional requests of the message shall be executed.
The receiving node shall reject the procedure and report the rejection of one
or more IEs/IE groups using the message normally used to report unsuccessful
outcome of the procedure. In case the information received in the initiating
message was insufficient to determine a value for all IEs that are required to
be present in the message used to report the unsuccessful outcome of the
procedure, the receiving node shall instead terminate the procedure and
initiate the Error Indication procedure.
\- If a message _initiating_ a procedure that does not have a message to
report unsuccessful outcome is received containing one or more IEs/IE groups
marked with \"_Reject IE_ \" which the receiving node does not comprehend, the
receiving node shall terminate the procedure and initiate the Error Indication
procedure.
\- If a _response_ message is received containing one or more IEs marked with
\"_Reject IE_ \" which the receiving node does no comprehend, the receiving
node shall consider the procedure as unsuccessfully terminated and initiate
local error handling.
**Ignore IE and Notify Sender:**
\- If a message _initiating_ a procedure is received containing one or more
Ies/IE groups marked with \"_Ignore IE and Notify Sender_ \" which the
receiving node does not comprehend, the receiving node shall ignore the
content of the not comprehended IEs/IE groups, continue with the procedure as
if the not comprehended IEs/IE groups were not received (except for the
reporting) using the understood IEs/IE groups, and report in the response
message of the procedure that one or more IEs/IE groups have been ignored. In
case the information received in the initiating message was insufficient to
determine a value for all IEs that are required to be present in the response
message, the receiving node shall instead terminate the procedure and initiate
the Error Indication procedure.
\- if a message _initiating_ a procedure that does not have a message to
report the outcome of the procedure is received containing one or more IEs/IE
groups marked with \"_Ignore IE and Notify Sender_ \" which the receiving node
does not comprehend, the receiving node shall ignore the content of the not
comprehended IEs/IE groups, continue with the procedure as if the not
comprehended IEs/IE groups were not received (except for the reporting) using
the understood IEs/IE groups, and initiate the Error Indication procedure to
report that one or more IEs/IE groups have been ignored.
\- If a _response_ message is received containing one or more IEs/IE groups
marked with \"_Ignore IE and Notify Sender_ \" which the receiving node does
not comprehend, the receiving node shall ignore the content of the not
comprehended IE/IE groups, continue with the procedure as if the not
comprehended IEs/IE groups were not received (except for the reporting) using
the understood IEs/IE groups and initiate the Error Indication procedure.
**Ignore IE:**
\- If a message _initiating_ a procedure is received containing one or more
IEs/IE groups marked with \"_Ignore IE_ \" which the receiving node does not
comprehend, the receiving node shall ignore the content of the not
comprehended IEs/IE groups and continue with the procedure as if the not
comprehended IEs/IE groups were not received using only the understood IEs/IE
groups.
\- If a _response_ message is received containing one or more IEs/IE groups
marked with \"_Ignore_ _IE_ \" which the receiving node does not comprehend,
the receiving node shall ignore the content of the not comprehended IEs/IE
groups and continue with the procedure as if the not comprehended IEs/IE
groups were not received using the understood IEs/IE groups.
When reporting not comprehended IEs/IE groups marked with \"_Reject IE_ \" or
\"_Ignore IE and Notify Sender_ \" using a response message defined for the
procedure, the _Information Element Criticality Diagnostics_ IE shall be
included in the _Criticality Diagnostics_ IE for each reported IE/IE group.
When reporting not comprehended IEs/IE groups marked with \"_Reject IE_ \" or
\"_Ignore IE and Notify Sender_ \" using the Error Indication procedure, the
_Procedure Code_ IE, the _Triggering Message_ IE, _Procedure Criticality_ IE,
and the _Information Element Criticality Diagnostics_ IE shall be included in
the _Criticality Diagnostics_ IE for each reported IE/IE group.
### 4.5.3.5 Missing IE or IE group
The receiving node shall treat the missing IE/IE group according to the
criticality information for the missing IE/IE group in the received message
specified in the version of the present document used by the receiver:
**Reject IE:**
\- if a received message _initiating_ a procedure is missing one or more
IEs/IE groups with specified criticality \"_Reject IE_ \"; none of the
functional requests of the message shall be executed. The receiving node shall
reject the procedure and report the missing IEs/IE groups using the message
normally used to report unsuccessful outcome of the procedure. In case the
information received in the initiating message was insufficient to determine a
value for all IEs that are required to be present in the message used to
report the unsuccessful outcome of the procedure, the receiving node shall
instead terminate the procedure and initiate the Error Indication procedure.
\- if a received message _initiating_ a procedure that does not have a message
to report unsuccessful outcome is missing one or more IEs/IE groups with
specified criticality \"_Reject IE_ \", the receiving node shall terminate the
procedure and initiate the Error Indication procedure.
\- if a received _response_ message is missing one or more IEs/IE groups with
specified criticality \"_Reject IE_ , the receiving node shall consider the
procedure as unsuccessfully terminated and initiate local error handling.
**Ignore IE and Notify Sender:**
\- if a received message _initiating_ a procedure is missing one or more
IEs/IE groups with specified criticality \"_Ignore IE and Notify Sender_ \",
the receiving node shall ignore that those IEs are missing and continue with
the procedure based on the other IEs/IE groups present in the message and
report in the response message of the procedure that one or more IEs/IE groups
were missing. In case the information received in the initiating message was
insufficient to determine a value for all IEs that are required to be present
in the response message, the receiving node shall instead terminate the
procedure and initiate the Error Indication procedure.
\- if a received message _initiating_ a procedure that does not have a message
to report the outcome of the procedure is missing one or more IEs/IE groups
with specified criticality \"_Ignore IE and Notify Sender_ \", the receiving
node shall ignore that those IEs are missing and continue with the procedure
based on the other IEs/IE groups present in the message and initiate the Error
Indication procedure to report that one or more IEs/IE groups were missing.
\- if a received _response_ message is missing one or more IEs/IE groups with
specified criticality \"_Ignore IE and Notify Sender_ \", the receiving node
shall ignore that those IEs are missing and continue with the procedure based
on the other IEs/IE groups present in the message and initiate the Error
Indication procedure to report that one or more IEs/IE groups were missing.
**Ignore IE:**
\- if a received message _initiating_ a procedure is missing one or more
IEs/IE groups with specified criticality \"_Ignore IE_ \", the receiving node
shall ignore that those IEs are missing and continue with the procedure based
on the other IEs/IE groups present in the message.
\- if a received _response_ message is missing one or more IEs/IE groups with
specified criticality \"_Ignore_ _IE_ \", the receiving node shall ignore that
those IEs/IE groups are missing and continue with the procedure based on the
other IEs/IE groups present in the message.
When reporting missing IEs/IE groups with specified criticality \"_Reject IE_
\" or \"_Ignore IE and Notify Sender_ \" using a response message defined for
the procedure, the _Information Element Criticality Diagnostics_ IE shall be
included in the _Criticality Diagnostics_ IE for each reported IE/IE group.
When reporting missing IEs/IE groups with specified criticality \"_Reject IE_
\" or \"_Ignore IE and Notify Sender_ \" using the Error Indication procedure,
the _Procedure Code_ IE, the _Triggering Message_ IE, _Procedure Criticality_
IE, and the _Information Element Criticality Diagnostics_ IE shall be included
in the _Criticality Diagnostics_ IE for each reported IE/IE group.
### 4.5.3.6 IEs or IE groups received in wrong order or with too many
occurrences or erroneously present
If a message with IEs or IE groups in wrong order or with too many occurrences
is received or if IEs or IE groups with a conditional presence are present
when the condition is not met (i.e. erroneously present), the receiving node
shall behave according to the following:
\- If a message _initiating_ a procedure is received containing IEs or IE
groups in wrong order or with too many occurrences or erroneously present,
none of the functional requests of the message shall be executed. The
receiving node shall reject the procedure and report the cause value
\"Abstract Syntax Error (Falsely Constructed Message)\" using the message
normally used to report unsuccessful outcome of the procedure. In case the
information received in the initiating message was insufficient to determine a
value for all IEs that are required to be present in the message used to
report the unsuccessful outcome of the procedure, the receiving node shall
instead terminate the procedure and initiate the Error Indication procedure.
\- If a message _initiating_ a procedure that does not have a message to
report unsuccessful outcome is received containing IEs or IE groups in wrong
order or with too many occurrences or erroneously present, the receiving node
shall terminate the procedure and initiate the Error Indication procedure, and
use cause value \"Abstract Syntax Error (Falsely Constructed Message)\".
\- If a _response_ message is received containing IEs or IE groups in wrong
order or with too many occurrences or erroneously present, the receiving node
shall consider the procedure as unsuccessfully terminated and initiate local
error handling.
When determining the correct order only the IEs specified in the specification
version used by the receiver shall be considered.
## 4.5.4 Logical Error
Logical error situations occur when a message is comprehended correctly, but
the information contained within the message is not valid (i.e. semantic
error), or describes a procedure which is not compatible with the state of the
receiver. In these conditions, the following behaviour shall be performed
(unless otherwise specified) as defined by the class of the elementary
procedure, irrespective of the criticality information of the IE\'s/IE groups
containing the erroneous values.
**Class 1:**
Where the logical error occurs in a request message of a class 1 procedure,
and the procedure has a message to report this unsuccessful outcome, this
message shall be sent with an appropriate cause value. Typical cause values
are:
\- Semantic Error;
\- Message not compatible with receiver state.
Where the logical error is contained in a request message of a class 1
procedure, and the procedure does not have a message to report this
unsuccessful outcome, the procedure shall be terminated and the Error
Indication procedure shall be initiated with an appropriate cause value. The
_Procedure Code_ IE and the _Triggering Message_ IE within the _Criticality
Diagnostics_ IE shall then be included in order to identify the message
containing the logical error.
Where the logical error exists in a response message of a class 1 procedure,
the procedure shall be considered as unsuccessfully terminated and local error
handling shall be initiated.
**Class 2:**
Where the logical error occurs in a message of a class 2 procedure, the
procedure shall be terminated and the Error Indication procedure shall be
initiated with an appropriate cause value. The _Procedure Code_ IE and the
_Triggering Message_ IE within the _Criticality Diagnostics_ IE shall then be
included in order to identify the message containing the logical error.
## 4.5.5 Exceptions
The error handling for all the cases described hereafter shall take precedence
over any other error handling described in the other subclauses of clause 4.5.
\- If any type of error (Transfer Syntax Error, Abstract Syntax Error or
Logical Error) is detected in the ERROR INDICATION message, it shall not
trigger the Error Indication procedure in the receiving Node but local error
handling.
\- In case a response message or Error Indication message needs to be
returned, but the information necessary to determine the receiver of that
message is missing, the procedure shall be considered as unsuccessfully
terminated and local error handling shall be initiated.
\- If an error that terminates a procedure occurs, the returned cause value
shall reflect the error that caused the termination of the procedure even if
one or more abstract syntax errors with criticality \"ignore and notify\" have
earlier occurred within the same procedure.
#