# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
3GPP acknowledges the contribution of the Parlay X Web Services specifications
from The Parlay Group. The Parlay Group is pleased to see 3GPP acknowledge and
publish the present document, and the Parlay Group looks forward to working
with the 3GPP community to improve future versions of the present document.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part 14 of a multi-part deliverable covering the 3^rd^
Generation Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Core Network and
Terminals; Open Service Access (OSA); Parlay X Web Services, as identified
below:
Part 1: \"Common\"
Part 2: \"Third party call\"
Part 3: \"Call Notification\"
Part 4: \"Short Messaging\"
Part 5: \"Multimedia Messaging\"
Part 6: \"Payment\"
Part 7: \"Account management\"
Part 8: \"Terminal Status\"
Part 9: \"Terminal location\"
Part 10: \"Call handling\"
Part 11: \"Audio call\"
Part 12: \"Multimedia conference\"
Part 13: \"Address list management\"
**Part 14: \"Presence\"**
Part 15: \"Message Broadcast\"
Part 16: \"Geocoding\"
Part 17: \"Application driven Quality of Service (QoS)\"
Part 18: \"Device Capabilities and Configuration\"
Part 19: \"Multimedia streaming control\"
Part 20: \"Multimedia multicast session management\"
Part 21: **\"** Content management**\"**
Part 22: \"Policy\"
# 1 Scope
The present document is Part 14 of the Stage 3 Parlay X Web Services
specification for Open Service Access (OSA).
The OSA specifications define an architecture that enables application
developers to make use of network functionality through an open standardized
interface, i.e. the OSA APIs. The concepts and the functional architecture for
the OSA are contained in 3GPP TS 23.198 [3]. The requirements for OSA are
contained in 3GPP TS 22.127 [2].
The present document specifies the Presence Web Service aspects of the
interface. All aspects of the Presence Web Service are defined here, these
being:
  * Name spaces.
  * Sequence diagrams.
  * Data definitions.
  * Interface specification plus detailed method descriptions.
  * Fault definitions.
  * Service policies.
  * WSDL Description of the interfaces.
The present document has been defined jointly between 3GPP TSG CT WG5, ETSI
TISPAN and the Parlay Consortium.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.127: \"Service Requirement for the Open Services Access (OSA);
Stage 1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.198: \"Open Service Access (OSA); Stage 2\".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.101: \"Service aspects; Service principles\".
[5] W3C Recommendation (2 May 2001): \"XML Schema Part 2: Datatypes\".
http://www.w3.org/TR/2001/REC-xmlschema-2-20010502/.
[6] 3GPP TS 29.199-1: \"Open Service Access (OSA); Parlay X Web Services; Part
1: Common\".
[7] Void.
[8] 3GPP TS 29.198-14: \"Open Service Access (OSA) Application Programming
Interface (API); Part 14: Presence and Availability Management (PAM)\".
[9] RFC 3856: \"A Presence Event Package for the Session Initiation Protocol
(SIP)\". http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc3856.txt
[10] Void.
[11] Void.
[12] 3GPP TS 23.141: \"Presence service; Architecture and functional
description; Stage 2\".
[13] 3GPP TS 29.199-13: \"Open Service Access (OSA); Parlay X Web Services;
Part 13: Address list management\".
[14] IETF RFC 3265: \"Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)-Specific Event
Notification\".
[15] Void.
[16] IETF RFC 3863: \"Presence Information Data Format (PIDF) \".
[17] IETF RFC 4480: \"RPID: Rich Presence Extensions to the Presence
Information Data Format (PIDF)\".
[18] OMA-SUP-XSD_prs_presrules-V1_0: \"Presence SIMPLE -- Presrules\", Version
1.0, Open Mobile Alliance^TM^.
http://www.openmobilealliance.org/tech/profiles/prs_presrules-v1_0.xsd\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6] and the following apply:
**applications:** for Instant Messaging, Push to Talk, or call control and
other purposes may become clients of the presence Web Service\ We assume that
these applications belong to a watcher and authenticate to the services in the
name of the watcher.
**identity:** represents a user in the real world
NOTE: See OSA/Parlay PAM identities [8], section 4.4.1.
**presence attributes:** contain information about a presentity\ An attribute
has a name and a value and can be supplied by any device, application or
network module that can be associated to the presentity\'s identity. A watcher
can obtains attributes only after he has successfully subscribed to them.
Examples for attributes are activity, location type, communication means, etc.
**presence information:** consists of a set of attributes that characterize
the presentity such as current activity, environment, communication means and
contact addresses\ Only the system and the presentity have direct access to
this information, which may be collected and aggregated from **several**
devices associated to the presentity.
**subscription:** before a watcher can access presence data, he has to
subscribe to it\ One possibility the API provides is an end-to-end
subscription concept, in which only identities that have accepted a
subscription to their presence can be addressed. Subscriptions can be also
automatically handled by server policies edited by the presentity or other
authorized users. The service/protocol to manage those policies is out of the
scope of the present document.
NOTE: This definition is not related to the term \"subscription\" in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1].
**watcher and presentity:** We use these names to denote the role of the
client connected to the presence services\ Like in OSA/Parlay PAM [8] the
watcher and the presentity have to be associated to identities registered to
the system, i.e. users, groups of users or organizations.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TS
29.199-1 [6] and the following apply:
ACL Access Control List
DMS Data Manipulation Server
GM Group Management
IETF Internet Engineering Task Force
IMS IP Multimedia Subsystem
ISC IP multimedia subsystem Service Control interface
MMS Multimedia Message Service
PAM Presence and Availability Management
RLS Resource List Server
SCF Service Capability Feature
SIMPLE SIP for Instant Messaging and Presence Leveraging Extensions
SIP Session Initiation Protocol
SMS Short Message Service
URI Uniform Resource Identifier
WS Web Service
WSDL Web Services Definition Language
XCAP XML Configuration Access Protocol
XML eXtensible Markup Language
XMPP eXtensible Messaging and Presence Protocol
XSD XML Schema Definition
# 4 Detailed service description
The presence service allows for presence information to be obtained about one
or more users and to register presence for the same. It is assumed that the
typical client of these interfaces is either a supplier or a consumer of the
presence information. An Instant Messaging application is a canonical example
of such a client of this interface.
Figure 4.1 shows the architecture of the presence Web Service and the
underlying services. The OSA/Parlay PAM SCF is the straightforward option and
implements the presence server with extended identity, device capability, and
presence agent management. OSA/Parlay PAM allows aggregation of presence
information from internet, mobile and enterprise users, etc. using a presence
transport network of SIP or XMPP servers. The Presence Web Service can however
communicate directly for example with IMS presence network elements (presence
and resource list servers) using the ISC (SIP/SIMPLE) protocol interface.
Figure 4.1: The PAM Web Service Environment
Relationship to Similar or Supplanted Specifications:
The most important relations are to:
  * Parlay-X Terminal Status and Terminal Location: Both services deal > with information that could be considered part of the user\'s > presence information. Communication abilities can be derived from > terminal status information, and the user\'s placetype can be > derived from his location.
  * OSA/Parlay PAM: The OSA/Parlay Presence and Availability > specification can be considered the big brother of this > specification. While ParlayX Presence stays behind OSA PAM in > terms of flexibility and power - especially concerning attributes > and management interfaces - it also extends PAM by introducing > end-to-end authorization. This specification aims to be mappable > to OSA PAM.
  * SIP SIMPLE [9]: This specification aims to be mappable to the > SIP/SIMPLE architecture.
  * XMPP (Jabber): Many principles of this specification (see > Bibliography) have been adopted, especially the end-to-end > authorization.
  * IETF Rich Presence (see Bibliography). The set of attributes the > present document specifies is closely aligned with the IETF\'s > Rich Presence ideas.
  * Group Management [13]: Presence of groups is supported by this > specification, however their creation and manipulation has to be > done using the GM PX Web Service. In the 3GPP presence context, > contact lists and group manipulation is done with the XCAP > protocol (see Bibliography).
# 5 Namespaces
The PresenceConsumer interface uses the namespace:
http://www.csapi.org/wsdl/parlayx/presence/consumer/v4_0
The PresenceNotification interfaces use the namespace:
http://www.csapi.org/wsdl/parlayx/presence/notification/ v4_0
The PresenceSupplier interfaces use the namespace:
http://www.csapi.org/wsdl/parlayx/presence/supplier/ v4_0
The PresenceSupplierNotificationManager interfaces use the namespace:
http://www.csapi.org/wsdl/parlayx/presence_supplier/notification_manager/ v4_0
The PresenceSupplierNotification interfaces use the namespace:
http://www.csapi.org/wsdl/parlayx/presence_supplier/notification/ v4_0
The data types are defined in the namespace:
http://www.csapi.org/schema/parlayx/presence/ v4_0
The \'xsd\' namespace is used in the present document to refer to the XML
Schema data types defined in XML Schema [5]. The use of the name \'xsd\' is
not semantically significant.
# 6 Sequence diagrams
## 6.1 Interface flow overview
The sequence diagram shows the interactions in case both watcher application
and presentity are Web Service clients. Compared to the SIP interactions, the
subscription notification is separated from the delivery of presence
information itself. Based on the subscription result, the watcher can select
the polling or notification mode for presence events. Changes in the
authorization of presence attributes are propagated to the watchers via
updateAuthorisationRule() message, the blocking of a subscription by the
presentity are propagated via an endSubscriptionNotification message.
The sequence diagram does not show the internal communication within the
presence server. It is assumed that the Presence Consumer and Supplier
interfaces are implemented by the same instance. If an implementer of the API
finds other solutions preferable, he has to take care of the internal
communication himself.
{width="6.692361111111111in" height="8.565277777777778in"}
Figure : Message interaction overview
# 7 XML Schema data type definition
Presence attributes are inspired by the IETF\'s Rich Presence ideas (see
Bibliography).
## 7.1 PresenceAttributeType enumeration
The different types of attributes. For each entry in this enumeration there is
a separate value type.
* * *
Enumeration Description Activity The presentity\'s activity (available, busy,
lunch, etc.) PlaceType At what kind of place the presentity is (home, office,
etc.) Privacy The amount of privacy the user wants (public, quiet, etc.)
Sphere The user\'s current environment (work, home) Communication The user\'s
means of communication (phone, mail, etc.) Mood The user's mood (angry,
confused, happy, etc.) PlaceIs Describes the properties of the place the user
is currently at. TimeOffset Describes the number of minutes of offset from UTC
that the user is currently at. StatusIcon Depicts the current status of the
user. Other A name - value pair for arbitrary presence information
* * *
## 7.2 ActivityValue enumeration
This enumeration shows the user\'s current activity. If the activity is
unknown, the attribute value will be ActivityNone, meaning the attribute was
not set. If the user is doing something not in this list, the value will be
set to ActivityOther.
* * *
Enumeration Description ActivityNone Not set. Appointment The user has an
appointment. Available The user is available for communication. Busy The user
is busy and is only available for urgent matters. DoNotDisturb The user is
very busy and does not wish to be disturbed. OnThePhone The user is on the
phone. Steering The user is driving a car / train / airplane, etc. Meeting The
user is in a meeting. Away No idea what the user is doing, but he is away.
Meal The user is eating. Breakfast The user is having breakfast. Lunch The
user is having lunch. Dinner The user is having dinner. PermanentAbsence The
user is away and will not return for an extended period. Vacation The user is
on vacation. Holiday A scheduled national or local holiday. Performance The
user is in a theatre / concert. InTransit The user is in the transit area of
an (air)port. Travel The user is travelling. Sleeping The user is sleeping.
LookingForWork The user is looking for (paid) work. Playing The user is
occupying him- or herself in amusement, sport, or other recreation.
Presentation The user is giving a presentation, lecture, or participating in a
formal round-table discussion. Shopping The user is visiting stores in search
of goods or services. Spectator The user is observing an event, such as a
sports event. TV The user is watching television. Working The user is engaged
in, typically paid, labor, as part of a profession or job. Worship The user is
participating in religious rites. ActivityOther The user is doing something
not in this list.
* * *
## 7.3 PlaceTypeValue enumeration
This enumeration shows the type of the user\'s current location. If the place
type is unknown, the attribute value will be PlaceNone, meaning the attribute
was not set. If the user in a place not in this list, the value will be set to
PlaceOther.
* * *
Enumeration Description PlaceNone Not set. Arena The user is at an enclosed
area used for sports events. Home The user is at home. Office The user is in
an office. PublicTransport The user is on public transport. Street Walking on
the street. Outdoors Generally outdoors. PublicPlace The user is in a public
place. Hotel The user is in a hotel. Theatre The user is in a theatre or
concert. Restaurant The user is in a restaurant, coffee shop or, other public
dining establishment. School The user is at school. Industrial The user is in
an industrial building. Quiet The user is in a quiet area. Noisy The user is
in a noisy area. Aircraft The user is on an aircraft. Watercraft The user is
on a vessel for travel on water such as a boat or ship. Automobile The user is
in a car. Bus The user is in a bus. BusStation The user is in a bus- station.
TrainStation The user is in a train-station. ShoppingArea The user is in a
shopping mall or shopping area. Airport The user is in an airport. Train The
user is in a train. Bank The user is in a bank. Bar The user is in a bar.
Bicycle The user is on a bicycle. Café The user is in a café; usually a small
and informal establishment that serves various refreshments (such as coffee);
coffee shop. Classroom The user is in an academic classroom or lecture hall.
Club The user is in a dance club, nightclub, or discotheque. Construction The
user is at a contstruction site. ConventionCenter The user is in a convention
center or exhibition hall. Government The user is in a government building,
such as those used by the legislative, executive, or judicial branches of
governments, including court houses, police stations, and military
installations. Hospital The user is in a hospital, hospice, medical clinic,
mental institution, or doctor\'s office. Library The user is in a library.
Motorcycle The user is on a motorcycle. Outdoors The user outside a building,
in or into the open air, such as a park or city streets. Parking The user is
in a parking lot or parking garage. PlaceOfWorship The user is at a religious
site where congregations gather for religious observances, such as a church,
chapel, meetinghouse, mosque, shrine, synagogue, or temple. Prison The user is
in a prison, penitentiary, jail or a brig. Residence The user is in a private
or residential setting. Stadium The user is in a stadium. Store The user is in
a shop or store. Truck The user is in a truck. Underway The user is in a
land-, water-, or aircraft that is underway (in motion). Warehouse The user is
in a warehouse. Water The user is in, on, or above bodies of water, such as an
ocean, lake, river, canal, or other waterway. PlaceOther The user is in a kind
of place not listed here.
* * *
## 7.4 PrivacyType enumeration
This enumeration shows the amount of privacy a user currently has. If the
privacy is unknown, the attribute value will be PrivacyNone, meaning the
attribute was not set. If none of the values apply, the value will be set to
PrivacyOther.
* * *
Enumeration Description PrivacyNone Not set. PrivacyPublic The user is
surrounded by other people and cannot discuss openly. PrivacyPrivate The user
is alone and able to talk openly. PrivacyQuiet The user is in a quiet
environment and cannot talk at all. PrivacyOther None of the other values
applies. PrivacyAudio Inappropriate individuals are not likely to overhear
audio communications. PrivacyText Inappropriate individuals are not likely to
see text communications. PrivacyVideo Inappropriate individuals are not likely
to see video communications.
* * *
## 7.5 SphereValue enumeration
This enumeration shows the sphere within which the user acts. If the sphere is
unknown, the attribute value will be SphereNone, meaning the attribute was not
set. If the sphere is not in this list (neither work nor home), the value will
be set to SphereOther.
* * *
Enumeration Description SphereNone Not set. SphereWork The user is acting
within his work sphere, i.e. as a member of his company SphereHome The user is
acting within his home sphere, i.e. as a private person. SphereOther The user
is acting neither within his work nor within his home sphere.
* * *
## 7.6 CommunicationMeansType enumeration
This enumeration lists communication means. If the communication attribute
referrers to a means not in this list, it will point to MeansOther.
* * *
Enumeration Description Phone The communication attribute refers to a phone
(fixed line or mobile or SIP). Chat The communication attribute refers to a
chat client. SMS The communication attribute refers to an SMS client. Video
The communication attribute refers to a video phone (fixed line or mobile or
SIP). Web The communication attribute refers to a web client. EMail The
communication attribute refers to an e-mail client. MMS The communication
attribute refers to an MMS client. MeansOther The communication attribute
refers to any other client.
* * *
## 7.7 CommunicationMeans structure
This structure describes one way of reaching the presentity or contacts of the
presentity. If the presentity for example is unavailable he/she may publish
communication means for one of his/her contacts.
* * *
Element name Element type Optional Description Priority xsd:float No The
priority of this communication means. Between 0 and 1, the latter meaning the
highest priority. Contact xsd:anyURI No The contact address for this
communication means. Type CommunicationMeansType No The type of this
communication means. Status CommunicationStatusType Yes The status of this
communication means. Relationship RelationshipValue Yes Relationship the
presentity has with the contact whose communication means address is
published. If the parameter is not set it means that the communication means
refers to the presentity himself.
* * *
## 7.8 CommunicationValue structure
This structure describes the various ways of reaching a presentity.
* * *
Element name Element type Optional Description Means CommunicationMeans
[0..unbounded] Yes The different ways of reaching the presentity.
* * *
## 7.9 OtherValue structure
This structure can be used for storing arbitrary data about a presentity.
* * *
Element name Element type Optional Description Name xsd:string No Description
of the content. Value xsd:string No Attribute content.
* * *
## 7.10 PresenceAttribute structure
Presence data published by a presentity and retrieved by watchers.
* * *
Element name Element type Optional Description LastChange xsd:dateTime No The
time and date when the attribute was changed last. Note xsd:string Yes An
explanatory note. TypeAndValue AttributeTypeAndValue No The type of attribute
and its associated value.
* * *
## 7.10a AttributeTypeAndValue union
* * *
Element name Element type Optional Description UnionElement
PresenceAttributeType No Type of presence attribute provided (one of the
following). Activity ActivityValue Yes The presentity\'s activity (available,
busy, lunch, etc.) PlaceType PlaceTypeValue Yes At what kind of place the
presentity is (home, office, etc.) Privacy PrivacyValue Yes The amount of
privacy the user wants (public, quiet, etc.) Sphere SphereValue Yes The
user\'s current environment (work, home) Communication CommunicationValue Yes
The user\'s means of communication (phone, mail, etc.) Mood MoodValue Yes The
user's mood (angry, confused, happy, etc.) PlaceIs PlaceIsValue Yes Describes
the properties of the place the user is currently at. TimeOffset
TimeOffsetValue Yes Describes the number of minutes of offset from UTC that
the user is currently at. StatusIcon StatusIconValue Yes Depicts the current
status of the user. Other OtherValue Yes A name - value pair for arbitrary
presence information
* * *
## 7.11 SubscriptionRequest structure
This structure is returned to the presentity by the Presence Web Service and
contains the requesting watcher and the attributes he wants to subscribe.
* * *
Element name Element type Optional Description Watcher xsd:anyURI No The
watcher who wants to gain access to data. Attributes PresenceAttributeType
[0..unbounded] Yes The attributes the watcher wants to see. An empty array
means subscription to all attribute types. Application xsd:string No The name
of the application running on behalf of the watcher. Note that this field has
solely informative purposes, access rights management is based on watcher id
only.
* * *
## 7.12 Void
## 7.13 CommunicationStatusType enumeration
This enumeration shows the status of communication means.
* * *
Enumeration Description On Presentity has his own communication means that is
available now. Watcher can connect directly. Off Presentity has his own
communication means that is not available for some reason. Busy Presentity has
his own communication means that is busy.
* * *
## 7.14 PrivacyValue structure
This structure holds an array of privacy types. A privacy type may indicate
whether other parties are likely to observe a specific communication type.
+--------------+--------------------+----------+------------------------------+ | Element name | Element type | Optional | Description | +--------------+--------------------+----------+------------------------------+ | PrivacyTypes | PrivacyType | No | Array holding privacy types. | | | | | | | | [1... unbounded] | | | +--------------+--------------------+----------+------------------------------+
## 7.15 MoodValue enumeration
This enumeration shows the type of the user\'s current mood. If the mood type
is unknown, the attribute value will be MoodNone, meaning the attribute was
not set. If the mood type is not in this list, the value will be set to
MoodOther.
* * *
**Enumeration** **Description** Afraid The user is afraid. Amazed The user is
amazed. Angry The user is angry. Annoyed The user is annoyed. Anxious The user
is anxious. Ashamed The user is ashamed. Bored The user is bored. Brave The
user is brave. Calm The user is calm. Cold The user is cold. Confused The user
is confused. Contented The user is contented. Cranky The user is cranky.
Curious The user is curious. Depressed The user is depressed. Disappointed The
user is disappointed. Disgusted The user is disgusted. Distracted The user is
distracted. Embarrassed The user is embarrassed. Excited The user is excited.
Flirtatious The user is flirtatious. Frustrated The user is frustrated. Grumpy
The user is grumpy. Guilty The user is guilty. Happy The user is happy. Hot
The user is hot. Humbled The user is humbled. Humiliated The user is
humiliated. Hungry The user is hungry. Hurt The user is hurt. Impressed The
user is impressed. InAwe The user is in awe. InLove The user is in love.
Indignant The user is indignant. Interested The user is interested. Invincible
The user is invincible. Jealous The user is jealous. Lonely The user is
lonely. Mean The user is mean. MoodNone The user's mood is unknown. Moody The
user is moody. Nervous The user is nervous. Neutral The user is neutral.
Offended The user is offended. Playful The user is playful. Proud The user is
proud. Relieved The user is relieved. Remorseful The user is remorseful.
Restless The user is restless. Sad The user is sad. Sarcastic The user is
sarcastic. Serious The user is serious. Shocked The user is shocked. Shy The
user is shy. Sick The user is sick. Sleepy The user is sleepy. Stressed The
user is stressed. Surprised The user is surprised. Thirsty The user is
thirsty. Worried The user is worried. MoodOther The user's current mood is not
listed here.
* * *
## 7.16 PlaceIsValue structure
This structure holds properties of the place the presentity is currently at,
such as the levels of light and noise. This information can be used by the
watcher to determine the type of communication that is likely to be
successful.
* * *
Element name Element type Optional Description Audio PlaceIsAudioValue Yes
Describes place conditions for audio communication. Video PlaceIsVideoValue
Yes Describes place conditions for video communication. Text PlaceIsTextValue
Yes Describes place conditions for real-time and instant-messaging
communication.
* * *
## 7.17 PlaceIsAudioValue enumeration
This enumeration shows the properties of the place the presentity is currently
at with respect to audio communication.
* * *
Enumeration Description Noisy The user is in a place with a level of
background noise that makes audio communications difficult. Ok The
environmental conditions are suitable. Quiet The user is in a place such as a
library, restaurant, place of worship, or theater that discourages noise,
conversation, and other distractions. Unknown The place attributes are not
known.
* * *
## 7.18 PlaceIsVideoValue enumeration
This enumeration shows the properties of the place the presentity is currently
at with respect to video communication.
* * *
Enumeration Description TooBright The place is too bright for video
communication. Ok The environmental conditions for video communication are
acceptable. Dark The place is too dark for video communication. Unknown The
environmental conditions for video communication are not known.
* * *
## 7.19 PlaceIsTextValue enumeration
This enumeration shows the properties of the place the presentity is currently
at with respect to real-time text and instant messaging.
* * *
Enumeration Description Uncomfortable The place is uncomfortable for typing or
other text entry. Inappropriate The place is inappropriate for typing or other
text entry. Ok The environmental conditions are suitable for typing or other
text entry. Unknown The place attributes for text communication is not known.
* * *
## 7.20 RelationshipValue enumeration
This enumeration shows the type of relationship the user has with a contact.
If the relationship type is unknown, the attribute value will be
RelationshipNone, meaning the attribute was not set. If the relationship type
is not in this list, the value will be set to RelationshipOther.
* * *
Enumeration Description Family The contact is part of the user's family.
Assistant The contact is an assistant of the user, e.g. colleague. Friend The
contact is a friend of the user. Associate The contact is an associate of the
user. Supervisor The contact is the user's supervisor. RelationshipNone The
relationship type is unknown. RelationshipOther The relationship type is not
in this list.
* * *
## 7.21 TimeOffsetValue structure
This structure describes the number of minutes of offset from UTC that the
user is currently at.
* * *
Element name Element type Optional Description TimeZone xsd:string Yes
Describes the time zone. The description is meant for human presentation.
Minutes xsd:int No Number of minutes of offset from UTC that the user is
currently at.
* * *
## 7.22 StatusIconValue structure
This structure includes a URI pointing to an image that represents the current
status of the user.
* * *
Element name Element type Optional Description StatusIcon xsd:anyURI No
Address to the image (icon) representing the user's current status.
* * *
### 7.23 Watcher structure
This structure holds a watcher identity, the subscription status and trigger
event which caused the transition to the current status.
* * *
Element name Element type Optional Description Watcher xsd:anyURI No The
identity of the watcher. WatcherSubscriptionStatus WatcherSubscriptionStatus
No The status of the watcher's subscription. SubscriptionStatusTriggerEvent
SubscriptionStatusTriggerEvent No The event that caused the transition to this
status.
* * *
### 7.24 WatcherSubscriptionStatus enumeration
This enumeration shows the different statuses a watcher's subscription may
have.
* * *
Enumeration Description Authorised Indicates that the watcher's subscription
has been authorised by the presentity Blocked Indicates that the watcher's
subscription is currently blocked by the presentity. PoliteBlocked Indicates
that the watcher's subscription is politely blocked by the presentity. Pending
Indicates that the watcher's subscription is awaiting an authorization
decision Active Indicates that the watcher's subscription is active and has
been approved by the presentity. Waiting Indicates that the watcher's
subscription has timed out whilst still awaiting an authorization decision.
Terminated Indicates that the watcher's subscription has been terminated. The
Subscription Status Trigger Event gives an indication of the event that caused
the termination of the subscription.
* * *
### 7.25 SubscriptionStatusTriggerEvent enumeration
This enumeration shows the different events that cause a transition in the
status of a watcher's subscription.
* * *
Enumeration Description Subscribe The subscription has arrived and the policy
existing at the time of arrival has been applied. Approved The subscription
has been approved by the presentity. Deactivated The server has discarded a
subscription (with no change in authorization policy). Probation The server
has terminated a subscription and requested that the subscriber waits before
retrying. Rejected The subscription has been rejected by the presentity.
Timeout The subscription has timed out. Giveup A pending or waiting
subscription has been terminated.
* * *
### 7.26 Presence Notification structure
This strucrure holds the presentity, subscription status and presence data
that are notified. The presence data shall be notified in the form of the
person, service and device attributes.
* * *
Element name Element type Optional Description Presentity xsd:anyURI No The
presentity whose presence status is notified. WatcherSubscriptionStatus
WatcherSubscriptionStatus Yes The status of the subscription to the
presentity. NotifiedPersonAttributes PresenceAttribute [0..unbounded] Yes The
presence data related to a person. NotifiedServiceAttributes PresenceAttribute
[0..unbounded] Yes The presence data related to particular services.
NotifiedDeviceAttributes PresenceAttribute [0..unbounded] Yes The presence
data related to particular devices.
* * *
### 7.27 Validity structure
This structure describes the time boundaries during which the information
subject to this element is valid.
* * *
Element name Element type Optional Description From xsd:dateTime No The time
and date when the time boundary begins. Until xsd:dateTime No The time and
date when the time boundary ends.
* * *
### 7.28 Authorization Value enumeration
This enumeration shows the different authorization actions the presentity may
apply to a watcher.
* * *
Enumeration Description Block Indicates that the watcher is blocked by the
presentity. Confirm Indicates that the watcher shall await input from the
presentity before it is determined how the watcher shall be allowed to
proceed. PoliteBlock Indicates that the watcher is politely blocked by the
presentity. Allow Indicates that the watcher is allowed by the presentity.
* * *
### 7.29 DevicesProvided structure
This structure is used to indicate what devices the presentity wants provided
to the watcher. The result shall be a union of all the elements in the
structure.
* * *
Element name Element type Optional Description All xsd:boolean Yes If true,
all devices that are present are provided. Class xsd:string Yes Class of
device if present, to be provided. OccurrenceId xsd:string Yes Occurrence Id
of device if present, to be provided. DeviceId xsd:string Yes Device Id of
device if present, to be provided.
* * *
### 7.30 PersonsProvided structure
This structure is used to indicate what persons (sets of person information)
the presentity wants provided to the watcher. The result shall be a union of
all the elements in the structure.
* * *
Element name Element type Optional Description All xsd:boolean Yes If true,
all persons that are present are provided. Class xsd:string Yes Class of
person if present, to be provided. OccurrenceId xsd:string Yes Occurrence Id
of person if present, to be provided.
* * *
### 7.31 ServicesProvided structure
This structure is used to indicate what services the presentity wants provided
to the watcher. The result shall be a union of all the elements in the
structure.
* * *
Element name Element type Optional Description All xsd:boolean Yes If true,
all services that are present are provided. Class xsd:string Yes Class of
service if present, to be provided. OccurrenceId xsd:string Yes Occurrence Id
of service if present, to be provided. ServiceUri xsd:anyURI Yes Service-uri
of service if present, to be provided. ServiceUriScheme xsd:string Yes
Service-uri-scheme of service if present, to be provided. ServiceId xsd:string
Yes Service Identity of service if present, to be provided.
* * *
### 7.32 AttributePermission structure
The presentity's permissions for particular presence attributes to be provided
to the watcher for allowed device(s), person(s) or service(s).
* * *
Element name Element type Optional Description Attribute PresenceAttributeType
No The name of the attribute type. Decision xsd:Boolean No Indicates whether
the presentity provides the attribute type (if present), (true) or not
(false).
* * *
## 7.33 PresenceDataFormat enumeration
This enumeration shows the presence data format that may be requested.
Only one value -- PIDF - is currently defined.
* * *
Enumeration Description PIDF PIDF document -- see RFC 3863 [16] and any
extensions (for example, the extensions to PIDF defined in RFC 4480 [17]).
* * *
# 8 Web Service interface definition
This API is separated into three interfaces:
  * PresenceConsumer interface: watcher methods for requesting and subscribing presence data.
  * PresenceNotification interface: is the watcher notification interface for presence events.
  * PresenceSupplier interface: presentity methods for supplying presence data and managing subscriptions.
## 8.1 Interface: PresenceConsumer
Client role: watcher.
This set of methods is used by the watcher to obtain presence data. The
watcher can select between a polling mode or a notification mode in order to
receive presence data.
### 8.1.1 Void
### 8.1.2 Operation: getUserPresenceRequest
Returns the aggregated presence data of a presentity or a group / list of
Presentities to the watcher. Only the attributes which the watcher is entitled
to see will be returned..
The Attributes message part specifies a subset of all possible attribute types
that can be returned and can be used as a filter. If the Attributes message
part is empty, the watcher wants to be notified of all attribute types.
If the request identifies a group / list of multiple Presentities, the watcher
may receive presence attributes for every Presentity in the group / list.
Note: A mapping to SIP / IMS networks for multiple Presentities may involve
the routing of the request to an RLS Server rather than directly to a Presence
Server.
The returned attributes will be dependent on the authorization afforded to the
watcher by each presentity.
The 'Waiting' value of Watcher Subscription Status allows a Presentity to be
informed of a request that expired without an authorization decision.
'Waiting' subscriptions can be reported when the presentity subscribes to
watcher information via getMyWatchers() or / and getOpenSubscriptions(). The
presentity may then authorize the watcher (via
updateSubscriptionAuthorization() before the request from the watcher is
repeated.
#### 8.1.2.1 Input message: getUserPresenceRequest
+------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Part name | Part type | Optional | Description | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | watcher | xsd:anyURI | No | The watcher who | | | | | wants to see a | | | | | presentity or a | | | | | group / list of | | | | | presentities. | | | | | The Watcher | | | | | Application | | | | | invokes this | | | | | operation on | | | | | behalf of this | | | | | watcher. It is | | | | | assumed that the | | | | | Watcher | | | | | Application has | | | | | authenticated | | | | | the watcher. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Presentities | xsd:anyURI | No | The presentity | | | | | or group / list | | | [1 ... | | of presentities | | | unbounded] | | whose attributes | | | | | the watcher | | | | | wants to see. | | | | | | | | | | Note: In the | | | | | latter case, the | | | | | network may only | | | | | allow the list | | | | | owner to | | | | | subscribe to a | | | | | list of | | | | | presentities. | | | | | i.e. the watcher | | | | | may have to be | | | | | the list owner. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Mult | xsd:Boolean | Yes | The watcher | | iplePresentities | | | accepts | | | | | notifications | | | | | for multiple | | | | | Presentities. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Attributes | Prese | Yes | The attribute | | | nceAttributeType | | types the | | | [0..unbounded] | | watcher wants to | | | | | see (The same | | | | | attributes for | | | | | all list | | | | | members). An | | | | | empty array | | | | | means all | | | | | attribute types. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Application | xsd:string | Yes | Describes the | | | | | application the | | | | | watcher needs | | | | | the data for. | | | | | | | | | | (Operator Policy | | | | | may make this | | | | | parameter | | | | | mandatory). | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Format | Pr | Yes | If present, the | | | esenceDataFormat | | watcher accepts | | | | | Presence data | | | | | formatted as | | | | | described e.g. | | | | | as a PIDF | | | | | document -- see | | | | | RFC 3863 [16] | | | | | and any | | | | | extensions (for | | | | | example, the | | | | | extensions to | | | | | PIDF defined in | | | | | RFC 4480 | | | | | [17]). | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+
#### 8.1.2.2 Output message: getUserPresenceResponse
In the Output message, one of 'result', 'NotificationResult' or
'PresenceDocument' must be provided. Only one should be provided.
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description result PresenceAttribute
[0..unbounded] Yes The actual presence data. NotificationResult
PresenceNotification [0..unbounded] Yes The presence data in a Presence
Notification structure form. PresenceDocument xsd:string Yes Presence data
formatted as a PIDF document in RFC 3863 [16] and any extensions (for example,
the extensions to PIDF defined in RFC 4480 [17]).
* * *
#### 8.1.2.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001: Service error.
  * SVC0002: Invalid input value.
  * SVC0004: No valid addresses - if the presentity address does not exist.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]. The presentity has the possibility
to cancel or block a subscription by manipulating the policy rules. The
exception informs the watcher about this status change:
  * POL0001: Policy error.
  * POL0002: Privacy error.
### 8.1.3 Operation: startPresenceNotification
Initiates a subscription for notifications of the presence of a Presentity, or
of the presence of a group / list of Presentities, to the watcher via
statusNotified().
NOTE: A mapping to SIP / IMS networks for multiple Presentities may involve
the routing of the request to an RLS Server rather than directly to a Presence
Server.
The Reference message part contains the Web Service reference that provides
the information necessary for the Presence Supplier to notify the watcher with
the results of the subscription request. The correlator element of this Web
service reference associates the notification events in subsequent messages
with the request.
The Attributes message part specifies a subset of all possible attribute types
that can be subscribed and can be used as a filter. The watcher sets a
notification trigger on certain user presence attribute changes. If the
Attributes message part is empty, the watcher wants to be notified about
changes to all attribute types.
If the request identifies a list of multiple Presentities, the watcher will
receive notifications for every Presentity in the list. However, the notified
attributes will be dependent on the watcher subscription status for each
presentity.
For each presentity, limited or no presence information may be present in the
resulting notifications until the presentity has authorized the watcher and
allowed access to attributes.
In order to be informed of the subscription and authorize a new watcher (via
updateSubscriptionAuthorization(), the presentity can subscribe to watcher
information via getMyWatchers() or / and getOpenSubscriptions().
#### 8.1.3.1 Input message: startPresenceNotificationRequest
+------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Part name | Part type | Optional | Description | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | watcher | xsd:anyURI | No | The watcher who | | | | | wants to monitor | | | | | a presentity or | | | | | a group / list | | | | | of presentities. | | | | | The Watcher | | | | | Application | | | | | invokes this | | | | | operation on | | | | | behalf of this | | | | | watcher. It is | | | | | assumed that the | | | | | Watcher | | | | | Application has | | | | | authenticated | | | | | the watcher. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Presentities | xsd:anyURI | No | The presentity | | | | | or group / list | | | [1 ... | | of presentities | | | unbounded] | | whose attributes | | | | | the watcher | | | | | wants to monitor | | | | | . | | | | | | | | | | Note: In the | | | | | latter case, a | | | | | network may only | | | | | allow the list | | | | | owner to | | | | | subscribe to a | | | | | list of | | | | | Presentities | | | | | i.e. the watcher | | | | | may have to be | | | | | the list owner. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Mult | xsd:Boolean | Yes | If present and | | iplePresentities | | | true, the | | | | | watcher accepts | | | | | notifications | | | | | for multiple | | | | | Presentities. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Attributes | Prese | Yes | The attribute | | | nceAttributeType | | types the | | | [0..unbounded] | | watcher wants to | | | | | access. (The | | | | | same attributes | | | | | for all list | | | | | members). An | | | | | empty array | | | | | means monitoring | | | | | of all attribute | | | | | types. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Application | xsd:string | Yes | Describes the | | | | | application the | | | | | watcher needs | | | | | the data for. | | | | | | | | | | (Operator Policy | | | | | may make this | | | | | parameter | | | | | mandatory). | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Reference | common | No | The notification | | | :SimpleReference | | interface | | | | | (contains the | | | | | correlator | | | | | string used in | | | | | subsequent | | | | | messages to the | | | | | notification | | | | | interface). | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Frequency | c | Yes | Maximum | | | ommon:TimeMetric | | frequency of | | | | | notifications | | | | | (can also be | | | | | considered | | | | | minimum time | | | | | between | | | | | notifications). | | | | | In case of a | | | | | group | | | | | subscription the | | | | | service must | | | | | make sure this | | | | | frequency is not | | | | | violated by | | | | | notifications | | | | | for various | | | | | members of the | | | | | group, | | | | | especially in | | | | | combination with | | | | | checkImmediate. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Duration | c | Yes | Length of time | | | ommon:TimeMetric | | notifications | | | | | occur for, do | | | | | not specify to | | | | | use default | | | | | notification | | | | | time defined by | | | | | service policy. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Count | xsd:int | Yes | Maximum number | | | | | of | | | | | notifications. | | | | | For no maximum, | | | | | either do not | | | | | specify this | | | | | part or specify | | | | | a value of zero. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | CheckImmediate | xsd:boolean | Yes | Whether to check | | | | | status | | | | | immediately | | | | | after | | | | | establishing | | | | | notification. If | | | | | absent, the | | | | | default action | | | | | is as if set to | | | | | 'true'. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Format | Pr | Yes | If present, the | | | esenceDataFormat | | watcther accepts | | | | | Presence data | | | | | formatted as | | | | | described e.g. | | | | | as a PIDF | | | | | document -- see | | | | | RFC 3863 [16] | | | | | and any | | | | | extensions (for | | | | | example, the | | | | | extensions to | | | | | PIDF defined in | | | | | RFC 4480 | | | | | [17]). | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+
#### 8.1.3.2 Output message: startPresenceNotificationResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description result xsd:anyURI [0..unbounded] Yes
The presentities for which the requested notifications could not be set up.
Empty if notifications were set up for all the specified Presentities or the
network does not return this information.
* * *
#### 8.1.3.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001: Service error.
  * SVC0002: Invalid input value.
  * SVC0004: No valid addresses - if the presentity address does not exist.
  * SVC0005: Duplicate correlator.
  * SVC0006: Invalid Group
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]. The presentity has the possibility
to cancel or block a subscription by manipulating the policy rules. The
exception informs the watcher about this status change:
  * POL0001: Policy error.
  * POL0002: Privacy error.
  * POL0003: Too many addresses.
  * POL0004: Unlimited notifications not supported
  * POL0005: Too many notifications requested.
  * POL0006: Groups not allowed.
  * POL0007: Nested groups not allowed.
  * POL0009: Invalid frequency requested.
### 8.1.4 Operation: endPresenceNotificationRequest
Indicates that the watcher does not want further notifications for a specific
notification request (identified by the correlator).
#### 8.1.4.1 Input message: endPresenceNotificationRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description Correlator xsd:string No The
notification the watcher wants to cancel.
* * *
#### 8.1.4.2 Output message: endPresenceNotificationResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.1.4.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001: Service error.
  * SVC0002: Invalid input value.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001: Policy error.
## 8.2 Interface: PresenceNotification
This client callback interface is used by the presence consumer interface to
send notifications.
### 8.2.1 Void
### 8.2.2 Operation: statusEnd
The notifications have ended for this correlator. This message will be
delivered when the duration or count for notifications have been completed.
This message will not be delivered in the case of an error ending the
notifications or deliberate ending of the notifications (using
endPresenceNotification operation).
#### 8.2.2.1 Input message: statusEndRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description Correlator xsd:string No Correlator
provided in request to set up this notification
* * *
#### 8.2.2.2 Output message: statusEndResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.2.2.3 Referenced faults
None.
### 8.2.3 Void
### 8.2.4 Operation: subscriptionEnded
This asynchronous operation is called by the Web Service to notify the watcher
(application) that the subscription has terminated. Typical reasons are a
timeout of the underlying SIP soft state subscription (in accordance with [14]
and [9]) or the decision of the presentity to block further presence
information to that watcher.
#### 8.2.4.1 Input message: subscriptionEndedRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description
correlator xsd:string No Identifies the notification request.
Presentity xsd:anyURI No The presentity (or list owner) to which the
subscription has terminated
Watcher xsd:anyURI Yes The watcher whose subscription is terminated.\ It has
the same value as the watcher part of the original subscribePresenceRequest
message (reference clause 8.1.1.1).
Reason xsd:string No Timeout, Blocked, No Resource, Give Up, Probation,
Deactivated.
* * *
#### 8.2.4.2 Output message: subscriptionEndedResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description None
* * *
### 8.2.5 Operation: statusNotifiedRequest
This asynchronous operation is called by the Web Service as a result of the
handling of a startPresenceNotification() request from a watcher application
or / and when an attribute for which notifications were requested changes.
#### 8.2.5.1 Input message: statusNotifiedRequest
In the Output message, one of 'PresenceInformation' or 'PresenceDocument' must
be provided. Only one should be provided.
+------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Part name | Part type | Optional | Description | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | correlator | xsd:string | No | Identifies the | | | | | notification | | | | | request. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Pre | Pres | Yes | The presence | | senceInformation | enceNotification | | data notified | | | | | for each | | | [0..unbounded] | | presentity. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | PresenceDocument | xsd:string | Yes | Presence data | | | | | formatted as a | | | | | PIDF document as | | | | | in RFC 3863 | | | | | [16] and any | | | | | extensions (for | | | | | example, the | | | | | extensions to | | | | | PIDF defined in | | | | | RFC 4480 | | | | | [17]). | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+
#### 8.2.5.1 Output message: statusNotifiedResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.2.5.3 Referenced faults
None
## 8.3 Interface: PresenceSupplier
These methods are used by the presentity to supply presence data and manage
access to the data by its watchers. We assume that the presentity has been
previously authenticated, so that his Identity is known.
### 8.3.1 Operation: publish
The presentity publishes data about herself. This data will then be filtered
by the system and forwarded to the watchers who have ordered notifications.
Either the Presence Document as a PIDF document shall be published or the
presence data shall be published in the form of either generic presence
attributes or via person, service and device attributes.
#### 8.3.1.1 Input message: publishRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description
presentity xsd:anyURI No The presentity who wants to publish his or her
presence data.\ The Presentity Application invokes this operation on behalf of
this presentity. It is assumed that the Presentity Application has
authenticated the presentity.
Presence PresenceAttribute [0..unbounded] Yes The presence attributes the
devices of the presentity supports
PublishedPersonAttributes PresenceAttribute [0..unbounded] Yes The presence
data related to a person.
PublishedServiceAttributes PresenceAttribute [0..unbounded] Yes The presence
data related to particular services.
PublishedDeviceAttributes PresenceAttribute [0..unbounded] Yes The presence
data related to particular devices.
PresenceDocument PIDFDocument Yes Presence data formatted as a PIDF document
-- see RFC 3863 [16] and any extensions (for example, the extensions to PIDF
defined in RFC 4480 [17]).
* * *
#### 8.3.1.2 Output message: publishResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.3.1.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001: Service error.
  * SVC0002: Invalid input value.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001: Policy error.
### 8.3.2 Void
### 8.3.3 Void
### 8.3.4 Operation: getMyWatchersRequest
This operation may be called periodically by the presentity (application) to
see any watcher(s) subscribing or wanting to subscribe to presence data.
Returns an array of watching identities for a specific presentity or a
structure that includes the identity of watching subscribers for the
presentity. The watchers' subscription status and the event that caused the
transition to this status are included in the structure. The client may apply
a filter to retrieve watchers based on subscription status.
The client can answer open requests (i.e. those with a Watcher Subscription
Status of 'Pending' or 'Waiting') with updateSubscriptionAuthorization().
#### 8.3.4.1 Input message: getMyWatchersRequest
+------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Part name | Part type | Optional | Description | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | presentity | xsd:anyURI | No | Presentity who | | | | | wants to know | | | | | his or her | | | | | watchers. The | | | | | Presentity | | | | | Application | | | | | invokes this | | | | | operation on | | | | | behalf of this | | | | | presentity. It | | | | | is assumed that | | | | | the Presentity | | | | | Application has | | | | | authenticated | | | | | the presentity. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | WatcherSu | WatcherSu | Yes | Allows the | | bscriptionStatus | bscriptionStatus | | presentity to | | | | | apply a filter | | | [0 ... | | based on watcher | | | unbounded] | | subscription | | | | | status. An empty | | | | | list means the | | | | | presentity wants | | | | | to retrieve all | | | | | watchers. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+
#### 8.3.4.2 Output message: getMyWatchersResponse
+-----------+------------------+----------+---------------------+ | Part name | Part type | Optional | Description | +-----------+------------------+----------+---------------------+ | result | Watcher | Yes | The list of watcher | | | | | identities that | | | [0..unbounded] | | currently have | | | | | requested access to | | | | | the presentity\'s | | | | | attributes, The | | | | | subscription status | | | | | of each watcher is | | | | | included in the | | | | | response and the | | | | | event that caused | | | | | the transition to | | | | | the current status. | +-----------+------------------+----------+---------------------+
#### 8.3.4.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001: Service error.
  * SVC0002: Invalid input value.
  * SVC0004: No valid addresses - if the presentity address does not exist.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001: Policy error.
  * POL0002: Privacy error.
### 8.3.5 Operation: getSubscribedAttributes
Returns an array of attributes that a specific watcher has subscribed.
#### 8.3.5.1 Input message: getSubscribedAttributesRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description presentity xsd:anyURI No The
presentity who wants to know the attributes to which his or her watcher has
subscribed. The Presentity Application invokes this operation on behalf of
this presentity. However, it should NOT be assumed that the Presentity
Application has authenticated the presentity. Watcher xsd:anyURI No The
watcher whose subscriptions the presentity wants to know
* * *
#### 8.3.5.2 Output message: getSubscribedAttributesResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description Result PresenceAttributeType
[0..unbounded] Yes The attributes the watcher is subscribed to. An empty array
means subscription to all attribute types.
* * *
#### 8.3.5.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001: Service error.
  * SVC0004: No valid addresses.
  * SVC0221: Not a watcher - if the URI in the field watcher is not a > watcher of the presentity.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001: Policy error.
### 8.3.6 Void
### 8.3.7 Operation: updateAuthorizationRuleRequest
The presentity may use this operation in advance of watcher requests or in
response to watcher requests for which no authorization policy exists.
The operation can be used by the presentity at anytime to change the
authorization for certain watchers.
The operation contains a rule consisting of watcher or prospective watcher
identities along with the authorization decisions and attribute permissions
applicable to them.
If the optional 'Rules' (XML Element) part is provided, none of the other
optional elements are provided and the only other parameter necessary is the
'presentity'. The 'Rules' XML Element may contain single or multiple rules
(including rule ids) which are additive to those provided in previous
requests.
If there is a conflict in the rules, the outcome is decided by the priority
rules for authorization decisions in the network (e.g. 'Allow' may take first
priority followed by 'Polite Block', then 'Confirm' then .Block').
If the optional 'Rules' (XML Element) part is NOT provided, the optional
'RuleId' and 'AuthorizationDecision' shall always be provided.
Watchers may be identified singly or by membership of a domain or list. When
membership of a domain or list is used to identify watchers, exceptions within
the domain or list for which the rule does not apply may be identified via the
'Except Watchers', 'Except Domain' or 'Except List' parameters.
It is also possible for the rule to be applied to Anonymous, Other (not
specified by other rules) or Any Watchers.
The rule only applies when the current time is within the range specified by
the Validity parameter.
The permissions are 'additive' i.e. the overall permissions granted via
multiple rules matching the watcher are the union of the permissions in all
the rules. Rules provide (albeit limited) permissions and do not deny them.
Thus removing a rule does not increase permissions.
The permissions are hierarchical i.e. devices, persons and services are only
provided to authorized subscriptions and attribute rules only apply to the
devices, persons and services that are provided.
When the authorization decision is 'Polite Block', the watcher is not
considered authorised by the presentity, but this information is not disclosed
to the watcher. Instead, the watcher's request is accepted, but the watcher
receives no presence information or only that presence information dedicated
for the polite block feature.
#### 8.3.7.1 Input message: updateAuthorizationRuleRequest
+------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Part name | Part type | Optional | Description | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | presentity | xsd:anyURI | No | Presentity who | | | | | wants to update | | | | | his or her | | | | | authorization | | | | | rules. [ | | | | | ]{.underline} | | | | | The Presentity | | | | | Application | | | | | invokes this | | | | | operation on | | | | | behalf of this | | | | | presentity. It | | | | | is assumed that | | | | | the Presentity | | | | | Application has | | | | | authenticated | | | | | the presentity. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | RuleId | xsd:string | No | An identifier | | | | | for the rule | | | | | that this | | | | | request | | | | | establishes or | | | | | modifies. | | | | | | | | | | Note: Rules | | | | | provide (albeit | | | | | limited) | | | | | permissions and | | | | | do not deny | | | | | them. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Watchers | xsd:anyURI | Yes | The watchers for | | | | | whom the | | | [0... | | presentity wants | | | unbounded] | | to apply this | | | | | rule.. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Domains | xsd:string | Yes | List of domain | | | | | names that | | | [0... | | contain watchers | | | unbounded] | | for whom the | | | | | presentity wants | | | | | to apply this | | | | | rule. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | ListNames | xsd:string | Yes | The names of URI | | | | | resource lists | | | [0... | | owned by the | | | unbounded] | | presentity that | | | | | contain watchers | | | | | for whom the | | | | | presentity wants | | | | | to apply this | | | | | rule. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | AnonymousWatcher | xsd:boolean | Yes | If | | | | | AnonymousWatcher | | | | | is true, the | | | | | request applies | | | | | to anonymous | | | | | watchers. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | OtherWatcher | xsd:boolean | Yes | If OtherWatcher | | | | | is true, the | | | | | request applies | | | | | to all watchers | | | | | that are not | | | | | identified in | | | | | other valid | | | | | policies. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | AnyWatcher | xsd:boolean | Yes | If AnyWatcher is | | | | | true, the | | | | | request applies | | | | | to any watcher. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | ExceptWatchers | xsd:anyURI | Yes | The watchers | | | | | whom the | | | [0... | | presentity does | | | unbounded] | | not want this | | | | | rule to apply | | | | | to. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | ExceptDomains | xsd:string | Yes | List of domain | | | | | names that | | | [0... | | contain watchers | | | unbounded] | | for whom the | | | | | presentity does | | | | | not want to | | | | | apply this rule. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | ExceptListNames | xsd:string | Yes | The names of URI | | | | | resource lists | | | [0... | | owned by the | | | unbounded] | | presentity that | | | | | contain watchers | | | | | for whom the | | | | | presentity does | | | | | not want to | | | | | apply this rule. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Validity | Validity | Yes | This policy is | | | | | only applied | | | | | whilst the | | | | | current time is | | | | | within the time | | | | | range specified | | | | | by this element. | | | | | If this element | | | | | is absent, the | | | | | policy is | | | | | permanently | | | | | applied. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Autho | Au | Yes | Indicates what | | rizationDecision | thorizationValue | | action the | | | | | presentity wants | | | | | applied to | | | | | matching | | | | | subscriptions. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | DevicesProvided | DevicesProvided | Yes | Indicates which | | | | | of his or her | | | | | devices, the | | | | | presentity wants | | | | | provided to the | | | | | watcher. If | | | | | absent, no | | | | | devices are | | | | | provided. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | PersonsProvided | PersonsProvided | Yes | Indicates which | | | | | of his or her | | | | | persons (sets of | | | | | person | | | | | information), | | | | | the presentity | | | | | wants provided | | | | | to the watcher. | | | | | If absent, no | | | | | person | | | | | information is | | | | | provided. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | ServicesProvided | ServicesProvided | Yes | Indicates which | | | | | of his or her | | | | | services, the | | | | | presentity wants | | | | | provided to the | | | | | watcher. If | | | | | absent, no | | | | | services are | | | | | provided. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | AttributeRules | Att | Yes | The set of | | | ributePermission | | permissions | | | [0..unbounded] | | defining which | | | | | particular | | | | | presence | | | | | attributes are | | | | | provided to | | | | | allowed watchers | | | | | that have | | | | | device(s, | | | | | person(s) or | | | | | services(s) | | | | | provided. | | | | | | | | | | An empty array | | | | | means only the | | | | | set of | | | | | information that | | | | | is always | | | | | reported for | | | | | allowed | | | | | device(s, | | | | | person(s) or | | | | | services(s) is | | | | | provided. | | | | | | | | | | The contact, | | | | | service-class, | | | | | basic status and | | | | | timestamp | | | | | elements are | | | | | provided for all | | | | | services, if | | | | | present. | | | | | | | | | | The timestamp | | | | | element is | | | | | provided for all | | | | | persons, if | | | | | present. | | | | | | | | | | The timestamp | | | | | and deviceID | | | | | elements are | | | | | provided for all | | | | | devices, if | | | | | present. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Rules | XML Element | Yes | XML element | | | | | conforming to | | | | | the OMA schema | | | | | namespace: | | | | | urn:oma:xm | | | | | l:prs:pres-rules | | | | | (which extends | | | | | the ietf | | | | | nameplace: | | | | | ur | | | | | n:ietf:params:xm | | | | | l:ns:pres-rules) | | | | | \ | | | | | [XSD-PRESRULES] | | | | | [18]. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+
#### 8.3.7.2 Output message: updateAuthorizationRuleResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.3.7.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001: Service error.
  * SVC0002: Invalid input value.
  * SVC0004: No valid addresses - if the presentity address does not exist.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001: Policy error.
  * POL0002: Privacy error.
  * POL0003: Too many addresses.
### 8.3.8 Operation: deleteAuthorizationRuleRequest
Indicates that the presentity wishes to delete the authorization rule
identified by the rule identifier.
#### 8.3.8.1 Input message: deleteAuthorizationRuleRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description presentity xsd:anyURI No Presentity
who wants to delete the authorization rule. [ ]{.underline} The Presentity
Application invokes this operation on behalf of this presentity. It is assumed
that the Presentity Application has authenticated the presentity. RuleId
xsd:string No The identifier for the rule that this request deletes.
* * *
#### 8.3.8.2 Output message: deleteAuthorizationRuleResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.3.8.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001: Service error.
  * SVC0002: Invalid input value.
  * SVC0004: No valid addresses - if the presentity address does not exist.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001: Policy error.
## 8.4 Interface: PresenceSupplierNotificationManager
This interface enables applications to set up and tear down notifications for
watcher subscriptions.
### 8.4.1 Void
### 8.4.2 Void
### 8.4.3 Operation: startMyWatchersNotificationRequest
The PresenceSupplierNotificationManager provides functionality that allows
presentities to be notified about all watcher subscriptions.
The client may apply a filter to retrieve watchers based on subscription
status.
The application may specify the duration for how long the notifications should
occur with the Duration parameter. If the parameter is absent the notification
will last until the application invokes endMyWatchersNotification.
The correlator provided in the reference must be unique for the application at
the time the notification is initiated, otherwise a ServiceException (SVC0005)
will be returned to the application.
#### 8.4.3.1 Input message: startMyWatchersNotificationRequest
+------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Part name | Part type | Optional | Description | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | reference | common | No | Notification | | | :SimpleReference | | endpoint | | | | | definition. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Presentity | xsd:anyURI | No | The presentity | | | | | for which the | | | | | application | | | | | wants to know | | | | | the watchers. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | WatcherSu | WatcherSu | Yes | Allows a filter | | bscriptionStatus | bscriptionStatus | | to be applied | | | | | based on watcher | | | [0 ... | | subscription | | | unbounded] | | status. An empty | | | | | list means | | | | | retrieve all | | | | | watchers. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Duration | c | Yes | Length of time | | | ommon:TimeMetric | | notifications | | | | | occur for. If | | | | | the element is | | | | | omitted, the | | | | | notifications | | | | | will continue | | | | | until | | | | | endMyWatc | | | | | hersNotification | | | | | is invoked. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+
#### 8.4.3.2 Output message: startMyWatchersNotificationResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.4.3.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001: Service error.
  * SVC0002: Invalid input value.
  * SVC0004: No valid addresses - if the presentity address does not exist.
  * SVC0005: Duplicate correlator.
  * SVC0008: Overlapping criteria.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001: Policy error.
  * POL0002: Privacy error.
  * POL0004: Unlimited notifications not supported.
### 8.4.4 Operation: endMyWatchersNotificationRequest
Indicates that the presentity does not want further notifications of watcher
subscriptions for a specific notification request (identified by the
correlator).
#### 8.4.4.1 Input message: endMyWatchersNotificationRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description correlator xsd:string No Correlator
of request to end.
* * *
#### 8.4.4.2 Output message: endMyWatchersNotificationResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.4.4.1 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001: Service error.
  * SVC0002: Invalid input value.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001: Policy error.
## 8.5 Interface: PresenceSupplierNotification
This client interface is used to notify the presentity of watcher
subscriptions.
### 8.5.1 Void
### 8.5.2 Operation: notifyError
The notifyError operation is invoked to indicate that the notification for a
presentity, or for the whole notification, is being cancelled by the Web
Service.
#### 8.5.2.1 Input message: notifyErrorRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description Correlator xsd:string No Correlator
provided in request to set up this notification. Presentity xsd:anyURI Yes
Presentity identifier if the error applies to an individual presentity, or not
specified if it applies to the whole notification. Reason common:ServiceError
No Reason notification is being discontinued.
* * *
#### 8.5.2.2 Output message: notifyErrorResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.5.2.3 Referenced faults
None.
### 8.5.3 Void
### 8.5.4 Operation: notifyMyWatchersRequest
The asynchronous operation is called by the Presence Web Service to inform the
client of all watcher subscriptions.
The Watchers part is a structure that includes the identity of watching
subscribers for the presentity. The watchers' subscription status and the
event that caused the transition to this status are included.
The client can answer open requests (i.e. those with a Watcher Subscription
Status of 'Pending' or 'Waiting') with updateSubscriptionAuthorization().
#### 8.5.4.1 Input message: notifyMyWatchersRequest
+------------+------------------+----------+---------------------+ | Part name | Part type | Optional | Description | +------------+------------------+----------+---------------------+ | correlator | xsd:string | No | Correlator. | +------------+------------------+----------+---------------------+ | Presentity | xsd:anyURI | No | The presentity that | | | | | the watcher | | | | | subscription(s) | | | | | refer to. | +------------+------------------+----------+---------------------+ | Watchers | Watcher | Yes | The list of watcher | | | | | identities that | | | [0..unbounded] | | currently have | | | | | requested access to | | | | | the presentity\'s | | | | | attributes. The | | | | | subscription status | | | | | of the watcher is | | | | | included in the | | | | | response and the | | | | | event that caused | | | | | the transition to | | | | | the current status. | +------------+------------------+----------+---------------------+
#### 8.5.4.2 Output message: notifyMyWatchersResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.5.4.3 Referenced faults
None.
### 8.5.5 Operation: notifyMyWatchersEndRequest
The notifications have completed for this correlator. This message will be
delivered when the duration for notifications has expired. This message will
not be delivered in the case of an error ending the notifications or
deliberate ending of the notifications (using endMyWatchersNotification
operation).
#### 8.5.5.1 Input message: notifyMyWatchersEndRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description correlator xsd:string No Correlator
provided in request to set up this notification.
* * *
#### 8.5.5.2 Output message: notifyMyWatchersEndResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.5.5.3 Referenced faults
None.
# 9 Fault definitions
## 9.1 ServiceException
From 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6].
### 9.1.1 SVC0220: No subscription request
+------------+----------------------------------------------------------+ | Name | Description | +------------+----------------------------------------------------------+ | Message Id | SVC0220 | +------------+----------------------------------------------------------+ | Text | No subscription request from watcher %1 for attribute %2 | +------------+----------------------------------------------------------+ | Variables | %1 - watcher URI | | | | | | %2 - type of attribute, from clause 7.1 | +------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
### 9.1.2 SVC0221: Not a watcher
* * *
Name Description Message Id SVC0221 Text %1 is not a watcher Variables %1 -
watcher URI
* * *
# 10 Service policies
* * *
Name Type Description
MaximumNotificationFrequency common:TimeMetric Maximum rate of notification
delivery (also can be considered minimum time between notifications)
MaximumNotificationDuration common:TimeMetric Maximum amount of time a
notification may be set up for
DefaultNotificationDuration common:TimeMetric Default amount of time a
notification will be set up for.
MaximumCount xsd:int Maximum number of notifications that may be requested
UnlimitedCountAllowed xsd:boolean Allowed to specify unlimited notification
count (i.e. either by not specifying the optional Count message part in
StartPresenceNotificationRequest or by specifying a value of zero)
GroupSupport xsd:boolean Groups may be included with addresses
NestedGroupSupport xsd:boolean Are nested groups supported in group
definitions
MaximumIdentifiers xsd:int Maximum number of allowed URIs provided in a
request.\ A group URI shall be considered as one URI.
* * *
###### ## Annex A (normative): WSDL of Presence API
The document/literal WSDL representation of this interface specification is
compliant to 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6] and is contained in text files
  * parlayx_presence_consumer_interface_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_presence_consumer_service_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_presence_notification_interface_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_presence_notification_service_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_presence_supplier_interface_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_presence_supplier_service_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_presence_supplier_notification_interface_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_presence_supplier_notification_service_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_presence_supplier_notification_manager_interface_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_presence_supplier_notification_manager_service_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_presence_types_4_0.xsd
which accompany the present document.
The WSDL files have been verified using the following files:
  * 14_wsdl2Java_axis-1_4.bat
  * 14_wsdl2Java_axis2-1_4_1.bat
which accompany the present document.
###### ## Annex B (informative): Bibliography
IETF RFC 4660: \"Functional Description of Event Notification Filtering\".
http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc4660.txt.
IETF RFC 4480: \"RPID: Rich Presence: Extensions to the Presence Information
Data Format (PIDF)\".\ http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc4480.txt
IETF RFC 4825: \"The Extensible Markup Language (XML) Configuration Access
Protocol (XCAP)\". [http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc4825.txt]{.underline}.
Repository of information about the Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol
(XMPP), which was contributed by the Jabber Software Foundation (JSF) to the
IETF. [http://www.xmpp.org/]{.underline}
###### ## Annex C (informative): Description of Parlay X Web Services Part 14:
Presence for 3GPP2 cdma2000 networks
This annex is intended to define the OSA Parlay X Web Services Stage 3
interface definitions and it provides the complete OSA specifications. It is
an extension of OSA Parlay X Web Services specifications capabilities to
enable operation in cdma2000 systems environment. They are in alignment with
3GPP2 Stage 1 requirements and Stage 2 architecture defined in:
[1] 3GPP2 X.S0011-D: \"cdma2000 Wireless IP Network Standard \", Version 1.1
[2] 3GPP2 S.R0037-0: \"IP Network Architecture Model for cdma2000 Spread
Spectrum Systems\", Version 3.0
[3] 3GPP2 X.S0013-A: \"All-IP Core Network Multimedia Domain\"
These requirements are expressed as additions to and/or exclusions from the
3GPP Release 8 specification.\ The information given here is to be used by
developers in 3GPP2 cdma2000 network architecture to interpret the 3GPP OSA
specifications.
# C.1 General Exceptions
The terms 3GPP and UMTS are not applicable for the cdma2000 family of
standards. Nevertheless these terms are used (3GPP TR 21.905) mostly in the
broader sense of \"3G Wireless System\". If not stated otherwise there are no
additions or exclusions required.
CAMEL mappings are not applicable for cdma2000 systems.
# C.2 Specific Exceptions
## C.2.1 Clause 1: Scope
There are no additions or exclusions.
## C.2.2 Clause 2: References
There are no additions or exclusions.
## C.2.3 Clause 3: Definitions and abbreviations
There are no additions or exclusions.
## C.2.4 Clause 4: Detailed service description
There are no additions or exclusions.
## C.2.5 Clause 5: Namespaces
There are no additions or exclusions.
## C.2.6 Clause 6: Sequence diagrams
There are no additions or exclusions.
## C.2.7 Clause 7: XML Schema data type definition
There are no additions or exclusions.
## C.2.8 Clause 8: Web Service interface definition
There are no additions or exclusions.
## C.2.9 Clause 9: Fault definitions
There are no additions or exclusions.
## C.2.10 Clause 10: Service policies
There are no additions or exclusions.
## C.2.11 Annex A (normative): WSDL of Presence API
There are no additions or exclusions.
#