# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part 4, sub-part 4 of a multi-part TS covering the
3^rd^ Generation Partnership Project: Technical Specification Group Core
Network; Open Service Access (OSA); Application Programming Interface (API),
as identified below. The **API specification** (3GPP TS 29.198) is structured
in the following Parts:
> Part 1: \"Overview\";
>
> Part 2: \"Common Data Definitions\";
>
> Part 3: \"Framework\";
>
> **Part 4: \"Call Control\";**
>
> Sub-part 1: \"Call Control Common Definitions\";
>
> Sub-part 2: \"Generic Call Control SCF\";
>
> Sub-part 3: \"Multi-Party Call Control SCF\";
>
> **Sub-part 4: \"Multi-Media Call Control SCF\";**
>
> Sub-part 5: \"Conference Call Control SCF\"; (new in 3GPP Release 7)
>
> Part 5: \"User Interaction SCF\";
>
> Part 6: \"Mobility SCF\";
>
> Part 7: \"Terminal Capabilities SCF\";
>
> Part 8: \"Data Session Control SCF\";
>
> Part 9: \"Generic Messaging SCF\"; (not part of 3GPP Release 7)
>
> Part 10: \"Connectivity Manager SCF\"; (not part of 3GPP Release 7)
>
> Part 11: \"Account Management SCF\";
>
> Part 12: \"Charging SCF\".
>
> Part 13: \"Policy Management SCF\";
>
> Part 14: \"Presence and Availability Management SCF\";
>
> Part 15: \"Multi Media Messaging SCF\";
>
> Part 16: \"Service Broker SCF\". (new in 3GPP Release 7)
The **Mapping specification of the OSA APIs and network protocols** (3GPP TR
29.998) is also structured as above. A mapping to network protocols is however
not applicable for all Parts, but the numbering of Parts is kept.\ Also in
case a Part is not supported in a Release, the numbering of the parts is
maintained.
Table: Overview of the OSA APIs & Protocol Mappings 29.198 & 29.998-family
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | OSA | OSA | | | | | | | | API | API | | | | | | | | spec | Ma | | | | | | | | ifica | pping | | | | | | | | tions | - | | | | | | | | 29. | 29. | | | | | | | | 198-f | 998-f | | | | | | | | amily | amily | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Ove | 29.9 | Ove | | | | | | 98-01 | rview | 98-01 | rview | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | C | * | _Not | | | | | | 98-02 | ommon | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | Data | 8-02_ | pplic | | | | | | | D | | able _| | | | | | | efini | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Fram | * |_ Not | | | | | | 98-03 | ework | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | | 8-03 _| pplic | | | | | | | | | able_ | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Call | 2 | 2 | 2 | **2 | 2 | 2 | Ge | | Co | 9.198 | 9.198 | 9.198 | 9.198 | 9.198 | 9.998 | neric | | ntrol | -04-1 | -04-2 | -04-3 | -04-4 | -04-5 | -04-1 | Call | | (CC) | | | | M | Conf | | Co | | SCF | C | Ge | M | ulti- | CC | | ntrol | | | ommon | neric | ulti- | media | SCF | | -- | | | CC | CC | Party | CC | | | CAP | | | data | SCF | CC | SCF** | | | ma | | | d | | SCF | | | | pping | | | efini | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | | | _29 |_ Ge | | | | | | | | .998- | neric | | | | | | | | 04-2 _| Call | | | | | | | | | Co | | | | | | | | | ntrol | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | INAP | | | | | | | | | map | | | | | | | | | ping_ | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | | | _29 |_ Ge | | | | | | | | .998- | neric | | | | | | | | 04-3 _| Call | | | | | | | | | Co | | | | | | | | | ntrol | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | M | | | | | | | | | egaco | | | | | | | | | map | | | | | | | | | ping_ | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | | | 2 | Multi | | | | | | | | 9.998 | party | | | | | | | | -04-4 | Call | | | | | | | | | Co | | | | | | | | | ntrol | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | ISC | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | pping | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | User | 2 | User | | | | | | 98-05 | I | 9.998 | I | | | | | | | ntera | -05-1 | ntera | | | | | | | ction | | ction | | | | | | | SCF | | -- | | | | | | | | | CAP | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | pping | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | _29 |_ User | | | | | | | | .998- | I | | | | | | | | 05-2 _| ntera | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | INAP | | | | | | | | | map | | | | | | | | | ping_ | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | _29 |_ User | | | | | | | | .998- | I | | | | | | | | 05-3 _| ntera | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | M | | | | | | | | | egaco | | | | | | | | | map | | | | | | | | | ping_ | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | 2 | User | | | | | | | | 9.998 | I | | | | | | | | -05-4 | ntera | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | SMS | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | pping | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Mob | 2 | User | | | | | | 98-06 | ility | 9.998 | S | | | | | | | SCF | -06-1 | tatus | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | User | | | | | | | | | Loc | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | MAP | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | pping | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | 2 | User | | | | | | | | 9.998 | S | | | | | | | | -06-2 | tatus | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | User | | | | | | | | | Loc | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | SIP | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | pping | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Ter | * | _Not | | | | | | 98-07 | minal | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | Ca | 8-07_ | pplic | | | | | | | pabil | | able _| | | | | | | ities | | | | | | | | | SCF | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Data | 29.9 | Data | | | | | | 98-08 | Se | 98-08 | Se | | | | | | | ssion | | ssion | | | | | | | Co | | Co | | | | | | | ntrol | | ntrol | | | | | | | SCF | | -- | | | | | | | | | CAP | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | pping | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | * |_ Ge | * | _Not | | | | | | 29.19 | neric | 29.99 | A | | | | | | 8-09_ | Mess | 8-09 _| pplic | | | | | | | aging | | able_ | | | | | | | SCF _| | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | * |_ Co | * | _Not | | | | | | 29.19 | nnect | 29.99 | A | | | | | | 8-10_ | ivity | 8-10 _| pplic | | | | | | | Ma | | able_ | | | | | | | nager | | | | | | | | | SCF _| | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Ac | * |_ Not | | | | | | 98-11 | count | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | Manag | 8-11 _| pplic | | | | | | | ement | | able_ | | | | | | | SCF | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Cha | * | _Not | | | | | | 98-12 | rging | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | SCF | 8-12_ | pplic | | | | | | | | | able _| | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | P | * |_ Not | | | | | | 98-13 | olicy | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | Manag | 8-13 _| pplic | | | | | | | ement | | able_ | | | | | | | SCF | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Pre | * | _Not | | | | | | 98-14 | sence | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | & | 8-14_ | pplic | | | | | | | Av | | able _| | | | | | | ailab | | | | | | | | | ility | | | | | | | | | Manag | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | SCF | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | M | * |_ Not | | | | | | 98-15 | ulti- | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | media | 8-15 _| pplic | | | | | | | Mess | | able_ | | | | | | | aging | | | | | | | | | SCF | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Se | * | _Not | | | | | | 98-16 | rvice | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | B | 8-16_ | pplic | | | | | | | roker | | able* | | | | | | | SCF | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
# 1 Scope
The present document is Part 4, Sub-part 4 of the Stage 3 specification for an
Application Programming Interface (API) for Open Service Access (OSA).
The OSA specifications define an architecture that enables application
developers to make use of network functionality through an open standardised
interface, i.e. the OSA APIs. The concepts and the functional architecture for
the OSA are contained in 3GPP TS 23.198 [3]. The requirements for OSA are
contained in 3GPP TS 22.127 [2].
The present document specifies the Multi-Media Call Control Service Capability
Feature (SCF) aspects of the interface. All aspects of the Multi-Media Call
Control SCF are defined here, these being:
  * Sequence Diagrams
  * Class Diagrams
  * Interface specification plus detailed method descriptions
  * State Transition diagrams
  * Data definitions
  * IDL Description of the interfaces
  * WSDL Description of the interfaces
  * Reference to the Java™ API description of the interfaces
The process by which this task is accomplished is through the use of object
modelling techniques described by the Unified Modelling Language (UML).
This specification has been defined jointly between 3GPP TSG CT WG5, ETSI
TISPAN and the Parlay Group, in co-operation with a number of JAIN™ Community
member companies.
Maintenance of up to 3GPP Rel-8 and new OSA Stage 1, 2 and 3 work beyond Rel-9
was moved to OMA in June 2008.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 29.198-01: \"Open Service Access (OSA) Application Programming
Interface (API); Part 1: Overview\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.127: \"Service Requirement for the Open Services Access (OSA);
Stage 1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.198: \"Open Service Access (OSA); Stage 2\".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.002: \"Circuit Bearer Services (BS) supported by a Public Land
Mobile Network (PLMN)\".
[5] void
[6] 3GPP TS 24.002: \"GSM-UMTS Public Land Mobile Network (PLMN) Access
Reference Configuration\".
[7] 3GPP TS 22.003: \"Circuit Teleservices supported by a Public Land Mobile
Network (PLMN)\"
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TS 29.198-1 [1] apply.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TS
29.198-1 [1] apply.
  1. MultiMedia Call Control Service Sequence Diagrams =================================================
    1. Barring for media combined with call routing, alternative 1 \-----------------------------------------------------------
This sequence illustrates how one application can influence both the call
routing and the media stream establishment of one call.
In this sequence there is one application handling both the media barring and
the routing of the call.
{width="6.684722222222222in" height="5.613888888888889in"}
1: The application creates an AppMultiMediaCallControlManager interface in
order to handle callback methods.
2: The application expresses interest in all calls from subscriber A. Since
createNotification is used and not createMediaNotification all calls are
reported regardless of the media used.
3: A makes a call with the SIP INVITE with SDP media stream indicating video.
The application is notified.
4: The event is forwarded to the application.
5: The application creates a new AppMultiMediaCallLeg interface to receive
callbacks.
6: The application sets a monitor on video media streams to be established
(added) for the indicated leg.
7: Since the video media stream was included in the SIP invite, the media
streams monitored will be returned in the monitor result.
8: The event is forwarded to the application.
9: The application denies the video media stream, i.e. it is not included in
the allowed media streams. This corresponds to removing the media stream from
the setup.
10: The application requests to reroute the call to a different destination
(or the same one).
11: Later in the call the A party tries to establish a lower bandwidth video
media stream. This is again reported with MediaStreamMonitorRes.
12: The event is forwarded.
13: This time the application allows the establishment of the media stream by
including the media stream in the allowed list.
## Barring for media combined with call routing, alternative 2
This sequence illustrates how one application can influence both the call
routing and the media establishment of one call.
Media establishment and call establishment are regarded separately by the
application.
From the gateway point of view it can actually be regarded as two separately
triggered applications, one for media control and one for routing. This is
also the way that it is shown here, for clarity.
However, an implementation of the application could combine the media logic
and call logic in one object.
{width="6.688888888888889in" height="5.49375in"}
1: The application creates a new AppMultiMediaCallControlManager interface.
2: The application expresses interest in all calls from subscriber A for
rerouting purposes.
3: The application creates a new AppMultiMediaCallControlManager interface.
This is to be used for the media control only.
4: Separately the application expresses interest is some media streams for
calls from and to A. The request indicates interrupt mode.
5: Subscriber A makes a call with the SIP INVITE with SDP media stream
indicating video. Since the media establishment is combined with the SIP
INVITE message, both applications are triggered (not necessarily in the order
shown). Here the call application is notified about the call setup.
6: The event is forwarded to the call control application.
7: The call control application creates a new AppMultiMediaCall interface.
8: The call control application creates a new AppMultiMediaCallLeg interface.
9: The media application is notified about the call setup. All media streams
from the setup will be indicated.
10: The event is forwarded to the media application.
11: The call control application creates a new AppMultiMediaCallLeg interface.
12: The call application decides to reroute the call to another address.
Included in the request are monitors on answer and call end. However, since
the media was also triggered in mode interrupt the call will not proceed until
the media streams are confirmed or rejected.
14: The application allows the audio media stream, but refuses the high
bandwidth video, by excluding it from the allowed list. Since both call
processing and media handling is now acknowledged, the call routing can
continue (with a changed SDP parameter reflecting the manipulated media).
15: The Media application is no longer interested in the call.
16: When the B subscriber answers the call application is notified.
17: The event is forwarded to the call application.
19: When later in the call A tries to establish a lower bandwidth video stream
the media application is triggered.
20: The triggering is forwarded to the media application.
21: The application now allows the establishment of the media stream by
including the media stream in the mediaStreamAllow list.
22: The media application is no longer interested in the call.
## Barring for media, simple
This sequence illustrates how an application can block the establishment of
video streams for a certain user.
{width="6.688194444444444in" height="3.9972222222222222in"}
1: The application starts a new AppMultiMediaCallControlManager interface for
reception of callbacks.
2: The application expresses interest in all calls from or to subscriber A
that use video. The just created App interface is given as the callback
interface.
3: Subscriber A makes a call with the SIP INVITE with SDP media stream
indicating video.
4: The message is forwarded to the application.
5: The application indicates that the setup of the media stream is not allowed
by not including the media stream in the allowed list. This has the effect of
suppressing the video capabilities in the setup.
6: The application is no longer interested in the call.
New attempts to open video streams will again be indicated with a
reportMediaNotification.
## Call Volume charging supervision
This sequence illustrates how an application may supervise a call based on the
number of bytes that are exchanged.
Note that in the sequence diagram below, a single box represents both an
IpAppCall and an IpAppCallLeg for space reasons.
{width="6.686111111111111in" height="6.409027777777778in"}
1: The application creates a new interface to receive callbacks on the call
control manager.
2: The created interface is set as the callback interface for the call control
manager.
3: The application creates a new interface to receive callback on the call.
4: The application requests the creation of a call.
5: The application initiates the call by routing to the origination. This will
implicitly create a call leg. The application requests a notification when the
party answers.
7: When the A party answers the application is notified.
8: The message is forwarded to the logic.
9: The application also routes the call to the destination. This implicitly
creates a call leg. The application requests to be notified on answer of the
B-party.
11: When the B-party answers the application is notified.
12: The message is forwarded to the logic.
13: The application requests to supervise the call. In the request the
application specifies a limit on the amount of bytes that may be transferred.
The application specifies that if the limit is reached the application should
be notified.
14: When the limit is reached a notification is send to the application.
15: The message is forwarded to the logic.
17: The application plays an announcement to the user, asking whether the user
wants to end the call or continue the call.
18: When the user answers whether the call should continue.
19: The message is forwarded to the logic.
20: The UIcall is released, since no further announcements are needed.
21: In case the user answers that the call should continue, the supervision is
reset with a new maximum number of allowed bytes. (note that this might have
charging consequences, not shown).
22: If the user answered that the call should not continue, the call is
released.
# Class Diagrams
{width="6.689583333333333in" height="5.593055555555556in"}
Figure: Application Interfaces
{width="6.69375in" height="3.972916666666667in"}
Figure: Service Interfaces
# MultiMedia Call Control Service Interface Classes
The MultiMedia Call Control service enhances the functionality of the
MultiParty Call Control Service with multi-media capabilities.
The MultiMedia Call Control Service is represented by the
IpMultiMediaCallControlManager, IpMultiMediaCall, IpMultiMediaCallLeg and
IpMultiMediaStream interfaces that interface to services provided by the
network. Some methods are asynchronous, in that they do not lock a thread into
waiting whilst a transaction performs. In this way, the client machine can
handle many more calls, than one that uses synchronous message calls. To
handle responses and reports, the developer must implement
IpAppMultiMediaCallControlManager, IpAppMultiMediaCall and
IpAppMultiMediaCallLeg to provide the callback mechanism.
To handle the multi-media aspects of a call the concept of media stream is
introduced. A media stream is bi-directional media stream and is associated
with a call leg. These media streams are usually negotiated between the
terminals in the call. The multi-party Call Service gives the application
control over the media streams associated with the legs in a multi-media call
in the following way:
\- the application can be triggered on the establishment of a media stream
that meets the application defined characteristics;
\- the application can monitor on the establishment (addition) or release
(subtraction) of media streams of an ongoing call;
\- the application can allow or deny the establishment of media streams
(provided the stream establishment was monitored/notified in interrupt mode);
\- the application can explicitly subtract already established media streams;
\- the application can request the media streams associated with a specific
leg.
## Interface Class IpMultiMediaCallControlManager
Inherits from: IpMultiPartyCallControlManager
The Multi Media Call Control Manager is the factory interface for creating
multimedia calls. The multi-media call control manager interface provides the
management functions to the multi-media call control service. The application
programmer can use this interface to create, destroy, change and get media
stream related notifications. This interface shall be implemented by a Multi
Media Call Control SCF. As a minimum requirement the createMediaNotification()
and destroyMediaNotification() methods shall be implemented. The minimum
required methods from IpMultiPartyCallControlManager are also required.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | \> | | | | IpMultiMediaCallControlManager | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | createMediaNotification (appInterface : in | | IpAppMultiMediaCallControlManagerRef, notificationMediaRequest : in | | TpNotificationMediaRequest) : TpAssignmentID | | | | destroyMediaNotification (assignmentID : in TpAssignmentID) : void | | | | changeMediaNotification (assignmentID : in TpAssignmentID, | | notificationMediaRequest : in TpNotificationMediaRequest) : void | | | | getMediaNotification () : TpMediaNotificationRequestedSet | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
### Method createMediaNotification()
This method is used to create media stream notifications so that events can be
sent to the application.
This applies both to callsetup media (e.g. SIP initial INVITE or H.323 with
faststart) and for media setup during the call.
This is the first step an application has to do to get initial notifications
of media streams happening in the network. When such an event happens, the
application will be informed by reportMediaNotification(). In case the
application is interested in other events during the context of a particular
call session it has to use the mediaStreamMonitorReq() method on the Multi-
Media call leg object.
The createMediaNotification method is purely intended for applications to
indicate their interest to be notified when certain media stream events take
place. It is possible to subscribe to a certain media stream event for a whole
range of addresses, e.g. the application can indicate it wishes to be informed
when a call is made to any number starting with 800.
If some application already requested notifications with criteria that overlap
the specified criteria, the request is refused with P_INVALID_CRITERIA. The
criteria are said to overlap if both originating and terminating ranges
overlap and the same number plan is used.
If the same application invokes this method multiple times with exactly the
same criteria but with different callback references, then these shall be
treated as additional callback references. Each such notification request
shall share the same assignmentID. The gateway shall use the most recent
callback interface provided by the application using this method. In the event
that a callback reference fails or is no longer available, the next most
recent callback reference available shall be used.
In case the createMediaNotification contains no callback, at the moment the
application needs to be informed the gateway will use as callback the one that
has been registered by setCallback().
Returns assignmentID: Specifies the ID assigned by the multi-media call
control manager interface for this newly-created notification.
Parameters
appInterface : in IpAppMultiMediaCallControlManagerRef
Specifies a reference to the application interface, which is used for
callbacks.
notificationMediaRequest : in TpNotificationMediaRequest
The mediaMonitorMode is a parameter of TpMediaStreamRequest and can be in
interrupt or in notify mode. If in interrupt mode the application has to
specify which media streams are allowed by calling mediaStreamAllow on the
callLeg.
The notificationMediaRequest parameter specifies the event specific criteria
used by the application to define the event required. This is the media
portion of the criteria. Only events that meet the notificationMediaRequest
are reported.
Individual addresses or address ranges may be specified for the destination
and/or origination.
Returns
TpAssignmentID
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_CRITERIA, P_INVALID_INTERFACE_TYPE,
P_INVALID_EVENT_TYPE
### Method destroyMediaNotification()
This method is used by the application to disable Multi Media Channel
notifications.
Parameters
assignmentID : in TpAssignmentID
Specifies the assignment ID given by the Multi Media call control manager
interface when the previous enableMediaNotification was called. If the
assignment ID does not correspond to one of the valid assignment IDs, the
exception P_INVALID_ASSIGNMENTID will be raised.
Raises
TpCommonExceptions
### Method changeMediaNotification()
This method is used by the application to change the event criteria introduced
with createMediaNotification. Any stored criteria associated with the
specified assignmentID will be replaced with the specified criteria.
Parameters
assignmentID : in TpAssignmentID
Specifies the ID assigned by the multi-media call control manager interface
for the media stream notification. If two callbacks have been registered under
this assignment ID both of them will be changed.
notificationMediaRequest : in TpNotificationMediaRequest
Specifies the new set of event specific criteria used by the application to
define the event required. Only events that meet these criteria are reported.
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_ASSIGNMENT_ID, P_INVALID_CRITERIA,
P_INVALID_EVENT_TYPE
### Method getMediaNotification()
This method is used by the application to query the event criteria set with
createMediaNotification or changeMediaNotification.
Returns notificationsMediaRequested: Specifies the notifications that have
been requested by the application.
Parameters
No Parameters were identified for this method
Returns
TpMediaNotificationRequestedSet
Raises
TpCommonExceptions
## Interface Class IpAppMultiMediaCallControlManager
Inherits from: IpAppMultiPartyCallControlManager
The Multi Media call control manager application interface provides the
application call control management functions to the multi media call control
service.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | \> | | | | IpAppMultiMediaCallControlManager | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | reportMediaNotification (callReference : in | | TpMultiMediaCallIdentifier, callLegReferenceSet : in | | TpMultiMediaCallLegIdentifierSet, mediaStreams : in | | TpMediaStreamSet, type : in TpMediaStreamEventType, qualityOfService | | : in TpDataSessionQosClass, assignmentID : in TpAssignmentID) : | | TpAppMultiMediaCallBack | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
### Method reportMediaNotification()
This method is used to inform the application about the establishment of media
streams.
If the corresponding monitor was in interrupt mode, then the application has
to allow or deny the streams using mediaStreamAllow() method. If the
application has previously explicitly passed a reference to the callback using
a setCallbackWithSessionID() invocation, this parameter may be
P_APP_CALLBACK_UNDEFINED, or if supplied must be the same as that provided
during the setCallbackWithSessionID().
Returns appMultiMediaCallBack: Specifies references to the application
interface which implements the callback interface for the new multi-media call
and/or new call leg. This parameter may be null if the notification is being
given in NOTIFY mode.
Parameters
callReference : in TpMultiMediaCallIdentifier
Specifies the call interface on which the media streams were added or
subtracted, or for which the QoS class of the media stream has changed. It
also gives the corresponding sessionID.
callLegReferenceSet : in TpMultiMediaCallLegIdentifierSet
Specifies set of all callLeg references (interface and sessionID) for which
the media streams were established or subtracted.
First in the set is the reference to the originating callLeg. It indicates the
call leg related to the originating party. In case there is a destination call
leg this will be the second leg in the set. from the notificationInfo can be
found on whose behalf the notification was sent.
However, this parameter will be null if the notification is being given in
NOTIFY mode.
mediaStreams : in TpMediaStreamSet
Specifies all the media streams that are established. Note that this can be
more media streams than requested in the createMediaNotification, e.g. when
faststart is used in H.323 or in SIP when an INVITE method with SDP media
stream parameters is used.
type : in TpMediaStreamEventType
Refers to the type of event on the media stream, i.e., added, subtracted, or
QoS class changed.
qualityOfService : in TpDataSessionQosClass
Specifies the newly negotiated Quality of Service parameters for the media
stream.
assignmentID : in TpAssignmentID
Specifies the assignment id which was returned by the
createMediaNotification() method. The application can use assignment id to
associate events with event specific criteria and to act accordingly.
Returns
TpAppMultiMediaCallBack
## Interface Class IpMultiMediaCall
Inherits from: IpMultiPartyCall
This interface shall be implemented by a Multi Media Call Control SCF.
Implementation of the superviseVolumeReq() method is optional. The minimum
required methods from IpMultiPartyCall are required.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | \> | | | | IpMultiMediaCall | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | superviseVolumeReq (callSessionID : in TpSessionID, volume : in | | TpCallSuperviseVolume, treatment : in TpCallSuperviseTreatment) : | | void | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
### Method superviseVolumeReq()
The application calls this method to supervise a call. The application can set
a granted data volume this call.
Parameters
callSessionID : in TpSessionID
Specifies the call session ID of the call.
volume : in TpCallSuperviseVolume
Specifies the granted time in milliseconds for the connection.
treatment : in TpCallSuperviseTreatment
Specifies how the network should react after the granted volume expired.
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_SESSION_ID
## Interface Class IpAppMultiMediaCall
Inherits from: IpAppMultiPartyCall
The application multi-media call interface contains the callbacks that will be
used from the multi-media call interface for asynchronous results to requests
performed by the application. The application should implement this interface.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | \> | | | | IpAppMultiMediaCall | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | superviseVolumeRes (callSessionID : in TpSessionID, report : in | | TpCallSuperviseReport, usedVolume : in TpCallSuperviseVolume, | | qualityOfService : in TpDataSessionQosClass) : void | | | | superviseVolumeErr (callSessionID : in TpSessionID, errorIndication | | : in TpCallError) : void | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
### Method superviseVolumeRes()
This asynchronous method reports a call supervision event to the application
when it has indicated its interest in this kind of event.
It is also called when the connection is terminated before the supervision
event occurs. Furthermore, this method is invoked as a response to the request
also when the Quality of Service parameters were renegotiated during the
active call.
Parameters
callSessionID : in TpSessionID
Specifies the call session ID of the call.
report : in TpCallSuperviseReport
Specifies the situation which triggered the sending of the call supervision
response.
usedVolume : in TpCallSuperviseVolume
Specifies the used time for the call supervision (in milliseconds).
qualityOfService : in TpDataSessionQosClass
Specifies the newly negotiated Quality of Service parameters for the
multimedia call.
### Method superviseVolumeErr()
This asynchronous method reports a call supervision error to the application.
Parameters
callSessionID : in TpSessionID
Specifies the call session ID of the call.
errorIndication : in TpCallError
Specifies the error which led to the original request failing.
## Interface Class IpMultiMediaCallLeg
Inherits from: IpCallLeg
The Multi-Media call leg represents the signalling relationship between the
call and an address. Associated with the signalling relationship there can be
multiple media channels. Media channels can be started and stopped by the
terminals themselves. The application can monitor on these changes and
influence them. This interface shall be implemented by a Multi Media Call
Control SCF. The mediaStreamAllow() and mediaStreamMonitorReq() methods shall
be implemented as a minimum requirement. The minimum required methods from
IpCallLeg are also required.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | \> | | | | IpMultiMediaCallLeg | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | mediaStreamAllow (callLegSessionID : in TpSessionID, mediaStreamList | | : in TpSessionIDSet) : void | | | | mediaStreamMonitorReq (callLegSessionID : in TpSessionID, | | mediaStreamEventCriteria : in TpMediaStreamRequestSet) : void | | | | getMediaStreams (callLegSessionID : in TpSessionID) : | | TpMediaStreamSet | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
### Method mediaStreamAllow()
This method can be used to allow setup of a media stream that was reported by
a mediaStreamMonitorRes method.
Parameters
callLegSessionID : in TpSessionID
Specifies the call leg session ID of the call leg.
mediaStreamList : in TpSessionIDSet
Refers to the media streams (sessionIDs) as received in the
mediaStreamMonitorRes() or in the reportMediaNotification() that is allowed to
be established.
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_SESSION_ID
### Method mediaStreamMonitorReq()
With this method the application can set monitors on the addition and
subtraction of media streams, and a change in QoS class of media streams. The
monitors can either be general or restricted to certain types of codecs.
Monitoring on addition of media streams can be done in either interrupt of
notify mode. In the first case the application has to allow or deny the
establishment of the stream with mediaStreamAllow.
Monitoring on subtraction of media streams is only allowed in notify mode.
Parameters
callLegSessionID : in TpSessionID
Specifies the session ID of the call leg.
mediaStreamEventCriteria : in TpMediaStreamRequestSet
Specifies the event specific criteria used by the application to define the
event required. The mediaMonitorMode is a parameter of TpMediaStreamRequest
and can be in interrupt or in notify mode. If in interrupt mode the
application has to respond with mediaStreamAllow().
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_SESSION_ID, P_INVALID_CRITERIA,
P_INVALID_EVENT_TYPE
### Method getMediaStreams()
This method is used to return all currently established media streams for the
leg.
Parameters
callLegSessionID : in TpSessionID
This method is used to return all currently open media channels for the leg.
Returns
TpMediaStreamSet
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_SESSION_ID
## Interface Class IpAppMultiMediaCallLeg
Inherits from: IpAppCallLeg
The application multi-media call leg interface contains the callbacks that
will be called from the multi-media call leg for asynchronous results to
requests performed by the application. The application should implement this
interface.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | \> | | | | IpAppMultiMediaCallLeg | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | mediaStreamMonitorRes (callLegSessionID : in TpSessionID, streams : | | in TpMediaStreamSet, type : in TpMediaStreamEventType) : void | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
### Method mediaStreamMonitorRes()
This method is used to inform the application about the media streams that are
being established (added) or subtracted, or for which the QoS class changed.
If the corresponding request was done in interrupt mode, the application has
to allow or deny the media streams using mediaStreamAllow().
Parameters
callLegSessionID : in TpSessionID
Specifies the session ID of the call leg for which the media channels are
opened or closed.
streams : in TpMediaStreamSet
Specifies all the media streams that are added, or for which the QoS class
changed. Note that this can be more media streams than requested in the
createMediaNotification, e.g. when faststart is used in H.323 or SIP INVITE
with SDP media stream parameters is used.
type : in TpMediaStreamEventType
Refers to the type of event on the media stream, i.e. added, subtracted, or
QoS class changed.
## Interface Class IpMultiMediaStream
Inherits from: IpService
The Multi Media Stream Interface represents a bi-directional information
stream associated with a call leg. Currently, the only available method is to
subtract the media stream. This interface and the subtract() method shall be
implemented by a Multi Media Call Control SCF.
+---------------------------------------------------------+ | \> | | | | IpMultiMediaStream | +---------------------------------------------------------+ | | +---------------------------------------------------------+ | subtract (mediaStreamSessionID : in TpSessionID) : void | +---------------------------------------------------------+
### Method subtract()
This method can be used to subtract the multi-media stream.
Parameters
mediaStreamSessionID : in TpSessionID
Specifies the sessionID for the media stream.
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_SESSION_ID
# MultiMedia Call Control Service State Transition Diagrams
There are no State Transition Diagrams for the MultiMedia Call Control Service
package
# Multi-Media Call Control Data Definitions
This clause provides the Multi-Media call control data definitions necessary
to support the API specification.
The general format of a data definition specification is described below.
  * Data Type:
This shows the name of the data type.
  * Description:
This describes the data type.
  * Tabular Specification:
This specifies the data types and values of the data type.
  * Example:
If relevant, an example is shown to illustrate the data type.
All data types referenced in the present document but not defined in this
clause are defined either in the common call control data definitions in 3GPP
TS 29.198-4-1 or in the common data definitions which may be found in 3GPP TS
29.198-2.
  1. Event Notification Data Definitions \-----------------------------------
    1. ### TpMediaStreamRequestSet
Defines a Numbered Set of Data Elements of TpMediaStreamRequest
### TpMediaStreamRequest
Defines the Sequence of Data Elements that specify the type of media stream.
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type Direction TpMediaStreamDirection
DataTypeRequest TpMediaStreamDataTypeRequest MediaMonitorMode
TpCallMonitorMode EventType TpMediaStreamEventType
* * *
### TpMediaStreamDirection
Defines the direction in which the media stream is established (as seen from
the leg).
* * *
Name Value Description P_SEND_ONLY 0 Indicates that the offerer is only
willing to send this media stream P_RECEIVE_ONLY 1 Indicates that the offerer
is only willing to receive this media stream P_SEND_RECEIVE 2 Indicates that
the offerer is willing to send and receive this media stream
* * *
### TpMediaStreamDataTypeRequest
Defines the Tagged Choice of Data Elements that specify the media type and
associated codecs that are of interest.
* * *
     Tag Element Type                   
     TpMediaStreamDataTypeRequestType
* * *
* * *
Tag Element Value Choice Element Type Choice Element Name P_AUDIO_CAPABILITIES
TpAudioCapabilitiesType Audio P_VIDEO_CAPABILITIES TpVideoCapabilitiesType
Video P_DATA_CAPABILITIES TpDataCapabilities Data
* * *
### TpMediaStreamDataTypeRequestType
Defines the media type of a media stream data type request.
* * *
Name Value Description P_AUDIO_CAPABILITIES 1 Audio stream capabilities
P_VIDEO_CAPABILITIES 2 Video stream capabilities P_DATA_CAPABILITIES 3 Data
stream (e.g., ITU-T Rec. T.120) capabilities
* * *
### TpAudioCapabilitiesType
Defines the audio codec. The requested capabilities can be indicated by adding
the values together (i.e., a logical OR function). e.g., 28 indicates interest
in all G.722 codes (4+8+16).
* * *
Name Value Description P_G711_64K 1 ITU-T Rec. G.711 on 64k, both A-Law and
µ-Law P_G711_56K 2 ITU-T Rec. G.711 on 56k, both A-Law and µ-Law P_G722_64K 4
ITU-T Rec. G.722 at 64kbit/s P_G722_56K 8 ITU-T Rec. G.722 at 56kbit/s
P_G722_48K 16 ITU-T Rec. G.722 at 48kbit/s P_G7231 32 ITU-T Rec. G.723.1
P_G728 64 ITU-T Rec. G.728 P_G729 128 ITU-T Rec. G.729 P_G729_ANNEX_A 256
ITU-T Rec. G.729 Annex A P_IS11172_3 512 ISO/IEC 11172-3 (MPEG-1 audio)
P_IS13818_3 1024 ISO/IEC 13818-3 (MPEG-2 audio) P_G729_ANNEXB 2048 ITU-T Rec.
G.729 Annex B P_G729_ANNEX_A_AND_B 4096 ITU-T Rec. G.729 Annex A and B
P_G7231_ANNEX_C 8192 ITU-T Rec. G.723.1 Annex C P_GSM_FULLRATE 16384 GSM Full
Rate Codec P_GSM_HALFRATE 32768 GSM Half Rate Codec P_GSM_ENHANCED 65536 GSM
Enhanced Full Rate Codec P_UMTS_AMR_NB 131072 UMTS Narrowband Adaptive
Multirate Codec P_UMTS_AMR_WB 262144 UMTS Wideband Adaptive Multirate Codec
* * *
### TpVideoCapabilitiesType
Defines the video codec. The requested capabilities can be indicated by adding
the values together (i.e., a logical OR function). e.g., 3 indicates both
H.261 and H.262 codecs.
* * *
Name Value Description P_H261 1 ITU-T Rec. H.261 P_H262 2 ITU-T Rec. H.262
P_H263 4 ITU-T Rec. H.263 P_IS11172_2 8 ISO/IEC 11172-2 (MPEG-1 video)
P_IS14496_2 16 ISO/IEC 14496-2 (MPEG-4 video)
* * *
### TpDataCapabilities
A TpInt32 defining the minimum maxBitRate in bit/s. I.e., all data media
streams whose maxBitRate exceeds this number are reported.
### TpMediaStreamEventType
Defines the action performed on the media stream.
* * *
Name Value Description P_MEDIA_STREAM_ADDED 0 The media stream is added.
P_MEDIA_STREAM_SUBTRACTED 1 The media stream is subtracted.
P_MEDIA_STREAM_QOS_CLASS_CHANGED 2 A change in QoS class has taken place
during the life of the media stream.
* * *
### TpMediaStreamSet
Defines a Numbered Set of Data Elements of TpMediaStream
### TpMediaStream
Defines the Sequence of Data Elements that specify the type of media stream.
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type Direction TpMediaStreamDirection
DataType TpMediaStreamDataType ChannelSessionID TpSessionID MediaStream
IpMultiMediaStream
* * *
### TpMediaStreamDataType
Defines the type of the reported media stream. It is identical to
TpMediaStreamDataTypeRequest, only now the values are not used as a mask, but
as the actual codec should be indicated for audio and video. For data the
actual maximum bit rate is indicated.
  1. Multi-Media Call Control Data Definitions \-----------------------------------------
    1. ### IpMultiMediaCall
Defines the address of an IpMultiMediaCall Interface.
### IpMultiMediaCallRef
Defines a Reference to type IpMultiMediaCall.
### IpAppMultiMediaCall
Defines the address of an IpAppMultiMediaCall Interface.
### IpAppMultiMediaCallRef
Defines a Reference to type IpAppMultiMediaCall.
### IpMultiMediaCallLeg
Defines the address of an IpMultiMediaCallLeg Interface.
### IpMultiMediaCallLegRef
Defines a Reference to type IpMultiMediaCallLeg.
### IpAppMultiMediaCallLeg
Defines the address of an IpAppMultiMediaCallLeg Interface.
### IpAppMultiMediaCallLegRef
Defines a Reference to type IpAppMultiMediaCallLeg.
### TpAppMultiMediaCallLegRefSet
Defines a Numbered Set of Data Elements of IpAppMultiMediaCallLegRef
### TpMultiMediaCallIdentifier
Defines the Sequence of Data Elements that unambiguously specify the
MultiMediaCall object
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type Sequence Element Description
MMCallReference IpMultiMediaCallRef This element specifies the interface
reference for the call object. MMCallSessionID TpSessionID This element
specifies the call session ID of the call created.
* * *
### TpMultiMediaCallIdentifierSet
Defines a Numbered Set of Data Elements of TpMultiMediaCallIdentifier
### TpMultiMediaCallLegIdentifier
Defines the Sequence of Data Elements that unambiguously specify the Call Leg
object
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type Sequence Element Description
MMCallLegReference IpMultiMediaCallLegRef This element specifies the interface
reference for the callLeg object. MMCallLegSessionID TpSessionID This element
specifies the callLeg session ID of the call created.
* * *
### TpMultiMediaCallLegIdentifierSet
Defines a Numbered Set of Data Elements of TpMultiMediaCallLegIdentifier.
### IpAppMultiMediaCallControlManager
Defines the address of an IpAppMultiMediaCallControlManager Interface.
### IpAppMultiMediaCallControlManagerRef
Defines a Reference to type IpAppMultiMediaCallControlManager.
### TpAppMultiMediaCallBack
Defines the Tagged Choice of Data Elements that references the application
callback interfaces
* * *
     Tag Element Type                 
     TpAppMultiMediaCallBackRefType
* * *
* * *
Tag Element Value Choice Element Type Choice Element Name
P_APP_CALLBACK_UNDEFINED NULL Undefined P_APP_MULTIMEDIA_CALL_CALLBACK
IpAppMultiMediaCallRef AppMultiMediaCall P_APP_CALL_LEG_CALLBACK
IpAppMultiMediaCallLegRef AppMultiMediaCallLeg
P_APP_CALL_AND_CALL_LEG_CALLBACK TpAppMultiMediaCallLegCallBack
AppMultiMediaCallAndCallLeg
* * *
### TpAppMultiMediaCallBackRefType
Defines the type application call back interface.
* * *
Name Value Description P_APP_CALLBACK_UNDEFINED 0 Application Call back
interface undefined P_APP_MULTIMEDIA_CALL_CALLBACK 1 Application Multi-Media
Call interface referenced P_APP_CALL_LEG_CALLBACK 2 Application Multi-Media
CallLeg interface referenced P_APP_CALL_AND_CALL_LEG_CALLBACK 3 Application
Multi-Media Call and CallLeg interface referenced
* * *
### TpAppMultiMediaCallLegCallBack
Defines the Sequence of Data Elements that references a call and a call leg
application interface.
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type  
AppMultiMediaCall IpAppMultiMediaCallRef  
AppCallLegSet TpAppMultiMediaCallLegRefSet Specifies the set of all call leg
call back references. First in the set is the reference to the call back of
the originating callLeg. In case there is a call back to a destination call
leg this will be second in the set.
* * *
### TpCallSuperviseVolume
Defines the Sequence of Data Elements that specify the amount of volume that
is allowed to be transmitted for the specific connection.
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Sequence Element | Sequence Element | Sequence Element | | Name | Type | Description | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | VolumeQuantity | TpInt32 | This data type is | | | | identical to a | | | | TpInt32, and defines | | | | the quantity of the | | | | granted volume that | | | | can be transmitted | | | | for the specific | | | | connection. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | VolumeUnit | TpInt32 | This data type is | | | | identical to a | | | | TpInt32, and defines | | | | the unit of the | | | | granted volume that | | | | can be transmitted | | | | for the specific | | | | connection. | | | | | | | | Unit must be | | | | specified as 10\^n | | | | number of bytes, | | | | where | | | | | | | | n denotes the power. | | | | | | | | When the unit is for | | | | example in | | | | kilobytes, | | | | VolumeUnit must be | | | | set to 3. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### TpNotificationMediaRequest
Defines the Sequence of Data Elements that specify the criteria for a media
stream notification.
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type Description MediaNotificationScope
TpCallNotificationScope Defines the scope of the notification request.
MediaStreamsRequested TpMediaStreamRequestSet Defines the media stream events
which are requested.
* * *
### TpMediaNotificationRequested
Defines the Sequence of Data Elements that specify the criteria relating to
event requests.
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type AppNotificationMediaRequest
TpNotificationMediaRequest AssignmentID TpInt32
* * *
### TpMediaNotificationsRequestedSet
Defines a numbered Set of Data Elements of TpMediaNotificationRequested
###### ## Annex A (normative): OMG IDL Description of Multi-Media Call Control
SCF
The OMG IDL representation of this interface specification is contained in the
text file mmccs.idl (contained in archive 2919804-4V800IDL.ZIP) which
accompany the present document.
###### ## Annex B (informative): W3C WSDL Description of Multi-Media Call
Control SCF
The W3C WSDL representation of this interface specification is contained in
zip file 2919804-4V800WSDL.ZIP, which accompanies the present document.
###### ## Annex C (informative): Java API Description of the Call Control SCFs
The Java API realisation of this interface specification is produced in
accordance with the Java Realisation rules defined in Part 1 of this
specification. These rules aim to deliver for Java, a developer API, provided
as a realisation, supporting a Java API that represents the UML
specifications. The rules support the production of both J2SE and J2EE
versions of the API from the common UML specifications.
The J2SE representation of this interface specification is provided as Java
Code, contained in archive 2919804-4V800J2SE.ZIP that accompanies the present
document.
The J2EE representation of this interface specification is provided as Java
Code, contained in archive 2919804-4V800J2EE.ZIP that accompanies the present
document.
###### ## Annex D (informative): Description of Call Control Sub-part 4:
Multimedia call control SCF for 3GPP2 cdma2000 networks
This annex is intended to define the OSA API Stage 3 interface definitions and
it provides the complete OSA specifications. It is an extension of OSA API
specifications capabilities to enable operation in cdma2000 systems
environment. They are in alignment with 3GPP2 Stage 1 requirements and Stage 2
architecture defined in:
[1] 3GPP2 P.S0001-B: \"Wireless IP Network Standard\", Version 1.0, September
2000.
[2] 3GPP2 S.R0037-0: \"IP Network Architecture Model for cdma2000 Spread
Spectrum Systems\", Version 2.0, May 14, 2002.
[3] 3GPP2 X.S0013: \"All-IP Core Network Multimedia Domain\", December 2003.
These requirements are expressed as additions to and/or exclusions from the
3GPP specification.\ The information given here is to be used by developers in
3GPP2 cdma2000 network architecture to interpret the 3GPP OSA specifications.
# D.1 General Exceptions
The terms 3GPP and UMTS are not applicable for the cdma2000 family of
standards. Nevertheless these terms are used (3GPP TR 21.905) mostly in the
broader sense of \"3G Wireless System\". If not stated otherwise there are no
additions or exclusions required.
CAMEL and CAP mappings are not applicable for cdma2000 systems.
# D.2 Specific Exceptions
## D.2.1 Clause 1: Scope
There are no additions or exclusions.
## D.2.2 Clause 2: References
Normative references on 3GPP TS 23.078 and on 3GPP TS 29.078 are not
applicable for cdma2000 systems.
## D.2.3 Clause 3: Definitions and abbreviations
There are no additions or exclusions.
## D.2.4 Clause 4: MultiMedia Call Control Service Sequence Diagrams
There are no additions or exclusions.
## D.2.5 Clause 5: Class Diagrams
There are no additions or exclusions.
## D.2.6 Clause 6: MultiMedia Call Control Service Interface Classes
There are no additions or exclusions.
## D.2.7 Clause 7: MultiMedia Call Control Service State Transition Diagrams
There are no additions or exclusions.
## D.2.8 Clause 8: Multi-Media Call Control Data Definitions
There are no additions or exclusions.
## D.2.9 Annex A (normative): OMG IDL Description of Multi-Media Call Control
SCF
There are no additions or exclusions.
## D.2.10 Annex B (informative): W3C WSDL Description of Multi-Media Call
Control SCF
There are no additions or **exclusions**.
## D.2.11 Annex C (informative): Java™ API Description of the Call Control SCF
There are no additions or exclusions.
#