# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
3GPP acknowledges the contribution of the Parlay X Web Services specifications
from The Parlay Group. The Parlay Group is pleased to see 3GPP acknowledge and
publish the present document, and the Parlay Group looks forward to working
with the 3GPP community to improve future versions of the present document.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part 12 of a multi-part deliverable covering the 3^rd^
Generation Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Core Network and
Terminals; Open Service Access (OSA); Parlay X Web Services, as identified
below:
Part 1: \"Common\"
Part 2: \"Third party call\"
Part 3: \"Call Notification\"
Part 4: \"Short Messaging\"
Part 5: \"Multimedia Messaging\"
Part 6: \"Payment\"
Part 7: \"Account management\"
Part 8: \"Terminal Status\"
Part 9: \"Terminal location\"
Part 10: \"Call handling\"
Part 11: \"Audio call\"
**Part 12: \"Multimedia conference\"**
Part 13: \"Address list management\"
Part 14: \"Presence\"
Part 15: \"Message Broadcast\"
Part 16: \"Geocoding\"
Part 17: \"Application driven Quality of Service (QoS)\"
Part 18: \"Device Capabilities and Configuration\"
Part 19: \"Multimedia streaming control\"
Part 20: \"Multimedia multicast session management\"
Part 21: \"Content management\"
Part 22: \"Policy\"
# 1 Scope
The present document is Part 12 of the Stage 3 Parlay X Web Services
specification for Open Service Access (OSA).
The OSA specifications define an architecture that enables application
developers to make use of network functionality through an open standardized
interface, i.e. the OSA APIs. The concepts and the functional architecture for
the OSA are contained in 3GPP TS 23.198 [3]. The requirements for OSA are
contained in 3GPP TS 22.127 [2].
The present document specifies the Multimedia Conference Web Service aspects
of the interface. All aspects of the Multimedia Conference Web Service are
defined here, these being:
  * Name spaces.
  * Sequence diagrams.
  * Data definitions.
  * Interface specification plus detailed method descriptions.
  * Fault definitions.
  * Service policies.
  * WSDL Description of the interfaces.
The present document has been defined jointly between 3GPP TSG CT WG5, ETSI
TISPAN and The Parlay Group.
Maintenance of up to 3GPP Rel-8 and new OSA Stage 1, 2 and 3 work beyond Rel-9
was moved to OMA in June 2008.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.127: \"Service Requirement for the Open Services Access (OSA);
Stage 1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.198: \"Open Service Access (OSA); Stage 2\".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.101: \"Service aspects; Service principles\".
[5] W3C Recommendation (2 May 2001): \"XML Schema Part 2: Datatypes\".
NOTE: Available at http://www.w3.org/TR/2001/REC-xmlschema-2-20010502/.
[6] 3GPP TS 29.199-1: \"Open Service Access (OSA); Parlay X Web Services; Part
1: Common\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6] apply.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TS
29.199-1 [6] apply.
# 4 Detailed service description
The Multimedia Conferencing is a simple Web Service that allows the creation
of a multimedia conference and the dynamic management of the participants
involved.
The underlying model of the service is based on the following entities:
  * **Conference:** a \"context\" (uniquely identified) to which > participants can be added/removed.
  * **Participant:** each of the parties involved in the conference. > There may exist a participant that is also the \"owner\" of the > conference, i.e. the user who can end the call and/or be the > reference user for billing purposes.
  * **Media:** the conference can utilize multiple media streams to > support the participants\' communication. In particular both audio > and video streams are available, including the specific stream > direction (i.e. in, out, bidirectional).
NOTE: A call session allows the application to avail of other web service
features that can add value to the created call session. For example the Audio
Call web service can provide multimedia message delivery to call participants
in the call session (playXXXMessage operation) and furthermore control of the
media streams for the call participants thus enabling conversational
multimedia communication including voice, video, chat, and data. Media can be
added/removed for participants using the operations
**addMediaForParticipants** and **deleteMediaForParticipants** in Audio Call
An application setting up a multimedia conference must initially invoke the
**createConference** operation. The result of such invocation is the creation
of a \"context\" that represents a \"virtual\" room where users can \"meet\".
A unique identifier, a callSessionIdentifier is assigned to the just-created
conference. At this stage no participant is connected yet.
Subsequently the application may wish to add participants to the conference.
In order to do so the operation **inviteParticipant** can be used. The result
of such operation is to alert the user of the incoming connection request
(e.g. the user\'s terminal rings).
If the application wishes to check whether the user has accepted the
invitation (i.e. is connected) it can invoke (at a later time) the
**getParticipantInfo** operation.
Note that:
  * As soon as the first participant connects, the conference becomes > \"active\". The duration of the conference is then measured > starting from the moment the conference has became active.
  * The initial media set utilized by the participant will depend on the > conference type and the media actually supported by the > participant\'s terminal.
During the conference session the application is able to:
  * Add (or remove) a specific media stream to a single participant: > e.g. adding a video bidirectional stream to a participant that has > an audio connection to the conference. This can be obtained by > invoking the media control (**addMediaForParticipants** and the > **deleteMediaForParticipants)** operations of the Audio Call web > service.
  * Disconnect a participant from the conference, by invoking the > **disconnectParticipant** operation.
  * Retrieve information related to the conference and its status, by > invoking **getConferenceInfo** and **getParticipants.**
There are different conditions that can determine the end of the conference:
1) The application may invoke the operation **endConference** , that >
\"forces\" the termination of the conference and the disconnection > of all
participants.
2) The owner of the conference (if defined) leaves the conference. If > the
owner is not defined this condition will apply when all the > participants
have left the conference (disconnected).
3) The conference duration exceeds a maximum value (specified during > the
conference creation step).
# 5 Namespaces
The Multimedia Conference interface uses the namespace:
> http://www.csapi.org/wsdl/parlayx/multimedia_conference/v4_0
The data types are defined in the namespace:
> http://www.csapi.org/schema/parlayx/multimedia_conference/v4_0
The \'xsd\' namespace is used in the present document to refer to the XML
Schema data types defined in XML Schema [5]. The use of the name \'xsd\' is
not semantically significant.
# 6 Sequence diagrams
The following sequence diagrams illustrate typical scenarios of interaction
between an application and the Multimedia Conferencing Web Service.
## 6.1 Setting up a conference
Set up a multimedia conference call.
{width="5.336111111111111in" height="7.4006944444444445in"}
## 6.2 Void
## 6.3 Conference owner disconnects
During a conference call, the conference owner disconnects.
{width="6.0055555555555555in" height="8.445833333333333in"}
## 6.4 All participants disconnect
End of conference call processing when all participants disconnect.
{width="6.165972222222222in" height="8.572916666666666in"}
## 6.5 Conference ended by application
End of conference call processing when the conference is ended by the
application.
{width="5.096527777777778in" height="8.722222222222221in"}
# 7 XML Schema data type definition
## 7.1 ConferenceStatus enumeration
* * *
Element name Description Initial The conference has been created but no
participant is connected yet Active The conference is active, i.e. at least
one user has connected Terminated The conference was terminated
* * *
## 7.2 ConferenceInfo structure
* * *
Name Type Optional Description Status ConferenceStatus No Status of the
conference StartTime xsd:dateTime No The time at which the conference was
created ActiveTime Xsd:dateTime No The time at which the conference was
actived Duration xsd:int No The duration of the conference so far (in seconds)
Owner xsd:anyURI No Conference owner NumberOfParticipants xsd:int No Current
number of connected participants MaximumNumberOfParticipants xsd:int No
Maximum number of participants CallSessionIdentifier xsd:string No
CallSessionIdentifier for the conference ConferenceDescription xsd:string No
Conference description
* * *
## 7.3 ParticipantInfo structure
* * *
Name Type Optional Description Participant xsd:anyURI No Participant
identifier MediaInfo common: MediaInfo[1..unbounded] No Media information
currently used StartTime xsd:dateTime No Time this participant joined the
conference Status ParticipantStatus No Status of participant
* * *
## 7.4 ParticipantStatus enumeration
* * *
Element name Description Invited Participant invited but not connected yet
Connected Participant connected Disconnected Participant disconnected
* * *
## 7.5 Void
## 7.6 Void
## 7.7 Void
# 8 Web Service interface definition
## 8.1 Interface: MultimediaConference
The MultimediaConference interface can be used by an application for creating
a multimedia conference call and for dynamically managing the participants
involved in the call.
### 8.1.1 Operation: createConference
The invocation of **createConference** requests to create a multi-media
conference with initially no participants connected. The reference to the new
multimedia conference is returned in the output parameter.
The conference termination can be driven either by a user action or by the
expiring of a maximum duration. In particular, three possible situations are
considered. In the first scenario, the concept of the \"conference owner\" is
used. This user that has the control of the call and when the conference owner
leaves the conference, all users are disconnected (such a user could be for
instance the reference for the conference billing). In this scenario, the
optional parameter **conferenceOwner** is present in the method call.
In the second scenario, the conference is terminated when the last participant
abandons (in this case the parameter **conferenceOwner** is not present).
A third case is when the optional parameter **maximumDuration** is present: in
this situation, when the maximum duration is reached, the conference is
terminated.
The selection of the scenario depends on the presence of the optional
parameters; if no optional parameter is present, the conference end condition
is the disconnection of the last user in conference, if both are present, the
conference is terminated when the duration expires (this case could happen if
the information concerning the conference owner is needed for billing
purposes).
The values **maximumDuration** and **maximumNumberOfParticipants** must not
exceed the corresponding service policies otherwise a policy exception is
raised.
#### 8.1.1.1 Input message: createConferenceRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description ConferenceType xsd:string Yes
Conference type, i.e. one of a list of operator-specific identifiers that
indicates how the conference is rendered on the terminals
ConferenceDescription xsd:string No A text describing the conference Charging
common:ChargingInformation Yes If present, defines the charge per unit of time
consumed on the conference call. If the service does not support charging, a
PolicyException (POL0008) will be returned. MaximumDuration xsd:int Yes If
present it represents the maximum duration of the multimedia conference in
seconds. If this parameter is present, it represents the end condition of the
conference. MaximumNumberOfParticipants xsd:int No Maximum number of
participants allowed ConferenceOwner xsd:anyURI Yes It is the address of the
multimedia conference owner. If this parameter is present, and the
maximumDuration is not present, the conference is terminated when this user
disconnects, else this information can be used for billing or other purpose
* * *
#### 8.1.1.2 Output message: createConferenceResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description result xsd:string No Call session
identifier, the identifier for the created Conference
* * *
#### 8.1.1.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001: Service error.
  * SVC0002: Invalid input value.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001: Policy error.
  * POL0008: Charging not supported.
  * POL0012 - Too many description entries specified.
  * POL0240: Too many participants.
  * POL0242: Maximum duration exceeded.
### 8.1.2 Operation: getConferenceInfo
The invocation of **getConferenceInfo** requests the information concerning
the current status of the multi-media conference call identified by
**callSessionIdentifier**.
#### 8.1.2.1 Input message: getConferenceInfoRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description CallSessionIdentifier xsd:string No
Call session identifier; the Conference identifier
* * *
#### 8.1.2.2 Output message: getConferenceInfoResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description result ConferenceInfo No Status of
the conference
* * *
#### 8.1.2.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001: Service error.
  * SVC0002: Invalid input value.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001: Policy error.
### 8.1.3 Operation: endConference
The invocation of **endConference** requests to terminate the multi-media
conference call identified by **callSessionIdentifier**.
#### 8.1.3.1 Input message: endConferenceRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description CallSessionIdentifier xsd:string No
Call session identifier; the Conference identifier
* * *
#### 8.1.3.2 Output message: endConferenceResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.1.3.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001: Service error.
  * SVC0002: Invalid input value.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001: Policy error.
### 8.1.4 Operation: inviteParticipant
The invocation of **inviteParticipant** requests to add a new participant
specified by **participant** to the multi-media conference call identified by
**callSessionIdentifier**. The media used for the initial connection of the
new participant depends on the conference type and the participant\'s
supported media.
The operation will fail if the conference has already reached the maximum
number of participants (as specified in the creation operation).
#### 8.1.4.1 Input message: inviteParticipantRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description CallSessionIdentifier xsd:string No
Call session identifier; the Conference identifier Participant xsd:anyURI No
New participant invited
* * *
#### 8.1.4.2 Output message: inviteParticipantResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.1.4.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001: Service error.
  * SVC0002: Invalid input value.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001: Policy error.
  * POL0240: Too many participants.
### 8.1.5 Operation: disconnectParticipant
The invocation of **disconnectParticipant** requests to disconnect the
participant specified by **participant** from the multi-media conference call
identified by **callSessionIdentifier**.
#### 8.1.5.1 Input message: disconnectParticipantRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description CallSessionIdentifier xsd:string No
Call session identifier; the Conference identifier Participant xsd:anyURI No
Participant
* * *
#### 8.1.5.2 Output message: disconnectParticipantResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.1.5.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001: Service error.
  * SVC0002: Invalid input value.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001: Policy error.
### 8.1.6 Operation: getParticipantInfo
The invocation of **getParticipantInfo** requests information concerning the
current status of the participant specified by **participant** , in the multi-
media conference call identified by **callSessionIdentifier**.
#### 8.1.6.1 Input message: getParticipantInfoRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description CalSessionIdentifier xsd:string No
Call session identifier; the Conference identifier Participant xsd:anyURI No
Participant
* * *
#### 8.1.6.2 Output message: getParticipantInfoResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description result ParticipantInfo No Status of
the participant
* * *
#### 8.1.6.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001: Service error.
  * SVC0002: Invalid input value.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001: Policy error.
### 8.1.7 Operation: getParticipants
The invocation of **getParticipants** requests information concerning the
current status of each participant of the multi-media conference call
identified by **callSessionIdentifier**. The output includes participants
already disconnected from the conference (if any).
#### 8.1.7.1 Input message: getParticipantsRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description CallSessionIdentifier xsd:string No
Call session identifier; the Conference identifier
* * *
#### 8.1.7.2 Output message: getParticipantsResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description result ParticipantInfo [0..unbounded]
Yes Array containing status information for each participant
* * *
#### 8.1.7.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001: Service error.
  * SVC0002: Invalid input value.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001: Policy error.
### 8.1.8 Void
### 8.1.9 Void
# 9 Fault definitions
## 9.1 PolicyException
### 9.1.1 POL0240: Too many participants
Too many participants.
* * *
Name Description Message Id POL0240 Text Too many participants Variables None
* * *
### 9.1.2 Void
The fault code (POL0241) is reserved and shall not be used.
### 9.1.3 POL0242: Maximum duration exceeded
* * *
Name Description Message Id POL0242 Text Maximum duration exceeded. Maximum
allowed is %1 seconds. Variables %1 -- maximum duration set by service policy
* * *
## 9.2 ServiceException
### 9.2.1 Void
The fault code (SVC0210) is reserved and shall not be used.
### 9.2.2 Void
The fault code (SVC0211) is reserved and shall not be used.
# 10 Service policies
* * *
Name Type Description MaximumDuration common:TimeMetric Maximum duration for
which a conference may be set up. MaximumParticipants xsd:int Maximum number
of participants for which a conference may be set up. ChargingSupported
xsd:boolean Indicates whether charging is supported for the createConference
operation MaximumDescriptions xsd:int Maximum number of Descriptions that can
be charged simultaneously
* * *
###### ## Annex A (normative): WSDL for Multimedia conference
The document/literal WSDL representation of this interface specification is
compliant to 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6] and is contained in text files
  * parlayx_multimedia_conference_interface_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_multimedia_conference_service_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_multimedia_conference_types_4_0.xsd
which accompanies the present document.
The WSDL files have been verified using the following files:
  * 12_wsdl2Java_axis-1_4.bat
```{=html}
``` \- 12_wsdl2Java_axis2-1_4_1.bat
which accompany the present document.
###### ## Annex B (informative): Description of Parlay X Web Services Part 12:
Multimedia conference for 3GPP2 cdma2000 networks
This annex is intended to define the OSA Parlay X Web Services Stage 3
interface definitions and it provides the complete OSA specifications. It is
an extension of OSA Parlay X Web Services specifications capabilities to
enable operation in cdma2000 systems environment. They are in alignment with
3GPP2 Stage 1 requirements and Stage 2 architecture defined in:
[1] 3GPP2 X.S0011-D: "cdma2000 Wireless IP Network Standard \", Version 1.1
[2] 3GPP2 S.R0037-0: \"IP Network Architecture Model for cdma2000 Spread
Spectrum Systems\", Version 3.0
[3] 3GPP2 X.S0013-A: \"All-IP Core Network Multimedia Domain\"
These requirements are expressed as additions to and/or exclusions from the
3GPP specification.\ The information given here is to be used by developers in
3GPP2 cdma2000 network architecture to interpret the 3GPP OSA specifications.
# B.1 General Exceptions
The terms 3GPP and UMTS are not applicable for the cdma2000 family of
standards. Nevertheless these terms are used (3GPP TR 21.905) mostly in the
broader sense of \"3G Wireless System\". If not stated otherwise there are no
additions or exclusions required.
CAMEL mappings are not applicable for cdma2000 systems.
# B.2 Specific Exceptions
## B.2.1 Clause 1: Scope
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.2 Clause 2: References
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.3 Clause 3: Definitions and abbreviations
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.4 Clause 4: Detailed service description
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.5 Clause 5: Namespaces
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.6 Clause 6: Sequence diagrams
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.7 Clause 7: XML Schema data type definition
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.8 Clause 8: Web Service interface definition
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.9 Clause 9: Fault definitions
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.10 Clause 10: Service policies
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.11 Annex A (normative): WSDL for Multimedia conference
There are no additions or exclusions.
#