# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part 12 of a multi-part TS covering the 3^rd^
Generation Partnership Project: Technical Specification Group Core Network;
Open Service Access (OSA); Application Programming Interface (API), as
identified below. The **API specification** (3GPP TS 29.198) is structured in
the following Parts:
> Part 1: \"Overview\";
>
> Part 2: \"Common Data Definitions\";
>
> Part 3: \"Framework\";
>
> Part 4: \"Call Control\";
>
> Sub-part 1: \"Call Control Common Definitions\";
>
> Sub-part 2: \"Generic Call Control SCF\";
>
> Sub-part 3: \"Multi-Party Call Control SCF\";
>
> Sub-part 4: \"Multi-Media Call Control SCF\";
>
> Sub-part 5: \"Conference Call Control SCF\";
>
> Part 5: \"User Interaction SCF\";
>
> Part 6: \"Mobility SCF\";
>
> Part 7: \"Terminal Capabilities SCF\";
>
> Part 8: \"Data Session Control SCF\";
>
> Part 9: \"Generic Messaging SCF\"; (not part of 3GPP Release 8)
>
> Part 10: \"Connectivity Manager SCF\"; (new in 3GPP Release 8)
>
> Part 11: \"Account Management SCF\";
>
> **Part 12: \"Charging SCF\".**
>
> Part 13: \"Policy Management SCF\";
>
> Part 14: \"Presence and Availability Management SCF\";
>
> Part 15: \"Multi Media Messaging SCF\";
>
> Part 16: \"Service Broker SCF\".
The **Mapping specification of the OSA APIs and network protocols** (3GPP TR
29.998) is also structured as above. A mapping to network protocols is however
not applicable for all Parts, but the numbering of Parts is kept.\ Also in
case a Part is not supported in a Release, the numbering of the parts is
maintained.
Table: Overview of the OSA APIs & Protocol Mappings 29.198 & 29.998-family
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | OSA | OSA | | | | | | | | API | API | | | | | | | | spec | Ma | | | | | | | | ifica | pping | | | | | | | | tions | - | | | | | | | | 29. | 29. | | | | | | | | 198-f | 998-f | | | | | | | | amily | amily | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Ove | 29.9 | Ove | | | | | | 98-01 | rview | 98-01 | rview | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | C | * | _Not | | | | | | 98-02 | ommon | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | Data | 8-02_ | pplic | | | | | | | D | | able _| | | | | | | efini | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Fram | * |_ Not | | | | | | 98-03 | ework | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | | 8-03 _| pplic | | | | | | | | | able_ | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Call | 2 | 2 | 2 | 2 | 2 | 2 | Ge | | Co | 9.198 | 9.198 | 9.198 | 9.198 | 9.198 | 9.998 | neric | | ntrol | -04-1 | -04-2 | -04-3 | -04-4 | -04-5 | -04-1 | Call | | (CC) | | | | M | Conf | | Co | | SCF | C | Ge | M | ulti- | CC | | ntrol | | | ommon | neric | ulti- | media | SCF | | -- | | | CC | CC | Party | CC | | | CAP | | | data | SCF | CC | SCF | | | ma | | | d | | SCF | | | | pping | | | efini | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | | | _29 |_ Ge | | | | | | | | .998- | neric | | | | | | | | 04-2 _| Call | | | | | | | | | Co | | | | | | | | | ntrol | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | INAP | | | | | | | | | map | | | | | | | | | ping_ | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | | | _29 |_ Ge | | | | | | | | .998- | neric | | | | | | | | 04-3 _| Call | | | | | | | | | Co | | | | | | | | | ntrol | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | M | | | | | | | | | egaco | | | | | | | | | map | | | | | | | | | ping_ | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | | | 2 | Multi | | | | | | | | 9.998 | party | | | | | | | | -04-4 | Call | | | | | | | | | Co | | | | | | | | | ntrol | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | ISC | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | pping | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | User | 2 | User | | | | | | 98-05 | I | 9.998 | I | | | | | | | ntera | -05-1 | ntera | | | | | | | ction | | ction | | | | | | | SCF | | -- | | | | | | | | | CAP | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | pping | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | _29 |_ User | | | | | | | | .998- | I | | | | | | | | 05-2 _| ntera | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | INAP | | | | | | | | | map | | | | | | | | | ping_ | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | _29 |_ User | | | | | | | | .998- | I | | | | | | | | 05-3 _| ntera | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | M | | | | | | | | | egaco | | | | | | | | | map | | | | | | | | | ping_ | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | 2 | User | | | | | | | | 9.998 | I | | | | | | | | -05-4 | ntera | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | SMS | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | pping | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Mob | 2 | User | | | | | | 98-06 | ility | 9.998 | S | | | | | | | SCF | -06-1 | tatus | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | User | | | | | | | | | Loc | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | MAP | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | pping | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | 2 | User | | | | | | | | 9.998 | S | | | | | | | | -06-2 | tatus | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | User | | | | | | | | | Loc | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | SIP | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | pping | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Ter | * | _Not | | | | | | 98-07 | minal | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | Ca | 8-07_ | pplic | | | | | | | pabil | | able _| | | | | | | ities | | | | | | | | | SCF | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Data | 29.9 | Data | | | | | | 98-08 | Se | 98-08 | Se | | | | | | | ssion | | ssion | | | | | | | Co | | Co | | | | | | | ntrol | | ntrol | | | | | | | SCF | | -- | | | | | | | | | CAP | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | pping | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | * |_ Ge | * | _Not | | | | | | 29.19 | neric | 29.99 | A | | | | | | 8-09_ | Mess | 8-09 _| pplic | | | | | | | aging | | able_ | | | | | | | SCF _| | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | * |_ Co | * | _Not | | | | | | 29.19 | nnect | 29.99 | A | | | | | | 8-10_ | ivity | 8-10 _| pplic | | | | | | | Ma | | able_ | | | | | | | nager | | | | | | | | | SCF _| | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Ac | * |_ Not | | | | | | 98-11 | count | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | Manag | 8-11 _| pplic | | | | | | | ement | | able_ | | | | | | | SCF | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **2 |** Cha | * | _Not | | | | | | 9.198 | rging | 29.99 | A | | | | | | -12_ _| SCF_ _| 8-12_ | pplic | | | | | | | | | able _| | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | P | * |_ Not | | | | | | 98-13 | olicy | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | Manag | 8-13 _| pplic | | | | | | | ement | | able_ | | | | | | | SCF | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Pre | * | _Not | | | | | | 98-14 | sence | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | & | 8-14_ | pplic | | | | | | | Av | | able _| | | | | | | ailab | | | | | | | | | ility | | | | | | | | | Manag | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | SCF | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | M | * |_ Not | | | | | | 98-15 | ulti- | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | media | 8-15 _| pplic | | | | | | | Mess | | able_ | | | | | | | aging | | | | | | | | | SCF | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Se | * | _Not | | | | | | 98-16 | rvice | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | B | 8-16_ | pplic | | | | | | | roker | | able* | | | | | | | SCF | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
# 1 Scope
The present document is Part 12 of the Stage 3 specification for an
Application Programming Interface (API) for Open Service Access (OSA).
The OSA specifications define an architecture that enables application
developers to make use of network functionality through an open standardised
interface, i.e. the OSA APIs. The concepts and the functional architecture for
the OSA are contained in 3GPP TS 23.198 [3]. The requirements for OSA are
contained in 3GPP TS 22.127 [2].
The present document specifies the Charging Service Capability Feature (SCF)
aspects of the interface. All aspects of the Charging SCF are defined here,
these being:
  * Sequence Diagrams
  * Class Diagrams
  * Interface specification plus detailed method descriptions
  * State Transition diagrams
  * Data definitions
  * IDL Description of the interfaces
  * WSDL Description of the interfaces
  * Reference to the Java™ API description of the interfaces
The process by which this task is accomplished is through the use of object
modelling techniques described by the Unified Modelling Language (UML).
This specification has been defined jointly between 3GPP TSG CT WG5, ETSI
TISPAN and the Parlay Group, in co-operation a number of JAIN™ Community
member companies.
Maintenance of up to 3GPP Rel-8 and new OSA Stage 1, 2 and 3 work beyond Rel-9
was moved to OMA in June 2008.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 29.198-1 \"Open Service Access; Application Programming Interface;
Part 1: Overview\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.127: \"Service Requirement for the Open Services Access (OSA);
Stage 1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.198: \"Open Service Access (OSA); Stage 2\".
[4] World Wide Web Consortium Composite Capability/Preference Profiles
(CC/PP): A user side framework for content negotiation (www.w3.org).
[5] Wireless Application Protocol (WAP), Version 1.2, UAProf Specification
(www.wapforum.org).
[6] ISO 4217: \"Codes for the representation of currencies and funds\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TS 29.198-1 [1] apply.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TS
29.198-1 [1] apply.
# Charging SCF
The following clauses describe each aspect of the Charging Service Capability
Feature (SCF).
The order is as follows:
  * The Sequence diagrams give the reader a practical idea of how each of the SCF is implemented.
  * The Class relationships clause shows how each of the interfaces applicable to the SCF, relate to one another
  * The Interface specification clause describes in detail each of the interfaces shown within the Class diagram part.
  * The State Transition Diagrams (STD) show the the transition between states in the SCF. The states and transitions are well-defined; either methods specified in the Interface specification or events occurring in the underlying networks cause state transitions.
  * The Data definitions clause shows a detailed expansion of each of the data types associated with the methods within the classes. Note that some data types are used in other methods and classes and are therefore defined within the Common Data types part of this specification.
## 4.1 General requirements on support of methods
An implementation of this API which supports or implements a method described
in the present document, shall support or implement the functionality
described for that method, for at least one valid set of values for the
parameters of that method.
Where a method is not supported by an implementation of a Service interface,
the exception P_METHOD_NOT_SUPPORTED shall be returned to any call of that
method.
Where a method is not supported by an implementation of an Application
interface, a call to that method shall be possible, and no exception shall be
returned.
  1. Sequence Diagrams =================
    1. Reservation / payment in parts \------------------------------
The sequence diagram illustrates how to request a reservation and how to
charge a user from the reserved amount, for instance to charge a user for a
streamed video which lasts 10 minutes and costs a total of \$2.00. The
operations and interfaces that do not provide rating are employed throughout
this sequence diagram.
We assume the application has already discovered the Charging SCF. As a
result, the application received an object reference pointing to an object
that implements the IpChargingManager interface.
The operations which handle units are used exactly the same, except that the
amount of application usage is indicated instead of a price.
{width="6.700694444444444in" height="9.407638888888888in"}
1: The application creates a local object implementing the
IpAppChargingSession interface. This object will receive response messages
from the IpChargingSession object.
2: The application opens a charging session, a reference to a new or existing
object implementing IpChargingSession is returned together with a unique
session ID.
3: In this case a new object is used.
4: The application requests the reservation of \$2.00.
5: Assuming the criteria for requesting a reservation are met (the application
provider has permission to charge the requested amount, the charged user has
agreed to pay the requested amount), the amount is reserved in the session. At
this point, the application provider knows that the network operator will
accept later debit requests up to the reserved amount. So, the application may
start serving the user, for instance by sending the video stream.
6: The successful reservation is reported back to the application.
After half of the video has been sent to the user, the application may choose
to capture half of the price already:
7: The application requests to debit \$1.00 from the reservation.
8: The successful debit is reported back to the application.
9: The acknowledge is forwarded to the application.
10: The application checks if the remaining lifetime of the reservation will
cover the remaining 5 minutes of video. Let us assume, it does not.
11: The application asks the IpChargingSession object to extend the lifetime
of the reservation.
12: Assuming that the application provider is allowed to keep reservations
open for longer than 10 minutes, the extendLifeTimeReq() will be honoured and
confirmed properly.
13: The confirmation is forwarded to the application.
14: When the complete video has been transmitted to the user without errors,
the application charges another \$1.00.
15: The IpChargingSession object acknowledges the successful debit at the
IpAppChargingSession callback object.
16: The IpAppChargingSession object forwards the acknowledge to the
application.
17: Since the service is complete, the application frees all resources
associated with the reservation and session.
## Immediate Charge
This sequence diagram illustrates how immediate charging is used. Assume a WAP
gateway that charges the user \$0.01 per requested URL. Since it is acceptable
to loose one tick worth \$0.01, no prior reservations are made. The WAP
gateway sends an immediate debit for each requested URL, and should a payment
have as result failure, the user is disconnected.
The operations which handle units are used exactly the same, except that the
amount of application usage is indicated instead of a price.
{width="6.685416666666667in" height="6.995833333333334in"}
1: The application creates a local object implementing the
IpAppChargingSession interface. This object will receive response messages
from the IpChargingSession object.
2: The application orders the creation of a session. No new object is created
for the charging session handling in this example implementation.
3: The application requests to charge the user \$0.01.
4: The payment is acknowledged.
5: The acknowledgement is forwarded in the application.
6: The application requests to charge the user \$0.01.
7: The payment is reported to fail.
8: The failure report is forwarded in the application.
(repeat steps 3 to 5 and 6 to 8 as long as you want to in any order you want
to).
9: The application releases the session.
# Class Diagrams
This class diagram shows the application interfaces for charging and their
relations to the service interfaces.
{width="6.686111111111111in" height="6.200694444444444in"}
Figure: Application Interfaces
This class diagram shows the interfaces of the charging SCF.
{width="6.319444444444445in" height="7.794444444444444in"}
Figure: Service Interfaces
  1. The Service Interface Specifications ====================================
    1. Interface Specification Format \------------------------------
This clause defines the interfaces, methods and parameters that form a part of
the API specification. The Unified Modelling Language (UML) is used to specify
the interface classes. The general format of an interface specification is
described below.
### Interface Class
This shows a UML interface class description of the methods supported by that
interface, and the relevant parameters and types. The Service and Framework
interfaces for enterprise-based client applications are denoted by classes
with name Ip\. The callback interfaces to the applications are denoted
by classes with name IpApp\. For the interfaces between a Service and
the Framework, the Service interfaces are typically denoted by classes with
name IpSvc\, while the Framework interfaces are denoted by classes with
name IpFw\.
### Method descriptions
Each method (API method "call") is described. Both synchronous and
asynchronous methods are used in the API. Asynchronous methods are identified
by a \'Req\' suffix for a method request, and, if applicable, are served by
asynchronous methods identified by either a \'Res\' or \'Err\' suffix for
method results and errors, respectively. To handle responses and reports, the
application or service developer must implement the relevant IpApp\ or
IpSvc\ interfaces to provide the callback mechanism.
### Parameter descriptions
Each method parameter and its possible values are described. Parameters
described as \'in\' represent those that must have a value when the method is
called. Those described as \'out\' are those that contain the return result of
the method when the method returns.
### State Model
If relevant, a state model is shown to illustrate the states of the objects
that implement the described interface.
  1. Base Interface \--------------
    1. ### Interface Class IpInterface
All application, framework and service interfaces inherit from the following
interface. This API Base Interface does not provide any additional methods.
+-------------------+ | \> | | | | IpInterface | +-------------------+ | | +-------------------+ | | +-------------------+
  1. Service Interfaces \------------------
    1. ### Overview
The Service Interfaces provide the interfaces into the capabilities of the
underlying network - such as call control, user interaction, messaging,
mobility and connectivity management.
The interfaces that are implemented by the services are denoted as \'Service
Interface\'. The corresponding interfaces that must be implemented by the
application (e.g. for API callbacks) are denoted as \'Application Interface\'.
  1. Generic Service Interface \-------------------------
    1. ### Interface Class IpService
Inherits from: IpInterface
All service interfaces inherit from the following interface.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | \> | | | | IpService | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | setCallback (appInterface : in IpInterfaceRef) : void | | | | setCallbackWithSessionID (appInterface : in IpInterfaceRef, | | sessionID : in TpSessionID) : void | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
#### Method setCallback()
This method specifies the reference address of the callback interface that a
service uses to invoke methods on the application. It is not allowed to invoke
this method on an interface that uses SessionIDs. Multiple invocations of this
method on an interface shall result in multiple callback references being
specified. The SCS shall use the most recent callback interface provided by
the application using this method. In the event that a callback reference
fails or is no longer available, the next most recent callback reference
available shall be used.
Parameters
appInterface : in IpInterfaceRef
Specifies a reference to the application interface, which is used for
callbacks.
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_INTERFACE_TYPE
#### Method setCallbackWithSessionID()
This method specifies the reference address of the application\'s callback
interface that a service uses for interactions associated with a specific
session ID: e.g. a specific call, or call leg. It is not allowed to invoke
this method on an interface that does not use SessionIDs. Multiple invocations
of this method on an interface shall result in multiple callback references
being specified. The SCS shall use the most recent callback interface provided
by the application using this method. In the event that a callback reference
fails or is no longer available, the next most recent callback reference
available shall be used.
Parameters
appInterface : in IpInterfaceRef
Specifies a reference to the application interface, which is used for
callbacks.
sessionID : in TpSessionID
Specifies the session for which the service can invoke the application\'s
callback interface.
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_SESSION_ID, P_INVALID_INTERFACE_TYPE
# Charging Interface Classes
The Charging SCF is used by applications to charge for the usage of the
applications. The charged user can be the same user as that uses the
application. It is also possible that another user will pay the charge.
In the interfaces of the Charging SCF a \"Request Number\" is used when
invoking operations that operate on the user\'s account (directly or
indirectly via reservations) in order to make retries possible after
application, service, or communication errors. A retry of these operations can
be done by invoking the same operation with the same Request Number.
In the callback to the application, the Request Number to be used for the next
request operation is returned. This is the only Request Number besides the one
in the last request operation that can be used. This mechanism ensures that an
application retries an operation when it does not receive an answer.
The use of the Request Number ensures that there can only be one outstanding
request per Charging Session. Only after an answer is received (result or
error), the next request can be made. Note however that only asynchronous
operations that could lead to over or under charging of the user require a
request number.
Because responses from the Charging SCF can be delayed in the network the
Charging SCF shall guarantee that Request Numbers are unique in a timespan
where delayed responses can arrive. Suppose, for example, that the response
from a retried request is received indicating the next request number to use
is 1 000. During the period that the response to the original request (which
also carries the next request number to use equal to 1 000) can arrive, this
request number may not be used again.
The units (of different types) that are used in a TpVolumeSet are NOT
consolidated by the charging SCF. The application must use the same units when
making the reservation and when debiting the amount. For example, when after a
reservation of 10 minutes a debit request for 5 seconds is done, an error will
be returned.
Split Charging Functionality.
There are cases where a single instance of the merchant application may serve
more than a one service user. Examples are multi-user games or conferences.
Typically, the costs for the resources consumed by the single service instance
will be split among all service users.
On the other hand, a merchant application may show advertisements within its
application, and in turn the company that is advertised may subside a certain
percentage of the application cost. A consumer connecting to the merchant
application pays only part of the costs, while the remainder is paid by the
advertised company.
To support this kind of application, multiple users can be specified when a
charging session is created. The charging session interface itself is the same
no matter if the split charging feature is used or not.
It is subject to service level agreements that are negotiated between the OSA
client provider and the network operator how the charge is split between the
users.
## Interface Class IpChargingManager
Inherits from: IpService.
This interface is the \'service manager\' interface for the Charging Service.
The Charging manager interface provides management functions to the charging
service. The application programmer can use this interface to start charging
sessions. This interface shall be implemented by a Charging SCF. As a minimum
requirement, at least one of createChargingSession() or
createSplitChargingSession() shall be implemented.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | \> | | | | IpChargingManager | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | createChargingSession (appChargingSession : in | | IpAppChargingSessionRef, sessionDescription : in TpString, | | merchantAccount : in TpMerchantAccountID, user : in TpAddress, | | correlationID : in TpCorrelationID) : TpChargingSessionID | | | | createSplitChargingSession (appChargingSession : in | | IpAppChargingSessionRef, sessionDescription : in TpString, | | merchantAccount : in TpMerchantAccountID, users : in TpAddressSet, | | correlationID : in TpCorrelationID) : TpChargingSessionID | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
### Method createChargingSession()
This method creates an instance of the IpChargingSession interface to handle
the charging events related to the specified user and to the application
invoking this method. An IpAppChargingManager should already have been passed
to the IpChargingManager, otherwise the charging manager will not be able to
report a sessionAborted() to the application (the application should invoke
setCallback() if it wishes to ensure this).
Returns chargingSession: Defines the session.
Parameters
appChargingSession : in IpAppChargingSessionRef
Callback interface for the session in the application.
sessionDescription : in TpString
Descriptive text for informational purposes.
merchantAccount : in TpMerchantAccountID
Identifies the account of the party providing the application to be used.
user : in TpAddress
Specifies the user that is using the application. This may or may not be the
user that will be charged. The Charging service will determine the charged
user. When this method is invoked the Charging service shall determine if
charging is allowed for this application for this subscriber. An exception
shall be thrown if this type of charging is not allowed.
correlationID : in TpCorrelationID
This value can be used to correlate the charging to network activity.
Returns
TpChargingSessionID
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_USER, P_INVALID_ACCOUNT
### Method createSplitChargingSession()
This method creates an instance of the IpChargingSession interface to handle
the charging events related to the specified users and to the application
invoking this method. This method differs from createChargingSession() in that
it allows to specify multiple users to be charged. The SCS implementation is
responsible to figure out how later reserve and charge operations are split
among these subscribers. The algorithm may be selected and controlled e.g.
through the chargingParameter argument in the respective methods. The
algorithms provided and the details how they interpret any parameters are
vendor specific.
Returns chargingSession: Defines the session.
Parameters
appChargingSession : in IpAppChargingSessionRef
Callback interface for the session in the application.
sessionDescription : in TpString
Descriptive text for informational purposes.
merchantAccount : in TpMerchantAccountID
Identifies the account of the party providing the application to be used.
users : in TpAddressSet
Specifies the users that are involved in using the application. This could be
all users in a multi-party application (conference call, multi-user-game).
correlationID : in TpCorrelationID
This value can be used to correlate the charging to network activity.
Returns
TpChargingSessionID
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_USER, P_INVALID_ACCOUNT
## Interface Class IpAppChargingManager
Inherits from: IpInterface.
This interface is the manager application interface for the Charging Service.
The Charging manager interface provides the application Charging Session
Management functions to the charging service.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | \> | | | | IpAppChargingManager | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | sessionAborted (sessionID : in TpSessionID) : void | | | | abortMultipleChargingSessions (chargingSessionSet : in | | TpSessionIDSet) : void | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
### Method sessionAborted()
This method indicates to the application that the charging session object (at
the gateway) has aborted or terminated abnormally. No further communication
will be possible between the charging session and application.
Parameters
sessionID : in TpSessionID
Specifies the sessionID of the charging session that has aborted or terminated
abnormally.
### Method abortMultipleChargingSessions()
The service may invoke this method on the IpAppChargingManager interface to
indicate that a number of ongoing charging sessions have aborted or terminated
abnormally. No further communication will be possible between the application
and the charging sessions. This may be used for example in the event of
service failure and recovery in order to instruct the application that a
number of charging sessions have failed. The service shall provide a set of
charging sessionIDs indicating to the application the charging sessions that
have aborted. In the case that the service invokes this method and provides an
empty set of sessionIDs, this shall be used to indicate that all charging
sessions previously active on the IpChargingManager interface have been
aborted.
Parameters
chargingSessionSet : in TpSessionIDSet
Specifies the set of sessionIDs of charging sessions that have aborted or
terminated abnormally. The empty set shall be used to indicate that all
charging sessions have aborted.
## Interface Class IpChargingSession
Inherits from: IpService.
The Charging Session interface provides operations to facilitate transactions
between a merchant and a user. The application programmer can use this
interface to debit or credit amounts and/or units towards a user, to create
and extend the lifetime of a reservation and to get information about what is
left of the reservation. This interface shall be implemented by a Charging
SCF. As a minimum requirement, the release() method shall be implemented. If
the reserveAmountReq() method is implemented, at least one of the
debitAmountReq() or the creditAmountReq() methods shall also be implemented.
If the reserveUnitReq() method is implemented, at least one of the
debitUnitReq() or the creditUnitReq() methods shall also be implemented. If
neither the reserveAmountReq() nor the reserveUnitReq() method is implemented,
then at least one of the directDebitAmountReq() or the directDebitUnitReq(),
or the directCreditAmountReq(), or the directCreditUnitReq() methods shall be
implemented.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | \> | | | | IpChargingSession | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | creditAmountReq (sessionID : in TpSessionID, applicationDescription | | : in TpApplicationDescription, amount : in TpChargingPrice, | | closeReservation : in TpBoolean, requestNumber : in TpInt32) : void | | | | creditUnitReq (sessionID : in TpSessionID, applicationDescription : | | in TpApplicationDescription, volumes : in TpVolumeSet, | | closeReservation : in TpBoolean, requestNumber : in TpInt32) : void | | | | debitAmountReq (sessionID : in TpSessionID, applicationDescription : | | in TpApplicationDescription, amount : in TpChargingPrice, | | closeReservation : in TpBoolean, requestNumber : in TpInt32) : void | | | | debitUnitReq (sessionID : in TpSessionID, applicationDescription : | | in TpApplicationDescription, volumes : in TpVolumeSet, | | closeReservation : in TpBoolean, requestNumber : in TpInt32) : void | | | | directCreditAmountReq (sessionID : in TpSessionID, | | applicationDescription : in TpApplicationDescription, | | chargingParameters : in TpChargingParameterSet, amount : in | | TpChargingPrice, requestNumber : in TpInt32) : void | | | | directCreditUnitReq (sessionID : in TpSessionID, | | applicationDescription : in TpApplicationDescription, | | chargingParameters : in TpChargingParameterSet, volumes : in | | TpVolumeSet, requestNumber : in TpInt32) : void | | | | directDebitAmountReq (sessionID : in TpSessionID, | | applicationDescription : in TpApplicationDescription, | | chargingParameters : in TpChargingParameterSet, amount : in | | TpChargingPrice, requestNumber : in TpInt32) : void | | | | directDebitUnitReq (sessionID : in TpSessionID, | | applicationDescription : in TpApplicationDescription, | | chargingParameters : in TpChargingParameterSet, volumes : in | | TpVolumeSet, requestNumber : in TpInt32) : void | | | | extendLifeTimeReq (sessionID : in TpSessionID) : void | | | | getAmountLeft (sessionID : in TpSessionID) : TpChargingPrice | | | | getLifeTimeLeft (sessionID : in TpSessionID) : TpInt32 | | | | getUnitLeft (sessionID : in TpSessionID) : TpVolumeSet | | | | rateReq (sessionID : in TpSessionID, chargingParameters : in | | TpChargingParameterSet) : void | | | | release (sessionID : in TpSessionID, requestNumber : in TpInt32) : | | void | | | | reserveAmountReq (sessionID : in TpSessionID, applicationDescription | | : in TpApplicationDescription, chargingParameters : in | | TpChargingParameterSet, preferredAmount : in TpChargingPrice, | | minimumAmount : in TpChargingPrice, requestNumber : in TpInt32) : | | void | | | | reserveUnitReq (sessionID : in TpSessionID, applicationDescription : | | in TpApplicationDescription, chargingParameters : in | | TpChargingParameterSet, volumes : in TpVolumeSet, requestNumber : in | | TpInt32) : void | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
### Method creditAmountReq()
This method credits an amount towards the reservation associated with the
session.
The amount left in the reservation will be increased by this amount.
Each request to debit / credit an amount towards a reservation is handled
separately. For example, two requests for a payment of EUR 1,- will give a
total payment of EUR 2,-.
A credit of EUR 1,- and a debit of EUR 1 will give a total payment of EUR 0,-.
Parameters
sessionID : in TpSessionID
The ID of the session.
applicationDescription : in TpApplicationDescription
Descriptive text for informational purposes (e.g. text presented on the bill
and used in communication towards the user).
amount : in TpChargingPrice
The amount of specified currency to be credited towards the user.
closeReservation : in TpBoolean
If set to true, this parameter indicates that the remaining part of the
reservation can be freed. This may also mean addition of currency to the
subscriber\'s account if more credits than debits have been made. The session
is not released, this has to be done explicitly by calling the release()
method.
requestNumber : in TpInt32
Specifies the number given in the result of the previous operation on this
session, or when creating the session. When no answer is received the same
operation with the same parameters must be retried with the same
requestNumber.
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_SESSION_ID, P_INVALID_AMOUNT,
P_INVALID_CURRENCY, P_INVALID_REQUEST_NUMBER
### Method creditUnitReq()
This method credits a volume of application usage towards the reservation.
The volumes left in the reservation of this will be increased by this amount.
Each request to debit / credit a volume towards a reservation is handled
separately. For example, two requests for a payment for 10 kilobytes will give
a total payment for 20 kilobytes.
Parameters
sessionID : in TpSessionID
The ID of the session.
applicationDescription : in TpApplicationDescription
Descriptive text for informational purposes (e.g. text presented on the bill
and used in communication towards the user).
volumes : in TpVolumeSet
Specifies the credited volumes in different units, more specifically a
sequence of data elements each containing the amount and applied unit.
closeReservation : in TpBoolean
If set to true, this parameter indicates that the reservation can be freed.
The session is not released, this has to be done explicitly by calling the
release() method.
requestNumber : in TpInt32
Specifies the number given in the result of the previous operation on this
session, or when creating the session. When no answer is received the same
operation with the same parameters must be retried with the same
requestNumber.
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_SESSION_ID, P_INVALID_VOLUME,
P_INVALID_REQUEST_NUMBER
### Method debitAmountReq()
This method debits an amount from the reservation.
The amount left in the reservation will be decreased by this amount.
Each request to debit / credit an amount towards a reservation is handled
separately. For example, two requests for a payment of EUR 1,- will give a
total payment of EUR 2,-.
A credit of EUR 1,- and a debit of EUR 1 will give a total payment of EUR 0,-.
When a debit operation would exceed the limit of the reservation, the debit
operation fails.
Parameters
sessionID : in TpSessionID
The ID of the session.
applicationDescription : in TpApplicationDescription
Descriptive text for informational purposes (e.g. text presented on the bill
and used in communication towards the user).
amount : in TpChargingPrice
The amount of specified currency to be debited from the user.
closeReservation : in TpBoolean
If set to true, this parameter indicates that the reservation can be freed.
The session is not released, this has to be done explicitly by calling the
release() method.
requestNumber : in TpInt32
Specifies the number given in the result of the previous operation on this
session, or when creating the session. When no answer is received the same
operation with the same parameters must be retried with the same
requestNumber.
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_SESSION_ID, P_INVALID_AMOUNT,
P_INVALID_CURRENCY, P_INVALID_REQUEST_NUMBER
### Method debitUnitReq()
This method debits a volume of application usage from the reservation.
The volumes left in the reservation will be decreased by this amount.
Each request to debit / credit a volume towards a reservation is handled
separately. For example, two requests for a payment for 10 kilobytes will give
a total payment for 20 kilobytes.
When a debit operation would exceed the limit of the reservation, the debit
operation succeeds, and the debited volumes will be the rest of the volumes in
the reservation.
Parameters
sessionID : in TpSessionID
The ID of the session.
applicationDescription : in TpApplicationDescription
Descriptive text for informational purposes (e.g. text presented on the bill
and used in communication towards the user).
volumes : in TpVolumeSet
Specifies the charged volumes in different units, more specifically a sequence
of data elements each containing the amount and applied unit.
closeReservation : in TpBoolean
If set to true, this parameter indicates that the reservation can be freed.
The session is not released, this has to be done explicitly by calling the
release() method.
requestNumber : in TpInt32
Specifies the number given in the result of the previous operation on this
session, or when creating the session. When no answer is received the same
operation with the same parameters must be retried with the same
requestNumber.
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_SESSION_ID, P_INVALID_VOLUME,
P_INVALID_REQUEST_NUMBER
### Method directCreditAmountReq()
This method directly credits an amount towards the user.
A possible reservation associated with this session is not influenced.
Parameters
sessionID : in TpSessionID
The ID of the session.
applicationDescription : in TpApplicationDescription
Descriptive text for informational purposes (e.g. text presented on the bill
and used in communication towards the user).
chargingParameters : in TpChargingParameterSet
These parameters and their values specify to the charging service what was
provided to the end user so that the charging service can determine the
applicable tariff.
amount : in TpChargingPrice
The amount of specified currency to be credited towards the user.
requestNumber : in TpInt32
Specifies the number given in the result of the previous operation on this
session, or when creating the session. When no answer is received the same
operation with the same parameters must be retried with the same
requestNumber.
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_SESSION_ID, P_INVALID_AMOUNT,
P_INVALID_CURRENCY, P_INVALID_REQUEST_NUMBER
### Method directCreditUnitReq()
This method directly credits a volume of application usage towards the user.
The volumes in a possible reservation associated with this session are not
influenced.
Parameters
sessionID : in TpSessionID
The ID of the reservation.
applicationDescription : in TpApplicationDescription
Descriptive text for informational purposes (e.g. text presented on the bill
and used in communication towards the user).
chargingParameters : in TpChargingParameterSet
These parameters and their values specify to the charging service what was
provided to the end user so that the charging service can determine the
applicable tariff.
volumes : in TpVolumeSet
Specifies the credited volumes in different units, more specifically a
sequence of data elements each containing the amount and applied unit.
requestNumber : in TpInt32
Specifies the number given in the result of the previous operation on this
session, or when creating the session. When no answer is received the same
operation with the same parameters must be retried with the same
requestNumber.
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_SESSION_ID, P_INVALID_VOLUME,
P_INVALID_REQUEST_NUMBER
### Method directDebitAmountReq()
This method directly debits an amount towards the user.
A possible reservation associated with this session is not influenced.
Parameters
sessionID : in TpSessionID
The ID of the session.
applicationDescription : in TpApplicationDescription
Descriptive text for informational purposes (e.g. text presented on the bill
and used in communication towards the user).
chargingParameters : in TpChargingParameterSet
These parameters and their values specify to the charging service what was
provided to the end user so that the charging service can determine the
applicable tariff.
amount : in TpChargingPrice
The amount of specified currency to be debited from the user.
requestNumber : in TpInt32
Specifies the number given in the result of the previous operation on this
session, or when creating the session. When no answer is received the same
operation with the same parameters must be retried with the same
requestNumber.
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_SESSION_ID, P_INVALID_AMOUNT,
P_INVALID_CURRENCY, P_INVALID_REQUEST_NUMBER
### Method directDebitUnitReq()
This method directly credits a volume of application usage towards the user.
The volumes in a possible reservation associated with this session are not
influence.
Parameters
sessionID : in TpSessionID
The ID of the reservation.
applicationDescription : in TpApplicationDescription
Descriptive text for informational purposes (e.g. text presented on the bill
and used in communication towards the user).
chargingParameters : in TpChargingParameterSet
These parameters and their values specify to the charging service what was
provided to the end user so that the charging service can determine the
applicable tariff.
volumes : in TpVolumeSet
Specifies the charged volumes in different units, more specifically a sequence
of data elements each containing the amount and applied unit.
requestNumber : in TpInt32
Specifies the number given in the result of the previous operation on this
session, or when creating the session. When no answer is received the same
operation with the same parameters must be retried with the same
requestNumber.
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_SESSION_ID, P_INVALID_VOLUME,
P_INVALID_REQUEST_NUMBER
### Method extendLifeTimeReq()
With this method an application can request the lifetime of the reservation to
be extended. If no reservation has been made on the charging session, this
method raises an exception (P_TASK_REFUSED).
Parameters
sessionID : in TpSessionID
The ID of the session.
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_SESSION_ID
### Method getAmountLeft()
With this method an application can request the remaining amount of the
reservation.
Returns amountLeft: Gives the amount left in the reservation.
Parameters
sessionID : in TpSessionID
The ID of the session.
Returns
TpChargingPrice
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_SESSION_ID
### Method getLifeTimeLeft()
With this method an application can request the remaining lifetime of the
reservation. If no reservation has been made on the charging session, this
method raises an exception (P_TASK_REFUSED).
Returns reservationTimeLeft: Indicates the number of seconds that the session
remains valid.
Parameters
sessionID : in TpSessionID
The ID of the session.
Returns
TpInt32
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_SESSION_ID
### Method getUnitLeft()
With this method an application can request the remaining amount of the
reservation.
Returns volumesLeft: Specifies the remaining volumes in different units, more
specifically a sequence of data elements each containing the amount and
applied unit.
Parameters
sessionID : in TpSessionID
The ID of the session.
Returns
TpVolumeSet
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_SESSION_ID
### Method rateReq()
This method is used when the application wants to have an item rated by the
charging service. The result can be used to present pricing information to the
end-user before the end-user actually wants to start using the service.
Parameters
sessionID : in TpSessionID
The ID of the session.
chargingParameters : in TpChargingParameterSet
These parameters and their values specify to the charging service what was
provided to the end user so that the charging service can determine the
applicable tariff.
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_SESSION_ID
### Method release()
This method releases the session, no operations can be done towards this
session anymore (not even retries). Unused parts of a reservation are freed.
Parameters
sessionID : in TpSessionID
The ID of the session.
requestNumber : in TpInt32
Specifies the number given in the result of the previous operation on this
session, or when creating the session.
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_SESSION_ID, P_INVALID_REQUEST_NUMBER
### Method reserveAmountReq()
This method is used when an application wants to reserve an amount of money
for services to be delivered to a user. It is also possible to enlarge the
existing amount reservation by invoking this method. If a reservation is
extended, the lifetime of the reservation is re-initialized.
Parameters
sessionID : in TpSessionID
The ID of the session.
applicationDescription : in TpApplicationDescription
Descriptive text for informational purposes (e.g. text presented on the bill
and used in communication towards the user).
chargingParameters : in TpChargingParameterSet
These parameters and their values specify to the charging service what was
provided to the end user so that the charging service can determine the
applicable tariff.
preferredAmount : in TpChargingPrice
The amount of specified currency that the application wants to be reserved.
minimumAmount : in TpChargingPrice
The minimum amount that can be used by the application if the preferred amount
cannot be granted.
requestNumber : in TpInt32
Specifies the number given in the result of the previous operation on this
session, or when creating the session. When no answer is received the same
operation with the same parameters must be retried with the same
requestNumber.
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_SESSION_ID, P_INVALID_AMOUNT,
P_INVALID_CURRENCY, P_INVALID_REQUEST_NUMBER
### Method reserveUnitReq()
This method is used when an application wants to reserve volumes of
application usage to be delivered to a user in the session. When using units
it is assumed that the price setting for the units is handled by the network
side services. It is also possible to enlarge the existing unit reservation by
invoking this method.
Parameters
sessionID : in TpSessionID
The ID of the session.
applicationDescription : in TpApplicationDescription
Descriptive text for informational purposes (e.g. text presented on the bill
and used in communication towards the user).
chargingParameters : in TpChargingParameterSet
These parameters and their values specify to the charging service what was
provided to the end user so that the charging service can determine the
applicable tariff.
volumes : in TpVolumeSet
Specifies the reserved volumes in different units, more specifically a
sequence of data elements each containing the amount and applied unit. It is
e.g. possible to make a reservation for 10 000 octets and 5 charging units.
requestNumber : in TpInt32
Specifies the number given in the result of the previous operation on this
session, or when creating the session. When no answer is received the same
operation with the same parameters must be retried with the same
requestNumber.
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_SESSION_ID, P_INVALID_VOLUME,
P_INVALID_REQUEST_NUMBER
## Interface Class IpAppChargingSession
Inherits from: IpInterface.
This application interface must be implemented by the client application to
handle callbacks from the IpChargingSession.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | \> | | | | IpAppChargingSession | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | creditAmountErr (sessionID : in TpSessionID, requestNumber : in | | TpInt32, error : in TpChargingError, requestNumberNextRequest : in | | TpInt32) : void | | | | creditAmountRes (sessionID : in TpSessionID, requestNumber : in | | TpInt32, creditedAmount : in TpChargingPrice, reservedAmountLeft : | | in TpChargingPrice, requestNumberNextRequest : in TpInt32) : void | | | | creditUnitErr (sessionID : in TpSessionID, requestNumber : in | | TpInt32, error : in TpChargingError, requestNumberNextRequest : in | | TpInt32) : void | | | | creditUnitRes (sessionID : in TpSessionID, requestNumber : in | | TpInt32, creditedVolumes : in TpVolumeSet, reservedUnitsLeft : in | | TpVolumeSet, requestNumberNextRequest : in TpInt32) : void | | | | debitAmountErr (sessionID : in TpSessionID, requestNumber : in | | TpInt32, error : in TpChargingError, requestNumberNextRequest : in | | TpInt32) : void | | | | debitAmountRes (sessionID : in TpSessionID, requestNumber : in | | TpInt32, debitedAmount : in TpChargingPrice, reservedAmountLeft : in | | TpChargingPrice, requestNumberNextRequest : in TpInt32) : void | | | | debitUnitErr (sessionID : in TpSessionID, requestNumber : in | | TpInt32, error : in TpChargingError, requestNumberNextRequest : in | | TpInt32) : void | | | | debitUnitRes (sessionID : in TpSessionID, requestNumber : in | | TpInt32, debitedVolumes : in TpVolumeSet, reservedUnitsLeft : in | | TpVolumeSet, requestNumberNextRequest : in TpInt32) : void | | | | directCreditAmountErr (sessionID : in TpSessionID, requestNumber : | | in TpInt32, error : in TpChargingError, requestNumberNextRequest : | | in TpInt32) : void | | | | directCreditAmountRes (sessionID : in TpSessionID, requestNumber : | | in TpInt32, creditedAmount : in TpChargingPrice, | | requestNumberNextRequest : in TpInt32) : void | | | | directCreditUnitErr (sessionID : in TpSessionID, requestNumber : in | | TpInt32, error : in TpChargingError, requestNumberNextRequest : in | | TpInt32) : void | | | | directCreditUnitRes (sessionID : in TpSessionID, requestNumber : in | | TpInt32, creditedVolumes : in TpVolumeSet, requestNumberNextRequest | | : in TpInt32) : void | | | | directDebitAmountErr (sessionID : in TpSessionID, requestNumber : in | | TpInt32, error : in TpChargingError, requestNumberNextRequest : in | | TpInt32) : void | | | | directDebitAmountRes (sessionID : in TpSessionID, requestNumber : in | | TpInt32, debitedAmount : in TpChargingPrice, | | requestNumberNextRequest : in TpInt32) : void | | | | directDebitUnitErr (sessionID : in TpSessionID, requestNumber : in | | TpInt32, error : in TpChargingError, requestNumberNextRequest : in | | TpInt32) : void | | | | directDebitUnitRes (sessionID : in TpSessionID, requestNumber : in | | TpInt32, debitedVolumes : in TpVolumeSet, requestNumberNextRequest : | | in TpInt32) : void | | | | extendLifeTimeErr (sessionID : in TpSessionID, error : in | | TpChargingError) : void | | | | extendLifeTimeRes (sessionID : in TpSessionID, sessionTimeLeft : in | | TpInt32) : void | | | | rateErr (sessionID : in TpSessionID, error : in TpChargingError) : | | void | | | | rateRes (sessionID : in TpSessionID, rates : in TpPriceVolumeSet, | | validityTimeLeft : in TpDuration) : void | | | | reserveAmountErr (sessionID : in TpSessionID, requestNumber : in | | TpInt32, error : in TpChargingError, requestNumberNextRequest : in | | TpInt32) : void | | | | reserveAmountRes (sessionID : in TpSessionID, requestNumber : in | | TpInt32, reservedAmount : in TpChargingPrice, sessionTimeLeft : in | | TpInt32, requestNumberNextRequest : in TpInt32) : void | | | | reserveUnitErr (sessionID : in TpSessionID, requestNumber : in | | TpInt32, error : in TpChargingError, requestNumberNextRequest : in | | TpInt32) : void | | | | reserveUnitRes (sessionID : in TpSessionID, requestNumber : in | | TpInt32, reservedUnits : in TpVolumeSet, sessionTimeLeft : in | | TpInt32, requestNumberNextRequest : in TpInt32) : void | | | | sessionEnded (sessionID : in TpSessionID, report : in | | TpSessionEndedCause) : void | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
### Method creditAmountErr()
This method indicates that the corresponding request failed completely and
that no money has been credited.
Parameters
sessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the ID of the session for which the operation was called.
requestNumber : in TpInt32
This is the request number for this request.
error : in TpChargingError
Indicates the reason for failure. Possible errors are: P_CHS_ERR_CURRENCY and
P_CHS_ERR_NO_CREDIT.
requestNumberNextRequest : in TpInt32
This request number must be used in the next request (requiring a Request
Number) for this session.
### Method creditAmountRes()
This method indicates that the corresponding request was successful.
Parameters
sessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the ID of the session for which the operation was called.
requestNumber : in TpInt32
This is the request number for this request.
creditedAmount : in TpChargingPrice
Indicates the credited amount.
reservedAmountLeft : in TpChargingPrice
The amount left of the reservation.
requestNumberNextRequest : in TpInt32
This request number must be used in the next request (requiring a Request
Number) for this session.
### Method creditUnitErr()
This method indicates that the corresponding request failed completely and
that no units have been credited.
Parameters
sessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the ID of the session for which the operation was called.
requestNumber : in TpInt32
This is the request number for this request.
error : in TpChargingError
Indicates the reason for failure. Possible errors are: P_CHS_ERR_VOLUMES and
P_CHS_ERR_NO_CREDIT.
requestNumberNextRequest : in TpInt32
This request number must be used in the next request (requiring a Request
Number) for this session.
### Method creditUnitRes()
This method indicates that the corresponding request was successful.
Parameters
sessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the ID of the session for which the operation was called.
requestNumber : in TpInt32
This is the request number for this request.
creditedVolumes : in TpVolumeSet
Indicates the credited volumes of application usage.
reservedUnitsLeft : in TpVolumeSet
The volume of application usage left in the reservation.
requestNumberNextRequest : in TpInt32
This request number must be used in the next request (requiring a Request
Number) for this session.
### Method debitAmountErr()
This method indicates that the corresponding request failed completely and
that no money has been debited.
Parameters
sessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the ID of the session for which the operation was called.
requestNumber : in TpInt32
This is the request number for this request.
error : in TpChargingError
Indicates the reason for failure. Possible errors are: P_CHS_ERR_CURRENCY and
P_CHS_ERR_RESERVATION_LIMIT.
requestNumberNextRequest : in TpInt32
This request number must be used in the next request (requiring a Request
Number) for this session.
### Method debitAmountRes()
This method indicates that the corresponding request was successful.
Parameters
sessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the ID of the session for which the operation was called.
requestNumber : in TpInt32
This is the request number for this request.
debitedAmount : in TpChargingPrice
Indicates the debited amount.
reservedAmountLeft : in TpChargingPrice
The amount left of the reservation.
requestNumberNextRequest : in TpInt32
This request number must be used in the next request (requiring a Request
Number) for this session.
### Method debitUnitErr()
This method indicates that the corresponding request failed completely and
that no units have been debited.
Parameters
sessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the ID of the session for which the operation was called.
requestNumber : in TpInt32
This is the request number for this request.
error : in TpChargingError
Indicates the reason for failure. Possible errors are: P_CHS_ERR_VOLUMES and
P_CHS_ERR_RESERVATION_LIMIT.
requestNumberNextRequest : in TpInt32
This request number must be used in the next request (requiring a Request
Number) for this session.
### Method debitUnitRes()
This method indicates that the corresponding request was successful.
Parameters
sessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the ID of the session for which the operation was called.
requestNumber : in TpInt32
This is the request number for this request.
debitedVolumes : in TpVolumeSet
Indicates the debited volumes of application usage.
reservedUnitsLeft : in TpVolumeSet
The volume of application usage left in the reservation.
requestNumberNextRequest : in TpInt32
This request number must be used in the next request (requiring a Request
Number) for this session.
### Method directCreditAmountErr()
This method indicates that the corresponding request failed completely and
that no money has been credited.
Parameters
sessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the ID of the session for which the operation was called.
requestNumber : in TpInt32
This is the request number for this request.
error : in TpChargingError
Indicates the reason for failure. Possible errors are: P_CHS_ERR_PARAMETER,
P_CHS_ERR_NO_CREDIT, P_CHS_ERR_CURRENCY.
requestNumberNextRequest : in TpInt32
This request number must be used in the next request (requiring a Request
Number) for this session.
### Method directCreditAmountRes()
This method indicates that the corresponding request was successful.
Parameters
sessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the ID of the session for which the operation was called.
requestNumber : in TpInt32
This is the request number for this request.
creditedAmount : in TpChargingPrice
Indicates the credited amount.
requestNumberNextRequest : in TpInt32
This request number must be used in the next request (requiring a Request
Number) for this session.
### Method directCreditUnitErr()
This method indicates that the corresponding request failed completely and
that no units have been credited.
Parameters
sessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the ID of the session for which the operation was called.
requestNumber : in TpInt32
This is the request number for this request.
error : in TpChargingError
Indicates the reason for failure. Possible errors are: P_CHS_ERR_PARAMETER,
P_CHS_ERR_NO_CREDIT, P_CHS_ERR_VOLUMES.
requestNumberNextRequest : in TpInt32
This request number must be used in the next request (requiring a Request
Number) for this session.
### Method directCreditUnitRes()
This method indicates that the corresponding request was successful.
Parameters
sessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the ID of the session for which the operation was called.
requestNumber : in TpInt32
This is the request number for this request.
creditedVolumes : in TpVolumeSet
Indicates the credited volumes of application usage.
requestNumberNextRequest : in TpInt32
This request number must be used in the next request (requiring a Request
Number) for this session.
### Method directDebitAmountErr()
This method indicates that the corresponding request failed completely and
that no money has been debited.
Parameters
sessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the ID of the session for which the operation was called.
requestNumber : in TpInt32
This is the request number for this request.
error : in TpChargingError
Indicates the reason for failure. Possible errors are: P_CHS_ERR_PARAMETER,
P_CHS_ERR_NO_DEBIT, P_CHS_ERR_CURRENCY, P_CHS_ERR_CONFIRMATION_REQUIRED.
requestNumberNextRequest : in TpInt32
This request number must be used in the next request (requiring a Request
Number) for this session.
### Method directDebitAmountRes()
This method indicates that the corresponding request was successful.
Parameters
sessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the ID of the session for which the operation was called.
requestNumber : in TpInt32
This is the request number for this request.
debitedAmount : in TpChargingPrice
Indicates the debited amount.
requestNumberNextRequest : in TpInt32
This request number must be used in the next request (requiring a Request
Number) for this session.
### Method directDebitUnitErr()
This method indicates that the corresponding request failed completely and
that no units have been debited.
Parameters
sessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the ID of the session for which the operation was called.
requestNumber : in TpInt32
This is the request number for this request.
error : in TpChargingError
Indicates the reason for failure. Possible errors are: P_CHS_ERR_PARAMETER,
P_CHS_ERR_NO_DEBIT, P_CHS_ERR_VOLUMES, P_CHS_ERR_ CONFIRMATION_REQUIRED.
requestNumberNextRequest : in TpInt32
This request number must be used in the next request (requiring a Request
Number) for this session.
### Method directDebitUnitRes()
This method indicates that the corresponding request was successful.
Parameters
sessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the ID of the session for which the operation was called.
requestNumber : in TpInt32
This is the request number for this request.
debitedVolumes : in TpVolumeSet
Indicates the debited volumes of application usage.
requestNumberNextRequest : in TpInt32
This request number must be used in the next request (requiring a Request
Number) for this session.
### Method extendLifeTimeErr()
This method indicates that the corresponding request failed.
Parameters
sessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the ID of the session for which the operation was called.
error : in TpChargingError
Indicates the reason for failure. Possible errors are: P_CHS_ERR_NO_EXTEND.
### Method extendLifeTimeRes()
This method indicates that the corresponding request was successful.
Parameters
sessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the ID of the session for which the operation was called.
sessionTimeLeft : in TpInt32
Indicates the number of seconds that the session remains valid.
### Method rateErr()
This method indicates that the corresponding request failed.
Parameters
sessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the ID of the session for which the operation was called.
error : in TpChargingError
Indicates the reason for failure. Possible errors are: P_CHS_ERR_PARAMETER.
### Method rateRes()
This method indicates that the corresponding request was successful.
Parameters
sessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the ID of the session for which the operation was called.
rates : in TpPriceVolumeSet
The applicable rates.
validityTimeLeft : in TpDuration
Indicates the number of milliseconds that this information remains valid.
### Method reserveAmountErr()
This method indicates that the corresponding request failed. The reservation
cannot be used.
Parameters
sessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the same as the session ID returned in the request.
requestNumber : in TpInt32
This is the request number for this request.
error : in TpChargingError
Indicates the reason for failure. Possible errors are: P_CHS_ERR_PARAMETER,
P_CHS_ERR_RESERVATION_LIMIT, P_CHS_ERR_CURRENCY, P_CHS_ERR_NO_EXTEND,
P_CHS_ERR_CONFIRMATION_REQUIRED.
requestNumberNextRequest : in TpInt32
This request number must be used in the next request (requiring a Request
Number) for this session.
### Method reserveAmountRes()
This method indicates that the corresponding request was successful.
Parameters
sessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the same as the session ID returned in the request.
requestNumber : in TpInt32
This is the request number for this request.
reservedAmount : in TpChargingPrice
The amount reserved. If there was already a pending reservation, the sum of
that and the new reservation is given.
sessionTimeLeft : in TpInt32
Indicates the number of seconds that the session and the reservation therein
remain valid.
requestNumberNextRequest : in TpInt32
This request number must be used in the next request (requiring a Request
Number) for this session.
### Method reserveUnitErr()
This method indicates that the corresponding request failed. The reservation
cannot be used.
Parameters
sessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the same as the session ID returned in the request.
requestNumber : in TpInt32
This is the request number for this request.
error : in TpChargingError
Indicates the reason for failure. Possible errors are: P_CHS_ERR_PARAMETER,
P_CHS_ERR_VOLUMES, P_CHS_ERR_RESERVATION_LIMIT, P_CHS_ERR_NO_EXTEND,
P_CHS_ERR_CONFIRMATION_REQUIRED.
requestNumberNextRequest : in TpInt32
This request number must be used in the next request (requiring a Request
Number) for this session.
### Method reserveUnitRes()
This method indicates that the corresponding request was successful.
Parameters
sessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the same as the session ID returned in the request.
requestNumber : in TpInt32
This is the request number for this request.
reservedUnits : in TpVolumeSet
The volume of application usage reserved. If there was already a pending
reservation, the sum of that and the new reservation is returned. E.g. a
pending reservation of 25 charging units and a new reservation of 1 000 octets
and 10 charging units will result in two TpVolume elements for this parameter:
1 000 octets and 35 charging units.
sessionTimeLeft : in TpInt32
Indicates the number of seconds that the session and the reservation therein
remain valid.
requestNumberNextRequest : in TpInt32
This request number must be used in the next request (requiring a Request
Number) for this session.
### Method sessionEnded()
This method indicates to the application that the charging session has
terminated in the charging server. The application is expected to deassign the
charging session object after having received the sessionEnded.
Parameters
sessionID : in TpSessionID
Specifies the charging sessionID.
report : in TpSessionEndedCause
Specifies the cause the charging session is terminated.
  1. State Transition Diagrams =========================
    1. State Transition Diagrams for IpChargingSession \-----------------------------------------------
{width="5.924305555555556in" height="9.918055555555556in"}
Figure : Charging Session Handling
### Session Created State
In this state the Charging Session is created. No reservations have been made.
In this state, the applications have the possibility to perform direct debits
and credits on the user\'s account and to request rating.
### Amount Reserved State
In this state a reservation for a certain maximum amount has been made. This
reservation has succeeded and the application has the possibility to perform
incremental debits/credits on this reserved amount until either the
application chooses to close the reservation or the reservation limit is
reached, or the Charging Session is released (either explicitly by the
application or implicitly when the lifetime of the session has expired). The
application can also extend the reservation and control its lifetime.
If the application chooses to close the reservation or the original
reservation limit is reached, a transition to the \'Reservation Ended\' state
results.
### Volume Reserved State
In this state a reservation for a certain maximum volume (kilobytes, emails,
html-pages, etc) has been made. This reservation has succeeded and the
application has the possibility to perform incremental debits/credits on this
reserved volume until either the application chooses to close the reservation
or the reservation limit is reached, or the Charging Session is released
(either explicitly by the application or implicitly when the lifetime of the
session has expired). The application can also extend the reservation and
control its lifetime.
If the application chooses to close the reservation or the original
reservation limit is reached, a transition to the \'Reservation Ended\' state
results.
### Reservation Ended State
In this state an amount or volume reservation has been closed by the
application, or the reservation limit has been reached. The charging session
may remain active in order to carry out non-reservation related tasks such
direct credit or debit operations. No further charging reservations shall be
possible for this session, a new session is therefore required for future
charging reservations. The charging session is closed on lifetime expiry or
application \'release\'.
  1. Content Based Charging Service Properties =========================================
The following table lists properties relevant for CBC SCF.
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | Property | Type | De | | | | scription/Interpretation | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | P_ADDRESSPLAN | INTEGER_SET | Indicates the supported | | | | address plan (defined in | | | | TpAddressPlan.) E.g. | | | | {P_ADDRESS_PLAN_E164, | | | | P_ADDRESS_PLAN_IP}). | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | P_SUPPORTED_UNITS | INTEGER_SET | Indicates the unit-types | | | | that are supported, e.g. | | | | {P_CHS_UNIT_OCTETS, | | | | P_CHS_UNIT_SECONDS}. | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | P_SUPPORTED_CURRENCIES | STRING_SET | Indicates the | | | | curreny-types that are | | | | supported according to | | | | ISO-4217, e.g. {"EUR", | | | | "DEM", "NLG"}. | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | P_UNIT_CHARGING | BOOLEAN_SET | Indicates if charging | | | | based on units (rather | | | | then amounts) is | | | | supported. | | | | | | | | Value = TRUE: unit based | | | | charging is supported. | | | | | | | | Value = FALSE: unit | | | | based charging is not | | | | supported. | | | | | | | | If unit charging is | | | | supported or not or is | | | | selected or not does not | | | | tell anything about | | | | amount charging. | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | P_AMOUNT_CHARGING | BOOLEAN_SET | Indicates if charging | | | | based on amounts (rather | | | | then units) is | | | | supported. | | | | | | | | Value = TRUE: amount | | | | based charging is | | | | supported. | | | | | | | | Value = FALSE: amount | | | | based charging is not | | | | supported. | | | | | | | | If amount charging is | | | | supported or not or is | | | | selected or not does not | | | | tell anything about unit | | | | charging. | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | P_SPLIT_CHARGING | BOOLEAN_SET | Indicates if split | | | | charging feature is | | | | available. | | | | | | | | Value = TRUE: split | | | | charging is supported. | | | | | | | | Value = FALSE: split | | | | charging is not | | | | supported. | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | P_DEBITING | BOOLEAN_SET | Upon service | | | | registration, this | | | | property describes if | | | | the SCS supports | | | | debiting at all and if | | | | it can be turned off by | | | | the application. Upon | | | | service instantiation, | | | | it describes which | | | | mode(s) the client has | | | | selected. | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | P_CREDITING | BOOLEAN_SET | Upon service | | | | registration, this | | | | property describes if | | | | the SCS supports | | | | crediting at all and if | | | | it can be turned off by | | | | the application. Upon | | | | service instantiation, | | | | it describes which | | | | mode(s) the client has | | | | selected. | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
The previous table lists properties related to the capabilities of the SCS
itself. The following table lists properties that are used in the context of
the Service Level Agreement, e.g. to restrict the access of applications to
the capabilities of the SCS.
+-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | Property | Type | Descr | | | | iption/Interpretation | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | P_DEFAULT_LIFETIME | INTEGER_INTERVAL | Defines the default | | | | lifetime for a | | | | charging reservation | | | | in milliseconds. | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | P | INTEGER_INTERVAL | Defines the duration | | _LIFETIME_INCREMENT | | in milliseconds by | | | | which the lifetime of | | | | a charging | | | | reservation can be | | | | extended. | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | P_MAX_LIFETIME | INTEGER_INTERVAL | Defines the maxium | | | | lifetime for a | | | | charging reservation | | | | in milliseconds. | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | P_MIN_DEBIT_AMOUNT | STRING_SET | Defines the minimum | | | | amounts for a debit | | | | operation, depending | | | | on currency. Each set | | | | element is a string | | | | that contains the | | | | amount, formatted as | | | | a string and followed | | | | by the currency. | | | | Example: | | | | | | | | {'1.00 EUR', '0.5 | | | | GBP'} means that the | | | | minimum amount in | | | | Euro is 1.00, while | | | | in Pound Sterling it | | | | is 0.5 | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | P_MAX_DEBIT_AMOUNT | STRING_SET | Defines the maximum | | | | amount for a debit | | | | operation, similar to | | | | P | | | | _MIN_DEBIT_AMOUNT. | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | P_CREDIT_AMOUNT | INTEGER_INTERVAL | Defines the range for | | | | amounts that can be | | | | credited. Valid for | | | | any allowed currency. | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | P_ | INTEGER_INTERVAL | Defines the range for | | PARALLEL_SESSIONS | | the allowed amount of | | | | parallel charging | | | | sessions. | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | P _SESSIONS_HOUR | INTEGER_INTERVAL | Defines the range for | | | | the allowed number of | | | | charging sessions per | | | | hour. | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+
  1. Data Definitions ================
    1. Charging Data Definitions \-------------------------
This clause provides the Charging specific data definitions necessary to
support the OSA interface specification.
The general format of a data definition specification is the following:
  * Data type, that shows the name of the data type.
  * Description, that describes the data type.
  * Tabular specification, that specifies the data types and values of the data type.
  * Example, if relevant, shown to illustrate the data type.
All data types referenced but not defined in this clause are common data
definitions which may be found in 3GPP TS 29.198-2.
### IpChargingManager
Defines the address of an IpChargingManager Interface.
### IpChargingManagerRef
Defines a Reference to type IpChargingManager
### IpAppChargingManager
Defines the address of an IpAppChargingManager Interface.
### IpAppChargingManagerRef
Defines a Reference to type IpAppChargingManager
### IpChargingSession
Defines the address of an IpChargingSession Interface.
### IpChargingSessionRef
Defines a Reference to type IpChargingSession
### IpAppChargingSession
Defines the address of an IpAppChargingSession Interface.
### IpAppChargingSessionRef
Defines a Reference to type IpAppChargingSession
### TpApplicationDescription
Defines a Sequence of Data Elements that specifies what is about to be
charged.
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type Text TpString AppInformation
TpAppInformationSet
* * *
### TpAppInformationSet
Defines a Numbered Set of Data Elements that further describe what is about to
be charged. The data elements are of type TpAppInformation.
### TpAppInformation
Defines a Tagged Choice of Data Elements that comprise an individual
application information.
* * *
     Tag Element Type       
     TpAppInformationType
* * *
* * *
Tag Element Value Choice Element Type Choice Element Name P_APP_INF_TIMESTAMP
TpDateAndTime Timestamp
* * *
### TpAppInformationType
Defines the possible information items.
* * *
Name Value Description P_APP_INF_TIMESTAMP 0 The information item contains a
timestamp.
* * *
### TpSessionEndedCause
Defines the reason for which a charging session is released.
* * *
Name Value Description P_CHS_CAUSE_UNDEFINED 0 The reason of release is not
known, because no info was received from the network.
P_CHS_CAUSE_TIMER_EXPIRED 1 The session lifetime has expired.
* * *
### TpMerchantAccountID
Defines a Sequence of Data Elements that defines the used service.
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type MerchantID TpString AccountID
TpInt32
* * *
### TpCorrelationID
Defines the Sequence of Data Elements that identify a correlation.
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type CorrelationID TpSessionID
CorrelationType TpCorrelationType
* * *
### TpCorrelationType
Defines the type of correlation. This type can be extended with operator
specific items.
* * *
Name Value Description P_CHS_CORRELATION_UNDEFINED 0 Unknown correlation type.
P_CHS_CORRELATION_VOICE 1 Voice Call P_CHS_CORRELATION_DATA 2 Data Session
P_CHS_CORRELATION_MM 3 Multi Media Session
* * *
### TpChargingPrice
Defines the Sequence of Data Elements that identify a price.
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type Currency TpString Amount TpAmount
NOTE: Currencies as defined by ISO 4217 [6].
* * *
### TpAmount
Defines the Sequence of Data Elements that define an amount in integers as
"Number * 10 \^ Exponent" (i.e. if Number = 6543 and Exponent = -2 then the
amount is 65,43). This representation avoids unwanted rounding off.
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type Number TpInt32 Exponent TpInt32
* * *
### TpChargingParameterSet
Defines a Numbered Set of Data Elements of TpChargingParameter.
### TpChargingParameter
Defines a Sequence of Data Elements that defines the used service.
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type ParameterID TpChargingParameterID
ParameterValue TpChargingParameterValue
* * *
### TpChargingParameterID
Defines the type of charging parameter. This type can be extended with
operator specific items.
* * *
Name Value Description P_CHS_PARAM_UNDEFINED 0 Unknown parameter
P_CHS_PARAM_ITEM 1 Parameter represents kind of service delivered to the end
user P_CHS_PARAM_SUBTYPE 2 Parameter represents subtype / operation of service
delivered to the end user P_CHS_PARAM_CONFIRMATION_ID 3 The ID that references
a stored confirmation to authorize the required payment P_CHS_PARAM_CONTRACT 4
Parameter represents a signed confirmation, which shall be of the type
P_CHS_PARAMETER_OCTETSET
* * *
  1. ### TpChargingParameterValue
Defines the Tagged Choice of Data Elements that identify a charging parameter.
* * *
     Tag Element Type               
     TpChargingParameterValueType
* * *
* * *
Tag Element Value Choice Element Type Choice Element Name
P_CHS_PARAMETER_INT32 TpInt32 IntValue P_CHS_PARAMETER_FLOAT TpFloat
FloatValue P_CHS_PARAMETER_STRING TpString StringValue P_CHS_PARAMETER_BOOLEAN
TpBoolean BooleanValue P_CHS_PARAMETER_OCTETSET TpOctetSet OctetValue
* * *
### TpChargingParameterValueType
Defines the type of charging parameter.
* * *
Name Value Description P_CHS_PARAMETER_INT32 0 Parameter represented by a
TpInt32 P_CHS_PARAMETER_FLOAT 1 Parameter represented by a TpFloat
P_CHS_PARAMETER_STRING 2 Parameter represented by a TpString
P_CHS_PARAMETER_BOOLEAN 3 Parameter represented by a TpBoolean
P_CHS_PARAMETER_OCTETSET 4 Parameter represented by a TpOctetSet
* * *
### TpVolumeSet
Defines the Numbered Set of Data Elements that describes list TpVolume.
### TpVolume
Defines a volume.
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type Amount TpAmount Unit TpUnitID
* * *
### TpUnitID
Defines the unit that is used in a TpVolume. This type can be extended with
operator specific items.
* * *
Name Value Description P_CHS_UNIT_UNDEFINED 0 Undefined P_CHS_UNIT_NUMBER 1
number of times / events P_CHS_UNIT_OCTETS 2 unit is octets P_CHS_UNIT_SECONDS
3 unit is seconds P_CHS_UNIT_MINUTES 4 unit is minutes P_CHS_UNIT_HOURS 5 unit
is hours P_CHS_UNIT_DAYS 6 unit is days
* * *
### TpChargingSessionID
Defines the Sequence of Data Elements that unambiguously specify the Charging
Session object.
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type Sequence Element Description
ChargingSessionReference IpChargingSessionRef This element specifies the
interface reference for the charging session object. ChargingSessionID
TpSessionID This element specifies the session ID for the charging session.
RequestNumberFirstRequest TpInt32 This element specifies the request number to
use for the next request.
* * *
### TpPriceVolumeSet
Defines a Numbered Set of Data Elements of TpPriceVolume.
### TpPriceVolume
Defines the Sequence of Data Elements that identify a price for a volume.
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type Price TpChargingPrice Volume
TpVolume
* * *
### TpChargingError
Indicates the error that occurred.
* * *
Name Value Description P_CHS_ERR_UNDEFINED 0 Generic error. P_CHS_ERR_ACCOUNT
1 Merchant account unknown. P_CHS_ERR_USER 2 Unknown user. P_CHS_ERR_PARAMETER
3 The set of charging parameters contains an unknown parameter, or a required
parameter is missing. P_CHS_ERR_NO_DEBIT 4 For some reason the application is
not allowed to get money from this user. P_CHS_ERR_NO_CREDIT 5 For some reason
the application is not allowed to pay this user. P_CHS_ERR_VOLUMES 6 Required
volumes are missing. P_CHS_ERR_CURRENCY 7 This currency is not supported for
this transaction. P_CHS_ERR_NO_EXTEND 8 Request to extend the lifetime of a
reservation is rejected. P_CHS_ERR_RESERVATION_LIMIT 9 This amount or volume
violates the bounds of the reservation. P_CHS_ERR_CONFIRMATION_REQUIRED 10 A
user confirmation is required, but couldn't be obtained by the SCS. The SCS
expects that the client initiates a stored confirmation scenario.
* * *
# Exception Classes
The following are the list of exception classes, which are used in this
interface of the API.
* * *
Name Description P_INVALID_ACCOUNT Invalid merchant account specified.
P_INVALID_REQUEST_NUMBER Invalid request number specified. P_INVALID_USER
Invalid user specified. P_INVALID_VOLUME Invalid volume specified.
* * *
Each exception class contains the following structure:
* * *
Structure Element Name Structure Element Type Structure Element Description
ExtraInformation TpString Carries extra information to help identify the
source of the exception, e.g. a parameter name
* * *
###### ## Annex A (normative): OMG IDL Description of Charging SCF
The OMG IDL representation of this interface specification is contained in a
text file (cs.idl contained in archive 2919812V800IDL.ZIP) which accompanies
the present document.
###### ## Annex B (informative): W3C WSDL Description of Charging SCF
The W3C WSDL representation of this interface specification is contained in
zip file 2919812V800WSDL.ZIP, which accompanies the present document.
###### ## Annex C (informative): Java™ API Description of the Charging SCF
The Java™ API realisation of this interface specification is produced in
accordance with the Java™ Realisation rules defined in Part 1 of this
specification series. These rules aim to deliver for Java™, a developer API,
provided as a realisation, supporting a Java™ API that represents the UML
specifications. The rules support the production of both J2SE™ and J2EE™
versions of the API from the common UML specifications.
The J2SE™ representation of this interface specification is provided as Java™
Code, contained in archive 2919812V800J2SE.ZIP that accompanies the present
document.
The J2EE™ representation of this interface specification is provided as Java™
Code, contained in archive 2919812V800J2EE.ZIP that accompanies the present
document.
###### ## Annex D (informative): Description of Charging for 3GPP2 cdma2000
networks
This annex is intended to define the OSA API Stage 3 interface definitions and
it provides the complete OSA specifications. It is an extension of OSA API
specifications capabilities to enable operation in cdma2000 systems
environment. They are in alignment with 3GPP2 Stage 1 requirements and Stage 2
architecture defined in
[1] 3GPP2 P.S0001-B: \"Wireless IP Network Standard\", Version 1.0, September
2000;
[2] 3GPP2 S.R0037-0: \"IP Network Architecture Model for cdma2000 Spread
Spectrum Systems\", Version 2.0, May 14, 2002;
[3] 3GPP2 X.S0013: \"All-IP Core Network Multimedia Domain\", December 2003.
These requirements are expressed as additions to and/or exclusions from the
3GPP specification. The information given here is to be used by developers in
3GPP2 cdma2000 network architecture to interpret the 3GPP OSA specifications.
# D.1 General Exceptions
The term UMTS is not applicable for the cdma2000 family of standards.
Nevertheless these terms are used (3GPP TR 21.905) mostly in the broader sense
of \"3G Wireless System\". If not stated otherwise there are no additions or
exclusions required.
CAMEL and CAP mappings are not applicable for cdma2000 systems.
# D.2 Specific Exceptions
## D.2.1 Clause 1: Scope
There are no additions or exclusions.
## D.2.2 Clause 2: References
Normative references on 3GPP TS 23.078 and on 3GPP TS 29.078 are not
applicable for cdma2000 systems.
## D.2.3 Clause 3: Definitions and abbreviations
There are no additions or exclusions.
## D.2.4 Clause 4: Charging SCF
There are no additions or exclusions.
## D.2.5 Clause 5: Sequence Diagrams
There are no additions or exclusions.
## D.2.6 Clause 6: Class Diagrams
There are no additions or exclusions.
## D.2.7 Clause 7: The Service Interface Specifications
There are no additions or exclusions.
## D.2.8 Clause 8: Charging Interface Classes
There are no additions or exclusions.
## D.2.9 Clause 9: State Transition Diagrams
There are no additions or exclusions.
## D.2.10 Clause 10: Content Based Charging Service Properties
There are no additions or exclusions.
## D.2.11 Clause 11: Data Definitions
There are no additions or exclusions.
## D.2.12 Clause 12: Exception Classes
There are no additions or exclusions.
## D.2.13 Annex A (normative): OMG IDL Description of Charging SCF
There are no additions or exclusions.
## D.2.14 Annex B (informative): W3C WSDL Description of Charging SCF
There are no additions or exclusions.
## D.2.15 Annex C (informative): Java™ API Description of the Charging SCF
There are no additions or exclusions.
#