# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part 2 of a multi-part TS covering the 3^rd^
Generation Partnership Project: Technical Specification Group Core Network and
Terminals; Open Service Access (OSA); Application Programming Interface (API),
as identified below. The **API specification** (3GPP TS 29.198) is structured
in the following Parts:
> Part 1: \"Overview\";
>
> **Part 2: \"Common Data Definitions\";**
>
> Part 3: \"Framework\";
>
> Part 4: \"Call Control\";
>
> Sub-part 1: \"Call Control Common Definitions\";
>
> Sub-part 2: \"Generic Call Control SCF\";
>
> Sub-part 3: \"Multi-Party Call Control SCF\";
>
> Sub-part 4: \"Multi-Media Call Control SCF\";
>
> Sub-part 5: \"Conference Call Control SCF\";
>
> Part 5: \"User Interaction SCF\";
>
> Part 6: \"Mobility SCF\";
>
> Part 7: \"Terminal Capabilities SCF\";
>
> Part 8: \"Data Session Control SCF\";
>
> Part 9: \"Generic Messaging SCF\"; (not part of 3GPP Release 8)
>
> Part 10: \"Connectivity Manager SCF\"; (new in 3GPP Release 8)
>
> Part 11: \"Account Management SCF\";
>
> Part 12: \"Charging SCF\".
>
> Part 13: \"Policy Management SCF\";
>
> Part 14: \"Presence and Availability Management SCF\";
>
> Part 15: \"Multi Media Messaging SCF\";
>
> Part 16: \"Service Broker SCF\"
The **Mapping specification of the OSA APIs and network protocols** (3GPP TR
29.998) is also structured as above. A mapping to network protocols is however
not applicable for all Parts, but the numbering of Parts is kept.\ Also in
case a Part is not supported in a Release, the numbering of the parts is
maintained.
Table: Overview of the OSA APIs & Protocol Mappings 29.198 & 29.998-family
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | OSA | OSA | | | | | | | | API | API | | | | | | | | spec | Ma | | | | | | | | ifica | pping | | | | | | | | tions | - | | | | | | | | 29. | 29. | | | | | | | | 198-f | 998-f | | | | | | | | amily | amily | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Ove | 29.9 | Ove | | | | | | 98-01 | rview | 98-01 | rview | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **2 |** C | * | _Not | | | | | | 9.198 | ommon | 29.99 | A | | | | | | -02_ _| Data | 8-02_ | pplic | | | | | | | Def | | able _| | | | | | | initi | | | | | | | | | ons_ _| | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Fram | * |_ Not | | | | | | 98-03 | ework | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | | 8-03 _| pplic | | | | | | | | | able_ | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Call | 2 | 2 | 2 | 2 | 2 | 2 | Ge | | Co | 9.198 | 9.198 | 9.198 | 9.198 | 9.198 | 9.998 | neric | | ntrol | -04-1 | -04-2 | -04-3 | -04-4 | -04-5 | -04-1 | Call | | (CC) | | | | M | Conf | | Co | | SCF | C | Ge | M | ulti- | CC | | ntrol | | | ommon | neric | ulti- | media | SCF | | -- | | | CC | CC | Party | CC | | | CAP | | | data | SCF | CC | SCF | | | ma | | | d | | SCF | | | | pping | | | efini | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | | | _29 |_ Ge | | | | | | | | .998- | neric | | | | | | | | 04-2 _| Call | | | | | | | | | Co | | | | | | | | | ntrol | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | INAP | | | | | | | | | map | | | | | | | | | ping_ | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | | | _29 |_ Ge | | | | | | | | .998- | neric | | | | | | | | 04-3 _| Call | | | | | | | | | Co | | | | | | | | | ntrol | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | M | | | | | | | | | egaco | | | | | | | | | map | | | | | | | | | ping_ | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | | | 2 | Multi | | | | | | | | 9.998 | party | | | | | | | | -04-4 | Call | | | | | | | | | Co | | | | | | | | | ntrol | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | ISC | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | pping | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | User | 2 | User | | | | | | 98-05 | I | 9.998 | I | | | | | | | ntera | -05-1 | ntera | | | | | | | ction | | ction | | | | | | | SCF | | -- | | | | | | | | | CAP | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | pping | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | _29 |_ User | | | | | | | | .998- | I | | | | | | | | 05-2 _| ntera | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | INAP | | | | | | | | | map | | | | | | | | | ping_ | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | _29 |_ User | | | | | | | | .998- | I | | | | | | | | 05-3 _| ntera | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | M | | | | | | | | | egaco | | | | | | | | | map | | | | | | | | | ping_ | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | 2 | User | | | | | | | | 9.998 | I | | | | | | | | -05-4 | ntera | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | SMS | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | pping | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Mob | 2 | User | | | | | | 98-06 | ility | 9.998 | S | | | | | | | SCF | -06-1 | tatus | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | User | | | | | | | | | Loc | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | MAP | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | pping | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | 2 | User | | | | | | | | 9.998 | S | | | | | | | | -06-2 | tatus | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | User | | | | | | | | | Loc | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | SIP | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | pping | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Ter | * | _Not | | | | | | 98-07 | minal | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | Ca | 8-07_ | pplic | | | | | | | pabil | | able _| | | | | | | ities | | | | | | | | | SCF | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Data | 29.9 | Data | | | | | | 98-08 | Se | 98-08 | Se | | | | | | | ssion | | ssion | | | | | | | Co | | Co | | | | | | | ntrol | | ntrol | | | | | | | SCF | | -- | | | | | | | | | CAP | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | pping | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | * |_ Ge | * | _Not | | | | | | 29.19 | neric | 29.99 | A | | | | | | 8-09_ | Mess | 8-09 _| pplic | | | | | | | aging | | able_ | | | | | | | SCF _| | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | * |_ Co | * | _Not | | | | | | 29.19 | nnect | 29.99 | A | | | | | | 8-10_ | ivity | 8-10 _| pplic | | | | | | | Ma | | able_ | | | | | | | nager | | | | | | | | | SCF _| | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Ac | * |_ Not | | | | | | 98-11 | count | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | Manag | 8-11 _| pplic | | | | | | | ement | | able_ | | | | | | | SCF | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Cha | * | _Not | | | | | | 98-12 | rging | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | SCF | 8-12_ | pplic | | | | | | | | | able _| | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | P | * |_ Not | | | | | | 98-13 | olicy | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | Manag | 8-13 _| pplic | | | | | | | ement | | able_ | | | | | | | SCF | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Pre | * | _Not | | | | | | 98-14 | sence | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | & | 8-14_ | pplic | | | | | | | Av | | able _| | | | | | | ailab | | | | | | | | | ility | | | | | | | | | Manag | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | SCF | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | M | * |_ Not | | | | | | 98-15 | ulti- | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | media | 8-15 _| pplic | | | | | | | Mess | | able_ | | | | | | | aging | | | | | | | | | SCF | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Se | * | _Not | | | | | | 98-16 | rvice | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | B | 8-16_ | pplic | | | | | | | roker | | able* | | | | | | | SCF | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
# 1 Scope
The present document is Part 2 of the Stage 3 specification for an Application
Programming Interface (API) for Open Service Access (OSA).
The OSA specifications define an architecture that enables application
developers to make use of network functionality through an open standardised
interface, i.e. the OSA APIs. The concepts and the functional architecture for
the OSA are contained in 3GPP TS 23.198 [3]. The requirements for OSA are
contained in 3GPP TS 22.127 [2].
The present document specifies the Common Data definitions of the OSA. The
Common Data definitions contain data-types that are common across the rest of
the OSA API. All aspects of the Common Data are defined here, these being:
\- Data definitions;
\- IDL Description of the data types;
\- WSDL Description of the data types;
\- Reference to the Java™ API description of the data types.
This specification has been defined jointly between 3GPP TSG CT WG5, ETSI
TISPAN and The Parlay Group, in co-operation with a number of JAIN™ Community
member companies.
Maintenance of up to 3GPP Rel-8 and new OSA Stage 1, 2 and 3 work beyond Rel-9
was moved to OMA in June 2008.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 29.198-1: \"Open Service Access; Application Programming
Interface; Part 1: Overview\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.127: \"Service Requirement for the Open Services Access (OSA);
Stage 1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.198: \"Open Service Access (OSA); Stage 2\".
[4] ISO 8601: \"Data elements and interchange formats - Information
interchange - Representation of dates and times\".
[5] 3GPP TS 22.024: \"Description of Charge Advice Information (CAI)\".
[6] IETF RFC 1738: \"Uniform Resource Locators (URL)\".
[7] IETF RFC 0822: \"Standard for the format of ARPA Internet text messages\".
[8] ISO 4217: \"Codes for the representation of currencies and funds\".
[9] ITU-T Recommendation E.164: \"The international public telecommunication
numbering plan\".
[10] ITU-T Recommendation X.400: \"Message handling system and service
overview\".
[11] ISO 639: \"Code for the representation of names of languages\".
[12] IEEE Std 1003.2 (POSIX 1003.2): \"IEEE Standard for Information
Technology-Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX®)-Part 2\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TS 29.198-1 [1] apply.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TS
29.198-1 [1] apply.
# 4 Common Data definitions
The following clauses describe each aspect of the Common Data definitions.
The order is as follows:
  * The Data definitions clause shows a detailed expansion of each of the data types associated with the methods within the classes.
  * IDL description of the data types (normative Annex);
  * WSDL description of the data types (informative Annex);
  * Reference to the Java™ API description of the data types (informative Annex).
# 5 Common System Data definitions
These data definitions are assumed to be provided by the client operating
system.
## 5.1 Standard Data types
The APIs assume that the following Data types can be supported.
### 5.1.1 TpBoolean
Defines a Boolean data type.
### 5.1.2 TpInt32
Defines a signed 32-bit integer.
### 5.1.3 TpFloat
Defines a single precision real number.
### 5.1.4 TpLongString
Defines a Byte string, comprising length and data. The length shall be at
least a 32-bit integer.
### 5.1.5 TpOctet
Defines an 8-bit quantity that is not translated during transmission.
### 5.1.6 TpOctetSet
Defines a Numbered List of Data elements of TpOctet. Note that this is an
ordered list.
### 5.1.7 TpString
Defines a Byte string, comprising length and data. The length shall be at
least a 16-bit integer.
### 5.1.8 TpAssignmentID
Defines an assignment ID with a value that is unique to an instance of an
implementation of a given interface (i.e. an object), irrespective of the
method invoked on it. This ID may be used, for example, to identify single or
multiple event notifications enabled by an object; or by a requesting object
to modify or stop functionality ( e.g. event notifications, call load control)
associated with a previously supplied assignment ID.
The assignment ID is identical to a TpInt32 type.
### 5.1.9 TpSessionID
Defines a session ID with a value that is at least unique within the context
of a specific instance of an SCF. An instance of an SCF is a single service
manager instance plus the associated subordinate instances. For example, a
single MultiPartyCallControlManager instance plus all associated
MultiPartyCall and MultiPartyCallLeg instances. The session ID is used to
identify different sessions (e.g. different call or call leg sessions) of an
interface capable of handling multiple sessions.
Example 1, myCallObject may implement the IpCall interface. If so,
myCallObject may handle multiple call sessions, and each call session will be
identified by a call session ID value (e.g. 1, 2, 3) that is unique within the
context of the SCF instance.
Example 2, myCallAndCallLegObject may implement the IpCall and IpCallLeg
interfaces. If so, myCallAndCallLegObject may handle multiple call sessions
and multiple call leg sessions. Each call session will be identified by a call
session ID value (e.g. 1, 2, 3) that is unique within the context of the SCF
instance. Similarly, each call leg session will be identified by a call leg
session ID value (e.g. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6) that is also unique within the
context of the SCF instance. Because call session IDs and call leg session IDs
are different data types, overlapping values are permitted and their
uniqueness still remains.
The session ID is identical to a TpInt32 type.
### 5.1.10 TpSessionIDSet
Defines a Numbered Set of Data Elements of TpSessionID.
### 5.1.11 TpAny
Defines a type that can hold any type. This is not restricted to only the
primitive types.
### 5.1.12 TpAttribute
This is a Sequence of Data Elements containing the attribute name and value.
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type Notes AttributeName TpString The
name of the attribute. AttributeValue TpAttributeValue The typed value(s) for
the attribute.
* * *
### 5.1.13 TpAttributeValue
This is a tagged choice of data elements to hold attribute values of different
complexity.
* * *
     Tag Element Type     
     TpAttributeTagInfo
* * *
* * *
Tag Element Value Choice Element Type Choice Element Name P_SIMPLE_TYPE
TpSimpleAttributeValue SimpleValue P_STRUCTURED_TYPE
TpStructuredAttributeValue StructuredValue P_XML_TYPE TpXMLString XMLValue
* * *
### 5.1.14 TpAttributeList
This is a Numbered List of Data Elements of type TpAttribute.
### 5.1.15 TpAttributeSet
This is a Numbered Set of Data Elements of type TpAttribute.
### 5.1.16 TpInt64
Defines a signed 64-bit integer.
### 5.1.17 TpVersion
This data type is identical to TpString. It is used to uniquely identify the
implemented version of the framework or an SCF. The syntax for this datatype
is defined as:
**P_\ _\**
Where:
**\ ** is one of the strings listed in the table below.
* * *
Character String Value Description PARLAY Specification released by The Parlay
Group. ETSI Specification released by ETSI. 3GPP Specification released by
3GPP.
* * *
> **\ ** consists of numbers separated by underscores (e.g.
> 3_1). It is recommended that not more than the two most significant numbers
> (major and minor version) of the version are used.
Examples of version strings are:
* * *
Character String Value Description P_PARLAY_3_1 Parlay v3.1 P_ETSI_2_0 ETSI
v2.0 P_3GPP_4_3 3GPP Release 4.3
* * *
Note that different version strings can be aliases of each other all pointing
to the same SCF/Framework version.
### 5.1.18 TpStringSet
Defines a Numbered Set of Data Elements of type TpString.
### 5.1.19 TpStringList
Defines a Numbered List of Data Elements of type TpString.
### 5.1.20 TpAttributeTagInfo
TpAttributeTagInfo is an enumerated type used as a discriminator for the
TpAttributeValue structure, and can contain the following values:
* * *
Name Value Description P_SIMPLE_TYPE 0 Simple type P_STRUCTURED_TYPE 1
Structured type P_XML_TYPE 2 XML type
* * *
### 5.1.21 TpSimpleAttributeValue
This is a tagged choice of data elements to hold attribute values of different
complexity.
* * *
     Tag Element Type            
     TpSimpleAttributeTypeInfo
* * *
* * *
Tag Element Value Choice Element Type Choice Element Name P_BOOLEAN TpBoolean
BooleanValue P_OCTET TpOctet OctetValue P_CHAR TpChar CharValue P_WCHAR
TpWChar WCharValue P_STRING TpString StringValue P_WSTRING TpWString
WStringValue P_INT16 TpInt16 Int16Value P_UNSIGNED_INT16 TpUnsignedInt16
UnsignedInt16Value P_INT32 TpInt32 Int32Value P_UNSIGNED_INT32 TpUnsignedInt32
UnsignedInt32Value P_INT64 TpInt64 Int64Value P_UNSIGNED_INT64 TpUnsignedInt64
UnsignedInt64Value P_FLOAT TpFloat FloatValue P_DOUBLE TpDouble DoubleValue
* * *
### 5.1.22 TpSimpleAttributeTypeInfo
TpSimpleAttributeTypeInfo is an enumerated type used as a discriminator for
the TpSimpleAttributeValue structure, and can contain the following values:
* * *
Name Value Description P_BOOLEAN 0 Attribute type is type TpBoolean. P_OCTET 1
Attribute type is type TpOctet. P_CHAR 2 Attribute type is type TpChar.
P_WCHAR 3 Attribute type is type TpWChar. P_STRING 4 Attribute type is type
TpString. P_WSTRING 5 Attribute type is type TpWString. P_INT16 6 Attribute
type is type TpInt16. P_UNSIGNED_INT16 7 Attribute type is type
TpUnsignedInt16. P_INT32 8 Attribute type is type TpInt32. P_UNSIGNED_INT32 9
Attribute type is type TpUnsignedInt32. P_INT64 10 Attribute type is type
TpInt64. P_UNSIGNED_INT64 11 Attribute type is type TpUnsignedInt64. P_FLOAT
12 Attribute type is type TpFloat. P_DOUBLE 13 Attribute type is type
TpDouble.
* * *
### 5.1.23 TpStructuredAttributeType
This data type is identical to a TpString, and is defined as a string of
characters that uniquely identifies the type of a structured data type.
Network operator specific capabilities may also be used, but should be
preceded by the string \"SP_\". The pattern of values is defined, where module
names and class names map to a fully specified class name.
* * *
Character String Value Description P_module1/module2/module3/className An
object of the specified, fully qualified class.
* * *
### 5.1.24 TpStructuredAttributeValue
This is a Sequence of Data Elements containing the structured attribute type
tag and the value to be interpreted using that type.
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type Notes Type
TpStructuredAttributeType The type for the value. Value TpAny The structured
values for the attribute.
* * *
### 5.1.25 TpChar
This type is an 8-bit quantity that may undergo conversion when transmitted by
the communication system.
### 5.1.26 TpWChar
This type is a quantity that may undergo conversion when transmitted by the
communication system. The size of **this type** is implementation-dependent.
### 5.1.27 TpWString
Defines a TpWChar string, comprising length and data. The length shall be at
least a 16-bit integer.
### 5.1.28 TpInt16
Defines a signed 16-bit integer.
### 5.1.29 TpUnsignedInt16
Defines an unsigned 16-bit integer.
### 5.1.30 TpUnsignedInt32
Defines an unsigned 32-bit integer.
### 5.1.31 TpUnsignedInt64
Defines an unsigned 64-bit integer.
### 5.1.32 TpDouble
Defines a double precision real number.
### 5.1.33 TpXMLString
This data type is TpString containing well-formed XML and may contain a
reference to/include a DTD or Schema.
### 5.1.34 TpUnorderedOctetSet
Defines a Numbered Set of Data elements of TpOctet. Note that this is an un-
ordered set.
Note that this type should not be removed from the present document, even if
unused by any part of the OSA specifications. It is included to ensure that
TpOctetSet is correctly used as a Numbered List of Data Elements, and not a
Numbered Set.
## 5.2 Other Data sorts
The APIs assumes that the following data syntaxes can be supported:
### 5.2.1 Sequence of Data Elements
This describes a sequence of data types. This may be defined as a structure
(for example, in C++) or simply a sequence of data elements within a
structure.
EXAMPLE: The TpAddress data type may be defined in C++ as:
> typedef struct {
>
> TpAddressPlan Plan;
>
> TpString AddrString;
>
> TpString Name;
>
> TpAddressPresentation.....Presentation;
>
> ....TpAddressScreening........Screening;
>
> ....TpString..................SubAddressString;
>
> } TpAddress;
### 5.2.2 Tagged Choice of Data Elements
This describes a data type which actually evaluates to one of a choice of a
number of data elements. This data element contains two parts: a tag data type
(the _tag_ part) which is used to identify the chosen data type, and the
chosen data type itself (the _union_ part). This form of data type is also
referred to as a tagged union.
This data type can be implemented (for example, in C++) as a structure
containing an integer for the _tag_ part, and a union for the _union_ part.
This data type is implementation specific. Please refer to the appropriate IDL
documents (and the resulting language mappings) to see how this data type is
implemented.
EXAMPLE: The TpCallError data type may be defined in C++ as:
> typedef struct {
>
> TpCallErrorType Tag;
>
> union {
>
> TpCallErrorInfoUndefined Undefined;
>
> TpCallErrorInfoRoutingAborted RoutingAborted;
>
> TpCallErrorInfoCallAbandoned CallAbandoned;
>
> TpCallErrorInfoInvalidAddress InvalidAddress;
>
> TpCallErrorInfoInvalidState InvalidState;
>
> TpCallErrorInfoInvalidCriteria InvalidCriteria;
>
> } callErrorInfo;
>
> } TpCallError;
### 5.2.3 Numbered Set of Data Elements
This describes a data type which comprises an integer which indicates the
total number of data elements in the set (the _number_ part), and an
**unordered** set of data elements (the _data_ part). _Set_ data types do not
contain duplicate data elements.
Note that TpOctetSet is a Numbered List of Data Elements, not a Numbered Set.
EXAMPLE: The TpAddressSet data type may be defined in C++ as:
> typedef struct {
>
> TpInt32 Number;
>
> TpAddress Set[Number];
>
> } TpAddressSet;
### 5.2.4 Reference
This describes a reference (or pointer) to a data type. When one interface
inherits directly from another interface, a reference to the inheriting
interface can be used when the base interface reference is required. For
example, the references to Multi-Media Call Control interfaces can be used in
Multi-Party Call Control methods that have been inherited by Multi-Media Call
Control from Multi-Party Call Control interfaces.
### 5.2.5 Numbered List of Data Elements
This describes a data type which comprises an integer which indicates the
total number of data elements in the set (the _number_ part), and an
**ordered** set of data elements (the _data_ part). _List_ data types can
contain duplicate data elements.
EXAMPLE: The TpStringList data type may be defined in C++ as:
> typedef struct {
>
> TpInt32 Number;
>
> TpString List[Number];
>
> } TpStringList;
## 5.3 Interface Related Data definitions
### 5.3.1 IpInterface
Defines the address of a generic interface instance.
### 5.3.2 IpInterfaceRef
Defines a Reference to type IpInterface.
## 5.4 Exception Classes
### 5.4.1 Underlying Technology Exceptions
All methods contain a signature showing, amongst other things, the explicit
exceptions that they may throw. In addition to these exceptions, all methods
can throw a number of implicit exceptions. These exceptions do not need to be
included within the method signatures and are given below.
These exceptions would be thrown by the underlying technology (e.g. CORBA,
Java™) as a result of problems encountered, for example, with the way the API
method is invoked. They are a minimum set of exceptions that must be throwable
by the underlying technology. Depending upon the underlying technology,
additional method exceptions may also be thrown.
* * *
Description Invalid Parameter: A method has been passed an invalid parameter
argument Invalid Parameter Value: A method parameter has been passed a value
that is out of range Parameter Missing: A method has not been passed a
mandatory parameter argument
* * *
### 5.4.2 TpCommonExceptions
Defines the structure of the exception class which is applicable to all
methods.
* * *
Structure Element Name Structure Element Type Structure Element Description
ExceptionType TpInt32 Carries a constant from the list in the table below
ExtraInformation TpString Carries extra information to help identify the
source of the exception, e.g. a parameter name
* * *
### 5.4.3 Constants associated with TpCommonExceptions
* * *
Name Value Description P_RESOURCES_UNAVAILABLE 000Dh The required resources in
the network are not available P_TASK_REFUSED 000Eh The requested method has
been refused P_TASK_CANCELLED 000Fh The requested method has been cancelled
P_NO_CALLBACK_ADDRESS_SET 0011h The requested method is refused because no
callback address has been set (this may be the result of a timing issue
between setting the callback address and invoking the method)
P_POLICY_VIOLATION 0013h A policy has been breached and therefore the request
has been rejected. All the input to the method may be valid as meeting the
required input for the operation, but using that input in the execution of the
service resulted in conditions that require the service not to complete.
P_METHOD_NOT_SUPPORTED 0016h The method is not allowed or supported within the
context of the current service agreement. P_INVALID_STATE 02E8h Unexpected
sequence of methods, i.e., the sequence does not match the specified state
diagrams.
* * *
### 5.4.4 Exceptions available to all methods on all interfaces
The following are the list of exception classes which are available to all
interfaces of the API.
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Name | Description | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | P_APPLICATION_NOT_ACTIVATED | An application is unauthorised | | | to access information and | | | request services with regards to | | | users that have deactivated that | | | particular application. | | | | | | In case the request was for | | | information related to multiple | | | user identities the reference to | | | user identities that are causing | | | this exception will be returned | | | in the extra information of the | | | exception. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | P_INFORMATION_NOT_AVAILABLE | The requested information is not | | | available. A reason might be | | | that the information is | | | unavailable in the core network | | | or that the application is | | | unauthorised to access the | | | information. An application is | | | unauthorised to access | | | information and request services | | | with regards to users that have | | | set their privacy flag regarding | | | that particular service. In case | | | the request was for information | | | related to multiple user | | | identities, the reference to | | | user identities that are causing | | | this exception will be returned | | | in the extra information of the | | | exception. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | P_INVALID_ADDRESS | Invalid address specified | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | P_INVALID_AMOUNT | Invalid amount specified. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | P_INVALID_ASSIGNMENT_ID | The assignment ID is invalid | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | P_INVALID_CRITERIA | Invalid criteria specified | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | P_INVALID_CURRENCY | Invalid currency specified. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | P_INVALID_EVENT_TYPE | Invalid event type | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | P_INVALID_INTERFACE_NAME | Invalid interface name | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | P_INVALID_INTERFACE_TYPE | The interface reference supplied | | | by the client is the wrong type. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | P_INVALID_NETWORK_STATE | Although the sequence of method | | | calls is allowed by the gateway, | | | the underlying protocol can not | | | support it. | | | | | | E.g., in some protocols some | | | methods are only allowed by the | | | protocol, when the call | | | processing is suspended, e.g., | | | after reporting an event that | | | was monitored in interrupt mode. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | P_INVALID_SESSION_ID | Invalid session ID. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | P_ | Invalid date and time format | | INVALID_TIME_AND_DATE_FORMAT | provided | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | P | A method parameter value | | _UNAUTHORISED_PARAMETER_VALUE | violates the Service Level | | | Agreement | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | P_UNKNOWN_SUBSCRIBER | The subscriber is not known in | | | the network or the application | | | is An application is | | | unauthorised to access | | | information and request services | | | with regards to users that are | | | not subscribed to the | | | application. | | | | | | In case the request was for | | | information related to multiple | | | user identities, the reference | | | to user identities that are | | | causing this exception will be | | | returned in the extra | | | information of the exception. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | P_UNSUPPORTED_ADDRESS_PLAN | An address contains an address | | | plan which is not supported | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | P_INVALID_VERSION | An invalid version is specified. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
## 5.5 Date- and Time-related Data definitions
### 5.5.1 TpDate
This data type is identical to a TpString. It specifies the data in accordance
with International Standard ISO 8601 [4]. This is defined as the string of
characters in the following format:
**YYYY-MM-DD**
where the date is specified as:
YYYY four digits year
MM two digits month
DD two digits day
The date elements are separated by a hyphen character (-).
EXAMPLE: The 4 December 1998, is encoded as the string:
1998-12-04
### 5.5.2 TpTime
This data type is identical to a TpString. It specifies the time in accordance
with International Standard ISO 8601 [4]. This is defined as the string of
characters in the following format:
**HH:MM:SS.mmm**
or
**HH:MM:SS.mmmZ**
where the time is specified as:
HH two digits hours (24h notation)
MM two digits minutes
SS two digits seconds
mmm three digits fractions of a second (i.e. milliseconds)
The time elements are separated by a colon character (:). The date and time
are separated by a space. Optionally, a capital letter Z may be appended to
the time field to indicate Universal Time Co-ordinated (UTC). Otherwise, local
time is assumed.
EXAMPLE: 10:30 and 15 seconds is encoded as the string:
10:30:15.000
for local time, or in UTC it would be: 10:30:15.000Z
### 5.5.3 TpDateAndTime
This data type is identical to a TpString. It specifies the data and time in
accordance with International Standard ISO 8601 [4]. This is defined as the
string of characters in the following format:
**YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS.mmm**
or
**YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS.mmmZ**
where the date is specified as:
YYYY four digits year
MM two digits month
DD two digits day
The date elements are separated by a hyphen character (-).
The time is specified as:
HH two digits hours (24h notation)
MM two digits minutes
SS two digits seconds
mmm three digits fractions of a second (i.e. milliseconds)
The time elements are separated by a colon character (:).The date and time are
separated by a space. Optionally, a capital letter Z may be appended to the
time field to indicate Universal Time Co-ordinated (UTC). Otherwise, local
time is assumed.
EXAMPLE: The 4 December 1998, at 10:30 and 15 seconds is encoded as the
string:
1998-12-04 10:30:15.000
for local time, or in UTC it would be:
1998-12-04 10:30:15.000Z
### 5.5.4 TpDuration
This data type is a TpInt32 representing a time interval in milliseconds. A
value of \"-1\" defines infinite duration and a value of \"-2\" represents a
default duration.
### 5.5.5 TpTimeInterval
Defines the Sequence of Data Elements that specify a time interval.
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type StartTime TpDateAndTime StopTime
TpDateAndTime
* * *
## 5.6 Address-related Data definitions
### 5.6.1 TpAddress
Defines the Sequence of Data Elements that specify an address.
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type Plan TpAddressPlan AddrString
TpString Name TpString Presentation TpAddressPresentation Screening
TpAddressScreening SubAddressString TpString
* * *
The AddrString defines the actual address information and the structure of the
string depends on the Plan.\ The following table gives an overview of the
format of the AddrString for the different address plans.
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Address Plan | AddrString Format | Example | | | Description | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | P_ADDRESS | Not applicable | | | _PLAN_NOT_PRESENT | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | P_ADDR | Not applicable | | | ESS_PLAN_UNDEFINED | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | P_ADDRESS_PLAN_IP | For Ipv4 the dotted | \"127.0.0.1:42\" | | | quad notation is | | | | used. Also for IPv6 | | | | the dotted notation | | | | is used. The address | | | | can optionally be | | | | followed by a port | | | | number separated by | | | | a colon. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | P_ADDR | An Ipv4 class D | \"224.0.0.0\" | | ESS_PLAN_MULTICAST | address or Ipv6 | | | | equivalent in dotted | | | | notation. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | P_AD | A non-multicast or | \"127.0.0.1\" | | DRESS_PLAN_UNICAST | broadcast IP address | | | | in dotted notation. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | P\ | An international | \"31161249111\" | | _ADDRESS_PLAN_E164 | number without the | | | | international access | | | | code, including the | | | | country code and | | | | excluding the | | | | leading zero of the | | | | area code. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | P\ | The ATM End System | 01 | | _ADDRESS_PLAN_AESA | Address in binary | 234567890ABCDEF01234 | | | format (40 bytes) | 567890ABCDEF01234567 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | P | A uniform resource | \"htt | | _ADDRESS_PLAN_URL | locator as defined | p://www.parlay.org\" | | | in RFC 1738 [6] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | P\ | The binary | 490001AA000400010420 | | _ADDRESS_PLAN_NSAP | representation of | | | | the Network Service | | | | Access Point | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | P\ | An e-mail address as | \"web | | _ADDRESS_PLAN_SMTP | specified in RFC822 | master\@parlay.org\" | | | [7] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | P\ | The X400 address | \"C=nl;ADMD= | | _ADDRESS_PLAN_X400 | structured as a set | ;PRMD=uninet;O=parla | | | of attribute value | y;S=Doe;I=S;G=John\' | | | pairs separated by | | | | semicolons. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | P | Any valid address | \"si | | _ADDRESS_PLAN_SIP | string allowed in | p:user\@parlay.org\" | | (Note 1) | RFC 3261 \"SIP: | | | | Session Initiation | \"tel:+358-555- | | | Protocol\" | 1234567;postd=pp22\" | | | | | | | | \"\ | | | | Enquiries\" | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | P | Not applicable | | | _ADDRESS_PLAN_ANY | | | | (Note 2) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | P_ADD | Reserved for | Refer to relevant | | RESS_PLAN_NATIONAL | National Specific | National Numbering | | | use | Plan Specification | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NOTE 1: It should be | | | | noted that two SIP | | | | addresses will be | | | | regarded as | | | | equivalent by a | | | | gateway if they | | | | correspond to the | | | | same user at the | | | | same network | | | | address. The textual | | | | form of the two | | | | addresses need not | | | | be the same. For | | | | example, | | | | sip:e | | | | nquiries\@parlay.org | | | | will be deemed to | | | | match | | | | \Enquiries | | | | (if parlay.org | | | | resolves to | | | | 1.2.3.4). | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: This is only | | | | to be used with | | | | TpAddressRange | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### 5.6.2 TpAddressSet
Defines a Numbered Set of Data Elements of TpAddress.
### 5.6.3 TpAddressPresentation
Defines whether an address can be presented to an end user.
* * *
Name Value Description P_ADDRESS_PRESENTATION_UNDEFINED 0 Undefined
P_ADDRESS_PRESENTATION_ALLOWED 1 Presentation Allowed
P_ADDRESS_PRESENTATION_RESTRICTED 2 Presentation Restricted
P_ADDRESS_PRESENTATION_ADDRESS_NOT_AVAILABLE 3 Address not available for
presentation
* * *
### 5.6.4 TpAddressScreening
Defines whether an address can be presented to an end user.
* * *
Name Value Description
P_ADDRESS_SCREENING_UNDEFINED 0 Undefined
P_ADDRESS_SCREENING_USER_VERIFIED_PASSED 1 user provided address\ verified and
passed
P_ADDRESS_SCREENING_USER_NOT_VERIFIED 2 user provided address\ not verified
P_ADDRESS_SCREENING_USER_VERIFIED_FAILED 3 user provided address\ verified and
failed
P_ADDRESS_SCREENING_NETWORK 4 Network provided address (see Note)
NOTE: Even though the application may provide the address to the gateway, from
the end-user point of view it is still regarded as a network provided address.
* * *
### 5.6.5 TpAddressPlan
Defines the address plan (or numbering plan) used. It is also used to indicate
whether an address is actually defined in a TpAddress data element.
* * *
Name Value Description P_ADDRESS_PLAN_NOT_PRESENT 0 No Address Present
P_ADDRESS_PLAN_UNDEFINED 1 Undefined P_ADDRESS_PLAN_IP 2 IP
P_ADDRESS_PLAN_MULTICAST 3 Multicast P_ADDRESS_PLAN_UNICAST 4 Unicast
P_ADDRESS_PLAN_E164 5 E.164 P_ADDRESS_PLAN_AESA 6 AESA P_ADDRESS_PLAN_URL 7
URL P_ADDRESS_PLAN_NSAP 8 NSAP P_ADDRESS_PLAN_SMTP 9 SMTP \>
P_ADDRESS_PLAN_MSMAIL (see Note) 10 Microsoft Mail P_ADDRESS_PLAN_X400 11
X.400 P_ADDRESS_PLAN_SIP 12 Any URL scheme which is allowed in RFC 3261 \"SIP:
Session Initiation Protocol\" P_ADDRESS_PLAN_ANY 13 Any address plan is deemed
to match (This is only used for TpAddressRange) P_ADDRESS_PLAN_NATIONAL 14
Reserved for National Specific use NOTE: This value is not to be used.
* * *
For the case where the P_ADDRESS_PLAN_NOT_PRESENT and P_ADDRESS_PLAN_ANY are
indicated, the rest of the information in the TpAddress is not valid.
### 5.6.6 TpAddressError
Defines the reasons why an address is invalid.
* * *
Name Value Description P_ADDRESS_INVALID_UNDEFINED 0 Undefined error
P_ADDRESS_INVALID_MISSING 1 Mandatory address not present
P_ADDRESS_INVALID_MISSING_ELEMENT 2 Mandatory address element not present
P_ADDRESS_INVALID_OUT_OF_RANGE 3 Address is outside of the valid range
P_ADDRESS_INVALID_INCOMPLETE 4 Address is incomplete
P_ADDRESS_INVALID_CANNOT_DECODE 5 Address cannot be decoded
* * *
### 5.6.7 TpAddressRange
Defines the Sequence of Data Elements that specify a range of addresses.
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type Plan TpAddressPlan AddrString
TpString Name TpString SubAddressString TpString
* * *
The AddrString defines the actual address information and the structure of the
string depends on the Plan.
An overview of the AddrString formats can be found at the description of the
TpAddress data-type.
The difference with TpAddress is that there are no Presentation and Screening
elements, the AddrString can contain wildcards and Plan may contain
P_ADDRESS_PLAN_ANY.
If P_ADDRESS_PLAN_ANY is set then the TpAddressRange will be deemed by the
gateway to match any TpAddress. If a specific Plan is set (including
P_ADDRESS_PLAN_NOT_PRESENT) then the address plan of the range must be
identical to the plan contained in an address for the two to match.
Two wildcards are allowed: * which matches zero or more characters and ? which
matches exactly one character. For E.164 addresses, * which matches zero or
more characters and ? are allowed at the beginning or end.
Some examples for E.164 addresses:
\- \"123\" matches specified number;
\- \"123*\" matches all numbers starting with 123 (including 123 itself);
\- \"123??*\" matches all numbers starting with 123 and at least 5 digits
long;
\- \"123???\" matches all numbers starting with 123 and exactly 6 digits long;
\- \"*\" matches any address.
The following address ranges are illegal:
\- \"1?3\"
\- \"1*3\"
\- \"?123*\"
\- \"\"
Legal occurrences of the \'*\' and \'?\' characters in AddrString should be
escaped by a \'\\\' character. To specify a \'\\\' character \'\\\\\' shall be
used.
For e-mail style addresses, the wildcards are allowed at the beginning of the
AddrString:
\- \"*\@parlay.org\" matches all email addresses in the parlay.org domain.
For SIP addresses, a range of wildcard options may be supported:
\- \"sip:*\@parlay.org\" matches all SIP addresses at parlay.org:5060.
\- "sip:*.domain1.com" Matches all SIP addresses in the domain domain1.com
\- "sip:user*@*" Matches all users starting with the string "user"
\- "sip:user*@*:5060" Matches all users starting with the string "user" using
port 5060
\- "sip:*" Matches all SIP addresses
\- "sip:*@*" Matches all SIP addresses
\- "sip:user*@*:5060" Matches all users starting with the string "user" using
port 5060
In addition for SIP addresses, the absence of an explicit port number at the
end of a SIP address, shall be considered to indicate an implicit wildcard for
any port number.
\- "sip:user1@parlay.org" may be considered equivalent to
"sip:user1\@parlay.org:*"
In the case the general service property P_REGEX_SUPPORT_FOR_ADDRESS_RANGE
evaluates to TRUE, the AddrString and SubAddressString fields are always
represented using regular expressions, as defined by POSIX 1003.2 [12].
Regular expressions are used for complex string manipulation/recognition. The
POSIX Basic Regular Expression language is a notation for describing textual
patterns.
Some examples for E.164 addresses, using this service property:
\- The regular expression \"123*\" matches with AddrString [512345] (note that
there would be no match in case P_REGEX_SUPPORT_FOR_ADDRESS_RANGE evaluates to
FALSE);
\- The regular expression \"\^123*\" matches all numbers starting with 123,
including 123 itself (note that in case P_REGEX_SUPPORT_FOR_ADDRESS_RANGE
evaluates to FALSE, a match would be expressed as \"123*\";
Legal occurrences of the \'\^\', \'*\', \'[\', \']\', \'{\', \'}\', \'\$\',
\'+\' and \'?\' characters in AddrString should be escaped by a \'\\\'
character. To specify a \'\\\' character \'\\\\\' shall be used.
### 5.6.8 TpURL
This data type is identical to a TpString and contains a URL address. The
usage of this type is distinct from TpAddress, which can also hold a URL. The
latter contains a user address which can be specified in many ways: IP,
e-mail, URL etc. On the other hand, the TpURL type does not hold the address
of a user and always represents a URL. This type is used in user interaction
and defines the URL of the test or stream to be sent to an end-user. It is
therefore inappropriate to use a general address here.
### 5.6.9 TpURN
This data type is identical to a TpString and contains a URN value. This type
is used in SCFs such as Presence Service and defines the URN of a "presentity"
(i.e., a representation of an end-user). The syntax of what constitutes a
valid URN is in RFC 1737. e.g., ("urn: foo.com: bar").
## 5.7 Price-related Data definitions
### 5.7.1 TpPrice
This data type is identical to a TpString. It specifies price information.
This is defined as a string of characters (digits) in the following format:
**DDDDDD.DD**
### 5.7.2 TpAoCInfo
Defines the Sequence of Data Elements that specify the Advice Of Charge
information to be sent to the terminal.
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type Description ChargeOrder TpAoCOrder
Charge order Currency TpString Currency unit according to ISO-4217 [8]
* * *
### 5.7.3 TpAoCOrder
Defines the Tagged Choice of Data Elements that specify the charge plan for
the call.
* * *
     Tag Element Type         
     TpCallAoCOrderCategory
* * *
* * *
Tag Element Value Choice Element Type Choice Element Name P_CHARGE_ADVICE_INFO
TpChargeAdviceInfo ChargeAdviceInfo P_CHARGE_PER_TIME TpChargePerTime
ChargePerTime P_CHARGE_NETWORK TpString NetworkCharge
* * *
### 5.7.4 TpCallAoCOrderCategory
* * *
Name Value Description P_CHARGE_ADVICE_INFO 0 Set of GSM Charge Advice
Information elements according to 3GPP TS 22.024 [5] P_CHARGE_PER_TIME 1
Charge per time P_CHARGE_NETWORK 2 Operator specific charge plan
specification, e.g. charging table name / charging table entry
* * *
### 5.7.5 TpChargeAdviceInfo
Defines the Sequence of Data Elements that specify the two sets of Advice of
Charge parameters. The first set defines the current tariff. The second set
may be used in case of a tariff switch in the network.
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type Description CurrentCAI
TpCAIElements Current tariff NextCAI TpCAIElements Next tariff after tariff
switch
* * *
### 5.7.6 TpCAIElements
Defines the Sequence of Data Elements that specify the Charging Advice
Information elements according to 3GPP TS 22.024 [5].
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type Description UnitsPerInterval
TpInt32 Units per interval SecondsPerTimeInterval TpInt32 Seconds per time
interval ScalingFactor TpInt32 Scaling factor UnitIncrement TpInt32 Unit
increment UnitsPerDataInterval TpInt32 Units per data interval
SegmentsPerDataInterval TpInt32 Segments per data interval
InitialSecsPerTimeInterval TpInt32 Initial secs per time interval
* * *
### 5.7.7 TpChargePerTime
Defines the Sequence of Data Elements that specify the time based charging
information.
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Sequence Element | Sequence Element | Description | | Name | Type | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | InitialCharge | TpInt32 | Initial charge | | | | amount (in currency | | | | units * 0.0001) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Cu | TpInt32 | Current tariff (in | | rrentChargePerMinute | | currency units * | | | | 0.0001) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NextChargePerMinute | TpInt32 | Next tariff (in | | | | currency units * | | | | 0.0001) after tariff | | | | switch | | | | | | | | Only used in | | | | setAdviceOfCharge() | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### 5.7.8 TpLanguage
This data type is identical to a TpString, and defines the language. In case
an indication for the language is not needed an empty string shall be used. In
other cases valid language strings are defined in ISO 639 [11].
## 5.8 Data Types Common Across Call Control and Data Session Control
### 5.8.1 TpDataSessionQosClass
Defines the Quality of Service (QoS) classes. This could be for a data session
or multi media call session, for example.
* * *
Name Value Description P_DATA_SESSION_QOS_CLASS_CONVERSATIONAL 0 Specifies the
Conversational QoS class, as specified in 3G TS 23.107.
P_DATA_SESSION_QOS_CLASS_STREAMING 1 Specifies the Streaming QoS class, as
specified in 3G TS 23.107. P_DATA_SESSION_QOS_CLASS_INTERACTIVE 2 Specifies
the Interactive QoS class, as specified in 3G TS 23.107.
P_DATA_SESSION_QOS_CLASS_BACKGROUND 3 Specifies the Background QoS class, as
specified in 3G TS 23.107.
* * *
Note: Because of commonality across multiple interface specifications, this
data type is promoted from Data Session Control Data Types to Common Data
Types. For backward compatibility reasons, the naming of the data type remains
unmodified, and hence continues to refer to Data Session Control.
###### ## Annex A (normative): OMG IDL Description of the Common Data
definitions
The OMG IDL representation of the present document is contained in a text file
(osa.idl contained in archive 2919802V800IDL.ZIP) which accompanies the
present document.
###### ## Annex B (informative): W3C WSDL Description of the Common Data
definitions
The W3C WSDL representation of this specification is contained in a zip file
2919802V800WSDL.ZIP, which accompanies the present document.
###### ## Annex C (informative): Java™ API Description of the Common Data
definitions
The Java™ API realisation of this specification is produced in accordance with
the Java™ Realisation rules defined in Part 1 of this specification series.
These rules aim to deliver for Java™, a developer API, provided as a
realisation, supporting a Java™ API that represents the UML specifications.
The rules support the production of both J2SE™ and J2EE™ versions of the API
from the common UML specifications.
The J2SE™ representation of this specification is provided as Java™ Code,
contained in archive 2919802V800J2SE.ZIP that accompanies the present
document.
The J2EE™ representation of this specification is provided as Java™ Code,
contained in archive 2919802V800J2EE.ZIP that accompanies the present
document.
###### ## Annex D (normative): Exception Hierarchy
This clause arranges the OSA exceptions as a set of hierarchies that,
depending upon the technology realisation, may or may not be utilised to
simplify software developers' code.
If the exception hierarchy is used in a particular realisation, the following
lists all the OSA abstract exceptions:
  * TpCommonExceptions
  * TpInvalidArgumentException
  * TpDataSessionException
  * TpAccountException
  * TpConnectivityException
  * TpFrameworkException
  * TpMobilityException
  * TpMessagingException
  * TpPamException
  * TpPolicyException
  * TpMultiMediaMessagingException
If the exception hierarchy is being used in a particular realisation, a
software developer will have the option to catch these abstract exceptions
and/or the detailed exceptions which extend them.
The following diagrams show all the OSA detailed exceptions, and how they
relate to the abstract exceptions shown previously.
It should be noted that for those OSA methods that raise TpCommonExceptions,
the P_RESOURCES_UNAVAILABLE, P_TASK_CANCELLED, P_TASK_REFUSED,
P_METHOD_NOT_SUPPORTED, P_INVALID_STATE, P_POLICY_VIOLATION and
P_NO_CALLBACK_ADDRESS_SET detailed exceptions should be raised individually in
the method signature. The software developer will thus have the option of
catching them individually or catching the TpCommonExceptions abstract
exception.
{width="6.54375in" height="4.28125in"}
{width="6.692361111111111in" height="7.817361111111111in"}
{width="6.195138888888889in" height="5.722916666666666in"}
{width="6.688888888888889in" height="7.948611111111111in"}
{width="4.607638888888889in" height="3.188888888888889in"}
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="4.763194444444444in"}
{width="6.261111111111111in" height="3.348611111111111in"}
{width="6.689583333333333in" height="3.7958333333333334in"}
{width="6.688194444444444in" height="6.2131944444444445in"}
{width="6.690277777777778in" height="3.6777777777777776in"}
###### ## Annex E (informative): Description of the Common Data definitions
for 3GPP2 cdma2000 networks
This annex is intended to define the OSA API Stage 3 interface definitions and
it provides the complete OSA specifications. It is an extension of OSA API
specifications capabilities to enable operation in cdma2000 systems
environment. They are in alignment with 3GPP2 Stage 1 requirements and Stage 2
architecture defined in:
[1] 3GPP2 P.S0001-B: \"Wireless IP Network Standard\", Version 1.0, September
2000.
[2] 3GPP2 S.R0037-0: \"IP Network Architecture Model for cdma2000 Spread
Spectrum Systems\", Version 2.0, May 14, 2002.
[3] 3GPP2 X.S0013: \"All-IP Core Network Multimedia Domain\", December 2003.
These requirements are expressed as additions to and/or exclusions from the
3GPP specification.\ The information given here is to be used by developers in
3GPP2 cdma2000 network architecture to interpret the 3GPP OSA specifications.
# E.1 General Exceptions
The term UMTS is not applicable for the cdma2000 family of standards.
Nevertheless the term UMTS is used in 3GPP TR 21.905 (Vocabulary for 3GPP
Specifications) mostly in the broader sense of \"3G Wireless System\". If not
stated otherwise there are no additions or exclusions required.
CAMEL and CAP mappings are not applicable for cdma2000 systems.
# E.2 Specific Exceptions
## E.2.1 Clause 1: Scope
There are no additions or exclusions.
## E.2.2 Clause 2: References
Normative references on 3GPP TS 23.078 and on 3GPP TS 29.078 are not
applicable for cdma2000 systems.
## E.2.3 Clause 3: Definitions and abbreviations
There are no additions or exclusions.
## E.2.4 Clause 4: Common Data definitions
There are no additions or exclusions.
## E.2.5 Clause 5: Common System Data definitions
There are no additions or exclusions.
## E.2.6 Annex A (normative): OMG IDL Description of the Common Data
definitions
There are no additions or exclusions.
## E.2.7 Annex B (informative): W3C WSDL Description of the Common Data
definitions
There are no additions or exclusions.
## E.2.8 Annex C (informative): Java™ API Description of the Common Data
definitions
There are no additions or exclusions.
## E.2.9 Annex D (normative): Exception Hierarchy
There are no additions or exclusions.
#