# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part 4, sub-part 5 of a multi-part TS covering the
3^rd^ Generation Partnership Project: Technical Specification Group Core
Network and Terminals; Open Service Access (OSA); Application Programming
Interface (API), as identified below. The **API specification** (3GPP TS
29.198) is structured in the following Parts:
> Part 1: \"Overview\";
>
> Part 2: \"Common data definitions\";
>
> Part 3: \"Framework\";
>
> **Part 4: \"Call control\";**
>
> Sub-part 1: \"Call control common definitions\";
>
> Sub-part 2: \"Generic call control SCF\";
>
> Sub-part 3: \"Multi-party call control SCF\";
>
> Sub-part 4: \"Multimedia call control SCF\";
>
> **Sub-part 5: \"Conference call control SCF\";**
>
> Part 5: \"User Interaction SCF\";
>
> Part 6: \"Mobility SCF\";
>
> Part 7: \"Terminal capabilities SCF\";
>
> Part 8: \"Data session control SCF\";
>
> Part 9: \"Generic Messaging SCF\"; (not part of 3GPP Release 8)
>
> Part 10: \"Connectivity Manager SCF\"; (new in 3GPP Release 8)
>
> Part 11: \"Account management SCF\";
>
> Part 12: \"Charging SCF\".
>
> Part 13: \"Policy management SCF\";
>
> Part 14: \"Presence and Availability Management (PAM) SCF\";
>
> Part 15: \"Multi-media Messaging (MM) SCF\";
>
> Part 16: \"Service broker SCF\".
The **Mapping specification of the OSA APIs and network protocols** (3GPP TR
29.998) is also structured as above. A mapping to network protocols is however
not applicable for all Parts, but the numbering of Parts is kept.\ Also in
case a Part is not supported in a Release, the numbering of the parts is
maintained.
Table: Overview of the OSA APIs & Protocol Mappings 29.198 & 29.998-family
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | OSA | OSA | | | | | | | | API | API | | | | | | | | spec | Ma | | | | | | | | ifica | pping | | | | | | | | tions | - | | | | | | | | 29. | 29. | | | | | | | | 198-f | 998-f | | | | | | | | amily | amily | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Ove | 29.9 | Ove | | | | | | 98-01 | rview | 98-01 | rview | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | C | * | _Not | | | | | | 98-02 | ommon | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | Data | 8-02_ | pplic | | | | | | | D | | able _| | | | | | | efini | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Fram | * |_ Not | | | | | | 98-03 | ework | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | | 8-03 _| pplic | | | | | | | | | able_ | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | * | 2 | 2 | 2 | 2 | **2 | 2 | Ge | | *Call | 9.198 | 9.198 | 9.198 | 9.198 | 9.198 | 9.998 | neric | | Co | -04-1 | -04-2 | -04-3 | -04-4 | -04-5 | -04-1 | Call | | ntrol | | | | M | Conf. | | Co | | (CC) | C | Ge | M | ulti- | CC | | ntrol | | SCF** | ommon | neric | ulti- | media | SCF __| | -- | | | CC | CC | Party | CC | | | CAP | | | data | SCF | CC | SCF | | | ma | | | d | | SCF | | | | pping | | | efini | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | | |_ 29 | _Ge | | | | | | | | .998- | neric | | | | | | | | 04-2 _| Call | | | | | | | | | Co | | | | | | | | | ntrol | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | INAP | | | | | | | | | map | | | | | | | | | ping_ | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | | | _29 |_ Ge | | | | | | | | .998- | neric | | | | | | | | 04-3 _| Call | | | | | | | | | Co | | | | | | | | | ntrol | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | M | | | | | | | | | egaco | | | | | | | | | map | | | | | | | | | ping_ | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | | | 2 | Multi | | | | | | | | 9.998 | party | | | | | | | | -04-4 | Call | | | | | | | | | Co | | | | | | | | | ntrol | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | ISC | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | pping | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | User | 2 | User | | | | | | 98-05 | I | 9.998 | I | | | | | | | ntera | -05-1 | ntera | | | | | | | ction | | ction | | | | | | | SCF | | -- | | | | | | | | | CAP | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | pping | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | _29 |_ User | | | | | | | | .998- | I | | | | | | | | 05-2 _| ntera | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | INAP | | | | | | | | | map | | | | | | | | | ping_ | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | _29 |_ User | | | | | | | | .998- | I | | | | | | | | 05-3 _| ntera | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | M | | | | | | | | | egaco | | | | | | | | | map | | | | | | | | | ping_ | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | 2 | User | | | | | | | | 9.998 | I | | | | | | | | -05-4 | ntera | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | SMS | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | pping | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Mob | 2 | User | | | | | | 98-06 | ility | 9.998 | S | | | | | | | SCF | -06-1 | tatus | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | User | | | | | | | | | Loc | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | MAP | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | pping | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | 2 | User | | | | | | | | 9.998 | S | | | | | | | | -06-2 | tatus | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | User | | | | | | | | | Loc | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | SIP | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | pping | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Ter | * | _Not | | | | | | 98-07 | minal | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | Ca | 8-07_ | pplic | | | | | | | pabil | | able _| | | | | | | ities | | | | | | | | | SCF | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Data | 29.9 | Data | | | | | | 98-08 | Se | 98-08 | Se | | | | | | | ssion | | ssion | | | | | | | Co | | Co | | | | | | | ntrol | | ntrol | | | | | | | SCF | | -- | | | | | | | | | CAP | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | pping | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | * |_ Ge | * | _Not | | | | | | 29.19 | neric | 29.99 | A | | | | | | 8-09_ | Mess | 8-09 _| pplic | | | | | | | aging | | able_ | | | | | | | SCF _| | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | * |_ Co | * | _Not | | | | | | 29.19 | nnect | 29.99 | A | | | | | | 8-10_ | ivity | 8-10 _| pplic | | | | | | | Ma | | able_ | | | | | | | nager | | | | | | | | | SCF _| | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Ac | * |_ Not | | | | | | 98-11 | count | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | Manag | 8-11 _| pplic | | | | | | | ement | | able_ | | | | | | | SCF | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Cha | * | _Not | | | | | | 98-12 | rging | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | SCF | 8-12_ | pplic | | | | | | | | | able _| | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | P | * |_ Not | | | | | | 98-13 | olicy | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | Manag | 8-13 _| pplic | | | | | | | ement | | able_ | | | | | | | SCF | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Pre | * | _Not | | | | | | 98-14 | sence | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | & | 8-14_ | pplic | | | | | | | Av | | able _| | | | | | | ailab | | | | | | | | | ility | | | | | | | | | Manag | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | SCF | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Multi | * |_ Not | | | | | | 98-15 | Media | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | Mess | 8-15 _| pplic | | | | | | | aging | | able_ | | | | | | | SCF | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Se | * | _Not | | | | | | 98-16 | rvice | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | B | 8-16_ | pplic | | | | | | | roker | | able* | | | | | | | SCF | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
# 1 Scope
The present document is Part 4, Sub-Part 5 of the Stage 3 specification for an
Application Programming Interface (API) for Open Service Access (OSA).
The OSA specifications define an architecture that enables application
developers to make use of network functionality through an open standardised
interface, i.e. the OSA APIs. The concepts and the functional architecture for
the OSA are contained in 3GPP TS 23.198 [3]. The requirements for OSA are
contained in 3GPP TS 22.127 [2].
The present document specifies the Conference call control Service Capability
Feature (SCF) aspects of the interface. All aspects of the Conference call
control SCF are defined here, these being:
  * Sequence Diagrams
  * Class Diagrams
  * Interface specification plus detailed method descriptions
  * State Transition diagrams
  * Data definitions
  * IDL Description of the interfaces
  * WSDL Description of the interfaces
  * Reference to the Java™ API description of the interfaces
The process by which this task is accomplished is through the use of object
modelling techniques described by the Unified Modelling Language (UML).
This specification has been defined jointly between 3GPP TSG CT WG5, ETSI
TISPAN and the Parlay Group, in co-operation with a number of JAIN™ Community
member companies.
Maintenance of up to 3GPP Rel-8 and new OSA Stage 1, 2 and 3 work beyond Rel-9
was moved to OMA in June 2008.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 29.198-01: \"Open Service Access (OSA) Application Programming
Interface (API); Part 1: Overview\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.127: \"Service Requirement for the Open Services Access (OSA);
Stage 1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.198: \"Open Service Access (OSA); Stage 2\".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.002: \"Circuit Bearer Services (BS) supported by a Public Land
Mobile Network (PLMN)\".
[5] ISO 4217 (1995): \"Codes for the representation of currencies and funds
\".
[6] 3GPP TS 24.002: \"GSM-UMTS Public Land Mobile Network (PLMN) Access
Reference Configuration\".
[7] 3GPP TS 22.003: \"Circuit Teleservices supported by a Public Land Mobile
Network (PLMN)\".
[8] ITU-T Q.763: \"Signalling System No. 7 - ISDN user part formats and
codes\".
[9] ANSI T1.113: \"Signalling System No. 7 (SS7) - Integrated Services Digital
Network (ISDN) User Part\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TS 29.198-1 [1] apply.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TS
29.198-1 [1] apply.
# 4 Conference call control Service Sequence Diagrams
## 4.1 Meet-me conference without subconferencing
This sequence illustrates a pre-arranged meet-me conference for a specified
time period. During this timeslot parties can \'call in to\' the meet-me
conference by dialling a special number.
For each participant joining the conference, the application can decide to
accept the participant in to the conference.
The application can also be notified when parties are leaving the conference.
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="9.126388888888888in"}
1: The application creates a new object to receive the callbacks from the
conference call control manager.
2: The application reserves resources for some time in the future.
With this same method the application registers interest in the creation of
the conference (e.g. when the first party to joins the conference or at the
specified start time, this is implementation dependant).
The reservation also includes the conference policy. One of the elements is
whether joined parties must be explicitly attached. If so, this is treated as
an implicit joinMonitorReq.
3: The conference is created.
4: The message is forwarded to the application.
5: The application creates an object to receive the call back messages from
the conference call.
6: The application also requests to be notified when parties leave the
conference.
7: The application is notified of the first party that joined the conference.
8: When the party is allowed to join the conference, the party is added.
Alternatively, the party could have been rejected with a releaseCallLeg.
9: A new party joins the conference and the application is notified.
10: The message is forwarded to the application.
11: This party also is allowed into the conference by attaching the leg.
12: A party leaves the conference.
13: The message is forwarded to the application.
14: The application decides to release the entire conference.
## 4.2 Non-add hoc add-on with subconferencing
This sequence illustrates a prearranged add-on conference. The end user that
initiates the call, communicates with the conference application via a web
interface (not shown). By dragging and dropping names from the addressbook,
the end-user adds parties to the conference.
Also via the web-interface, the end-user can group parties in subconferences.
Only parties in the same subconference can talk to each other.
{width="6.683333333333334in" height="5.851388888888889in"}
1: The application creates a new interface to receive the callbacks from the
conference call.
2: The application initiates the conference. There has been no prior resource
reservation, so there is a chance that no resources are available when parties
are added to the conference.
The conferenceCall interface object is returned.
3: Together with the conference a subconference is implicitly created.
However, the subconference is not returned as a result of the
createConference, therefore the application uses this method to get the
subconference.
4: The application creates a new IpAppCallLeg interface.
5: The application adds the first party to the subconference. This process is
repeated for all 4 parties. Note that in the following not all steps are
shown.
6: The gateway creates a new IpCallLeg interface.
7: The application adds parties to the subconference.
8: The application adds parties to the subconference.
9: The application adds parties to the subconference.
10: When a party A answers the application is notified.
We assume that all parties answer. This happens in the same way as for party A
and is not shown in the following.
11: The message is forwarded to the application.
12: The application decides to split the conference. Party C & D are indicated
in the message.
The gateway will create a new subconference and move party C and D to the new
subconference.
The configuration is A & B are in speech, C & D are in speech. There is no
bearer connection between the two subconferences.
13: The application moves one of the legs from the second subconference back
to the first. The configuration now is A, B & C are in speech configuration. D
is alone in its own subconference.
14: The second subconference is released. Since party D was in this
subconference, this callleg is also released.
This leaves one subconference with A, B & C.
## 4.3 Non-addhoc add-on multimedia
This sequence illustrates a prearranged add-on multi-media conference. The end
user that initiates the call, communicates with the conference application via
a web interface (not shown). By dragging and dropping names from the
addressbook, the end-user adds parties to the conference.
Also via the web-interface, the end-user can do things that normally the chair
would be able to do, e.g. determine who has the floor (e.g. whose video is
being broadcast to the other participants) or inspect the video of
participants who do not have the floor (e.g. to see how they react to the
current speaker).
{width="6.682638888888889in" height="6.461805555555555in"}
1: The application creates a new object for receiving callbacks from the
MMSubConference.
2: When the user selects the appropriate option in the web interface, the
application will create a conference without resource reservation. The policy
for video is set to \'chairperson switched.
3: The application requests the subconference that was implicitly created
together with the conference.
4: The application creates a new IpAppCallLeg interface.
5: The application adds the first party to the subconference. This process is
repeated for all 4 parties. Note that in the following not all steps are
shown.
6: The gateway creates a new IpCallLeg interface.
7: The application creates a new IpAppCallLeg interface.
8: The application adds parties to the conference and monitors on success.
9: The gateway creates a new IpCallLeg interface.
10: The application adds parties to the conference and monitors on success.
11: The application adds parties to the conference and monitors on success.
12: When a party A answers the application is notified.
We assume that all parties answer.
14: We assume that A was the initiating party.
The initiating end-user is assigned the chairpersonship.
This message is needed to synchronise the chairpersonship in the application
with the MCU chairpersonship, since the chair can also use H.323 messages to
control the conference.
15: When a party B answers the application is notified. We assume the other
parties answer as well and this is not shown below in the sequence.
16: Chairperson (A) decides via WWW interface that party B is the speaker.
This means that the video of B is broadcast to the rest.
17: The chairperson selects the video of C in order to judge their reactions
on B\'s proposal.
18: The chairperson selects the video of D in order to judge their reactions
on B\'s proposal.
19: The chairperson goes back to receiving the broadcasted videostream (B).
20: User C requests the floor via the H.323 signals. The application is
notified of this.
21: The message is forwarded to the application logic.
22: The chairperson (via the WWW interface) grants the request by appointing C
as the speaker.
## 4.4 Resource Reservation
This sequence illustrates how an application can check and reserve resources
for a meet-me conference.
{width="6.694444444444445in" height="6.78125in"}
1: The application checks if enough conference resources are available in a
given time period.
2: The application creates an object to receive callback messages.
3: The application reserves resources for the time period. The callback object
is in order to receive a notification when the conference is started.
4: Because the time was wrong by accident, the application cancels the earlier
reservation.
5: The application makes a new reservation.
6: At the specified time, or when the first party joins the conference the
application is notified.
7: The event is forwarded to the application.
# 5 Class Diagrams
The conference call control service consists of two packages, one for the
interfaces on the application side and one for interfaces on the service side.
The class diagrams in the following figures show the interfaces that make up
the conference call control application package and the conference call
control service package.
This class diagram shows the interfaces that make up the application
conference call control service package and the relation to the interfaces in
the conference call control service package.
The diagram also shows the inheritance relation between the multi-party call
application interfaces and the conference call application interfaces; the
conference interfaces are specialisations of the corresponding multi-party
call interfaces.
Communication between the application and service packages is done via the
\> relations; the interfaces can communicate with callback methods in
the corresponding application interfaces.
{width="6.692361111111111in" height="6.257638888888889in"}
Figure : Application Interfaces
This class diagram shows the interfaces that make up the conference call
control service package.
The diagram also shows the inheritance relation between the multi-party call
interfaces and the conference call interfaces; the conference interfaces are
specialisations of the corresponding multi-party call interfaces.
Furthermore, the class diagram illustrates that the conference call control
manager can instantiate or be associated with zero or more conference calls.
Each conference call can have one or more subconferences associated with it.
Each subconference contains zero or more call legs associated. Detached legs
are not associated with any specific subconference, instead they are
associated with the conference call itself.
{width="6.686111111111111in" height="4.417361111111111in"}
Figure : Service Interfaces
# 6 Conference call control Service Interface Classes
The Conference call control Service enhances the multi-media call control
service. The conference call control service gives the application the ability
to manipulate subconferences within a conference. A subconference defines the
grouping of legs within the overall conference call. Only parties in the same
subconference have a bearer connection (or media channel connection) to each
other (e.g. can speak to each other). The application can:
\- create new subconferences within the conference, either as an empty
subconference or by splitting an existing subconference in two subconferences;
\- move legs between subconferences;
\- merge subconferences;
\- get a list of all subconferences in the call;
The generic conference also gives the possibility to manipulate typical multi-
media conference details, such as:
\- interworking with network signalled conference protocols (e.g. H.323);
\- manipulation of the media in the MCU, e.g., broadcasting of video;
\- handling of multi-media conference policies, e.g., how video should be
handled, voice controlled switched or chair controlled.
Furthermore the conference call control service adds support for the
reservation of resources needed for conferencing. The application can:
\- reserve resources for a predefined time period;
\- free reserved resources;
\- search for the availability of conference resources based on a number of
criteria.
There are two ways to initiate a conference:
\- the conferences can be started on the pre-arranged time by the service, at
the start time indicated in the reservation. The application is notified about
this. The application can then add parties to the conference and/or parties
can dial-in to the conference using the address provided during reservation;
\- the conference can be created directly on request of the application using
the createConference method in the IpConfCallControlManager interface.
Each Conference call control interface inherits from a Multi Media Call
Control interface, which in turn inherits from Multi Party Call Control. It is
possible to implement conference call control without any multi-media
features, using only those inherited methods which come from Multi Party Call
Control, in addition to the Conference call control methods. The minimum
required method set for each Conference call control interface reflects this
possibility, by not requiring the Multi Media Call Control methods.
## 6.1 Interface Class IpConfCallControlManager
Inherits from: IpMultiMediaCallControlManager;
The conference Call Control Manager is the factory interface for creating
conferences. Additionally it takes care of resource management. This interface
shall be implemented by a Conference call control SCF. As a minimum
requirement, either the createConference() method shall be implemented, or the
reserveResources() and freeResources() methods shall be implemented. The
minimum required methods from IpMultiPartyCallControlManager are also
required.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | \> | | | | IpConfCallControlManager | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | createConference (appConferenceCall : in IpAppConfCallRef, | | numberOfSubConferences : in TpInt32, conferencePolicy : in | | TpConfPolicy, numberOfParticipants : in TpInt32, duration : in | | TpDuration) : TpConfCallIdentifier | | | | checkResources (searchCriteria : in TpConfSearchCriteria) : | | TpConfSearchResult | | | | reserveResources (appInterface : in IpAppConfCallControlManagerRef, | | startTime : in TpDateAndTime, numberOfParticipants : in TpInt32, | | duration : in TpDuration, conferencePolicy : in TpConfPolicy) : | | TpResourceReservation | | | | freeResources (resourceReservation : in TpResourceReservation) : | | void | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
### 6.1.1 Method createConference()
This method is used to create a new conference. If the specified resources are
not available for the indicated duration the creation is rejected with
P_RESOURCES_UNAVAILABLE.
Returns conference : Specifies the interface reference and sessionID of the
created conference.
Parameters
appConferenceCall : in IpAppConfCallRef
Specifies the callback interface for the conference created.
numberOfSubConferences : in TpInt32
Specifies the number of subconferences that the user wants to create
automatically. The references to the interfaces of the subconferences can
later be requested with getSubConferences.
The number of subconferences should be at least 1.
conferencePolicy : in TpConfPolicy
Specifies the policy to be applied for the conference, e.g. are parties
allowed to join (call into) the conference?
Note that if parties are allowed to join the conference, the application can
expect partyJoined() messages on the IpAppConfCall interface.
numberOfParticipants : in TpInt32
Specifies the number of participants in the conference. The actual number of
participants may exceed this, but these resources are not guaranteed, i.e.
anything exceeding this will be best effort only and the conference service
may drop or reject participants in order to fulfil other committed resource
requests. By specifying 0, the application can request a best effort
conference.
duration : in TpDuration
Specifies the duration for which the conference resources are reserved. The
duration of the conference may exceed this, but after the duration, the
resources are no longer guaranteed, i.e. parties may be dropped or rejected by
the service in order to satisfy other committed resource requests. When the
conference is released before the allocated duration, the reserved resources
are released and can be used to satisfy other resource requests. By specifying
0, the application requests a best effort conference.
Returns
TpConfCallIdentifier
Raises
TpCommonExceptions
### 6.1.2 Method checkResources()
This method is used to check for the availability of conference resources.
The input is the search period (start and stop time and date) - mandatory.
Furthermore, a conference duration and number of participants can be specified
- optional.
The search algorithm will search the specified period for availability of
conference resources and tries to find an optimal solution.
When a match is found the actual number of available resources, the actual
start and the actual duration for which these are available is returned. These
values can exceed the requested values.
When no match is found a best effort is returned, still the actual start time,
duration, number of resources are returned, but these values now indicate the
best that the conference bridge can offer, e.g. one or more of these values
will not reach the requested values.
Returns result : Specifies the result of the search. It indicates if a match
was found. If no exact match was found the best attempt is returned.
Parameters
searchCriteria : in TpConfSearchCriteria
Specifies the boundary conditions of the search. E.g. the time period that
should be searched, the number of participants.
Returns
TpConfSearchResult
Raises
TpCommonExceptions
### 6.1.3 Method reserveResources()
This method is used to reserve conference resources for a given time period.
Conferences can be created without first reserving resources, but in that case
no guarantees can be made.
Returns resourceReservation : Specifies a structured data type which contains
two fields:
ResourceID: The address with which the conference can be addressed, both in
the methods of the interface and in the network, i.e. if joinAllowed is TRUE,
parties can use this address to join the conference.
If no match is found the ResourceID contains an empty address.
ReservationID: Specifies the reservation made. It should be unique in a
particular resource.
Parameters
appInterface : in IpAppConfCallControlManagerRef
Specifies the callback interface to be used when the conference is created in
the network. The application will receive the conferenceCreated message when a
conference is created in the network.
startTime : in TpDateAndTime
Specifies the time at which the conference resources should be reserved, i.e.
the start time of the conference.
numberOfParticipants : in TpInt32
Specifies the number of participants in the conference. The actual number of
participants may exceed this, but these resources are not guaranteed, i.e.
anything exceeding this will be best effort only and the conference service
may drop or reject participants in order to fulfil other committed resource
requests.
duration : in TpDuration
Specifies the duration for which the conference resources are reserved. The
duration of the conference may exceed this, but after the duration, the
resources are no longer guaranteed, i.e. parties may be dropped or rejected by
the service in order to satisfy other committed resource requests. When the
conference is released before the allocated duration, the reserved resources
are released and can be used to satisfy other resource requests.
conferencePolicy : in TpConfPolicy
The policy to be applied for the conference, e.g. are parties allowed to join
(call into) the conference? Note that if parties are allowed to join the
conference, the application can expect partyJoined() messages on the
appConfCall.
Returns
TpResourceReservation
Raises
TpCommonExceptions
### 6.1.4 Method freeResources()
This method can be used to cancel an earlier made reservation of conference
resources.
This also means that no ConferenceCreated events will be received for this
conference.
Parameters
resourceReservation : in TpResourceReservation
Specifies the ResourceID and the ReservationID that were received during the
reservation.
Raises
TpCommonExceptions
## 6.2 Interface Class IpAppConfCallControlManager
Inherits from: IpAppMultiMediaCallControlManager;
The conference call control manager application interface provides the
application with additional callbacks when a conference is created by the
network (based on an earlier reservation).
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | \> | | | | IpAppConfCallControlManager | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | conferenceCreated (conferenceCall : in TpConfCallIdentifier) : | | IpAppConfCallRef | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
### 6.2.1 Method conferenceCreated()
This method is called when a conference is created from an earlier resource
reservation. If the application has previously explicitly passed a reference
to the callback using a setCallbackWithSessionID() invocation, this parameter
may be null, or if supplied must be the same as that provided during the
setCallbackWithSessionID().
Returns appInterface : Specifies a reference to the application interface
which implements the callback interface for the new conference.
Parameters
conferenceCall : in TpConfCallIdentifier
Specifies the reference to the conference call interface to which the
notification relates and the associated sessionID.
Returns
IpAppConfCallRef
## 6.3 Interface Class IpConfCall
Inherits from: IpMultiMediaCall;
The conference call manages the subconferences. It also provides some
convenience methods to hide the fact of multiple subconferences from the
applications that do not need it. Note that the conference call always
contains one subconference. The following inherited call methods apply to the
conference as a whole, with the specified semantics: - setCallback; changes
the callback interface reference. - release; releases the entire conference,
including all the subconferences and detached legs. - deassignCall; de-assigns
the complete conference. No callbacks will be received by the application,
either on the conference, or on any of the contained subconferences or call
legs. - getInfoReq; request information over the complete conference. The
conference duration is defined as the time when the first party joined the
conference until when the last party leaves the conference or the conference
is released. - setChargePlan; set the chargeplan for the conference. This
chargeplan will apply to all the subconferences, unless another chargeplan is
explicitly overridden on the subconference. - superviseReq; supervise the
duration of the complete conference. - getCallLegs; return all the call legs
used within the conference. - superviseVolumeReq; supervises and sets a
granted data volume for the conference. Other methods apply to the default
subconference. When using multiple subconferences, it is recommended that the
application calls these methods directly on the subconference since this makes
it more explicit what the effect of the method is: - createAndRouteCallLegReq.
- createCallLeg. This interface shall be implemented by a Conference call
control SCF. As a minimum requirement, the getSubConferences(),
getConferenceAddress() and createSubConference() methods shall be implemented.
The minimum required methods from IpMultiPartyCall are also required.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | \> | | | | IpConfCall | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | getSubConferences (conferenceSessionID : in TpSessionID) : | | TpSubConfCallIdentifierSet | | | | createSubConference (conferenceSessionID : in TpSessionID, | | appSubConference : in IpAppSubConfCallRef, conferencePolicy : in | | TpConfPolicy) : TpSubConfCallIdentifier | | | | leaveMonitorReq (conferenceSessionID : in TpSessionID) : void | | | | getConferenceAddress (conferenceSessionID : in TpSessionID) : | | TpAddress | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
### 6.3.1 Method getSubConferences()
This method returns all the subconferences of the conference.
Returns subConferenceList : Specifies the list of all the subconferences of
the conference.
Parameters
conferenceSessionID : in TpSessionID
Specifies the sessionID of the conference.
Returns
TpSubConfCallIdentifierSet
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_SESSION_ID
### 6.3.2 Method createSubConference()
This method is used to create a new subconference. Note that one subconference
is already created together with the conference.
Returns subConference : Specifies the created subconference (interface and
sessionID).
Parameters
conferenceSessionID : in TpSessionID
Specifies the sessionID of the conference.
appSubConference : in IpAppSubConfCallRef
Specifies the call back interface for the created subconference.
conferencePolicy : in TpConfPolicy
Conference Policy to be used in the subconference. Optional; if undefined, the
policy of the conference is used. Note that not all policy elements have to be
applicable for subconferences.
Returns
TpSubConfCallIdentifier
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_SESSION_ID
### 6.3.3 Method leaveMonitorReq()
This method is used to request a notification when a party leaves the
conference.
Parameters
conferenceSessionID : in TpSessionID
Specifies the session ID of the conference.
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_SESSION_ID
### 6.3.4 Method getConferenceAddress()
This method returns the conference address that specifies the address with
which the conference can be addressed in case parties are allowed to join the
conference.
Parameters
conferenceSessionID : in TpSessionID
Specifies the sessionID of the conference.
Returns
TpAddress
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_SESSION_ID
## 6.4 Interface Class IpAppConfCall
Inherits from: IpAppMultiMediaCall;
The Conference Call application interface allows the application to handle
call responses and state reports. Additionally it allows the application to
handle parties entering and leaving the conference.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | \> | | | | IpAppConfCall | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | partyJoined (conferenceSessionID : in TpSessionID, callLeg : in | | mpccs::TpCallLegIdentifier, eventInfo : in TpJoinEventInfo) : | | mpccs::IpAppCallLegRef | | | | leaveMonitorRes (conferenceSessionID : in TpSessionID, callLeg : in | | TpSessionID) : void | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
### 6.4.1 Method partyJoined()
This asynchronous method indicates that a new party (leg) has joined the
conference. This can be used in, e.g. a meetme conference where the
participants dial in to the conference using the address returned during
reservation of the conference.
The Leg will be assigned to the default subconference object and will be in a
detached state. The application may move the call Leg to a different
subconference before attaching the media.
The method will only be called when joinAllowed is indicated in the conference
policy.
Returns appCallLeg : Specifies the call back interface that should be used for
callbacks from the new call Leg.
Parameters
conferenceSessionID : in TpSessionID
Specifies the session ID of the conference that the party wants to join.
callLeg : in mpccs::TpCallLegIdentifier
Specifies the interface and sessionID of the call leg that joined the
conference.
eventInfo : in TpJoinEventInfo
Specifies the address information of the party that wants to join the
conference.
Returns
mpccs::IpAppCallLegRef
### 6.4.2 Method leaveMonitorRes()
This asynchronous method indicates that a party (leg) has left the conference.
Parameters
conferenceSessionID : in TpSessionID
Specifies the session ID of the conference that the party wants to leaves.
callLeg : in TpSessionID
Specifies the sessionID of the call leg that left the conference.
## 6.5 Interface Class IpSubConfCall
Inherits from: IpMultiMediaCall;
The subconference is an additional grouping mechanism within a conference.
Parties (legs) that are in the same subconference have a speech connection
with each other. The following inherited call methods apply to the
subconference as a whole, with the specified semantics: - setCallback; changes
the callback interface reference. - release; releases the subconference,
including all currently attached legs. When the last subconference in the
conference is released, the conference is implicitly released as well. -
deassignCall; de-assigns the subconference. No callbacks will be received by
the application on this subconference, nor will the gateway accept any methods
on this subconference or accept any methods using the subconference as a
parameter (e.g., merge). When the subconference is the last subconference in
the conference, the conference is deassigned as well. In general it is
recommended to only use deassignCall for the complete conference. -
getInfoReq; request information over the subconference. The subconference
duration is defined as the time when the first party joined the subconference
until when the last party leaves the subconference or the subconference is
released. - setChargePlan; set the charge plan for the subconference. -
superviseReq; supervise the duration of the subconference. It is recommended
that this method is only used on the complete conference. -
superviseVolumeReq; supervises and sets a granted data volume for the
subconference. - getCallLegs; return all the call legs in the subconference. -
createCallLeg; create a call leg. - createAndRouteCallLegReq; implicitly
create a leg and route the leg to the specified destination. This interface
shall be implemented by a Conference call control SCF. As a minimum
requirement, either the moveCallLeg() method shall be implemented, or the
splitSubConference() and mergeSubConference() methods shall be implemented.
The minimum required methods from IpMultiPartyCall are also required.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | \> | | | | IpSubConfCall | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | splitSubConference (subConferenceSessionID : in TpSessionID, | | callLegList : in TpSessionIDSet, appSubConferenceCall : in | | IpAppSubConfCallRef) : TpSubConfCallIdentifier | | | | mergeSubConference (subConferenceCallSessionID : in TpSessionID, | | targetSubConferenceCall : in TpSessionID) : void | | | | moveCallLeg (subConferenceCallSessionID : in TpSessionID, | | targetSubConferenceCall : in TpSessionID, callLeg : in TpSessionID) | | : void | | | | inspectVideo (subConferenceSessionID : in TpSessionID, | | inspectedCallLeg : in TpSessionID) : void | | | | inspectVideoCancel (subConferenceSessionID : in TpSessionID) : void | | | | appointSpeaker (subConferenceSessionID : in TpSessionID, | | speakerCallLeg : in TpSessionID) : void | | | | chairSelection (subConferenceSessionID : in TpSessionID, | | chairCallLeg : in TpSessionID) : void | | | | changeConferencePolicy (subConferenceSessionID : in TpSessionID, | | conferencePolicy : in TpConfPolicy) : void | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
### 6.5.1 Method splitSubConference()
This method is used to create a new subconference and move some of the legs to
it.
Returns newSubConferenceCall : Specifies the new subconference that is
implicitly created as a result of the method.
Parameters
subConferenceSessionID : in TpSessionID
Specifies the session ID of the subconference.
callLegList : in TpSessionIDSet
Specifies the sessionIDs of the legs that will be moved to the new
subconference.
appSubConferenceCall : in IpAppSubConfCallRef
Specifies the application call back interface for the new subconference.
Returns
TpSubConfCallIdentifier
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_SESSION_ID
### 6.5.2 Method mergeSubConference()
This method is used to merge two subconferences, i.e. move all our legs from
this subconference to the other subconference followed by a release of this
subconference.
Parameters
subConferenceCallSessionID : in TpSessionID
Specifies the session ID of the subconference.
targetSubConferenceCall : in TpSessionID
The session ID of target subconference with which the current subconference
will be merged.
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_SESSION_ID
### 6.5.3 Method moveCallLeg()
This method moves one leg from this subconference to another subconference.
Parameters
subConferenceCallSessionID : in TpSessionID
Specifies the session ID of the source subconference.
targetSubConferenceCall : in TpSessionID
Specifies the sessionID of the target subconference.
callLeg : in TpSessionID
Specifies the sessionID of the call leg to be moved.
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_SESSION_ID
### 6.5.4 Method inspectVideo()
This method can be used by the application to select which video should be
sent to the party that is currently selected as the chair.
Whether this method can be used depends on the selected conference policy.
Parameters
subConferenceSessionID : in TpSessionID
Specifies the session ID of the multi media subconference.
inspectedCallLeg : in TpSessionID
Specifies the sessionID of call leg of the party whose video stream should be
sent to the chair.
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_SESSION_ID
### 6.5.5 Method inspectVideoCancel()
This method cancels a previous inspectVideo. The chair will receive the
broadcasted video.
Whether this method can be used depends on the selected conference policy.
Parameters
subConferenceSessionID : in TpSessionID
Specifies the session ID of the multi media subconference.
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_SESSION_ID
### 6.5.6 Method appointSpeaker()
This method indicates which of the participants in the conference has the
floor. The video of the speaker will be broadcast to the other parties.
Whether this method can be used depends on the selected conference policy.
Parameters
subConferenceSessionID : in TpSessionID
Specifies the session ID of the multi media subconference.
speakerCallLeg : in TpSessionID
Specifies the sessionID of the call leg of the party whose video stream should
be broadcast.
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_SESSION_ID
### 6.5.7 Method chairSelection()
This method is used to indicate which participant in the conference is the
chair. E.g. the terminal of this participant will be the destination of the
video of the inspectVideo method.
Whether this method can be used depends on the selected conference policy.
Parameters
subConferenceSessionID : in TpSessionID
Specifies the session ID of the multi media subconference.
chairCallLeg : in TpSessionID
Specifies the sessionID of the call leg of the party that will become the
chair.
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_SESSION_ID
### 6.5.8 Method changeConferencePolicy()
This method can be used to change the conference policy in an ongoing
conference.
Multi media conference policy options available. E.g.:
\- chair controlled video / voice switched video;
\- closed conference / open conference;
\- Composite video (different types) / only speaker.
Parameters
subConferenceSessionID : in TpSessionID
Specifies the session ID of the multi media subconference.
conferencePolicy : in TpConfPolicy
New Conference Policy to be used in the subconference.
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_SESSION_ID
## 6.6 Interface Class IpAppSubConfCall
Inherits from: IpAppMultiMediaCall;
The Sub Conference Call application interface allows the application to handle
call responses and state reports from a sub conference.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | \> | | | | IpAppSubConfCall | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | chairSelection (subConferenceSessionID : in TpSessionID, | | callLegSessionID : in TpSessionID) : void | | | | floorRequest (subConferenceSessionID : in TpSessionID, | | callLegSessionID : in TpSessionID) : void | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
### 6.6.1 Method chairSelection()
This method is used to inform the application about the chair selection
requests from the network. The application can grant the request by calling
the chairSelection method on the subconference.
Parameters
subConferenceSessionID : in TpSessionID
Specifies the session ID of the subconference where the chair request
originates.
callLegSessionID : in TpSessionID
Specifies the session ID of the call leg making the chair request.
### 6.6.2 Method floorRequest()
This method is used to inform the application about the floor requests from
the network. The application can grant the request by calling the
appointSpeaker method.
Parameters
subConferenceSessionID : in TpSessionID
Specifies the session ID of the subconference where the floor request
originates.
callLegSessionID : in TpSessionID
Specifies the session ID of the call leg making the floor request.
# 7 Conference call control Service State Transition Diagrams
There are no State Transition Diagrams for the Conference call control Service
package.
# 8 Conference call control Data Definitions
This clause provides the Conference call control data definitions necessary to
support the API specification.
The general format of a data definition specification is described below.
  * Data Type:
This shows the name of the data type.
  * Description:
This describes the data type.
  * Tabular Specification:
This specifies the data types and values of the data type.
  * Example:
If relevant, an example is shown to illustrate the data type.
All data types referenced in the present document but not defined in this
clause are defined either in the common call control data definitions in 3GPP
TS 29.198-4-1 or in the common data definitions which may be found in 3GPP TS
29.198-2.
## 8.1 Event Notification Data Definitions
No specific event notification data.
## 8.2 Conference call control Data Definitions
### 8.2.1 IpConfCall
Defines the address of an IpConfCall Interface.
### 8.2.2 IpConfCallRef
Defines a Reference to type IpConfCall.
### 8.2.3 IpAppConfCall
Defines the address of an IpAppConfCall Interface.
### 8.2.4 IpAppConfCallRef
Defines a Reference to type IpAppConfCall.
### 8.2.5 IpSubConfCall
Defines the address of an IpSubConfCall Interface.
### 8.2.6 IpSubConfCallRef
Defines a Reference to type IpSubConfCall.
### 8.2.7 IpAppSubConfCall
Defines the address of an IpAppSubConfCall Interface.
### 8.2.8 IpAppSubConfCallRef
Defines a Reference to type IpAppSubConfCall.
### 8.2.9 TpSubConfCallIdentifierSet
Defines a Numbered Set of Data Elements of IpSubConfCallIdentifier.
### 8.2.10 TpConfCallIdentifier
Defines the Sequence of Data Elements that unambiguously specify the
Conference Call object.
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type Sequence Element Description
ConfCallReference IpConfCallRef This element specifies the interface reference
for the conference call object. ConfCallSessionID TpSessionID This element
specifies the session ID of the conference call.
* * *
### 8.2.11 TpSubConfCallIdentifier
Defines the Sequence of Data Elements that unambiguously specify the
SubConference Call object.
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type Sequence Element Description
SubConfCallReference IpSubConfCallRef This element specifies the interface
reference for the subconference call object. SubConfCallSessionID TpSessionID
This element specifies the session ID of the subconference call.
* * *
### 8.2.12 IpAppConfCallControlManager
Defines the address of an IpAppConfCallControlManager Interface.
### 8.2.13 IpAppConfCallControlManagerRef
Defines a Reference to type IpAppConfCallControlManager.
### 8.2.14 TpConfPolicyType
Defines policy type for the conference.
If undefined the gateway will select an appropriate default.
If a mono media conference policy is specified for a multi-media conference,
the gateway will select appropriate defaults for the multi-media policy items.
If a multi-media policy is selected for a mono-media (voice-only) conference,
the multi-media conference items will be ignored.
* * *
Name Value Description P_CONFERENCE_POLICY_UNDEFINED 0 Undefined
P_CONFERENCE_POLICY_MONOMEDIA 1 CCCS - monomedia conference policy
P_CONFERENCE_POLICY_MULTIMEDIA 2 MMCCS - multimedia conference policy
* * *
### 8.2.15 TpConfPolicy
Defines the Tagged Choice of Data Elements that specify the policy that needs
adhered to by the conference.
* * *
     Tag Element Type   
     TpConfPolicyType
* * *
* * *
Tag Element Value Choice Element Type Choice Element Name
P_CONFERENCE_POLICY_MONOMEDIA TpMonoMediaConfPolicy MonoMedia
P_CONFERENCE_POLICY_MULTIMEDIA TpMultiMediaConfPolicy MultiMedia
* * *
### 8.2.16 TpMonoMediaConfPolicy
Defines the type of conference policy as a sequence of Policy Items and their
values.
For mono media there are only two types of conference policies; specified,
i.e. the application provides the policy, or undefined, i.e. the GW may choose
a default conference policy.
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type Description JoinAllowed TpBoolean
Specifies if dial-in to the conference is allowed. Parties can dial-in to the
conference using the address returned during reservation. If this is specified
the application will receive partyJoined for each participant dialling into
the conference.
* * *
### 8.2.17 TpJoinEventInfo
Defines the Sequence of Data Elements that specify the information returned to
the application in a Join event notification.
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type DestinationAddress TpAddress
OriginatingAddress TpAddress CallAppInfo TpCallAppInfoSet
* * *
### 8.2.18 TpConfSearchCriteria
Defines the Sequence of Data Elements that specify the criteria for doing a
search for available conference resources.
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type StartSearch TpDateAndTime
StopSearch TpDateAndTime RequestedResources TpInt32 RequestedDuration
TpDuration
* * *
### 8.2.19 TpConfSearchResult
Defines the Sequence of Data Elements that specifies the result of a search
for available conference resources.
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type MatchFound TpBoolean
ActualStartTime TpDateAndTime ActualResources TpInt32 ActualDuration
TpDuration
* * *
### 8.2.20 TpMultiMediaConfPolicy
Sequence of items for multi-media conferences.
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type Description JoinAllowed TpBoolean
Specifies if dial-in to the conference is allowed. Parties can dial-in to the
conference using the address returned during reservation. If this is specified
the application will receive partyJoined for each participant dialling into
the conference. MediaAllowed TpMediaType Specifies the media that are allowed
to be used by the participants. E.g. this can be used to limit the conference
to audio only, even when all participants support video. Chaired TpBoolean
Specifies whether the conference is chaired or free. In a chaired conference
the application or one of the participants acting as chair has special
privileges; e.g. can control the video distribution. VideoHandling
TpVideoHandlingType Specifies how the video should be handled.
* * *
### 8.2.21 TpResourceReservation
Defines the Sequence of Data Elements that specifies the result of a search
for available conference resources.
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type Sequence Element Description
ResourceID TpAddress The address with which the conference can be addressed.
ReservationID TpInt32 Specifies the reservation made. It should be unique in a
particular resource.
* * *
### 8.2.22 TpVideoHandlingType
Defines how video should be handled in the conference.
* * *
Name Value Description P_MIXED_VIDEO 0 Video is mixed, no special treatment of
speaker. P_SWITCHED_VIDEO_CHAIR_CONTROLLED 1 Video is switched, chair
determines the speaker. P_SWITCHED_VIDEO_VOICE_CONTROLLED 2 Video is switched
automatically based on audio output of the speaker.
* * *
###### ## Annex A (normative): OMG IDL Description of Conference call control
SCF
The OMG IDL representation of this interface specification is contained in a
text file (cccs.idl) contained in archive 291980405V700IDL.ZIP which
accompanies the present document.
###### ## Annex B (informative): W3C WSDL Description of Conference call
control SCF
The W3C WSDL representation of this interface specification is contained in
zip file 291980405V700WSDL.ZIP, which accompanies the present document.
###### ## Annex C (informative): Java™ API Description of the Call Control
SCFs
The Java™ API realisation of this interface specification is produced in
accordance with the Java™ Realisation rules defined in Part 1 of this
specification. These rules aim to deliver for Java™, a developer API, provided
as a realisation, supporting a Java™ API that represents the UML
specifications. The rules support the production of both J2SE™ and J2EE™
versions of the API from the common UML specifications.
The J2SE representation of this interface specification is provided as Java
Code, contained in archive 291980405V700J2SE.ZIP that accompanies the present
document.
The J2EE representation of this interface specification is provided as Java
Code, contained in archive 291980405V700J2EE.ZIP that accompanies the present
document.
###### ## Annex D (informative): Description of Call Control Sub-part 5:
Conference call control SCF for 3GPP2 cdma2000 networks
This annex is intended to define the OSA API Stage 3 interface definitions and
it provides the complete OSA specifications. It is an extension of OSA API
specifications capabilities to enable operation in cdma2000 systems
environment. They are in alignment with 3GPP2 Stage 1 requirements and Stage 2
architecture defined in:
[1] 3GPP2 P.S0001-B: \"Wireless IP Network Standard\", Version 1.0, September
2000.
[2] 3GPP2 S.R0037-0: \"IP Network Architecture Model for cdma2000 Spread
Spectrum Systems\", Version 2.0, May 14, 2002.
[3] 3GPP2 X.S0013: \"All-IP Core Network Multimedia Domain\", December 2003.
These requirements are expressed as additions to and/or exclusions from the
3GPP Release 6 specification.\ The information given here is to be used by
developers in 3GPP2 cdma2000 network architecture to interpret the 3GPP OSA
specifications.
# D.1 General Exceptions
The terms 3GPP and UMTS are not applicable for the cdma2000 family of
standards. Nevertheless these terms are used (3GPP TR 21.905) mostly in the
broader sense of \"3G Wireless System\". If not stated otherwise there are no
additions or exclusions required.
CAMEL and CAP mappings are not applicable for cdma2000 systems.
# D.2 Specific Exceptions
## D.2.1 Clause 1: Scope
There are no additions or exclusions.
## D.2.2 Clause 2: References
Normative references on 3GPP TS 23.078 and on 3GPP TS 29.078 are not
applicable for cdma2000 systems.
## D.2.3 Clause 3: Definitions and abbreviations
There are no additions or exclusions.
## D.2.4 Clause 4: Conference call control Service Sequence Diagrams
There are no additions or exclusions.
## D.2.5 Clause 5: Class Diagrams
There are no additions or exclusions.
## D.2.6 Clause 6: Conference call control Service Interface Classes
There are no additions or exclusions.
## D.2.7 Clause 7: Conference call control Service State Transition Diagrams
There are no additions or exclusions.
## D.2.8 Clause 8: Conference call control Data Definitions
There are no additions or exclusions. Nevertheless, for cdma2000 systems the
CAMEL data types and service properties are not applicable.
## D.2.9 Clause 9: Multi-Party Call Control Data Definitions
There are no additions or exclusions.
## D.2.10 Annex A (normative): OMG IDL Description of Conference call control
SCF
There are no additions or exclusions.
## D.2.11 Annex B (informative): W3C WSDL Description of Conference call
control SCF
There are no additions or **exclusions**.
## D.2.12 Annex C (informative): Java™ API Description of the Call Control
SCFs
There are no additions or exclusions.
#