# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part 16 of a multi-part TS covering the 3^rd^
Generation Partnership Project: Technical Specification Group Core Network;
Open Service Access (OSA); Application Programming Interface (API), as
identified below. The **API specification** (3GPP TS 29.198) is structured in
the following Parts:
> Part 1: \"Overview\";
>
> Part 2: \"Common Data Definitions\";
>
> Part 3: \"Framework\";
>
> Part 4: \"Call Control\";
>
> Sub-part 1: \"Call Control Common Definitions\";
>
> Sub-part 2: \"Generic Call Control SCF\";
>
> Sub-part 3: \"Multi-Party Call Control SCF\";
>
> Sub-part 4: \"Multi-Media Call Control SCF\";
>
> Sub-part 5: \"Conference Call Control SCF\";
>
> Part 5: \"User Interaction SCF\";
>
> Part 6: \"Mobility SCF\";
>
> Part 7: \"Terminal Capabilities SCF\";
>
> Part 8: \"Data Session Control SCF\";
>
> Part 9: \"Generic Messaging SCF\"; (not part of 3GPP Release 8)
>
> Part 10: \"Connectivity Manager SCF\"; **(new in Release 8)**
>
> Part 11: \"Account Management SCF\";
>
> Part 12: \"Charging SCF\".
>
> Part 13: \"Policy Management SCF\";
>
> Part 14: \"Presence and Availability Management SCF\";
>
> Part 15: \"Multi Media Messaging SCF\";
>
> **Part 16: \"Service Broker SCF\";8**
The **Mapping specification of the OSA APIs and network protocols** (3GPP TR
29.998) is also structured as above. A mapping to network protocols is however
not applicable for all Parts, but the numbering of Parts is kept.\ Also in
case a Part is not supported in a Release, the numbering of the parts is
maintained.
Table: Overview of the OSA APIs & Protocol Mappings 29.198 & 29.998-family
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | OSA | OSA | | | | | | | | API | API | | | | | | | | spec | Ma | | | | | | | | ifica | pping | | | | | | | | tions | - | | | | | | | | 29. | 29. | | | | | | | | 198-f | 998-f | | | | | | | | amily | amily | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Ove | 29.9 | Ove | | | | | | 98-01 | rview | 98-01 | rview | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | C | * | _Not | | | | | | 98-02 | ommon | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | Data | 8-02_ | pplic | | | | | | | D | | able _| | | | | | | efini | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Fram | * |_ Not | | | | | | 98-03 | ework | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | | 8-03 _| pplic | | | | | | | | | able_ | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Call | 2 | 2 | 2 | 2 | 2 | 2 | Ge | | Co | 9.198 | 9.198 | 9.198 | 9.198 | 9.198 | 9.998 | neric | | ntrol | -04-1 | -04-2 | -04-3 | -04-4 | -04-5 | -04-1 | Call | | (CC) | | | | | | | Co | | SCF | C | Ge | M | M | Confe | | ntrol | | | ommon | neric | ulti- | ulti- | rence | | -- | | | CC | CC | Party | media | Call | | CAP | | | data | SCF | CC | CC | Co | | ma | | | d | | SCF | SCF | ntrol | | pping | | | efini | | | | SCF | | | | | tions | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | | | _29 |_ Ge | | | | | | | | .998- | neric | | | | | | | | 04-2 _| Call | | | | | | | | | Co | | | | | | | | | ntrol | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | INAP | | | | | | | | | map | | | | | | | | | ping_ | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | | | _29 |_ Ge | | | | | | | | .998- | neric | | | | | | | | 04-3 _| Call | | | | | | | | | Co | | | | | | | | | ntrol | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | M | | | | | | | | | egaco | | | | | | | | | map | | | | | | | | | ping_ | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | | | 2 | Multi | | | | | | | | 9.998 | party | | | | | | | | -04-4 | Call | | | | | | | | | Co | | | | | | | | | ntrol | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | ISC | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | pping | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | User | 2 | User | | | | | | 98-05 | I | 9.998 | I | | | | | | | ntera | -05-1 | ntera | | | | | | | ction | | ction | | | | | | | SCF | | -- | | | | | | | | | CAP | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | pping | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | _29 |_ User | | | | | | | | .998- | I | | | | | | | | 05-2 _| ntera | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | INAP | | | | | | | | | map | | | | | | | | | ping_ | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | _29 |_ User | | | | | | | | .998- | I | | | | | | | | 05-3 _| ntera | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | M | | | | | | | | | egaco | | | | | | | | | map | | | | | | | | | ping_ | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | 2 | User | | | | | | | | 9.998 | I | | | | | | | | -05-4 | ntera | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | SMS | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | pping | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Mob | 29.9 | User | | | | | | 98-06 | ility | 98-06 | S | | | | | | | SCF | | tatus | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | User | | | | | | | | | Loc | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | MAP | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | pping | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Ter | * | _Not | | | | | | 98-07 | minal | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | Ca | 8-07_ | pplic | | | | | | | pabil | | able _| | | | | | | ities | | | | | | | | | SCF | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Data | 29.9 | Data | | | | | | 98-08 | Se | 98-08 | Se | | | | | | | ssion | | ssion | | | | | | | Co | | Co | | | | | | | ntrol | | ntrol | | | | | | | SCF | | -- | | | | | | | | | CAP | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | pping | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | * |_ Ge | * | _Not | | | | | | 29.19 | neric | 29.99 | A | | | | | | 8-09_ | Mess | 8-09 _| pplic | | | | | | | aging | | able_ | | | | | | | SCF _| | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | * |_ Co | * | _Not | | | | | | 29.19 | nnect | 29.99 | A | | | | | | 8-10_ | ivity | 8-10 _| pplic | | | | | | | Ma | | able_ | | | | | | | nager | | | | | | | | | SCF _| | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Ac | * |_ Not | | | | | | 98-11 | count | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | Manag | 8-11 _| pplic | | | | | | | ement | | able_ | | | | | | | SCF | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Cha | * | _Not | | | | | | 98-12 | rging | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | SCF | 8-12_ | pplic | | | | | | | | | able _| | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | P | * |_ Not | | | | | | 98-13 | olicy | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | Manag | 8-13 _| pplic | | | | | | | ement | | able_ | | | | | | | SCF | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Pre | * | _Not | | | | | | 98-14 | sence | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | & | 8-14_ | pplic | | | | | | | Av | | able _| | | | | | | ailab | | | | | | | | | ility | | | | | | | | | Manag | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | SCF | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | M | * |_ Not | | | | | | 98-15 | ulti- | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | media | 8-15 _| pplic | | | | | | | Mess | | able_ | | | | | | | aging | | | | | | | | | SCF | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **2 |** Se | * | _Not | | | | | | 9.198 | rvice | 29.99 | A | | | | | | -16_ _| B | 8-16_ | pplic | | | | | | | roker | | able _| | | | | | | SCF_ * | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
# 1 Scope
The present document is Part 16 of the Stage 3 specification for an
Application Programming Interface (API) for Open Service Access (OSA).
The OSA specifications define an architecture that enables application
developers to make use of network functionality through an open standardised
interface, i.e. the OSA APIs. The concepts and the functional architecture for
the OSA are contained in 3GPP TS 23.198 [3]. The requirements for OSA are
contained in 3GPP TS 22.127 [2].
The present document specifies the Service Broker Capability Feature (SCF)
aspects of the interface. All aspects of the Service Broker SCF are defined
here, these being:
  * Sequence Diagrams
  * Class Diagrams
  * Interface specification plus detailed method descriptions
  * State Transition diagrams
  * Data definitions
  * IDL Description of the interfaces
  * WSDL Description of the interfaces
The process by which this task is accomplished is through the use of object
modelling techniques described by the Unified Modelling Language (UML).
This specification has been defined jointly between 3GPP TSG CT WG5, ETSI
TISPAN and the Parlay Group, in co-operation with a number of JAIN™ Community
member companies.
Maintenance of up to 3GPP Rel-8 and new OSA Stage 1, 2 and 3 work beyond Rel-9
was moved to OMA in June 2008.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 29.198-1 \"Open Service Access; Application Programming Interface;
Part 1: Overview\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.127: \"Service Requirement for the Open Services Access (OSA);
Stage 1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.198: \"Open Service Access (OSA); Stage 2\".
[4] 3GPP TS 29.198-2: \"Open Service Access (OSA) Application Programming
Interface (API); Part 2: Common data definitions\".
[5] ITU-T Recommendation Q.713: \"Signalling connection control part formats
and codes\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TS 29.198-1 [1] apply.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TS
29.198-1 [1] apply.
# 4 Service Broker SCF
The following clauses describe each aspect of the Service Broker Capability
Feature (SCF).
The order is as follows:
  * The Sequence diagrams give the reader a practical idea of how each SCF is implemented.
  * The Class relationships clause show how each of the interfaces applicable to the SCF, relate to one another.
  * The Interface specification clause describes in detail each of the interfaces shown within the Class diagram part.
  * The State Transition Diagrams (STD) show the transition between states in the SCF. The states and transitions are well-defined; either methods specified in the Interface specification or events occurring in the underlying networks cause state transitions.
The Data Definitions clause show a detailed expansion of each of the data
types associated with the methods within the classes. Note that some data
types are used in other methods and classes and are therefore defined within
the Common Data types part of this specification.
## 4.1 General requirements on support of methods
An implementation of this API which supports or implements a method described
in the present document, shall support or implement the functionality
described for that method, for at least one valid set of values for the
parameters of that method.
Where a method is not supported by an implementation of a Service interface,
the exception P_METHOD_NOT_SUPPORTED shall be returned to any call of that
method.
Where a method is not supported by an implementation of an Application
interface, a call to that method shall be possible, and no exception shall be
returned.
# 5 Sequence Diagrams
There are no Sequence Diagrams for the Service Broker SCF.
# 6 Class Diagrams
{width="2.047222222222222in" height="3.3777777777777778in"}
Figure: Service Broker Interfaces Overview
# 7 The Service Interface Specifications
## 7.1 Interface Specification Format
This clause defines the interfaces, methods and parameters that form a part of
the API specification. The Unified Modelling Language (UML) is used to specify
the interface classes. The general format of an interface specification is
described below.
### 7.1.1 Interface Class
This shows a UML interface class description of the methods supported by that
interface, and the relevant parameters and types. The Service and Framework
interfaces for enterprise-based client applications are denoted by classes
with name Ip\. The callback interfaces to the applications are denoted
by classes with name IpApp\. For the interfaces between a Service and
the Framework, the Service interfaces are typically denoted by classes with
name IpSvc\, while the Framework interfaces are denoted by classes with
name IpFw\.
### 7.1.2 Method descriptions
Each method (API method "call") is described. Both synchronous and
asynchronous methods are used in the API. Asynchronous methods are identified
by a \'Req\' suffix for a method request, and, if applicable, are served by
asynchronous methods identified by either a \'Res\' or \'Err\' suffix for
method results and errors, respectively. To handle responses and reports, the
application or service developer must implement the relevant IpApp\ or
IpSvc\ interfaces to provide the callback mechanism.
### 7.1.3 Parameter descriptions
Each method parameter and its possible values are described. Parameters
described as \'in\' represent those that must have a value when the method is
called. Those described as \'out\' are those that contain the return result of
the method when the method returns.
### 7.1.4 State Model
If relevant, a state model is shown to illustrate the states of the objects
that implement the described interface.
## 7.2 Base Interface
### 7.2.1 Interface Class IpInterface
All application, framework and service interfaces inherit from the following
interface. This API Base Interface does not provide any additional methods.
+-------------------+ | \> | | | | IpInterface | +-------------------+ | | +-------------------+ | | +-------------------+
## 7.3 Service Interfaces
### 7.3.1 Overview
The Service Interfaces provide the interfaces into the capabilities of the
underlying network - such as call control, user interaction, messaging,
mobility and connectivity management.
The interfaces that are implemented by the services are denoted as \'Service
Interface\'. The corresponding interfaces that must be implemented by the
application (e.g. for API callbacks) are denoted as \'Application Interface\'.
## 7.4 Generic Service Interface
### 7.4.1 Interface Class IpService
Inherits from: IpInterface
.All service interfaces inherit from the following interface.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | \> | | | | IpService | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | setCallback (appInterface : in IpInterfaceRef) : void | | | | setCallbackWithSessionID (appInterface : in IpInterfaceRef, | | sessionID : in TpSessionID) : void | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
#### 7.4.1.1 Method setCallback()
This method specifies the reference address of the callback interface that a
service uses to invoke methods on the application. It is not allowed to invoke
this method on an interface that uses SessionIDs. Multiple invocations of this
method on an interface shall result in multiple callback references being
specified. The SCS shall use the most recent callback interface provided by
the application using this method. In the event that a callback reference
fails or is no longer available, the next most recent callback reference
available shall be used.
Parameters
appInterface : in IpInterfaceRef
Specifies a reference to the application interface, which is used for
callbacks
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_INTERFACE_TYPE
#### 7.4.1.2 Method setCallbackWithSessionID()
This method specifies the reference address of the application\'s callback
interface that a service uses for interactions associated with a specific
session ID: e.g. a specific call, or call leg. It is not allowed to invoke
this method on an interface that does not use SessionIDs. Multiple invocations
of this method on an interface shall result in multiple callback references
being specified. The SCS shall use the most recent callback interface provided
by the application using this method. In the event that a callback reference
fails or is no longer available, the next most recent callback reference
available shall be used.
Parameters
appInterface : in IpInterfaceRef
Specifies a reference to the application interface, which is used for
callbacks
sessionID : in TpSessionID
Specifies the session for which the service can invoke the application\'s
callback interface.
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_SESSION_ID, P_INVALID_INTERFACE_TYPE
# 8 Service Broker Interface Classes
The Service Broker SCF enables the application to register its interest in
particular traffic as part of service interactions. The Service Broker service
provides a SCF interface that is called IpServiceBroker. There is no need for
an application interface, since IpServiceBroker only contains two synchronous
methods registerServiceInteraction and unregisterServiceInteraction.
## 8.1 Interface Class IpServiceBroker
Inherits from: IpService.
The ServiceBroker SCF interface IpServiceBroker contains two synchronous
methods, registerServiceInteraction and unregisterServiceInteraction. The
application has to provide its name, endpoint address and optionally a service
identifier as input to the registerServiceInteraction method. The result
indicates whether or not the service brokering scenario is available in the
Service Broker SCF and, in case they are, it will return an assignment
identifier in order to identify the particular interworking scenario. An
application may register multiple times with the same clientBrokerID. This is
to facilitate, though not mandate, load sharing to be possible and the ability
of two or more instances of an application to be involved in service
interworking. Moreover, the same application may register with the service
broker using more than one clientBrokerID to facilitate partitioning of
services among subscribers.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | \> | | | | IpServiceBroker | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | registerServiceInteraction (clientBrokerID : in TpString, | | endpointAddress : in TpEndpointAddress, serviceKey : in | | TpServiceKey) : TpAssignmentID | | | | unregisterServiceInteraction (assignmentID : in TpAssignmentID) : | | void | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
### 8.1.1 Method registerServiceInteraction()
This method is used by an application or SCF to register interest in a
particular service interaction which has already been provisioned on the
Service Broker entity.
The method may be called multiple times for individual instances of the same
application or service i.e. individual instances using the same
clientBrokerID. The behaviour of the Service Broker SCF for this scenario is
regarded as implementation detail but may include such behaviour as round
robining of traffic to the applications or services identified by the
clientBrokerId or implementing a primary/secondary hot standby traffic
distribution for high availability.
The method may also be called multiple times by the same application instances
but each identified by a unique clientBrokerID, in order to facilitate
partitioning of subscribers. For example, where multiple charging platforms
have been provisioned by subscriber number.
If two applications attempt to call registerServiceInteraction() with the same
clientBrokerID but on different service managers then a P_INVALID_CRITERIA
exception will be returned.
Returns assignmentID: Specifies an instance of a registered service
interaction. This is used by the application in order to unregister the
service interaction at a later stage. If the service or application calls
registerServiceInteraction() multiple times with the same clientBrokerID,
endpointAddress and serviceKey then the service Broker SCF will return the
same assignmentID.
The method will return an unique assignmentID for each invocation of the
registerServiceInteraction() method specified with an unique clientBrokerID.
A P_INVALID_SERVICE_INTERACTION is returned if the Service Broker entity has
no prior knowledge of the service or application.
Parameters
clientBrokerID : in TpString
Identifies the name of the service or application requiring service
interaction.
endpointAddress : in TpEndpointAddress
Identifies the network address of the service or application. This is to allow
the Service Broker SCF to direct network traffic to the service or application
at a later stage.
serviceKey : in TpServiceKey
Identifies the service for which applications require service interaction.
Service interactions may be grouped or assigned by a single service key. This
parameter is optional; if the application does not use this parameter then its
value will be assigned NULL by the application.
Returns
TpAssignmentID
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_SERVICE_INTERACTION, P_INVALID_CRITERIA
### 8.1.2 Method unregisterServiceInteraction()
This method is used by a service or application to unregister previously
registered service interactions on the Service Broker SCF.
As a result of calling this method, the service or application will no longer
receive network traffic from the Service Broker SCF for that service
interaction identified by the specific assignmentID. However, if the service
or application has previously called registerServiceInteraction() more than
once then it may still receive network traffic. In order to completely
unregister from all service interactions, the service or applications must
call unregisterServiceInteraction() for each previously allocated
assignmentID.
The method returns P_INVALID_ASSIGNMENT_ID if the supplied assignmentID value
does not correspond to a previously returned assignmentID value via the
registerServiceInteraction() method.
Parameters
assignmentID : in TpAssignmentID
Identifies the specific service interaction
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_ASSIGNMENT_ID
# 9 State Transition Diagrams
There are no State Transition Diagrams for the Service Broker SCF.
# 10 Service Broker Service Properties
The following table lists properties relevant for the Service Broker API.
* * *
Property Type Description/Interpretation P_ADDRESSPLAN INTEGER_SET Indicates
the supported address plans (defined in TpAddressPlan.) E.g.
P_ADDRESS_PLAN_IP. Note that more than one address plan may be supported.
* * *
# 11 Data Definitions
All data types referenced but not defined in this clause are common data
definitions which may be found in 3GPP TS 29.198-2 [4].
## 11.1 Service Broker Data Definitions
### 11.1.1 clientBrokerID
Identifies the application or service requiring interaction
* * *
Name Type Documentation clientBrokerID TpString Identifies the application or
service requiring the service interaction
* * *
### 11.1.2 TpEndpointAddress
This data type defines the Tagged Choice of Data Elements that specify the
address of the end point to which network traffic should be sent as a result
of service interactions.
* * *
     Tag Element Type            
     TpEndpointAddressCategory
* * *
* * *
Tag Element Value Choice Element Type Choice Element Name P_NETWORK_ADDRESS
TpAddress NetworkAddress P_SS7_ADDRESS TpOctetSet SS7Address
* * *
### 11.1.3 TpEndpointAddressCategory
* * *
Name Value Description P_NETWORK_ADDRESS 0 Network address for protocol
specific traffic P_SS7_ADDRESS 1 SS7 Address for endpoint. For example,
encoded Global Title or Point Code with SSN as specified in ITU-T Q.713 [5]
* * *
### 11.1.4 TpServiceKey
Defines a Tagged Choice of Data Elements that specify services on which the
application is requesting interaction.
* * *
     Tag Element Type   
     TpServiceKeyType
* * *
* * *
Tag Element Value Choice Element Type Choice Element Name P_SERVICE_KEY
TpInt32 ServiceKeyValue
* * *
### 11.1.5 TpServiceKeyType
Defines the type of service key used
* * *
Name Value Description P_SERVICE_KEY_UNDEFINED 0 Undefined P_SERVICE_KEY 1 The
service key value
* * *
# 12 Exception Classes
The following are the list of exception classes that are used in this
interface of the API.
* * *
Name Description P_INVALID_SERVICE_INTERACTION The request cannot be processed
as there is insufficient information for the Service Broker SCF to carry out
the service interaction.
* * *
Each exception class contains the following structure:
* * *
Structure Element Name Structure Element Type Structure Element Description
ExtraInformation TpString Carries extra information to help identify the
source of the exception, e.g. a parameter name
* * *
###### ## Annex A (normative): OMG IDL Description of Service Broker SCF
The OMG IDL representation of this interface specification is contained in a
text file (svcbroker.idl contained in archive 2919816V800IDL.ZIP) which
accompanies the present document.
###### ## Annex B (informative): W3C WSDL Description of Service Broker SCF
The W3C WSDL representation of this interface specification is contained in
zip file 2919816V800WSDL.ZIP, which accompanies the present document.
###### ## Annex C (informative): Java API Description of the Service Broker
SCF
The Java™ API realisation of this interface specification is produced in
accordance with the Java™ Realisation rules defined in Part 1 of this
specification series. These rules aim to deliver for Java™, a developer API,
provided as a realisation, supporting a Java™ API that represents the UML
specifications. The rules support the production of both J2SE™ and J2EE™
versions of the API from the common UML specifications.
The J2SE™ representation of this interface specification is provided as Java™
Code, contained in archive 2919816V800J2SE.ZIP that accompanies the present
document.
The J2EE™ representation of this interface specification is provided as Java™
Code, contained in archive 2919816V800J2EE.ZIP that accompanies the present
document.
###### ## Annex D (informative): Description of Service Broker for 3GPP2
cdma2000 networks
This annex is intended to define the OSA API Stage 3 interface definitions and
it provides the complete OSA specifications. It is an extension of OSA API
specifications capabilities to enable operation in cdma2000 systems
environment. They are in alignment with 3GPP2 Stage 1 requirements and Stage 2
architecture defined in:
[1] 3GPP2 P.S0001-B: \"Wireless IP Network Standard\", Version 1.0, September
2000.
[2] 3GPP2 S.R0037-0: \"IP Network Architecture Model for cdma2000 Spread
Spectrum Systems\", Version 2.0, May 14, 2002.
[3] 3GPP2 X.S0013: \"All-IP Core Network Multimedia Domain\", December 2003.
These requirements are expressed as additions to and/or exclusions from the
3GPP specification.\ The information given here is to be used by developers in
3GPP2 cdma2000 network architecture to interpret the 3GPP OSA specifications.
# D.1 General Exceptions
The term UMTS is not applicable for the cdma2000 family of standards.
Nevertheless these terms are used (3GPP TR 21.905) mostly in the broader sense
of \"3G Wireless System\". If not stated otherwise there are no additions or
exclusions required.
CAMEL and CAP mappings are not applicable for cdma2000 systems.
# D.2 Specific Exceptions
## D.2.1 Clause 1: Scope
There are no additions or exclusions.
## D.2.2 Clause 2: References
Normative references on 3GPP TS 23.078 and on 3GPP TS 29.078 are not
applicable for cdma2000 systems.
## D.2.3 Clause 3: Definitions and abbreviations
There are no additions or exclusions.
## D.2.4 Clause 4: Service Broker SCF
There are no additions or exclusions.
## D.2.5 Clause 5: Sequence Diagrams
There are no additions or exclusions.
## D.2.6 Clause 6 Class Diagrams
There are no additions or exclusions.
## D.2.7 Clause 7: The Service Interface Specifications
There are no additions or exclusions.
## D.2.8 Clause 8: Service Broker Interface Classes
There are no additions or exclusions.
## D.2.9 Clause 9: State Transition Diagrams
There are no additions or exclusions.
## D.2.10 Clause 10: Service Broker Service Properties
There are no additions or exclusions.
## D.2.11 Clause 11: Data Definitions
There are no additions or exclusions.
## D.2.12 Annex A (normative): OMG IDL Description of Service Broker SCF
There are no additions or exclusions.
## D.2.13 Annex B (informative): W3C WSDL Description of Service Broker SCF
There are no additions or exclusions.
#