# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
3GPP acknowledges the contribution of the Parlay X Web Services specifications
from The Parlay Group. The Parlay Group is pleased to see 3GPP acknowledge and
publish the present document, and the Parlay Group looks forward to working
with the 3GPP community to improve future versions of the present document.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part 13 of a multi-part deliverable covering the 3^rd^
Generation Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Core Network and
Terminals; Open Service Access (OSA); Parlay X Web Services, as identified
below:
Part 1: \"Common\"
Part 2: \"Third party call\"
Part 3: \"Call Notification\"
Part 4: \"Short Messaging\"
Part 5: \"Multimedia Messaging\"
Part 6: \"Payment\"
Part 7: \"Account management\"
Part 8: \"Terminal Status\"
Part 9: \"Terminal location\"
Part 10: \"Call handling\"
Part 11: \"Audio call\"
Part 12: \"Multimedia conference\"
**Part 13: \"Address list management\"**
Part 14: \"Presence\"
Part 15: \"Message Broadcast\"
Part 16: \"Geocoding\"
Part 17: \"Application driven Quality of Service (QoS)\"
Part 18: \"Device Capabilities and Configuration\"
Part 19: \"Multimedia streaming control\"
Part 20: \"Multimedia multicast session management\"
Part 21: **\"** Content management**\"**
Part 22: \"Policy\"
# 1 Scope
The present document is Part 13 of the Stage 3 Parlay X Web Services
specification for Open Service Access (OSA).
The OSA specifications define an architecture that enables application
developers to make use of network functionality through an open standardized
interface, i.e. the OSA APIs. The concepts and the functional architecture for
the OSA are contained in 3GPP TS 23.198 [3]. The requirements for OSA are
contained in 3GPP TS 22.127 [2].
The present document specifies the Address List Management Web Service aspects
of the interface. All aspects of the Address List Management Web Service are
defined here, these being:
  * Name spaces.
  * Sequence diagrams.
  * Data definitions.
  * Interface specification plus detailed method descriptions.
  * Fault definitions.
  * Service policies.
  * WSDL description of the interfaces.
The present document has been defined jointly between 3GPP TSG CT WG5, ETSI
TISPAN and The Parlay Group.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.127: \"Service Requirement for the Open Services Access (OSA);
Stage 1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.198: \"Open Service Access (OSA); Stage 2\".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.101: \"Service aspects; Service principles\".
[5] W3C Recommendation (2 May 2001): \"XML Schema Part 2: Datatypes\".
http://www.w3.org/TR/2001/REC-xmlschema-2-20010502/.
[6] 3GPP TS 29.199-1: \"Open Service Access (OSA); Parlay X Web Services; Part
1: Common\".
[7] IETF RFC 2396: \"Uniform Resource Identifiers (URI): Generic Syntax\".
[8] IETF RFC 4826: \"Extensible Markup Language (XML) Formats for Representing
Resource Lists\".
[9] OMA-TS-Presence_SIMPLE_RLS_XDM- V1_1: \"RLS XDM Specification\", Version
1.1, Open Mobile Alliance^TM^.
[http://www.openmobilealliance.org/]{.underline}
[10] OMA-TS-XDM_Shared_Group-V2_0: \"Shared Group XDM Specification\", Version
2.0, Open Mobile Alliance^TM^.
[http://www.openmobilealliance.org/]{.underline}
[11] OMA-TS-XDM_Shared_List-V2_0: \"Shared List XDM Specification\", Version
2.0, Open Mobile Alliance^TM^.
[http://www.openmobilealliance.org/]{.underline}
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6] and the following apply:
**application managed group:** group created and managed outside of the
network, requiring the group members to be passed into the network for
processing.
**group:** container for a set of addresses, it is not an address itself.\
When a group contain one or more groups, logically the group contains the set
of addresses it holds, plus the set of addresses that any contained group
holds (including any addresses contained in groups that a contained group
holds).
**group resolution:** when a group is processed by a service, it expands the
group (and any nested groups) into a set of addresses.\ The resulting set of
addresses contains no groups, and any duplicate addresses are removed. Thus, a
resolved group may be considered an exclusive union of all of its contained
members.
**network managed group:** group created and managed within a network,
allowing Web Services to reference the members of a group using the group name
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TS
29.199-1 [6] apply.
# 4 Detailed service description
The present document defines two related interfaces, one to manage the groups
themselves - creation, deletion, query and access right management. The second
interface manages the members within a group, supporting add, delete and query
operations.
Addresses are not created using this service, they must already exist.
## 4.1 Group URI format
A group URI is consistent with the style defined in RFC 2396 [7], supporting
the following URI style which is used in schemes such as sip and mailto:
scheme:dept1294\@mydivision.mycompany.serviceprovider.com
The group URI consists of the following discrete elements:
**Scheme:** selected by the provider of the group URI.
**Group name:** following the conventions of RFC 2396 [7].
**Suffix:** may be added by Service Provider (if allowed by creation
operation) to create a unique name when the Prefix + Group name already
exists.
**Sub-domain:** defined by the requester, this is contained within the domain
provided by the service provider.
**Domain:** defined by the Service Provider, and cannot be specified by the
application.
This definition of a group URI enables flexibility on the part of the Service
Provider and the Requester, while ensuring unique groups are created and
providing transparency of implementation of group storage.
The following are some group URI examples.
  * sip:salesteam\@sales.acme.anytelco.com
  * sip:salesteam1\@sales.acme.anytelco.com
  * [mailto:fieldservice\@cityofaustin.anytelco.com]{.underline}
  * group:mailroom\@bldg001.acme.anytelco.com
These examples show (1)(2) use of prefix to create unique names, (1)(3) use of
different defined schemes, and (4) use of a service provider defined scheme.
## 4.2 Address list usage in services
When a service has a requirement to support groups of address lists, it may
satisfy this requirement by utilizing network managed groups. The group URI is
passed to the service, and this group URI is resolved to the set of URIs
contained within the group. If one or more group URIs are provided in a set of
URIs to a service, the service will replace each group URI with its set of
contained URIs, and the service processing will apply to the unique union of
URIs generated.
If supported by the service policy, zero or more of the set of URIs contained
within a group may be themselves group URIs, which would also be resolved.
Thus, in this case, the list of URIs that the service would process would be
the union of individual URIs (as a set with no duplicates).
Unless specifically defined in the semantics of a service, the expected
semantic for the results of a service operation will be presented as the
results for the set of URIs as processed (the union of non-group and group
provided URIs), without group URIs included in the result. This eliminates a
variety of complexity issues including duplicate URIs in multiple groups and
the differences between a group URI and a URI referring to an endpoint.
# 5 Namespaces
The GroupManagement interface uses the namespace:
http://www.csapi.org/wsdl/parlayx/group_mgmt/v4_0
The Group interface uses the namespace:
http://www.csapi.org/wsdl/parlayx/group/v4_0
The GroupMember interface uses the namespace:
http://www.csapi.org/wsdl/parlayx/group_member/v4_0
The data types are defined in the namespace:
http://www.csapi.org/schema/parlayx/group/v4_0
The \'xsd\' namespace is used in the present document to refer to the XML
Schema data types defined in XML Schema [5]. The use of the name \'xsd\' is
not semantically significant.
# 6 Sequence diagrams
## 6.1 Manage groups (Create, delete, query, set access and query access)
Pattern: Request / Response.
The group management functions are shown in this diagram, showing a sequence
including the creation of a group, setting access permissions to the group,
querying those permissions, query of groups and finally deletion of a group.
{width="3.670138888888889in" height="7.05625in"}
Figure 1
## 6.2 Manage Group Members (AddMember, AddMembers, DeleteMember,
DeleteMembers, QueryMembers)
Pattern: Request / Response.
The group membership functions are shown in this diagram, showing the two add,
two delete, and the query function.
{width="3.2895833333333333in" height="3.9430555555555555in"}
Figure 2
# 7 XML Schema data type definition
## 7.1 AccessPermissions structure
List of access permissions that may be assigned to a requester associated with
a group.
* * *
Name Type Optional Description AdminPermission xsd:boolean No Requester has
admin permission for the group AddPermission xsd:boolean No Requester can add
members to a group DeletePermission xsd:boolean No Requester can delete
members from a group QueryPermission xsd:boolean No Requester can query
members in a group
* * *
## 7.2 AttributeStatus enumeration
* * *
Enumeration Description Valid Attribute is valid Unknown Attribute is not
defined Denied Access to the attribute is denied
* * *
## 7.3 SimpleAttribute structure
Attribute representing a name and an associated value.
* * *
Name Type Optional Description Name xsd:string No Name of the attribute Type
xsd:string No Type of the attribute. The value is always a string, but this
provides information on the format of the value. Value xsd:string No Value of
the attribute Status AttributeStatus No Status of the attribute
* * *
## 7.4 GroupType enumeration
* * *
Enumeration Description PresenceList A list of Presentities (e.g. an entry
element in a rls-services document in an RLS XDMS [9]). URIList A list of
individual addresses (e.g. in a resource-lists document in a Shared List XDMS
[11]). GroupURIList A list of group addresses (e.g. in a group usage document
in a Shared List XDMS [11]) . PrearrangedGroup A group document (e.g. in a
Shared Group XDMS [10]) used for prearranged group communication.
* * *
## 7.5 GroupInfo Structure
* * *
Element name Element type Optional Description GroupSelector xsd:string No
Document Selector GroupType GroupType No The type of group or list. Group
xsd:anyURI Yes Name of the group (Address to the group in case of a
PresenceList or PrearrangedGroup) List XML element Yes The detailed list
/group definition. ( e.g a \element in Shared List XDMS [11], a
\ element in RLS XDMS [9] or a \ element in Shared Group XDMS
[10])
* * *
# 8 Web Service interface definition
The Address List Management service consists of three interfaces:
  * GroupManagement which manages creation and access to groups that > hold the address lists.
  * Group which manages the content of the address list.
  * GroupMember which represents an address list entry and its > associated properties.
Together these provide the interfaces to create and manage address lists,
enabling these groups to be used by other services through this common
capability.
## 8.1 Interface: GroupManagement
The GroupManagement interface provides the administration interface for
creating, deleting, querying and managing access rights for groups. The format
of the group name is specified in the Detailed Service Description (see clause
4).
### 8.1.1 Operation: createGroup
Create a new group or list. The requester provides either:
  * The name for the group and the domain segment in which the group is to be stored. A result shall be returned with the Group URI..
> or
  * The group or list owner and group or list name / identity. The document selector shall be returned.
In the first case, a domain segment is used, since the full domain will
consist of the domain segment provided by the requester (e.g.
\'sales.mycompany\') plus a period separator (\'.\') per RFC 2396 [7] and the
domain segment provided by the Service Provider (e.g.
\'serviceprovider.com\').
To avoid name conflicts, since group URIs must be unique, an automatic naming
capability is provided which will append a suffix to the name provided if the
name is already used within the domain. If the AutoName is set to \'true\' and
the fully qualified name is not unique, then the name will have a suffix added
and the unique name will be provided in the result. For example, if the group
\'sales\@mycompany.serviceprovider.com\' was already defined, a suffix would
be added and the result could be \'sales1\@mycompany.serviceprovider.com\'. If
the AutoName is set to \'false\', then a PolicyException is thrown if the
group URI is not unique.
In the second case, the group or list belonging to the owner may be identified
either by a list URI parameter (e.g for presence lists in a SIP /IMS network)
or by a list name (e.g. for shared lists in a SIP / IMS network).
Note: In a SIP / IMS network:
  * The requester must be authorized within it
  * A service URI that identifies a list at an RLS XDMS [9] may be constructed from the values in the GroupOwner (URI) and the ListIdParameter (as a URI parameter).
  * A list at a Shared List XDMS [11] is identified by the ListName.
#### 8.1.1.1 Input message: createGroupRequest
+-----------------+-------------+----------+--------------------+ | Part name | Part type | Optional | Description | +-----------------+-------------+----------+--------------------+ | name | xsd:string | Yes | Name of group to | | | | | be included in | | | | | group name. | | | | | | | | | | This parameter | | | | | must be present | | | | | when the Domain | | | | | parameter is | | | | | present. | +-----------------+-------------+----------+--------------------+ | Domain | xsd:string | Yes | Domain segment to | | | | | be contained | | | | | within the domain | | | | | provided by the | | | | | Service Provider. | | | | | May be | | | | | hierarchical using | | | | | period separators | | | | | (see RFC 2396 | | | | | [7]) | +-----------------+-------------+----------+--------------------+ | AutoName | xsd:boolean | Yes | If false, name | | | | | must be unique or | | | | | it will not be | | | | | created. If true, | | | | | a suffix will be | | | | | added to the name | | | | | if it is not | | | | | unique. | | | | | | | | | | This parameter | | | | | must be present | | | | | when the Domain | | | | | parameter is | | | | | present. | +-----------------+-------------+----------+--------------------+ | GroupOwner | xsd:anyURI | Yes | User who is the | | | | | group / list | | | | | owner. | | | | | | | | | | []{.underline} | | | | | | | | | | The identity of | | | | | the owner may be | | | | | part of the | | | | | information | | | | | required to | | | | | identify the group | | | | | / list. | +-----------------+-------------+----------+--------------------+ | ListIdParameter | xsd:string | Yes | A string that may | | | | | be used as a URI | | | | | parameter to | | | | | identify a | | | | | particular ist. | +-----------------+-------------+----------+--------------------+ | ListName | xsd:string | Yes | A name that may be | | | | | used to identify a | | | | | particular list | | | | | (e.g. resource | | | | | list). | +-----------------+-------------+----------+--------------------+ | Requester | xsd:anyURI | No | User wishing to | | | | | create / update | | | | | the group / list. | | | | | [ ]{.underline} | | | | | | | | | | []{.underline} | | | | | | | | | | Normally this is | | | | | the group / list | | | | | owner. | | | | | | | | | | It is assumed that | | | | | the Watcher | | | | | Application has | | | | | authenticated this | | | | | user. | +-----------------+-------------+----------+--------------------+ | List | XML Element | Yes | Detailed | | | | | information about | | | | | the group (e.g. a | | | | | RLS \ | | | | | resource-list | | | | | \ element | | | | | or a \ | | | | | element in Shared | | | | | Group XDMS | | | | | [10]). | | | | | | | | | | Note: If this is | | | | | an RLS or a Shared | | | | | Group services | | | | | document element, | | | | | it is recommended | | | | | that it includes a | | | | | service URI | | | | | constructed from | | | | | the GroupOwner | | | | | (URI) and the | | | | | ListId (URI | | | | | parameter) parts | | | | | of the Group | | | | | identity. | | | | | | | | | | If this is a | | | | | resource-lists XML | | | | | document, it is | | | | | recommended that | | | | | it includes the | | | | | list name | | | | | attribute | | | | | (optional in RFC | | | | | 4826 [8]) with | | | | | the value defined | | | | | by the ListName | | | | | part of the Group | | | | | identity. | +-----------------+-------------+----------+--------------------+ | GroupType | GroupType | Yes | The type of group | | | | | or list. | +-----------------+-------------+----------+--------------------+
#### 8.1.1.2 Output message: createGroupResponse
Either 'result' or 'GroupSelector' shall be provided in the output message.
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description result xsd:anyURI Yes Fully qualified
group name GroupSelector xsd:string Yes Document Selector
* * *
#### 8.1.1.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001: Service error.
  * SVC0002: Invalid input value.
  * SVC0004: No valid addresses.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001: Policy error.
  * POL0212: Group name too long.
  * POL0213: Group already exists.
### 8.1.2 Operation: deleteGroup
Delete a group. Either the Group (URI) or the Group Selector must identify the
group / list to be removed.
NOTE: In a SIP / IMS network, the requester must be authorized within it.
#### 8.1.2.1 Input message: deleteGroupRequest
+---------------+------------+----------+---------------------------+ | Part name | Part type | Optional | Description | +---------------+------------+----------+---------------------------+ | group | xsd:anyURI | Yes | Name of group to delete | | | | | (as returned from a | | | | | previous createGroup or | | | | | GetOwnersGroups request). | +---------------+------------+----------+---------------------------+ | GroupOwner | xsd:anyURI | Yes | User who is the group / | | | | | list owner. | | | | | | | | | | []{.underline} | | | | | | | | | | The identity of the owner | | | | | may be part of the | | | | | information required to | | | | | identify the group / | | | | | list. | +---------------+------------+----------+---------------------------+ | GroupType | GroupType | Yes | The type of group or list | | | | | to be deleted. | +---------------+------------+----------+---------------------------+ | GroupSelector | xsd:string | Yes | Document Selector (as | | | | | returned from a previous | | | | | createGroup request). | +---------------+------------+----------+---------------------------+ | Requester | xsd:anyURI | No | User wishing to delete | | | | | the group / list. [ | | | | | ]{.underline} | | | | | | | | | | []{.underline} | | | | | | | | | | Normally this is the | | | | | group / list owner. | | | | | | | | | | It is assumed that the | | | | | Watcher Application has | | | | | authenticated this user. | +---------------+------------+----------+---------------------------+
#### 8.1.2.2 Output message: deleteGroupResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.1.2.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001: Service error.
  * SVC0002: Invalid input value.
  * SVC0004: No valid addresses.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001: Policy error.
### 8.1.3 Operation: queryGroups
Group information can be retrieved from the network, with two types of search,
one that retrieves groups only from a single sub-domain and one that returns
groups from the sub-domain and its sub-domains.
An example demonstrates the two search types. The following example data is
used:
  * Dept123\@region1.sales.mycompany.serviceprovider.com
  * Dept245\@region2.sales.mycompany.serviceprovider.com
  * Dept348\@sales.mycompany.serviceprovider.com
  * Dept367\@sales.mycompany.serviceprovider.com
  * Dept875\@finance.mycompany.serviceprovider.com
For a search using the search domain \'sales.mycompany\', with the hierarchy
set to \'false\', the result will contain:
  * Dept348\@sales.mycompany.serviceprovider.com
  * Dept367\@sales.mycompany.serviceprovider.com
  * If the same search domain \'sales.mycompany\' is used, but the > hierarchy set to \'true\', the result will contain,
  * Dept123\@region1.sales.mycompany.serviceprovider.com
  * Dept245\@region2.sales.mycompany.serviceprovider.com
  * Dept348\@sales.mycompany.serviceprovider.com
  * Dept367\@sales.mycompany.serviceprovider.com
#### 8.1.3.1 Input message: queryGroupsRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description SearchDomain xsd:string No Sub-domain
to retrieve groups from Hierarchy xsd:boolean No Follow hierarchy under search
name.
* * *
#### 8.1.3.2 Output message: queryGroupsResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description Result xsd:anyURI [0..unbounded] Yes
Array of items matching search criteria.
* * *
#### 8.1.3.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001: Service error.
  * SVC0002: Invalid input value.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001: Policy error.
### 8.1.4 Operation: setAccess
Access to manage the elements within a group may be provided independently
from the access to manage the group itself. This operation enables the group
administrator to specify the requester and the operations the requester is
permitted to perform through the Group interface.
The access rights are absolute, if a requester has \'query\' access currently
and \'add\' access is to be added, then the request requires both \'add\' and
\'query\' rights to be set to \'true\'. Likewise, any right that is set to
\'false\' will be revoked.
#### 8.1.4.1 Input message: setAccessRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description Group xsd:anyURI No Group to grant
access to Requester xsd:string No Requester to grant access to AdminPermission
xsd:Boolean No Permission to manage group AddPermission xsd:Boolean No
Permission to add members to the group DeletePermission xsd:Boolean No
Permission to delete members from the group QueryPermission xsd:Boolean No
Permission to query members in the group
* * *
#### 8.1.4.2 Output message: setAccessResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.1.4.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001: Service error.
  * SVC0002: Invalid input value.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001: Policy error.
### 8.1.5 Operation: queryAccess
Query the access permissions for a requester on a group.
#### 8.1.5.1 Input message: queryAccessRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description Group xsd:anyURI No Group to which
permissions are to be granted. Requester xsd:string No Requester to retrieve
access permissions for.
* * *
#### 8.1.5.2 Output message: queryAccessResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description result AccessPermissions No List of
permissions that a requester has.
* * *
#### 8.1.5.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001: Service error.
  * SVC0002: Invalid input value.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001: Policy error.
### 8.1.6 Operation: getOwnersGroups
It gets the members of existing groups / lists belonging to an owner that have
no other specific reference or domain.
The identity of the Requester is necessary for network authorization and the
identity of the GroupOwner is necessary to identify the groups / lists.
NOTE: In a SIP / IMS network, the requester must be authorized within it.
### 8.1.6.1 Input message: getOwnersGroupsRequest
+------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Part name | Part type | Optional | Description | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | requester | xsd:anyURI | No | User wishing to | | | | | retrieve the | | | | | groups / lists | | | | | members. [ | | | | | ]{.underline} | | | | | | | | | | []{.underline} | | | | | | | | | | Normally this is | | | | | the groups / | | | | | lists owner. | | | | | | | | | | It is assumed | | | | | that the Watcher | | | | | Application has | | | | | authenticated | | | | | this user. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | GroupOwner | xsd:anyURI | No | User who is the | | | | | groups / lists | | | | | owner. | | | | | | | | | | The identity of | | | | | the owner is | | | | | part of the | | | | | information | | | | | required to | | | | | identify the | | | | | groups / lists. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | GroupSelector | xsd:string | Yes | Document | | | | | Selector. If | | | | | included only | | | | | information | | | | | about a group | | | | | related to the | | | | | document | | | | | selector will be | | | | | returned. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | GroupTypes | GroupType | Yes | The types of | | | | | group or list to | | | \ | | be retrieved. If | | | [0...unbounded] | | empty, all types | | | | | of groups are | | | | | retrieved. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Inc | xsd:boolean | Yes | All information | | ludeAllGroupInfo | | | about the groups | | | | | shall be | | | | | included in the | | | | | response if | | | | | true. If false | | | | | all list | | | | | elements will be | | | | | excluded from | | | | | the response. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+
### 8.1.6.2 Output message: getOwnersGroupsResponse
Either 'memberURIs' or 'GroupInfo' shall be provided in the output message.
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description memberURIs **xsd:anyURI
[0..unbounded]** **Yes** **An Array of all groups / lists members.** GroupInfo
**GroupInfo[0..unbounded]** **Yes** **A sequence of one or more GroupInfo
elements.**
* * *
### 8.1.6.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001: Service error.
  * SVC0002: Invalid input value.
  * SVC0004: No valid addresses.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001: Policy error.
### 8.1.7 Operation: deleteOwnersGroups
Deletes the existing groups / lists belonging to an owner that have no other
specific reference or domain.
The identity of the Requester is necessary for network authorization and the
identity of the GroupOwner is necessary to identify the groups / lists.
NOTE: In a SIP / IMS network, the requester must be authorized within it.
### 8.1.7.1 Input message: deleteOwnersGroupsRequest
+------------+-------------------+----------+---------------------+ | Part name | Part type | Optional | Description | +------------+-------------------+----------+---------------------+ | requester | xsd:anyURI | No | User wishing to | | | | | delete the groups / | | | | | lists. [ | | | | | ]{.underline} | | | | | | | | | | []{.underline} | | | | | | | | | | Normally this is | | | | | the groups / lists | | | | | owner. | +------------+-------------------+----------+---------------------+ | GroupOwner | xsd:anyURI | No | User who is the | | | | | groups / lists | | | | | owner. | | | | | | | | | | The identity of the | | | | | owner is part of | | | | | the information | | | | | required to | | | | | identify the groups | | | | | / lists. | +------------+-------------------+----------+---------------------+ | GroupTypes | GroupType | Yes | The types of group | | | | | or list to be | | | [0...unbounded] | | deleted. If empty, | | | | | all types of groups | | | | | are deleted. | +------------+-------------------+----------+---------------------+
### 8.1.7.2 Output message: deleteOwnersGroupsResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description None
* * *
### 8.1.7.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001: Service error.
  * SVC0002: Invalid input value.
  * SVC0004: No valid addresses.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001: Policy error.
## 8.2 Interface: Group
The Group interface provides the administration interface for creating,
deleting, querying members within a group.
### 8.2.1 Operation: addMember
Add a member to a group or list. Either the Group (URI) or the Group Selector
identifies the group / list to which the new member is to be added.
If the new member is a group, and if nested group support is provided, this
will add the group URI as a reference to the list of members (it will not
expand the contents of the group within this group). A group may not be added
recursively, an attempt to do so will result in a ServiceException. To add a
group as a member of a group, the requester must have query permission on the
group to be added.
The identity of the Requester may be necessary for network authorization.
The new member may be identified by URI or by reference to an existing list
member. Alternatively, the new member may be another list or particularly a
resource list URI that is external to the existing list.
An optional display name for the new member may be provided.
NOTE: In a SIP / IMS network, the requester must be authorized within it.
#### 8.2.1.1 Input message: addMemberRequest
+---------------+------------+----------+---------------------------+ | Part name | Part type | Optional | Description | +---------------+------------+----------+---------------------------+ | group | xsd:anyURI | Yes | URI of group (as returned | | | | | from a previous | | | | | createGroup request) to | | | | | which a member is to be | | | | | added. | +---------------+------------+----------+---------------------------+ | GroupOwner | xsd:anyURI | Yes | User who is the group / | | | | | list owner. | | | | | | | | | | []{.underline} | | | | | | | | | | The identity of the owner | | | | | may be part of the | | | | | information required to | | | | | identify the group / | | | | | list. | +---------------+------------+----------+---------------------------+ | GroupType | GroupType | Yes | The type of group or list | | | | | to which the member is to | | | | | be added.. | +---------------+------------+----------+---------------------------+ | GroupSelector | xsd:string | Yes | Document Selector (as | | | | | returned from a previous | | | | | createGroup request). | +---------------+------------+----------+---------------------------+ | Requester | xsd:anyURI | No | User wishing to update | | | | | the group / list. | | | | | | | | | | Normally this is the | | | | | group / list owner. | | | | | | | | | | It is assumed that the | | | | | Watcher Application has | | | | | authenticated this user. | +---------------+------------+----------+---------------------------+ | Member | xsd:anyURI | Yes | URI of Member to add to | | | | | the group or list. | +---------------+------------+----------+---------------------------+ | MemberRef | xsd:string | Yes | Reference of member to be | | | | | added to the group or | | | | | list. | +---------------+------------+----------+---------------------------+ | ExternalList | xsd:string | Yes | Reference anchor of an | | | | | external list to be added | | | | | to the group or list. | +---------------+------------+----------+---------------------------+ | ResourceList | xsd:anyURI | Yes | URI of resource list to | | | | | be added. | +---------------+------------+----------+---------------------------+ | DisplayName | xsd:string | Yes | Name / Nickname for | | | | | member that may be | | | | | displayed to a human | | | | | user. | +---------------+------------+----------+---------------------------+
#### 8.2.1.2 Output message: addMemberResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.2.1.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001: Service error.
  * SVC0002: Invalid input value.
  * SVC0004: No valid addresses.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001: Policy error.
  * POL0210: Too many members in a group.
  * POL0211: Subgroups not allowed.
### 8.2.2 Operation: addMembers
Add an array of members to a group. If nested group support is provided, this
will add any group URIs, as references, to the list of members (it will not
expand the contents of any groups within this group). No group may be added
recursively, an attempt to do so will result in a ServiceException, and none
of the members will be added to the group.
To add a group as a member of a group, the requester must have query
permission on the group to be added.
#### 8.2.2.1 Input message: addMembersRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description Group xsd:anyURI No URI of group to
which members are to be added. Members xsd:anyURI [1..unbounded No Members to
add to the group.
* * *
#### 8.2.2.2 Output message: addMembersResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.2.2.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001: Service error.
  * SVC0002: Invalid input value.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001: Policy error.
  * POL0013: Addresses duplication.
  * POL0210: Too many members in group.
  * POL0211: Subgroups not allowed.
### 8.2.3 Operation: deleteMember
Delete a member from a group or list. Either the Group (URI) or the Group
Selector identifies the group / list from which the member is to be deleted
The member may only be removed from this group. If nested groups are
supported, the member will not be removed from any nested group. Removal of a
group URI will remove that group URI reference from this group, it will not
delete the group.
The identity of the Requester may be necessary for network authorization.
The member to be removed may be identified by URI or by member reference.
Alternatively, the member to be removed may be a reference to an external list
or a resource list URI.
NOTE: In a SIP / IMS network, the requester must be authorized within it.
#### 8.2.3.1 Input message: deleteMemberRequest
+---------------+------------+----------+---------------------------+ | Part name | Part type | Optional | Description | +---------------+------------+----------+---------------------------+ | group | xsd:anyURI | Yes | URI of group (as returned | | | | | from a previous | | | | | createGroup request) to | | | | | which a member is to be | | | | | deleted. | +---------------+------------+----------+---------------------------+ | GroupOwner | xsd:anyURI | Yes | User who is the group / | | | | | list owner. | | | | | | | | | | []{.underline} | | | | | | | | | | The identity of the owner | | | | | may be part of the | | | | | information required to | | | | | identify the group / | | | | | list. | +---------------+------------+----------+---------------------------+ | GroupType | GroupType | Yes | The type of group or list | | | | | from which the member is | | | | | to be deleted. | +---------------+------------+----------+---------------------------+ | GroupSelector | xsd:string | Yes | Document Selector (as | | | | | returned from a previous | | | | | createGroup request). | +---------------+------------+----------+---------------------------+ | Requester | xsd:anyURI | No | User wishing to update | | | | | the group / list. | | | | | | | | | | Normally this is the | | | | | group / list owner. | | | | | | | | | | It is assumed that the | | | | | Watcher Application has | | | | | authenticated this user. | +---------------+------------+----------+---------------------------+ | Member | xsd:anyURI | Yes | URI of Member to be | | | | | deleted from the group or | | | | | list. | +---------------+------------+----------+---------------------------+ | MemberRef | xsd:string | Yes | Reference of member to be | | | | | deleted from the group or | | | | | list. | +---------------+------------+----------+---------------------------+ | ExternalList | xsd:string | Yes | Reference anchor of an | | | | | external list to be | | | | | deleted from the group or | | | | | list. | +---------------+------------+----------+---------------------------+ | ResourceList | xsd:anyURI | Yes | URI of resource list to | | | | | be deleted from the group | | | | | or list. | +---------------+------------+----------+---------------------------+
#### 8.2.3.2 Output message: deleteMemberResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.2.3.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001: Service error.
  * SVC0002: Invalid input value.
  * SVC0004: No valid addresses.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001: Policy error.
Delete a member from a group. The member may only be removed from this group.
If nested groups are supported, the member will not be removed from any nested
group. Removal of a group URI will remove that group URI reference from this
group, is will not delete the group.
### 8.2.4 Operation: deleteMembers
Delete an array of members from a group. The members may only be removed from
this group. If nested groups are supported, the members will not be removed
from any nested group. Removal of a group URI will remove that group URI
reference from this group, is will not delete the group. If the array contains
URIs that are not in the group, they will be ignored and no fault will be
generated.
#### 8.2.4.1 Input message: deleteMembersRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description Group xsd:anyURI No URI of group.
Members xsd:anyURI [1..unbounded] No Members to delete from the group.
* * *
#### 8.2.4.2 Output message: deleteMembersResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.2.4.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001: Service error.
  * SVC0002: Invalid input value.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001: Policy error.
  * POL0013: Addresses duplication.
### 8.2.5 Operation: queryMembers
Get the members contained within a group or list.
The requester provides either:
  * The Group (URI) as returned from a previous createGroup request
> or
  * The group or list owner and the Group Selector
If the Group (URI) is used to identify the group / list and nested groups are
supported, then the member list may contain group URIs as members. Therefore,
two manners are supported for retrieving the list of members using the Group
(URI) - with members resolved and without.
If the Group (URI) part is used to identify the group / list, the
ResolveGroups part must be present.
  * If ResolveGroups is \'true\', then the exclusive union of all the > members contained within the group, and any nested subgroups, is > the result (exclusive union means that after retrieving all > members, duplicate members are removed).
  * If ResolveGroup is \'false\', then the group members are returned > including group URIs as members of the group. If members within > nested groups are required, subsequent calls to this operation > with those groups may be used to retrieve those members.
If the Group (URI) part is not used to identify the group / list or if nested
groups are not supported, the value of ResolveGroups is ignored.
The identity of the Requester may be necessary for network authorization and
the identity of the group / list owner may be necessary to help identify the
group / list.
NOTE: In a SIP / IMS network, the requester must be authorized within it.
#### 8.2.5.1 Input message: queryMembersRequest
+---------------+-------------+----------+--------------------------+ | Part name | Part type | Optional | Description | +---------------+-------------+----------+--------------------------+ | group | xsd:anyURI | Yes | URI of group (as | | | | | returned from a previous | | | | | createGroup request). | +---------------+-------------+----------+--------------------------+ | ResolveGroups | xsd:boolean | Yes | If true, return set of | | | | | members after resolving | | | | | groups (including | | | | | subgroups). If false, | | | | | return members including | | | | | group references. | | | | | | | | | | Only used, if the Group | | | | | part is present. | +---------------+-------------+----------+--------------------------+ | GroupOwner | xsd:anyURI | Yes | User who is the group / | | | | | list owner. | | | | | | | | | | The identity of the | | | | | owner may be part of the | | | | | information required to | | | | | identify the group / | | | | | list. | +---------------+-------------+----------+--------------------------+ | GroupType | GroupType | Yes | The type of group or | | | | | list from which the | | | | | member is to be deleted. | +---------------+-------------+----------+--------------------------+ | GroupSelector | xsd:string | Yes | Document Selector (as | | | | | returned from a previous | | | | | createGroup request). | +---------------+-------------+----------+--------------------------+ | Requester | xsd:anyURI | No | User wishing to retrieve | | | | | the group / list. | | | | | | | | | | Normally this is the | | | | | group / list owner. | | | | | | | | | | It is assumed that the | | | | | Watcher Application has | | | | | authenticated this user. | +---------------+-------------+----------+--------------------------+
#### 8.2.5.2 Output message: queryMembersResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description result xsd:anyURI [0..unbounded] Yes
Members of group identified by URI. presenceList XML Element Yes An RLS
services XML document element that is a presence list. resourceList XML
Element Yes A resource-lists XML document element that is a resource list.
GroupURIList XML Element Yes A group usage document element that is a list of
group members. PrearrangedGroup XML Element Yes A group used for prearranged
group communication.
* * *
#### 8.2.5.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001: Service error.
  * SVC0002: Invalid input value.
  * SVC0004: No valid addresses.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001: Policy error.
### 8.2.6 Operation: addGroupAttribute
Groups may have attributes associated with the group. To avoid conflicts,
attribute names that start with Group are reserved for use as defined within
the present document:
  * Group.Description.
  * Group.ExpiryDate.
Attributes may be added or updated by those with admin or add permission on
the specified group.
#### 8.2.6.1 Input message: addGroupAttributeRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description Group xsd:anyURI No Group to set
attribute for Value SimpleAttribute No Attribute to add, or update
* * *
#### 8.2.6.2 Output message: addGroupAttributeResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.2.6.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001: Service error.
  * SVC0002: Invalid input value.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001: Policy error.
### 8.2.7 Operation: deleteGroupAttribute
Groups may have attributes removed by those with admin or delete permission on
the specified group.
#### 8.2.7.1 Input message: deleteGroupAttributeRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description Group xsd:anyURI No Group to delete
attribute from AttributeName xsd:string No Name of attribute to delete
* * *
#### 8.2.7.2 Output message: deleteGroupAttributeResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.2.7.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001: Service error.
  * SVC0002: Invalid input value.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001: Policy error.
### 8.2.8 Operation: queryGroupAttributes
Query the attributes for a group by those with admin or read permission on the
specified group.
#### 8.2.8.1 Input message: queryGroupAttributesRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description Group xsd:anyURI No Group to get
attributes for.
* * *
#### 8.2.8.2 Output message: queryGroupAttributesResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description Result SimpleAttribute [0..unbounded]
Yes Group attributes.
* * *
#### 8.2.8.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001: Service error.
  * SVC0002: Invalid input value.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001: Policy error.
### 8.2.9 Operation: addGroupMemberAttribute
Group members may have attributes that are within the context of a group in
which they belong.
Group member attributes may be added or updated by those with admin or add
permission on the specified group.
#### 8.2.9.1 Input message: addGroupMemberAttributeRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description Group xsd:anyURI No Group to set
attribute for. Member xsd:anyURI No Member to set attribute for Value
SimpleAttribute No Attribute to add, or update
* * *
#### 8.2.9.2 Output message: addGroupMemberAttributeResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.2.9.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001: Service error.
  * SVC0002: Invalid input value.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001: Policy error.
### 8.2.10 Operation: deleteGroupMemberAttribute
Group members may have attributes removed by those with admin or delete
permission on the specified group.
#### 8.2.10.1 Input message: deleteGroupMemberAttributeRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description Group xsd:anyURI No Group to delete
attribute from Member xsd:anyURI No Member to delete attribute from
AttributeName xsd:string No Name of attribute to remove
* * *
#### 8.2.10.2 Output message: deleteGroupMemberAttributeResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.2.10.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001: Service error.
  * SVC0002: Invalid input value.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001: Policy error.
### 8.2.11 Operation: queryGroupMemberAttributes
Query the attributes for a group member by those with admin or read permission
on the specified group.
#### 8.2.11.1 Input message: queryGroupMemberAttributesRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description Group xsd:anyURI No Group to get
attributes for. Member xsd:anyURI No Member to get attributes for
* * *
#### 8.2.11.2 Output message: queryGroupMemberAttributesResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description Result SimpleAttribute [0..unbounded]
Yes Group member attributes.
* * *
#### 8.2.11.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001: Service error.
  * SVC0002: Invalid input value.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001: Policy error.
## 8.3 Interface: Member
The Member interface provides access to information related to a particular
entity.
### 8.3.1 Operation: addMemberAttribute
Add member attribute. If an attribute with this name exists, its value will be
replaced with the value provided in this operation.
#### 8.3.1.1 Input message :addMemberAttributeRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description Member xsd:anyURI No Member to add
attribute to Data SimpleAttribute No Attribute to add to member
* * *
#### 8.3.1.2 Output message: addMemberAttributeResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.3.1.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001: Service error.
  * SVC0002: Invalid input value.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001: Policy error.
### 8.3.2 Operation: queryMemberAttributes
Query attributes of a member. If any attributes requested do not exist, they
will not be included in the result.
#### 8.3.2.1 Input message :queryMemberAttributesRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description Member xsd:anyURI No Member to query
attributes for AttributeNames xsd:string [1..unbounded] No List of attribute
names to retrieve
* * *
#### 8.3.2.2 Output message: queryMemberAttributesResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description Result SimpleAttribute [0..unbounded]
Yes List of attributes
* * *
#### 8.3.2.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001: Service error.
  * SVC0002: Invalid input value.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001: Policy error.
### 8.3.3 Operation: deleteMemberAttribute
Delete attribute from a member. If the attribute specified does not exist, it
will be ignored.
#### 8.3.3.1 Input message :deleteMemberAttributeRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description Member xsd:anyURI No Member to remove
attribute from AttributeName xsd:string No Name of attribute to delete
* * *
#### 8.3.3.2 Output message: deleteMemberAttributeResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.3.3.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001: Service error.
  * SVC0002: Invalid input value.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001: Policy error.
# 9 Fault definitions
## 9.1 Fault: PolicyException
### 9.1.1 POL0210: Too many members in group
Number of members in a group exceeds the number allowed by the Service Policy
(MaxGroupMembers).
* * *
Name Description Message Id \ Text Attempt to exceed maximum number
of members in a group. Maximum number allowed is %1. Variables %1 = Maximum
number allowed by Service Policy.
* * *
### 9.1.2 Subgroups not supported
Attempt to add a subgroup not permitted by Service Policy
(SupportNestedGroups).
* * *
Name Description Message Id \ Text Attempted to add a group to an
existing group. Subgroups are not supported. Variables None.
* * *
### 9.1.3 Group name too long
Length of group name exceeds the length allowed by the Service Policy
(MaxGroupLength)
* * *
Name Description Message Id \ Text Group name is too long. Maximum
length allowed is %1. Variables %1 = Maximum length allowed by Service Policy.
* * *
### 9.1.4 Group already exists
If the group name is not unique and the AutoName is set to \'false\', then a
PolicyException is returned since the group name already exists.
* * *
Name Description Message Id POL0213 Text Group URI %1 already exists. Group
not created. Variables %1 = Group URI
* * *
# 10 Service policies
* * *
Name Type Description MaxGroupLength xsd:int Maximum length of the group name
(user portion) MaxGroupMembers xsd:int Maximum number of members in a group
SupportNestedGroups xsd:boolean Can a group member be a group URI
AddressesDuplicationNotAllowed xsd:boolean Indicates whether duplication of
addresses is allowed for operations
* * *
NOTE: For service policy -- \"AddressesDuplicationNotAllowed\", If alias/group
is used,
  1. Parlay X GW with Identity Management Framework support can verify that indeed there is a duplicate.
  2. If network capability supports alias/group and the Parlay-X GW without Identity Management Framework supporting, then the policy exception of addresses duplication may not have effect fully.
  3. **If network capability doesn\'t support alias/group and the Parlay-X GW without Identity Management Framework supporting, the Parlay-X GW should reject the alias/group.**
###### ## Annex A (normative): WSDL for Address list management
The document/literal WSDL representation of this interface specification is
compliant to 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6] and is contained in text files ;
  * parlayx_group_interface_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_group_service_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_group_member_interface_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_group_member_service_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_group_mgmt_interface_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_group_mgmt_service_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_group_types_4_0.xsd
which accompany the present document.
The WSDL files have been verified using the following files:
  * 13_wsdl2Java_axis-1_4.bat
  * 13_wsdl2Java_axis2-1_4_1.bat
which accompany the present document.
###### ## Annex B (informative): Description of Parlay X Web Services Part 13:
Address list management for 3GPP2 cdma2000 networks
This annex is intended to define the OSA Parlay X Web Services Stage 3
interface definitions and it provides the complete OSA specifications. It is
an extension of OSA Parlay X Web Services specifications capabilities to
enable operation in cdma2000 systems environment. They are in alignment with
3GPP2 Stage 1 requirements and Stage 2 architecture defined in:
[1] 3GPP2 X.S0011-D: \"cdma2000 Wireless IP Network Standard \", Version 1.1
[2] 3GPP2 S.R0037-0: \"IP Network Architecture Model for cdma2000 Spread
Spectrum Systems\", Version 3.0
[3] 3GPP2 X.S0013-A: \"All-IP Core Network Multimedia Domain\"
These requirements are expressed as additions to and/or exclusions from the
3GPP Release 8 specification.\ The information given here is to be used by
developers in 3GPP2 cdma2000 network architecture to interpret the 3GPP OSA
specifications.
# B.1 General Exceptions
The terms 3GPP and UMTS are not applicable for the cdma2000 family of
standards. Nevertheless these terms are used (3GPP TR 21.905) mostly in the
broader sense of \"3G Wireless System\". If not stated otherwise there are no
additions or exclusions required.
CAMEL mappings are not applicable for cdma2000 systems.
# B.2 Specific Exceptions
## B.2.1 Clause 1: Scope
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.2 Clause 2: References
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.3 Clause 3: Definitions and abbreviations
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.4 Clause 4: Detailed service description
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.5 Clause 5: Namespaces
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.6 Clause 6: Sequence diagrams
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.7 Clause 7: XML Schema data type definition
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.8 Clause 8: Web Service interface definition
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.9 Clause 9: Fault definitions
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.10 Clause 10: Service policies
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.11 Annex A (normative): WSDL for Address list management
There are no additions or exclusions.
#