# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part 21 of a multi-part deliverable covering the 3^rd^
Generation Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Core Network and
Terminals; Open Service Access (OSA); Parlay X Web Services, as identified
below:
Part 1: \"Common\"
Part 2: \"Third party call\"
Part 3: \"Call Notification\"
Part 4: \"Short Messaging\"
Part 5: \"Multimedia Messaging\"
Part 6: \"Payment\"
Part 7: \"Account management\"
Part 8: \"Terminal Status\"
Part 9: \"Terminal location\"
Part 10: \"Call handling\"
Part 11: \"Audio call\"
Part 12: \"Multimedia conference\"
Part 13: \"Address list management\"
Part 14: \"Presence\"
Part 15: \"Message Broadcast\"
Part 16: \"Geocoding\"
Part 17: \"Application driven Quality of Service (QoS)\"
**Part 18: \"Device capabilities and configuration\"**
Part 19: \"Multimedia streaming control\"
Part 20: **\"** Multimedia multicast session management\"
**Part 21:** **\"Content management\"**
Part 22: \"Policy\"
# 1 Scope
The present document is Part 21 of the Stage 3 Parlay X Web Services
specification for Open Service Access (OSA).
The OSA specifications define an architecture that enables application
developers to make use of network functionality through an open standardized
interface, i.e. the OSA APIs. The concepts and the functional architecture for
the OSA are contained in 3GPP TS 23.198 [3]. The requirements for OSA are
contained in 3GPP TS 22.127 [2].
The present document specifies the Multimedia multicast session management Web
Service aspects of the interface. All aspects of the Multimedia multicast
session management Web Service are defined here, these being:
  * Name spaces.
  * Sequence diagrams.
  * Data definitions.
  * Interface specification plus detailed method descriptions.
  * Fault definitions.
  * Service policies.
  * WSDL description of the interfaces.
The present document has been defined jointly between 3GPP TSG CT WG5, ETSI
TISPAN and The Parlay Group.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.127: \"Service Requirement for the Open Services Access (OSA);
Stage 1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.198: \"Open Service Access (OSA); Stage 2\".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.101: \"Service aspects; Service principles\".
[5] W3C Recommendation (2 May 2001): \"XML Schema Part 2: Datatypes\".
NOTE: Available at http://www.w3.org/TR/2001/REC-xmlschema-2-20010502/.
[6] 3GPP TS 29.199-1: \"Open Service Access (OSA); Parlay X web services; Part
1: Common\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and in 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6] apply. A term defined in the
present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if
any, in TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and in 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6] apply.
# 4 Detailed service description
The content management web service enables uploading content into the network
(or a third party content provider) and consuming content from the network (or
a third party content provider). This functional element stores and manages
the meta-data associated with content elements. It provides interfaces to
submit, modify and delete content entries. It also provides interfaces to
query for content items including content identifier, meta data, control data
and content upload date (matching specific criteria).
{width="4.216666666666667in" height="3.5430555555555556in"}The network
entities composed of content management web service are service portal, parlay
X gateway, content server, streaming server and end user. End user uses the
service portal that provides or consumes contents. The content server
functions as a content storage and a management system in the network.
Figure 4.1: Content management web service architecture
Figure 4.1 shows the architecture of content management web service. An
application 3 submits \'content1\'. The submit operation doesn\'t mean a
content provider to upload content in the network directly. Content management
web service uploads the meta-data of content to the network. And the content
server gets and stores the content from location which content exists. After
content1 is stored in the content server, the application 3 is notified of the
result of submitting the content using notifyApprovalStatus message. The
application 3 can modify/delete/read \'content1\'. An application 1 and an
application 2 query \'content1\'. They set up the notification for informing
them of the uploading of content which meets the application\'s criteria.
# 5 Namespaces
The ContentManagement interface uses the namespace:
http://www.csapi.org/wsdl/parlayx/content_management/v4_0
The ContentNotification interface uses the namespace:
http://www.csapi.org/wsdl/parlayx/content_management/notification/v4_0
The ContentNotificationManager interface uses the namespace:
http://www.csapi.org/wsdl/parlayx/content_management/notification_manager/v4_0
The data types are defined in the namespace:
http://www.csapi.org/schema/parlayx/content_management/v4_0
The \'xsd\' namespace is used in the present document to refer to the XML
Schema data types defined in XML Schema(3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]) . The use of the
name \'xsd\' is not semantically significant.
# 6 Sequence diagrams
## 6.1 Content Handling
{width="3.495833333333333in" height="3.5416666666666665in"}Application can
handle content with submit, read, modify, delete, and query operations. When
an application submits a content, the application is notified of the result of
submitting using notifyApprovalStatus message.
Figure 6.1: Content Handling
## 6.2 New Content Notification
{width="5.511805555555555in" height="3.1590277777777778in"}An application can
be notified of the uploading of the content which it is interested in. When a
matching event occurs; a notification message will be sent to the application.
Figure 6.2: New Content Notification
# 7 XML Schema data type definition
## 7.1 Content structure
The data structure for the content stored in the content server.
* * *
Name Type Optional Description ContentIdentifer xsd:string No Globally unique
ContentIdentifier, generated by Content Management Web Service ContentMetaData
ContentData Yes Content description information about content location,
content name, content description, content provider, content version, keywords
and IsDerivative. ContentMediaData ContentMedia Yes Data related to content
media, including content type, duration and file size. ContentControlData
ContentControl Yes Data related to content control, including content access
restrictions, content charging and content validity. ContentState xsd:string
Yes Content state is defined externally (visible, invisible, retired)
ContentUploadDate xsd:dateTime No Content upload date is generated by the
content server.
* * *
## ContentData structure
The structure of content data stored in the content server.
* * *
Name Type Optional Description ContentLocation xsd:anyURI No Location which
content exists. Where a content item consists of multiple parts (e.g. a Java
game - .jar .jad files), it may be necessary to specify multiple locations.
ContentName xsd:string Yes Human-readable name for the content
ContentDescription xsd:string Yes Human-readable description of the content
ContentProvider xsd:anyURI No Entity that provides the content, which is
distinct from the content owner (e.g. the record company or movie studio)
ContentVersion xsd:decimal Yes Content version, larger number represents later
versions. 1.0 is the canonical first version **Keywords**
xsd:string[0..unbounded] Yes Content keywords which is used to provide search
expressions **IsDerivative** xsd:boolean No Boolean flag whether allows the
manipulation of original content. If this flag is true, the manipulation of
original content is permitted. If not present, default value is true.
* * *
## 7.3 ContentMedia structure
The structure of content media stored in the content server.
* * *
Name Type Optional Description ContentType xsd:string Yes MIME Type e.g.
audio, video, code etc ContentLength xsd:int Yes Content length how long does
it run ContentFileSize xsd:decimal Yes Content file size how much space does
it take up
* * *
## 7.4 ContentControl structure
The structure of control data related to content & charging.
* * *
Name Type Optional Description ContentAccessRestrictions xsd:string Yes Some
pre-defined coding, e.g. MPAA rating (e.g. U,PG, PG-12,R, NC-17), ICRA or
RSACi ratings (e.g. lc, lz) ContentCharging common:ChargingInformation Yes
Note: not a currency amount, but 10 units, 20 units etc. Envisaged that the
optional \'code\' parameter of ChargingInformation structure will be used
ContentValidity xsd:dateTime Yes The available period of the content
* * *
# 8 Web Service interface definition
## 8.1 Interface: ContentManagement
### 8.1.1 Operation: submitContent
The application invokes the **submitContent** operation to submit a content
into the network. This operation doesn\'t mean a content provider to upload
content in the network directly. Content management web service uploads the
meta-data of the content to the network and content server gets and stores the
content from location which content exists. After completing this content
approval process, the application is notified of the result of submitting the
content using **notifyApprovalStatus** message.
**ContentMetaData** is the content description information about content
location, content name, content description, content provider, content
version, keywords and IsDerivative.
> **IsDerivative** field is the Boolean flag whether allows the manipulation
> of original content. For delivering content to end-user\'s terminal
> adaptively (e.g. MMS, multimedia stream, MBMS data), it is essential for
> network provider to manipulate content to support the content adaptation and
> multiple selection. If this flag is true, the manipulation of original
> content is permitted. If not present, default value is true.
**ContentMediaData** specifies the content type, length and file size.
**ContentControlData** specifies the content access restrictions, content
charging and content validity.
**Reference** specifies the application endpoint, interfaceName and correlator
that will be used to notify the application when the content is stored in the
network.
**Result** is the ContentIdentifier specified in the response message
associated with each submit operation. The application can use it to modify,
delete and read content.
#### 8.1.1.1 Input message: submitContentRequest
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description ContentMetaData ContentData No
Content description information about content location, content name, content
description, content provider, content version, keywords and IsDerivative.
ContentMediaData ContentMedia Yes Data about content media, including content
type, length and file size. ContentControlData ContentControl Yes Data about
content control, including content access restrictions, content charging and
content validity. Reference common:SimpleReference Yes It defines the
application endpoint, interface and correlator that will be used to notify the
application of the result of uploading the content.
* * *
#### 8.1.1.2 Output message: submitContentResponse
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description result xsd:string No Globally unique
ContentIdentifier, generated by Content Management Web Service
* * *
#### 8.1.1.3 Referenced Faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001 - Service error.
  * SVC0002 - Invalid input value.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001 - Policy error.
### 8.1.2 Operation: modifyContent
This operation allows a content provider to update previously submitted
content and meta data. Content server restricts modification to the submitted
owner and puts the content into an invisible state until completes content
approval.
#### 8.1.2.1 Input message: modifyContentRequest
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description ContentIdentifer xsd:string No
Globally unique ContentIdentifier, generated by Content Management Web Service
ContentMetaData ContentData No Content description information about content
location, content name, content description, content provider, content
version, keywords, IngestionRequired and IsDerivative. ContentMediaData
ContentMedia Yes Data related to content media, including content type,
duration and file size. ContentControlData ContentControl Yes Data related to
content control, including content access restrictions, content charging and
content validity. ContentState xsd:String Yes visible, invisible, retired
* * *
#### 8.1.2.2 Output message: modifyContentResponse
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description Result xsd:string No
ContentIdentifier returned if modification is succeeded
* * *
#### 8.1.2.3 Referenced Faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001 - Service error.
  * SVC0002 - Invalid input value.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001 - Policy error.
### 8.1.3 Operation: deleteContent
This operation allows a content provider to delete content. Note that the
content provider may request that a batch of content items is deleted.
#### 8.1.3.1 Input message: deleteContentRequest
+------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Part Name | Part Type | Optional | Description | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | ContentIdentifer | xsd:string | No | List of globally | | | | | unique content | | | [1..unbounded] | | identifiers to | | | | | be deleted by | | | | | Content | | | | | Management Web | | | | | Service | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+
#### 8.1.3.2 Output message: deleteContentResponse
+-----------+------------------+----------+---------------------+ | Part Name | Part Type | Optional | Description | +-----------+------------------+----------+---------------------+ | Result | xsd:string | No | List of | | | | | ContentIdentifiers | | | [1..unbounded] | | returned if | | | | | succeeded | +-----------+------------------+----------+---------------------+
#### 8.1.3.3 Referenced Faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001 - Service error.
  * SVC0002 - Invalid input value.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001 - Policy error.
### 8.1.4 Operation: readContent
This operation allows a content provider to read the meta data of previously
submitted content. Request may include multiple content identifiers.
**Result** is the Content specified in the response message associated with
each read operation. It includes content identifier, content meta data,
content media data, content control data, content state and content upload
date
#### 8.1.4.1 Input message: readContentRequest
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description ContentIdentifer
xsd:string[1..unbounded] No Globally unique content identifier(s), generated
by Content Management Web Service
* * *
#### 8.1.4.2 Output message: readContentResponse
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description result Content[1..unbounded] No
Details of Content Item(s) requested
* * *
#### 8.1.4.3 Referenced Faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001 - Service error.
  * SVC0002 - Invalid input value.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001 - Policy error.
### 8.1.5 Operation: queryContent
This operation allows application to query for the meta data of contents of
which keywords are matched with specified keywords.
#### 8.1.5.1 Input message: queryContentRequest
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description Keywords xsd:string[1..unbounded] No
Search keywords for query
* * *
#### 8.1.5.2 Output message: queryContentResponse
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description result Content[1..unbounded] No
Content Item(s) matching supplied search criteria
* * *
#### 8.1.5.3 Referenced Faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001 - Service error.
  * SVC0002 - Invalid input value.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001 - Policy error.
## 8.2 Interface: ContentNotification
### 8.2.1 Operation: notifyApprovalStatus
This operation is to inform content provider of the result of content
submitting. This is sent to the endpoint specified in reference of
submitContent operation.
#### 8.2.1.1 Input Message: notifyApprovalStatusRequest
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description ContentIdentifer xsd:string No The
content identifier provided in the submitContent message ApprovalDecision
xsd:boolean No Boolean flag whether content server gets and stores the content
from location which content exists. If this flag is true, content server
stored the submitted content successfully. ApprovalDecisionReason xsd:string
Yes The reason why content server can\'t store the submitted content.
* * *
#### 8.2.1.2 Output Message: notifyApprovalStatusResponse
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.2.1.3 Referenced Faults
None.
### 8.2.2 Operation: notifyNewContent
This operation allows content consumers to receive the notification when new
content which meets consumer\'s criteria is uploaded.
Compared with notifyApprovalStatus operation for content submitting,
notifyNewContent operation is for content consumers and it corresponds to
startNewContentNotification operation.
#### 8.2.2.1 Input Message: notifyNewContentRequest
+--------------+------------------+----------+--------------------+ | Part Name | Part Type | Optional | Description | +--------------+------------------+----------+--------------------+ | Correlator | xsd:string | No | Correlator | | | | | provided in | | | | | request to set up | | | | | this notification | +--------------+------------------+----------+--------------------+ | **Keywords** | xsd:string | No | The matched | | | | | keywords among | | | [1..unbounded] | | specified keywords | | | | | in | | | | | StartNewC | | | | | ontentNotification | | | | | message. | +--------------+------------------+----------+--------------------+ | ContentItem | Content | No | Content | | | | | Information | +--------------+------------------+----------+--------------------+
#### 8.2.2.2 Output Message: notifyNewContentResponse
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.2.2.3 Referenced Faults
None.
## 8.3 Interface: ContentNotificationManager
### 8.3.1 Operation: startNewContentNotification
This operation sets up the notification for informing an application of the
uploading of content which meets the application\'s criteria. When new content
registered, application is notified with corresponding criteria. The criteria
hold a list of keyword which expresses user\'s preference.
#### 8.3.1.1 Input Message: startNewContentNotificationRequest
User\'s preference is parameterized in keywords. They should be treated with
priority by the network. After the maximum number of notification sent, this
notification request should be deactivated by the network.
+--------------+--------------------+----------+--------------------+ | Part Name | Part Type | Optional | Description | +--------------+--------------------+----------+--------------------+ | Reference | Commo | No | The application | | | n :SimpleReference | | endpoint, | | | | | interfaceName and | | | | | correlator that | | | | | will be used to | | | | | notify application | | | | | when the new | | | | | content is | | | | | submitted. | +--------------+--------------------+----------+--------------------+ | **Keywords** | xsd:string | No | Keywords to match | | | | | against to | | | [1..unbounded] | | determine the | | | | | application to | | | | | receive the | | | | | notification. | | | | | These keywords are | | | | | matched against | | | | | the keywords of | | | | | the submitted | | | | | contents. | +--------------+--------------------+----------+--------------------+ | Count | xsd:decimal | Yes | number of Maximum | | | | | notification | +--------------+--------------------+----------+--------------------+
#### 8.3.1.2 Output Message: startNewContentNotificationResponse
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.3.1.3 Referenced Faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001 - Service error.
  * SVC0002 - Invalid input value.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001 - Policy error.
### 8.3.2 Operation: endNotification
This operation stops the registered content management notification.
#### 8.3.2.1 Input Message: endNotificationRequest
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description Correlator xsd:string No correlator
request to end notification
* * *
#### 8.3.2.2 Output Message: endNotificationResponse
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.3.2.3 Referenced Faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001 - Service error.
  * SVC0002 - Invalid input value.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001 - Policy error.
# 9 Fault definitions
There are no service-specific fault definitions for this service.
# 10 Service policies
* * *
Name Type Description MaximumNumberOfQueryResults xsd:int Maximum number of
content which is the result to read and query
* * *
###### ## Annex A (normative): WSDL for Content Management
The document/literal WSDL representation of this interface specification is
compliant to 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6] and is contained in text files;
  * parlayx_common_faults_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_common_types_4_0.xsd
  * parlayx_cm_management_interface_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_cm_management_service_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_cm_notification_interface_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_cm_notification_manager_interface_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_cm_notification_manager_service_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_cm_notification_service_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_cm_types_4_0.xsd
which accompany the present document.
The WSDL files have been verified using the following files:
  * 21_wsdl2Java_axis-1_4.bat
  * 21_wsdl2Java_axis2-1_4_1.bat
which accompany the present document.
###### ## Annex B (informative): Description of Parlay X Web Services Part 21:
Content management for 3GPP2 cdma2000 networks
This annex is intended to define the OSA Parlay X Web Services Stage 3
interface definitions and it provides the complete OSA specifications. It is
an extension of OSA Parlay X Web Services specifications capabilities to
enable operation in cdma2000 systems environment. They are in alignment with
3GPP2 Stage 1 requirements and Stage 2 architecture defined in:
[1] 3GPP2 X.S0011-D: \"cdma2000 Wireless IP Network Standard \", Version 1.1
[2] 3GPP2 S.R0037-0: \"IP Network Architecture Model for cdma2000 Spread
Spectrum Systems\", Version 3.0
[3] 3GPP2 X.S0013-A: \"All-IP Core Network Multimedia Domain\"
These requirements are expressed as additions to and/or exclusions from the
3GPP Release 8 specification.\ The information given here is to be used by
developers in 3GPP2 cdma2000 network architecture to interpret the 3GPP OSA
specifications.
# B.1 General Exceptions
The terms 3GPP and UMTS are not applicable for the cdma2000 family of
standards. Nevertheless these terms are used (3GPP TR 21.905 [1]) mostly in
the broader sense of \"3G Wireless System\". If not stated otherwise there are
no additions or exclusions required.
CAMEL mappings are not applicable for cdma2000 systems.
# B.2 Specific Exceptions
## B.2.1 Clause 1: Scope
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.2 Clause 2: References
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.3 Clause 3: Definitions and abbreviations
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.4 Clause 4: Detailed service description
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.5 Clause 5: Namespaces
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.6 Clause 6: Sequence diagrams
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.7 Clause 7: XML Schema data type definition
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.8 Clause 8: Web Service interface definition
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.9 Clause 9: Fault definitions
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.10 Clause 10: Service policies
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.11 Annex A (normative): WSDL for content management
There are no additions or exclusions.
#