# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
3GPP acknowledges the contribution of the Parlay X Web Services specifications
from The Parlay Group. The Parlay Group is pleased to see 3GPP acknowledge and
publish the present document, and the Parlay Group looks forward to working
with the 3GPP community to improve future versions of the present document.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part 15 of a multi-part deliverable covering the 3rd
Generation Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Core Network and
Terminals; Open Service Access (OSA); Parlay X Web Services, as identified
below:
Part 1: \"Common\"
Part 2: \"Third party call\"
Part 3: \"Call Notification\"
Part 4: \"Short Messaging\"
Part 5: \"Multimedia Messaging\"
Part 6: \"Payment\"
Part 7: \"Account management\"
Part 8: \"Terminal Status\"
Part 9: \"Terminal location\"
Part 10: \"Call handling\"
Part 11: \"Audio call\"
Part 12: \"Multimedia conference\"
Part 13: \"Address list management\"
Part 14: \"Presence\"
**Part 15: \"Message Broadcast\"**
Part 16: \"Geocoding\"
Part 17: \"Application driven Quality of Service (QoS)\"
Part 18: \"Device Capabilities and Configuration\"
Part 19: \"Multimedia streaming control\"
Part 20: \"Multimedia multicast session management\"
Part 21: \"Content management\"
Part 22: \"Policy\"
# 1 Scope
The present document is Part 15 of the Stage 3 Parlay X Web Services
specification for Open Service Access (OSA).
The OSA specifications define an architecture that enables application
developers to make use of network functionality through an open standardized
interface, i.e. the OSA APIs. The concepts and the functional architecture for
the OSA are contained in 3GPP TS 23.198 [3]. The requirements for OSA are
contained in 3GPP TS 22.127 [2].
The present document specifies the Message Broadcast Web Service aspects of
the interface. All aspects of the Message Broadcast Web Service are defined
here, these being:
  * Name spaces.
  * Sequence diagrams.
  * Data definitions.
  * Interface specification plus detailed method descriptions.
  * Fault definitions.
  * Service policies.
  * WSDL description of the interfaces.
The present document has been defined jointly between 3GPP TSG CT WG5, ETSI
TISPAN and The Parlay Group.
Maintenance of up to 3GPP Rel-8 and new OSA Stage 1, 2 and 3 work beyond Rel-9
was moved to OMA in June 2008.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.127: \"Service requirement for the Open Services Access (OSA);
Stage 1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.198: \"Open Service Access (OSA); Stage 2\".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.101: \"Service aspects; Service principles\".
[5] W3C Recommendation (2 May 2001): \"XML Schema Part 2: Datatypes\".
NOTE: Available at http://www.w3.org/TR/2001/REC-xmlschema-2-20010502/.
[6] 3GPP TS 29.199-1: \"Open Service Access (OSA); Parlay X web services; Part
1: Common\".
[7] 3GPP TS 23.041: \"Technical realization of Cell Broadcast Service (CBS)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 23.032: \"Universal Geographical Area Description (GAD)\".
[9] 3GPP TS 29.199-9: \"Open Service Access (OSA); Parlay X web services; Part
9: Terminal location\".
[10] 3GPP TS 29.199-4: \"Open Service Access (OSA); Parlay X web services;
Part 4: Short messaging\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and 3GPP TS 29.199‑1 [6] apply.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1], 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6], 3GPP TS 29.199-4 [10] and the following
apply:
CBC Cell Broadcast Centre
CBS Cell Broadcast Service
# 4 Detailed service description
Message broadcast is a functionality that allows an application to send
messages to all the fixed or mobile terminals in a specified geographical
area.
Message broadcast provides operations for sending a broadcast message to the
network and a polling mechanism for monitoring the delivery status of a sent
broadcast message. It also provides an asynchronous notification mechanism for
broadcast delivery status. In addition, a mechanism is provided to start and
stop the notification of delivery receipts.
There are various use cases of using Message Broadcast Web Service including
the commercial application. This Web Service could be also used for non-
commercial purpose as follows:
  * To provide area-based public information like weather, traffic and > other commonly-interested information.
  * To provide emergency information like severe weather warning(e.g. > typhoon, tsunami), environments hazards(e.g. chemical spills) and > terrorism information.
{width="5.84375in" height="3.272222222222222in"}
Figure 4.1: Send Broadcast Message Scenario
Figure 4.1 shows an advertising scenario using Message Broadcast Web Service
to broadcast discount message around and within the shopping mall area. A shop
manager who wants to increase sales in a holiday can make use of a message
broadcast application. By using the application, he can set the targeted area
and write a message and the sender\'s name to be contacted (1). Then, the
application invokes a Parlay X interface to use Message Broadcast Web Service
operation(2). After invocation, the Message Broadcast Web Service sends a
message delivery operation to messaging centre (e.g. CBC) (3). Subsequently,
the message on discount information is delivered to all the terminals within
the targeted area.
# 5 Namespaces
The SendBroadcastMessage interface uses the namespace:
http://www.csapi.org/wsdl/parlayx/message_broadcast/send/v4_0
The MessageBroadcastNotification interface uses the namespace:
http://www.csapi.org/wsdl/parlayx/message_broadcast/notification/ v4_0
The MessageBroadcastNotificationManager interface uses the namespace:
http://www.csapi.org/wsdl/parlayx/message_broadcast/notification_manager/ v4_0
The data types are defined in the namespace:
http://www.csapi.org/schema/parlayx/message_broadcast/ v4_0
The \'xsd\' namespace used in the present document refers to the XML Schema
data types defined in XML Schema [5]. The use of the name \'xsd\' is not
semantically significant.
# 6 Sequence Diagrams
## 6.1 Send broadcast message, get the status and cancel it
Pattern: Request/Response, One way
An application can send a broadcast message to a specific area and also get
the delivery status from Message Broadcast Web services. If message
broadcasting is no more needed, an application can send a cancellation
request.
{width="4.625694444444444in" height="4.646527777777778in"}
Figure 6.1: Message Broadcast Operations
## 6.2 Broadcast Status Notification
Pattern: Application Correlated Multiple Notification
An application can be notified of a broadcast delivery status of a specific
area which is identified by correlator.
{width="5.803472222222222in" height="4.317361111111111in"}
Figure 6.2: Message Broadcast Status Notification
# 7 XML Schema data type definition
## 7.1 BroadcastStatus Enumeration
List of possible broadcast delivery status values.
* * *
Enumeration Description MessageWaiting The message is still queued and not
delivered to the network yet. Broadcasting has not commenced. Broadcasting
Broadcasting is initiated and the network is still attempting to deliver
messages: i.e. as many times as requested in the **totalBroadcasts** part of
the **sendBroadcastMessageRequest** message. Broadcasted A final state that
indicates broadcast requests were successfully delivered to network: i.e. as
many times as requested. BroadcastImpossible Delivery of broadcast message is
impossible. Reasons include: "out of network coverage", "network overloads",
"expiry of valid period". BroadcastUnknown Delivery status unknown: e.g.
delivery requested but no response. BroadcastNotificationNotSupported Unable
to provide broadcast delivery receipt notification. The
**notifyBroadcastDeliveryReceipt** operation will return
"BroadcastNotificationNotSupported" to indicate that delivery receipt for the
specified area in a **sendBroadcastMessageRequest** message is not supported.
* * *
## 7.2 Void
## 7.3 BroadcastStatusInformation Structure
This indicates a broadcast status information of an area. It includes a
mandatory broadcast status value with optional values to provide additional
information such as the number of broadcasts, success rate, broadcast end
time.
* * *
Element name Element type Optional Description status BroadcastStatus No
Broadcast status of this area. numberOfBroadcasts xsd :int Yes The number of
broadcasts successfully sent out. This is optional and present only if
**status** is either **Broadcasting** or **Broadcasted**. successRate xsd :int
Yes Successful delivery rate expressed as a percentage. This is optional and
present only if **status** is either **Broadcasting** or **Broadcasted**.
broadcastEndTime xsd :dateTime Yes Completed time of broadcast. This is
optional and present only if **status** is **Broadcasted**.
* * *
## 7.4 BroadcastStatusData Structure
Data structure containing area and its status. As this can be related to a
query of multiple areas, the **RetrievalStatus** element is used to indicate
whether the status information for an area was retrieved or not, or if an
error occurred.
* * *
Element name Element type Optional Description area BroadcastArea No Broadcast
area to which status information applies. reportStatus RetrievalStatus No
Status of retrieval for this broadcast area. currentStatus
BroadcastStatusInformation Yes Broadcast status of this area. It is only
provided if **reportStatus=Retrieved**. errorInformation common :ServiceError
Yes If **reportStatus** is **Error** , this is the reason for the error.
* * *
## 7.5 LocationPoint Structure
This is used to describe a location point. The definition of latitude and
longitude values follows the terms defined in **_clause 7.1 of Parlay X
Terminal Location Web Services_**[9]**_._**
* * *
Element name Element type Optional Description latitude xsd :float No latitude
value of a location longitude xsd :float No longitude value of a location
* * *
## 7.6 Circle Structure
Circle representation of a geographical area.
* * *
Element name Element type Optional Description center LocationPoint No The
center point of circle radius xsd :float No radius of circle (in meters)
* * *
## 7.7 Polygon Structure
Set of coordinate to configure polygonal type of a geographical area.
+----------------+---------------+----------+-------------------+ | Element name | Element type | Optional | Description | +----------------+---------------+----------+-------------------+ | locationPoints | LocationPoint | No | Set of location | | | | | points to make a | | | [3..13] | | polygon. See also | | | | | clause 5.7, 7.3.7 | | | | | of 3GPP TS 23.032 | | | | | [8]. | +----------------+---------------+----------+-------------------+
## 7.8 AreaType Enumeration
This indicates the types of area that may be used to define area by an
application.
* * *
Enumeration Description Alias Alias name shared by both application and
network Circle Area represented as a circle shape Polygon Area represented as
a polygon shape
* * *
## 7.9 BroadcastArea Union
Representation methods of broadcast area
* * *
Element name Element type Optional Description UnionElement AreaType No Type
of geographical area.(one of the following) Alias xsd :string Yes An alias
name of a geographical area. The alias name shall be understood and translated
by network. Circle Circle Yes Circle representation Polygon Polygon Yes
Polygon representation
* * *
## 7.10 MessagePriority Enumeration
List of delivery priority values.
* * *
Enumeration Description Default Default message priority Low Low message
priority Normal Normal message priority High High message priority
* * *
# 8 Web Service interface definition
## 8.1 Interface: SendBroadcastMessage
This interface defines operations to send a broadcast message and to
subsequently poll for delivery status. It also defines an operation to cancel
the previous request.
### 8.1.1 Operation: sendBroadcastMessage
The application invokes the **sendBroadcastMessage** operation to send a
broadcast message into the designated area(s), respectively specified by the
**message** and the **broadcastArea**.
If **message** is longer than the maximum supported length in the network, the
message content will be sent as several concatenated messages. E.g. a CBS
message consists of several CBS pages(up to 15 pages) which comprises of 82
octets, which, using the default character set, equates to 93 characters (3GPP
TS 23.041 [7]).
**broadcastArea** is an area or a set of areas which are the representation of
the geographical area(s) in which a message is to be delivered. Areas can be
described as alias name or a graphical notation such as circle and polygon.
The alias name shall be determined at the provisioning step and understood by
both application and network. In case of using a graphical notation, maximum
and minimum size of an area can be restricted by the network.
Areas shall be covered by the mobile or wireline network. A message cannot be
delivered to the terminals which are out of network coverage even though the
application has indicated the area(s) in the send operation. In this case,
Message Broadcast Web Service will generate a **ServiceException**(SVC 0300).
The application can also indicate optional parameters as follows:
  * **senderName** specifies the sender\'s name, i.e. the string that is > displayed on the user\'s terminal as the originator of the > message.
  * **charging** specifies the charging information.
  * **priority** specifies the priority of message.
  * **deliveryTime** specifies the time at which message delivery should > be initiated by the send operation. By using this parameter, the > Web Services could achieve an overload safety through the > scheduling of broadcasts at non-peak time.
  * **totalBroadcasts** specifies how many times the message should be > broadcasted to each of the designated area(s).
  * **interval** specifies the time duration between the broadcasts. The > minimum interval should be restricted by the network capabilities.
  * **receiptRequest** is optional and is specified when the application > requires to receive notification of the status of the broadcast > message delivery. It is a **SimpleReference** structure that > indicates the application endpoint, interface used for > notification of delivery receipt and a correlator that uniquely > identifies the sending request.
a) If the notification mechanism is not supported by a network, a
**ServiceException** (SVC0283) will be returned to the application and the
message will not be sent out to the area(s) specified.
b) The **correlator** provided in the **receiptRequest** must be unique for
this Web Service and application at the time the notification is initiated,
otherwise a **ServiceException** (SVC0005) will be returned to the
application.
c) Notification to the application is done by invoking the
**notifyBroadcastDeliveryReceipt** operation at the endpoint specified in
**receiptRequest**.
d) This optional message part is not used (or will be overridden) in case the
**startDeliveryReceiptNotification** operation is used when the application
requires to receive delivery receipt notifications. This is to avoid
overlapping criteria.
  * **requestIdentifier** is specified in the response message > associated with each send operation. The application can use it to > invoke the **getBroadcastStatus** operation to poll for the > delivery status.
#### 8.1.1.1 Input message: sendBroadcastMessageRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description broadcastArea
BroadcastArea[1..unbounded] No geographical area(s) to which a message is
desired to be broadcasted senderName xsd:string Yes If present, it indicates
the sender\'s name of broadcast message, i.e. the string that is displayed on
the user\'s terminal as the originator of the message charging
common:chargingInformation Yes Charge to apply to this message message
xsd:string No Text to be sent in Message Broadcast priority MessagePriority
Yes Priority of the message. If not present, the network will assign a
priority based on an operator policy. deliveryTime xsd :dateTime Yes If
present, it specifies the time to initiate message broadcast in the network.
If not present, message is sent immediately totalBroadcasts xsd :int Yes The
number of broadcasts. If not present, default value is 1. interval
common:TimeMetric Yes The time difference between consecutive broadcasts. It
presents only if **totalBroadcasts** > 1 receiptRequest common
:SimpleReference Yes It defines the application endpoint, interfaceName and
correlator that will be used to notify application when the message has been
sent out to the designated area or if delivery is impossible. It is not used
(or will be overridden) in case startDeliveryReceiptNotification operation is
used.
* * *
#### 8.1.1.2 Output message : sendBroadcastMessageResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description result xsd :string No It identifies a
specific message broadcast delivery request
* * *
#### 8.1.1.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001 - Service error.
  * SVC0002 - Invalid input value.
  * SVC0280 - Message too long.
  * SVC0283 - Delivery Status Notification not supported.
  * SVC0300 - Broadcast Area not supported.
  * SVC0301 - Too high load situation.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001 - Policy error.
  * POL0008 - Charging not allowed.
  * POL0012 - Too many description entries specified.
  * POL0330 - Multiple areas not allowed.
  * POL0331 - Maximum Number of Areas exceeded.
  * POL0332 - Too many broadcasts requested.
  * POL0333 - Min /Max interval violation.
### 8.1.2 Operation: getBroadcastStatus
The application invokes the **getBroadcastStatus** operation to request the
status information of a previous message broadcast request, i.e.
**sendBroadcastMessage** operation, identified by **requestIdentifier**.
This operation can be invoked multiple times by the application even if the
status has reached a final value. However, after the status has reached a
final value, status information will be available only for a limited period of
time as defined by a service policy.
The operation returns a result set that can be expressed by a set of the
broadcast status information, i.e. **BroadcastStatusInformation** , because
multiple broadcast areas can be specified.
The result set may not include complete information, allowing the Web Service
implementation to choose to deliver a partial set of results to accommodate
other conditions, such as avoiding timeouts. In this case, the broadcast areas
for which no attempt made to provide data will be marked **NotRetrieved** in
the result for each area.
**BroadcastStatusInformation** data structure, of course, includes the
broadcast status(**BroadcastStatus**) of a specific area with other
supplementary data such as the number of broadcast, success rate, broadcast
end time. The presence of supplementary data varies according to the status
value.
**BroadcastStatus** values have been identified as follows and the conceptual
status diagram is shown in the figure 8.1.2.1.
  * **MessageWaiting:** the message is still queued and not delivered to > the network yet.
  * **Broadcasting:** broadcasting is initiated and the network is still > attempting to deliver messages as many as requested in the > totalBroadcasts of the send operation. If totalBroadcasts = 1, > this state will promptly transit to Broadcasted state after first > delivery. If totalBroadcasts > 1, the state will remain as this > state until the completion of delivery.
  * **Broadcasted:** this is a final state and indicates that broadcast > requests were successfully delivered to network as many as > requested.
  * **BroadcastImpossible:** This indicates a final state that > delivering broadcast message is impossible. The following reasons > are possible:
\- Broadcast request was explicitly rejected by the network, because the
designated area is out of network coverage.
\- Broadcast request was implicitly or explicitly rejected by the network,
because the network is experiencing some problem such as overloads.
\- Broadcast request could not be delivered within the period specified by
**totalBroadcasts** and **interval** parts and it was discarded.
  * **BroadcastUnknown:** This indicates a state that is unable to know > the delivery state.
\- Network does not support a mechanism temporarily or permanently to find out
the status even though the broadcast request has delivered.
\- Delivery is in pending, so that delivery is still being tried because the
period specified by **totalBroadcasts** and **interval** parts is not expired
yet.
{width="5.9125in" height="3.767361111111111in"}
Figure 8.1.2.1: Conceptual status diagram for message broadcast
**numberOfBroadcasts** indicates the number of broadcasts, i.e. how many times
the broadcast message has been successfully sent out to network. The value, of
course, shall be less than that of **totalBroadcasts** parameter. From this
value, applications can figure out the current number of broadcast delivery
which has been repeated so far.
**successRate** also provides another possible measured value of successful
delivery and indicates how much portion of the designated area has accepted
the broadcast message request. In case of mobile network, this can be defined
as the ratio of the number of BTSs that accepted the message and the total
number of BTSs that should have accepted the message. Figure 8.1.2.2 shows the
example. This is optional and present only if the broadcast status is either
**Broadcasting** or **Broadcasted**. If the value is -1, it indicates the
information is not available.
**broadcastEndTime** indicates the date and time at which the broadcast
request has been completed. This value is optional and present only if the
value of **BroadcastStatus** is **Broadcasted**.
{width="6.120138888888889in" height="4.670138888888889in"}
Figure 8.1.2.2: Success Rate
#### 8.1.2.1 Input message: getBroadcastStatusRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description requestIdentifier xsd :string No It
identifies a specific **sendBroadcastMessage** request.
* * *
#### 8.1.2.2 Output message : getBroadcastStatusResponse
+-----------+---------------------+----------+---------------------+ | Part name | Part type | Optional | Description | +-----------+---------------------+----------+---------------------+ | result | BroadcastStatusData | No | Set of results for | | | [1..unbounded] | | the request. It | | | | | provides the | | | | | broadcast status | | | | | for each area with | | | | | several | | | | | supplementary data | | | | | like the number of | | | | | broadcast, success | | | | | rate, broadcast end | | | | | time. Possible | | | | | status values are: | | | | | | | | | | - MessageWaiting. | | | | | | | | | | - Broadcasting. | | | | | | | | | | - Broadcasted. | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | B | | | | | roadcastImpossible. | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | BroadcastUnknown. | +-----------+---------------------+----------+---------------------+
#### 8.1.2.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001 - Service error.
  * SVC0002 - Invalid input value.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001 - Policy error.
  * POL0010 -- Retention time interval expired
### 8.1.3 Operation: cancelBroadcastMessage
The application invokes the **cancelBroadcastMessage** operation to request
the cancellation of the previous **sendBroadcastMessage** request identified
by **requestIdentifier**. It attempts to prevent the starting of a previous
**sendBroadcastMessage** request and the restarting of
**sendBroadcastMessage** request specified by the **totalBroadcasts**
parameter. If this operation is invoked after initiating the Nth broadcast
delivery, all the subsequent delivery after Nth delivery will be cancelled. In
other words, it does not have any effect if the sending of broadcast message
has already started.
#### 8.1.3.1 Input message: cancelBroadcastMessageRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description requestIdentifier xsd :string No It
identifies a specific **sendBroadcastMessage** request.
* * *
#### 8.1.3.2 Output message : cancelBroadcastMessageResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description none
* * *
#### 8.1.3.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001 - Service error.
  * SVC0002 - Invalid input value.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001 - Policy error.
## 8.2 Interface: MessageBroadcastNotification
Message broadcast notification is the application side interface to which
notifications about message broadcast are delivered.
### 8.2.1 Operation: notifyBroadcastDeliveryReceipt
The **notifyBroadcastDeliveryReceipt** operation must be implemented by a Web
Service at the **_application side_** if it requires notification of broadcast
result receipt. It will be invoked by the Parlay X server to notify the
application when a message sent by an application has been handed over to
messaging center like CBC and subsequently sent out to designated area(s) or
if delivery is impossible. The notification will occur if and only if the
status value of the sent message is **Broadcasted** or **BroadcastImpossible**
and the application has specified interest in notification when sending a
broadcast message using one of the following mutually exclusive mechanisms:
  * by specifying the optional receiptRequest part. The correlator > returned corresponds to the identifier specified by the > application in the **receiptRequest** of the original > **sendBroadcastMessage** request.
  * by invoking the **startDeliveryReceiptNotification** operation > requesting to receive delivery receipt notifications. The > correlator returned corresponds to the identifier specified by the > application in the **reference** of the original > **startDeliveryReceiptNofitication** request.
When a broadcast message is sent to multiple geographical areas, the
notification from the server will send notification for each area as and when
a broadcast message is successfully sent out to the area.
**notifyBroadcastDeliveryReceiptRequest** will send a
**BroadcastStatusInformation** data about an area which includes report
status, broadcast status, the number of broadcast, success rate, broadcast end
time. In case of notification, **reportStatus** value shall be **Retrieved**
and the possible broadcast status values are as follows:
  * **Broadcasted:** this is a final state and indicates that broadcast > requests were successfully delivered to network as many as > requested.
  * **BroadcastImpossible:** this indicates a final state that > delivering broadcast message is impossible. The following reasons > are possible:
\- Broadcast request was explicitly rejected by the network, because the
designated area is out of network coverage.
\- Broadcast request was implicitly or explicitly rejected by the network,
because the network is experiencing some problem such as overloads.
\- Broadcast request could not be delivered within the period specified by
**totalBroadcasts** and **interval** parts and it was discarded.
  * **BroadcastNotificationNotSupported:** if notification is supported > by the network but it does not support broadcast receipt for one > or more broadcast areas specified in the **sendBroadcastMessage** > message. The service will send this status for those areas.
The presence of the other data varies according to the above
**BroadcastStatus** values conforming to the description in clause 8.1.2.
#### 8.2.1.1 Input message: notifyBroadcastDeliveryReceiptRequest
+------------+---------------------+----------+---------------------+ | Part name | Part type | Optional | Description | +------------+---------------------+----------+---------------------+ | correlator | xsd :string | No | It identifies the | | | | | original 'Send\' | | | | | request. This | | | | | correlator was | | | | | provided by the | | | | | application in the | | | | | **sendBroadc | | | | | astMessageRequest** | | | | | message. | +------------+---------------------+----------+---------------------+ | area | BroadcastArea | No | It indicates a | | | | | specific area | | | | | related with the | | | | | correlator. | +------------+---------------------+----------+---------------------+ | statusInfo | Broadca | No | It provides the | | | stStatusInformation | | broadcast status | | | | | for an area with | | | | | various | | | | | supplementary data | | | | | like the number of | | | | | broadcast, success | | | | | rate, broadcast end | | | | | time. Possible | | | | | status values are: | | | | | | | | | | - Broadcasted. | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | B | | | | | roadcastImpossible. | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | BroadcastNotifi | | | | | cationNotSupported. | +------------+---------------------+----------+---------------------+
#### 8.2.1.2 Output message : notifyBroadcastDeliveryReceiptResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.2.1.3 Referenced faults
None.
## 8.3 Interface: MessageBroadcastNotificationManager
The message broadcast notification manager enables applications to set up and
tear down notifications for broadcast messages, online.
### 8.3.1 Operation: startDeliveryReceiptNotification
Start notifications to the application for delivery receipts. The reference
will be where to sned the delivery receipts. The
notifyBroadcastDeliveryReceipt method (see clause 8.2.1) must be implemented
by a Web Service at the application side if it requires notification of
broadcast message delivery receipt. When the
**startDeliveryReceiptNotification** is supported by the Service Provider, its
use overrides the delivery receipting mechanism supported in the
SendBroadcastMessage API (see clause 8.1: sendBroadcastMessage operation).
#### 8.3.1.1 Input message: startDeliveryReceiptNotificationRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description reference common:SimpleReference No
Notification endpoint definition filterCriteria xsd:string No The
filterCriteria will allow the service to filter flexibly. One example would be
for service provider to filter only successful final status. This however is
implementation specific and will be left to the Service Provider.
* * *
#### 8.3.1.2 Output message: startDeliveryReceiptNotificationResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.3.1.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from [6]:
  * SVC0001 - Service error.
  * SVC0002 - Invalid input value.
  * SVC0005 - Duplicate correlator
  * SVC0008 - Overlapping Criteria
  * SVC0283 -- Delivery Status Notification not supported
PolicyException from [6]:
  * POL0001 - Policy error.
### 8.3.2 Operation: stopDeliveryReceiptNotification
The application may end delivery receipt notification using this operation.
#### 8.3.2.1 Input message: stopDeliveryReceiptNotificationRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description correlator xsd:string No Correlator
of request to end
* * *
#### 8.3.2.2 Output message: stopDeliveryReceiptNotificationResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.3.2.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from [6]:
  * SVC0001 - Service error.
  * SVC0002 - Invalid input value.
PolicyException from [6]:
  * POL0001 - Policy error.
# 9 Fault definitions
## 9.1 ServiceException
### 9.1.1 SVC0280: Message too long
Refer to the definition in 3GPP TS 29.199-4 [10].
### 9.1.2 SVC0283: Delivery Status Notification not supported
Refer to the definition in 3GPP TS 29.199-4 [10].
### 9.1.3 SVC0300: Broadcast Area not supported
A specific area cannot be supported if, for example, the range of an area is
out of network coverage.
* * *
Name Description message-Id SVC0300 Text %1 area description cannot be
supported by the network. Variables %1 - Message part of an area
* * *
### 9.1.4 SVC0301: Too high load situation
* * *
Name Description message-Id SVC0301 Text Network(e.g. messaging center) is in
a overload situation. Retry after %1 minutes Variables %1 - suggested time
duration by the network for next trial
* * *
## 9.2 PolicyException
### 9.2.1 POL0330: Multiple areas not allowed
* * *
Name Description message-Id POL0330 Text Multiple areas not allowed Variables
* * *
### 9.2.2 POL0331: Maximum Number of Areas exceeded
* * *
Name Description message-Id POL0331 Text Maximum number of broadcast areas(%1)
is exceeded Variables %1 - maximum allowed number of broadcast areas
* * *
### 9.2.3 POL0332: Too Many Broadcasts requested
* * *
Name Description message-Id POL0332 Text Too many broadcasts requested.
Maximum number of broadcasts allowed is %1 Variables %1 - allowed number of
broadcasts
* * *
### 9.2.4 POL0333: Min/Max Interval Violation
+------------+--------------------------------------------------------+ | Name | Description | +------------+--------------------------------------------------------+ | message-Id | POL0333 | +------------+--------------------------------------------------------+ | text | Minimum or Maximum interval violation. The possible | | | min/max interval is between %1 seconds and %2 seconds | +------------+--------------------------------------------------------+ | variables | %1 - min of possible interval value | | | | | | %2 - max of possible interval value | +------------+--------------------------------------------------------+
# 10 Service policies
Service policies for this service.
* * *
Name Type Description ChargingSupported xsd :boolean Is charging supported for
send operation. MultipleAreaSupport xsd :boolean Multiple area description may
be supported. MaxNumberOfAreas xsd :int Maximum number of broadcast areas that
can be requested in a send operation. MinValueOfInterval common :TimeMetric
Minimum value of interval in send operation. MaxValueOfInterval common
:TimeMetric Maximum value of interval in send operation. MaxBroadcasts xsd
:int Maximum number of broadcasts that can be requested in a send operation.
StatusRetentionTime common:TimeMetric A time interval that begins after the
status of a broadcast message delivery request has reached a final value.
During this interval, the delivery status information remains available for
retrieval by the application. MaximumDescriptions xsd:int Maximum number of
Descriptions that can be charged simultaneously
* * *
###### ## Annex A (normative): WSDL for Message Broadcast
The document/literal WSDL representation of this interface specification is
compliant to 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6] and is contained in text files
  * parlayx_message_broadcast_notification_interface_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_message_broadcast_notification_manager_interface_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_message_broadcast_notification_manager_service_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_message_broadcast_notification_service_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_message_broadcast_send_interface_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_message_broadcast_send_service_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_message_broadcast_types_4_0.xsd
which accompanies the present document.
The WSDL files have been verified using the following files:
  * 15_wsdl2Java_axis-1_4.bat
  * 15_wsdl2Java_axis2-1_4_1.bat
which accompany the present document.
###### ## Annex B (informative): Description of Parlay X Web Services Part 15:
Message Broadcast for 3GPP2 cdma2000 networks
This annex is intended to define the OSA Parlay X Web Services Stage 3
interface definitions and it provides the complete OSA specifications. It is
an extension of OSA Parlay X Web Services specifications capabilities to
enable operation in cdma2000 systems environment. They are in alignment with
3GPP2 Stage 1 requirements and Stage 2 architecture defined in:
[1] 3GPP2 X.S0011-D: "cdma2000 Wireless IP Network Standard \", Version 1.1
[2] 3GPP2 S.R0037-0: \"IP Network Architecture Model for cdma2000 Spread
Spectrum Systems\", Version 3.0
[3] 3GPP2 X.S0013-A: \"All-IP Core Network Multimedia Domain\"
These requirements are expressed as additions to and/or exclusions from the
3GPP specification.\ The information given here is to be used by developers in
3GPP2 cdma2000 network architecture to interpret the 3GPP OSA specifications.
# B.1 General Exceptions
The terms 3GPP and UMTS are not applicable for the cdma2000 family of
standards. Nevertheless these terms are used (3GPP TR 21.905) mostly in the
broader sense of \"3G Wireless System\". If not stated otherwise there are no
additions or exclusions required.
CAMEL mappings are not applicable for cdma2000 systems.
# B.2 Specific Exceptions
## B.2.1 Clause 1: Scope
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.2 Clause 2: References
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.3 Clause 3: Definitions and abbreviations
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.4 Clause 4: Detailed service description
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.5 Clause 5: Namespaces
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.6 Clause 6: Sequence diagrams
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.7 Clause 7: XML Schema data type definition
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.8 Clause 8: Web Service interface definition
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.9 Clause 9: Fault definitions
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.10 Clause 10: Service policies
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.11 Annex A (normative): WSDL for Message Broadcast
There are no additions or exclusions.
#