# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
3GPP acknowledges the contribution of the Parlay X Web Services specifications
from The Parlay Group. The Parlay Group is pleased to see 3GPP acknowledge and
publish the present document, and the Parlay Group looks forward to working
with the 3GPP community to improve future versions of the present document.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part 10 of a multi-part deliverable covering the 3^rd^
Generation Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Core Network;
Open Service Access (OSA); Parlay X Web Services, as identified below:
Part 1: \"Common\"
Part 2: \"Third party call\"
Part 3: \"Call Notification\"
Part 4: \"Short Messaging\"
Part 5: \"Multimedia Messaging\"
Part 6: \"Payment\"
Part 7: \"Account management\"
Part 8: \"Terminal Status\"
Part 9: \"Terminal location\"
**Part 10: \"Call handling\"**
Part 11: \"Audio call\"
Part 12: \"Multimedia conference\"
Part 13: \"Address list management\"
Part 14: \"Presence\"
Part 15: \"Message Broadcast\"
Part 16: \"Geocoding\"
Part 17: \"Application driven Quality of Service (QoS)\"
Part 18: \"Device Capabilities and Configuration\"
Part 19: \"Multimedia streaming control\"
Part 20: \"Multimedia multicast session management\"
Part 21: \"Content management\"
Part 22: \"Policy\"
# 1 Scope
The present document is Part 10 of the Stage 3 Parlay X Web Services
specification for Open Service Access (OSA).
The OSA specifications define an architecture that enables application
developers to make use of network functionality through an open standardized
interface, i.e. the OSA APIs. The concepts and the functional architecture for
the OSA are contained in 3GPP TS 23.198 [3]. The requirements for OSA are
contained in 3GPP TS 22.127 [2].
The present document specifies the Call Handling Web Service aspects of the
interface. All aspects of the Call Handling Web Service are defined here,
these being:
  * Name spaces.
  * Sequence diagrams.
  * Data definitions.
  * Interface specification plus detailed method descriptions.
  * Fault definitions.
  * Service policies.
  * WSDL Description of the interfaces.
The present document has been defined jointly between 3GPP TSG CT WG5, ETSI
TISPAN and The Parlay Group.
Maintenance of up to 3GPP Rel-8 and new OSA Stage 1, 2 and 3 work beyond Rel-9
was moved to OMA in June 2008.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.127: \"Service Requirement for the Open Services Access (OSA);
Stage 1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.198: \"Open Service Access (OSA); Stage 2\".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.101: \"Service aspects; Service principles\".
[5] W3C Recommendation (2 May 2001): \"XML Schema Part 2: Datatypes\".
NOTE: Available at http://www.w3.org/TR/2001/REC-xmlschema-2-20010502/.
[6] 3GPP TS 29.199-1: \"Open Service Access (OSA); Parlay X Web Services; Part
1: Common\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6] apply.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TS
29.199-1 [6] apply.
# 4 Detailed service description
The Call Handling Web Service provides a mechanism for an application to
specify how calls are to be handled for a specific number. Call handling
includes commonly utilized actions:
  * Call accepting - only accepting calls from a list of numbers.
  * Call blocking - blocking calls if they are on a blocking list.
  * Conditional call forwarding - changing the destination of a call to > another number for a specific calling number.
  * Unconditional call forwarding - changing the destination of a call > to another number.
  * Play audio - initiate audio with the caller (e.g. an announcement or > menu).
The set of rules are provided to the Web Service which is responsible for
establishing the call handling function. Only one action is taken for a call,
and once this action is started the rules will stop being processed.
There is a specific order in which these rules are processed, providing a
predictable call handling expectation for rules provided. The processing is
done as follows.
1) Call accepting determines if the call is accepted or rejected. If > the
caller is not on the accept list, the call is rejected and > rule processing
ends.
2) Call blocking determines if the call is rejected. If the caller is > on the
block list, the call is rejected and rule processing ends.
3) Conditional call forwarding - each calling number that has a > specific
forwarding instruction is checked, and the call is > forwarded on a match, and
rule processing ends.
4) Unconditional call forwarding - the called number is changed to the > call
forwarding number and rule processing ends.
5) Play audio - the call is handled by a voice system, which handles > all
further processing of the call. Rule processing ends when the > call is handed
off.
6) Continue processing call, to complete call to the original called > number.
If no rules are specified in a particular area, then that step is skipped. If
the rule processing ends without any action being indicated, then the call
will continue to the called number.
Call Handling provides its function without further interaction with the
Application. This is in contrast to the Call Notification interfaces which
provide notifications to the Application for processing.
# 5 Namespaces
The Call Handling interface uses the namespace:
http://www.csapi.org/wsdl/parlayx/call_handling/v4_0
The data types are defined in the namespace:
http://www.csapi.org/schema/parlayx/call_handling/v4_0
The \'xsd\' namespace is used in the present document to refer to the XML
Schema data types defined in XML Schema [5]. The use of the name \'xsd\' is
not semantically significant.
# 6 Sequence diagrams
## 6.1 Setup call handling, query and clear rules
Pattern: Request / Response.
This sequence shows the application setting up Call Handling with rules to be
processed., querying those rules and clearing them.
{width="3.0215277777777776in" height="7.7034722222222225in"}
# 7 XML Schema data type definition
## 7.1 ConditionalForward structure
Information on handling of forwarding for specific calling numbers.
* * *
Element name Element type Optional Description CallingAddress xsd:anyURI No
Address that call is placed from ForwardingAddress xsd:anyURI No Address to
forward call to OnBusyAddress xsd:anyURI No If line is busy at forwarding
address, forward to this address OnNoAnswerAddress xsd:anyURI No If no answer
at forwarding address, forward to this address
* * *
## 7.2 UnconditionalForward structure
Information for handling of forwarding unconditionally.
* * *
Element name Element type Optional Description ForwardingAddress xsd:anyURI No
Address to forward call to OnBusyAddress xsd:anyURI No If line is busy at
forwarding address, forward to this address OnNoAnswerAddress xsd:anyURI No If
no answer at forwarding address, forward to this address
* * *
## 7.3 InteractionContent enumeration
The following are the types of content that may be used for user interaction.
* * *
Enumeration Description TextInfo Text to be processed by a Text-To-Speech
engine VoiceXml VoiceXML to be processed by a VoiceXML browser Audio Audio
file to be played by an audio processor
* * *
## 7.4 TextInteraction structure
Information for processing by a text to speech engine.
* * *
Element name Element type Optional Description Text xsd:string No Text to play
through a Text-To-Speech engine Language xsd:string No Language of text
* * *
## 7.5 VoiceInteraction union
For a call that is to be handled by an interactive voice system, the
information to provide to that system.
* * *
Element name Element type Optional Description UnionElement InteractionContent
No Type of content provided (one of the following) TextInfo TextInteraction
Yes Announcement to play through a Text-To-Speech engine VoiceXml xsd:anyURI
Yes Location of VoiceXML to use in a VoiceXML browser Audio xsd:anyURI Yes
Location of audio content (WAV or MP3 file)
* * *
## 7.6 CallHandlingRules structure
Structure containing set of rules that are applied when the call is handled.
* * *
Element name Element type Optional Description AcceptList xsd:anyURI
[0..unbounded] Yes List of addresses to accept calls from BlockList xsd:anyURI
[0..unbounded] Yes List of addresses to block calls from ForwardList
ConditionalForward [0..unbounded] Yes List of conditional forwarding addresses
and destinations Forward UnconditionalForward Yes Unconditional call
forwarding address VoiceInteractionContent VoiceInteraction Yes Forward call
to a user interaction system with information on content
* * *
## 7.7 SetRulesResult structure
Result of SetRulesRequest for each address.
* * *
Element name Element type Optional Description Address xsd:anyURI No Address
to be set Successful xsd:boolean No Successfully set rules or not Error
common:ServiceError Yes Error message if unsuccessful
* * *
# 8 Web Service interface definition
## 8.1 Interface: CallHandling
CallHandling provides a rule based processing capability that is accessible to
Applications through a set of operations that allow definition of discrete
rules.
### 8.1.1 Operation: SetRules
Set the call handling rules for an address (the destination for the call). If
a set of rules is already in place for any of the **Address** , then this
operation will replace the old rules with the set provided in this operation.
The **Address** may not specify a group. If a group is specified, a
**PolicyException** will be returned.
#### 8.1.1.1 Input message: SetRulesRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description Address xsd:anyURI No Address to
handle calls for Rules CallHandlingRules No Rules to apply for this address
* * *
#### 8.1.1.2 Output message: SetRulesResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.1.1.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001: Service error.
  * SVC0002: Invalid input value.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001: Policy error.
  * POL0006: Groups not allowed.
### 8.1.2 Operation: SetRulesForGroup
Set the call handling rules for multiple addresses (the destination for
calls). If a set of rules is already in place for any of the **Addresses** ,
then this operation will replace the old rules with the set provided in this
operation.
The **Addresses** may include groups, with members using the \'tel:\' and
\'sip:\' URIs in the manner defined in 3GPP TS 29.119-1 [6]. Wildcards may not
be used to specify addresses.
#### 8.1.2.1 Input message: SetRulesForGroupRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description Addresses xsd:anyURI [1..unbounded]
No Addresses to handle calls for Rules CallHandlingRules No Rules to apply for
these addresses
* * *
#### 8.1.2.2 Output message: SetRulesForGroupResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description Result SetRulesResult [1..unbounded]
No Result of setup for each of addresses provided
* * *
#### 8.1.2.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001: Service error.
  * SVC0002: Invalid input value.
  * SVC0004: No valid addresses.
  * SVC0006: Invalid group.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001: Policy error.
  * POL0006: Groups not allowed.
  * POL0007: Nested groups not allowed.
### 8.1.3 Operation: GetRules
Get the call handling rules for an address (the destination for the call).
The **Address** may not specify a group. If a group is specified, a
**PolicyException** will be returned.
#### 8.1.3.1 Input message: GetRulesRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description Address xsd:anyURI No Address to
handle calls for
* * *
#### 8.1.3.2 Output message: GetRulesResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description Rules CallHandlingRules No Rules
being applied for this address
* * *
#### 8.1.3.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001: Service error.
  * SVC0002: Invalid input value.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001: Policy error.
  * POL0006: Groups not allowed.
### 8.1.4 Operation: ClearRules
Clear the call handling rules associated with the addresses specified. If no
rules have been set for an address, this operation silently ignores the
request, and does not return an error or fault message.
The **Addresses** may include groups, with members using the \'tel:\' and
\'sip:\' URIs in the manner defined in 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]. Wildcards may not
be used to specify addresses.
#### 8.1.4.1 Input message: ClearRulesRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description Addresses xsd:anyURI [1..unbounded]
No Addresses to clear call handling for
* * *
#### 8.1.4.2 Output message: ClearRulesResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.1.4.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001: Service error.
  * SVC0002: Invalid input value.
  * SVC0006: Invalid group.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001: Policy error.
  * POL0006: Groups not allowed.
  * POL0007: Nested groups not allowed.
# 9 Fault definitions
No new faults defined for this service.
# 10 Service policies
* * *
Name Type Description VoiceMailAvailable xsd:boolean Voice mail available or
not TextToSpeechAvailable xsd:boolean Service accepts text as an input for
processing with a Text-To-Speech engine AudioContentAvailable xsd:boolean
Service accepts audio content for playing with an audio player
VoiceXmlAvailable xsd:boolean Service accepts VoiceXML for processing with a
VoiceXML browser AudioFormatsSupported xsd:string Comma separated string of
audio formats supported (e.g. WAV,MP3,AU) GroupSupport xsd:boolean Groups may
be included with addresses NestedGroupSupport xsd:boolean Are nested groups
supported in group definitions
* * *
###### ## Annex A (normative): WSDL for Call handling
The document/literal WSDL representation of this interface specification is
compliant to 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6] and is contained in text files :
  * parlayx_call_handling_interface_4_0.wsdl
```{=html}
``` \- parlayx_call_handling_service_4_0.wsdl
```{=html}
``` \- parlayx_call_handling_types_4_0.xsd
which accompany the present document.
The WSDL files have been verified using the following files:
  * 10_wsdl2Java_axis-1_4.bat
  * 10_wsdl2Java_axis2-1_4_1.bat
which accompany the present document.
###### ## Annex B (informative): Description of Parlay X Web Services Part 10:
Call handling for 3GPP2 cdma2000 networks
This annex is intended to define the OSA Parlay X Web Services Stage 3
interface definitions and it provides the complete OSA specifications. It is
an extension of OSA Parlay X Web Services specifications capabilities to
enable operation in cdma2000 systems environment. They are in alignment with
3GPP2 Stage 1 requirements and Stage 2 architecture defined in:
[1] 3GPP2 X.S0011-D: "cdma2000 Wireless IP Network Standard \", Version 1.1
[2] 3GPP2 S.R0037-0: \"IP Network Architecture Model for cdma2000 Spread
Spectrum Systems\", Version 3.0
[3] 3GPP2 X.S0013-A: \"All-IP Core Network Multimedia Domain\"
These requirements are expressed as additions to and/or exclusions from the
3GPP specification.\ The information given here is to be used by developers in
3GPP2 cdma2000 network architecture to interpret the 3GPP OSA specifications.
# B.1 General Exceptions
The terms 3GPP and UMTS are not applicable for the cdma2000 family of
standards. Nevertheless these terms are used (3GPP TR 21.905) mostly in the
broader sense of \"3G Wireless System\". If not stated otherwise there are no
additions or exclusions required.
CAMEL mappings are not applicable for cdma2000 systems.
# B.2 Specific Exceptions
## B.2.1 Clause 1: Scope
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.2 Clause 2: References
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.3 Clause 3: Definitions and abbreviations
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.4 Clause 4: Detailed service description
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.5 Clause 5: Namespaces
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.6 Clause 6: Sequence diagrams
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.7 Clause 7: XML Schema data type definition
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.8 Clause 8: Web Service interface definition
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.9 Clause 9: Fault definitions
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.10 Clause 10: Service policies
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.11 Annex A (normative): WSDL for Call handling
There are no additions or exclusions.
#