# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
3GPP acknowledges the contribution of the Parlay X Web Services specifications
from The Parlay Group. The Parlay Group is pleased to see 3GPP acknowledge and
publish the present document, and the Parlay Group looks forward to working
with the 3GPP community to improve future versions of the present document.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part 20 of a multi-part deliverable covering the 3rd
Generation Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Core Network and
Terminals; Open Service Access (OSA); Parlay X Web Services, as identified
below:
Part 1: \"Common\"
Part 2: \"Third party call\"
Part 3: \"Call Notification\"
Part 4: \"Short Messaging\"
Part 5: \"Multimedia Messaging\"
Part 6: \"Payment\"
Part 7: \"Account management\"
Part 8: \"Terminal Status\"
Part 9: \"Terminal location\"
Part 10: \"Call handling\"
Part 11: \"Audio call\"
Part 12: \"Multimedia conference\"
Part 13: \"Address list management\"
Part 14: \"Presence\"
Part 15: \"Message Broadcast\"
Part 16: \"Geocoding\"
Part 17: \"Application driven Quality of Service (QoS)\"
**Part 18: \"Device Capabilities and Configuration\"**
Part 19: \"Multimedia streaming control\"
Part 20: **\"Multimedia multicast session management\"**
Part 21: \"Content management\"
Part 22: \"Policy\"
# 1 Scope
The present document is Part 20 of the Stage 3 Parlay X Web Services
specification for Open Service Access (OSA).
The OSA specifications define an architecture that enables application
developers to make use of network functionality through an open standardized
interface, i.e. the OSA APIs. The concepts and the functional architecture for
the OSA are contained in 3GPP TS 23.198 [3]. The requirements for OSA are
contained in 3GPP TS 22.127 [2].
The present document specifies the Multimedia multicast session management Web
Service aspects of the interface. All aspects of the Multimedia multicast
session management Web Service are defined here, these being:
  * Name spaces.
  * Sequence diagrams.
  * Data definitions.
  * Interface specification plus detailed method descriptions.
  * Fault definitions.
  * Service policies.
  * WSDL description of the interfaces.
The present document has been defined jointly between 3GPP TSG CT WG5, ETSI
TISPAN and The Parlay Group.
Maintenance of up to 3GPP Rel-8 and new OSA Stage 1, 2 and 3 work beyond Rel-9
was moved to OMA in June 2008.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.127: \"Service Requirement for the Open Services Access (OSA);
Stage 1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.198: \"Open Service Access (OSA); Stage 2\".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.101: \"Service aspects; Service principles\".
[5] W3C Recommendation (2 May 2001): \"XML Schema Part 2: Datatypes\".
NOTE: Available at http://www.w3.org/TR/2001/REC-xmlschema-2-20010502/.
[6] 3GPP TS 29.199-1: \"Open Service Access (OSA); Parlay X web services; Part
1: Common\".
[7] 3GPP TS 29.199-19: \"Open Service Access (OSA); Parlay X web services;
Part 19: Multimedia streaming control\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and in 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6] and the following apply. A term
defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the
same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
**Multicast joining:** The process by which a user joins a multicast group.
**Multicast session:** The group for providing the same multicast service. The
end user joins the multicast session to become the member of the multicast
session.
**Multicast service:** A unidirectional point-to-multipoint service in which
data is efficiently transmitted from a single source to a multicast group in
the associated multicast service area. Multicast services can only be received
by such members that are subscribed to the specific multicast service and have
joined the multicast group associated with the specific service.
**Member:** The user becomes a member of a multicast group after he/she joined
to the multicast group.
**Channel presence information: C** onsists of a set of attributes that
characterize a multicast session such as user identifiers and the multicast
session in which they are participating.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TS
29.199-1 [6] apply.
BM-SC Broadcast Multicast Service Centre
GGSN Gateway GPRS Support Node
IPTV Internet Protocol Television
MBMS Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service
SGSN Serving GPRS Support Node
# 4 Detailed service description
The Multimedia multicast session management Web Service allows for a third
party (e.g. application) to control a multicast session, its members and
multimedia stream, and obtain channel presence information.
The Multimedia multicast session management is a simple Web Service consisting
of three interfaces:
  * **Multicast** : the management of sessions and user participation in sessions
  * **Multicast Notification** : delivering channel presence information events to the application, as users join or leave multicast sessions
  * **Multicast Notification Manager** : providing on-line set up and tear down of notifications for channel presence information events
NOTE: For control of a multimedia stream associated with a multicast session
(e.g. start/stop/pause/resume), a third party (e.g. application) invokes the
appropriate operations defined in 3GPP TS 29.199-19 [7].
The GPRS Packet network or IP Multicast Network delivers multimedia multicast
streams from a multimedia source to users who are already participating in
multicast sessions. The basic scenario is as follows:
An application creates a multicast session for personal broadcasting and plays
the multicast stream. A unique identifier (i.e. multicast address) is assigned
to the just-created multicast session. The user participating in the multicast
session for personal broadcasting may wish to invite their friends to
participate in the session. If the invited friends accept this invitation
request, they see the same program for personal broadcasting on their
terminals. They usually communicate with each other by using a multimedia over
IP while they are participating in the same session. Furthermore the
application monitors user participation status (i.e. joining or leaving the
multicast session) using a notification mechanism. For example, if a friend
has left the session, the application is notified.
# 5 Namespaces
The Multicast interface uses the namespace:
http://www.csapi.org/wsdl/parlayx/multicast/ v4_0
The MulticastNotificationManager interface uses the namespace:
http://www.csapi.org/wsdl/parlayx/multicast/notification_manager/v4_0
The MulticastNotification interface uses the namespace:
http://www.csapi.org/wsdl/parlayx/multicast/notification/v4_0
The data types are defined in the namespace:
http://www.csapi.org/schema/parlayx/multicast/v4_0
The \'xsd\' namespace is used in the present document to refer to the XML
Schema data types defined in XML Schema [5]. The use of the name \'xsd\' is
not semantically significant.
# 6 Sequence diagrams
## 6.1 Create Multicast Session
## 6.2 Delete Multicast Session
## 6.3 Retrieve Multicast Session Information
## 6.4 Invite Users To Join Session
## 6.5 Request Users To Leave Session
## 6.6 Retrieve Session Participation Information
## 6.7 Notification of Channel Presence Information Events
# 7 XML Schema data type definition
## 7.1 SessionInformation structure
Data type for describing multicast session information
* * *
Element Name Element Type Optional Description
sessionName xsd:string No Multicast session name
charging common:\ Yes If present, defines the charge on multicast session.
ChargingInformation
bandwidth xsd:string Yes Minimum bandwidth needed for receiving multimedia
stream on the multicast session.
multimediaType MultimediaType Yes Media type
sessionDuration common:TimeMetric Yes Length of the multicast session exists
sessionDescription xsd:string Yes Multicast session description
* * *
## 7.2 UserInformation structure
* * *
Element Name Element Type Optional Description user xsd:anyURI No Identifies
an end user status UserStatus No the status of the user
* * *
## 7.3 MultimediaType enumeration
* * *
Enumeration Description Video Video media type Audio Audio media type Data
Data media type
* * *
## 7.4 UserStatus enumeration
* * *
Enumeration Description InvitedToJoin User invited but has not joined the
session yet Joined User has joined the session Rejected User has rejected the
invitation RequestedToLeave User requested to leave, but has not left the
session yet NotParticipating User is not, or is no longer, participating in
the session
* * *
# 8 Web Service interface definition
## 8.1 Interface: Multicast
This interface is used by the application to manage:
  * multicast sessions
  * user participation in sessions
### 8.1.1 Operation: createMulticastSession
The application invokes this operation to create a multicast session using the
information it provides. If successful, the application receives the session
address (i.e. the IP address) of a newly created session.
#### 8.1.1.1 Input message: createMulticastSessionRequest
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description sessionInformation SessionInformation
No Multicast session information
* * *
#### 8.1.1.2 Output message: createMulticastSessionResponse
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description result xsd:string No Multicast
session address: i.e. the IP address.
* * *
#### 8.1.1.3 Referenced Faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001 - Service error.
  * SVC0002 - Invalid input value.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001 - Policy error.
  * POL0008 - Charging not supported.
  * POL0012 - Too many description entries specified.
### 8.1.2 Operation: deleteMulticastSession
The application invokes this operation to delete an existing multicast
session.
#### 8.1.2.1 Input message: deleteMulticastSessionRequest
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description sessionAddress xsd:string No
Multicast Session Address, i.e. the IP address
* * *
#### 8.1.2.2 Output message: deleteMulticastSessionResponse
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.1.2.3 Referenced Faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001 - Service error.
  * SVC0002 - Invalid input value.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001 - Policy error.
### 8.1.3 Operation: getMulticastSessionInformation
The application invokes this operation to retrieve information for an existing
multicast session.
#### 8.1.3.1 Input message: getMulticastSessionInformationRequest
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description sessionAddress xsd:string No
Multicast Session Address, i.e. the IP address
* * *
#### 8.1.3.2 Output message: getMulticastSessionInformationResponse
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description result SessionInformation No
Multicast session information
* * *
#### 8.1.3.3 Referenced Faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001 - Service error.
  * SVC0002 - Invalid input value.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001 - Policy error.
### 8.1.4 Operation: inviteUsersToJoin
The application invokes this operation to invite users to join an existing
multicast session.
#### 8.1.4.1 Input message: inviteUsersToJoinRequest
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description
sessionAddress xsd:string No Multicast Session Address, i.e. the IP address
users xsd:anyURI\ No The User(s) or user group(s) that are invited to join the
multicast session. [1...unbounded]
* * *
#### 8.1.4.2 Output message: inviteUsersToJoinResponse
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description
result UserInformation\ No The participation status of the user(s) who were
invited to join the multicast session. [1...unbounded]
* * *
#### 8.1.4.3 Referenced Faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001 - Service error.
  * SVC0002 - Invalid input value.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001 - Policy error.
  * POL0006 -- Groups not allowed
  * POL0007 -- Nested groups not allowed
### 8.1.5 Operation: requestUsersToLeave
The application invokes this operation to request users to leave an existing
multicast session.
#### 8.1.5.1 Input message: requestUsersToLeaveRequest
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description
sessionAddress xsd:string No Multicast Session Address, i.e. the IP address
users xsd:anyURI\ No The User(s) or user group(s) that are requested to leave
the multicast session. [1...unbounded]
* * *
#### 8.1.5.2 Output message: requestUsersToLeaveResponse
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description
result UserInformation\ No The participation status of the user(s) who were
requested to leave the multicast session. [1...unbounded]
* * *
#### 8.1.5.3 Referenced Faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001 - Service error.
  * SVC0002 - Invalid input value.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001 - Policy error.
  * POL0006 -- Groups not allowed
  * POL0007 -- Nested groups not allowed
### 8.1.6 Operation: querySessionParticipants
The application invokes this operation to request the set of users who are
currently participating in an existing multicast session.
#### 8.1.6.1 Input message: querySessionParticipantsRequest
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description sessionAddress xsd:string No
Multicast Session Address, i.e. the IP address
* * *
#### 8.1.6.2 Output message: querySessionParticipantsResponse
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description
result xsd:anyURI\ Yes The users, if any, that are participating in the
specified session i.e. with a **UserStatus** value of **Joined** or
**Requested ToLeave**. [0...unbounded]
* * *
#### 8.1.6.3 Referenced Faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001 - Service error.
  * SVC0002 - Invalid input value.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001 - Policy error.
### 8.1.7 Operation: querySessionForUser
The application invokes this operation to request the address of the multicast
session in which the specified user is currently participating.
#### 8.1.7.1 Input message: querySessionForUserRequest
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description user xsd:anyURI No The user
participating in a multicast session.
* * *
#### 8.1.7.2 Output message: querySessionForUserResponse
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description result xsd:string Yes The (IP)
address of the Multicast Session, if any, in which the specified user is
participating: i.e. with a **UserStatus** value of **Joined** or **Requested
ToLeave**
* * *
#### 8.1.7.3 Referenced Faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001 - Service error.
  * SVC0002 - Invalid input value.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001 - Policy error.
## 8.2 Interface: MulticastNotificationManager
### 8.2.1 Operation: startNotification
The notification pattern with correlation is used in order to correlate the
notification events with the request.
The application sets a notification trigger on changes associated with the
specified user(s) participation in a multicast session. If the specified user
address is a group address, the application will receive an individual
notification for each member of the group whose session participation changes.
Note that the **SimpleReference** structure contains the **correlator** string
used in subsequence messages to the **MulticastNotification** interface.
#### 8.2.1.1 Input message: startNotificationRequest
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description
sessionAddress xsd:string No Multicast Session Address, i.e. the IP address
users xsd:anyURI\ No The user(s) or group(s) that the application wants to
monitor for joining or leaving events [1...unbounded]
reference common:\ No Defines the **MulticastNotification** interface
SimpleReference
frequency common:\ No Maximum frequency of notifications (can also be
considered minimum time between notifications) TimeMetric
duration common:\ Yes Length of time notifications occur for; do not specify
to use default notification time defined by service policy TimeMetric
count xsd:int Yes Maximum number of notifications. For no maximum, either do
not specify this part or specify a value of zero.
* * *
#### 8.2.1.2 Output message: startNotificationResponse
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.2.1.3 Referenced Faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001 - Service error.
  * SVC0002 - Invalid input value.
```{=html}
``` \- SVC0004 - No valid addresses.
  * SVC0005 - Duplicate correlator.
  * SVC0006 - Invalid group.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001 - Policy error.
  * POL0003 -- Too many addresses.
```{=html}
``` \- POL0004 - Unlimited notifications not supported.
  * POL0005 - Too many notifications requested.
```{=html}
``` \- POL0006 -- Groups not allowed
  * POL0007 -- Nested groups not allowed.
  * POL0009 -- Invalid frequency requested.
### 8.2.2 Operation: endNotification
The application may end a notification using this operation.
Until this operation returns, notifications may continue to be received by the
application.
An end of notification (**notifyEndRequest**) message will not be delivered to
the application for a notification ended using this operation.
#### 8.2.2.1 Input message: endNotificationRequest
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description correlator xsd:string No The
notification the application wants to end.
* * *
#### 8.2.2.2 Output message: endNotificationResponse
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.2.2.3 Referenced Faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001 - Service error.
  * SVC0002 - Invalid input value.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001 - Policy error.
## 8.3 Interface: MulticastNotification
Notification interface to which notifications relating to changes in channel
presence information are delivered.
### 8.3.1 Operation: notifyJoinMulticastSession
This asynchronous operation is invoked to notify the application that the end
user has joined the multicast session.
#### 8.3.1.1 Input message: notifyJoinMulticastSessionRequest
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description correlator xsd:string No Identifies
the notification request user xsd:anyURI No The User who has joined the
multicast session.
* * *
#### 8.3.1.2 Output message: notifyJoinMulticastSessionResponse
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.3.1.3 Referenced Faults
None
### 8.3.2 Operation: notifyLeaveMulticastSession
This asynchronous operation is invoked to notify the application that the end
user has left the multicast session.
#### 8.3.2.1 Input message: notifyLeaveMulticastSessionRequest
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description correlator xsd:string No Identifies
the notification request user xsd:anyURI No The User who has left the
multicast session.
* * *
#### 8.3.2.2 Output message: notifyLeaveMulticastSessionResponse
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.3.2.3 Referenced Faults
None
### 8.3.3 Operation: notifyError
The error message is sent to the application to indicate that the notification
for a user, or for the whole notification, is being cancelled by the Web
Service.
#### 8.3.3.1 Input message: notifyErrorRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description correlator xsd:string No Correlator
provided in request to set up this notification. user xsd:anyURI Yes The user
to which the error applies. If not specified the error applies to all users
associated with this notification. reason common:ServiceError No The reason
the notification is being discontinued.
* * *
#### 8.3.3.2 Output message: notifyErrorResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.3.3.3 Referenced faults
None.
### 8.3.4 Operation: notifyEnd
The notifications have ended for this **correlator**. This operation will be
invoked when the duration or count of notifications has been attained. This
operation will not be invoked in the case of an error ending the notifications
or deliberate ending of the notification (using **endNotification**).
#### 8.3.4.1 Input message: notifyEndRequest
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description correlator xsd:string No Identifies
the notification request
* * *
#### 8.3.4.2 Output message: notifyEndResponse
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.3.4.3 Referenced Faults
None
# 9 Fault definitions
There are no service-specific fault definitions for this service.
# 10 Service policies
* * *
Name Type Description MaximumNotificationAddresses xsd:int Maximum number of
addresses for which a notification can be set up MaximumNotificationFrequency
common:TimeMetric Maximum rate of notification delivery (also can be
considered minimum time between notifications) MaximumNotificationDuration
common:TimeMetric Maximum amount of time a notification may be set up for
MaximumCount xsd:int Maximum number of notifications that may be requested
UnlimitedCountAllowed xsd:boolean Allowed to specify unlimited notification
count (i.e. either by not specifying the optional Count message part in
startNotificationRequest or by specifying a value of zero) GroupSupport
xsd:boolean Groups URIs may be used NestedGroupSupport xsd:boolean Are nested
groups supported in group definitions MaximumDescriptions xsd:int Maximum
number of Descriptions that can be charged simultaneously
* * *
###### ## Annex A (normative): WSDL for Multimedia multicast session
management
The document/literal WSDL representation of this interface specification is
compliant to 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6] and is contained in text files;
  * parlayx_multicast_interface_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_multicast_notification_interface_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_multicast_notification_manager_interface_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_multicast_notification_manager_service_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_multicast_notification_service_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_multicast_service_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_multicast_types_4_0.xsd
which accompany the present document.
The WSDL files have been verified using the following files:
  * 20_wsdl2Java_axis-1_4.bat
  * 20_wsdl2Java_axis2-1_4_1.bat
which accompany the present document.
###### ## Annex B (informative): Bibliography
3GPP TS 22.146: \"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service (MBMS), Stage 1\".\
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/22_series/22.146/22146-710.zip.
3GPP TS 23.246: \"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service (MBMS), Architecture
and functional description \".\
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/23_series/23.246/23246-690.zip.
IETF RFC 2236 Internet Group Management Protocol (IGMP), Version 2\
http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2236.txt
###### ## Annex C (informative): Description of Parlay X Web Services Part 20:
Multimedia multicast session management for 3GPP2 cdma2000 networks
This annex is intended to define the OSA Parlay X Web Services Stage 3
interface definitions and it provides the complete OSA specifications. It is
an extension of OSA Parlay X Web Services specifications capabilities to
enable operation in cdma2000 systems environment. They are in alignment with
3GPP2 Stage 1 requirements and Stage 2 architecture defined in:
[1] 3GPP2 X.S0011-D: "cdma2000 Wireless IP Network Standard \", Version 1.1
[2] 3GPP2 S.R0037-0: \"IP Network Architecture Model for cdma2000 Spread
Spectrum Systems\", Version 3.0
[3] 3GPP2 X.S0013-A: \"All-IP Core Network Multimedia Domain\"
These requirements are expressed as additions to and/or exclusions from the
3GPP specification.\ The information given here is to be used by developers in
3GPP2 cdma2000 network architecture to interpret the 3GPP OSA specifications.
# C.1 General Exceptions
The terms 3GPP and UMTS are not applicable for the cdma2000 family of
standards. Nevertheless these terms are used (3GPP TR 21.905) mostly in the
broader sense of \"3G Wireless System\". If not stated otherwise there are no
additions or exclusions required.
CAMEL mappings are not applicable for cdma2000 systems.
# C.2 Specific Exceptions
## C.2.1 Clause 1: Scope
There are no additions or exclusions.
## C.2.2 Clause 2: References
There are no additions or exclusions.
## C.2.3 Clause 3: Definitions and abbreviations
There are no additions or exclusions.
## C.2.4 Clause 4: Detailed service description
There are no additions or exclusions.
## C.2.5 Clause 5: Namespaces
There are no additions or exclusions.
## C.2.6 Clause 6: Sequence diagrams
There are no additions or exclusions.
## C.2.7 Clause 7: XML Schema data type definition
There are no additions or exclusions.
## C.2.8 Clause 8: Web Service interface definition
There are no additions or exclusions.
## C.2.9 Clause 9: Fault definitions
There are no additions or exclusions.
## C.2.10 Clause 10: Service policies
There are no additions or exclusions.
## C.2.11 Annex A (normative): WSDL for Multimedia multicast session
management
There are no additions or exclusions.
#