# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
3GPP acknowledges the contribution of the Parlay X Web Services specifications
from The Parlay Group. The Parlay Group is pleased to see 3GPP acknowledge and
publish the present document, and the Parlay Group looks forward to working
with the 3GPP community to improve future versions of the present document.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part 4 of a multi-part deliverable covering the 3^rd^
Generation Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Core Network and
Terminals; Open Service Access (OSA); Parlay X Web Services, as identified
below:
Part 1: \"Common\"
Part 2: \"Third party call\"
Part 3: \"Call Notification\"
**Part 4: \"Short Messaging\"**
Part 5: \"Multimedia Messaging\"
Part 6: \"Payment\"
Part 7: \"Account management\"
Part 8: \"Terminal Status\"
Part 9: \"Terminal location\"
Part 10: \"Call handling\"
Part 11: \"Audio call\"
Part 12: \"Multimedia conference\"
Part 13: \"Address list management\"
Part 14: \"Presence\"
Part 15: \"Message Broadcast\"
Part 16: \"Geocoding\"
Part 17: \"Application driven Quality of Service (QoS)\"
Part 18: \"Device Capabilities and Configuration\"
Part 19: \"Multimedia streaming control\"
Part 20: \"Multimedia multicast session management\"
Part 21: \"Content management\"
Part 22: \"Policy\"
# 1 Scope
The present document is Part 4 of the Stage 3 Parlay X Web Services
specification for Open Service Access (OSA).
The OSA specifications define an architecture that enables application
developers to make use of network functionality through an open standardized
interface, i.e. the OSA APIs. The concepts and the functional architecture for
the OSA are contained in 3GPP TS 23.198 [3]. The requirements for OSA are
contained in 3GPP TS 22.127 [2].
The present document specifies the Short Messaging Web Service aspects of the
interface. All aspects of the Short Messaging Web Service are defined here,
these being:
  * Name spaces.
  * Sequence diagrams.
  * Data definitions.
  * Interface specification plus detailed method descriptions.
  * Fault definitions.
  * Service policies.
  * WSDL description of the interfaces.
The present document has been defined jointly between 3GPP TSG CT WG5, ETSI
TISPAN and The Parlay Group.
Maintenance of up to 3GPP Rel-8 and new OSA Stage 1, 2 and 3 work beyond Rel-9
was moved to OMA in June 2008.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.127: \"Service Requirement for the Open Services Access (OSA);
Stage 1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.198: \"Open Service Access (OSA); Stage 2\".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.101: \"Service aspects; Service principles\".
[5] W3C Recommendation (2 May 2001): \"XML Schema Part 2: Datatypes\".
NOTE: Available at http://www.w3.org/TR/2001/REC-xmlschema-2-20010502/.
[6] 3GPP TS 29.199-1: \"Open Service Access (OSA); Parlay X Web Services; Part
1: Common\".
[7] 3GPP TS 23.040: \"Technical realization of Short Message Service (SMS)\".
[8] RFC2822: \"Internet Message Format\".
NOTE: Available at htpp://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2822.txt
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6] apply.
Additionally the following definition is needed:
**Whitespace:** see definition for CFWS as defined in RFC2822 [8].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TS
29.199-1 [6] and the following apply:
SMS Short Message Service
SMS-C Short Message Service - Center
# 4 Detailed service description
Currently, in order to programmatically receive and send SMS it is necessary
to write applications using specific protocols to access SMS functions
provided by network elements (e.g. SMS-C). This approach requires a high
degree of network expertise. Alternatively it is possible to use the
Parlay/OSA approach, invoking standard interfaces (e.g. User Interaction or
Messaging Service Interfaces) to gain access to SMS capabilities, but these
interfaces are usually perceived to be quite complex by IT application
developers. Developers must have advanced telecommunication skills to use OSA
interfaces.
In this clause is described a Parlay X Web Service, for sending and receiving
SMS messages. The overall scope of this Web Service is to provide to
application developers primitives to handle SMS in a simple way. In fact,
using the SMS Web Service, application developers can invoke SMS functions
without specific Telco knowledge.
ShortMessaging provides operations (see clause 8.1, Send SMS API) for sending
a SMS message to the network and a polling mechanism for monitoring the
delivery status of a sent SMS message. It also provides an asynchronous
notification mechanism for delivery status (see clause 8.2, SmsNotification
API). In addition, a mechanism is provided to start and stop the notification
of delivery receipts (see clause 8.4, SmsNotificationManager API).
ShortMessaging also allows an application to receive SMS messages. Both a
polling (see clause 8.3, ReceiveSMS API) and an asynchronous notification
mechanism (see clause 8.2, SMSNotification API and clause 8.4,
SmsNotificationManager API) are available.
Figure 1 shows a scenario using the SMS Web Service to send an SMS message
from an application. The application invokes a Web Service to retrieve a
weather forecast for a subscriber (1) and (2) and a Parlay X Interface (3) to
use the SMS Web Service operations (i.e. to send an SMS). After invocation,
the SMS Web Service invokes a Parlay API method (4) using the Parlay/OSA SCS
(Generic User Interaction) interface. This SCS handles the invocation and
sends an UCP operation (5) to an SMS-C. Subsequently the weather forecast is
delivered (6) to the subscriber.
In an alternative scenario, the Parlay API interaction involving steps (4) and
(5) could be replaced with a direct interaction between the SMS Web Service
and the Mobile network.
{width="5.009722222222222in" height="3.26875in"}
Figure 1: Send SMS Scenario
Figure 2 shows a scenario using the SMS Web Service to deliver a received SMS
message to an application. The application receives a Parlay X Web Service
invocation for an SMS sent by a subscriber (1) and (2). The SMS message
contains the e-mail address of the person the user wishes to call. The
application invokes a Parlay X Interface (3) to the Third Party Call Web
Service in order to initiate the call (4).
{width="4.791666666666667in" height="3.5215277777777776in"}
Figure 2: Receive SMS Scenario
# 5 Namespaces
The SendSms interface uses the namespace:
http://www.csapi.org/wsdl/parlayx/sms/send/v4_0
The ReceiveSms interface uses the namespace:
http://www.csapi.org/wsdl/parlayx/sms/receive/v4_0
The SmsNotification interface uses the namespace:
http://www.csapi.org/wsdl/parlayx/sms/notification/v4_0
The SmsNotificationManager interface uses the namespace:
http://www.csapi.org/wsdl/parlayx/sms/notification_manager/v4_0
The data types are defined in the namespace:
http://www.csapi.org/schema/parlayx/sms/v4_0
The \'xsd\' namespace is used in the present document to refer to the XML
Schema data types defined in XML Schema [5]. The use of the name \'xsd\' is
not semantically significant.
# 6 Sequence Diagrams
## 6.1 Send SMS and report status
Sending SMS message from Web portals is a common capability offered by Service
Providers. This sequence diagram shows a portal providing this service.
{width="5.259722222222222in" height="5.003472222222222in"}
Figure 3
# 7 XML Schema data type definition
## 7.1 DeliveryStatus enumeration
List of delivery status values.
* * *
Enumeration Description DeliveredToNetwork Successful delivery to network
DeliveryUncertain Delivery status unknown: e.g. because it was handed off to
another network. DeliveryImpossible Unsuccessful delivery; the message could
not be delivered before it expired. MessageWaiting The message is still queued
for delivery. This is a temporary state, pending transition to one of the
preceding states. DeliveredToTerminal Successful delivered to Terminal
DeliveryNotificationNotSupported Unable to provide delivery receipt
notification. NotifySMSDeliveryReceipt function will provide
"DeliveryNotificationNotSupported" to indicate that delivery receipt for the
specified address in a SendSMSRequest is not supported.
* * *
## 7.2 SmsFormat enumeration
List of SMS format values.
* * *
Enumeration Description Ems Enhanced Messaging Service, standardized in TS
23.040 [7], which defines a logo/ringtone format SmartMessagingTM Defines a
logo/ringtone format
* * *
## 7.3 DeliveryInformation structure
Delivery status information.
* * *
Element name Element type Optional Description Address xsd:anyURI No It
indicates the destination address to which the notification is related.
DeliveryStatus DeliveryStatus No Indicates the delivery result for the
destination address. Description xsd:string Yes Used together with delivery
status (e.g.DeliveryImpossible) to provide additional information.
* * *
## 7.4 SmsMessage structure
SMS message information. The SenderAddress is the address from which the
message was actually sent, which may or may not match the senderName value
provided in the SendSms operation.
* * *
Element name Element type Optional Description
Message xsd:string No Text received in SMS
SenderAddress xsd:anyURI No It indicates address sending the SMS
SmsServiceActivation\ xsd:anyURI No Number associated with the invoked Message
service, i.e. the destination address used to send the message Number
DateTime xsd:dateTime Yes Time when message was received by operator
* * *
## 7.5 ScheduledDeliveryStatus enumeration
List of scheduled SMS delivery status values.
* * *
Enumeration Description Scheduled The Message has been scheduled, the
scheduled time has not started. NotSent Message could not be sent before end
of scheduled time. Sent The Message has been sent within the scheduled time.
Cancelled Message has been cancelled. Some messages may have been sent.
PartiallySent Message is sent to some, but not to all the recipients.
StatusUnavailable Unable to provide delivery information.
* * *
## 7.6 ScheduledDeliveryInformation structure
Scheduled delivery information.
* * *
Element name Element type Optional Description
DeliveryStatus ScheduledDeliveryStatus No Indicates the delivery result for
the destination address.
NumberOf\ xsd:int Yes If applicable, the number of messages already sent.
MessagesSent
* * *
# 8 Web Service interface definition
## 8.1 Interface: SendSms
This interface defines operations to send and schedule various types of Short
Messages and to subsequently poll for delivery status. The Short Message types
are:
  * SMS message, as described in 0 and 0
  * SMS logo, as described in 0 and 0
  * SMS ringtone, as described in 0. and 0
The send operations for the Short Message types are similar. A description of
the common message parts follows:
  * **addresses** specifies the destination address or address set for the Short Message. It may include group URIs as defined in the Address List Management specification. If groups are not supported, a **PolicyException** (POL0006) will be returned to the application.
  * **senderName** is optional and specifies the sender's name: i.e. the string that is displayed on the user\'s terminal as the originator of the message
  * **charging** specifies the charging information
  * **receiptRequest** is optional and is specified when the application requires to receive notification of the status of the SMS delivery. It is a **SimpleReference** structure that indicates the application endpoint, interface used for notification of delivery receipt and a correlator that uniquely identifies the sending request.
  * If the notification mechanism is not supported by a network, a > **ServiceException** (SVC0283) will be returned to the application > and the message will not be sent to the addresses specified.
  * The correlator provided in the r**eceiptRequest** must be unique for > this Web Service and application at the time the notification is > initiated, otherwise a **ServiceException** (SVC0005) will be > returned to the application.
  * Notification to the application is done by invoking the > **notifySmsDeliveryReceipt** operation at the endpoint specified > in **receiptRequest**.
  * This optional message part is not used (or will be overridden) in > case the **startDeliveryReceiptNotification** operation is used > when the application requires to receive delivery receipt > notifications. This is to avoid overlapping criteria.
  * **requestIdentifier** is specified in the response message associated with each send operation. The application can use it to invoke the **getSmsDeliveryStatus** operation to poll for the delivery status.
### 8.1.1 Operation: SendSms
The application invokes the **sendSms** operation to send an SMS message,
specified by the String **message**.
If **message** is longer than the maximum supported length, the message
content will be sent as several concatenated short messages.
#### 8.1.1.1 Input message: SendSmsRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description Addresses xsd:anyURI [1..unbounded]
No Addresses to which the SMS will be sent SenderName xsd:string Yes If
present, it indicates the SMS sender name, i.e. the string that is displayed
on the user\'s terminal as the originator of the message Charging
common:ChargingInformation Yes Charge to apply to this message Message
xsd:string No Text to be sent in SMS ReceiptRequest common:SimpleReference Yes
It defines the application endpoint, interfaceName and correlator that will be
used to notify the application when the message has been delivered to terminal
or if delivery is impossible. It is not used (or will be overridden) in case
the startDeliveryReceiptNotification operation is used.
* * *
#### 8.1.1.2 Output message : SendSmsResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description result xsd:string No It identifies a
specific SMS delivery request
* * *
#### 8.1.1.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from [6]:
  * SVC0001 - Service error.
  * SVC0002 - Invalid input value.
  * SVC0004 - No valid addresses.
  * SVC0006 - Invalid group.
  * SVC0280 - Message too long.
  * SVC0283 -- Delivery Receipt Notification not supported
PolicyException from [6]:
  * POL0001 - Policy error.
  * POL0006 - Groups not allowed.
  * POL0007 - Nested groups not allowed.
  * POL0008 - Charging not allowed.
  * POL0012 - Too many description entries specified
  * POL0013 -- Addresses duplication
### 8.1.2 Operation: SendSmsLogo
The application invokes the **sendSmsLogo** operation to send an SMS logo,
specified by the byte array **image.**
#### 8.1.2.1 Input message: SendSmsLogoRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description Addresses xsd:anyURI [1..unbounded]
No Addresses to which the SMS logo will be sent SenderName xsd:string Yes SMS
sender name, i.e. the string that is displayed on the user\'s terminal as the
originator of the message Charging common:ChargingInformation Yes Charge to
apply to this message Image xsd:base64Binary No The image in jpeg, gif or png
format. The image will be scaled to the proper format SmsFormat SmsFormat No
Conversion to be applied to the message prior to delivery. Possible values
are: \'Ems\' or \'SmartMessaging\' ReceiptRequest common:SimpleReference Yes
It defines the application endpoint, interfaceName and correlator that will be
used to notify the application when the message has been delivered to terminal
or if delivery is impossible
* * *
#### 8.1.2.2 Output message: SendSmsLogoResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description result String No It identifies a
specific SMS delivery request
* * *
#### 8.1.2.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from [6]:
  * SVC0001 - Service error.
  * SVC0002 - Invalid input value.
  * SVC0004 - No valid addresses.
  * SVC0006 - Invalid group.
  * SVC0281 - Unrecognized data format.
  * SVC0283 -- Delivery Receipt Notification not supported
PolicyException from [6]:
  * POL0001 - Policy error.
  * POL0006 - Groups not allowed.
  * POL0007 - Nested groups not allowed.
  * POL0008 - Charging not allowed.
  * POL0012 - Too many description entries specified
  * POL0013 -- Addresses duplication
### 8.1.3 Operation: SendSmsRingtone
The application invokes the **sendSmsRingtone** operation to send an SMS
ringtone, specified by the String **ringtone** (in RTX format).
Depending on the length of the ringtone, it may be sent as several
concatenated short messages.
NOTE: In the RTX Ringtone Specification,an RTX file is a text file, containing
the ringtone name, a control subclause and a subclause containing a comma
separated sequence of ring tone commands.
#### 8.1.3.1 Input message: SendSmsRingtoneRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description Addresses xsd:anyURI [1..unbounded]
No Addresses to which the SMS ringtone will be sent SenderName xsd:string Yes
SMS sender name, i.e. the string that is displayed on the user\'s terminal as
the originator of the message Charging common:ChargingInformation Yes Charge
to apply to this message Ringtone xsd:string No The ringtone in RTX format
(see note above).
([http://www.logomanager.co.uk/help/Edit/RTX.html]{.underline}) SmsFormat
SmsFormat No Conversion to be applied to the message prior to delivery.
Possible values are: \'Ems\' or \'SmartMessaging\' ReceiptRequest
common:SimpleReference Yes It defines the application endpoint, interfaceName
and correlator that will be used to notify the application when the message
has been delivered to terminal or if delivery is impossible
* * *
#### 8.1.3.2 Output message: SendSmsRingtoneResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description result xsd:string No It identifies a
specific SMS delivery request
* * *
#### 8.1.3.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from [6]:
  * SVC0001 - Service error.
  * SVC0002 - Invalid input value.
  * SVC0004 - No valid addresses.
  * SVC0006 - Invalid group.
  * SVC0281 - Unrecognized data format.
  * SVC0283 -- Delivery Receipt Notification not supported
PolicyException from [6]:
  * POL0001 - Policy error.
  * POL0006 - Groups not allowed.
  * POL0007 - Nested groups not allowed.
  * POL0008 - Charging not allowed.
  * POL0012 - Too many description entries specified
  * POL0013 -- Addresses duplication
### 8.1.4 Operation: GetSmsDeliveryStatus
The application invokes the **getSmsDeliveryStatus** operation to request the
status of a previous SMS delivery request identified by **requestIdentifier**.
The information on the status is returned in **deliveryStatus** , which is an
array of status related to the request identified by **requestIdentifier**.
The status is identified by a couplet indicating a user address and the
associated delivery status. This method can be invoked multiple times by the
application even if the status has reached a final value. However, after the
status has reached a final value, status information will be available only
for a limited period of time as defined by a service policy. The following
five different SMS delivery status values have been identified:
  * \'DeliveredToNetwork\': in case of concatenated messages, only when > all the SMS-parts have been successfully delivered to the network.
  * \'DeliveryUncertain\': e.g. because it was handed off to another > network.
  * \'DeliveryImpossible\': unsuccessful delivery; the message could not > be delivered before it expired.
  * \'MessageWaiting\': the message is still queued for delivery.
  * \'DeliveredToTerminal\': in case of concatenated messages, only when > all the SMS-parts have been successfully delivered to the > terminal.
#### 8.1.4.1 Input message: GetSmsDeliveryStatusRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description RequestIdentifier xsd:string No It
identifies a specific SMS delivery request
* * *
#### 8.1.4.2 Output message : GetSmsDeliveryStatusResponse
+-----------+---------------------+----------+---------------------+ | Part name | Part type | Optional | Description | +-----------+---------------------+----------+---------------------+ | result | DeliveryInformation | Yes | It lists the | | | [0..unbounded] | | variations on the | | | | | delivery status of | | | | | the SMS. Possible | | | | | values are: | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | DeliveredToNetwork | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | DeliveryUncertain | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | DeliveryImpossible | | | | | | | | | | - MessageWaiting | | | | | | | | | | `{=html} | | | | |  | | | | |` | | | | | - | | | | | DeliveredToTerminal | +-----------+---------------------+----------+---------------------+
#### 8.1.4.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from [6]:
  * SVC0001 - Service error.
  * SVC0002 - Invalid input value.
PolicyException from [6]:
  * POL0001 - Policy error.
  * POL0010 -- Retention time interval expired
### 8.1.5 Operation: ScheduleSms
The application invokes the **scheduleSms** operation to schedule sending of
an SMS message, specified by the String **message.**
#### 8.1.5.1 Input message: ScheduleSmsRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description Addresses xsd:anyURI [1..unbounded]
No Addresses to which the SMS will be sent SenderName xsd:string Yes If
present, it indicates the SMS sender name, i.e. the string that is displayed
on the user\'s terminal as the originator of the message Charging
common:ChargingInformation Yes Charge to apply to this message Message
xsd:string No Text to be sent in SMS StartTime xsd:dateTime No Specifies the
time to start sending out the scheduled SMS. StopTime xsd:dateTime No
Specifies the time to stop sending out the SMS. Any message not sent before
StopTime will not be sent.
* * *
#### 8.1.5.2 Output message : ScheduleSmsResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description result xsd:string No It identifies a
specific SMS schedule request
* * *
#### 8.1.5.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from [6]:
  * SVC0001 - Service error.
  * SVC0002 - Invalid input value.
  * SVC0004 - No valid addresses.
  * SVC0006 - Invalid group.
  * SVC0280 - Message too long.
PolicyException from [6]:
  * POL0001 - Policy error.
  * POL0006 - Groups not allowed.
  * POL0007 - Nested groups not allowed.
  * POL0008 - Charging not allowed.
  * POL0012 - Too many description entries specified
  * POL0013 -- Addresses duplication
### 8.1.6 Operation: ScheduleSmsLogo
The application invokes the **ScheduleSmsLogo** operation to schedule sending
of an SMS logo, specified by the byte array **image.**
#### 8.1.6.1 Input message: ScheduleSmsLogoRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description Addresses xsd:anyURI [1..unbounded]
No Addresses to which the SMS logo will be sent SenderName xsd:string Yes SMS
sender name, i.e. the string that is displayed on the user\'s terminal as the
originator of the message Charging common:ChargingInformation Yes Charge to
apply to this message Image xsd:base64Binary No The image in jpeg, gif or png
format. The image will be scaled to the proper format SmsFormat SmsFormat No
Conversion to be applied to the message prior to delivery. Possible values
are: \'Ems\' or \'SmartMessaging\' StartTime xsd:dateTime No Specifies the
time to start sending out the scheduled SMS. StopTime xsd:dateTime No
Specifies the time to stop sending out the SMS. Any message not sent before
StopTime will not be sent.
* * *
#### 8.1.6.2 Output message: ScheduleSmsLogoResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description result xsd:string No It identifies a
specific SMS schedule request
* * *
#### 8.1.6.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from [6]:
  * SVC0001 - Service error.
  * SVC0002 - Invalid input value.
  * SVC0004 - No valid addresses.
  * SVC0006 - Invalid group.
  * SVC0281 - Unrecognized data format.
PolicyException from [6]:
  * POL0001 - Policy error.
  * POL0006 - Groups not allowed.
  * POL0007 - Nested groups not allowed.
  * POL0008 - Charging not allowed.
  * POL0012 - Too many description entries specified
  * POL0013 -- Addresses duplication
### 8.1.7 Operation: ScheduleSmsRingtone
The application invokes the **ScheduleSmsRingtone** operation to schedule
sending of an SMS ringtone, specified by the String **ringtone** (in RTX
format).
Depending on the length of the ringtone, it may be sent as several
concatenated short messages.
NOTE: In the RTX Ringtone Specification,an RTX file is a text file, containing
the ringtone name, a control subclause and a subclause containing a comma
separated sequence of ring tone commands.
#### 8.1.7.1 Input message: ScheduleSmsRingtoneRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description Addresses xsd:anyURI [1..unbounded]
No Addresses to which the SMS ringtone will be sent SenderName xsd:string Yes
SMS sender name, i.e. the string that is displayed on the user\'s terminal as
the originator of the message Charging common:ChargingInformation Yes Charge
to apply to this message Ringtone xsd:string No The ringtone in RTX format
(see note above).
([http://www.logomanager.co.uk/help/Edit/RTX.html]{.underline}) SmsFormat
SmsFormat No Conversion to be applied to the message prior to delivery.
Possible values are: \'Ems\' or \'SmartMessaging\' StartTime xsd:dateTime No
Specifies the time to start sending out the scheduled SMS. StopTime
xsd:dateTime No Specifies the time to stop sending out the SMS. Any message
not sent before StopTime will not be sent.
* * *
#### 8.1.7.2 Output message: ScheduleSmsRingtoneResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description result xsd:string No It identifies a
specific SMS schedule request
* * *
#### 8.1.7.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from [6]:
  * SVC0001 - Service error.
  * SVC0002 - Invalid input value.
  * SVC0004 - No valid addresses.
  * SVC0006 - Invalid group.
  * SVC0281 - Unrecognized data format.
PolicyException from [6]:
  * POL0001 - Policy error.
  * POL0006 - Groups not allowed.
  * POL0007 - Nested groups not allowed.
  * POL0008 - Charging not allowed.
  * POL0012 - Too many description entries specified
  * POL0013 -- Addresses duplication
### 8.1.8 Operation: CancelScheduledSms
The invocation of cancelScheduledSmsRequest cancels the previously scheduled
SMS request identified by requestIdentifier. If the period scheduled for
sending SMS has started, some or all of the messages may have been sent.
#### 8.1.8.1 Input message: CancelScheduledSmsRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description RequestIdentifier xsd:string No It
identifies a specific SMS schedule request
* * *
#### 8.1.8.2 Output message : CancelScheduledSmsResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.1.8.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from [6]:
  * SVC0001 - Service error.
  * SVC0002 - Invalid input value.
PolicyException from [6]:
  * POL0001 - Policy error.
### 8.1.9 Operation: GetScheduledSmsStatus
Gets the schedule and status of a scheduled SMS message.
#### 8.1.9.1 Input message: GetScheduledSmsStatusRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description RequestIdentifier xsd:string No It
identifies a specific SMS schedule request
* * *
#### 8.1.9.2 Output message : GetScheduledSmsStatusResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description result ScheduledDeliveryInformation
No Indicates the delivery result for the destination addresses and, if
applicable, the number of messages already sent.
* * *
#### 8.1.9.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from [6]:
  * SVC0001 - Service error.
  * SVC0002 - Invalid input value.
PolicyException from [6]:
  * POL0001 - Policy error.
```{=html}
``` \- POL0010 -- Retention time interval expired
## 8.2 Interface: SmsNotification
SmsNotification is the application side notification interface to which short
messages are delivered.
### 8.2.1 Operation: NotifySmsReception
The notification is used to send a short message to the application. The
notification will occur only if the SMS fulfils the criteria specified when
starting the SMS notification.
The **notifySmsReception** method must be implemented by a Web Service at the
**_application side_**. It will be invoked by the Parlay X server to notify
the application of the reception of an SMS. The notification will occur if and
only if the SMS received fulfils the criteria specified in a provisioning
step, identified by the **correlator**. The criteria must at least include an
**smsServiceActivationNumber** , i.e. the SMS destination address that can be
\"monitored\" by the application. The parameter **senderAddress** contains the
address of the sender. The application can apply the appropriate service logic
to process the SMS.
#### 8.2.1.1 Input message: NotifySmsReceptionRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description correlator xsd:string No Correlator
provided in request to set up this notification Message SmsMessage No Message
received
* * *
#### 8.2.1.2 Output message : NotifySmsReceptionResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.2.1.3 Referenced faults
None.
### 8.2.2 Operation: NotifySmsDeliveryReceipt
The **notifySmsDeliveryReceipt** method must be implemented by a Web Service
at the **_application side_** if it requires notification of SMSdelivery
receipt. It will be invoked by the Parlay X server to notify the application
when a SMS sent by an application has been delivered to the terminal of the
recipient or if delivery is impossible. The notification will occur if and
only if the status of the sent SMS is 'DeliveredToTerminal' or
'DeliveryImpossible' and the application has specified interest in
notification when sending an SMS message using one of the following mutually
exclusive mechanisms:
  * by specifying the optional receiptRequest parameter. The correlator returned corresponds to the identifier specified by the application in the **receiptRequest** of the original **sendSMS** request
  * by invoking the **startDeliveryReceiptNotification** operation requesting to receive delivery receipt notifications. The correlator returned corresponds to the identifier specified by the application in the **reference** of the original **startDeliveryReceiptNotification** request.
When a SMS message is sent to multiple addresses, the notification from the
server will send notification for each terminal as and when a SMS message is
delivered to a terminal.
The following three different SMS delivery status will be returned in
NotifySMSDeliveryReceiptResponse:
  * \'DeliveryImpossible\': unsuccessful delivery; the message could not > be delivered before it expired.
  * \'DeliveredToTerminal\': in case of concatenated messages, only when > all the SMS-parts have been successfully delivered to the > terminal.
  * 'DeliveredNotificationNotSupported' - If notification is supported > by the network but it does not support delivery receipt for one or > more addresses specified in the **sendSMS** message. The service > will send this status for those addresses.
#### 8.2.2.1 Input message: NotifySmsDeliveryReceiptRequest
+----------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Part name | Part type | Optional | Description | +----------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Correlator | xsd:string | No | The identifier | | | | | defining the | | | | | original | | | | | SendRequest. | | | | | This correlator | | | | | was passed by | | | | | the application | | | | | during the | | | | | SendSMS request | +----------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | DeliveryStatus | Del | No | It lists the | | | iveryInformation | | variations on | | | | | the delivery | | | | | status of the | | | | | SMS to a | | | | | terminal. | | | | | Possible values | | | | | are: | | | | | | | | | | - De | | | | | liveryImpossible | | | | | | | | | | - Del | | | | | iveredToTerminal | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | DeliveryNotifica | | | | | tionNotSupported | +----------------+------------------+----------+------------------+
#### 8.2.2.2 Output message: NotifySmsDeliveryReceiptResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.2.2.3 Referenced faults
None.
## 8.3 Interface: ReceiveSms
### 8.3.1 Operation: GetReceivedSms
The invocation of **getReceivedSms** retrieves all the SMS messages received
that fulfil the criteria identified by **registrationIdentifier**. The method
returns only the list of SMS messages received since the previous invocation
of the same method, i.e. each time the method is executed the messages
returned are removed from the server. Moreover, each SMS message will be
automatically removed from the server after a maximum time interval as defined
by a service policy.
The received SMS messages are returned in the **getReceivedSmsResponse**
message. An SMS message is identified by a structure indicating the sender of
the SMS message and the content.
#### 8.3.1.1 Input message: GetReceivedSmsRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description RegistrationIdentifier xsd:string No
Identifies the provisioning step that enables the application to receive
notification of SMS reception according to specified criteria
* * *
#### 8.3.1.2 Output message : GetReceivedSmsResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description result SmsMessage [0..unbounded] Yes
It lists the received SMS since last invocation
* * *
#### 8.3.1.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from [6]:
  * SVC0001 - Service error.
  * SVC0002 - Invalid input value.
PolicyException from [6]:
  * POL0001 - Policy error.
  * POL0010 -- Retention time interval expired
## 8.4 Interface: SmsNotificationManager
The short message notification manager enables applications to set up and tear
down notifications for short messages, online.
### 8.4.1 Operation: StartSmsNotification
Start notifications to the application for a given SMS Service activation
number and criteria.
The SMS Service activation number is an Address Data item e.g. Shortcode, as
defined in 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6].
The correlator provided in the reference must be unique for the application
Web Service at the time the notification is initiated, otherwise a
ServiceException (SVC0005) will be returned to the application..
If specified, criteria will be used to filter messages that are to be
delivered to an application. If criteria are not provided, or is an empty
string, then all messages for the SmsServiceActivationNumber will be delivered
to the application.\ The SmsServiceActivationNumber and criteria combination
must be unique. If a criteria overlaps then SVC0008 will be returned to the
application and the notification will not be set up. Note that the use of
criteria will allow different notification endpoints to receive notifications
for the same SmsServiceActivationNumber. The combination of
SmsServiceActivationNumber and criteria must be unique, so that a notification
will be delivered to only one notification endpoint. If no match is found, the
message will not be delivered to the application.
#### 8.4.1.1 Input message: StartSmsNotificationRequest
+------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Part name | Part type | Optional | Description | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Reference | common | No | Notification | | | :SimpleReference | | endpoint | | | | | definition | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | SmsSe | xsd:anyURI | No | The destination | | rviceActivation\ | \ | | address or | | Number | [1...unbounded] | | addresses to the | | | | | short message | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Criteria | xsd:string | Yes | The text to | | | | | match against to | | | | | determine the | | | | | application to | | | | | receive the | | | | | notification. | | | | | | | | | | This text is | | | | | matched against | | | | | the first word | | | | | in the message, | | | | | defined as the | | | | | initial | | | | | characters after | | | | | discarding any | | | | | leading | | | | | whi | | | | | tspaceWhitespace | | | | | and ending with | | | | | a | | | | | whit | | | | | espaceWhitespace | | | | | or end of | | | | | message. | | | | | | | | | | The matching | | | | | shall be | | | | | c | | | | | ase-insensitive. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+
#### 8.4.1.2 Output message: StartSmsNotificationResponse
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description none
* * *
#### 8.4.1.3 Referenced Faults
ServiceException from [6]
  * SVC0001 -- Service error
  * SVC0002 -- Invalid input value
  * SVC0005 -- Duplicate correlator
  * SVC0008 -- Overlapping Criteria
PolicyException from [6]
  * POL0001 -- Policy error
### 8.4.2 Operation: StopSmsNotification
The application may end a short message notification using this operation
#### 8.4.2.1 Input message: StopSmsNotificationRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description Correlator xsd:string No Correlator
of request to end
* * *
#### 8.4.2.2 Output message: StopSmsNotificationResponse
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.4.2.3 Referenced Faults
ServiceException from [6]
  * SVC0001 -- Service error
  * SVC0002 -- Invalid input value
PolicyException from [6]
  * POL0001 -- Policy error
### 8.4.3 Operation: StartDeliveryReceiptNotification
Start notifications to the application for delivery receipts. The reference
will be where to send the delivery receipts. The **notifySmsDeliveryReceipt**
method (see clause 8.2.2) must be implemented by a Web Service at the
application side if it requires notification of SMSdelivery receipt. When the
**startDeliveryReceiptNotification** operation is supported by the Service
Provider, its use overrides the delivery receipting mechanism supported in the
SendSMS API (see clause 8.1: **sendSMS** operation).
#### 8.4.3.1 Input message: StartDeliveryReceiptNotificationRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description Reference common:SimpleReference No
Notification endpoint definition FilterCriteria xsd:string No The
FilterCriteria will allow the service to filter flexibly. One example would be
for the Service Provider to filter based on first 4 digits in MSISDN. This
however is implementation specific and will be left to the Service Provider.
* * *
#### 8.4.3.2 Output message: StartDeliveryReceiptNotificationResponse
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description none
* * *
#### 8.4.3.3 Referenced Faults
ServiceException from [6]
  * SVC0001 -- Service error
  * SVC0002 -- Invalid input value
  * SVC0005 -- Duplicate correlator
  * SVC0008 -- Overlapping Criteria
  * SVC0283 -- Delivery Receipt Notification not supported
PolicyException from [6]
  * POL0001 -- Policy error
### 8.4.4 Operation: StopDeliveryReceiptNotification
The application may end delivery receipt notification using this operation
#### 8.4.4.1 Input message: StopDeliveryReceiptNotificationRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description Correlator xsd:string No Correlator
of request to end
* * *
#### 8.4.4.2 Output message: StopDeliveryReceiptNotificationResponse
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.4.4.3 Referenced Faults
ServiceException from [6]
  * SVC0001 -- Service error
  * SVC0002 -- Invalid input value
PolicyException from [6]
  * POL0001 -- Policy error
# 9 Fault definitions
## 9.1 ServiceException
### 9.1.1 SVC0280: Message too long
* * *
Name Description Message Id SVC0280 Text Message too long. Maximum length is
%1 characters Variables %1 Number of characters allowed in a message
* * *
### 9.1.2 SVC0281: Unrecognized data format
* * *
Name Description Message Id SVC0281 Text Data format not recognized for
message part %1 Variables %1 Message part with the unrecognized data
* * *
### 9.1.3 Void
The fault code (SVC0282) is reserved and shall not be used,
### 9.1.4 SVC0283: Delivery Receipt Notification not supported
* * *
Name Description Message Id SVC0283 Text Delivery Receipt Notification not
supported Variables
* * *
# 10 Service policies
Service policies for this service.
* * *
Name Type Description GroupSupport xsd:boolean Groups may be included with
addresses NestedGroupSupport xsd:boolean Are nested groups supported in group
definitions ChargingSupported xsd:boolean Is charging supported for send
operations StatusRetentionTime common:TimeMetric A time interval that begins
after the status of a short message delivery request has reached a final
value. During this interval, the delivery status information remains available
for retrieval by the application. MessageRetentionTime common:TimeMetric A
time interval that begins after the the receipt of a short message. During
this interval, the short message remains available for retrieval by the
application. MaximumDescriptions xsd:int Maximum number of Descriptions that
can be charged simultaneously MessagingAddressesDuplicationSupport xsd:boolean
Is duplication addresses supported for send operations
* * *
NOTE: For service policy -- \"MessagingAddressesDuplicationSupport\", i**f
aliases or group addresses are used:**
  1. Parlay X Gateway with Identity Management Framework support can verify that indeed there is a duplicate.
  2. If network capability supports aliases or group addresses and the Parlay X Gateway without Identity Management Framework supporting, then the policy exception of addresses duplication may not have effect fully.
  3. If network capability does not support aliases or group addresses and the Parlay X Gateway without Identity Management Framework supporting, the Parlay-X Gateway should reject the aliases and group addresses.
###### ## Annex A (normative): WSDL for Short Messaging
The document/literal WSDL representation of this interface specification is
compliant to 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6] and is contained in text files:
  * parlayx_sms_notification_interface_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_sms_notification_manager_interface_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_sms_notification_manager_service_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_sms_notification_service_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_sms_receive_interface_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_sms_receive_service_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_sms_send_interface_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_sms_send_service_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_sms_types_4_0.xsd
which accompany the present document.
The WSDL files have been verified using the following files:
  * 4_wsdl2Java_axis-1_4.bat
  * 4_wsdl2Java_axis2-1_4_1.bat
which accompany the present document.
###### ## Annex B (informative): Description of Parlay X Web Services Part 4:
Short messaging for 3GPP2 cdma2000 networks
This annex is intended to define the OSA Parlay X Web Services Stage 3
interface definitions and it provides the complete OSA specifications. It is
an extension of OSA Parlay X Web Services specifications capabilities to
enable operation in cdma2000 systems environment. They are in alignment with
3GPP2 Stage 1 requirements and Stage 2 architecture defined in:
[1] 3GPP2 X.S0011-D: "cdma2000 Wireless IP Network Standard \", Version 1.1
[2] 3GPP2 S.R0037-0: \"IP Network Architecture Model for cdma2000 Spread
Spectrum Systems\", Version 3.0
[3] 3GPP2 X.S0013-A: \"All-IP Core Network Multimedia Domain\"
These requirements are expressed as additions to and/or exclusions from the
3GPP specification.\ The information given here is to be used by developers in
3GPP2 cdma2000 network architecture to interpret the 3GPP OSA specifications.
# B.1 General Exceptions
The terms 3GPP and UMTS are not applicable for the cdma2000 family of
standards. Nevertheless these terms are used (3GPP TR 21.905) mostly in the
broader sense of \"3G Wireless System\". If not stated otherwise there are no
additions or exclusions required.
CAMEL mappings are not applicable for cdma2000 systems.
# B.2 Specific Exceptions
## B.2.1 Clause 1: Scope
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.2 Clause 2: References
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.3 Clause 3: Definitions and abbreviations
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.4 Clause 4: Detailed service description
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.5 Clause 5: Namespaces
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.6 Clause 6: Sequence diagrams
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.7 Clause 7: XML Schema data type definition
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.8 Clause 8: Web Service interface definition
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.9 Clause 9: Fault definitions
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.10 Clause 10: Service policies
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.11 Annex A (normative): WSDL for Short Messaging
There are no additions or exclusions.
#