# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part 16 of a multi-part deliverable covering the 3^rd^
Generation Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Core Network and
Terminals; Open Service Access (OSA); Parlay X Web Services, as identified
below:
Part 1: \"Common\"
Part 2: \"Third party call\"
Part 3: \"Call Notification\"
Part 4: \"Short Messaging\"
Part 5: \"Multimedia Messaging\"
Part 6: \"Payment\"
Part 7: \"Account management\"
Part 8: \"Terminal Status\"
Part 9: \"Terminal location\"
Part 10: \"Call handling\"
Part 11: \"Audio call\"
Part 12: \"Multimedia conference\"
Part 13: \"Address list management\"
Part 14: \"Presence\"
Part 15: \"Message Broadcast\"
**Part 16: \"Geocoding\"**
Part 17: \"Application driven Quality of Service (QoS)\"
Part 18: \"Device Capabilities and Configuration\"
Part 19: \"Multimedia streaming control\"
Part 20: \"Multimedia multicast session management\"
Part 21: \"Content management\"
Part 22: \"Policy\"
# 1 Scope
The present document is Part 16 of the Stage 3 Parlay X Web Services
specification for Open Service Access (OSA).
The OSA specifications define an architecture that enables application
developers to make use of network functionality through an open standardized
interface, i.e. the OSA APIs. The concepts and the functional architecture for
the OSA are contained in 3GPP TS 23.198 [3]. The requirements for OSA are
contained in 3GPP TS 22.127 [2].
The present document specifies the Geocoding Web Service aspects of the
interface. All aspects of the Geocoding Web Service are defined here, these
being:
  * Name spaces
  * Sequence diagrams
  * Data definitions
  * Interface specification plus detailed method descriptions
  * Fault definitions
  * Service policies
  * WSDL Description of the interfaces
The present document has been defined jointly between 3GPP TSG CT WG5, ETSI
TISPAN and The Parlay Group.
Maintenance of up to 3GPP Rel-8 and new OSA Stage 1, 2 and 3 work beyond Rel-9
was moved to OMA in June 2008.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.127: \"Service requirement for the Open Services Access (OSA);
Stage 1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.198: \"Open Service Access (OSA); Stage 2\".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.101: \"Service aspects; Service principles\".
[5] 3GPP TS 29.199-1: \"Open Service Access (OSA); Parlay X web services; Part
1: Common\".
[6] 3GPP TS 29.199-9: \"Open Service Access (OSA); Parlay X web services; Part
9: Terminal location\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 29.199-1 [5] and the following apply.
**address:** set of strings that represent an address information for a
geographical place\ It consists of the country, state, district, city, street,
house number and zip/postal code. In this specification, the address means a
location address except where otherwise noted.
**coordinates:** latitude, longitude pair that identifies a point on the
Earth\'s surface
**geocoding:** transformation a description of a address, such as a place
name, street address or postal code, into a normalized description of the
location with a geographical coordinates
**location:** specific set of coordinates
**reverse geocoding:** transformation a given location into a normalized
description of address
**terminal number:** string of decimal digits that terminal is uniquely
indicated and located
NOTE: Address is a name that is used in both Geocoding SCF and Terminal
Location SCF. The former uses address in the customary sense of a location
address, while the latter uses it in the sense of a terminal identifier
represented as a URI string. So terminal number is a better name for what
Parlay X Terminal Location calls address, and address as Geocoding SCF
typically define it.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TS
29.199-1 [5], 3GPP TS 29.199-9 [6] and the following apply:
GMLC Gateway Mobile Location Center
MLP Mobile Location Protocol
MMS Multimedia Message
MPC Mobile Positioning Center
OMA Open Mobile Alliance
OpenLS Open Location Services
URI Uniform Resource Identifier
XML Extensible Markup Language
# 4 Detailed service description
Where the Parlay X Terminal Location Web Service provides access to the
geographical coordinates at which a terminal is located, the Geocoding Web
Service provides access to an additional level of refinement, allowing the
service developer to work with actual location addresses and the like:
  * Request the location address of a terminal number.
  * Request the location address of a group of terminals.
  * Request the distance of a terminal from a specific location address.
When a request is made on behalf of a group of terminals, the response may be
a full or partial set of results. This allows the service to provide results
based on a number of criteria, including number of terminals for which the
request is made and amount of time required to retrieve the information. This
allows the requestor to initiate additional requests for those terminals for
which information was not provided.
Figure 4.1 shows the Geocoding Web Service architecture composed of Parlay X
Application, Parlay X Gateway, Parlay Gateway, GMLC/MPC, Addressing server.
OMA/MLP is used between Parlay X Gateway and GMLC/MPC and OpenLS/XML is used
between Parlay X Gateway and Addressing server.
In the getAddressOfTerminal and getAddressOfTerminalForGroup operations, if
subscriber asks someone\'s address or group addresses, Parlay X Application
calls the Geocoding Web Service. Parlay X gateway gets the geographical
coordinates of terminal number from GMLC/MPC and then feeds the retrieved
geographical coordinates to addressing server. Finally it gets the location
address.
In the getTerminalDistanceFromAddress operation, the subscriber asks for the
distance of a terminal from a specific address; the Parlay X Application calls
the Geocoding Web Service. The Parlay X gateway gets the geographical
coordinates of the address from an addressing server. The Parlay X gateway
gets the geographical coordinates of the terminal from GMLC/MPC. Finally it
computes the distance between the two sets of geographical coordinates.
Figure 4.1: Geocoding Web Service architecture
# 5 Namespaces
The Geocoding interface uses the namespace:
http://www.csapi.org/wsdl/parlayx/geocoding/terminal_address/v4_0
The data types are defined in the namespace:
http://www.csapi.org/schema/parlayx/geocoding/v4_0
The \'xsd\' namespace is used in the present document to refer to the XML
Schema data types defined in XML Schema (3GPP TS 29.199-1 [5]). The use of the
name \'xsd\' is not semantically significant.
# 6 Sequence diagrams
## 6.1 Get address of terminal
Pattern: Request / Response.
For an application to determine the address of terminal device, it provides a
terminal number and desired accuracy, and receives the location address for
the device requested.
Figure 6.1: Get address of terminal operation
## 6.2 Get address of terminal for group
Pattern: Request / Response.
For an application to determine the address of a set of terminal devices, it
provides an array of terminal numbers, and receives the location addresses for
the set of devices requested.
Figure 6.2: Get address of terminal for group operation
## 6.3 Get terminal distance from address
Pattern: Request / Response.
For an application to determine the distance from terminal to address, it
provides a terminal number and address, and receives the distance between
location of terminal and address.
Figure 6.3: Get terminal distance from address operation
# 7 XML Schema data type definition
## 7.1 Accuracy values
Two accuracy values used in three operations are referred to the 3GPP TS
29.199-9 [6]. The \"requested accuracy\" is the desired accuracy for the
terminal location that will be used to generate the address and the
\'acceptable accuracy\' sets a lower bound on accuracy.
## 7.2 AddressInfo structure
Data structure of location address composed of country, state, district, city,
street, house number, additional information, and zip/postal code.
* * *
Name Type Optional Description country xsd :string Yes The country is
identified by the ISO 3166 code state xsd :string Yes National subdivision
name (e.g. state, province) district xsd :string Yes District name city xsd
:string Yes City or township name street xsd :string Yes Street name
houseNumber xsd :string Yes House number additionalInfo xsd :string Yes
Additional location information code xsd :string Yes Zip/Postal code
* * *
## 7.3 AddressData structure
Data structure containing terminal number and address information for a
geographic place.
* * *
Name Type Optional Description terminalNumber xsd :anyURI No URI of the
terminal for which address information is being requested. currentAddress
AddressInfo No Address of terminal, composed of country, state, city, street,
house number, additional information, and zip/postal code.
* * *
## 7.4 DelayTolerance enumeration
**Enumeration of the delay tolerance items that forms part of the address or
terminal number request.**
* * *
Enumeration Description NoDelay The server should immediately return any
result estimate that it currently has. If no estimate is available, the server
shall return the failure indication and may optionally initiate procedures to
obtain a result estimate (e.g. to be available for a later request). LowDelay
Fulfilment of the response time requirement takes precedence over fulfilment
of the accuracy requirement. The server shall return any current result
estimate with minimum delay. The server shall attempt to fulfill any accuracy
requirement, but in doing so shall not add any additional delay (i.e. a quick
response with lower accuracy is more desirable than waiting for a more
accurate response). DelayTolerant Fulfilment of the accuracy requirement takes
precedence over fulfilment of the response time requirement. If necessary, the
server should delay providing a response until the accuracy requirement of the
requesting application is met. The server shall obtain a current result with
regard to fulfilling the accuracy requirement.
* * *
# 8 Web service interface definition
## 8.1 Interface: TerminalAddress
Request the address of a terminal, addresses of a group of terminals, and the
distance from a terminal to a specific address.
### 8.1.1 Operation: getAddressOfTerminal
This operation retrieves address information for a single terminal.
RequestedAccuracy is the desired accuracy for the terminal location that will
be used to generate the address. AcceptableAccuracy sets a lower bound on
accuracy. If RequestedAccuracy is not possible, a PolicyException POL0230 is
returned. If the accuracy is not within the limit set by AcceptableAccuracy,
no address information is returned. Instead, a ServiceException(SVC0200) is
returned. The URI provided is for a single terminal, not a group URI. If a
group URI is provided, a PolicyException POL0006 is returned.
If tolerance is indicated this affects the priority of accuracy, response time
and maximum estimate age.
#### 8.1.1.1 Input message: getAddressOfTerminalRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description
requester xsd:anyURI Yes It identifies the entity that is requesting the
information.\ The application invokes this operation on behalf of this entity.
However, it should NOT be assumed that the application has authenticated the
requester.\ If this part is not present, the requesting entity is the
application itself.
terminalNumber xsd :anyURI No URI of the terminal for which address
information is being requested.
requestedAccuracy xsd:int No Accuracy of terminal location on which returned
address will be based.
acceptableAccuracy xsd:int No Accuracy of terminal location that is acceptable
for determining the returned address.
maximumAge common:TimeMetric Yes Maximum acceptable age, in seconds, of the
address information that is returned.
responseTime common:TimeMetric Yes Indicates the maximum time that the
application can accept to wait for a response.
tolerance DelayTolerance No Indicates the priority of response time versus
accuracy.
* * *
#### 8.1.1.2 Output message: getAddressOfTerminalResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description result AddressInfo No Address of the
terminal for which address information was requested.
* * *
#### 8.1.1.3 Referenced Faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [5]:
  * SVC0001: Service error.
  * SVC0002: Invalid input value.
  * SVC0200: Accuracy out of limit.
  * SVC0370: No valid terminal number(s).
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [5]:
  * POL0001: Policy error.
  * POL0002: Privacy error.
  * POL0006: Groups not allowed.
  * POL0230: Requested accuracy not supported.
### 8.1.2 Operation: getAddressOfTerminalForGroup
This operation retrieves address information for one or more terminals or
groups of terminals. RequestedAccuracy is the accuracy of terminal location
used to generate addresses. AcceptableAccuracy sets a lower bound on that
accuracy. If RequestedAccuracy is not possible, a PolicyException POL0230 is
returned. If the accuracy is not within the limit set by AcceptableAccuracy,
then the address data will contain a ServiceError (SVC0200).
If tolerance is indicated this affects the priority of accuracy, response time
and maximum estimate age.
#### 8.1.2.1 Input message: getAddressOfTerminalForGroupRequest
+------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Part name | Part type | Optional | Description | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | requester | xsd:anyURI | Yes | It identifies | | | | | the entity that | | | | | is requesting | | | | | the | | | | | information.\ | | | | | The application | | | | | invokes this | | | | | operation on | | | | | behalf of this | | | | | entity. However, | | | | | it should NOT be | | | | | assumed that the | | | | | application has | | | | | authenticated | | | | | the requester. | | | | | If this part is | | | | | not present, the | | | | | requesting | | | | | entity is the | | | | | application | | | | | itself. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | terminalNumbers | xsd :anyURI | No | List of URIs, | | | | | including group | | | [ | | URIs, of the | | | 1...unbounded] | | terminal for | | | | | which address | | | | | information is | | | | | being requested. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | r | xsd:int | No | Accuracy of | | equestedAccuracy | | | terminal | | | | | location on | | | | | which returned | | | | | address will be | | | | | based. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | ac | xsd:int | No | Accuracy of | | ceptableAccuracy | | | terminal | | | | | location that is | | | | | acceptable for | | | | | determining the | | | | | returned | | | | | address. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | maximumAge | c | Yes | Maximum | | | ommon:TimeMetric | | acceptable age, | | | | | in seconds, of | | | | | the address | | | | | information that | | | | | is returned. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | responseTime | c | Yes | Indicates the | | | ommon:TimeMetric | | maximum time | | | | | that the | | | | | application can | | | | | accept to wait | | | | | for a response. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | tolerance | DelayTolerance | No | Indicates the | | | | | priority of | | | | | response time | | | | | versus accuracy. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+
#### 8.1.2.2 Output message: getAddressOfTerminalForGroupResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description result AddressData [1...unbounded] No
Addresses of the terminals for which address information was requested.
* * *
#### 8.1.2.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [5]:
  * SVC0001 - Service error.
  * SVC0002 - Invalid input value.
  * SVC0006 - Invalid group.
  * SVC0200 - Accuracy out of limit.
  * SVC0370 -- No valid terminal number(s).
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [5]:
  * POL0001 - Policy error.
  * POL0002 - Privacy error.
  * POL0006 - Groups not allowed.
  * POL0007 - Nested groups not allowed.
  * POL0230 - Requested accuracy not supported.
  * POL0350 - Too many terminal numbers.
### 8.1.3 Operation: GetTerminalDistanceFromAddress
This operation is intended to determine the distance of a terminal from an
address. The URI provided is for a single terminal, not a group URI. If a
group URI is provided, a PolicyException will be returned to the application.
#### 8.1.3.1 Input message: GetTerminalDistanceFromAddressRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description
requester xsd:anyURI Yes It identifies the entity that is requesting the
information.\ The application invokes this operation on behalf of this entity.
However, it should NOT be assumed that the application has authenticated the
requester. If this part is not present, the requesting entity is the
application itself.
terminalNumber xsd:anyURI No URI of the terminal for which distance
information is being requested.
address AddressInfo No Address of the location from which to measure
* * *
#### 8.1.3.2 Output message: GetTerminalDistanceFromAddressResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description result xsd:int No Distance in meters
from the terminal to the location address
* * *
#### 8.1.3.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001: Service error.
  * SVC0002: Invalid input value.
  * SVC0370: No valid terminal number(s).
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001: Policy error.
  * POL0002: Privacy error.
  * POL0006: Groups not allowed.
# 9 Fault definitions
## 9.1 Fault: ServiceException
### 9.1.1 SVC0200: Accuracy out of limit.
* * *
Name Description Message Id SVC0200 Text Accuracy of location is not within
acceptable limit. Variables None
* * *
### 9.1.2 SVC0370: No valid terminal number(s)
* * *
Name Description MessageId SVC0370 Text No valid terminal number(s) provided
in message part %1 Variables %1 - message part
* * *
## 9.2 Fault: PolicyException
### 9.2.1 POL0230: Requested accuracy not supported
* * *
Name Description Message Id POL0230 Text Requested accuracy is not supported.
Variables None
* * *
### 9.2.2 POL0350: Too many terminal numbers
* * *
Name Description MessageId POL0350 Text Too many terminal numbers specified in
message part %1 Variables %1 - message part
* * *
# 10 Service policies
Service policies for this service.
* * *
Name Type Description MinimumAcceptableAccuracy xsd:int Minimum value for
acceptable accuracy GroupSupport xsd:boolean Groups URIs may be used
NestedGroupSupport xsd:boolean Are nested groups supported in group
definitions
* * *
###### ## Annex A (normative): WSDL for Geocoding
The document/literal WSDL representation of this interface specification is
compliant to 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [5] and is contained in text files;
  * parlayx_geocoding_terminal_address_interface_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_geocoding_terminal_address_service_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_geocoding_types_4_0.xsd
which accompany the present document.
The WSDL files have been verified using the following files:
  * 16_wsdl2Java_axis-1_4.bat
  * 16_wsdl2Java_axis2-1_4_1.bat
which accompany the present document.
###### ## Annex B (informative): Bibliography
  * W3C Recommendation (2 May 2001): \"XML Schema Part 2: Datatypes\".\ > http://www.w3.org/TR/2001/REC-xmlschema-2-20010502/.
  * OMA TS MLP: \"Mobile Location Protocol\".
  * OGC: \"OpenGIS Location Services (OpenLS): Core Services\".\ > http://www.opengeospatial.org/standards/olscore
  * IETF RFC 4119: \"A Presence-based GEOPRIV Location Object Format\".\ > http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc4119.txt?number=4119.
###### ## Annex C (informative): Description of Parlay X Web Services Part 16:
Geocoding for 3GPP2 cdma2000 networks
This annex is intended to define the OSA Parlay X Web Services Stage 3
interface definitions and it provides the complete OSA specifications. It is
an extension of OSA Parlay X Web Services specifications capabilities to
enable operation in cdma2000 systems environment. They are in alignment with
3GPP2 Stage 1 requirements and Stage 2 architecture defined in:
[1] 3GPP2 X.S0011-D: "cdma2000 Wireless IP Network Standard \", Version 1.1
[2] 3GPP2 S.R0037-0: \"IP Network Architecture Model for cdma2000 Spread
Spectrum Systems\", Version 3.0
[3] 3GPP2 X.S0013-A: \"All-IP Core Network Multimedia Domain\"
These requirements are expressed as additions to and/or exclusions from the
3GPP specification.\ The information given here is to be used by developers in
3GPP2 cdma2000 network architecture to interpret the 3GPP OSA specifications.
# C.1 General Exceptions
The terms 3GPP and UMTS are not applicable for the cdma2000 family of
standards. Nevertheless these terms are used (3GPP TR 21.905) mostly in the
broader sense of \"3G Wireless System\". If not stated otherwise there are no
additions or exclusions required.
CAMEL mappings are not applicable for cdma2000 systems.
# C.2 Specific Exceptions
## C.2.1 Clause 1: Scope
There are no additions or exclusions.
## C.2.2 Clause 2: References
There are no additions or exclusions.
## C.2.3 Clause 3: Definitions and abbreviations
There are no additions or exclusions.
## C.2.4 Clause 4: Detailed service description
There are no additions or exclusions.
## C.2.5 Clause 5: Namespaces
There are no additions or exclusions.
## C.2.6 Clause 6: Sequence diagrams
There are no additions or exclusions.
## C.2.7 Clause 7: XML Schema data type definition
There are no additions or exclusions.
## C.2.8 Clause 8: Web Service interface definition
There are no additions or exclusions.
## C.2.9 Clause 9: Fault definitions
There are no additions or exclusions.
## C.2.10 Clause 10: Service policies
There are no additions or exclusions.
## C.2.11 Annex A (normative): WSDL for Geocoding
There are no additions or exclusions.
#