# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part 6 of a multi-part TS covering the 3^rd^
Generation Partnership Project: Technical Specification Group Core Network;
Open Service Access (OSA); Application Programming Interface (API), as
identified below. The **API specification** (3GPP TS 29.198) is structured in
the following Parts:
> Part 1: \"Overview\";
>
> Part 2: \"Common Data Definitions\";
>
> Part 3: \"Framework\";
>
> Part 4: \"Call Control\";
>
> Sub-part 1: \"Call Control Common Definitions\";
>
> Sub-part 2: \"Generic Call Control SCF\";
>
> Sub-part 3: \"Multi-Party Call Control SCF\";
>
> Sub-part 4: \"Multi-Media Call Control SCF\";
>
> Sub-part 5: \"Conference Call Control SCF\";
>
> Part 5: \"User Interaction SCF\";
>
> **Part 6: \"Mobility SCF\";**
>
> Part 7: \"Terminal Capabilities SCF\";
>
> Part 8: \"Data Session Control SCF\";
>
> Part 9: \"Generic Messaging SCF\"; (not part of 3GPP Release 8)
>
> Part 10: \"Connectivity Manager SCF\"; (new in 3GPP Release 8)
>
> Part 11: \"Account Management SCF\";
>
> Part 12: \"Charging SCF\".
>
> Part 13: \"Policy Management SCF\";
>
> Part 14: \"Presence and Availability Management SCF\";
>
> Part 15: \"Multi Media Messaging SCF\";
>
> Part 16: \"Service Broker SCF\".
The **Mapping specification of the OSA APIs and network protocols** (3GPP TR
29.998) is also structured as above. A mapping to network protocols is however
not applicable for all Parts, but the numbering of Parts is kept.\ Also in
case a Part is not supported in a Release, the numbering of the parts is
maintained.
Table: Overview of the OSA APIs & Protocol Mappings 29.198 & 29.998-family
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | OSA | OSA | | | | | | | | API | API | | | | | | | | spec | Ma | | | | | | | | ifica | pping | | | | | | | | tions | - | | | | | | | | 29. | 29. | | | | | | | | 198-f | 998-f | | | | | | | | amily | amily | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Ove | 29.9 | Ove | | | | | | 98-01 | rview | 98-01 | rview | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | C | * | _Not | | | | | | 98-02 | ommon | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | Data | 8-02_ | pplic | | | | | | | D | | able _| | | | | | | efini | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Fram | * |_ Not | | | | | | 98-03 | ework | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | | 8-03 _| pplic | | | | | | | | | able_ | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Call | 2 | 2 | 2 | 2 | 2 | 2 | Ge | | Co | 9.198 | 9.198 | 9.198 | 9.198 | 9.198 | 9.998 | neric | | ntrol | -04-1 | -04-2 | -04-3 | -04-4 | -04-5 | -04-1 | Call | | (CC) | | | | M | Conf | | Co | | SCF | C | Ge | M | ulti- | CC | | ntrol | | | ommon | neric | ulti- | media | SCF | | -- | | | CC | CC | Party | CC | | | CAP | | | data | SCF | CC | SCF | | | ma | | | d | | SCF | | | | pping | | | efini | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | | | _29 |_ Ge | | | | | | | | .998- | neric | | | | | | | | 04-2 _| Call | | | | | | | | | Co | | | | | | | | | ntrol | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | INAP | | | | | | | | | map | | | | | | | | | ping_ | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | | | _29 |_ Ge | | | | | | | | .998- | neric | | | | | | | | 04-3 _| Call | | | | | | | | | Co | | | | | | | | | ntrol | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | M | | | | | | | | | egaco | | | | | | | | | map | | | | | | | | | ping_ | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | | | 2 | Multi | | | | | | | | 9.998 | party | | | | | | | | -04-4 | Call | | | | | | | | | Co | | | | | | | | | ntrol | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | ISC | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | pping | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | User | 2 | User | | | | | | 98-05 | I | 9.998 | I | | | | | | | ntera | -05-1 | ntera | | | | | | | ction | | ction | | | | | | | SCF | | -- | | | | | | | | | CAP | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | pping | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | _29 |_ User | | | | | | | | .998- | I | | | | | | | | 05-2 _| ntera | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | INAP | | | | | | | | | map | | | | | | | | | ping_ | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | _29 |_ User | | | | | | | | .998- | I | | | | | | | | 05-3 _| ntera | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | M | | | | | | | | | egaco | | | | | | | | | map | | | | | | | | | ping_ | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | 2 | User | | | | | | | | 9.998 | I | | | | | | | | -05-4 | ntera | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | SMS | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | pping | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **2 |** Mob | 2 | User | | | | | | 9.198 | ility | 9.998 | S | | | | | | -06**| SCF** | -06-1 | tatus | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | User | | | | | | | | | Loc | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | MAP | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | pping | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | 2 | User | | | | | | | | 9.998 | S | | | | | | | | -06-2 | tatus | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | User | | | | | | | | | Loc | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | SIP | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | pping | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Ter | * | _Not | | | | | | 98-07 | minal | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | Ca | 8-07_ | pplic | | | | | | | pabil | | able _| | | | | | | ities | | | | | | | | | SCF | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Data | 29.9 | Data | | | | | | 98-08 | Se | 98-08 | Se | | | | | | | ssion | | ssion | | | | | | | Co | | Co | | | | | | | ntrol | | ntrol | | | | | | | SCF | | -- | | | | | | | | | CAP | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | pping | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | * |_ Ge | * | _Not | | | | | | 29.19 | neric | 29.99 | A | | | | | | 8-09_ | Mess | 8-09 _| pplic | | | | | | | aging | | able_ | | | | | | | SCF _| | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | * |_ Co | * | _Not | | | | | | 29.19 | nnect | 29.99 | A | | | | | | 8-10_ | ivity | 8-10 _| pplic | | | | | | | Ma | | able_ | | | | | | | nager | | | | | | | | | SCF _| | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Ac | * |_ Not | | | | | | 98-11 | count | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | Manag | 8-11 _| pplic | | | | | | | ement | | able_ | | | | | | | SCF | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Cha | * | _Not | | | | | | 98-12 | rging | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | SCF | 8-12_ | pplic | | | | | | | | | able _| | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | P | * |_ Not | | | | | | 98-13 | olicy | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | Manag | 8-13 _| pplic | | | | | | | ement | | able_ | | | | | | | SCF | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Pre | * | _Not | | | | | | 98-14 | sence | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | & | 8-14_ | pplic | | | | | | | Av | | able _| | | | | | | ailab | | | | | | | | | ility | | | | | | | | | Manag | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | SCF | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | M | * |_ Not | | | | | | 98-15 | ulti- | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | media | 8-15 _| pplic | | | | | | | Mess | | able_ | | | | | | | aging | | | | | | | | | SCF | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Se | * | _Not | | | | | | 98-16 | rvice | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | B | 8-16_ | pplic | | | | | | | roker | | able* | | | | | | | SCF | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
# 1 Scope
The present document is Part 6 of the Stage 3 specification for an Application
Programming Interface (API) for Open Service Access (OSA).
The OSA specifications define an architecture that enables application
developers to make use of network functionality through an open standardised
interface, i.e. the OSA APIs. The concepts and the functional architecture for
the OSA are contained in 3GPP TS 23.198 [3]. The requirements for OSA are
contained in 3GPP TS 22.127 [2].
The present document specifies the Mobility Service Capability Feature (SCF)
aspects of the interface. All aspects of the Mobility SCF are defined here,
these being:
\- Sequence Diagrams
\- Class Diagrams
\- Interface specification plus detailed method descriptions
\- State Transition diagrams
\- Data definitions
  * IDL Description of the interfaces
  * WSDL Description of the interfaces
  * Reference to the Java™ API description of the interfaces
The process by which this task is accomplished is through the use of object
modelling techniques described by the Unified Modelling Language (UML).
This specification has been defined jointly between 3GPP TSG CT WG5, ETSI
TISPAN and the Parlay Group, in co-operation with a number of JAIN™ Community
member companies.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 29.198-01: \"Open Service Access (OSA) Application Programming
Interface (API); Part 1: Overview\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.127: \"Service Requirement for the Open Services Access (OSA);
Stage 1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.198: \"Open Service Access (OSA); Stage 2\".
[4] 3GPP TS 29.002: \"Mobile Application Part (MAP) specification\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TS 29.198-1 [1] apply.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TS
29.198-1 [1] apply.
# 4 Mobility SCF
The following clauses describe each aspect of the Mobility Service Capability
Feature (SCF).
The order is as follows:
  * The Sequence diagrams give the reader a practical idea of how each of the SCFs is implemented.
  * The Class relationships clause shows how each of the interfaces applicable to the SCF, relate to one another.
  * The Interface specification clause describes in detail each of the interfaces shown within the Class diagram part.
  * The State Transition Diagrams (STD) show the transition between states in the SCF. The states and transitions are well-defined; either methods specified in the Interface specification or events occurring in the underlying networks cause state transitions.
  * The Data Definitions clause shows a detailed expansion of each of the data types associated with the methods within the classes. Note that some data types are used in other methods and classes and are therefore defined within the Common Data types part of this specification.
## 4.1 General requirements on support of methods
An implementation of this API which supports or implements a method described
in the present document, shall support or implement the functionality
described for that method, for at least one valid set of values for the
parameters of that method.
Where a method is not supported by an implementation of a Service interface,
the exception P_METHOD_NOT_SUPPORTED shall be returned to any call of that
method.
Where a method is not supported by an implementation of an Application
interface, a call to that method shall be possible, and no exception shall be
returned.
# 5 Sequence Diagrams
## 5.1 User Location Sequence Diagrams
### 5.1.1 User Location Interrogation - Triggered Request
The following sequence diagram shows how an application requests triggered
location reports from the User Location service. When users location changes,
the service reports this to the application.
{width="6.688194444444444in" height="7.091666666666667in"}
1: This message is used to start triggered location reporting for one or
several users.
2: When the trigger condition is fulfilled then this message passes the
location of the affected user to its callback object.
3: This is repeated until the application stops triggered location reporting
(see next message).
4: This message is used to stop triggered location reporting.
### 5.1.2 User Location Interrogation - Periodic Request
The following sequence diagram shows how an application requests periodic
location reports from the User Location service.
{width="6.177083333333333in" height="6.653472222222222in"}
1: This message is used to start periodic location reporting for one or
several users.
2: This message passes the location of one or several users to its callback
object.
3: This message passes the location of one or several users to its callback
object.
This is repeated at regular intervals until the application stops periodic
location reporting (see next message).
4: This message is used to stop periodic location reporting.
### 5.1.3 User Location Interrogation - Interactive Request
The following sequence diagram shows how an application requests a location
report from the User Location service.
{width="6.684027777777778in" height="3.709722222222222in"}
1: This message is used to request the location of one or several users.
2: This message passes the result of the location request for one or several
users to its callback object.
## 5.2 User Location Camel Sequence Diagrams
### 5.2.1 User Location Camel Interrogation - Triggered Request
The following sequence diagram shows how an application requests triggered
location reports from the User Location Camel service. When users location
changes, the service reports this to the application.
{width="6.690277777777778in" height="7.054861111111111in"}
1: This message is used to start triggered location reporting for one or
several users.
2: When the trigger condition is fulfilled then this message passes the
location of the affected user to its callback object.
3: This is repeated until the application stops triggered location reporting
(see next message).
4: This message is used to stop triggered location reporting.
### 5.2.2 User Location Camel Interrogation - Periodic Request
The following sequence diagram shows how an application requests periodic
location reports from the User Location Camel service.
{width="6.694444444444445in" height="6.027083333333334in"}
1: This message is used to start periodic location reporting for one or
several users.
2: This message passes the location of one or several users to its callback
object.
3: This message passes the location of one or several users to its callback
object.
This is repeated at regular intervals until the application stops periodic
location reporting (see next message).
4: This message is used to stop periodic location reporting.
### 5.2.3 User Location Camel Interrogation - Interactive Request
The following sequence diagram shows how an application requests a location
report from the User Location Camel service.
{width="6.290972222222222in" height="4.125in"}
1: This message is used to request the location of one or several users.
2: This message passes the result of the location request for one or several
users to its callback object.
## 5.3 User Location Emergency Sequence Diagrams
### 5.3.1 Subscription and Network Induced Location Reports
The following sequence diagram shows how an application subscribes to
emergency location reports from the Emergency User Location service. When the
User Location Emergency service receives Network Induced Location requests
(triggered by emergency calls) it reports that to the application.
{width="5.279861111111111in" height="4.756944444444445in"}
1: This message is used to subscribe to emergency location reports.
2: When the mobility service receives a Network Induced Location Request
(triggered by an emergency service call), this message passes the location to
its callback object.
3: This is repeated until the application cancels its subscription to
emergency location reports (see next message).
4: This message is used to cancel the emergency user location report
subscription.
### 5.3.2 Network Induced Location Reports
This sequence diagram is a simplified version of the previous diagram. This
diagram shows only the part where an emergency call triggers a location report
in the network and the location report is passed via the User Location
Emergency service to a dedicated emergency application.
{width="5.379166666666666in" height="2.397222222222222in"}
1: When the mobility service receives a Network Induced Location Request
(triggered by an emergency service call), the available location information
is passed to the emergency application in an emergency location report. Note
that an emergency location report does not necessarily contain the user
location, but in those cases, the user address, IMEI-address and/or a routing
key (an identifier of the call) are passed to the application.
### 5.3.3 Interactive Location Request
This sequence diagram shows the scenario, when an emergency application
requests the location of a terminal based on information from a previous
incomplete emergency location report.
{width="5.7034722222222225in" height="2.9347222222222222in"}
1: An emergency application makes an interactive request for a user location.
This can sometimes be made with different parameters than the \"ordinary\"
user location requests in the IpUserLocation interface, because a routing key
and an IMSI might be used to identify the terminal (emergency call without
SIM-card).
2: The emergency location information is reported back to the application.
## 5.4 User Status Sequence Diagrams
### 5.4.1 Triggered Reporting
The following sequence diagram shows how an application requests triggered
status reports from the Status Location service. When user\'s status changes,
the service reports this to the application.
{width="6.700694444444444in" height="5.813194444444444in"}
1: This message is used to start triggered status reporting for one or several
users.
2: When a user\'s status changes, this message passes the status to its
callback object.
3: This is repeated until the application stops triggered status reporting
(see next message).
4: This message is used to stop triggered status reporting.
### 5.4.2 Interactive Request
The following sequence diagram shows how an application requests a status
report from the User Status service.
{width="6.123611111111111in" height="4.082638888888889in"}
1: This message is used to request the status of one or several users.
2: This message passes the result of the status request to its callback
object.
## 5.5 User Binding Sequence Diagrams
### 5.5.1 Subscription and Binding Request Notifications
The following sequence diagram shows how an application subscribes to binding
request notifications from the User Binding service. When the User Binding
service receives Network Induced Binding requests (triggered by binding
events) it reports that to the application.
{width="6.6375in" height="6.385416666666667in"}
1: This message is used to subscribe to notifications of binding requests.
2: When the mobility service receives a binding request, this message passes
the binding details to its callback object.
3: This is repeated until the application cancels its subscription to binding
request notifications (see next message).
4: This message is used to cancel the binding request notification
subscription.
# 6 Class Diagrams
## 6.1 User Location Class Diagrams
This class diagram shows the relationship between the interfaces in the User
Location service. IpTriggeredUserLocation inherits from IpUserLocation, and
IpAppTriggeredUserLocation inherits from IpAppUserLocation.
{width="4.802777777777778in" height="8.968055555555555in"}
Figure: User Location Class Diagram
## 6.2 User Location Camel Class Diagrams
This class diagram shows the interfaces for the User Location Camel service.
{width="4.322916666666667in" height="5.940277777777778in"}
Figure: User Location Camel Class Diagram
## 6.3 User Location Emergency Class Diagrams
This class diagram shows the interfaces for the User Location Emergency
service.
{width="2.8409722222222222in" height="3.1597222222222223in"}
Figure: User Location Emergency Class Diagram
## 6.4 User Status Class Diagrams
This class diagram shows the interfaces for the User Status service.
{width="4.113194444444445in" height="5.834027777777778in"}
Figure: User Status Class Diagram
## 6.5 User Binding Class Diagrams
This class diagram shows the interfaces for the User Binding service.
{width="6.094444444444444in" height="5.479861111111111in"}
Figure : User Binding Class Diagram
# 7 The Service Interface Specifications
## 7.1 Interface Specification Format
This clause defines the interfaces, methods and parameters that form a part of
the API specification. The Unified Modelling Language (UML) is used to specify
the interface classes. The general format of an interface specification is
described below.
### 7.1.1 Interface Class
This shows a UML interface class description of the methods supported by that
interface, and the relevant parameters and types. The Service and Framework
interfaces for enterprise-based client applications are denoted by classes
with name Ip\. The callback interfaces to the applications are denoted
by classes with name IpApp\. For the interfaces between a Service and
the Framework, the Service interfaces are typically denoted by classes with
name IpSvc\, while the Framework interfaces are denoted by classes with
name IpFw\.
### 7.1.2 Method descriptions
Each method (API method "call") is described. Both synchronous and
asynchronous methods are used in the API. Asynchronous methods are identified
by a \'Req\' suffix for a method request, and, if applicable, are served by
asynchronous methods identified by either a \'Res\' or \'Err\' suffix for
method results and errors, respectively. To handle responses and reports, the
application or service developer must implement the relevant IpApp\ or
IpSvc\ interfaces to provide the callback mechanism.
### 7.1.3 Parameter descriptions
Each method parameter and its possible values are described. Parameters
described as \'in\' represent those that must have a value when the method is
called. Those described as \'out\' are those that contain the return result of
the method when the method returns.
### 7.1.4 State Model
If relevant, a state model is shown to illustrate the states of the objects
that implement the described interface.
## 7.2 Base Interface
### 7.2.1 Interface Class IpInterface
All application, framework and service interfaces inherit from the following
interface. This API Base Interface does not provide any additional methods.
+-------------------+ | \> | | | | IpInterface | +-------------------+ | | +-------------------+ | | +-------------------+
## 7.3 Service Interfaces
### 7.3.1 Overview
The Service Interfaces provide the interfaces into the capabilities of the
underlying network - such as call control, user interaction, messaging,
mobility and connectivity management.
The interfaces that are implemented by the services are denoted as \'Service
Interface\'. The corresponding interfaces that must be implemented by the
application (e.g. for API callbacks) are denoted as \'Application Interface\'.
## 7.4 Generic Service Interface
### 7.4.1 Interface Class IpService
Inherits from: IpInterface
All service interfaces inherit from the following interface.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | \> | | | | IpService | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | setCallback (appInterface : in IpInterfaceRef) : void | | | | setCallbackWithSessionID (appInterface : in IpInterfaceRef, | | sessionID : in TpSessionID) : void | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
#### 7.4.1.1 Method setCallback()
This method specifies the reference address of the callback interface that a
service uses to invoke methods on the application. It is not allowed to invoke
this method on an interface that uses SessionIDs. Multiple invocations of this
method on an interface shall result in multiple callback references being
specified. The SCS shall use the most recent callback interface provided by
the application using this method. In the event that a callback reference
fails or is no longer available, the next most recent callback reference
available shall be used.
Parameters
appInterface : in IpInterfaceRef
Specifies a reference to the application interface, which is used for
callbacks.
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_INTERFACE_TYPE
#### 7.4.1.2 Method setCallbackWithSessionID()
This method specifies the reference address of the application\'s callback
interface that a service uses for interactions associated with a specific
session ID: e.g. a specific call, or call leg. It is not allowed to invoke
this method on an interface that does not use SessionIDs. Multiple invocations
of this method on an interface shall result in multiple callback references
being specified. The SCS shall use the most recent callback interface provided
by the application using this method. In the event that a callback reference
fails or is no longer available, the next most recent callback reference
available shall be used.
Parameters
appInterface : in IpInterfaceRef
Specifies a reference to the application interface, which is used for
callbacks.
sessionID : in TpSessionID
Specifies the session for which the service can invoke the application\'s
callback interface.
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_SESSION_ID, P_INVALID_INTERFACE_TYPE
# 8 Mobility Interface Classes
## 8.1 User Location Interface Classes
The User Location service (UL) provides a general geographic location service.
UL has functionality to allow applications to obtain the geographical location
and the status of fixed, mobile and IP based telephony users.
UL is supplemented by User Location Camel service (ULC) to provide information
about network related information. There is also some specialised
functionality to handle emergency calls in the User Location Emergency service
(ULE).
The UL service provides the IpUserLocation and IpTriggeredUserLocation
interfaces. Most methods are asynchronous, in that they do not lock a thread
into waiting whilst a transaction performs. In this way, the client machine
can handle many more calls, than one that uses synchronous message calls. To
handle responses and reports, the developer must implement IpAppUserLocation
and IpAppTriggeredUserLocation interfaces to provide the callback mechanism.
When periodic or triggered location reporting is used, errors may be reported
either when the recurrent reporting is requested, as an error per user in
reports or in the corresponding err-method when the error concerns all
subscribers in an assignment.
### 8.1.1 Interface Class IpUserLocation
Inherits from: IpService.
This interface is the \'service manager\' interface for the User Location
Service.
The user location interface provides the management functions to the user
location service. The application programmer can use this interface to obtain
the geographical location of users.
This interface, or IpTriggeredUserLocation, shall be implemented by a User
Location SCF as a minimum requirement.
The locationReportReq() method, or the extendedLocationReportReq() method, or
both the periodicLocationReportingStartReq() and
periodicLocationReportingStop() methods shall be implemented as a minimum
requirement, if this interface is implemented.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | \> | | | | IpUserLocation | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | locationReportReq (appLocation : in IpAppUserLocationRef, users : in | | TpAddressSet) : TpAssignmentID | | | | extendedLocationReportReq (appLocation : in IpAppUserLocationRef, | | users : in TpAddressSet, request : in TpLocationRequest) : | | TpAssignmentID | | | | periodicLocationReportingStartReq (appLocation : in | | IpAppUserLocationRef, users : in TpAddressSet, request : in | | TpLocationRequest, reportingInterval : in TpDuration) : | | TpAssignmentID | | | | periodicLocationReportingStop (stopRequest : in | | TpMobilityStopAssignmentData) : void | | | | getNextPeriodicLocationRequest (reset : in TpBoolean) : | | TpPeriodicLocationRequestSetEntry | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
#### 8.1.1.1 Method locationReportReq()
Request of a report on the location for one or several users.
Returns: assignmentId.
Specifies the assignment ID of the location-report request.
Parameters
appLocation : in IpAppUserLocationRef
Specifies the application interface for callbacks from the User Location
service.
users : in TpAddressSet
Specifies the user(s) for which the location shall be reported.
Returns
TpAssignmentID
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_APPLICATION_NOT_ACTIVATED, P_INFORMATION_NOT_AVAILABLE,
P_INVALID_INTERFACE_TYPE
#### 8.1.1.2 Method extendedLocationReportReq()
Advanced request of report on the location for one or several users.
Returns: assignmentId.
Specifies the assignment ID of the extended location-report request.
Parameters
appLocation : in IpAppUserLocationRef
Specifies the application interface for callbacks from the User Location
service.
users : in TpAddressSet
Specifies the user(s) for which the location shall be reported
request : in TpLocationRequest
Specifies among others the requested location type, accuracy, response time
and priority.
Returns
TpAssignmentID
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_APPLICATION_NOT_ACTIVATED,
P_REQUESTED_ACCURACY_CANNOT_BE_DELIVERED,
P_REQUESTED_RESPONSE_TIME_CANNOT_BE_DELIVERED, P_INFORMATION_NOT_AVAILABLE,
P_INVALID_INTERFACE_TYPE
#### 8.1.1.3 Method periodicLocationReportingStartReq()
Request of periodic reports on the location for one or several users.
Returns: assignmentId.
Specifies the assignment ID of the periodic location-reporting request.
Parameters
appLocation : in IpAppUserLocationRef
Specifies the application interface for callbacks from the User Location
service.
users : in TpAddressSet
Specifies the user(s) for which the location shall be reported.
request : in TpLocationRequest
Specifies among others the requested location type, accuracy, response time
and priority.
reportingInterval : in TpDuration
Specifies the requested interval in milliseconds between the reports.
Returns
TpAssignmentID
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_REPORTING_INTERVAL,
P_REQUESTED_ACCURACY_CANNOT_BE_DELIVERED,
P_REQUESTED_RESPONSE_TIME_CANNOT_BE_DELIVERED, P_APPLICATION_NOT_ACTIVATED,
P_INFORMATION_NOT_AVAILABLE, P_INVALID_INTERFACE_TYPE
#### 8.1.1.4 Method periodicLocationReportingStop()
Termination of periodic reports on the location for one or several users.
Parameters
stopRequest : in TpMobilityStopAssignmentData
Specifies how the assignment shall be stopped, i.e. if whole or just parts of
the assignment should be stopped.
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_ASSIGNMENT_ID
#### 8.1.1.5 Method getNextPeriodicLocationRequest()
This method is used by the application to query the request set created with
periodicLocationReportingStartReq. Since a lot of data can potentially be
returned (which might cause problem in the middleware), this method must be
used in an iterative way. Each method invocation may return part of the total
set of requests if the set is too large to return it at once. The reset
parameter permits the application to indicate whether an invocation to
getNextPeriodicLocationRequest is requesting more requests from the total set
of requests or is requesting that the total set of requests shall be returned
from the beginning.
Returns the set of requests and an indication whether all off the requests
have been obtained or if more requests are available that have not yet been
obtained by the application.
Note that the (maximum) number of items provided to the application is
determined by the gateway.
Parameters
reset : in TpBoolean
TRUE: indicates that the application is intended to obtain the set of requests
starting at the beginning.
FALSE: indicates that the application requests the next set of requests that
have not (yet) been obtained since the last call to this method with this
parameter set to TRUE.
The first time this method is invoked, reset shall be set to TRUE. Following
the receipt of a final indication, for the next call to this method reset
shall be set to TRUE. P_TASK_REFUSED may be thrown if these conditions are not
met.
Returns
TpPeriodicLocationRequestSetEntry
Raises
TpCommonExceptions
### 8.1.2 Interface Class IpAppUserLocation
Inherits from: IpInterface.
The user-location application interface is implemented by the client
application developer and is used to handle user location request responses.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | \> | | | | IpAppUserLocation | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | locationReportRes (assignmentId : in TpAssignmentID, locations : in | | TpUserLocationSet) : void | | | | locationReportErr (assignmentId : in TpAssignmentID, cause : in | | TpMobilityError, diagnostic : in TpMobilityDiagnostic) : void | | | | extendedLocationReportRes (assignmentId : in TpAssignmentID, | | locations : in TpUserLocationExtendedSet) : void | | | | extendedLocationReportErr (assignmentId : in TpAssignmentID, cause : | | in TpMobilityError, diagnostic : in TpMobilityDiagnostic) : void | | | | periodicLocationReport (assignmentId : in TpAssignmentID, locations | | : in TpUserLocationExtendedSet) : void | | | | periodicLocationReportErr (assignmentId : in TpAssignmentID, cause : | | in TpMobilityError, diagnostic : in TpMobilityDiagnostic) : void | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
#### 8.1.2.1 Method locationReportRes()
A report containing locations for one or several users is delivered.
Parameters
assignmentId : in TpAssignmentID
Specifies the assignment ID of the location-report request.
locations : in TpUserLocationSet
Specifies the location(s) of one or several users.
#### 8.1.2.2 Method locationReportErr()
This method indicates that the location report request has failed.
Parameters
assignmentId : in TpAssignmentID
Specifies the assignment ID of the failed location report request.
cause : in TpMobilityError
Specifies the error that led to the failure.
diagnostic : in TpMobilityDiagnostic
Specifies additional information about the error that led to the failure.
#### 8.1.2.3 Method extendedLocationReportRes()
A report containing extended location information for one or several users is
delivered.
Parameters
assignmentId : in TpAssignmentID
Specifies the assignment ID of the extended location-report request.
locations : in TpUserLocationExtendedSet
Specifies the location(s) of one or several users.
#### 8.1.2.4 Method extendedLocationReportErr()
This method indicates that the extended location report request has failed.
Parameters
assignmentId : in TpAssignmentID
Specifies the assignment ID of the failed extended location report request.
cause : in TpMobilityError
Specifies the error that led to the failure.
diagnostic : in TpMobilityDiagnostic
Specifies additional information about the error that led to the failure.
#### 8.1.2.5 Method periodicLocationReport()
A report containing periodic location information for one or several users is
delivered.
Parameters
assignmentId : in TpAssignmentID
Specifies the assignment ID of the periodic location-reporting request.
locations : in TpUserLocationExtendedSet
Specifies the location(s) of one or several users.
#### 8.1.2.6 Method periodicLocationReportErr()
This method indicates that a requested periodic location report has failed.
Note that errors only concerning individual users are reported in the ordinary
periodicLocationReport() message.
Parameters
assignmentId : in TpAssignmentID
Specifies the assignment ID of the failed periodic location reporting start
request.
cause : in TpMobilityError
Specifies the error that led to the failure.
diagnostic : in TpMobilityDiagnostic
Specifies additional information about the error that led to the failure.
### 8.1.3 Interface Class IpTriggeredUserLocation
Inherits from: IpUserLocation.
This interface can be used as an extended version of the User Location:
Service Interface.
The triggered user location interface represents the interface to the
triggered user location functions. The application programmer can use this
interface to request user location reports that are triggered by location
change.
This interface, or IpUserLocation, shall be implemented by a User Location SCF
as a minimum requirement.
The triggeredLocationReportingStartReq() and triggeredLocationReportingStop()
methods shall be implemented as a minimum requirement. An implementation of
IpTriggeredUserLocation is not required to implement the minimum mandatory
methods of IpUserLocation.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | \> | | | | IpTriggeredUserLocation | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | triggeredLocationReportingStartReq (appLocation : in | | IpAppTriggeredUserLocationRef, users : in TpAddressSet, request : in | | TpLocationRequest, triggers : in TpLocationTriggerSet) : | | TpAssignmentID | | | | triggeredLocationReportingStop (stopRequest : in | | TpMobilityStopAssignmentData) : void | | | | getNextTriggeredLocationRequest (reset : in TpBoolean) : | | TpTriggeredLocationRequestSetEntry | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
#### 8.1.3.1 Method triggeredLocationReportingStartReq()
Request for user location reports when the location is changed (reports are
triggered by location change).
Returns: assignmentId.
Specifies the assignment ID of the triggered location-reporting request.
Parameters
appLocation : in IpAppTriggeredUserLocationRef
Specifies the application interface for callbacks from the User Location
service.
users : in TpAddressSet
Specifies the user(s) for which the location shall be reported.
request : in TpLocationRequest
Specifies among others the requested location type, accuracy, response time
and priority.
triggers : in TpLocationTriggerSet
Specifies the trigger conditions.
Returns
TpAssignmentID
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_REQUESTED_ACCURACY_CANNOT_BE_DELIVERED,
P_REQUESTED_RESPONSE_TIME_CANNOT_BE_DELIVERED,
P_TRIGGER_CONDITIONS_NOT_SUBSCRIBED, P_UNKNOWN_SUBSCRIBER,
P_APPLICATION_NOT_ACTIVATED, P_INFORMATION_NOT_AVAILABLE,
P_INVALID_INTERFACE_TYPE
#### 8.1.3.2 Method triggeredLocationReportingStop()
Stop triggered user location reporting.
Parameters
stopRequest : in TpMobilityStopAssignmentData
Specifies how the assignment shall be stopped, i.e. if whole or just parts of
the assignment should be stopped.
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_ASSIGNMENT_ID
#### 8.1.3.3 Method getNextTriggeredLocationRequest()
This method is used by the application to query the request set created with
triggeredLocationReportingStartReq. Since a lot of data can potentially be
returned (which might cause problem in the middleware), this method must be
used in an iterative way. Each method invocation may return part of the total
set of requests if the set is too large to return it at once. The reset
parameter permits the application to indicate whether an invocation to
getNextTriggeredLocationRequest is requesting more requests from the total set
of requests or is requesting that the total set of requests shall be returned
from the beginning.
Returns the set of requests and an indication whether all off the requests
have been obtained or if more requests are available that have not yet been
obtained by the application.
Note that the (maximum) number of items provided to the application is
determined by the gateway.
Parameters
reset : in TpBoolean
TRUE: indicates that the application is intended to obtain the set of requests
starting at the beginning.
FALSE: indicates that the application requests the next set of requests that
have not (yet) been obtained since the last call to this method with this
parameter set to TRUE.
The first time this method is invoked, reset shall be set to TRUE. Following
the receipt of a final indication, for the next call to this method reset
shall be set to TRUE. P_TASK_REFUSED may be thrown if these conditions are not
met.
Returns
TpTriggeredLocationRequestSetEntry
Raises
TpCommonExceptions
### 8.1.4 Interface Class IpAppTriggeredUserLocation
Inherits from: IpAppUserLocation.
This interface must be used as a specialised version of the User Location:
Application Interface if the Triggered User Location: Service Interface is
used.
The triggered user location application interface is implemented by the client
application developer and is used to handle triggered location reports.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | \> | | | | IpAppTriggeredUserLocation | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | triggeredLocationReport (assignmentId : in TpAssignmentID, location | | : in TpUserLocationExtended, criterion : in | | TpLocationTriggerCriteria) : void | | | | triggeredLocationReportErr (assignmentId : in TpAssignmentID, cause | | : in TpMobilityError, diagnostic : in TpMobilityDiagnostic) : void | | | | triggeredReportingEnded (assignmentId : in TpAssignmentID) : void | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
#### 8.1.4.1 Method triggeredLocationReport()
A triggered report containing location for a user is delivered.
Parameters
assignmentId : in TpAssignmentID
Specifies the assignment ID of the triggered location-reporting request.
location : in TpUserLocationExtended
Specifies the location of the user.
criterion : in TpLocationTriggerCriteria
Specifies the criterion that triggered the report.
#### 8.1.4.2 Method triggeredLocationReportErr()
This method indicates that a requested triggered location report has failed.
Note that errors only concerning individual users are reported in the ordinary
triggeredLocationReport() message.
Parameters
assignmentId : in TpAssignmentID
Specifies the assignment ID of the failed triggered location reporting start
request.
cause : in TpMobilityError
Specifies the error that led to the failure.
diagnostic : in TpMobilityDiagnostic
Specifies additional information about the error that led to the failure.
#### 8.1.4.3 Method triggeredReportingEnded()
The user status or user location triggering has stopped because the max life
time allowed for this triggering has exceeded.
Parameters
assignmentId : in TpAssignmentID
Specifies the assignment ID of the triggered request.
## 8.2 User Location Camel Interface Classes
The ULC provides location information, based on network-related information,
rather than the geographical co-ordinates that can be retrieved via the
general User Location Service.
Using the ULC functions, an application programmer can request the VLR Number,
the location Area Identification and the Cell Global Identification and other
mobile-telephony-specific location information.
The ULC provides the IpUserLocationCamel interface. Most methods are
asynchronous, in that they do not lock a thread into waiting whilst a
transaction performs. In this way, the client machine can handle many more
calls, than one that uses synchronous message calls. To handle responses and
reports, the developer must implement IpAppUserLocationCamel interface to
provide the callback mechanism.
### 8.2.1 Interface Class IpUserLocationCamel
Inherits from: IpService.
This interface is the \'service manager\' interface for ULC.
This interface shall be implemented by a User Location Camel SCF.
The locationReportReq() method, or both the
periodicLocationReportingStartReq() and periodicLocationReportingStop()
methods, or both the triggeredLocationReportingStartReq() and
triggeredLocationReportingStop() methods shall be implemented as a minimum
requirement.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | \> | | | | IpUserLocationCamel | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | locationReportReq (appLocationCamel : in IpAppUserLocationCamelRef, | | users : in TpAddressSet) : TpAssignmentID | | | | periodicLocationReportingStartReq (appLocationCamel : in | | IpAppUserLocationCamelRef, users : in TpAddressSet, | | reportingInterval : in TpDuration) : TpAssignmentID | | | | periodicLocationReportingStop (stopRequest : in | | TpMobilityStopAssignmentData) : void | | | | triggeredLocationReportingStartReq (appLocationCamel : in | | IpAppUserLocationCamelRef, users : in TpAddressSet, trigger : in | | TpLocationTriggerCamel) : TpAssignmentID | | | | triggeredLocationReportingStop (stopRequest : in | | TpMobilityStopAssignmentData) : void | | | | getNextPeriodicLocationRequest (reset : in TpBoolean) : | | TpPeriodicLocationRequestSetEntry | | | | getNextTriggeredLocationRequest (reset : in TpBoolean) : | | TpTriggeredLocationRequestSetEntry | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
#### 8.2.1.1 Method locationReportReq()
Request for mobile-related location information on one or several camel users.
Returns: assignmentId.
Specifies the assignment ID of the location-report request.
Parameters
appLocationCamel : in IpAppUserLocationCamelRef
Specifies the application interface for callbacks from the User Location Camel
service.
users : in TpAddressSet
Specifies the user(s) for which the location shall be reported.
Returns
TpAssignmentID
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_UNKNOWN_SUBSCRIBER, P_APPLICATION_NOT_ACTIVATED,
P_INFORMATION_NOT_AVAILABLE, P_INVALID_INTERFACE_TYPE
#### 8.2.1.2 Method periodicLocationReportingStartReq()
Request for periodic mobile location reports on one or several users.
Returns: assignmentId.
Specifies the assignment ID of the periodic location-reporting request.
Parameters
appLocationCamel : in IpAppUserLocationCamelRef
Specifies the application interface for callbacks from the User Location Camel
service.
users : in TpAddressSet
Specifies the user(s) for which the location shall be reported.
reportingInterval : in TpDuration
Specifies the requested interval in milliseconds between the reports.
Returns
TpAssignmentID
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_REPORTING_INTERVAL, P_UNKNOWN_SUBSCRIBER,
P_APPLICATION_NOT_ACTIVATED, P_INFORMATION_NOT_AVAILABLE,
P_INVALID_INTERFACE_TYPE
#### 8.2.1.3 Method periodicLocationReportingStop()
This method stops the sending of periodic mobile location reports for one or
several users.
Parameters
stopRequest : in TpMobilityStopAssignmentData
Specifies how the assignment shall be stopped, i.e. if whole or just parts of
the assignment should be stopped.
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_ASSIGNMENT_ID
#### 8.2.1.4 Method triggeredLocationReportingStartReq()
Request for user location reports, containing mobile related information, when
the location is changed (the report is triggered by the location change).
Returns: assignmentId.
Specifies the assignment ID of the triggered location-reporting request.
Parameters
appLocationCamel : in IpAppUserLocationCamelRef
Specifies the application interface for callbacks from the User Location Camel
service.
users : in TpAddressSet
Specifies the user(s) for which the location shall be reported.
trigger : in TpLocationTriggerCamel
Specifies the trigger conditions.
Returns
TpAssignmentID
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_UNKNOWN_SUBSCRIBER, P_APPLICATION_NOT_ACTIVATED,
P_INFORMATION_NOT_AVAILABLE, P_INVALID_INTERFACE_TYPE
#### 8.2.1.5 Method triggeredLocationReportingStop()
Request that triggered mobile location reporting should stop.
Parameters
stopRequest : in TpMobilityStopAssignmentData
Specifies how the assignment shall be stopped, i.e. if whole or just parts of
the assignment should be stopped.
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_ASSIGNMENT_ID
#### 8.2.1.6 Method getNextPeriodicLocationRequest()
This method is used by the application to query the request set created with
periodicLocationReportingStartReq. Since a lot of data can potentially be
returned (which might cause problem in the middleware), this method must be
used in an iterative way. Each method invocation may return part of the total
set of requests if the set is too large to return it at once. The reset
parameter permits the application to indicate whether an invocation to
getNextPeriodicLocationRequest is requesting more requests from the total set
of requests or is requesting that the total set of requests shall be returned
from the beginning.
Returns the set of requests and an indication whether all off the requests
have been obtained or if more requests are available that have not yet been
obtained by the application.
Note that the (maximum) number of items provided to the application is
determined by the gateway.
Parameters
reset : in TpBoolean
TRUE: indicates that the application is intended to obtain the set of requests
starting at the beginning.
FALSE: indicates that the application requests the next set of requests that
have not (yet) been obtained since the last call to this method with this
parameter set to TRUE.
The first time this method is invoked, reset shall be set to TRUE. Following
the receipt of a final indication, for the next call to this method reset
shall be set to TRUE. P_TASK_REFUSED may be thrown if these conditions are not
met.
Returns
TpPeriodicLocationRequestSetEntry
Raises
TpCommonExceptions
#### 8.2.1.7 Method getNextTriggeredLocationRequest()
This method is used by the application to query the request set created with
triggeredLocationReportingStartReq. Since a lot of data can potentially be
returned (which might cause problem in the middleware), this method must be
used in an iterative way. Each method invocation may return part of the total
set of requests if the set is too large to return it at once. The reset
parameter permits the application to indicate whether an invocation to
getNextTriggeredLocationRequest is requesting more requests from the total set
of requests or is requesting that the total set of requests shall be returned
from the beginning.
Returns the set of requests and an indication whether all off the requests
have been obtained or if more requests are available that have not yet been
obtained by the application.
Note that the (maximum) number of items provided to the application is
determined by the gateway.
Parameters
reset : in TpBoolean
TRUE: indicates that the application is intended to obtain the set of requests
starting at the beginning.
FALSE: indicates that the application requests the next set of requests that
have not (yet) been obtained since the last call to this method with this
parameter set to TRUE.
The first time this method is invoked, reset shall be set to TRUE. Following
the receipt of a final indication, for the next call to this method reset
shall be set to TRUE. P_TASK_REFUSED may be thrown if these conditions are not
met.
Returns
TpTriggeredLocationRequestSetEntry
Raises
TpCommonExceptions
### 8.2.2 Interface Class IpAppUserLocationCamel
Inherits from: IpInterface.
The user location Camel application interface is implemented by the client
application developer and is used to handle location reports that are specific
for mobile telephony users.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | \> | | | | IpAppUserLocationCamel | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | locationReportRes (assignmentId : in TpAssignmentID, locations : in | | TpUserLocationCamelSet) : void | | | | locationReportErr (assignmentId : in TpAssignmentID, cause : in | | TpMobilityError, diagnostic : in TpMobilityDiagnostic) : void | | | | periodicLocationReport (assignmentId : in TpAssignmentID, locations | | : in TpUserLocationCamelSet) : void | | | | periodicLocationReportErr (assignmentId : in TpAssignmentID, cause : | | in TpMobilityError, diagnostic : in TpMobilityDiagnostic) : void | | | | triggeredLocationReport (assignmentId : in TpAssignmentID, location | | : in TpUserLocationCamel, criterion : in TpLocationTriggerCamel) : | | void | | | | triggeredLocationReportErr (assignmentId : in TpAssignmentID, cause | | : in TpMobilityError, diagnostic : in TpMobilityDiagnostic) : void | | | | triggeredReportingEnded (assignmentId : in TpAssignmentID) : void | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
#### 8.2.2.1 Method locationReportRes()
Delivery of a mobile location report. The report is containing mobile-related
location information for one or several users.
Parameters
assignmentId : in TpAssignmentID
Specifies the assignment ID of the location-report request.
locations : in TpUserLocationCamelSet
Specifies the location(s) of one or several users.
#### 8.2.2.2 Method locationReportErr()
This method indicates that the location report request has failed.
Parameters
assignmentId : in TpAssignmentID
Specifies the assignment ID of the failed location report request.
cause : in TpMobilityError
Specifies the error that led to the failure.
diagnostic : in TpMobilityDiagnostic
Specifies additional information about the error that led to the failure.
#### 8.2.2.3 Method periodicLocationReport()
Periodic delivery of mobile location reports. The reports are containing
mobile-related location information for one or several users.
Parameters
assignmentId : in TpAssignmentID
Specifies the assignment ID of the periodic location-reporting request.
locations : in TpUserLocationCamelSet
Specifies the location(s) of one or several users.
#### 8.2.2.4 Method periodicLocationReportErr()
This method indicates that a requested periodic location report has failed.
Note that errors only concerning individual users are reported in the ordinary
periodicLocationReport() message.
Parameters
assignmentId : in TpAssignmentID
Specifies the assignment ID of the failed periodic location reporting start
request.
cause : in TpMobilityError
Specifies the error that led to the failure.
diagnostic : in TpMobilityDiagnostic
Specifies additional information about the error that led to the failure.
#### 8.2.2.5 Method triggeredLocationReport()
Delivery of a report that is indicating that the user\'s mobile location has
changed.
Parameters
assignmentId : in TpAssignmentID
Specifies the assignment ID of the triggered location-reporting request.
location : in TpUserLocationCamel
Specifies the location of the user.
criterion : in TpLocationTriggerCamel
Specifies the criterion that triggered the report.
#### 8.2.2.6 Method triggeredLocationReportErr()
This method indicates that a requested triggered location report has failed.
Note that errors only concerning individual users are reported in the ordinary
triggeredLocationReport() message.
Parameters
assignmentId : in TpAssignmentID
Specifies the assignment ID of the failed triggered location reporting start
request.
cause : in TpMobilityError
Specifies the error that led to the failure.
diagnostic : in TpMobilityDiagnostic
Specifies additional information about the error that led to the failure.
#### 8.2.2.7 Method triggeredReportingEnded()
The user status or user location triggering has stopped because the max life
time allowed for this triggering has exceeded.
Parameters
assignmentId : in TpAssignmentID
Specifies the assignment ID of the triggered request.
## 8.3 User Location Emergency Interface Classes
In the case of an emergency call, the network may locate the caller
automatically. The resulting location is sent directly to an application that
is dedicated to handle emergency user location. If the dedicated emergency
call application is using the API, the location is sent to the application
using a callback method in the IpAppUserLocationEmergency interface.
However, the network does not always send the location immediately (probably
when the location procedure is not finished when the call is set up). In this
case the network will send an identifier of the caller that can be used to
locate the caller using the interface IpUserLocationEmergency.
### 8.3.1 Interface Class IpUserLocationEmergency
Inherits from: IpService.
The application programmer can use this interface to obtain the location of
users who initiate emergency calls.
This interface shall be implemented by a Mobility SCF.
The emergencyLocationReportReq() method, or the
subscribeEmergencyLocationReports() and unSubscribeEmergencyLocationReports()
methods shall be implemented as a minimum requirement.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | \> | | | | IpUserLocationEmergency | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | emergencyLocationReportReq (appEmergencyLocation : in | | IpAppUserLocationEmergencyRef, request : in | | TpUserLocationEmergencyRequest) : TpAssignmentID | | | | subscribeEmergencyLocationReports (appEmergencyLocation : in | | IpAppUserLocationEmergencyRef) : TpAssignmentID | | | | unSubscribeEmergencyLocationReports (assignmentId : in | | TpAssignmentID) : void | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
#### 8.3.1.1 Method emergencyLocationReportReq()
Request of report on the location for one user that is making an emergency
call.
Returns: assignmentId.
Specifies the assignment ID of the emergency location-report request.
Parameters
appEmergencyLocation : in IpAppUserLocationEmergencyRef
Specifies the application interface for callbacks from the User Location
Emergency service.
request : in TpUserLocationEmergencyRequest
Specifies among others the identity of the user or terminal, requested
location type, accuracy, response time and priority.
Returns
TpAssignmentID
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_UNKNOWN_SUBSCRIBER, P_INFORMATION_NOT_AVAILABLE,
P_APPLICATION_NOT_ACTIVATED, P_INVALID_INTERFACE_TYPE
#### 8.3.1.2 Method subscribeEmergencyLocationReports()
Subscribe to network initiated emergency user location reports.
Returns: assignmentId.
Specifies the assignment ID of the subscription.
Parameters
appEmergencyLocation : in IpAppUserLocationEmergencyRef
Specifies the application interface for callbacks from the User Location
Emergency service.
Returns
TpAssignmentID
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_INTERFACE_TYPE
#### 8.3.1.3 Method unSubscribeEmergencyLocationReports()
This method cancels a subscription to network initiated emergency user
location reports.
The assignment ID does not correspond to one of a valid assignment.
Parameters
assignmentId : in TpAssignmentID
Specifies the assignment ID of the subscription.
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_ASSIGNMENT_ID
### 8.3.2 Interface Class IpAppUserLocationEmergency
Inherits from: IpInterface.
The user-location emergency application interface is implemented by the client
application developer and is used to handle emergency user location reports.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | \> | | | | IpAppUserLocationEmergency | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | emergencyLocationReport (assignmentId : in TpAssignmentID, location | | : in TpUserLocationEmergency) : void | | | | emergencyLocationReportErr (assignmentId : in TpAssignmentID, cause | | : in TpMobilityError, diagnostic : in TpMobilityDiagnostic) : void | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
#### 8.3.1.1 Method emergencyLocationReport()
Delivery of an emergency user location report.
Parameters
assignmentId : in TpAssignmentID
Specifies the assignment ID of the emergency location-report request or the
emergency location report subscription.
location : in TpUserLocationEmergency
Specifies the identity and location of the user that makes the emergency call.
#### 8.3.2.2 Method emergencyLocationReportErr()
This method indicates that the emergency location report request has failed.
Parameters
assignmentId : in TpAssignmentID
Specifies the assignment ID of the failed emergency location report request.
cause : in TpMobilityError
Specifies the error that led to the failure.
diagnostic : in TpMobilityDiagnostic
Specifies additional information about the error that led to the failure.
## 8.4 User Status Interface Classes
The User Status Service (US) provides a general user status service. US allow
applications to obtain the status of fixed, mobile and IP-based telephony
users.
The US provides the IpUserStatus interface. Most methods are asynchronous, in
that they do not lock a thread into waiting whilst a transaction performs. In
this way, the client machine can handle many more calls, than one that uses
synchronous message calls. To handle responses and reports, the developer must
implement IpAppUserStatus interface to provide the callback mechanism.
### 8.4.1 Interface Class IpAppUserStatus
Inherits from: IpInterface.
The user-status application interface is implemented by the client application
developer and is used to handle user status reports.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | \> | | | | IpAppUserStatus | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | statusReportRes (assignmentId : in TpAssignmentID, status : in | | TpUserStatusSet) : void | | | | statusReportErr (assignmentId : in TpAssignmentID, cause : in | | TpMobilityError, diagnostic : in TpMobilityDiagnostic) : void | | | | triggeredStatusReport (assignmentId : in TpAssignmentID, status : in | | TpUserStatus) : void | | | | triggeredStatusReportErr (assignmentId : in TpAssignmentID, cause : | | in TpMobilityError, diagnostic : in TpMobilityDiagnostic) : void | | | | extendedStatusReportRes (assignmentId : in TpAssignmentID, status : | | in TpUserStatusExtendedSet) : void | | | | extendedStatusReportErr (assignmentId : in TpAssignmentID, cause : | | in TpMobilityError, diagnostic : in TpMobilityDiagnostic) : void | | | | extTriggeredStatusReport (assignmentId : in TpAssignmentID, status : | | in TpUserStatusExtended) : void | | | | extTriggeredStatusReportErr (assignmentId : in TpAssignmentID, cause | | : in TpMobilityError, diagnostic : in TpMobilityDiagnostic) : void | | | | triggeredReportingEnded (assignmentId : in TpAssignmentID) : void | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
#### 8.4.1.1 Method statusReportRes()
Delivery of a report, that is containing one or several user\'s status.
Parameters
assignmentId : in TpAssignmentID
Specifies the assignment ID of the status-report request.
status : in TpUserStatusSet
Specifies the status of one or several users.
#### 8.4.1.2 Method statusReportErr()
This method indicates that the status report request has failed.
Parameters
assignmentId : in TpAssignmentID
Specifies the assignment ID of the failed status report request.
cause : in TpMobilityError
Specifies the error that led to the failure.
diagnostic : in TpMobilityDiagnostic
Specifies additional information about the error that led to the failure.
#### 8.4.1.3 Method triggeredStatusReport()
Delivery of a report that is indicating that a user\'s status has changed.
Parameters
assignmentId : in TpAssignmentID
Specifies the assignment ID of the triggered status-reporting request.
status : in TpUserStatus
Specifies the status of the user.
#### 8.4.1.4 Method triggeredStatusReportErr()
This method indicates that a requested triggered status reporting has failed.
Note that errors only concerning individual users are reported in the ordinary
triggeredStatusReport() message.
Parameters
assignmentId : in TpAssignmentID
Specifies the assignment ID of the failed triggered status reporting start
request.
cause : in TpMobilityError
Specifies the error that led to the failure.
diagnostic : in TpMobilityDiagnostic
Specifies additional information about the error that led to the failure.
#### 8.4.1.5 Method extendedStatusReportRes()
Delivery of a report, that is containing one or several user\'s status.
Parameters
assignmentId : in TpAssignmentID
Specifies the assignment ID of the status-report request.
status : in TpUserStatusExtendedSet
Specifies the status of one or several users.
#### 8.4.1.6 Method extendedStatusReportErr()
This method indicates that the status report request has failed.
Parameters
assignmentId : in TpAssignmentID
Specifies the assignment ID of the failed status report request.
cause : in TpMobilityError
Specifies the error that led to the failure.
diagnostic : in TpMobilityDiagnostic
Specifies additional information about the error that led to the failure.
#### 8.4.1.7 Method extTriggeredStatusReport()
Delivery of a report that is indicating that a user\'s status has changed.
Parameters
assignmentId : in TpAssignmentID
Specifies the assignment ID of the triggered status-reporting request.
status : in TpUserStatusExtended
Specifies the status of the user.
#### 8.4.1.8 Method extTriggeredStatusReportErr()
This method indicates that a requested triggered status reporting has failed.
Note that errors only concerning individual users are reported in the ordinary
extTriggeredStatusReport() message.
Parameters
assignmentId : in TpAssignmentID
Specifies the assignment ID of the failed triggered status reporting start
request.
cause : in TpMobilityError
Specifies the error that led to the failure.
diagnostic : in TpMobilityDiagnostic
Specifies additional information about the error that led to the failure.
#### 8.4.1.9 Method triggeredReportingEnded()
The user status or user location triggering has stopped because the max life
time allowed for this triggering has exceeded.
Parameters
assignmentId : in TpAssignmentID
Specifies the assignment ID of the triggered request.
### 8.4.2 Interface Class IpUserStatus
Inherits from: IpService.
The application programmer can use this interface to obtain the status of
fixed, mobile and IP-based telephony users.
This interface shall be implemented by a User Status SCF.
The statusReportReq() method, or both the triggeredStatusReportingStartReq()
and trigggeredStatusReportingStop() methods shall be implemented as a minimum
requirement.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | \> | | | | IpUserStatus | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | statusReportReq (appStatus : in IpAppUserStatusRef, users : in | | TpAddressSet) : TpAssignmentID | | | | triggeredStatusReportingStartReq (appStatus : in IpAppUserStatusRef, | | users : in TpAddressSet) : TpAssignmentID | | | | triggeredStatusReportingStop (stopRequest : in | | TpMobilityStopAssignmentData) : void | | | | getNextTriggeredStatusRequest (reset : in TpBoolean) : | | TpTriggeredStatusRequestSetEntry | | | | extendedStatusReportReq (appStatus : in IpAppUserStatusRef, users : | | in TpAddressSet) : TpAssignmentID | | | | extTriggeredStatusReportingStartReq (appStatus : in | | IpAppUserStatusRef, users : in TpAddressSet) : TpAssignmentID | | | | extTriggeredStatusReportingStop (stopRequest : in | | TpMobilityStopAssignmentData) : void | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
#### 8.4.2.1 Method statusReportReq()
Request for a report on the status of one or several users.
Returns: assignmentId.
Specifies the assignment ID of the status-report request.
Parameters
appStatus : in IpAppUserStatusRef
Specifies the application interface for callbacks from the User Status
service.
users : in TpAddressSet
Specifies the user(s) for which the status shall be reported.
Returns
TpAssignmentID
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_UNKNOWN_SUBSCRIBER, P_INFORMATION_NOT_AVAILABLE,
P_APPLICATION_NOT_ACTIVATED, P_INVALID_INTERFACE_TYPE
#### 8.4.2.2 Method triggeredStatusReportingStartReq()
Request for triggered status reports when one or several user\'s status is
changed. The user status service will send a report when the status changes.
Returns: assignmentId.
Specifies the assignment ID of the triggered status-reporting request.
Parameters
appStatus : in IpAppUserStatusRef
Specifies the application interface for callbacks from the User Status
service.
users : in TpAddressSet
Specifies the user(s) for which the status changes shall be reported.
Returns
TpAssignmentID
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_UNKNOWN_SUBSCRIBER, P_INFORMATION_NOT_AVAILABLE,
P_APPLICATION_NOT_ACTIVATED, P_INVALID_INTERFACE_TYPE
#### 8.4.2.3 Method triggeredStatusReportingStop()
This method stops the sending of status reports for one or several users.
Parameters
stopRequest : in TpMobilityStopAssignmentData
Specifies how the assignment shall be stopped, i.e. if whole or just parts of
the assignment should be stopped.
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_ASSIGNMENT_ID
#### 8.4.2.4 Method getNextTriggeredStatusRequest()
This method is used by the application to query the request set created with
triggeredStatusReportingStartReq. Since a lot of data can potentially be
returned (which might cause problem in the middleware), this method must be
used in an iterative way. Each method invocation may return part of the total
set of requests if the set is too large to return it at once. The reset
parameter permits the application to indicate whether an invocation to
getNextTriggeredStatusRequest is requesting more requests from the total set
of requests or is requesting that the total set of requests shall be returned
from the beginning.
Returns the set of requests and an indication whether all off the requests
have been obtained or if more requests are available that have not yet been
obtained by the application.
Note that the (maximum) number of items provided to the application is
determined by the gateway.
Parameters
reset : in TpBoolean
TRUE: indicates that the application is intended to obtain the set of requests
starting at the beginning.
FALSE: indicates that the application requests the next set of requests that
have not (yet) been obtained since the last call to this method with this
parameter set to TRUE.
The first time this method is invoked, reset shall be set to TRUE. Following
the receipt of a final indication, for the next call to this method reset
shall be set to TRUE. P_TASK_REFUSED may be thrown if these conditions are not
met.
Returns
TpTriggeredStatusRequestSetEntry
Raises
TpCommonExceptions
#### 8.4.2.5 Method extendedStatusReportReq()
Request for a report on the status of one or several users.
A user can be identified by the following address types:
\- MSISDN indicated with address plan P_ADDRESS_PLAN_E164.
\- IP Address indicated with address plan P_ADDRESS_PLAN_IP.
\- User Name indicated with address plan P_ADDRESS_PLAN_UNDEFINED.
Returns: assignmentID.
Parameters
appStatus : in IpAppUserStatusRef
Specifies the application interface for callbacks from the User Status
service.
users : in TpAddressSet
Specifies the user(s) for which the status shall be reported.
Returns
TpAssignmentID
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_UNKNOWN_SUBSCRIBER, P_INFORMATION_NOT_AVAILABLE,
P_APPLICATION_NOT_ACTIVATED, P_INVALID_INTERFACE_TYPE
#### 8.4.2.6 Method extTriggeredStatusReportingStartReq()
Request for triggered status reports when one or several user\'s status is
changed. The user status service will send a report when the status changes.
Returns: assignmentId.
Specifies the assignment ID of the triggered status-reporting request.
Parameters
appStatus : in IpAppUserStatusRef
Specifies the application interface for callbacks from the User Status
service.
users : in TpAddressSet
Specifies the user(s) for which the status changes shall be reported.
Returns
TpAssignmentID
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_UNKNOWN_SUBSCRIBER, P_INFORMATION_NOT_AVAILABLE,
P_APPLICATION_NOT_ACTIVATED, P_INVALID_INTERFACE_TYPE
#### 8.4.2.7 Method extTriggeredStatusReportingStop()
This method stops the sending of status reports for one or several users.
Parameters
stopRequest : in TpMobilityStopAssignmentData
Specifies how the assignment shall be stopped, i.e. if whole or just parts of
the assignment should be stopped.
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_ASSIGNMENT_ID
## 8.5 User Binding Interface Classes
In order to create a feature rich services creation environment for (mobile)
\"IP\" networks where not only terminal mobility but also personal mobility is
supported, User Binding notification functions, which enable applications to
know UE binding requests, control and make use of them, are provided. The
interfaces detailed below support UE binding notification functions.
### 8.5.1 Interface Class IpUserBinding
Inherits from: IpService.
The application programmer can use this interface to obtain binding details of
users who bind to the network.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | \> | | | | IpUserBinding | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | triggeredBindingRequestNotificationStartReq (appStatus : in | | IpAppUserBindingRef, users : in TpAddressSet, criteria : in | | TpBindingNotificationCriteriaSet) : TpAssignmentID | | | | triggeredBindingRequestNotificationStop (assignmentId : in | | TpAssignmentID) : void | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
#### 8.5.1.1 Method triggeredBindingRequestNotificationStartReq()
Request for triggered status reports when one or several user\'s binding
details are requested to be changed. The User Binding service will send a
notification when the user\'s binding details are requested to be changed.
Returns the assignment ID of the triggered binding request notification.
Parameters
appStatus : in IpAppUserBindingRef
Specifies the application interface for callbacks from the User Binding
service.
users : in TpAddressSet
Specifies the user(s) for which the binding change requests shall be reported.
criteria : in TpBindingNotificationCriteriaSet
Specifies the criteria that must be matched by the binding change request
notifications.
Returns
TpAssignmentID
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_UNKNOWN_SUBSCRIBER, P_INFORMATION_NOT_AVAILABLE,
P_APPLICATION_NOT_ACTIVATED, P_INVALID_INTERFACE_TYPE
#### 8.5.1.2 Method triggeredBindingRequestNotificationStop()
This method stops the sending of the notifications of binding change requests
identified by the assignment ID.
Parameters
assignmentId : in TpAssignmentID
Specifies the assignment ID of the triggered binding-request notification.
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_ASSIGNMENT_ID
### 8.5.2 Interface Class IpAppUserBinding
Inherits from: IpInterface.
The user-binding application interface is implemented by the client
application developer and is used to handle binding notification requests.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | \> | | | | IpAppUserBinding | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | triggeredBindingRequestNotification (assignmentId : in | | TpAssignmentID, address : in TpAddress, contactInformation : in | | TpBindingSet) : TpBindingSet | | | | triggeredBindingRequestNotificationStartErr (assignmentId : in | | TpAssignmentID, cause : in TpMobilityError, diagnostic : in | | TpMobilityDiagnostic) : void | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
#### 8.5.2.1 Method triggeredBindingRequestNotification()
Delivery of a report that is indicating that a user\'s binding details are
requested to be changed. The application returns acceptable bindings.
Parameters
assignmentId : in TpAssignmentID
Specifies the assignment ID of the triggered binding-request notification.
address : in TpAddress
Specifies the address of the user whose binding details are requested to be
changed.
contactInformation : in TpBindingSet
Specifies the binding details of the user.
Returns
TpBindingSet
#### 8.5.2.2 Method triggeredBindingRequestNotificationStartErr()
This method indicates that the request for notification of binding requests
has failed.
Parameters
assignmentId : in TpAssignmentID
Specifies the assignment ID of the failed request for notification of binding
requests.
cause : in TpMobilityError
Specifies the error that led to the failure.
diagnostic : in TpMobilityDiagnostic
Specifies additional information about the error that led to the failure.
# 9 State Transition Diagrams
## 9.1 User Location
There are no State Transition Diagrams for User Location.
## 9.2 User Location Camel
### 9.2.1 State Transition Diagrams for IpUserLocationCamel
During the signServiceAgreement a new user location interface reference is
created, which is user as the initial point of contact for the application.
{width="6.688888888888889in" height="4.85625in"}
Figure : State Transition Diagram for User Location Camel
#### 9.2.1.1 Active State
In this state, a relation between the Application and the Network User
Location Service Capability Feature has been established. It allows the
application to request a specific user location reports, subscribe to periodic
user location reports or subscribe to triggers that generate location report
when a location update occurs inside the current VLR area or when the user
moves to another VLR area or both.
## 9.3 User Location Emergency
There are no State Transition Diagrams for User Location Emergency.
## 9.4 User Status
### 9.4.1 State Transition Diagrams for IpUserStatus
{width="6.684027777777778in" height="4.781944444444444in"}
Figure : State Transition Diagram for User Status
#### 9.4.1.1 Active State
In this state, a relation between the Application and the User Status Service
Capability Feature has been established. It allows the application to request
a specific user status report or subscribe to triggers that generate status
reports when the status of one of the monitored user changes.
## 9.5 User Binding
There are no State Transition Diagrams for User Binding.
# 10 Service Properties
## 10.1 Mobility Properties
### 10.1.1 Emergency Application Subtypes
Emergency (see definition of 'LCS Client Type' in 3GPP TS 23.271) Application
Subtypes;
This property contains a list of application subtypes that are permitted to
use the service. The possible subtypes are (see definition of 'LCS Client
Internal ID' in 3GPP TS 23.271):
\- "Broadcast service"\ \- "O&M HPLMN service"\ \- "O&M VPLMN service"\ \-
"Anonymous location"\ \- "Target MS subscribed service"
### 10.1.2 Value Added Application Subtypes
Value Added (see definition of 'LCS Client Type' in 3GPP TS 23.271)
Application Subtypes.
This property contains a list of application subtypes that are permitted to
use the service. The possible subtypes are (see definition of 'LCS Client
Internal ID' in 3GPP TS 23.271):
\- "Broadcast service"\ \- "O&M HPLMN service"\ \- "O&M VPLMN service"\ \-
"Anonymous location"\ \- "Target MS subscribed service"
### 10.1.3 PLMN Operator Application Subtypes
PLMN Operator (see definition of 'LCS Client Type' in 3GPP TS 23.271.)
Application Subtypes.
This property contains a list of application subtypes that are permitted to
use the service. The possible subtypes are (see definition of 'LCS Client
Internal ID' in 3GPP TS 23.271):
\- "Broadcast service"\ \- "O&M HPLMN service"\ \- "O&M VPLMN service"\ \-
"Anonymous location"\ \- "Target MS subscribed service"
### 10.1.4 Lawful Intercept Application Subtypes
Lawful Intercept (See definition of 'LCS Client Type' in 3GPP TS 23.271.)
Application Subtypes.
This property contains a list of application subtypes that are permitted to
use the service. The possible subtypes are (see definition of 'LCS Client
Internal ID' in 3GPP TS 23.271):
\- "Broadcast service"\ \- "O&M HPLMN service"\ \- "O&M VPLMN service"\ \-
"Anonymous location"\ \- "Target MS subscribed service"
### 10.1.5 Altitude Obtainable
Indicates whether it is possible to obtain a user's altitude.
### 10.1.6 Location Methods
List of supported location methods. Possible values (other values are
permitted):
  * "Time of Arrival"
  * "Timing Advance"
  * "GPS"
  * "User Data Lookup"
  * "Any Time Interrogation"
### 10.1.7 Priorities
List of supported priorities for location requests. Possible values (no other
values are permitted):
  * "Normal"
  * "High"
### 10.1.8 Max Interactive Requests
The maximum number of parallel outstanding location or status requests allowed
per application. It shall be possible to convert the value to a 32-bit
integer.
### 10.1.9 Max Triggered Users
The maximum number of users allowed per application for which triggered
location reporting can be requested. It shall be possible to convert the value
to a 32-bit integer.
### 10.1.10 Max Periodic Users
The maximum number of users allowed per application for which periodic
location reporting can be requested. It shall be possible to convert the value
to a 32-bit integer.
### 10.1.11 Min Periodic Interval Duration
The minimal time in seconds allowed between two periodic reports. It shall be
possible to convert the value to a 32-bit integer. Note however that the
_reportingInterval_ parameter, which is used in methods pertaining to periodic
location reporting, is of common data type _TpDuration_ , i.e. a signed 32-bit
integer representing a time interval in **milliseconds.**
### 10.1.12 Initial Report
Indicates whether a triggered service should generate an initial triggered
report immediately after a triggered start request.
  * Triggered Status -- If this property is set to "True", the initial status of the end user is reported immediately after the triggeredStatusReportingStartReq.
  * Triggered Location -- If this property is set to "True", the initial location of the end user is reported immediately after the triggeredLocationReportingStartReq, if the trigger criteria is met i.e. if the end user is within the location area and the Criterion is P_UL_ENTERING_AREA or the end user is outside the location area and the Criterion is P_UL_LEAVING_AREA.
### 10.1.13 Max Life Time
Specifies the maximum life time in milliseconds of a triggered or periodic
reporting. It is of common data type _TpDuration_ , i.e. a signed 32-bit
integer representing a time interval in **milliseconds.** A value of zero
means infinite life time.
  * The periodic or triggered reporting will stop when a stop method associated with the triggering is received by the SCS or when the life time has expired.
## 10.2 User Location Service Properties
A specific User Location service shall set the following properties:
  * General Properties applicable to all SCFs (in Framework)
  * Permitted application types
  * Permitted application subtypes
  * Priorities (see definition of 'LCSClientType' in 3GPP TS 23.271.)
  * Altitude obtainable
  * Location methods
  * Max interactive requests
  * Max triggered users
  * Max periodic users
  * Min periodic interval duration
  * Initial Report
  * Max Life Time
EXAMPLE: The example below describes the capabilities of two fictive User
Location services:
* * *
Property Name Property Value\ Property Value\ Service 1 Service 2
Service instance ID 0x80923AD0 0xF0ED85CB
Service name UserLocation UserLocation
Service version 2.1 2.1
Service description Basic User Location service Advanced high-performance User
Location service
Product name Find It Locate.com
Product version 1.3 3.1
Supported interfaces "IpUserLocation" "IpUserLocation"
Permitted application types "Emergency service", "Value added service"
"Emergency service", "Value added service", "Lawful intercept service"
Permitted application subtypes ? ?
Priorities "Normal" "Normal", "High"
Altitude obtainable False True
Location methods "Timing Advance" "GPS", "Time Of Arrival"
Max interactive requests 2000 10000
Max triggered users 0 2000
Max periodic users 300 2000
Min periodic interval duration 600 30
Initial Report True True
* * *
## 10.3 User Location Camel Service Properties
A specific User Location Camel service shall set the following properties:
  * General Properties applicable to all SCFs (in Framework)
  * Max interactive requests
  * Max triggered users
  * Max periodic users
  * Min periodic interval duration
  * Initial Report
  * Max Life Time
## 10.4 User Location Emergency Service Properties
A specific User Location Emergency service shall set the following properties:
  * General Properties applicable to all SCFs (in Framework).
  * Permitted application types.
  * Permitted application subtypes.
  * Altitude obtainable[.]{.underline}
  * Location methods[.]{.underline}
  * Priorities[.]{.underline}
NOTE: See definition of \'LCS Client Type\' in TS 123 271.
  * Max interactive requests[.]{.underline}
## 10.5 User Status Service Properties
A specific User Location service shall set the following properties:
  * General Properties applicable to all SCFs (in Framework)
  * Max interactive requests
  * Max triggered users
  * Initial Report
  * Max Life Time
# 11 Data Definitions
All data types referenced but not defined in this clause are common data
definitions which may be found in 3GPP TS 29.198-2.
## 11.1 Common Mobility Data Definitions
The following data definitions are used for several of the mobility services.
### 11.1.1 TpGeographicalPosition
Defines the Sequence of Data Elements that specify a geographical position.
The horizontal location is defined by an "ellipsoid point with uncertainty
shape". The reference system chosen for the coding of locations is the World
Geodetic System 1984 (WGS 84).
_TypeOfUncertaintyShape_ describes the type of the uncertainty shape and
_Longitude_ /_Latitude_ defines the position of the uncertainty shape. The
following table defines the meaning of the data elements that describe the
uncertainty shape for each uncertainty shape type.
* * *
_Type of uncertainty shape_ _Uncertainty\_ Uncertainty\ _Uncertainty\_
Uncertainty\ _Angle Of Semi Major_ _Segment Start Angle_ _Segment End Angle_
Outer\ Outer\ Inner\ Inner\  
Semi\ Semi\ Semi\ Semi\  
Major _Minor_ Major _Minor_
**None** \- - - - - - -
**Circle** radius of circle - - - - - -
**Circle Sector** radius of circle - - - - start angle of circle segment end
angle of circle segment
**Circle Arc Stripe** radius of outer circle - radius of inner circle - -
start angle of circle arc stripe end angle of circle arc stripe
**Ellipse** length of semi-major axis length of semi-minor axis - - rotation
of ellipse measured clockwise from north - -
**Ellipse Sector** length of semi-major axis length of semi-minor axis - -
rotation of ellipse measured clockwise from north start angle of ellipse
segment end angle of ellipse segment
**Ellipse Arc Stripe** length of semi-major axis, outer ellipse length of
semi-minor axis, outer ellipse length of semi-major axis, inner ellipse length
of semi-minor axis, inner ellipse rotation of ellipse measured clockwise from
north start angle of ellipse arc stripe end angle of ellipse arc stripe
* * *
Figure 1 Description of an Ellipse Arc
TpGeographicalPosition:
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type Longitude TpFloat Latitude TpFloat
TypeOfUncertaintyShape TpLocationUncertaintyShape UncertaintyInnerSemiMajor
TpFloat UncertaintyOuterSemiMajor TpFloat UncertaintyInnerSemiMinor TpFloat
UncertaintyOuterSemiMinor TpFloat AngleOfSemiMajor TpInt32 SegmentStartAngle
TpInt32 SegmentEndAngle TpInt32
* * *
### 11.1.2 TpLocationPriority
Defines the priority of a location request.
* * *
Name Value Description P_M_NORMAL 0 Normal P_M_HIGH 1 High
* * *
### 11.1.3 TpLocationRequest
Defines the Sequence of Data Elements that specify a location request.
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Sequence Element | Sequence Element | Description | | | | | | Name | Type | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | RequestedAccuracy | TpFloat | Requested accuracy | | | | in meters. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | R | Tp | Requested response | | equestedResponseTime | LocationResponseTime | time as a classified | | | | requirement or as an | | | | absolute timer. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | AltitudeRequested | TpBoolean | Altitude request | | | | flag. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Type | TpLocationType | The kind of location | | | | that is requested. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Priority | TpLocationPriority | Priority of location | | | | request. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Req | TpString | The kind of location | | uestedLocationMethod | | method that is | | | | requested. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### 11.1.4 TpLocationResponseIndicator
Defines a response time requirement.
* * *
Name Value Description P_M_NO_DELAY 0 No delay: return either initial or last
known location of the user. P_M_LOW_DELAY 1 Low delay: return the current
location with minimum delay. The mobility service shall attempt to fulfil any
accuracy requirement, but in doing so shall not add any additional delay.
P_M_DELAY_TOLERANT 2 Delay tolerant: obtain the current location with regard
to fulfilling the accuracy requirement. P_M_USE_TIMER_VALUE 3 Use timer value:
obtain the current location with regard to fulfilling the response time
requirement.
* * *
### 11.1.5 TpLocationResponseTime
Defines the Sequence of Data Elements that specify the application's
requirements on the mobility service's response time.
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type Description ResponseTime
TpLocationResponseIndicator Indicator for which kind of response time that is
required, see TpLocationResponseIndicator. TimerValue TpInt32 Optional timer
used in combination when ResponseTime equals P_M_USE_TIMER_VALUE. Units are
seconds.
* * *
### 11.1.6 TpLocationType
Defines the type of location requested.
* * *
Name Value Description P_M_CURRENT 0 Current location
P_M_CURRENT_OR_LAST_KNOWN 1 Current or last known location P_M_INITIAL 2
Initial location for an emergency services call
* * *
### 11.1.7 TpLocationUncertaintyShape
Defines the type of uncertainty shape.
* * *
Name Value Description P_M_SHAPE_NONE 0 No uncertainty shape present.
P_M_SHAPE_CIRCLE 1 Uncertainty shape is a circle. P_M_SHAPE_CIRCLE_SECTOR 2
Uncertainty shape is a circle sector. P_M_SHAPE_CIRCLE_ARC_STRIPE 3
Uncertainty shape is a circle arc stripe. P_M_SHAPE_ELLIPSE 4 Uncertainty
shape is an ellipse. P_M_SHAPE_ELLIPSE_SECTOR 5 Uncertainty shape is an
ellipse sector. P_M_SHAPE_ELLIPSE_ARC_STRIPE 6 Uncertainty shape is an ellipse
arc stripe.
* * *
### 11.1.8 TpMobilityDiagnostic
Defines a diagnostic value that is reported in addition to an error by one of
the mobility services.
* * *
Name Value Description
P_M_NO_INFORMATION 0 No diagnostic information present.\ Valid for all type of
errors.
P_M_APPL_NOT_IN_PRIV_EXCEPT_LST 1 Application not in privacy exception list.\
Valid for 'Unauthorised Application' error.
P_M_CALL_TO_USER_NOT_SETUP 2 Call to user not set-up.\ Valid for 'Unauthorised
Application' error.
P_M_PRIVACY_OVERRIDE_NOT_APPLIC 3 Privacy override not applicable.\ Valid for
'Unauthorised Application' error.
P_M_DISALL_BY_LOCAL_REGULAT_REQ 4 Disallowed by local regulatory
requirements.\ Valid for 'Unauthorised Application' error.
P_M_CONGESTION 5 Congestion.\ Valid for 'Position Method Failure' error.
P_M_INSUFFICIENT_RESOURCES 6 Insufficient resources.\ Valid for 'Position
Method Failure' error.
P_M_INSUFFICIENT_MEAS_DATA 7 Insufficient measurement data.\ Valid for
'Position Method Failure' error.
P_M_INCONSISTENT_MEAS_DATA 8 Inconsistent measurement data.\ Valid for
'Position Method Failure' error.
P_M_LOC_PROC_NOT_COMPLETED 9 Location procedure not completed.\ Valid for
'Position Method Failure' error.
P_M_LOC_PROC_NOT_SUPP_BY_USER 10 Location procedure not supported by user.\
Valid for 'Position Method Failure' error.
P_M_QOS_NOT_ATTAINABLE 11 Quality of service not attainable.\ Valid for
'Position Method Failure' error.
* * *
### 11.1.9 TpMobilityError
Defines an error that is reported by one of the mobility services.
* * *
Name Value Description Fatal
P_M_OK 0 No error occurred while processing the request. N/A
P_M_SYSTEM_FAILURE 1 System failure.\ Yes The request cannot be handled
because of a general problem in the mobility service or the underlying
network.
P_M_UNAUTHORIZED_NETWORK 2 Unauthorised network.\ No The requesting network is
not authorised to obtain the user's binding details, location or status.
P_M_UNAUTHORIZED_APPLICATION 3 Unauthorised application.\ Yes The application
is not authorised to obtain the user's binding details, location or status.
P_M_UNKNOWN_SUBSCRIBER 4 Unknown subscriber.\ Yes The user is unknown, i.e. no
such subscription exists.
P_M_ABSENT_SUBSCRIBER 5 Absent subscriber.\ No The user is currently not
reachable.
P_M_POSITION_METHOD_FAILURE 6 Position method failure.\ No The mobility
service failed to obtain the user's position.
* * *
### 11.1.10 TpMobilityStopAssignmentData
Defines the Sequence of Data Elements that specify a request to stop whole or
parts of an assignment. Assignments are used for periodic or triggered
reporting of a user\'s location or status.
Note that the parameter 'Users' is optional. If the parameter 'StopScope' is
set to P_M_ALL_IN_ASSIGNMENT the parameter 'Users' is undefined. If the
parameter \'StopScope\' is set to P_M_SPECIFIED_USERS, then the assignment
shall be stopped only for those users specified in the 'Users' list.
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type Description AssignmentId
TpAssignmentID Identity of the assignment that shall be stopped. StopScope
TpMobilityStopScope Specify if only a part of the assignment or if all the
assignment shall be stopped. Users TpAddressSet Optional parameter describing
which users a stop request is addressing, when only a part of an assignment is
to be stopped.
* * *
### 11.1.11 TpMobilityStopScope
This enumeration is used in requests to stop mobility reports that are sent
from a mobility service to an application.
* * *
Name Value Description P_M_ALL_IN_ASSIGNMENT 0 The request concerns all users
in an assignment. P_M_SPECIFIED_USERS 1 The request concerns only the users
that are explicitly specified in a list.
* * *
### 11.1.12 TpTerminalType
Defines which kind of terminal is used.
* * *
Name Value Description P_M_FIXED 0 Fixed terminal. P_M_MOBILE 1 Mobile
terminal. P_M_IP 2 IP terminal.
* * *
## 11.2 User Location Data Definitions
### 11.2.1 IpUserLocation
Defines the address of an IpUserLocation Interface.
### 11.2.2 IpUserLocationRef
Defines a Reference to type IpUserLocation.
### 11.2.3 IpAppUserLocation
Defines the address of an IpAppUserLocation Interface.
### 11.2.4 IpAppUserLocationRef
Defines a Reference to type IpAppUserLocation.
### 11.2.5 IpTriggeredUserLocation
Defines the address of an IpTriggeredUserLocation Interface.
### 11.2.6 IpTriggeredUserLocationRef
Defines a Reference to type IpTriggeredUserLocation.
### 11.2.7 IpAppTriggeredUserLocation
Defines the address of an IpAppTriggeredUserLocation Interface.
### 11.2.8 IpAppTriggeredUserLocationRef
Defines a Reference to type IpAppTriggeredUserLocation.
### 11.2.9 TpUlExtendedData
Defines the Sequence of Data Elements that specify a location (extended
format).
The optional vertical location is defined by the data element _Altitude_ ,
which contains the altitude in meters above sea level, and the data element
_AltitudeAccuracy_ , which contains the accuracy of the altitude.
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type Description GeographicalPosition
TpGeographicalPosition Specification of a position and an area of uncertainty.
TerminalType TpTerminalType Kind of terminal. AltitudePresent TpBoolean Flag
indicating if the altitude is present. Altitude TpFloat Decimal altitude in
meters. UncertaintyAltitude TpFloat Uncertainty of the altitude.
TimestampPresent TpBoolean Flag indicating if the timestamp is present.
Timestamp TpDateAndTime Timestamp indicating when the position was measured.
UsedLocationMethod TpString Specifying which location method was used.
* * *
### 11.2.10 TpUlExtendedDataSet
Defines a Numbered Set of Data Elements of TpUlExtendedData.
### 11.2.11 TpUserLocationExtended
Defines the Sequence of Data Elements that specify the identity and
location(s) of a user (extended format). In general the data element
_Locations_ will contain only one location, but in case of IP-telephony users
this data element might continue several locations (the locations of all
communication end-points, where the user is currently registered).
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type Description UserID TpAddress The
address of the user. StatusCode TpMobilityError Indicator of error. Locations
TpUlExtendedDataSet Optional list of locations. If StatusCode is indicating an
error, this value is undefined.
* * *
### 11.2.12 TpUserLocationExtendedSet
Defines a Numbered Set of Data Elements of TpUserLocationExtended.
### 11.2.13 TpLocationTrigger
Defines the Sequence of Data Elements that specify the criteria for a
triggered location report to be generated. The area is defined by an ellipse.
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Sequence Element | Sequence Element | Description | | Name | Type | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Longitude | TpFloat | Longitude of the | | | | position used in the | | | | trigger. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Latitude | TpFloat | Latitude of the | | | | position used in the | | | | trigger. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | AreaSemiMajor | TpFloat | Semi major of | | | | ellipse area used in | | | | the trigger. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | AreaSemiMinor | TpFloat | Semi minor of | | | | ellipse area used in | | | | the trigger. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | AngleOfSemiMajor | TpInt32 | Angle of the semi | | | | major of the ellipse | | | | area used in the | | | | trigger. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Criterion | TpLoc | Trigger criteria | | | ationTriggerCriteria | with regard to the | | | | ellipse area. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | ReportingInterval | TpDuration | Duration between | | | | generated location | | | | reports. | | | | | | | | Notes: | | | | | | | | - Units are | | | | | | | | **milliseconds**. | | | | | | | | - Denotes the | | | | minimum time | | | | between | | | | invocations of | | | | the | | | | IpAppTr | | | | iggeredUserLocation. | | | | tri | | | | ggeredLocationReport | | | | method, for this | | | | specific | | | | location ellipse | | | | area and trigger | | | | criterion. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### 11.2.14 TpLocationTriggerSet
Defines a Numbered Set of Data Elements of TpLocationTrigger.
### 11.2.15 TpLocationTriggerCriteria
Defines the criteria that trigger a location report.
* * *
Name Value Description P_UL_ENTERING_AREA 0 User enters the area
P_UL_LEAVING_AREA 1 User leaves the area
* * *
### 11.2.16 TpUserLocation
Defines the Sequence of Data Elements that specify the identity and location
of a user (basic format).
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type Description UserID TpAddress The
address of the user. StatusCode TpMobilityError Indicator of error.
GeographicalPosition TpGeographicalPosition Specification of a position and an
area of uncertainty. If StatusCode is indicating an error, this value is
undefined.
* * *
### 11.2.17 TpUserLocationSet
Defines a Numbered Set of Data Elements of TpUserLocation.
### 11.2.18 TpTriggeredLocationRequestSetEntry
Defines the Sequence of Data Elements that specify a set of triggered requests
and an indication whether more triggered location requests can be requested.
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type Description Requests
TpTriggeredLocationRequestSet Numbered set of requests. Final TpBoolean
Indication whether the set of triggered requests is the final set (TRUE) or if
there are more triggered requests (FALSE).
* * *
### 11.2.19 TpTriggeredLocationRequestSet
Defines a numbered Set of Data Elements of TpTriggeredLocationRequest.
### 11.2.20 TpTriggeredLocationRequest
Defines the Sequence of Data Elements that specify the criteria relating to
triggered location requests.
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type Users TpAddressSet Request
TpLocationRequest AssignmentID TpAssignmentID
* * *
### 11.2.21 TpPeriodicLocationRequestSetEntry
Defines the Sequence of Data Elements that specify a set of triggered requests
and an indication whether more periodic location requests can be requested.
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type Description Requests
TpPeriodicLocationRequestSet Numbered set of requests. Final TpBoolean
Indication whether the set of triggered requests is the final set (TRUE) or if
there are more triggered requests (FALSE).
* * *
### 11.2.22 TpPeriodicLocationRequestSet
Defines a numbered Set of Data Elements of TpPeriodicLocationRequest.
### 11.2.23 TpPeriodicLocationRequest
Defines the Sequence of Data Elements that specify the criteria relating to
periodic location requests.
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type Users TpAddressSet Request
TpLocationRequest ReportingInterval TpDuration AssignmentID TpAssignmentID
* * *
## 11.3 User Location Camel Data Definitions
### 11.3.1 IpUserLocationCamel
Defines the address of an IpUserLocationCamel Interface.
### 11.3.2 IpUserLocationCamelRef
Defines a Reference to type IpUserLocationCamel.
### 11.3.3 IpAppUserLocationCamel
Defines the address of an IpAppUserLocationCamel Interface.
### 11.3.4 IpAppUserLocationCamelRef
Defines a Reference to type IpAppUserLocationCamel.
### 11.3.5 TpLocationCellIDOrLAI
This data type is identical to a TpString. It specifies the Cell Global
Identification or the Location Area Identification (LAI).
The Cell Global Identification (CGI) is defined as a string of characters in
the following format:
> MCC**-** MNC**-** LAC**-** CI
where:
> MCC Mobile Country Code (three decimal digits)
>
> MNC Mobile Network Code (two or three decimal digits)
>
> LAC Location Area Code (four hexadecimal digits)
>
> CI Cell Identification (four hexadecimal digits)
The Location Area Identification (LAI) is defined as a string of characters in
the following format:
> MCC**-** MNC**-** LAC
where:
> MCC Mobile Country Code (three decimal digits)
>
> MNC Mobile Network Code (two or three decimal digits)
>
> LAC Location Area Code (four hexadecimal digits)
The length of the parameter indicates, which format is used. See 3GPP TS
29.002 [4] for the detailed coding.
### 11.3.6 TpLocationTriggerCamel
Defines the Sequence of Data Elements that specify the criteria for a
triggered location report to be generated.
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type Description UpdateInsideVlr
TpBoolean Generate location report, when a location update occurs inside the
current VLR area. UpdateOutsideVlr TpBoolean Generate location report, when
the user moves to another VLR area.
* * *
### 11.3.7 TpUserLocationCamel
Defines the Sequence of Data Elements that specify the location of a mobile
telephony user. Note that if the StatusCode is indicating an error , then
neither GeographicalPosition, Timestamp, VlrNumber, LocationNumber,
CellIdOrLai nor their associated presence flags are defined.
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type Description UserID TpAddress The
address of the user. StatusCode TpMobilityError Indicator of error.
GeographicalPositionPresent TpBoolean Flag indicating if the geographical
position is present. GeographicalPosition TpGeographicalPosition Specification
of a position and an area of uncertainty. TimestampPresent TpBoolean Flag
indicating if the timestamp is present. Timestamp TpDateAndTime Timestamp
indicating when the request was processed. VlrNumberPresent TpBoolean Flag
indicating if the VLR number is present. VlrNumber TpAddress Current VLR
number for the user. LocationNumberPresent TpBoolean Flag indicating if the
location number is present. LocationNumber (see Note) TpAddress Current
location number. CellIdOrLaiPresent TpBoolean Flag indicating if cell-id or
LAI of the user is present. CellIdOrLai TpLocationCellIDOrLAI Cell-id or LAI
of the user. NOTE: The location number is the number to the MSC or in rare
cases the roaming number.
* * *
### 11.3.8 TpUserLocationCamelSet
Defines a Numbered Set of Data Elements of TpUserLocationCamel.
## 11.4 User Location Emergency Data Definitions
### 11.4.1 IpUserLocationEmergency
Defines the address of an IpUserLocationEmergency Interface.
### 11.4.2 IpUserLocationEmergencyRef
Defines a Reference to type IpUserLocationEmergency.
### 11.4.3 IpAppUserLocationEmergency
Defines the address of an IpAppUserLocationEmergency Interface.
### 11.4.4 IpAppUserLocationEmergencyRef
Defines a Reference to type IpAppUserLocationEmergency.
### 11.4.5 TpIMEI
This data type is identical to a TpString. It specifies the International
Mobile Equipment Identity (IMEI).
### 11.4.6 TpNaESRD
This data type is identical to a TpString. It specifies the North American
Emergency Services Routing Digits (NA-ESRD).\ NA-ESRD is a telephone number in
the North American Numbering Plan that can be used to identify a North
American emergency services provider and its associated Location Services
client. The NA-ESRD also identifies the base station, cell site or sector from
which a North American emergency call originates.
### 11.4.7 TpNaESRK
This data type is identical to a TpString. It specifies the North American
Emergency Services Routing Key (NA-ESRK).\ NA-ESRK is a telephone number in
the North American Numbering Plan that is assigned to an emergency services
call for the duration of the call. The NA-ESRK is used to identify (e.g. route
to) both, the emergency services provider and the switch, currently serving
the emergency caller. During the lifetime of an emergency services call, the
NA-ESRK also identifies the calling subscriber.
### 11.4.8 TpUserLocationEmergencyRequest
Defines the Sequence of Data Elements that specify the request for the
location of an emergency service user. The emergency service user is
identified by a combination of _user address_ , _NaESRD_ , _NaESRK_ and
_IMEI_. _NaESRD_ , _NaESRK_ and _IMEI_ may be provided, if the emergency
service user has originated the emergency service call in North America.
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type Description UserAddressPresent
TpBoolean Flag indicating if the user address is present. UserAddress
TpAddress The address of the user. NaEsrdPresent TpBoolean Flag indicating if
the NaESRD is present. NaEsrd TpNaESRD Current NaESRD for the user.
NaEsrkPresent TpBoolean Flag indicating if the NaESRK is present. NaEsrk
TpNaESRK Current NaESRK for the user. ImeiPresent TpBoolean Flag indicating if
the IMEI is present. Imei TpIMEI IMEI for the user. LocationReq
TpLocationRequest The actual location request.
* * *
### 11.4.9 TpUserLocationEmergency
Defines the Sequence of Data Elements that specify the identity and location
of an emergency service user.\ The emergency service user is identified by a
combination of _UserID_ , _NaESRD_ , _NaESRK_ and _IMEI_.\ _NaESRD_ , _NaESRK_
and _IMEI_ may be provided, if the emergency service user has originated the
emergency service call in North America.\ The horizontal location is defined
by an "ellipsoid point with uncertainty ellipse" (see TpUlExtendedData).
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type Description StatusCode
TpMobilityError Indicator of error. UserIdPresent TpBoolean Flag indicating if
the user address is present. UserId TpAddress The user address. NaEsrdPresent
TpBoolean Flag indicating if the NaESRD is present. NaEsrd TpNaESRD Current
NaESRD for the user. NaEsrkPresent TpBoolean Flag indicating if the NaESRK is
present. NaEsrk TpNaESRK Current NaESRK for the user. ImeiPresent TpBoolean
Flag indicating if the IMEI is present. Imei TpIMEI IMEI for the user.
TriggeringEvent TpUserLocationEmergencyTrigger The reason for this location
report. GeographicalPositionPresent TpBoolean Flag indicating if the
geographical position is present. GeographicalPosition TpGeographicalPosition
Specification of a position and an area of uncertainty. AltitudePresent
TpBoolean Flag indicating if the altitude is present. Altitude TpFloat Decimal
altitude in meters. UncertaintyAltitude TpFloat Uncertainty of the altitude.
TimestampPresent TpBoolean Flag indicating if a timestamp is present.
Timestamp TpDateAndTime Timestamp indicating when the request was processed.
UsedLocationMethod TpString Specifying which location method was used.
* * *
### 11.4.10 TpUserLocationEmergencyTrigger
Defines which event triggered the emergency User Location report.
* * *
Name Value Description P_ULE_CALL_ORIGINATION 0 An emergency service user
originated an emergency call. P_ULE_CALL_RELEASE 1 An emergency service user
released an emergency call. P_ULE_LOCATION_REQUEST 2 The report is a response
to an emergency location report request.
* * *
## 11.5 User Status Data Definitions
### 11.5.1 IpUserStatus
Defines the address of an IpUserStatus Interface.
### 11.5.2 IpUserStatusRef
Defines a Reference to type IpUserStatus.
### 11.5.3 IpAppUserStatus
Defines the address of an IpAppUserStatus Interface.
### 11.5.4 IpAppUserStatusRef
Defines a Reference to type IpAppUserStatus.
### 11.5.5 TpUserStatus
Defines the Sequence of Data Elements that specify the identity and status of
a user.
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type Description UserID TpAddress The
user address. StatusCode TpMobilityError Indicator of error. Status
TpUserStatusIndicator The current status of the user. TerminalType
TpTerminalType The kind of terminal used by the user.
* * *
### 11.5.6 TpUserStatusSet
Defines a Numbered Set of Data Elements of TpUserStatus.
### 11.5.7 TpUserStatusIndicator
Defines the status of a user.
* * *
Name Value Description P_US_REACHABLE 0 User is reachable P_US_NOT_REACHABLE 1
User is not reachable P_US_BUSY (see Note) 2 User is busy (only applicable for
interactive user status request, not when triggers are used) NOTE: Only
applicable to mobile (Camel) telephony users.
* * *
### 11.5.8 TpTriggeredStatusRequestSetEntry
Defines the Sequence of Data Elements that specify a set of triggered requests
and an indication whether more triggered status requests can be requested.
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type Description Requests
TpTriggeredStatusRequestSet Numbered set of requests. Final TpBoolean
Indication whether the set of triggered requests is the final set (TRUE) or if
there are more triggered requests (FALSE).
* * *
### 11.5.9 TpTriggeredStatusRequestSet
Defines a numbered Set of Data Elements of TpTriggeredStatusRequest.
### 11.5.10 TpTriggeredStatusRequest
Defines the Sequence of Data Elements that specify the criteria relating to
triggered status requests.
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type Users TpAddressSet AssignmentID
TpAssignmentID
* * *
### 11.5.11 TpUserStatusExtended
Defines the Sequence of Data Elements that specify the identity and status of
a user.
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Sequence Element | Sequence Element | Description | | Name | Type | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UserID | TpAddress | The user address. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | StatusCode | TpMobilityError | Indicator of error. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Status | TpUserSta | The current status | | | tusIndicatorExtended | of the user. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | TerminalType | TpTerminalType | The kind of terminal | | | | used by the user. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | AuthenticationStatus | T | The current | | | pAuthStatusIndicator | authentication | | | | status of the user | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NetworkStatus | TpNe | Country code, Mobile | | | tworkStatusIndicator | network code, | | | | technology and | | | | Roaming status. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UserIPAddress | TpString | The allocated IP | | | | address for the | | | | user. | | | | | | | | If there is no | | | | IPAddress allocated | | | | then this is | | | | represented with the | | | | empty string. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UserMSISDN | TpString | The user MSISDN. If | | | | the MSISDN address | | | | is not known, then | | | | this is represented | | | | with the empty | | | | string. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UserInfo | TpUserInfo | Used to reference | | | | the user name and | | | | password supplied by | | | | the user during | | | | user-network | | | | authentication, if | | | | known by the | | | | network. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UserConnectionID | TpString | Combination of User | | | | IP Address and TCP | | | | port. This | | | | combination uniquely | | | | identifies the | | | | user's TCP | | | | connection, because | | | | one user can have | | | | several TCP | | | | connections ongoing | | | | at the same time. | | | | The User IP Address | | | | contained in | | | | UserConnectionID can | | | | be the same as the | | | | userIPAddress, but | | | | this is not always | | | | the case since a | | | | router in the data | | | | network might have | | | | translated the | | | | UserIPAddress to | | | | another IP-address. | | | | The latter is then | | | | contained in | | | | UserConnectionID. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | AccessPointName | TpString | Provides the Access | | | | Point Name of the | | | | Internet Service | | | | Provider | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### 11.5.12 TpUserStatusExtendedSet
Defines a Numbered Set of Data Elements of TpUserStatusExtended.
### 11.5.13 TpUserStatusIndicatorExtended
Defines the status of a user.
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type Description UserStatusIndicator
TpUserStatusIndicator Indication whether the user is busy, reachable or not
reachable PDPContextActive TpBoolean Indication whether the user currently has
an ongoing data session (i.e. PDP context established)
* * *
### 11.5.14 TpAuthStatusIndicator
Used to indicate if and how the user has been authenticated during data
session establishment
+-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | Name | Value | Description | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | > P_AUTHEN | > 0 | Authenticated only for the | | TICATED_FOR_NETWORK_ONLY | | network | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | > P_AUTHENTICATED_FOR\ | > 1 | Authenticated for the | | _NETWORK_AND_IP_SERVICES | | network and IP services | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | > P_NOT_AUTHENTICATED | > 2 | Not authenticated | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+
### 11.5.15 TpUserInfo
Used to reference the user name and password supplied by the user, if known by
the network.
* * *
Name Structure Element Type Description UserName TpString User name as
provided in a PPP/CHAP message. Password TpString Password as provided in a
PPP/CHAP message.
* * *
### 11.5.16 TpNetworkStatusIndicator
Specifies the country code, mobile network code, access network technology
used by the user for the data session and roaming status.
* * *
Name Structure Element Type Description CountryCode TpString Network CC
Identification, Country code MobileNetworkCode TpString Network MNC
Identification, Mobile network code AccessTechnology TpAccessTechnology
Network access technology used by the user to connect RoamingStatus
TpRoamingStatus Roaming Status
* * *
### 11.5.17 TpAccessTechnology
Defines the derived access technology utilised by the user.
* * *
Name Value Description P_MOBILE_ACCESS_PS 0 Access via packet switched
connection in mobile network P_MOBILE_ACCESS_CS 1 Access via a circuit
switched connection in mobile network P_FIXED_ACCESS 2 Access via a fixed
network
* * *
### 11.5.18 TpRoamingStatus
Defines the roaming status of the user.
* * *
Name Value Description P_UNKNOWN_ROAMING_STATUS 0 No information on Roaming
status has been found P_HOME_USER 1 User is in the home network
P_NATIONAL_ROAMING 2 User has roamed to another operator in the same country
P_INTERNATIONAL_ROAMING 3 User has roamed to another operator abroad
P_OPERATOR_ROAMING 4 User has roamed to a partner operator abroad
* * *
## 11.6 User Binding Data Definitions
### 11.6.1 TpBindingSet
Defines a Numbered Set of Data Elements of TpBindingEntrySet.
### 11.6.2 TpBindingEntrySet
Defines a Numbered Set of Data Elements of TpBindingEntry.
### 11.6.3 TpBindingEntry
Defines the Tagged Choice of Data Elements that specifies binding information.
* * *
     Tag Element Type     
     TpBindingEntryType
* * *
* * *
Tag Element Value Choice Element Type Choice Element Name Description
P_UB_EXPIRES TpInt32 UBExpires This field can be used to enforce time limits
on session duration and is defined as an integral number of seconds.
P_UB_CONTACT_ADDRESS TpAddress UBContactAddress This field informs the network
of the subscriber\'s desired binding address. P_UB_PREFERENCE TpFloat
UBPreference This field conveys a relative order among subscriber bindings.
* * *
### 11.6.4 TpBindingEntryType
Defines the type of binding information.
* * *
Name Value Description P_UB_UNDEFINED 0 Undefined P_UB_EXPIRES 1 A number
indicating the number of seconds the binding is valid P_UB_CONTACT_ADDRESS 2
The address representing the user\'s contact address P_UB_PREFERENCE 3 A
number between 0 and 1 indicating the contact address\' relative preference
* * *
### 11.6.5 TpBindingNotificationCriteriaSet
Defines a Numbered Set of Data Elements of TpBindingNotificationCriteria.
### 11.6.6 TpBindingNotificationCriteria
Defines the Sequence of Data Elements that specifies the criteria relating to
binding report requests.
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type NotificationCriteriaType
TpBindingNotificationCriteriaType ContactAddressSet TpAddressSet
* * *
### 11.6.7 TpBindingNotificationCriteriaType
Defines the binding operations to be reported. The values may be combined by a
logical \'OR\' function.
* * *
Name Value Description P_UB_NEW 1 Indicates attempt to create a new binding
P_UB_REMOVE 2 Indicates removal of an existing binding P_UB_UPDATE 4 Indicates
attempt to update an existing binding
* * *
## 11.7 Units and Validations of Parameters
This clause describes the units that shall be used for data elements, where
this is not obvious.
Altitude
Unit: Metric meter
Angle
Unit: Degrees
Value constraint: 0 ≤ \'Angle\' ≤ 360
AreaSemiMajor and AreaSemiMinor
Unit: Metric meter
Value constraint: 0 ≤ \'AreaSemi...\'
ReportingInterval
Unit: Milliseconds
Value constraint: 0 \< \'ReportingInterval\'
UncertaintyAltitude
Unit: Metric meter
Value constraint: 0 ≤ \'UncertaintyAltitude\'
Semantic: (Altitude -- UncertaintyAltitude) ≤ \'Terminal actual altitude\' ≤
(\'Altitude\' + \'UncertaintyAltitude\')
UncertaintyInnerSemiMajor and UncertaintyInnerSemiMinor
Unit: Metric meter
Value constraint: 0 ≤ \'UncertaintyInner...\'
UncertaintyOuterSemiMajor and UncertaintyOuterSemiMinor
Unit: Metric meter
Value constraint: 0 ≤ \'UncertaintyInner...\'
UsedLocationMethod
Predefined strings are listed in clause Location Methods.
# 12 Exception Classes
The following are the list of exception classes which are used in this
interface of the API.
* * *
Name Description P_INVALID_REPORTING_INTERVAL The requested reporting interval
is not valid P_REQUESTED_ACCURACY_CANNOT_BE_DELIVERED The requested location
accuracy cannot be delivered P_REQUESTED_RESPONSE_TIME_CANNOT_BE_DELIVERED The
requested response time cannot be delivered
P_TRIGGER_CONDITIONS_NOT_SUBSCRIBED Trigger conditions not subscribed
* * *
Each exception class contains the following structure:
* * *
Structure Element Name Structure Element Type Structure Element Description
ExtraInformation TpString Carries extra information to help identify the
source of the exception, e.g. a parameter name
* * *
###### ## Annex A (normative): OMG IDL Description of Mobility SCF
The OMG IDL representation of this interface specification is contained in a
text file (mm.idl contained in archive 2919806V800IDL.ZIP) which accompanies
the present document.
###### ## Annex B (informative): W3C WSDL Description of Mobility SCF
The W3C WSDL representation of this interface specification is contained in
zip file 2919806V800WSDL.ZIP, which accompanies the present document.
###### ## Annex C (informative): Java API Description of the Mobility SCFs
The Java API realisation of this interface specification is produced in
accordance with the Java Realisation rules defined in Part 1 of this
specification. These rules aim to deliver for Java, a developer API, provided
as a realisation, supporting a Java API that represents the UML
specifications. The rules support the production of both J2SE and J2EE
versions of the API from the common UML specifications.
The J2SE representation of this interface specification is provided as Java
Code, contained in archive 2919806V800J2SE.ZIP that accompanies the present
document.
The J2EE representation of this interface specification is provided as Java
Code, contained in archive 2919806V800J2EE.ZIP that accompanies the present
document.
###### ## Annex D (informative): Description of Mobility SCF for 3GPP2
cdma2000 networks
This annex is intended to define the OSA API Stage 3 interface definitions and
it provides the complete OSA specifications. It is an extension of OSA API
specifications capabilities to enable operation in cdma2000 systems
environment. They are in alignment with 3GPP2 Stage 1 requirements and Stage 2
architecture defined in
[1] 3GPP2 P.S0001-B: \"Wireless IP Network Standard\", Version 1.0, September
2000;
[2] 3GPP2 S.R0037-0: \"IP Network Architecture Model for cdma2000 Spread
Spectrum Systems\", Version 2.0, May 14, 2002;
[3] 3GPP2 X.S0013: \"All-IP Core Network Multimedia Domain\", December 2003.
These requirements are expressed as additions to and/or exclusions from the
3GPP Release 8 specification.\ The information given here is to be used by
developers in 3GPP2 cdma2000 network architecture to interpret the 3GPP OSA
specifications.
# D.1 General Exceptions
The terms 3GPP and UMTS are not applicable for the cdma2000 family of
standards. Nevertheless these terms are used (3GPP TR 21.905) mostly in the
broader sense of \"3G Wireless System\". If not stated otherwise there are no
additions or exclusions required.
CAMEL and CAP mappings are not applicable for cdma2000 systems.
# D.2 Specific Exceptions
## D.2.1 Clause 1: Scope
There are no additions or exclusions.
## D.2.2 Clause 2: References
Normative references on 3GPP TS 23.078 and on 3GPP TS 29.078 are not
applicable for cdma2000 systems.
## D.2.3 Clause 3: Definitions and abbreviations
There are no additions or exclusions.
## D.2.4 Clause 4: Mobility SCF
There are no additions or exclusions. UL-User Location UMTS term may be mapped
onto LCS-Location Services cdma2000 term. CAMEL is not applicable for cdma2000
systems.
## D.2.5 Clause 5: Sequence Diagrams
There are no additions. User Location Camel Sequence Diagrams are not
applicable for cdma2000 systems.
## D.2.6 Clause 6 Class Diagrams
There are no additions. User Location Camel Class Diagrams are not applicable
for cdma2000 systems.
## D.2.7 Clause 7: The Service Interface Specifications
There are no additions or exclusions.
## D.2.8 Clause 8: Mobility Interface Classes
There are no additions. User Location Camel Interface Classes are not
applicable for cdma2000 systems
## D.2.9 Clause 9: State Transition Diagrams
Since CAMEL protocol is not applicable for cdma2000 systems, User Location
Camel state transition diagrams are not applicable for cdma2000 systems.
## D.2.10 Clause 10: Service Properties
Since CAMEL protocol is not applicable for cdma2000 systems, an SCS shall
indicate support for the CAMEL feature through service properties. For
cdma2000 systems the service properties shall be disabled (CAMEL shall be
turned always off in the case of the 3GPP2 networks; e.g.: UserLocationCamel
shall be set to false).
## D.2.11 Clause 11: Data Definitions
There are no additions. UserLocationCamel data definitions are not applicable
for cdma2000 systems.
## D.2.12 Clause 12: Exception Classes
There are no additions or exclusions.
## D.2.13 Annex A (normative): OMG IDL Description of Mobility SCF
There are no additions or exclusions.
## D.2.14 Annex B (informative): W3C WSDL Description of Mobility SCF
There are no additions or **exclusions**.
## D.2.15 Annex C (informative): Java™ API Description of Mobility SCF
There are no additions or exclusions.
#