# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document defines the user plane of GTP used on:
  * the Gn and Gp interfaces of the General Packet Radio Service (GPRS);
  * the Iu, Gn and Gp interfaces of the UMTS system;
  * the S1-U, X2, S4, S5, S8 and S12 interfaces of the Evolved Packet > System (EPS);
This definition ensures full backwards compatibility with RNC, SGSN and GGSN
implementations according to release 7 of 3GPP TS 29.060 [6].
NOTE: Releases previous to Release-8 have used 3GPP TS 29.060 [6] as normative
definition of the user plane of GTP. This shall be considered when essential
corrections are included in the present document or in pre-release-8 version
of 3GPP TS 29.060 [6].
Fallback from GTPv1-U to GTPv0-U shall not be supported. Therefore, 3GPP Rel-8
and onwards GTPv1-U entity should not listen to the well-known GTPv0 port
3386. If GTPv1 entity listens to the GTPv0 port, the entity shall silently
discard any received GTPv0-U message.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.007: \"Restoration procedures\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.060: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); Service
description; Stage 2\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.401: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS) enhancements for
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) access\".
[6] 3GPP TS 29.060: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); GPRS Tunnelling
Protocol (GTP) across the Gn and Gp interface\".
[7] 3GPP TS 29.274: \"3GPP Evolved Packet System; Evolved GPRS Tunnelling
Protocol for EPS (GTPv2)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 32.295: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Charging Data Record (CDR) transfer\".
[9] IETF RFC 768 (STD 0006): \"User Datagram Protocol\", J. Postel.
[10] IETF RFC 791 (STD 0005): \"Internet Protocol\", J. Postel.
[11] IETF RFC 2373: \"IP Version 6 Addressing Architecture\".
[12] 3GPP TS 33.210: \"3G security; Network Domain Security (NDS); IP network
layer security\".
[13] 3GPP TS 23.121: \"Architectural requirements for Release 1999\".
[14] 3GPP TS 43.129: \"Packet-switched handover for GERAN A/Gb mode; Stage
2\".
[15] IETF RFC 2460: \"Internet Protocol, Version 6 (IPv6) Specification\",
Standards Track
[16] 3GPP TS 25.413: \"UTRAN Iu interface RANAP signalling\".
[17] 3GPP TS 36.300: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN); Overall
description; Stage 2\".
[18] 3GPP TS 23.246: \"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service (MBMS);
Architecture and functional description; Stage 2\".
[19] IETF RFC 4604 (2006): \"Using Internet Group Management Protocol Version
3 (IGMPv3) and Multicast Listener Discovery Protocol Version 2 (MLDv2) for
Source-Specific Multicast\".
> [20] IETF RFC 4607 (2006): \"Source-Specific Multicast for IP\".
>
> [21] 3GPP TS 33.102: \"3G Security;Security architecture\".
>
> [22] 3GPP TS 33.401: \"3GPP System Architecture Evolution (SAE): Security
> architecture \".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**GTP-U peer:** node implementing at least one side of any of the GTP user
plane based protocols. RNC, SGSN, GGSN, eNodeB, SGW or PGW.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
GTP GPRS Tunnelling Protocol
GTP-C GTP Control
GTP-U GTP User
IE Information Element
IGMP Internet Group Management Protocol
IP Internet Protocol
IPv4 Internet Protocol version 4
IPv6 Internet Protocol version 6
QoS Quality of Service
RANAP Radio Access Network Application Part
RNC Radio Network Controller
TEID Tunnel Endpoint IDentifier
UDP User Datagram Protocol
UTRAN UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network
# 4 General
## 4.1 GTP Path
For the definition of UDP/IP Path and GTP Endpoint, see 3GPP TS 29.060 [6].
## 4.2 GTP-U Tunnels
### 4.2.1 GTP-U Tunnel description
GTP-U Tunnels are used to carry encapsulated T-PDUs and signalling messages
between a given pair of GTP-U Tunnel Endpoints. The Tunnel Endpoint ID (TEID)
which is present in the GTP header shall indicate which tunnel a particular
T-PDU belongs to. In this manner, packets are multiplexed and de-multiplexed
by GTP-U between a given pair of Tunnel Endpoints. The TEID value to be used
in the TEID field shall be negotiated using a control plane protocol like
GTPv1-C, GTPv2-C, RANAP or S1-AP.
In what follows we refer to the outer GTPv1-U IP packet as the IP packet that
carries a GTPv1-U packet. The inner IP packet in a GTPv1-U packet (T-PDU) is
either
\- An IP packet sent to the UE/MS in the downlink direction over one or more
tunnels from the external network identified by the APN.
\- An IP packet sent from a UE/MS in the uplink direction over one or more
tunnels to the external network identified by the APN.
NOTE 1: Not all tunnels in 3GPP networks will necessarily be GTPv1-U,
NOTE 2: The inner MTU size of the GTPv1-U tunnel is typically not the same as
the outer MTU size of the IP path carrying the outer IP packets.
The maximum size of a T-PDU that may be transmitted without fragmentation by
GGSN or the MS is defined in 3GPP TS 23.060 [4].
### 4.2.2 IP transport
According to IETF RFC 791 [10], any IPv4 router in the backbone may fragment
the outer IPv4 GTPv1-U packet with a flag of DF=0.
Unnecessary fragmentation should be avoided when possible due to the
following;
\- Fragmentation is bandwidth inefficient, since the complete IP header is
duplicated in each fragment.
\- Fragmentation is CPU intensive since more fragments require more processing
at both GTPv1-U endpoints and IP routers. It also requires additional memory
at the receiver.
\- If one fragment is lost, the complete packet has to be discarded. The
reason is there is no selective retransmission of IP fragments provided in
IPv4 or IPv6.
To avoid unnecessary fragmenting the outer IP packets backbone links between
GTP peers should, when possible, have outer MTU values that exceed the sum of
the maximum value of the inner MTU size plus the size of the tunnel headers
(outer IP header, outer UDP header, and GTP header, including any possible GTP
extension headers) in order to avoid unnecessary IP fragmentation in the
backbone.
To avoid unnecessary fragmenting the inner IP packets the UE/MS, or a server
in an external network, may find out the inner MTU by path MTU discovery and
hence fragment correctly at the source.
### 4.2.3 GTP-U Tunnel IP transport
**Functionality for IP transport and IP fragmentation at a RAN node on the Iu
interface or S12 is defined in** 3GPP TS 25.414 **[16].**
**Functionality for IP transport and IP fragmentation at an eNodeB on the S1-U
and X2 interface is defined in** 3GPP TS 36.300 **[17].**
The outer GTPv1-U packet layer shall IPv4 as defined by IETF RFC 791 [10] and
should support IPv6 as defined by IETF RFC 2460[15].
The following text as well as sub-clauses 4.2.4 and 4.2.5 apply only to core
network GTPv1-U endpoints.
GTPv1-U tunnel endpoints do not need to change the hopcount/TTL or to perform
any IP routing functions in respect to inner IP packet other than the
functions explicitly stated here. However, other co-located functions may do
so. For example, the GGSN/PGW may change the hopcount/TTL as the IP datagram
enters/leaves the Gi/SGi interface from/to the GTPv1-U tunnel interface and IP
packets may be discarded or rejected at any point by a co-located function due
to local policy and/or QoS (the policy enforcement point).
### 4.2.4 Ingress GTP tunnel (GTPv1-U sending endpoint)
An inner IP packet shall be encapsulated at the GTPv1-U sender with a GTP
header, UDP and IP header. If the resulting outer IP packet is larger than the
MTU of the first link towards the destination GTPv1-U endpoint, fragmentation
of the IP packet shall be performed by the sender as per IETF RFC 791 [10] for
an outer layer of IPv4 and IETF RFC 2460 [15] for an outer layer of IPv6. The
GTPv1-U sender should preferably fragment the IP packet to the smallest MTU of
any link between GTPv1-U sender and GTPv1-U receiver.
Fragmentation policy of the inner datagram is implementation dependent but
shall interwork with IETF RFC 791 [10] for inner IPv4 datagrams and IETF RFC
2460 [15] for inner IPv6 packets.
### 4.2.5 Egress GTP tunnel (GTPv1-U receiving endpoint)
The GTPv1-U receiving endpoint packets shall reassemble any IP fragments in
datagrams received from the GTPv1-U sending endpoint as per IETF RFC 791 [10]
for outer IPv4 datagrams and as per IETF RFC 2460 [15] for outer IPv6
datagrams. The IP reassembly buffer in the receiving endpoint shall be at
least the inner MTU size plus the size of the tunnel headers (outer IP header,
outer UDP header, and GTP header, including any GTP extension headers).
The completely reassembled IP packet shall then be passed to the
IP/UDP/GTPv1-U layers to extract the inner IP packet which is then processed
further according to the receiving node\'s functionality.
### 4.2.6 MBMS IP Multicast Distribution of the User Plane Data
GTP-U Multicast Tunnels are used for unidirectional transfer of the
encapsulated T-PDUs from one GTP-U Tunnel Endpoint acting as an IP multicast
source to multiple GTP-U Tunnel Endpoints acting as IP multicast listeners, as
specified in TS 23.246 [18]. The Common Tunnel Endpoint ID (C-TEID) which is
present in the GTP header shall indicate which tunnel a particular T-PDU
belongs to. The C-TEID value to be used in the TEID field is allocated at the
source Tunnel Endpoint and signalled to the destination Tunnel Endpoint using
a control plane protocol i.e. GTPv1-C, and RANAP, GTPv2-C and S1-AP. There is
one C-TEID allocated per MBMS bearer service.
The destination IP address in the outer GTPv1-U IP header is an address in the
multicast address range as specified in IETF RFC 4607 [20].
If the RNC decides to receive IP multicast packets, then the RNC shall join
the IP multicast group as specified by IETF RFC 4604 [19] and IETF RFC 4607
[20].
If the eNodeB supports MBMS as specified in TS 23.246 [18], it shall join the
IP multicast group as specified in IETF RFC 4604 [19] and IETF RFC 4607 [20].
The characteristics for point-to-multipoint GTP-U Multicast Tunnels used for
MBMS are the same as for a point-to-point GTP-U Tunnels unless specified
otherwise. The differences are specified in subclause 7.1.
## 4.3 GTP-U Protocol Entity
The GTP-U protocol entity provides packet transmission and reception services
to user plane entities in the RNC, SGSN, GGSN, eNodeB, SGW and PDN-GW. The
GTP-U protocol entity receives traffic from a number of GTP-U tunnel endpoints
and transmits traffic to a number of GTP-U tunnel endpoints. There is a GTP-U
protocol entity per IP address.
The TEID in the GTP-U header is used to de-multiplex traffic incoming from
remote tunnel endpoints so that it is delivered to the User plane entities in
a way that allows multiplexing of different users, different packet protocols
and different QoS levels. Therefore no two remote GTP-U endpoints shall send
traffic to a GTP-U protocol entity using the same TEID value except for data
forwarding as part of mobility procedures.
### 4.3.1 Handling of Sequence Numbers
This functionality is provided only when the S bit is set to 1 in the GTP-U
header.
For PGW, SGW and eNodeB the usage of sequence numbers in G-PDUs is optional,
but if GTP-U protocol entities in these nodes are relaying G-PDUs to other
nodes, then they shall relay the sequence numbers as well For all other cases,
the PGW, SGW and eNodeB should set the \"S\" flag to 0 in the GTPv1 header
which then indicates that the sequence number is not used in the T-PDU.
An RNC, SGSN or GGSN shall reorder out of sequence T-PDUs when in sequence
delivery is required. This is optional at the SGSN for UTRAN access. The GTP-U
protocol entity shall deliver to the user plane entity only in sequence T‑PDUs
and notify the sequence number associated to each of them. The notification of
the sequence number is not necessary at the GGSN, but it is mandatory at the
SGSN and RNC. The user plane entity shall provide a sequence number to the
GTP-U layer together with T-PDUs to be transmitted in sequence. GTP-U protocol
entities at the GGSN may optionally generate autonomously the sequence number,
but should be able to use sequence numbers provided by the user plane entity.
The sequence number is handled on a per GTP-U Tunnel (that is TEID) basis.
During relocations and handovers, if a buffered packet is forwarded from the
source to the target GTP-U protocol entity along with PDCP T-PDU extension
headers, the source of the T-PDU may be considered different and may not relay
the sequence numbers.
When the sequence number is included in the GTP-U header, a user plane entity
acting as a relay of T-PDUs between GTP-U protocol entities, or between PDCP
(or SNDCP) protocol entities and GTP-U protocol entities, shall relay the
sequence numbers between those entities as well. In this way it is possible to
keep consistent values of sequence numbers from the GGSN to the UE (MS in
GPRS) by relaying the sequence number across the CN GTP-U bearer, the Iu GTP-U
bearer and the Radio bearer (via PDCP or SNDCP N-PDU numbers). This
functionality is beneficial during SRNS relocation.
For GTP-U signalling messages having a response message defined for a request
message, Sequence Number shall be a message number valid for a path. Within a
given set of continuous Sequence Numbers from 0 to 65535, a given Sequence
Number shall, if used, unambiguously define a GTP-U signalling request message
sent on the path (see section Reliable delivery of signalling messages). The
Sequence Number in a signalling response message shall be copied from the
signalling request message that the GSN or RNC is replying to. For GTP-U
messages not having a defined response message for a request message, i.e. for
messages Supported Extension Headers Notification and Error Indication, the
Sequence Number shall be ignored by the receiver.
## 4.4 Protocol stack
### 4.4.1 UDP/IP
UDP/IP is the only path protocol defined to transfer GTP messages in the
version 1 of GTP.
A GTPv1-U peer shall support the User Datagram Protocol (UDP) as defined by
IETF RFC 768 [9] shall be used.
A GTPv1-U peer shall support IPv4 as defined by IETF RFC 791 [10] and should
support IPv6 as defined by IETF RFC 2460 [15].
### 4.4.2 UDP header and port numbers
#### 4.4.2.1 Echo Request Message
The UDP Destination Port number for GTP-U request messages is 2152. It is the
registered port number for GTP-U.
The UDP Source Port is a locally allocated port number at the sending GTP-U
entity.
#### 4.4.2.2 Echo Response Message
The UDP Destination Port value shall be the value of the UDP Source Port of
the corresponding request message.
The UDP Source Port shall be the value from the UDP Destination Port of the
corresponding request message.
#### 4.4.2.3 Encapsulated T-PDUs
The UDP Destination Port number shall be 2152. It is the registered port
number for GTP-U.
The UDP Source Port is a locally allocated port number at the sending GTP-U
entity.
#### 4.4.2.4 Error Indication
The UDP destination port for the Error Indication shall be the user plane UDP
port (2152).
The UDP source port shall be locally assigned at the sending node.
NOTE: In network deployments including non-GTP-aware stateful firewalls, those
firewalls must be configured to allow response messages coming from a
different UDP port and IP address than the triggering message.
#### 4.4.2.5 Supported Extension Headers Notification
The UDP destination port for the Supported Extension Headers Notification
shall be the user plane UDP port (2152).
The UDP source port shall be locally assigned at the sending node.
### 4.4.3 IP header and IP addresses
#### 4.4.3.1 Echo Request Message
The IP Source Address shall be an IP address of the source GTP-U entity from
which the message is originating.
The IP Destination Address in a GTP request message shall be an IP address of
the destination GTP-U entity.
#### 4.4.3.2 Echo Response Message
The IP Source Address shall be copied from the IP destination address of the
GTP request message to which this GTP‑U entity is replying.
The IP Destination Address shall be copied from the IP Source Address of the
GTP request message to which this GTP‑U entity is replying.
#### 4.4.3.3 Encapsulated T-PDUs
The IP Source Address shall be an IP address of the source GTP-U entity from
which the message is originating.
The IP Destination Address shall be an IP address of the destination GTP-U
entity.
#### 4.4.3.4 Error Indication
The IP source address shall be an address of the source GTP-U entity from
which the message is originated
NOTE: In network deployments including non-GTP-aware stateful firewalls, those
firewalls must be configured to allow response messages coming from a
different UDP port and IP address than the triggering message.
The IP destination address for Error Indication shall be the source address of
the GTP-PDU that is the cause for this GTP-U entity to send this message.
#### 4.4.3.5 Supported Extension Headers Notification
The IP Source Address for the Supported Extension Headers Notification shall
be copied from the IP destination address of the GTP message that triggered
the GTP-U entity to send this message.
The IP Destination Address for the Supported Extension Headers Notification
shall be copied from the IP source address of the GTP message that triggered
the GTP-U entity to send this message.
## 4.5 Transmission Order and Bit Definitions
As specified in 3GPP TS 29.060 [6], clause 5.
## 4.6 New Functionality
With regard to the previous releases, the present specification may define
some new functions. Such new functions shall ensure full backwards
compatibility with Pre-Rel-8 nodes conforming to 3GPP TS 29.060 [6]. If the
new functions are specified with the Extension Headers, bits 8 and 7 of the
Extension Header Type shall be set to 0, 0 respectively or 0, 1 respectively.
If the new functions are specified with Information Elements, such Information
Elements shall be TLV-encoded and optional.
# 5 GTP-U header
## 5.1 General format
The GTP-U header is a variable length header whose minimum length is 8 bytes.
There are three flags that are used to signal the presence of additional
optional fields: the PN flag, the S flag and the E flag. The PN flag is used
to signal the presence of N-PDU Numbers. The S flag is used to signal the
presence of the GTP Sequence Number field. The E flag is used to signal the
presence of the Extension Header field, used to enable future extensions of
the GTP header defined in this document, without the need to use another
version number. If and only if one or more of these three flags are set, the
fields Sequence Number, N-PDU and Extension Header shall be present. The
sender shall set all the bits of the unused fields to zero. The receiver shall
not evaluate the unused fields.
**Always present fields:**
\- Version field: This field is used to determine the version of the GTP-U
protocol. The version number shall be set to \'1\'.
\- Protocol Type (PT): This bit is used as a protocol discriminator between
GTP (when PT is \'1\') and GTP\' (when PT is \'0\'). GTP is described in this
document and the GTP\' protocol in 3GPP TS 32.295 [8]. Note that the
interpretation of the header fields may be different in GTP\' than in GTP.
\- Extension Header flag (E): This flag indicates the presence of a meaningful
value of the Next Extension Header field. When it is set to \'0\', the Next
Extension Header field either is not present or, if present, shall not be
interpreted. When it is set to \'1\', the Next Extension Header field is
present, and shall be interpreted, as described below in this section.
\- Sequence number flag (S): This flag indicates the presence of a meaningful
value of the Sequence Number field. When it is set to \'0\', the Sequence
Number field either is not present or, if present, shall not be interpreted.
When it is set to \'1\', the Sequence Number field is present, and shall be
interpreted, as described below in this section.\ For the Echo Request, Echo
Response, Error Indication and Supported Extension Headers Notification
messages, the S flag shall be set to \'1\'. Since the use of Sequence Numbers
is optional for G-PDUs, the PGW, SGW and eNodeB should set the flag to \'0\'.
However, when a G-PDU (T-PDU+header) is being relayed by the Indirect Data
Forwarding for Inter RAT HO procedure, then if the received G-PDU has the S
flag set to \'1\', then the relaying entity shall set S flag to \'1\' and
forward the G-PDU (T-PDU+header).
\- N-PDU Number flag (PN): This flag indicates the presence of a meaningful
value of the N-PDU Number field. When it is set to \'0\', the N-PDU Number
field either is not present, or, if present, shall not be interpreted. When it
is set to \'1\', the N-PDU Number field is present, and shall be interpreted,
as described below in this section.
\- Message Type: This field indicates the type of GTP-U message.
\- Length: This field indicates the length in octets of the payload, i.e. the
rest of the packet following the mandatory part of the GTP header (that is the
first 8 octets). The Sequence Number, the N-PDU Number or any Extension
headers shall be considered to be part of the payload, i.e. included in the
length count.
\- Tunnel Endpoint Identifier (TEID): This field unambiguously identifies a
tunnel endpoint in the receiving GTP‑U protocol entity. The receiving end side
of a GTP tunnel locally assigns the TEID value the transmitting side has to
use. The TEID shall be used by the receiving entity to find the PDP context,
except for the following cases:
\- The Echo Request/Response and Supported Extension Headers notification
messages, where the Tunnel Endpoint Identifier shall be set to all zeroes.
\- The Error Indication message where the Tunnel Endpoint Identifier shall be
set to all zeros.
**Optional fields:**
\- Sequence Number: If Sequence Number field is used for G-PDUs
(T-PDUs+headers), an increasing sequence number for T-PDUs is transmitted via
GTP-U tunnels, when transmission order must be preserved. For Supported
Extension Headers Notification and Error Indication messages, the Sequence
Number shall be ignored by the receiver, even though the S flag is set to
\'1\'.
\- N-PDU Number: This field is used at the Inter SGSN Routeing Area Update
procedure and some inter-system handover procedures (e.g. between 2G and 3G
radio access networks). This field is used to co-ordinate the data
transmission for acknowledged mode of communication between the MS and the
SGSN. The exact meaning of this field depends upon the scenario. (For example,
for GSM/GPRS to GSM/GPRS, the SNDCP N-PDU number is present in this field).
\- Next Extension Header Type: This field defines the type of Extension Header
that follows this field in the GTP‑PDU.
* * *
              Bits
Octets 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 1 Version PT (*) E S PN  
2 Message Type  
3 Length (1^st^ Octet)  
4 Length (2^nd^ Octet)  
5 Tunnel Endpoint Identifier (1^st^ Octet)  
6 Tunnel Endpoint Identifier (2^nd^ Octet)  
7 Tunnel Endpoint Identifier (3^rd^ Octet)  
8 Tunnel Endpoint Identifier (4^th^ Octet)  
9 Sequence Number (1^st^ Octet)^1)\ 4)^  
10 Sequence Number (2^nd^ Octet)^1)^ ^4)^  
11 N-PDU Number^2)\ 4)^  
12 Next Extension Header Type^3)\ 4)^
* * *
NOTE 0: (*) This bit is a spare bit. It shall be sent as \'0\'. The receiver
shall not evaluate this bit.
NOTE 1: 1) This field shall only be evaluated when indicated by the S flag set
to 1.
NOTE 2: 2) This field shall only be evaluated when indicated by the PN flag
set to 1.
NOTE 3: 3) This field shall only be evaluated when indicated by the E flag set
to 1.
NOTE 4: 4) This field shall be present if and only if any one or more of the
S, PN and E flags are set.
Figure 5.1-1: Outline of the GTP-U Header
## 5.2 GTP-U Extension Header
### 5.2.1 General format of the GTP-U Extension Header
The format of GTP-U Extension Headers is depicted in figure 5.2.1-1. The
Extension Header Length field specifies the length of the particular Extension
header in 4 octets units. The Next Extension Header Type field specifies the
type of any Extension Header that may follow a particular Extension Header. If
no such Header follows, then the value of the Next Extension Header Type shall
be 0.
* * *
Octets 1 Extension Header Length 2 - m Extension Header Content m+1 Next
Extension Header Type
* * *
Figure 5.2.1-1: Outline of the Extension Header Format
The length of the Extension header shall be defined in a variable length of 4
octets, i.e. m+1 = n*4 octets, where n is a positive integer.
Bits 7 and 8 of the Next Extension Header Type define how the recipient shall
handle unknown Extension Types. The recipient of an extension header of
unknown type but marked as \'comprehension not required\' for that recipient
shall read the \'Next Extension Header Type\' field (using the Extension
Header Length field to identify its location in the GTP-PDU).
The recipient of an extension header of unknown type but marked as
\'comprehension required\' for that recipient shall:
\- If the message with the unknown extension header was a request, send a
response message back with CAUSE set to \"unknown mandatory extension
header\".
\- Send a Supported Extension Headers Notification to the originator of the
GTP PDU.
\- Log an error.
Bits 7 and 8 of the Next Extension Header Type have the following meaning:
+------+--------------------------------------------------------------+ | Bits | Meaning | | | | | 8 7 | | +------+--------------------------------------------------------------+ | 0 0 | Comprehension of this extension header is not required. An | | | Intermediate Node shall forward it to any Receiver Endpoint | +------+--------------------------------------------------------------+ | 0 1 | Comprehension of this extension header is not required. An | | | Intermediate Node shall discard the Extension Header Content | | | and not forward it to any Receiver Endpoint. Other extension | | | headers shall be treated independently of this extension | | | header. | +------+--------------------------------------------------------------+ | 1 0 | Comprehension of this extension header is required by the | | | Endpoint Receiver but not by an Intermediate Node. An | | | Intermediate Node shall forward the whole field to the | | | Endpoint Receiver. | +------+--------------------------------------------------------------+ | 1 1 | Comprehension of this header type is required by recipient | | | (either Endpoint Receiver or Intermediate Node) | +------+--------------------------------------------------------------+
Figure 5.2.1-2: Definition of bits 7 and 8 of the Extension Header Type
An Endpoint Receiver is the ultimate receiver of the GTP-PDU (e.g. an RNC or
the GGSN for the GTP-U plane). An Intermediate Node is a node that handles GTP
but is not the ultimate endpoint (e.g. an SGSN for the GTP-U plane traffic
between GGSN and RNC).
* * *
Next Extension Header Field Value Type of Extension Header 0000 0000 No more
extension headers 0000 0001 Reserved - Control Plane only. 0000 0010 Reserved
- Control Plane only. 0100 0000 UDP Port. Provides the UDP Source Port of the
triggering message. 1100 0000 PDCP PDU Number [4]-[5]. 1100 0001 Reserved -
Control Plane only. 1100 0010 Reserved - Control Plane only.
* * *
Figure 5.2.1-3: Definition of Extension Header Type
### 5.2.2 Extension Header types
Extension header types marked as \"Reserved -- Control Plane only\" in figure
5.2.1-3 are not used in the GTP user plane. These extension header types are
defined in 3GPP TS 29.060 [6].
The following subclauses define the format of the extension header types
applicable to the GTP user plane.
#### 5.2.2.1 UDP Port
This extension header may be transmitted in Error Indication messages to
provide the UDP Source Port of the G-PDU that triggered the Error Indication.
It is 4 octets long, and therefore the Length field has value 1.
* * *
              Bits
Octets 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 1 0x01  
2-3 UDP Port number  
4 Next Extension Header Type (note)
* * *
NOTE: The value of this field is 0 if no other Extension header follows.
Figure 5.2.2.1-1: UDP Port Extension Header
#### 5.2.2.2 PDCP PDU Number
This extension header is transmitted, for example in UTRAN, at SRNS relocation
time, to provide the PDCP sequence number of not yet acknowledged N-PDUs. It
is 4 octets long, and therefore the Length field has value 1.
When used between two eNBs at the X2 interface in E-UTRAN, bits 5-8 of octet 2
are spare. The meaning of the spare bits shall be set to zero.
* * *
              Bits
Octets 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 1 0x01  
2 PDCP PDU number  
3 PDCP PDU number.  
4 Next Extension Header Type (note)
* * *
NOTE: The value of this field is 0 if no other Extension header follows.
Figure 5.2.2.2-1: PDCP PDU Number Extension Header
# 6 GTP-U Message Formats
## 6.1 General
GTP-U defines a set of messages between the two ends of the user plane of the
interfaces Iu-U, Gn, Gp, S1-U, S4, S5, S8, S12 and X2-U.
GTP-U messages are sent across a GTP user plane tunnel. A GTP-U message may be
either a signalling message across the user plane tunnel, or a G-PDU message.
\- GTP-U signalling messages are used for user plane path management, or for
user plane tunnel management.
\- G-PDU is a vanilla user plane message, which carries the original packet
(T-PDU). In G-PDU message, GTP-U header is followed by a T-PDU.
A T-PDU is an original packet, for example an IP datagram, from an UE, or from
a network node in an external packet data network.
The complete range of message types defined for GTPv1 is defined in 3GPP TS
29.060 [6]. The table below includes those applicable to GTP user plane. The
three columns to the right define which of the three protocols sharing the
common header of GTPv1 (GTP-C, GTP-U or GTP\') might implement the specific
message type.
Table 6.1-1: Messages in GTP-U
* * *
Message Type value (Decimal) Message Reference GTP-C GTP-U GTP\' 1 Echo
Request X X x 2 Echo Response X X x 3-25 Reserved in 3GPP TS 32.295 [8] and
3GPP TS 29.060 [6]  
26 Error Indication X  
27-30 Reserved in 3GPP TS 29.060 [6]  
31 Supported Extension Headers Notification X X  
32-253 Reserved in 3GPP TS 29.060 [6]  
254 End Marker X  
255 G-PDU X
* * *
### 6.2 Presence requirements of Information Elements
As specified in 3GPP TS 29.060 [6], subclause 7.1.1.
# 7 GTP-U Messages
## 7.1 General
GTP-U Tunnels are used to carry encapsulated T-PDUs and signalling messages
between a given pair of GTP-U Tunnel Endpoints. The Tunnel Endpoint ID (TEID)
which is present in the GTP header shall indicate which tunnel a particular
T-PDU belongs to. In this manner, packets are multiplexed and de-multiplexed
by GTP-U between a given pair of Tunnel Endpoints. The TEID value to be used
in the TEID field shall be negotiated for instance during the GTP-C Create PDP
Context and the RAB assignment procedures that take place on the control
plane.
For MBMS IP Multicast Distribution, the TEID value to be used in the TEID
field shall be allocated at the source Tunnel Endpoint and signalled to the
destination Tunnel Endpoint using for instance the GTP-C MBMS Session Start
procedures that take place on the control plane. Because of the point-to-
multipoint characteristics of MBMS IP Multicast Distribution, the path
management messages Echo Request and Echo Response, the tunnel management
message Error Indication, the message Supported Extension Headers Notification
and the message End Marker shall not be used for MBMS IP Multicast
Distribution.
User payload is transmitted in G-PDU packets. A G-PDU is a packet including a
GTP-U header and a T-PDU. A G-PDU may include extension headers. A G-PDU shall
not include any information element.
GTP-U signalling messages are classified into path management messages,
defined in subclause 7.2 of the present document, and tunnel management
messages, defined in subclause 7.3 of the present document.
## 7.2 Path Management Messages
### 7.2.1 Echo Request
A GTP-U peer may send an Echo Request on a path to the other GTP-U peer to
find out if it is alive (see section Path Failure). Echo Request messages may
be sent for each path in use. A path is considered to be in use if at least
one PDP context, EPS Bearer, MBMS UE context, or MBMS bearer context uses the
path to the other GTP-U peer. When and how often an Echo Request message may
be sent is implementation specific but an Echo Request shall not be sent more
often than every 60 s on each path. This doesn't prevent resending an Echo
Request with the same sequence number according to the T3-RESPONSE timer.
A GTP-U peer shall be prepared to receive an Echo Request at any time and it
shall reply with an Echo Response. The optional Private Extension contains
vendor or operator specific information.
Table 7.2.1-1: Information Elements in an Echo Request
* * *
Information element Presence requirement Reference Private Extension Optional
8.6
* * *
For the GTP-U tunnel setup between two nodes for forwarding user traffic, e.g.
between eNodeBs for direct forwarding over X2, Echo Request path maintenance
message shall not be sent except if the forwarded data and the normal data are
sent over the same path.
### 7.2.2 Echo Response
The message shall be sent as a response to a received Echo Request.
The Restart Counter value in the Recovery information element shall not be
used, i.e. it shall be set to zero by the sender and shall be ignored by the
receiver. The Recovery information element is mandatory due to backwards
compatibility reasons.
The optional Private Extension contains vendor or operator specific
information.
Table 7.2.2-1: Information Elements in an Echo Response
* * *
Information element Presence requirement Reference Recovery Mandatory 8.2
Private Extension Optional 8.6
* * *
### 7.2.3 Supported Extension Headers Notification
This message indicates a list of supported Extension Headers that the GTP
entity on the identified IP address can support. This message is sent only in
case a GTP entity was required to interpret a mandatory Extension Header but
the GTP entity was not yet upgraded to support that extension header. The GTP
endpoint sending this message is marked as not enabled to support some
extension headers (as derived from the supported extension header list). The
peer GTP entity may retry to use all the extension headers with that node, in
an attempt to verify it has been upgraded. Implementers should avoid repeated
attempts to use unknown extension headers with an endpoint that has signalled
its inability to interpret them.
Table 7.2.3-1: Information Elements in Supported Extension Headers
Notification
* * *
Information element Presence requirement Reference Extension Header Type List
Mandatory 8.5
* * *
## 7.3 Tunnel Management Messages
### 7.3.1 Error Indication
When a GTP-U node receives a GTP-U PDU for which no EPS Bearer context, PDP
context, MBMS Bearer context, or RAB exists, the GTP-U node shall discard the
GTP-U PDU and return a GTP error indication to the originating node. GTP
entities may include the \"UDP Port\" extension header (Type 0x40), in order
to simplify the implementation of mechanisms that can mitigate the risk of
Denial-of-Service attacks in some scenarios.
Handling of the received Error Indication is specified in 3GPP TS 23.007 [3].
For the GTPv1-U tunnel setup between two nodes for direct or indirect
forwarding of user traffic, e.g. between eNodeBs for direct forwarding over
X2, when an Error Indication is received, it may result in the source node
deleting the forwarding tunnel context locally, but EPS bearers shall not be
deactivated.
The information element Tunnel Endpoint Identifier Data I shall be the TEID
fetched from the G-PDU that triggered this procedure.
The information element GTP-U Peer Address shall be the destination address
(e.g. destination IP address, MBMS Bearer Context) fetched from the original
user data message that triggered this procedure. A GTP-U Peer Address can be a
GGSN, SGSN, RNC, PGW, SGW or eNodeB address. The TEID and GTP-U peer Address
together uniquely identify the related PDP context, RAB or EPS bearer in the
receiving node.
The optional Private Extension contains vendor or operator specific
information.
Table 7.3.1-1: Information Elements in an Error Indication
* * *
Information element Presence requirement Reference Tunnel Endpoint Identifier
Data I Mandatory 8.3 GTP-U Peer Address Mandatory 8.4 Private Extension
Optional 8.6
* * *
### 7.3.2 End Marker
End Marker message shall be as specified in 3GPP TS 23.401 [5]. The End Marker
message shall be sent for each GTP-U tunnel (multiple messages). The End
Marker message indicates the end of the payload stream on a given tunnel, i.e.
a G-PDU that arrives after an End Marker message on this tunnel may be
silently discarded. Table 7.3.2-1 specifies the information element included
in the End Marker message.
The optional Private Extension contains vendor or operator specific
information.
Table 7.3.2-1: Information Elements in End Marker message
* * *
Information element Presence requirement Reference Private Extension Optional
8.6
* * *
# 8 Information Elements
## 8.1 Information Element Types
A GTP-U Signalling message may contain several information elements. The TLV
(Type, Length, Value) or TV (Type, Value) encoding format shall be used for
the GTP information elements. The information elements shall be sorted, with
the Type fields in ascending order, in the signalling messages. The Length
field contains the length of the information element excluding the Type and
Length field.
For all the length fields, bit 8 of the lowest numbered octet is the most
significant bit and bit 1 of the highest numbered octet is the least
significant bit.
Within information elements, certain fields may be described as spare. These
bits shall be transmitted with the value defined for them. To allow for future
features, the receiver shall not evaluate these bits.
The most significant bit in the Type field is set to 0 when the TV format is
used and set to 1 for the TLV format.
{width="4.001388888888889in" height="1.8958333333333333in"}
Figure 8.1-1: Type field for TV and TLV format
The complete range of information element types defined for GTPv1 is defined
in 3GPP TS 29.060 [6]. The table below includes those applicable to GTP user
plane.
Table 8.1-1: Information Elements
* * *
IE Type Value Format Information Element Reference 0-13 TV Reserved in 3GPP TS
29.060 [6]  
14 TV Recovery 8.2 15 TV Reserved in 3GPP TS 29.060 [6]  
16 TV Tunnel Endpoint Identifier Data I 8.3 17-132 TV/TLV Reserved in 3GPP TS
29.060 [6]  
133 TLV GSN Address 8.4 134-140 TLV Reserved in 3GPP TS 29.060 [6]  
141 TLV Extension Header Type List 8.5 142-254 TLV Reserved in 3GPP TS 29.060
[6]  
255 TLV Private Extension 8.6
* * *
## 8.2 Recovery
The value of the restart counter shall be set to 0 by the sending entity and
ignored by the receiving entity. This information element is used in GTP user
plane due to backwards compatibility reasons.
{width="3.8743055555555554in" height="1.1861111111111111in"}
Figure 8.2-1: Restart Counter Information Element
## 8.3 Tunnel Endpoint Identifier Data I
The Tunnel Endpoint Identifier Data I information element contains the Tunnel
Endpoint Identifier used by a GTP entity for the user plane.
* * *
              Bits                                                            
     Octets   8                                   7   6   5   4   3   2   1   
     1        Type = 16 (Decimal)                                             
     2 - 5    Tunnel Endpoint Identifier Data I
* * *
Figure 8.3-1: Tunnel Endpoint Identifier Data I Information Element
## 8.4 GTP-U Peer Address
The GTP-U peer Address information element contains the address of a GTP. The
Length field may have only two values (4 or 16) that determine if the Value
field contains IPv4 or IPv6 address.
The IPv4 address structure is defined in RFC 791 [10].
The IPv6 address structure is defined in RFC 2373 [11].
The encoded address might belong not only to a GSN, but also to an RNC,
eNodeB, SGW or PGW.
Figure 8.4-1: GTP-U Peer Address Information Element
## 8.5 Extension Header Type List
This information element contains a list of \'n\' Extension Header Types. The
length field is set to the number of extension header types included.
Figure 8.5-1: Extension Header Type List Information Element
## 8.6 Private Extension
The Private Extension information element contains vendor specific
information. The Extension Identifier is a value defined in the Private
Enterprise number list in the most recent \"Assigned Numbers\" RFC (RFC 1700
or later).
This is an optional information element that may be included in any GTP
Signalling message. A signalling message may include more than one information
element of the Private Extension type.
{width="3.875in" height="1.729861111111111in"}
Figure 8.6-1: Private Extension Information Element
# 9 Error Handling
## 9.1 Protocol Errors
As specified in 3GPP TS 29.060 [6], subclauses 11.1.
## 9.2 Path Failure
A path counter shall be reset each time an Echo Response is received on the
path and incremented when the T3-RESPONSE timer expires for any Echo Request
message sent on the path. The path shall be considered to be down if the
counter exceeds N3-REQUESTS. In this case, the GTP-U peer may notify the
Operation and Maintenance network element. The GTP-U peer shall also notify
the upper layer of the path failure, so that PDP or EPS contexts associated
with the path may be deleted.
# 10 Security
Network domain security is specified in 3GPP TS 33.102 [21] and 3GPP TS 33.401
[22].
# 11 Reliable Delivery of Signalling Messages
Each path maintains a queue with signalling messages to be sent to the peer.
The message at the front of the queue, if it is a request for which a response
has been defined, shall be sent with a Sequence Number, and shall be held in a
path list until a response is received. Each path has its own list. The
Sequence Number shall be unique for each outstanding request message sourced
from the same IP/UDP endpoint.
The T3-RESPONSE timer shall be started when a signalling request message (for
which a response has been defined) is sent. A signalling message request or
response has probably been lost if a response has not been received before the
T3-RESPONSE timer expires. At the expiry of the timer the request is
retransmitted if the total number of request attempts is less than N3‑REQUESTS
times.
All received request messages shall be responded to and all response messages
associated with a certain request shall always include the same information.
Duplicated response messages shall be discarded. A response message without a
matching outstanding request should be considered as a duplicate.
If a GTP protocol entity is not successful with the transfer of a signalling
message, it shall inform the upper layer of the unsuccessful transfer so that
the controlling upper entity may take the necessary measures.
# 12 GTP Parameters
## 12.1 General
The GTP system parameters defined here and their recommended values shall not
be fixed, but shall be possible to configure as described in section
\'Reliable delivery of messages\'.
## 12.2 Timers
The timer T3-RESPONSE holds the maximum wait time for a response of a request
message.
## 12.3 Others
The counter N3-REQUESTS holds the maximum number of attempts made by GTP to
send a request message. The recommended value is 5.
# 13 Tunnelling Scenarios
## 13.1 General
There are user packets sent between network nodes without a GTP-U reference
point defined. The scenarios and applicability of GTP-U tunnelling are
described in the following sections.
## 13.2 Tunnelling between Serving GWs
GTP T-PDU tunnelling is applicable from the old Serving GW to the new Serving
GW only when indirect forwarding is applicable during a S1-based Handover
procedure or inter-RAT handover procedure with SGW Relocation, as described in
the 3GPP TS 23.401 [5].For the GTP-U tunnel setup between Serving GWs, path
maintenance messages do not need to be sent.
## 13.3 Transfer of the user plane data between PDN GWs
GTP shall not specify tunnelling between PDN GWs. Transfer of UE-to-UE traffic
between PDN GWs shall use the SGi interface.
## 13.4 Tunnelling between SGSNs
T-PDUs, stored in the old SGSN and not yet sent to the MS, shall be tunnelled
to the new SGSN as a part of the Inter SGSN Routeing Update procedure
described in 3GPP TS 23.060 [4]. Some T-PDUs may still be on their way from
the GGSN to the old SGSN because they have been sent before the tunnel change.
These T-PDUs shall also be tunnelled to the new SGSN.
For intersystem SRNS Relocation, the establishment of the GTP tunnel(s) for
the forwarding of G-PDUs is as described in the 3GPP TS 23.121 [13] and in the
3GPP TS 23.060 [4] specifications.
For PS Handover, the establishment of the GTP tunnel(s) for the forwarding of
G-PDUs is as described in the 3GPP TS 43.129 [14].
## 13.5 Tunnelling between Source RNC and Target RNC
For the 3G-3G SRNS Relocation, the establishment of the GTP tunnel for the
forwarding of G-PDUs between source and target RNC, is as described in the
3GPP TS 23.121 [13] and in the 3GPP TS 23.060 [4] specifications.
## 13.6 Transfer of the user plane data between GGSNs
GTP shall not specify tunnelling between GGSNs. Transfer of MS-to-MS traffic
between GGSNs shall use the Gi interface.
#