# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document specifies the user plane protocol used between two Media
Gateways in the CS core network. Through out the present document this
protocol shall be referred to as the Nb UP protocol. The Nb UP protocol is for
a large part identical to the Iu UP protocol (see 3GPP TS 25.415 [2]), and
only the differences between the two protocols are specified. This
specification defines the applicability of the UP, as defined in 3GPP TS
25.415 [2], for the Nb interface only.
Given that the Nb UP uses the same PDU types as the Iu UP, the term IuFP is
used to refer to the common framing.
For the purpose of the present document, any occurrence of the term \"Iu UP\"
in the corresponding sections of 3GPP TS 25.415 [2], shall be interpreted as
\"Nb UP\".
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the user plane protocol of the bearer used
between two MGWs within the BICC-based CS core network, called the Nb UP
protocol. The present document assumes the implementation of the split between
call control and the bearer transport and control, as specified in 3GPP TS
23.205 [1], see figure 1. Note that the present document does not preclude an
implementation of a combined MSC Server and MGW.
Figure 1: CS core network logical architecture
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 23.205: \"Bearer Independent CS Core Network; Stage 2\"
[2] 3GPP TS 25.415: \"UTRAN Iu Interface User Plane Protocols\"
[3] 3GPP TS 29.232: \"Media Gateway Controller; Media Gateway interface; Stage
3\"
[4] 3GPP TS 29.414: \"Core Network Nb Data Transport and Transport
Signalling\"
[5] 3GPP TR 41.001: \"GSM Release specifications\"
[6] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\"
[7] IETF RFC 1889: \"RTP A Transport Protocol for Real Time Applications\"
[8] ITU-T I.366.1 (06/98): \"Segmentation and Reassembly Service Specific
Convergence Sublayer for the AAL type 2\"
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
Definitions used in the present document are listed in 3GPP TR 21.905 [6].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
Iu Interface between the RNS and the core network. It is also considered as a
reference point.
Nb Interface between media gateways.
IuFP Iu Framing protocol
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
AAL ATM Adaptation Layer
AAL2 AAL Type 2
ATM Asynchronous Transfer Mode
CN Core Network
CNL Core Network Layer
CS Circuit Switched
FFS For Further Study
IPTI Inter PDU Transmission Interval
Iu UP Iu interface User Plane
MGW Media GateWay
PDU Protocol Data Unit
RTP Real-time Transmission Protocol
SAP Service Access Point
SDU Service Data Unit
SRNC Serving Radio Network Controller
# 4 User Plane
## 4.1 General aspects
The Nb UP is located in the user plane of the CS core network over the Nb
interface. It is used to convey data between MGWs.
The Nb UP protocol shall be initiated at one MGW and acknowledged by the
adjoining MGW.
The Nb UP framing is identical to the Iu UP framing, i.e., the same PDU types
are valid for both protocols.
Figure 2 shows the logical location of the Nb UP protocol layer in relation to
the Nb interface.
Figure 2: Nb UP protocol layer occurrence in overall architecture.
## 4.2 Operational and Functional Aspects
There are two modes of operation for the Nb UP:
\- Transparent mode;
\- Support mode for predefined SDU size.
The two modes of operation follow the definition of the corresponding Iu UP
modes of operation, as described in 3GPP TS 25.415 [2].
Support mode version 2 is mandatory on the NbUP interface. Support mode
version 1 is not required at the Nb but may be used if both MGWs support it,
as a result of the version negotiation during the Initialisation procedure.
# 5 Transparent Mode
This mode of operation is identical to that of the Iu UP protocol, see the
corresponding section in 3GPP TS 25.415 [2].
# 6 Support mode for predefined SDU sizes
## 6.1 General
See the corresponding section in 3GPP TS 25.415 [2].
## 6.2 Nb UP protocol layer services in Support Mode
See the corresponding section in 3GPP TS 25.415 [2].
## 6.3 Services expected from the Transport Network Layer
See the corresponding section in 3GPP TS 25.415 [2].
## 6.4 Functions of the Nb UP protocol layer in Support Mode
### 6.4.1 Functional model of the Nb UP protocol layer in Support Mode
See the corresponding section in 3GPP TS 25.415 [2].
### 6.4.2 Frame handler function
See the corresponding section in 3GPP TS 25.415 [2].
### 6.4.3 Procedure control functions
See the corresponding section in 3GPP TS 25.415 [2].
### 6.4.4 Non Access Stratum data streams specific functions
See the corresponding section in 3GPP TS 25.415 [2].
#### 6.4.4.1 Frame quality classification
##### 6.4.4.1.1 General
On the Nb UP in Support Mode the frames are classified with the Frame Quality
Classifier (FQC). This classifying is based on frame classification on the
preceding link and the setting of the attribute \"Delivery of erroneous
SDUs\". The MSC server shall indicate the value of the attribute \"Delivery of
erroneous SDUs\" see 3GPP TS 29.232 [3].
Figure 4 shows the main input and output information for the frame quality
classification function on the Nb UP.
Figure 4: Frame quality classification in Nb UP
##### 6.4.4.1.2 Handling of FQC information
The handling of FQC shall be as specified in Table 1.
Table 1. FQC handling in Nb UP protocol, receiving side
* * *
Input Action  
Delivery of erroneous SDUs FQC in received PDU Payload CRC  
\'yes\' or \'no\' \'good\' OK Leave FQC unchanged. Forward SDU and FQC to
upper layer 'yes' 'bad radio' OK Leave FQC unchanged. Forward SDU and FQC to
upper layer \'yes\' \'good\' or 'bad radio' Not OK Set FQC to \'bad\'. Forward
SDU and FQC to upper layer 'yes' 'bad' Any Leave FQC unchanged. Forward SDU
and FQC to upper layer \'no\' \'good\' Not OK Drop SDU 'no' 'bad' or 'bad
radio' Any Not applicable. SDUs are dropped at a previous link. \'no-error-
detection-consideration\' Any Any Leave FQC unchanged. Forward SDU and FQC to
upper layer
* * *
The FQC handling in the Nb UP protocol entity on the sending side is as
follows:
  * When the upper layer indicates an FQC value in the Nb-UP-DATA-Request message, an FQC shall be set in the PDU as indicated by the upper layer. If the upper layer does not indicate an FQC value, the FQC in the PDU shall be set to \'good\'.
  * When the upper layer indicates an FQC with the value \'bad\' to the Nb UP protocol layer, the Nb UP support functions may generate an erroneous payload CRC.
An MGW may ignore the settings of the \"delivery of erroneous SDUs\" property
of the 3GUP package if the MGW passes frames transparently through the UP
entities as described in 3GPP TS 29.232 [3].
## 6.5 Elementary procedures
### 6.5.1 Transfer of User Data procedure
#### 6.5.1.1 Successful operation
See the corresponding section in 3GPP TS 25.415 [2]. For the purpose of the
present document, the MGW replaces the function of the SRNC and the CN, and
the Nb replaces the function of the Iu.
When the MGW provides the Frame Number IE it shall be based on time according
to the handling on Iu (see 3GPP TS 25.415 [2]) for conversational and
streaming traffic class.
NOTE: The IuUP Frame Number IE is based on time also and therefore no
interworking of this IE is required.
#### 6.5.1.2 Unsuccessful operation
See the corresponding section in 3GPP TS 25.415 [2]. For the purpose of the
present document, the MGW replaces the function of the SRNC and the CN, and
the Nb replaces the function of the Iu.
### 6.5.2 Initialisation procedure
#### 6.5.2.1 Successful operation
See the corresponding section in 3GPP TS 25.415 [2].
When an Nb UP layer protocol entity receives an initialisation status request
from the upper layer, it shall start the initialisation procedure. See 3GPP TS
29.232 [3], concerning the overall initialisation process. When an Nb UP layer
protocol entity receives an initialisation message it shall acknowledge this
message and indicate to the upper layer that an initialisation message has
been received. When an Nb UP layer protocol entity receives a positive
initialisation acknowledgement it shall indicate to the upper layer that a
positive initialisation acknowledgement has been received.
#### 6.5.2.2 Unsuccessful operation
See the corresponding section in 3GPP TS 25.415 [2]. A negative
acknowledgement triggers a repetition of the initialisation message. After N
~INIT~ unsuccessful repetitions, the initialisation procedure is terminated.
### 6.5.3 Rate Control
#### 6.5.3.1 Successful operation
See the corresponding section in 3GPP TS 25.415 [2]. When an Nb UP protocol
entity receives a rate control message over the Nb interface, it shall
provided an indication of the rate control to the upper layer. The rate
control indication is acknowledged on request from the upper layer.
#### 6.5.3.2 Unsuccessful operation
See the corresponding section in 3GPP TS 25.415 [2]. Depending on the error
cause, a negative acknowledgement is either reported in a status indication to
the upper layer, or it triggers a repetition of the control command. After N
~RC~ unsuccessful repetitions, the rate control procedure is terminated.
### 6.5.4 Time Alignment
#### 6.5.4.1 Successful operation
See the corresponding section in 3GPP TS 25.415 [2]. When an Nb UP protocol
entity receives a time alignment command over the Nb interface, it shall
indicate the time alignment to the upper layer. The time alignment is
acknowledged on request from the upper layer.
#### 6.5.4.2 Unsuccessful operation
See the corresponding section in 3GPP TS 25.415 [2]. Depending on the error
cause, a negative acknowledgement is either reported in a status indication to
the upper layer, or it triggers a repetition of the control command. After N
~TA~ unsuccessful repetitions, the time alignment procedure is terminated.
### 6.5.5 Handling of Error Event procedure
#### 6.5.5.1 Successful operation
See the corresponding section in 3GPP TS 25.415 [2].
#### 6.5.5.2 Unsuccessful operation
See the corresponding section in 3GPP TS 25.415 [2].
## 6.6 Elements for Nb UP communication in Support mode
See the corresponding section in 3GPP TS 25.415 [2].
## 6.7 Handling of unknown, unforeseen and erroneous protocol data
See the corresponding section in 3GPP TS 25.415 [2].
# 7 Communication Primitives for the Nb UP protocol layer
## 7.1 Modelling Principle
See the corresponding section in 3GPP TS 25.415 [2].
## 7.2 Primitives towards the upper layers at the CNL-SAP
See the corresponding section in 3GPP TS 25.415 [2].
## 7.3 Primitives towards the transport layers at TNL-SAP
### 7.3.1 General
Access to the Transport network Layer is performed through a generic SAP: TNL-
SAP.
When the Transport Network upper layer consists of AAL2, the TNL SAP maps to
the AAL-SAP which allows communication to be performed using specific AAL
primitives.
When the Transport Network upper layer consists of RTP/UDP/IP, the TNL-SAP
maps to the services provided by IETF RFC 1889 [7].
The choice of communication, specific or generic, through the TNL-SAP is fixed
by the Core Network Layer control plane logic. This choice of communication is
based on the requirements placed by, e.g. the RAB characteristics, the core
network domain requesting the RAB establishment or other operator\'s choice.
### 7.3.2 ATM/AAL2 based Transport Layer
#### 7.3.2.1 General
When the Nb UP protocol layer uses the services of an ATM/AAL2 transport, it
shall use an established AAL2 connection for transferring frames between the
peer TNL-SAPs at both ends of the Nb User plane access points. The Transport
Network Control Plane over the Nb interface handles the signalling to
establish and release the AAL2 call connections.
#### 7.3.2.2 AAL2 Service Primitives used by the Nb UP protocol
AAL2 services and primitives used at the Service Access Point from the AAL2
layer are shown in table 3.
Table 4: AAL2 primitives and parameters
* * *
Primitive Type Parameters Comments SSSAR-UNITDATA Request SSSAR-INFO  
SSSAR-UUI Not used (note) SSSAR-UNITDATA Indication SSSAR-INFO  
SSSAR-UUI Not used (note) NOTE: The setting of this field is set to not used
i.e. decimal value 26 according to ITU-T Q.366.1 [8].
* * *
These primitives are to be used in the Nb UP.
The Transport Network control plane is as specified in 3GPP TS 29.414 [4].
### 7.3.3 GTP-U based Transport Layer
Not applicable.
### 7.3.4 RTP/UDP/IP based Transport Layer
When the Nb UP protocol layer uses the services of an RTP-based transport, it
shall use a dynamic payload type that was negotiated for the connection for
transferring Nb UP frames between the two endpoints at both ends of the Nb
User plane access points. This dynamic payload type is negotiated using the
specified bearer control protocol, 3GPP TS 29.414 [4].
# 8 Evolution of Nb UP Protocol
See the corresponding section in 3GPP TS 25.415 [2].
#