# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
**Structure of the OSA API Mapping (3GPP TR 29.998)**
The Technical Report 3GPP TR 29.998 consists of a series of parts and
subparts. An effort has been made to ensure that the part numbers used in the
mapping TR correspond to the part numbers of the base OSA specification in
3GPP TS 29.198. For this reason, certain parts, for which no suitable mapping
could be suggested, have not been delivered. At a later stage a mapping to a
new protocol may become evident, in which case these missing parts will be
developed.
The OSA specification was defined jointly between 3GPP TSG CT WG5, ETSI TISPAN
and the Parlay Group.\ The 3GPP TR 29.998 is based on a mapping document with
a wider scope, developed as part of this co-operation. Certain mappings
defined in the course of this joint development are not applicable for the
present 3GPP Release, which is why not all sub-parts have been delivered as
part of the present 3GPP Release. However, it is expected that some may become
applicable within the scope of later 3GPP Releases, which is why a common sub-
part numbering is being retained, albeit with gaps for the present 3GPP
Release.
If mapping for a certain Part is \"Not Applicable\" it can either indicate
that a mapping does not exist (e.g. Part 2: Common Data), or the API is
considered to be implemented directly on a physical entity, or via a
proprietary mechanism.
The present document is part 1 of a multi-part deliverable covering the Open
Service Access (OSA); Application Programming Interface (API) Mapping for OSA.
Table: Overview of the OSA APIs & Protocol Mappings 29.198 & 29.998-family
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | OSA | OSA | | | | | | | | API | API | | | | | | | | spec | Ma | | | | | | | | ifica | pping | | | | | | | | tions | - | | | | | | | | 29. | 29. | | | | | | | | 198-f | 998-f | | | | | | | | amily | amily | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Ove | **2 | ** | | | | | | 98-01 | rview | 9.998 | Overv | | | | | | | | -01** | iew**| | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | C | * |_Not | | | | | | 98-02 | ommon | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | Data | 8-02_ | pplic | | | | | | | D | | able _| | | | | | | efini | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Fram | * |_ Not | | | | | | 98-03 | ework | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | | 8-03 _| pplic | | | | | | | | | able_ | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | * | 2 | 2 | 2 | 2 | **2 | 2 | Ge | | _Call | 9.198 | 9.198 | 9.198 | 9.198 | 9.198 | 9.998 | neric | | Co | -04-1 | -04-2 | -04-3 | -04-4 | -04-5 | -04-1 | Call | | ntrol | | | | M | Conf. | | Co | | (CC) | C | Ge | M | ulti- | CC | | ntrol | | SCF_ _| ommon | neric | ulti- | media | SCF_ _| | -- | | | CC | CC | Party | CC | | | CAP | | | data | SCF | CC | SCF | | | ma | | | d | | SCF | | | | pping | | | efini | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | | |_ 29 | _Ge | | | | | | | | .998- | neric | | | | | | | | 04-2_ | Call | | | | | | | | | Co | | | | | | | | | ntrol | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | INAP | | | | | | | | | map | | | | | | | | | ping _| +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | | |_ 29 | _Ge | | | | | | | | .998- | neric | | | | | | | | 04-3_ | Call | | | | | | | | | Co | | | | | | | | | ntrol | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | M | | | | | | | | | egaco | | | | | | | | | map | | | | | | | | | ping _| +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | | | 2 | Multi | | | | | | | | 9.998 | party | | | | | | | | -04-4 | Call | | | | | | | | | Co | | | | | | | | | ntrol | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | ISC | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | pping | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | User | 2 | User | | | | | | 98-05 | I | 9.998 | I | | | | | | | ntera | -05-1 | ntera | | | | | | | ction | | ction | | | | | | | SCF | | -- | | | | | | | | | CAP | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | pping | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | |_ 29 | _User | | | | | | | | .998- | I | | | | | | | | 05-2_ | ntera | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | INAP | | | | | | | | | map | | | | | | | | | ping _| | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | |_ 29 | _User | | | | | | | | .998- | I | | | | | | | | 05-3_ | ntera | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | M | | | | | | | | | egaco | | | | | | | | | map | | | | | | | | | ping _| | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | 2 | User | | | | | | | | 9.998 | I | | | | | | | | -05-4 | ntera | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | SMS | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | pping | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Mob | 2 | User | | | | | | 98-06 | ility | 9.998 | S | | | | | | | SCF | -06-1 | tatus | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | User | | | | | | | | | Loc | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | MAP | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | pping | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | 2 | User | | | | | | | | 9.998 | S | | | | | | | | -06-2 | tatus | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | User | | | | | | | | | Loc | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | SIP | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | pping | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Ter | * |_ Not | | | | | | 98-07 | minal | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | Ca | 8-07 _| pplic | | | | | | | pabil | | able_ | | | | | | | ities | | | | | | | | | SCF | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Data | 29.9 | Data | | | | | | 98-08 | Se | 98-08 | Se | | | | | | | ssion | | ssion | | | | | | | Co | | Co | | | | | | | ntrol | | ntrol | | | | | | | SCF | | -- | | | | | | | | | CAP | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | pping | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | * | _Ge | * |_ Not | | | | | | 29.19 | neric | 29.99 | A | | | | | | 8-09 _| Mess | 8-09_ | pplic | | | | | | | aging | | able _| | | | | | | SCF_ | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | * | _Co | * |_ Not | | | | | | 29.19 | nnect | 29.99 | A | | | | | | 8-10 _| ivity | 8-10_ | pplic | | | | | | | Ma | | able _| | | | | | | nager | | | | | | | | | SCF_ | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Ac | * | _Not | | | | | | 98-11 | count | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | Manag | 8-11_ | pplic | | | | | | | ement | | able _| | | | | | | SCF | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Cha | * |_ Not | | | | | | 98-12 | rging | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | SCF | 8-12 _| pplic | | | | | | | | | able_ | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | P | * | _Not | | | | | | 98-13 | olicy | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | Manag | 8-13_ | pplic | | | | | | | ement | | able _| | | | | | | SCF | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Pre | * |_ Not | | | | | | 98-14 | sence | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | & | 8-14 _| pplic | | | | | | | Av | | able_ | | | | | | | ailab | | | | | | | | | ility | | | | | | | | | Manag | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | SCF | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Multi | * | _Not | | | | | | 98-15 | Media | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | Mess | 8-15_ | pplic | | | | | | | aging | | able _| | | | | | | SCF | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Se | * |_ Not | | | | | | 98-16 | rvice | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | B | 8-16 _| pplic | | | | | | | roker | | able_ | | | | | | | SCF | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
# 1 Scope
The present document is suggesting a mapping of the Application Programming
Interface (API) for Open Service Access (OSA) onto CAMEL Application Part
(CAP) operations and Mobile Application Part (MAP) operations, and provides an
overview of the content and structure of the various parts of the present
document. The mapping of the OSA API to the CAP and relevant MAP operations is
considered informative and not normative.
The API specification is contained in the 3GPP TS 29.198 series of
specifications. An overview of these is available in the introduction of the
present document as well as in 3GPP TS 29.198-1 [1]. The concepts and the
functional architecture for the Open Service Access (OSA) are described by
3GPP TS 23.198 [3]. The requirements for OSA are defined in 3GPP TS 22.127
[2].
# 2 References
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication > and/or edition number or version number) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 29.198-1: \"Open Service Access (OSA); Application Programming
Interface (API); Part 1: Overview\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.127: \"Service Requirement for the Open Service Access (OSA);
Stage 1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.198: \"Open Service Access (OSA); Stage 2\".
[4] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[6] 3GPP TS 29.002: \"Mobile Application Part (MAP) specification\".
[7] 3GPP TS 29.078: \"Customised Applications for Mobile network Enhanced
Logic (CAMEL); CAMEL Application Part (CAP) specification\".
[8] 3GPP TS 22.101: \"Service Aspects; Service Principles\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 29.198-1 [1] apply.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TS
29.198-1 [1] apply.
# 4 Overview of the Mapping Report TR 29.998
## 4.1 Structure of TR 29.998
The TR 29.998 consists of a series of parts and subparts.
An effort has been made to ensure that the part numbers used in the mapping
report correspond to the part numbers of the base OSA specification in TS
29.198. For this reason, certain parts, for which no suitable mapping could be
suggested, have not been delivered. At a later stage a mapping to a new
protocol may become evident, in which case these missing parts will be
developed.
The OSA specification was defined jointly between 3GPP TSG CT WG5, ETSI TISPAN
and the Parlay Group.\ The 3GPP TR 29.998 is based on a mapping document with
a wider scope, developed as part of this co-operation. Certain mappings
defined in the course of this joint development are not applicable for the
present 3GPP Release, which is why not all sub-parts have been delivered as
part of the present 3GPP Release. However, it is expected that some may become
applicable within the scope of later 3GPP Releases, which is why a common sub-
part numbering is being retained, albeit with gaps for the present 3GPP
Release.
## 4.2 Context of the Mapping
The OSA specifications define an architecture that enables application
developers to make use of network functionality through an open standardised
interface, i.e. the OSA APIs. The applications constitute the top level of the
architecture for Open Service Access (OSA). This level is connected to the
Service Capability Servers (SCSs) via the OSA interface. The SCSs map the OSA
interface onto the underlying telecommunications specific protocols (e.g. MAP,
CAP, etc.) and are therefore hiding the network complexity from the
applications.
The specific Service Capability Server (SCS) under consideration in the
present document is the CAMEL Service Environment (CSE). In this case, the OSA
API provides the operator or third party applications access to the CAMEL
Application Part (CAP) protocol operations, via the OSA Interface Class
methods. On the gsmSCF, the OSA Interface Class methods need to be mapped, or
translated, onto the relevant CAP and/or MAP operations. Only the non-
framework Service Capability Features (SCFs) will be taken into account for
the mapping. The present document is not exhaustive in covering all the
mappings that can be expected. It provides several examples, but it should be
noted that several other possibilities exist. In particular, only general
cases of normal operations are covered and exception scenarios are not within
the scope of the present document.
In addition to the configuration of SCS and CSE, the present document contains
some recommendations for a configuration consisting of SCS and HLR. On the
HLR, the OSA Interface Class methods need to be mapped, or translated, onto
the relevant MAP protocol operations. The mappings contained in the present
document for the SCS/HLR case are not intended to be exhaustive.
# 5 General Parameter Mapping Issues
## 5.1 API Parameters that do not require a mapping
A number of the API method parameters have significance only on the OSA
interface and in the SCS. They are used to identify objects implementing parts
of the interface for instance. No mapping is required for these parameters.
\- appInterface: specifies a reference to the application object which
implements the callback interface for a call;
\- assignmentID: specifies the assigned ID which is used to link associated
requests and responses;
\- callReference: specifies the reference to the call object;
\- callSessionID: specifies the call session ID of the call object to which
this method invocation applies.
## 5.2 Protocol Operation Parameters that do not require a mapping
A number of the CAP and MAP protocol operation parameters deal with the
specifics of the underlying core network. these are typically those details
that the OSA API was designed to abstract from and therefore do not require a
mapping. Examples include:
CAP InitialDP:
\- gsmSCFAddress;
\- MSCAddress;
\- GMSCAddress;
\- IPSSPCapabilities.
MAP AnyTimeModification:
\- gsmSCFAddress.
#