# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3GPP.
This TS provides a detailed specification for interworking between the ISDN
Supplementary Services ASE protocol and the Mobile Application Part (MAP) D
interface protocol for handling of supplementary services within the 3GPP
system.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of this TS, it will be re-released by the TSG with an identifying
change of release date and an increase in version number as follows:
Version 3.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 Indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the specification;
# 1 Scope
The scope of the present document is to provide a specification for
interworking between the ISDN Application Service Element (ASE) protocol for
supplementary services and the Mobile Application Part (MAP) protocol on MAP
D-interface protocol for handling of supplementary services within the digital
cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+). This version of the
specification includes the interworking for the Call Completion to Busy
Subscriber (CCBS) service between the ISDN CCBS-ASE and MAP.
The MAP protocol for CCBS service is specified in GSM 09.02. The ISDN CCBS-ASE
protocol is specified in ETS 300 356‑18. The ISDN CCBS-ASE protocol is also
commonly referred to as the SSAP protocol in GSM 03.93. This specification
clarifies the interworking within the HLR between these protocols for the Call
Completion to Busy Subscriber (CCBS) service.
Clause 4 describes the mapping between MAP application layer messages and SSAP
application layer messages.
Clause 5 describes the mapping between MAP message parameters and SSAP message
parameters.
Clause 6 describes the dialogue handling on the SSAP interface.
Clause 7 describes the SCCP layer addressing for messages on the SSAP
interface.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies.
[1] GSM 01.04: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Abbreviations and acronyms\".
[2] GSM 02.93: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Completion of calls to busy subscriber (CCBS) supplementary services - Stage
1\".
[3] GSM 03.93: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Technical Realisation of Completion of Calls to Busy Subscriber (CCBS); Stage
2\".
[4] GSM 04.80: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Mobile
radio interface layer 3 supplementary services specification Formats and
coding\".
[5] GSM 04.93: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Technical Realisation of Completion of Calls to Busy Subscriber (CCBS); Stage
3\".
[6] GSM 09.02 \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Mobile
Application Part (MAP) specification\".
[7] GSM 09.07 : \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
General requirements on interworking between the Public Land Mobile Network
(PLMN) and the Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN) or Public Switched
Telephone Network (PSTN)\".
[8] ETS 300 102-1 (1990): \"Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN); User-
network interface layer 3 specifications for basic call control\".
[9] ETS 300 356-18: \"ISDN User Part (ISUP) version 2 for the international
interface: Part 18: Completion of Calls to Busy Subscriber (CCBS)
supplementary service\".
[10] ETS 300 358: \"Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN); Completion of
Calls to Busy Subscriber (CCBS) supplementary service; Functional capabilities
and information flows\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of this specification, the following definitions apply:
**SSAP** : Supplementary Service Application Part. SSAP is the protocol used
for CCBS procedures on the interface between the originating and destination
network. Communication across this interface is performed using SCCP
Connectionless Signalling (Refer to ETS 300 358). The terms CCBS-ASE defined
in ETS 300 356-18 for the ISDN CCBS service and SSAP defined in GSM 03.93 are
the same and are used interchangeably in this specification. The SSAP
interface is between the originating network entities (HLR A, OLE) and the
destination network entities (HLR B, DLE).
## 3.2 Abbreviations
Abbreviations used in this specification are listed in GSM 01.04.
For the purposes of this specification, the following abbreviations apply:
ASE Application Service Element
CCBS Call Completion to Busy Subscriber
DLE Destination Local Exchange
ISDN Integrated Services Digital Network
MAP Mobile Application Part
OLE Originating Local Exchange
SCCP Signalling Connection Control Part
SSAP Supplementary Service Application Part
TC Transaction Capabilities
# 4 General
## 4.1 GSM CCBS Architecture Overview
The stage 1 of the CCBS service is defined in GSM 02.93.
The network architecture to support the CCBS service in GSM networks is
defined in GSM 03.93. For convenience, the architecture is shown again in this
specification. Figure 4.1.1 is an architectural overview of the CCBS service
when interworking between the originating and the destination networks
involved. The originating network may be a mobile network or a fixed network
and the destination network may also be a mobile network or a fixed network.
The call related signalling (see ETS 300 356-18) for CCBS is performed on ISUP
links on the following interfaces:
VMSC A - GMSC B;
VMSC A - DLE;
OLE - GMSC B;
whereas the specific CCBS procedures (see ETS 300 356-18) are performed via
the SSAP protocol, which is signalled on the following interfaces:
HLR A - HLR B;
HLR A - DLE;
OLE - HLR B.
This specification only describes the MAP - SSAP protocol interworking.
Figure 4.1: Architectural overview showing common point of interworking
## 4.2 GSM CCBS - ISDN CCBS ASE Interworking Overview
The non-call related signalling procedures for CCBS between the originating
network and the destination network are defined in ETS 300 356-18 as the ISDN
CCBS-ASE. The GSM network also uses these signalling procedures for CCBS
without any changes. The ISDN CCBS ASE protocol is supported in GSM networks
in the HLR A (originating network) and HLR B (destination network). Therefore
no protocol interworking for ISDN CCBS-ASE is needed for the CCBS service
between GSM networks and ISDN networks.
In GSM networks, the CCBS functionality is distributed across several network
entities (see GSM 03.93) including the HLR, VLR, MSC and the MS. The HLR shall
provide any necessary signalling interworking between the MAP protocol for
call completion services on the MAP D-interface (between the VLR and the HLR)
and ISDN CCBS-ASE protocol between the originating and destination networks.
The MAP protocol for CCBS service is specified in GSM 09.02. The ISDN CCBS-ASE
protocol is specified in ETS 300 356‑18. This specification clarifies the
interworking within the HLR between these protocols.
## 4.3 Overview on the use of CCBS procedures and parameters values
A GSM subscriber can roam while there is an active CCBS request. The called
party address (MSISDN) information is used to initiate a dialogue with the
destination network on the SSAP interface. The dialogue on the SSAP interface
is opened and maintained while there is an active CCBS request (see ETS 300
356-18). However, the dialogues on the MAP D interface can be closed and
reopened as necessary (see GSM 09.02 and GSM 03.93) and use the IMSI
information for addressing.
## 4.4 Mapping between MAP and SSAP application layer messages
The mapping of MAP messages on the D interface and SSAP messages between the
originating and destination networks is described. The precise coding of these
messages is given in GSM 09.02 and ETS 300 356-18.
### 4.4.1 MAP D-interface to SSAP interface mapping in HLR A
Table 4.1: Mapping of GSM 09.02 (MAP) operations to ETS 300 356-18 (SSAP)
operations
+---------------------------------------------------+-----------------+ | MAP OPERATIONS | SSAP OPERATIONS | +---------------------------------------------------+-----------------+ | RegisterCCEntry | CcbsRequest | +---------------------------------------------------+-----------------+ | EraseCCEntry/ A GSM 03.93 Event (note 1) | CcbsCancel | +---------------------------------------------------+-----------------+ | RemoteUserFree Result/ | CcbsSuspend | +---------------------------------------------------+-----------------+ | RemoteUserFree Error/ | | +---------------------------------------------------+-----------------+ | A GSM 03.93 Event (note 2) | | +---------------------------------------------------+-----------------+ | StatusReport/ | CcbsResume | +---------------------------------------------------+-----------------+ | A GSM 03.93 Event (note 3) | | +---------------------------------------------------+-----------------+ | NOTE 1 This event may be local to HLR A. See GSM | | | 03.93 for a dynamic description of possible | | | events in HLR A leading to a CCBS request being | | | cancelled. The SSAP CcbsCancel operation can | | | include a cause code parameter; this shall be set | | | to the appropriate value corresponding to the | | | actual dynamic event by HLR A (e.g. | | | cCBS-T3-Timeout, cCBS-T4-Timeout). | | | | | | NOTE 2 This event may be local to HLR A. See GSM | | | 03.93 for a dynamic description of possible | | | events in HLR A leading to a CCBS request being | | | suspended. | | | | | | NOTE 3 This event may be local to HLR A. See GSM | | | 03.93 for a dynamic description of possible | | | events in HLR A leading to a CCBS request being | | | resumed. | | +---------------------------------------------------+-----------------+
### 4.4.2 SSAP interface to MAP D-interface interface mapping in HLR A
* * *
SSAP OPERATIONS MAP OPERATIONS CcbsRequest Result RegisterCCEntry Result
CcbsRequest Error RegisterCCEntry Error RemoteUserFree RemoteUserFree
CcbsCancel SetReportingState/A GSM 03.93 Event (note 1) NOTE 1 This event may
be local to HLR A. See GSM 03.93 for a dynamic description of possible events
in HLR A resulting from a CCBS request being cancelled. The SSAP CcbsCancel
operation can include a cause code parameter(e.g. cCBS-T7-Timeout,
cCBS-T9-Timeout).
* * *
# 5 Mapping between MAP message parameters and SSAP message parameters
The mapping between MAP message parameters and SSAP message parameters is
described. The precise coding of these messages is given in GSM 09.02 and ETS
300 356-18.
The following messages on the SSAP interface do not contain any parameters:
\- RemoteUserFree;
\- Suspend;
\- Resume.
## 5.1 CCBS Request Invocation
VLRA HLRA DESTINATION\ NETWORK B\ +-+ +-+ +-+\ \| \| \| \| \| \|\ \| \| \| \|
\| \|\ \| \| RegisterCCEntry \| \| \| \|\ \| \|------------------------->\| \|
\| \|\ \| \| TC-BEGIN \| \| \| \|\ \| \| \| \| \| \|\ \| \| \| \| CcbsRequest
\| \|\ \| \| \| \|----------------------->\| \|\ \| \| \| \| TC-BEGIN \| \|\
\| \| \| \| \| \|\ \| \| \| \| \| \|
Figure 5.1: Signalling flow for CCBS Request Invocation
Table 5.1: Mapping of CCBS Request Invocation parameters
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | RegisterCCEntry PARAMETERS | CcbsRequest PARAMETERS | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | ss-Code | not present | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | ccbs-Feature | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | - b-subscriberSubaddress (note | accessTransportParameter (note | | 1) | 2) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | translatedB-Number | calledPartynumber (note 3) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | serviceIndicator | not present | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | callInfo | not present | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | networkSignalInfo | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | - ISDN BC Tag, Length, Content | userServiceInf | | (note 4) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | networkSignalInfo | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | - HLC Tag, Length, Content | accessTransportParameter (note | | (note 5) | 2) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | networkSignalInfo | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | - LLC Tag, Length, Content | accessTransportParameter (note | | (note 6) | 2) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | not present | retainSupported (note 7) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | not present | callingPartyNumber (note 8) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | not present | userServiceInfPrime (note 9) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | NOTE 1 CCBS-Feature contains the | | | b-subscriberSubaddress parameter | | | which is the called party | | | subaddress. The GSM HLR A shall | | | map the called party subaddress | | | into the | | | accessTransportParameter if | | | received from the VLR. The | | | entire called party subaddress | | | information (i.e. called party | | | subaddress IEI, LENGTH and | | | CONTENT ) is mapped into the | | | accessTransportParameter. See | | | subclause 5.1.1. for details of | | | the required encoding. | | | | | | NOTE 2 The CcbsRequest contains | | | only one | | | accessTransportParameter. This | | | parameter contains information | | | on the ISDN HLC, LLC and | | | Subaddress. | | | | | | NOTE 3 The calledParty Number | | | shall be in the international | | | E.164 format. | | | | | | NOTE 4 The networkSignalInfo | | | contains three information | | | elements ISDN BC, HLC, LLC. The | | | structure of this is defined in | | | GSM 09.02 and the content in GSM | | | 09.07. The ISDN BC information | | | element CONTENT (i.e. without | | | ISDN BC TAG, LENGTH ) is mapped | | | into the userServiceInf | | | parameter. | | | | | | NOTE 5 The networkSignalInfo | | | contains three information | | | elements ISDN BC, HLC, LLC. The | | | structure of this is defined in | | | GSM 09.02 and the content in GSM | | | 09.07. The entire ISDN HLC | | | information element (i.e. ISDN | | | HLC TAG, LENGTH and CONTENT ) is | | | mapped into the | | | accessTransportParameter. | | | | | | NOTE 6 The networkSignalInfo | | | contains three information | | | elements ISDN BC, HLC, LLC. The | | | structure of this is defined in | | | GSM 09.02 and the content in GSM | | | 09.07. The entire ISDN LLC | | | information element (i.e. ISDN | | | LLC TAG, LENGTH and CONTENT ) is | | | mapped into the | | | accessTransportParameter. | | | | | | NOTE 7 This information is local | | | to the HLR A. This information | | | element shall be coded by HLR A | | | to reflect whether it supports | | | CCBS Retention capability. | | | | | | NOTE 8 This information is local | | | to HLR A. The HLR A provides | | | callingPartyNumber if CLIR was | | | not invoked (See the | | | serviceIndicator parameter in | | | GSM 09.02 and GSM 03.93). If | | | sent, the A subscriber\'s | | | identity shall be the Basic | | | MSISDN (i.e. the main MSISDN) | | | and shall be in the | | | international E.164 format. | | | | | | NOTE 9 The GSM HLR A shall not | | | send the userServiceInfPrime | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
### 5.1.1 Encoding of called party subaddress information
The CCBS-Feature parameter is received from the VLR and it may include the
b-subscriberSubaddress parameter as defined in GSM 09.02. The Called Party
Subaddress information requires additional processing in HLR to ensure correct
encoding of this information on the SSAP interface. The HLR shall add two
octets to the ISDN-SubaddressString received from the VLR as indicated in
figure 5.2.
NOTE 1 Called Party Subaddress Information Element Identifier (IEI) is defined
by ETS 300 102-1. Its value is \"01110001\". This information is not sent from
the VLR and has to be derived locally in the HLR for interworking purposes.
NOTE 2 This information has to be derived locally in the HLR for interworking
purposes.
NOTE 3 This information is sent by the VLR. The ISDN-SubaddressString contents
is defined in GSM 09.02.
Figure 5.2: Encoding of Called Party Subaddress information
## 5.2 CCBS Request Result
VLRA HLRA DESTINATION\ NETWORK B\ +-+ +-+ +-+\ \| \| \| \| \| \|\ \| \| \| \|
\| \|\ \| \| \| \| \| \|\ \| \| \| \| CcbsRequest-Result \| \|\ \| \| \|
\|\\| \|
\| \|\ \| \| TC-BEGIN \| \| \| \|\ \| \| \| \| \| \|\ \| \| \| \| CcbsRequest
\| \|\ \| \| \| \|----------------------->\| \|\ \| \| \| \| TC-BEGIN \| \|\
\| \| \| \| SCCP \| \|\ \| \| \| \| \| \|\ \| \| \| \| \| \|\ \| \| \| \| \|
\|
Figure 6.1: Signalling flow for CCBS REQUEST INVOCATION
The CCBS Request invocation is carried by TC-BEGIN. The SCCP addressing
parameters on the SSAP interface shall be as shown in table 7.1.
## 6.2 Dialogue Continuation
### 6.2.1 CCBS Request Result
VLRA HLRA DESTINATION\ NETWORK B\ +-+ +-+ +-+\ \| \| \| \| \| \|\ \| \| \| \|
\| \|\ \| \| \| \| \| \|\ \| \| \| \| CcbsRequest-Result \| \|\ \| \| \|
\|\\| \| \| \|\
\| \| TC-END \| \| \| \|\ \| \| \| \| \| \|\ \| \| \| \| \| \|\ \| \| \| \|
CcbsSuspend (note 1) \| \|\ \| \| \| \|----------------------->\| \|\ \| \| \|
\| TC-CONTINUE \| \|\ \| \| \| \| SCCP \| \|\ \| \| \| \| \| \|\ \| \| \| \|
\| \|\ \| \| \| \| \| \|
NOTE 1 For conditions leading to a request being suspended, see GSM 03.93
Figure 6.4: Signalling flow for CCBS Suspend Invocation
(RemoteUserFree_Result)
VLRA HLRA DESTINATION\ NETWORK B\ +-+ +-+ +-+\ \| \| \| \| \| \|\ \| \|
RemoteUserFree-Error \| \| \| \|\ \| \|------------------------->\| \| \| \|\
\| \| TC-END \| \| \| \|\ \| \| \| \| \| \|\ \| \| \| \| \| \|\ \| \| \| \|
CcbsSuspend (note 1) \| \|\ \| \| \| \|----------------------->\| \|\ \| \| \|
\| TC-CONTINUE \| \|\ \| \| \| \| SCCP \| \|\ \| \| \| \| \| \|\ \| \| \| \|
\| \|\ \| \| \| \| \| \|
NOTE 1 For conditions leading to a request being suspended, see GSM 03.93
Figure 6.5: Signalling flow for CCBS Suspend Invocation (RemoteUserFree_Error)
The CCBS Suspend Invocation is carried by TC-CONTINUE. The SCCP addressing
parameters on the SSAP interface shall be as shown in table 7.2
### 6.2.4 CCBS Resume Invocation
VLRA HLRA DESTINATION\ NETWORK B\ +-+ +-+ +-+\ \| \| \| \| \| \|\ \| \|
StatusReport \| \| \| \|\ \| \|------------------------->\| \| \| \|\ \| \|
TC-BEGIN \| \| \| \|\ \| \| \| \| \| \|\ \| \| \| \| \| \|\ \| \| \| \|
CcbsResume (note 1) \| \|\ \| \| \| \|----------------------->\| \|\ \| \| \|
\| TC-CONTINUE \| \|\ \| \| \| \| SCCP \| \|\ \| \| \| \| \| \|\ \| \| \| \|
\| \|\ \| \| \| \| \| \|
NOTE 1 For conditions leading to a request being resumed, see GSM 03.93
Figure 6.6: Signalling flow for CCBS Resume Invocation
The CCBS Resume Invocation is carried by TC-CONTINUE. The SCCP addressing
parameters on the SSAP interface shall be as shown in table 7.2.
## 6.3 Dialogue End
### 6.3.1 Normal dialogue end
VLRA HLRA DESTINATION\ NETWORK B\ +-+ +-+ +-+\ \| \| \| \| \| \|\ \| \| \| \|
\| \|\ \| \| \| \| \| \|\ \| \| \| \| No component primitive \| \|\ \| \| \|
\|\\| \| \| \|\ \| \| TC-BEGIN \| \| \| \|\ \| \| \|
\| \| \|\ \| \| \| \| CcbsCancel \| \|\ \| \| \| \|----------------------->\|
\|\ \| \| \| \| TC-END (note 1) \| \|\ \| \| \| \| SCCP \| \|\ \| \| \| \| \|
\|\ \| \| \| \| \| \|\ \| \| \| \| \| \|
NOTE 1 Where all outstanding CCBS Requests have been deactivated, CCBS Cancel
is sent to each corresponding Destination Network B with the appropriate
Destination Network B E.164 Called Party Address (see GSM 03.93, GSM 04.93).
Figure 6.8: Signalling flow for CCBS Cancel Invocation (from A-side)
The CCBS Cancel Invocation from the A-side is carried by TC-END. The SCCP
addressing parameters on the SSAP interface shall be as shown in table 7.2.
### 6.3.3 CCBS Cancel Invocation (from B-side)
VLRA HLRA DESTINATION\ NETWORK B\ +-+ +-+ +-+\ \| \| \| \| \| \|\ \| \| \| \|
\| \|\ \| \| \| \| \| \|\ \| \| \| \| CcbsCancel \| \|\ \| \| \|
\|\<\-----------------------\| \|\ \| \| \| \| TC-END \| \|\ \| \| \| \| SCCP
\| \|\ \| \| \| \| \| \|\ \| \| \| \| \| \|\ \| \|SetReportingState (note 1)\|
\| \| \|\ \| \|\<\-------------------------\| \| \| \|\ \| \| TC-BEGIN \| \|
\| \|\ \| \| \| \| \| \|\ \| \| \| \| \| \|\ \| \| \| \| \| \|
NOTE 1: If the monitoring function is active in VLR A and all outstanding CCBS
Requests have been deactivated, the HLR A sends SetReportingState to
deactivate the monitoring function (see GSM 03.93).
Figure 6.9: Signalling flow for CCBS Cancel Invocation (from B-side)
The CCBS Cancel Invocation from the B-side is carried by TC-END. The SCCP
addressing parameters on the SSAP interface shall be as shown in table 7.3.
### 6.3.4 CCBS Request Error
VLRA HLRA DESTINATION\ NETWORK B\ +-+ +-+ +-+\ \| \| \| \| \| \|\ \| \| \| \|
\| \|\ \| \| \| \| \| \|\ \| \| \| \| CcbsRequest-Error \| \|\ \| \| \|
\|\<\-----------------------\| \|\ \| \| \| \| TC-END \| \|\ \| \| \| \| SCCP
\| \|\ \| \| \| \| \| \|\ \| \| \| \| \| \|\ \| \| RegisterCCEntry-Error \| \|
\| \|\ \| \|\<\-------------------------\| \| \| \|\ \| \| TC-END \| \| \| \|\
\| \| \| \| \| \|\ \| \| \| \| \| \|\ \| \| \| \| \| \|
Figure 6.10: Signalling flow for CCBS Request Error
The CCBS Request Error is carried by TC-END. The SCCP addressing parameters on
the SSAP interface shall be as shown in table 7.3.
# 7 Addressing of SCCP layer messages on the SSAP interface
The SCCP layer addressing for messages on the SSAP interface is described.
## 7.1 Use of SCCP
Clarifications and restrictions on the use and coding of the main SCCP
parameters impacted by CCBS on the SSAP interface are indicated. See ETS 300
356-18 and the associated references for the full specification on the use of
SCCP on the SSAP interface. The SCCP routeing on the SSAP interface shall be
based on the Global Title (GT) translation mechanism as for routeing on the
international interface. GT addressing shall be used for inter and intra PLMN
signalling. This allows any impact of other network features e.g. Mobile
Number Portability to be minimised.
## 7.2 Addressing of messages at the originating PLMN
### 7.2.1 TC-BEGIN message from the originating network HLR
The relevant SCCP parameters in the first message from the HLR A transporting
TC-BEGIN are shown in table 7.1. All other SCCP parameters shall be as
indicated in ETS 300 356-18.
Table 7.1: SCCP parameters used by HLR A for TC-BEGIN
* * *
SCCP PARAMETERS for the message\ PARAMETER VALUE transporting TC-BEGIN
CdPA-Called Party Address E.164 number of the Called Party. This may be in
either international or national E.164 format, see subclause 7.4.1. It is
derived from the translatedB-Number parameter which is available from the CCBS
application in HLRA, see RegisterCCEntry in GSM 09.02.
CgPA-Calling Party Address E.164 number of HLR A. This may be in either
international or national E.164 format, see subclause 7.4.1.
SSN- Subsystem Number 0000 1011\ (See ETS 300 356-18)
TT- Translation Type 0001 0001\ (See ETS 300 356-18)
Other SCCP Parameters See ETS 300 356-18
* * *
### 7.2.2 TC-CONTINUE, TC-END messages from the originating network HLR
The relevant SCCP parameters in the subsequent messages from the HLR A
transporting TC-CONTINUE and TC-END are shown in table 7.2. All other SCCP
parameters shall be as indicated in ETS 300 356-18.
Table 7.2: SCCP parameters used by HLR A for TC-CONTINUE, TC-END
* * *
SCCP PARAMETERS for the message\ PARAMETER VALUE transporting TC-CONTINUE, TC-
END
CdPA-Called Party Address The Called Party Address is the E.164 address of the
calling entity in the destination network that was received in the first
response message from the destination network (note 1).
CgPA-Calling Party Address E.164 number of HLR A. This may be in either
international or national E.164 format as used in the message transporting TC-
BEGIN, see subclause 7.4.1.
SSN- Subsystem Number 0000 1011\ (See ETS 300 356-18)
TT- Translation Type 0001 0001\ (See ETS 300 356-18)
Other SCCP Parameters See ETS 300 356-18
NOTE 1 If the destination network is a GSM PLMN, this is E.164 number of HLR
B.
* * *
## 7.3 Addressing of messages at the destination PLMN
### 7.3.1 TC-CONTINUE, TC-END messages from the destination network HLR
The relevant SCCP parameters in the first and subsequent messages from the HLR
B transporting TC-CONTINUE and TC-END are shown in table 7.3. All other SCCP
parameters shall be as indicated in ETS 300 356-18.
Table 7.3: SCCP parameters for TC-CONTINUE, TC-END used by HLR B
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | SCCP PARAMETERS for the message\ | PARAMETER VALUE | | transporting TC-CONTINUE, TC-END | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | CdPA-Called Party Address | The Called Party Address is the | | | E.164 address of the calling | | | entity in the originating | | | network that was received in the | | | first message transporting | | | TC-BEGIN from the originating | | | network (note 1). | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | CgPA-Calling Party Address | E.164 number of HLR B. This may | | | be in either international or | | | national E.164 format, see | | | subclause 7.4.2 (note 2) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | SSN- Subsystem Number | 0000 1011\ | | | (See ETS 300 356-18) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | TT- Translation Type | 0001 0001\ | | | (See ETS 300 356-18) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Other SCCP Parameters | See ETS 300 356-18 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | NOTE 1 If the originating | | | network is a GSM PLMN, this is | | | E.164 number of HLR A. | | | | | | NOTE 2 The E.164 number of HLRB | | | is used as this allows any | | | impact of other network features | | | to be minimised. | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
## 7.4 Number formats of the SCCP address parameters
The Called and Calling Party Address information in SCCP should be in
international E.164 format. Optionally national format E.164 addresses may be
used in SCCP for routeing of national traffic. For this, the HLR has to modify
the addresses which are in international E.164 format to a national E.164
format. If a national format E.164 option is used, all involved network nodes
in a given country (i.e. the originating network, any transit networks and the
destination network) need support that option. As negotiation is not possible,
the option selected by the originating network shall determine the addressing
used for all messages which are a part of a single dialogue.
### 7.4.1 Originating PLMN
The Called and Calling Party Address information in SCCP should be in
international E.164 format.
The originating network HLR A may use the SCCP Called Party Address in
national E.164 format if the called destination (as indicated by the
translatedB-number) is in the same country as HLR A.
The originating network HLR A may use the SCCP Calling Party Address in
national E.164 format if the called destination (as indicated by the
translatedB-number) is in the same country as HLR A.
The originating network HLR A shall ensure that the SCCP Called and Calling
Party Addresses are either both in international format or national format.
### 7.4.2 Destination PLMN
The Called and Calling Party Address information in SCCP should be in
international E.164 format.
The destination network HLR B may use the SCCP Called Party Address in
national E.164 format if the originating network is in the same country as HLR
B.
The destination network HLR B may use the SCCP Calling Party Address in
national E.164 format if the originating network is in the same country as HLR
B.
The destination network HLR B shall ensure that the SCCP Called and Calling
Party Addresses are either both in international format or national format.
#