# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The absence of security in Signalling System No. 7 (SS7) networks is an
identified security weakness in 2G systems. This was formerly perceived not to
be a problem, since the SS7 networks were the provinces of a small number of
large institutions. This is no longer the case, and so there is now a need for
security precautions.
For 3G systems it is a clear goal to be able to protect inter-network SS7
signalling protocols. The protection is done by security gateways which are
located at the network border. As a consequence intra network SS7 signalling
is not protected and network elements other than Security Gateways are not
impacted.
# 1 Scope
The present document provides functional description of the SS7 Security
Gateway. The document covers also network architecture, routeing
considerations, and protocol details.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 29.002: \"Mobile Application Part (MAP) specification\".
[2] 3GPP TS 29.078: \"Customized Applications for Mobile network Enhanced
Logic (CAMEL) Phase 4; CAMEL Application Part (CAP) specification\".
[3] ETSI ETS 300 358: \"ISDN Completion of Calls to Busy Subscriber (CCBS)
supplementary service; Functional capabilities and information flows\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.066: \"Support of GSM Mobile Number Portability (MNP) stage
2\".
[5] ITU-T Recommendation Q.773: \"Specifications of Signalling System No.7;
Transaction capabilities formats and encoding\".
[6] 3GPP TS 33.200: \"3G Security; Network Domain Security (NDS); Mobile
Application Part (MAP) application layer security\".
[7] ITU-T Recommendation E.164: \" The international public telecommunication
numbering plan\".
[8] 3GPP TS 33.204: \"3G Security; Network Domain Security (NDS); Transaction
Capabilities Application Part (TCAP) user security\".
[9] ITU-T Recommendations Q.711 to Q.716 (07/96), White Book Signalling
Connection Control Part (SCCP).
[10] 3GPP TS 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [10] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[10].
TCAP user: Application Part identified by one of the following SCCP Subsystem
Numbers:\ 0000 0110 HLR (MAP)\ 0000 0111 VLR (MAP)\ 0000 1000 MSC (MAP)\ 0000
1001 EIR (MAP)\ 0000 1010 is allocated for evolution (possible Authentication
Centre)\ 1001 0001 GMLC (MAP)\ 1001 0010 CAP\ 1001 0011 gsmSCF (MAP) or IM-SSF
(MAP) or Presence Network Agent\ 1001 0101 SGSN (MAP)\ 1001 0110 GGSN (MAP)\
0000 1011 SSAP
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
CC Country Code
GSMA Global System for Mobile communications Association
IV Initialisation Vector
MAC Message Authentication Code
MNP Mobile Number Portability
MSISDN Mobile Station International ISDN Number
NDC National Destination Code
NE Network Entit
PLMN Public Land Mobile Network y
RN Routeing Number
SAD Security Association Database
SEG Security Gateway
SPD Security Policy Database
SPI Security Parameter Index
SRF Signalling Relay Functio
TCAP Transcaction Capabilities Application Part
UDT SCCP Unitdata message
XUDT SCCP Extended Unitdata message n
# 4 Network architecture
In a PLMN that employs SS7 Security Gateways all TCAP user signalling messages
entering or leaving the PLMN have to transit an SS7 Security Gateway which
belongs to the PLMN and which performs the protection of leaving (i.e.
outbound) messages and the protection checking and de-protection or blocking
of entering (i.e. inbound) messages.
One or several SS7 Security Gateways may be employed within a PLMN.
An SS7 Security Gateway may be co-located with any TCAP user NE or it may
stand alone. However, for the purpose of this document and without imposing
any restrictions, it is assumed that the SS7 Security Gateways is a stand
alone entity.
It is further assumed that the SS7 Security Gateways are located at the
boarder of the PLMN i.e. inbound messages transit an SS7 Security Gateway
before they reach any other node within the PLMN, and outbound messages
transit an SS7 Security Gateway immediately before reaching a node outside the
PLMN.
SS7 routeing is not impacted by the SS7 Security Gateway Architecture. As a
consequence SS7 Security Gateways are stateless at TCAP level: No TCAP
dialogue states are maintained in the SS7 Security Gateway since the outbound
dialogue request message may transit a different SS7 Security Gateway than the
corresponding inbound dialogue response message; similarly the inbound
dialogue request message may transit a different SS7 Security Gateway than the
corresponding outbound dialogue response message.
## 4.1 Scenarios
SS7 Security Gateways perform protection, de-protection, blocking and
unmodified passing of TCAP user messages depending on the scenario as
described below:
Note that scenarios 4.1.5, 4.1.6, 4.1.7, 4.1.8, and 4.1.9 are not applicable
if all PLMN\'s TCAP user NEs are interconnected by PLMN internal signalling
links and routing tables are set up not to allow these scenarios.
### 4.1.1 Outbound traffic (not yet protected) from own to foreign NE
This scenario is shown in figure 4.1.1. The message is originated at a NE
inside the PLMN. It may transit several transit nodes inside the PLMN before
it reaches the SS7 Security Gateway. This SS7 Security Gateway protects the
message according to the relevant Security Policy with the relevant Security
Association. The message may then transit several nodes outside the PLMN
(including an SS7 Security Gateway) before it reaches its destination.
Figure 4.1.1: Outbound traffic (not yet protected) from own to foreign NE
### 4.1.2 Inbound traffic from foreign to own NE
This scenario is shown in figure 4.1.2. The message is originated at a NE
outside the PLMN. It may transit several transit nodes (including an SS7
Security Gateway) outside the PLMN before it reaches the PLMN\'s SS7 Security
Gateway. This SS7 Security Gateway checks whether the message is correctly
protected according to the relevant security association. If it is not, the
message is blocked (discarded), otherwise it is de-protected. To determine the
relevant security association the fact that the message may have been relayed
by an MNP-SRF in a transit network (see Clause 4.1.10 and 5.1.2) needs to be
taken into account. After successful de-protection the message may then
transit several nodes inside the PLMN before it reaches the TCAP user NE.
Figure 4.1.2: Inbound traffic from foreign to own NE
### 4.1.3 Inbound transit traffic
This scenario is shown in figure 4.1.3. The message is originated at a NE
outside the transit PLMN. It may transit several transit nodes outside the
transit PLMN before it reaches the SS7 Security Gateway in inbound direction.
This SS7 Security Gateway passes the message unmodified. The message may then
transit several transit nodes inside the transit PLMN, another SS7 Security
Gateway of the transit PLMN in outbound direction (see Clause 4.1.4), and
several transit nodes outside the transit and destination PLMN (potentially
including an SS7 Security Gateway) before it reaches the destination PLMN.
Note: A PLMN operator may decide not to act as transit network for specific or
all combinations of origin and destination. In this case the SS7 Security
Gateway may block the inbound message.
Figure 4.1.3: Inbound transit traffic
### 4.1.4 Outbound transit traffic (not relayed)
This scenario is shown in figure 4.1.4. The message is originated at a NE
outside the transit PLMN. It may transit several transit nodes outside the
transit PLMN (including an SS7 Security Gateway), an SS7 Security Gateway of
the transit PLMN in inbound direction (see Clause 4.1.3), and several transit
nodes inside the transit PLMN before it reaches the SS7 Security Gateway in
outbound direction. This SS7 Security Gateway passes the message unmodified.
The message may then transit several transit nodes outside the transit and
destination PLMN (potentially including an SS7 Security Gateway) before it
reaches the destination PLMN.
Figure 4.1.4: Outbound transit traffic (not relayed)
### 4.1.5 Outbound traffic from own to own NE
This scenario is shown in figure 4.1.5. The message is originated at a NE
inside the PLMN. It may transit several transit nodes inside the PLMN before
it reaches the SS7 Security Gateway in outbound direction. This SS7 Security
Gateway protects the message according to the relevant Security Association.
The message may then transit several transit nodes outside the PLMN, another
SS7 Security Gateway of the PLMN in inbound direction (see Clause 4.1.6) and
several transit nodes within the PLMN before it reaches the destination NE
inside the PLMN.
Figure 4.1.5: Outbound traffic from own to own NE
### 4.1.6 Inbound traffic from own to own NE
This scenario is shown in figure 4.1.6. The message is originated at a NE
inside the PLMN. It may transit several transit nodes inside the PLMN, an SS7
Security Gateway of the PLMN in outbound direction (see Clause 4.1.5), and
several transit nodes outside the PLMN before it reaches the SS7 Security
Gateway in inbound direction. This SS7 Security Gateway checks whether the
message is correctly protected according to the relevant Security Association.
If it is not, the message is blocked (discarded), otherwise it is de-
protected. The message may then transit several transit nodes inside the PLMN
before it reaches the destination NE inside the PLMN.
Figure 4.1.6: Inbound traffic from own to own NE
### 4.1.7 Outbound traffic from foreign to own NE
This scenario is shown in figure 4.1.7. The message is originated at a NE
outside the PLMN. It may transit several transit nodes outside the PLMN, an
SS7 Security Gateway of the PLMN in inbound direction (see Clause 4.1.2), and
several transit nodes inside the PLMN before it reaches the SS7 Security
Gateway in outbound direction. This SS7 Security Gateway protects the message
according to the reverse relevant Security Association. The message may then
transit several transit nodes outside the PLMN, another SS7 Security Gateway
of the PLMN in inbound direction (see Clause 4.1.2) and several transit nodes
within the PLMN before it reaches the destination NE inside the PLMN.
Figure 4.1.7: Outbound traffic from foreign to own NE
### 4.1.8 Inbound traffic from own to foreign NE
This scenario is shown in figure 4.1.8. The message is originated at a NE
inside the PLMN. It may transit several transit nodes inside the PLMN, an SS7
Security Gateway of the PLMN in outbound direction (see Clause 4.1.1), and
several transit nodes outside the PLMN before it reaches the SS7 Security
Gateway in inbound direction. This SS7 Security Gateway checks whether the
message is correctly protected according to the relevant security association.
If it is not, the message is blocked (discarded); otherwise it is passed
unmodified. The message may then transit several transit nodes inside the
PLMN, another SS7 Security Gateway of the PLMN in outbound direction (see
Clause 4.1.9) and several transit nodes outside the PLMN (including an SS7
Security Gateway) before it reaches the destination NE outside the PLMN.
Figure 4.1.8: Inbound traffic from own to foreign NE
### 4.1.9 Outbound traffic (already protected) from own to foreign NE
This scenario is shown in figure 4.1.9. The message is originated at a NE
inside the PLMN. It may transit several transit nodes inside the PLMN, an SS7
Security Gateway of the PLMN in outbound direction (see Clause 4.1.1), several
transit nodes outside the PLMN, an SS7 Security Gateway of the PLMN in inbound
direction (see Clause 4.1.8), and several transit nodes inside the PLMN before
it reaches the SS7 Security Gateway. This SS7 Security Gateway passes the
message unmodified. The message may then transit several transit nodes outside
the PLMN (including an SS7 Security Gateway) before it reaches the destination
NE outside the PLMN.
Figure 4.1.9: Outbound traffic (already protected) from own to foreign NE
### 4.1.10 Outbound transit traffic (relayed by SRF)
This scenario is shown in figure 4.1.10. The message (originally destined for
the PLMN) is originated at a NE outside the transit PLMN. It may transit
several transit nodes outside the transit PLMN (including an SS7 Security
Gateway), an SS7 Security Gateway of the transit PLMN in inbound direction
(see Clause 4.1.2), several transit nodes inside the transit PLMN, and an MNP-
SRF which replaces the SCCP called party address of the message before it
reaches the SS7 Security Gateway in outbound direction. This SS7 Security
Gateway recognizes that the message was relayed by an SRF by analyzing the
SCCP called party address and protects the message with the relevant Security
Association. The message may then transit several transit nodes outside the
transit and destination PLMN (potentially including an SS7 Security Gateway)
before it reaches the destination PLMN.
Figure 4.1.10: Outbound transit traffic (relayed by SRF)
# 5 Detailed Behaviour of the SS7 Security Gateway
## 5.1 TCAP user traffic
### 5.1.1 General
With regard to TCAP user traffic the SS7 Security Gateway performs message
protection, protection checking and de-protection, transparent passing, and
blocking of messages depending on the message\'s origin (SCCP calling party
address), the message\'s destination (SCCP called party address), and the
message\'s direction (inbound or outbound) as shown in figure 5.1.1.
Figure 5.1.1 Process SS7 Security Gateway (sheet 1 of 2)
Figure 5.1.1 Process SS7 Security Gateway (sheet 2 of 2)
Figure 5.1.2 Macro Check_Direction (sheet 1 of 1)
Figure 5.1.3 Macro Inbound_own_to_own (sheet 1 of 1)
**The decision box \"message contains protectable parameter\" takes the
\"yes\"-exit if\ user-information is present in the Dialogue Portion, or\ a
parameter is present in an Invoke or ReturnError Component, or\ a result is
present in a ReturnResult Component.**
**The decision box \"message is not protected\" takes the \"no\"-exit if\
user-information within the Dialogue Portion is identified by the object
identifier** ss7-ProtectedDialogueAS or\ operationCode within an Invoke or
ReturnResult Component takes the global value ss7-ProtectedDialogueAS or\
errorCode within an ReturnError Component takes the global value
ss7-ProtectedDialogueAS.
The decision box \"message should be protected according to SPD\" takes the
\"yes\"-exit if the message\'s SCCP calling party address identifies a PLMN
for which an SPD entry for incoming messages exists.
The decision box \"fall back allowed according to SPD\" takes the \"yes\"-exit
if the SPD entry for incoming messages is marked \"fall back allowed\".
**The decision box \"calling party address consistent with SPI\" takes the
\"yes\"-exit if the SPI within the message\'s Security Header points to an SA
that was negotiated with the PLMN derived from the message\'s SCCP calling
party address.**
**The decision box \"protection mode acceptable according to SPD\" takes the
\"yes\"-exit if the protection mode within the message\'s Security Header is
found in the SPD-entry for incoming messages.**
Figure 5.1.4 Macro Inbound_own_to_foreign (sheet 1 of 1)
**The decision box \"message contains protectable parameter\" takes the
\"yes\"-exit if\ user-information is present in the Dialogue Portion, or\ a
parameter is present in an Invoke or ReturnError Component, or\ a result is
present in a ReturnResult Component.**
**The decision box \"message is not protected\" takes the \"no\"-exit if\
user-information within the Dialogue Portion is identified by the object
identifier** ss7-ProtectedDialogueAS or\ operationCode within an Invoke or
ReturnResult Component takes the global value ss7-ProtectedDialogueAS or\
errorCode within an ReturnError Component takes the global value
ss7-ProtectedDialogueAS.
The decision box \"message should be protected according to SPD\" takes the
\"yes\"-exit if the message\'s SCCP called party address identifies a PLMN for
which an SPD entry for outgoing messages exists.
The decision box \"fall back allowed according to SPD\" takes the \"yes\"-exit
if the SPD entry for outgoing messages is marked \"fall back allowed\".
**The decision box \"called party address consistent with SPI\" takes the
\"yes\"-exit if the SPI within the message\'s Security Header points to an SA
that was negotiated with the PLMN derived from the message\'s SCCP called
party address.**
**The decision box \"protection mode correct\" takes the \"yes\"-exit if the
presence/absence of octets 10 and 11 within the message\'s Security Header is
consistent with the protection mode in the SPD-entry for outgoing messages.
Note that octets 10 and 11 of the Security Header are only used to construct
the IV which is not needed (and shall therefore be absent) if the protection
mode is \"authenticity and integrity\".**
Figure 5.1.5 Macro Inbound_foreign_to_own (sheet 1 of 2)
Figure 5.1.5 Macro Inbound_foreign_to_own (sheet 2 of 2)
**The decision box \"message contains protectable parameter\" takes the
\"yes\"-exit if\ user-information is present in the Dialogue Portion, or\ a
parameter is present in an Invoke or ReturnError Component, or\ a result is
present in a ReturnResult Component.**
**The decision box \"message is not protected\" takes the \"no\"-exit if\
user-information within the Dialogue Portion is identified by the object
identifier** ss7-ProtectedDialogueAS or\ operationCode within an Invoke or
ReturnResult Component takes the global value ss7-ProtectedDialogueAS or\
errorCode within an ReturnError Component takes the global value
ss7-ProtectedDialogueAS.
**The decision box \"relayed by SRF\" takes the \"yes\"-exit if the SCCP
called party address consists of a Routing Number (RN) pointing to the own
network and an MSISDN pointing to a relay network within the portability
cluster.**
**The decision box \"message should be protected according to SPD (relay
network)\" takes the \"yes\"-exit** if an SPD entry for incoming messages
exists for the relay network.
**The decision box \"Fall Back allowed according to SPD (relay network)\"
takes the \"yes\"-exit** if the SPD entry for incoming messages (from the
relay network) is marked \"fall back allowed\".
**The decision box \"message should be protected according to SPD (orig.
network)\" takes the \"yes\"-exit** if the message\'s SCCP calling party
address identifies a PLMN for which an SPD entry for incoming messages exists.
**The decision box \"Fall Back allowed according to SPD (relay network)\"
takes the \"yes\"-exit** if the SPD entry for incoming messages (from the
network identified by the SCCP calling party address) is marked \"fall back
allowed\".
**The decision box \"calling party address consistent with SPI\" takes the
\"yes\"-exit if the SPI within the message\'s Security Header points to an SA
that was negotiated with the PLMN derived from the message\'s SCCP calling
party address.**
**The decision box \"protection mode acceptable according to SPD (relay
network)\" takes the \"yes\"-exit if the presence/absence of octets 10 and 11
within the message\'s Security Header is consistent with a protection mode
found in the SPD-entry (for incoming messages from the network identified by
the SPI). Note that octets 10 and 11 of the Security Header are only used to
construct the IV which is not needed (and shall therefore be absent) if the
protection mode is \"authenticity and integrity\".**
**The decision box \"protection mode acceptable according to SPD (orig.
network)\" takes the \"yes\"-exit if the presence/absence of octets 10 and 11
within the message\'s Security Header is consistent with a protection mode
found in the SPD-entry (for incoming messages from the network identified by
the SCCP calling party address). Note that octets 10 and 11 of the Security
Header are only used to construct the IV which is not needed (and shall
therefore be absent) if the protection mode is \"authenticity and
integrity\".**
Figure 5.1.6 Macro Outbound_own_to_own (sheet 1 of 1)
**The decision box \"message contains protectable parameter\" takes the
\"yes\"-exit if\ user-information is present in the Dialogue Portion, or\ a
parameter is present in an Invoke or ReturnError Component, or\ a result is
present in a ReturnResult Component.**
**The decision box \"message needs to be protected according to SPD\" takes
the \"yes\"-exit if an SPD entry for outgoing messages exists (for messages
sent to the own network).**
Figure 5.1.7 Macro Outbound_own_to_foreign (sheet 1 of 1)
**The decision box \"message contains protectable parameter\" takes the
\"yes\"-exit if\ user-information is present in the Dialogue Portion, or\ a
parameter is present in an Invoke or ReturnError Component, or\ a result is
present in a ReturnResult Component.**
**The decision box \"message is protected\" takes the \"yes\"-exit if\ user-
information within the Dialogue Portion is identified by the object
identifier** ss7-ProtectedDialogueAS or\ operationCode within an Invoke or
ReturnResult Component takes the global value ss7-ProtectedDialogueAS or\
errorCode within an ReturnError Component takes the global value
ss7-ProtectedDialogueAS.
**The decision box \"message needs to be protected according to SPD\" takes
the \"yes\"-exit if an SPD entry for outgoing messages exists (for messages
sent to the network identified by the SCCP called party address).**
Figure 5.1.8 Macro Outbound_foreign _to_own (sheet 1 of 1)
**The decision box \"message contains protectable parameter\" takes the
\"yes\"-exit if\ user-information is present in the Dialogue Portion, or\ a
parameter is present in an Invoke or ReturnError Component, or\ a result is
present in a ReturnResult Component.**
**The decision box \"message needs to be protected according to SPD\" takes
the \"yes\"-exit if an SPD entry for incoming messages exists (for messages
received from the network identified by the SCCP calling party address). If
more than one acceptable protection modes are present, one may be chosen.**
**The task box \"protect message with reverse SA\" performs protection of the
message with the SA that is to be used for de-protection when receiving
messages from the network in question.**
Figure 5.1.9 Macro Outbound_foreign _to_foreign (sheet 1 of 1)
**The decision box \"message contains protectable parameter\" takes the
\"yes\"-exit if\ user-information is present in the Dialogue Portion, or\ a
parameter is present in an Invoke or ReturnError Component, or\ a result is
present in a ReturnResult Component.**
**The decision box \"message is protected\" takes the \"yes\"-exit if\ user-
information within the Dialogue Portion is identified by the object
identifier** ss7-ProtectedDialogueAS or\ operationCode within an Invoke or
ReturnResult Component takes the global value ss7-ProtectedDialogueAS or\
errorCode within an ReturnError Component takes the global value
ss7-ProtectedDialogueAS.
**The decision box \"relayed by SRF\" takes the \"yes\"-exit if the SCCP
called party address consists of a Routing Number (RN) pointing to the own
network and an MSISDN pointing to a relay network within the portability
cluster.**
**The decision box \"message needs to be protected according to SPD takes the
\"yes\"-exit if an SPD entry for outgoing messages exists (for messages sent
to the network identified by the SCCP called party address).**
### 5.1.2 Interactions with Mobile Number Portability
**In Mobile Number Portability scenarios (see 3GPP TS 23.066 [4]) a Signalling
Relay Function (SRF) may relay SCCP traffic by modifying the SCCP called party
address as shown in figure 4.1.10.**
**A relayed message\'s SCCP called party address consists of a Routing Number
(RN) and an MSISDN (see 3GPP TS 23.066 [4]).**
**An SS7 Security Gateway needs to recognize (by analyzing the SCCP called
party address) whether or not a message was relayed in order to**
a) distinguish outbound transit traffic relayed by an SRF in the own network
(which needs to be protected) from other outbound transit traffic (which needs
to be passed transparently), and to
b) distinguish inbound terminating traffic relayed by an SRF within the
portability cluster (where the check needs to be based on the policy
identified by the MSISDN within the SCCP called party address) from other
inbound terminating traffic (where the check needs to be based on the policy
identified by the SCCP calling party address).
NOTE : In MNP-SRF scenarios, when the relaying PLMN does not make use of TCAP-
User Security, messages sent from a source PLMN to a destination PLMN via the
relaying PLMN are unprotected although protection may be desired for messages
sent from the source PLMN to the destination PLMN. Network operators may
therefore want to negotiate use of TCAP-User Security with all PLMNs of a
portability cluster.
### 5.1.3 Interactions with SCCP segmentation
**When the incoming SCCP message makes use of SCCP segmenting (i.e. several
XUDT messages are received rather than one UDT or a single XUDT message) the
SS7 Security Gateway has to perform reassembling before processing the
message, and it may have to perform segmenting before sending the processed
message.**
**It may happen that the received SCCP message (containing an unprotected TCAP
user payload) is not segmented (UDT or single XUDT), but after security
processing the message\'s length is increased, so that the processed message
needs to be segmented before it is sent. This situation may be undesired
(since transfer of XUDT messages is not guaranteed by all transit networks)
but cannot be avoided by the SS7 Security Gateway (see note).**
**Note: T** he support of message segmentation at the SCCP layer in all
transit networks could be enforced by mandating the usage of **the White Book
SCCP [9]. GSMA would w** ork with International Carriers to ensure that fully
operationally-verified support of XUDT is available before TCAPsec gateways
are deployed.
**It may also happen that the received (protected) message is segmented
(several XUDTs), but after security processing the message\'s length is
decreased, so that the processed message does not need to be segmented before
it is sent. In this case the de-protecting SS7 Security Gateway needs to know
some SCCP-details of the original unprotected message as sent from the
originating NE to the protecting SS7 Security Gateway. These original SCCP
information needs to be transported within the TCAP-user parameter of the
protected message. Depending on this information the de-protecting
SS7-Security Gateway can decide whether to send a UDT or a single XUDT message
towards the destination. .**
**In cases where the received unprotected message is not segmented but the (to
be) sent protected message needs to be segmented, the SS7 Security Gateway has
to replace the message\'s SCCP calling party address with its own address.
This is to guarantee uniqueness of the combination of the SCCP calling party
address and the Segmentation local reference in the (to be) sent message. The
original SCCP calling party address needs to be transported within the TCAP-
user parameter of the (first segment of the) protected message.**
**If the received protected message contains an original SCCP calling party
address within the TCAP-user parameter, the de-protecting SS7 Security Gateway
has to replace the SCCP calling party address with the original SCCP calling
party address before forwarding the de-protected message to the destination.**
**An SS7 Security Gateway that has sent a segmented, protected message with a
replaced SCCP calling party address may receive an SCCP XUDTS message with its
own address as called party address. In this case the SS7 Security Gateway
shall retrieve the original SCCP calling party address, the original TCAP
Message type and TCAP transaction id from the data parameter of the received
XUDTS message and construct a UDTS message with unmodified Return cause,
called party address replaced with the retrieved original calling party
address, unmodified calling party address, and Data parameter containing the
retrieved TCAP message type and TCAP transaction id, and forward it to the
destination.**
### 5.1.4 Protocol details
#### 5.1.4.1 Transformation of unprotected message to protected message
The unprotected TCAP-user message is either transported within an SCCP UDT
message or it is transported within a single SCCP XUDT message or it is
segmented over several SCCP XUDT messages. Other SCCP message types are not
subject to protection.
The transformation process is done in 3 steps:
**Step 1: SCCP re-assembly of the unprotected message**
In a first step the unprotected message is transformed into an intermediate
unprotected representation which is made up of the following parameters:
SCCP Message type\ SCCP Protocol class\ SCCP Hop counter (optional)\ SCCP
Called party address\ SCCP Calling party address\ SCCP Segmentation local
reference (optional)\ SCCP Importance (optional)\ SCCP Data (made up of the
following parameters: TCAP Message type\ TCAP orig. Transaction Id (optional)\
TCAP dest. Transaction Id (optional)\ TCAP Dialogue Portion (optional)\ TCAP
Component Portion (optional))
If the unprotected message was transported within an SCCP UDT message, the
intermediate unprotected representation of the message takes the following
values:
SCCP Message type UDT\ SCCP Protocol class same as in the received UDT
message\ SCCP Hop counter absent\ SCCP Called party address same as in the
received UDT message\ SCCP Calling party address same as in the received UDT
message\ SCCP Segmentation local reference absent\ SCCP Importance absent\
SCCP Data same as in the received UDT message
If the unprotected message was transported within a single SCCP XUDT message,
the intermediate unprotected representation of the message takes the following
values:
SCCP Message type XUDT\ SCCP Protocol class same as in the received XUDT
message\ SCCP Hop counter same as in the received XUDT message\ SCCP Called
party address same as in the received XUDT message\ SCCP Calling party address
same as in the received XUDT message\ SCCP Segmentation local reference
absent\ SCCP Importance same as in the received XUDT message\ SCCP Data same
as in the received XUDT message
If the unprotected message was segmented over several SCCP XUDT messages, the
intermediate unprotected representation of the message takes the following
values:
SCCP Message type XUDT\ SCCP Protocol class same as in the first received XUDT
message\ SCCP Hop counter same as in the first received XUDT message\ SCCP
Called party address same as in the first received XUDT message\ SCCP Calling
party address same as in the first received XUDT message\ SCCP Segmentation
local reference same as in the first received XUDT message\ SCCP Importance
same as in the first received XUDT message\ SCCP Data concatenation of the
received segments (for details of the re-\ assembly procedure see ITU-T Q.714
[9])
**Step 2: Protection**
In a second step the intermediate unprotected representation is transformed
into an intermediate protected representation which is made up of the
following parameters:
SCCP Hop counter (optional)\ SCCP Called party address\ SCCP Calling party
address\ SCCP Segmentation local reference (optional)\ SCCP Importance
(optional)\ Original SCCP info (made up of the following parameters: Original
SCCP Calling party address (optional)\ Original SCCP Message type\ Original
SCCP Protocol class)\ Original TCAP info (made up of the following parameters:
Original TCAP Message type\ otid (optional)\ dtid (optional))\ TCAPsec
Security header\ TCAPsec Cipher- or Cleartext\ TCAPsecMAC
The intermediate unprotected representation of the message takes the following
values:
SCCP Hop counter same as SCCP Hop counter in the intermediate\ unprotected
representation\ SCCP Called party address same as in the intermediate
unprotected representation\ SCCP Calling party address same as in the
intermediate unprotected representation\ SCCP Segmentation local reference
same as in the intermediate unprotected representation\ SCCP Importance same
as SCCP Importance in the intermediate\ unprotected representation\ Original
SCCP info made up of the following parameters:\ Original SCCP Message type
same as SCCP Message type in the intermediate\ unprotected representation\
Original SCCP Protocol class same as SCCP Protocol class in the intermediate\
unprotected representation\ Original TCAP info made up of the following
parameters:\ Original TCAP Message type same as TCAP Message type in the
intermediate\ unprotected representation\ TCAP otid same as TCAP orig.
Transaction Id in the intermediate\ unprotected representation\ TCAP dtid same
as TCAP dest. Transaction Id in the intermediate\ unprotected representation\
TCAPsec Security header See 3GPP TS 33.204 [8]\ TCAPsec Cipher- or Cleartext
result of applying the encryption function to the\ concatenation of Dialogue
Portion and Component\ Portion of the intermediate unprotected representation\
(ciphertext), or concatenation of Dialogue Portion and\ Component Portion of
the intermediate unprotected\ representation(cleartext)\ TCAPsec MAC result of
applying the integrity function to the\ concatenation of Security header and
Cipher- or\ Cleartext of the intermediate protected representation.
**Step 3: SCCP segmentation of the protected message**
In a third step the intermediate protected representation is transformed into
a single SCCP UDT message, a single SCCP XUDT message, or several SCCP XUDT
messages depending on the Original SCCP Message type of the intermediate
protected representation and the need for segmentation as follows:
If the Original SCCP Message type in the intermediate protected representation
takes the value \"UDT\" and the message need not be segmented, it is
transformed into a single SCCP UDT message with following parameter values:
Message Type UDT\ Protocol class same as Original SCCP Protocol class in the
intermediate protected representation\ Called party address same as SCCP
Called party address in the intermediate protected representation\ Calling
party address same as SCCP Calling party address in the intermediate protected
representation\ Data (see below)
If the Original SCCP Message type in the intermediate protected representation
takes the value \"XUDT\" and the message need not be segmented, it is
transformed into a single SCCP XUDT message with following parameter values:
Message Type XUDT\ Protocol class same as Original SCCP Protocol class in the
intermediate protected representation\ Hop counter same as Original SCCP Hop
counter in the intermediate protected representation\ Called party address
same as SCCP Called party address in the intermediate protected
representation\ Calling party address same as SCCP Calling party address in
the intermediate protected representation\ Data (see below)\ Segmentation
absent\ Importance same as Original SCCP Importance in the intermediate
protected representation
If the Original SCCP Message type in the intermediate protected representation
takes the value \"UDT\" and the message needs to be segmented, it is
transformed into several SCCP XUDT message with following parameter values:
Message Type XUDT\ Protocol class first segment: class 1 (in sequence
delivery), return option: same as in Original SCCP Protocol class in the
intermediate protected representation\ subsequent segment: class 1 (in
sequence delivery), return option: no special options\ Hop counter absent\
Called party address same as SCCP Called party address in the intermediate
protected representation\ Calling party address the SS7 Security Gateway\'s
own address\ Data (segment of see below)\ Segmentation see [9]\ Importance
absent
If the Original SCCP Message type in the intermediate protected representation
takes the value \"XUDT\" and the message needs to be segmented, it is
transformed into several SCCP XUDT message with following parameter values:
Message Type XUDT\ Protocol class first segment: class 1 (in sequence
delivery), return option: same as in Original SCCP Protocol class in the
intermediate protected representation\ subsequent segment: class 1 (in
sequence delivery), return option: no special options\ Hop counter same as
Original SCCP Hop counter in the intermediate protected representation\ Called
party address same as SCCP Called party address in the intermediate protected
representation\ Calling party address if SCCP Segmentation Local reference is
present in the intermediate protected representation: same as SCCP Calling
party address in the intermediate protected representation;\ otherwise: the
SS7 Security Gateway\'s own address\ Data (segment of see below)\ Segmentation
see [9]; if SCCP Segmentation Local reference is present in the intermediate
protected representation, the same value shall be used.\ Importance same as
Original SCCP Importance in the intermediate protected representation.
The SCCP Data parameter (re-assembled) shall take the following value:
TCAP Message type unidirectional\ TCAP DialoguePortion absent\ TCAP
ComponentPortion one invoke component with:\ invokeId (any legal value)\
linkedId absent\ operationCode local value 90 (secureTransport)\ parameter ANY
DEFINED BY operationCode
**.\$SS7-Secure-Transport-Operation-and-DataTypes** {
itu-t identified-organization (4) etsi (0) mobileDomain (0)
gsm-Network (1) modules (3) ss7-Secure-Transport-Operation-and-DataTypes (27)
version1 (1)}
DEFINITIONS
IMPLICIT TAGS
::=
BEGIN
EXPORTS
secureTransport
;
IMPORTS
OPERATION
FROM Remote-Operations-Information-Objects {
joint-iso-itu-t remote-operations(4)
informationObjects(5) version1(0)}
;
secureTransport OPERATION ::= {
ARGUMENT
SecureTransportArg
CODE local:90 }
SecureTransportArg ::= SEQUENCE {
originalSCCP-Info [0] OriginalSCCP-Info OPTIONAL,
originalTCAP-Info [1] OriginalTCAP-Info,
protectedPayload [2] ProtectedPayload
}
OriginalSCCP-Info ::= SEQUENCE {
originalSCCP-MessageType [0] OriginalSCCP-MessageType OPTIONAL,
\-- original SCCP-MessageType shall be present if it is different from the
actual
\-- SCCP-Message type; otherwise it may be absent
originalSCCP-ProtocolClass [1] OriginalSCCP-ProtocolClass OPTIONAL
\-- originalSCCP-ProtocolClass shall be present if it is different from the
actual
\-- SCCP-Protocol class (first segment); otherwise it may be absent.
originalSCCP-CallingPartyAddress [2] OriginalSCCP-CallingPartyAddress
OPTIONAL,
\-- originalSCCP-CallingPartyAddress shall be present if and only if the
actual
\-- SCCP Calling party address is the SS7 Security Gateway\'s own address
}
OriginalSCCP-MessageType ::= ENUMERATED {
udt (9),
xudt (17) }
\-- this parameter shall take the value of the Original SCCP Message type from
the
\-- intermediate protected representation
OriginalSCCP-ProtocolClass ::= OCTET STRING(SIZE(1))
\-- coded according to ITU-T Q.713
**OriginalSCCP-CallingPartyAddress** ::= OCTET STRING(SIZE(3..18))
\-- coded according to ITU-T Q.713
\-- Octet 1: Address indicator
\-- Octets 2 - n: Address
OriginalTCAP-Info ::= SEQUENCE {
originalTCAP-MessageType OriginalTCAP-MessageType,
otid OTID OPTIONAL,
dtid DTID OPTIONAL
}
OriginalTCAP-MessageType ::= ENUMERATED {
unidirectional (97),
begin (98),
end (100),
continue (101),
abort (103)}
\-- this parameter shall take the value of the Original TCAP Message type from
the
\-- intermediate protected representation
**OTID** ::= OCTET STRING(SIZE(1..4))
\-- OTID shall take the value of the TCAP otid from the intermediate protected
\-- representation
**DTID** ::= OCTET STRING(SIZE(1..4))
\-- DTID shall take the value of the TCAP dtid from the intermediate protected
\-- representation
**ProtectedPayload** ::= OCTET STRING(SIZE(13..3438))
\-- The protected payload is the concatenation of
\-- 9 or 11 octets SecurityHeader,
\-- n octets ciphertext or cleartext, and
\-- 4 octets MAC
\-- The SecurityHeader is coded as follows (see 3GPP TS 33.204 [8]):
\-- Octets 1-4: SPI
\-- Octets 5-8: TVP. The TVP is a 32 bit time stamp. Its value is binary coded
\-- and indicates the number of intervals of 100 milliseconds
\-- elapsed since 1st January 2002, 0:00:00 UTC
\-- Octet 9: Indicator Byte with bits 7-1 spare and bit 0 if set indicates
presence of
\-- Octets 10-11
\-- Octet 10: SS7 SEG-Id
\-- Octet 11: Prop
.#END
#### 5.1.4.2 Transformation of protected message to unprotected message
The protected TCAP-user message is either transported within an SCCP UDT
message or it is transported within a single SCCP XUDT message or it is
segmented over several SCCP XUDT messages. Other SCCP message types are not
subject to protection.
The transformation process is done in 3 steps:
**Step 1: SCCP re-assembly of the protected message**
In a first step the protected message is transformed into the intermediate
protected representation (see chapter 5.1.4.1):
If the protected message was transported within an SCCP UDT message, the
intermediate protected representation of the message takes the following
values:
SCCP Hop counter absent\ SCCP Called party address same as in the received UDT
message\ SCCP Calling party address same as in the received UDT message\ SCCP
Segmentation local reference absent\ SCCP Importance absent\ Original SCCP
info\ Original SCCP Calling party address absent\ Original SCCP Message type
UDT\ Original SCCP Protocol class same as SCCP Protocol class in the received
UDT message\ Original TCAP info\ Original TCAP Message type same as Original
TCAP Message type in the TCAP-invoke\ component parameter of the received
message\ otid same as otid in the TCAP-invoke component parameter of the\
received message\ dtid same as dtid in the TCAP-invoke component parameter of
the\ received message\ TCAPsec Security header same as received in the TCAP-
invoke component parameter of the\ received message\ TCAPsec Cipher- or
Cleartext same as received in the TCAP-invoke component parameter of the\
received message\ TCAPsec MAC same as received in the TCAP-invoke component
parameter of the\ received message
If the protected message was transported within a single SCCP XUDT message,
the intermediate protected representation of the message takes the following
values:
SCCP Hop counter same as in the received XUDT message\ SCCP Called party
address same as in the received XUDT message\ SCCP Calling party address same
as in the received XUDT message\ SCCP Segmentation local reference absent\
SCCP Importance same as in the received XUDT message\ Original SCCP info\
Original SCCP Calling party address absent\ Original SCCP Message type same as
OriginalSCCP-MessageType in the TCAP-invoke\ component parameter of the
received message\ Original SCCP Protocol class same as OriginalSCCP-
ProtocolClass in the TCAP-invoke\ component parameter of the received message\
Original TCAP info\ Original TCAP Message type same as Original TCAP Message
type in the TCAP-invoke\ component parameter of the received message\ otid
same as otid in the TCAP-invoke component parameter of the\ received message\
dtid same as dtid in the TCAP-invoke component parameter of the\ received
message\ TCAPsec Security header same as received in the TCAP-invoke component
parameter of the\ received message\ TCAPsec Cipher- or Cleartext same as
received in the TCAP-invoke component parameter of the\ received message\
TCAPsec MAC same as received in the TCAP-invoke component parameter of the\
received message
If the protected message was transported within several SCCP XUDT message, the
intermediate protected representation of the message takes the following
values:
SCCP Hop counter same as in the first received XUDT message\ SCCP Called party
address same as in the first received XUDT message\ SCCP Calling party address
same as in the first received XUDT message\ SCCP Segmentation local reference
same as in the first received XUDT message\ SCCP Importance same as in the
first received XUDT message\ Original SCCP info\ Original SCCP Calling party
address same as OriginalSCCP-CallingPartyAddress in the TCAP-invoke\ component
parameter of the received reassembled message\ Original SCCP Message type same
as OriginalSCCP-MessageType in the TCAP-invoke\ component parameter of the
received reassembled message\ Original SCCP Protocol class same as
OriginalSCCP-ProtocolClass in the TCAP-invoke\ component parameter of the
received reassembled message\ Original TCAP info\ Original TCAP Message type
same as OriginalTCAP-MessageType in the TCAP-invoke\ component parameter of
the received reassembled message\ otid same as otid in the TCAP-invoke
component parameter of the\ received reassembled message\ dtid same as dtid in
the TCAP-invoke component parameter of the\ received reassembled message\
TCAPsec Security header same as received in the TCAP-invoke component
parameter of the\ received reassembled message\ TCAPsec Cipher- or Cleartext
same as received in the TCAP-invoke component parameter of the\ received
reassembled message\ TCAPsec MAC same as received in the TCAP-invoke component
parameter of the\ received reassembled message
**Step 2: De-Protection**
In a second step the intermediate protected representation is transformed into
an intermediate unprotected representation (see chapter 5.1.4.1):
The intermediate unprotected representation of the message takes the following
values:
SCCP Message type same as OriginalSCCP-MessageType from the TCAP-invoke\
component\'s parameter of the intermediate protected\ representation\ SCCP
Protocol class same as OriginalSCCP-ProtocolClass from the TCAP-invoke\
component\'s parameter of the intermediate protected\ representation\ SCCP Hop
counter same as SCCP Hop counter in the intermediate protected\
representation\ SCCP Called party address same as SCCP Called party address in
the intermediate\ protected representation\ SCCP Calling party address if
OriginalSCCP-CallingPartyAddress is present in the\ intermediate protected
representation, its value is taken;\ otherwise same as SCCP Calling party
address of the\ intermediate protected representation\ SCCP Segmentation local
reference if SCCP Message type in the intermediate unprotected\ representation
is XUDT, then same as in the intermediate protected representation; otherwise
absent.\ SCCP Importance same as in the intermediate unprotected
representation\ SCCP Data :\ TCAP Message type same as OriginalTCAP-
MessageType in the intermediate\ protected representation\ TCAP orig.
Transaction Id same as otid in the intermediate protected representation\ TCAP
dest. Transaction Id same as dtid in the intermediate protected
representation\ TCAP Dialogue Portion (optional) First part of the cleartext
(as indicated by TAG and LENGTH\ according to BER). If encryption was applied
then ciphertext\ needs to be converted first to cleartext\ TCAP Component
Portion (optional)) second part of the cleartext (as indicated by TAG and\
LENGTH according to BER). If encryption was applied then\ ciphertext needs to
be converted first to cleartext
**Step 3: SCCP segmentation of the unprotected message**
In a third step the intermediate unprotected representation is transformed
into a single SCCP UDT message, a single SCCP XUDT message, or several SCCP
XUDT messages depending on the SCCP Message type of the intermediate
unprotected representation and the need for segmentation as follows:
If the SCCP Message type in the intermediate unprotected representation is
\"UDT\", it is transformed into a single SCCP UDT message with following
parameter values:
Message Type UDT\ Protocol class same as SCCP Protocol class in the
intermediate unprotected representation\ Called party address same as SCCP
Called party address in the intermediate unprotected representation\ Calling
party address same as SCCP Calling party address in the intermediate
unprotected representation\ Data same as SCCP Data in the intermediate
unprotected representation
If the SCCP Message type in the intermediate unprotected representation is
\"XUDT\" and the message does not need to be segmented, it is transformed into
a single SCCP XUDT message with following parameter values:
Message type XUDT\ Protocol class same as SCCP Protocol class in the
intermediate unprotected representation\ Hop counter same as SCCP Hop counter
in the intermediate unprotected representation\ Called party address same as
SCCP Called party address in the intermediate unprotected representation\
Calling party address same as SCCP Calling party address in the intermediate
unprotected representation\ Data same as SCCP Data in the intermediate
unprotected representation\ Segmentation absent\ Importance same as SCCP
Importance in the intermediate unprotected representation
If the SCCP Message type in the intermediate unprotected representation is
\"XUDT\" and the message needs to be segmented, it is transformed into several
SCCP XUDT message with following parameter values:
Message type (all segments) XUDT\ Protocol class (first segment) class 1 (in
sequence delivery), return option: same as in SCCP Protocol\ class of the
intermediate unprotected representation\ (subsequent segments) class 1 (in
sequence delivery), return option: no special options\ Hop counter (all
segments) same as SCCP Hop counter in the intermediate unprotected
representation\ Called party address (all segments) same as SCCP Called party
address in the intermediate unprotected\ representation\ Calling party address
(all segments) same as SCCP Calling party address in the intermediate
unprotected\ representation\ Data segment of SCCP Data from the intermediate
unprotected representation\ (see ITU-T Q.714 [9])\ Segmentation see [9]. Local
reference shall be taken from the intermediate unprotected\ representation\
Importance (all segments) same as SCCP Importance in the intermediate
unprotected representation
#### 5.1.4.3 Handling of received XUDTS messages and UDTS messages
An SS7 Security Gateway shall not try to re-assemble XUDTS messages, since the
SCCP option \"return on error\" is not set for subsequent XUDT segments. As a
consequence the SS7 Security Gateway shall not try to protect or de-protect
XUDTS messages (fragments) or UDTS messages. However, special handling of
XUDTS messages and UDTS messages is required as follows:
**Outbound direction**
Instead of re-assembling and protecting the XUDTS messages or protecting UDTS
messages, the SS7 Security Gateway shall remove the TCAP Dialogue Portion and
the TCAP Component Portion from the SCCP Data parameter before sending the
XUDTS message or UDTS message. This is in order not to pass the cleartext (or
fragment of the cleartext) in outbound direction. SCCP message type and
addresses shall not be changed.
An example is shown in figure 5.1.4.3-1: A transit node in PLMN 2 cannot
deliver the UDT message and therefore returns an UDTS message. SS7 Security
Gateway 2 in PLMN 2 removes the cleartext (TCAP dialogue portion and TCAP
component portion) from the SCCP data parameter. SS7 Security Gateway 1 in
PLMN 1 recognizes that the received UDTS message does not contain a TCAP
unidirectional message with a secure transport invoke component and therefore
it does not modify the SCCP message.
Figure 5.1.4.3-1: XUDTS messages and UDTS messages (Outbound direction)
**Inbound direction**
Instead of re-assembling and de-protecting the XUDTS messages or de-protecting
UDTS messages, the SS7 Security Gateway shall analyze the SCCP Called party
address. If it matches with the SS7 Security Gateway\'s own address, it shall
recover the OriginalSCCP-CallingPartyAddress from the (fragment in the) data
parameter and replace the SCCP Called party address with the recovered value.
In any case the SS7 Security Gateway shall recover and analyze the TCAP
Message type from the (fragment in the) data parameter. If the recovered value
is \"unidirectional\" and a invoke component with operation code \"secure
transport\" is included, the SS7 Security Gateway shall recover the
originalTCAP-MessageType, otid, and dtid from the OriginalTCAP-Info, replace
the TCAP Message type with the original TCAP-MessageType, insert otid and dtid
and remove the remaining material from the SCCP data parameter. If the
received message is an XUDTS message and the original SCCP Message type was
UDT then the SS7 Security shall modify the SCCP Message type to UDTS.
An example is shown in figure 5.1.4.3-2: A transit node in a transit network
cannot deliver the XUDT messages and therefore returns an XUDTS message (note
that the second XUDT does not have the SCCP return option set). SS7 Security
Gateway 1 in PLMN 1 recognizes that the received XUDTS message does contain a
TCAP unidirectional message with a secure transport invoke component and
therefore, since the original SCCP-MessageType is UDT, modifies the SCCP
Message type from XUDTS to UDTS. Furthermore, the TCAP MessageType is modified
from unidirectional to the original TCAP-MessageType, the Transaction Ids are
inserted, and the remaining material (fragment of the ciphertext) is removed.\
In addition the SS7 Security Gateway 1 in PLMN 1 recognizes that the received
XUDTS message does contain SS7 Security Gateway 1\'s own address as SCCP
Called party address and therefore replaces it with the original SCCPCalling
party address.
Figure 5.1.4.3-2: XUDTS messages and UDTS messages (inbound direction)
#