# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the stage 3 protocol and data model for the
Nbsp Service Based Interface. It provides stage 3 protocol definitions and
message flows, and specifies the API for each service offered by the GBA BSF.
The 5G System stage 2 architecture and procedures are specified in 3GPP TS
23.501 [2] and 3GPP TS 23.502 [3].
The stage 2 architecture and procedures of SBA-enabled GBA is specified in
3GPP TS 33.220 [14] and 3GPP TS 33.223 [15].
The Technical Realization of the Service Based Architecture and the Principles
and Guidelines for Services Definition are specified in 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] and
3GPP TS 29.501 [5].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.502: \"Procedures for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[4] 3GPP TS 29.500: \"5G System; Technical Realization of Service Based
Architecture; Stage 3\".
[5] 3GPP TS 29.501: \"5G System; Principles and Guidelines for Services
Definition; Stage 3\".
[6] OpenAPI: \"OpenAPI Specification Version 3.0.0\",
https://spec.openapis.org/oas/v3.0.0.
[7] 3GPP TR 21.900: \"Technical Specification Group working methods\".
[8] 3GPP TS 33.501: \"Security architecture and procedures for 5G system\".
[9] IETF RFC 6749: \"The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework\".
[10] 3GPP TS 29.510: \"5G System; Network Function Repository Services; Stage
3\".
[11] IETF RFC 7540: \"Hypertext Transfer Protocol Version 2 (HTTP/2)\".
[12] IETF RFC 8259: \"The JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Data Interchange
Format\".
[13] IETF RFC 7807: \"Problem Details for HTTP APIs\".
[14] 3GPP TS 33.220: \"Generic Authentication Architecture (GAA); Generic
Bootstrapping Architecture (GBA)\".
[15] 3GPP TS 33.223: \"Generic Authentication Architecture (GAA); Generic
Bootstrapping Architecture (GBA) Push function\".
[16] 3GPP TS 33.224: \"Generic Authentication Architecture (GAA); Generic
Bootstrapping Architecture (GBA) Push Layer\".
[17] 3GPP TS 29.109: \"Generic Authentication Architecture (GAA); Zh and Zn
Interfaces based on the Diameter protocol; Stage 3\".
[18] 3GPP TS 29.571: \"5G System; Common Data Types for Service Based
Interfaces; Stage 3\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**Bootstrapping Server Function:** BSF is hosted in a network element under
the control of an MNO. BSF, HSS, and UEs participate in GBA in which a shared
secret is established between the network and a UE by running the
bootstrapping procedure. The shared secret can be used between NAFs and UEs,
for example, for authentication purposes. In the context of the present
specification, the BSF is an SBA-capable BSF.
**GBA Function: A function on the ME executing the bootstrapping procedure
with BSF (i.e. supporting the Ub reference point) and providing Ua
applications with security association to run bootstrapping usage procedure.
GBA function is called by a Ua application when a Ua application wants to use
bootstrapped security association.**
**Network Application Function:** NAF is hosted in a network element. GBA may
be used between NAFs and UEs for authentication purposes, and for securing the
communication path between the UE and the NAF. In the context of the present
specification, the NAF is an SBA-capable NAF.
**GBA User Security Settings:** GUSS contains the BSF specific information
element and the set of all application-specific USSs.
**Ua Application: An application on the ME intended to run bootstrapping usage
procedure with a NAF.**
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
BSF Bootstrapping Server Function
GBA Generic Bootstrapping Architecture
GUSS GBA User Security Settings
HSS Home Subscriber System
NAF Network Application Function
SBA Service-Based Architecture
USS User Security Setting
# 4 Overview
Nbsp is a Service-based interface exhibited by GBA BSF (Generic Bootstrapping
Architecture; Bootstrapping Server Function) which is a Network Function that
supports the following functionality:
\- Allows the NAF and the Push-NAF to fetch the key material agreed during a
previous protocol run between the UE and the GBA BSF. It is also used to fetch
application-specific user security settings from the GBA BSF, if requested by
the NAF.
The reference points N66 and N67 (see Fig 4-1 below) show the interaction
between the GBA BSF and the NAF and Push-NAF Network Functions.
Figure 4-1: Reference Model -- Nbsp
In the context of the present specification, the GBA BSF is an SBA-capable
BSF, and the NAF and Push-NAF are also SBA-capable Network Functions (see 3GPP
TS 33.220 [14] and 3GPP TS 33.223 [15]).
# 5 Services offered by the GBA BSF
## 5.1 Introduction
The GBA BSF offers the following services via the Nbsp interface:
\- Nbsp_GBA Service
Table 5.1-1 summarizes the corresponding APIs defined for this specification.
Table 5.1-1: API Descriptions
Service Name Clause Description OpenAPI Specification File apiName **Annex**
* * *
Nbsp_GBA 5.2 Nbsp GBA Service TS29309_Nbsp_GBA.yaml nbsp-gba A.2
## 5.2 Nbsp_GBA Service
### 5.2.1 Service Description
This service is exposed by the GBA BSF for the purpose of providing GBA
bootstrap information to an SBI-capable NAF, and GBA push information (GPI) to
an SBI-capable Push-NAF, for the derivation of the application key material
(e.g. Ks_(ext/int)_NAF). It also supports to fetch application-specific user
security settings (USS) from the GBA BSF.
### 5.2.2 Service Operations
#### 5.2.2.1 Introduction
For the Nbsp_GBA service the following service operations are defined:
\- BootstrapInfo
\- PushInfo
#### 5.2.2.2 BootstrapInfo
##### 5.2.2.2.1 General
This service operation is used between the SBI-capable NAF and the GBA BSF to
request the key material agreed during bootstrapping from the UE to the GBA
BSF. It is also used to fetch application-specific user security settings from
the BSF, if requested by the NAF.
##### 5.2.2.2.2 Boostrapping Info Retrieval
Figure 5.2.2.2.2-1 shows a scenario where the NF Service Consumer (e.g. the
SBI-capable NAF) sends a request to the GBA BSF to receive the bootstrapping
info and optionally the user security settings.
Figure 5.2.2.2.2-1: Requesting Bootstrapping Info
1\. The NF Service Consumer sends a POST request (custom method
\"bootstrapping-info-retrieval\") to the GBA BSF. The request includes the
B-TID, the NAF-Id and optionally a flag to indicate that the NAF is GBA_U
aware, and a list of GAA Service Identifiers (GSID).
2a. On success the GBA BSF responds with \"200 OK\" and including in the
message body the key material (Ks_NAF in case of GBA_ME and Ks_ext_NAF in case
of GBA_U), the key material lifetime and the bootstrapping creation time.
Optionally, it may include additional key material (i.e. Ks_int_NAF),
application-specific user security settings and the UE private identity.
On failure, the appropriate HTTP status code indicating the error shall be
returned and appropriate additional error information should be returned in
the POST response body.
In the case of redirection, the GBA BSF shall return 3xx status code, which
shall contain a Location header with an URI pointing to the endpoint of
another GBA BSF (service) instance.
#### 5.2.2.3 PushInfo
##### 5.2.2.3.1 General
This service operation is used between the SBI-capable Push-NAF and the GBA
BSF to request the GBA Push Information (GPI) in order to bootstrap the UE
with GBA key material. It is also used to fetch application-specific user
security settings from the BSF, if requested by the Push-NAF.
##### 5.2.2.3.2 Push Info Retrieval
Figure 5.2.2.3.2-1 shows a scenario where the NF Service Consumer (e.g. the
SBI-capable Push-NAF) sends a request to the GBA BSF to receive the
bootstrapping info and optionally the user security settings.
Figure 5.2.2.3.2-1: Requesting Push Info
1\. The NF Service Consumer sends a POST request (custom method \"push-info-
retrieval\") to the GBA BSF. The request includes the User Identity (Private
or Public Identity), User Identity type, UICC application identifier, Push-
NAF-Id, Push-NAF SA identifier, Indicator for use of GBA_ME or GBA_U,
Requested Push-NAF key lifetime, Private User Identity indicator, list of GAA
Service Identifiers (GSID), AUTS and RAND.
2a. On success the GBA BSF responds with \"200 OK\" and including in the
message body the GPI data, key material (Ks_NAF in case of GBA_ME and
Ks_ext_NAF in case of GBA_U), key material lifetime, application-specific user
security settings. Optionally, it may include additional key material (i.e.
Ks_int_NAF), application-specific user security settings and the UE private
identity.
On failure, the appropriate HTTP status code indicating the error shall be
returned and appropriate additional error information should be returned in
the POST response body.
In the case of redirection, the GBA BSF shall return 3xx status code, which
shall contain a Location header with an URI pointing to the endpoint of
another GBA BSF (service) instance.
# 6 API Definitions
## 6.1 Nbsp_GBA Service API
### 6.1.1 Introduction
The Nbsp_GBA service shall use the Nbsp_GBA API.
The API URI of the Nbsp_GBA API shall be:
**{apiRoot}/\ /\**
The request URIs used in HTTP requests from the NF service consumer towards
the NF service producer shall have the Resource URI structure defined in
clause 4.4.1 of 3GPP TS 29.501 [5], i.e.:
**{apiRoot}/\ /\/\**
with the following components:
\- The {apiRoot} shall be set as described in 3GPP TS 29.501 [5].
\- The \ shall be \"nbsp-gba\".
\- The \ shall be \"v1\".
\- The \ shall be set as described in clause
6.1.3.
### 6.1.2 Usage of HTTP
#### 6.1.2.1 General
HTTP/2, IETF RFC 7540 [11], shall be used as specified in clause 5 of 3GPP TS
29.500 [4].
HTTP/2 shall be transported as specified in clause 5.3 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4].
The OpenAPI [6] specification of HTTP messages and content bodies for the
Nbsp_GBA API is contained in Annex A.
#### 6.1.2.2 HTTP standard headers
##### 6.1.2.2.1 General
See clause 5.2.2 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] for the usage of HTTP standard headers.
##### 6.1.2.2.2 Content type
JSON, IETF RFC 8259 [12], shall be used as content type of the HTTP bodies
specified in the present specification as specified in clause 5.4 of 3GPP TS
29.500 [4]. The use of the JSON format shall be signalled by the content type
\"application/json\".
\"Problem Details\" JSON object shall be used to indicate additional details
of the error in a HTTP response body and shall be signalled by the content
type \"application/problem+json\", as defined in IETF RFC 7807 [13].
#### 6.1.2.3 HTTP custom headers
The mandatory HTTP custom header fields specified in clause 5.2.3.2 of 3GPP TS
29.500 [4] shall be supported, and the optional HTTP custom header fields
specified in clause 5.2.3.3 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] may be supported.
### 6.1.3 Resources
In this release of this specification, no resources are defined for the
Nbsp_GBA service.
#### 6.1.3.1 Overview
The structure of the Resource URIs of the Nbsp_GBA service is shown in figure
6.1.3.1-1.
Figure 6.1.3.1-1: Resource URI structure of the Nbsp_GBA API
### 6.1.4 Custom Operations without associated resources
#### 6.1.4.1 Overview
Table 6.1.4.1-1: Custom operations without associated resources
Operation Name Custom operation URI Mapped HTTP method Description
* * *
Bootstrapping Info Retrieval /bootstrapping-info-retrieval POST  
Push Info Retrieval /push-info-retrieval POST
#### 6.1.4.2 Operation: Bootstrapping Info Retrieval
##### 6.1.4.2.1 Description
##### 6.1.4.2.2 Operation Definition
This operation shall support the response data structures and response codes
specified in tables 6.1.4.2.2-1 and 6.1.4.2.2-2.
Table 6.1.4.2.2-1: Data structures supported by the POST Request Body
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description BootstrappingInfoRequest M 1 Request body
of the Bootstrapping Info Request
* * *
Table 6.1.4.2.2-2: Data structures supported by the POST Response Body
+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | | | | | | | codes | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Bootstrappin | M | 1 | 200 OK | A response | | gInfoResponse | | | | body | | | | | | containing | | | | | | the | | | | | | Bootstrappin | | | | | | gInfoResponse | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | returned. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Red | O | 0..1 | 307 Temporary | Temporary | | irectResponse | | | Redirect | redirection. | | | | | | The response | | | | | | shall include | | | | | | a Location | | | | | | header field | | | | | | containing a | | | | | | different | | | | | | URI. The URI | | | | | | shall be an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | URI of the | | | | | | resource | | | | | | located on an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | service | | | | | | instance | | | | | | within the | | | | | | same GBA BSF | | | | | | (service) | | | | | | set. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Red | O | 0..1 | 308 Permanent | Permanent | | irectResponse | | | Redirect | redirection. | | | | | | The response | | | | | | shall include | | | | | | a Location | | | | | | header field | | | | | | containing a | | | | | | different | | | | | | URI. The URI | | | | | | shall be an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | URI of the | | | | | | resource | | | | | | located on an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | service | | | | | | instance | | | | | | within the | | | | | | same GBA BSF | | | | | | (service) | | | | | | set. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | P | O | 0..1 | 403 Forbidden | The NAF is | | roblemDetails | | | | not | | | | | | authorized to | | | | | | request | | | | | | Bootstrapping | | | | | | Information | | | | | | from the GBA | | | | | | BSF. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | NOTE: The | | | | | | mandatory | | | | | | HTTP error | | | | | | status code | | | | | | for the POST | | | | | | method listed | | | | | | in Table | | | | | | 5.2.7.1-1 of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [4] | | | | | | also apply. | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+
Table 6.1.4.2.2-3: Headers supported by the 307 Response Code
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description Location string M 1 An alternative
URI of the resource located on an alternative service instance within the same
GBA BSF (service) set. 3gpp-Sbi-Target-Nf-Id string O 0..1 Identifier of the
target NF (service) instance ID towards which the request is redirected.
* * *
Table 6.1.4.2.2-4: Headers supported by the 308 Response Code
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description Location string M 1 An alternative
URI of the resource located on an alternative service instance within the same
GBA BSF (service) set. 3gpp-Sbi-Target-Nf-Id string O 0..1 Identifier of the
target NF (service) instance ID towards which the request is redirected.
* * *
#### 6.1.4.3 Operation: Push Info Retrieval
##### 6.1.4.3.1 Description
##### 6.1.4.3.2 Operation Definition
This operation shall support the response data structures and response codes
specified in tables 6.1.4.3.2-1 and 6.1.4.3.2-2.
Table 6.1.4.3.2-1: Data structures supported by the POST Request Body
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description PushInfoRequest M 1 Request body of the
Push Info Request
* * *
Table 6.1.4.3.2-2: Data structures supported by the POST Response Body
+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | | | | | | | codes | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Pus | M | 1 | 200 OK | A response | | hInfoResponse | | | | body | | | | | | containing | | | | | | the | | | | | | Pus | | | | | | hInfoResponse | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | returned. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Red | O | 0..1 | 307 Temporary | Temporary | | irectResponse | | | Redirect | redirection. | | | | | | The response | | | | | | shall include | | | | | | a Location | | | | | | header field | | | | | | containing a | | | | | | different | | | | | | URI. The URI | | | | | | shall be an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | URI of the | | | | | | resource | | | | | | located on an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | service | | | | | | instance | | | | | | within the | | | | | | same GBA BSF | | | | | | (service) | | | | | | set. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Red | O | 0..1 | 308 Permanent | Permanent | | irectResponse | | | Redirect | redirection. | | | | | | The response | | | | | | shall include | | | | | | a Location | | | | | | header field | | | | | | containing a | | | | | | different | | | | | | URI. The URI | | | | | | shall be an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | URI of the | | | | | | resource | | | | | | located on an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | service | | | | | | instance | | | | | | within the | | | | | | same GBA BSF | | | | | | (service) | | | | | | set. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | P | O | 0..1 | 403 Forbidden | The Push-NAF | | roblemDetails | | | | is not | | | | | | authorized to | | | | | | request GBA | | | | | | Push | | | | | | Information | | | | | | (GPI) from | | | | | | the GBA BSF. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | NOTE: The | | | | | | mandatory | | | | | | HTTP error | | | | | | status code | | | | | | for the POST | | | | | | method listed | | | | | | in Table | | | | | | 5.2.7.1-1 of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [4] | | | | | | also apply. | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+
Table 6.1.4.3.2-3: Headers supported by the 307 Response Code
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description Location string M 1 An alternative
URI of the resource located on an alternative service instance within the same
GBA BSF (service) set. 3gpp-Sbi-Target-Nf-Id string O 0..1 Identifier of the
target NF (service) instance ID towards which the request is redirected.
* * *
Table 6.1.4.3.2-4: Headers supported by the 308 Response Code
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description Location string M 1 An alternative
URI of the resource located on an alternative service instance within the same
GBA BSF (service) set. 3gpp-Sbi-Target-Nf-Id string O 0..1 Identifier of the
target NF (service) instance ID towards which the request is redirected.
* * *
### 6.1.5 Notifications
In this release of this specification, no notifications are defined for the
Nbsp_GBA service.
### 6.1.6 Data Model
#### 6.1.6.1 General
This clause specifies the application data model supported by the API.
Table 6.1.6.1-1 specifies the data types defined for the Nbsp_GBA service-
based interface protocol.
Table 6.1.6.1-1: Nbsp_GBA specific Data Types
Data type Clause defined Description
* * *
BootstrappingInfoRequest 6.1.6.2.2 Request body of the HTTP POST operation for
resource \"/bootstrapping-info-request\". BootstrappingInfoResponse 6.1.6.2.3
Response body of the HTTP POST operation for resource \"/bootstrapping-info-
request\". PushInfoRequest 6.1.6.2.4 Request body of the HTTP POST operation
for resource \"/push-info-request\". PushInfoResponse 6.1.6.2.5 Response body
of the HTTP POST operation for resource \"/push-info-request\". NafId
6.1.6.2.6 NAF ID, containing the NAF FQDN and the Ua Security Protocol
Identifier. UssListItem 6.1.6.2.7 Data item in a User Security Settings array
list. Uss 6.1.6.2.8 User Security Settings for a given GAA Service. UeIdsItem
6.1.6.2.9 Data item in a UE ID array list. FlagsItem 6.1.6.2.10 Data item in a
Flags array list. GsId 6.1.6.3.2 GAA Service Identifier. GsType 6.1.6.3.2 GAA
Service Type. BtId 6.1.6.3.2 Bootstrapping Transaction Identifier.
MeKeyMaterial 6.1.6.3.2 ME Key Material (hex-encoded string). UiccKeyMaterial
6.1.6.3.2 UICC key material (hex-encoded string). UeId 6.1.6.3.2 Public
Identity of the UE. Impi 6.1.6.3.2 IMS Private Identity of the UE Flag
6.1.6.3.2 GAA authorization flags, as defined in 3GPP TS 29.109 [17], Annex C.
GbaPushInfo 6.1.6.3.2 GBA Push Info (hex-encoded string). NafGroup 6.1.6.3.2
NAF Group (string). PtId 6.1.6.3.2 P-TID. UiccAppLabel 6.1.6.3.2 UICC
Application Label (string). Auts 6.1.6.3.2 AUTS in UMTS AKA. Rand 6.1.6.3.2
RAND in UMTS AKA. KeyChoice 6.1.6.3.3 Type of key (ME-based or UICC-based)
that the NAF shall use. UiccOrMe 6.1.6.3.4 Indicates whether GBA_ME or GBA_U
is to be used for GBA push. SecFeature 6.1.6.3.5 Security features supported
by the BSF or the NAF. GbaType 6.1.6.3.6 Authentication type used by the UE
for GBA. UeIdType 6.1.6.3.7 Type of UE Identity (public or private).
Table 6.1.6.1-2 specifies data types re-used by the Nbsp_GBA service-based
interface protocol from other specifications, including a reference to their
respective specifications and when needed, a short description of their use
within the Nbsp_GBA service-based interface.
Table 6.1.6.1-2: Nbsp_GBA re-used Data Types
Data type Reference Comments
* * *
Uint32 3GPP TS 29.571 [18] Unsigned 32-bit integer. DateTime 3GPP TS 29.571
[18] String with a \"date-time\" format, as defined by OpenAPI [6].
ProblemDetails 3GPP TS 29.571 [18] Response body of error response messages.
RedirectResponse 3GPP TS 29.571 [18] Response body of a redirect response
message. Fqdn 3GPP TS 29.571 [18] Fully Qualified Domain Name
#### 6.1.6.2 Structured data types
##### 6.1.6.2.1 Introduction
This clause defines the structures to be used in resource representations.
##### 6.1.6.2.2 Type: BootstrappingInfoRequest
Table 6.1.6.2.2-1: Definition of type BootstrappingInfoRequest
+---------------+-------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | Attribute | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | | name | | | | | +===============+=============+===+=============+===============+ | btId | BtId | M | 1 | Bootstrapping | | | | | | Transaction | | | | | | Identifier | +---------------+-------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | nafId | NafId | M | 1 | NAF | | | | | | Identifier | +---------------+-------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | gbaUAware | boolean | O | 0..1 | GBA-U | | | | | | Awareness | | | | | | Indicator. | | | | | | | | | | | | true: The | | | | | | sending node | | | | | | is GBA_U | | | | | | aware | | | | | | | | | | | | false | | | | | | (default) or | | | | | | absent: The | | | | | | sending node | | | | | | is not GBA_U | | | | | | aware. | +---------------+-------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | gsIds | array(GsId) | O | 1..N | GBA Service | | | | | | Identifiers | +---------------+-------------+---+-------------+---------------+
##### 6.1.6.2.3 Type: BootstrappingInfoResponse
Table 6.1.6.2.3-1: Definition of type BootstrappingInfoResponse
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description
* * *
meKeyMaterial MeKeyMaterial M 1 ME key material (Ks_NAF or Ks_Ext_NAF)
uiccKeyMaterial UiccKeyMaterial O 0..1 UICC key material (Ks_Int_NAF)
keyExpiryTime DateTime O 0..1 Key expiry time bootstrappingInfoCreationTime
DateTime O 0..1 Bootstrapping Info Creation Time ussList array(UssListItem) O
1..N GBA User Security Settings per GBA Service Identifier gbaType GbaType O
0..1 Authentication type that was used by the UE during the bootstrapping
procedure. impi Impi O 0..1 UE Private Identity
##### 6.1.6.2.4 Type: PushInfoRequest
Table 6.1.6.2.4-1: Definition of type PushInfoRequest
+---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | Attribute | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | | name | | | | | +===============+===============+===+=============+===============+ | ueId | UeId | M | 1 | User | | | | | | Identity. | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | ueIdType | UeIdType | M | 1 | Type of UE | | | | | | identity | | | | | | (public or | | | | | | private). | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | uiccAppLabel | UiccAppLabel | M | 1 | UICC | | | | | | Application | | | | | | Label. | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | nafId | NafId | M | 1 | NAF | | | | | | Identifier. | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | ptId | PtId | M | 1 | P-TID (NAF SA | | | | | | Identifier). | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | uiccOrMe | UiccOrMe | M | 1 | Indicates | | | | | | whether | | | | | | GBA_ME or | | | | | | GBA_U is to | | | | | | be used for | | | | | | GBA push. | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | requ | DateTime | M | 1 | Requested key | | estedLifeTime | | | | lifetime for | | | | | | the NAF keys. | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | pri | boolean | O | 0..1 | Indicates to | | vateIdRequest | | | | the BSF | | | | | | whether the | | | | | | UE private | | | | | | identity | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | returned to | | | | | | the NAF in | | | | | | the response | | | | | | message. | | | | | | | | | | | | true: the | | | | | | private | | | | | | identity is | | | | | | requested by | | | | | | the NAF, and | | | | | | it shall be | | | | | | returned by | | | | | | the BSF. | | | | | | | | | | | | false | | | | | | (default) or | | | | | | absent: the | | | | | | private | | | | | | identity is | | | | | | not requested | | | | | | by the NAF. | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | gbaUAware | boolean | O | 0..1 | GBA-U | | | | | | Awareness | | | | | | Indicator. | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | gsIds | array(GsId) | O | 1..N | GBA Service | | | | | | Identifiers. | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | auts | Auts | O | 0..1 | AUTS in UMTS | | | | | | AKA. | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | rand | Rand | O | 0..1 | RAND in UMTS | | | | | | AKA. | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | securityFe | arra | O | 1..N | Security | | aturesRequest | y(SecFeature) | | | Features | | | | | | supported by | | | | | | the NAF. | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+
##### 6.1.6.2.5 Type: PushInfoResponse
Table 6.1.6.2.5-1: Definition of type PushInfoResponse
+---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | Attribute | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | | name | | | | | +===============+===============+===+=============+===============+ | meKeyMaterial | MeKeyMaterial | M | 1 | ME key | | | | | | material | | | | | | (Ks_NAF or | | | | | | K | | | | | | s_Ext_NAF). | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | gbaPushInfo | GbaPushInfo | M | 1 | GBA Push Info | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | ui | Ui | O | 0..1 | UICC key | | ccKeyMaterial | ccKeyMaterial | | | material | | | | | | (K | | | | | | s_Int_NAF). | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | keyExpiryTime | DateTime | O | 0..1 | Key expiry | | | | | | time. | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | boo | DateTime | O | 0..1 | Bootstrapping | | tstrappingInf | | | | Info Creation | | oCreationTime | | | | Time. | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | ussList | array | O | 1..N | GBA User | | | (UssListItem) | | | Security | | | | | | Settings per | | | | | | GBA Service | | | | | | Identifier | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | gbaType | GbaType | O | 0..1 | GBA Type. | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | impi | Impi | O | 0..1 | UE Private | | | | | | Identity. | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | securityFea | arra | O | 0..N | If the BSF | | turesResponse | y(SecFeature) | | | does not | | | | | | support the | | | | | | usage of | | | | | | sec | | | | | | urityFeatures | | | | | | or the NAF | | | | | | did not | | | | | | include any | | | | | | securityFe | | | | | | aturesRequest | | | | | | attribute in | | | | | | the | | | | | | Pu | | | | | | shInfoRequest | | | | | | message, this | | | | | | IE shall be | | | | | | absent. | | | | | | | | | | | | If | | | | | | sec | | | | | | urityFeatures | | | | | | element is | | | | | | not defined | | | | | | in the GUSS | | | | | | of the UE, or | | | | | | there is no | | | | | | common | | | | | | se | | | | | | curityFeature | | | | | | between NAF | | | | | | and BSF, the | | | | | | BSF shall | | | | | | include an | | | | | | empty array | | | | | | in the | | | | | | securityFea | | | | | | turesResponse | | | | | | attribute. | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+
##### 6.1.6.2.6 Type: NafId
Table 6.1.6.2.6-1: Definition of type NafId
+----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Attribute name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | +================+===========+===+=============+=================+ | nafFqdn | Fqdn | M | 1 | FQDN of the | | | | | | NAF. | +----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | uaSecProtId | string | M | 1 | Ua Security | | | | | | Protocol | | | | | | Identifier. | | | | | | | | | | | | It shall | | | | | | contain 5 | | | | | | octets, as | | | | | | described in | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 33.220 [14], | | | | | | encoded as a | | | | | | sequence of 10 | | | | | | hexadecimal | | | | | | characters. | | | | | | | | | | | | pattern: | | | | | | \"\^[A-Fa | | | | | | -f0-9]{10}\$\" | +----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+
##### 6.1.6.2.7 Type: UssListItem
Table 6.1.6.2.7-1: Definition of type UssListItem
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description
* * *
uss Uss M 1 User Security Settings.
##### 6.1.6.2.8 Type: Uss
Table 6.1.6.2.8-1: Definition of type Uss
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description
* * *
gsId GsId M 1 GAA Service ID. gsType GsType M 1 GAA Service Type. ueIds
array(UeIdsItem) M 1..N List of UE Identities nafGroup NafGroup O 0..1 NAF
Group. flags array(FlagsItem) O 1..N List of security flags supported for the
current GAA service. keyChoice KeyChoice O 0..1 Type of key that the NAF shall
use.
##### 6.1.6.2.9 Type: UeIdsItem
Table 6.1.6.2.9-1: Definition of type UeIdsItem
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description
* * *
ueId UeId M 1 Identity of the UE
##### 6.1.6.2.10 Type: FlagsItem
Table 6.1.6.2.10-1: Definition of type FlagsItem
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description
* * *
flag Flag M 1 Security flag supported for the corresponding GAA Service.
#### 6.1.6.3 Simple data types and enumerations
##### 6.1.6.3.1 Introduction
This clause defines simple data types and enumerations that can be referenced
from data structures defined in the previous clauses.
##### 6.1.6.3.2 Simple data types
The simple data types defined in table 6.1.6.3.2-1 shall be supported.
Table 6.1.6.3.2-1: Simple data types
+-----------------+-----------------+--------------------------------+ | Type Name | Type Definition | Description | +-----------------+-----------------+--------------------------------+ | GsId | Uint32 | GAA Service Identifier. | | | | | | | | For 3GPP standardized values, | | | | see 3GPP TS 29.109 [17], | | | | Annex B. | +-----------------+-----------------+--------------------------------+ | GsType | Uint32 | GAA Service Type. | | | | | | | | For 3GPP standardized values, | | | | see 3GPP TS 29.109 [17], | | | | Annex B. | +-----------------+-----------------+--------------------------------+ | BtId | string | Bootstrapping Transaction | | | | Identifier. It shall take the | | | | form of a NAI, where the realm | | | | part identifies the FQDN of | | | | the BSF. See | | | | 3GPP TS 33.220 [14]. | +-----------------+-----------------+--------------------------------+ | MeKeyMaterial | string | ME key material, containing a | | | | 256-bit key, encoded as a | | | | sequence of 64 hexadecimal | | | | characters. | | | | | | | | pattern: | | | | \"\^[A-Fa-f0-9]{64}\$\" | +-----------------+-----------------+--------------------------------+ | UiccKeyMaterial | string | UICC key material, containing | | | | a 256-bit key, encoded as a | | | | sequence of 64 hexadecimal | | | | characters. | | | | | | | | pattern: | | | | \"\^[A-Fa-f0-9]{64}\$\" | +-----------------+-----------------+--------------------------------+ | UeId | string | Identity of the UE. | +-----------------+-----------------+--------------------------------+ | Impi | string | IMS Private Identity of the | | | | UE. | +-----------------+-----------------+--------------------------------+ | Flag | Uint32 | GAA authorization flags, | | | | associated to the specific GAA | | | | Service Type, as defined in | | | | 3GPP TS 29.109 [17], Annex | | | | C. | +-----------------+-----------------+--------------------------------+ | GbaPushInfo | string | GBA Push Info binary data, as | | | | defined in | | | | 3GPP TS 33.223 [15], | | | | clause 5.3.5, encoded as a | | | | sequence of hexadecimal | | | | characters. | | | | | | | | pattern: | | | | \"\^([A-Fa-f0-9]{2})+\$\" | +-----------------+-----------------+--------------------------------+ | NafGroup | string | NAF Group. | +-----------------+-----------------+--------------------------------+ | PtId | string | P-TID. | +-----------------+-----------------+--------------------------------+ | UiccAppLabel | string | UICC Application Label. | +-----------------+-----------------+--------------------------------+ | Auts | string | AUTS in UMTS AKA, containing a | | | | 112-bit value, encoded as a | | | | sequence of 28 hexadecimal | | | | characters. | | | | | | | | pattern: | | | | \"\^[A-Fa-f0-9]{28}\$\" | +-----------------+-----------------+--------------------------------+ | Rand | string | RAND in UMTS AKA, containing a | | | | 128-bit value, encoded as a | | | | sequence of 32 hexadecimal | | | | characters. | | | | | | | | pattern: | | | | \"\^[A-Fa-f0-9]{32}\$\" | +-----------------+-----------------+--------------------------------+
##### 6.1.6.3.3 Enumeration: KeyChoice
The enumeration KeyChoice represents the type of key that the NAF shall use.
It shall comply with the provisions defined in table 6.1.6.3.3-1.
Table 6.1.6.3.3-1: Enumeration KeyChoice
Enumeration value Description
* * *
\"ME_BASED_KEY\" Ks_ NAF or Ks_ext_NAF shall be used by the NAF.
\"UICC_BASED_KEY\" Ks_int_NAF shall be used by the NAF. \"ME_UICC_BASED_KEYS\"
Ks_ext_NAF or Ks_int_NAF can be used by the NAF.
##### 6.1.6.3.4 Enumeration: UiccOrMe
The enumeration UiccOrMe represents whether GBA_ME or GBA_U is to be used for
GBA push. It shall comply with the provisions defined in table 6.1.6.3.4-1.
Table 6.1.6.3.4-1: Enumeration UiccOrMe
Enumeration value Description
* * *
\"GBA_ME\" GBA_ME shall be used. \"GBA_U\" GBA_U shall be used.
##### 6.1.6.3.5 Enumeration: SecFeature
The enumeration SecFeature represents security features supported by the BSF
or the NAF. It shall comply with the provisions defined in table 6.1.6.3.5-1.
Table 6.1.6.3.5-1: Enumeration SecFeature
Enumeration value Description
* * *
\"GPL_U\" The UICC supports Generic Push Layer, as specified in 3GPP TS 33.224
[16].
##### 6.1.6.3.6 Enumeration: GbaType
The enumeration GbaType represents the authentication type that was used
during bootstrapping procedure. It shall comply with the provisions defined in
table 6.1.6.3.6-1.
Table 6.1.6.3.6-1: Enumeration GbaType
Enumeration value Description
* * *
\"3G_GBA\" The 3G GBA has been performed as defined in 3GPP TS 33.220 [14].
\"2G_GBA\" The 2G GBA has been performed as defined in 3GPP TS 33.220 [14],
Annex I. \"GBA_DIGEST\" The GBA Digest has been performed as defined in 3GPP
TS 33.220 [14], Annex M.
##### 6.1.6.3.7 Enumeration: UeIdType
The enumeration UeIdType represents the type of the identity of the user. It
shall comply with the provisions defined in table 6.1.6.3.7-1.
Table 6.1.6.3.7-1: Enumeration UeIdType
Enumeration value Description
* * *
\"PUBLIC\" Public user identity. \"PRIVATE\" Private user identity.
### 6.1.7 Error Handling
#### 6.1.7.1 General
For the Nbsp_GBA API, HTTP error responses shall be supported as specified in
clause 4.8 of 3GPP TS 29.501 [5]. Protocol errors and application errors
specified in table 5.2.7.2-1 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] shall be supported for an
HTTP method if the corresponding HTTP status codes are specified as mandatory
for that HTTP method in table 5.2.7.1-1 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4].
In addition, the requirements in the following clauses are applicable for the
Nbsp_GBA API.
#### 6.1.7.2 Protocol Errors
No specific procedures for the Nbsp_GBA service are specified.
#### 6.1.7.3 Application Errors
The application errors defined for the Nbsp_GBA service are listed in Table
6.1.7.3-1.
Table 6.1.7.3-1: Application errors
Application Error HTTP status code Description
* * *
### 6.1.8 Feature negotiation
The optional features in table 6.1.8-1 are defined for the Nbsp_GBA API. They
shall be negotiated using the extensibility mechanism defined in clause 6.6 of
3GPP TS 29.500 [4].
Table 6.1.8-1: Supported Features
Feature number Feature Name Description
* * *
### 6.1.9 Security
As indicated in 3GPP TS 33.501 [8] and 3GPP TS 29.500 [4], the access to the
Nbsp_GBA API may be authorized by means of the OAuth2 protocol (see IETF RFC
6749 [9]), based on local configuration, using the \"Client Credentials\"
authorization grant, where the NRF (see 3GPP TS 29.510 [10]) plays the role of
the authorization server.
If OAuth2 is used, an NF Service Consumer, prior to consuming services offered
by the Nbsp_GBA API, shall obtain a \"token\" from the authorization server,
by invoking the Access Token Request service, as described in 3GPP TS 29.510
[10], clause 5.4.2.2.
NOTE: When multiple NRFs are deployed in a network, the NRF used as
authorization server is the same NRF that the NF Service Consumer used for
discovering the Nbsp_GBA service.
The Nbsp_GBA API defines a single scope \"nbsp-gba\" for the entire service,
and it does not define any additional scopes at resource or operation level.
###### ## Annex A (normative): OpenAPI specification
# A.1 General
This Annex specifies the formal definition of the API(s) defined in the
present specification. It consists of OpenAPI 3.0.0 specifications in YAML
format.
This Annex takes precedence when being discrepant to other parts of the
specification with respect to the encoding of information elements and methods
within the API(s).
NOTE 1: The semantics and procedures, as well as conditions, e.g. for the
applicability and allowed combinations of attributes or values, not expressed
in the OpenAPI definitions but defined in other parts of the specification
also apply.
Informative copies of the OpenAPI specification files contained in this 3GPP
Technical Specification are available on a Git-based repository that uses the
GitLab software version control system (see 3GPP TS 29.501 [5] clause 5.3.1
and 3GPP TR 21.900 [7] clause 5B).
# A.2 Nbsp_GBA API
openapi: 3.0.0
info:
version: \'1.0.0\'
title: \'GBA BSF Nbsp_GBA Service\'
description: \|
GBA BSF Nbsp_GBA Service.
© 2022, 3GPP Organizational Partners (ARIB, ATIS, CCSA, ETSI, TSDSI, TTA,
TTC).
All rights reserved.
externalDocs:
description: >
3GPP TS 29.309 V17.1.0; 5G System; Bootstrapping Server Function (GBA BSF)
Services; Stage 3
url: \'https://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/29_series/29.309/\'
servers:
\- url: \'{apiRoot}/nbsp-gba/v1\'
variables:
apiRoot:
default: https://example.com
description: apiRoot as defined in clause 4.4 of 3GPP TS 29.501
security:
\- {}
\- oAuth2ClientCredentials:
\- nbsp-gba
paths:
/bootstrapping-info-retrieval:
post:
summary: Retrieve Bootstrapping Info from GBA BSF from NAF
operationId: BootstrappingInfoRetrieval
tags:
\- Bootstrapping Info Retrieval (Custom Operation)
requestBody:
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/BootstrappingInfoRequest\'
required: true
responses:
\'200\':
description: Expected response to a valid request
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/BootstrappingInfoResponse\'
\'307\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/307\'
\'308\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/308\'
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'411\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/411\'
\'413\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/413\'
\'415\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/415\'
\'429\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/429\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'501\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/501\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
/push-info-retrieval:
post:
summary: Retrieve Push Info from GBA BSF from Push-NAF
operationId: PushInfoRetrieval
tags:
\- Push Info Retrieval (Custom Operation)
requestBody:
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/PushInfoRequest\'
required: true
responses:
\'200\':
description: Expected response to a valid request
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/PushInfoResponse\'
\'307\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/307\'
\'308\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/308\'
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'411\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/411\'
\'413\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/413\'
\'415\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/415\'
\'429\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/429\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'501\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/501\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
components:
securitySchemes:
oAuth2ClientCredentials:
type: oauth2
flows:
clientCredentials:
tokenUrl: \'{nrfApiRoot}/oauth2/token\'
scopes:
nbsp-gba: Access to the Nbsp_GBA API
schemas:
#
# COMPLEX TYPES
#
BootstrappingInfoRequest:
description: Request body of the HTTP POST operation for resource
/bootstrapping-info-request
type: object
required:
\- btId
\- nafId
properties:
btId:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/BtId\'
nafId:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/NafId\'
gbaUAware:
type: boolean
default: false
gsIds:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/GsId\'
minItems: 1
BootstrappingInfoResponse:
description: Response body of the HTTP POST operation for resource
/bootstrapping-info-request
type: object
required:
\- meKeyMaterial
properties:
meKeyMaterial:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/MeKeyMaterial\'
uiccKeyMaterial:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/UiccKeyMaterial\'
keyExpiryTime:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/DateTime\'
bootstrappingInfoCreationTime:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/DateTime\'
ussList:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/UssListItem\'
minItems: 1
gbaType:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/GbaType\'
impi:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Impi\'
PushInfoRequest:
description: Request body of the HTTP POST operation for resource /push-info-
request
type: object
required:
\- ueId
\- ueIdType
\- uiccAppLabel
\- nafId
\- ptId
\- uiccOrMe
\- requestedLifeTime
properties:
ueId:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/UeId\'
ueIdType:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/UeIdType\'
uiccAppLabel:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/UiccAppLabel\'
nafId:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/NafId\'
ptId:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/PtId\'
uiccOrMe:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/UiccOrMe\'
requestedLifeTime:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/DateTime\'
privateIdRequest:
type: boolean
gbaUAware:
type: boolean
gsIds:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/GsId\'
minItems: 1
auts:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Auts\'
rand:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Rand\'
securityFeaturesRequest:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/SecFeature\'
minItems: 1
PushInfoResponse:
description: Response body of the HTTP POST operation for resource /push-info-
request
type: object
required:
\- meKeyMaterial
\- gbaPushInfo
properties:
meKeyMaterial:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/MeKeyMaterial\'
gbaPushInfo:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/GbaPushInfo\'
uiccKeyMaterial:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/UiccKeyMaterial\'
keyExpiryTime:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/DateTime\'
bootstrappingInfoCreationTime:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/DateTime\'
ussList:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/UssListItem\'
minItems: 1
gbaType:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/GbaType\'
impi:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Impi\'
securityFeaturesResponse:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/SecFeature\'
NafId:
description: NAF ID, containing the NAF FQDN and the Ua Security Protocol
Identifier
type: object
required:
\- nafFqdn
\- uaSecProtId
properties:
nafFqdn:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Fqdn\'
uaSecProtId:
type: string
pattern: \'\^[A-Fa-f0-9]{10}\$\'
UssListItem:
description: Data item in a User Security Settings array list
type: object
required:
\- uss
properties:
uss:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Uss\'
Uss:
description: User Security Settings for a given GAA Service
type: object
required:
\- gsId
\- gsType
\- ueIds
properties:
gsId:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/GsId\'
gsType:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/GsType\'
ueIds:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/UeIdsItem\'
minItems: 1
nafGroup:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/NafGroup\'
flags:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/FlagsItem\'
minItems: 1
keyChoice:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/KeyChoice\'
UeIdsItem:
description: Data item in a UE ID array list
type: object
required:
\- ueId
properties:
ueId:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/UeId\'
FlagsItem:
description: Data item in a Flags array list
type: object
required:
\- flag
properties:
flag:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Flag\'
#
# SIMPLE TYPES
#
GsId:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Uint32\'
GsType:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Uint32\'
BtId:
description: Bootstrapping Transaction Identifier
type: string
MeKeyMaterial:
description: ME Key Material (hex-encoded string)
type: string
pattern: \'\^[A-Fa-f0-9]{64}\$\'
UiccKeyMaterial:
description: UICC key material (hex-encoded string)
type: string
pattern: \'\^[A-Fa-f0-9]{64}\$\'
UeId:
description: Public Identity of the UE
type: string
Impi:
description: IMS Private Identity of the UE
type: string
Flag:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Uint32\'
GbaPushInfo:
description: GBA Push Info (hex-encoded string)
type: string
pattern: \'\^([A-Fa-f0-9]{2})+\$\'
NafGroup:
description: Character string representing a NAF Group
type: string
PtId:
description: Character string representing a P-TID
type: string
UiccAppLabel:
description: Character string representing an UICC Application Label
type: string
Auts:
description: AUTS value in UMTS AKA
type: string
pattern: \'\^[A-Fa-f0-9]{28}\$\'
Rand:
description: RAND in UMTS AKA
type: string
pattern: \'\^[A-Fa-f0-9]{32}\$\'
#
# ENUMS
#
KeyChoice:
description: Type of key (ME-based or UICC-based) that the NAF shall use
anyOf:
\- type: string
enum:
\- ME_BASED_KEY
\- UICC_BASED_KEY
\- ME_UICC_BASED_KEYS
\- type: string
UiccOrMe:
description: Indicates whether GBA_ME or GBA_U is to be used for GBA push
anyOf:
\- type: string
enum:
\- GBA_ME
\- GBA_U
\- type: string
SecFeature:
description: Security features supported by the BSF or the NAF
anyOf:
\- type: string
enum:
\- GPL_U
\- type: string
GbaType:
description: Authentication type used by the UE for GBA
anyOf:
\- type: string
enum:
\- 3G_GBA
\- 2G_GBA
\- GBA_DIGEST
\- type: string
UeIdType:
description: Type of UE Identity (public or private)
anyOf:
\- type: string
enum:
\- PUBLIC
\- PRIVATE
\- type: string
#