# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the stage 3 of the Ud interface between the
Front-Ends (FEs) and the User Data Repository (UDR) in the User Data
Convergence (UDC architecture).
This 3GPP Technical Specification (TS) specifies the protocol and interactions
between the FE and the UDR for Ud reference point, in particular:
\- The details of the LDAP protocol that are to be considered
\- The details of the SOAP envelope that provide support for subscriptions to
notifications and notifications about data changes service (S/N operations).
The User Data Convergence Stage 2 description (architecture and information
flows) is specified in 3GPP TS 23.335 [10].
The UDR data model used with LDAP (i.e. attributes, object classes and
directory information tree) is implementation specific and is left outside the
scope of 3GPP specifications. For multivendor interoperability between FEs and
UDR specific integration projects are needed. Some examples of Ud data models
are described in 3GPP TR 29.935 [19].[]{#__RefHeading___Toc90326189 .anchor}
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 41.001: \"GSM Release specifications\".
[3] 3GPP TR 21 912 (V3.1.0): \"Example 2, using fixed text\".
[4] IETF RFC 4510: \"Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (v3)\".
[5] IETF RFC 5805: \"Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP)
Transactions\".
[6] W3C Recommendation \"Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP) 1.2\" (27 April
2007). http://www.w3.org/TR/.
[7] Void.
[8] IETF RFC 4511: \"Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP): The
Protocol\".
[9] IETF RFC 4528: \"Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP) Assertion
Control\".
[10] 3GPP TS 23.335: \"User Data Convergence (UDC); Technical realization and
information flows\".
[11] IETF RFC 4512: \"Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP): Directory
Information Models\".
[12]. 3GPP TS 32.182: \"Telecommunication management; User Data Convergence
(UDC); Common Baseline Information Model\".
[13] Void
[14] Void
[15] 3GPP TS 33.210: \"3G Security; Network Domain Security; IP network layer
security\".
[16] IETF RFC 4513: \"Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP):
Authentication Methods and Security Mechanisms\".
[17] National Institute of Standards and Technology, FIPS Pub 197: Advanced
Encryption Standard (AES), 26 November 2001. .
[18] OASIS \"Directory Services Markup Language v2.0\" (30 April 2002)
http://www.oasis-open.org/.
[19] 3GPP TR 29.935: \"Study on UDC Data Model\".
[20] OASIS: \" Web Services Security: SOAP Message Security 1.1 OASIS Standard
Specification, 1 February 2006\", https://www.oasis-
open.org/committees/download.php/16790/wss-v1.1-spec-os-
SOAPMessageSecurity.pdf.
[21] OASIS: \"Web Services Security: \"UsernameToken Profile 1.1 OASIS
Standard Specification, 1 February 2006\", https://docs.oasis-
open.org/wss/v1.1/wss-v1.1-spec-os-UsernameTokenProfile.pdf.
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**LDAP Session:** starts with LDAP Bind Operation and ends with LDAP Unbind
Operation or Notice of Disconnection.
**Front End:** a core network functional entity or service layer entity or
provisioning entity that can access user data stored in a unique repository.
**Front End Identifier** : A name that uniquely identifies an FE within the
set of all FEs accessing an UDR.
**Front End Cluster** : FEs handling the same application may be grouped in
clusters to differentiate between them e.g. with regard to geographical
location, feature support, vendor, or other characteristics. All FEs within a
cluster are treated equally for required purposes (e.g. authorization,
notifications, etc.).
**Application type:** The application handled by a FE (e.g. HLR) determines
the application type of the FE. The application type is derived from the name
indicated by a FE.
**Front End Cluster Identifier** : A name that identifies a cluster grouped
with FEs supporting the same application.
**User Data Repository:** facility where user data can be accessed stored and
managed in a common way.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
Ud reference point between a FE and the UDR
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
FE Front End
UDR User Data Repository
NDS Network Domain Security
# 4 Protocol Stack
## 4.1 General
Data access messages on the Ud interface shall make use of IETF RFC 4510 [4]
and IETF RFC 4511 [8]. See clause 4.2 for details.
Subscription messages and Notification messages on the Ud interface shall make
use of SOAP [6]. See clause 4.3 for details.
## 4.2 Protocol Stack for Ud Data Access Messages
Figure 4.2-1 shows the protocol layering used for UDR data access.
Figure 4.2-1 Protocol Layering for Data Access
## 4.3 Protocol Stack for Ud Subscriptions/Notifications
Figure 4.3-1 shows the protocol layering used for Ud
Subscription/Notification.
Figure 4.3-1 Protocol Layering for Subscription/Notification
# 5 General Messages
## 5.1 General
This clause describes common messages for UDC to establish sessions and
administrate transactions. For an existing session, UDC messages are exchanged
between the FE and the UDR. See figure B.1-1 in Annex B for general LDAP
message flows.
## 5.2 Open Link for a LDAP Session
To initiate a LDAP session, a Front-End shall first establish a transport
connection with the UDR. The transport connection shall be a TCP connection.
The IP Layer may be secured according to clause 8. When IPsec is used, an
IPsec connection may support several TCP connections, each supporting a LDAP
session.
After establishment of the transport connection, the FE shall initiate a LDAP
session by sending a LDAP BindRequest message. The establishment of the LDAP
session shall comply with IETF RFC 4511 [8]. It shall be done before sending
any other LDAP message. FE Identifier or FE Cluster Identifier shall be
included in the BindRequest message.
The UDR shall support the \"unauthenticated authentication mechanism of simple
Bind\" and the \"name/password authentication mechanism of simple Bind\" in
the \"simple authentication method\" specified in IETF RFC 4513 [16].
The UDR derives the application type from the FE Identifier or the FE Cluster
Identifier. If the FE provided the Front End Identifier the UDR may also
derive the Front End Cluster Identifier.
NOTE: As security is handled at IP Layer (see clause 8), optional security
mechanisms (TLS, SASL) described in IETF RFC 4513 [16] specification are not
required for Ud.
## 5.3 Close Link for a LDAP Session
Termination of the LDAP session may be initiated by the FE by sending an
UnbindRequest message or by the UDR by sending a Notice of Disconnection
message. The termination of the LDAP session shall comply with IETF RFC 4511
[8]
## 5.4 Transactions
In order to allow FEs to relate a number of update operations, such as Create
(see 6.3), Delete (see 6.4), and Update (see 6.5), and have them performed in
one unit of interaction, the transaction concept in IETF RFC 5805
\"Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP) Transactions\" [5] shall be
supported. See figure B.2-1 in Annex B for LDAP Transaction flow.
If used, they shall only be used for a single subscriber in order to decrease
the complexity of transactions.
LDAP server shall terminate the transaction if the timer is expired.
## 5.5 SOAP Authentication
The UDR may support the SOAP WS-Security extension [20] and \"UsernameToken\"
authentication as specified by the Oasis Web Services Security [21].
The WS-Security Username field may be set to a value that is correlated with
the username of the LDAP BindRequest (see clause 5.2).
NOTE: As security is handled at the IP Layer (see clause 8), optional security
mechanisms (i.e. signature, encryption and passwordDigest) as described in the
Oasis Web Services Security specifications [20][21] are not required for the
Ud inteface.
# 6 User Data Convergence Messages
## 6.1 General
The Query, Create, Delete and Update messages for UDC shall comply with IETF
RFC 4511[8].[]{#__RefHeading___Toc90326206 .anchor}
## 6.2 Query
Query request messages shall be coded as LDAP SearchRequest messages.
Query result messages shall be coded as LDAP SearchResultEntry,
SearchResultReference, and SearchResultDone messages.
## 6.3 Create
Create request messages shall be coded as LDAP AddRequest messages or as LDAP
ModifyRequest messages with the \"operation\" field set to \"add\", depending
on the data to be created.
Create result messages shall be coded as LDAP AddResponse messages or as LDAP
ModifyResponse messages, depending on the used LDAP request message.
## 6.4 Delete
Delete request messages shall be coded as LDAP DelRequest messages or as LDAP
ModifyRequest messages with the \"operation\" field set to \"delete\",
depending on the data to be deleted.
Delete result messages shall be coded as LDAP DelResponse messages or as LDAP
ModifyResponse messages, depending on the used LDAP request message.
The LDAP assertion control as specified in IETF RFC 4528 [9] may be used for
conditional delete operation if the FE knows that the UDR supports the
corresponding control.
## 6.5 Update
Update request messages shall be coded as LDAP ModifyRequest messages with
\"operation\" field set to \"replace\".
Update result messages shall be coded as LDAP ModifyResponse messages.
The LDAP assertion control as specified in IETF RFC 4528 [9] may be used for
conditional update operation if the FE knows that the UDR supports the
corresponding control.
## 6.6 Subscribe
Subscribe request messages shall make use of the HTTP Post method and contain
a SOAP message envelope.
Subscribe response messages shall be coded as HTTP response message and shall
contain a SOAP envelope.
Subscribe request and response messages shall contain a SOAP message envelope
header with a header block containing the following elements:
\- msgId\ This element uniquely identifies the Subscribe message request --
response pair within a connection. The msgId is of type integer. The FE shall
allocate the value and use it together with the connId (if any) to correlate a
received subscribe response with a sent subscribe request.
\- connId\ This optional element identifies the connection between FE and UDR.
The connId is of type integer. If used, the value is allocated by the FE and
is used together with the msgId to correlate a subscribe response with a
subscribe request.
Optionally, the Subscribe request SOAP message envelope may contain an
authentication ws-security header block and a UsernameToken element containing
the following elements:
\- Username
\- Password
An example of a SOAP envelope header for a Subscribe request message is given
below:
\
\
\
\http://udfe.example.org:8080/UDRNotificationService
\
\password\
\
\\ \
**\ 25409\\ ** \**2**\\
\\ \
The UDR shall copy the SOAP Envelope CorrelationHeader received in the
Subscribe request and send it unmodified in the Subscribe response.
Subscribe request messages shall contain a SOAP message envelope body
formatted according to the XML schema defined in Annex A.
Subscribe response messages shall contain an empty SOAP message envelope body,
unless SOAP Fault element is included to indicate detailed error information.
The HTTP status code in the Subscribe response message is used to indicate
success or failure.
A Subscribe request containing several subscriptions shall be managed in an
atomic manner. In the event where at least one requestedData elements among
several within a Subscribe request is rejected, the Subscribe response shall
report a failure and none of the requestedData elements within this Subscribe
request shall be accepted by the UDR. A SOAP Fault element may be included to
indicate detailed error information relevant to the first error encountered.
## 6.7 Notify
Notify request messages shall make use of the HTTP Post method and contain a
SOAP message envelope.
Notify response messages shall be coded as HTTP response message and shall
contain a SOAP message envelope.
Notify request and response messages shall contain a SOAP message envelope
header with a header block containing the following elements:
\- serviceName\ This optional element identifies a service in the Front End.
The value is copied from the Subscribe message or pre-configured in the UDR.
The serviceName is of type string with up to 20 characters.
\- msgId\ This element uniquely identifies the Notify message request --
response pair within a connection. The msgId is of type integer. The UDR shall
allocate the value and use it together with the connId (if any) to correlate a
received notify response with a sent notify request.
\- connId\ This optional element identifies the connection between the UDR and
the FE. The connId is of type integer. If used, the value is allocated by the
UDR and is used together with the msgId to correlate a notify response with a
notify request.
An example of a SOAP envelope header for a Notify request message is given
below:
\\ \\ \HLR-FE\\
\787627350\\ \1\\
\\ \
Application Front Ends shall copy the SOAP Envelope Header received in the
Notify request and send it unmodified in the Notify response.
Notify request messages shall contain a SOAP message envelope body formatted
according to the XML schema defined in Annex A.
Notify response messages shall contain an empty SOAP message envelope body,
unless SOAP Fault element is included to indicate detailed error information.
The HTTP status code in the Notify response message is used to indicate
success or failure.
## 6.8 Abandon operation
When a FE wishes to abandon an uncompleted operation towards the UDR, it shall
send a LDAP AbandonRequest message.
# 7 Information Elements
## 7.1 Information Element Types with LDAP
Information elements and their type to be used in the messages on a given Ud
interface for the LDAP Search, Add, Delete and Modify operations are dependent
of the application type of the Ud interface. They are described in a LDAP
Directory Schema associated to this application type. The general content and
structure of a LDAP Directory Schema is described in IETF RFC 4512 [11].
NOTE: The LDAP Directory Schema associated to an application type relates to
the application data view mentioned in 3GPP TS 23.335 [10].
When Information elements that are used on a given Ud interface are addressed
in 3GPP TS 32.182 [12], their description in the LDAP Directory Schema
associated to the application type of this Ud interface shall comply with 3GPP
TS 32.182 [12].
## 7.2 Information Elements for Subscriptions and Notifications
Information elements and their type to be used for subscriptions and
notifications about data changes shall also follow the rules specified above
in 7.1 and according to the formats/schemas defined in Annex A.
# 8 Security
Ud interface shall provide security with the methods specified in 3GPP TS
33.210 [15]
Application sensitive data (e.g. permanent authentication keys K/Ki) shall be
stored encrypted in the UDR and transferred encrypted over Ud. All FEs (e.g.
HLR/HSS/AuC) **_handling sensitive data, accessing the same UDR and handling
the same users (e.g. belonging to the same cluster) shall use the same
mechanism and key for decrypting these data._** The Application FEs shall
support at least AES [17] as a common algorithm, and may support additional
algorithms. The **_key for encryption/decryption is not subscriber-
specific._**
Editor\'s note: details of AES (modes of operation, **_key lengths, data
formats, etc.) are to be completed._**
Editor\'s note: statement above must be reviewed and confirmed by SA3
###### ## Annex A (normative): SOAP Subscription and Notification
# A.1 XML schema for Subscribe Request
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
The serviceName element is optional and, when present, identifies a service in
the Front End. The serviceName is stored in the UDR and is used when the
Notify message is sent. The serviceName is of type string with up to 20
characters.
# A.2 XML schema for Subscribe Response
The SOAP message envelope body shall be empty.[]{#__RefHeading___Toc90326220
.anchor}
# A.3 XML schema for Notify Request
\\ \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
# A.4 XML schema for Notify Response
The SOAP message envelope body shall be empty.
###### ## Annex B (informative): LDAP Message flows and Transaction flows for
UDC
# B.1 General LDAP Message flow for UDC
Figure B.1-1. General LDAP Message flow
Figure B.1-1 illustrates the general LDAP message flow associated to a LDAP
session for UDC, in compliance with IETF RFC 4511[8].
# B.2 LDAP Transaction flows for UDC
Figure B.2-1 illustrates the LDAP transaction flow for UDC. The procedures
described in IETF RFC 5805 \"Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP)
Transactions\" [5] are applied.
Figure B.2-1. LDAP Transaction flow
1\. When the FE needs to bind more than one operation to the UDR in one FE
session, the FE issues a Start Transaction Request to UDR to begin a
transaction.
2\. When receiving a Start Transaction Request, the UDR checks whether the
transaction is allowed, e.g. check whether the number of the concurrent
transaction exceeds the limit. If the transaction is allowed, the UDR returns
a Start Transaction Response with an identity of the transaction assigned by
the UDR to the FE and store the transaction identity temporarily until the
transaction ends or expires. Otherwise, a Start Transaction Response with the
failure code is returned.
3-4.If the result code indicates failure, the following steps are skipped and
the procedure terminates. Otherwise, the FE issues the operations to the UDR
with the transaction identity received in the Start Transaction Response
message from the UDR. The operations with the same transaction identity are in
the same transaction.
5\. After all or some of the operations are performed, the FE sends an End
Transaction Request with the transaction identity to the UDR to commit or
rollback the transaction according to the application logic of the FE.
6\. When commitment is indicated in the End Transaction Request, the UDR
commits all the updates made. If all the updates are committed successfully, a
success response is indicated in the End Transaction Response. Otherwise, all
the updates are rolled back and the data remains as it was before the
transaction and failure is indicated in the End Transaction Response. When
rollback is indicated in the End Transaction Request, the UDR cancels all the
updates made and return the End Transaction Response with the cancel result to
the FE.
###### ## Annex C (informative): Messages Based on SOAP
# C.1 General
Some Front Ends which do not have high real time performance requirements
would prefer to interact with the UDR on the basis of a SOAP protocol for data
access (CRUD) as well as for Subscriptions and Notifications (S/N). A way to
accomplish this is by means of a protocol converter that converts SOAP based
data access messages into LDAP based data access messages. SOAP based
Subscription and Notification messages need not be converted. The
architectural options are shown in figure C.1/1:
Figure C.1/1: Data access options based on SOAP
As shown in the Figure C.1/1, the Protocol Converter that converts SOAP based
data access messages to LDAP based data access messages can be stand alone, be
integrated into the FE or be integrated into the UDR. LDAP based data access
(CRUD) messages and SOAP based Subscription and Notification (S/N) messages
are specified in the normative part of this specification. A description of
SOAP based data access messages which are exchanged between FEs without high
realtime performance requirements and the Protocol Converter is given in this
informative annex.
NOTE: An application that does not have high real time requirements implies
that it does not demand neither high values of traffic throughput nor small
request/response latency values nor high demanding processing needs.
# C.2 Protocol Stack for Messages Based on SOAP
The protocol layering used for messages based on SOAP described in this
informative annex is the same as shown in Figure 4.3-1 in the normative part
of this specification.
# C.3 SOAP Based Query
SOAP Based Query request messages make use of the HTTP Post method and contain
a SOAP message envelope.
SOAP Based Query response messages are coded as HTTP response message and
contain a SOAP envelope.
Query request messages contain a SOAP message envelope body formatted
according to the XML schema defined in OASIS DSML [18] related to
SearchRequest.
Query response messages contain a SOAP message envelope body formatted
according to the XML schema defined in OASIS DSML [18] related to
SearchResultEntry, SearchResultReference, and SearchResultDone. The HTTP
status code in the Query response message is used to indicate success or
failure.
# C.4 SOAP Based Create
SOAP Based Create request messages make use of the HTTP Post method and
contain a SOAP message envelope.
SOAP Based Create response messages are coded as HTTP response message and
contain a SOAP envelope.
Create request messages contain a SOAP message envelope body formatted
according to the XML schema defined in OASIS DSML [18] related to AddRequest
or ModifyRequest with the \"operation\" field set to \"add\".
Create response messages contain a SOAP message envelope body formatted
according to the XML schema defined in OASIS DSML [18] related to AddResponse
or ModifyResponse depending on the used request message. The HTTP status code
in the Create response message is used to indicate success or failure.
# C.5 SOAP Based Delete
SOAP Based Delete request messages make use of the HTTP Post method and
contain a SOAP message envelope.
SOAP Based Delete response messages are coded as HTTP response message and
contain a SOAP envelope.
Delete request messages contain a SOAP message envelope body formatted
according to the XML schema defined in OASIS DSML [20] related to DelRequest
or ModifyRequest with the \"operation\" field set to \"delete\".
Delete response messages contain a SOAP message envelope body formatted
according to the XML schema defined in OASIS DSML [20] related to DelResponse
or ModifyResponse depending on the used request message. The HTTP status code
in the Delete response message is used to indicate success or failure.
# C.6 SOAP Based Update
SOAP Based Update request messages make use of the HTTP Post method and
contain a SOAP message envelope.
SOAP Based Update response messages are coded as HTTP response message and
contain a SOAP envelope.
Update request messages contain a SOAP message envelope body formatted
according to the XML schema defined in OASIS DSML [18] related to
ModifyRequest with the \"operation\" field set to \"replace\".
Update response messages contain a SOAP message envelope body formatted
according to the XML schema defined in OASIS DSML [18] related to
ModifyResponse. The HTTP status code in the Update response message is used to
indicate success or failure.
# C.7 SOAP Based Abandon
SOAP Based Abandon request messages make use of the HTTP Post method and
contain a SOAP message envelope.Abandon request messages contain a SOAP
message envelope body formatted according to the XML schema defined in OASIS
DSML [18] related to AbandonRequest.
#