# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the stage 3 protocol and data model for the
Npkmf Service Based Interface. It provides stage 3 protocol definitions and
message flows, and specifies the API for each service offered by the 5G PKMF
as specified in 3GPP TS 33.503 [4].
The 5G System stage 2 architecture and procedures are specified in 3GPP TS
23.501 [2] and 3GPP TS 23.502 [3].
The Technical Realization of the Service Based Architecture and the Principles
and Guidelines for Services Definition are specified in 3GPP TS 29.500 [5] and
3GPP TS 29.501 [6].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.502: \"Procedures for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[4] 3GPP TS 33.503: \"Security Aspects of Proximity based Services (ProSe) in
the 5G System (5GS)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 29.500: \"5G System; Technical Realization of Service Based
Architecture; Stage 3\".
[6] 3GPP TS 29.501: \"5G System; Principles and Guidelines for Services
Definition; Stage 3\".
[7] OpenAPI : \"OpenAPI Specification Version 3.0.0\",
https://spec.openapis.org/oas/v3.0.0.
[8] IETF RFC 7540: \"Hypertext Transfer Protocol Version 2 (HTTP/2)\".
[9] IETF RFC 8259: \"The JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Data Interchange
Format\".
[10] IETF RFC 7807: \"Problem Details for HTTP APIs\".
[11] 3GPP TS 33.501: \"Security architecture and procedures for 5G system\".
[12] IETF RFC 6749: \"The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework\".
[13] 3GPP TS 29.510: \"Network Function Repository Services; Stage 3\".
[14] 3GPP TR 21.900: \"Technical Specification Group working methods\".
[15] 3GPP TS 29.571: \"5G System; Common Data Types for Service Based
Interfaces; Stage 3\".
[16] 3GPP TS 24.554: \"Proximity-services (ProSe) in 5G System (5GS) protocol
aspects; Stage 3\".
[17] 3GPP TS 29.503: \"5G System; Unified Data Management Services; Stage 3\".
[18] 3GPP TS 29.509: \"5G System; Authentication Server Services; Stage 3\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
**5G PKMF** : 5G ProSe Key Management Function (5G PKMF) is the logical
function handling network related actions required for the key management and
the security material for discovery of a 5G ProSe UE-to-Network Relay by a 5G
ProSe Remote UE; and for establishing a secure PC5 communication link between
a 5G ProSe Remote UE and 5G ProSe UE-to-Network Relay.
**PKMF Key Request** : A procedure employed by the 5G PKMF of the 5G ProSe
Remote UE to request the discovery security materials to the 5G PKMFs of the
potential 5G ProSe UE-to-Network Relays from which the 5G ProSe Remote UE gets
the relay services; or employed by the 5G PKMF of the 5G ProSe UE-to-Network
Relay to request the security materials (e.g. PRUK key) for PC5 communication
with the 5G ProSe Remote UE from the 5G PKMF of the 5G ProSe Remote UE.
## 3.2 Symbols
Void
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
5G PKMF 5G ProSe Key Management Function
5G ProSe 5G Proximity based Services
RPAUID Restricted ProSe Application User ID
PDUID ProSe Discovery UE ID
UP-PRUK User Plane ProSe Remote User Key
# 4 Overview
The 5G ProSe Key Management Function (5G PKMF) is the logical function
handling network related actions required for the key management and the
security material for discovery of a 5G ProSe UE-to-Network Relay by a 5G
ProSe Remote UE; and for establishing a secure PC5 communication link between
a 5G ProSe Remote UE and 5G ProSe UE-to-Network Relay (see 3GPP TS 33.503
[4]).
Figure 4-1 provides the reference model (in service based interface
representation and in reference point representation), with focus on the 5G
PKMF:
Figure 4-1: Reference model -- 5G PKMF
The functionalities supported by the 5G PKMF are listed in clause 4.2.1.2 of
3GPP TS 33.503 [4].
# 5 Services offered by the 5G PKMF
## 5.1 Introduction
The table 5.1-1 shows the PKMF Services and PKMF Service Operations:
Table 5.1-1: List of 5G PKMF Services
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Service Name | Service | Operation | Example | | | Operations | | Consumer(s) | | | | Semantics | | +================+================+================+================+ | Npkmf_ | **ProseKey** | Re | PKMF | | PKMFKeyRequest | | quest/Response | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Npkmf_Resol | Retrieve | Re | SMF, 5G PKMF | | veRemoteUserId | | quest/Response | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
Table 5.1-2 summarizes the corresponding APIs defined for this specification.
Table 5.1-2: API Descriptions
**Service Name** **Clause** **Description** **OpenAPI Specification File**
**apiName** **Annex**
* * *
Npkmf_PKMFKeyRequest 6.1 PKMF Key Request Service
TS29559_Npkmf_PKMFKeyRequest.yaml npkmf-keyrequest A.2
Npkmf_ResolveRemoteUserId 6.2 PKMF Resolve Remote User ID Service
TS29559_Npkmf_UserId.yaml npkmf-userid A.3
## 5.2 Npkmf_PKMFKeyRequest Service
### 5.2.1 Service Description
This service enables an NF (i.e. another PKMF in another PLMN) to request
information related to 5G ProSe keying. The following are the key
functionalities of this NF service.
\- Provide 5G ProSe related keying material
### 5.2.2 Service Operations
#### 5.2.2.1 Introduction
#### 5.2.2.2 **ProseKey**
##### 5.2.2.2.1 General
The ProseKey service operation is invoked by a NF Service Consumer, i.e.
another PKMF in another PLMN, towards the PKMF to retrieve the keying material
related to 5G ProSe.
The ProseKey service operation is used during the following procedure:
\- PC5 security establishment for 5G ProSe UE-to-Network relay communication
over User Plane (see 3GPP TS 33.503 [4], clause 6.3.3.2.2)
The NF Service Consumer (i.e. another PKMF in another PLMN) shall retrieve the
5G ProSe related keying material by invoking the \"request \" custom method on
the resource URI of \"Prose Keys Collection\" resource, see clause 6.1.3.2.4.
See also Figure 5.2.2.2.1-1.
Figure 5.2.2.2.1-1 ProseKey service operation
1\. The NF Service Consumer shall send a HTTP POST request to invoke
\"request\" custom method. The payload of the request shall be an object of
\"ProseKeyReqData\" data type. The payload shall include the Relay Service
Code, the KNRP freshness parameter 1, and either the SUCI of the 5G ProSe
Remote UE or the UP-PRUK ID.
2a. On success, the PKMF shall respond with the status code \"200 OK\". The
payload of the response shall be an object of \"ProseKeyRspData\" data type.
They payload shall include the KNRP, the KNRP freshness parameter 2 and
optionally the GPI.
2b. On failure or redirection, one of the HTTP status codes listed in table
6.1.3.2.4.2.2-2 shall be returned. For a 4xx/5xx response, the message body
shall contain a ProblemDetails structure with the \"cause\" attribute set to
one of the application errors listed in table 6.1.3.2.4.2.2-2.
3\. [conditional] If synchronization failed when UE processes the
authentication challenge in the GPI and a subsequent Key Request is send for
resynchronization, the NF Service Consumer shall send a HTTP POST request to
invoke \"request\" custom method. The payload of the request shall be an
object of \"ProseKeyReqData\" data type. The payload shall include the Relay
Service Code, the KNRP freshness parameter 1, the information for
resynchronization (RAND and AUTS).
4a. On success, the PKMF shall respond with the status code \"200 OK\". The
payload of the response shall be an object of \"ProseKeyRspData\" data type.
They payload shall include the KNRP, the KNRP freshness parameter 2 and the
GPI.
4b. On failure or redirection, one of the HTTP status codes listed in table
6.1.3.2.4.2.2-2 shall be returned. For a 4xx/5xx response, the message body
shall contain a ProblemDetails structure with the \"cause\" attribute set to
one of the application errors listed in table 6.1.3.2.4.2.2-2.
## 5.3 Npkmf_ResolveRemoteUserId Service
### 5.3.1 Service Description
The Npkmf_ResolveRemoteUserId service enables a NF to request the PKMF to
resolve Remote User ID (i.e., UP-PRUK ID) to SUPI.
### 5.3.2 Service Operations
#### 5.3.2.1 Introduction
The service operation defined for the Npkmf_ResolveRemoteUserId service is as
follows:
\- Retrieve: It allows a consumer NF to get an user's SUPI from Remote User
ID.
#### 5.3.2.2 Retrieve
##### 5.3.2.2.1 General
The Retrieve service operation is used during the following procedure:
\- PC5 security establishment for 5G ProSe UE-to-Network relay communication
over User Plane (see 3GPP TS 33.503 [4], clause 6.3.3.2.2)
The NF Service Consumer (e.g., SMF, PKMF) shall request the PKMF to get the
SUPI of a 5G ProSe Remote UE as shown in Figure 5.3.2.2.1-1
Figure 5.3.2.2.1-1: Requesting the SUPI of a ProSe Remote UE
1\. The NF service consumer (e.g., SMF, PKMF) sends a POST request to the
resource representing the resolve-id custom operation. The request body shall
contain the UP-PRUK ID.
2a. On success, the PKMF responds with \"200 OK\" with the message body
containing the corresponding SUPI.
2b. If there is no valid data, HTTP status code \"404 Not Found\" shall be
returned including additional error information in the response body (in the
\"ProblemDetails\" element).
On failure, the appropriate HTTP status code indicating the error shall be
returned and appropriate additional error information should be returned in
the POST response body.
# 6 API Definitions
## 6.1 Npkmf_PKMFKeyRequest Service API
### 6.1.1 Introduction
The Npkmf_PKMFKeyRequest shall use the Npkmf_PKMFKeyRequest API.
The API URI of the Npkmf_PKMFKeyRequest API shall be:
**{apiRoot}/\ /\**
The request URIs used in HTTP requests from the NF service consumer towards
the NF service producer shall have the Resource URI structure defined in
clause 4.4.1 of 3GPP TS 29.501 [6], i.e.:
**{apiRoot}/\ /\/\**
with the following components:
\- The {apiRoot} shall be set as described in 3GPP TS 29.501 [6].
\- The \ shall be \"npkmf-keyrequest \".
\- The \ shall be \"v1\".
\- The \ shall be set as described in clause
6.1.3.
### 6.1.2 Usage of HTTP
#### 6.1.2.1 General
HTTP/2, IETF RFC 7540 [8], shall be used as specified in clause 5 of 3GPP TS
29.500 [5].
HTTP/2 shall be transported as specified in clause 5.3 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [5].
The OpenAPI [7] specification of HTTP messages and content bodies for the
Npkmf_PKMFKeyRequest API is contained in Annex A.
#### 6.1.2.2 HTTP standard headers
##### 6.1.2.2.1 General
See clause 5.2.2 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [5] for the usage of HTTP standard headers.
##### 6.1.2.2.2 Content type
JSON, IETF RFC 8259 [9], shall be used as content type of the HTTP bodies
specified in the present specification as specified in clause 5.4 of 3GPP TS
29.500 [5]. The use of the JSON format shall be signalled by the content type
\"application/json\".
\"Problem Details\" JSON object shall be used to indicate additional details
of the error in a HTTP response body and shall be signalled by the content
type \"application/problem+json\", as defined in IETF RFC 7807 [10].
#### 6.1.2.3 HTTP custom headers
The mandatory HTTP custom header fields specified in clause 5.2.3.2 of 3GPP TS
29.500 [5] shall be applicable, and the optional HTTP custom header fields
specified in clause 5.2.3.3 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [5] may be supported.
### 6.1.3 Resources
#### 6.1.3.1 Overview
This clause describes the structure for the Resource URIs and the resources
and methods used for the service.
Figure 6.1.3.1-1 describes the resource URI structure of the
Npkmf_PKMFKeyRequest API.
Figure 6.1.3.1-1: Resource URI structure of the Npkmf_PKMFKeyRequest API
Table 6.1.3.1-1 provides an overview of the resources and applicable HTTP
methods.
Table 6.1.3.1-1: Resources and methods overview
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | Resource name | Resource URI | HTTP method or | Description | | | | custom | | | | | operation | | +================+==============+================+================+ | ProSe Keys | /prose-keys | request | ProseKey | | Collection | | | service | | | | (POST) | operation | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
#### 6.1.3.2 Resource: ProSe Keys Collection
##### 6.1.3.2.1 Description
This resource represents the collection of the ProSe Keys managed by the PKMF.
This resource is modelled with the Collection resource archetype (see clause
C.2 of 3GPP TS 29.501 [5]).
##### 6.1.3.2.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: **{apiRoot}/\ /\/prose-keys**
This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in table
6.1.3.2.2-1.
Table 6.1.3.2.2-1: Resource URI variables for this resource
Name Data type Definition
* * *
apiRoot string See clause 6.1.1
##### 6.1.3.2.3 Resource Standard Methods
There is no standard method supported by the resource.
##### 6.1.3.2.4 Resource Custom Operations
###### 6.1.3.2.4.1 Overview
Table 6.1.3.2.4.1-1: Custom operations
Operation name Custom operaration URI Mapped HTTP method Description
* * *
request {resourceUri}/request POST ProseKey service operation
###### 6.1.3.2.4.2 Operation: request
###### # 6.1.3.2.4.2.1 Description
This custom operation requests the keying material related to 5G ProSe in the
PKMF.
###### # 6.1.3.2.4.2.2 Operation Definition
This operation shall support the request data structures specified in table
6.1.3.2.4.2.2-1 and the response data structure and response codes specified
in table 6.1.3.2.4.2.2-2.
Table 6.1.3.2.4.2.2-1: Data structures supported by the POST Request Body on
this resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description ProseKeyReqData M 1 Representation of the
input to request the keying material.
* * *
Table 6.1.3.2.4.2.2-2: Data structures supported by the POST Response Body on
this resource
+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | | | | | | | codes | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Pr | M | 1 | 200 OK | R | | oseKeyRspData | | | | epresentation | | | | | | of the | | | | | | successfully | | | | | | requested | | | | | | keying | | | | | | material. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Red | O | 0..1 | 307 Temporary | Temporary | | irectResponse | | | Redirect | redirection. | | | | | | The response | | | | | | shall include | | | | | | a Location | | | | | | header field | | | | | | containing a | | | | | | different | | | | | | URI, or the | | | | | | same URI if a | | | | | | request is | | | | | | redirected to | | | | | | the same | | | | | | target | | | | | | resource via | | | | | | a different | | | | | | SCP. In the | | | | | | former case, | | | | | | the URI shall | | | | | | be an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | URI of the | | | | | | resource | | | | | | located on an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | service | | | | | | instance | | | | | | within the | | | | | | same PKMF or | | | | | | PKMF | | | | | | (service) | | | | | | set. | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 2) | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Red | O | 0..1 | 308 Permanent | Permanent | | irectResponse | | | Redirect | redirection. | | | | | | The response | | | | | | shall include | | | | | | a Location | | | | | | header field | | | | | | containing a | | | | | | different | | | | | | URI, or the | | | | | | same URI if a | | | | | | request is | | | | | | redirected to | | | | | | the same | | | | | | target | | | | | | resource via | | | | | | a different | | | | | | SCP. In the | | | | | | former case, | | | | | | the URI shall | | | | | | be an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | URI of the | | | | | | resource | | | | | | located on an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | service | | | | | | instance | | | | | | within the | | | | | | same PKMF or | | | | | | PKMF | | | | | | (service) | | | | | | set. | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 2) | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | P | O | 0..1 | 403 Not Found | The \"cause\" | | roblemDetails | | | | attribute | | | | | | shall be set | | | | | | to one of the | | | | | | following | | | | | | application | | | | | | error: | | | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | UE_NO | | | | | | T_AUTHORIZED | | | | | | | | | | | | See table | | | | | | 6.1.7.3-1 for | | | | | | the | | | | | | description | | | | | | of these | | | | | | errors. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | P | O | 0..1 | 404 Not Found | The \"cause\" | | roblemDetails | | | | attribute | | | | | | shall be set | | | | | | to one of the | | | | | | following | | | | | | application | | | | | | error: | | | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | U | | | | | | E_NOT_FOUND | | | | | | | | | | | | See table | | | | | | 6.1.7.3-1 for | | | | | | the | | | | | | description | | | | | | of these | | | | | | errors. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | NOTE1: The | | | | | | manadatory | | | | | | HTTP error | | | | | | status code | | | | | | for the POST | | | | | | method listed | | | | | | in Table | | | | | | 5.2.7.1-1 of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [5] | | | | | | also apply. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | Red | | | | | | irectResponse | | | | | | may be | | | | | | inserted by | | | | | | an SCP, see | | | | | | cl | | | | | | ause 6.10.9.1 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [4]. | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+
Table 6.1.3.2.4.2.2-3: Headers supported by the 307 Response Code on this
resource
+-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Location | string | M | 1 | An alternative | | | | | | URI of the | | | | | | resource | | | | | | located on an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | service | | | | | | instance within | | | | | | the same PKMF | | | | | | or PKMF | | | | | | (service) set. | | | | | | | | | | | | Or the same | | | | | | URI, if a | | | | | | request is | | | | | | redirected to | | | | | | the same target | | | | | | resource via a | | | | | | different SCP. | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | 3gpp-S | string | O | 0..1 | Identifier of | | bi-Target-Nf-Id | | | | the target PKMF | | | | | | (service) | | | | | | instance ID | | | | | | towards which | | | | | | the request is | | | | | | redirected | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+
Table 6.1.3.2.4.2.2-4: Headers supported by the 308 Response Code on this
resource
+-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Location | string | M | 1 | An alternative | | | | | | URI of the | | | | | | resource | | | | | | located on an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | service | | | | | | instance within | | | | | | the same PKMF | | | | | | or PKMF | | | | | | (service) set. | | | | | | | | | | | | Or the same | | | | | | URI, if a | | | | | | request is | | | | | | redirected to | | | | | | the same target | | | | | | resource via a | | | | | | different SCP. | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | 3gpp-S | string | O | 0..1 | Identifier of | | bi-Target-Nf-Id | | | | the target PKMF | | | | | | (service) | | | | | | instance ID | | | | | | towards which | | | | | | the request is | | | | | | redirected | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+
### 6.1.4 Custom Operations without associated resources
There is no custom operation without associated resources supported in
Npkmf_PKMFKeyRequest Service.
### 6.1.5 Notifications
There is no notification defined for Npkmf_PKMFKeyRequest service.
### 6.1.6 Data Model
#### 6.1.6.1 General
This clause specifies the application data model supported by the API.
Table 6.1.6.1-1 specifies the data types defined for the Npkmf_PKMFKeyRequest
service based interface protocol.
Table 6.1.6.1-1: Npkmf_PKMFKeyRequest specific Data Types
Data type Clause defined Description Applicability
* * *
ProseKeyReqData 6.1.6.2.2 Representation of the input to request the keying
material.  
ProseKeyRspData 6.1.6.2.3 Representation of the successfully requested keying
material.  
PrukId 6.1.6.3 User Plane Prose Remote User Key ID  
Knrp 6.1.6.3 Key for NR PC5  
KnrpFreshnessParameter1 6.1.6.3 K~NRP~ Freshness Parameter 1  
KnrpFreshnessParameter2 6.1.6.3 K~NRP~ Freshness Parameter 2  
Gpi 6.1.6.3 GBA Push Information
Table 6.1.6.1-2 specifies data types re-used by the Npkmf_PKMFKeyRequest
service based interface protocol from other specifications, including a
reference to their respective specifications and when needed, a short
description of their use within the Npkmf_PKMFKeyRequest service based
interface.
Table 6.1.6.1-2: Npkmf_PKMFKeyRequest re-used Data Types
Data type Reference Comments Applicability
* * *
RelayServiceCode 3GPP TS 29.571 [15] Relay Service Code  
ResynchronizationInfo 3GPP TS 29.503 [17] Resynchronization Information  
Suci 3GPP TS 29.509 [18] String contains the SUCI
#### 6.1.6.2 Structured data types
##### 6.1.6.2.1 Introduction
This clause defines the structures to be used in resource representations.
##### 6.1.6.2.2 Type: ProseKeyReqData
Table 6.1.6.2.2-1: Definition of type ProseKeyReqData
+-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | Attribute | Data type | P | Ca | De | Appl | | name | | | rdinality | scription | icability | +===========+===========+===+===========+===========+===========+ | rela | RelaySe | M | 1 | This IE | | | yServCode | rviceCode | | | shall | | | | | | | indicate | | | | | | | the Relay | | | | | | | Service | | | | | | | Code from | | | | | | | the 5G | | | | | | | ProSe | | | | | | | Remote | | | | | | | UE. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | knrpF | KnrpF | M | 1 | This IE | | | reshness1 | reshnessP | | | shall | | | | arameter1 | | | carry the | | | | | | | K~NRP~ | | | | | | | Freshness | | | | | | | Parameter | | | | | | | 1 in the | | | | | | | 5G ProSe | | | | | | | Remote | | | | | | | UE. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | r | Res | C | 0..1 | This IE | | | esyncInfo | ynchroniz | | | shall be | | | | ationInfo | | | present | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | service | | | | | | | request | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | ubsequent | | | | | | | key | | | | | | | request | | | | | | | handling | | | | | | | synchr | | | | | | | onization | | | | | | | failure. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | When | | | | | | | present, | | | | | | | this IE | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | carry | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | formation | | | | | | | (RAND, | | | | | | | AUTS) | | | | | | | from the | | | | | | | 5G ProSe | | | | | | | Remote UE | | | | | | | related | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | synchr | | | | | | | onization | | | | | | | Failure. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | prukId | PrukId | C | 0..1 | This IE | | | | | | | may be | | | | | | | present | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | service | | | | | | | request | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | initial | | | | | | | key | | | | | | | request. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | When | | | | | | | present, | | | | | | | this IE | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | indicate | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | UP-PRUK | | | | | | | ID from | | | | | | | the 5G | | | | | | | ProSe | | | | | | | Remote | | | | | | | UE. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (See | | | | | | | NOTE) | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | suci | Suci | C | 0..1 | This IE | | | | | | | may be | | | | | | | present | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | service | | | | | | | request | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | initial | | | | | | | key | | | | | | | request. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | When | | | | | | | present, | | | | | | | this IE | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | carry the | | | | | | | SUCI of | | | | | | | the 5G | | | | | | | ProSe | | | | | | | Remote UE | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (See | | | | | | | NOTE). | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | NOTE: | | | | | | | Either | | | | | | | prukId IE | | | | | | | or suci | | | | | | | IE shall | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | present | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | service | | | | | | | request | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | initial | | | | | | | key | | | | | | | request. | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+
##### 6.1.6.2.3 Type: ProseKeyRspData
Table 6.1.6.2.3-1: Definition of type ProseKeyRspData
+-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | Attribute | Data type | P | Ca | De | Appl | | name | | | rdinality | scription | icability | +===========+===========+===+===========+===========+===========+ | knrp | Knrp | M | 1 | This IE | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | carry the | | | | | | | K~NRP~ | | | | | | | derived | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | PKMF. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | knrpF | KnrpF | M | 1 | This IE | | | reshness2 | reshnessP | | | shall | | | | arameter2 | | | carry the | | | | | | | K~NRP~ | | | | | | | Freshness | | | | | | | Parameter | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | generated | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | PKMF. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | gpi | Gpi | C | 0..1 | This IE | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | present | | | | | | | if GPI is | | | | | | | generated | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | equested. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | When | | | | | | | present, | | | | | | | this IE | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | carry the | | | | | | | GPI. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+
#### 6.1.6.3 Simple data types and enumerations
##### 6.1.6.3.1 Introduction
This clause defines simple data types and enumerations that can be referenced
from data structures defined in the previous clauses.
##### 6.1.6.3.2 Simple data types
The simple data types defined in table 6.1.6.3.2-1 shall be supported.
Table 6.1.6.3.2-1: Simple data types
+----------------+----------------+----------------+---------------+ | Type Name | Type | Description | Applicability | | | Definition | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------------+ | PrukId | string | User Plane | | | | | Prose Remote | | | | | User Key ID | | | | | | | | | | String type as | | | | | defined in | | | | | OpenAPI Specif | | | | | ication [7], | | | | | carrying the | | | | | value of the | | | | | \"UP-PRUK ID\" | | | | | parameter via | | | | | PC8 (with | | | | | \"xs:string\" | | | | | type in XML | | | | | schema) as | | | | | specified in | | | | | c | | | | | lause 11.6.2.3 | | | | | of | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | 24.554 [16]. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------------+ | Knrp | string | Key for NR PC5 | | | | | | | | | | String type as | | | | | defined in | | | | | OpenAPI Specif | | | | | ication [7], | | | | | carrying the | | | | | value of the | | | | | \"KNRP\" | | | | | parameter via | | | | | PC8 (with | | | | | \" | | | | | xs:hexBinary\" | | | | | type in XML | | | | | schema) as | | | | | specified in | | | | | cl | | | | | ause 11.6.2.25 | | | | | of | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | 24.554 [16]. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------------+ | KnrpFresh | string | K~NRP~ | | | nessParameter1 | | Freshness | | | | | Parameter 1 | | | | | | | | | | String type as | | | | | defined in | | | | | OpenAPI Specif | | | | | ication [7], | | | | | carrying the | | | | | value of the | | | | | \"KNRP | | | | | freshness | | | | | parameter 1\" | | | | | parameter via | | | | | PC8 (with | | | | | \" | | | | | xs:hexBinary\" | | | | | type in XML | | | | | schema) as | | | | | specified in | | | | | cl | | | | | ause 11.6.2.22 | | | | | of | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | 24.554 [16]. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------------+ | KnrpFresh | string | K~NRP~ | | | nessParameter2 | | Freshness | | | | | Parameter 2 | | | | | | | | | | String type as | | | | | defined in | | | | | OpenAPI Specif | | | | | ication [7], | | | | | carrying the | | | | | value of the | | | | | \"KNRP | | | | | freshness | | | | | parameter 2\" | | | | | parameter via | | | | | PC8 (with | | | | | \" | | | | | xs:hexBinary\" | | | | | type in XML | | | | | schema) as | | | | | specified in | | | | | cl | | | | | ause 11.6.2.26 | | | | | of | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | 24.554 [16]. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------------+ | Gpi | string | GBA Push | | | | | Information | | | | | | | | | | String type as | | | | | defined in | | | | | OpenAPI Specif | | | | | ication [7], | | | | | carrying the | | | | | value of the | | | | | \"GPI\" | | | | | parameter via | | | | | PC8 (with | | | | | \" | | | | | xs:hexBinary\" | | | | | type in XML | | | | | schema) as | | | | | specified in | | | | | cl | | | | | ause 11.6.2.16 | | | | | of | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | 24.554 [16]. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------------+
#### 6.1.6.4 Data types describing alternative data types or combinations of
data types
There is no data type describing alternative data types or combinations of
data types in Npkmf_PKMFKeyRequest Service.
#### 6.1.6.5 Binary data
There is no binary data type in Npkmf_PKMFKeyRequest Service.
### 6.1.7 Error Handling
#### 6.1.7.1 General
For the Npkmf_PKMFKeyRequest API, HTTP error responses shall be supported as
specified in clause 4.8 of 3GPP TS 29.501 [6]. Protocol errors and application
errors specified in table 5.2.7.2-1 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [5] shall be supported
for an HTTP method if the corresponding HTTP status codes are specified as
mandatory for that HTTP method in table 5.2.7.1-1 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [5].
In addition, the requirements in the following clauses are applicable for the
Npkmf_PKMFKeyRequest API.
#### 6.1.7.2 Protocol Errors
Protocol errors handling shall be supported as specified in clause 5.2.7 of
3GPP TS 29.500 [5].
#### 6.1.7.3 Application Errors
The application errors defined for the Npkmf_PKMFKeyRequest service are listed
in Table 6.1.7.3-1.
Table 6.1.7.3-1: Application errors
Application Error HTTP status code Description
* * *
UE_NOT_AUTHORIZED 403 Forbidden The UE is not authorized for the requested
service. UE_NOT_FOUND 404 Not Found The UE indicated by the SUCI or related to
the UP-PRUK ID is not found in the PKMF.
### 6.1.8 Feature negotiation
The optional features in table 6.1.8-1 are defined for the
Npkmf_PKMFKeyRequest API. They shall be negotiated using the extensibility
mechanism defined in clause 6.6 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [5].
Table 6.1.8-1: Supported Features
Feature number Feature Name Description
* * *
N/A
### 6.1.9 Security
As indicated in 3GPP TS 33.501 [11] and 3GPP TS 29.500 [5], the access to the
Npkmf_PKMFKeyRequest API may be authorized by means of the OAuth2 protocol
(see IETF RFC 6749 [12]), based on local configuration, using the \"Client
Credentials\" authorization grant, where the NRF (see 3GPP TS 29.510 [13])
plays the role of the authorization server.
If OAuth2 is used, an NF Service Consumer, prior to consuming services offered
by the Npkmf_PKMFKeyRequest API, shall obtain a \"token\" from the
authorization server, by invoking the Access Token Request service, as
described in 3GPP TS 29.510 [13], clause 5.4.2.2.
NOTE: When multiple NRFs are deployed in a network, the NRF used as
authorization server is the same NRF that the NF Service Consumer used for
discovering the Npkmf_PKMFKeyRequest service.
The Npkmf_PKMFKeyRequest API defines a single scope \"npkmf-keyrequest\" for
OAuth2 authorization (as specified in 3GPP TS 33.501 [11]) for the entire
service, and it does not define any additional scopes at resource or operation
level.
### 6.1.10 HTTP redirection
An HTTP request may be redirected to a different 5G PKMF service instance,
within the same 5G PKMF or a different 5G PKMF of an 5G PKMF set, e.g. when an
5G PKMF service instance is part of an 5G PKMF (service) set or when using
indirect communications (see 3GPP TS 29.500 [5]).
An SCP that reselects a different 5G PKMF producer instance will return the NF
Instance ID of the new 5G PKMF producer instance in the 3gpp-Sbi-Producer-Id
header, as specified in clause 6.10.3.4 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [5].
If an 5G PKMF within an 5G PKMF set redirects a service request to a different
5G PKMF of the set using an 307 Temporary Redirect or 308 Permanent Redirect
status code, the identity of the new 5G PKMF towards which the service request
is redirected shall be indicated in the 3gpp-Sbi-Target-Nf-Id header of the
307 Temporary Redirect or 308 Permanent Redirect response as specified in
clause 6.10.9.1 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [5].
## 6.2 Npkmf_ResolveRemoteUserId Service API
### 6.2.1 Introduction
The Npkmf_ResolveRemoteUserId service shall use the Npkmf_ResolveRemoteUserId
API.
The API URI of the Npkmf_ResolveRemoteUserId API shall be:
**{apiRoot}/\ /\**
The request URIs used in HTTP requests from the NF service consumer towards
the NF service producer shall have the Resource URI structure defined in
clause 4.4.1 of 3GPP TS 29.501 [6], i.e.:
**{apiRoot}/\ /\/\**
with the following components:
\- The {apiRoot} shall be set as described in 3GPP TS 29.501 [6].
\- The \ shall be \"npkmf-userid\".
\- The \ shall be \"v1\".
\- The \ shall be set as described in clause
6.2.3.
### 6.2.2 Usage of HTTP
#### 6.2.2.1 General
HTTP/2, IETF RFC 7540 [8], shall be used as specified in clause 5 of 3GPP TS
29.500 [5].
HTTP/2 shall be transported as specified in clause 5.3 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [5].
The OpenAPI [7] specification of HTTP messages and content bodies for the
Npkmf_ResolveRemoteUserId API is contained in Annex A.3.
#### 6.2.2.2 HTTP standard headers
##### 6.2.2.2.1 General
See clause 5.2.2 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [5] for the usage of HTTP standard headers.
##### 6.2.2.2.2 Content type
JSON, IETF RFC 8259 [9], shall be used as content type of the HTTP bodies
specified in the present specification as specified in clause 5.4 of 3GPP TS
29.500 [5]. The use of the JSON format shall be signalled by the content type
\"application/json\".
\"Problem Details\" JSON object shall be used to indicate additional details
of the error in a HTTP response body and shall be signalled by the content
type \"application/problem+json\", as defined in IETF RFC 7807 [10].
#### 6.2.2.3 HTTP custom headers
The mandatory HTTP custom header fields specified in clause 5.2.3.2 of 3GPP TS
29.500 [5] shall be supported, and the optional HTTP custom header fields
specified in clause 5.2.3.3 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [5] may be supported.
### 6.2.3 Resources
#### 6.2.3.1 Overview
This clause describes the structure for the Resource URIs and the resources
and methods used for the service.
Figure 6.2.3.1-1 depicts the resource URIs structure for the
Npkmf_ResolveRemoteUserId API.
Figure 6.2.3.1-1: Resource URI structure of the Npkmf_ResolveRemoteUserId API
Table 6.2.3.1-1 provides an overview of the resources and applicable HTTP
methods.
Table 6.2.3.1-1: Resources and methods overview
Resource name Resource URI HTTP method or custom operation Description
* * *
### 6.2.4 Custom Operations without associated resources
#### 6.2.4.1 Overview
Table 6.2.4.1-1: Custom operations without associated resources
Custom operation URI Mapped HTTP method Description
* * *
resolve-id POST Resolve ProSe Remote User ID (i.e., UP-PRUK ID) to SUPI
#### 6.2.4.2 Operation: resolve-id
##### 6.2.4.2.1 Description
This custom operation is used by the NF service consumer (e.g., SMF, PKMF) to
request to resolve ProSe Remote User ID (i.e., UP-PRUK) to SUPI.
The URI of this custom operation is: {apiRoot}/npkmf-userid/**\
** /resolve-id
##### 6.2.4.2.2 Operation Definition
This operation shall support the response data structures and response codes
specified in tables 6.2.4.2.2-1 and 6.2.4.2.2-2.
Table 6.2.4.2.2-1: Data structures supported by the POST Request Body on this
resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description ResolveRequest M 1 Resolve Request data.
* * *
Table 6.2.4.2.2-2: Data structures supported by the POST Response Body on this
resource
+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | | | | | | | codes | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Re | M | 1 | 200 OK | Upon success, | | solveResponse | | | | the response | | | | | | data contain | | | | | | the SUPI of | | | | | | the ProSe | | | | | | Remote UE. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Red | O | 0..1 | 307 Temporary | Temporary | | irectResponse | | | Redirect | redirection. | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 2) | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Red | O | 0..1 | 308 Permanent | Permanent | | irectResponse | | | Redirect | redirection. | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 2) | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | P | O | 0..1 | 404 Not Found | The \"cause\" | | roblemDetails | | | | attribute may | | | | | | be used to | | | | | | indicate one | | | | | | of the | | | | | | following | | | | | | application | | | | | | errors: | | | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | USE | | | | | | R_NOT_FOUND | | | | | | | | | | | | See table | | | | | | 6.2.7.3-1 for | | | | | | the | | | | | | description | | | | | | of these | | | | | | errors. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | | | manadatory | | | | | | HTTP error | | | | | | status code | | | | | | for the POST | | | | | | method listed | | | | | | in | | | | | | Ta | | | | | | ble 5.2.7.1-1 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [5] | | | | | | also apply. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | Red | | | | | | irectResponse | | | | | | may be | | | | | | inserted by | | | | | | an SCP, see | | | | | | cl | | | | | | ause 6.10.9.1 | | | | | | of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [5]. | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+
Table 6.2.4.2.2-3: Headers supported by the 307 Response Code on this resource
+-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | +=================+===========+===+=============+=================+ | Location | string | M | 1 | An alternative | | | | | | URI of the | | | | | | resource | | | | | | located on an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | service | | | | | | instance within | | | | | | the same PKMF | | | | | | or PKMF | | | | | | (service) set. | | | | | | | | | | | | For the case, | | | | | | when a request | | | | | | is redirected | | | | | | to the same | | | | | | target resource | | | | | | via a different | | | | | | SCP, see | | | | | | clause 6.10.9.1 | | | | | | in | | | | | | 3GPP T | | | | | | S 29.500 [5]. | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | 3gpp-S | string | O | 0..1 | Identifier of | | bi-Target-Nf-Id | | | | the target PKMF | | | | | | (service) | | | | | | instance ID | | | | | | towards which | | | | | | the request is | | | | | | redirected | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+
Table 6.2.4.2.2-4: Headers supported by the 308 Response Code on this resource
+-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | +=================+===========+===+=============+=================+ | Location | string | M | 1 | An alternative | | | | | | URI of the | | | | | | resource | | | | | | located on an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | service | | | | | | instance within | | | | | | the same PKMF | | | | | | or PKMF | | | | | | (service) set. | | | | | | | | | | | | For the case, | | | | | | when a request | | | | | | is redirected | | | | | | to the same | | | | | | target resource | | | | | | via a different | | | | | | SCP, see | | | | | | clause 6.10.9.1 | | | | | | in | | | | | | 3GPP T | | | | | | S 29.500 [5]. | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | 3gpp-S | string | O | 0..1 | Identifier of | | bi-Target-Nf-Id | | | | the target PKMF | | | | | | (service) | | | | | | instance ID | | | | | | towards which | | | | | | the request is | | | | | | redirected | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+
### 6.2.5 Notifications
There is no notification defined for Npkmf_ResolveRemoteUserId service.
### 6.2.6 Data Model
#### 6.2.6.1 General
This clause specifies the application data model supported by the API.
Table 6.2.6.1-1 specifies the data types defined for the
Npkmf_ResolveRemoteUserId service based interface protocol.
Table 6.2.6.1-1: Npkmf_ResolveRemoteUserId specific Data Types
Data type Clause defined Description Applicability
* * *
ResolveRequest 6.2.6.2.2 Request Data  
ResolveResponse 6.2.6.2.3 Response Data
Table 6.2.6.1-2 specifies data types re-used by the Npkmf_ResolveRemoteUserId
service based interface protocol from other specifications, including a
reference to their respective specifications and when needed, a short
description of their use within the Npkmf_ResolveRemoteUserId service based
interface.
Table 6.2.6.1-2: Npkmf_ResolveRemoteUserId re-used Data Types
Data type Reference Comments Applicability
* * *
PrukId 3GPP TS 29.559 See clause 6.1.6.3.2  
PlmnId 3GPP TS 29.571 [15] PLMN ID  
Supi 3GPP TS 29.571 [15] Subscription Permanent Identifier
#### 6.2.6.2 Structured data types
##### 6.2.6.2.1 Introduction
This clause defines the structures to be used in resource representations.
##### 6.2.6.2.2 Type: ResolveRequest
Table 6.2.6.2.2-1: Definition of type ResolveRequest
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability
* * *
upPrukId PrukId M 1 UP-PRUK ID of the ProSe Remote UE  
plmnId PlmnId O 0..1 HPLMN ID of the 5G ProSe Remote UE
##### 6.2.6.2.3 Type: ResolveResponse
Table 6.2.6.2.2-1: Definition of type ResolveResponse
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability
* * *
supi Supi M 1 The SUPI of the UE
#### 6.2.6.3 Simple data types and enumerations
There are no simply data types and enumerations defined in
Npkmf_ResolveRemoteUserId Service.
#### 6.2.6.4 Data types describing alternative data types or combinations of
data types
There is no data type describing alternative data types or combinations of
data types in Npkmf_ResolveRemoteUserId Service.
#### 6.2.6.5 Binary data
There is no binary data type in Npkmf_ResolveRemoteUserId Service.
### 6.2.7 Error Handling
#### 6.2.7.1 General
For the Npkmf_ResolveRemoteUserId API, HTTP error responses shall be supported
as specified in clause 4.8 of 3GPP TS 29.501 [6]. Protocol errors and
application errors specified in table 5.2.7.2-1 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [5] shall be
supported for an HTTP method if the corresponding HTTP status codes are
specified as mandatory for that HTTP method in table 5.2.7.1-1 of 3GPP TS
29.500 [5].
In addition, the requirements in the following clauses are applicable for the
Npkmf_ResolveRemoteUserId API.
#### 6.2.7.2 Protocol Errors
No specific procedures for the Npkmf_ResolveRemoteUserId service are
specified.
#### 6.2.7.3 Application Errors
The application errors defined for the Npkmf_ResolveRemoteUserId service are
listed in Table 6.2.7.3-1.
Table 6.2.7.3-1: Application errors
Application Error HTTP status code Description
* * *
USER_NOT_FOUND 404 Not Found The provided subscriber identifier is not found.
### 6.2.8 Feature negotiation
The optional features in table 6.2.8-1 are defined for the
Npkmf_ResolveRemoteUserId API. They shall be negotiated using the
extensibility mechanism defined in clause 6.6 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [5].
Table 6.2.8-1: Supported Features
Feature number Feature Name Description
* * *
### 6.2.9 Security
As indicated in 3GPP TS 33.501 [8] and 3GPP TS 29.500 [5], the access to the
Npkmf_ResolveRemoteUserId API may be authorized by means of the OAuth2
protocol (see IETF RFC 6749 [9]), based on local configuration, using the
\"Client Credentials\" authorization grant, where the NRF (see 3GPP TS 29.510
[13]) plays the role of the authorization server.
If OAuth2 is used, an NF Service Consumer, prior to consuming services offered
by the Npkmf_ResolveRemoteUserId API, shall obtain a \"token\" from the
authorization server, by invoking the Access Token Request service, as
described in 3GPP TS 29.510 [13], clause 5.4.2.2.
NOTE: When multiple NRFs are deployed in a network, the NRF used as
authorization server is the same NRF that the NF Service Consumer used for
discovering the Npkmf_ResolveRemoteUserId service.
The Npkmf_ResolveRemoteUserId API defines a single scope \"npkmf-userid\" for
the entire service, and it does not define any additional scopes at resource
or operation level.
### 6.2.10 HTTP redirection
An HTTP request may be redirected to a different 5G PKMF service instance,
within the same 5G PKMF or a different 5G PKMF of an 5G PKMF set, e.g. when an
5G PKMF service instance is part of an 5G PKMF (service) set or when using
indirect communications (see 3GPP TS 29.500 [5]).
An SCP that reselects a different 5G PKMF producer instance will return the NF
Instance ID of the new 5G PKMF producer instance in the 3gpp-Sbi-Producer-Id
header, as specified in clause 6.10.3.4 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [5].
If an 5G PKMF within an 5G PKMF set redirects a service request to a different
5G PKMF of the set using an 307 Temporary Redirect or 308 Permanent Redirect
status code, the identity of the new 5G PKMF towards which the service request
is redirected shall be indicated in the 3gpp-Sbi-Target-Nf-Id header of the
307 Temporary Redirect or 308 Permanent Redirect response as specified in
clause 6.10.9.1 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [5].
###### ## Annex A (normative): OpenAPI specification
# A.1 General
This Annex specifies the formal definition of the API(s) defined in the
present specification. It consists of OpenAPI 3.0.0 specifications in YAML
format.
This Annex takes precedence when being discrepant to other parts of the
specification with respect to the encoding of information elements and methods
within the API(s).
NOTE 1: The semantics and procedures, as well as conditions, e.g. for the
applicability and allowed combinations of attributes or values, not expressed
in the OpenAPI definitions but defined in other parts of the specification
also apply.
Informative copies of the OpenAPI specification files contained in this 3GPP
Technical Specification are available on a Git-based repository that uses the
GitLab software version control system (see clause 5.3.1 of 3GPP TS 29.501 [6]
and clause 5B 3GPP TR 21.900 [14]).
# A.2 Npkmf_PKMFKeyRequest API
openapi: 3.0.0
info:
title: Npkmf_PKMFKeyRequest
version: 1.0.1
description: \|
PKMF KeyRequest Service.
© 2022, 3GPP Organizational Partners (ARIB, ATIS, CCSA, ETSI, TSDSI, TTA,
TTC).
All rights reserved.
externalDocs:
description: 3GPP TS 29.559 V17.2.0; 5G System; 5G ProSe Key Management
Services; Stage 3.
url: https://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/29_series/29.559/
servers:
\- url: \'{apiRoot}/npkmf-keyrequest/v1\'
variables:
apiRoot:
default: https://example.com
description: apiRoot as defined in clause 4.4 of 3GPP TS 29.501
security:
\- {}
\- oAuth2ClientCredentials:
\- npkmf-keyrequest
paths:
/prose-keys/request:
post:
summary: Request Keying Materials for 5G ProSe
operationId: ProseKey
tags:
\- ProSe Keys Collection (Collection)
requestBody:
required: true
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/ProseKeyReqData\'
responses:
\'200\':
description: Success
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/ProseKeyRspData\'
\'307\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/307\'
\'308\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/308\'
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'411\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/411\'
\'413\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/413\'
\'415\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/415\'
\'429\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/429\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'502\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/502\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
components:
securitySchemes:
oAuth2ClientCredentials:
type: oauth2
flows:
clientCredentials:
tokenUrl: \'{nrfApiRoot}/oauth2/token\'
scopes:
npkmf-keyrequest: Access to the Npkmf_PKMFKeyRequest API
schemas:
#
# Structured Data Types
#
ProseKeyReqData:
description: Representation of the input to request the keying material.
type: object
properties:
relayServCode:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/RelayServiceCode\'
knrpFreshness1:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/KnrpFreshnessParameter1\'
resyncInfo:
\$ref: \'TS29503_Nudm_UEAU.yaml#/components/schemas/ResynchronizationInfo\'
prukId:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/PrukId\'
suci:
\$ref: \'TS29509_Nausf_UEAuthentication.yaml#/components/schemas/Suci\'
required:
\- relayServCode
\- knrpFreshness1
ProseKeyRspData:
description: Representation of the successfully requested keying material.
type: object
properties:
knrp:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Knrp\'
knrpFreshness2:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/KnrpFreshnessParameter2\'
gpi:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Gpi\'
required:
\- knrp
\- knrpFreshness2
#
# Simple Data Types
#
PrukId:
description: User Plane Prose Remote User Key ID
type: string
Knrp:
description: Key for NR PC5
type: string
KnrpFreshnessParameter1:
description: KNRP Freshness Parameter 1
type: string
KnrpFreshnessParameter2:
description: KNRP Freshness Parameter 2
type: string
Gpi:
description: GBA Pushing Information
type: string
#
# Enumeration Data Types
#
# A.3 Npkmf_ResolveRemoteUserId API
openapi: 3.0.0
info:
title: Npkmf_ResolveRemoteUserId
version: 1.0.0
description: \|
PKMF Resolve Remote User Id Service.
© 2023, 3GPP Organizational Partners (ARIB, ATIS, CCSA, ETSI, TSDSI, TTA,
TTC).
All rights reserved.
externalDocs:
description: 3GPP TS 29.559 V17.3.0; 5G System; 5G ProSe Anchor Services;
Stage 3.
url: https://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/29_series/29.559/
servers:
\- url: \'{apiRoot}/npkmf-userid/v1\'
variables:
apiRoot:
default: https://example.com
description: apiRoot as defined in clause 4.4 of 3GPP TS 29.501
security:
\- {}
\- oAuth2ClientCredentials:
\- npkmf-userid
paths:
/resolve-id:
post:
summary: Retrieve the SUPI of the ProSe Remote UE
operationId: RetrieveSUPI
tags:
\- SUPI Retrieval
requestBody:
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/ResolveRequest\'
required: true
responses:
\'200\':
description: Expected response to a valid request
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/ResolveResponse\'
\'307\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/307\'
\'308\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/308\'
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'411\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/411\'
\'413\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/413\'
\'415\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/415\'
\'429\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/429\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'502\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/502\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
description: Unexpected error
components:
securitySchemes:
oAuth2ClientCredentials:
type: oauth2
flows:
clientCredentials:
tokenUrl: \'{nrfApiRoot}/oauth2/token\'
scopes:
npkmf-userid: Access to the Npkmf_ResolveRemoteUserId API
schemas:
#
# Structured Data Types
#
ResolveRequest:
description: Request Data
type: object
properties:
upPrukId:
\$ref: \'TS29559_Npkmf_PKMFKeyRequest.yaml#/components/schemas/PrukId\'
plmnId:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/PlmnId\'
required:
\- upPrukId
ResolveResponse:
description: Response Data
type: object
properties:
supi:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Supi\'
required:
\- supi
#
# Simple Data Types
#
#
# Enumeration Data Types
#
#