# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the stage 3 protocol and data model for the
Nupf Service Based Interface. It provides stage 3 protocol definitions and
message flows, and specifies the API for each service offered by the UPF.
The 5G System stage 2 architecture and procedures are specified in 3GPP TS
23.501 [2], 3GPP TS 23.502 [3] and 3GPP TS 23.548[14].
The Technical Realization of the Service Based Architecture and the Principles
and Guidelines for Services Definition are specified in 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] and
3GPP TS 29.501 [5].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.502: \"Procedures for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[4] 3GPP TS 29.500: \"5G System; Technical Realization of Service Based
Architecture; Stage 3\".
[5] 3GPP TS 29.501: \"5G System; Principles and Guidelines for Services
Definition; Stage 3\".
[6] OpenAPI: \"OpenAPI Specification Version 3.0.0\",
https://spec.openapis.org/oas/v3.0.0.
[7] 3GPP TR 21.900: \"Technical Specification Group working methods\".
[8] 3GPP TS 33.501: \"Security architecture and procedures for 5G system\".
[9] IETF RFC 6749: \"The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework\".
[10] 3GPP TS 29.510: \"5G System; Network Function Repository Services; Stage
3\".
[11] IETF RFC 7540: \"Hypertext Transfer Protocol Version 2 (HTTP/2)\".
[12] IETF RFC 8259: \"The JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Data Interchange
Format\".
[13] IETF RFC 7807: \"Problem Details for HTTP APIs\".
[14] 3GPP TS 23.548: \"5G System Enhancements for Edge Computing; Stage 2\".
[15] 3GPP TS 29.244: \"Interface between the Control Plane and the User Plane
Nodes; Stage 3\".
[16] 3GPP TS 29.571: \"5G System; Common Data Types for Service Based
Interfaces; Stage 3\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Symbols
None in this release.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
L-UPF Local User Plane Function
L-NEF Local Network Exposure Function
NEF Network Exposure Function
UPF User Plane Function
# 4 Overview
## 4.1 Introduction
Within the 5GC, the UPF offers services to the NEF and AF via the Nupf service
based interface (see 3GPP TS 23.501 [2], 3GPP TS 23.502 [3] and 3GPP TS 23.548
[14]).
Figure 4.1-1 provides the reference model (in service based interface
representation and in reference point representation), with focus on the UPF.
Figure 4.1-1: Reference model -- UPF
The UPF supports the following functionalities which are provided via Service
Based Interface:
\- Notification about the QoS monitoring information.
# 5 Services offered by the UPF
## 5.1 Introduction
The UPF offers the following services via the Nupf interface:
\- Nupf_EventExposure Service
Table 5.1-1 summarizes the corresponding APIs defined for this specification.
Table 5.1-1: API Descriptions
Service Name Clause Description OpenAPI Specification File apiName **Annex**
* * *
Nupf_EventExposure 6.1 UPF Event Exposure Service TS29564_Nupf_EE.yaml nupf-ee
A.2
## 5.2 Nupf_EventExposure Service
### 5.2.1 Service Description
The Nupf_EventExposure service enables the UPF to expose UPF related
information to the service consumers, e.g. local NEF, AF. Via
Nupf_EventExposure service the UPF exposes the UPF related information in the
following manners:
\- Subscribe/Notify:
The NF service consumers create the subscription on the event of interest via
SMF. When required, the SMF instructs the UPF to report QoS Monitoring events
directly to a local NEF or AF via N4 interface as specified in 3GPP TS 29.244
[15]. Upon the event of interest the UPF sends notification directly to the
local NEF or AF via Nupf interface.
The event notification may contain following information:
\- QoS Monitoring report, e.g. end to end delay for a specific QoS flow of a
PDU session.
NOTE: In the current release direct subscription from NF service consumer to
UPF is not supported.
### 5.2.2 Service Operations
#### 5.2.2.1 Introduction
The service operations defined for the Nupf_EventExposure service are as
follows:
\- Subscribe: This is a pseudo operation, the actual subscription to the event
is created via N4 interface.
NOTE 1: In the current release OpenAPI 3.0.0 is adopted, with OpenAPI 3.0.0 it
is not possible to document a stand-alone callback operation, thus the Notify
operation has to be defined in combination with a Subscribe operation.
\- Notify: It allows the UPF to send event notifications directly to NF
service consumers, e.g. local NEF, AF.
NOTE 2: Subscribe service operation is not defined in this release.
#### 5.2.2.2 Subscribe
This is a pseudo operation, the UPF does not actually provide Subscribe
service operation through Nupf_EventExposure service. The subscription on the
UPF is created via N4 interface.
#### 5.2.2.3 Notify
##### 5.2.2.3.1 General
This service operation is used by the UPF to send the following kinds of event
notification:
\- Periodic notification on the downlink packet delay, uplink packet delay,
and/or the round trip packet delay between the UPF (PSA) and UE;
\- Event triggered notification on the downlink packet delay, uplink packet
delay, and/or the round trip packet delay between the UPF (PSA) and UE, i.e.
when the packet delay exceeds a defined threshold;
\- Notification on the downlink packet delay, uplink packet delay, and/or the
round trip packet delay between the UPF (PSA) and UE when the PDU session is
released.
The subscription corresponding to the notification is created by the SMF via
N4 interface, see clause 5.33.5 of 3GPP TS 29.244 [15].
##### 5.2.2.3.2 UPF sends notification on QoS monitoring
Figure 5.2.2.3.2-1: UPF sends notification on QoS monitoring
1\. The UPF shall send a POST request to the eventNotificationUri as provided
by the SMF during the provisioning of Session Reporting Rule (see clause
7.5.2.9 of 3GPP TS 29.244 [15]).
2a. Upon success, the NF Service Consumer responds with \"204 No Content\".
2b. On failure or redirection:
\- If the NF Service Consumer does not consider the \"eventNotificationUri\"
as a valid notification URI, the NF Service Consumer shall return \"404 Not
Found\" status code with the ProblemDetails IE providing details of the error.
\- In the case of redirection, the NF service consumer shall return 3xx status
code, which shall contain a Location header with an URI pointing to the
endpoint of another NF service consumer endpoint.
# 6 API Definitions
## 6.1 Nupf_EventExposure Service API
### 6.1.1 API URI
The Nupf_EventExposure shall use the Nupf_EventExposure API.
The API URI of the Nupf_EventExposure API shall be:
**{apiRoot}/\ /\**
The request URIs used in HTTP requests from the NF service consumer towards
the NF service producer shall have the Resource URI structure defined in
clause 4.4.1 of 3GPP TS 29.501 [5], i.e.:
**{apiRoot}/\ /\/\**
with the following components:
\- The {apiRoot} shall be set as described in 3GPP TS 29.501 [5].
\- The \ shall be \"nupf-ee\".
\- The \ shall be \"v1\".
\- The \ shall be set as described in clause
6.1.3.
### 6.1.2 Usage of HTTP
#### 6.1.2.1 General
HTTP/2, IETF RFC 7540 [11], shall be used as specified in clause 5 of 3GPP TS
29.500 [4].
HTTP/2 shall be transported as specified in clause 5.3 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4].
The OpenAPI [6] specification of HTTP messages and content bodies for the
Nupf_EventExposure API is contained in Annex A.
#### 6.1.2.2 HTTP standard headers
##### 6.1.2.2.1 General
See clause 5.2.2 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] for the usage of HTTP standard headers.
##### 6.1.2.2.2 Content type
JSON, IETF RFC 8259 [12], shall be used as content type of the HTTP bodies
specified in the present specification as specified in clause 5.4 of 3GPP TS
29.500 [4]. The use of the JSON format shall be signalled by the content type
\"application/json\".
\"Problem Details\" JSON object shall be used to indicate additional details
of the error in a HTTP response body and shall be signalled by the content
type \"application/problem+json\", as defined in IETF RFC 7807 [13].
#### 6.1.2.3 HTTP custom headers
The mandatory HTTP custom header fields specified in clause 5.2.3.2 of 3GPP TS
29.500 [4] shall be supported, and the optional HTTP custom header fields
specified in clause 5.2.3.3 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] may be supported.
In this release of this specification, no custom headers specific to the
Nupf_EventExposure service are defined.
### 6.1.3 Resources
#### 6.1.3.1 Overview
Figure 6.1.3.1-1: Resource URI structure of the nupf-ee API
Table 6.1.3.1-1 provides an overview of the resources and applicable HTTP
methods.
Table 6.1.3.1-1: Resources and methods overview
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Resource name | Resource URI | HTTP method or | Description | | | | custom | | | | | operation | | +================+================+================+================+ | EventExposur | /ee | POST | This is a | | eSubscriptions | -subscriptions | | pseudo | | | | | operation. | | (Collection) | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
#### 6.1.3.2 Resource: EventExposureSubscriptions
##### 6.1.3.2.1 Description
##### 6.1.3.2.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: **{apiRoot}/nupf-ee/\ /ee-subscriptions**
This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in table
6.1.3.2.2-1.
Table 6.1.3.2.2-1: Resource URI variables for this resource
Name Data type Definition
* * *
apiRoot string See clause 6.1.1 apiVersion string See clause 6.1.1
##### 6.1.3.2.3 Resource Standard Methods
##### 6.1.3.2.3.1 POST {#post .H6}
This method will not be actually invoked.
This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table
6.1.3.2.3.1-1.
Table 6.1.3.2.3.1-1: URI query parameters supported by the POST method on this
resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability n/a
* * *
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
6.1.3.2.3.1-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified in
table 6.1.3.2.3.1-3.
Table 6.1.3.2.3.1-2: Data structures supported by the POST Request Body on
this resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description Any
* * *
Table 6.1.3.2.3.1-3: Data structures supported by the POST Response Body on
this resource
+-----------------+---+-------------+----------+-------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | | | | | | | codes | | +-----------------+---+-------------+----------+-------------+ | n/a | | | | | +-----------------+---+-------------+----------+-------------+ | NOTE: The | | | | | | mandatory HTTP | | | | | | error status | | | | | | code for the | | | | | | POST method | | | | | | listed in Table | | | | | | 5.2.7.1-1 of | | | | | | 3GPP | | | | | | TS 29.500 [4] | | | | | | also apply. | | | | | +-----------------+---+-------------+----------+-------------+
### 6.1.4 void
### 6.1.5 Notifications
#### 6.1.5.1 General
Notifications shall comply to clause 6.2 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] and clause
4.6.2.3 of 3GPP TS 29.501 [5].
Table 6.1.5.1-1: Notifications overview
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Notification | Callback URI | HTTP method or | Description | | | | custom | | | | | operation | (service | | | | | operation) | +================+================+================+================+ | Event | {eventNo | POST | Notify about | | Notification | tificationUri} | | the events | | | (This URI is | | that UPF | | | not provided | | exposes and to | | | by NF service | | which the NF | | | consumer via | | service | | | Nupf | | consumer may | | | interface, it | | subscribe to. | | | is provided | | | | | via N4 | | | | | interface | | | | | during the | | | | | provisioning | | | | | of Session | | | | | Reporting | | | | | Rule) | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
#### 6.1.5.2 Event Notification
##### 6.1.5.2.1 Description
The Event Notification is used by the UPF to report one or several observed
Events to a NF service consumer that has subscribed to such Notifications.
##### 6.1.5.2.2 Target URI
The POST method shall be used for Event Notification and the URI shall be the
Event Notification URI provided by the SMF during the provisioning of Session
Reporting Rule, see clause 5.33.5 of 3GPP TS 29.244 [15].
Resource URI: **{eventNotificationUri}**
Support of URI query parameters is specified in table 6.1.5.2.2-1.
Table 6.1.5.2.2-1: Callback URI variables
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description n/a
* * *
Support of request data structures is specified in table 6.1.5.2.2-2, and
support of response data structures and response codes is specified in table
6.1.5.2.2-3.
Table 6.1.5.2.2-2: Data structures supported by the POST Request Body
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description NotificationData M 1 Representation of the
event notification.
* * *
Table 6.1.5.2.2-3: Data structures supported by the POST Response Body
+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | | | | | | | codes | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | n/a | | | 204 No | This case | | | | | Content | represents a | | | | | | successful | | | | | | notification | | | | | | of the event. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | P | O | 0..1 | 404 Not Found | If the NF | | roblemDetails | | | | Service | | | | | | Consumer | | | | | | considers the | | | | | | \"eventNoti | | | | | | ficationUri\" | | | | | | and/or | | | | | | \ | | | | | | "Notification | | | | | | Correlation | | | | | | ID\" is not | | | | | | recognized, | | | | | | the NF | | | | | | Service | | | | | | Consumer | | | | | | shall return | | | | | | \"404 Not | | | | | | Found\" | | | | | | status code | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Red | O | 0..1 | 307 Temporary | The NF | | irectResponse | | | Redirect | service | | | | | | consumer | | | | | | shall | | | | | | generate a | | | | | | Location | | | | | | header field | | | | | | containing a | | | | | | URI pointing | | | | | | to the | | | | | | endpoint of | | | | | | another NF | | | | | | Service | | | | | | Consumer | | | | | | instance to | | | | | | which the | | | | | | notification | | | | | | should be | | | | | | sent. | | | | | | | | | | | | If an SCP | | | | | | redirects the | | | | | | message to | | | | | | another SCP | | | | | | then the | | | | | | location | | | | | | header field | | | | | | shall contain | | | | | | the same URI | | | | | | or a | | | | | | different URI | | | | | | pointing to | | | | | | the endpoint | | | | | | of the NF | | | | | | service | | | | | | consumer to | | | | | | which the | | | | | | notification | | | | | | should be | | | | | | sent. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Red | O | 0..1 | 308 Permanent | The NF | | irectResponse | | | Redirect | service | | | | | | consumer | | | | | | shall | | | | | | generate a | | | | | | Location | | | | | | header field | | | | | | containing a | | | | | | URI pointing | | | | | | to the | | | | | | endpoint of | | | | | | another NF | | | | | | Service | | | | | | Consumer | | | | | | instance to | | | | | | which the | | | | | | notification | | | | | | should be | | | | | | sent. | | | | | | | | | | | | If an SCP | | | | | | redirects the | | | | | | message to | | | | | | another SCP | | | | | | then the | | | | | | location | | | | | | header field | | | | | | shall contain | | | | | | the same URI | | | | | | or a | | | | | | different URI | | | | | | pointing to | | | | | | the endpoint | | | | | | of the NF | | | | | | service | | | | | | consumer to | | | | | | which the | | | | | | notification | | | | | | should be | | | | | | sent. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | NOTE: The | | | | | | mandatory | | | | | | HTTP error | | | | | | status codes | | | | | | for the POST | | | | | | method listed | | | | | | in Table | | | | | | 5.2.7.1-1 of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [4] | | | | | | other than | | | | | | those | | | | | | specified in | | | | | | the table | | | | | | above also | | | | | | apply, with a | | | | | | P | | | | | | roblemDetails | | | | | | data type | | | | | | (see clause | | | | | | 5.2.7 of | | | | | | 3GPP TS 2 | | | | | | 9.500 [4]). | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+
Table 6.1.5.2.2-4: Headers supported by the 307 Response Code on this endpoint
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description Location string M 1 A URI pointing to
the endpoint of the NF service consumer instance to which the request should
be sent 3gpp-Sbi-Target-Nf-Id string O 0..1 Identifier of the target NF
instance ID towards which the notification is redirected
* * *
Table 6.1.5.2.2-5: Headers supported by the 308 Response Code on this endpoint
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description Location string M 1 A URI pointing to
the endpoint of the NF service consumer instance to which the request should
be sent 3gpp-Sbi-Target-Nf-Id string O 0..1 Identifier of the target NF
instance ID towards which the notification is redirected
* * *
### 6.1.6 Data Model
#### 6.1.6.1 General
This clause specifies the application data model supported by the API.
Table 6.1.6.1-1 specifies the data types defined for the Nupf_EventExposure
service.
Table 6.1.6.1-1: Nupf_EventExposure specific Data Types
Data type Clause defined Description Applicability
* * *
NotificationData 6.1.6.2.2 The list of NotificationItems  
NotificationItem 6.1.6.2.3 Represents a report on one subscribed event  
QosMonitoringMeasurement 6.1.6.2.4 QoS Monitoring Measurement information  
EventType 6.1.6.3.3 Event Type
Table 6.1.6.1-2 specifies data types re-used by the Nupf_EventExposure service
from other specifications, including a reference to their respective
specifications and when needed, a short description of their use within the
Nupf_EventExposure service.
Table 6.1.6.1-2: Nupf_EventExposure re-used Data Types
Data type Reference Comments Applicability
* * *
DateTime 3GPP TS 29.571 [16] Date time  
Dnn 3GPP TS 29.571 [16] DNN  
Gpsi 3GPP TS 29.571 [16] GPSI  
Snssai 3GPP TS 29.571 [16] S-NSSAI  
Uint32 3GPP TS 29.571 [16] Uint32  
MacAddr48 3GPP TS 29.571 [16] MAC Address  
Ipv4Addr 3GPP TS 29.571 [16] IPv4 address  
Ipv6Prefix 3GPP TS 29.571 [16] IPv6 address prefix
#### 6.1.6.2 Structured data types
##### 6.1.6.2.1 Introduction
This clause defines the structures to be used in resource representations.
##### 6.1.6.2.2 Type: NotificationData
Table 6.1.6.2.2-1: Definition of type NotificationData
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability
* * *
notificationItems array(NotificationItem) M 1..N The list of NotificationItem,
each entry corresponds to a report on one subscribed event.  
correlationId string C 0..1 The UPF shall include this attribute in the
notification if the \"Notification Correlation ID\" IE was received via N4
interface (see clause 7.5.2.9 of 3GPP TS 29.244 [15])
##### 6.1.6.2.3 Type: NotificationItem
Table 6.1.6.2.3-1: Definition of type NotificationItem
+-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | Attribute | Data type | P | Ca | De | Appl | | name | | | rdinality | scription | icability | +===========+===========+===+===========+===========+===========+ | eventType | EventType | M | 1 | The event | | | | | | | type of | | | | | | | the event | | | | | | | for which | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | ification | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | g | | | | | | | enerated. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | u | Ipv4Addr | C | 0..1 | IPv4 | | | eIpv4Addr | | | | address | | | | | | | of the UE | | | | | | | (NOTE 1) | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | ueI | I | C | 0..1 | IPv6 | | | pv6Prefix | pv6Prefix | | | address | | | | | | | prefix of | | | | | | | the UE | | | | | | | (NOTE 1) | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | ueMacAddr | MacAddr48 | O | 0..1 | MAC | | | | | | | address | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | UE. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 2) | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | dnn | Dnn | O | 0..1 | When | | | | | | | present, | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | | the DNN | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | PDU | | | | | | | session | | | | | | | for which | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | ification | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | g | | | | | | | enerated. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | snssai | Snssai | O | 0..1 | When | | | | | | | present, | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | S-NSSAI | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | PDU | | | | | | | session | | | | | | | for which | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | ification | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | g | | | | | | | enerated. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | gpsi | Gpsi | O | 0..1 | When | | | | | | | present, | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | | the GPSI | | | | | | | of the UE | | | | | | | for which | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | ification | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | g | | | | | | | enerated. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | timeStamp | DateTime | M | 1 | The value | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | epresents | | | | | | | the UTC | | | | | | | time when | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | formation | | | | | | | in this | | | | | | | report | | | | | | | was | | | | | | | g | | | | | | | enerated. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | startTime | DateTime | O | 0..1 | When | | | | | | | present, | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | provide | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | timestamp | | | | | | | when the | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | formation | | | | | | | in this | | | | | | | report | | | | | | | was | | | | | | | started | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | qosMon | QosMon | C | 0..1 | This | | | itoringMe | itoringMe | | | attribute | | | asurement | asurement | | | shall be | | | | | | | present | | | | | | | if | | | | | | | eventType | | | | | | | is set to | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | "QOS_MON | | | | | | | ITORING\" | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | At least | | | | | | | one of | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | eIpv4Addr | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | ueI | | | | | | | pv6Prefix | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | present | | | | | | | if IP PDU | | | | | | | session | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | onitored. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | An NF | | | | | | | service | | | | | | | consumer | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | bscribing | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | receive | | | | | | | QoS | | | | | | | M | | | | | | | onitoring | | | | | | | Me | | | | | | | asurement | | | | | | | report | | | | | | | for an | | | | | | | ethernet | | | | | | | PDU | | | | | | | session | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | accept | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | Notific | | | | | | | ationItem | | | | | | | having | | | | | | | neither | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | eIpv4Addr | | | | | | | nor | | | | | | | ueIp | | | | | | | v6Prefix. | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+
##### 6.1.6.2.4 Type: QosMonitoringMeasurement
Table 6.1.6.2.3-1: Definition of type QosMonitoringMeasurement
+-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | Attribute | Data type | P | Ca | De | Appl | | name | | | rdinality | scription | icability | +===========+===========+===+===========+===========+===========+ | dlPa | Uint32 | O | 0..1 | When | | | cketDelay | | | | present, | | | | | | | the value | | | | | | | of this | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | is set to | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | measured | | | | | | | downlink | | | | | | | packet | | | | | | | delay in | | | | | | | mi | | | | | | | llisecond | | | | | | | (ms). | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | ulPa | Uint32 | O | 0..1 | When | | | cketDelay | | | | present, | | | | | | | the value | | | | | | | of this | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | is set to | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | measured | | | | | | | uplink | | | | | | | packet | | | | | | | delay in | | | | | | | mi | | | | | | | llisecond | | | | | | | (ms). | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | rtrPa | Uint32 | O | 0..1 | When | | | cketDelay | | | | present, | | | | | | | the value | | | | | | | of this | | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | | is set to | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | measured | | | | | | | round | | | | | | | trip | | | | | | | packet | | | | | | | delay in | | | | | | | mi | | | | | | | llisecond | | | | | | | (ms). | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | measu | boolean | C | 0..1 | This IE | | | reFailure | | | | shall be | | | | | | | present | | | | | | | to report | | | | | | | packet | | | | | | | delay | | | | | | | me | | | | | | | asurement | | | | | | | failure. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | When | | | | | | | present, | | | | | | | it shall | | | | | | | be set to | | | | | | | true to | | | | | | | indicate | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | report is | | | | | | | sent due | | | | | | | to packet | | | | | | | delay | | | | | | | me | | | | | | | asurement | | | | | | | failure. | | | | | | | This IE | | | | | | | is named | | | | | | | as the | | | | | | | \"PLMF\" | | | | | | | flag over | | | | | | | PFCP | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | nterface. | | | | | | | See also | | | | | | | clauses | | | | | | | 5.24.4.3 | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | 8.2.171 | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | 3GPP | | | | | | | TS 29.24 | | | | | | | 4 [15]. | | +-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+-----------+
#### 6.1.6.3 Simple data types and enumerations
##### 6.1.6.3.1 Introduction
This clause defines simple data types and enumerations that can be referenced
from data structures defined in the previous clauses.
##### 6.1.6.3.2 Simple data types
No specific simple data types are defined in this release.
##### 6.1.6.3.3 Enumeration: EventType
The enumeration EventType represents the type of event to which the service
consumer may subscribe to and for which the notification is generated. It
shall comply with the provisions defined in table 6.1.5.3.3-1.
Table 6.1.6.3.3-1: Enumeration EventType
Enumeration value Description Applicability
* * *
\"QOS_MONITORING\" QoS Monitoring Measurement
### 6.1.7 Error Handling
#### 6.1.7.1 General
For the Nupf_EventExposure API, HTTP error responses shall be supported as
specified in clause 4.8 of 3GPP TS 29.501 [5]. Protocol errors and application
errors specified in table 5.2.7.2-1 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] shall be supported
for an HTTP method if the corresponding HTTP status codes are specified as
mandatory for that HTTP method in table 5.2.7.1-1 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4].
In addition, the requirements in the following clauses are applicable for the
Nupf_EventExposure API.
#### 6.1.7.2 Protocol Errors
No specific procedures for the Nupf_EventExposure service are specified in
this release.
#### 6.1.7.3 Application Errors
No application errors for the Nupf_EventExposure service are specified in this
release.
### 6.1.8 Feature negotiation
No specific features for Nupf_EventExposure service are defined in this
release.
### 6.1.9 Security
In this release there is only notification procedure which will be actually
invoked, the authorization mechanism does not apply.
###### ## Annex A (normative): OpenAPI specification
# A.1 General
This Annex specifies the formal definition of the API(s) defined in the
present specification. It consists of OpenAPI specifications in YAML format.
This Annex takes precedence when being discrepant to other parts of the
specification with respect to the encoding of information elements and methods
within the API(s).
NOTE 1: The semantics and procedures, as well as conditions, e.g. for the
applicability and allowed combinations of attributes or values, not expressed
in the OpenAPI definitions but defined in other parts of the specification
also apply.
Informative copies of the OpenAPI specification files contained in this 3GPP
Technical Specification are available on a Git-based repository that uses the
GitLab software version control system (see 3GPP TS 29.501 [5] clause 5.3.1
and 3GPP TR 21.900 [7] clause 5B).
# A.2 Nupf_EventExposure API
openapi: 3.0.0
info:
title: \'UPF Event Exposure Service\'
version: 1.0.2
description: \|
UPF Event Exposure Service.
© 2023, 3GPP Organizational Partners (ARIB, ATIS, CCSA, ETSI, TSDSI, TTA,
TTC).
All rights reserved.
externalDocs:
description: 3GPP TS 29.564 V17.3.0; 5G System; User Plane Function Services;
Stage 3.
url: https://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/29_series/29.564/
servers:
\- url: \'{apiRoot}/nupf-ee/v1\'
variables:
apiRoot:
default: https://example.com
description: apiRoot as defined in clause 4.4 of 3GPP TS 29.501
paths:
/ee-subscriptions:
post:
# This is a pseudo operation, clients shall NOT invoke this method!
summary: subscribe to notifications
operationId: CreateIndividualSubcription
tags:
\- Subscriptions (Collection)
requestBody:
required: true
content:
application/json:
schema: {}
responses:
default:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
callbacks:
eeNotification:
\'{eventNotificationUri}\':
# The URI in {eventNotificationUri} is provided via N4 interface during
provisioning of Session Reporting Rule.
post:
requestBody:
required: true
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/NotificationData\'
responses:
\'204\':
description: No Content, Notification was succesfull
\'307\':
description: Temporary Redirect
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/RedirectResponse\'
headers:
Location:
description: \'The URI pointing to the resource located on the redirect target
NF service consumer\'
required: true
schema:
type: string
\'308\':
description: Permanent Redirect
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/RedirectResponse\'
headers:
Location:
description: \'The URI pointing to the resource located on the redirect target
NF service consumer\'
required: true
schema:
type: string
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
components:
schemas:
# API specific definitions
# STRUCTURED DATA TYPES
NotificationData:
description: the list of NotificationItems
type: object
required:
\- notificationItems
properties:
notificationItems:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/NotificationItem\'
minItems: 1
correlationId:
type: string
NotificationItem:
description: represents a report on one subscribed event
type: object
required:
\- eventType
\- timeStamp
anyOf:
\- required: [ ueIpv4Addr ]
\- required: [ ueIpv6Prefix ]
\- required: [ ueMacAddr ]
properties:
eventType:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/EventType\'
ueIpv4Addr:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Ipv4Addr\'
ueIpv6Prefix:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Ipv6Prefix\'
ueMacAddr:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/MacAddr48\'
dnn:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Dnn\'
snssai:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Snssai\'
gpsi:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Gpsi\'
timeStamp:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/DateTime\'
startTime:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/DateTime\'
qosMonitoringMeasurement:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/QosMonitoringMeasurement\'
QosMonitoringMeasurement:
description: QoS Monitoring Measurement information
type: object
properties:
dlPacketDelay:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Uint32\'
ulPacketDelay:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Uint32\'
rtrPacketDelay:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Uint32\'
measureFailure:
type: boolean
enum:
\- true
# ENUMS
EventType:
description: Event Type
anyOf:
\- type: string
enum:
\- QOS_MONITORING
\- type: string
# SIMPLE TYPES
#