# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the stage 3 protocol and data model for the
Nucmf Service Based Interface. It provides stage 3 protocol definitions and
message flows, and specifies the API for each service offered by the Nucmf.
The 5G System stage 2 architecture and procedures are specified in 3GPP TS
23.501 [2] and 3GPP TS 23.502 [3].
The Technical Realization of the Service Based Architecture and the Principles
and Guidelines for Services Definition are specified in 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] and
3GPP TS 29.501 [5].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.502: \"Procedures for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[4] 3GPP TS 29.500: \"5G System; Technical Realization of Service Based
Architecture; Stage 3\".
[5] 3GPP TS 29.501: \"5G System; Principles and Guidelines for Services
Definition; Stage 3\".
[6] OpenAPI: \"OpenAPI Specification Version 3.0.0\",
https://spec.openapis.org/oas/v3.0.0.[7] 3GPP TR 21.900: \"Technical
Specification Group working methods\".
[8] 3GPP TS 33.501: \"Security architecture and procedures for 5G system\".
[9] IETF RFC 6749: \"The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework\".
[10] 3GPP TS 29.510: \"5G System; Network Function Repository Services; Stage
3\".
[11] IETF RFC 7540: \"Hypertext Transfer Protocol Version 2 (HTTP/2)\".
[12] IETF RFC 8259: \"The JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Data Interchange
Format\".
[13] IETF RFC 7807: \"Problem Details for HTTP APIs\".
[14] 3GPP TS 29.571: \"5G System; Common Data Types for Service Based
Interfaces; Stage 3\".
[15] 3GPP TS 38.413: \"NG Radio Access Network (NG-RAN); NG Application
Protocol (NGAP)\".
[16] 3GPP TS 29.274: \"3GPP Evolved Packet System (EPS); Evolved General
Packet Radio Service (GPRS) Tunnelling Protocol for Control plane (GTPv2-C);
Stage 3\".
[17] 3GPP TS 36.413: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
(E-UTRAN); S1 Application Protocol (S1AP)\"
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
void
## 3.2 Symbols
void
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
MME Mobility Management Entity
UCMF UE radio Capability Management Function
# 4 Overview
## 4.1 Introduction
Within the 5GC, the UCMF offers services to the NF (e.g. AMF and MME) via the
Nucmf service based interface (see 3GPP TS 23.501 [2] and 3GPP TS 23.502 [3]).
Figure 4.1-1 provides the reference model (in service based interface
representation and in reference point representation), with focus on the UCMF
and the scope of the present specification.
Figure 4.1-1: Reference model -- UCMF
The functionalities supported by the UCMF are listed in clause 6.2.5 of 3GPP
TS 23.501 [2].
# 5 Services offered by the UCMF
## 5.1 Introduction
The UCMF supports the following services.
Table 5.1-1: NF Services provided by UCMF
+------------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | Service Name | Description | Example Consumer | +========================+========================+==================+ | Nucmf_ | Allows the NF consumer | AMF, MME | | UECapabilityManagement | to resolve UE Radio | | | | Capability ID (either | | | | Manufacturer-assigned | | | | or PLMN-assigned) into | | | | the corresponding UE | | | | radio access | | | | capability and the | | | | corresponding UE Radio | | | | Capability for Paging. | | | | | | | | Allows the NF consumer | | | | to obtain a | | | | PLMN-assigned UE Radio | | | | Capability ID for a | | | | specific UE radio | | | | access capability. | | | | | | | | Allows the NF consumer | | | | to subscribe or | | | | unsubscribe for | | | | notifications of UCMF | | | | dictionary entries. | | | | | | | | Allows the NF consumer | | | | to be notified about | | | | creation and deletion | | | | of UCMF dictionary | | | | entries. | | +------------------------+------------------------+------------------+
## 5.2 Nucmf_UECapabilityManagement Service
### 5.2.1 Service Description
The Nucmf_UECapabilityManagement service operates on the dictionary entries
for the mapping between UE Radio Capability ID and UE Radio Access Capability
Information. The service operations exposed by this service allow service
consumer NF, e.g. an AMF:
\- to retrieve UE radio access capability information with a UE Radio
Capability ID (either Manufacturer-assigned or PLMN-assigned);
\- to obtain a PLMN-assigned UE Radio Capability ID for a specific UE radio
access capability information;
\- to subscribe or unsubscribe for notifications of UCMF dictionary entries;
\- to be notified about creation and deletion of UCMF dictionary entries;
The Nucmf_UECapabilityManagement service supports the following service
operations;
Table 5.2.1-1: Service operations supported by the
Nucmf_UECapabilityManagement service
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Service | Description | Operation | Example | | Operations | | | Consumer(s) | | | | Semantics | | +================+================+================+================+ | Resolve | Retrieve UE | Re | AMF, MME | | | radio access | quest/Response | | | | capability | | | | | information | | | | | from the | | | | | dictionary | | | | | entry | | | | | identified by | | | | | the UE Radio | | | | | Capability ID | | | | | (either | | | | | Manufac | | | | | turer-assigned | | | | | or | | | | | PLMN-assigned) | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Assign | Request to | Re | AMF, MME | | | assign a UE | quest/Response | | | | Radio | | | | | Capability ID | | | | | by providing | | | | | the UE Radio | | | | | Capability | | | | | Information. | | | | | See | | | | | 3GPP TS 23.502 | | | | | clause | | | | | 5.2.18.3.2. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Subscribe | Subscribe for | Su | AMF, MME | | | notifications | bscribe/Notify | | | | of UCMF | | | | | dictionary | | | | | entries. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Unsubscribe | Unsubscribe | Su | AMF, MME | | | for | bscribe/Notify | | | | notifications | | | | | of UCMF | | | | | dictionary | | | | | entries. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Notify | To be notified | Su | AMF, MME | | | about creation | bscribe/Notify | | | | and deletion | | | | | of UCMF | | | | | dictionary | | | | | entries. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
### 5.2.2 Service Operations
#### 5.2.2.1 Introduction
See Table 5.2.1-1 for an overview of the service operations supported by the
Nucmf_UECapabilityManagement service.
#### 5.2.2.2 Service Operation Resolve
##### 5.2.2.2.1 General
The Resolve service operation shall be used to retrieve UE Radio Access
Capability Information from a dictionary entry stored in the UCMF, by a NF
service consumer, e.g. an AMF, when:
\- it has received an unknown UE Radio Capability ID, which is either
Manufacturer-assigned or PLMN-assigned;
The NF Service Consumer (e.g. AMF) shall retrieve UE Radio Access Capability
Information by using the HTTP GET method as shown in Figure 5.2.2.2.1-1.
Figure: 5.2.2.2.1-1 Retrieve UE Radio Access Capability Information
1\. The NF Service Consumer, e.g. an AMF, shall send an HTTP GET request to
the resource URI Dictionary Entries collection resource. The query parameters
are a Manufacturer-assigned or a PLMN-assigned UE Radio Capability ID, and the
Coding format (e.g. 5GS or EPS) in which UE Radio Access Capability
Information needs to be provided.
2a. On success, \"200 OK\" shall be returned. The response body shall contain
UE Radio Access Capability Information in the requested Coding format stored
in the dictionary entry that is matching the UE Radio Capability ID in query,
and may contain a PLMN-assigned UE Radio Capability ID if the query parameter
is a Manufacturer-assigned UE Radio Capability ID and if the PLMN-assigned UE
Radio Capability ID mechanism is used in the network.
2b. On failure or redirection, one of the HTTP status code listed in Table
6.1.3.3.3.2-3 shall be returned. For a 4xx/5xx response, the message body may
contain a ProblemDetails structure with the \"cause\" attribute set to one of
the application errors listed in Table 6.1.3.3.3.2-2, where applicable.
##### 5.2.2.2.2 Retrieve a Dictionary Entry
The Resolve service operation may be used to retrieve a dictionary entry
stored in the UCMF, by a NF service consumer, e.g. an AMF, when it has the
Dictionary Entry ID available.
The NF Service Consumer (e.g. AMF) shall retrieve a Dictionary Entry by using
the HTTP GET method as shown in Figure 5.2.2.2.1-1.
Figure 5.2.2.2.1-1 Retrieve a dictionary entry
1\. The NF Service Consumer, e.g. an AMF, shall send an HTTP GET request to an
individual Dictionary Entry resource. The query parameter is the Coding Format
(e.g. 5GS or EPS) in which UE Radio Access Capability Information needs to be
provided.
2a. On success, \"200 OK\" shall be returned. The response body shall the
dictionary entry information for the given Dictionary Entry ID.
2b. On failure or redirection, one of the HTTP status code listed in Table
6.1.3.3.3.2-3 shall be returned. For a 4xx/5xx response, the message body may
contain a ProblemDetails structure with the \"cause\" attribute set to one of
the application errors listed in Table 6.1.3.3.3.2-3, where applicable.
#### 5.2.2.3 Service Operation Assign
The Assign service operation shall be used by the service consumer NF (e.g.
AMF) to obtain a PLMN-assigned UE Radio Capability ID from the UCMF for a
specific UE radio access capability information. The UCMF shall create a new
dictionary entry and assign a PLMN-assigned UE Radio Capability ID unless such
dictionary entry already exists and a PLMN-assigned UE Radio Capability ID has
already been assigned to the given UE radio access capability information in
the UCMF. The NF service consumer, e.g. an AMF, may consume the service by
providing the UE Radio Access Capability Information retrieved from the UE,
and Type Allocation Code of PEI of the UE, e.g. when it hasn\'t received any
UE Radio Capability ID.
The NF Service Consumer (e.g. AMF) shall obtain the PLMN Assigned UE Radio
Capability ID by using the HTTP POST method as shown in Figure 5.2.2.3.1-1.
Figure 5.2.2.3-1 Create a dictionary entry
1\. The NF Service Consumer shall send a POST request to the resource
representing the Dictionary Entries collection resource of the UCMF. The
payload body of the POST request shall contain:
\- the UE Radio Access Capability Information for the current radio
configuration of the UE in 5GS format, or EPS format, or both the formats;
\- the Type Allocation Code of the PEI of the UE.
2a. On success, the UCMF shall check whether for the provided input a
dictionary entry already exists and a PLMN Assigned UE Radio Capability ID has
already been assigned. If so \"201 Created\" shall be returned, the payload
body of the POST response shall contain already assigned PLMN Assigned UE
Radio Capability ID included in DicEntryCreatedData and the \"Location\"
header shall be present and shall contain the URI of the already existing
resource. Otherwise a new dictionary entry shall be created and \"201
Created\" shall be returned, the payload body of the POST response shall
contain the newly assigned PLMN Assigned UE Radio Capability ID included in
DicEntryCreatedData and the \"Location\" header shall be present and shall
contain the URI of the newly created resource.
2b. On failure or redirection, one of the HTTP status code listed in Table
6.1.3.2.3.2-3 shall be returned. For a 4xx/5xx response, the message body may
contain a ProblemDetails structure with the \"cause\" attribute set to one of
the application errors listed in Table 6.1.3.3.3.2-2, where applicable. A UCMF
configured to operate in Mode of Operation A (3GPPP TS 23.501, Clause
5.4.4.1a) shall reject the operation if the request does not contain UE Radio
Access Capability Information in both the formats and the UCMF is not able to
find match of the received UE Radio Access Capability Information in its
database.
#### 5.2.2.4 Service Operation Subscribe
##### 5.2.2.4.1 General
The Subscribe service operation shall be used by a NF Service Consumer, e.g.
an AMF, to create a subscription in the UCMF, to get notifications for one or
more new dictionary entries creation or for the deletion of one or more PLMN
Assigned UE Radio Capability IDs.
The NF Service Consumer shall request to create a new subscription by using
HTTP method POST with URI of the subscriptions collection, see clause 6.1.3.4.
A ucmfNotificationUri shall be provided in the CreateSubscription to be used
by the UCMF to send notifications later. See Figure 5.2.2.4.1-1.
Figure 5.2.2.4.1-1 Create a subscription
1\. The NF Service Consumer shall send a POST request to create a subscription
resource in the UCMF. The payload body of the POST request shall contain a
representation of the individual subscription resource to be created. The
request may contain an expiry time, suggested by the NF Service Consumer as a
hint, representing the time upto which the subscription is desired to be kept
active and the time after which the subscribed event(s) shall stop generating
report.
2a. On success, the request is accepted, the UCMF shall include a HTTP
Location header to provide the location of a newly created resource
(subscription) together with the status code 201 indicating the requested
resource is created in the response message. The UCMF may also include the
highest dictionary entry ID which has been allocated.
The response, based on operator policy and taking into account the expiry time
included in the request, may contain the expiry time, as determined by the
UCMF, after which the subscription becomes invalid. Once the subscription
expires, if the NF Service Consumer wants to keep receiving notifications, it
shall create a new subscription in the UCMF. The UCMF shall not provide the
same expiry time for many subscriptions in order to avoid all of them expiring
and recreating the subscription at the same time. If the expiry time is not
included in the response, the NF Service Consumer shall consider the
subscription to be valid without an expiry time.
2b. On failure or redirection, one of the HTTP status code listed in Table
6.1.3.4.3.1-3 shall be returned. For a 4xx/5xx response, the message body may
contain a ProblemDetails structure with the \"cause\" attribute set to one of
the application errors listed in Table 6.1.3.4.3.1-3.
#### 5.2.2.5 Unsubscribe
##### 5.2.2.5.1 General
The Unsubscribe service operation is used by a NF Service Consumer, e.g. AMF,
towards the UCMF, to remove an existing subscription previously created by
itself at the UCMF.
The NF Service Consumer shall unsubscribe to the subscription by using HTTP
method DELETE with the URI of the individual subscription resource (see clause
6.1.3.5) to be deleted. See Figure 5.2.2.5.1-1.
Figure 5.2.2.5.1-1 Unsubscribe a subscription
1\. The NF Service Consumer shall send a DELETE request to delete an existing
subscription resource in the UCMF.
2a. On success, the request is accepted, the UCMF shall reply with the status
code 204 indicating the resource identified by subscription ID is successfully
deleted in the response message.
2b. On failure or redirection, one of the HTTP status code listed in Table
6.1.3.5.3.2-3 shall be returned. For a 4xx/5xx response, the message body may
contain a ProblemDetails structure with the \"cause\" attribute set to one of
the application error listed in Table 6.1.3.5.3.2-3.
#### 5.2.2.6 Notify
##### 5.2.2.6.1 General
The Notify service operation is used by the UCMF, to send a notification,
towards the notification URI, when certain event included in the subscription
has taken place.
The UCMF shall use the HTTP method POST, using the notification URI received
in the subscription creation as specified in clause 5.2.2.4.1. See Figure
5.2.2.6.1-1.
Figure 5.2.2.6.1-1 Notify
1\. The AMF shall send a POST request to send a notification.
2a. On success, \"204 No content\" shall be returned by the NF Service
Consumer.
2b. On failure or redirection, the appropriate HTTP status code listed in
Table 6.1.5.2.3.1-3 shall be returned. For a 4xx/5xx response, the message
body may contain appropriate additional error information.
# 6 API Definitions
## 6.1 Nucmf_UECapabilityManagement Service API
### 6.1.1 Introduction
The Nucmf_UECapabilityManagement service shall use the
Nucmf_UECapabilityManagement API.
The API URI of the Nucmf_UECapabilityManagement API shall be:
**{apiRoot}/\ /\**
The request URI used in HTTP requests from the NF service consumer towards the
NF service producer shall have the Resource URI structure defined in clause
4.4.1 of 3GPP TS 29.501 [5], i.e.:
**{apiRoot}/\ /\/\**
with the following components:
\- The {apiRoot} shall be set as described in 3GPP TS 29.501 [5].
\- The \ shall be \"nucmf-uecm\".
\- The \ shall be \"v1\".
\- The \ shall be set as described in clause 5.3.
### 6.1.2 Usage of HTTP
#### 6.1.2.1 General
HTTP/2, IETF RFC 7540 [11], shall be used as specified in clause 5 of 3GPP TS
29.500 [4].
HTTP/2 shall be transported as specified in clause 5.3 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4].
The OpenAPI [6] specification of HTTP messages and content bodies for the
\ API is contained in Annex A.
#### 6.1.2.2 HTTP standard headers
##### 6.1.2.2.1 General
See clause 5.2.2 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] for the usage of HTTP standard headers.
##### 6.1.2.2.2 Content type
JSON, IETF RFC 8259 [12], shall be used as content type of the HTTP bodies
specified in the present specification as specified in clause 5.4 of 3GPP TS
29.500 [4]. The use of the JSON format shall be signalled by the content type
\"application/json\".
\"Problem Details\" JSON object shall be used to indicate additional details
of the error in a HTTP response body and shall be signalled by the content
type \"application/problem+json\", as defined in IETF RFC 7807 [13].
Multipart messages shall also be supported (see clause 6.1.2.4) using the
content type \"multipart/related\", comprising:
\- one JSON body part with the \"application/json\" content type; and
\- one or more binary body parts with 3gpp vendor specific content subtypes.
The 3gpp vendor specific content subtypes defined in Table 6.1.2.2.2-1 shall
be supported.
Table 6.1.2.2.2-1: 3GPP vendor specific content subtypes
* * *
content subtype Description vnd.3gpp.ngap Binary encoded payload, encoding NG
Application Protocol (NGAP) IEs, as specified in clause 9.3 of 3GPP TS 38.413
[15] (ASN.1 encoded). vnd.3gpp.s1ap Binary encoded payload, encoding S1
Application Protocol (S1AP) IEs, as specified in clause 9.2 of 3GPP TS 36.413
[17] (ASN.1 encoded). NOTE: Using 3GPP vendor content subtypes allows to
describe the nature of the opaque payload (e.g. NGAP or 5GS NAS information)
without having to rely on metadata in the JSON payload.
* * *
See clause 6.1.2.4 for the binary payloads supported in the binary body part
of multipart messages.
#### 6.1.2.3 HTTP custom headers
The mandatory HTTP custom header fields specified in clause 5.2.3.2 of 3GPP TS
29.500 [4] shall be applicable.
#### 6.1.2.4 HTTP multipart messages
HTTP multipart messages shall be supported to transfer opaque UE Radio Access
Capability Information, in the following service operations (and HTTP
messages):
\- Resolve Response (GET Response);
\- Assign Request (POST);
HTTP multipart message shall include one JSON body part and one or more binary
body parts comprising the OCTET STRING of the UE Radio Capability IE (i.e.
excluding the IEI, Criticality and octet string length indicator, see also
Annex B of 3GPP TS 29.274 [16]) as specified in clause 9.3.1.74 of 3GPP TS
38.413 [15]) and clause 9.2.1.27 of 3GPP TS 36.413 [17], or the UE Radio
Access Capability for Paging IE as specified in clause 9.2.1.98 of 3GPP TS
36.413 [17] and as specified in clause 9.3.1.68 of 3GPP TS 38.413 [15].
The JSON body part shall be the \"root\" body part of the multipart message.
It shall be encoded as the first body part of the multipart message. The
\"Start\" parameter does not need to be included.
The multipart message shall include a \"type\" parameter (see IETF RFC 2387
[10]) specifying the media type of the root body part, i.e.
\"application/json\".
NOTE: The \"root\" body part (or \"root\" object) is the first body part the
application processes when receiving a multipart/related message, see IETF RFC
2387 [10]. The default root is the first body within the multipart/related
message. The \"Start\" parameter indicates the root body part, e.g. when this
is not the first body part in the message.
For each binary body part in a HTTP multipart message, the binary body part
shall include a Content-ID header (see IETF RFC 2045 [12]), and the JSON body
part shall include an attribute, defined with the RefToBinaryData type, that
contains the value of the Content-ID header field of the referenced binary
body part.
### 6.1.3 Resources
#### 6.1.3.1 Overview
Figure 6.1.3.1-1: Resource URI structure of the
**Nucmf_UECapabilityManagement** API
Table 6.1.3.1-1 provides an overview of the resources and applicable HTTP
methods.
Table 6.1.3.1-1: Resources and methods overview
Resource name Resource URI HTTP method or custom operation Description
* * *
Dictionary Entries collection /dic-entries _POST_
Nucmf_UECapabilityManagement_Assign GET Nucmf_UECapabilityManagement_Resolve
Individual Dictionary Entry /dic-entries/{dicEntryId} GET
Nucmf_UECapabilityManagement_Resolve Subscriptions collection /subscriptions
POST Nucmf_UECapabilityManagement_Subscribe Individual subscription
/subscriptions/{subscriptionId} DELETE
Nucmf_UECapabilityManagement_Unsubscribe
#### 6.1.3.2 Resource: Dictionary Entries
##### 6.1.3.2.1 Description
This resource represents the collection of the individual dictionary entries
created in the UCMF, where each individual dictionary entry includes the
mapping information between UE Radio Capability ID and UE Radio Access
Capability Information, Type Allocation Code and Software version of a PEI.
This resource is modelled with the Collection resource archetype (see clause
C.2 of 3GPP TS 29.501 [5]).
##### 6.1.3.2.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: **{apiRoot}/nucmf-ucm/\ /dic-entries**
This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in table
6.1.3.2.2-1.
Table 6.1.3.2.2-1: Resource URI variables for this resource
Name Definition
* * *
apiRoot See clause 6.1.1 apiVersion See clause 6.1.1
##### 6.1.3.2.3 Resource Standard Methods
###### 6.1.3.2.3.1 GET {#get .list-paragraph}
This operation retrieves the UE Radio Access Capability Information from a
dictionary entry stored in the UCMF, by querying with a Manufacturer-assigned
or PLMN-assigned UE Radio Capability ID, or the TAC and the SVN as part of the
IMEI/IMEISV of the UE.
This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table
6.1.3.2.3.1-1.
Table 6.1.3.2.3.1-1: URI query parameters supported by the GET method on this
resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability ue-radio-capa-id
UeRadioCapaId M 1 PLMN assigned or Manufacturer assigned UE Radio Capability
ID used to retrieve a dictionary entry.  
rac-format RacFormat C 0..1 Coding format in which UE Radio Access Capability
Information needs to be provided. See the clause 6.1.6.3.4.  
supported-features SupportedFeatures C 0..1 This IE shall be present if at
least one optional feature defined in clause 6.1.8 is supported.
* * *
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
6.1.3.2.3.1-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified in
table 6.1.3.2.3.1-3.
Table 6.1.3.2.3.1-2: Data structures supported by the GET Request Body on this
resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description n/a
* * *
Table 6.1.3.2.3.1-3: Data structures supported by the GET Response Body on
this resource
+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | | | | | | | codes | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | DicEntryData | M | 1 | 200 OK | The response | | | | | | body contains | | | | | | a dictionary | | | | | | entry that is | | | | | | matching the | | | | | | querying | | | | | | parameter. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Red | O | 0..1 | 307 Temporary | Temporary | | irectResponse | | | Redirect | redirection. | | | | | | The response | | | | | | shall include | | | | | | a Location | | | | | | header field | | | | | | containing a | | | | | | different | | | | | | URI, or the | | | | | | same URI if a | | | | | | request is | | | | | | redirected to | | | | | | the same | | | | | | target | | | | | | resource via | | | | | | a different | | | | | | SCP. In the | | | | | | former case, | | | | | | the URI shall | | | | | | be an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | URI of the | | | | | | resource | | | | | | located on an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | service | | | | | | instance | | | | | | within the | | | | | | same UCMF or | | | | | | UCMF | | | | | | (service) | | | | | | set. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Red | O | 0..1 | 308 Permanent | Permanent | | irectResponse | | | Redirect | redirection. | | | | | | The response | | | | | | shall include | | | | | | a Location | | | | | | header field | | | | | | containing a | | | | | | different | | | | | | URI, or the | | | | | | same URI if a | | | | | | request is | | | | | | redirected to | | | | | | the same | | | | | | target | | | | | | resource via | | | | | | a different | | | | | | SCP. In the | | | | | | former case, | | | | | | the URI shall | | | | | | be an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | URI of the | | | | | | resource | | | | | | located on an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | service | | | | | | instance | | | | | | within the | | | | | | same UCMF or | | | | | | UCMF | | | | | | (service) | | | | | | set. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | P | O | 0..1 | 400 Bad | The response | | roblemDetails | | | Request | body contains | | | | | | the error | | | | | | reason of the | | | | | | request | | | | | | message. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | P | O | 0..1 | 404 Not Found | The \"cause\" | | roblemDetails | | | | attribute may | | | | | | be used to | | | | | | indicate the | | | | | | following | | | | | | application | | | | | | error: | | | | | | | | | | | | > \- | | | | | | > NO | | | | | | _DICTIONARY\ | | | | | | _ENTRY_FOUND | | | | | | > | | | | | | > \- | | | | | | > OUT_DATED | | | | | | _VERSION_ID | | | | | | _IN_RAC_ID | | | | | | | | | | | | See table | | | | | | 6.1.7.3-1 for | | | | | | the | | | | | | description | | | | | | of this | | | | | | error. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | NOTE: The | | | | | | manadatory | | | | | | HTTP error | | | | | | status code | | | | | | for the GET | | | | | | method listed | | | | | | in Table | | | | | | 5.2.7.1-1 of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [4] | | | | | | also apply, | | | | | | with response | | | | | | body | | | | | | containing an | | | | | | object of | | | | | | P | | | | | | roblemDetails | | | | | | data type | | | | | | (see clause | | | | | | 5.2.7 of | | | | | | 3GPP TS 2 | | | | | | 9.500 [4]). | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+
Table 6.1.3.2.3.1-4: Headers supported by the 307 Response Code on this
resource
+-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Location | string | M | 1 | An alternative | | | | | | URI of the | | | | | | resource | | | | | | located on an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | service | | | | | | instance within | | | | | | the same UCMF | | | | | | or UCMF | | | | | | (service) set. | | | | | | | | | | | | Or the same | | | | | | URI, if a | | | | | | request is | | | | | | redirected to | | | | | | the same target | | | | | | resource via a | | | | | | different SCP. | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | 3gpp-S | string | O | 0..1 | Identifier of | | bi-Target-Nf-Id | | | | the target NF | | | | | | (service) | | | | | | instance ID | | | | | | towards which | | | | | | the request is | | | | | | redirected | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+
Table 6.1.3.2.3.1-5: Headers supported by the 308 Response Code on this
resource
+-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Location | string | M | 1 | An alternative | | | | | | URI of the | | | | | | resource | | | | | | located on an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | service | | | | | | instance within | | | | | | the same UCMF | | | | | | or UCMF | | | | | | (service) set. | | | | | | | | | | | | Or the same | | | | | | URI, if a | | | | | | request is | | | | | | redirected to | | | | | | the same target | | | | | | resource via a | | | | | | different SCP. | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | 3gpp-S | string | O | 0..1 | Identifier of | | bi-Target-Nf-Id | | | | the target NF | | | | | | (service) | | | | | | instance ID | | | | | | towards which | | | | | | the request is | | | | | | redirected | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+
###### 6.1.3.2.3.2 POST {#post .list-paragraph}
This method creates an individual dictionary entry resource in the UCMF unless
such dictionary entry already exists.
This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table
6.1.3.2.3.2-1.
Table 6.1.3.2.3.2-1: URI query parameters supported by the POST method on this
resource
Name Data type P Cardinality Description
* * *
n/a
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
6.1.3.2.3.2-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified in
table 6.1.3.2.3.2-3.
Table 6.1.3.2.3.2-2: Data structures supported by the POST Request Body on
this resource
Data type P Cardinality Description
* * *
DicEntryCreateData M 1 Contains UE Radio Access Capability Information and
type Allocation Code.
Table 6.1.3.2.3.2-3: Data structures supported by the POST Response Body on
this resource
+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | | | | | | | codes | | +===============+===+=============+===============+===============+ | DicEnt | M | 1 | 201 Created | The response | | ryCreatedData | | | | body contains | | | | | | the assigned | | | | | | UE Radio | | | | | | Capability | | | | | | ID. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Red | O | 0..1 | 307 Temporary | Temporary | | irectResponse | | | Redirect | redirection. | | | | | | The response | | | | | | shall include | | | | | | a Location | | | | | | header field | | | | | | containing a | | | | | | different | | | | | | URI, or the | | | | | | same URI if a | | | | | | request is | | | | | | redirected to | | | | | | the same | | | | | | target | | | | | | resource via | | | | | | a different | | | | | | SCP. In the | | | | | | former case, | | | | | | the URI shall | | | | | | be an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | URI of the | | | | | | resource | | | | | | located on an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | service | | | | | | instance | | | | | | within the | | | | | | same UCMF or | | | | | | UCMF | | | | | | (service) | | | | | | set. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Red | O | 0..1 | 308 Permanent | Permanent | | irectResponse | | | Redirect | redirection. | | | | | | The response | | | | | | shall include | | | | | | a Location | | | | | | header field | | | | | | containing a | | | | | | different | | | | | | URI, or the | | | | | | same URI if a | | | | | | request is | | | | | | redirected to | | | | | | the same | | | | | | target | | | | | | resource via | | | | | | a different | | | | | | SCP. In the | | | | | | former case, | | | | | | the URI shall | | | | | | be an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | URI of the | | | | | | resource | | | | | | located on an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | service | | | | | | instance | | | | | | within the | | | | | | same UCMF or | | | | | | UCMF | | | | | | (service) | | | | | | set. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | P | O | 0..1 | 400 Bad | The response | | roblemDetails | | | Request | body contains | | | | | | the error | | | | | | reason of the | | | | | | request | | | | | | message. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | NOTE: The | | | | | | manadatory | | | | | | HTTP error | | | | | | status code | | | | | | for the POST | | | | | | method listed | | | | | | in Table | | | | | | 5.2.7.1-1 of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [4] | | | | | | also apply. | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+
Table 6.1.3.2.3.2-4: Headers supported by the 307 Response Code on this
resource
+-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Location | string | M | 1 | An alternative | | | | | | URI of the | | | | | | resource | | | | | | located on an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | service | | | | | | instance within | | | | | | the same UCMF | | | | | | or UCMF | | | | | | (service) set. | | | | | | | | | | | | Or the same | | | | | | URI, if a | | | | | | request is | | | | | | redirected to | | | | | | the same target | | | | | | resource via a | | | | | | different SCP. | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | 3gpp-S | string | O | 0..1 | Identifier of | | bi-Target-Nf-Id | | | | the target NF | | | | | | (service) | | | | | | instance ID | | | | | | towards which | | | | | | the request is | | | | | | redirected | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+
Table 6.1.3.2.3.2-5: Headers supported by the 308 Response Code on this
resource
+-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Location | string | M | 1 | An alternative | | | | | | URI of the | | | | | | resource | | | | | | located on an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | service | | | | | | instance within | | | | | | the same UCMF | | | | | | or UCMF | | | | | | (service) set. | | | | | | | | | | | | Or the same | | | | | | URI, if a | | | | | | request is | | | | | | redirected to | | | | | | the same target | | | | | | resource via a | | | | | | different SCP. | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | 3gpp-S | string | O | 0..1 | Identifier of | | bi-Target-Nf-Id | | | | the target NF | | | | | | (service) | | | | | | instance ID | | | | | | towards which | | | | | | the request is | | | | | | redirected | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+
##### 6.1.3.2.4 Resource Custom Operations
None.
#### 6.1.3.3 Resource: Individual Dictionary Entry
##### 6.1.3.3.1 Description
This resource represents an individual Dictionary Entry for the mapping
information between UE Radio Capability ID(s) and UE Radio Access Capability
information, identified by the Dictionary Entry ID.
This resource is modelled as the Document resource archetype (see clause C.1
of 3GPP TS 29.501 [5]).
##### 6.1.3.3.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI:{apiRoot}/nucmf-ucm/\/dic-entries/{dicEntryId}
This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in table
6.1.3.3.2-1.
Table 6.1.3.3.2-1: Resource URI variables for this resource
Name Definition
* * *
apiRoot See clause 6.1.1 apiVersion See clause 6.1.1. dicEntryId Integer with
range 1-4294967295.
##### 6.1.3.3.3 Resource Standard Methods
###### 6.1.3.3.3.1 GET {#get-1 .list-paragraph}
This operation retrieves an individual dictionary entry resource for the
mapping information between UE Radio Capability ID(s) and UE Radio Access
Capability information, stored in the UCMF, identified by the dicEntryId.
This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table
6.1.3.2.3.1-1.
Table 6.1.3.3.3.1-1: URI query parameters supported by the GET method on this
resource
* * *
Name Data type P Cardinality Description Applicability rac-format RacFormat C
0..1 Coding format in which UE Radio Access Capability Information needs to be
provided. See the clause 6.1.6.3.4.  
supported-features SupportedFeatures C 0..1 This IE shall be present if at
least one optional feature defined in clause 6.1.8 is supported.
* * *
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
6.1.3.2.3.1-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified in
table 6.1.3.2.3.1-3.
Table 6.1.3.2.3.1-2: Data structures supported by the GET Request Body on this
resource
* * *
Data type P Cardinality Description n/a
* * *
Table 6.1.3.2.3.1-3: Data structures supported by the GET Response Body on
this resource
+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | | | | | | | codes | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | DicEntryData | M | 1 | 200 OK | The response | | | | | | body contains | | | | | | a dictionary | | | | | | entry for the | | | | | | given | | | | | | Dictionary | | | | | | Entry ID. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Red | O | 0..1 | 307 Temporary | Temporary | | irectResponse | | | Redirect | redirection. | | | | | | The response | | | | | | shall include | | | | | | a Location | | | | | | header field | | | | | | containing a | | | | | | different | | | | | | URI, or the | | | | | | same URI if a | | | | | | request is | | | | | | redirected to | | | | | | the same | | | | | | target | | | | | | resource via | | | | | | a different | | | | | | SCP. In the | | | | | | former case, | | | | | | the URI shall | | | | | | be an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | URI of the | | | | | | resource | | | | | | located on an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | service | | | | | | instance | | | | | | within the | | | | | | same UCMF or | | | | | | UCMF | | | | | | (service) | | | | | | set. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Red | O | 0..1 | 308 Permanent | Permanent | | irectResponse | | | Redirect | redirection. | | | | | | The response | | | | | | shall include | | | | | | a Location | | | | | | header field | | | | | | containing a | | | | | | different | | | | | | URI, or the | | | | | | same URI if a | | | | | | request is | | | | | | redirected to | | | | | | the same | | | | | | target | | | | | | resource via | | | | | | a different | | | | | | SCP. In the | | | | | | former case, | | | | | | the URI shall | | | | | | be an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | URI of the | | | | | | resource | | | | | | located on an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | service | | | | | | instance | | | | | | within the | | | | | | same UCMF or | | | | | | UCMF | | | | | | (service) | | | | | | set. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | P | O | 0..1 | 404 Not Found | The \"cause\" | | roblemDetails | | | | attribute may | | | | | | be used to | | | | | | indicate the | | | | | | following | | | | | | application | | | | | | error: | | | | | | | | | | | | > \- | | | | | | > NO | | | | | | _DICTIONARY\ | | | | | | _ENTRY_FOUND | | | | | | | | | | | | See table | | | | | | 6.1.7.3-1 for | | | | | | the | | | | | | description | | | | | | of this | | | | | | error. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | NOTE: The | | | | | | manadatory | | | | | | HTTP error | | | | | | status code | | | | | | for the GET | | | | | | method listed | | | | | | in Table | | | | | | 5.2.7.1-1 of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [4] | | | | | | also apply, | | | | | | with response | | | | | | body | | | | | | containing an | | | | | | object of | | | | | | P | | | | | | roblemDetails | | | | | | data type | | | | | | (see clause | | | | | | 5.2.7 of | | | | | | 3GPP TS 2 | | | | | | 9.500 [4]). | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+
Table 6.1.3.2.3.1-4: Headers supported by the 307 Response Code on this
resource
+-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Location | string | M | 1 | An alternative | | | | | | URI of the | | | | | | resource | | | | | | located on an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | service | | | | | | instance within | | | | | | the same UCMF | | | | | | or UCMF | | | | | | (service) set. | | | | | | | | | | | | Or the same | | | | | | URI, if a | | | | | | request is | | | | | | redirected to | | | | | | the same target | | | | | | resource via a | | | | | | different SCP. | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | 3gpp-S | string | O | 0..1 | Identifier of | | bi-Target-Nf-Id | | | | the target NF | | | | | | (service) | | | | | | instance ID | | | | | | towards which | | | | | | the request is | | | | | | redirected | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+
Table 6.1.3.2.3.1-5: Headers supported by the 308 Response Code on this
resource
+-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Location | string | M | 1 | An alternative | | | | | | URI of the | | | | | | resource | | | | | | located on an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | service | | | | | | instance within | | | | | | the same UCMF | | | | | | or UCMF | | | | | | (service) set. | | | | | | | | | | | | Or the same | | | | | | URI, if a | | | | | | request is | | | | | | redirected to | | | | | | the same target | | | | | | resource via a | | | | | | different SCP. | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | 3gpp-S | string | O | 0..1 | Identifier of | | bi-Target-Nf-Id | | | | the target NF | | | | | | (service) | | | | | | instance ID | | | | | | towards which | | | | | | the request is | | | | | | redirected | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+
#### 6.1.3.4 Resource: Subscriptions collection
##### 6.1.3.4.1 Description
This resource represents a collection of subscriptions in the UCMF, created by
NF service consumers of **Nucmf_UECapabilityManagement** service.
This resource is modelled as the Collection resource archetype (see clause C.2
of 3GPP TS 29.501 [5]).
##### 6.1.3.4.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: **{apiRoot}/nucmf-ucm/\ /subscriptions**
This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in table
6.1.3.4.2-1.
Table 6.1.3.4.2-1: Resource URI variables for this resource
Name Definition
* * *
apiRoot See clause 6.1.1 apiVersion See clause 6.1.1.
##### 6.1.3.4.3 Resource Standard Methods
###### 6.1.3.4.3.1 POST {#post-1 .list-paragraph}
This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table
6.1.3.4.3.1-1.
Table 6.1.3.4.3.1-1: URI query parameters supported by the POST method on this
resource
Name Data type P Cardinality Description
* * *
n/a
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
6.1.3.4.3.1-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified in
table 6.1.3.4.3.1-3.
Table 6.1.3.4.3.1-2: Data structures supported by the POST Request Body on
this resource
Data type P Cardinality Description
* * *
CreateSubscription M 1 The Subscription to be created by a NF Service
consumer, e.g. an AMF.
Table 6.1.3.4.3.1-3: Data structures supported by the POST Response Body on
this resource
+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | | | | | | | codes | | +===============+===+=============+===============+===============+ | Create | M | 1 | 201 Created | Represents | | dSubscription | | | | successful | | | | | | creation of a | | | | | | Subscription | | | | | | in the UCMF | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Red | O | 0..1 | 307 Temporary | Temporary | | irectResponse | | | Redirect | redirection. | | | | | | The response | | | | | | shall include | | | | | | a Location | | | | | | header field | | | | | | containing a | | | | | | different | | | | | | URI, or the | | | | | | same URI if a | | | | | | request is | | | | | | redirected to | | | | | | the same | | | | | | target | | | | | | resource via | | | | | | a different | | | | | | SCP. In the | | | | | | former case, | | | | | | the URI shall | | | | | | be an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | URI of the | | | | | | resource | | | | | | located on an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | service | | | | | | instance | | | | | | within the | | | | | | same UCMF or | | | | | | UCMF | | | | | | (service) | | | | | | set. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Red | O | 0..1 | 308 Permanent | Permanent | | irectResponse | | | Redirect | redirection. | | | | | | The response | | | | | | shall include | | | | | | a Location | | | | | | header field | | | | | | containing a | | | | | | different | | | | | | URI, or the | | | | | | same URI if a | | | | | | request is | | | | | | redirected to | | | | | | the same | | | | | | target | | | | | | resource via | | | | | | a different | | | | | | SCP. In the | | | | | | former case, | | | | | | the URI shall | | | | | | be an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | URI of the | | | | | | resource | | | | | | located on an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | service | | | | | | instance | | | | | | within the | | | | | | same UCMF or | | | | | | UCMF | | | | | | (service) | | | | | | set. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | P | O | 0..1 | 400 Bad | The response | | roblemDetails | | | Request | body contains | | | | | | the error | | | | | | reason of the | | | | | | request | | | | | | message. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | NOTE: The | | | | | | mandatory | | | | | | HTTP error | | | | | | status code | | | | | | for the POST | | | | | | method listed | | | | | | in Table | | | | | | 5.2.7.1-1 of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [4] | | | | | | also apply, | | | | | | with response | | | | | | body | | | | | | containing an | | | | | | object of | | | | | | P | | | | | | roblemDetails | | | | | | data type | | | | | | (see clause | | | | | | 5.2.7 of | | | | | | 3GPP TS 2 | | | | | | 9.500 [4]). | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+
Table 6.1.3.4.3.1-4: Headers supported by the 307 Response Code on this
resource
+-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Location | string | M | 1 | An alternative | | | | | | URI of the | | | | | | resource | | | | | | located on an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | service | | | | | | instance within | | | | | | the same UCMF | | | | | | or UCMF | | | | | | (service) set. | | | | | | | | | | | | Or the same | | | | | | URI, if a | | | | | | request is | | | | | | redirected to | | | | | | the same target | | | | | | resource via a | | | | | | different SCP. | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | 3gpp-S | string | O | 0..1 | Identifier of | | bi-Target-Nf-Id | | | | the target NF | | | | | | (service) | | | | | | instance ID | | | | | | towards which | | | | | | the request is | | | | | | redirected | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+
Table 6.1.3.4.3.1-5: Headers supported by the 308 Response Code on this
resource
+-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Location | string | M | 1 | An alternative | | | | | | URI of the | | | | | | resource | | | | | | located on an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | service | | | | | | instance within | | | | | | the same UCMF | | | | | | or UCMF | | | | | | (service) set. | | | | | | | | | | | | Or the same | | | | | | URI, if a | | | | | | request is | | | | | | redirected to | | | | | | the same target | | | | | | resource via a | | | | | | different SCP. | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | 3gpp-S | string | O | 0..1 | Identifier of | | bi-Target-Nf-Id | | | | the target NF | | | | | | (service) | | | | | | instance ID | | | | | | towards which | | | | | | the request is | | | | | | redirected | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+
##### 6.1.3.4.4 Resource Custom Operations
None.
#### 6.1.3.5 Resource: Individual subscription
##### 6.1.3.5.1 Description
This resource represents an individual of subscription in the UCMF, created
earlier by a NF Service Consumer of **Nucmf_UECapabilityManagement** service.
This resource is modelled as the Document resource archetype (see clause C.1
of 3GPP TS 29.501 [5]).
##### 6.1.3.5.2 Resource Definition
Resource URI: **{apiRoot}/nucmf-ucm/\
/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}**
This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in table
6.1.3.5.2-1.
Table 6.1.3.5.2-1: Resource URI variables for this resource
Name Definition
* * *
apiRoot See clause 6.1.1 apiVersion See clause 6.1.1. subscriptionId String
identifies an individual subscription in the UCMF.
##### 6.1.3.5.3 Resource Standard Methods
###### 6.1.3.5.3.2 DELETE {#delete .list-paragraph}
This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table
6.1.3.5.3.2-1.
Table 6.1.3.5.3.2-1: URI query parameters supported by the DELETE method on
this resource
Name Data type P Cardinality Description
* * *
n/a
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
6.1.3.5.3.2-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified in
table 6.1.3.5.3.2-3.
Table 6.1.3.5.3.2-2: Data structures supported by the DELETE Request Body on
this resource
Data type P Cardinality Description
* * *
n/a
Table 6.1.3.5.3.2-3: Data structures supported by the DELETE Response Body on
this resource
+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Data type | P | Cardinality | Response | Description | | | | | | | | | | | codes | | +===============+===+=============+===============+===============+ | n/a | | | 204 No | | | | | | Content | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Red | O | 0..1 | 307 Temporary | Temporary | | irectResponse | | | Redirect | redirection. | | | | | | The response | | | | | | shall include | | | | | | a Location | | | | | | header field | | | | | | containing a | | | | | | different | | | | | | URI, or the | | | | | | same URI if a | | | | | | request is | | | | | | redirected to | | | | | | the same | | | | | | target | | | | | | resource via | | | | | | a different | | | | | | SCP. In the | | | | | | former case, | | | | | | the URI shall | | | | | | be an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | URI of the | | | | | | resource | | | | | | located on an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | service | | | | | | instance | | | | | | within the | | | | | | same UCMF or | | | | | | UCMF | | | | | | (service) | | | | | | set. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | Red | O | 0..1 | 308 Permanent | Permanent | | irectResponse | | | Redirect | redirection. | | | | | | The response | | | | | | shall include | | | | | | a Location | | | | | | header field | | | | | | containing a | | | | | | different | | | | | | URI, or the | | | | | | same URI if a | | | | | | request is | | | | | | redirected to | | | | | | the same | | | | | | target | | | | | | resource via | | | | | | a different | | | | | | SCP. In the | | | | | | former case, | | | | | | the URI shall | | | | | | be an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | URI of the | | | | | | resource | | | | | | located on an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | service | | | | | | instance | | | | | | within the | | | | | | same UCMF or | | | | | | UCMF | | | | | | (service) | | | | | | set. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | P | O | 0..1 | 404 Not Found | Indicates the | | roblemDetails | | | | modification | | | | | | of | | | | | | subscription | | | | | | has failed | | | | | | due to | | | | | | application | | | | | | error. | | | | | | | | | | | | The \"cause\" | | | | | | attribute may | | | | | | be used to | | | | | | indicate the | | | | | | following | | | | | | application | | | | | | error: | | | | | | | | | | | | > \- | | | | | | > | | | | | | SUBSCRIPTION | | | | | | _NOT_FOUND. | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+ | NOTE: The | | | | | | mandatory | | | | | | HTTP error | | | | | | status code | | | | | | for the | | | | | | DELETE method | | | | | | listed in | | | | | | Table | | | | | | 5.2.7.1-1 of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.500 [4] | | | | | | also apply, | | | | | | with response | | | | | | body | | | | | | containing an | | | | | | object of | | | | | | P | | | | | | roblemDetails | | | | | | data type | | | | | | (see clause | | | | | | 5.2.7 of | | | | | | 3GPP TS 2 | | | | | | 9.500 [4]). | | | | | +---------------+---+-------------+---------------+---------------+
Table 6.1.3.5.3.2-4: Headers supported by the 307 Response Code on this
resource
+-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Location | string | M | 1 | An alternative | | | | | | URI of the | | | | | | resource | | | | | | located on an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | service | | | | | | instance within | | | | | | the same UCMF | | | | | | or UCMF | | | | | | (service) set. | | | | | | | | | | | | Or the same | | | | | | URI, if a | | | | | | request is | | | | | | redirected to | | | | | | the same target | | | | | | resource via a | | | | | | different SCP. | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | 3gpp-S | string | O | 0..1 | Identifier of | | bi-Target-Nf-Id | | | | the target NF | | | | | | (service) | | | | | | instance ID | | | | | | towards which | | | | | | the request is | | | | | | redirected | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+
Table 6.1.3.5.3.2-5: Headers supported by the 308 Response Code on this
resource
+-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Location | string | M | 1 | An alternative | | | | | | URI of the | | | | | | resource | | | | | | located on an | | | | | | alternative | | | | | | service | | | | | | instance within | | | | | | the same UCMF | | | | | | or UCMF | | | | | | (service) set. | | | | | | | | | | | | Or the same | | | | | | URI, if a | | | | | | request is | | | | | | redirected to | | | | | | the same target | | | | | | resource via a | | | | | | different SCP. | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | 3gpp-S | string | O | 0..1 | Identifier of | | bi-Target-Nf-Id | | | | the target NF | | | | | | (service) | | | | | | instance ID | | | | | | towards which | | | | | | the request is | | | | | | redirected | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+
##### 6.1.3.5.4 Resource Custom Operations
None.
### 6.1.4 Custom Operations without associated resources
None.
### 6.1.5 Notifications
#### 6.1.5.1 General
Notifications shall comply to clause 6.2 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] and clause
4.6.2.3 of 3GPP TS 29.501 [5].
#### 6.1.5.2 UCMF Notification
##### 6.1.5.2.1 Description
The UCMF Notification is used by the UCMF to report one or several observed
Events to a NF service consumer that has subscribed to such Notifications via
the Individual Notification Subscription Resource.
##### 6.1.5.2.2 Target URI
The Callback URI **\"{** ucmfNotificationUri**}\"** shall be used with the
callback URI variables defined in table 6.1.5.2.2-1.
Table 6.1.5.2.2-1: Callback URI variables for this resource
Name Definition
* * *
ucmfNotificationUri String formatted as URI with the UCMF Callback Uri
##### 6.1.5.2.3 Standard Methods
###### 6.1.5.2.3.1 POST {#post-2 .list-paragraph}
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table
6.1.5.2.3.1-1 and the response data structures and response codes specified in
table 6.1.5.2.3.1-1.
Table 6.1.5.2.3.1-2: Data structures supported by the POST Request Body on
this resource
Data type P Cardinality Description
* * *
UcmfNotification M 1 Represents the notification to be delivered
Table 6.1.5.2.3.1-3: Data structures supported by the POST Response Body on
this resource
Data type P Cardinality Response codes Description
* * *
n/a 204 No Content  
RedirectResponse O 0..1 307 Temporary Redirect Temporary redirection. The NF
service consumer shall generate a Location header field containing a URI
pointing to the endpoint of the NF service consumer to which the notification
should be sent, or the same URI if this is a redirection triggered by an SCP
to the same target resource via another SCP. RedirectResponse O 0..1 308
Permanent Redirect Permanent redirection. The NF service consumer shall
generate a Location header field containing a URI pointing to the endpoint of
the NF service consumer to which the notification should be sent, or the same
URI if this is a redirection triggered by an SCP to the same target resource
via another SCP. NOTE: The mandatory HTTP error status codes for the POST
method listed in Table 5.2.7.1-1 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] also apply.
Table 6.1.5.2.3.1-4: Headers supported by the 307 Response Code on this
resource
+-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Location | string | M | 1 | A URI pointing | | | | | | to the endpoint | | | | | | of the NF | | | | | | service | | | | | | consumer to | | | | | | which the | | | | | | notification | | | | | | should be sent. | | | | | | | | | | | | Or the same | | | | | | URI, if a | | | | | | request is | | | | | | redirected to | | | | | | the same target | | | | | | resource via a | | | | | | different SCP. | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | 3gpp-S | string | O | 0..1 | Identifier of | | bi-Target-Nf-Id | | | | the target NF | | | | | | (service) | | | | | | instance ID | | | | | | towards which | | | | | | the | | | | | | notification is | | | | | | redirected | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+
Table 6.1.5.2.3.1-5: Headers supported by the 308 Response Code on this
resource
+-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Name | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | Location | string | M | 1 | A URI pointing | | | | | | to the endpoint | | | | | | of the NF | | | | | | service | | | | | | consumer to | | | | | | which the | | | | | | notification | | | | | | should be sent. | | | | | | | | | | | | Or the same | | | | | | URI, if a | | | | | | request is | | | | | | redirected to | | | | | | the same target | | | | | | resource via a | | | | | | different SCP. | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+ | 3gpp-S | string | O | 0..1 | Identifier of | | bi-Target-Nf-Id | | | | the target NF | | | | | | (service) | | | | | | instance ID | | | | | | towards which | | | | | | the | | | | | | notification is | | | | | | redirected | +-----------------+-----------+---+-------------+-----------------+
### 6.1.6 Data Model
#### 6.1.6.1 General
This clause specifies the application data model supported by the API.
Table 6.1.6.1-1 specifies the data types defined for the
Nucmf_UECapabilityManagement service based interface protocol.
Table 6.1.6.1-1: Nucmf_UECapabilityManagement specific Data Types
Data type Clause defined Description Applicability
* * *
DicEntryData 6.1.6.2.2 A dictionary entry for a UE radio capability ID in the
UCMF  
DicEntryCreateData 6.1.6.2.3 Data for a creating a dictionary entry request  
DicEntryCreatedData 6.1.6.2.4 Data for a creating a dictionary entry response  
UeRadioCapaId 6.1.6.2.5 UE Radio Capability ID  
CreateSubscription 6.1.6.2.6 Data for a creating a subscription request  
CreatedSubscription 6.1.6.2.7 Data for a creating a subscription response  
UcmfNotification 6.1.6.2.8 Data for a notification request from a UCMF  
ManAssOpRequestlist 6.1.6.2.9 Manufacturer Assigned operation requested list  
EventType 6.1.6.3.3  
RacFormat 6.1.6.3.4 The encoding type of the UE\'s Radio Access Capability
Information
Table 6.1.6.1-2 specifies data types re-used by the
Nucmf_UECapabilityManagement service based interface protocol from other
specifications, including a reference to their respective specifications and
when needed, a short description of their use within the N~\~ service
based interface.
Table 6.1.6.1-2: Nucmf_UECapabilityManagement re-used Data Types
Data type Reference Comments Applicability
* * *
PlmnAssiUeRadioCapId 3GPP TS 29.571 [14] PLMN Assigned UE Radio Capability ID  
ManAssiUeRadioCapId 3GPP TS 29.571 [14] Manufacturer Assigned UE Radio
Capability ID  
TypeAllocationCode 3GPP TS 29.571 [14] Type Allocation Code  
NfInstanceId 3GPP TS 29.571 [14] NF Instance ID  
DateTime 3GPP TS 29.571 [14] A date-time format defined in OpenAPI
Specification [6]  
SupportedFeatures 3GPP TS 29.571 [14] Supported Features  
ProblemDetails 3GPP TS 29.571 [14] Detailed problems in failure case  
RedirectResponse 3GPP TS 29.571 [14] Response body of the redirect response
message.
#### 6.1.6.2 Structured data types
##### 6.1.6.2.1 Introduction
This clause defines the structures to be used in resource representations.
##### 6.1.6.2.2 Type: DicEntryData
Table 6.1.6.2.2-1: Definition of type DicEntryData
+---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | Attribute | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | | name | | | | | +===============+===============+===+=============+===============+ | dicEntryId | DicEntryId | C | 0..1 | Identifier of | | | | | | the | | | | | | Dictionary | | | | | | Entry | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | plmnAss | PlmnAss | C | 0..1 | This IE shall | | iUeRadioCapId | iUeRadioCapId | | | include a | | | | | | PLMN Assigned | | | | | | UE Radio | | | | | | Capability ID | | | | | | if allocated | | | | | | in the | | | | | | dictionary | | | | | | entry. | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | manAss | ManAss | C | 0..1 | This IE shall | | iUeRadioCapId | iUeRadioCapId | | | include a | | | | | | Manufacturer | | | | | | Assigned UE | | | | | | Radio | | | | | | Capability ID | | | | | | if available | | | | | | in the | | | | | | dictionary | | | | | | entry. | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | typeA | TypeA | M | 1 | This IE shall | | llocationCode | llocationCode | | | contain the | | | | | | Type | | | | | | Allocation | | | | | | Code in | | | | | | corresponding | | | | | | to the UE | | | | | | Radio Access | | | | | | Capability in | | | | | | the | | | | | | dictionary | | | | | | entry. | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | ueRadio | Re | C | 0..1 | This IE shall | | Capability5GS | fToBinaryData | | | be included | | | | | | to contain | | | | | | the UE Radio | | | | | | Access | | | | | | Capability | | | | | | Information | | | | | | encoded | | | | | | either as | | | | | | OCTET STRING | | | | | | of UE Radio | | | | | | Capability IE | | | | | | as specified | | | | | | in clause | | | | | | 9.3.1.74 of | | | | | | 3GPP TS 3 | | | | | | 8.413 [15], | | | | | | when the | | | | | | message is | | | | | | sent to AMF, | | | | | | otherwise it | | | | | | may be | | | | | | included. | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | ueRadio | Re | C | 0..1 | This IE shall | | CapabilityEPS | fToBinaryData | | | be included | | | | | | to contain | | | | | | the UE Radio | | | | | | Access | | | | | | Capability | | | | | | Information | | | | | | encoded as | | | | | | OCTET STRING | | | | | | of UE Radio | | | | | | Capability IE | | | | | | as specified | | | | | | in clause | | | | | | 9.2.1.27 of | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 36.413 [x], | | | | | | when the | | | | | | message is | | | | | | sent to MME, | | | | | | otherwise it | | | | | | may be | | | | | | included. | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | ueRadioCa | Re | O | 0..1 | May be | | p5GSForPaging | fToBinaryData | | | present if | | | | | | ueRadio | | | | | | Capability5GS | | | | | | is present. | | | | | | | | | | | | If present it | | | | | | shall contain | | | | | | the UE Radio | | | | | | Access | | | | | | Capability | | | | | | Information | | | | | | for paging | | | | | | encoded as | | | | | | OCTET STRING | | | | | | of UE Radio | | | | | | Capability | | | | | | for Paging IE | | | | | | as specified | | | | | | in clause | | | | | | 9.3.1.68 of | | | | | | 3GPP TS 3 | | | | | | 8.413 [15], | | | | | | when the | | | | | | message is | | | | | | sent to AMF | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | ueRadioCa | Re | O | 0..1 | May be | | pEPSForPaging | fToBinaryData | | | present if | | | | | | ueRadio | | | | | | CapabilityEPS | | | | | | is present. | | | | | | | | | | | | If present it | | | | | | shall contain | | | | | | the UE Radio | | | | | | Access | | | | | | Capability | | | | | | Information | | | | | | for paging | | | | | | encoded as | | | | | | OCTET STRING | | | | | | of UE Radio | | | | | | Capability | | | | | | for Paging IE | | | | | | as specified | | | | | | in clause | | | | | | 9.2.1.98 of | | | | | | 3GPP TS 3 | | | | | | 6.413 [17], | | | | | | when the | | | | | | message is | | | | | | sent to MME, | | | | | | otherwise it | | | | | | may be | | | | | | included. | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | NOTE: The | | | | | | information | | | | | | in the | | | | | | dictionary | | | | | | entry which | | | | | | is included | | | | | | as the query | | | | | | parameter(s) | | | | | | or URI | | | | | | variable in | | | | | | the request | | | | | | message shall | | | | | | not be | | | | | | present. | | | | | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+
##### 6.1.6.2.3 Type: DicEntryCreateData
Table 6.1.6.2.3-1: Definition of type DicEntryCreateData
+---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | Attribute | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | | name | | | | | +===============+===============+===+=============+===============+ | typeA | TypeA | M | 1 | This IE shall | | llocationCode | llocationCode | | | contain the | | | | | | Type | | | | | | Allocation | | | | | | Code in | | | | | | corresponding | | | | | | to the UE | | | | | | Radio Access | | | | | | Capability in | | | | | | the | | | | | | dictionary | | | | | | entry. | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | ueRadio | Re | C | 0..1 | This IE shall | | Capability5GS | fToBinaryData | | | be included | | | | | | to contain | | | | | | the UE Radio | | | | | | Access | | | | | | Capability | | | | | | Information | | | | | | encoded as | | | | | | OCTET STRING | | | | | | of UE Radio | | | | | | Capability IE | | | | | | specified in | | | | | | clause | | | | | | 9.3.1.74 of | | | | | | 3GPP TS 3 | | | | | | 8.413 [15]. | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | ueRadio | Re | C | 0..1 | This IE shall | | CapabilityEPS | fToBinaryData | | | be included | | | | | | to contain | | | | | | the UE Radio | | | | | | Access | | | | | | Capability | | | | | | Information | | | | | | encoded as | | | | | | OCTET STRING | | | | | | of UE Radio | | | | | | Capability IE | | | | | | specified in | | | | | | clause | | | | | | 9.2.1.27 of | | | | | | 3GPP TS 3 | | | | | | 6.413 [17]. | | | | | | (NOTE) | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | supp | Supp | C | 0..1 | This IE shall | | ortedFeatures | ortedFeatures | | | be present if | | | | | | at least one | | | | | | optional | | | | | | feature | | | | | | defined in | | | | | | clause 6.1.8 | | | | | | is supported. | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | ueRadioCa | Re | O | 0..1 | May be | | p5GSForPaging | fToBinaryData | | | present if | | | | | | ueRadio | | | | | | Capability5GS | | | | | | is present. | | | | | | | | | | | | If present it | | | | | | shall contain | | | | | | the UE Radio | | | | | | Access | | | | | | Capability | | | | | | Information | | | | | | for paging | | | | | | encoded as | | | | | | OCTET STRING | | | | | | of UE Radio | | | | | | Capability | | | | | | for Paging IE | | | | | | as specified | | | | | | in clause | | | | | | 9.3.1.68 of | | | | | | 3GPP TS 3 | | | | | | 8.413 [15]. | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | ueRadioCa | Re | O | 0..1 | May be | | pEPSForPaging | fToBinaryData | | | present if | | | | | | ueRadio | | | | | | CapabilityEPS | | | | | | is present. | | | | | | | | | | | | If present it | | | | | | shall contain | | | | | | the UE Radio | | | | | | Access | | | | | | Capability | | | | | | Information | | | | | | for paging | | | | | | encoded as | | | | | | OCTET STRING | | | | | | of UE Radio | | | | | | Capability | | | | | | for Paging IE | | | | | | as specified | | | | | | in clause | | | | | | 9.2.1.98 of | | | | | | 3GPP TS 3 | | | | | | 6.413 [17]. | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | NOTE: At | | | | | | least one of | | | | | | ueRadio | | | | | | Capability5GS | | | | | | or | | | | | | ueRadio | | | | | | CapabilityEPS | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | present. | | | | | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+
##### 6.1.6.2.4 Type: DicEntryCreatedData
Table 6.1.6.2.4-1: Definition of type DicEntryCreatedData
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description
* * *
plmnAssiUeRadioCapId PlmnAssiUeRadioCapId M 1 This IE shall include a PLMN
Assigned UE Radio Capability ID if allocated.
##### 6.1.6.2.5 Type: UeRadioCapaId
Table 6.1.6.2.5-1: Definition of type UeRadioCapaId
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description
* * *
plmnAssiUeRadioCapId PlmnAssiUeRadioCapId C 0..1 This IE shall include a PLMN
Assigned UE Radio Capability ID. (NOTE) manAssiUeRadioCapId
ManAssiUeRadioCapId C 0..1 This IE shall include a Manufacturer Assigned UE
Radio Capability ID. (NOTE) NOTE: Only one of plmnAssiUeRadioCapId and
manAssiUeRadioCapId shall be present during retrieving UE Radio Access
Capability Information. (See clause 6.1.3.2.3.1)
##### 6.1.6.2.6 Type: CreateSubscription
Table 6.1.6.2.6-1: Definition of type CreateSubscription
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description
* * *
nfId NfInstanceId C 0..1 This IE shall contain the NF Instance ID of the
service consumer, e.g. an AMF, if it is available. ucmfNotificationUri Uri M 1
This IE shall contain the callback URI on which the subscribed events shall be
notified. suggestedExpires DateTime O 0..1 If present, indicates the point in
time at which the subscription expires, which is suggested by the service
consumer. supportedFeatures SupportedFeatures C 0..1 This IE shall be present
if at least one optional feature defined in clause 6.1.8 is supported.
##### 6.1.6.2.7 Type: CreatedSubscription
Table 6.1.6.2.7-1: Definition of type CreatedSubscription
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description
* * *
dicEntryId DicEntryId M 1 This IE shall contain the highest DicEntryId has
been allocated in the UCMF. confirmedExpires DateTime O 0..1 If present,
indicates the point in time at which the subscription expires, which is
confirmed by the service producer. supportedFeatures SupportedFeatures C 0..1
This IE shall be present if at least one optional feature defined in clause
6.1.8 is supported.
##### 6.2.6.2.8 Type: UcmfNotification
Table 6.2.6.2.8-1: Definition of type UcmfNotification
+---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | Attribute | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | | name | | | | | +===============+===============+===+=============+===============+ | dicEntryId | DicEntryId | M | 1 | This IE shall | | | | | | contain the | | | | | | highest | | | | | | DicEntryId | | | | | | has been | | | | | | allocated in | | | | | | the UCMF. | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | eventType | EventType | M | 1 | This IE shall | | | | | | contain the | | | | | | different | | | | | | events type | | | | | | included in | | | | | | the | | | | | | notification. | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | manAss | ManAss | C | 0..1 | This IE shall | | OpRequestlist | OpRequestlist | | | be present to | | | | | | contain the | | | | | | Manufacturer | | | | | | Assigned | | | | | | operation | | | | | | requested | | | | | | list which | | | | | | includes a | | | | | | list of PLMN | | | | | | Assigned UE | | | | | | Radio | | | | | | Capability | | | | | | IDs or a list | | | | | | of TACs if | | | | | | the event | | | | | | type | | | | | | indicates the | | | | | | deletion of | | | | | | one or more | | | | | | PLMN Assigned | | | | | | UE Radio | | | | | | Capability | | | | | | IDs as | | | | | | specified in | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 23.501 [2]. | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | versionId | Uinteger | O | 0..1 | Uinteger with | | | | | | the range | | | | | | between 0 and | | | | | | 255. | | | | | | | | | | | | This IE may | | | | | | be present if | | | | | | eventType | | | | | | indicates to | | | | | | notify a new | | | | | | version id of | | | | | | PLMN Assigned | | | | | | UE Radio | | | | | | Capability | | | | | | Id(s). | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+
##### 6.2.6.2.9 Type: ManAssOpRequestlist
Table 6.2.6.2.9-1: Definition of type DelPlmnAssiUeRadioCapIdData
+---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | Attribute | Data type | P | Cardinality | Description | | name | | | | | +===============+===============+===+=============+===============+ | plmnAss | a | C | 0..N | This IE shall | | iUeRadioCapId | rray(PlmnAssi | | | contain one | | | UeRadioCapId) | | | or more PLMN | | | | | | Assigned UE | | | | | | Radio | | | | | | Capability | | | | | | IDs to be | | | | | | deleted. | | | | | | (NOTE) | | | | | | | | | | | | The UCMF | | | | | | shall always | | | | | | provide a | | | | | | complete list | | | | | | of PLMN | | | | | | Assigned UE | | | | | | Radio | | | | | | Capability | | | | | | IDs to enable | | | | | | the AMF to | | | | | | overwrite the | | | | | | existing | | | | | | list. | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | typeA | array | C | 0..N | This IE shall | | llocationCode | (TypeAl | | | contain one | | | locationCode) | | | or more Type | | | | | | Allocation | | | | | | Code in | | | | | | corresponding | | | | | | to the PLMN | | | | | | Assigned UE | | | | | | Radio | | | | | | Capability | | | | | | IDs to be | | | | | | deleted. | | | | | | (NOTE) | | | | | | | | | | | | The UCMF | | | | | | shall always | | | | | | provide a | | | | | | complete list | | | | | | of Type | | | | | | Allocation | | | | | | Codes to | | | | | | enable the | | | | | | AMF to | | | | | | overwrite the | | | | | | existing | | | | | | list. | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+ | NOTE: Either | | | | | | plmnAss | | | | | | iUeRadioCapId | | | | | | or | | | | | | typeA | | | | | | llocationCode | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | present, not | | | | | | for both. | | | | | +---------------+---------------+---+-------------+---------------+
#### 6.1.6.3 Simple data types and enumerations
##### 6.1.6.3.1 Introduction
This clause defines simple data types and enumerations that can be referenced
from data structures defined in the previous clauses.
##### 6.1.6.3.2 Simple data types
The simple data types defined in table 6.1.6.3.2-1 shall be supported.
Table 6.1.6.3.2-1: Simple data types
* * *
Type Name Type Definition Description Applicability DicEntryId Integer integer
with range 1-4294967295.
* * *
##### 6.1.6.3.3 Enumeration: EventType
The enumeration EventType represents different type of events included in a
notification from the UCMF. It shall comply with the provisions defined in
table 6.1.5.3.3-1.
Table 6.1.6.3.3-1: Enumeration EventType
Enumeration value Description Applicability
* * *
\"CREATION_OF_DICTIONARY_ENTRY\" New dictionary entries are created in the
UCMF.  
\"DELETION_OF_PLMN_ASSIGNED_IDS\" One or more PLMN-assigned UE Radio
Capability IDs are deleted.  
\"NEW_VERSION_ID_OF_PLMN_ASSIGNED_IDs\" Notify a new version id of PLMN
Assigned UE Radio Capability Id(s).
##### 6.1.6.3.4 Enumeration: RacFormat
The enumeration RacFormat represents the encoding type of the UE\'s Radio
Access Capability Information.
Table 6.1.6.3.4-1: Enumeration racFormat
Enumeration value Description Applicability
* * *
\"5GS\" This value indicates UE Radio Access Capability Information shall be
encoded as OCTET STRING of UE Radio Capability IE specified in clause 9.3.1.74
of 3GPP TS 38.413 [15].  
\"EPS\" This value indicates UE Radio Access Capability Information shall be
encoded as OCTET STRING of UE Radio Capability IE specified in clause 9.2.1.27
of 3GPP TS 36.413 [17].
#### 6.1.6.4 Data types describing alternative data types or combinations of
data types
None.
#### 6.1.6.5 Binary data
6.1.6.5.1 Introduction
This clause defines the binary data that shall be supported in a binary body
part in an HTTP multipart message (see clauses 6.1.2.2.2 and 6.1.2.4).
##### 6.1.6.5.2 UE Radio Capability Information
UeRadioCapability5GS shall be encoded with the OCTET STRING of UE Radio
Capability IE (i.e. excluding the IEI, Criticality and octet string length
indicator, see also Annex B of 3GPP TS 29.274 [16]) as specified in clause
9.3.1.74 of 3GPP TS 38.413 [15], using the vnd.3gpp.ngap content-type.
UeRadioCapabilityEPS shall be encoded with the OCTET STRING of UE Radio
Capability IE (i.e. excluding the IEI, Criticality and octet string length
indicator, see also Annex B of 3GPP TS 29.274 [16]) as specified in clause
9.2.1.27 of 3GPP TS 36.413 [17], using the vnd.3gpp.s1ap content-type.
ueRadioCap5GSForPaging shall be encoded as OCTET STRING of UE Radio Capability
for Paging IE as specified in clause 9.3.1.68 of 3GPP TS 38.413 [15].
ueRadioCapEPSForPaging shall be encoded as OCTET STRING of UE Radio Capability
for Paging IE as specified in clause 9.2.1.98 of 3GPP TS 36.413 [17].
### 6.1.7 Error Handling
#### 6.1.7.1 General
For the Nucmf_UECapabilityManagement API, HTTP error responses shall be
supported as specified in clause 4.8 of 3GPP TS 29.501 [5]. Protocol errors
and application errors specified in table 5.2.7.2-1 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4]
shall be supported for an HTTP method if the corresponding HTTP status codes
are specified as mandatory for that HTTP method in table 5.2.7.1-1 of 3GPP TS
29.500 [4].
In addition, the requirements in the following clauses are applicable for the
Nucmf_UECapabilityManagement API.
#### 6.1.7.2 Protocol Errors
No specific procedures for the Nucmf_UECapabilityManagement service are
specified.
#### 6.1.7.3 Application Errors
The application errors defined for the Nucmf_UECapabilityManagement service
are listed in Table 6.1.7.3-1.
Table 6.1.7.3-1: Application errors
Application Error HTTP status code Description
* * *
NO_DICTIONARY_ENTRY_FOUND 404 There is no dictionary entry matching the UE
Radio Capability ID in query. OUT_DATED_VERSION_ID_IN_RAC_ID 404 The version
id in the requested PLMN Assigned UE Radio Capability Id is out-dated.
### 6.1.8 Feature negotiation
The optional features in table 6.1.8-1 are defined for the
Nucmf_UECapabilityManagement API. They shall be negotiated using the
extensibility mechanism defined in clause 6.6 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4].
Table 6.1.8-1: Supported Features
+----------------+--------------+-----+----------------------+ | Feature number | Feature Name | M/O | Description | +================+==============+=====+======================+ | 1 | ES3XX | M | Extended Support of | | | | | HTTP 307/308 | | | | | redirection | | | | | | | | | | An NF Service | | | | | Consumer (e.g. AMF) | | | | | that supports this | | | | | feature shall | | | | | support handling of | | | | | HTTP 307/308 | | | | | redirection for any | | | | | service operation of | | | | | the | | | | | UE | | | | | CapabilityManagement | | | | | service. An NF | | | | | Service Consumer | | | | | that does not | | | | | support this feature | | | | | does only support | | | | | HTTP redirection as | | | | | specified for 3GPP | | | | | Release 15. | +----------------+--------------+-----+----------------------+
### 6.1.9 Security
As indicated in 3GPP TS 33.501 [8] and 3GPP TS 29.500 [4], the access to the
Nucmf_UECapabilityManagement API may be authorized by means of the OAuth2
protocol (see IETF RFC 6749 [9]), based on local configuration, using the
\"Client Credentials\" authorization grant, where the NRF (see 3GPP TS 29.510
[10]) plays the role of the authorization server.
If OAuth2 is used, an NF Service Consumer, prior to consuming services offered
by the Nucmf_UECapabilityManagement API, shall obtain a \"token\" from the
authorization server, by invoking the Access Token Request service, as
described in 3GPP TS 29.510 [10], clause 5.4.2.2.
NOTE: When multiple NRFs are deployed in a network, the NRF used as
authorization server is the same NRF that the NF Service Consumer used for
discovering the Nucmf_UECapabilityManagement service.
The Nucmf_UECapabilityManagement API defines a single scope
\"nucmf_uecapabilitymanagement\" for the entire service, and it does not
define any additional scopes at resource or operation level.
### 6.1.10 HTTP redirection
An HTTP request may be redirected to a different UCMF service instance, within
the same UCMF or a different UCMF of an UCMF set, e.g. when an UCMF service
instance is part of an UCMF (service) set or when using indirect
communications (see 3GPP TS 29.500 [4]). See also the ES3XX feature in clause
6.1.8.
An SCP that reselects a different UCMF producer instance will return the NF
Instance ID of the new UCMF producer instance in the 3gpp-Sbi-Producer-Id
header, as specified in clause 6.10.3.4 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4].
If an UCMF within an UCMF set redirects a service request to a different UCMF
of the set using an 307 Temporary Redirect or 308 Permanent Redirect status
code, the identity of the new UCMF towards which the service request is
redirected shall be indicated in the 3gpp-Sbi-Target-Nf-Id header of the 307
Temporary Redirect or 308 Permanent Redirect response as specified in clause
6.10.9.1 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4].
###### ## Annex A (normative): OpenAPI specification
# A.1 General
This Annex specifies the formal definition of the API(s) defined in the
present specification. It consists of OpenAPI 3.0.0 specifications in YAML
format.
This Annex takes precedence when being discrepant to other parts of the
specification with respect to the encoding of information elements and methods
within the API(s).
NOTE : The semantics and procedures, as well as conditions, e.g. for the
applicability and allowed combinations of attributes or values, not expressed
in the OpenAPI definitions but defined in other parts of the specification
also apply.
Informative copies of the OpenAPI specification files contained in this 3GPP
Technical Specification are available on a Git-based repository, that uses the
GitLab software version control system (see 3GPP TS 29.501 [5] clause 5.3.1
and 3GPP TR 21.900 [7] clause 5B).
# A.2 Nucmf_UECapabilityManagement API
openapi: 3.0.0
info:
title: Nucmf_UECapabilityManagement
version: 1.1.0
description: \|
Nucmf_UECapabilityManagement Service.
© 2022, 3GPP Organizational Partners (ARIB, ATIS, CCSA, ETSI, TSDSI, TTA,
TTC).
All rights reserved.
externalDocs:
description: 3GPP TS 29.673 V17.4.0; 5G System; UE Radio Capability Management
Services
url: \'https://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/29_series/29.673/\'
servers:
\- url: \'{apiRoot}/nucmf-uecm/v1\'
variables:
apiRoot:
default: https://example.com
description: apiRoot as defined in clause 4.4 of 3GPP TS 29.501
security:
\- {}
\- oAuth2ClientCredentials:
\- nucmf-uecm
paths:
/dic-entries:
get:
summary: retrieve a dictionary entry matching query parameters
operationId: RetrieveDictionaryEntry
tags:
\- Dictionary Entry (Store)
parameters:
\- name: ue-radio-capa-id
in: query
required: true
description: UE Radio Capability ID, either PLMN Assigned or Manufacturer
Assigned
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/UeRadioCapaId\'
\- name: rac-format
in: query
description: Encoding format of RAC Info
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/RacFormat\'
\- name: supported-features
in: query
description: supported features of the NF consumer
schema:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/SupportedFeatures\'
responses:
\'200\':
description: Expected response to a valid request
content:
multipart/related: # message with binary body part(s)
schema:
type: object
properties: # Request parts
jsonData:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/DicEntryData\'
binaryDataUeRadioCapability5GS:
type: string
format: binary
binaryDataUeRadioCapabilityEPS:
type: string
format: binary
binaryDataUeRadioCap5GSForPaging:
type: string
format: binary
binaryDataUeRadioCapEPSForPaging:
type: string
format: binary
encoding:
jsonData:
contentType: application/json
binaryDataUeRadioCapability5GS:
contentType: application/vnd.3gpp.ngap
headers:
Content-Id:
schema:
type: string
binaryDataUeRadioCapabilityEPS:
contentType: application/vnd.3gpp.s1ap
headers:
Content-Id:
schema:
type: string
binaryDataUeRadioCap5GSForPaging:
contentType: application/vnd.3gpp.ngap
headers:
Content-Id:
schema:
type: string
binaryDataUeRadioCapEPSForPaging:
contentType: application/vnd.3gpp.s1ap
headers:
Content-Id:
schema:
type: string
\'307\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/307\'
\'308\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/308\'
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'406\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/406\'
\'411\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/411\'
\'413\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/413\'
\'415\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/415\'
\'429\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/429\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'501\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/501\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
post:
summary: Create a dictionary entry in the UCMF
tags:
\- a dictionary entry (Document)
operationId: CreateDictionaryEntry
requestBody:
content:
multipart/related: # message with binary body part(s)
schema:
type: object
properties: # Request parts
jsonData:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/DicEntryCreateData\'
binaryDataUeRadioCapability5GS:
type: string
format: binary
binaryDataUeRadioCapabilityEPS:
type: string
format: binary
binaryDataUeRadioCap5GSForPaging:
type: string
format: binary
binaryDataUeRadioCapEPSForPaging:
type: string
format: binary
encoding:
jsonData:
contentType: application/json
binaryDataUeRadioCapability5GS:
contentType: application/vnd.3gpp.ngap
headers:
Content-Id:
schema:
type: string
binaryDataUeRadioCapabilityEPS:
contentType: application/vnd.3gpp.s1ap
headers:
Content-Id:
schema:
type: string
binaryDataUeRadioCap5GSForPaging:
contentType: application/vnd.3gpp.ngap
headers:
Content-Id:
schema:
type: string
binaryDataUeRadioCapEPSForPaging:
contentType: application/vnd.3gpp.s1ap
headers:
Content-Id:
schema:
type: string
responses:
\'201\':
description: Dictionary Created
headers:
Location:
description: \'Contains the URI of the newly created resource, according to
the structure: {apiRoot}/nucmf-uecm/\/dic-entries/{dicEntryId}\'
required: true
schema:
type: string
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/DicEntryCreatedData\'
\'307\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/307\'
\'308\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/308\'
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'411\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/411\'
\'413\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/413\'
\'415\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/415\'
\'429\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/429\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'501\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/501\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
/dic-entries/{dicEntryId}:
get:
summary: Get an individual dictionary entry via dicEntryId
operationId: GetDicEntry
tags:
\- dic Entry Id (Document)
parameters:
\- name: dicEntryId
in: path
description: the ID of a dictionary entry in the UCMF
required: true
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/DicEntryId\'
\- name: rac-format
in: query
description: Encoding format of of RAC Info
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/RacFormat\'
\- name: supported-features
in: query
description: supported features of the NF consumer
schema:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/SupportedFeatures\'
responses:
\'200\':
description: Expected response to a valid request
content:
multipart/related: # message with binary body part(s)
schema:
type: object
properties: # Request parts
jsonData:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/DicEntryData\'
binaryDataUeRadioCapability5GS:
type: string
format: binary
binaryDataUeRadioCapabilityEPS:
type: string
format: binary
binaryDataUeRadioCap5GSForPaging:
type: string
format: binary
binaryDataUeRadioCapEPSForPaging:
type: string
format: binary
encoding:
jsonData:
contentType: application/json
binaryDataUeRadioCapability5GS:
contentType: application/vnd.3gpp.ngap
headers:
Content-Id:
schema:
type: string
binaryDataUeRadioCapabilityEPS:
contentType: application/vnd.3gpp.s1ap
headers:
Content-Id:
schema:
type: string
binaryDataUeRadioCap5GSForPaging:
contentType: application/vnd.3gpp.ngap
headers:
Content-Id:
schema:
type: string
binaryDataUeRadioCapEPSForPaging:
contentType: application/vnd.3gpp.s1ap
headers:
Content-Id:
schema:
type: string
\'307\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/307\'
\'308\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/308\'
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'406\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/406\'
\'411\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/411\'
\'413\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/413\'
\'415\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/415\'
\'429\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/429\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'501\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/501\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
/subscriptions:
post:
summary: Nucmf_UECapabilityManagement Subscribe service Operation
operationId: CreateIndividualSubcription
tags:
\- Subscriptions (Collection)
requestBody:
required: true
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/CreateSubscription\'
responses:
\'201\':
description: Success
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/CreatedSubscription\'
headers:
Location:
description: \'Contains the URI of the newly created resource, according to
the structure: {apiRoot}/nucmf-
uecm/\/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}\'
required: true
schema:
type: string
\'307\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/307\'
\'308\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/308\'
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'411\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/411\'
\'413\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/413\'
\'415\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/415\'
\'429\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/429\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
callbacks:
myNotification:
\'{\$request.body#/ucmfNotificationUri}\':
post:
requestBody:
required: true
content:
application/json:
schema:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/UcmfNotification\'
responses:
\'204\':
description: No Content, Notification was succesfull
\'307\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/307\'
\'308\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/308\'
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'411\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/411\'
\'413\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/413\'
\'415\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/415\'
\'429\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/429\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
/subscriptions/{subscriptionId}:
delete:
summary: unsubscribe from notifications
operationId: DeleteIndividualSubcription
tags:
\- IndividualSubscription (Document)
parameters:
\- name: subscriptionId
in: path
description: Event Subscription ID
required: true
schema:
type: string
responses:
\'204\':
description: No Content. Resource was succesfully deleted
\'307\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/307\'
\'308\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/308\'
\'400\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/400\'
\'401\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/401\'
\'403\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/403\'
\'404\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/404\'
\'429\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/429\'
\'500\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/500\'
\'503\':
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/503\'
default:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/responses/default\'
components:
securitySchemes:
oAuth2ClientCredentials:
type: oauth2
flows:
clientCredentials:
tokenUrl: \'{nrfApiRoot}/oauth2/token\'
scopes:
nucmf-uecm: Access to the Nucmf_UECapabilityManagement API
schemas:
DicEntryData:
description: A dictionary entry for a UE radio capability ID in the UCMF
type: object
required:
\- typeAllocationCode
properties:
dicEntryId:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/DicEntryId\'
typeAllocationCode:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/TypeAllocationCode\'
plmnAssiUeRadioCapId:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/PlmnAssiUeRadioCapId\'
manAssiUeRadioCapId:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/ManAssiUeRadioCapId\'
ueRadioCapability5GS:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/RefToBinaryData\'
ueRadioCapabilityEPS:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/RefToBinaryData\'
ueRadioCap5GSForPaging:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/RefToBinaryData\'
ueRadioCapEPSForPaging:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/RefToBinaryData\'
DicEntryCreateData:
description: Data for a creating a dictionary entry request
type: object
required:
\- typeAllocationCode
properties:
typeAllocationCode:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/TypeAllocationCode\'
ueRadioCapability5GS:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/RefToBinaryData\'
ueRadioCapabilityEPS:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/RefToBinaryData\'
supportedFeatures:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/SupportedFeatures\'
ueRadioCap5GSForPaging:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/RefToBinaryData\'
ueRadioCapEPSForPaging:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/RefToBinaryData\'
DicEntryCreatedData:
description: Data for a creating a dictionary entry response
type: object
required:
\- plmnAssiUeRadioCapId
properties:
plmnAssiUeRadioCapId:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/PlmnAssiUeRadioCapId\'
UeRadioCapaId:
description: UE Radio Capability ID
type: object
properties:
plmnAssiUeRadioCapId:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/PlmnAssiUeRadioCapId\'
manAssiUeRadioCapId:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/ManAssiUeRadioCapId\'
CreateSubscription:
description: Data for a creating a subscription request
type: object
required:
\- ucmfNotificationUri
properties:
nfId:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/NfInstanceId\'
ucmfNotificationUri:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Uri\'
suggestedExpires:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/DateTime\'
supportedFeatures:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/SupportedFeatures\'
CreatedSubscription:
description: Data for a creating a subscription response
type: object
required:
\- dicEntryId
properties:
dicEntryId:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/DicEntryId\'
confirmedExpires:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/DateTime\'
supportedFeatures:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/SupportedFeatures\'
UcmfNotification:
description: Data for a notification request from a UCMF
type: object
required:
\- dicEntryId
\- eventType
properties:
dicEntryId:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/DicEntryId\'
eventType:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/EventType\'
manAssOpRequestlist:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/manAssOpRequestlist\'
minItems: 1
versionId:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/Uinteger\'
manAssOpRequestlist:
description: Manufacturer Assigned operation requested list
type: object
oneOf:
\- required: [plmnAssiUeRadioCapId]
\- required: [typeAllocationCod]
properties:
plmnAssiUeRadioCapId:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/PlmnAssiUeRadioCapId\'
minItems: 1
typeAllocationCode:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'TS29571_CommonData.yaml#/components/schemas/TypeAllocationCode\'
#
# SIMPLE DATA TYPES
#
DicEntryId:
type: integer
minimum: 0
maximum: 4294967295
#
# ENUMERATIONS
#
EventType:
anyOf:
\- type: string
enum:
\- CREATION_OF_DICTIONARY_ENTRY
\- DELETION_OF_PLMN_ASSIGNED_IDS
\- NEW_VERSION_ID_OF_PLMN_ASSIGNED_IDs
\- type: string
RacFormat:
anyOf:
\- type: string
enum:
\- 5GS
\- EPS
\- type: string
#